EDITORS TABLE.
561
ance; and in the application of these
methods it shows a rigor which, by ill-
prepared minds, might be mistaken for
dogmatism. It insists upon an exact
definition or delimitation, so to speak,
of the object to be considered. WJiat
are we talking about ? is a question
always in order. It declines to have
any dealings with things that are in
their nature inaccessible to observation.
It refuses to convert sentiments into
convictions, or to build assurance upon
doubtful analogical inference. It insists
upon stopping short just where the
facts stop short, and where, therefore,
further verification fails. It shuns the
dead-reckoning of metaphysical argu-
mentation, and is no less guarded in its
denials than in its affirmations. What
it can not disprove it will not deny, any
more than it will affirm what it can not
prove. But if, because a statement or
theory can not be disproved, any one
wishes to claim that it is proved, Sci-
ence protests, just as it would do if one
were to pretend that, because a thing
can not be proved, it is disproved. On
every occasion Science says, Let us
take an exact measure of the facts, and
let our words conform thereto. It is
this severely truthful attitude which
draws down upon men of science so
much disfavor in certain quarters. If
the scientist would only be a trifle ac-
commodating, and where he sees but
little would consent to believe much ;
if he would only accept the currency
of confused thoughts and indetermi-
nate expressions ; if he would admin-
ister metaphysical comfort instead of
constantly pointing to the unalterable
and demonstrable conditions of human
life he would be more popular with the
unthinking multitude, and even with
some would-be leaders of thought. But
the scientist knows that, if there is any
solidity in the edifice of science to-day,
it is due to the firm attitude his prede-
cessors, and in part his contemporaries,
have maintained toward pleasing and
popular errors to their determination
vol. xxxi. 36
to see the truth, and to bear witness to
it, and to nothing else. We may say,
using the words in a certain accom-
modated sense, that scientific ortho-
doxy requires that this attitude shall
be maintained. Not to take every pos-
sible means for the elimination of error
would not be orthodox from a scien-
tific point of view ; but further than
this we can scarcely go in the use of
the term. There need be no fear that
the progress of knowledge will be
checked, or that originality of view will
in any way be repressed. The world
never had so splendid a generation of
scientific workers as it has to-day; and
never, as we have already said, was
scientific work being done under less
restraint, or less undue influence from
any kind of personal authority.
PHYSICAL CULTURE AND MORAL RE-
FORM.
It is impossible to read without in-
tense interest of the experiments made
in the New York State Reformatory to
ascertain whether the moral and men-
tal faculties of criminals might not be
roused, and to some extent developed,
by a judiciously arranged course of
physical exercise. It appears, from the
report furnished by Dr. H. D. Wey,
that these experiments have been at-
tended with marked success : mental
growth has been promoted, and moral
control has been increased as a direct
result of the physical training admin-
istered. Accepting these statements as
correct, as we are quite prepared to do,
we see vast possibilities opened up of
moral reform among a class of the pop-
ulation whose deficiencies have hither-
to been the despair of philanthropists
and philosophers. The true spirit of
humanity was probably never stronger
in any man than in Tom Hood ; and yet
even he was disposed to leave criminals
to their own darkened intelligences and
evil dispositions.
Tis sorry writing on a greasy slate,
