5 6 4
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
artificial morality of supernatural theology ;
2. The unwarranted elevation of institutions
above the individual ; 3. The notion that
social ends are more perfectly realized
through the concentration of power in or-
ganizations ; and, finally, the formation and
retention of egoistic ideals of life.
In the section on The Great Theologi-
cal Superstition, Mr. Thompson criticises
unsparingly, but in no dogmatic tone, the
theological doctrine of sin. The idea that
there can be a sin against God other than a
violation of the rights and happiness of in-
dividual men, is found to be untrue, im-
moral in its implications and results one
of the chief obstacles, indeed, to human
progress. Mans sin against God, if it
exist, is in his sin against his fellows ; in
other words, theological sin, per se, is a fic-
tion of the imagination ; the only reality
which can answer in any way to this concep-
tion is natural moral evil. Incidentally Mr.
Thompson condemns the laws against blas-
phemy, the exercise of temporal power by
the Church, the Pharisaical self-righteous-
ness which he conceives to be the outcome
of theological supernaturalism, the bale-
ful dogma of eternal punishment, and the
mystical conception of spirituality, as
something other than simple goodness,
stimulating men to altruistic endeavor.
In the section on The Institutional
Fetich, a rational individualism is main-
tained as a higher ethical ideal than that
which sinks the individual in the mass, and
emphasizes institutions at the expense of
personal liberties. Man is the measure
of all things. Institutions are made for
man, not man for institutions. Authority
must give way to the right of private judg-
ment. The doctrine that the family, the
state, the Church, exist superior to any con-
siderations of utility, must be condemned
as inimical to the highest development of
human character, and as an obstacle to the
moral advancement of the race. The prin-
ciple of authority in the family has resulted
in the degradation of woman and the ignor-
ing of the rights of children. The hus-
band owes to the wife just as many duties
as she to him. Children are to be worked
for as human beings having their own inde-
pendent ends, which are to be respected.
The doctrine of authority has been from
the beginning, and is to-day, a stumbling-
block in the way of womans liberty and
advancement. These sentences strike the
key-note of Mr. Thompsons liberal and hu-
mane treatment of these important social
problems, which we can only thus briefly out-
line within the limits of this review. The di-
vine authority and perfect character of the
state is of course condemned as an irration-
al dogma. The right to agitate against an
existing social order is strenuously affirmed.
Any system which does not permit the title
of a governing power to be questioned by
the governed, in the light of what is best for
the general happiness, is a system of rule by
force and fear, disguise it as you may under
high-sounding phrases, as inherent sacred-
ness, or divine authority.
Under the head of The Socialistic Fal-
lacy, the questions of the Co-operative
Idea, Socialism, The Political Party,
Industrial Co-operation, are treated with
great clearness and in an admirable spirit,
as the reader will agree, even if he does not
find himself wholly in accord with our au-
thors conclusions. He cries Halt ! to the
active socialistic tendencies of our time, be-
lieving that they must ultimate, if success-
ful, in an increase of egoism and restriction
of individual liberty, which would be fatal
to the highest ethical advancement of the
race. Not in individualism, but in egoism,
he affirms, is to be found the most serious
obstacle to our moral progress.
Finally, the root of existing moral evil
is found in the continued elevation of the
egoistic ideal as an incentive to human ac-
tion. War and the militant system are con-
demned as outgrowths and perpetuators of
this ideal. The injustices and immoralities
of our industrial system are referred to the
predominance of egoism in our industrial
methods ; and the relief for all these social
evila is indicated in the two rules:
1. Aim at the minimum of extrinsic
restraint, and the maximum of liberty for
the individual.
2. Aim at the most complete and uni-
versal development of the altruistic char-
acter.
While Mr. Thompson is in general ac-
cord with the English utilitarian school of
philosophy, he is evidently an independent
and original thinker no mere servile fol-
