566
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
reason. The executed work of Rosmini was
terminated at this period ; but he left notes
from which it appears that he had intended
to treat of four other periods, each marked by
the development or perfecting of its pecul-
iar faculties. We miss much by not having
the completion of a work so well planned,
but, fortunately, the earlier part, which is
preserved to us, contains the fundamental
principles both of method and practice,
which remain the same for all periods of
life, and of which only the application va-
ries with the varying degrees of individual
development.
Text-Book or Zoology ; for Junior Stu-
dents. By Henry A. Nicholson, Regius
Professor of Natural History in the Uni-
versity of Aberdeen. Fourth edition.
New York : D. Appleton Co. Pp.
888. Price, $1.60.
Professor Niciiolson introduces the
study of animals by some general consider-
ations of the scope of zoology, the condi-
tions of life, classification, and the distri-
bution of animals in space and in time.
The present edition of the work has been
thoroughly revised and brought up to the
present standard of zoological knowledge.
Recent additions to our acquaintance with
the existing or extinct fauna of the world
have been noticed in the text, and some
fresh illustrations have been added. The
scope of the work does not allow space for
long descriptions of extinct animals, but
those whose characteristics throw light on
the relations of living species are briefly
described. The definitions of important di-
visions are printed in italics, and the book
is copiously illustrated. A glossary and an
index are appended.
Watsons Phonographic Instructor. By
John Watson. New York and London:
G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 144.
The chief peculiarities in the method of
teaching Pitmans phonography, which is
embodied in this manual, are that vowel-
placing and reading are postponed until
considerable speed has been attained in
writing the consonant outlines of words.
When this point has been reached, the au-
thor claims that the pupil has become so
well acquainted with word -forms that he
can read the bulk of his writing without
vowels. The pupil is then taught to place
a vowel-mark here and there where it will
do the most good, until he learns to use as
many vowels as a reporter must use. Ability
to read comes almost insensibly. A key to
exercises occupies twenty-four pages of the
volume, and several other pages are devoted
to model outlines, contractions, and select
phrases, but the author deems reading-les-
sons useless.
Railway Practice: Its Principles and
Suggested Reforms Reviewed. By E.
Porter Alexander. Pp. 60. Price,
75 cents. The Interstate Commerce
Act : An Analysis of its Provisions.
By John R. Dos Passos. New York:
G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 125. Price,
$1.25.
Both of these books belong to the
Questions of the Day series. The essay
of Mr. Alexander appears to have been pre-
pared with especial reference to Mr. T. F.
Hudsons book and the articles of Mr. Ely
on railroad questions, and to the Reagan
bill. The three solutions offered by these
persons disagreeing radically in principle,
and being also at odds with the methods of
reform which the railway managers them-
selves have instituted, there is some confu-
sion in the premises from which the different
parties start. The authors effort is to find
means for removing the confusion. Thero
must be a few principles at least settled by
actual test and put beyond question or dis-
pute to constitute what we might call the
present state of the science of railway man-
agement. He therefore takes up the most im-
portant questions of railway management,
and examines them in the light of those
principles. Mr. Dos Passos gives in his
book a systematic and detailed analysis of
the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act, preceded by a history of legislation on
the subject, and supplemented by the text
of the act itself. His exposition is as lucid
as the law, which is far from being free
from obscurities, will permit a commentator
to make it.
A New Basis for Chemistry : A Chemical
Philosophy. By Thomas Stehry Hunt,
M.A., LL. D. (Cantab.). Boston: Samuel
E. Cassino. Pp. 165.
Fhom time to time since 1848 the author
has been publishing portions of a theory of
