LITERARY NOTICES.
567
chemistry, designed to fill more perfectly the
place occupied by the atomic hypothesis.
The solution of one problem, namely, that
of the relation of equivalent weight to spe-
cific gravity in liquids and solids, which was
necessary to a complete chemical philosophy,
was wanting till 1886, so that in the present
volume the author first presents as a whole
his new basis for chemistry. The several
parts of the theory are set forth largely in
quotations from the authors earlier writ-
ings. Professor Hunt agrees in the belief
that such matter as forms the substances
called elements on the earth exists in stars
and nebula? in a still more elementary and
tenuous form. From this primary matter
he deems all known substances to be formed
by greater or less degrees of condensation.
He regards chemical combination as an in-
terpenetration of masses, by which the
uniting bodies come to occupy the same
space at the same time, and names solu-
tion as the type of such union. What we
are accustomed to call the liquid and solid
states of a substance, he regards as poly-
mers of the corresponding vapor, whose
equivalent weights are as much higher as
their densities are greater than that of the
vapor. He deems the atomic theory un-
necessary for explaining the law of definite
proportions, and, from its making combi-
nation consist in juxtaposition, untenable.
His views are supported by his studies in
mineralogy, which have shown that the
hardness of isomeric species and their in-
difference to chemical reagents increase
with their condensation.
Brazil, its Condition and Prospects. By
C. C. Andrews. New York : D. Apple
ton Co. Pp. 352. Price, $1.50.
Brazil, the only other country on the
Western Continent approaching our own in
extent, and with 15,000,000 inhabitants, is
to us well worth knowing. Yet there are
few people in the United States to whom
the information in this volume would not
have the charm of novelty. The author
gained his acquaintance with Brazilian af-
fairs and customs during a residence of
three years in Rio Janeiro as United States
consul-general. His pages teem with facts
in regard to routes of travel, houses, mar-
kets, conveyances, religion, business cus-
toms, the emperor, special localities, climate,
foreign commerce, education, government,
literature, agriculture, animals, slavery, im-
migration, and a host of other topics. The
impression which the book conveys is that
Brazil is not an especially desirable country
for an American to emigrate to. It is diffi-
cult for a stranger to procure desirable land3
for agriculture or stock-raising, and foreign-
ers who attempt professional careers must
struggle with jealousy and suspicion, besides
formidable competition. The seclusion of
young women seems to be still practiced
with almost Oriental strictness on the plan-
tations, as witness the following extract :
Presently the senhora reappeared, leading one
very modest looking damsel of about eighteen or
nineteen years of age, and closely followed by three
others, apparently somewhat younger. All ap-
peared to be overwhelmed with iDtense shyness,
and an almost hysterical desire to laugh. After a
formal and separate introduction of each one be it
noted that the lady was here introduced to the gen-
tleman they all retired back agiiin into the secret
chamber, and their papa once more turned the key
upon them. At this time we were ignorant of the
custom, which I afterward found to be so general
in these out-of-the-way parts, of keeping the
women, or rather the daughters of the family,
locked up like wild beasts.
Controlling Sex in Generation. By Sam-
uel H. Terry. Second edition. With
an Appendix of Corroborative Proofs.
New York : Fowler Wells Company.
Pp. 209.
In order to more fully corroborate the
views advanced in the body of this work,
the author has added in this edition an ap-
pendix, consisting of extracts from The
Popular Science Monthly and other peri-
odicals, letters from cattle-breeders, etc ,
and a chapter in answer to objections.
The Cremation of the Dead. By Hugo
Erichsen, M. D., with an Introductory
Note by Sir T. Spencer Wells. Detroit :
D. O. Haynes Co. Pp. 264. Price, $2.
In this book the subject is considered
from the aesthetic, sanitary, religious, his-
torical, medico-legal, and economical points
of view. The author is a warm advocate
of cremation, and closes with a prediction
that it will make more progress in the
United States than in any other country of
the world. The text is illustrated with sev-
eral views and plans of crematoriums, urns,
etc.
