5 68
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A Junior Course of Practical Zoology.
By A. Milnes Marshall, M.D., F. R. S.,
assisted by C. Herbert Hurst. London :
Smith, Elder Co. For sale by G. P.
Putnams Sons, New York. Pp. xxiv-440.
This book is a laboratory manual de-
signed as a guide to a practical acquaint-
ance with the elements of animal morphol-
ogy. In almost all cases the descriptions of
animals are so arranged that the whole dis-
section can be performed on a single speci-
men. Strict uniformity of treatment has
not been specially aimed at ; thus the more
difficult portions of the subject are treated
at considerable length, while systems of
subordinate educational value, such as the
muscular, occupy little space. Few illus-
trations have been introduced lest the stu-
dent should give too little attention to the
drawings which he must make from his
own dissections. The animals selected for
description are amoeba, and three other
protozoa, hydra, liver-fluke, leech, earth-
worm, fresh-water mussel, edible snail, cray-
fish, cockroach, lancelet, dog-fish, rabbit,
fowl, and pigeon.
Sanitary Examinations of Water, Air,
and Food. By Cornelius B. Fox, M.
D., F. R. C. P., London. With 1 10 Illus-
trations. Second edition. Philadelphia:
P. Blakiston, Son Co. Pp. 563. Price,
$4.
The reliability of Dr. Foxs sanitary
work led to the expansion of his pamphlet
on Water Analysis into a volume con-
taining sections on examinations of air and
food, in 1878, and has now brought this
volume to a second edition. The chief new
features of this edition are the extension
of water and air examination in the direction
of those biological methods that have been
introduced of late years, and that are deemed
by German and French sanitarians as im-
portant as the chemical analysis. Recently
devised improvements in the examination
of milk are also recorded.
Due North : or Glimpses of Scandinavia
and Russia. By Maturin M. Ballou.
Boston : Ticknor Co. Pp. 373.
The author visited Copenhagen and El-
sinore, in Denmark, traveled over much of
Sweden and Norway, saw the midnight sun,
had a glimpse of Finland, visited St. Peters-
burg, Moscow, and Nijni-Novgorod, and
spent a few days in Poland. His sketches
of all these parts include accounts of scen-
ery, buildings, people, customs, sites having
historical interest or interesting by personal
association, and observations on moral, so-
cial, political, and religious conditions. His
view of the Czar and his government is de-
cidedly more favorable than those which we
are accustomed to hear expressed.
The True Doctrine of Orbits: An Origi-
nal Treatise on Central Forces. By
H. G. Rush, of New Danville, Pennsyl-
vania. Pp. 133.
The author endeavors, by mathematical
demonstrations, to prove that the orbits of
the planets, and even of the comets, are
not elliptical, as the Newtonian astronomy
supposes, but circular.
Report of the Proceedings of the Ameri-
can Historical Association. Third An-
nual Meeting, April 27-29, 1886. Her-
bert B. Adams, Secretary. New York :
G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 104. Price,
$1.
The membership of the Association has
grown since its organization in September,
1884, from forty to four hundred and twen-
ty-two members, seventy-eight of whom are
life-members. The third meeting was held
in Washington, and the discussions included
such topics as the capture of Washington
in 1814, and the campaigns of our late war,
besides many others of a more general char-
acter, and some bearing upon what used to
be called the philosophy of history. Among
the achievements claimed for this meeting
are the friendly reunion of military histo-
rians from the North and from the South ;
the peaceful discussion of the campaigns
before Washington, and in the Valley of
Virginia; the historical representation of
the new South and the Northwest, as well
as of the Northern States and Canada ; the
treatment of almost every branch of our
American history ; the meeting of the
youngest historians with the very oldest
Mr. Bancroft ; the mingling of representa-
tives from various historical schools ; and
the presence of Congressmen and visitors
from different parts of the Union. It
was a veritable national convention, in the
political center of the United States, for the
furtherance of American history and of his-
tory in America.
