57
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Report upon the Charleston Earth-
quake. The United States Geological Sur-
vey, according to a communication from
Messrs. Dutton and Harden in Science,
has received reports relating to the Charles-
ton earthquake from more than sixteen
hundred localities, giving a much larger
amount of information than has ever before
been collected concerning any one earth-
quake. A considerable proportion of the
reports were in answer to a printed list of
questions which had been sent out, to direct
attention to the most distinct and significant
features of the phenomena. The first point
to receive attention is the magnitude of the
area affected by the shocks. The earth-
quake was felt in Boston, near Lake George,
and at two points in the Adirondacks, at
several places in Ontario, Michigan, and
Wisconsin (at La Crosse, nine hundred and
sixty-seven miles from Charleston, the most
remote point within the United States which
has given a positive report), in some of the
Florida Keys, in Cuba, and in Bermuda, a
thousand miles from Charleston. The area
within which the shakings were marked
enough to attract considerable attention,
would be somewhat more than circumscribed
by a circle of a thousand miles radius. The
movement might, however, have been de-
tected, by instrumental observation, over a
much greater area. There are some large
tracts within the area which show compara-
tively feeble intensity. The most conspicu-
ous of them is the Appalachian region. This
fact is of interest in its bearing on the sup-
position that mountain-ranges serve as bar-
riers to the propagation of earthquakes.
Another minimum area was in Indiana and
Illinois ; and it nearly corresponded with
the area in which a considerable earthquake
occurred on the 6th of February. The co-
incidence is curious, if not significant. At
nearly all places within about two hundred
and fifty miles of the center the energy of
the shock was very great. Coming nearer
to the center, the intensity increased on all
sides, with differences in kind as well as in
degree. The phenomena characteristic of
the epicentral area cease with something
like abruptness as we radiate away from
the epicentrum. The central phenomena
I are those produced by shocks in which the
I principal component of the motion of the
earth is vertical. Proceeding outward,
these predominating vertical motions pass,
by a very rapid transition, into movements
of which the horizontal component is the
greater, and in which the undulatory mo-
tion becomes pronounced. The rapidity of
these transitions, or the shape of the inten-
sity-curve into which they may be translated,
is supposed to be dependent upon the total
energy and depth below the surface of the
shock. The distance from the epicenter to
the point where the rate of decline of the
intensity is greatest, is simply proportional
to the depth of the focus, and is the same
whether the energy be greater or less. This
gives a rule for estimating the depth of
the focus. Applying the rule, we have a
computed depth of twelve miles, with a
probable error of one or two miles, for the
focus of the principal shock at Charleston.
There is reason for beliving that none of
the great earthquakes of the last one hun-
dred and fifty years have originated from a
much greater, and few from as great, a
depth. The city of Charleston was situated
at from eight to ten miles outside of the
area of maximum intensity. Had the seis-
mic center been ten miles nearer to it, the
calamity would have been incomparably
greater than it was. The shocks were also
probably made easier for the city by the
loose nature of the soil and quicksands over
which it is built. The time-data have not
been fully worked out, but it is thought that
they will give a speed of propagation ex-
ceeding three miles a second a rate which
will probably prove unexpected to Euro-
pean seismologists.
Some Popular Errors about the Eski-
mos. Mr. John Murdoch has exposed, in
the American Naturalist, a few popular
errors in regard to the Eskimos, some of
which have found their way into Hovelaque
and Hcrves recent book on Anthropology.
Polyandry is not common among them, as
is asserted there and by Bancroft, but is
very rare, if it exists noticeably at all. Es-
kimo houses are seldom, if ever, holes dug
in the earth, as the French authors say, but
wooden, turf-covered lodges, built sometimes
over an excavation of only moderate depth,
