POPULAR MISCELLANY.
57i
as often wholly upon the surface, or else,
farther north, they are the well-known snow-
house. The people do not live a torpid ex-
istence in winter, but an extremely busy
and active one, in employments which call
out the energies, in some shape or anoth-
er, of the whole family. The eating of raw
flesh, which has been attributed to this
people, is exceptional and usually practiced
only under stress. The enormous consump-
tion of fat, also, supposed to be a physio-
logical necessity to enable them to with-
stand the excessive cold, is probably the
exception rather than the rule, to judge
from the accounts of actual observers. It
seems quite probable that the amount con-
sumed in most cases is little, if any, greater
than that eaten by civilized nations, when
we consider that the people who eat the fat
of the seal with the flesh, and use oil for a
sauce to their dried salmon, have no butter,
cream, fat bacon, olive-oil, or lard. The
French authors correct one popular error
in regard to the relative stature of the
Eskimos, and declare that they are but
little below the medium stature, having an
average height of about five feet three inch-
es, while medium stature, according to
Topinard, in five feet four inches. In com-
paring several series of measurements of
Eskimos, only one was found that at all
corroborates the popular opinion of their
small size, and that gave the average height
of twenty-three men at Cumberland Gulf as
five feet 24 inches, still above Topinards
standard of small stature (five feet one and
a half inch or less).
The Coming Solar Eclipse. The total
eclipse of the sun of August 19th will occur
under circumstances offering unusual facili-
ties for concurrent observation. The line
of totality crosses Asia and Europe from
Japan to the British Islands, and the phe-
nomenon can be observed with the sun at a
good height from all places on this line east
of Moscow. Among these points are Tver,
Petrovsk, Kineshma, Perm, Tobolsk, Tomsk,
Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk, and several stations
in Japan, where the opportunities for ob-
serving will be even better than in Russia
and Siberia. Professor C. A. Young will
have a station at Tver, and parties of
English and Italian astronomers will ob-
serve in the neighborhood. As nearly all
the points in Russia and Siberia are con-
nected by telegraph, the observing parties
will have facilities for instantaneous com-
munication with one another.
Disposal of Sewage and Garbage. Mr.
W. Howard White has given to the Ameri-
can Society of Civil Engineers his views as
to the comparative value and feasibility of
five different methods of disposing of sew-
age and garbage. The method of dry re-
moval is still in most general use, and costs,
in Leeds, England, including removal of
ashes and garbage, twenty-four cents per
head a year. The great defect of removal
by water-carriage, such as prevails in all
large cities, is that usually it only takes the
nuisance to another place, without abating
it. This fact, and the failure of the cur-
rents depended upon to carry the stuff far
enough away, have led to the introduction
of the method of water-carriage with works
for purification by precipitation. This is
effected at the Knostrop Works, Leeds, by
means of a set of settling-basins, with milk
of lime as the precipitant. At Frankfort,
alumina ferric is to be used. The method
of water-carriage, with filtration or irriga-
tion, can be applied with great advantage
in small towns ; but in cities of more than
one hundred thousand inhabitants it is met
by the difficulty of getting enough land to
make the effectual application of filtration
or irrigation practicable. The method of
dry removal and making up into salable
products is practiced on a large scale at
Manchester, England. Urine and feces
partially deodorized with the house-ashes
are converted into manure and a variety of
useful compounds at a cost of from twenty-
four to thirty-seven cents per head a year.
The Liernur separate pneumatic system is
judged to be more expensive than any other
well-arranged method. In some places in
England and in Holland, refuse not suitable
for the sewers is burned in destructors at
small cost. At Leeds, the stuff is fed at
the top of the apparatus, and works down
gradually to the grate, where fire once started
is kept up by the refuse itself. Dr. C. Mey-
mott Tidy says that no single answer can be
given to the question of the disposal of sew-
age. The adviser must sink his hobby and
