572
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bo prepared to find conditions under which
he would counsel irrigation, and other con-
ditions under which he would recommend
precipitation. Success at one place furnish-
es no argument that a process will be suc-
cessful everywhere. His own experience of
all kinds of schemes has led him to prefer
a scheme combining the principles of pre-
cipitation and irrigation. It has the advan-
tages that its efficient working is independ-
ent of the weather ; and that, if the works
are sufficiently large, any emergency of quan-
tity can be met.
Atlantic and Pacific Fishes. Professor
David S. Jordan has published, in the Pro-
ceedings of the United States National Mu-
seum, a list of the fishes known off the
Pacific coast of America, from the Tropic of
Cancer to Panama. Our knowledge of these
species is due chiefly to the studies of Dr.
Gill, Dr. Giinther, Dr. Steidachner, and Pro-
fessors Jordan and Gilbert ; and the work of
the few collectors who have given special at-
tention to the subject has in nearly all
cases been of exceptional value. Of the four
hundred and seven species of fishes now
known from the Pacific coast of Mexico and
Central America, seventy-one species, or sev-
enteen and a half per cent, are also found on
the Atlantic coast. If we add to this some
eight hundred species, now known, from the
Caribbean Sea and adjacent shores, we have
about six per cent of the whole number
known as common to the two coasts. With
only this proportion of common species, the
two faunae show no greater resemblances
than the similarity of physical conditions
on the two sides of the continent would
lead us to expect. This conclusion is op-
posed to the views expressed by Dr. Giin-
ther in his Fishes of Central America,
where he assumes that nearly one third of
the total number of species of marine fishes
on the two shores of tropical America will
be found to be identical. Hence he infers
that there must have been, at a compara-
tively recent date, a depression of the isth-
mus, producing an intermingling of the two
faunae. The discrepancy arises from the
comparatively limited representation of the
two faunae, at the disposal of Dr. Giinther.
Several of the identical species are pelagic
fishes common to most warm seas. Others
are almost cosmopolitan in the tropical
waters ; while most of the rest often as-
cend the rivers of the tropics. We may
account for their diffusion, perhaps, as we
account for the dispersion of fresh-water
fishes on the isthmus, on the supposition
that they may have crossed from marsh to
marsh at some time in the rainy season.
Professor Jordan is therefore brought to
the conclusion that the fish fauna of the
two shores of Central America arc substan-
tially distinct, so far as species are con-
cerned, and that the resemblance between
them is not so great as to necessitate the
hypothesis of the recent existence of a
channel across the isthmus.
Progress of Stellar Photography. From
a paper by Professor E. C. Pickering, on
An Investigation in Stellar Photography,
conducted at the Harvard College Observa-
tory, it appears that the first work in this
branch was an experiment made at the ob-
servatory in July, 1850, when, under the
direction of Professor W. C. Bond, a satis-
factory image of the star a Lyres was ob-
tained by Mr. J. A. Whipple. Subsequent-
ly, the double star a Geminorum gave an
elongated image, evidently due to its two
components. Objects as bright as these
gave but faint images, and no impression
was obtained from the pole-star, however
long the exposure continued. The experi-
ment was repeated with various stars and
clusters, but the work was finally aban-
doned, owing to the imperfections of the
driving-clock and the lack of sensitiveness
of the plates. Both of these difficulties
were partially remedied in 1857; the re-
search was resumed by Professor G. P.
Bond, and the value of stellar photography
as a means of determining the positions
and brightness of the components of double
stars was established. The present research
was undertaken in 1882, when it was shown
that photography could be used as a means
of forming charts of large porl ions of the
sky, and of determining the light and color
of stars in all parts of the heavens. Pho-
tographs of the trails of polar stars no bright-
er than the eleventh magnitude were ob-
tained without clock-work. Stellar spectra
were obtained of the brighter stars without
clock-work, in which all the principal linos
