POPULAR MISCELLANY
573
were well shown. The investigation having
been resumed in 1885, with a larger tele-
scope, one hundred and seventeen stars
within 1 degree of the pole, each of them
no brighter than the fourteenth magnitude,
left trails. The average deviation of the
measures of the brightness of these stars on
different photographs was less than a tenth
of a magnitude, a greater accordance than
is given by any other photographic method.
A similar result was obtained from the
Pleiades, of which group more than fifty
stars left trails. Trails are now being pho-
tographed of all the stars north of 30
in all right ascensions, and the work has
been completed for more than half of the
sky. By photographing on the same plate
polar stars near their upper and lower cul-
minations, material has been accumulated
for determining the atmospheric absorption
on each night of observation. A study has
been made of the application of photogra-
phy to the transit-instrument. By placing
a large prism in front of the object-glass,
excellent stellar spectra have been obtained.
An exposure of five minutes gives the spec-
tra of all stars brighter than the sixth mag-
nitude within a region 10 square. About
half of the region north of 25 has been
photographed in this way. With an ex-
posure of an hour, the spectra of stars no
brighter than the ninth magnitude are
shown. Over a hundred stars have thus
been taken simultaneously on a plate by a
single exposure. Miscellaneous observations
have been secured of the Pleiades, of the
nebula in Orion, of Jupiters satellites, and
of various other objects ; also of the new
star in Orion, and of its spectrum, and one
plate showing that this star must have been
much fainter on November 9, 1S85, than
when discovered five weeks later.
The Prospect for Silk-Culture in the
United States. Dr. C. V. Riley, of the En-
tomological Division of the Agricultural Bu-
reau, said in the preface to the second edi-
tion of his Manual of Silk-Culture, in
1882, that the elements of successful silk-
culture on a large scale were entirely want-
ing in thi3 country ; that the profits of
silk-culture are always so small that exten-
sive operations by organized bodies must
prove unprofitable where capital finds so
many more lucrative fields for employment,
that extensive silk-raising is fraught with
dangers that do not beset less ambitious
operations, and that silk-culture is to be
recommended only as a light and pleasant
employment for those members of the farm-
ers household who either can not do or
are not engaged in otherwise remunerative
work. In the latest edition of the Man-
ual (1886) the author regrets that his origi-
nal estimates, made in 1879, of the profita-
bleness of the enterprise have been criti-
cised because they had not been realized
the trade had, in fact, been passing through
a period of depression ; and he reiterates
the caution that silk-raising on an exten-
sive scale is fraught with so many dangers,
that it is inadvisable to invest capital in
such an enterprise. Silk-culture, he says
in another place, is not (and it never has
been) an exceedingly profitable business ;
but it adds vast wealth to the nations en-
gaged in it, for the simple reason that it can
be pursued by the humblest and poorest,
and requires so little outlay. The question
of its establishment in the United States is,
as I have elsewhere said, a question of add-
ing to our own productive resources. There
are hundreds of thousands of families in the
United States to-day who would be most
willing to add a few dollars to their annual
income, by giving light and easy employ-
ment for a few months each year to the
more aged, to the young, and especially to
the women of the family, who may have no
other means of profitably employing their
time.
Wood and Metal for Railroad-Ties.
M. Henri Mathieu, chief-engineer of the
French railway du Midi, from observations
on the consumption of the wood tics on
French railways, has found that their dura-
tion depends upon several factors, among
which are the material employed, the cli-
mate, the ground, and the ballasting. It
principally depends upon the system of pre-
paring the ties, and the quality of the anti-
septic material ; and the observations made
on one line often differ from those made on
another line. Averaging the results oak
ties, not prepared, last fourteen years ; when
creosoted, eighteen years. Creosoted beech
ties last from eight to ten years ; creosoted
