574
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ties of pines of the Landes, twelve years ;
prepared with sulphate of copper, from
eight to twelve years. While, as between
wood and the substitution of metal for it,
M. Mathieu favors sticking to wood, he ad-
mits that the substitution of steel for iron
is an important matter, and that one of the
principal inconveniences of the metallic
ties want of solidity in the joints may
be obviated by careful attention during the
first two years, which will make the rails
and the sleepers solid. Metallic ties should
be made heavier than they are, if they are
to succeed. They had been laid, at the be-
ginning of 18S4, on 5,708 kilometres of
lines in Germany, Austria, Holland, Belgi-
um, and Switzerland.
Some Ancient Philosophy. A book
called Speculum Mundi, or a Glass repre-
senting the Face of the World, published
in 1G70, gives a curious picture of what
passed for science before the great modern
discoveries were made. It consists of a
chapter on each of the six days of creation.
It says that the world was at first an un-
fashioned lump. Having disposed of the
question of the firmament as best it could,
it says of the air that the highest region is
said to be exceeding hot, because of the
stars. Meteors and comets, it informs us,
are composed of Vapours or Fumes a
kinde of Smoak. Some of these vapors
transcend very high, even to the Starry
Heaven itself ; which is witnessed by our
best Modern Astronomers, who have ob-
served many Comets above the Moon.
Great events are connected with comets, be-
cause those bodies consist of many hot
and dry Exhalations and distemper the
Air, which the Bellows of the Body suck
in and receive; insomuch that there can-
not but be Sickness, Plague, and much mor-
tality. Moreover, these poysonous breath-
ings are very apt so to disorder and dry
up the Blood in Humane Bodies, that there-
by great store of red and a dust choler may
be purchased ; and this stirreth up to anger
with the thought of many furious and vio-
lent actions, and so by consequence to war.
Thunder is caused by reason of Hot and
Dry Exhalations shut within the cloud,
which, seeking to get out, with great Vio-
lence do knock and rend the cloud. The
hot and dry exhalation in escaping is set on
fire by the violence, and becomes lightning,
when it often continues burning until it falls
to the ground. And oftentimes a great
stone is blown out of the cloud with it;
whose cause is also natural. For, when
the exhalation is drawn up from the eartlL,
it sometimes takes earthy matter like
unto the finest sand with it, and this,
through the moisture which it gctteth in
the Air, clottereth together, and, by
the excessive heat which it findeth in the
general matter of the exhalation, becomes
hard like a brick. Sometimes the exhala-
tions carry up also frogs, fishes, and grain,
or the vehement heat of the sun draws
milk, and we are treated to curious showers
of corresponding nature. We are also in-
formed that the long, streaming threads
seen floating in the air, and vulgarly sup-
posed to be spiders webs, are nothing of
the kind, but meteors, which may rightly
be supposed to proceed out of a through-
boyled or digested vapour, being mixed
with earthy and slimy Exhalations.
Tourist and Alpine Clnbs. A manual
of the Tourist Unions of the world under
which designation are included Mountain
and Alpine clubs and the like published
by Herr R. Koehler at Eisenach, shows that
these associations, which are really of re-
cent origin, have thriven greatly. The cen-
sus of them gives a total of 78 clubs or
unions, with 775 sections and 79,955 mem-
bers. Of these, 73 clubs, with 770 sections
and 79,365 members, are in Europe ; four
clubs, with 590 members, in America ; and
one club in Asia. The largest of them all
is the German and Austrian Alpine Union,
which has 109 sections and 12,274 mem-
bers. Their special organizations and ob-
jects vary according to the characteristics
of the nation in which they severally exist,
but the common object of them all is the
study, exploration, and enjoyment of nat-
ural scenery, with a prominent place given
to mountain-climbing.
Artificial Rubles. Mr. George F. Kunz
recently read a paper before the New York
Academy of Sciences on some artificial rubies
that have been offered in the market of
Paris as genuine rubies from a new locality.
