576
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Among the relics found in the high
mound, on the Ohio River, opposite Ports-
mouth, Ohio, were two crosses and thirty
buckles of silver. The crosses were deco-
rated with leaves, but furnished no clew as
to their date ; but one of the buckles, which
was heart-shaped, bore the French crown of
1730 or 174. The whole outfit probably
belonged to a convent of one of the Jesuit
missionaries. The discovery indicates that
the mound was used for burials down to
quite recent times.
Emin Bey, as he is known, Emin Pasha,
as he has been promoted to be, Dr. Schnitz-
ler, as he is in his patronymic, has been for
ten years in the Egyptian service, for most
of the time successful governor of the Equa-
torial Province. He has done much for
science through his contributions to Peter-
manns Mitteilungen and the Proceed-
ings of the Zoological Society ; and he is
described in Nature as a good type of
the kind of explorer that is wanted, now
that mere pioneering work has been pretty
well exhausted ; a man well qualified by his
scientific training to remain in a particular
region for years if necessary, and study it
in all its aspects.
Dr. Frantzel, of Berlin, reporting on
the effects of immoderate smoking upon the
heart, says that smoking, as a rule, agrees
with persons for many years, although by
degrees cigars of a finer flavor are chosen.
But all at once, without any assignable cause,
troubles are experienced with the heart,
which compel the calling in of the doctor.
Common cigars are not so liable to produce
these effects as the finer flavored ones. Nor
can the charge be laid upon cigarettes, al-
though they produce evils of their own. The
troubles seldom begin till after the smoker
is over thirty years of age, and most usually
attack him at between fifty and sixty. While
it has not been determined what it is that
makes smoking injurious, it appears certain
that the effect does not depend upon the
amount of nicotine.
Mr. W. Doderck, Director of the Hong-
Kong Observatory, has prepared a table of
the relative frequency per year of danger-
ous storms in different seas and gulfs, which
shows the following results: Arabian Sea,
70; Bay of Bengal, 115; Southern Indian
Ocean, 53; Java Sea, 12; China Sea, 214;
Gulf of Mexico, 355. The hurricanes of the
Antilles and the typhoons of the China Sea
show a kind of monthly variation. The
former have their maximum in August and
their minimum in January; with the latter,
the maximum is in December and the mini-
mum in February. In the Java Sea and
the Southern Indian Ocean, the maximum
occurs in February; in the Bay of Bengal,
in October ; and in the Arabian Sea, in June.
Two of the recent grants made by tne
trustees of the Elizabeth Thompson Science
Fund are in aid of American work : oi_e of
two hundred dollars for the investigation of
underground temperatures by a committee
of the Natural History Society; and one of
five hundred dollars to Professor E. D. Cope,
to secure the services of a skilled preparatcur
in working out the material accumulated for
the continuance of his researches on Ameri-
can fossil vertebrates.
OBITUARY NOTES.
Thomas Stevenson, the eminent con-
structor of the Bell Rock and numerous
other lighthouses, died May 8th, in the
sixty-ninth year of his age. He bore a part
in the designing and construction of thirty
lighthouses, and in numerous river, harbor,
and dock works. The results of his experi-
ments on the force, height, and action of
sea-waves, are published in his book On
the Design and Construction of Harbors.
He was the author of great improvements
in lighthouse-lighting, and the optical appa-
ratus in each of his lighthouses was espe-
cially adapted to the situation. The results
of his researches on this point are given in
the book Lighthouse Construction and Il-
lumination, which has been translated into
German. He was also interested in theo-
logical questions, and wrote tracts upon them.
Professor Johan Edyard Aresciiotjg,
the Swedish botanist, died in Stockholm,
May 7th, in the seventy-seventh year of his
age. He was made Reader in Botany in the
University of Lund in 1839, and was ap-
pointed Professor of Botany in the Univer-
sity of Upsala in 1858. He held the last
position till 1876. He was the author of
numerous papers and monographs on botan-
ical subjects.
Dr. Albert Eeli-Oho, botanist, died in
Alameda, California, March 31st, at seventy-
four years of age. He was born in Connecti-
cut, and went to California in the early days
of its American settlement. He investi-
gated the botany of California during more
than thirty years; was one of the founders
of the California Academy of Sciences, to
whose Proceedings he was a frequent
contributor ; and was attached to the special
expedition to Alaska in 1807 as surgeon and
botanist.
The death is reported of Dr. Alexander
Ecker, professor at the University of Frei-
burg, in the seventy-first year of his age.
He was a distinguished anatomist and pa-
thologist, and was founder of the Ethno-
graphical Museum at Freiburg.
Dr. Karl Friedlander, professor at the
University of Berlin, an eminent patholo-
gist and anatomist, has recently died.
