THE
POPULAR SCIENCE
MONTHLY.
SEPTEMBER, 1887.
THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873.
By Hon. DAVID A. WELLS, LL. D.
III.
[In the preceding article of this series (No. II) two propositions were submitted :
First, that in the increased control during the last quarter of a century, which mankind
has acquired over the forces of Nature, and the increased utilization of such control for
the work of production and distribution, is to be found a cause amply sufficient to account
for the almost universal and extraordinary economic disturbance which has prevailed
since 1873, and bids fair in a greater or less degree to continue. Second, that all the
other causes which have been popularly regarded as having directly occasioned or essen-
tially contributed to the economic disturbance in question with the exception of such as
are in the nature of natural phenomena, as bad seasons and harvests, diseases of plants
and animals, disappearance of fish and the like, and such as are due to excessive taxation,
consequent on war expenditures, all of which are local, and the first temporary in char-
acter naturally group themselves about the one great cause that has been suggested, as
sequences or derivatives, and as secondary rather than primary in their influence. A sum-
mary of the evidence in support of the first proposition having been submitted, it is pro-
posed in the following article to ask attention to the facts which seem to be confirmatory
of the second.]
Over-production. Consider first the most popular alleged cause
of recent economic disturbances, that to which the Royal Com-
mission of Great Britain in its final report* (December, 188G), and
* One of the commonest explanations of this depression or absence of profit is that
known under the name of over-production ; by which we understand the production of
commodities, or even the existence of a capacity for production, at a time when the de-
mand is not sufficiently brisk to maintain a remunerative price to the producer, and to
afford him an adequate return on his capital. We think such an over-production has
been one of the most prominent features of the course of trade during recent years ; and
that the depression under which we are now suffering may be partially explained by this
fact. British Commission, majority report.
By over-production we understand the production of commodities (or existence of
the agencies of production) in excess, not of the capacity of consumption if their distri-
bution was gratuitous, but of the demand for export at remunerative prices, and of the
vol. xxxi. 37
