5 8o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
manual laborers of the world has not advanced concurrently, in recent
years, with the increased and cheapened production of such articles.
Many things, consequently, have been, as it were, showered upon these
classes, which they do not know how to use, and do not feel that they
need, and for which, therefore, they can create no market. A man
who has long been contented with one shirt a week, is not likely to
wish to use seven immediately, even if he can buy seven for the price
that he formerly paid for one, and his wife takes pleasure in doing
his washing. But the most remarkable example of this nature is to be
found in the case of sugar, which takes precedence over most of the
articles which enter largely into the worlds commerce and consump-
tion in respect to extraordinary increase of product, and equally ex-
traordinary decline in price within recent years, and mainly (as will
be hereafter shown) by reason of wholly artificial agencies bounties
rather than from improvements in machinery and processes, or in-
creased facilities for distribution.
One of the inevitable results of a supply of product or service
in excess of remunerative demand (i. e., over-production) is a decline
of price ; and as the power of production and distribution has been
increased in an unexampled degree since 1873 (as has been already
shown), the piices of nearly all the great staple commodities of com-
merce and consumption have declined within the same period (as will
be hereafter shown), in manner altogether without precedent in all
former commercial history. That this experience has been altogether
natural, and what might have been expected under the circumstances,
will appear from the following considerations :
If production exceeds, by even a very small percentage, what is
required to meet every current demand for consumption, the price
which the surplus will command in the open market will govern and
control the price of the whole ; and if it can not be sold at all, or with
difficulty, an intense competition on the part of the owners of accu-
mulated stocks to sell will be engendered, with a great reduction or
annihilation of all profit. Mr. John Bright, of England, in one of his
recent speeches, relates the following incident of personal experience :
I know, he said, a company manufacturing chemicals of some
kind extensively, and one of the principal persons in it told me that in
one of those high years, 1872, 1873, and 1874, the profits of that con-
cern were 80,000, and he added that when the stock-taking and its
results were communicated to the leading owner in the business, he
made this very wise observation : I am very sorry to hear it, for you
may depend upon it in the years that are to come we shall have to pay
the whole of it back ; and in speaking to me of it he said, It is quite
true, because for several years we have been able to make no divi-
dend at all. Well, why was that ? The men who were making so
large incomes at that time reinvested their money in increasing their
business. Many of the concerns in this trade doubled their establish-
