THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 581
ments, new companies were formed, and so the produce of their manu-
facture was extended to such a degree that the prices went down and
the profits vanished.
As prices fall and profits shrink, producers working on insufficient
capital, or by imperfect methods, are soon obliged, in order to meet
impending obligations, to force sales through a further reduction of
prices ; and then stronger competitors, in order to retain their mar-
kets and customers, are compelled to follow their example ; and this
in turn is followed by new concessions alternately by both parties,
until gradually the industrial system becomes depressed and demoral-
ized, and the weaker succumb (fail), with a greater or less destruction
of capital and waste of product. Affairs now having reached their
minimum of depression, recovery slowly commences. Consumption is
never arrested, even if production is, for the world must continue to
consume in order that life and civilization may exist. The continued
increase of population also increases the aggregate of consumption ;
and, finally, the industrial and commercial world again suddenly real-
izes that the condition of affairs has been reversed, and that now the
supply has become unequal to the demand. Then such producers as
have stocks on hand, or the machinery of production ready for im-
mediate and effective service, realize large profits ; and the realization
of this fact immediately tempts others to rush into production, in
many cases with insufficient capital (raised often through stock com-
panies), and without that practical knowledge of the detail of their
undertaking which is necessary to insure success, and the old experi-
ence of inflation and reaction is again and again repeated. Hence, the
explanation of the now much-talked-of periods or cycles of
panic and speculation, of trade activity and stagnation. Their peri-
odical occurrence has long been recognized, and the economic principles
involved in them have long been understood. But a century ago or
more, when such a state of affairs occurred in any country, it was
mainly confined to such country, as was notably the case in John
Laws Mississippi Scheme, or the English South-Sea Bubble, in
the last century, or the severe industrial and financial crises which
occurred in Great Britain in the earlier years of the present century
and people of other countries, hearing of it after considerable inter-
vals, and then vaguely through mercantile correspondence, were little
troubled or interested. During recent years, however, they have be-
come less local and more universal, because the railroad, the steam-
ship, and the telegraph have broken down the barriers between na-
tions, and, by spreading in a brief time the same hopes and fears
over the whole civilized world, have made it impossible any longer to
confine the speculative spirit to any one country. So that now the
announcement of any signal success in any department of production
or mercantile venture, at once fires the imagination of the enterpris-
ing and reckless in every country, and quickly incites to operations
