THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 587
recent years in the relations of labor and capital, and how clearly and
unmistakably these changes are consequents or derivatives from a
more potent and antecedent agency.
Machinery is now recognized as essential to cheap production. No-
body can produce effectively and economically without it, and what
was formerly known as domestic manufacture is now almost obsolete.
But machinery is one of the most expensive of all products, and its
extensive purchase and use require an amount of capital far beyond
the capacity of the ordinary individual to furnish. There are very
few men in the world possessed of an amount of wealth sufficient to
individually construct and own an extensive line of railway or tele-
graph, a first-class steamship, or a great factory. It is also to be re-
membered that for carrying on production by the most modern and
effective methods large capital is needed, not only for machinery, but
also for the purchasing and carrying of extensive stocks of crude ma-
terial and finished products. Sugar can now be, and generally is,
refined at a profit of an eighth of a cent a pound, and sometimes as
low as a sixteenth ; or in other words, from eight to sixteen pounds of
raw sugar must now be treated in refining in order to make a cent ;
from eight hundred to sixteen hundred pounds to make a dollar, from
eighty thousand to one hundred and sixty thousand pounds to make a
hundred dollars, and so on. The mere capital requisite for providing
and carrying the raw material necessary for the successful prosecution
of this business, apart from all other conditions, places it, therefore, of
necessity beyond the reach of any ordinary capitalist or producer. It
has been before stated that, in the manufacture of jewelry by ma-
chinery, one boy can make up nine thousand sleeve-buttons per day ;
four girls also, working by modern methods, can put together in the
same time eight thousand collar-buttons. But to run an establishment
with such facilities the manufacturer must keep constantly in stock
thirty thousand dollars worth of cut ornamental stones, and a stock
of cuff-buttons that represents nine thousand different designs and
patterns. Hence from such conditions have grown up great corpora-
tions or stock companies, which are only forms of associated capital
organized for effective use and protection. They are regarded to some
extent as evils ; but they are necessary, as there is apparently no other
way in which the work of production and distribution, in accordance
with the requirements of the age, can be prosecuted. The rapidity,
however, with which such combinations of capital are organizing for
the purpose of promoting industrial and commercial undertakings on
a scale heretofore wholly unprecedented, and the tendency they have
to crystallize into something far more complex than what has been
familiar to the public as corporations, with the impressive names of
syndicates, trusts, etc., also constitute one of the remarkable features
of modern business methods.
And when once a great association of capital has been effected, it
