59 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
capitalists, but by great capitals. In every trade the standard of ne-
cessary size, the minimum establishment that can hold its own in com-
petition, is constantly and rapidly raised. The little men are ground
out, and the littleness that dooms men to destruction waxes year by
year. Of the (British) cotton-mills of the last century, a few here and
there are standing, saved by local or other accidents, while their rivals
have either grown to gigantic size or fallen into ruin. The survivors
with steam substituted for water-power, with machinery twice or thrice
renewed, are worked while they pay one half or one fourth per cent
on their cost. The case of other textile manufactures is the same or
stronger still. Steel and iron are yet more completely the monopoly
of gigantic plants. The chemical trade was for a long time open to
men of very moderate means. Recent inventions threaten to turn the
plant that has cost millions to waste brick and old lead. Already
nothing but a trade agreement, temporary in its nature, has prevented
the closing of half the (chemical) factories of St. Helens and Widnes,
and the utter ruin of all the smaller ownei*s. Every year the same
thing happens in one or another of our minor industries.
Such changes in the direction of the concentration of production
by machinery in large establishments are, moreover, in a certain and
large sense, not voluntary on the part of the possessors and controllers
of capital, but necessary or even compulsory. If an eighth or a six-
teenth of a cent a pound is all the profit that competition and mod-
ern improvements will permit in the business of refining sugar, such
business has got to be conducted on a large scale to admit of the re-
alization of any profit. An establishment fitted up with all modern
improvements and refining the absolutely large but comparatively
small quantity, of a million pounds per annum, could realize, at a
sixteenth of a cent a pound profit on its work, but 8623. Accord-
ingly, the successful refiner of sugars of to-day, in place of being as
formerly a manufacturer exclusively, must now, as a condition of full
success, be his own importer, do his own lighterage, own his own
wharfs and warehouses, make his own barrels and boxes, prepare his
own bone-black, and ever be ready to discard and replace his expen-
sive machinery with every new improvement. But to do all this suc-
cessfully requires not only the command of large capital, but of busi-
ness qualifications of the very highest order two conditions that but
comparatively few can command. It is not, therefore, to be won-
dered at that, under the advent of these new conditions, one half of
the sugar-refineries that were in operation in the seaboard cities of
the United States in 1875 have since failed or discontinued opera-
tions.
The census returns of the United States are also very instructive
on this point. Between 1850 and 1860, the number of manufacturing
firms and corporations in the United States increased from 123,025 to
140,433, and the value of manufactured products increased from
