THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 593
per annum. These manufacturing enterprises have not, however, been
conducted on co-operative lines. . . . The work-people in their factories
are not co-operators. They do not share in the profits of the business.
They receive simply the market rate of wages. They are on just as
bad terms with their co-operative employers as they would be with
individual capitalists, and they have endeavored to better their con-
dition by entering upon strikes ; or, in other words, the great Co-
operative Distribution Society managers, in Great Britain, finding that
it was essential to their success as manufacturing producers, have
adopted, without scruple, all the methods and rules that prevail in
similar establishments which have been incorporated and are managed
solely with a view to the profit of their individual capitalists or stock-
holders.
But this is not the whole story. Besides these great wholesale co-
operative distribution societies which have engaged in manufacturing,
there are a large number of smaller and weaker similar societies in
Great Britain which are also attempting to manufacture the same
description of goods for the profit of their more limited circle of mem-
bers ; and these last now complain that they are absolutely unable
to withstand the competition of the larger wholesale societies, which,
purchasing labor at the lowest rate in the open market, denying any
participation of profit to their workmen, and working upon the largest
scale, are enabled to produce and sell cheaper. So that all the disas-
trous effects of unlimited and unscrupulous competition, for which co-
operation was expected to be a cure, are showing themselves among
the co-operators, and another example is to be added to the record of
modern economic experience, of the strong industrial and commercial
organizations devouring the weak.
An element of international character and importance, growing out
of the improvements in production through machinery, should also
not be overlooked. Whatever of advantage one country may have
formerly enjoyed over another by reason of absolute or comparative
low wages, is now, so far as the cost of machine-made goods is con-
cerned, through the destruction of handicrafts, and the extended use
and improvements in machinery, being rapidly reduced to a minimum.
For, apart from any enhancement of cost by taxes upon imports, there
is at present but very little difference in all countries of advanced
civilization in the cost of machinery, of the power that moves it, or of
the crude materials which it converts into manufactures. The ma-
chine, therefore, which enables the labor of one man to dispense with
the cheap labor of ten men, practically reduces any advantage which
the manufacturer in France, Germany, or other countries, paying nomi-
nally low wages, has heretofore had over the manufacturer of Eng-
land, or of the United States, to the simple difference in the cost of
the labor of the operative who manages the machine in different
places ; and all experience shows that the invariable concomitant of
TOL. XXXI. 38
