THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 595
commission business, which dispenses to a great extent with the em-
ployment of intermediates, and does not necessarily require the pos-
session or control of any capital.
Let us next go one step farther, and see what has happened at
the same time to the man whose business it has been not to sell, but to
manufacture tin-plate into articles for domestic use, or for other con-
sumption. Thirty or forty years ago, the tinman, whose occupation
was mainly one of handicraft, was recognized as one of the leading
and most skillful mechanics in every village, town, and city. His oc-
cupation has, however, now well-nigh passed away. For example, a
townsman and a farmer desires a supply of milk-cans. He never
thinks of going to his corner tinman, because he knows that in New
York, and Chicago, and Philadelphia, and other large towns and cities,
there is a special establishment fitted up with special machinery,
which will make his can better and fifty per cent cheaper than he can
have it made by hand in his own town. And so in regard to almost
all the other articles which the tinman formerly made. He simply
keeps a stock of machine-made goods, as a small merchant, and his
business has come down from that of a general, comprehensive me-
chanic to little other than a tinker and mender of pots and pans.
Where great quantities of tin-plate are required for a particular use,
as, for example, the canning of salmon or lobsters, of biscuit, or of
fruit and vegetables, the plates come direct from the manufactory
to the manufacturer of cans or boxes, in such previously agreed upon
sizes and shapes as will obviate any waste of material, and reduce to a
minimum the time and labor necessary to adapt them to their respect-
ive uses. And by this arrangement alone, in one cracker (biscuit)
bakery in the United States, consuming forty thousand tin boxes per
month, forty men are now enabled to produce as large a product of
boxes in a given time as formerly required fifty men ; and, taken in
connection with machinery, the labor of twenty-five men in the entire
business has become equivalent to that of the fifty who until recently
worked by other methods. And what has been thus affirmed of tin-
plate might be equally affirmed of a great variety of other leading
commodities ; the blacksmith, for example, no longer making, but buy-
ing his horseshoes, nails, nuts, and bolts ; the carpenter his doors,
sash, blinds, and moldings ; the wheelwright his spokes, hubs, and fel-
lies ; the harness-maker his straps, girths, and collars ; the painter his
paints ground and mixed, and so on ; the change in methods of dis-
tribution and preparation for final consumption having been equally
radical in almost every case, though varying somewhat in respect to
particulars.
The same influences have also to a great degree revolutionized the
nature of retail trade, which has been aptly described as, until lately,
the recourse of men whose character, skill, thrift, and ambition, won
credit, and enabled them to dispense with large capital. Experience
