52 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
taken endeavor to make them parts of a general theory on the same
scale in regard to details. A specialist, striving to generalize, nearly
always goes more or less astray ; but, instead of following him, even
though with the idea of setting him right, it is best to take the special
results he has obtained at the cost of much labor and research. If we
do this with the work of all who have dealt specially with a subject,
the chances are that we shall find we have gathered nearly enough
to indicate a general theory, which shall include all these specially
ascertained details. This the true theory, whatsoever it may be, should
unquestionably do. My theory, at any rate, has been obtained in this
way, and is intended in its wide generality to cover all the known
facts.
So much premised, I note that my reasoning on the subject of comets
and meteors starts from the idea which Professor Newton seems very
properly to regard as almost necessarily true, that shooting-stars, fire-
balls, aerolites, and in fine all orders of meteoric bodies, belong to the
same general class, differing only inter se in size, distribution, orbital
motion, and the pi-oportions in which the materials constituting them
are distributed. It appears to me, as it does to him, that a theory
which will account for such streams as supply the August and Novem-
ber displays, but not for the meteoric masses w T hich fall sporadically,
can not be the true general theory of meteors ; nor can any theory be
accepted as at once true and general which accounts for the holosider-
ites while it leaves unexplained the asiderites (so called, though in
reality no meteors are free from iron). Again, noting that meteors
have been associated with comets, we require for any theory which
shall be accepted as generally true, that while it shall explain this con-
nection between streams of bodies producing falling stars and certain
special comets, it shall also be able to account for all comets as possi-
bly associated with meteor-streams, and for all meteor-streams as pos-
sibly associated with comets. How much resides in this last condition,
those only can guess who have put the matter to the test by striving
to find a general theory of comets and meteors which shall not be
found to be in conflict with some fact known about particular comets
or some other fact known about particular meteor systems. Yet no
general theory of comets and meteors can possibly be accepted which
fails when thus tested, trying though the test may be. These trying
tests are, indeed, particularly valuable for the seeker after truth, seeing
that they serve to diminish his field of research by fencing out por-
tions which can not usefully be dealt with. My own experience has
convinced me that negative indications serve often to lead more di-
rectly to the truth than the most seemingly decisive evidence of the
positive sort, though in reality it is by combining the two kinds of
evidence, rejecting because of decisive negative evidence theory after
theory from among those to which we are directed by decisive posi-
tive evidence, that we can alone hope to arrive at the true theory.
