600 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
except by waking the patient up, or making her pass into lethargy.
The hypnotized patient therefore is much in the state of the frog,
which when thrown into a pond, even after its brain has been re-
moved, begins to swim on touching the water, aimlessly, automati-
cally.
Sometimes a movement repeatedly executed by the operator in
front of the patient will be imitated and carried out by the patient
until stopped : this is a case of suggestion through the organ of sight.
Or more complicated trains of movement may be initiated by present-
ing to the patient objects suggestive of certain actions, such as a plate
and spoon, a brush and comb, and the like. The sight of a boot will
start an endless repetition of putting it on, lacing and unlacing, taking
it off, putting it on again, and so forth indefinitely.
The field of suggestions through the ear by means of language is
boundless. Such words as rats, bird, flower, wake up a train
of imagery in the patients brain which is immediately projected out-
ward in an expressive display of appropriate gestures of aversion or
desire, and corresponding movements of avoidance or capture. If in
deep hypnotism, the subject is immediately wrapped up in those cre-
ations of the imagination ; if slightly hypnotized only, repetition of
the suggestive words is needed to neutralize the controlling influence
of the senses. The ordinary phenomenon of hypnotism, the impossi-
bility which the subject feels of escaping the prohibiting influence of
a suggestion, belongs to this category. You assure him that he can
not move his arm, for instance ; he feels that he can, and yet he can
not. The volitional current from his higher brain-centers is neutral-
ized, as it were, by the current from other centers in which the sug-
gestion has created a fixed idea of his own incapacity. As hypnosis
becomes deeper, every trace of resistance disappears, and the fixed
idea reigns supreme.
Such are the leading phenomena of hypnotism as observed in those
highly sensitive subjects, the sufferers from the graver form of hysteria,
or hystero-epilepsy. It would take us too far to describe the various
symptoms of this form of nervous derangement, which, though com-
paratively common in France and among certain other nations, seems
to be very rare, at least in its full development, among the Germanic
races. In Dr. Richers work, already mentioned, a full account is
given of the appalling violence of the convulsive seizures and of the
delirium that characterize the disease. Epidemics of hystero-epilepsy
were rife in the middle ages, especially among the members of relig-
ious bodies ; and even now it seems to be closely related to supersti-
tions or mystical beliefs and practices.
Though essentially a disease of the female nervous organization,
many instances are found of men suffering from more or less modified
forms of hystero-epilepsy. The less striking symptoms of it, such as
various forms of paralysis, loss of sensation, loss of speech (aphasia),
