SLEEP AND ITS COUNTERFEITS. 601
are often sufficiently developed in male subjects to justify us in class-
ing them in the hysterical category of nerve-sufferers.
In this category the Soho sleeper deserves to hold a high place,
as will become manifest on reading the following condensed resume
of his history as given by Professor Charcot, in the Progres Medical
for March, 1886, and completed by some further details, published in
recent numbers of the British Medical Journal :
Ch. was born in 1848, and his family history points to a strong neurotic
heredity. He served in the French army in Algeria ; and during the Franco-
German War received a wound in the left elbow which led to amputation of the
arm (1871). A few months later he was seized while at supper with uncon-
querable drowsiness, from which he could not be aroused. The next morning
he broke out into a terrific delirium that lasted two days. A second attack of
a similar nature occurred soon after. In 1875 he suffered from strange nervous
symptoms, and in 1878 had another attack of sleep, followed by a long period of
imperfect articulation. In 1880 he was seized again ; and in addition to com-
plete loss of speech, there was loss of feeling and movement of the left leg. He
remained six months under treatment. Since then there has been a series of
relapses, after one of which (1885) he came under the notice of Prof essor Charcot
in the Salpetriere Hospital. He was then found to have lost to a great extent
sensation on the left side of the body ; he could not articulate a single sound,
but could express himself freely by writing. He was troubled with nightmare,
in which the hallucinations of his former delirious seizures used to recur. He
recovered his speech quite suddenly, without passing through a period of stam-
mering as on former occasions.
During the fifteen months that elapsed till his arrival in London, he seems
several times to have gone through his usual ordeal of sleep, followed by loss of
speech and paralysis of the left leg. The attack which he has just had, seems
to have been excited by the emotion he experienced on being robbed of all his
money (March 24th). The somnolent stage lasted about a fortnight, and was
followed with the usual paralytic and aphasic condition. During his torpor his
eyes were shut, and his general appearance was that of a man in a profound
sleep. He did not react to the loudest sounds ; but if a ray of light was cast
upon the pupil the eyelids gradually opened, and the eyeballs converged toward
the bright object. The results of various experiments made upon the patient
in his trance-like state illustrate several of the hypnotic phenomena already de-
scribed as observed in hystero-epileptic patients. His muscles presented both
the hyper-excitable and the plastic peculiarities that characterize the lethargic
and the cataleptic phases respectively of artificially-induced sleep, but with the
difference that they both coexisted, whether the eyes were shut or opened.
Certain phenomena of suggestion through the muscular sense could easily
be elicited. For instance, a series of movements imparted to the face, arm, or
leg was automatically repeated, and continued for an indefinite time. Again,
on imparting to his upper extremity an attitude of menace with outstretched
arm and clinched fist, his eyes (previously opened) suddenly turned toward the
limb, and he assumed an expression of anger verging on ferocity. I noticed
that on interposing an opaque object between the eyes and the arm, the latter
speedily relaxed and fell, the eyes closed, and the patient relapsed into his ac-
customed slumber.
During the second week of the trance he began to obey orders repeatedly
