6oz THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
given, such as Open your eyes, Sit up, etc., and to answer simple ques-
tions by writing. lie could be made to write anything to dictation ; but when-
ever ordered to indite a letter, he constantly reproduced one ho had written
shortly before this attack.
Finally, be was found to have lost sensation in the left side ; and the appli-
cation of magnets to the skin produced some of the alterations of feeling char-
acteristic of hysterical hemianaesthesia. Powerful electrization, though it failed
to rouse him up, induced convulsions and spasms, typical of tbe regular hystero-
epilectic seizure.
There is thus no doubt left us as to the nature of the case of the
Soho sleeper. Among other instances of attacks of sleep in the course
of hystero-epilepsy, I may mention a patient whom Professor Charcot
has had under his observation for many years :
She first came to the Salpetriere Hospital in 1862, and presented many of
tbe alterations of sensation and movement characteristic of tbe disorder. On
April 7, 1875, she was seized with somnolency, which persisted with temporary
awakenings till tbe 27th. There occurred then a violent outburst of paroxys-
mal laughter and weeping. From that moment the patient passed into a cata-
leptic condition, with occasional hysterical fits of the same description. She had
to be fed with a spoon ; she swallowed as if automatically, with a noise, but
without any signs of consciousness. She awoke quite abruptly on the 7th of
June, and affirmed that she had no recollection of what had taken place during
the past two months. There occurred in 187G another fit of the same kind, that
lasted about a fortnight.
In order to illustrate further the intimate connection between cer-
tain morbid forms of sleep and the hysterical state, I shall briefly allude
to the so-called hysterogenic and hypnogenic pressure-points
discovered by Professors Charcot and Pitres.
A very remarkable phenomenon connected with grave hysteria is
the artificial production and arrest of attacks by pressure on certain
points on the surface of the body. The number and distribution of
these points are very variable, and they differ in every case. They
usually can only be found out by careful search, the patients themselves
ignoring the existence of them.
On pressure being exerted upon one of these hysterogenic spots,
the patient falls into a convulsive or tetanic spasm, and the various
phases of the attack succeed one another much in the same order as
in a spontaneous fit. Now it is a curious fact that a repetition of the
pressure on the same spot, or on some other spot experimentally dis-
covered, will often abruptly modify or arrest the attack. The great
theoretical and practical importance of this singular property of cer-
tain circumscribed cutaneous areas, has directed the investigations of
several careful observers, and led to the discovery of similar spots,
called hypnogenic, pressure upon which determines, not a muscular
spasm or convulsion, but an attack of hypnotic sleep.
These hypnogenic areas are likewise irregular in their number and
