6o 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
burial. Pfendler, however, states, that he has known two cases in
which a disastrous result was barely averted :
A Viennese lady, who had suffered for a long time from cataleptic or lethar-
gic attacks, was finally buried in one of her trances. The sexton, who fortu-
nately happened to be a thief in tbis instance, had reopened the grave, and was
busy removing her clothes during the ensuing night, when a resurrection of the
dead took place. Stricken with terror, ho was running away, when the woman
called him back, requesting to be taken to her doctor. The second instance
referred to by Pfendler is that of a young lady, aged fifteen, who, after a convul-
sive attack, had St. Vituss dance and other nervous symptoms. Finally she
became subject to fits of sleep lasting several days. Her health suffered greatly,
and the exhaustion became such that, after a consultation of the first physicians,
every hope of her recovery was given up. The next day she suddenly started
as if to embrace the attendant who was watching her, and fell back as if dead.
All the usual tests failed to detect any sign of life. Finally, funeral preparations
were made ; she was dressed in white, the bell was tolling. Still uneasy about
the absence of any sign of decomposition, Pfendler was making a last examina-
tion when he detected a faint respiratory movement. After an hour and a halfs
friction and stimulation, movement returned ; and the patient looking about and
smiling said, I am too young to die. She then fell into a sleep of ten hours
duration, and woke up in full convalescence. The patient in this case had never
lost consciousness, and remembered afterward what had been said and done in
the room during the medical consultation and funeral preparations.
Catalepsy, though intimately allied to hysterical neurosis, often oc-
curs in patients who offer no other symptoms of nervous derangement.
Emotions are often the exciting cause of an attack in a cataleptic sub-
ject. Many curious instances are related by authors :
A little girl, mentioned by Tissot, shocked at her sister having helped her-
self to a coveted morsel, remained stiff and motionless for an hour, a spoon in
her hand, and her arm outstretched toward the dish. A soldier, quarreling with
a companion, in a fit of passion seized a bottle to throw at him ; cataleptic rigid-
ity fixed him in this attitude, motionless, unconscious, his eyes full of anger and
defiance. In another case, a magistrate on the bench, insulted in the middle of
his summing up, remained as if petrified in an attitude of indignation and threat
at his insulter. Again, we read of priests being cataleptized at the altar in the
attitude of elevating the sacrament.
e
It is certain that many of the saintly women in the Roman Catho-
lic hagiology were victims of this disease : St. Catherine of Siena, I
St. Elizabeth of Hungary, St. Theresa ; not to speak of Joan of Arc,
Madame Guyon, Marie Alacoque, and many others. Cataleptic seizures
were also a common feature among the victims of the great hystero-
epileptic manifestations so common in the middle ages, which we find
described as possessions in the curious and abundant literature of
the subject.
Among the sickening descriptions of the awful episodes known as
the possession of the Ursulines of Loudun, we find a graphic de-
scription of cataleptic phenomena :
