SLEEP AND ITS COUNTERFEITS. 605
The devil, enemy of Sister Claire, appeared at the command of her ordinary
exorcist, Father Eliz6e, and rendered her supple and ductile like a sheet of lead.
The exorcist hent her hody in various directions forward, backward, laterally
so that she almost touched the ground with her head. The demon kept her
in the posture in which she had been placed until she was moved again, during
which time she only slightly breathed through the nose and was insensible, for
the father pierced a fold of her skin with a pin without drawing blood or pro-
ducing pain. We also read of others who were remarkable for their pliability.
In their sleep they could be manipulated like a sheet of lead, and preserved the
postures imparted to them until moved again. Elsewhere a nun possessed by
the demon Cismond lay on the ground in a strange trance ; her arms and legs
could be twisted about as if made of wool ; nothing could be extracted from
her ; the devil keeping her in this condition so as to prevent her confession.
Though, as already mentioned, the Latin races appear to offer a
much more favorable field for the spread of nervous epidemics, we
read that England has not always been free from such manifes-
tations :
During Wesleys sermons at Bristol, says Dr. John Chapman, in his work
On Christian Revivals, their History and Natural History, many used to fall
as if struck to the heart by the word of God. Men and women by the score
were lying on the ground, insensible like dead bodies. Singular nervous acci-
dents were likewise frequent among the American fanatics known as Shakers or
Jumpers, as well as among the Irish revivalists of Ballymena.
As late as 1861, at the village of Morzine, a secluded commune in
the Alps of Savoy, there occurred a curious epidemic of hysteria with
all the characters of demoniacal possession. The population of
these regions is extremely neurotic and superstitious. In a short time
nearly all the female population, excited by the exorcismal practices
of the clergy, fell a prey to the disease, and the scenes recalled the
worst days of Loudun. But at the beginning, when young girls were
chiefly affected, phenomena of ecstasy, catalepsy, and somnambulism
prevailed. The Government had finally to interfere, and the tempo-
rary dispersion and seclusion of the patients speedily restored their
mental equilibrium, and the locality has since resumed its habitual
tranquillity.
As an instance of trances of a more contemplative tendency, I
shall give a short account of Louisa Lateau, of whose attacks Dr.
Lefebvre has given a good description :
She used to pass into that condition without any warning. Suddenly, during
a conversation, or at her sewing-machine, she would become as if transfixed, the
eyes turned upward to the light. Her expression is then one of deep atten-
tion or of distant contemplation. Her physiognomy, like her attitude, often
changes, and depicts feelings of joy or of sadness. Sometimes terror is ex-
pressed, or she turns slowly, as if watching the progress of an imaginary pro-
cession. Sometimes she stands, resting on the tips of her toes, with her hands
outstretched, as if to fly away. Her lips move, the eyes brighten, and her face is
illuminated by an ideal beauty. The stigmata in her forehead and hands bleed.
