SLEEP AND ITS COUNTERFEITS. 607
monotonous impressions from without. The same may be said of an
order of stimuli that has hitherto not received its due share of atten-
tion. I mean the afflux of those confused, mostly unfelt, impres-
sions from the viscera and tissues generally. Under certain condi-
tions after a meal, for instance these may set up, in the cerebral
centers to which they converge, an excitation that leads to an inhibi-
tion of the higher brain-regions, and so to a state of sleep.
Similar considerations will assist us in explaining the effect of the
usual methods of hypnotization. The stimulation of one of the cere-
bral sensory centers by repeated gentle and monotonous sounds or
touches, or, in the case of the visual organs, by the convergence of the
eyes and persistent gazing at a small object, so interferes with the
activity of the higher centers as to lead to various perverted motor
aud mental manifestations. Certain nervous individuals, but above
all hysterical subjects, are more amenable to these effects than are
others. Repetition in all cases increases the liability to hypnotiza-
tion, and in extreme cases the recollection of the processes previously
used becomes sufficient to induce sleep. Finally, there are subjects,
such as the Soho sleeper, in whom, owing to the extreme instability
of their cerebral equilibrium, a kind of spontaneous hypnotization may
be observed.
It would be premature, in the actual state of our knowledge, to
speculate upon the nature of the changes in the nervous system upon
which the phenomenon of inhibition depends. It has been ingeniously
compared to that of the mutual interference of two rays of light or
two waves of sound. But this analogy does not account for all the
facts ; and in connection with this topic we may mention the views
recently propounded by Professor Brown-Sequard upon what he calls
nervous dynamogeny. It is a well-known fact that under the influ-
ence of various sensorial or emotional stimuli, of moderate intensity or
pleasurable quality, our nervous energy, as measured by the muscular
effort we are enabled to put forth, is increased to a considerable ex-
tent. Recent researches by Dr. Fere have thrown additional light
upon these dynamogenic or force-producing processes, of which
the reviving effect of smelling-salts is a familiar illustration. In this
instance a diffusive wave invades the whole brain from the olfactory
centers, and produces such a change in its constituents as to restore
its functions. It has likewise been shown that every form of mental
activity is accompanied with increased nerve-power as directly meas-
ured by the squeeze of the hand on the dynamometer. It would thus
seem that nervous cell-matter is liable to undergo certain modifica-
tions under the influence of various impressions derived from other
nerve-regions, in virtue of which it becomes more powerful. But, with-
out even attempting to define more closely the dynamogenic
change, we may perhaps assume it to be the counterpart of what takes
place in inhibition, and describe the latter as a nervous process in
