608 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which a group of nerve-cells so acts upon another group as to lower
its capacity for work.
Inhibition in one nervous sphere is often accompanied with dyna-
mogeny in another : the removal of cerebral influence, for instance,
exalts the autonomy of the spinal cord. A good instance of the co-
existence of the two processes is found in expectant attention,
which depends upon the high tension of the centers involved in antici-
pating the phenomena, with a corresponding inertia of the others.
The reader will readily perceive how similar considerations may be
employed in the elucidation of such phenomena as ecstasy, suggestion,
muscular hyper-excitability, and intensified perception. Fortnightly
Review.
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING TWO CENTURIES AGO.
By GEORGE P. MOEEIS.
AN Industrial College has just been opened in the city of New
York. The State Teachers Association of New Jersey, at its
recent session, devoted some time to the discussion of the question of
Manual Instruction. Almost every one of the current magazines
has monthly contributions from prominent instructors, shedding new
light upon this question of the coming education. So much in order
to prove the timeliness of the following reference to the past.
Thomas Budd arrived in Burlington, New Jersey, in 1678. His
father was the Rev. Thomas Budd, at one time rector of the parish of
Martock, Somersetshire, England, but who forsook the state Church
and became a follower of George Fox, and an ardent Quaker. Arriv-
ing in Burlington, Budd immediately assumed the rank of a leading
citizen in that wonderful colony of West Jersey. If any doubt the
propriety of the adjective wonderful, let them read Bancrofts tribute
to the Quakers of West Jersey, and the laws which governed and the
habits which distinguished them.
In 1683 Budd and Francis Collins were each granted a large
tract of land near the Falls of Trenton, in consideration and in dis-
charge for building the market and court-house at Burlington. In
1684, in company with Samuel Jenings, Budd went to London to
confer with Edward Byllinge about the affairs of the province. In
1685 he became a citizen and merchant of Philadelphia. In 1688
his name is found among the petitioners for a bank in that city.
In the great controversy between George Keith and the Quakers,
Budd espoused the cause of Keith, whose intimate friend he was,
and in 1694 went with Keith to England to defend him before the
yearly meeting. In 1685 Budd wrote and published a small Trea-
tise, the title-page bearing the following peculiar inscription and
dedication :
