INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION TWO CENTURIES AGO, 609
Good Order Established
in
Pennsilvania New Jersey
in
AMERICA,
Being a true Account of the Country ;
With the Produce and Commodities there made,
And the great Improvements that may be made
by means of Publick Store-houses for Hemp,
Flax and Linnen-Cloth ; also, the Advantages of a
Publick-School, the Profits of a Publick-Bank,
and the Probability of its arising, if those
directions here laid down are followed. With
the advantages of publick Granaries.
Likewise several other things needful to be under-
stood by those that are or do intend to be
concerned in the planting in the said Countries,
All which is laid down very plain, in this small
Treatise ; it being easie to be understood
by any Ordinary Capacity. To which the Header
is referred for his further satisfaction.
By Thomas Budd.
Printed in the Year 1685.
Those that have generous Spirits, whose desires and
Endeavours are to bring the Creation into Order, do
I dedicate This, the first Fruits of my Endeavours.
Authorities differ as to the place of publication. It is commonly
said to have been printed in London while Budd and Jenings were
there upon their mission as deputies of the province. Others assert
that it was one of the publications of the well-known William Brad-
ford, of Philadelphia, and give reasons why it could not have been
printed in London, and why Bradford omitted to insert his name as
publisher.
In this treatise Budd describes, first, the physical features of the
two provinces East and West Jersey the prevailing social customs ;
and then, after giving wholesome advice to the farmers, brewers,
manufacturers, and tanners, and after outlining a scheme by which
public storehouses might be built with profit to the community, and
describing the ways by which the industry of flax and hemp might be
encouraged, he gives his readers what he deems to be the proper sys-
tem of education. His conclusion is that, if this system of education
is adopted and prevails, then not only will the minds and bodies of the
youths be properly developed, but the public and private coffers will
be enriched. We quote so much of the treatise as deals with the sub-
ject of education. He writes :
1. Now It might be well if a Law were made by the Governours
vol. xxxi. 39
