INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION TWO CENTURIES AGO. 611
by which the Poor and the Indians as well as the Rich, will have their
Children taught, and the Remainder of the Profits, if any be, to be
disposed of to the building of School-houses, and Improvements on
the thousand Acres of Land, which belongs to the School.
The manner and Profits of a Spinning-School in Germany, as it is
laid down by Andrew Yarenton in his own words, in a book of his
calld Englands Improvements by Sea and Land, take as followeth :
1 In Germany, where the Thred is made that makes the fine Linnens, in
all Towns there are Schools for little Girls, from six years old and up-
wards, to teach them to spin, and so to bring their tender fingers by
degrees to spin very fine ; their Wheels go all by the Foot, made to go
with much ease, whereby the action or motion is very easie and delight-
ful. The way, method, rule, and order, how they are governed is : 1st.
There is a large Room, and in the middle thereof a little Box like a
Pulpit : 2ndly. There are Benches built around about the Room, as
they are in Play-houses ; upon the benches sit about two hundred Chil-
dren spinning, and in the box in the middle of the Room, sits the grand-
Mistress with a long white Wand in her hand ; if she observe any of
them idle, she reaches them a tap, but if they will not do, she rings a
bell, which by a little Cord is fixed to the box, and out comes a Woman,
she then points to the Offendor, and she is taken away into another
Room and chastized ; and all this is done without one word speaking.
In a little Room by the School there is a Woman that is preparing and
putting Flax on the Distaffs, and, upon the ringing of a Bell, and
pointing the Rod at the Maid that hath spun off her Flax, she hath
another Distaff given her and her Spool of Thred taken from her, and
put into a box unto others of the same size, to make Cloth, all being
of equal Threds. 1st. They raise their Children as they spin finer, to
the higher Benches. 2. They sort and size all the Threds, so that they
can apply them to make equal Cloths ; and after a young Maid hath
been three years in the Spinning-School, that is taken in at six, and
then continues until nine years, she will get eight pence the day, and
in these parts I speak of, a man that has most Children lives best.
It will be readily seen that this scheme of Budds is very like that
proposed to-day.* What are its striking features? 1. That attend-
ance should be made compulsory. 2. It recognized that education to
a great degree should be a preparation for lifes struggle. Hence the
boy is to receive instruction in that which would most naturally be of
use to him ; the girl in that which would best fit her for the duties of
housewife, never for a moment forgetting the education of the mind.
* At the annual meeting of the State Board of Education of New Jersey, held at
Trenton, July 12, 1887, the following resolution was passed :
Resolved, That the State Superintendent, in the interval between the present meeting
of the board and its meeting in November, make a full investigation of the subject of
industrial education now applied to the educational system of other States, with a plan for
its adaptation to the school system of this State, and as to the desirability of its adoption.
