612 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
3. It in a sort recognized, what is now known as the elective
system, be it of mind or hand, for they are to work at that Art,
Mystery, or Trade, that he or she most delighteth in. 4. The ne-
cessity of moral and religious training in public schools is asserted.
Matthew Arnold has recently reiterated the necessity of this, and no
doubt greatly astonished many of his readers, by asserting that he
finds to-day, in the public schools of Germany, a recognition of the
fitness and propriety of religious instruction and an enforcement of
the same, which can not be found either in England or the United
States. 5. A fostering policy by the State was urged. How? In
the very way that the great public-school system of our land has been
established. 6. No distinction was made between the rich and the
poor, the Indians child and the Quakers child. With a charity that
marked everything done by a Quaker, this education was to be the
priceless possession of all ; with the foresight which was equally char-
acteristic of the Quaker, he prophesied that these schools would be
in a measure self-supporting. In the light of to-day was this a false
presumption ?
Lastly, how significant is the quotation from Yarenton, who is
styled by Dove, the Father of English Political Economy ! signifi-
cant, in that it reveals to us the food upon which our colonial states-
men fed ; also, because of the index-finger pointing to Germany,
from which so many modern educational ideas have sprung.
Whether Budd was the first to suggest this system of co-education
of mind and hand in America, we do not know. He certainly must
have been among the first. Remembering that he was a colonial
statesman of West Jersey growth, this fact assumes added interest,
when it is recalled to mind that in all probability the first public
schools in this country to establish an industrial department were
those of Montclair, New Jersey, and they not until September, 1882,
nearly two hundred years after Budds treatise appeared.
A
SOCIAL SUSTENANCE.
Br HENRY J. PIIILFOTT.
III. SPECIALIZATION.
GREAT scientific truth is expressed in the statement fre-
quently heard that all kinds of work tend to run into special-
ties. Specialization is the order of the day. The term specialty is
most frequently used in speaking of those sections into which the
practice of medicine has been divided ; but, in reality, we are all spe-
cialists. There is no more striking difference than this between our
industry and that of a tribe of savages, or of a swarm of bees. The
bees in a swarm are all engaged in the same few and simple operations.
One bee does not exclusively make wax and another honey. Perhaps
