SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 615
III. But the man who pursues a specialty to success often learns
rules of bis art which he can impart to others, or even can not help im-
parting, since, like the peculiarities of the general form of a violin, they
remain embodied and visible in the product of his art. He invents
new machines or processes which survive him and are permanently
added to the worlds industrial power. This advantage of specializa-
tion is the last to be realized, and is probably the greatest.
Under which head shall we place the utilization of pre-existing
special aptitudes ? Under the first, on the ground that part of the
advantage gained from them is immediate, under the second because
they are susceptible of development by exercise, or under the third on
the theory that they are due to heredity ? They may be a part of the
legacy of past specialization. Presumably this is true in general, and
particularly in the most prominent of all specializations that which
separates mans work from womans.
This brings us to an important practical subject which we may as
well pause to consider. We all want a solution of the vexed problem
of womans industrial status. She wants it vitally and primarily, and
is clamoring for it. She wants to know how best to make her living.
In the great scheme of mutual helpfulness which constitutes the sub-
ject-matter of economic science, she wants her best possible place, as
we all want ours. And we, in turn, aside from our sympathy for her,
are interested in having such industrial capacities as she possesses, and
is in a position to exercise, made the most of. I have stated as a gen-
eral and vital economic truth that the better living others make the
more they help us to make ours. And yet half the population belongs
to a sex which feels that it is denied, either by prejudice or some other
cause, or both, the privilege of making the best living of which it is
capable. If this be true, the first step toward reform is to find
out why it is true. If we incidentally discover, in taking this first
step, that reform is difficult or even impossible, none the less must we
take it ; for it will save us the waste of toilsome, futile steps in wrong
directions.
A painstaking inquiry into the relations subsisting between special-
ization, heredity and special aptitudes can not fail to furnish us a clew
to some part of the trouble. We often speak of the various differences,
mental and otherwise, between man and woman. Among them all
there is none more striking than this, that mans work has been highly
specialized, while womans has not. True, several s])ecialties have
been evolved out of her original specialty as weaving, spinning, bak-
ing, etc. But these new specialties have mostly been given to men,
not women. To all intents and purposes woman has now, as always,
one specialty housekeeping.
Hence the intense heredity of it. It is bred in the bone. The
carpenters son may fail to develop a special aptitude for working in
wood ; but the son of a long line of carpenters, whose male ancestors
