616 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
on his mothers side were also carpenters, would be sure to. This case
never occurs. Masculine specialties are numerous. Male ancestors are
also numerous. Their specialties are not one, but many. Now, if it
happens that one of these ancestors had a specialty particularly adapted
to transmission, which had become a part of his nature before his
children were born, his posterity may have inherited his special apti-
tude regardless of the occupations of their immediate male parents.
But, of course, it would all the time be diluted by its mixture with
aptitudes inherited through other strains.
In the case of woman, every circumstance conspires to make the
special aptitude intensely hereditary. It is acquired before the birth of
children, hence is always transmitted. It has been transmitted, undi-
luted, from the female side, through countless generations. In a cer-
tain sense woman inherits masculine aptitudes from her male ancestors,
But almost her only use of them is to transmit them to her sons.
In a few cases they are so strong that she yields to them and util-
izes them ; and a part of her reward is that she is pointed to as an
example that if women had the chance they would prove as capable
as men. As a rule, girls inherit the industrial tendencies of their
female rather than of their male ancestors, just as they do their voices,
faces, and forms.
It is not worth while to quarrel with this fact, nor to quarrel about
its original cause. It must be taken account of. From an unbroken
line the woman inherits adaptation to a single specialty. From con-
verging lines running back to a great variety of specialties the man
inherits the capacity to turn his hand to many things, and measurably
succeed in any one of quite a number. Woman has a sphere, while
man has spheres. How to bring about equality, or something more
nearly approaching it, in this respect the multiplicity of spheres
is the base of all there is in the famous woman question. For,
the moment woman has industrial potency, her way is clear to the
realization of most of her other aspirations.
As compared with woman, man inherits versatility. But not all
men are equal in this respect. Some inherit a larger assortment of
capabilities than others, and with them the courage to abandon an
adopted specialty the moment it becomes unprofitable or otherwise
disagreeable, and take up another. Some whole communities have
been so long tied to a single narrow industry that their inhabitants
can hardly be trained to anything else. If that one industry for any
reason ceases to be profitable, carried on in their way, they are com-
paratively helpless.
Grant that it is not good for a man to have too many irons in the
fire, or be Jack of all trades and master of none ; neither is it
good for him to carry all his eggs in one basket, or have only one
string to his bow. The man who is tolerably capable at several
kinds of work is the better able to make his living while he is seeking
