SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 617
the work at which he is most capable. Many men who teach school
are free to say that they do it only as a stepping-stone to something
else. A great many other occupations are occasionally or generally
followed for the same purpose by young men. A very large part of
the worlds important work is stepping-stone work. It implies
versatility of talent.
How shall woman acquire this versatility ? Her industrial pre-
disposition is a deeply-inherited instinct. How shall she break its
fetters ? Not very suddenly, we may rest assured. After long wait-
ing she has slowly begun to take up, with slowly increasing success,
those masculine tasks which the never-ceasing process of specialization
has placed within her grasp. She works in those factories which have
taken away from her general task of housekeeping some of the duties
included in it in her grandmothers time. She watches the spindle and
the loom of the factory, while the wheel and the loom of her grand-
mother gather and consecrate the dust of the garret. She carries her
inherited instinct of baby-tending into the Kindergarten and the school-
room. She even finds employment in those of the most mechanical
masculine tasks which are not too muscular. It is gratifying, as well
as scientifically instructive, that in all these lines her wages are gaining
on mans.
Why not divide her main specialty of housekeeping? Men have
made, out of much narrower and simpler ones, whole families of
specialties. This it is that justifies our treating the woman question
as a question of specialization, and taking it up so early. It is not a
question of capital, banking, commerce, money, production, or distri-
bution. It is a question of specialization, and, considered in respect of
the number of specialists, one of the most important, since there are
more women than men in the countries of greatest economic interest.
It is worthy our close attention for another reason. It is rich in
revelations of general economic truth. Not all branches of any
science are equally instructive. Some plants are botanically more
interesting than others. Some animals are richer than others in zoo-
logical phenomena, and in explanations of phenomena. Womans
work, besides being everywhere present, so that we can all study it, is
a peculiarly rich field of economic investigation.
It is not by any means a narrow specialty. It is intensely inbred, but
of itself it is too broad rather than too narrow. Compare the variety
of daily operations of man and woman. She must be constantly turn-
ing from one thing to another. She must dust, sweep, make the beds,
watch the pot, spread the table, wash the dishes, attend the baby, sew,
darn, and do so many petty things that almost any shallowness or
distraction of mind on her part would be excusable.
Her husband, on the other hand, is doing one thing all day. He
is laying bricks, carrying a hod, heaving coal, hammering iron, watch-
ing a loom, or doing some other single and simple thing all day. If,
