SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 619
ters. Fine-spun optimism does not right wrongs. No tyranny was
ever abolished by those who persuaded themselves that it did not exist.
Delusions, like the belief in Santa Claus, may do a certain good by
charming us in childhood or outside of business hours. But when we
get to business, the thing we want to believe and must believe or fail,
is the exact truth, no matter how unpalatable. So in regard to the
status of woman we shall get no further by thinking it is either
worse or better than it is, or more or less susceptible of conscious im-
provement. The doses of a dishonest quack are no more dangerous
than those of a self-deceived ignoramus. We have all fallen into a
habit of polite flattery of the nobility of womans work. This is a
convenient little bit of hypocrisy. We are very careful not to be too
polite to the man or woman who does womans work for pay. We
may socially recognize the man or woman who does mans work for a
stipulated salary, but not the one who so does womans work. Woman
herself, with all her kindness of heart, is just as clear of it as any of
us. She always keeps the brand of social as well as industrial infe-
riority plainly imprinted on her inherited specialty.
Woman grew into her present economic position, and very likely
she must grow out of it, if she gets out. There is no peculiar sanctity
about the process of growth as compared with other economic processes.
But it does need peculiar treatment in order to reach the results we
aim at. We should see this quite plainly if we were called on within
the same hour to advise in the case of a man with a broken leg, and
a tobacco-sign which had suffered the same mishap. In most of our
economic troubles there is an element of growth and an element of
artificiality. With these two elements we must deal differently. And
it will always help us to know in each case as it comes up, whether,
and to what extent, growth predominates over artificiality or artifi-
ciality over growth. It can not hurt us to remember that an institu-
tion which was wholly artificial some hundreds or thousands of years
ago, may now have reached a stage where growth enormously pre-
dominates over artificiality. In childhood, I amused myself by twist-
ing together the two stems of a cherry-tree. The process was wholly
artificial. But when the tree and I had reached maturity, its trunk
was still neatly doubled and twisted, like a thread of yarn. I have
often untwisted threads of yarn, but I was never foolish enough to
try to untwist that tree after it had reached its bearing age. What
was once wholly artificial had become almost wholly a matter of
growth.
I could not even do anything to help it grow untwisted. It may
be that woman and her specialty are as firmly entwined together as
were the two stems of my cherry-tree, and can not be separated with-
out injury to vitality, growth, and fruitage. They may even have to
grow more and more intimately interlocked, conforming more and
more to each other. If this is inevitable, we ought to know it ; if de-
