54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bits in which their components move, will for a moment adopt the
belief that they have been ejected from the stars, even though he may
accept the colorless theory (which explains nothing) that they were
captured by the giant planets from out the star-depths.
Nor are we at all helped by remembering that the sun himself is a
star, and that certain among the meteors which reach the earth may
be supposed to have come from him. For assuredly the meteors re-
garded by Meunier and Tschermak as of terrestrial origin can not be
attributed to the sun as their source, while the orbits of all the recog-
nized meteor-streams are entirely inconsistent with such an origin.
Mr. Matthew Williams, in his Fuel of the Sun, has pictured bodies
ejected from the sun which somehow come to be traveling afterward in
orbits nowhere approaching within millions of miles of his surface ;
but no such processes are within the range of dynamical possibilities.
How, then, are we to retain at the same time what we regard as
proved by Daubree, and also those facts, inconsistent with Daubrees
theory as actually presented, which have been shown with equal cer-
tainty, either in their positive aspect (as in the case of the November
and August meteor-streams) or negatively, to be certainly inconsist-
ent with the supposed origin of meteorites from the stars ? Clearly
we must widen our range of survey so as to recognize an origin for
meteors and meteorites which, while including Daubrees facts, shall
not exclude the others ; and I think there can be very little doubt how
such widening of the range of survey should be effected. Widening
our survey of space will be of no service, for we only bring in more
distant regions, and the meteors we have to explain require a nearer
origin ; but if we widen our survey of time, as assuredly we are justi-
fied in doing (for many meteorites must be millions, nay, tens, hundreds
of millions of years old), we shall find other stars than those consid-
ered in Daubrees theory, and some of these may meet our difficulty.
If there is one fact about the past of our earth and the other mem-
bers of the solar system which may be regarded as certain (amid all our
uncertainties in regard to the possible nebular origin of the system, or
its possible origin by aggregation, or by a combination of both pro-
cesses), it is that each planet began its career in a state of intense heat.
I suppose no one doubts now that the giant planets retain much more of
their primeval heat than the earth or Venus or Mars ; nor, on the other
hand, can it be reasonably doubted that the moon has parted with
much more of her original heat than our earth, insomuch that, whereas,
once she was the scene of such activities as we recognize in our world,
she is now a cold and lifeless orb. It is in their aspect as records of
the past of the planets that I note these facts. They indicate a pro-
gressive loss of heat w r hich we only have to trace back to recognize
each one of the planets, in the earliest stages of its career, as a sun-
like body.
Extending, then, thus our survey in time, we find another set of
