620 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sirable, help it on ; if avoidable and undesirable, do what we can to
prevent it.
It seems to me both desirable and possible that woman should di-
versify her aptitudes. The process will be slow, if possible at all, but
it will soon begin to bear good fruit. In those cases where she must
depend on salaried work for a living, it will enlarge her life by en-
larging her pay. Her independence will make her more choice in the
selection of a husband, which will be a blessing not only to herself,
but to her offspring. I insist on the importance of the blessing to
herself, and on her right to it. If one were disposed to find fault with
the order of Nature, the worst thing to be said is that there seems alto-
gether too much vicarious sacrifice in it. A majority of the lives
brought into this world are offered up on the altar of that sacrifice.
The sacrificial destruction of vegetable life need give us no pain. But
the animal offerings, especially the human offerings, suffer torture in
the ordeal, and enlist our sympathy. The economic development of
the human race has cost untold sacrificial agony, mitigated by little
or no reward to those who suffer it. VVe can not wholly prevent this.
Our best efforts to reduce it often increase it. But latterly success
has come often enough to stimulate more determined trial.
First of all, then, we desire that woman, for her own sake, should
secure a more commanding position in the economic world. We can
have no sympathy with the wide-spread, unmanly fear that she may
become a wage-reducing competitor in the masculine specialties. Nei-
ther can we sympathize with the fear that her devotion to them will
make her less enjoyable as a woman. Let it make her less a woman
if it makes her happier. Let it, if necessary, make her less enjoyable
to man. Is it of no concern that she should be enjoyable to herself ?
lam a Jew, said Shylock. Hath not a Jew eyes ? Hath not a
Jew hands, organs, senses, affections, passions? And if a Jew, why
not a woman ?
But even if we had a right to ask it, what right do the facts give
us to believe that, in order to be attractive to man, woman must spend
all her time and energies consciously trying to be so ? Let those who
coolly assume this to be the case, tell us how they know that man,
who has little or no time for such cares, is less attractive to woman
than she to him. The grimy coal-miner, without even so much as
a change of clothes, manages in some way to hold with a reasonably
firm grip the affections of at least one woman. As for the oak-and-
vine idea that one half the race can be attracted only by strength,
and the other half only by weakness, that will do very well for poetry
and flattery, but, if it is to do for science, it must be mercilessly tested.
So far as the test has been made, the idea may fairly be said to be
disproved. In fact, the result is so encouraging to the parties con-
cerned, that the consequently growing tendency toward the enlarge-
ment of womans sphere may well give us hope, and stimulate us to
