622 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The farmers work, like womans, may be thought of as consisting
of a variety of operations which may in thought be separated. But
in practice they are bound together by his isolation, by the meteoro-
logical conditions which separate seed-time and harvest, and make
tbem both so short that the rest of the year must be filled up with
other duties or wholly lost ; and by other circumstances too numerous
to mention. So he, like the woman, must go pottering around at odd
jobs, never acquiring in any one kind of work that time-saving, nerve-
saving, attention-saving proficiency which is rated by all economists,
since Adam Smith, as one of the three greatest advantages of speciali-
zation. In a general way, to be sure, the farmer may have a specialty.
It may be wheat, it may be corn, it may be cotton, it may be hogs,
cattle, wool, horses, or what not. Whatever specialty he has, he usu-
ally gets from the nature of his soil, his distance from the market, or
some inherited skill or inclination. But it is not usually an exclusive
specialty. It does not furnish the whole of his employment, but only
the most important part of it. In fact, it is regarded as rather a mis-
fortune than a blessing that his soil or other environs should bind him
down to any one crop. Thus, the exclusive cultivation of cotton is
considered an unfortunate thing for the farmers of some of our South-
ern States. The loan companies, whose existence and profits depend on
their making a deep and candid study of this question of agricultural
specialization, are always glad to advertise to their loaning customers
that their borrowing customers live in what they call an all-crop
region. Seasons are uncertain : in the one-crop region the ill-wind
blows nobody good ; in the all-crop region it blows everybody
some good, and the people who have money to invest in farm-mort-
gages think this is not wholly offset by the correlative fact that in
such regions the good wind is pretty apt to blow everybody some ill.
We have now discussed the obstacles to specialization which lie in
the way of about three fourths, numerically, of the population of the
civilized w T orld one half being women, and half the rest farmers. We
may now pass to those industries and professions aside from farming
which must be carried on in the country, or in villages, as well as in
large towns and cities. We find them less highly specialized in the
country than in the city. The physician and the journalist, spoken of
in the beginning of this article, illustrate the difference. It is most
perfectly pictured to the eye when we walk into a country store, with
its groceries, dry-goods, ready-made clothing, boots and shoes, hats,
books and stationery, hardware, tinware, queensware, etc., and then,
after a short ride on the train, go the rounds of the city shops, where
all these things are separately handled.
It needs no profound scientist to tell us why. We see at a glance
that density of population conduces to specialization. This is one of
the ways in which it relieves its own evil consequences. World-
crowding increases the necessity of our making our mutual help more
