SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 623
effective, but it also opens the way, so far as specialization can help us
on toward that end.
But it can do so only when it crowds the world with people who
have the means and the inclination to purchase the services or the
wares of the specialist. A given specialty can be earlier divided into
sub-specialties in a rich than in a poor community of the same numer-
ical population. Hence, the circumstance which promotes sustenance is
likely to promote specialization. And since specialization promotes
sustenance, it promotes itself. It is a case of to him that hath shall
be given. It is a case where two and two make more than four.
It follows, in turn, that what promotes specialization is likely to
promote social sustenance. We have spoken of density of popula-
tion. Let us analyze this expression. What do we mean by saying
that population is dense ? The answer is extremely obvious, but for
the sake of the argument let us treat it as if it needed to be given.
We mean that our human beings are close together. World-crowding
is the only way to get them close together in person while occupying
all the soil and mines.
Nevertheless, there is another way to accomplish the same practi-
cal object. If we can not bring them together in person, we can bring
their products together. We can remove the obstacles to their com-
munication with one another. The railroad, the steamship, the tele-
graph, the organization of carriage and commerce, have all helped to
bring people together just as effectually, in an economic sense, as
world-crowding does. Facile communication has ceased to depend
wholly on density of population ; facile communication means facile
specialization, and it also means more beneficent specialization.
World-crowding was Natures first crude and cruel method of
bringing her highest creatures together, and specializing and civilizing
them. Once acquired, the habit of specialization has been facilitated
and its field extended by the more kindly method of commerce. The
cruel and the kindly method have co-worked to stimulate industry.
Whether the cruel process will go on when it is no longer needed, and
partially rob us of the fruits of the kindlier process, is a question
which we may leave to the prophets and to the future. In any case,
what we of the nineteenth century are permitted to witness is proba-
bly only the infancy of specialization.
Meantime, let us turn to its other form the creation of new
specialties. Much of what we have already said applies here with
equal force. Still, it may be worth our while to reflect that, besides
dividing up the old work, we may, by searching, find out new work.
Is it likely that all the ways of catering to the wants of society have
been found and utilized ? There is room here for the inventive fac-
ulty. A few generations ago the now highly-specialized profession of
journalism did not exist at all, even in its simplest form. It has been
but a few years since the specialties of making and attending to tele-
