624 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pboncs were created out of nothing. To say that many other ways
might be found to serve our fellow-beings and get pay for it, would
be to venture into the realm of prophecy. But, if the past is any sign
of the future, it is not wholly unwarranted prophecy.
We should say that in this direction there is probably work for
every one of those unemployed laborers of whom we have lately heard
so much. If they, or some capitalist for them, would forsake the old
ruts of specialization, and, seeking some unsatisfied want of humanity,
set about to satisfy it ; or if, finding no such want realized, they would
set about to arouse and cultivate it, they might multiply their own
opportunities, increase their pay, and by relieving the labor market in
the old, overcrowded specialties, increase also the pay of their fellow-
workmen remaining in those old specialties.
It is often said that there is no such thing as general over-produc-
tion. I am not so sure of it. I am not sure that all existing occupa-
tions may not be overcrowded, and that what is needed may not
sometimes be the creation of new ones. The creation of tbese new
ones may be the very thing that will restore equilibrium to the old ones.
A certain amount of ingenuity is, in fact, every year expended in
this direction. But might not more be profitably expended ? There
is a limit to the fertility of the soil, and to the stores of mineral
wealth ; but what limit is there to the diversification of human wants ?
We know by the experience of all history that these wants arise and
multiply naturally. We know that they may be artificially tempted
into being.
Some of these unborn or unsatisfied wants might furnish profitable
employments for which women would be especially fitted, and in
which they could command large pay. I have no doubt the field is
rich. So were the deposits of coal, iron, petroleum, and natural gas,
which humanity needed so long before it had sense enough to want
them or to find them. So were chemistry and mechanics as rich fields,
before they were cultivated, as now.
We have to look upon humanity as a race half blindly, but with
slowly opening eyes, groping after the opportunities which lie all
around it. These opportunities are of two kinds. They consist not
only in Natures undiscovered resources for making us happy, but in
our own ever-multiplying ways of being made happy. We have done
with the old quarrel as to what is and what is not productive labor.
We are familiar with the fine reasoning by which it is proved that the
family doctor is a productive laborer because he increases our own
working days and working capacity. This reasoning was needed to
make him a place in the old narrow field of political economy, which
included only the manipulation and valuation of material wealth.
In our wider economic field we find a place for every task by
which our fellow-beings make us happy by which they ease or am-
plify our lives. There is a place in it for the art, the music, the lect-
