SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 625
ure, the drama, the professional hall-game, whose enterprising pro-
ducers have taught us to love them for their own sake, and not because
they make us stronger to dig, plow, buy, and sell. We do not ask
whether these things increase the harvest or fill the net with fishes.
They amplify our lives, and that is enough for us. We are willing to
pay for the amplification, and that is enough for the specialists who
render the service.
We recognize the resources that lie in human nature, as well as
those that lie in the earth. Glancing at these, we see that humanity is
as blind to the opportunities offered by its own expansible and multi-
plicable wants and satisfactions as to those offered by Natures unex-
hausted capacity to supply old wants within old lines.
We can never safely predict just how much or little, nor exactly
what, can be found by searching. We might be disappointed in our
search for valuable and profitable new specialties. But if a great
many tried it once, we might with good reason expect more benefit
than has accrued from the associations of labor and capital that are
seeking to control the old ones. For while the inventor of the
specialty profits by his profession or business, the customers in whom
he has excited a new want are thereby stimulated to greater efforts or
greater efficiencies in their own old lines, since they must have means
to gratify the new want. In this way the novelties that commerce
offers to those it reaches tempts contented poverty and indolence into
industry and civilization. It creates in the uncivilized the wants and
thereby the efforts of the civilized, and hence the German philosopher
was right who said that commerce is the great civilizer.
In conclusion, among the general principles of specialization we
have discovered the following :
1. That it may arise either by division of old specialties or the cre-
ation of new ones.
2. That three fourths of the population, women and farmers, are
denied its highest development.
3. That heredity in specialization may be excessive.
4. That multiplication of human wants, as truly as multiplication
of drafts on Mother Earth, conduces to specialization.
5. So do density of population and facility of communication.
President Francis A. Walker urges for industrial education in the public
schools equal consideration with science and other branches, because it directs
and strengthens the executive faculty, and gives scope to the creative or con-
structive passion ; arouses interest in a larger proportion of pupils ; forestalls
snobbishness and dislike and contempt for manual labor ; contributes to a much-
needed improvement in the industrial quality of citizens ; helps to quicken the
sense of social decency which is manifested in keeping houses and yards neat
and trim ; supplies, from the girls side, good cooks, housekeepers, and sewers ;
and, by the exhibition of practical results for good, makes the schools popular,
and appeals to the whole community to be interested in them and maintain them.
vol. xxxi. 40
