SKETCHES IN ANN AM AND TONQUIN 627
The third ceremony takes place when a son of the family has passed
the examination for the public service ; for competitive examinations
rule in the Annamite Government positions. The parents announce
the happy event to the ancestors at their altar, and give a banquet, to
which the local notables, the friends and comrades of the young man,
and the acquaintances of the family, are invited.
Marriage is celebrated in different styles, according to the fortunes
and conditions of the families. Mandarins, literati, and nobles, go
through six distinct ceremonies, which, occupying months, and per-
haps years, it would take a volume to describe in detail. The families
frequently pledge their children to one another at a very early age.
This is especially the case when parents advanced in years have young
children ; they then engage the children, not to force their inclination
in advance, but to assure to them an honorable alliance while they are
still able to make provision for them.
Marriage settlements and dowries are not recognized, on account of
the difficulties that might arise in case the marriage is dissolved. Ac-
cording to Annamite custom, the woman should not bear the charges
of marriage, because she takes the name of her husband and associates
herself with him in order to perpetuate his family, not for the sake of
her own. It is just for the husband, in his own personal interest, to
furnish all that she and her children may need ; yet, according to
another custom frequently followed, the suitor whose character is not
well known should make several visits to the family of his affianced,
so as to submit himself to a kind of testing often very severe, which
shall permit his value and the amount of his knowledge to be rated.
This stage of the negotiations sometimes lasts for several years.
Marriage is usually contracted by inclination, without money con-
siderations entering into the matter. The family is regarded as a
moral union, and not as a business association. Hence it is common
to see a wealthy family allied with a poor one. It is considered that,
when a man marries a girl without fortune, but wisely brought up, she
will be easily touched by the care he will take of her, and be obedient
to his authority. Then, it is not right to exact a dowry from a girl
whose education has already imposed on her parents large sacrifices of
time and money, and who has, moreover, abandoned her family name
to take that of a stranger, so there is no dowry. The parents give
their daughter what they please, without the young man being allowed
to claim or stipulate for anything. Sometimes they require him to make
considerable presents, which will be the sole property of the wife. It
must not be supposed that the condition of wives is the same in An-
nam as in China. The six ceremonies of marriage are, it is true,
nearly the same in both countries ; but while the Chinese wife has to
keep to her apartments, the Annamite wife is treated as the equal of
her husband.
This equality is revealed both in the division of authority and in
