630 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
If the child is a daughter she is intrusted, when she has become of
suitable age, to the care of a discreet and virtuous woman, who attends
to her education in the house, under the eye of the mother. The edu-
cation and instruction of the daughters are considered of prime impor-
tance. It is the first condition of the prosperity of the family, who can
not possess a more precious treasure than a competent woman, respect-
ed by all, orderly ruling her house, bringing her children up in virtue,
and wisely directing a numerous personal establishment. The instruc-
tion of girls includes the rules of deportment and politeness, reading,
writing, and arithmetic ; music and literature ; weaving and needle-
work ; the culinary art, and all the various matters which it is impor-
tant to know in the management of the house. So, when we notice that
the heads of the family are elegantly clothed, that the table is well
served, and that order and good taste prevail in all the details of do-
mestic life, we at once discern the presence and the judicious activity
of a well-trained and accomplished daughter.
The boys are also brought up in the family ; but they are taught in
the public schools, where they attend during the day only. It is usu-
ally judged best to seek instructors for both sons and daughters outside
of the family. The parents consider themselves disqualified for the
exact discharge of the teachers work by the strength of their affection,
and too likely to err in the direction of over-indulgence, or in the oppo-
site one of undue strictness.
A more circumstantial account of the celebration of the New-
Years festival, referred to above by M. dEstrey, is given by another
French writer, M. Gouin, in the Bulletin de la Societe de la Geogra-
phic. In honor of the anniversary, the Government offices and more
important business establishments and enterprises are closed or sus-
pended from the fifth day preceding to the fifth day afterward ; but
the poor need take a vacation of only twenty-four hours. All is silent
and still in the town, except for the firing of shooting-crackers and the
going about of the people dressed in their best and carrying presents,
on their visits of ceremony. On the eve of the festival a green bam-
boo is planted in the court-yard by way of invitation to the ancestors
and deceased relatives to come and partake of the repast wMch has
been prepared for them. A flag-staff is set up at the front door,
adorned with palm-leaves, feathers, etc., to which a lantern is hung
at night. Within the house the disposition of the furniture has been
entirely changed, and everything is given a holiday look. Bows and
arrows are chalked on the ground at the entrance to keep bad spirits
away, and sometimes the door is further obstructed by abattis of
thorn-plants. A little square niche on one side of the wall without
is reserved as an altar in honor of the genius of the quarter, on which
offerings of burning torches, incense, flowers, meats, and gilded papers
are made, with the firing of crackers by the bunch. The ancestors
may be attending the feasts at any time. During the last three days
