SKETCHES IN ANN AM AND TONQUIN 631
of the ceremonies, their tombs are cleared of weeds and given the re-
pairs which their condition may require. A long lacquered table is
set in the principal room, and above it a large red tableau, on which
are represented various personages, flanked by characters and sentences
enumerating the qualities that distinguished them or those which they
would have liked to have. On the table are placed a variety of offer-
ings to the spirit of commerce, who is invoked to bring prosperity.
The place of honor, which usually looks upon the door, and the most
generous offerings, are given to the ancestral altars. The grand repast
takes place at midnight on the 30th ; and as a result of what goes on
then, the Annamites, usually sober, begin the year in a very drunken
condition. In connection with this feast, a quantity of last years
water is compared by weight with the same quantity of the water of
the new year. If the latter is the heavier, it is a bad sign, and inun-
dations may be expected ; if lighter, the air of the new year will be
pleasant, and the rivers will flow placidly. At the final repast, on the
4th or 5th of the new month, the departure of the ancestors, who are
supposed to have been present at all the ceremonies, is celebrated with
the burning of gold and silver papers. The houses are not opened
after the festival for the resumption of business if the w T eather is
bad ; for the sun must be the first to enter them, or something un-
pleasant might happen.
M. dEstrey, continuing his account, observes that there are no
public cemeteries in Annam. Every person seeks for a suitable place
of his own in which to bury his relatives. Not rarely families keep
the coffins of their relatives very solid and tight structures of wood
in their houses even for a considerable time. Poor persons are some-
times buried in grounds given by the more wealthy for that purpose.
Mourning is worn in white. Its duration is fixed according to the
nearness of relationship ; for father and mother, three years ; for
grandparents, brothers, and sisters, one year ; and so on. Persons who
are in mourning must not appear at public spectacles or dress elabo-
rately, or indulge in any gayety. After the mourning has terminated,
a family festival is celebrated at each anniversary, when a repast is
offered upon the ancestral altar. The formal visit to the tombs, the
keeping of them up, and the duty of attending to the rites of ancestral
worship, appertain to the heads of the family, the other relatives only
following their orders in the matter. After reaching fifty or sixty
years of age, parents who have children large enough to attend to
affairs leave the general direction of their houses to them, and devote
their attention to giving honors to their ancestors. The cost of ances-
tral worship in Annamite families is lighter than the cost of church
services in France. The heads of families are themselves priests, and
have only to say a brief ritual on the occasion of the anniversaiy of
the death of each member of the kindred. Besides the special family
altars to each ancestor, there exist temples consecrated to all the mem-
