SKETCHES IN AN NAM AND TONQUIN. 633
they lose their claims to nobility, and are fined for not having re-
tained their rank.
When, as frequently occurs, the chief does not live in the village,
of which he is the head, his place is filled by one of the nobles, who,
acting under the orders of the chief, attends the deliberations of the
council, furnishes the requisite number of men for the husbandry serv-
ice, and communicates the wishes of his master to the people.
The religion of all of these tribes is one of fear : a constant offer-
ing up of sacrifices to propitiate evil spirits. Famine, plague, sick-
ness, and misfortune are supposed to have their origin with them.
They preside over all things, and govern at will. The waters, the
forests, each tree, each mountain, is inhabited by spirits ; even the
villages are supposed to be governed by them. Hence, they build huts
at the entrances to their towns wherein these guardian spirits may
dwell, and yearly sacrifices, consisting of various animals, are offered
up to them, lest the harvest fail. Sacrifices are also made when one
of their number is sick, in order to drive out the evil spirit, or at least
to appease it. Their house-spirit is the only one for which they have
any respect, as they imagine that their ancestors from time to time
re-visit them, and a small table in one corner of the room is always
reserved for them. At certain solemn occasions this table is saluted
by them with the greatest respect. As a general rule, however, these
people care very little for their gods, excepting in time of danger and
misfortune.
The huts of the principal tribes are constructed of wood and built
upon piles. The walls are of braided bamboo, made in such a manner
that, even when the windows and doors are closed, there is little diffi-
culty in reading and writing within, the poor braiding allowing the
entrance of light. The roof is also made of bamboo covered with
palm-leaves. Not a single nail or pin is used in the construction of
these houses. When a new one has been completed, the head of the
family makes grand preparations to properly celebrate the event, ac-
cording to his means. Oxen are killed, wine is drunk, pipes smoked,
and there is general rejoicing on the part of the family and its guests.
Intoxication, however, is rarely met with on these occasions.
The interior of the hut corresponds in simplicity with its exterior,
In order to gain admission it is necessary to first climb the ladder
suspended from the door ; before entering the feet are bathed in a
long bamboo tube filled with water, as shoes are but little worn. As
there is no outlet for the smoke arising from the fireplace, excepting
through the roof and the crevices at the sides, the room is constantly
filled with it. Three large stones serve as a tripod. Shelves containing
rice, salt, and other articles of food are ranged about the room.
Knives, hatchets, and the indispensable bamboo tube containing fresh
water, are conveniently placed. On what may be considered the
ground-floor, fowls, pigs, and other domestic animals make their home.
