634 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Rice is the principal food, and they obtain a very delicate flavor
by steaming it through a bamboo tube. Smoking is indulged in to a
considerable extent.
These people are, generally speaking, somewhat careless, apathetic,
and without fear for the morrow. Hence, they live in a sort of
hand-to-mouth fashion, confining themselves to the cultivation of the
narrow strips of land at the foot of the mountains. The fields are
very small, and water is frequently brought to them by means of ca-
nals. The men work the fields with a light plow, but often dispense
even with that, and use a harrow, the teeth of which are made of
bamboo. Ordinarily there are two harvests, excepting in certain dis-
tricts, where the winters are too severe.
The men rise at daybreak at all seasons of the year, smoke their
pipes, lounge about the house for a time, then work in the fields until
about ten or eleven oclock, when they return for breakfast. A short
sleep is then indulged in. The afternoon is spent in roaming about
the mountains, fishing, hunting, or gathering bamboo. The evening
is passed at home. At about eight oclock the only other meal of the
day is partaken of. Their dress resembles that of the Annamites.
The women here, like those of most other wild tribes, are the real
laborers. They pound and gather in the rice, bring fire-wood from
the mountains, spin cotton, make cloth, prepare the meals, and, in a
word, do almost all that is to be done. Each member of the family,
however, works at his or her pleasure. The result of this freedom is
a lasting friendship between the members of the same family, and
frequently the children, even after marriage, will remain under their
parents roof ; thus, three or four families are often found living
together in perfect harmony. The women are usually very poorly
dressed, and make a less agreeable impression than the men.
Great affection is shown toward their children, so much so that
paternal authority is apt to suffer. When a child is born, a string is
suspended near the mother and the infant to prevent the devil from
carrying it away. Bits of rice are also put into the childs mouth with
the words : If thou art of the devil, let the devil slay thee ; if thou
art of Heaven, let Heaven protect thee.
Marriage does not take place until the men have reached the
twenty-fifth year, as it is necessary to have a considerable sum of
money for the brides parents before the event can take place. The
fathers and mothers manage the affair almost entirely themselves.
Three visits are made between the parents of the contracting parties;
on the fourth, the bridegroom accompanies his parents, carrying the
money, a pot, a pig, and a jug of wine. He invites the parents of
his future wife to feast; they furnish a pig and a jug of wine also,
and the two families make their repast in common. A chicken and an
egg are now prepared ; each is cut into two equal parts, wishes for
their future happiness are expressed, and the couple invited to eat.
