636 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
till it has been improved by cultivation. An article of cork, a bottle-
cork, for example, is therefore doubly an industrial product: first, as a
substance, the qualities of which have been brought out by perfected
processes of cultivation and harvesting ; and, secondly, as an article
that has been manufactured, either by the hand of man or by a machine.
It will hence be profitable to study the processes of cultivating and
gathering the cork, and the various industrial applications to which
the substance lends itself subjects concerning which no well-composed
account has yet been given.
The bark of the cork-oak is composed of two distinct concentric
layers : an inner sheet, which is the active part of the bark, and corre-
sponds with the liber of other trees ; and a thicker, outer zone, com-
posed of light, compressible, spongy substance, only slightly permeable
to liquids, and constituting the cork proper. Wherever upon the body
of the tree the inner sheet, or mother bark, is destroyed, no further
formation of bark or wood takes place ; and even a narrow decortica-
tion clear around the tree would cause it most certainly to perish.
The other coat, or cork, is inert, and does not contribute to the active
functions of vegetation ; and this explains how it is possible to strip
the cork-oak of its corky envelope without endangering the existence
of the tree. The inner bark, moreover, if left untouched, will form
yearly new layers of cork which may ultimately, when they have be-
come thick enough, be removed in their turn, and furnish the cork of
commerce, also called female cork.
According to the most excellent account of the process, given by
M. Matthieu, in his Flore forestiere, the clemasclage, or removal of
the cork, is done in July or August, when the condition of the sap-
movement permits an easy separation from the mother. The work
must be suspended when the winds of the sirocco are blowing, for
they would destroy the vitality of the inner bark by drying it up im-
mediately ; and about two per cent of the trees are likely to be lost, if
the operations are crudely performed, by exposure to the glare of the
sun. The renewed young bark, if it is permitted to form itself in
contact with the air, is also exposed to the attacks of insects and liable
to become cracked. To obviate these disadvantages, M. Capgrand
Mothes, a French sylviculturist, has devised a method of clothing the
stripped oak-trees, by replacing and leaving upon them for a while the
cork -bark which has been taken from them. Having been removed
in the shape of two half-cylinders, it is easily tied back upon the trunk
with wires, while the joinings are covered with strips of paper. The
dress is taken off at the end of three months, when the cork which has
been utilized to compose it will be found to have become better sea-
soned than it would have done by the usual method of stacking it.
The new bark, under this protection, will have formed only a thin,
superficial crust, and that free from cracks and the marks of insect-
stings. This process, which furthermore protects the trees against hot
