5 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pass forever away not only from himself but from the solar system,
the earth, even in the full energy of her sun-like condition, could not
probably have expelled bodies from her interior with velocity sufficing
to carry them beyond the control of the sun.* The bodies ejected
with velocities freeing them from the earth would thenceforward travel
around the sun on orbits of different dimensions within certain limits.f
Their orbits would at first intersect the earths path, and, even under
the perturbing actions of the planets, would always pass very near it,
oscillating, in this respect, on either side of the earths track so as at
intervals to cross it for a while as at first. Hence there would always
remain a chance of recapture, and indeed there would be a certainty
that, in the fullness of time, every body ejected from the earth would
be recaptured, though the fullness of time might in some cases mean
many millions of years. Thus the capture of sporadic meteors of ter-
restrial origin would be fully accounted for.
In like manner with those streams of meteors whose orbits lie
within the solar system so as to preclude the supposition that these
bodies could have reached the system from without. I say definitely
that the supposition is precluded, because the argument from the con-
sideration of the laws of motion, by which I have shown that the
giant planets could not possibly have captured these meteor-streams in
the manner imagined by Schiaparelli, is admitted to be sound even by
those who have not weighed my own theory in explanation of the
origin of these systems. It is suggested by some, as by Professor
Young, that there may be some way of explaining away the difficulty
I have indicated ; but I am not prepared to regard a vague sugges-
tion of this kind as having any present weight. It seems, to say the
truth, much as though one should say, for example, It has indeed been
demonstrated mathematically that the circumference of a circle is not
arithmetically commensurable with the diameter, but there may be
* It would not be absolutely impossible that some of the matter ejected from the
earth in this way would pass away even from the solar system. It appears from the very
existence of earth-ejected meteors, which we regard as demonstrated by Tschermak and
Meunier, that she had power of ejecting matter with velocities up to seven miles per sec-
ond. A velocity of little more than eight miles per second would suffice to carry matter
away from the solar system if the matter chanced to be ejected from the middle of the
advancing face of the earth, for then there would result relatively to the sun a velocity of
more than twenty-six miles per second, which at the earths distance is a velocity corre-
sponding to parabolic motion around the sun; but this would very rarely happen.
t If we suppose our earths eruptive power to be unable to give greater velocity of
ejection than eight miles per second, then the velocities of bodies expelled from the earth
would, at the distance from the sun where they began their independent careers, range
between twenty-six miles and ten miles per second, the earths orbital velocity being
eighteen miles per second. Hence the orbits of the expelled bodies around the sun would
range between parabolic orbits with perihelia at the earths distance, and ellipitical orbits
with aphelia at the earths distance and perihelia at a distance of one third the earths,
with an eccentricity of - 866. None of the expelled bodies could come nearer to the sun
than this last-named perihelion distance.
