648 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gun out. If it be desired to let the gun run out automatically imme-
niately after recoil, it is only necessary to leave the running-out cock
F open, and then the water forced among the cork by recoil returns
instantly to the cylinders, and runs the gun out quicker than the eye
can follow the motion.
The arrangement adopted may be made by using air instead of
cork, but air is a troublesome substance to deal with ; it leaks out
very easily and without showing any signs of having done so, which
might readily lead to serious consequences. A special pump is re-
quired to make up loss by leakage.
The merit of cork is its extreme simplicity and trustworthiness.
By mixing a certain proportion of glycerine with the water it will not
freeze in any ordinary cold weather.
Each of the applications of cork is based on some of the physical
or chemical properties of the substance. In bottle-corks its imper-
meability, elasticity, and imputrescibility are brought into service.
Its lightness, the first quality that strikes us, on a superficial view,
is not considered.
Cork is used for a variety of other purposes than those which
have been mentioned, which, while not so economically important as
these, still deserve attention. The male cork, while not well adapted
for stoppers, has been made available in the decoration of parks and
gardens. Rice-hulling mills have been made from it, but not with
much success ; small corks can be got out of it. Water-conduits and
bee-hives have been constructed from it. It furnishes excellent damp-
proof shelves and stands. The Kabyles employ it, mixed with a
mortar of mud, in building the walls of their houses, and shingle
their roofs with it. It is used for the floats of fish-nets.
These various applications were known, as w T e learn from expres-
sions of Theophrastus and Pliny, to the Greeks and Romans. Pliny
says : Only that bark is used that is thick and springs back when it
is pulled. It is sometimes employed for the buoys of ships anchors,
fishermens nets, barrel-bungs, and womens winter sandals. The
Greeks felicitously called the cork-oak the bark-tree. Cork is used for
the covering of roofs. The chips form a good non-conducting ma-
terial for keeping ice, and reduced to fragments make excellent stable-
floors and race-course tracks.
The real, or female cork, has a more homogeneous grain and works
much better than male cork. It is a very poor conductor of heat and
sound, and has been found valuable to protect hot surfaces against
cooling, and to keep frigid substances from melting. It is the basis
of several non-conducting mastics and coverings, which are used for
protecting pipes, steam-boilers, hot-water reservoirs, etc. Three meth-
ods of applying the cork-covering are employed in France. Strips of
cork touching at their edges may be laid along the pipes and cylinders
and drawn together by wire as in No. 1, Fig. 9. The pipe clothed in
