652 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The manufacture of all these various articles naturally involves
the production of considerable quantities of cork-clippings ; these, to-
gether with the waste incurred in gathering the crop, and with old
cast-away corks, constitute the raw material with wdiich a number of
important industries are fed. The coarser chips are sought for as
packing material for fragile articles, in which their elasticity gives
them a peculiar value. The finer particles constitute suberine pow-
ders, the balsamic properties of which are well known to hygienists.
In treating the rashes of new-born children, they take the place of
lycopodium and starch-powders. An insecticide, w T hich is offered under
the name of Zifa powder, is composed of cork mixed with phenol.
Fire-kindlings have been made of cork-powder, but they do not seem
to have given any grand results. The most important application
which has been made of cork-refuse is in the manufacture of linoleum.
For this fabric, cork-powder is mixed with oxidated linseed-oil. The
resultant paste is then spread upon cloth if a carpeting is to be
made, or on paper, if hangings are in view. The color, which is a
little darker than that of cork, may be enlivened by colored designs.
Applied to moist walls as a foundation, or in hangings, linoleum will
receive more substantial paintings than wood which warps, or plaster,
or other materials, which are liable to crack. Ceilings may be made
from it, which can be washed whenever they become soiled or smoked.
When used for carpets, linoleum makes the floors quite insonorous,
and transforms damp and unhealthy rooms into warm and salubrious
habitations. It has the advantage, for kitchens and offices, of not
being stained by grease. A new decorative product, lino-burgau, is
obtained by fluting linoleum, and by the application of colored var-
nishes and the metalization of some parts giving beautiful iridescent
effects.
A composition of coarse powder of cork and milk of lime, pressed
into bricks or tiles, forms an excellent material for the construction
of conduits, the lining of damp walls, and for roofs. Lining of
the cellars of breweries with these tiles diminishes the meltincr of
the ice ; in gunpowder-factories it prevents the deterioration of the
powder by damp, and, by virtue of its levity and friability, helps
to decrease the damage in case of explosion. Fmployed as pugging
for floors, they destroy the disagreeable resonance. In the spin-
neries of Alsace and Eastern France, the bricks have proved effective
to resist the passage of sound, of heat and cold, and are economical
withal.
When distilled in a close vessel, chips and waste of cork give off an
illuminating gas, which is capable of shedding a brighter light than
coal-gas, and is free from the sulphurous emanations which are so ob-
jectionable in that illuminant. When tried for lighting the city of
Nerac, the difficulty of providing storage for the immense bulk of
chips, needed to furnish the required amount of gas, proved so for-
