A BOTANICAL BONANZA. 653
midable an obstacle to its general use, that the system had to be
given up.
Lastly, the extremely fine and durable paint, cork-black, or Span-
ish-black, is made from carbonized chips and waste of cork.
-*-
T
A BOTANICAL BONANZA.
Br F. E. BOYNTON.
1AKE a map of the Southern States, and find a point directly north-
west of the spot where North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Georgia corner. Taking this for a center, describe a circle, whose ra-
dius shall extend twenty miles.
Within this bound will be represented a section which probably
contains more interesting and rare plants than can be found in any
part of the United States occupying the same area.
This district was undoubtedly visited by the elder Michaux. Pro-
fessor Sargent furnishes me with a short extract from the old botan-
ists journal, the original of which is in the possession of the Philadel-
phia Academy of Sciences, in which he describes a trip he made up the
Keowee River, and finally up the mountain-streams which form the
head-waters of the Keowee. This route naturally led him to pass
through the region that I have described. Here it was that Hobinia
viscosa and /Shortia galacifolia were first found two plants which
were for so long a time thought to be lost species.
Although much of the Alleghany Mountain region has been thor-
oughly explored by later botanists, this particular spot seems to have
been unnoticed until lately probably on account of its being so diffi-
cult to reach from any railroad-station, for the district embraces a
verv wild and broken mountain-resrion.
Not far from where I proposed to make the center of our circle,
Rhododendron Vaseyi grows in profusion. This showy plant is found
along an old, long-traveled trail, but was unnoticed until a short time
ago. Tsuga Caroliniana, the new and rare hemlock, is common on a
mountain (Whitesides) which has been visited annually by tourists
for half a century, but it remained unnoticed until within a short time.
Hobinia viscosa is a common plant on nearly all the mountain-tops
around, but was searched for in vain for nearly a century until it was
rediscovered a few years ago. One circumstance, which perhaps
helped to obscure it, is that in its natural state it is only a low shrub,
not much larger than its near relative, JR. hispida, with which it is as-
sociated, while in cultivation it makes a considerable tree. Professor
Sargent, while exploring the head-waters of the Keowee, last Septem-
ber (1886), in search of Magnolia cordata, obtained a plant which
proved to be the rare Shortia galacifolia. Since then it has been
41*
