6 5 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
liked to have his own way. At first, as was natural, we sometimes
surged against each other ; but these little oppositions were rapidly
adjusted, and for many years before his death the tie of brother to
brother was not truer or tenderer than that which united myself and
Bence Jones. On my return from the United States I found him
dying. In fact, the knowledge of his condition caused me to take
leave, earlier than I otherwise should have done, of a people that I had
learned to trust and love. Soon after my return I saw him lowered
into the grave.
The death of Bence Jones, whose steadfast loyalty to the Institu-
tion he loved so well, showed itself to the last, was a sore calamity to
be met. At that time one man only seemed fitted to supply his place.
That man was the beloved and lamented William Spottiswoode. To
him I appealed to stand by the Institution at a critical hour of its for-
tunes. He had his own mathematical work on hand, and he was too
well acquainted with the duties of our honorary secretaryship to ac-
cept them lightly. After much reflection, he wrote me a letter regret-
fully but distinctly declining the office. But he reflected a second
time. He knew that his refusal would cause me pain, and his affection
for me prevailed. When, therefore, the letter of refusal for he sent
it to me came, it was accompanied by a second letter, canceling the
refusal and accepting the post. With William Spottiswoode I had the
happiness of working in close companionship for six years. The dili-
gence, wisdom, and success with which he discharged his onerous
duties the princely hospitality which shed a glow upon the office
while he held it are well remembered. Of the dignity with which
he afterward filled the high position now occupied by the illustrious
man who presides here this evening it is needless to 6peak. Him also
we have seen lowered to his rest, amid the grief of friends assembled
to do honor to his memory. Such were the men who served the Royal
Institution in the past ; and their example has been worthily followed
by other men of eminence, still happily among us. Never was an in-
stitution better served than the Royal Institution, and not by its
honorary secretaries alone. With singleness of purpose and purity of
aim, its successive presidents, boards of managers, and honorary treas-
urers have unswervingly promoted the noble work of investigation and
discovery. May they never lower the flag which, for well-nigh a cent-
ury, they have kept victoriously unfurled !
The year after my appointment I was called upon to deliver, in
conjunction with Dr. Whewell, Faraday, Sir James Paget, and some
other eminent men, one of a series of lectures on scientific education.
I then referred with serious emphasis to the workers in our coal-mines,
and to the terrible perils of their occupation. I pointed to the intel-
lectual Samsons toiling with closed eyes in the mills and forges of
Manchester and Birmingham, and I said, Give these toilers sight by
the teachings of science, and you diminish the causes of calamity,
