660 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
law of conservation which combines the energies of the material uni-
verse into an organic whole ; that law which enables the eye of science
to follow the flying shuttles of the universal power, as it weaves what
the Earth Spirit in Faust calls the living garment of God.
This, then, is the largest flower of the garland which the science of
the last fifty years is able to offer to the Queen.
The second generalization is like unto the first in point of impor-
tance, though very unlike as regards its reception by the world. For
whereas the principle of conservation, with all its far-reaching, and,
from some points of view, tremendous implications, slid quietly into
acceptance, its successor evoked the thunder-peals which it is said
always accompany the marriage of thought and fact. For a long
time the scent of danger was in the air. But the evil odor has passed
away ; the air is fresher than before ; it fills our lungs and purifies
our blood, and science, in its jubilee offering to the Queen, is able to
add to the law of Conservation the principle of evolution.
In connection with these victories of the scientific intellect, I have
mentioned neither persons nor nationalities holding, as Davy ex-
pressed it, when the Copley medal was awarded to Arago, that
science, like Nature, to which it belongs, is neither limited by time
nor space. It belongs to the world, and is of no country and no age.
Still, it will not be counted Chauvinism, if I say that in the establish-
ment of these two great generalizations Her Majestys subjects have
quitted themselves like men. With regard to a third generalization,
neither England nor Germany has been idle. Omitting the name of
many a noble worker in both countries, the antiseptic system of sur-
gery assuredly counts for something in the civilized world. And yet
it is but a branch of a larger generalization, of momentous import,
which in our day has been extended and consolidated to an amazing
degree by a Gallic investigator. To some, however, any flower culled
in this garden will be without odor. Let me therefore add a sweet-
scented violet under the name of spectrum analysis which, besides re-
vealing new elements in matter, enables the human worker to stretch
forth his hand to sun and stars, to bring samples of them, as it were,
into his laboratory, and to tell us, with certainty, whereof they are
composed. Surely all these, and other discoveries of high importance,
taken and bound together, form an intellectual wreath, not unworthy
of Her Majestys acceptance in her jubilee year.
A short time ago an illustrious party leader summed up the politi-
cal progress of the Queens reign. What I have said will, I trust,
show that the intellectual world is not entirely compounded of party
politics that there is a band of workers scattered over the earth
whose arena is the laboratory rather than the platform, and who noise-
lessly produce results as likely to endure, and as likely to influence for
good the future of humanity, as the more clamorous performances of
the politician.
