SPEECHES AT THE RECENT TYNDALL BANQUET. 663
privilege to be admitted to his personal intimacy. I believe that
scientific research has succeeded in establishing on a physiological
basis certain evidences of intelligence even among oysters ; and cer-
tainly there is, I think, one form of intelligence which is conspicuously
displayed by the oyster which might, perhaps, be cultivated with ad-
vantage by after-dinner speakers in my position. The oyster knows
when to shut up. Admonished by that very interesting and suggest-
ive fact in natural history, what little else I have to say upon behalf
of literature, I shall confine to the expression of a hope that the well-
deserved relaxation from his more systematic scientific labors in con-
nection with the Royal Institution may enable my valued and honored
friend Professor Tyndall to enjoy an increased leisure for the con-
tinued cultivation of that department of literature which has already
been so richly adorned by his admirable writings.
Sir Lyon Play fair, 31. P., proposed the next toast, The Public
Services in Relation to Science. He said that undoubtedly the pub-
lic services were intimately connected with science, and were pro-
foundly affected by its progress, but, unfortunately, the truth was
only beginning to be recognized in this country. In the United
States scientific men were attached to all public offices, but in this
country the attachment was of the loosest possible character. Never-
theless, science had undoubtedly affected our public services in the
most profound way. The telegraph had altered the whole system of
commerce, and also the methods and the powers of government.
There was to be a great naval review next month ; it would be inter-
esting to imagine Elizabeths thirty small ships, which conquered the
Armada, sailing through two miles of modern ironclads. The largest
piece of ordnance used in the Crimean War cost less than a single shot
fired from the huge guns of our ironclads. But it was in peace rather
than in war that science rejoiced in aiding government. A strong
feeling was arising that we must improve our intellectual position as a
nation, and this, at last, was being recognized by the Government. A
material index of progressive civilization had always been desired.
Liebig contended that the best index of civilization was the quantity
of soap consumed. When the Queen ascended the throne we con-
sumed per head 7f pounds of soap, and now we use 10 pounds per
head. The consumption of paper was a more reliable index. At the
commencement of the Queens reign the consumption was 1^ pound
of paper yearly ; now it was 12 pounds, while in the United States
it was 10 pounds, in Germany 9 pounds, in France 8 pounds, and
in Italy 4 pounds. But the main question was whether we were de-
veloping the national intellect at the same rate as other nations. Our
general intelligence is still high, but our trained scientific intelligence is
low. Our secondary education in all matters relating to science was
far behind that of the United States, Germany, and France. Neither
