SPEECHES AT THE RECENT TYNDALL BANQUET. 665
would point to the modern ironclad, the most elaborate, the most
complete, and the most costly, of all contrivances in which the art of
construction has been utilized for purposes of destruction. They
would tell you how the chemist, metallurgist, the engineer, the elec-
trician, the mathematician, have all contributed their share to that
extraordinary result of science and skill. The War-Office would fol-
low the Admiralty. They would not say, as Frederick of Prussia did,
that Providence is on the side of the biggest battalions, but they
might possibly say that Providence was generally on the side of the
army which could bring into the field the most scientifically effective
weapon in the hands of the most carefully-trained soldier. If I were
to turn to the line of business with which I had once something to do,
I might ask any diplomatist or any statesman to explain to you how
largely the position of Egypt, and, with that, the diplomacy of Europe,
has been affected by that little scratch which the genius of M. de Les-
seps drew across the Egyptian sands ; and if, as is quite possible, the
coal-carrying power of steamers and their speed and their economy are
largely increased I do not speak of those wilder predictions accord-
ing to which steam is to be superseded as the motor power by some-
thing more efficient suppose, I say, the large increase of the coal-carry-
ing power of steamers, and the results to which I have referred may
be again reversed ; and again, at least in war-time, the route to India
may lie through the South African seas. If I speak of the colonies,
every one conversant with that department would admit that if we
had had the ocean telegraph in existence twenty-five years ago half
our little wars beyond the seas would never have taken place, and
those that have taken place would have been disposed of in half the
time. I know that these things are commonplace, but I can not help
that. If I could tell you what the next great discovery was going to
be, that would not be commonplace. But, unfortunately, that is not
in my power ; and if it were, I do not think I should be in a hurry
about it, because I have observed that those who are the first to an-
nounce a discovery are generally rewarded by having a remarkably
unpleasant time. But however great may be the gains which we have
derived from the applications of science, they are nothing as compared
with those which will and do accrue to us from the acceptance of sci-
entific habits of thought. That is coming already, and it will come
more in a not remote future. We have many things in this age and
country of which we can not boast, but we may boast that in science
England has done something more than hold her own. The great
name of Darwin will survive, it may be, the British Empire itself, and
with him will be remembered some others also, whom to single out
might, perhaps, be invidious. But we may be sure of this, that among
their names will be included the name of our distinguished guest of
to-night. It is a common complaint that politicians have done nothing
for science. In that I do not agree. They have done the best they
