666 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
could for it they have let it alone ; they have not corrupted it by
their intrigues, nor vulgarized it by their squabbles ; and they being
what they are, and science being what it is, that is probably the best
service they could have rendered it.
--
SOME HUMAN INSTINCTS *
By WILLIAM JAMES,
PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN HARVARD COLLEGE.
II
IN a previous article I passed in review a certain number of those
instincts which may be considered fundamental in man. In the
pages which follow I propose to complete the list. The reader will
perhaps remember my main thesis, which is that man, so far from
having an unusually small number of instincts, is more richly endowed
in this respect than any other mammal ; so richly, indeed, that his in-
stincts often block one anothers path. This phenomenon, combined
with the transitoriness of many of them, and with what I have called
the law of inhibition of instincts by habits, sufficiently account for the
indeterminateness of mans conduct in presence of the same objective
stimuli an indeterminateness which has usually been supposed incom-
patible with his possession of any instincts at all.
The last instinct I touched upon was fear. Let me next say a few
words about appropriation or acquisitiveness. Once more the reader
will remember that an instinct is nothing more than an inborn path of
reflex discharge in the nervous centers, such that a certain sort of ob-
ject falling on the senses awakens an impulse to act in a determinate
way. The beginnings of acquisitiveness are seen in the impulse which
very young children display to snatch at, or beg for, any object which
pleases their attention. Later, when they begin to speak, among the
first words they emphasize are me and mine. f Their earliest
quarrels with each other are about questions of ownership ; and par-
ents of twins soon learn that it conduces to a quiet house to buy all
presents in impartial duplicate. Of the later evolution of the proprie-
tary instinct I need not speak. Every one knows how difficult a thing
it is not to covet whatever pleasing thing we see, and how the sweet-
ness of the thing often is as gall to us so long as it is anothers. When
* See The Popular Science Monthly for June, 1887.
f I lately saw a boy of five (who had been told the story of Hector and Achilles) teach-
ing his younger brother, aged three, how to play Ilector, while he himself should play
Achilles, and chase him round the walls of Troy. Having armed themselves, Achilles ad-
vanced, shouting Wheres my Patroklos ? Whereupon the would-be nector piped up,
quite distracted from his role, Wheres my Patroklos ? I want a Patroklos ! I want a
Patroklos ! and broke up the game. Of what kind of a thing a Patroklos might be
he had, of course, no notion enough that his brother had one, for him to claim one too.
