SOME HUMAN INSTINCTS. 671
the play-impulse, that a boy gets more pleasure from a horse and
rider and a soldier than from a doll, while with the girl the opposite is
the case, is proof that an hereditary connection exists between the
perception of certain things (horse, doll, etc.), and the feeling of pleas-
ure, as well as between this latter and the impulse to play. *
There is another sort of human play, into which higher aesthetic
feelings enter. I refer to that love of festivities, ceremonies, ordeals,
etc., which seems to be universal in our species. The lowest savages
have their dances, more or less formally conducted. The various re-
ligions have their solemn rites and exercises, and civic power symbol-
izes its grandeur by processions and celebrations of divers sorts. We
have our operas and parties and masquerades. An element common
to all these ceremonial games, as they may be called, is the excitement
of concerted action as one of an organized crowd. The same acts,
performed with a crowd, seem to mean vastly more than when per-
formed alone. A walk with the people on a holiday afternoon, an
excursion to drink beer or coffee at a popular resort, or an ordinary
ball-room, are examples of this. Not only are we amused at seeing so
many strangers, but there is a distinct stimulation at feeling our share
in their collective life. The perception of them is the stimulus, and
the reaction upon it is our tendency to join them and do what they
are doing, and our unwillingness to be the first to leave off and go
home alone. This seems a primitive element in our nature, as it is
difficult to trace any association of ideas that could lead up to it ;
although, once granting it to exist, it is very easy to see what its uses
to a tribe might be in facilitating prompt and vigorous collective
action. The formation of armies, and the undertaking of military
expeditions would be among its fruits. In the ceremonial games, it
is but the impulsive starting-point. What particular things the crowd
then shall do, depends for the most part on the initiative of indi-
viduals, fixed by imitation and habit, and continued by tradition.
The co-operation of other aesthetic pleasures with games, ceremonial
or other, has a great deal to do with the selection of such as shall be-
come stereotyped and habitual. The peculiar form of excitement
called by Professor Bain the emotion of pursuit, the pleasure of a
crescendo, is the soul of many common games. The immense extent
of the play-activities in human life is too obvious to be more than
mentioned.f
Curiosty. Already pretty low down among vertebrates we find
that any object may excite attention, provided it be only novel, and
* Der Menschliche Wille, p. 205.
f Professor Lazarus ( Die Reize des Spieles, Berlin, 1883, p. 44) denies that we have
an instinct to play, and says the root of the matter is the aversion to remain unoccupied,
which substitutes a sham occupation when no real one is ready. No doubt this is true ;
but why the particular forms of sham occupation ? The elements of all bodily games and
of ceremonial games are given by direct excito-motor stimulations just as when puppies
chase one another and swallows have a parliament.
