672 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that attention may be followed by approach and exploration by nostril,
lips, or touch. Curiosity and fear form a couple of antagonistic emo-
tions liable to be awakened by the same outward thing, and manifestly
both useful to their possessor. The spectacle of their alternation is
often amusing enough, as in the timid approaches and scared wheel-
ings which sheep or cattle will make in the presence of some new
object they are investigating. I have seen alligators in the water act
in precisely the same way toward a man seated on the beach in front
of them gradually drawing near as long as he kept still, frantically
careering back as soon as he made a movement. Inasmuch as new
objects may always be advantageous, it is better that an animal
should not absolutely fear them. But, inasmuch as tbey may also
possibly be harmful, it is better that he should not be quite indifferent
to them either, but on the whole remaining on the qui vive, ascertain
as much about them, and what they may be likely to bring forth, as
he can, before settling down to rest in their presence. Some such
susceptibility for being excited and irritated by the mere novelty, as
such, of any movable feature of the environment must form the in-
stinctive basis of all human curiosity ; though, of course, the super-
structure absorbs contributions from so many other factors of the
emotional life that the original root may be hard to find. With what
is called scientific curiosity, and with metaphysical wonder, the prac-
tical instinctive root has probably nothing to do. The stimuli here
are not objects, but ways of conceiving objects, and the emotions and
actions they give rise to are to be classed, with many other a?sthetic
manifestations, sensitive and motor, as incidental features of our mental
life. The philosophic brain responds to an inconsistency or a gap in its
knowledge, just as the musical brain responds to a discord in what it
hears. At certain ages the sensitiveness to particular gaps and the
pleasure of resolving particular puzzles reach their maximum, and then
it is that stores of knowledge are easiest and most naturally laid in.
But these effects may have had nothing to do with the uses for which
the brain was originally given ; and it is probably only within a few
centuries, since religious beliefs and economic applications of science
have played a prominent part in the conflicts of one race with another,
that they may have helped to select for survival a particular type
of brain. I shall have to consider this matter of incidental and su-
pernumerary faculties in another place.
Sociability and Shyness. As a gregarious animal, man is ex-
cited both by the absence and by the presence of his kind. To be
alone is one of the greatest of evils for him. Solitary confinement is
by many regarded as a mode of torture too cruel and unnatural for civ-
ilized countries to adopt. To one long pent up on a desert island, the
sight of a human footprint or a human form in the distance would be
the most tumultuously exciting of experiences. In morbid states of
mind, one of the commonest symptoms is the fear of being alone. This
