674 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
dreads the notice of strangers, but can hardly be said to be afraid of
them ; he may be as bold as a hero in battle, and yet have no self-
confidence about trifles in the presence of strangers. Almost every one
is extremely nervous when first addressing a public assembly, and
most men remain so through their lives. As Mr. Darwin observes,
a real dread of definite consequences may enter into this stage-fright
and complicate the shyness. Even so our shyness before an important
personage may be complicated by what Professor Bam calls servile
terror, based on representation of definite dangers if we fail to please.
But both stage-fright and servile terror may exist with the most in-
definite apprehensions of danger, and, in fact, when our reason tells
us there is no occasion for alarm. We must, therefore, admit a certain
amount of purely instinctive perturbation and constraint, due to the
consciousness that we have become objects for other peoples eyes.
Mr. Darwin goes on to say : Shyness comes on at a very early age.
In one of my own children, two years and three months old, I saw a
trace of what certainly appeared to be shyness directed toward myself,
after an absence from home of only a week. Every parent has no-
ticed the same sort of thing. Considering the despotic powers of rulers
in savage tribes, respect and awe must, from time immemorial, have
been emotions excited by certain individuals ; and stage-fright, servile
terror, and shyness, must have had as copious opportunities for exercise
as at the present time. Whether these impulses could ever have been
useful, and selected for usefulness, is a question which, it would seem,
can only be answered in the negative. Apparently they are pure hin-
drances, like fainting at sight of blood or disease, sea-sickness, a dizzy
head on high places, and certain squeamishnesses of aesthetic taste.
They are incidental emotions, in spite of which we get along. But
they seem to play an important part in the production of two other
propensities, about the instinctive character of which a good deal of
controversy has prevailed. I refer to cleanliness and modesty, to
which we must proceed, but not before we have said a word about
another impulse closely allied to shyness. I mean
Secretiveness, which, although often due to intelligent calcula-
tion and the dread of betraying our interests in some more or less
definitely foreseen way, is quite as often a blind propensity, serving no
useful purpose, and is so stubborn and ineradicable a part of the char-
acter as fully to deserve a place among the instincts. Its natural
stimuli are unfamiliar human beings, especially those whom we respect.
Its reactions are the arrest of whatever we are saying or doing when
such strangers draw nigh, coupled often with the pretense that we
were not saying or doing that thing, but possibly something different.
Often there is added to this a disposition to mendacity when asked
to give an account of ourselves. With many persons the first impulse,
when the door-bell riugs^or a visitor is suddenly announced, is to scut-
tle out of the room, so as not to be caught. When a person at
