6 7 3 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
At bottom this amounts to the admission that, though in some
shape or other a natural and inevitable feature of human life, modesty
need not necessarily be an instinct in the pure and simple excito-motor
sense of the term.
Jjove. Of all propensities, the sexual impulses bear on their face
the most obvious signs of being instinctive, in the sense of blind, auto-
matic, and untaught. The teleology they contain is often at variance
with the wishes of the individuals concerned ; and the actions are per-
formed for no assignable reason but because Nature urges just that
way. Here, if ever, then, we ought to find those characters of fatality,
infallibility, and uniformity, which, we are told, make of actions done
from instinct a class so utterly apart. But is this so ? The facts are
just the reverse : the sexual instinct is particularly liable to be checked
and modified by slight differences in the individual stimulus, by the
inward condition of the agent himself, by habits once acquired, and by
the antagonism of contrary impulses operating on the mind. One of
these is the ordinary shyness recently described ; another is what might
be called the anti-sexual instinct, the instinct of personal isolation,
the actual repulsiveness to us of the idea of intimate contact with
most of the persons we meet, especially those of our own sex.* Thus
it comes about that this strongest passion of all, so far from being the
most irresistible, may, on the contrary, be the hardest one to give
rein to, and that individuals in whom the inhibiting influences are
potent may pass through life and never find an occasion to have it
gratified. There could be no better proof of the truth of that propo-
sition with which we began our study of the instinctive life in man,
that irregularity of behavior may come as well from the possession of
too many instincts as from the lack of any at all.
The instinct of personal isolation, of which we have spoken, exists
more strongly in men with respect to one another, and more strongly
in women with respect to men. In women it is called coyness, and
has to be positively overcome by a process of wooing before the sexual
instinct inhibits it and takes its place. As Darwin has shown in his
book on the Descent of Man and Sexual Selection, it has played a
vital part in the amelioration of all higher animal types, and is to a
great degree responsible for whatever degree of chastity the human
race may show. It illustrates strikingly, however, the law of the in-
hibition of instincts by habits for, once broken through with a given
person, it is not apt to assert itself again ; and habitually broken
through, as by prostitutes, with various persons, it may altogether
decay. Habit also fixes it in us toward certain individuals : nothing
is so particularly displeasing as the notion of close personal contact
with those with whom we have long known in a respectful and distant
way. The fondness of the ancients and of modern Orientals for forms
* To most of us it is even unpleasant to sit down in a chair still warm from occupancy
by another persons body. To many hand-shaking is disagreeable.
