682 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
stimulating drink, we must not forget that the taking of liquor causes
the blood to rush to the brain, and that the cold, too, drives the blood
from the skin to the inner organs, and particularly to the brain.
Strong drink must, therefore, favor the congestion of the brain which
is caused by cold.
Good nourishment, an energetic character, and a sound heart, are
the best preventives against the danger of perishing by cold. Close-
fitting garments, which impede the circulation of the blood, and ex-
posure in damp, windy weather should, if possible, be carefully avoided.
Many persons have the idea that life is endangered only, if the pa-
tient be brought too suddenly from the cold into a warm place. They
believe that, if one proceed very carefully and slowly with the warm-
ing, the cold can never produce a lasting injury to the system. There
is certainly no doubt that sudden warming is very dangerous, and that
a great deal depends upon the right treatment of the frozen limb. Ex-
perience shows that, while some people have frozen joints treated in
such a manner that they are completely restored, others are less fortu-
nate, and suffer frequently in after-years. But one must admit that
intense cold alone, without being followed by sudden warming, which
proves so disastrous, suffices to cause severe suffering. In this respect,
a great deal depends on the nature of the person. If very sudden
transitions from heat to cold and from cold to heat be avoided, a
healthy person can withstand intense cold without serious conse-
quences, especially if he be mentally active, energetic, and muscular,
and has a sound heart that is, if his pulse be regular and strong. A
robust person can withstand the tenrperature at which alcohol and
mercury freeze. Members of north-pole expeditions have experienced
temperatures of fifty or more degrees below zero without suffering
harm.
However, it happens not unfrequently that even moderately cold
weather, when the thermometer is but a few degrees below the freez-
ing-point, causes serious ills, and sometimes even fatal results. This
is apt to happen to persons who are anaemic, poorly fed, effeminate, or
mentally depressed. Old men, children, anaemic girls, drunkards, and
people with a weak heart, are all liable to be frost-bitten, and easily
freeze to death if they succumb to sleep while exposed to intense
cold. They fall into a sort of stupor, sit down to rest, soon fall asleep,
and in most instances never awake. For a long time they remain in a
condition bordering on death ; they breathe a little, and the heart
makes feeble attempts to maintain the circulation of the blood.
This beating of the heart is the cause of the long duration of this
death-like trance. The heart exerts a slight pressure on the lungs,
and causes thereby a sort of artificial breathing, which, however, is so
slight that laymen and even physicians often erroneously consider peo-
ple who are merely frozen to be dead.
When Napoleon I had returned to France from Russia, he felt
