PHYSIOLOGY OF FREEZING. 683
convinced that many of his soldiers had been buried alive, and he
offered a large reward for the surest means of distinguishing between
this trance-like condition and actual death. The prize was awarded to
Professor Andral, who claimed that listening to the heart-sounds by
means of the stethoscope was the surest way of ascertaining whether
death had taken place or not, because with this instrument could still
be heard the movement of the heart-valves, when by all other tests
one could no longer detect any sign of life. Napoleons prize might,
however, well have been awarded to Professor Middeldorf, of Breslau,
who with his akidopeirastic (needle-test) was able to detect signs of
life some time after the sound caused by the movement of the heart-
valves had ceased to be audible with Andrals stethoscope.
Up to the present day this method is the most reliable one for as-
certaining whether death has occurred or not. It is surer than the
cutting of the sole, the burning with sealing-wax, or any other test.
A long needle is thrust (between the fifth and sixth ribs) into the
heart, a proceeding that is not at all dangerous, provided that the
needle does not enter below a certain depth. The needle must be of
such length that about one half of it projects from the chest ; the
slightest movement of the heart will cause that part of the needle
which is visible to vibrate.
But no one need fear that those soldiers of Napoleon who were
thus buried alive ever awakened in their graves. As surely as there
can be no question but that by careful treatment quite a number of
them could have been saved, just as confidently can it be asserted that
their numbness, provided no careful attempts were made to restore
them to life, resulted in actual death. Unfortunately, it has not yet
been ascertained how long this trance-like condition may last with
the frozen whether five or six days (many such cases are known), or
whether it may not continue even longer.
We have already, at the beginning, referred to the danger of an
incautious warming of the frozen. If the warming be accomplished
too quickly, a sudden reaction will set in, which the patient will not
be able to survive. Blood which has been frozen and then thawed is
still red, but of a different shade. The coloring matter of the blood
has become separated from the blood-cells. Blood of this description
causes congelation in blood which is in its normal state. One can kill
an animal in sound health by injecting such blood into its veins. But
the process takes a different turn in cases where the frozen are gradu-
ally warmed and restored. If a very minute quantity of the frozen
blood is again brought into solution and sent into the system, this small
amount of poison will be taken care of. This is the reason why, in all
attempts at revivifying persons who have been frozen, the warming
and the restoring of the juices to their normal condition must be
gradually done. The best way is to lay the patient into snow, to rub
him with snow (which should be renewed several times), and then to
