PHYSIOLOGY OF FREEZING. 685
The first stage of such an inflammation makes the joints appear
bluish-red, violet, and swollen. Frozen joints are at the beginning
cold and difficult to move ; they cause a stinging pain, particularly in
the evening during damp, cold weather. During spring and summer
the trouble often disappears entirely, but sometimes it appears even in
midsummer. During the first winter the pains are more severe than
in the following years.
A second and more advanced stage of localized freezing takes
place where the cold was more intense, or where the organs were sub-
jected to a more sudden warming. All symptoms are then more se-
vere ; the skin of the fingers cracks, and painful cuts, blisters, and sores
result.
As the third stage of freezing, those instances are denoted where
the frozen joints become immediately mortified, or where they are at
first greatly inflamed and then become mortified. The mortification,
however, rarely penetrates deeply ; it is mostly restricted to the outer
skin, which turns gray, black, and dry. Beneath this superficial mor-
tification there is generally found an ulcer that can be cured.
When a frozen joint grows warm, and the congealed blood again
becomes liquid, the blood can enter for a time into the open vessels ;
then the question arises if the blood-vessels and the tissues can per-
form the necessary transformation, or whether, as we have already
suggested, the blood which had been frozen will act as a poison, in-
duce the normal blood to congeal, and interrupt its circulation. This
will then give rise to an insufficient supply, and will even induce dan-
gerous poisoning. This is no doubt the main reason why the sud-
den warming of frozen individuals or frozen joints proves to be so
dangerous.
The best advice, and the counsel to be given, above all, is, guard
against freezing ! In looking over what has been said so far, the best
safeguard against this danger proves to be a strong, healthy, well-
nourished body and a sound heart. Furthermore, for very cold
weather, warm, common-sense clothing, which does not fit closely, and
hence does not impede the circulation of the blood, is to be recom-
mended.
Dresses of woolen goods are naturally warmer than those of linen
or silk, the latter being better conductors of heat. During intensely
cold weather, particularly when a dry wind is blowing, woolen gloves
will not be amiss.
A certain robustness of health should be acquired by every one,
and effeminacy of any kind should be avoided. Healthy children
should go out in any kind of weather, and they should be rendered
more hardy by cold washings daily. On wet days, if garments and
shoes become damp, they should be replaced by dry ones immediately
on returning home.
But if one has actually met with the misfortune of having a joint
