686 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
frozen, so that it is white, stiff, cold, and devoid of feeling or power
of motion, the principal advice, not to be forgotten, is, not to warm
the frozen part too quickly ; rub the joint in a cold room with snow
or ice until some sensibility returns ; then rub it with cold water, and
wrap it up in fine linen rags, which should be moistened with a mixt-
ure of five parts of Goulards solution and one part of spirits of cam-
phor, and then tie it up in a rubber sheeting or oiled silk. Quite use-
ful, too, will prove, after some feeling has returned, a hand or a
foot bath with bleaching-powder. For this purpose a tablespoonful
of bleaching-powder is dissolved in a basin of cold water. In order
to be sure of doing everything that can be done, on going to bed at
night, wrap up the frozen joints in flannel, and drink something that
will cause perspiration.
If a hand or foot, even though it may have been entirely frozen,
be rubbed with snow until the return of feeling, and is then at night
brought into perspiration, the injury will in most cases have been
entirely cured, and no relapse need be feared.
The few directions that have here been given will, if carefully fol-
lowed, suffice. Of course, there are legions of cures and curatives that
are recommended for frozen joints. These, however, are in place only
where, through careless treatment, after-effects of the freezing, such
as ulcers, chilblains, etc., remain. The frequent occurrence of such
ills proves how rarely a frozen joint has received the right attention
in the first place, when it would have been entirely restored.
There are some physicians who believe it impossible to prevent
chilblains when a joint has once been frozen. It is, of course, true
that severe cases of freezing will occur where even the best of care is
powerless to prevent serious trouble, and which may sometimes even
involve the loss of some part of the frozen joint.
All things considered, however, it may be said that one can guard
against permanent injuries through frost if the right treatment be
adopted immediately after the freezing has occurred ; and even that
those injuries which have been caused by too rapid a warming and
other wrong treatment can be materially improved by attentive and
correct care.
For the removal of those red spots which appear principally on the
nose, and which may prove quite disfiguring, we used to employ hot-
water vapors, followed by washings with a solution of dilute hydro-
chloric acid (one to six), or a solution of bleaching-powder in water.
Lately, however, I advise, and with better results, the application of
hot-water vapors, and at night the putting on of a salve made up of
one part of ichthyol and eight parts of vaseline.
Unfortunately, the ichthyol has a brown color, but this can easily
be removed in the morning by using warm water and soap. If any
one is particularly sensitive respecting his appearance, he may repeat
the treatment with the ichthyol in the morning, after having employed
