SKETCH OF J. J. AUDUBON. 687
the water-vapor, thus using the remedy twice in twenty-four hours,
which will materially hasten the desired effect.
Among the large number of things that have been recommended,
each one has its peculiarities ; some natures derive more benefit from
the one ; others, again, from another, a fact which makes it advisable
to leave the choice of the agent to be used to some physician who is
acquainted with the constitution of the patient ; for all agents which
are powerful and useful may cause great injury if indiscreetly applied.
Translated for the Popular Science Monthly from Die Garten-
laube.
SKETCH OF J. J. AUDUBON.
YTTHEN Audubons fame was just beginning, Christopher North
V V (Professor Wilson, of the University of Edinburgh, and editor
of Blackwoods Magazine ) wrote, under the form of a dialogue
between himself and the Ettrick Shepherd (James Hogg, the poet), as
follows : *
North. What a pity, James, that you were not in Edinburgh in
time to see my friend Audubons exhibition !
Shepherd. An exhibition o what ?
North. Of birds painted to the life. Almost the whole Ameri-
can ornithology, true to nature as if the creatures were in their native
haunts in the forests, or on the sea-shores. Not stiff and staring like
stuffed specimens, but in every imaginable characteristic attitude,
perched, wading, or a-wing not a feather, smooth or ruffled, out of
its place every song, chirp, chatter, or cry made audible by the power
of genius.
Shepherd. Where got he sae weel acquaint wi a the tribes for
do they not herd in swamps and woods where mans foot intrudes not
and the wilderness is guarded by the rattlesnake, fearsome watch-
man, wi nae ither bouets than his ain fiery eyne ?
North. For upward of twenty years the enthusiastic Audubon
lived in the remotest woods, journeying to and fro on foot thousands
of miles or sailing on great rivers, great as any seas with his uner-
ring rifle, slaughtering only to embalm his prey by an art of his own,
in form and hue unchanged, unchangeable and now, for the sum of
one shilling, may anybody that chooses it behold the images of all the
splendid and gorgeous birds of that continent.
Shepherd. Wheres the exhibition now ?
North. At Glasgow, I believe where I have no doubt it will
attract thousands of delighted spectators. I must get the friend who
gave a glance over Selbys Ornithology to tell the world at large
* Xoctea Anibrosianre (Blackwoods Magazine), No. XXX, January, 1827.
