688 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
more of Audubon. He is the greatest artist in his own walk that ever
lived, and can not fail to reap the reward of his genius and perseverance
and adventurous zeal in his own beautiful branch of natural history,
both in fame and fortune.
John James Audubon was born near New Orleans, May 4, 1780,
and died at the present Audubon Park, New York city, January 27,
1851. His father, the son of a fisherman of La Vendee, was a French
naval officer, who, having become wealthy, had acquired a plantation
in Louisiana, and married a lady of that colony, of Spanish descent.
The son imbibed a love of Nature at an extremely early age, which was
probably strengthened by his short residence on his fathers planta-
tion in Santo Domingo, and was not repressed, but mastered the situ-
ation when he was sent to France to be educated. It is recorded of
him that he was accustomed to amuse himself when a mere child by
trying to draw the birds he saw around him ; and that, his crude
efforts not being satisfactory, he used to make a bonfire of them at each
birthday. His father desired him to be qualified for some occupation
connected with the navy, or with engineering. He was sent to France,
where the father had bought an estate near Nantes, on which his
step-mother was living, to be taught mathematics, drawing, geog-
raphy, fencing, and music. His drawing-master was the celebrated
artist David, who set him to drawing horses heads and the limbs of
giants, but he preferred birds, and improved such opportunities as
he could get to exercise himself upon them, and spent much of his
time in excursions into the woods, collecting specimens, and making
drawings of them. The real supervision of his operations was with
his indulgent step-mother, who gave him ample scope for the exercise
of his own tastes. When Audubons father returned from sea he was
astonished at the large collection his son had made, and then asked
what progress he had made in his other studies. The reply not being
satisfactory, he took the youth in hand himself, and kept him for a
year in the close study of mathematics. But every opportunity for
natural history rambles was still improved. Audubon spent another
year at Nantes, when he went over after having returned to America,
and settled at Mill Grove, to expose the unfaithfulness of an agent
whom his father had intrusted with the charge of one of his enter-
prises, and to consult his parents respecting marriage. During one of
these residences in Nantes he is credited with having made a hundred
drawings of European birds. Three specimens of these works have
recently come into the hands of Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, who has described
them in The Auk. They are all drawn *in a combination of crayon
and water-colors, on a thin and not expensive kind of drawing-paper ;
are numbered 44, 77, and 96, and represent the magpie, the coot, and
the green woodpecker. The earliest of the sketches is the magpie,
represented as of life-size and standing on the ground. The execu-
tion is quite crude, though the naturalist sticks out in it, for, not-
