SKETCH OF J. J. AUDUBON. 689
withstanding the somewhat awkward position the bird is in, there is
life in it. The second picture, that of a coot, is a marked improve-
ment on the magpie. Far more pains have been taken with the feet,
legs, bill, and eye, though little has been gained in the natural atti-
tude of the bird. . . . Except very faintly in the wing, no attempt
has been made to individualize the feathers, the entire body being of
a dead black, worked in either by burned cork or crayon. Dr. Shu-
feldt also remarks that, as is usually the case among juvenile artists,
both this bird and the magpie are represented upon direct lateral view,
and no evidence has yet appeared to hint to us of the wonderful power
Audubon eventually came to possess in figuring his birds in their
every attitude. The green woodpecker is a wonderful improve-
ment, in every particular, upon both of the others. The details of the
plumage and other structures are brought out with great delicacy, and
refinement of touch ; while the attitude of the bird, an old male, is
even better than many of those published in his famous work. The
colors are soft, and have been so handled as to lend to the plumage a
very flossy and natural appearance, while the old trunk, upon the side
of which the bird is represented, presents several evidences of an in-
crease of the power to paint such objects.
When about seventeen or eighteen years old, young Audubon re-
turned to the United States, and his father, willing to gratify his now
decided tastes, settled him upon a farm which he owned near Phila-
delphia, Mill Grove, at the mouth of Perkiomen Creek. Here he
had full opportunity for the gratification of his huntsmans and natu-
ralists inclination, and improved it so industriously that he appeared
to be good for little else. Desiring to form a matrimonial engage-
ment with Lucy Bakewell, he was advised by the father of the young
lady to go into business, and he accordingly entered the employment
of a firm in New York ; but even here it was the study of Nature
and not trade that engaged his attention. For a period of twenty
years, he confesses in the biographical preface to his Birds, my
life was a series of vicissitudes. I tried various branches of com-
merce, but they all proved unprofitable, doubtless because my whole
mind was ever filled with my passion for rambling and admiring those
objects of Nature from which alone I received the purest gratifica-
tion. It is in connection with the relation of the story of a hurri-
cane, while he was living at Henderson, years after his Philadelphia
experiences, that he says that, just before the breaking out of the
awful storm, his thoughts were, for once, at least, in the course of
my life, entirely engaged in commercial speculations. He soon gave
up his New York engagement, and shortly afterward formed a part-
nership with Ferdinand Rosier to go into trade at Louisville, Ken-
tucky. His settlement at this place having been determined upon, he
was married to Miss Bakewell in April, 1808. This lady was a de-
scendant of the Peverils of the Peak, one of whom has given name to
TOL. XXXI. 44
