690 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
one of Walter Scotts novels, and was a relative of the famous British
geologist Bakewell. She proved a congenial wife to the naturalist,
and gave him valuable aid while he had his great work under way, by
helping him to pay the expenses of his enterprise out of the fruits of
her own industry. The farm at Mill Grove was sold, a stock of goods
was purchased with the proceeds, and Audubon removed with his wife
to Louisville, making the journey down the Ohio River in a flat-boat,
with two rowers. At Louisville, again, he left business to his partner,
and occupied himself with natural history and his drawings.
In 1810 he was visited at his store by Alexander Wilson, who
came to solicit subscriptions to his Ornithology. He was about to
sign the list, when his partner suggested to him, in French, that he
could make better drawings than Wilson, and probably knew as much
about American birds as he. Wilson understood the remark, and
asked Audubon if he had any drawings of birds. Audubon exhibited
what he had, and, to Wilsons question if he intended to publish his
work, replied that he had never thought of it. The two naturalists
seem to have spent some time together. Audubon explored the woods
with Wilson, lent him his drawings, and aided him in various ways ;
but, after all this, Wilson, in the mortification of his vanity that he had
met a superior in his own special field, had it in his heart to enter in
his notes against Louisville that science or literature had not one
friend in the place.
As might be expected, the business at Louisville was not prosper-
ous. After four years, marked by two removals to secure better suc-
cess, the partnership was dissolved, and Audubon removed to Henderson,
Kentucky, in 1812. Another business adventure, entered into with
his brother-in-law in New Orleans, failed. Only natural history pros-
pered with him. A very large proportion of his work in this line,
which bore so noble and so abundant fruit in later years, was done
during his residence in Henderson. Aiming to represent the birds
which he drew in position as far as possible, he adopted ingenious
devices to secure correct views of them as they looked in Nature.
Those which he had to shoot he would afterward set up and support
in natural attitudes, while he painted them ; others he would view,
with their actual surroundings, through a telescope. Audubons father
died about 1812, leaving to him the estate in France and seventeen
thousand dollars, which had been deposited with a merchant in Rich-
mond, Virginia. Audubon, however, took no steps to obtain posses-
sion of his estate in France, and in after-years, when his sons had
grown up, sent one of them to France for the purpose of legally trans-
ferring the property to his own sister Rosa. Before Audubon was
able to obtain the money from the merchant in Richmond, the latter
died insolvent ; and so no benefit accrued to the naturalist from either
part of his legacy.
By the pressure of this disappointment and other failures, Audubon
