SKETCH OF J. J. AUDUBON. 691
was compelled to work for a living. He took up the drawing of crayon-
portraits with much success, and is said to have seemed to get a new
start in life. In a short time he received an invitation to- become a
curator of the museum at Cincinnati, and for the preparation of birds
received a liberal remuneration. In conjunction with this situation he
opened a drawing-school in the same city, and obtained from this em-
ployment additional emolument sufficient to support his family com-
fortably. His teaching succeeded well until several of his pupils
started on their own account. The work at the museum having
been finished, Audubon fell back upon his portrait-painting and such
resources as his genius could command. Applying for assistance to
an old friend whom he had helped into business, the ungrateful wretch
declared he would do nothing for his benefactor, and further added
that he would not even recommend one who had such wandering
habits. On more occasions than this his genius for discovery was
made an argument against him.
In October, 1820, Audubon left Cincinnati, and sailed down the
Ohio in company with Captain dimming, an engineer, who had been
appointed to make a survey of the Mississippi River. He was provided
with letters of introduction from General Harrison and Henry Clay,
and intended a long ornithological excursion through Mississippi, Ala-
bama, and Florida, up Red River, and down the Arkansas. At Bayou
Sara, in the following June, he accepted an engagement with Mrs.
Perrie to teach her daughter drawing during the summer months at
sixty dollars a month. Mrs. Perries real aim is supposed to have been
to provide for Audubon an opportunity to carry on his pursuits under
the guise of an employment which would be congenial and not inter-
fere with his work. Later in the year he was invited to join another
artist in painting a panorama of New Orleans. But, he wrote in his
journal, My birds, my beloved birds of America, occupy all my time,
and nearly all my thoughts, and I do not wish to see any other per-
spective than the last specimen of those drawings.
For the first two months of 1822 it is written by his wife in her
Life, the records of Audubons life are sparse and imperfect, on
account of his inability to purchase a book to wiite his journal in !
The one at last obtained was made of thin, poor paper, and the records
entered are rather in keeping with his financial difficulties. It took all
his means at this time to supply his family with the necessaries of life ;
and in order to obtain money to educate the children, his wife undertook
the duties of a situation in which she had charge of and educated the
offspring of a Mr. Brand. They afterward removed to Natchez, where
Audubon drew and taught drawing in the college at Washington, Missis-
sippi, and Mrs. Audubon taught ; and then to Bayou Sara, Louisiana,
where Mrs. Audubon established a school, with the proceeds of which
she was enabled to aid materially in the publication of the Birds, and
Audubon assisted her by teaching music and dancing. A member of one
