692 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the families, in which Mrs. Audubon was a governess during this pe-
riod, has furnished Dr. Shufeldt with a childhoods reminiscence of
the naturalist. He was with us, she says, eight months, hut during
the greater part of the time was wandering all over the State, walking
almost the entire time ; no insect, worm, reptile, bird, or animal escaped
his notice. He would make a collection, return home and draw his
crayon-sketches, when his son John would stuff the birds and such
animals as he wished to preserve.
In the spring of 1824, Audubon, with two hundred drawings, rep-
resenting about a thousand birds, went to Philadelphia in order obtain
help to complete his ornithological work. He was soon satisfied, it is
said in Mrs. Audubons Life, that the venture would be successful.
Having purchased a new suit of clothes and dressed himself with ex-
treme neatness, he called upon Dr. Mease, an old friend, and was intro-
duced by him to several artists, who paid him pleasant attentions. He
was also introduced to Prince Canino, son of Lucien Bonaparte, who
examined my birds, Audubon writes, and was complimentary in his
praises. He was at the time engaged on a volume of American birds,
which was soon to be published ; but this did not prevent him from
admiring another naturalists work. April 12th. Met the prince at
Dr. Meases, and he expressed a wish to examine my drawings more
particularly. I found him very gentlemanly. He called in his car-
riage and took me to Peale, the artist, who was drawing specimens of
birds for his work ; but from want of knowledge of the habits of birds
in a wild state, he represented them as if seated for a portrait, instead
of their own lively, animated ways when seeking their natural food or
pleasure. Other notable persons called to see my drawings, and en-
couraged me with their remarks. The Prince Canino introduced me
to the Academy of Arts and Sciences, and pronounced my birds superb
and worthy of a pupil of David. I formed the acquaintance of Le
Sueur, the zoologist and artist, who was greatly delighted with my
drawings. Audubon was engaged by Prince Canino to superintend
his drawings intended for publication ; but his terms being much
dearer than Alexander Wilsons, he was asked to discontinue his work.
I had now, he writes, determined to go to Europe with my treas-
ures, since I was assured nothing so fine in the way of ornithological
representations existed. I worked incessantly to complete my series
of drawings. On inquiry, I found Sully and Le Sueur made a poor
living by their brush. I had some pupils offered at a dollar per lesson ;
but I found the citizens unwilling to pay for art, although they affected
to patronize it. I exhibited my drawings for a week, but found the
show did not pay, and so determined to remove myself.
Thus, notwithstanding the pleasant social aspect of his reception
in Philadelphia, he does not appear to have been encouraged in its
material promise ; and he met with a misfortune which would have
depressed the spirits of the bravest and most sanguine. His plates,
