694 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
five folio plates each, the whole to be included in four volumes, and to
be sold for one thousand dollars a copy. The entire cost of the work
would exceed one hundred thousand dollars ; yet when the pro-
spectus was published he had not money enough to pay for getting
out the first number. With the aid of Sir Thomas Lawrence he sold
some pictures, and was enabled to carry himself over this difficulty ;
and this led the way to his finding a regular means of support while
his enterprise was going on, by painting. He visited Paris in 1828,
canvassing for subscribers, and experienced an admiration from illus-
trious men parallel with that which had greeted him in England.
But he does not appear to have appreciated the money value of
this admiration as highly as what he found in England, for he wrote :
France is poor indeed ! This day I have attended the Royal Acad-
emy of Sciences, and had my plates examined by about one hundred
persons. * Fine, very fine, issued from many mouths ; but they said,
also, What a work ! what a price ! who can pay it ? I recollected
that I had thirty subscribers at Manchester, and mentioned it. They
stared and seemed surprised ; but acknowledged that England, the
little island of England, alone was able to support poor Audubon. . . .
Now it is that I plainly see how happy, or lucky, it was in me not to
have come to France first ; for if I had, my work now would not
have had even a beginning. It would have perished like a flower in
October ; and I should have returned to my woods, without the hope
of leaving behind that eternal fame which my ambition, industry, and
perseverance long to enjoy. Baron Cuvier was requested by the
Academy of Sciences to make a verbal report on Audubons Birds,
and he responded, describing the work as the most magnificent
monument which has yet been erected to ornithology. The author,
having returned to his own country after his schooling in France,
thought he could not make a better use of his talents than by repre-
senting the most brilliant productions of that hemisphere. The accu-
rate observation necessary for such representations as he wished to
make soon rendered him a naturalist. . . . Formerly the European
naturalists were obliged to make known to America the riches she
possessed ; but now Mitchell, Ilarler, and Bonaparte give back with
interest to Europe what America had received. Wilsons history of
the Birds of the United States equals in elegance our most beauti-
ful works on ornithology. If that of Mr. Audubon should be com-
pleted, we shall be obliged to acknowledge that America, in magnifi-
cence of execution, has surpassed the Old World. After spending
the winter in London, Audubon returned to the United States in April,
1829, and made his way, interrupted by excursions in quest of birds,
to Little Egg Harbor, New Jersey, and the Great Pine Swamp in
Northumberland County, Pennsylvania, to his home in Louisiana, which
he reached in November. His book, in the mean time, was going
steadily on, and the first volume was published in London in 1830. It
