SKETCH OF J. J. AUDUBON. 69 5
contained one hundred plates, representing ninety-nine species of birds,
with every figure of the color and size of life. The whole work was com-
pleted in four volumes, in 1839. It contained four hundred and thirty-
five plates, representing one thousand and sixty-five distinct speci-
mens of birds all, from the eagle to the humming-bird, of the size of
life. Again, after three months at home, spent in hunting and draw-
ing, he visited England in 1830, where he found that he had been elect-
ed a Fellow of the Royal Society of London, and on the 6th of May
took his seat in the great hall, and paid his entrance-fee of fifty pounds,
though I felt myself that I had not the qualifications to entitle me
to such an honor. He was shortly afterward joined by his wife, who
accompanied him in his journeys to get new subscribers. In 1831,
anticipating another tour of observation and study in the South, he
visited Washington, to get letters of introduction to the commanders
of frontier posts and officers along his route. All received him in
the kindest manner. The winter of 1831-32 was spent in East
Florida, in what Audubon called a rather unprofitable expedition, but
which furnished the material for several striking episodes, as his
accounts of the events have been designated.
In his subsequent journey Audubon visited the coast of Maine,
accompanied by his family. According to Dr. Griswolds account,*
although no reference to the circumstance is made in Mrs. Audubons
Life, the cholera then prevailing in the country, he was taken sick
in Boston and detained there for some time. Aside from his illness, his
experience in Boston must have been of the most grateful character,
for he wrote of it, Although I have been happy in forming many valu-
able friendships in various parts of the world, all dearly cherished by
me, the outpouring of kindness which I experienced in Boston far ex-
ceeded all that I have ever met with. With these kindnesses he
associated the names of the men who lent to the Boston of that time
its peculiar luster. Continuing his journey, he explored the forests
of Maine and New Brunswick and the shores of the Bay of Fundy,
and then went by schooner to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the Magdalen
Islands, and the coast of Labrador ; and in the latter part of the
season visited Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. In the ensuing spring,
after nearly three years of travel and research, he went for the third
time to England, where, and in Edinburgh, he lived a year and a
half. As soon as the first volume of the Birds was published,
Audubon began his Ornithological Biographies, to accompany
it ; a work which, besides descriptions of the birds, contained remi-
niscences of personal adventure, with delineations of scenery and
character. It was completed in five volumes (1831-39). It has a lit-
erary and historical value apart from that which the accounts of the
birds give it, in that it presents in language warm from his having
been a part of the scenes, a virgin past of our country, and its forests
* Prose Writers of America, p. 189.
