696 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and prairies, which can never be restored or so well described again.
Having spent the winter of 1836-37 at Charleston, with excursions
to the sea-islands, Savannah, and Florida, Audubon, in the spring of
1837, sailed in a revenue-cutter for explorations in the Gulf of Mexico,
of which he has left sketches of scenes in the Louisiana bayous, and
in Texas. In 1838 he returned to Edinburgh, where he spent several
months in preparing the fourth and fifth volumes of the Ornitho-
logical Biography and in finishing the drawings for the Birds. In
1839 Audubon came back to the United States for the last time, bought
an estate on the banks of the Hudson River, which he called Minnies-
land now Audubon Park, and within the city of New York and
engaged in the preparation of an edition of the Birds in volumes
of a reduced size. In this edition the matter was classified, a feature
which had not been found practicable in the method of publication of
the original edition. He had also had in hand for some time a book on
the Quadrupeds of America, for which he, his sons, Victor Gifford
and John Woodhouse Audubon, and the Rev. John Bachman, of
Charleston, South Carolina, had gathered much material. A trip to
the Rocky Mountains had been planned in connection with this work,
but Audubon was induced to give it up, after having gone as far as
the Yellowstone River, on account of his age. The first volume of
the Quadrupeds, which was largely the work of his collaborators,
was published in 1846, and the last volume in 1854, after Audubons
death. During the last four years of his life, Audubon became weak
in mind, and not able to do any regular work. The interval of
about three years, says Mrs. Audubon, which passed between the
time of Audubons return from the West and the period when his
mind began to fail, was a short and sweet twilight to his adventurous
career. His habits were simple. Rising almost with the sun, he pro-
ceeded to the woods to view his feathered favorites till the hour at
which the family usually breakfasted, except when he had drawing to
do, when he sat closely to his work. After breakfast he drew till
noon, and then took a long walk. At nine in the evening he generally
retired. . . . He was very fond of his grandchildren, and used often
to take them on his knees and sing to them amusing French songs
that he had learned in France when he was a boy. . . . After 1848
the naturalists mind entirely failed him, and during the last years of
his life his eye lost its brightness, and he had to be led to his daily
walks by the hand of a servant.
Various estimates of Audubons character and work, and accounts
of his appearance have been given us, all to his praise. Dr. Griswold
says, in his Prose- Writers of America, that his highest claim to ad-
miration is founded upon his drawings in natural history, in which
he has exhibited a perfection never before attempted. In all our cli-
mates in the clear atmosphere, by the dashing waters, amid the grand
old forests, with their peculiar and many-tinted foliage, by him first
