698
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
MORE ABOUT MENS AND WOMENS
BRAINS.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
SIR : In replying to a letter by me, pub-
lished in the June number of this jour-
nal, Dr. William A. Hammond dispensed
with the ordinary courtesy of discussion,
and, at the same time, quite dexterously
evaded the question at issue. He drops the
numerous, striking, and easily-detected sex
differences in brain which were to be
perceived at once in comparing the two,
and devotes himself to the one element of
weight, which, so far as I know, no one
has questioned, provided the relative body-
weight is not allowed for between the sexes
as it is in the tables where men alone are
compared.*
Dr. Hammond quotes from various writ-
ers on anthropology to prove points with
which my questions had nothing whatever to
do. Some of his quotations are from authors
whose theories are discredited by later in-
vestigations ; others are simply unsupported
assertions ; while his display of dialectic
pyrotechnics and personal innuendo are
both interesting and amusing even to me,
their victim, but they are certainly not ar-
gument.
The doctor acknowledges that he can
not accept the offer I made him to distin-
guish the male from the female brains of
twenty specimens marked in cipher thus
corroborating my position and that of the
able and unprejudiced anatomists and phy-
sicians who assured me that there exist no
sufficient data upon which to make the bold
(and to use the doctors own words) rough-
and-tumble assertions which have been
made by him as to the radical and easily ,
to be discovered characteristic 6ex differ-
ences in brains. To cover this, he makes
a proposition to me, which is entirely aside
from the question at issue, and in the face
of the fact that I have never said that I
could perform any of these wonderful feats.
I am quite willing to say that I can not.
And since the science of anthropology is as
yet in its infancy ; since its various students
disagree ; and since within the past few
months one of its cardinal principles has
been found to be unsound, I am all the less
willing to accept the sweeping statements
of Dr. Hammond in regard to his being
* See Le Bon, Schwalbo Neurologie.
BODY-HEIGHT. BRATN-WEIOHT.
148-158 centimetres. 1,289 grammes.
158-163 1.328
168-173 1,373
178-182 1,387
able to tell at once the difference between
a male and a female brain by numerous,
easily-discovered, natural sex differences ;
because of which differences he asserts both
the incapacity of woman to learn and the
danger of allowing her to attempt studies
and occupations which he holds are unsuit-
ed to her lower brain organization.
It is just here that I join issue with
him. And I maintain that no anatomist or
physician has a right to assume these radi-
cal differences to exist, and, upon insuffi-
cient and conflicting data, make positive
statements calculated to restrict woman in
the use of whatever brain capacity she may
have.
He finds womans brain deficient m gray
matter he says. Why deficient ? Because
man has more than she, and of course he is
always assumed to be the highest type.
But in this connection I find that Meynert
says, It (the gray substance) is more
abundant in the brains of animals than in
that of man, and indeed the proportion of
gray substance increases the more remote the
brain-type is from the human. The italics
are mine.
A nervous impulse takes, according
to Helmholtz, about twelve times as long to
travel through the gray substance as it does
to be transmitted through the peripheral
nerves. Ibid.
Is this a reason why women are said to
think more rapidly than men, or to have
intuitions which, Dr. Hammond gracious-
ly says, stand her in good stead for
thought ?
The doctor once more uses as illustra-
tion the well-known fact that these char-
acteristic brain differences are greater be-
tween the sexes, and more to womans dis-
credit, the higher we go in the scale of
civilization.* This he uses again as evi-
dence that woman has not utilized the op-
portunities which she has never been al-
lowed to have. But here comes a few
weeks ago the news that the assumption
upon which this is based is all wrong.
The Terra del Fuegans brains have
been used to illustrate the low organization
of brain possessed by the lower races of
man. It was assumed that the anatomical
differences between their brains and ours
i
* This does not agree with Huschke and Le
Bon. oven upon the old theory and estimates.
The German average brain-weight is given as
superior to the French, the former being 1,416
grammes and the latter 1..33S. yet the estimated
difference between the sexes is 222 grammes, for
the French, and only 130 for the Germans.
