62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
temperature generally remains below the point of congelation till the
middle of June that is, till a time when these latitudes receive daily
a much more considerable quantity of solar heat than is received at
the equator ; and that frosts last there for a month or six weeks dur-
ing which the sun never sets. Besides this, the solar rays are seldom
intercepted by clouds, for the month of May is usually very clear in
the northern regions. At Polaris Bay, latitude 81 86, in Northern
Greenland, the sun does not set after the 11th of April, and yet, in
1872, on the 1st of June, the temperature of the air had not risen be-
yond the freezing-point except for ten hours on the 21st of May, while
after the 2d of June the temperature was constantly above 32 ; and
the days during April and May were generally clear. The United
States Expedition under Captain Hall passed the winter at Polaris
House, latitude 78 23, where the sun did not set after the 20th of
April. Here, again, there was no general thaw before the 31st of May,
but only partial thaws on the 16th, 22d, and 2?th, although the days
were quite clear. On the 8th of May the sky was wholly clear for
several hours, before and after noon, and the temperature was 14 - 4
C. at noon, and 15*1 at three oclock in the afternoon. It was also
perfectly clear on the 31st, at six oclock in the morning and six oclock
in the evening, and the temperature did not rise above 88. The
observations of the Vega at Pitlekaj, near Behring Strait, in a much
lower latitude, gave analogous results. We therefore see that in high
northern latitudes the heat of the rays of the sun at the end of spring
and the beginning of summer can not raise the temperature above the
freezing-point. To what, then, shall we attribute the thaw ? Proba-
bly to the winds that have passed over warmer countries, over conti-
nents, or open seas. According to the observations of the Vega, the
winds came from the north till the 12th of June, and then, on the
13th, passed around to the south-southeast. These warm winds melt
the upper layer of the snow ; when it freezes again, it changes into
neve, or takes on a condition less diathermanous to solar heat, in which
it less readily sends back the warmth which it receives.
The melting of the snow may be speeded by the dust which the
wind brings from the continental spaces whence it has already disap-
peared. If the warm winds do not last long enough and are not strong
enough, they will not produce durable results ; but a new fall of
snow will give a new layer, which is only slightly diathermanous, and
possesses great radiating power. As a large quantity of caloric is
expended in the melting of snow, the warm winds lose much of their
heat, and may thereby produce a considerable refrigerant effect. But
along the frontiers of the region covered by snow, the surface of the
ground, after that is nearly melted, may be warmed by the sun, and
thus become a source of heat to countries farther north. The move-
ment begins along seas that never freeze and continental spaces in
which the snow never, even in winter, forms a permanent bed ; it then
