700
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Dr. Hammond will not fly to the conclu-
sion that I suppose this woman to have
been the superior, mentally, of those re-
markable men. I do not myself lay so
much stress upon mere brain-weight as the
doctor does, but I simply meet his case as a
matter of charity, and because it is easy to
do so.
One other point, and I am done for the
present. I shall shortly review the matter
at greater length in a more readable form.
The doctor says : I stated . . . that
the human head does not grow after the
seventh year. . . . Instead of head (the
italics are the doctors, although he says the
use of them is a feminine characteristic
and most objectionable), I should have
said brain, and then the point involved
would have been more correctly stated.
Perhaps it would have been, although that,
also, is questioned by competent authority,
but for the moment I have nothing to say
as to that.
It is unfortunate, however, that a
scientist should permit himself to resort
to this sort of trickery in words. Perhaps
it would have been more exact to say brain
instead of head in that connection, but the
doctor did not say brain, and he did not
mean brain at that time, and until he was
absolutely cornered on that point. How do
I know ? Allow me to quote the rest of the
sentence in which it occurred, and which I
omitted before, only because I, unlike the
doctor, was limited as to space, and
thought verbosity unnecessary, not dream-
ing that he would resort to such a trick.
Here is his original sentence : A fact
which is somewhat astonishing to those not
aware of it is, that the head of a boy or
girl does not grow in size after the seventh
year, so thai the hat that is worn at that age
can be worn just as well at thirty. (I re-
gret that I had to use italics here to call
the doctors attention to his own meaning,
6ince he does not like italics. I do not my-
self ; but there are times when they seem to
be very necessary.)
Now, unless the doctor is in the habit
of fitting his hats to his brains and not to
his head, this last explanation is simply a
bit of artful dodging, and surely unworthy
of any one who is in search of simple
truth. Helen H. Gardener.
AN ANOMALY IN PLANT-GROWTH.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir: There was to be seen in Stock-
bridge, Massachusetts, in 1841, and for sev-
eral years afterward, a vegetable phenome-
non which puzzled the rural observers and
the few professed naturalists of the county.
Two beech staddles, some six inches in di-
ameter, grew within a foot of each other.
About eight feet from the ground a lateral
branch of one of them, growing tightly
athwart the trunk of the other, had become
incased by that trunk, so as to present the
appearance of being thrust through it.
Some one had cut off the absorbing stock
two or three feet above the surface-soil, so
that it hung by that lateral branch, and
might be easily swung to and fro, thus :
The severed stock continued to live and
grow, not only above the supporting limb,
but between the limb and the severance below.
It was manifest that the top of the sun-
dered tree was supplied through the trans-
verse branch in the ordinary method of up-
ward growth ; but not so apparent how the
lower portion continued its existence. If
by the same agency, then seemingly by a
reversal of the laws of vegetable circulation.
It would not have been strange that shoots
should appear on the severed stock the sec-
ond season after the separation, since sap
sufficient to start them might be retained in
its tissues, particularly if the excision were
done during the winter, which may have
been the fact this I do not know ; but
that this life should continue in the lower
portion for successive years, is the mys-
tery of the matter. I saw it during the
third or fourth season after the separation,
and can testify to life therein, though not
the vigor of a thrifty young tree. The sup-
porting trunk had increased much more
than its mutilated companion. This shrink-
age of vitality might have resulted in ulti-
mate death, had not further experiment
been precluded by the thoughtless removal
of both for fire-wood by an ignorant chopper.
Will some of your learned correspond-
ents explain to us rural marvelers this
growth from downward-moving sap, or, ap-
parently, from no sap at all obtained di-
rectly from mother earth ?
E. W. B. Canning.
STOCKBErDGE, M ASS.
LITERARY SCIENCE.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir : In The Popular Science Monthly
for February, 1887, you say: Everybody,
nearly, has been reading King Solomons
Mines, but perhaps not very many have
