EDITORS TABLE.
701
noted the startling fact recorded in it. The
gifted narrator tells us how, shortly after
the sun had sunk in the west, there came a
glow in the east, and presently the crescent
moon peeps above the plain ; then you
tell Mr. H. R. Haggard that it wont do.
Now I wish to call your attention to the
fact that there must be people who think it
will do, because, in The Book-Buyer for
April, 188*7 (Charles Scribners Sons), in a
short review of Cathedral Days, by Anna
Bowman Dodd, Mr. Edmund C. Stedman
quotes a descriptive passage. He says,
Take this sunset picture with its felicitous
touch at the close. The felicitous touch
contains the following : The work of the
day for man and beast, and for the sun, as
well, was done: all three were going to
their evening rest. A boy with a sickle
over his straight young back walked near
us, whistling a gay little air. The sickle
was repeated in silver in the sky, the dawn-
ing crescent of the young moon cleaving the
eastern horizon. I do not like Mr. Hag-
gards books ; they are as sickening as raw
meat. But he has been rated so soundly
on that one mistake that I wish it noted
that others, and educated people, too, can
make the same blunder.
Yours respectfully,
Anne M. Johnson, 494 Centre Street.
Jamaica Plain, Mass.
EDITORS TABLE.
CULTURE AND CHARACTER.
THAT intellectual superiority is not
an end in itself is apparent from
more than one consideration. Comte
has said with truth that we get tired
of knowing, but never get tired of lov-
ing ; and a writer who carries more
authority still has said that, when
tongues fail and knowledge ceases,
charity will still abide. What seems to
decide the question, however, is the
fact that, when knowledge or intellect-
ual power is made an end in itself, the
result is more or less failure and disap-
pointment. Knowledge comes, but
wisdom lingers, the poet has said ;
and, to a reflective mind, the distinc-
tion between the two is not difficult to
seize. He who has knowledge only,
knows things and their relations ; him-
self and his relations, above all himself
in his relation to the true human ideal,
he does not know. He seeks to make
his knowledge subservient to his own
personal ends ; he does not regard it as
a revelation of duties to be done, of
sacrifices to be made, of heights to be
attained. He who has wisdom, on the
other hand, holds his knowledge in
trust for higher than personal ends, and
makes us realize, as other men do not,
the true value and dignity of knowl-
edge.
Character, then, i3 the principal
thing. It is character that we continu-
ally find to be limiting and conditioning
culture ; that is to say, if culture is not
carried farther than we find it to be in
certain cases, the reason is that the
character, the moral nature, has not
been such as to support and sustain a
truly generous culture. There is, per-
haps, a finely-developed sestheticism in
certain directions, but the lack of cult-
ures perfect work is seen in a certain
hard materialism of personal aspiration.
The disciple, perchance apostle, of
beauty is far from beautiful when we
get a glimpse of his inner life and es-
sential aims. He has never learned that
the prime secret of all beauty in hu-
man life lies in disinterestedness, in the
ability to put self aside, on some occa-
sions at least, and to live in causes and
principles and, above all, in ones fel-
low-beings. Few things are more try-
ing than the mock enthusiasm of very
mediocre men and women for things
that they have learned to admire as by
rote, to hear the jargon of the literary
or artistic coterie ind to know how
little it all means as regards real eleva-
tion of character and sentiment. And
what we say of literary and artistic
coteries we might apply with equal
truth to scientific coteries, where mi-
nute points of classification and nomen-
clature are discussed with infinite zeal
