JOZ
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
and warmth, but with far less regard
to any advantage to be reaped for the
canse of truth and of humanity than to
the satisfaction of rival vanities.
In this country we are laboring with
great zeal and vast pecuniary resources
to promote the cause of culture. We
educate, educate, educate, as somebody
once said we ought to do ; but whether
the result is to produce much that can
be called culture in any high sense is
an open question. A criterion may,
perhaps, be found in a comparison of
the rising with the now adult genera-
tion. Are our young people show-
ing graces of mind and character in
more abundant measure than their pa-
rents ? Are their aims higher ? Is
their language better ? Are their intel-
lectual occupations more serious? Are
their manners gentler and more refined ?
We do not propose to answer these
questions dogmatically; but this we say,
that, unless there has been an improve-
ment in these several respects, a vast
amount of educational effort has not met
its full reward. Speaking broadly, it
seems to us that the culture of our edu-
cated classes, or of the classes supposed
to be educated, leaves much to be de-
sired, and we are disposed to think
that one reason of this is that we have
conceived of education in too purely
an intellectual sense. We have thought
more of sharpening the thinking facul-
ties than of liberalizing the sentiments
or softening the manners. We have in-
troduced too much of rivalry into edu-
cation, and represented education too
much as a preparation for further ri-
valry in after-life. We have imparted
knowledge, but have only to a very
moderate extent succeeded in inculcat-
ing wisdom; and knowledge without
wisdom seems poor, thin, and some-
times even meaningless. We need, as
it seems to us, to devote more consid-
eration than we have hitherto done to
the question, What is the true ideal
of human life ? If we can fix upon the
true ideal, wo can proceed to educate
toward that, and our work will then bo
directed toward something that is an
end in itself. The knowledge we im-
part will be held by a different tenure,
and applied in a different spirit. What
each one knows will be his or her equip-
ment toward a worthier fulfillment of
social duties, a worthier realization of
what is best in himself or herself, and
not a mere stock-in-trade for the pro-
curing of personal gratifications. What
we would chiefly insist upon at present,
however, is that, were knowledge pur-
sued in a right spirit, the intellectual
gain would be very great. Minds would
become more receptive, owing both to
the superiority of the motive set before
them, and the higher degree of ration-
ality that the whole system of human
life and thought would assume. Civ-
ilized speech would not show a con-
stant tendency to degenerate into a jar-
gon of slang, if people recognized in
speech a social function, not merely a
mode and means of self-assertion. It is
impossible to find ones self in any for-
tuitous assemblage of average human
beings without being led to reflect how
much human intercourse might be im-
proved and beautified if, by some means,
we could implant in the mind of each
individual a true respect for the rights
and feelings of others, and a general
sense of what is due to society, consid-
ered as the source of unnumbered ad-
vantages to all its members. At pres-
ent it often seems to be a distinct aim
with many persons and these not in
any sense social outlaws, but, on the
contrary, what would be called re-
spectable people to show how little
they care for anything beyond their
own pleasure and convenience. The
popular idea of independence, in-
deed, is largely made up of swagger
and aggressiveness; whereas the most
primary notion of independence should
embrace the making of an honest return
for all good received. Thus viewed,
the man who wished to be independ-
ent would see that society got back
