EDITORS TABLE.
73
from him in service something like a
compensation for the benefits with
which it surrounds him by day and by
night. But independence in this
sense is absolutely inconsistent with
swagger or any form of unsocial action
or sentiment. We can conceive of
some philosophic mind saying to this
great nation, One thing thou lack-
est. Knowledge we have, and mate-
rial power and business energy, and
back of all this, no doubt, a great fund
of true humanity. But the lack is in
consciousness of the true aim of life,
which is beauty and harmony in all
social relations. The voice of Science
itself bids us make a true generaliza-
tion, a true synthesis, before we begin
to work out our plans. We have hith-
erto stopped short too much at the idea
of knowledge as an instrument of work
and ambition, and have greatly hin-
dered the growth of knowledge there-
by. If we now set before us as our
main object the building up of charac-
ter in all its elements, we shall find our
progress sure, if not rapid, and shall
discover a deeper meaning and value in
our labors from year to year and from
age to age.
THE TYNDALL BANQUET.
The dinner given to Professor Tyn-
dall in London on the 29th of June,
on the occasion of his retirement from
his professorship in the Royal Institu-
tion, was also intended as a testi-
monial to the value of his work in
the advancement of knowledge. The
two hundred guests who participated
constituted, according to the English
papers, as large and distinguished
a company as ever assembled to do
honor to a man of science ; or were
men who have rendered themselves
notable in the pursuit and application
of the most diverse forms of knowl-
edge. It is questioned if English
science has ever been more completely
represented than at this banquet, where
the tables were crowded with men
whose names are known wherever Na-
ture is studied. Other men, equally
eminent and equally representative in
various fields, sent letters attesting their
hearty concurrence in the honor in-
tended for the investigator and teacher.
British public life was represented by
Lord Salisbury and other prominent
men; literature, by Lord Lytton; and
the United States, by Professor Asa
Gray. Professor Stokes, President of
the Royal Society, presided ; and the
presidents of several scientific societies
were vice-chairmen.
Various reasons were given in the
addresses why Professor Tyndall should
be particularly honored. The chairman
described his researches ; Lord Lytton
dwelt upon the value of his scientific
writings as contributions to literature ;
Sir Lyon Playfair and the Earl of Derby
spoke of the obligations the public serv-
ice was under to science.
But Professor Tyndalls researches
and discoveries were not considered his
only claim to recognition. The feeling
seemed general that the world was un-
der peculiar obligations to him, of a
higher character, because he had made
science accessible to the public and
attractive to the general reader. Pro-
fessor Stokes insisted upon the im-
portance, to the general diffusion of
science, of expounding its leading prin-
ciples and results, whether by lectures
or by treatises, in which, while they
are scientifically sound, popularity of
style and general readableness are not
sacrificed. Most of those present had
had opportunities of being impressed
with Professor Tyndalls lucid style and
graphic expression in expounding to
audiences the salient points of the scien-
tific subject which he brought before
them ; and the same qualities were ap-
parent in his books.
Nature also gives prominence to
this feature of Professor Tyndalls work,
saying that if the wide-spread knowl-
edge of science was to be, as it is, an
