74
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
essential condition of national well-
being, it was absolutely necessary that
the people should know something of,
and be in some sort of sympathy with,
the methods and conditions of scien-
tific thought. In supplying this need,
Professor Tyndalls greatest work has
been done. ... He has, by his lectures
and his books, brought the democracy
into touch with scientific research. . . .
He has done, perhaps, more than any
other living man to compel those who
regard knowledge as valuable only in
so far as it is immediately useful, to
admit that the seed which is sown in
the laboratory often produces the most
abundant harvest in the workshop.
The Times thinks it not too much to
say that the thirty-four years of Tyn-
dalls occupancy of his professorship
have effected more than almost any
other contemporary influence to diffuse
a love of scientific knowledge among
large classes of the community, and
to prepare them for the acceptance of
many ideas which, at least in their
earliest forms, appeared to run counter
to others which had been universally
received.
We do not suppose that these
thoughts are new in England ; only that
they have just now been given formal,
authoritative expression. With refer-
ence to Professor Tyndall, they are fa-
miliar in the United States, where they
were spoken fourteen years ago at a
similar banquet given to him at the close
of his lectures here ; a banquet which
was parallel in its significance and the
diversified representative character of
its company with the one in London.
On this occasion. Professor Henry wrote
that Professor Tyndall is not only a
distinguished laborer in the line of origi-
nal research, but also one of the best
living expounders of scientific princi-
ples. His books . . . have done more
to give precise and definite knowledge
of the principles of the sciences of which
they treat than any other series of works
ever published. Professor Safford, of
the Dearborn Observatory, said he had
shown us how to employ extensive
and deep researches in conveying a max-
imum of instruction to the world at
large ; and Professor Jeffries Wyman
desired to honor him for his many
contributions to physical science, and
for his strict devotion to the exact
methods of bringing scientific truths to
light.
Among other features of the ad-
dresses at the London dinner deserving
special notice are the Earl of Derbys
admission that the gains we have de-
rived from the applications of science
great as they are are as nothing
compared with those accruing from
the acceptance of scientific habits of
thought; and his significant assertion
that British politicians have done the
best they could for science they have
let it alone ; they have not corrupted it
by their intrigues, nor vulgarized it by
their squabbles ; and they being what
they are, and science being what it is,
that is probably the best service they
could have rendered it.
HONEST LIFE-INSURANCE.
Under the title of Lawsuit or
Legacy, we published, in the July
Monthly, an article reflecting some-
what sharply on the one - sidedness
which still survives in many life-insur-
ance contracts ; and also alleging that
it is not an uncommon practice for the
companies, taking advantage of some
qualifying technicality in their policies,
to resist the payment of death-claims
by menacing or openly attacking the
character of the deceased. Millions
of dollars, says the writer of the arti-
cle, have been withheld from rightful
heirs by threats of an exposure the
more vague, the more frightful of un-
suspected crimes and misdeeds of the
beloved dead ; and, again, that thou-
sands of cases, never known to the
public, have been compromised, and
hundreds of heart-aches and unjust sus-
