LITERARY NOTICES.
705
picions and fears about the dead which
can never be corrected, are aroused in
sorrowing but loving breasts by this
method of doing business.
In commenting on the article, The
United States Review takes exception
to these statements, claiming that they
are not only totally inconsistent with
ordinary business self-interest, but con-
trary to the facts, and otherwise unjust
to the companies. Having no concern
in the matter beyond a desire that
the public shall be accurately informed
on the subject, we quote a part of
what the Review says on this point,
premising that, while it writes in the
interest of the insurance companies,
the tone of its article is both fair
and reasonable : It is only just to say
that the companies now doing business
in this country have paid over ninety-
nine and one half per cent of the death-
claims which have been presented with-
out question, and they have paid a
large proportion of the remainder with-
out litigation. When it is remembered
that certain ca-es of fraud arise which
it is the duty of an honest management
to unearth and expose, the proportion
of claims resisted is small. All cases
of compromise are brought within the
limits of the foregoing statement. It
is to-day a most unusual thing for a
company to contest a claim. Indeed,
we can point to an office founded twen-
ty-two years ago which has never yet
appeared as defendant in a suit to re-
cover under one of its policies.
LITERARY NOTICES.
History of the Pacific States of North
America. By Hubert Howe Bancroft.
Vol. I. Central America, 1501-1530.
San Francisco : The History Company.
Pp. 704. Price, $5.
Thodgh late in the order of actual pub-
lication of the series of histories, this vol-
ume is the first in the order of classification,
and therefore rightly receives that number
when regarded with reference to the series
as a whole. The authors plan of logical
vol. xxxi. 45
arrangement is to begin at the south of the
territory whose history he intends to record
in the whole work, and advance toward the
north ; and this order corresponds in the
main with the historical sequence. The
volume is introduced by a general preface,
giving a short summary of the plan of the
whole scries, and an elucidation of the the-
ory on which it has been composed ; matters
which have already been discussed at length
in our pages. The author avows the pecul-
iarity of his method of work to consist in
the employment of assistants, to bring to-
gether by indexes, references, and other
devices, all existing testimony on each topic
to be treated, whereby he obtains important
information, which otherwise, with but one
lifetime at his disposal, would have been
beyond control. Acknowledgment is now
made by name to five of these assistants.
The amplitude in volume of the work is
chargeable, the author says, to the im-
mense mass of information gathered rather
than to any tendency to verbosity. There
is scarcely a page but has been twice or
thrice rewritten with a view to condensa-
tion ; and instead of faithfully discharging
this irksome duty, it would have been far
easier and cheaper to have sent a hundred
volumes through the press. The character
and customs of the aboriginal inhabitants
of the country at the time they were first
seen by their subduers, and what can be
gathered respecting their previous history,
are discussed in the volumes on The Na-
tive Races of the Pacific States, which are
regarded as constituting a separate work
from this. The History series, includ-
ing the present volume on Central America,
begins, therefore, with the Conquest, with-
out reference to the matters treated of in
those volumes. For the History of Cen-
tral America, besides the standard chroni-
clers and the many documents of late print-
ed in Spain and elsewhere, the author has
been able to secure a number of valuable
manuscripts nowhere else existing, including
some from the Maximilian, Ramirez, and
other collections, with all of Mr. E. G.
Squiers manuscripts relating to the sub-
ject. Much of the material has been drawn
from obscure sources, from local and un-
known Spanish works, and from the con-
fused archives of Costa Rica, Honduras,
