LITERARY NOTICES.
707
important additions, and concentrates atten-
tion on points at which he is best able to
reward it ; and this with only secondary
reference to general symmetry. Predomi-
nant interest is shared in questions of im-
mediate moment to society. The author
confesses to have covered a large field sug-
gestively rather than a narrow field exhaust-
ively ; and he helieves that that method is
often to be deliberately preferred in prac-
tical value, though it may involve a loss in
personal estimation. In the introduction,
the complexity of the facts of sociology is
illustrated, and the relation of the social
sciences to one another is considered. In the
succeeding chapters are discussed the power
of custom and its relation to law and public
opinion ; the development, operation, and
function of government ; the three ax-
ioms of political economy ; the develop-
ment of religion ; ethics, its relation to cus-
toms and economics, and the connection of
ethical law with government and religion ;
and various social problems, including the
rights of women, prohibition, public educa-
tion, equal civic advantages, franchises, laws
of entail and inheritance, competition, the
mission of the pulpit, and socialism.
Health of our Children. Pp. 128. Price,
75 cents. Health in our Homes. Price,
75 cents. A Household Guide in Health
and in Disease. Pp. 460. Price, $3.
Boston : Thayer Publishing Company.
Cupples Co., Wholesale Agents.
The first two of these volumes have been
compiled from a series of letters for popular
reading, which were published in one of the
newspapers of Boston. The first, a book of
practical advice to mothers, is based on
the conviction that two thirds of the cases
of illness among children arise from pre-
ventable causes, and aims to put before the
reader, in the simplest manner possible, the
important essentials in the care and man-
agement of children. The second treats of
the faults tending to the production of dis-
ease which exist in many of our homes, and
advises the application of those improve-
ments and sanitary precautions by means
of which a large part of the sickness now
experienced may be avoided. The leading
design of the Household Guide is to
place before the reader those established
principles, a knowledge of which is essen-
tial to the preservation of health, and to re-
covery when suffering from disease. Under
the head of Practical Hygiene are con-
sidered the most common substances used
for food, and their peculiar action ; the laws
of diet; personal hygiene, with the purpose
of promoting correct physical habits. A
chapter on mental hygiene treats of the
intellectual operations and the relationship
between the mind and the body. A third
part relates to the sick-room and its general
management, with chapters on nursing and
the dietetic treatment of the sick. Under
the heading of the Principles of Medi-
cine are considered the symptoms and
causes of disease, and medicines and their
administration. The practice of medicine is
taken up and described in its applications to
diseases of the respiratory, circulatory, and
digestive systems, the stomach and intes-
tines, the abdominal organs, the nervous
system, fevers, general diseases, and
accidental disturbances.
Elements of Botany. By Edson S. Bas-
tin. Illustrated. Chicago : G. P. En-
gelhard Co. Pp. 282. Price, $2.50.
The author believes that there is need
for some work on botany better adapted to
the wants of our higher schools than any in
present use ; as well as of a work which is
not so technical but that any student of fair
intelligence may take it up without the aid
of a teacher, and obtain a good foundation-
knowledge of the facts and principles of the
science. He has endeavored to supply such
a book. He has aimed to make the text
simple and free from unnecessary technical-
ities, and, in the order of arrangement of
subjects, to lead the mind of the pupil from
that which is familiar to what is less so.
Hence those features in structure are first
presented which may be understood without
other aids than good eyes, nimble fingers, a
pocket-knife, and a magnifier, before invit-
ing attention to more delicate points. The
organs are therefore treated of in the first
part, as organs of vegetation and of reproduc-
tion. Vegetable histology is next present-
ed, and is followed by the chapters on vege-
table physiology and vegetable taxonomy.
As subjects for study and description those
plants are selected which are either familiar
to most students, or which may be readily
found and identified by means of the de-
