708
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
scriptions given in the text. Illustrations
are freely used, and the figures are all drawn
with the authors own hand.
Natural Law in the Business World. By
Henry Wood. Boston : Lee Shep-
ard. 18S7. Pp. 211. Price, 75 ceDts.
In its way, and so far as it goes, this is
an excellent book. It is in no sense origi-
nal, the truths it teaches being already fa-
milar to students of economics. Indeed, the
author makes no claim to originality, but
characterizes his work as an honest effort
to trace out the working and application of
natural law, as it runs through the eco-
nomic and social fabric, in a plain and
simple, though, it is hoped, practical man-
ner. He speaks of himself as having had
only a practical business training, though
it is evident that he is familiar with the
standard economic writers ; and his literary
style, if not so polished as some, is charac-
terized by clearness and a certain epigram-
matic point which makes some of his ex-
pressions very effective.
Mr. Wood is a thorough disbeliever in
social nostrums and in all plans of reform
that run counter to natural law. He says :
The ills of our social system, the hardships
of labor, and the inequalities of fortune, can
not be got rid of by any short-cut route of
social revolution or industrial transforma-
tion. Circumstances and conditions may
change, but principles never. Wealth has
always been the natural sequence to indus-
try, temperance, and perseverance, and it
will always so continue. He calls atten-
tion to the fact, so obvious to all thinking
men, but so often overlooked or ignored
by agitators, that brain-labor is far more
important to the world than hand-labor, and
consequently that the assertion so often
made, that all wealth is the product of man-
ual labor, is not true.
Of course, the author condemns social-
ism in unsparing terms ; but he evidently
has no fear of its being practically adopted.
He is also strongly opposed to labor-unions,
and seems to think there is almost no good
in them. He declares that their entire
action and effort are in the direction of vainly
trying to combat the natural principle of
supply and demand (page 53). He also
condemns them because they interfere with
the free action of the individual laborer, are
tyrannous toward non-unionists, and an-
tagonistic to capital. In what he says on
this subject there is much that is true, and
would be profitable for labor agitators to
read ; but, like all who take a similar view
of the matter, he seems to forget that the
labor-unions themselves are a product of
natural law just as truly as corporations
are, and that they w r ould not have grown up
and lasted so long if there were not some
solid foundation for them.
The author has done well to call atten-
tion once more to the reign of natural law
in economic affairs ; and if his work is not
quite satisfactory, it is because he has too
much overlooked the reign of moral law in
the same field. We can not prosper eco-
nomically unless we conform to economic
laws ; but neither can we unless we conform
to moral laws, so far as these are involved
in the production and distribution of wealth.
On one point of business morality, indeed,
the author speaks out in emphatic language
in regard to the conduct of railway direct-
ors in speculating in the stock of their
roads. His view is that railroad man-
agers control a valuable ti-ust, and, if they
profit by their superior knowledge, to the
detriment of other stockholders, it is a mor-
al wrong, which it seems proper to make a
legal offense. If this principle had actu-
ally been applied in our industrial history,
many of the colossal fortunes now existing
in the country would never have been ac-
cumulated ; and this shows the importance
of moral law in the business world.
Henry Draper Memorial. First Annual
Report of the Photographic Study of
Stellar Spectra, conducted at the Har-
vard College Observatory. Edward C.
Pickering, Director. Cambridge : John
Wilson Son. Pp. 10, with Plates.
Mrs. Henry Draper, early in 1886, made
a liberal provision for carrying on the pho-
tographic investigation of stellar spectra at
the Harvard College Observatory, as a me-
morial to her husband, who did the first
work of this kind in 1S72, and continued it
with great skill and ingenuity till his death,
ten years later. The results of the years
work have been so encouraging, that Mrs.
Draper has decided greatly to extend the
original plan of work, and have it conducted
on a scale suited to its importance. The
