710
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fact, can be brought into harmony with the
existing environment, and embraces, in a
wider synthesis, all that is good in other
philosophies and religions.
Mr. Laing does not deny the excellent
moral elements to be found in Christianity ;
but ho thinks that there are also serious
moral deficiencies in it, and that Zoroas-
trianism has the most complete and com-
prehensive code of morals to be found in any
system of religion. Moreover, he thinks
that Christians at the present day are really
worshipers of the good principle as per-
sonified in Christ ; or, in other words, that
modern Christians are, to a great extent,
without knowing it, worshipers of Ormuzd,
with Christ for their Ormuzd ; and this he
regards as an excellent thing, and perfectly
in harmony with his own principles. Of
course, Mr. Laing recognizes the fact that
the Zoroastrian religion can not be adapted
to modern needs without some changes ; but
he thinks it requires fewer changes than
any other ancient religion, while it can at
the same time absorb into itself all that is
good in the others. We should add that
the authors views are well expressed ; the
printers part of the work has been well
done ; and readers having a taste for this
class of subjects will find the book an in-
teresting one.
The Story of Metlakahtla. By Henry S.
Wellcome. New York : Saxon Co.
Pp. 483. Price, $1.50.
This story is intended to excite sym-
pathy. A tribe of savage Indians living in
British Columbia, near the Alaska line, has
been Christianized and civilized under the
missionary efforts of the Rev. William Dun-
can, several thousand souls being compre-
hended under the influence of the work.
An Anglican bishop has attempted to im-
pose upon them a ritual and discipline which
they reject, and the Colonial Government
has taken land which they claim and given
it to the Church Missionary Society. Their
appeals for recompense having been refused,
they are now seeking to remove in a body
to Alaska, within the territory of the United
Statep. The story of their claims and al-
leged wrongs is told in detail, with numer-
ous references to official documents and
public correspondence.
A IIlSTORY OF THE DOCTRINE OF COMETS. By
Andrew D. White. New York : G.
P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 43. Price, 25
cents.
This is a fuller version of the authors
essay, which was published, as the first of
New Chapters in the Warfare of Science,
in the Monthly for October, 1885, and
was read at the meeting of the American
Historical Association in September of the
same year. It is published in substantial
form, on thick paper, and with clear, open
type, as No. II, Vol. II, of the Tapers of
the American Historical Association. With
its copious citations from authors and nota-
bles of every age, and of the most curious
theories and opinions on the subject, it is
a paper of rare interest.
DlNOCERATA : A MONOGRAPH OF AN EXTINCT
Order of Gigantic Mammalia. By
Othniel Charles Marsh. Washington :
Government Printing-Office. Pp. 243,
with Fifty-six Plates.
This memoir is the second in the au-
thors series of monographs on the extinct
vertebrate life of North America. The
first volume described the Odontowiiflies, or
birds with teeth, of the cretaceous deposits
on the eastern slope of the Rocky Mount-
ains. The present volume contains the rec-
ord of a peculiar order of mammals, which
Professor Marsh has brought to light in
the early Tertiary strata of the great central
plateau of the continent. Their remains
have hitherto been found in a single Eocene
lake-basin in Wyoming, and none arc known
from any other part of this country, or from
the Old World. This lake-basin, now drained
by the Green River, slowly filled up with
sediment coming from the Wahsatch, Uintah,
and Wind River Mountains, but remained a
lake so long that the deposits formed in it,
during Eocene time, reached a vertical thick-
ness of more than a mile. It has since been
subjected to a vast erosion, by which it has
been carved into the picturesque Bad Lands ;
and this erosion has brought to light the re-
mains of many extinct animals, among which
the bones of the Dinocerata, from their great
size, attracted particular attention. Among
the other animals represented were ances-
tral forms of the modern horse and tapir,
and of the pig. Many others were found
related to the recent lemurs ; also various
