LITERARY NOTICES.
711
carnivores, insectivores, rodents, and small
marsupials ; remains of a new order of
mammals, the Tillodonls, quite unlike any
now living. Crocodiles, tortoises, lizards,
and serpents swarmed in and about the
waters of the lake, while around its borders
grew palms and other tropical vegetation.
The picture is finished with the conception
of the Dinoce?-ata, or terrible horned, gigan-
tic beasts, which nearly equaled the ele-
phant in size, and roamed in great numbers
on the shores of the lake. They form a well-
marked order in great groups of the Ungu-
lata, or hoofed animals. In some of their
characters they resemble the Artiodactyls
(Paraxonia) ; in others they are like the
Perissodactyls (Mcsaxonia) ; and, in others
still, they agree with the Proboscidians.
The points of similarity, however, Professor
Marsh adds, are in most cases general char-
acters, which point back to an earlier, primi-
tive ungulate, rather than indicate a near
affinity with existing forms of these groups.
The number of species is difficult to deter-
mine. About thirty forms, more or less
distinct, are recognized in the synopsis at
the end of the volume ; but the number
might be increased, if fragmentary speci-
mens were used as the basis for specific
names. The specimens which are now in
the museum at Yale College represent more
than two hundred individuals of Dinoccraia.
Of these, not less than seventy-five have
portions of the skull more or less preserved,
and in more than twenty it is in good con-
dition. The author has endeavored in his
plates, and nearly two hundred woodcuts in
addition, to give accurate illustrations of
type specimens ; and all the important speci-
mens now known are represented, and at
least one figure is given of every species.
The New Crisis. By George W. Bell. Des
Moines, Iowa : Moses Hull Co. 1887.
Pp. 350.
The object of this book, as the preface
declares, is to prove the existence of a
class conspiracy, the design of which is to
subvert the principles of our Government
by a monopoly of wealth. In other words,
it is an anti-monopoly polemic, and has the
usual characteristics of such works in a
somewhat extreme form, but with little in
it that is specially new.
I Infants, their Chronological Progress.
By Professor Stanford E. Chaille, M.D.
Pp. 20.
Believing that the inquiry is useful
with reference to many points, Dr. Chaille
has collated in this pamphlet, as nearly in
their order as may be, the various mani-
festations of infant life, activity, conscious-
ness, and disposition, from birth up to the
age of three years. This record is followed
by notes on the color of the eyes and hair,
and on growth as shown by height, weight,
and chest-girth.
Results of the Observations made at the
Blue Hill Meteorological Observa-
tory, Massachusetts, in 1886. By A.
Lawrence Rotch. Pp. 45, with Plates.
The Blue Hill Observatory is a private
establishment, which is claimed to be one
of the best-equipped meteorological stations
in the United States. It is situated on Great
Blue Hill, Norfolk County, Massachusetts,
at an elevation of six hundred and thirty-
five feet, making it the highest point within
ten miles of the Atlantic coast from Maine
to Florida. The present report gives a full
account of the equipment of the observatory,
and records of general results, prevalence
of winds, velocity of winds, and atmospheric
pressure, for every day of the year, with an-
nual summaries under each head, and sev-
eral plates of tracings.
Elementary Microscopical Technology.
Part I. The Technical History of a
Slide. By Frank L. James. St. Louis :
Medical and Surgical Journal Company.
Pp. 107. Price, 75 cents.
The present number is a part of a work
on general microscopic technology, the other
parts of which will appear in time. It is
intended to teach in detail the processes
and manipulations for preparing the mate-
rials for a microscopic mount. For this
purpose it takes the crude materials the
object to be mounted, the chemicals, gums,
bits of glass, etc., entering into the struct-
ure of a slide and carries them by minute
descriptions through the processes of hard-
ening (or softening), imbedding, section-
cutting, staining, etc., up to the final mount-
ing for the cabinet. It is purposed thus to
give the student a general outline idea of
the work, and a knowledge of the names,
