7H
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
raatic system words, sentences, and treatises
on various subjects. In proportion as it
was applied to connected and lengthy com-
positions, its processes became more recon-
dite, curious, and difficult of interpretation
impossible without considerable knowl-
edge of the spoken language The study of
it has, however, been pursued with what Dr.
Brinton calls marked and gratifying results,
by Mrs. Zelie Nuttall Pinart. This lady, the
author says, has unraveled a number of
the pages of the Vienna Codex, and sev-
eral of the monolithic inscriptions which
have been handed down from ancient Mexi-
co. With commendable caution she has
refrained from publishing her results until
they could be presented supported by such
proofs that they can not be questioned ; but
from a personal examination of them I do
not hesitate to say that they will be found
to come up to the highest standard of scien-
tific requirements.
An Incident in School Discipline. An
instructive incident in the administration of
school discipline is related by T. C. Earns,
in the Southwestern Journal of Educa-
tion. The subject was a boy naturally of
good impulses, but who had conceived the
idea of the existence of antagonism be-
tween teacher and pupil. It was agreed
that he must be whipped for a serious
breach of the order of the school which he
had committed. He assuming a defiant at-
titude toward the teacher, the latter re-
plied to him: No; if you do not comply
willingly, I will not whip you, Sam. There
will be no contest between us; but, as you
will not be subject to the rules which you
agreed to obey when you entered school,
you can not stay here longer, and I will
write a note explaining all to your mother,
which yoil will please to carry to her.
This having been said pleasantly, the teach-
er sat down to write the note, while the
boy waited and reflected. The note made a
pleasant mention of Sams good traits, and
expressed regret that his failure to comply
with some of the regulations of the school
made it necessary to dismiss him. The
boy was given it, but hesitated to start
away, and said, I am not going to take
this to my mother. The teacher answered
that if Sam did not want to take the note,
he would send it by a carrier, or drop it in
the mail, But I thought you would prefer
to carry it in person, and have something to
say in your own behalf. Sam made an-
other effort to start, but appeared to be
overcome, and, walking up to the teacher,
extended his hand, and said, Whip me I
cant stand this ! The teacher, of course,
would not whip him then, nor would he
send the note to the boys mother, but say-
ing that all that had passed should rest be-
tween the two, added, Only be sure that
your conduct is all right for the future.
New light, says the teacher, seemed to
dawn upon Sam. This was a new experi-
ence for him. I nodded assent, and he
passed out again. It was but a moment,
when a head was again protruded at the
door, and a choking voice uttered the words,
Much obliged to you. I never had any
more trouble with Sam. The boy was
conquered by just and manly treatment.
When the spirit of antagonism had been
removed, he had nothing left to stand upon,
and his self-respect forced him to be a man
in return.
Ptomaines in Stale Milk. The evidence
of the development of ptomaines in stale
milk accumulates, and it is becoming more
and more probable that the instances of
poison-sickness which occasionally occur
after partaking certain creams, or ices, or
cheeses, may be traced to this source. Dr.
II. II. Firth reports, upon the examination
of some milk to which his attention was
called as having occasioned sickness, that
after the evaporation of an ethereal extract
from the filtrate, a moist, semi-crystallized
residue was left. It had a mawkish, sick-
ly odor, and a strongly pungent taste when
put on the tongue. Taking some of it care-
fully himself, he was soon afterward con-
scious of nausea and dryness of the fauces,
and then of headache. Die gave all the re-
maining residue to a dog. The dog was
within fifteen minutes purging, vomiting, and
obviously ill. It gradually recovered, but,
being afterward killed, its stomach and in-
testines were found to contain a serous and
frothy fluid, but quite free of congestion or
inflammatory action. Fresh milk when test-
ed did not yield any substance having a tox-
ic action. But of stoppered bottles of milk
