P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY
715
set away for cultivation, at a tempera-
ture of 80 Fahr., those opened after about
ten weeks, yielded a white acicular crystal-
line substance having the same odor and
taste as that found in the original suspected
milk. The effects of this substance on the
experimenter and on dogs and cats were the
same. For this ptomaine, the author sug-
gests the name of lactotoxine.
Myths and Theories about Earthquakes.
Professor Milne, in a lecture before the
Scientific Society of Tokio, Japan, classified
the theories that have been enunciated re-
specting the cause of earthquakes as unsci-
entific, ^was?-scientific, and scientific. Hav-
ing mentioned as among the unscientific
theories those which ascribed the convul-
sions to dispensations of Providence, the
lecturer described some of the myths which
attribute them to a creature living under-
ground. In Japan it is an earthquake-in-
sect, covered with scales and having eight
legs, or a great fish having a rock on his
head which helped to keep him quiet. In
Mongolia the animal was said to be a frog,
in India the world-bearing elephant, in Cele-
bes a world-supporting hog, in North Amer-
ica a tortoise. In Siberia there was a myth
connected with the great bones fo nd there,
that these were the remains of animals that
lived underground, the trampling of which
made the ground shake. In Kamchatka the
legend was connected with a god that went
out hunting with his dogs ; when the latter
stopped to scratch themselves, their move-
ments produced earthquakes. In Scandi-
navian mythology, Loki, having killed his
brother Baldwin, was bound to a rock, face
upward, so that the poison of a serpent
should drop on his face. Lokis wife, how-
ever, intercepted the poison in a vessel, and
it was only when she had to go away to
empty the dish that a few drops reached
him and caused him to writhe and shake the
earth. The g-Mcm-scientific theories endeav-
ored to account for earthquakes as part of
the ordinary operations of Nature, as that
they were produced by the action of wind
confined inside of the earth. The theory of
electrical discharges was advocated in 1760
by Dr. Stukely, and by Pereival and Priest-
ley, and is held in California at the present
day, where it is believed that the network
of rails is a protection to the State against
dangerous accumulations of electricity. The
lecturer thought that the electric phenom-
ena which sometimes attended earthquakes
were their consequences, not their causes.
The chemical theories were very strong in
Europe up to the beginning of the present
century. It was only in 1760 that Dr.
Mitchell first threw out the theory that
earthquakes were connected in some way
with volcanoes, and attributed them to the
penetration of strata by steam. Professor
Rogers, at about the same time, in America,
endeavored to show that it was not steam,
but really lava, that ran along underneath
the ground, causing it to rise and fall, thus
producing an earthquake.
Weathercocks. Why, asks Mr. J. A.
Farrer, in an essay on Animal Lore,
should cocks figure on the tops of steeples ?
Christians connect the custom with the re-
proach the cock once conveyed to St. Peter.
But the cock used to be placed on the tops
of sacred trees long before it was trans-
ferred to church-steeples, and in North Ger-
many it still stands upon the May -poles. It
was partly a watchman and partly a weath-
er-prophet, and by its crowing it could dis-
perse evil spirits and all approaching calami-
ties. Its life was sacred in India and Per-
sia, and Cicero speaks of the ancients re-
garding the killing of a cock as a crime
equal in blackness to the suffocation of a
father. Our weathercocks are doubtless the
survivals of these old ideas, though the so-
lar mythologists trace all these things to the
use of the domestic fowls as obvious per-
sonifications of the sun. One can scarcely
conceive anything more absurd ; and it
would be interesting to know how on solar
principles would be explained the Tyrolese
custom of not letting a black hen live for
seven years, lest she should then lay an egg,
out of which might issue a dragon destined
to live a hundred years.
School-room Lights. Dr. Willoughby,
of the English Society of Medical Officers of
Health, in a paper on School Lighting,
maintains that as long as the light from the
left is the stronger, so that the shadow of
the hand does not fall on the writing, the
objections urged against cross-lighting
