716
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are imaginary ; and that while the main
source of light should always be on the left,
it might be advantageously supplemented by
lights of lesser intensity from either side,
whereby the total illumination would be in-
creased. In wide rooms the rows of desks
on either side should face in opposite direc-
tions, so that the nearer and consequently
stronger light should always come from the
left. No natural light not coming direct
from the sky could be sufficient, but wheth-
er sky-light were so or not would depend on
the angle of aperture, or arc of the sky visi-
ble at any given point, which should never
be less than 5, and the angle of incidence,
which should not be less than 25. In arti-
ficial lighting, shades acting also as reflect-
ors are preferable to semi-opaque globes,
which involve much loss of light. The two
points to be observed in the arrangement of
the lighting are the avoidance of shadows
and of the direct incidence of the light on
the eyes.
Uses of Birch-Bark. Professor Gustav
Retzius has a chapter, in his sketches of Fin-
land, respecting the uses which the Finnish
people make of birch-bark. Shoes are made
of it. The bark, having been peeled, is cut
into strips, rolled up carefully, and put away
for future use. When the Finnish peasant
wants a pair of new shoes, he takes one of
his rolls, cuts it up into strips of suitable
width, soaks it in water to soften it, and
then weaves it into the form he desires. It
is all done very rapidly, a half-hour or less
sometimes sufficing for the whole work. The
shape of the shoes varies according to the
use they are to be put to. If they are for
swamps, he makes them into low-cut slip-
pers or sandals. With these he can walk
through the moors without wounding his
feet on the sharp sticks, while the water
flows in and out freely. Another shape is
that of regular shoes with high sides, and
toes either run out to a point or cut short
off. They are made wider than is necessary
to accommodate the foot, so that in cold
weather they may be stuffed with hay and
the foot wrapped with bandages. A third
form is a kind of half-boot. All the three
forms are still used in much of the interior
of the country during work in the fields, the
swamps, the woods, and the house, especial-
ly among the poorer people. These bark
shoes have in fact many advantages. They
are very cheap, costing really nothing ; they
are strong and durable, and warm, with the
help of hay and wrappings. In moist ground
they let the water in and out without soften-
ing, and, by changing the hay or wrappings,
are easily dried. Many other uses are found
for birch-bark. The sheath in which the
peasant carries his inseparable knife is
made of it. It is woven into pockets or
bags of various sizes, which arc used all
over Finland. The larger of these form a
satchel with a flap which may be turned
over and close the bag. Wherever one may
travel in Finland, he will meet children,
women, and men with these satchels. The
peasant carries his dinner in one, and with
the satchel on his back, birch-bark shoes
on his feet, and his tools in his hands, goes
out equipped for his days work. These
satchels also take the place of baskets.
Birch-bark is made into salt - tubs, cords
and lines, brushes for washing out wooden
vessels, boxes, sieves and tubs, and many
other articles for which we use wood or
basket material.
The Microscope in Geology. President
T. G. Bonney, of the Geological Section of
the British Association, spoke on the Ap-
plication of Microscopic Analysis to dis-
covering the Physical Geography of by-
gone Ages. The microscope furnishes us
with an instrument of precision, by means
of which we can learn the more minute
mineral composition and structural pecul-
iarities of rocks, can recognize fragments,
and sometimes even determine the source of
the smaller constituents in a composite elas-
tic rock. Thus, by its aid, we may be able,
in many cases, to substitute a demonstration
for a conjecture. The speaker described
the materials of the coarser fragmental
rocks of Great Britain, and laid down the
following principles of interpretation : 1.
Pebbles indicate the action either of waves
of the sea, or of strong currents, marine or
fluviatile. 2. The zone in the sea over
which the manufacture of pebbles can be
carried on is seldom wider than from the
high-tide line to a depth of within twenty
feet below low-water mark. It is, there-
fore, probable that a thick and very widely-
