POPULAR MISCELLANY.
717
extended pebble-bed is not the result of wave-
action. 3. The movement of the deep waters
of the sea, as a rule, is so slight that only
the very finest sediment can be affected by
it. The instances where great currents may
transport pebbles and sand are exceptional,
and confined to rather shallower water. The
larger coast currents may, however, trans-
port mud to considerable distances, but in
directions parallel with the main trend of
the shores. 4. Except where very large
rivers discharge their water into the ocean,
or in some special cases of 3, sediment is
deposited comparatively near the shores of
continents, according to the Challengers
sounding in no important amounts farther
away than one hundred and fifty miles. 5.
Thus rain and rivers are generally more im-
portant agents of denudation and transpor-
tation than the sea. 6. The coarser mate-
rials of rocks are capable of being trans-
ported by streams to a considerable distance
without serious diminution of volume. 7.
Deposits of gravel and coarse sand, of con-
siderable vertical thickness and great verti-
cal extension, are more likely to indicate
the immediate action of a river than of a
marine current.
The Happiness of Animals. It is hard
to conceive that the question, Are animals
happy ? should be seriously asked by any
one who is acquainted with animals, or com-
prehends what constitutes happiness. Yet
there are some writers for scientific jour-
nals, too who treat the question as open to
debate, or are even inclined to answer it
in the negative. Mr. Briggs Carlill, who
thinks it worth while to take it up in the
Nineteenth Century, has no difficulty in
giving a decidedly affirmative answer. Two
general considerations, he says, precede all
arguments on the subject, and may be dis-
posed of in the beginning. They are, that
animals do not commit suicide, though they
might, and know how to do it; and that
they increase and multiply which they
would not do were their condition misera-
ble. Animals are, it is true, deprived of
mans mental pleasures, which are the high-
est ones to those who appreciate them ; but
then they are, in partial compensation,
spared from worry. With man, the local
pleasures, or those of sensation and con-
venience, largely preponderate over mental
pleasures, while of his pains, mental troub-
les constitute much the largest part. Sup-
pose the mental powers gradually to dimin-
ish, while the bodily powers remain unim-
paired till the mind no longer troubles itself
about unseen things ; we shall then approach
the constitution of the higher mammalia.
All animals enjoy the taking in of food.
More highly developed ones have another
opening for pleasure in the faculty of dis-
covering sources of food ; animals which
catch their prey, the additional excitement
of pursuit and capture ; ruminants enjoy
the chewing of the cud. Exercise counts
for a good deal in the youth of all animals,
and continues throughout life in the majori-
ty to afford enjoyment of the keenest de-
scription, while many of them have the de-
light that the power of swift motion gives.
Constantly throughout the animal world
we notice that delight in the use of muscle
and limb which in man scarcely survives
his majority, but which in them lasts far into
maturity. We are accustomed unconscious-
ly to recognize their prerogative in this re-
spect when we apply the phrase animal
spirits to a boy who is full of life and
energy, and who enjoys a run over the hills
on a breezy day. All animals, also, enjoy
to a full extent the pleasures connected
with the perpetuation of their species and
the care of their young the latter of which
are akin to some of mans mental pleasures.
What is there to set off against these pleas-
ures which accompany alike the activities
preservative of individual life and those
preservative of the species ? Principally,
these four things famine, exposure to
weather, bodily injury, and violent death ;
things not altosether unknown to man. But
the suffering in all these cases is of short
duration, and is usually tempered by circum-
stances in the animals age, condition, or
power of adaptation, while the keenest ele-
ment of it the thinking about it is wholly
absent ; so that its intensity is so much less
in animals than in man that, even if the
individual instances of it are more frequent,
the balance of advantage would probably
remain with the brutes. The authors con-
clusion, therefore, is, that so far as bodily
pains and pleasures are concerned, if in
humanity there be a surplus of pleasure
