NOTES.
719
a large number of those who, if they had not
been so inoculated, would have died of that
disease. And we believe that the value of
this discovery will be found much greater
than can be estimated by its present utility,
for it shows that it may become possible to
avert by inoculation, even after infection,
other diseases than hydrophobia. . . . His
researches have also added very largely to
the knowledge of the pathology of hydro-
phobia, and have supplied what is of the
highest practical value, namely, a sure
means of determining whether an animal,
which has died under suspicion of rabies,
was really affected with that disease or not.
The answer to the question whether M. Pas-
teurs treatment can be submitted to with-
out danger to health or life, must be quali-
fied accordingly as the question is applied
to the ordinary method, concerning the en-
tire safety of which no reason of doubt has
yet appeared; or to the intensive method
which has been applied only to cases deemed
especially urgent. In many of the urgent
cases the intensive method is believed to
have been more efficacious than the ordi-
nary method would have been. In other
cases deaths have occurred under conditions
which have suggested that they were due to
the inoculations rather than to the infection
from the rabid animal. But in these cases
it is open to doubt whether the effect of the
inoculation may not have been to modify the
form of the rabies already nascent, into
paralytic rabies, rather than of itself to
produce it. In order to reduce risks, M.
Pasteur has greatly modified his intensive
treatment, and limited its application to the
most urgent cases.
NOTES.
The steamers of the new American Ar-
row Line are to be constructed upon a new
principle, and with a view to an estimated
speed sufficient to make the voyage between
New York and Liverpool in a little more
than four days. The Pocahontas will be
540 feet long, will be provided with 1,060
water-tight compartments, 500 of which are
to be below the water-line, and will have 20
boilers with engines of 27,986 horse-power
and capable of giving a speed of 22 knots
an hour.
Professor Asaph Hall has determined
the parallax of Aldebaran at 0102, with a
probable error of - 0296.
The sixtieth meeting of the German As-
sociation of Naturalists will be held at
Wiesbaden, September 18th to 24th. A
number of new scientific instruments and
preparations will be shown.
An unusually large number of foreign
men of science will, it is expected, be pres-
ent at the forthcoming meeting of the Brit-
ish Association in Manchester. Among the
Americans are Cleveland Abbe, J. R. East-
man, of the United States Naval Observa-
tory; and William Libbey, Malcolm Mc-
Neill, and C. A. Young, of Princeton Col-
lege, in Section A ; F. W. Clarke, J. W.
Langley, and J. W. Mallet, in Section B ;
Asa Gray, C. S. Minot, and E. S. Morse, in
Section D ; Dana Horton and Judge Mackay,
in Section F ; and Thomas Egleston and J.
B. Francis, in Section G.
Dr. E. A. A. Grange, of the Agricultural
College of Michigan, describes a disease in
the foot of the horse, frequently occurring
in the summer season, which he calls lami-
niiis, but which is often manifested as what
is called chest-founder, from the position
which it causes the horse to take, suggest-
ing an affection of the chest. The disease
is really an inflammation of the sensitive
lamina? of the foot, sometimes involving
neighboring structures, and may be com-
pared with toothache. It may be caused by
overheating and sudden cooling, overwork-
ing, overfeeding, or too long and close con-
finement in the stall. It is manifested by at-
titudes indicating pain, by irregularities in
breathing, twitching movements, etc. The
treatment materially depends upon the cause
in the particular case, and is both general
and local.
The British Inspectors of Explosives re-
port for 1886 the continued satisfactory op-
eration of the Explosives Act of 1875. Only
one loss of life was returned in legitimate
manufacture, as against an average of over
eight in the eight years previous. Mention
is made in the report of 143 accidents hav-
ing occurred during the year, whereby 40
persons were killed and 136 injured. The
averages for the previous nine years were
38 killed and 98 injured.
Mr. Alfred Carpenter, of the Marine
Survey office, Bombay, has observed Maea-
cus monkeys on the island off South Bur-
mah opening oysters with a stone. They
bring the stones from high - water mark
down to low-water, selecting such stones as
they can easily grasp. They effect the
opening by striking the base of the upper
valve until it dislocates and breaks up. They
then extract the oyster with the finger and
thumb, occasionally putting the mouth
straight to the broken shell. The way they
have chosen is the easiest way to open the
shell.
