64 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cember, when the monthly means and the mean minima differ very-
little, but the mean maxima of Nukurs are higher by 7 and the ab-
solute maxima by more than 10. This is because snow rarely falls at
Nukurs, and a covering lasting for several days seldom occurs. In the
absence of snow there is nothing to interfere with the action of warm
winds, and, in that latitude, the sun heats the ground sensibly, even
in the middle of winter.
The influence of a bed of snow on the maxima should vary accord-
ing as the temperature is below or above the freezing-point. In the
latter case, the melting of the snow, involving the absorption of heat,
would tend to prevent increase of temperature. Not only does it pre-
vent high maxima, but it keeps the temperature near the freezing-
point long after it has begun. This is why April is colder than Oc-
tober in Russia, Central Europe, Canada, and the Northern United
States. Farther north, for the same cause, the mean temperature of
May is below that of September. It can not be doubted that this
cause of cold, or rather this conversion of heat into melting action, is
proportional, all other things being equal, to the mass of snow that
remains on the ground. Hence, in countries having cold winters, the
principal obstacle to the rise of temperature in spring is found in the
quantity of snow on the ground, and not in the previous cold of the
winter. It is only in countries situated near the sea, or in the neigh-
borhood of large frozen lakes, that the mean temperature of the win-
ter has much influence on the depression of temperature in the follow-
ing spring and summer, because a larger quantity of ice is found in
such situations during cold seasons, and a greater sum of heat is neces-
sary to make the melting complete than in average seasons. Snow is
the only cause that can produce an analogous result in countries dis-
tant from seas and lakes. It may be concluded, from the observations
on these subjects, that, at the moment when the mean temperature be-
gins to rise above the freezing-point, everything depends upon the
sum of cold existing in the form of snow and ice. The greater it is,
the slower and more irregular will be the rise of temperature.
The time of the coming of the snow, its depth, and its extent,
have also a very great influence on the beginning and duration of
the winter frosts ; and this influence is manifested, not only in the
particular spot, but in the northern hemisphere far to the south of
it. In short, we may say that snow gives duration to the cold, and
prevents a rapid rise of temperature. If we knew the exact moment
when a bed of snow was formed in the North in fall and winter, and
if we could announce it by telegraph, we might predict the time of
the freezing of rivers and canals, and thus serve the interests of vast
territories as of most of Asiatic and European Russia, Scandinavia,
British America, and the United States. The announcement of the
closing of rivers by ice, even if it were only four or five days in ad-
vance, would prevent the considerable losses caused by premature
