720
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Technology Quarterly has been
started at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. It is published by a board of
editors chosen from the senior and junior
classes, who are intended to represent all
the departments of the Institute.
Dr. T. Langdon Down, inquiring into
the causes of idiocy, has found that intem-
perance of parents is one of the most con-
siderable factors in producing the affection.
His view is confirmed by some French and
German investigators, one of whom, Dr.
Delasiauve, has said that in the village of
Careme, whose riches were in its vineyards,
ten years comparative sobriety, enforced
by vine-disease, had a sensible effect in di-
minishing the cases of idiocy. Nervous con-
stitution and consumption exercise impor-
tant influence. Of the professions, lawyers
furnish the smallest proportion of idiots,
while they arc credited with the procreation
of a relatively very large number of men of
eminence. With the clergy, these propor-
tions are more than reversed. The influ-
ence of consanguineous marriage, per se, is
insignificant, if it exists.
The French Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science will meet in Toulouse,
September 22d to 29th.
Bottles for holding spirits and acids are
now made of paper. The glued paper is
rolled by machinery into such a tube as is
required, and the tube is cut up into suit-
able lengths. The tops and bottoms, of
wood or paper, are cemented in, and necks
are added when required. The interiors
of the bottles are then lined with a heated
fluid composition that sets hard and will
resist acids and spirits. The bottles are
practically unbreakable, have a minimum of
weight, and require no packing material in
transit. The manufacture is said to be car-
ried on extensively in Chicago, and has been
introduced into England.
Mr. Norpexskiold some time ago re-
ceived an account from Don Carlos Stolp,
of San Fernando, Chili, of his observations
of the red sunsets of 1883-84, from a
point on the Andes about fifteen thousand
feet above the sea ; and afterward Seiior
Stolp sent some specimens of an atmos-
pheric dust which he had observed at the
same time. Analysis of this dust showed
that it had no relation to volcanic dust, but
that it was of the kind regarded as cosmic
dust containing the iron, nickel, phosphor-
ic acid, and magnesia constituents charac-
teristic of the cosmic deposits. There is,
however, no evidence that this dust was con-
nected with the red light.
Mr. Ernest Hart, of the Smoke Abate-
ment Institute, fears that London will al-
ways suffer from fogs, because it is placed
in a river valley, on a clay soil, and is bor-
dered on the Essex side by low-lying lands
very imperfectly drained, and on the north
side by the Harrow Weald. The fogs gener-
ated the results of damp exhalations are
greatly aggravated by the parks, most of
which require draining. But if the smoke
is got rid of, the fogs will be much less
dense.
An English National Association for the
Promotion of Technical Education has been
formed. The Marquis of Hartington is its
president, and several lords, Professor Hux-
ley, Sir John Lubbock, Mr. Mundella, Sir
Lyon Playfair, Professor Stuart, and Pro-
fessor Tyndall, are among its vice-presi-
dents.
Photographs of the sun were taken at
Greenwich Observatory on 199 days during
1886, while photographs from India filled
in the gaps for 164 days ; so that the record
of observations is complete for all but two
days. The area of sun-spots and faculne
has continued to decline during 1886 and
1887. There were 61 days in 1886, and
from October to April 17th last, 73 days
on which no spots appeared.
OBITUARY NOTES.
Charles Rau, one of the curators of
the Smithsonian Institution, died in Wash-
ington, July 28th, at about seventy years of
age. He was invited by Professor Henry
about forty years ago to come to the United
States and take a position in the Smithso-
nian Institution. He was the author of
archaeological books, and of numerous spe-
cial articles in his chosen study.
Dr. Moritz Wagner, professor in the
University of Munich, a distinguished trav-
eler and scientific writer, died May 31st.
The death of M. Issarlier, a French
jenator and mayor, formerly an eminent
medical man, is reported. M. Issartier
had long given up the practice of medicine,
and had devoted himself to horticulture
and scientific agriculture. He published a
treatise on the cultivation of fruit-trees, and
a course in agriculture.
Ivan Polyakoff, who died recently at
St. Petersburg, at about forty years of age,
was regarded as one of the most promising
Russian men of science. His particular
field was in botany and zoology. His
earlier papers were published in the Ir-
kutsk Gazette. He was engaged upon
expeditions from the Lena gold-washings to
Transbaikalia, in the Olonetz region, the
middle Volira, the lower Obi region and
Saghalien, and the Pacific littoral. He was
attacked with his final illness on his return
from the last journey. He was the author
of the accepted description of Prjevalskys
horse, Equus Prjevalski.
