WHAT IS EVOLUTION? 723
and reaction, co-operate to produce climates and physical conditions
such as we now find them. This is physical geography. Or, we may
study the earth in its gradual progress toward its present condition
the changes which have taken place in all these parts, and consequent
changes in climate ; in a word, the gradual process of becoming what
it now is. This is physical geology it is evolution. 5. Lastly, we
may study the whole organic kingdom in its entirety as we now find
it the mutual relation of different classes, orders, genera, and species
to each other and to external conditions, and the action and reaction
of these in the struggle for life the geographical distribution of spe-
cies and their relation to climate and other physical conditions, the
whole constituting a complexly adjusted and permanent equilibrium.
This is a science of great importance, but one not yet distinctly con-
ceived, much less named.* Or, we may study the same in its gradual
progressive approach, throughout all geological times, toward the pres-
ent condition of things, by continual changes in the parts, and there-
fore disturbance of equilibrium and readjustment on a higher plane
with more complex inter-relations. This is development of the organic
kingdom. In the popular mind it is, par excellence, evolution.
We might multiply examples without limit. There are the same
two points of view on all subjects. As already said, in the one we are
concerned with things as they are ; in the other, with the process by
which they became so. This law of becoming in all things this
universal law of progressive inter-connected change may be called
the law of continuity. We all recognize the universal relation of
things, gravitative or other, in space. This asserts the universal causal
relation of things in time. This is the universal law of evolution.
But it has so happened that in the popular mind the term evolution
is mostly confined to the development of the organic kingdom, or the
law of continuity as applied to this department of Nature. The reason
of this is that this department was the last to acknowledge the suprem-
acy of this law ; this is the domain in which the advocates of super-
naturalism in the realm of Nature had made their last stand. But it
is wholly unphilosophical thus to limit the term. If there be any evo-
lution, par excellence, it is evolution of the individual or embryonic
development. This is the clearest, the most familiar, and most easily
understood, and therefore the type of evolution. We first take our
idea of evolution from this form, and then extend it to other forms of
continuous change following a similar law. But, since the popular
mind limits the term to development of the organic kingdom, and
since, moreover, this is now the battle-ground between the advocates
of continuity and discontinuity of naturalism and supernaturalism in
the realm of Nature what we shall say will have reference chiefly to
this department, though we shall illustrate freely by reference to other
forms of evolution.
* The term chorology, used by Haeckel, nearly covers the ground.
