7 24 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Definition of Evolution. Evolution is (I) continuous progres-
sive change, (II) according to certain laics, (III) and by means of
resident forces. It may doubtless be denned in other and perhaps
better terras, but this suits our purposes best. Embryonic develop-
ment is the type of evolution. It will be admitted that this definition
is completely realized in this process. The change here is certainly
continuously progressive ; it is according to certain well-ascertained
laws ; it is by forces (vital forces) resident in the egg itself. Is, then,
the process of change in the organic kingdom throughout geologic
times like this? Does it correspond to the definition given above?
Does it also deserve the name of evolution ? We shall see.
I. Every individual animal body say mans has become what it
now is by a gradual process. Commencing as a microscopic spherule of
living but apparently unorganized protoplasm, it gradually added cell
to cell, tissue to tissue, organ to organ, and function to function ; thus
becoming more and more complex in the mutual action of its correlated
parts, as it passed successively through the stages of germ, egg, embryo,
and infant, to maturity. This ascending series of genetically con-
nected stages is called the embryonic or Ontogenic series.*
There is another series the terms of which are coexistent, and which,
therefore, is not in any sense a genetic or development series, but
which it is important to mention, because to some degree similar to
and illustrative of the last. Commencing with the lowest unicelled
microscopic organisms, and passing up to the animal scale, as it now
exists, we find a series of forms similar, though not identical, with the
last. Here, again, we find cell added to cell, tissue to tissue, organ to
organ, and function to function, the animal body becoming more and
more complex in structure, in the mutual action of its correlated parts,
and the mutual action with the environment, until we reach the highest
complexity of structure and of internal and external relations only in
the highest animals. This ascending scries may be called the natural
history series ; or the classification or Taxonomic series.^ The terms
of this series are, of course, not genetically connected ; at least, not
directly so connected. In what way they are connected, and how the
series comes to be similar to the last, we shall see by-and-by.
Finally, there is still a third series, the grandest and most funda-
mental of all, but only recently recognized, and therefore still imper-
fectly known. Commencing with the earliest organisms, the very
dawn of life, in the very lowest rocks, and passing onward and upward
through Eozoic, Palaeozoic, Mesozoic, Cenozoic, to the Psychozoic or
present time, we again find first the lowest forms, and then successive-
ly forms more and more complex in structure, in the interaction of
correlated parts and in interaction with the environment, until we
reach the most complex internal and external relations, and therefore
* Onios-gcnnao (individual-making, or genesis of the individual),
f Taxis, nomos (relating to science of arrangement).
