73 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
or influence, by action and reaction with the environment, and between
the different parts of the organism ; the second presiding over the ex-
change of matter with the environment, by absorption and elimination ;
the third presiding over exchanges of matter between different parts
of the organism. The first system of functions and organs may be
compared to a system of telegraphy, foreign and domestic ; the second
to foreign commerce ; the third to an internal carrying-trade. Fol-
lowing out any one of these groups in higher animals, say the nervous
system, it quickly differentiates again into two sub-systems, viz., cere-
bro-spinal and ganglionic, each having its own distinctive functions,
which we can not stop to explain. Then the cerebro-spinal again dif-
ferentiates into voluntary and reflex systems. All of these have mean-
while separated into sensory and motor centers and fibers. Then,
taking only the sensory fibers, these again are differentiated into five
special senses, each having a wholly different function. Then, finally,
taking any one of these, say the sense of touch or feeling, this again
is differentiated into many kinds of fibers, each responding to a differ-
ent impression, some to heat, others to cold, still others to pressure, etc.
We have taken the nervous system ; but the same differentiation and
redifferentiation takes place in all other systems, and is carried to
higher and higher points according to the position in the scale of the
animal which is to be formed.
Or, to vary the mode of presentation a little, the cells of the origi-
nal aggregate, commencing all alike, immediately begin to take on
different forms in order to perform different functions. Some cells
take on a certain form and aggregate themselves to form a peculiar
tissue which we call muscle, and which does nothing else, can do noth-
ing else, than contract under stimulus. Another group of cells take
on another peculiar form and aggregate themselves to form another
and very different tissue, viz., nervous tissue, which does nothing and
can do nothing but carry influence back and forth between the great
external world and the little world of consciousness within. Still
another group of cells take still another form and aggregate to form
still another tissue, viz., the epithelial, whose only function is to absorb
nutritive and eliminate waste matters. Thus, by differentiation of
form and limitation of function, or division of labor, the different
parts of the organism are bound more and more closely together by
mutual dependence, and the whole becomes more and more distinctly
individuated, and separation of parts becomes more and more a mutila-
tion, and finally becomes impossible without death. This process, as
already said, reaches its highest point only in the later stages of devel-
opment of the highest animals.
The late of progress is, of course, admitted to be a law of ontog-
eny ; but observe here, also, it is true only of the whole and not neces-
sarily of all the parts, except from the point of view of the whole.
Thus, for example, starting all from a common form or generalized
