7 3 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
women. Finally, manhood, strong and self-relying manhood, must
also pass. If the moral and religious sentiments have not been slowly-
growing and gathering strength all along, and do not now assert their
dominance over the whole man, then commences the final and saddest
decline of all, and old age becomes the pitiable thing we so often see it.
But, if the evolution have been normal throughout ; if the highest
moral and religious nature have been gathering strength through all
and now dominates all, then the psychic evolution rises to the end
then the course of life is like a wave rising and cresting only at the
moment of its dissolution, or, like the course of the sun, if not bright-
est at least most glorious in its setting. And thus may we not hope ?
the glories of the close of a well-spent life become the pledge and
harbinger of an eternal to-morrow.
We have thus far illustrated the three laws of succession of organic
forms by ontogeny, because this is the type of evolution ; but they
may be illustrated also by other forms of evolution. Next to the de-
velopment of the individual, undoubtedly the progress of society fur-
nishes the best illustration of these laws.
Commencing with a condition in which each individual performs
all necessary social functions, but very imperfectly ; in which each
individual is his own shoemaker and tailor, and house-builder and
farmer, and therefore all persons are socially alike ; as society advances,
the constituent members begin to diverge, some taking on one social
function and some another, until in the highest stages of social organ-
ization this diversification or division and subdivision of labor reaches
its highest point, and each member of the aggregate can do perfectly
but one thing. Thus, the social organism becomes more and more
strongly bound together by mutual dependence and separation be-
comes mutilation. I do not mean to say that this extreme is desirable,
but only that an approach to this is a natural law of social develop-
ment. Is not this the laio of differentiation f
So also progress is here, as in other forms of evolution a progress
of the whole, but not necessarily of every part. Some members of the
social aggregate advance upward to the dignity of statesmen, philoso-
phers, and poets ; some advance dotcnicard to the position of scaven-
gers and sewer-cleaners.* But the highest members are progressively
higher, and the whole aggregate is progressively grander and more
complex, in structure and functions.
So, again, the law of cyclical movement is equally conspicuous here.
Society everywhere advances, not uniformly, but by successive waves,
each higher than the last ; each urged by a newer and higher social
force, and embodying a new and higher phase of civilization. Again :
as each phase declines, its characteristic social force is not lost, but be-
comes incorporated into the next higher phase as a subordinate prin-
* Of course I mean downward in social function. Individually the scavenger may be
nobler than the statesman.
