WHAT IS EVOLUTION? 733
ciple, and thus the social organism as a whole becomes not only higher
and higher, but also more and more complex in the mutual relations of
its interacting social forces.
Let us not be misunderstood, however. There is undoubtedly in
social evolution something more and higher than we have described,
but which does not concern us here, except to guard against miscon-
struction. There is in society a voluntary progress wholly different
from the evolution we have been describing. In true or material
evolution natural law works for the betterment of the whole utterly
regardless of the elevation of the individual, and the individual con-
tributes to the advance of the whole quite unconsciously while striving
only for his own betterment. This unconscious evolution by natural
law inherited from the animal kingdom is conspicuous enough in so-
ciety, especially in its early stages, but we would make a great mistake
if we imagined, as some do, that this is all. Besides the unconscious
evolution by natural laws, inherited from below, there is a higher evo-
lution, inherited from above, indissolubly connected with mans spirit-
ual nature a conscious, voluntary striving of the best members of the
social aggregate for the betterment of the whole a conscious, volun-
tary striving both of the individual and of society toward a recognized
ideal. In the one kind of evolution the fittest are those most in har-
mony with the environment, and which therefore always survive ; in
the other, the fittest, are those most in harmony with the ideal, and
which often do not survive. The laws of this free voluntary progress
are little understood. They are of supreme importance, but do not
specially concern us here.
The three laws above mentioned might be illustrated equally well
by all other forms of evolution. We have selected only those which
are most familiar. They may, therefore, be truly called the laws of
evolution. We have shown that they are the laws of succession of
organic forms.
III. Thus far in our argument I suppose that most well-informed
men will raise no objection. It will be admitted, I think, even by
those most bitterly opposed to the theory of evolution, that there has
been throughout the whole geological history of the earth an onward
movement of the organic kingdom to higher and higher levels. It will
be admitted, also, that there is a grand and most significant resem-
blance between the course of development of the organic kingdom and
the course of embryonic development between the laws of succession
of organic forms and the laws of ontogenic evolution. But there is
another essential element in ontogenic evolution. It is that the forces
or causes of evolution are natural; that they reside in the thing de-
veloping and in the reacting environment. This we know is true of
embryonic development ; is it true also of the geologic succession of
organic forms ? It is true of ontogeny ; is it true also of phylogeny ?
If not, then only by a metaphor can we call the process of change in
