SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 735
one species/or another by direct supernatural creative act. Both admit
the gradual development of the organic kingdom as a whole through
stages similar to those of embryonic development ; but the one regards
the whole process as natural, and therefore strictly comparable to em-
bryonic development, the other as requiring frequent special interfer-
ence of creative energy, and therefore comparable rather to the devel-
opment of a building under the hand and according to the preconceived
plan of an architect a plan, in this case, conceived in eternity and
carried out consistently through infinite time. It is seen that the essen-
tial point of difference is this : The one asserts the variability of species
(if conditions favor, and time enough is given) without limit ; the other
asserts the permanency of specific forms, or their variability only within
narrow limits. The one asserts the origin of species by descent with
modifications ; the other, the origin of species by special act of
creation. The one asserts the law of continuity (i. e., that each stage
is the natural outcome of the immediately preceding stage) in this, as
in every other department of Nature ; the other asserts that the law of
continuity (i. e., of cause and effect) does not hold in this department ;
that the links of the chain of changes are discontinuous, the connection
between them being intellectual, not physical.
So much for sharp contrasting characterization of the two views,
necessary for clear understanding of much that is to follow.
-*-
SOCIAL SUSTENANCE.
By HENEY J. PHILPOTT.
IV. ALLOTMENT OF SPECIALTIES.
THUS far we have left untouched, as nearly as possible, one vital
question relating to specialties namely : How shall they be
allotted ? What task shall each of us take, and to whom shall we
leave this, that, and the other task which, if we do confine ourselves
to one, we must leave to others ? We are not concerned about per-
sonal names, but on what principles shall the allotment be made?
What kind of people shall do the weaving, what kind the newspaper
work, what kind the trading ? Within each office, store, or factory,
how shall we judge whom to select for the management, whom for
the clerkships, whom for each different manual task ? Passing from
the monad to the mass, which community or which country shall de-
vote its best energies to the production of which products ? How
shall the nations of the earth divide its work between them?
It is only in answer to this last question that, so far as I know,
any economist has given any attention to the subject of allotment.
It has never been elaborated, nor allowed to be the vital, rudimental
question that I conceive it to be. The result is, that even those who
