SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 737
specialization, which everybody might have observed by looking about
him. Boys and women do a great many things that men could do
better. The apprentice performs a task which the journeyman could
do better ; the journeyman, one at which the foreman excels him.
Boy or man, the better he performs his task, the sooner he leaves
it to some one who can not do it so well, while he rises to some-
thing higher. We all know that this is the rule. But we also know
that there are exceptions. The exceptions are not only numerous,
but interesting and instructive. They will be studied in their proper
place. Just now we have on hand the preliminary business of citing
examples of the operation of the rule.
We find it prevailing in the army, often to the salvation of a coun-
try. The best soldier is the first to be made something more than a
mere soldier. The best captain is made a colonel, the best colonel a
general, the best general a commander-in-chief. The best brakemen
on the railroad are made conductors, the best firemen are made engi-
neers, the best station-agents train-dispatchers or superintendents, or
something still higher and further removed from their original work.
Whoever is promoted leaves to others work in which he excels them.
His very excellence in a task leads to his abandonment of it.
We have to note, however, that in all these cases the new specialty
he adopts is rather nearly allied to the old one that he abandons. Suc-
cess in the lower implies aptitudes available in the higher. There is
another class of cases in which this is either not so important or not so
apparent. The successful farmer first acquires enough capital to engage
in some more agreeable business. The successful wage-worker in any
line first gets money to buy a farm or a store or a factory, or some-
thing else that will give him an employment, perhaps totally unlike
his own, and only more congenial because he can be its master and not
its underling. Let it be admitted that frugality, judgment, or what
not, has helped to bring about this result. They would all have failed
if he had lacked aptitude for his original work, and it is not necessary
that they should equal that aptitude in force. It is only necessary that
the lack of them should not squander away the rewards of the aptitude.
In all this class of cases capital is a prominent feature.
The most striking case of all, in which neither promotion by merit
nor acquisition of capital has much to do, is that of women. That
man could do most of her work better than she can is beyond doubt,
since the experience has been tried. It may still be a question whether
he can do all of it better. At any rate, we daily see that he does wash,
iron, scrub, churn, sew, weave, knit, spin, and even cut and fit the
womans own clothes and dress her hair with such success that without
any chance of favoritism he is able to make better wages than she can
in the same employment. With few if any exceptions, whatever work
man leaves to woman he leaves to one less capable in it, with the same
training, than he. It needs only observation, not labored argument,
vol. xxxi. 47
