66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Everything relating to the covering of the ground by snow is of
such importance to science and practical life that it should be observed
and published in detail. The exact moment when it occurs should be
ascertained ; the structure of the covering in different parts of the cold
season ; its depth in different places in forests, parks, fields, and ra-
vines ; the time when it begins to melt ; the advance of the thaw ; the
condition of the upper layer of soil under the snow (that is, whether
an icy crust is formed and when), and the facts respecting high water
in the rivers, should all be looked after. The business of making these
observations could be intrusted to students of meteorological and
phenological phenomena. The only point to be regarded as difficult
is the observation of the depth of the snow under different conditions.
This could be facilitated by having stakes fixed in advance, with white
and red divisions clearly marked, so as to be visible from a distance-
The most exact data on the mean depth of the snow will be furnished
by forests, gardens, and parks, where the snow is protected against
the wind by trees. In open places, numerous observations will be ne-
cessary, in consequence of the variations in the thickness of the snow,
caused by the action of the wind. I believe, however, that a good ob-
server would soon become at home, and find great interest in observa-
tions of this kind. After they have been continued systematically for
a suitable time, and it has become possible to draw a few general de-
ductions from them, telegrams might be dispatched to the central me-
teorological stations, reporting upon the condition of the snow. From
these reports, important practical conclusions could be drawn, as in de-
termining how long the rivers are likely to continue open to naviga-
tion, the amount of water that the rivers will have to carry after the
thaw, and the probable character of the spring.
The snow-fall in the Himalayas has given rise to predictions re-
specting the arrival and conditions of spring in the north of India,
which have been fully justified ; and careful observations of this
kind might be made very useful in other countries where the win-
ters are liable to be severe. Translated for the Popular Science
Monthly from Ciel et Terre.
Dr. Martineaf, by way of showing up the absurdity of using what may be
called unreal words on religious subjects, has warned the evangelicals that
they can not really believe in the damnation of persons with whom they dine
and joke on cordial terms ; and that, if they profess to do so, the sincerity of
their belief or the cordiality of their social relations must suffer. The London
Spectator hints that it is such unreal words, too profusely uttered by those
who profess to speak with the authority of revelation, that form the best justi-
fication for the unreal words uttered by those who believe in no such authority
at all.
