74 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
we have just said of the relativity of the term aptitude. No matter
how much stronger she may be morally, she is industrially weaker
than man, and even in her own special aptitude, which nevertheless is
a special aptitude, she is weaker. An exception may he made in re-
gard to her care of children, so far as it is an industrial task to be in-
cluded in the study of political economy ; but at any rate the cooking
and the children keep her at home, and, as a rule, she must either
chore about the house or do nothing most of her time, leaving unsatis-
fied the instinct of mutual help in social sustenance, and leaving hu-
manity that much short of its amplest possible life.
What we are striving for is that both the competent and the incom-
petent shall be employed and to the best advantage. The competent
must therefore do the work at which he most excels the incompetent,
and the incompetent must toil and sweat over a task which the com-
petent could do better and more easily. It is the competent, the rich,
the fortunate, the versatile, who leaves to others work that he could
do better than they. Mediocrity sticks to one task through life. This
is the rule. We promised to point out the exceptions. They are the
men of one aptitude or one acquired skill highly developed, but barred
by bad habits, lack of enterprise, lack of judgment, or some other simi-
lar lack, from rising to a higher and more profitable task. If that one
aptitude is itself a high one, we can hardly call the man mediocre. If
it is a somewhat lower one, we may say that he is a prodigy in his way.
Going on down, we reach a point where we have no hesitation in say-
ing that no attainable development of the one faculty could lift the
man above the average of his fellows.
But, as a very general rule, the man who from choice leaves to
another work in which the first excels the second is the one of the two
who is to be most congratulated. The other is still to be congratu-
lated, for it gives him a job. Both parties are benefited. We never
think of commiserating a man, no matter how capable he may be at
his work, who has a chance to earn more at no matter how different a
task, leaving his former one to no matter how sad a bungler. Why
should we deplore the fact that nations are able to do the same thing ?
The statesmen at Washington who consider it a disgrace that America
should import things for whose domestic production it has plenty of
skill and ample natural resources, would let the scrubbing and care of
the building in which they say these things be ever so badly botched
before they would take hold and do the work themselves. No doubt
the least able-bodied of them could, with an hours practice every day,
soon do it better and more easily than it is done, at least that part of
it that is done by women.
He not only never thinks of trying it ; he never feels it the slight-
est disgrace to let a woman do for him work that he would be ashamed
to admit his inability, with a tenth of the training, to do better than
she. In many cases, perhaps a majority, he could do it without any
