THE OLDEST NOBLE OF THEM ALL. 743
THE OLDEST NOBLE OF THEM ALL.
By GAEL VOGT.
WE sailed out from the little port of Alleghero, on the northwest
coast of Sardinia, on a clear morning, with a bright sun, light
breeze, and a moderate flow of tide, to the nearest coral banks. Our
fishing-apparatus consisted of a large wooden cross-drag weighted
with lead, to which ropes and nets were attached, which was to be
painfully hauled over the bottom of the sea at a depth of from one
hundred to two hundred metres, to gather what it could catch of the
life abiding in those regions. The success of the operation depends
largely on the skill and discrimination of the padrone. Two sailors
and a youth manage the very primitive capstan by which the rope,
that the padrone holds in his hand, is unrolled. He knows, by feel-
ing the movements of the rope, its tension, sliding, and jerking,
whether the drag is passing over sand, mud, hard ground, or solid,
jagged rock. At times the youth stands alone at the capstan, and the
sailors take the rudder in hand and turn the vessel as the padrone di-
rects. Sometimes they have to work with all their might, as when the
apparatus gets fastened or is drawn under overhanging rocks. There
are a thousand accidents to be guarded against, and they frequently
end in the loss of the drag.
Thus the sea-bottom is swept for a few hours as with a broom.
The cords of the drag sling themselves around everything that pro-
jects and is movable ; large pieces of rock are ensnared and torn loose
with all that is upon them. Whatever creeps upon the ground is
made fast.
The padrone orders a halt, and the sailors apply themselves to the
capstan to draw in the rope. It is a task calling for the exertion of
their full strength to dislodge the apparatus and pull it up with the
heavy load which it has collected. Sometimes the leverage of the
sea-waves is invoked. The capstan is locked, the rope is stretched to
its utmost, and the bark is set by a few motions of the rudder upon
the crest of a rising wave. The reaction, when the machine is dis-
lodged, is often so strong as to threaten to overturn the bark. A
cloud of slime announces the approach of the apparatus to the surface.
The drag is pulled out and laid upon the ships edge, and the nets
which are swimming around are drawn in and thrown into the inner
space. Capstan and helm are deserted, and the sail is drawn in. The
men squat in a ring around the net, and pick out with their fingers
the objects that are entangled in it, and sometimes the knife has to be
used to solve some unusual complication. I had filled my pail with
clear sea-water before the apparatus was drawn up. I had given or-
ders, which were very difficult to get executed, to have nothing cast
