THE OLDEST NOBLE OF THEM ALL.
747
Fig. 2. Anatomy op a Brachiopod.
very small body proper. In this may be found a short bowel with a
large liver, the nervous system, and, perhaps, also the heart. The
bowel has a real mouth only at the junction of the two arms, but is
entirely closed at the other
end. The inner surface of
the valve is covered with a
fine, transparent skin, which
is called the mantle, in the
somewhat thickened border
of which are planted the stiff,
transparent bristles, which
are moved back and forth
by the contraction of the
membrane in which they are
fixed. The organs of gener-
ation also lie in the mantle,
and are shown in the draw-
ing as two lumps in the raised
back valve. Thus, small is
the body in proportion to the
vigorously developed arms, from which the name of the whole class,
brachiopods, is derived. But are they really arms ? They are hardly
movable. If we stick a needle into one of them, it does not stir ; and
there are species in which they are completely calcified. Only the
fringes move and respond immediately to excitations.
We cut off a piece of the arm and place it under the microscope.
Each fringelet is a tube made of a firm, elastic membrane, in the hol-
low of which are laid one or two bundles of fibers of a muscular or
nervous character. On the outside the tubes are clothed with delicate
cells connected into a texture bearing fine, actively vibrating cilice.
These ciliaa generate a bubbling stream in which dance the minute
bodies that are floating in the sea-water. The whole stream, which
the cilise of the thousands and thousands of tubes produce, flows from
the periphery toward the mouth. The little tubes all open into the
chief pipe of the arm, and are, like that vessel, filled with fluid.
With this observation a considerable number of functions are ex-
plained at the same time. The fluid in the little tubes and the chief
pipe doubtless plays a part in the movements, in that it is at times
pressed into the smaller vessels and expands them, and at other times
is held back by the foldings and contractions brought about by the
muscles in the chief pipe of the arm. But the constant stream which
the cilise keep up is all the time bringing new particles of water, heavi-
ily charged with oxygen, in contact with the inner surface of the man-
tle. An exchange of gases through their thin walls is certain to arise ;
the stream also produces a respiration, which is simply an exchange
of the carbonic acid generated within the tissues of the body for the
