HYGIENE AS A BASIS OF MORALS. 6 7
HYGIENE AS A BASIS OF MOKALS*
By FRANCES EMILY WHITE, M. D.,
PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE IN THE WOMANS MEDICAL COLLEGE OF PENN-
SYLVANIA.
IN the philosophy of Fichte, that prince among German idealists,
the universe of matter, so called, is reduced to ideas, and that by
a method of reasoning which the ablest opponents of idealism find it
difficult to refute. This, doubtless, Fichte could easily arrange, so
long as his brain, digestive apparatus, etc., were in good working con-
dition ; but let a congestion of the organ of mind or of its meninges
set in, and what becomes of Fichtes ideas ?
Sensibility (by which it is meant to indicate the whole mental life,
from mere consciousness to the profoundest thinking) is never mani-
fested (so far as known) apart from a certain mechanism, the living
body ; and while the universe may, in the last analysis, be reduced to
matter and force, these two can not be divorced not even by a
Fichte. Since, therefore, the human body is admitted to be an inte-
grant part of the universe of matter, its various activities must be in-
cluded in the general category of forces. If, then, it be conceded that
the body and mind of man hold to each other the same relations which
exist between other aggregations of matter and their associated ener-
gies, the physician, though he minister to the body only, becomes
thereby the high-priest of humanity, contributing to its noblest ends.
But in the parting words which it is my privilege to address to
you (upon whom has just been conferred the responsible and honored
title of Doctor of Medicine), I desire to point out a yet more excellent
way in the pursuit of which you may indeed become the benefactors
of mankind. The art of exterminating disease does not exist ; and,
although the death-rate varies in different localities and in the same
locality under varying conditions, so far as recorded, no disease, once
originated, has ever wholly disappeared ; and while we may take a
justifiable satisfaction in the advances made in the rational treatment
of the sufferer from disease, the sources of disease (except so far as
bacteriology gives promise in this direction) have not been disturbed,
either by the progress in general civilization or by the great develop-
ment of medical science and art. Both the experience of the past and
modern scientific observation, then, alike point not in the direction
of the extirpation or even of the cure of actual disease but rather in
that of preventive medicine or hygiene as presenting the most hopeful
field for future work. Not that I would undervalue the efforts of the
profession toward the relief of suffering when disease actually exists
a most important and beneficent part of its work but, just as exer-
* Address delivered at the thirty-fifth annual commencement.
