74 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
oxygen that is held in the water. The stream also whirls minute bod-
ies, microscopic animals and plants, to the mouth, which swallows
them. Our terebratula has no other means of getting food. As the
oyster and the rotifer are fed by the streams and whirlpools produced
by the cilia?, so also is the terebratula. When the shell is closed, only
the exchange of gases takes place ; but when it is opened, or when
the animal is gaping, it is eating, for these larger bodies are drawn in
through the whirling. That this really takes place is shown by the
contents of the stomach, in which we may observe undigested remains,
the silicious shells of plants, diatoms, or Eadiolarice, and the needles
of fungoids. The organic substance is digested and dissolved in the
stomach, while the undigested remains are expelled through the
mouth. Sea-water, especially near the ground, to which the terebrat-
ula3 are attached, swarms with shell-protected and naked matter of
this kind. The terebratula is, moreover, in the happy situation of hav-
ing nothing to do but spit out the shells, for the meat itself flies into
its mouth.
Every fixed animal produces moving young. Were this not the
case, the animals could not be distributed into spaces beyond their
immediate abode. Very curious young are produced from the eggs
of our arm-foots, which do not at first resemble their parents at all ;
larvae that swim around in freedom, having eyes, and armed with bris-
tles. They so much resemble the larva of some of the ringed worms,
that one would be apt to suppose at first sight that they were of that
kind. But after a time of wandering they settle themselves down,
and there then takes place, with the formation of the shell, a retro-
grade metamorphosis, by which the animal is gradually brought back
to its definite form. It is therefore easy to conceive that our arm-foot
leads a very safe life, and that, protected as much as possible against
enemies and other dangers, it can spin out its existence as long as the
sea does not dry up. Of course, in their younger days, the wandering
larvae may be swallowed up in numbers by other animals, but when
the young brachiopod is once fixed, the shell, the mantle-edge with
its bristles, and the ciliary apparatus protect it so well, that not even
parasites can attack it. Although fungoids, other animals, and occa-
sionally fellow-beings of its own race may establish themselves on the
outside of its shell, and load it to a certain extent, but otherwise do it
no harm, no parasite has ever been seen within. The little wart that
appears on the glass terebratula in the picture is one of their young.
There have always been fishes which, after a fashion, eat corals and
crush them with their hard teeth, to digest the polyps which the corals
contain, and expel the lime-substance ; but I hardly think they would
take in, the arm-foots, whose bodily substance is so stringy and yields
so little nourishment. In the deep sea, also, the animals are thoroughly
protected against the sudden changes of temperature which animals
living in shallow waters and near the shores have to encounter.
