THE OLDEST NOBLE OF THEM ALL.
749
I now come to my oldest noble. It is an established fact that in the
most ancient strata in which fossil remains have been found, in the sys-
tem called Cambrian, in the primordial fauna, shells occur which differ
but little from the living arm-foots of to-day. These older or palaeo-
zoic strata fairly swarm with arm-foots ; many rocks are entirely
made up of them, and the richness of their forms is inexhaustible.
From these earliest ages on, the animal creation gradually assumed
more definite shape as the number of individual arm-foots diminished.
Doubtless the more perfectly-formed organism superseded the others
in the struggle for existence. The noble who relies for the support of
his position only on the age of his race-stock, must die out at last if he
can not adapt himself by a further development to the demands of the
new time. This the arm-foots could not do : they show no progress
toward a higher stage of organization. The com-
paratively rare brachiopods of our seas are therefore
only the scanty relics of departed glory, isolated
survivals of a type that was formerly wide-spread
and numerous in all the seas. But it is wonderful
that a race-shape should have maintained itself
quite unchanged through all the geological epochs
to our own time !
At shallow places in southern seas, there creep
a kind of brachiopods in the sand whose shaping is
rather like that of a worm than of a brachiopod.
It is called the Lingula, or tongue-mussel (Fig. 3.).
This creature has an even, somewhat horny shell,
and a relatively long and thick stem which is clothed
within by a tough layer of muscle. Along with the
other species of its kind, it is distinguished from
the rest of the family by the shell having no closure,
while the bowel, after many turns within the body,
opens without. As the valves of the shell only
cover the animal, but are not closed tight, they can
be easily opened and also moved sidewise upon one
another. The animal is never fixed. This is the
oldest animal form of the present existing creation.
Lingula-shells appear in the Cambrian strata, and
have been found in all the geological systems. So
far as it is possible to judge from the shells, the
genus has propagated itself unchanged through all
the earth-history of organisms, has survived all revo-
lutions, and has only varied into a few species differ-
ing but little from one another.
In the Silurian strata immediately following these, in which so far
nearly two thousand species of arm-foots have been found, are two
other still living genera : the one, Discinisca, without closure, but
Fig. 3. The Lingula.
