75 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
furnished with a muscular stalk ; the other, Hhynconella, having a
shell-closure and a fibrous, but not further contractible, stem. Most
of the genera living to-day can boast of a high age. Terebratida traces
its race-stock back to the Devonian system, as does also Crania, while
Argiope, Megerlea, and Terebratulina derive their ancestors from the
Jurassic.
Our oldest vertebrate is a rare fish called Ceratodus, which lives in
some of the Australian rivers. It has a few relatives living in the
rivers and marshes of Central Africa and South America, and is
adapted to breathe in the air through lungs and in the water through
gills. Teeth of species of Ceratodus, clearly recognizable by their
peculiar formation, appear in the muschelkalk of Wiirtemberg and
Central Europe. Old as the race of the Ceratodus may be, it can not
compare with that of the primeval genus Lingula.
I told my coral-fishers a falsehood in my story of the bet, but,
as in every fiction there is a grain of truth, there is in this one the
fact of the existence, in the present animal world, of a family of ex-
tremely anciently descended nobles, whose ancestors were members of
the first animal creation visible to our eyes. Translated for the Popu-
lar Science Monthly from Ueber Land und Meer.
STRANGE MEDICINES.
By Miss C. F. GORDON CUMMING.
QUICKLY by far too quickly for the sake of the student and the
archaeologist is the wave of foreign influence over-sweeping
Japan, ruthlessly effacing all the most marked characteristics of native
manners and customs, and substituting the commonplaces of everyday
European life.
Already this tendency to exalt and to adopt foreign novelties meets
the traveler at every turn, and only he who turns aside from the
tracks most subject to foreign influence can hope now and then to find
some stanch conservative who, in that nation of ultra-radicals (albeit
most loyal imperialists*), has the courage to adhere to his own old-
fashioned ways.
I had the good fortune to meet with such a one in the very inter-
esting old city of Osaka a compounder of just such strange medicines
as were administered to our British ancestors in the middle ages. So
rapidly has the scientific study of medicine been taken up by the
Japanese medical practitioners, that the survival of such a chemist of
the pure and unadulterated old school is quite remarkable ; and I was
greatly struck by the evident annoyance of a Japanese gentleman to
whom I expressed my interest in this mediaeval chemist, and who
