754 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
still sometimes found untainted. There they have lain hermetically-
sealed for many a long century, and now, when the rivers from time
to time wash away fragments of the great ice-cliffs, they reveal the
strange treasures of that wondrous storehouse sometimes a huge
unwieldy hippopotamus, or a rhinoceros, or it may be a great woolly
elephant with a mane like a lion and curly tusks ; and the hungry
Siberian bears and wolves fight and snarl over these dainty morsels,
which are still as fresh as though they had fallen but an hour ago.
Here, in these marvelous ice-fields, lie inexhaustible stores of finest
ivory, and this it is which the learned professors of the Celestial
medical hall value so highly. So these precious tusks are dragged
forth after thousands of years, to be ground down and boiled to a
jelly for the cure of vulgar Chinese diseases of the nineteenth century !
Alas, poor mammoth !
Nor are these the only antediluvian relics which are thus turned
to account. Professor H. N. Moseley tells us of the dragons teeth
and bones which he bought from the druggists of Canton, where they
are sold by weight as a regular medicine, and are highly prized in
the materia medica both of China and Japan as specifics in certain
diseases. They proved on examination to be the fossil teeth and
bones of various extinct mammalia of the Tertiary period, including
those of the rhinoceros, elephant, horse, mastodon, stag, hippotherium,
and the teeth of another carnivorous animal unknown.
He obtained a translation of the passage in the medical works of
Li She Chan which specially refers to the use of this medicine. It
states that dragons bones come from the southern parts of Shansi,
and are found in the mountains. Dr. To Wang King says that if
they are genuine they will adhere to the tongue. This medicine is
sweet and is not poison. Dr. Koon certainly says that it is a little
poisonous. Care must be taken not to let it come in contact with fish
or iron. It cures heart-ache, stomach-ache, drives away ghosts, cures
colds and dysentery, irregularities of the digestive organs, paralysis,
etc., and increases the general health.
Another medical authority, The Chinese Repository, published
in Canton a. d. 1832, states that the bones of dragons are found on
banks of rivers and in caves of the earth, places where the dragon
died. Those of the back and brain are highly prized, being variegated
with different streaks on a white ground. The best are known by
slipping the tongue lightly over them. The teeth are of little firm-
ness. The horns are hard and strong ; but if these are taken from
damp places, or by women, they are worthless.
From his examination of these so-called relics of the dragon (which
prove to belong to so many different animals, which in successive ages
have crept to the same cave to die), Mr. Moseley points out how some
imaginative person probably first devised a fanciful picture of the
mythical animal, combining the body of the vast lizard with the wings
