STRANGE MEDICINES. 755
of a bat, the head of a stag, and carnivorous teeth, which has become
the stereotyped idea of the dragon in all lands.
Even in Europe fossil bones thus found together in caves were
long known as dragons bones, and accounted useful in medicine. In-
deed, so great was the demand for these and similar relics, that our
museums and scientific men have good cause to rejoice that their an-
cestors failed to discover what stores of old bones lay hidden in our
own seaboard caves as, for instance, in that wonderful Kirkdale
cavern, where the mortal remains of several hundred hyenas were
found, guarding the teeth of a baby mammoth, a patriarchal tiger, a
rhinoceros, and a hippopotamus ; or the caves along the Norfolk coast,
where Hugh Miller tells us that within thirteen years the oyster-
dredgers dragged up the tusks and grinders of five hundred mam-
moths ; or those wonderful zoological cemeteries where the fossil
bones of cave-lions, cave-hyenas, elephants, mammoths, hippopotami,
woolly rhinoceros, red deer and fallow deer, oxen, sheep, and horses,
have lain so securely, stored for untold ages beneath Charing Cross
and Trafalgar Square.
After all, this reduction of prehistoric bones and ivory to vulgar
powders for medicinal use is not more strange than the fossil food
which forms so large a part of the daily bread of multitudes of our
fellow-creatures in Lapland, Finland, and Sweden, in Carolina and
Florida, on the banks of the Orinoco and of the Amazon, where vast
tracts of earth are found composed wholly of myriads of microscopic
shells, and this strange mountain-meal, being duly mixed with meal
of the nineteenth century, is freely eaten by the people. In Lapland
alone, hundreds of wagon-loads are annually dug from one great field,
and there are men who eat as much as a pound and a half per diem of
this curious condiment. We hear of fields, as yet untouched, having
been discovered in Bohemia, Hungary, and other parts of Europe ; so
perhaps we may ere long add these primeval atoms to the delicacies
of our own tables.
Of the firm belief of the Chinese in the efficacy of medicines com-
pounded of the eyes and vitals of the human body we have had too
terrible proof ; for it is well known that one cause which led to the
appalling Tientsin massacre in 1870 was the wide-spread rumor that
the foreign doctors (whose skill all were forced to admit) obtained
their medicines by kidnapping and murdering Chinese children and
tearing out their hearts and eyes ! As this nice prescription is actu-
ally described in their own books as a potent medicine, the story ob-
tained ready credence, and we all remember the result. Moreover,
the same accusation has repeatedly been spread on other occasions of
popular excitement against foreign teachers.
I am not certain whether the Lamas of Peking have there in-
troduced the fashion of administering medicine from a drinking-
cup fashioned from the upper part of a wise mans skull ; but
