7S 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Africa, where bodies of drowned mariners were sometimes washed
ashore, and became dried up and shriveled as they lay unburied on
the burning sands. These became so light as scarcely to weigh
thirty pounds. They were, however, not considered so desirable as
the genuine article from Alexandria, and were, moreover, more ex-
pensive.
The learned doctors of France, Germany, and Italy all made great
use of this eccentric drug, and in the seventeenth century grievous
complaints arose of its adulteration. Monsieur Pomet, chief apothe-
cary to the French king, records that the kings physician went to
Alexandria to judge for himself on this matter, and, having made
friends with a Jewish dealer in mummies, was admitted to his store-
house, where he saw piles of bodies. He asked what kind of bodies
were used, and how they were prepared. The Jew informed him that
he took such bodies as he could get, whether they died of some
disease or of some contagion ; he embalmed them with the sweepings
of various old drugs, myrrh, aloes, pitch, and gums, wound them
about with a cere-cloth, and then dried them in an oven, after which
he sent them to Europe, and marveled to see the Christians were
lovers of such filthiness.
But even this revelation did not suffice to put mummy-physic out
of fashion, and we know that Francis I, of France, always carried
with him a well-filled medicine-chest, of which this was the principal
ingredient.
Old Sir Thomas Browne, after enumerating the various diseases
for which divers great doctors recommend mummy as an infallible
remedy, protests against such unworthy use of the ancient heroes,
and declares that to serve up Charanes and Amosis in electuaries and
pills, or that Cheops and Psammetichus should be weighed out as
drugs, is dismal vampirism, more horrible than the feasts of the
ghouls.
The apothecaries of England were often well content to make use
of a cheap substitute which answered quite as well, namely, the bones
of ancient Britons. Dr. Toope, of Oxford, writing in 1G85, tells how
at the circles on Hakpen Hill, in Wiltshire, he had discovered a rare
lot of human bones skeletons, arranged in circles, with the feet to-
ward the center. He says, The bones were large and nearly rotten,
but the teeth extream and wonderfully white. Undisturbed by any
questions of reverence for these ancestors of his race, he adds /
dug up many bushells, with which I made a noble medicine. ,
The mummy-trade was supported by various classes of the com-
munity, for artists declared that mummy-powder beaten up with oil,
gave richer tones of brown than any other substance, and modern
perfumers found means of preparing the perfumes and spices found
inside the bodies, so as to make them exceedingly attractive to the
ladies. Paper-manufacturers found that the wrappings of the mum-
