STRANGE MEDICINES. 759
mies could be converted into coarse paper for the use of grocers, and
the cloth and rags were sometimes used as clothing at least, so we
are told by Abdallatif, a traveler of the twelfth century, who also
records how one of his friends found in the tombs of Ghizeh a jar
carefully sealed, which he opened, and found it to contain such excel-
lent honey that he could not resist eating a good deal of it, and was
only checked in his feast by drawing out a hair, whereupon he inves-
tigated further, and found the body of an ancient Egyptian baby in
good condition, and adorned with jewels. He does not record how he
enjoyed that meal in retrospect. Imagine dining off the honeyed es-
sence of a baby-Pharaoh !
Is it not pitiful to think that all the skill so lavishly expended by
the sages of ancient Egypt in rendering their bodies indestructible,
should, after three thousand years, end in this ? And, in truth, the
mummies thus dealt with, had less reason to complain of their lot
than the multitude which were broken up and sold at so much per ton
to fertilize the fields of a far-distant and insignificant islet peopled by
barbarians !
A very interesting point of similarity between the little shop of
the old Japanese apothecary, and those of early English druggists, is
suggested by the extensive use of calcined animal matter, recom-
mended in the prescriptions which were most highly valued in Eng-
land before the Norman Conquest, and which are recorded in elabo-
rate Saxon manuscripts, carefully preserved in our national archives.
These leechdoms are written in ancient black-letter characters, and
are curiously illustrated with pictures of the herbs and animals which
are recommended for medicinal use.
Our Saxon ancestors appear to have devoted considerable attention
to the subject of their hair. Though ignorant of macassar-oil, they
discovered that dead bees burned to ashes, and seethed in oil with
leaves of willow, would stop hair from falling off ; but should the hair
be too thick, then must a swallow be burned to ashes under a tile, and
the ashes be sprinkled on the head. But in order altogether to pre-
vent the growth of hair, emmets eggs rubbed on the place are found
an effectual depilatory ; never will any hair come there.
Excellent also as a cure for deafness is the juice of emmets eggs
crushed, or else the gall of a goat, or, in extreme cases, boars gall,
bulls gall, and bucks gall, mixed in equal parts with honey, and
dripped into the ear, sometimes with the addition of very nasty in-
gredients. But if earwigs had entered in, then the sufferer is bidden
to take the mickle great windlestraw, with two edges, which waxeth
in highways, chew it into the ear ; he, the earwig, will soon be off.
Even this poor insect was turned to account. One prescription
desires that the bowels of an earwig be pounded with the smede of
wheaten meal and the netherward part (i. e., root) of marche, and min-
gled with honey.
