STRANGE MEDICINES. 761
juice it heals disepses of the ear, or, with oil, is a remedy for tooth-
ache. If a child be epileptic, draw the brain of a mountain-goat
through a golden-ring ; give it to the child to swallow before it tastes
milk ; it will be healed. To get sleep, a goats horn laid under the
head turneth waking into sleep. A goats horn, roasted and pounded
with acid, reduces the inflammation of erysipelas. Goats grease and
blood mingled with barley-meal forms a soothing poultice, while pills
of goats grease and a draught of its blood are recommended for
dropsy.
Many and indescribably disgusting are the o + her remedies derived
from the goat. A Brahman, reverentially swallowing a little of each
product of the sacred cow, would shrink with loathing from the
leechdoms of the early English, so important a place do they assign
to preparations of the excrement of divers animals, but chiefly of bulls,
of swine, of dogs, and of goats. These, and many other foul ingre-
dients are compounded in every conceivable manner, and prescribed
not merely for medicinal baths and plasters for external use, but as
most unsavory physic for the inner man.
A less nasty remedy was bulls marrow, administered in wine to
check spasms, while its gall was prescribed for divers diseases ; more-
over, it was well known that snakes would flee from any place where
a bulls horn, burned to ashes, had been sprinkled.
The brain, lung, and liver of the boar are largely prescribed,
while for nausea boars suet boiled down, and with boars foam added
thereto, is so sure a remedy that the patient will wonder, and will
ween that it be some other leechdom that he drank. A pleasant
cure for sleeplessness is to lay a wolfs head under the pillow ; while
wolfs flesh, well seasoned, counteracts devil sickness and an ill-sight.
A draught of wolfs milk, mingled with wine and honey, was a potent
remedy for women in dire suffering ; while an ointment made from
the right eye of a wolf was the best prescription that the Saxon oculist
could command. The head-bone or skull of a wolf, when burned
thoroughly and finely pounded, would heal racking pain in the joints,
and the ashes of a swines jaw are to be laid on the bite of a mad
dog.
Truly valuable was lions suet, of which it is stated it relieveth
every sore. Elephant bone or ivory, pounded with honey, is an in-
fallible cosmetic, removing all blemishes from the face. For the
kingly disease, jaundice, the head of a mad dog, pounded and mingled
for a drink with wine, healeth. For cancer, the head of a mad dog,
burned to ashes and spread on the sore, healeth the cancer-wounds ;
while, for laceration by a mad dog, a hounds head burned to ashes,
and thereon applied, casteth out all the venom and the foulness, and
healeth the maddening bites. For pain of teeth, burn to ashes the
tusks of a hound ; sprinkle the dust in wine, and let the man drink.
The teeth shall be whole.
