7 6z THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Another effectual remedy, for cancer, is to bum a fresh hounds
head to ashes and apply to the wound. Failing relief, human excre-
ment, dried and reduced to dust, may be tried. If, with this, thou
art not able to cure him, thou mayest never do it by any means !
An excellent remedy for imperfect sight was an ointment of honey
mixed with the fatty parts of all manner of river-fishes. Another,
equally efficacious, was a compound of dumbledores honey with the
ashes of burned periwinkle. It was, however, requisite that certain
mystic words should be uttered while gathering the periwinkle, a
wort which had special power to counteract demoniacal possession
and devil-sicknesses. The ashes of the elder-tree were applied in
cases of palsy, for which a plaster of earth-worms, well pounded, is
also accounted excellent.
We may well believe that, for convenience sake, many of these
calcined plants and animals were prepared at leisure and stored, ready
for use in cases of emergency. Consequently, though we can hardly
flatter ourselves that our ancestors were as exquisite in their neatness
as the Japanese, doubtless this little druggists shop in Osaka gives
us a very fair notion of the surroundings of a learned Saxon leech, in
whose repositories were earthenware jars of every size, containing the
ashes of goats flesh, of dead bees, of wolfs skull or swines jaw, of
divers shell-fish, of worts and rinds without number nay, even of
human skulls and bones. On the walls hung bunches of dried herbs
and remains of birds and lizards, rats, moles, and such small deer, to-
gether with skins of serpents, portions of mummies, horns of stags,
rhinoceros, narwhal, elephants tusks, and many other items of the
strange materia medica of our own ancestors.
The foregoing leechdoms are fair samples of the voluminous
pharmacopoeia of Britain in the tenth century. But to us, who pride
ourselves on the medical skill of the present day, it is truly marvelous
to find that the early part of the eighteenth century should show so
little, if any, advance on the ignorance tchich prevailed at the date of
the Norman Conquest. Here is a rare old volume which was printed
in the Cowgate of Edinburgh in 1712. It is A Collection of useful
Remedies for most Distempers. . . . Collected by John Moncrief, the
laird of Tippermalluch, a person of extraordinary skill and knowledge
in the art of physick, and who performed many stupendous cures by
these simple remedies.
His volume contains innumerable directions for the preparation of
divers herbs, and also a multitude of prescriptions of animal substances
so inexpressibly loathsome as to make it a matter of marvel how any
one could be found either to prepare them, or to submit to their ap-
plication. Salts of ammonia in the crudest form were a favorite
remedy for external or internal use.
By far the least objectionable compounds were those prepared from
carbonized animals in the Japanese or early Saxon manner. Thus
