STRANGE MEDICINES. 763
for a dangerous squinance or quinsy Tippermalluch bids bis dis-
ciples
Take old Swallows, and burn them in a pot, take the powder thereof and mix
it with Honey and anoint the Throat therewith. A plaister of a Swallows Nest
dissolves humours of the Gorge and Chouks. Ashes of worms applyed with
honey draws out little broken bones.
For falling of the hair. Make a Lee of the Ashes of Cows Dung, wherewith
wash the Head. The burnt Ashes of little Froggs applyed cures the falling of the
hair, called Alopecia. The burnt Ashes of Goats Dung mixt with Oyl, anointed,
multiplys the Hair. The Ashes of a Goats Hoof mixed with Pitch healeth the
Alopecia. The Ashes of Bees mixt with Oyl, or the ashes of Southernwood
mixt with old Oyl, causeth hair to grow. A Lee of the Ashes of Ivie-tree-Bark
causeth hair grow yellow. The Blood of a shell Crab anointed, breeds much
hair. But the Blood of a Bat, or a little Frog, the powder of a Swans Bones,
or the Milk of a Bitch hinders the growing of the hair. The bark of the Sallow
Tree dissolved in Oyl maketh the hair black. The decoction of the flowers of
broom dye it yellow. To make Curld hair. Ashphodele roots rubbed on the
head, the same being first razd (i. e., shaven).
For the cure of the disease called Lethargie burn the whole skin of a Hare,
with the eass and nails, and give the patient the powder thereof warm. The
smoak of Kids leather burnt, holden to the Nose, awakens them powerfully.
Ashes of Hartshorn burnt, mixt with the Oyl of Roses and anointed on the fore-
head and temples, causeth a pleasant sleep.
For Cancer, the Ashes of a Dogs head, or burnt human dung.
The Ancle-bones of a Swine or the hoofs of a Cow, burnt and drunk, cures
the Colick. Hares blood fryed, taken, Hosted Hares flesh eaten, the Ashes of
a Hare, burnt whole, Ashes of burnt willow, or Ashes of the bark of tlie Elm-
tree cureth burning or scalding. Powder of the burnt hairs of a hare cures St.
Anthonies Fire, i. e., Erysipelas.
Here are valuable styptics to stanch bleeding of the Nose. Make a powder
of the blood of the Patient after it is burnt, and blow it up in the Nose. It
powerfully stays the bleeding. Snails with the shells bruised, put in. Juice of
Swines dung, put in. Hold before your eyes the herb sheepherds scrip, or
Vervain, or Knot-grass. TJiese herbs have that properties ly looTcing on them, to
stanch blood.
Ashes of a Frog well burnt in a Pot, gleweth Veins and Arteries and cures
Burning. Ashes of Hens feathers burnt, or ashes of Nettles snuffed up. The
blood of a Partridge, of an Ozell, of a Dove, applyed, stayeth the flowing of the
blood most healthfully. The blood of a Cow put in the wound.
Cause the patient to ly on his back all naked, and drop on his Face Water
and Vinegar. This is a most sure Cure. Steep a Hares hair in Water and
Vinegar, put it in the Nose and it will produce a marvellous effect.
Or take a Toad, dry it very well before the Sun, put it in a Linnen cloath and
hang it with a string about the party that bleedeth. Let it touch tlie breast of
the Left side near the Heart. Spiders pulverised and snuffed stops blood.
I tbink tbe Japanese gentleman who was so much annoyed at my
baving obtained a glimpse of the foolisbness of old Japanese medi-
cine, might have wondered a good deal bad be got bold of some
English prescriptions of tbe last century !
From an almost endless catalogue of healing-spells wbicb are to
