766 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that the girl never suffered afterward. But it is worthy of note that
the beggar-wife explained that the efficacy of the charm lay in the
death of the poor mutilated toad, which, deprived of its legs, would
pine and die, but as it slowly wasted so would the distemper pass
away. Here, then, as in the offering of the live cock, was involved
the principle of sacrifice a life for a life.
Another girl in the same village was partly cured of the evil
in her eyes by applying a sun-dried toad to the back of her neck,
whereby blisters were raised. Poor toads are still made to do service
in divers manners in Cornwall and Northampton for the cure of nose-
bleeding and quinsy ; while toad-powder, or even a live toad or
spider shut up in a box, is still, in some places, accounted as useful a
charm against contagion as it was in the days of Sir Kenelm Digby.
The medicine known to our ancestors as Pulvis JEthiopicus (a valu-
able remedy both for external and internal use in the treatment
of small-pox and dropsy) was neither more nor less than powdered
toad.
Frogs are well-nigh as valuable as toads to the sick poor, who are
rarely lacking in the primary necessity of faith in the means adopted.
Thus, frogs spawn, placed in a stone jar and buried for three months
till it turns to water, has been found w T onderfully efficacious in Don-
egal, when well rubbed into a rheumatic limb. How much of the
credit was due to the rubbing is not recorded. In Aberdeenshire a
cure recommended for sore eyes is to lick the eyes of a live frog.
The man who has thus been healed has henceforth the power of curing
all sore eyes by merely licking them ! In like manner it is said in
Ireland that the tongue which has licked a lizard all over will be for
ever endued with a marvelous power of healing whatever sore or
pain it touches.
Another Irish remedy is to apply the tongue of a fox to draw
a troublesome thorn from the foot ; the tooth of a living fox to
be worn as an amulet is also deemed valuable as a cure for an in-
flamed leg. The primary difficulty is to catch the fox and extract
his tooth !
With respect to deep-seated thorns, the application of a cast-off
snake-skin is efficacious, not to attract the thorn toward itself, but to
expel it from the opposite side of the hand or foot. But, once we
touch on the virtues of the mystic snake, we find its reputation just
as great in Britains medicine folk-lore as in Japan, where the great
snake-skins held so conspicuous a place in the druggists shop, or in
China, where the skin of a white-spotted snake is valued as the most
efficacious remedy for palsy, leprosy, and rheumatism.
Strange to say, in the old Gaelic legends, there is a certain white
snake who receives unbounded reverence as the king of snakes, and
another legend tells of a nest containing six brown adders and one
pure white one, which latter, if it can be caught and boiled, confers
