HYGIENE AS A BASIS OF MORALS. 69
the principle penetrating and universal, because founded in the very-
laws of our being.
It will scarcely be denied that the most highly civilized races and
nations are also, on the whole, the most distinguished for morality,
and that the stage of progress of a people at any given period may
be fairly estimated by the character of the moral code then prevail-
ing. This is so well understood that illustration is unnecessary. It
then follows that the development of morality is inseparable from the
general progress. But the degree of civilization of a people at any
given stage is determined by the nature of its environment i. e., by
the conditions under whose influence the nation has developed. It has
been pointed out by a distinguished philosopher in literature and art,
Professor Taine, that the profound differences which exist between
the German races on the one hand, and the Greeks and Latins on the
other, have arisen, for the most part, from the differences between the
countries in which they are settled for social conditions are deter-
mined primarily by organic or bodily conditions these, in turn, de-
pending on the physical environment. Thus, the general sources of
organic life must be recognized as the sources also of morals ; and the
emotional, intellectual, and moral nature of man as an integrant part
of his physical organism : being such, these higher qualities are neces-
sarily modified by the conditions which influence and modify the phys-
ical organism.
A distinguished English sanitarian, Mr. Edwin Chadwick, has said
that he could build a city which would give any desired death-rate
from fifty or any number higher than fifty, to five or perhaps even
less than five in a thousand, annually ; and the President of the Health
Department of the British Social Science Association, at the annual
meeting in 1875, expressed his unqualified confidence in the feasibility
of Mr. Chadwicks proposition. This means nothing less than that
the death-rate, within these wide limits, from five or less to fifty or
more per thousand annually, depends on the degree of attention paid
to certain public sanitary regulations.
Side by side with this proposition, I venture (and with a degree of
confidence not less than that of Mr. Chadwick) to place another propo-
sition far more radical than his, viz., that a city might be so built, and
the municipality so administered, as to secure any desired degree of
morality within certain limits. That these limits can not, at present,
be as exactly defined as in the case of the death-rate, results from the
lack of systematic study of the subject of morals, and the consequent
want of complete statistics in this department of sociology. The na-
ture of the limits may, however, be designated ; and I beg to illus-
trate this point by reference to the principles of animal development,
of which it has been said, by Professor Du Bois-Reymond, that the
laws of organic structure must account for whatever, in organisms, is
either useless or actually disadvantageous natural selection account-
