THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 771
100, and the average decline in the prices of these same articles for
the year 1810 was found to be 20 per cent, the index number for
the year 1800 would be 100, and for the year 1810, 80.*
The difficulties in the way of obtaining satisfactory averages from
comparisons of prices at different periods by the above or any other
methods are, however, almost insuperable ; so that it may well be doubt-
ed whether the determination of an average of general prices is ever
within the bounds of possibility. Quotations for a given day, or
month, do not necessarily show the average for the year ; and, in like
manner, the selection of a limited number of articles for comparison
can not insure correct conclusions respecting the movement of prices
in general. All methods of comparing price variations which content
themselves with mere average quotations of different articles, and
which do not pay due regard to the relative importance of each arti-
cle in the domestic and foreign commerce of a country ; which, for ex-
ample, allow a change of 80 per cent in the price of an article like
cochineal, of which the value sold in any one year is small, to balance
a change of 2 per cent in an article, like sugar, the value of which annu-
ally sold is enormous, are also in a great degree deceptive and worth-
less ; f and even when in the comparison of prices, the importance of
considering relative quantities is fully recognized, the data for ascer-
taining these relations are extremely uncertain and questionable. The
utmost of service that all such tabular comparisons of prices, even
when prepared with all desirable qualifications, are capable of ren-
dering, would, therefore, seem to be limited to the affording of impor-
tant inferences respecting variations of prices, or to the showing
* For a full exhibit and discussion of these tables, reference is made to a paper pre-
pared and laid before the British Royal Commission (third report, Appendix B, pp. 312-
390, 1886), by R. H. Inglis Palgrave, F. R. S. ; and also to an article in the (Harvard)
Quarterly Journal of Economics (vol. i, No. 8, Boston, 1887), by Professor J. Laurence
Laughlin, Professor of Political Economy, Harvard University.
f One of the best-known tables of this character, embracing twenty-two different
articles, has been kept by the London Economist for many years as a constituent element
of current British commercial history ; and the objections inherent in the system adopted
are forcibly illustrated by the followirg recent occurrence, to which attention has been called
by the New York Commercial Bulletin : Thus, a comparison of index numbers for Janu-
uary and July, 1886, and for January, 1887, as deduced from the Economists tables of
prices, indicated a small advance for the latter month in the general level of British
prices. But the first article on the Economists list of prices is coffee, which advanced
from July 1, 1886, to January, 1887, to a degree sufficient to alone add 50 to the index
number of January; while the entire increase for the whole twenty-two articles was only
36 ; or, in other words, if coffee alone were omitted from the list of articles compared,
the net result would show an apparent decline instead of any advance in the general
level of prices. Certainly, as the Commercial Bulletin remarks, it is difficult to at-
tach much importance to results having no better basis than this. For coffee is by no
means one of the most important articles compared; it is greatly exceeded in impor-
tance by at least twelve of them. But the change in that one article happens to have
been surprisingly great, and it thus outweighs far more important changes in other arti-
cles, such as iron or meats.
