THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 773
the remarkable fall of prices which has been recently experienced.
It is, however, a universally accepted canon, alike in logic and com-
mon sense, that extraordinary and complex agencies should never be
invoked for the explanation of phenomena, so long as ordinary and
simple ones are equally available and satisfactory for the same pur-
pose. And with this premise, it is a matter of the highest interest and
importance to observe how, with very few exceptions, the phenomenal
decline in recent years of the prices of the worlds great staple com-
modities admits not only of a ready and complete explanation in ac-
cordance with the first cause, but is, in fact, in the nature of an inevi-
table sequence from it ; and, in support of this proposition, attention
is asked to the nature of the agencies which have been so identical,
absolute, and exclusive in determining the recent decline of prices in
the case of such a number of what must be regarded as typically staple
commodities, that their conjoined experiences would seem so fully to
establish a rule, as almost to compel all antagonizing results, especially
in the case of products of minor importance, to be regarded in the
light of unimportant exceptions.
What these agencies have been, how they have acted, and what
disturbing influences they have exerted on the worlds prices, on the
worlds industries, commerce, and consumption, and on pre-existing
relations of labor and capital, will, when fully told, constitute one of
the most important and interesting chapters of political economy and
commercial history. Such a complete statement it is not at present
proposed to attempt ; but the following exhibit of results, derived
from a study of what may be termed the recent production and price
experiences of a considerable number of important commodities, will,
it is thought, better contribute to an understanding of the situation,
and to a solution of the difficult economic problems involved in it, than
any other method hitherto adopted.*
The commodity of prime importance in the commerce and con-
sumption of the world, which appears to have experienced the great-
est recent decline in price, is sugar, which has fallen to a lower rate
than has ever been known in the history of modern commerce ; the
wholesale price of fair refining sugars having been more than 1 14 per
cent higher in 1880 than in the first half of the year 1887.f
Now, while improved methods of manufacture and greater and
* A general movement in prices is the resultant of a number of particular movements,
and in these particular movements, again, we find the proximate causes of the distribution
of the industrial forces of the world and of the wealth which these forces create.
Professor Nicholson, University of Edinburgh, etc.
\ How continuous and regular has been the decline in the price of sugars in recent
years is shown by the following table, which exhibits the average price of fair refining
sugars in bond (or free of duty) in New York from 18S0 to July, 1S87, inclusive:
1880, 5-08 cents. 1885, 306 cents.
1882, 4-53 cents. 1886, 2-92 cents.
1884, 3-31 cents. 1887 (lowest to July), 237.
