7 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing for whatever is positively useful. In other words, two principles
are recognized as determining the character of animal forms : 1. Natu-
ral selection, which implies the production of such structures as are
useful in the particular environments m which the animal is placed.
2. The influence of the structure already acquired at any given period
of development this being determined by heredity. But heredity
itself represents the organized product of a permanent environment, as
illustrated, for example, in the hereditary blindness of fishes living in
Mammoth Cave ; or, better still, in the respiratory mechanism of all
water-breathing animals ; so that the environment is the ultimate
factor which determines the specific character of animal forms the
structure developing slowly in accordance with this influence.
Similarly in the department of morals, two factors must be recog-
nized as determining conduct : 1. Those qualities of character belong-
ing by inheritance to the organized structure of body and brain. 2.
Those influences which grow out of the social environment, which are
constantly modifying the inherited nature, and building up a corre-
sponding character. In my proposition, then, to found a city in which
any given degree of morality, within certain limits, may be secured,
these limits are understood to depend on the laws of inherited charac-
ter ; while the modifiable morality (that which may or may not be
secured at the option of the founder of the city) is that which de-
pends on the particular environment, physical and social, determined
upon by the founder ; the inherited character, also, like the inherited
bodily organism, being subject to modification from this source. To
discuss this proposition in a manner commensurate with its impor-
tance, would take us too far afield for the present occasion, since it
would involve a consideration of the whole subject of the origin and
evolution of morals. Your attention is, therefore, invited to a few
only, and those the more obvious, points connected with this proposi-
tion of securing a given morality-rate within certain limits, inherently
as definable, although not as precisely defined, as in the case of the
proposition with reference to the mortality-rate.
As a result of Mr. Chad wicks statement, Dr. B. W. Richardson (in
the address referred to) projected a city of health, which he named
Hygeia (and which it is scarcely necessary to premise was located in
Spain ! ) in which all the modern sanitary inventions and precautions
calculated either to promote health or to prevent disease, were
grouped together in a picture most delightful to the minds eye of
every sanitarian. This model city, Hygeia, with some alterations and
additions, would furnish the material substratum of the possible city
of which I have spoken, and which I would name Ethica. A brief
glance at the general features of our model will serve to bring the sub-
ject fairly before us.
First, and most conspicuously, we note that overcrowding in this
city of health is impossible made so by the style and location of the
