784 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
average product per man of the furnaces of Great Britain, which for
1870 was estimated at 173 tons, is reported to have been 194 tons in
1880, and 261 tons in 1884.
Third. The substitution of steel for iron has resulted in a notable
diminution of the consumption of iron for the attainment of a given
result, or, in other words, more work is attainable from a less weight
of material. Sir Lowthian Bell, in his testimony before the Royal
British Commission, stated that a ship of 1,700 tons requires 17 per
cent less in weight of pig-iron, in being built of steel rather than of
iron, and is capable of doing 7 per cent more work.
Again, the quantity of pig-iron requisite for keeping a railroad in
repair will depend greatly upon the state in which iron enters into
construction ; rails of steel, for example, having a far greater dura-
bility than rails of iron.*
A further example of recent economic disturbance consequent upon
changes in the manufacture of iron characterized by the Secretary of
the British Iron Trade Association, in his report for 1886, as one of
the most remarkable of modern times is to be found in the rapid
disuse of the system invented about one hundred years ago by Henry
Cort for converting pig-iron into malleable iron by the so-called process
of puddling. Twenty years ago the use of this process was almost
universal, to-day it is almost a thing that has past ; and the loss of
British capital invested in puddling-furnaces which have been aban-
doned in the ten years from 1875 to 1885, is estimated to have ap-
proximated 4,66*7,000, or $23,333,000, involving in Great Britain
alone a displacement, or transfer of workmen to other branches of in-
dustry during the same period of about 39,000.
Copper. This metal touched the lowest price on record in 1886,
Lake Superior copper in New York falling from 25 cents per pound
* Opinions, as yet, vary greatly as to the comparative durability of iron and steel
rails. In the testimony given before the British Royal Commission, Mr. I. T. Smith,
manager of the Barrow Steel Company, gave it as his opinion that the life of a steel rail
is three times that of an iron rail, adding, My reason for saying so is, that I know that
upon the London and Northwestern Railroad, where steel rails have been now in use
more than twenty years, they consider it so.
Sir Lowthian Bell also, in testifying before the commission, on the effect on the iron-
trade of Great Britain from the expected longer duration of steel rails, says: Assuming
iron rails to last twelve, and steel rails twenty-four years, instead of the railways now in
existence in the United Kingdom requiring 465,648 tons annually for repairs, 232,824 tons
will suffice for the purpose. Although this only involves the saving of a comparatively small
weight of pig-iron, it means less work for remclting and for our rolling-mills, say to the ex-
tent of 4,000 to 5,000 tons per week. The difference in duration of iron and steel rails is
not, however, in itself a complete measure of the amount of pig-iron required for renewals.
This arises from the fact that an iron rail splits up and becomes useless long before the
actual wear, as measured by the diminution of weight, renders it unsafe, which often
happens when the loss of weight does not exceed 4 per cent of the original weight.
Steel rails, on the other hand, go on losing weight until they arc from 10 to 20 per cent
lighter than when they were laid down, before becoming unsafe.
