792 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
For May, 1887, the quotations had advanced to lis. and lis. 5d. This
case is especially worthy of notice, because it constitutes another ex-
ample of a great and rapid decline in the price of a standard and
valuable commodity in the worlds commerce, and for which all the
facts being clearly understood it is not possible to assign any other
cause than that of production in excess of any current demand for
consumption, and which in turn has been solely contingent on the em-
ployment, under novel conditions, of improved methods for overcom-
ing territorial and climatic difficulties.
Concurrently with the fall in the price of nitrate of soda, saltpeter,
or nitrate of potash, also notably declined from 28s. 3c?. in 1880 to 21s.
in 1887 (for English refined), a fact which seems to find a sufficient ex-
planation in the circumstance that nitrate of soda can be used to a cer-
tain extent as a substitute for nitrate of potash, and that the export
of the latter from India, the country of chief supply, increased from
352,995 cwt. in 1881 to 451,917 cwt. in 1885, or 36 per cent.
Paper. A quarter of a century ago, or less, paper was made almost
exclusively from the fibers of cotton and linen rags ; and with an enor-
mous and continually increasing demand, paper and rags not only
rapidly increased in price, but continually tended to increase, and thus
greatly stimulated effort for the discovery and utilization of new
fibrous materials for the manufacture of paper. These efforts have
been so eminently successful that immense quantities of pulp suitable
for the manufacture of paper are now made from the fibers of wood,
straw, and various grasses, and so cheaply that the prices of fair
qualities of book-paper have declined since the year 1872 to the ex-
tent of fully 50 per cent, while in the case of ordinary news the
decline has been even greater. Rags, although still extensively used,
have, by the competitive supply of substitute materials, and a conse-
quent comparative lack of demand, been also greatly cheapened.
Quinine. But in no one article has the decline in recent years
been more extraordinary and thoroughly capable of explanation than
in the case of sulphate of quinine, a standard chemical preparation
used extensively all over the world for medicinal purposes. In 1865
the highest price of sulphate of quinine in the English market was
4s. 4d. ($1.07) per ounce, which gradually advanced to 9s. 6c?. in 1873,
reacting to 6s. 9c?. in 1876. In the subsequent year, owing to an in-
terruption in the exportation of cinchona-bark from South America
by civil war in New Granada, and by low water in the Magdalena
River, the price advanced to the unprecedently high figure of 16s. 6c?.
($4.70) per ounce, receding to 13s. in 1879, and 12s. in 1880. In 1883
identically the same article sold in Europe for 3s. 6c?. per ounce, and
in 1885 for 2s. 6c?., a result entirely attributable to the successful and
extensive introduction and growth of the cinchona-tree in the British
and Dutch East Indies, and to the further very curious circumstance
that, while the cinchona-barks from South America the product of
