: 94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
COLOR-BLINDNESS AMONG EAILKOAD EMPLOYES *
By WILLIAM THOMSON, M. D.,
PROFESSOR OF OPIITHAL1IOLOGY IN TIIE JEFFERSON MEDICAL COLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA.
THE conflict between the officers and the employes of the Reading
Railroad, with its forty-two thousand employes on three thousand
miles of track, which has occupied recently the attention of the public,
and has threatened to produce a suspension of work on that road, has
reopened the question of color-blindness among railroad employes, and
led to a full demonstration of its existence among those engaged even
as engine-men, where the defect might lead to serious accidents, with
loss of property and life. The officers of the road have selected the
system for examination suggested by the writer, and employed to a
full success for more than live years past on the Pennsylvania Rail-
road, and have appointed me to supervise its details, and, as ophthal-
mological expert, to decide all doubtful cases after careful examina-
tion of those found defective by the non-professional examiners of the
company.
The conflict is nearly over, since demonstrations of the optical defect
in engineers, made before a committee appointed by the employes have
satisfied them of the propriety of the testing, and that the safety of the
traveling public demands the removal of all color-blind persons from
positions where their optical defect might be the cause of distressing
accidents. In the recent demonstrations, I was able at my office to show
that an engine-man declared a red danger-signal, made by placing red
glass in front of a large gas-light at a distance of two feet away, to be
a green light ; he was also not only unable to distinguish a red from a
green flag within six feet, but he failed to classify the flags, white, red,
green, and blue, properly, even when allowed to take them in his own
hands.
The system adopted by the Reading Railroad is the one in use on
the Pennsylvania Railroad, and owes its value to the fact that large
bodies of employes can be brought under inspection, and their defects
discovered by non -professional examiners. It has been fully described
in the Medical News of January 14, 1882, in the second edition of
Nettleships work on Diseases of the Eye, and in a paper read before
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, in Septem-
ber, 1884, and in The Popular Science Monthly for February, 1885,
and to those sources the reader is referred for further information.
Previous to its adoption by the officers and directors of the Penn-
sylvania Railroad two thousand men were examined, and their blanks
* An article on this subject, by Dr. Thomson, was published in the Monthly for
February, 1885, and, as a continuation of that paper, we give herewith from the Medical
News an account of the more recent experience of the Pennsylvania Railroad with the
system of examinations mentioned, and the results of its application to other lines. Ed.
