COLOR-BLINDNESS AMONG RAILROAD EMPLOYES. 795
submitted to me, and the color-blind men sent to my office for final
action. Mr. Pugb, General Manager, stated, in September, 1884, that
tbere were thus detected four per cent of men color-blind, and ten per
cent of men deficient in acuteness of vision, and tbat, although it was
very difficult- to keep accurate notes of all examinations, he was satisfied
that all dangerous persons had been removed up to tbat date, when over
twelve thousand employes had been submitted to the system.
The statistics obtained upon the two thousand men were used as
the standard by all the Division Superintendents, and, however difficult
it might be to report to the central office the full details of their ex-
aminations, they were always controlled by these known and accepted
ratios. It has not been found requisite to send all men deficient to the
opbthalmological expert, since they did not demand it, but submitted
to the changes rendered necessary without opposition ; hence, I am un-
able to furnish exact reports of the examinations made at remote por-
tions of the road. Most of the color-blind men have passed under my
hands, as well as many cases of astigmatism, optical defects, and dis-
eases or injuries reducing the sight below the standard, and the results
may some time be found worthy of publication.
An opportunity to present the last opinions of the officers of the
Pennsylvania Railroad has been afforded by a request which was made
by tbe German Government, through its Minister, to the Surgeon-Gen-
eral of the United States Army, for statistical and other information
on the subject, and this letter, referred to me by the Surgeon-General,
has been answered by Mr. Pugb, who has kindly made efforts to obtain
the figures from the great organization of which he is General Manager.
He writes, under date of July 7, 1887, and says :
I regret that so long a time has elapsed since the receipt of yours
of May 25th, and this reply. The delay has been occasioned by our
efforts to obtain some statistical information, which I regret to find
has not been kept up as closely as was intended. I inclose herewith
statements showing the number of employes examined during the past
five years, with the results stated.
I can only add that we have attained the most satisfactory results
from the system, and I think we can confidently claim that sense of
security which follows the belief that we have no one employed in any
position in which the use of signals is required, whose color-sense and
sense of vision will not enable him to accurately determine all signals
by which his action is governed.
Total number examined on lines east of Erie 25,158
Color-blind 481
Defective vision 661 .
Hearing 158
I am informed that the system has been found so satisfactory that
it has been extended to the lines west of Pittsburg, and no doubt is
now in use throughout all the lines controlled by the Pennsylvania
