796 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Railroad, including seven thousand miles of track and one hundred
thousand employes.
It will be remembered that this system is also used to prevent the
admission of defective men into the service, and that the apparently
small percentage of color-blind in this table may be ascribed to the
non-apj)lication of men who know their deficiency, and to the fact that
men in the service knowing their defect would leave the road before
examination, and thus escape detection, and be enabled to gain employ-
ment on other roads where no examinations are required. Perhaps
twelve or thirteen thousand was the number who were subject to ex-
amination by virtue of being in positions where color-signals were used
to direct them, in 1884, and the difference between that number and
the total twenty-five thousand would be made up of new men who
would present a small ratio of those below the standard, since men
conscious of color-blindness, or poor sight, would not apply.
The fact that the intelligent officers of the Pennsylvania Railroad
have adopted this system, purged their old force of all dangerous men,
extended its use to all parts of their immense railroad, and now oppose
it as a barrier to the admission of men thus unfit for service, is the best
evidence that can be adduced to claim for it a successful place among
the efforts to render scientific truths of practical value to the world.
It is hoped that the Reading Railroad will be sustained in its contest
with its employes by the example so quietly conducted by the Penn-
sylvania Railroad, and that the reform so necessary for the traveling
public and for those employes who carry their lives in their hands
daily, may be conducted to a happy finish.
-*---
THE SAYAGERY OE BOYHOOD.
By JOHN JOHNSON, Jr.
THE following train of reflection was suggested to me by reading,
among a number of compositions by my pupils, this blood-curd-
ling narrative :
Not long ago, when one of the boys went up to bed, he was stand-
ing close to the window, undressing himself, and a little bird came
fluttering around the window on the outside. At first we thought it
was a bat, but after a while we came to the conclusion that it was a
little bird. Then we opened the window and let it in. It seemed to
be crippled or very cold, and it could not fly very well, although it
would keep out of our reach. We tried to catch it by running after
it, but we soon got tired of that, and we began to throw our hats at
it. Sometimes we would strike it with a hat, but that didnt do much
good, until the bird was tired of flying, and it got under a bed, and
we caught it. Then we went up the hall, and wrung its head off.
