THE SAVAGERY OF BOYHOOD. 797
After we had wrung its head off, we got the wings, and threw the rest
of the bird out of the window. J. F. TV
My twelve-year-old Procrustes has brought out his deed in all its
stark brutality, and evidently he is not ashamed of it. His language,
so entirely devoid of all compunction, is sufficient evidence on this
point ; but I can strengthen the testimony by my experience that a
boy never puts into his composition any idea the propriety of which
he questions in the least. As every one knows who has many dealings
with children, they are remarkably shy about letting their feelings be
known to grown people, and they will scarcely ever deliberately ex-
press a thought before their elders which they think may be disap-
proved of. Consequently, I feel very sure that the young savage just
quoted saw nothing evil in his act, and that his unawakened conscience
gave him no pang as he recalled the heartless butchery of the bewil-
dered guest against whom he had violated the laws of hospitality.
On the contrary, there is a tone about his words as of savage com-
placency the complacency of the Dyak who recounts his successes in
the head-hunt, and gloats over his barbarities as they rise bloody before
his minds eye.
Ruthless as Procrustes appears to be, it is highly probable that his
barbarous state of mind is not in any great degree exceptional, but
may rather be taken as a fair example of the mental and moral con-
dition of most of the healthy boys of his time of life now growing up
in this country. At first sight, this may seem far too disparaging an
opinion of the moral nature of boys ; and unquestionably it is a lower
view than that reflected in the juvenile magazines and Sunday-school
books. Yet some consideration, I think, will show that it is nearly
correct.
Almost every father whose family contains two or three healthy
boys under the age of fifteen, certainly every teacher in a boys school,
unless he altogether fails to reach the hearts of the youngsters around
him, must feel, after reading a volume or two of current childrens lit-
erature, that his own boys lack the tender sympathy, the overflowing
compassion, which it is now the fashion to impute to the heroes of
juvenile fiction. Those persons who are not in a position to come in
contact with the children of to-day need only to recall to memory the
scenes of their own childhood in order to find repeated episodes in
which a suffering kitten or puppy was the central and unpitied figure.
The callousness of the children of ones own circle will be made evi-
dent after a few minutes spent in such clarifying (though, to sensitive
people, rather annoying) introspection ; and what is true of one circle
in this regard is approximately true of all. My own conviction is,
that healthy boys under fifteen feel very little compassion for any suf-
fering but that of their near relatives, their close friends, and occa-
sionally their pet animals. Not only do they evince little compassion,
