7 2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ground. These structures will be made unobjectionable by setting
apart the space necessary for them, and by using electricity as the mo-
tor power. The sidewalks, paved with a gray-stone, most agreeable to
the eye, slope gently toward the streets, where they meet a like gentle
inclination of the streets from their centers ; and by means of side-
openings into the adjacent subways, which underlie the houses, the
street washings and sweepings, reduced to a minimum by the abolition
of street-railways, and the banishment of all traffic to the underground
roads, are daily removed with the sewage ; the streets are thus kept
uniformly clean and dry, and the gutter being conspicuous by its ab-
sence, as the garden by its presence, the Kindergarten supersedes the
Kinder-gutter in this scheme of civilization.
Underground rooms do not exist ; hence there is no burrowing of
human beings in dark and loathsome cellars, such as may be found in
most large cities. The style of architecture does not admit even of
basement-kitchens, where hundreds of our domestic classes spend the
greater part of their lives, as effectually buried as are the laborers in
a coal-mine. On the contrary, the living-part of every house begins
on a level with the street, so that every room inhales the pure outside
air and drinks in the liquid sunlight.
On the subject of the water-supply I hesitate to speak. At this
season of the year, especially, it may be considered unwise to stir up
the mental subsidence-basin, which must exist in the mind of every
thoughtful member of this particular community ; but, as this is an
important feature of our model city, it calls for emphatic notice.
First of all, the water is described as free from sewage or other re-
fuse a matter that might be supposed to go without saying, in the
case of water used for dx-inking, were it not for the unhappy experi-
ence of more than one city which has outgrown the original source
of its supply. This water, though free from all avoidable sources of
contamination, is nevertheless carefully filtered before admission to the
city pipes. It is also tested daily, and, if found in any degree unsat-
isfactory, is still further purified by the transmission through it of
ozone, generated for this and other disinfecting purposes. The water,
thus doubly protected, is distributed freely to every house through
iron pipes, pipes of lead being strictly forbidden.
In the contemplated city of Ethica I would introduce the system
of electric lighting for private as well as public uses ; not only on
account of its hygienic superiority, but also for its indirect moral in-
fluence, since crime lurks in darkness, and the flooding of the streets
of any city at midnight with the brightness of noonday must inevi-
tably reduce the percentage of crime, which is, to a certain extent, a
matter of opportunity. The prayer, Lead us not into temptation, is
a recognition of the importance of this principle.
Radical changes in the houses appear in connection with the chim-
neys, the roofs, the kitchens, and their adjoining offices, for the par-
