798 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
but they often show more than an entire apathy, even an actual pleas-
ure, at the sight of pain inflicted upon animals ; and some, with whom
we need not now concern ourselves, take a delight that to grown peo-
ple seems almost fiendish in tormenting their weaker playfellows.
Of course, there are to be found instances, as rare as they are
delightful, of highly sympathetic children ; but such are to be dis-
criminated from the ordinary run of boys. The children who habit-
ually show this spirit are to be reckoned as moral prodigies, far above
the common level ; and they are no more to be compared in point of
morality with ordinary healthy boys than in point of intellectual power
John Stuart Mill, reading Lucan and Plato in his eighth year, is to be
compared with the primary pupils struggling through the mysteries
of carrying and borrowing. Boys of fourteen who share our
feeling of pain at the useless shooting of a bluebird, who have no
instinctive impulse to maim a ground-squirrel by a well-aimed shot
from a sling, are examples of moral precocity. Like intellectual pre-
cocity, this may be very enjoyable to the family in which it occurs ;
but the probability is, that it is the accompaniment of some unhealthy
state, which may be entirely unobserved by the childs admiring but
undiscriminating friends. On the subject of intellectual precocity,
thanks to the able and tireless efforts of the apostles of the new edu-
cation, many people now have sound notions, and the more sensible
mothers and fathers among us no longer desire to model their boys
after the pattern of the young Macaulay or Pascal. Indeed, not a
few of them have come to so enlightened a state that they actually
feel some wholesome alarm lest their intellectual early risers, as
Professor Huxley has wittily said, should be conceited all the fore-
noon of life and stupid all the afternoon. But, while the judicious
have thus become satisfied to see a childs mental powers rise slowly
and healthily from the first faint glimmer of intelligence to whatever
degree of vigor and brilliancy his endowment may enable them to
reach, yet very many people whom we can not class among the Boeo-
tians, and who count most of the authors of childrens literature among
their number, seem confidently to expect a boys moral nature, long
before his legs have outgrown his knickerbockers, to burst forth with
almost the fervor of Mr. Berghs ebullient conscience. Doubtless they
are inexpressibly shocked when they learn, as in the course of things
they soon must, that the humane inpulse is as soundly dormant in the
breast of their ten-year-old offspring as in the bosom of a Fuegian or
a Guacho.
But, when all the circumstances are considered, it will perhaps
appear that moral precocity is no more to be desired than intellect-
ual precocity, because the existence of either indicates that the devel-
opment of the child in which it appears is abnormal. An early appear-
ance of the sympathies depends upon an early development of mental
functions, which properly are dormant until later in life ; and pre-
