800 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
quality in our boys. As one of the inevitable accompaniments of the
savage state, we should expect to find heartlessness among children.
There can be no doubt, says Sir John Lubbock, perhaps the highest
authority on the subject of the qualities of barbarians there can be
no doubt that, as an almost universal rule, savages are cruel. Their
moral code permits, if it does not inculcate, revenge and murder ; and
no stigma whatever is attached to a deed so unnatural to our eyes as
maternal infanticide. The stories of inhumanity with which modern
travelers fill their volumes, if true of the savages of to-day, will serve
to characterize the savages of the past ; and there is no fact better
established than that the savages of times gone by numbered among
themselves our own ancestors. During countless thousands of years,
from the unknown date when the Miocene drifts covered the valleys
of Western Europe, and buried the war-axes of the inhabitants who
hunted beasts and men through the forest, to a time which, in com-
parison with that date, is as near as yesterday, the ancestors of the
present civilized races roamed about as hungry, ill-clad savages. Their
daily need of food was supplied by means of the suffering they inflicted
upon cave-bears and musk-oxen, and sometimes they slew and ate their
fellow-men, and cleft their bones for marrow. The shedding of blood,
as the almost inseparable accompaniment of the satisfaction of the
most imperious of all desires, hunger, must have become, according
to the well-known principle of the association of ideas, in itself a pleas-
ure. Like the savages of to-day, those fierce progenitors of ours must
have delighted in the torture of captured enemies. Thus, during long
ages, compassion was unknown, and it appears to have been lately
acquired by the now dominant races. Indeed, even among so highly
cultivated a people as the Romans, it remained almost unknown until
comparatively recent times say fifteen hundred years ago in proof
of which may be noted their heartless fondness for the bloody sports
of the arena.
The emotion of pity, then, appeared late in the history of the race ;
and, in view of the law of our development, which carries us along
the path our ancestors have trod, how can we expect our boys to be
anything else but cruel ? How far is it judicious to go, in trying to
alter the natural course of a childs mental growth by imposing upon
him ideas which in due course he will not share until later ? This last
question is inviting, but we will not go into its solution at present,
contenting ourselves with observing that because a boy shows no com-
punction at giving pain to a captive bird, or calmly lacerates the feel-
ings of a family of squirrels, merely to give himself a few soon-neglected
pets, is no reason for expecting him to grow up a monster of cruelty.
And we will further venture to suggest that much of the immorality
of boys is a necessary consequence of their descent, as a corollary of
which follows the aphorism of my witty friend, A good boy is dis-
eased.
