FETICH-FAITH IN WESTERN AFRICA. 803
have seen only a few of the white race, as a fetich, and is feared by them,
especially by their women and children, as if he were a ghost. On a
journey between Isangile and Manzanger I saw a negro who had cov-
ered his whole body with white colors. He was a senator of that se-
cret society of which the Nganga is chief. These people speak their
own secret language, and exercise to a certain extent over the other
negroes the office of policemen. Every negro has to turn away from
them, because it is believed that the women and children, at least, who
look upon one w r ill die. In Wunde I saw in the fetich-house the life-
size photograph of a white woman sewed upon a red cloth. It was,
as I afterward learned, a part of the effects of a servant of the asso-
ciation who had died on the Congo. I especially remarked, while I
was living on the Congo, that photographs are among the things which
the negroes most readily steal, and that they take them whenever they
can get their hands upon them.
A few words, now, on the fetich - doctor or medicine - man, the
Nganga of the negro, who is also his priest, physician, and chief-jus-
tice. If auy one in the village dies, the negroes, who can not com-
prehend that any one should die a natural death, believe that he must
have been killed by enchantment or by the evil influence of some
other person ; in short, that another person was the cause of his death.
It is the Ngangas business to find out who this person is. He con-
sults with the spirits by moonlight, and communicates the result of
his interview to the people. The accused person is then subjected to
the trial by cassa. Cassa is the bark of a large tree, the Erythrophtce-
um Guineense {Leguminosce Ccesalpincece), and contains a very strong
poison. The delinquent is forced to drink a solution of this bark,
which has been prepared by the Nganga. If he vomits the draught up
immediately, he is innocent ; but, if it remains in his stomach, he
must die. In this case the negroes never wait for the operation of the
poison, but fall upon him with sticks and stones, or drive the life out
of him in some still more savage way. The issue of the trial by cassa
of course lies with the Nganga, and, if the delinquent can pay enough,
that functionary will probably save his life. At one time, the king
of a village on the upper Kuilu was very sick. The Nganga quietly
ordered a grand dance, with immense noise, to drive away the evil
spirits of the royal sickness. The whites, who had a station in the
vicinity, could not sleep at night for the din, and therefore, calling up
the Nganga, offered him several pieces of cloth if he would stop the
dance. The Nganga took the cloth, and there was no more dancing.
Such is the Nganga, the great medicine-man of the negroes. If any one
asks whether the missions, of which there are now several on the
Congo, can not exert an influence on the fetich-faith of the negroes,
I would answer that an influence is possible, but only, I believe, by
substituting for the present fetiches other Christian objects such as I
saw in the French mission at Laudana, where the converted youth
