AMERICAN ZOOLOGISTS AND EVOLUTION. 805
a practical application of these sciences was capable of showing an
immediate material return.
Agassiz, in his appeal to the State for appropriations for the great
museum at Cambridge, insisted that there were higher dividends than
those of money to be looked for in endowments for zoological muse-
ums, and these were intellectual dividends. While the force of this
appeal will always remain true, the transcendent importance of the
naturalists studies from the standpoint of Darwin is widely recognized.
Man now becomes an object of rigid scientific scrutiny from the new
position which has shed such a flood of light upon the animals below
him. His habits, behavior, the physical influences of his environment
and their effects upon him, transmission of peculiarities through the
laws of heredity all these factors are directly implicated in the burn-
ing questions and problems which agitate him to-day. Questions of
labor, temperance, prison reform, distribution of charities, religious
agitations, are questions immediately concerning the mammal man,
and are now to be seriously studied from the solid standpoint of ob-
servation and experiment and not from the emotional and often incon-
gruous attitude of the Church. To a naturalist it may seem well-nigh
profitless to discuss the question of evolution since the battle has been
won, and if there be any discussion it is as to the relative merits and
force of the various factors involved. The public, however, are greatly
interested in the matter, as may be seen by a renewal of the fight in
the English reviews, and the agitation is still kept up by well-meaning
though ignorant advisers, who insist that Science has not yet accepted
the doctrine ; and great Church organizations meet to condemn and ex-
pel their teachers of science from certain schools of learning because
their teachings are imbued with the heresy.
Dr. Asa Gray,* in his discriminating biographical memoir of Dar-
win, says, in regard to the Doctrine of Descent : It is an advance
from which it is evidently impossible to recede. As has been said of
the theory of the Conservation of Energy, so of this : The proof of
this great generalization, like that of all other generalizations, lies
mainly in the fact that the evidence in its favor is continually aug-
menting, while that against it is continually diminishing, as the progress
of science reveals to us more and more the working of the universe.
Let us examine, then, the evidences, trivial as well as important, that
have been recorded by American zoologists within the past ten years
in support of the derivative theory.
Without further apology for the very imperfect character of this
survey, let me at once begin by calling attention first to the testi-
mony regarding the variation in habits and evidences of reasoning
power in animals. The establishment of individual variation in
mental powers, change in habits, etc., lies at the foundation of Dar-
winism as furnishing material for selective action. There is no
* Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. rvii, p. 449.
