AMERICAN ZOOLOGISTS AND EVOLUTION. 811
spider, confirms the observations of others as to the creature deliber-
ately attaching fragments of moss to the lid of its nest in order to
conceal its position. Dr. Thomas Meehan* describes a hornet that
was gifted with great intelligence. He saw this insect struggling with
a large locust in unsuccessful attempts to fly away with it. After
several fruitless efforts to fly up from the ground with his victim, he
finally dragged it fully thirty feet to a tree, to the top of which he
laboriously ascended, still clinging to his burden, and having attained
this elevated position he flew off in a horizontal direction with the locust.
Dr. Meehan truly says, There was more than instinct in this act,
there was reasoning on certain facts and judgment accordingly, and
the insects judgment had proved correct.
A curious case of circumspection in ants is recorded by Dr. Joseph
Leidy.f In an empty house he observed some ants feeding on crumbs
of bread left by the workman. He at once placed pieces of bread in
the different rooms in the house only to find them the next day cov-
ered with ants, which he destroyed by causing them to fall into a dish
of turpentine. After a few days the ants no longer visited the bread,
and he supposed they had been exterminated. A few days after, how-
ever, he observed a number of ants in the attic feeding on the body of
a dead fly. He immediately got a lot of grasshoppers and distributed
their bodies in all the rooms, only to find that they were soon covered
with ants, which he destroyed as before. This treat continued attract-
ive for a few days only, when the ants abandoned the food. In
brief, he tried meat, cake, and various other articles in turn ; the ants
for a while frequenting these snares, only to learn the danger involved,
and finally avoided them.
The gradual dispersion of species in recent times is of great in-
terest, and careful records should be made of the facts as observed
and a collection of large numbers of individuals made, in order to
compare them with specimens of the same species in future years, to
ascertain the variation which may have taken place and the tendency
of that variation. A number of observatians have been published
within the last ten years, showing new areas of distribution. Littorina
litorea, which has been creeping along the coast since 1869, as recorded
by Gray, Verrill, and others, has now reached the southern side of
Long Island Sound, as observed by Mr. Henry Prime. J Lioplax sub-
carinata, an Ohio River species, has been found in the Hudson River
at Catskill Landing. Limax maximus, first found at Newport, Rhode
Islan d, by Mr. Powel, has since been found at Cambridge, Massachusetts,
by Professor Hyatt. Bythinia tentaculata, first recorded from Oswego,
New York, by Rev. W. M. Beauchamp, * is reported as having been
found at Burlington, Vermont, by G. H. Hudson. In the Mohawk
* Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, 1878, p. 15.
f American Journal of Science and Arts, vol. xv, p. 320.
\ American Naturalist, vol. xvi, p. 737. tt Ibid., vol. xiv, p. 523.
