Si 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
River is a thriving community of tLis species, the first having been
placed there by Dr. James Lewis.
Dr. R. E. C. Stearns,* in commenting on the occurrence of My a
arenaria in San Francisco Bay, states that the first record of the
species in California was made by Dr. Newcomb in 1874. Within a
few yeai-s it has increased in great numbers, furnishing a new food-
supply for the people. The evidence that it is a recent introduction
is seen in the fact that so large and conspicuous a species could not
have escaped the eye of the collector. No trace of it has ever been
found in the numerous shell-heaps of California, though it is found on
the Asiatic coast, from Kamtchatka to the southernmost limits of
Japan. Dr. Stearns believes it to have been imported w r ith the oyster
transplanted from the Atlantic coast. From large numbers of the
shells that I measured, the low index would show that it came from
some southern point on the Atlantic coast.
The delicate balance of conditions between organisms, whether it
be between individuals of the same species or between widely-sep-
arated groups, is an important feature in the question of survival.
Professor S. A. Forbes,f in a thoughtful study of certain species of
entomostraca in Lake Michigan and the surrounding waters, calls
attention to the important part played by these minute crustaceans,
showing how they furnished almost the entire food for young fishes,
larger crustaceans and even insect larva?. He writes : Mollusca, one
would say, could afford to be indifferent to them, since they neither
eat them nor are eaten by them, nor seem to come in contact with
them anywhere, through any of their habits or necessities. But for
this very reason these two classes afford an excellent illustration of
the stringent system of reactions by which an assemblage of even the
most diverse and seemingly independent organisms is held together.
... If there were no entomostraca for young fishes to eat, there would
be very few fishes indeed to feed upon mollusca, and that class would
flourish almost without restraint ; while, on the other hand, if there
were no mollusca for the support of adult fishes, entomostraca would
be relieved from a considerable part of the drain upon their numbers,
and would multiply accordingly. He is much struck with the fact
that in the larger bodies of water, the species of entomostraca show
an inferior development in numbers, size, and robustness, and in repro-
ductive power. Their smaller number and size are doubtless due to
the relative scarcity of food. The difference of reproductive energy,
as shown by the much smaller egg-masses borne by the lacustrine
species, depends upon the vastly greater destruction to which the
paludinal Crustacea are subjected. Many of the latter occupy waters
liable to be exhausted by drought, with a consequent enormous waste
of entomostracan life. The opportunity for reproduction is here
greatly limited in some situations to early spring alone and the
* American Naturalist, vol. xv, p. 362. f Ibid., vol. xvi, p. 537.
