AMERICAN ZOOLOGISTS AND EVOLUTION. 813
chances for destruction of the summer eggs in the dry and often dusty-
soil are so numerous that only the most prolific species can maintain
themselves under such conditions.
Further, the marshes and shallower lakes are the favorite breeding-
grounds of fishes, which migrate to them in spawning-time, if pos-
sible, and it is from the entomostraca found here that most young fishes
get their eailiest food-supplies a danger from which the deep-water
species are measurably free. Not only is a high reproductive power
therefore rendered unnecessary among the latter by their freedom
from many dangers to which the shallow- water species are exposed,
but in view of the relatively small amount of food available for them,
a high rate of multiplication would be a positive injury, and could
result only in wholesale starvation.
The effect of birds on insect-life has engaged the attention of the
same author.* His inquiry was to ascertain whether birds originated
any oscillations in the numerical proportion of insects upon which they
feed. Many interesting facts are given which space forbids quoting.
A number of contributions have been made on the influence of envi-
ronment and on geographical variation, to some of which reference
must be made. Prof essor Alpheus Hyatt f bears unequivocal testimony
to the derivative theory, and recognizes clearly the influence of exter-
nal surroundings in a memoir on the cephalopods, when in stating the
law of organic equivalence he says : The action of physical changes
takes effect upon the irritable organism, which necessarily responds to
external stimulants by an internal reaction or effort. This action from
within upon the parts of the organism modifies their hereditary forms by
the production of new growths or changes which are, therefore, adapted
to the conditions of the habitat or the physical agents and forces from
which they directly or indirectly originate ; or, slightly changing this
interpretation in accordance with the same facts, each individual is more
or less susceptible to the action of physical influences and those which
respond most quickly to these influences, come more promptly in harmony
with their environment, which is natural selection pure and simple.
Mr. Charles Morris, J in a series of papers on Organic Physics
and the Polar Organization of Animals, presents many new and
suggestive thoughts on the physico-chemical action in life and devel-
opment. He concludes that there are inherent in the germ energies
and tendencies, chemical, molecular, or whatever we choose to call
them, adapted to the complete unfoldment of the typical form. But,
as appears evident, their operation can be checked by influences from
external nature. There is a struggle between these contact influences
and the innate organic tendencies.
* American Naturalist, vol. xvii, p. 671.
f Proceedings of the American Associated Antiquarian Society, vol. xxxii, p. 323.
\ American Naturalist, vol. xvii, p. 486.
[To be continued.]
