8 h THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE LANGUAGE OF THE EMOTIONS.
Bt M. ALFRED FOUILLEE.
WITH the words Every gesture is a metaphor, Diderot exactly-
characterized that translation of the feelings into corresponding
movements which we call their expression. But, though the natural
language of the physiognomy and of gestures is metaphorical, it need
not be inferred that it is composed of symbols in any degree arbitrary.
It is rather by a necessary determinism that a particular internal phe-
nomenon is translated by a peculiar external manifestation. Expres-
sion is no longer considered a sign that may be detached from the
expressed fact ; it is an integral part of the fact, or of its history. A
man, realizing that his life is in extreme peril and anxious to save it,
might, perhaps, be able to preserve his calm ; but, as Darwin says, he
suffers a tension of his will against his emotion, and the conflict within
him is faithfully expressed in the body by the parallel tension of the
muscles and the correlative tension of the pulse. Feelings too weak to
produce a visible outward expression are marked in the interior of the
organs. We should not, then, as the old psychologists did, place the
psychological changes and the physiological movements in which they
are realized, or prolonged, or expressed, in different worlds.
Darwin attempted a biological explanation of this reciprocally de-
termined connection of the internal feelings with external movements,
as arising in the gradual evolution of organisms struggling for exist-
ence. Mosso * and Warner f showed that there are physiological
and mechanical limitations to the influence of selection and the
medium, or that there are internal necessities independent of ex-
terior utility, and assumed that the explanation of the phenomena
belongs to physiology. But should not philosophy, we ask, main-
tain a view yet more of the interior, strictly psychological and
sociological ? Should it not explain, by the laws of individual or col-
lective consciousness, those facts of expression which are the precise
continuation of the mental in the physical and of the physical in the
mental ? All expression of feeling has, by its definition, a psycho-
logical, and, still more, a social, side. There is, in fact, no veritable
expression except as there may be a possible interpretation of the
movements by other beings forming, with the first one, a society. The
language of the passions is eminently communicative. Every living
organism is, moreover, itself a society of more elementary organisms,
and it is therefore legitimate to inquire if the act of social communi-
cation does not begin within the organism itself before extending to
other analogous organisms ; if there is not a solidarity, at once me-
chanical and mental, between the parts of the identical organism
* Angelo Mosso, La Paura, 1885. f Warner, Physical Expression, 1886.
