THE LANGUAGE OF THE EMOTIONS. 815
brain, heait, and muscles of the face before the passion is communi-
cated to the other organism. All the acts of expression are, we think,
best explained by this physiological and sociological law of solidarity
and sympathy.
According to Darwins theory of explanation, our expressional
movements are habits, which, useful at first for the maintenance or
defense of life, are preserved and transmitted after they no longer
have immediate utility. Most of our gestures are of this class. , The
signs of affirmation and negation appear to have come from the infants
inclining its head to receive nourishment from its mothers breast, and
turning it away when it does not want food. The same gestures,
applied to all affirmation and negation, have become hereditary and
instinctive with many nations. The acts of clinching the fists and
displaying the teeth were primarily voluntary, as preparations for
combat and signs of defiance of the enemy ; they then became asso-
ciated with the feeling of anger, then transmitted by heredity, till now
we clinch our fist when the enemy is not present, and express the sneer
of contempt by an exhibition of the teeth, joined with a backward
motion of the head, but with no thought of biting.
However extended the effects of heredity may really be, we have
a right to reproach Darwin for having given too great a part to the
external causes, to selection and the medium. It is in the very tissues
of the organism, in the inmost properties of the living substance, that
we should first seek for the mechanical and physiological reasons for
the phenomena of expression. Thus, the contraction of the eyebrows
in struggle and in pain, which is explained by Darwin as a survival of
a movement originally advantageous in combat, is shown by M. Mosso
to be a result of the flow of blood to supply the waste of nervous force,
and to be physiologically connected with movements of attention and
of effort.
In the physiological view, the law that links the emotion with its
exterior signs is the same that governs all the manifestations of life
and force ; it is the law of the equivalence of movements. At any
particular moment, the quantity of nervous force corresponding to
the state of consciousness called sensation has to expend itself in some
way, and engender somewhere an equivalent manifestation of force.
The expended force may itself follow three different courses. Some-
times the nervous excitation is transformed simply into cerebral move-
ments corresponding with a mental agitation. This is what takes
place, for example, when a child hears a story that interests and moves
it. At other times the nervous excitation is transformed into move-
ments of the viscera, and follows the ganglionic nerves. Agreeable
thoughts, for example, aid digestion. Fear may paralyze the nerves
of the intestine. The heart beats more rapidly under emotion, and
sometimes stops, and this influence is accomplished through the means
of the pneumogastric nerves. Or the nervous excitation, following the
