816 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
motor nerves, is transformed into movements of the muscles, which
then become the exterior and visible signs of the emotion. A burn on
the finger produces a contraction of the features. A lively joy or a
deep disquiet throws us into a condition of agitation and purposeless
talking and moving about. If the emotion is concentrated, the cere-
bral disturbance increases in violence as the muscular agitation dimin-
ishes. When we spend the excess of our agitation in external move-
ments, in gestures, walking back and forth, tears, and lamentations,
the cerebral agitation is correspondingly diminished. These phenom-
ena of diversion are nothing else than particular cases of the conserva-
tion of force and the propagation of movements. Sometimes the
propagation results in a real metamorphosis. Very violent emotions,
producing a reaction on the central parts of the innervation, bring on
a sudden paralysis of a number of muscular groups, while feeble dis-
turbances of the sensibility produce superexcitation, which is subse-
quently replaced by exhaustion. This is what Wundt calls the law of
the metamorphosis of nervous action. There result from it effects of
balancing and compensation which, in our opinion, are still simply an
application of the law of equivalence between movements.
M. Mossos physiological explanations usually revert into Wundts
law, and with stronger reason into the general law of the equivalence
of forces. He has shown that cerebral excitation makes the blood
flow to the brain, and that, during intellectual labor, the afflux is
sufficient to diminish the volume of the arm. He observed the cir-
culation of the blood in three subjects whose craniums had been par-
tially destroyed. Whenever a stranger came in, or a sudden noise was
heard, the cerebral pulse rose immediately. Under the influence of
fear the blood flows back to the extremities, to such an extent that a
ring can not be pulled off from the finger. M. Mosso has also applied
the balance to the study of the circulation. A man is laid full length
in a wooden box, arranged as a balance upon a knife-edge, with appa-
ratus for marking the trace of the pulse in the feet and hands, and the
changes of volume undergone by these organs. When the balance and
the man in it are in equilibrium and repose, something is said to the
man. Instantly, by the effect of the excitation received and the at-
tention responding to it, the balance inclines toward the mans head.
Mr. Warner has carefully studied the effects of the emotions in
nutrition, which he calls the trophic signs. Maladies that modify
nutrition also modify the nervous system, and render it more irritable.
The poorly-nourished child often has what the doctors call the nerv-
ous that is, shaky hand ; a more reduced nutrition may end in
chorea. Plants also afford examples of excessive irritability, arising
from imperfect nutrition. Some sensitive plants were sowed in clear
sand, and others in vegetable mold mixed with sand in different pro-
portions. The first, which had nothing but air to feed upon, lan-
guished and died ; they were extremely sensitive to the lightest touch ;
