818 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gin of the emotions in the intelligence, and have sought to explain
them hy a simple play of ideas. Ilerbart has made the mistake of
havinsr seen only the intellectual effect in passion.
M. Wundt rather sees the force of the will under that of the ideas,
but he places this force solely in the attention, in what he calls the
apperception^ or the grasp of objects by the intelligence. Emotion is,
then, according to him, in its origin, only the effect produced by the
feeling on the attention. He concludes that the elementary emotion
is surprise, which behaves, in regard to the more complex movements
of the soul, merely as the aesthetic feeling awakened by a simple
geometric form as opposed to the effect produced by a work of art.
M. Wundt might have added that surprise is the intellectual analogue
of the mechanical shock with its well-known elastic effects.
Whatever part of truth this psychological analysis may include, it
does not yet seem to us to reach to the real and primordial elements
of the emotion. M. Wundt has not asked whether, instead of leading
fright up to a sort of surprise, we can not trace surprise back to a sort
of fright. In fact, with the inferior animals, astonishment is hardly
anything else than fright that is, aversion. Every novelty not yet
looked into is regarded, until further orders, as a danger ; animals
have not begun to be curious observers of new things, or innovators,
but are still conservatives trembling before the unknown. We can
not, therefore, consider astonishment the really primitive emotion.
The study of the physical effects will also help to enlighten us as
to the nature of the causes. Surprise is manifested by open eyes, ele-
vated eyebrows, open mouth, and raised hands. The eyes are opened
to gain a clearer view of the strange object, and the lifting of the eye-
brows is an accompaniment to that movement. The opening of the
mouth is a consequence of the relaxation of the muscles caused by the
flight of nervous force to the brain, and is also a movement promoting
the deeper inspiration which is a requisite to energetic effort, and
which accompanies the accelerated beatings of the heart. The raising
and throwing back of the hands may be regarded as a cautionary
movement.
According to the preceding observations, we should seek the real
origin of the movements of expression in the effect of the emotions,
not on the intelligence, but on the primary activity and the desire.
Now, we know that pleasure is essentially an augmentation of vital
activity, while pain is a diminution of it ; here, therefore, is the prin-
ciple from which we should start to look for the motions by which
pleasures and pains are translated.
The most rudimentary animals, allied to the vegetable kingdom,
without nervous and muscular systems, probably did not have the
faculty of moving from one point to another in their abode ; but there
must have existed, even in these primitive species, some tendencies to
a superexcitation or a depression of the general activity depending on
