THE LANGUAGE OF THE EMOTIONS. 819
the approach or the removal of advantageous or injurious objects.
These tendencies, on account of their advantages, are picked out and
magnified by natural selection. We may add, with M. Schneider, that
the increase of the general activity, even in the absence of a muscular
system, is always manifested as expansion, and the decrease of activity
as contraction. Expansion and contraction are at the origin of all the
other vital movements, and of course of all the signs of expression.
Now let us consider what states of sensibility would correspond
among the rudimentary animals with the different modes of general
activity, accompanied by movements of expansion and contraction.
We shall then have the two following situations : first, approach
of an advantageous object, followed by increase of activity beyond
the normal state, with pleasure and the movement of general ex-
pansion, which is the sign of it ; and, second, on the approach of
the injuiious object, descent of activity below the normal, pain, and
the movement of general contraction. With a step further in evolu-
tion, the internal movement of contraction, perfecting itself by natural
selection, has brought the living being to a massive movement of trans-
port in space, which will take it away from the object this is the
movement of aversion and flight. The movement of expansion, on
the contrary, would have provoked a transportation of the whole body
of the living being toward the agreeable object it is the movement
of inclination and pursuit. Here are two new signs in the natural
language. Add to them the idea of the object that causes the pain
or the pleasure, and we shall have conscious repulsion and desire.
These are the piimary emotions, with the general movement of the
body that expresses them at the first moment. We can say, then, con-
trary to Mr. Spencer, that, if the intensity of an agreeable feeling is
expressed by an exaltation and expansion of motive activity, the in.
tensity of a painful feeling is expressed at once by a contraction and
diminution of motive activity. In joy the different organs only repro-
duce and aid the general movement of expansion ; the features dilate,
the eyebrows turn upward, the entire physiognomy opens, the voice
rises and swells, and the gestures expand in more ample and more
numerous movements. We can also say correctly that the lungs dilate,
and their play is rendered easier ; the cerebral functions are performed
with more rapidity and ease ; the intelligence is more animated ; the
sensibility more expansive ; the will more kindly. In a word, the
expression of joy is a general expression of liberty, and, by that fact,
of liberality.
Next, we pass to the immediate expression of pain. At the first
moment the depression of activity is manifested by a general depres-
sion of the motive force. The lips are relaxed, says Sir Charles
Bell, the lower jaw drops, the upper eyelid falls and covers half of
the pupil, and the eyebrows incline like the mouth. It is true that
some other muscles simultaneously become tense, and enter into play,
