8zo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
but Mr. Bain lias shown that they are the ones the contraction of
which is related to the relaxation of the other muscles. With a little
force a greater one is relaxed. The expenditure in this case is made
for saving, and takes place, we think, hecause the first motion in the
face of pain being a movement of conservation and concentration on
self, is also a tendency to save the force which is felt to he diminish-
ing we retire from the pain, and try to recover ourselves. The first
stage of pain does not last long, for the reaction begins at once.
While the will can consent to pleasure, it can not consent to pain. It
defends itself, it struggles, against it. After the first stroke of pain
that casts down, we perceive the signs of effort. Sometimes the effort
is spasmodic, and involves a prodigality of force that can hardly fail
to bring on quick prostration.
Suffering and joy are always accompanied by aversion and desire.
The movement of concentration upon self and of the defensive, com-
mon to all personal or egotistical feelings, gives to their expression,
as M. Mantegazza has remarked, a character essentially concentric or
centripetal, while the expression of the benevolent affections is cen-
trifugal and eccentric. Fear presents the type of the concentric
physiognomy pertaining to the affections which have for their center
the me.
While the feelings derived from aversion are concentric, those de-
rived from desire are expansive. The setting forth of them is ex-
pressed by the body, the arms, the head, lips, and eyes, by a tendency
to enlargement and touch, the aspect of which is varied according
to the nature of the objects and of the possible touch. With joy
and suffering, aversion and desire, Ave have the four fundamental pas-
sions, the commingling of which is sufficient to account for all the
others, and the expression of which in like manner engenders the most
complex mimicry. Physiologists have not taken enough notice of the
simplifications which could thus be effected by psychology. The
whole can be definitely relegated to a general movement of the will
toward the objects or their opposites ; and it is the correlative move-
ment of organic expansion or contraction that is the real generator of
the language of the emotions.
We pass next to the considerations, ordinarily neglected, that can
be borrowed from sociology. When the series of brain-disturbances
is produced which have their origin in the appetite or the zest of
life, the movement is then inevitably propagated to all the organs.
There is in this case, in the first instance, a mechanical contagion, but
there is, also, we think, a psychological contagion, and consequently a
social phenomenon. The organism, in fact, is a compound of element-
ary organisms, a society of living cells, united among one another by
bonds more or less strict. The cerebral cells being analogous to all
the other cells, it is hardly probable that these should not also have
their mental side that is, that they should not be the seat of rudi-
