THE LANGUAGE OF THE EMOTIONS. 823
pain into sadness, and their sensation into feeling ; it sends them
back its pain and receives it multiplied ; a sad thought soon has a
cortege of myriads of painful sensations, from the movements of the
heart and chest to the most superficial parts of the organism.
To the association of analogous sensations or emotions may he re-
ferred, we think, the third of the laws of expression, which Darwin
has studied without exhibiting its real meaning the law of antithe
sis. Some states of mind, says Darwin, induce in the animal certain
habitual acts which are useful to the support or defense of life ; and
when a state of mind of a directly inverse character is produced, the
animal instinctively and by antithesis performs the opposite acts, even
when they are useless. Physiologists have rejected the Darwinian
principle of antithesis, and the examples he cites in illustration of it
may generally be explained in another way. But we think the prin-
ciple has a psychological value which Darwin failed to elucidate.
The association of states of consciousness takes place by contrast and
antithesis as well as by analogy ; contraries as well as similars are
subject to a law of association, which is especially manifested in the
domain of the emotions. There exists a fundamental antithesis be-
tween pleasure and pain, between acceptation and repulsion by the
will. An organic connection appeals to be established between these
opposites, in such a way as to produce a perpetual bifurcation of
movements. It is not, therefore, strange that the contrary of a feeling
should be expressed by contrary movements or attitudes, aside from
all considerations of utility or all choice of the will. This contrast
affords a means of facilitating the interpretation of signs.
The law of antithesis is thus a particular case of the law of asso-
ciation, which itself results from the natural concert of all the organs.
This concert, or sociality, is so much the essential character of the
emotion and its language, that the absence of accord and consonance
between all the parts of the organism gives us the means of distinguish-
ing feigned emotions from i*eal. Thus, in theatrical pain, the expres-
sion is exaggerated out of all proportion to the occasion, and the real
physical condition is so unlike the assumed that the sham is easily de-
tected, and the illusion may be destroyed by a slight accident. On
the other hand, when dissimulation of a real emotion is attempted, it
is very hard to keep the current of feeling, which is not allowed to
express itself in the natural way, from finding vent in some other way,
as in mental excitement, or in movements which apparently have no
relation to the suffering experienced. Passions on the point of break-
ing out may be revealed by rhythmical movements of the fingers, or
by forced respiration.
Expressional movements, associated according to the laws we have
reviewed, end by fixing themselves and leaving traces, not only in
passing attitudes, but also in that permanent attitude which consti-
tutes the form of the features. Persons leading the same life, as man
