HYGIENE AS A BASIS OF MORALS. 75
Its effects, if long-continued, are to pauperize and permanently bru-
talize, just in proportion as it induces physical deterioration ; and
none so well as the pathologist knows the extent of the organic de-
generation which accompanies and underlies the moral degradation
which is, in fact, the corpus delicti, the very substance and body of
the offense. Hence the descent to Avernus by this route is not only
easy, but, once fully inaugurated, the return becomes difficult if not
impossible. Hoc opus est, hoc labor est.* Such a traveler burns his
bridges in crossing them, and, the physical basis of moral living being
destroyed, the full restoration of the superstructure becomes a physio-
logical and hence a moral impossibility. For the benefit of those
whose thoughts are trained to run in curves to whom a tempera-
ture-chart represents the condensed eloquence of a whole chapter of
description the statement may be made that in one of the few series
of exact observations in this direction the curve of alcoholic expendi-
ture was found to be followed bv the curve of arrests for crime of all
kinds, even more closely than by the curve of arrests for drunken-
ness ; showing, to a demonstration, that the crime-stage does not
always wait for the drunken-stage that the slow and silent deteriora-
tion due to alcoholic drinks is not necessarily dependent on their ex-
cessive use. But from that most instructive history of the Jukes,
already cited, it appears that certain physical and mental disorders
often precede the appetite for stimulants, and that the real cause of
their use, in a large proportion of cases, is antecedent physical exhaus-
tion, either hereditary or acquired. Both the prevention of constitu-
tional disease and its cure (if such a thing be possible) will then do
much toward the prevention of inebriety and the crimes and lesser
immoralities which grow out of it. Disease is the equivalent of
weakness, and induces not only physical indifference but moral apathy.
Dr. Bruce Thompson, Surgeon to the General Prison of Scotland,
says : In all my experience, I have never seen such an accumulation
of morbid appearances as in the autopsies of the prisoners who die
here. Almost every organ of the body is more or less diseased ; and
their moral nature seems equally diseased with their physical frame.
The intimate relationship between nervous diseases and crime is
conspicuous. In England, the ratio of insane to sane criminals is
thirty-four times as great as of the insane to the whole population,
and criminal lunatics are in excess in the high proporton of seventeen
to one.f
The statistics of insane hospitals in our own country show that in-
sanity, in a large proportion of cases, is associated with unhygienic
living both overwork and want of work, as well as monotony of
work, being fruitful of this kind of degeneracy. A considerable per-
centage- of the insane women in our hospitals is drawn from country
farms. The monotonous drudgery of their daily lives, and the little
* This is the need, in this is the work. f Book of Health, Malcolm Morris.
