828 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
it is true of the gemmeous dragonet and of the butterfly gurnard, of
the peacock and the humming-bird, of the bird-of-paradise and the
argus pheasant, of the perfume of the musk-deer and the antlers of
the stag, of the lions mane and the monkeys beards, crests, and
gorgets. All alike are assumed for the self-same purpose, and all are
useful merely to charm the fickle senses of the proverbially coyer and
more uncertain sex.
The stickleback has acquired his gorgeous wedding-garb, in accord-
ance with a general law of animal life, in order to please and attract
to himself the attention of his aesthetic and fastidious mates. After
the breeding-season, says Mr. Darwin, these colors all change, the
throat and belly become of a paler red, the back more green, and the
glowing tints subside. Moreover, as usually happens in the case of
all highly decorated animals, your stickleback further resembles Solo-
mon in being a most undisguised polygamist in the natural state ; and
his brilliant hues have, no doubt, been developed to charm and draw
to his side as many as possible of the female fish. Polygamous ani-
mals, in other words, are always handsome, because only the hand-
somest succeed in attracting to themselves a harem, and so handing on
their peculiarities to future generations. Furthermore, the stickle-
backs are all great fighters ; and it may be broadly laid down once more
as a general principle of animal life, and at the same time a contribu-
tion to the theory of tittlebats, that all very handsome and decorated
creatures are naturally pugnacious of disposition. Thus stags fight
one another with their branching antlers for the possession of the does.
Salmon constantly johi battle and tear one another to pieces savagely
on the recognized spawning-beds. The polygamous ruff, distinguished
from his sober-suited mate the reeve by his curious crest, and by the
great collar of plumes from which his name is taken, is as full of the
Homeric joy of battle as a game-cock, and quite as gamy. The wild
Sum at ran ancestor of our own barn-door fowl does battle in defense
of his seraglio till one of the combatants drops down dead. Black-
cock and capercailzie assemble annually at regular tournaments, to
fight one another, and display their beauty before their expectant and
undecided dames ; and on such occasions Kovalevsky has seen the
snow of their arenas in Russia all red with blood, and covered with
the torn-out feathers of the champions. Most of the handsomest birds
and animals, indeed, are provided with special weapons for these fierce
encounters, such as the spurs of game-birds, the horns of antelopes, the
antlers of stags, the tusks of the musk-deer, the wing-darts of the pala-
media, and the fierce spiny fins of the most decorative fishes. Even
the dainty little humming-birds themselves are prodigious fighters, and
I have seen them engatnno; one another in their aerial battles with the
utmost pluck, vigor, and endurance. Furthermore, beauty in animals
is almost always accompanied, as Dr. Guntber has observed, by a very
hasty and irritable temper.
