830 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cock-fighting, and often stake large sums, or even the freedom of them-
selves and their families, on the prowess and skill of a particular betta.
The license to exhibit fish-fights is farmed by Government, and brings
in a considerable revenue to the King of Siam.
Now, much the same thing happens on a lesser scale during the
battles of the sticklebacks wnth their pugnacious rivals. It is then
especially that their bodies assume the beautiful transparent and irides-
cent colors so poetically described by Mr. Warington. Their vitality
rises to its highest point, and their eyes sparkle like a girls at a ball
with the most vivacious brilliancy. But when a hapless stickleback is
conquered in the lists, says Mr. Darwin, his gallant bearing at once
forsakes him ; his gay colors fade away ; and he hides his disgrace
among his peaceable companions, but is for some time the constant
object of his conquerors persecution.
It is pretty clear, then, that the stickles and lateral spines of the
stickleback have been mainly developed, like the spurs and wing-
weapons of birds, the tusks of boars, the antlers of deer, and the horns
of lizards, for the purpose of combating rivals in these annual con-
tests, and of securing the favor of the female fish. The same thing is
also true of their beautiful colors, or rather, both are but different sides
of the same question ; for, as Mr. Wallace has shoAvn, the most beau-
tiful animal is also the strongest and most efficient, and the periods of
high vitality are always accompanied by the most ornamental devel-
opments and the most vivid coloring. From generation to generation,
the strongest, best armed, and most brilliant sticklebacks have con-
quered the feebler or uglier in battle, and have been selected as hus-
bands by the greater number of their fastidious mates. None but the
brave deserve the fair ; and, among sticklebacks, none but the brave
succeed in winning them. I do not doubt that the stickles also prove
incidentally useful to the fish in protecting him from the attacks of
larger predatory species ; sticklebacks are seldom attacked by perch
or trout, and an instance is on record where a pike has been choked
by one of these tiny creatures, which erected its sharp spines in his
throat as the greedy monster tried to swallow it ; but this secondary
purpose is only a derivative one ; the spines themselves must origi-
nally have been developed, as in all other cases, for the wedding
tournaments between stickleback and stickleback. It is thus that the
horns and tusks of higher animals primarily produced in the internecine
combats of the males are occasionally employed for external defense ;
thus that the spurs and beaks of birds are occasionally turned to the
protection of their fledglings. But it may be laid down as a general
law of biology, in spite of misconceptions and misstatements to the con-
trary, that no animal habitually and normally fights any other creatures
except individuals of its own species. Dog fights dog, and tiger tiger ;
but game-cocks do not engage with turkeys, nor do stags usually join
battle with buffaloes or bears.
