832 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
doorway. As he mats the fibers together by cieeping over them with
his body, he cements them firmly with the slimy mucus that exudes
from his skin. He is a quick worker, not to say a jerry builder (any
one can watch the whole process easily for himself in a fresh-water
aquarium), and he only takes a few hours in getting the entire resi-
dence completed from basement to coping-stone. As soon as it is fin-
ished, the little architect sets out on his quest of a partner or partners
ready to occupy it. If he meets a rival on the way, the two small
Turks fight out their differences at once on the spot,. while the bride-
elect amicably stands by expectant, and accepts the conqueror. When
she emerges from her hiding-place under the waving weeds and comes
out, the guerdon of his prowess, to survey the nest he has deftly woven
for her, the tiny sultan positively dances and curvets around her, mad
with delight, as an acute observer has well worded it. lie darts
round her in every direction ; then to his accumulated materials for
the nest ; then back again in an instant, and, as she does not advance,
he endeavors to push her with his snout, and then tries to pull her by
the tail and side-spine to the nest. Indeed, there is a deal more that
is human and natural in the lives of all these little despised creatures
than the people who laugh at theories of tittlebats have ever stooped
to notice or discover.
As soon as the stickleback has duly inducted the partner of his
choice with many caresses into the home he has built for her, or rather
for her offspring, he introduces her by the door he has left in the side
into the closed chamber. In a few minutes the bride has laid two
or three tiny, transparent yellow eggs, after which she bores a hole
with her snout on the side of the nest opposite to that by which she
entered, and makes her exit, a divorced wife, without further formali-
ties. The nest, says Dr. Gunther, has now two doors, and the
eggs are exposed to the cool stream of water, which entering by one
door flows out at the other. This, of course, by keeping up a fresh
and constant current, supplies them with the oxygen necessary for
hatching. Next day, the little sultan goes out again in quest of a
fresh mate, and brings back his new bride to add a few more eggs to
his stock of spawn. This operation he repeats daily until the nest is
nearly full ; and then the fond father sets to work himself at the con-
genial task of incubation. For among fish it is almost always the
male, not the female, who sits upon the eggs and charges himself with
the care and education of the young fry.
For the subsequent stages, I can not do better than quote Frank
Bucklands animated account of a case observed by the learned curator
of the Norwich Museum. Nothing, says the genial naturalist and
angler, could exceed the attention from this time evinced by the male
fish, lie kept constant watch over the nest, every now and then
shaking up the materials and dragging out the eggs, and then pushing
them into their receptacles again and tucking them up with his snout,
