834 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the bottom, where they may disport themselves at their ease until
they grow strong enough to venture on a wider range of thought and
action. If rival papas or hungry mammas attempt to devour them, he
falls upon the assailants in a violent fury, and carried away, it would
appear, by the warmth of his feelings, occasionally goes so far as actu-
ally to indulge in acts of cannibalism. For this I do not commend
him. No amount of ethical enthusiasm can ever justify a truly moral
being in devouring the persons of his fallen enemies.
Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society are probably aware
that in the neighborhood of London, and more precisely through the
parish of Wandsworth, there flows a minor tributary of Thames, by
name the Wandle. This stream, as the sportive youth of South
London know full well, abounds in sticklebacks of all ages and sexes ;
and here it was that Mr. Smee, one of the chief contributors to the
modern theory of tittlebats, first observed their habits and manners.
They are very pugnacious and cunning creatures, says he, in his
charming work, My Garden. They build a nest and protect it.
In the middle of May I observed a stickleback evidently guarding a
circle of about two inches in diameter, and chasing away every other
fish which came within his domain. On closer examination, I saw at
the bottom a small circular plate of the same size, made of fiber, but
arranged level with the bed of the stream. Suspecting a nest, I care-
fully raised it, when it proved to contain two parcels of eggs, which
were about the size of a large pins head. I immediately replaced the
material as well as I could in its former place ; but the stickleback
was not at all satisfied with my arrangement, and set to work dili-
gently to adjust it himself. He brought little bits of fiber and thrust
them into the mass, and rearranged the larger fibers. When he was
perfectly satisfied with what he had done, he mounted guard and
rushed at any other fish which came near him. Afterward, I found
these nests by scores, each protected by its guardian stickleback ; and
in the month of May I can always delight my visitors by showing
them a nest presided over by the pugnacious little fish. I may add
that similar nests are to be found in almost every brook or pond in
England at the appropriate season : only, you must be born with the
proper eye for seeing them. It is not every man who can discern stick-
leback. I once conducted a statistical survey of all the lizards inhab-
iting Great Britain and Ireland, and came to the conclusion, as the
result of my census, that the lacertine population of the United King-
dom numbers at least two hundred million, or more than five times
the human beings ; and yet how often most people on their walks
abroad meet a man, and how very, very seldom they happen upon a
lizard !
Sticklebacks are not by any means the only fish which thus take
care of their helpless progeny during the first weeks of infancy. It
must be remembered that our acquaintance with the domestic habits
