THE THEORY OF TITTLEBATS. 835
and manners of fishes, and especially of the marine species, is hut
sporadic and fragmentary ; opportunities for ohservation are rare on
the sea-hottom, while, as for aquariums, the life there is so strained
and unnatural that we learn for the most part little more from that
source than one would learn of the intricacies of human existence by
watching the interiors of prisons and of convents, But even among
the few fish at all intimately known to us at present, there are several
which deserve high commendation for their able and conscientious dis-
charge of their paternal duties. Certain cat-fish, for example, and
many other species, construct nests like good fathers, and guard the
spawn deposited in them by their unnatural spouses. One siluroid
bearing the suggestive classical name of Arius actually carries the
eggs about with him in his own mouth, and there devotedly hatches
them. There is a fish of the Sea of Galilee, locally supposed to be the
very kind from whose mouth St. Peter took the miraculous denarius
for the payment of the apostles tribute, and this pious and well-
principled creature (even his scientific name is CJiromis sacra) holds
his eggs in the same fashion, and hatches them out in his capacious
pharynx. Among the pipe-fish and sea-horses, including the well-
known hippocampus of the Mediterranean and the Westminster Aqua-
rium, Nature has gone one step further in the direction of parental
supervision. These fish have a regular pouch like the kangaroo, in
which the excellent papa retains the young till they are of full age to
shift for themselves.
Yet even here it is the fond father, not the gay and careless
mother, who wheels about the family perambulator : only two known
cases occur among fish where the mother takes any part at all in the
hatching or education of her own young. One is a cat-fish from Brit-
ish Guiana, whose under surface becomes soft and spongy after the
spawning-season. The mother, as soon as she has laid her eggs, presses
them hard into this spongy integument by lying on top of them.
There they stick, and she carries them about in the pits thus formed,
much as the familiar Surinam toad carries about her hatching ova and
tadpoles in the skin of her back. The other instance is that of a sin-
gular pipe-fish from the Indian Ocean, who forms a pouch for her
young by allowing her ventral fins to coalesce with the soft skin of
her under surface. These two examples of devoted maternity, how-
ever, scarcely suffice to absolve the mother-fish as a class from the
general charge of heartless desertion brought against them by modern
ichthyologists.
It is worth while, perhaps, to note in passing (since a theory of
tittlebats is nothing if not exhaustive) that the eggs of stickleback
are larger in proportion to the size of the full-grown individual than
those of any other known fish. Why is this ? Simply because the
stickleback are good fathers, who take great care of their callow
young. (I dont know what callow means, as applied to a fish, but I
