836 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
feel sure it is a neat and appropriate epithet.) Where the chances of
infant mortality rule high, the mother-animal must produce vast num-
bers of small and ill-supplied eggs in order to provide against the ad-
verse possibilities. That careless parent, the cod, who lays her spawn
unprotected upon the shallow banks, for thousands of greedy enemies
to devour, often produces at a single birth as many as from four to
nine million separate eggs. But just in proportion as the eggs and
young are more efficiently guarded and provided for in life does it
become possible to economize in the number of germs originally pro-
duced, and to give each at the outset a fair supply of yolk to start
well in life with. Compare the myriad tiny black seeds of the poppy,
which take their even chances anywhere that fate may carry them,
with the richly stored bean or pea or filbert, well provided with nutri-
ment for the growing seedling, and you will see at once the force of
the analogy here intended. The codfish lays a great many ill-supplied
eggs, and lets them shift for themselves in the open sea as best they
may, on the off chance of one among four million or so reaching ma-
turity ; the stickleback lays comparatively few large and well-supplied
eggs, but the amiable father watches with tender solicitude over the
safety of all, so that on an average two at least out of each mothers
small brood must needs survive to years of adult sticklebackhood.
I have spoken of the stickleback genus so far as though, like the
French Republic, it were one and indivisible. Such, however, is not
the case. The family has split up into several minor sections, each
adapted to particular situations. There are some ten known species
of stickleback, and the facts hitherto noted apply most especially (save
in a few instances) to one above all others among them, the common
British three-spined stickleback. All the varieties are pretty much
alike in all essential points, having the same long, flat-sided bodies,
with hard cheeks, while parts of the skeleton usually form an external
coat of mail, and grow out into large scutes or shields along the sides.
On their back are more or fewer of the spines from which the entire
group take their generic name, nine in one species, fifteen in another,
three only in the commonest English form, and no more than two in
the pretty little North American example. One of them has adapted
itself to brackish water and the open sea ; the others are all fresh-
water forms, though most of them at a pinch can manage a sea-voyage
without serious damage to their constitutions. They are a north tem-
perate family by origin ; in other words, they have sprung up in the
rivers of the sub-Arctic zone, and have not yet spread beyond the
Arctic and temperate regions of the northern hemisphere on both sides
of the Atlantic.
Our common little British river stickleback, the familiar tittlebat
of the Serpentine and the Hampstead Ponds, is the three-spined form
( Gastrosteus aculeatus) ; and he has generally, in addition to his offen-
sive spines, a series of defensive shields or plates along the gleaming
