THE THEORY OF TITTLEBATS. 837
side of the body. In Central Europe, however, these shields generally
disappear, I suppose through the absence of some dangerous enemy to
whose attacks the little creature is habitually subject in our British
waters. This last idea, however, must be accepted as purely theoreti-
cal for I can not suggest who that enemy may be. The three-spined
btickleback is a very active and voracious little fellow, exceedingly
destructive to the fry of carp or trout, and therefore, of course, highly
detrimental in ponds where the preservation of larger fish is a matter
of interest. It is scarcely to be conceived, says our great piscicultural
authority, Dr. Giinther, what damage these little creatures do, or how
prejudicial they are to the increase of all the other fishes among whom
they live. Their industry, sagacity, greediness, and success in seeking
out and destroying all the young fry that come in their way are indeed
simply marvelous. To take a single instance, a small three-spined
stickleback kept in an aquarium devoured in five hours time, by actual
observation, seventy-four young dace, each a quarter of an inch long.
Two days after, the same unconscionable little gourmand swallowed
sixty-two, and seemed as hungry at the end of that bout as if he had
never tasted breakfast. Considering that stickleback sometimes sim-
ply swarm in rivers, ascending them facto agmine in amazing shoals,
the damage they are calculated to do to the trout and bream fishery
can only be adequately known to Professor Huxley, who has long and
truly urged that the number of fish caught or destroyed by mans will
sinks into what the French scientists call tine quantite negligeable by
the side of the havoc everywhere wrought through the natural enemies
of each species.
Our other native British fresh-water kinds are the nine-spined stick-
leback (commonly called the ten-spined out of pure cussedness) and
the four-spined, also known as the smooth-tailed, though authorities
differ much as to the division of species, some making many and some
few. The nine-spined variety is a very small kind, more or less estua-
rine and semi-marine in his tastes, a frequenter of the river-banks about
Southend and Chatham, and much given to migrating in shoals up the
creeks and backwaters in early spring. He can also generally be dis-
covered at the Ship or the Trafalgar during the fish-dinner season,
trying to pass himself off in good company as a distinguished fish
among a plateful of whitebait ; but his imposture may be easily de-
tected by observing the tiny stickles on his back, which are too small,
indeed, to make him unpleasant eating, but quite big enough to pre-
vent him from giving himself any aristocratic airs on the strength of
his resemblance to a parliamentary delicacy. His sides are perfectly
smooth and unprotected, and he may be investigated by the curious,
nest and all, nearly everywhere among the brackish marshes of the
Thames estuary.
The fifteen-spined stickleback or sea-adder is our one marine Eng-
lish species, common on many parts of the British coast, and specially
