7 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
time for reading or other means of rescue from mental torpor, are
among the causes of loss of mental balance.
Dr. Elisha Harris, Corresponding Secretary of the Prison Associa-
tion of New York, who has made a special study of the criminal
classes, says that habitual criminals spring almost exclusively from
degenerating stock. Thus, physiological unsoundness is moral decay..
The inference is obvious, and the remedy for criminality from this
source stares us in the face. Hygienic methods of living, which, with
judicious medical precautions and care, tend toward the prevention of
physical degeneration, will tend in an equal ratio to lessen the number
of candidates for criminal careers.
The correctional discipline which is sought after (if not found) in
our reformatories and prisons, is not only vastly more expensive, but
far less satisfactory, than would be the application of preventive
measures.
Professor Ferris, in a paper on the hygiene of schools,* says : I
can not recall ever having visited a room occupied by forty or fifty
pupils that could be said to be properly ventilated ; and, under the in-
fluence of impure air, study is irksome and good behavior difficult.
Thus in our very schools the seeds of physical deterioration and
moral degeneracy are sown in the tender bodies and unresisting minds
of these criminals of the future, condemned beforehand foreor-
dained by their unhealthful, and hence immoral, surroundings to
careers of pauperism and crime. For their future detention and safe-
keeping, living mausoleums are built and officered and maintained at
an expense in money but grudgingly supplied for properly constructed
school-houses, and at a human sacrifice which I will not attempt to esti-
mate. The preventive method of dealing with immorality, on the other
hand, anticipates the development of the potential offender by effect-
ing ameliorations in public and individual health and by methods of
education which include moral training ; thus removing many of the
predisposing causes of immorality the development of sound minds
in sound bodies yielding the necessary product of well-balanced lives.
Men do not, as a rule, become moral by intuition (although the
moral genius, like the musical prodigy, is not unknown), but by patient
organization of the moral faculties. The phenomena of vice and crime
take place, not from any aberration of the laws of Nature, but in exact
accordance with them, since educational neglects and unsanitary con-
ditions, with their resulting diseases, lead to imperfect mental devel-
opment or to the perversion of normal mental qualities. The develop-
ment of moral activities must be recognized as dependent on the
same principles as that of other activities, and the human being must
be trained in morals as he is trained in athletics, in music, and in the
mechanic or other arts. By dint of forging, one becomes a black-
smith, says the French proverb ; while all the talk of all the black-
* Book of Ilealth, Malcolm Morris.
