SKETCH OF KARL WILHELM SCHEELE. 839
SKETCH OF KAKL WILHELM SCHEELE.
THE life of Scheele affords a most conspicuous example in the his-
tory of science of a worker who has accomplished great things
with the most limited resources. We stand astonished, said Pro-
fessor Cleve, in his oration at the celebration of the one-hundredth
anniversary of the chemists death from, which we have derived most
of the materials for this sketch that a man who only reached his
forty-third year should have been able, during his short life, always
tormented by material wants, to have arrived, by means restricted and
inconvenient, at results which have had so mighty an influence on
chemistry. Dumas, comparing him with Lavoisier and Priestley, has
said of him that brought up in a pharmacy, poor and modest, unknown
to every one, and hardly knowing himself, inferior to the former but
superior to the latter, vanquishing Nature by the force of patience and
genius, he snatched her secrets from her and assured an eternal fame
for himself.
Karl Wilhelm Scheele was descended from an old family of
German origin, and was born at Stralsund, Sweden, December 9 or 19
(authorities differ), 1742. He gave no particular promise in childhood,
but was considered slow, and only moderately intelligent. He took
no part in the sports of his brothers and sisters, but amused himself
with making all sorts of little objects, and would appear greatly
pleased when any of his devices proved successful. His instruction
began early at home, and he was at a later period given the usual
course at the gymnasium in Stralsund. He became interested in phar-
macy through the influence of two friends of the family ; and, when
fourteen years of age, he was entered as an apprentice with Banch, a
pharmacist of Gothenburg, where he soon found himself at home. A
friend suggested to him to study chemistry, and his real vocation was
revealed to him by the reading of the works of Neumann. From
these he advanced to the works of Lemery, of Stahl, the author of the
theory of phlogiston, and of Kunkel, the discoverer of phosphorus.
He used to repeat secretly at night the experiments he read about in
these books, and thus accustomed himself early to do the works of the
masters over again with the most scanty and imperfect materials.
After six years of apprenticeship and two years longer of residence
in Gothenburg, Scheele became engaged at Malmo, with the phar-
macist Kjellstrdm, who, having himself a taste for experimental chem-
istry, could sympathize with him. He spent his spare money in
buying books upon this science ; and it was during his residence here
that he made the researches on the Sal acetosellce that led up to the
discovery of oxalic acid. He sent a memoir on this subject to the
Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, which Bergman, to whom he in-
trusted it, withheld, because, he said, it contained nothing new.
