840 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In 1768 lie obtained a place in a pharmacy at Stockholm, where he
was not allowed any part in laboratory-work. He would make experi-
ments, nevertheless, and so he studied from the windows of the shop
the effects of sunlight upon different bodies. He made himself known,
too, at Stockholm as a skillful chemist, and formed friendships with
the distinguished scientific men of the time. In 1770 he removed to
Upsala, where he was installed director of the laboratory-work in a
pharmacy, with permission to continue his own experiments.
Forbern Bergman was then Professor of Chemistry in the Univer-
sity of Upsala, and the two men were soon brought into association.
Scheeles master had remarked that, on exposing melted saltpeter to a
continuous heat, a salt is developed which, on adding acetic acid, gives
out red vapors. Neither the chemist Bergman nor the mineralogist
Gahn could explain the phenomenon. Scheele had an explanation.
He said that the heated saltpeter absorbed phlogiston (is reduced, as
we would have it), and gave the salt of a new acid (nitrous acid),
which is weak, and can be expelled by acetic acid. Gahn told Berg-
man of this explanation, and he sought an introduction to the young
pharmacist. Thus was laid the foundation of a lasting friendship and
co-operation between the two.
In 1775 Scheele obtained the direction of the pharmacy of Koping,
whose proprietor had just died, leaving the concern to his widow.
This gave him a more comfortable subsistence than he had enjoyed
before, although his task in keeping the establishment in good condi-
tion and paying up its debts was hard enough. Yet he wrote to one
of his friends at about this time : You may think, perhaps, that ma-
terial cares are going to absorb me, and take me away from experi-
mental chemistry. Not at all ! That noble science is my ideal. Be
patient, and you will soon have something new to learn. He was
much annoyed about six months afterward by some one coming to buy
the pharmacy, and offers of other positions came to him from every
side, among them an offer of the superiutendency of a distillery, and
invitations to Stockholm, Berlin, and London, with salaries that would
have been tempting to common men. But the people of Koping said
that they would have no pharmacist but Scheele ; and he declined all
the invitations, saying : I can not do more than eat my meat ; if I
can do that at Koping, I need not seek it elsewhere ; and, in refer-
ence to an offer which had been made to him from Berlin : After
mature reflection, I decline it. I lack considerably of being as far
advanced in chemistry as such a position requires, and I am persuaded
that I shall find my daily bread even at Koping.
During his residence at Koping he only gave himself a single
vacation, when he went to Stockholm to attend a meeting of the Swed-
ish Academy of Sciences, of which he had been elected a member in
1775. It was the only meeting of the Academy he ever attended, al-
though nearly all of his papers were published in its proceedings.
