842 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
on Air and Fire was written in 1775, and published in German in
1777 ; was translated into English in 1780, and into French in 1781.
It contained many facts of great value, together with theories on the
nature of combustion, fire, light, and heat, which can have now only-
historical importance. His researches on the subject, although they
were parallel with those of Priestley, and although Priestley antici-
pated him in the discovery of oxygen, were conducted without any
knowledge of what the English chemist was doing. Scheele showed
in his treatise, from numerous simple and ingenious experiments, that
air is composed of two gases, in a proportion, as he calculated, of about
three to one ; and he described the special properties of oxygen and
nitrogen, as we know them, with their effects on combustion and on
animal and plant life.
From oicoeriments with black magnesia, or the binoxide of man-
ganese and saltpeter, now familiar to all students, Scheele deduced
the theory that heat was a combination of phlogiston and oxygen,
while combustion was the combination of the oxygen of the air with
the phlogiston of the combustible body, resulting in the formation of
the compound above named, or heat. Light was also a combination
of oxygen and phlogiston, but richer in phlogiston than heat. The
different kinds of light were different combinations of oxygen and
phlogiston an assertion which was based upon the fact that violet
light exercises a stronger decomposing influence on the chloride of
silver than does light of the other colors. Thus Scheele was the dis-
coverer of the fact which is the basis of photography. He found that
fluor-spar became phosphorescent when heated moderately, but not
when heated to incandescence. This was because the mineral contains
phlogiston, which, under a moderate heating, unites with the heat and
forms light ; but when heat is applied to the degree of incandescence,
the phlogiston is all taken away and light can not be formed.
Hydrogen, or inflammable air, as it was then called, he regarded as
composed of phlogiston and heat. But after Lavoisier, Cavendish,
and Priestley had shown that water is produced by the combustion of
hydrogen, and hydrogen is formed by passing the vapor of water over
incandescent iron, Scheele changed his theory of oxygen, and assumed
that it was composed of a saline principle of water and phlogiston ;
of these components, the former gave heat with phlogiston, and water
caused an increase in the weight of the burned body. These theories
attracted much attention at the time ; but they are no part of science,
for they were quickly dispelled by the publication of Lavoisiers more
correct views on combustion. But the facts which Scheele sought to
explain by them nearly all his own discoveries remain, valuable
gifts to chemistry.
His experiments with fluor-spar, carried on in the course of his in-
vestigations on light, led to the discovery of hydrofluoric acid, and its
property of acting on glass. In the course of three years researches
