CORRESP ONDENCE.
8+5
CORRESPONDENCE.
MEDIAEVAL JEWISH SCIENCE.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
SIR : President White, in New Battles
of Science, shows up the reactionary
influence of the Christian writers in the
middle ages on the knowledge of Nature,
beginning with Cosmas Indicopleustes and
ending with Albertus Magnus their denial
of the earths spherical shape, their bring-
ing rain from beyond the firmament, etc.,
all on the strength of Scripture. Now, 1 am
proud to say that my brethren, the Jewish
scholars of the middle ages, did nothing
to push science backward, but took it up
cheerfully where the Greeks had left it.
The two leading philosophic works of mid-
dle-age Judaism, both written in Southern
Spain, and in the Arabic tongue, are the
Moreh Nebochim (Teacher of the Per-
plexed ) of Maimonides, strongly rational-
ising, and therefore ill received by many,
and the Cozari (feigned conversations
with a Chazar, khan, converted to Juda-
ism), of the great Jewish hymn-writer, Je-
huda llallevi, published in a.d. 1140, thor-
oughly orthodox. He rejects the meta-
physics of Aristotle and of Epicurus, but
recognizes what Greece has achieved in
physics. Speaking of the Sabbath (Part II,
20), he assumes for the three Eastern
Continents an extent of twelve hours, or
180 in longitude, and a like extent for the
ocean, which Columbus had not yet parted
in two ; he puts Jerusalem midway between
Tsin (China) and westernmost Africa, and
tells us that when the Sabbath begins there
on Friday evening at six it is midnight in
China, and still Friday noon in the extreme
West. Not exact, according to our lights,
but up to all the light of his own time.
Elsewhere lie boasts of the astronomic
learning of Rabbi Samuel, an early Tal-
mudic writer, and shows that he and his
friends studied the stars only for the pur-
poses of the calendar, new moons, and
equinoxes, not with any view to horoscopes.
He states with pride that, in the rules for
killing and examining beasts for food, the
Talmud shows more knowledge of the anat-
omy of the lungs than can be found in Ga-
len. He also claims that long experience
had proved the Jewish measurement of the
synodic month and tropical year to be more
correct than the numbers given by Ptolemy.
He finds no occasion to speak of the origins
of rains and thunder-storms ; but the ab-
surd notion that rain comes from beyond
the firmament could never occur to any of
the Old Testament writers, who lived on the
narrow strip between the Great Sea and the
Syrian Desert, and got their rain with the
west wind and their dry heat with the
dreaded east wind (kadim), nor to any one
who read their books in the Hebrew text.
The Cozari proves that in the darkest
ages our race kept its mind unclouded.
The opinion that thunder-storms are the
work of the devil or of evil spirits could not
grow up among a people who were taught
from their childhood to greet lightnings or
falling-stars with the benediction, Blessed
be thou, Lord, who doth the work of
creation ! and to welcome thunder with the
kindred formula, Blessed be thou, Lord,
of whose strength and of whose might the
world is full ! Respectfully,
Lewis N. Dembitz.
Louisville, Kentucky, July 11, 1S87.
HATS AND BALDNESS.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir: A few months ago you published
in the pages of the Monthly an article on
hats as a cause of baldness, which has been
extensively quoted and has attracted much
attention. I have delayed writing to you
on the subject until I had leisure to look
up an article written by my father, the late
Dr. Austin Flint, nearly thirty-five years
ago. I send an extract from this article
which appeared as an editorial in the Buf-
falo Medical Journal, March, 1853, No. 10,
page 651, and was entitled Hats and Bald-
ness :... The most characteristic trait
of the hat is the tightness with which it en-
circles the head. Herein consists, in our
opinion, its agency in the loss of hair. The
stove-pipe hat must needs encircle the head
tightly, in order to be secure in its position
in spite of wind and other disturbing forces.
To appreciate the degree of compression,
one has only to note the indentation on the
forehead after a tightly-fitting hat has been
worn for some time. Everybody knows
how commonly this is to be observed. The
head is, in fact, pretty firmly ligated while
the hat is worn. Now, what must be the
effect of this on the circulation ? Plainly,
the effect is to interrupt the circulation in
the scalp above the circle on which the com-
pression is made. It is precisely like tying
a cord around the head, sufficiently to di-
minish, if not stop, for the time, the flow of
blood through the temporal and other ar-
