8 4 6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
teries by which the blood is distributed to
the superior portion of the scalp. The hair-
follicles, as is well known, are very vascular.
Their functions require this vascularity, and
an adequate, constant supply of oxygenated
blood. If this supply be diminished, the
growth and nutrition of the hairs are pro-
portionally affected ; and, finally, the pulp
inclosed in the follicle withers and dies, as
does any other part when deprived of the
pabulum vitas. This effect occurs on the
crown, because interruption of the circula-
tion in arteries is always felt most in the
parts to which the terminal branches are
distributed.
Such is our explanation of the fact
that baldness is so frequently observed in
the young and middle-aged men of the pres-
ent generation. The remedy is to repudiate
the present fashion of hats. Let some in-
ventive genius devise a substitute for the
unseemly, as well as hair-destructive, article
which is now the mode, and we are firmly
convinced that toupees will become objects
of curiosity rather than utility, and the bald
pate will again be venerated as the distin-
guishing trait of old age. . . .
Austin Flint, M. D.
NO. 14 WrST TntRTY-THIRD Strket, I
New York City, August 25, 1887. )
THE MEANING OF EDUCATION.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir : In an article on Modern Over-
Education in the July number of The
Popular Science Monthly, taken from
Land and Water, the writer says, The
Latin word educo, from which our English
word is derived, means simply to draw out
or to train.
It will be remembered that there are
two words in the Latin, spelled alike, but
with somewhat different meaning : the one
educo, educcre, meaning to lead forth, to
draw out, etc., from which we get educe and
eduction ; the other, educo, educate, mean-
ing to bring up a child physically or men-
tally, to rear, to educate, also to
nourish, support, etc. It is from the
latter, of course, that we get our word
education, from which it will appear
that the idea originally conveyed by it was
not simply that of leading or drawing forth,
but of rearing, nourishing, and the like. It
seems to me well to bear in mind that the
educator must see to it that the minds
placed under his care need nourishment, as
well as the drawing forth or training of the
faculties, if they are to be properly devel-
oped and strengthened. In other words,
there must be wholesome food for mind as
well as for body, besides the necessary ex-
ercise or gymnastics.
Mere exercitation, independently of what
is presented to the attention, can scarcely be
expected to accomplish the best results.
I have ventured to send you this note
because I have reason to believe that quite
a number mistake the true etymology of
our word education, and that there is
something to be gained by a proper consid-
eration of its true origin.
Very respectfully yours,
L. L. Hollapay.
Hampden Sidney, Virginia, July 9, 18S7.
AN EXPLANATION.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir: I had not intended to reply to any
further communication of Miss Gardeners,
but as in her letter, published in your
September issue, she accuses me of a willful
deception, it seems necessary that I should
again address you.
In my paper on Brain-Forcing in Child-
hood I stated that the human head does
not grow after the seventh year, and that
the hat that is worn at that age can be worn
just as well at thirty. For this statement
Miss Gardener, in her first communication,
called me to an account, and I in my an-
swer admitted, as I thought frankly, that I
had made a mistake, and that I should have
said brain instead of head. She now, in
her last letter, endeavors to make it appear
that I had asserted that, by a slip of the
pen or by some other inadvertence, I had
said head when I meant brain.
My language admits of no such inter-
pretation except from one anxious to misin-
terpret. I made a mistake. I thought the
fact was as I had stated it, and when I found
out my error, and that it is the brain and
not the head that does not grow after the
age of seven, I made the proper correction.
In all the points necessary to my argument
I was right, for the hair, skin, muscles, etc.,
of the head can not be regarded, even by
Miss Gardener, as contributing to intelli-
gence.
Miss Gardeners attack is a quibble al-
together unworthy of her. She might prop-
erly have censured me for my thoughtless-
ness or ignorance, but that is all. I have
never been ashamed to confess my mistakes,
and to allow my adversaries to get what-
ever comfort from them they can extract,
and she is welcome to make the most of my
error in this matter.
As to the point in question, it is scarce-
ly to be supposed that, knowing that Miss
Gardener was in possession of my whole
statement, I should have endeavored to de-
ceive either her or the public in the matter.
William A. Hammond.
[Want of space compels the termina-
tion of this correspondence with the present
letter. Editor.]
