EDITORS TABLE.
847
EDITORS TABLE.
ENCROACHMENTS OF THE STATE.
THE article by Dr. Shaw, in a re-
cent number of the Contem-
porary Eeview, on The American
State and the American Man, has start-
ed inquiry as to the extent to which in-
dividual liberty is being encroached upon
in this country by the extension of
State functions. The result bas been
to show that, in most of the States of
the Union, a rapid process is taking
place of transference to the government
of functions and responsibilities here-
tofore devolving on the private citizen.
It would almost seem as if people had
found a new toy the power of legis-
lative action and were playing with it
with a kind of greedy zest. According
to the accounts furnished, there is a
perfect rain, not to say deluge, of statu-
tory regulations on every conceivable
subject proceeding from our State Leg-
islatures. Acts of incorporation are
granted to every body of persons who
come forward and claim that it would
be a public benefit if they were granted
the powers and privileges of a corpora-
tion, and intrusted with the control of
some particular art or profession. The
general result of this legislative activity
is that free competition is suppressed,
and individuals are released to a large
extent from all responsibility of choice
as to how or through whom they shall
get this thing or that thing done. The
State legalizes certain schools of medi-
cine and refuses to legalize others. It
makes the taking out of its certificates
obligatory on all who would engage in
the profession of teaching. It provides
for the inspection and stamping of va-
rious articles of merchandise. It seeks,
as far as possible, apparently, to reduce
the life of each individual citizen to a
kind of safe mechanical routine. So
soon, indeed, as a burden of responsi-
bility begins to be felt in any quarter,
some busy law-maker, moved by some
interested party, offers to lighten the
load by a special act of legislation.
What should not be lost sight of is, that
there is always somebody who stands
ready to make money out of each new
law inscribed on the statute - book.
Back of the whole body of oleomarga-
rine legislation stands the farmer who
does not want his butter -trade sub-
jected to a trying competition. And
so with all special laws of a protective
kind. We hear of a demand made in
one quarter for the incorporation of
the music-teaching profession, so that
henceforth no one may venture to in-
culcate the elements of music save in
accordance with the views and theories
of the incorporators. Of course, these
public - spirited ladies and gentlemen,
who are so anxious to protect the com-
munity from the injury which might
be inflicted by ill-prepared music-teach-
ers, have their own interests to serve
in the business. Competition will be
restricted, and all who want to teach
will have to pass through the probation
which it may please the incorporators
to prescribe. People who want to earn
an honest living by imparting the lit-
tle they know will find their pathway
blocked by a special law passed in the
interest of the magnates of the pro-
fession.
Dr. Shaw, in the article above re-
ferred to, says that there is no use in try-
ing to draw a distinction between func-
tions that the State may properly under-
take and those which it should abstain
from assuming. The sooner, he holds,
we come down to the position that every
thing is a lawful subject of State inter-
ference, and that the question is never
