LITERARY NOTICES.
849
importance of teaching physics in the
public schools.
The greatest interest was centered
in the Economic Section, where a full
day was given to the hearing and dis-
cussion of the two papers by Professor
Atwater, on The Physiological and
Pecuniary Economy of Food, and
The Food of Workingmen and its
Relation to the Work done ; and
where, at other sessions, President 0.
M. Woodward, speaking from what had
been accomplished under his own su-
pervision, as well as with reference to
its practical bearing; and Professor
James, looking largely to the future
and to the economical side, presented
the advantages of manual training in
the public schools.
In the Engineering and Mechanical
Section, Mr. Edison, by proxy, explained
his new pyro-magnetic dynamo, or ma-
chine for producing electricity directly
from fuel ; and Mr. P. H. Dudley de-
scribed his method for the mechanical
inspection of railroad-tracks, by which
the slightest flaw or unevenness is
detected at once and automatically
marked. Professor Riess method of
securing the adhesion of locomotives
to railway tracks by the application of
electricity, and thus adding to their
tractive force without increasing their
weight, promises to be of value if it is
made practicable.
A joint meeting of the Engineering
and Economical Sections was held for
the consideration of plans for inter-
oceanic communication, at which the
merits of the Nicaragua Canal scheme
were presented in full. A variety of
topics of interest were considered
m the Anthropological and Biological
Sections; and the transactions of the
Physical and Chemical Sections were of
interest chiefly to persons engaged in
those lines of research.
The Association asked, by resolu-
tion, for a reduction of the tariff on
scientific books ; advised the provision,
by act of Congress, of a Bureau of
vol. xxxi. 54
Standards of Measurement for Electric-
ity, Heat, Light, etc. ; requested the
President to appoint as permanent Su-
perintendent of the Geodetic Survey a
man of scientific attainments and trained
in that branch ; recommended the pub-
lication of an index to the publications
of the Signal Service; and appointed
two committees to secure measures for
the preservation of mounds and relics
of ethnological and archaeological inter-
est one, to consult with the national
authorities respecting relics situated on
public lands ; the other, with the pow-
ers of the States with reference to those
within their several territories.
LITERARY NOTICES.
The Margin of Profits. By Edward
Atkinson. New York : Putnams. 1887.
Price, $1.
This work consists of a lecture delivered
before the Central Labor Lyceum of Boston,
in May last, together with a reply made at
the time by Mr. E. M. Chamberlin, and Mr.
Atkinsons rejoinder. The object of the
lecture was to show that the capitalist is the
friend and not the enemy of the laborer,
whatever disagreement there may at times
be between them. Mr. Atkinson first draws
attention to the fact that the margin of
profit that is, the share of the capitalist in
the product of industry is by no means so
large as workingmen are apt to suppose.
To prove this, he cites the example of the
cotton industry, with which he is perfectly
familiar, and gives a statement of the entire
cost of production, from the raising of the
cotton to the completion of the cloth, show-
ing how much is paid out at each step of
the process for labor on the one hand and
for capital on the other. He illustrates his
analysis of the industry by a chart, and gives
the following as the result of the examina-
tion:
When you buy forty yards of cotton
cloth at two dollars and fifty cents, you pay
the owner of the mill fifteen cents profit,
but you also pay about fifteen cents more to
other people for profit that is, thirty cents
profit in all ; and you pay two dollars and
twenty cents directly for labor (p. 28).
