850
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
It thus appears that in the cotton busi-
ness the share of the capitalist is only one
eighth of the product, while labor gets the
other seven eighths ; and, according to Mr.
Atkinson, there is no Other industry in which
the capital is so large in proportion to the
product as in this.
The author then proceeds to show that the
great improvements in the production that
have been made in recent times with the
consequent increase of capital, though bene-
fiting the capitalist largely, have benefited
the laborer still more. He remarks that in
his judgment there has never been a period
in the history of the world in which there
have been so many important new inven-
tions or so many applications of previous
inventions, all tending to human welfare, as
in the last twenty-five years (p. 109). He
adds that during this period, while prices
of the necessaries of life have diminished
and while the cost of production has been
reduced, the wages or earnings of labor,
subject to temporary fluctuations, have been
steadily increased. And he concludes that
we are not far away from a period when,
either with or without legislation, but, as I
myself believe, in spite of meddlesome legis-
lation, the arduous struggle for life will be
greatly relieved, both in the time which it
will be necessary to give and in the inten-
sity of the work which it will be necessary
to apply thereto (pp. 110, 111). In evi-
dence of these statements he cites a number
of statistics showing how great has been
the fall in prices in many branches of in-
dustry since 1860, while the wages of labor
have largely increased.
Mr. Atkinson is strongly opposed to the
eight-hour law, holding that the hours of
labor can not be permanently reduced ex-
cept by improvements in production ; and
this is one of the principal points at issue
between himself and Mr. Chamberlin. The
latter gentleman, however, in his reply to
Mr. Atkinson, takes the ground which many
other labor-champions do, that capital and
labor are natural enemies ; that labor, mean-
ing manual labor, is the sole creator of
wealth ; with other views of like character
and as little foundation, nis argument for
the laborers cause is, indeed, far from
being a strong one, and his opponent has
little difficulty in answerin; it.
Mr. Atkinsons views are given in a plain
colloquial style, but often very apt and ex-
pressive. He quotes from Emerson the
saying that mankind is as lazy as it dares
to be, and tells his hearers and readers that
efficiency in work and economy in expenditure
are the only means of acquiring wealth and
improving ones condition. He estimates that
the American people waste on an average five
cents a day for each person, which amounts
to a thousand million dollars a year for the
whole nation. He affirms that the capitalist
is the laborers friend, not his enemy ; and
that the prosperity of each is necessary to
that of the other. He declares it to be a
great blunder to say that, while the rich are
growing richer, the poor are growing poorer ;
it is only the poor who cant work well or
who wont work well, who grow poor while
the rich are growing rich in this country.
And he adds that there are two things
very much needed in these days : first, for
rich men to find out how poor men live ;
second, for poor men to know how rich men
work (p. 47). Mr. Atkinsons work, if
read by those to whom it is specially ad-
dressed, can not fail to be useful ; and it is
to be wished that we had more books of a
similar character.
Abuse of Alcoholics by the Healthy. By
Stanford E. Chaille, of Tulanc Uni-
versity, Louisiana. Pp. 36.
In this paper, which is a part of the
transactions of the American Public Health
Association, is given one of the most tem-
perate, candid, and useful estimates of the
effects of alcoholic drinks on the system
that we remember to have seen. A brief
review of the history of the use of spiritu-
ous liquors satisfies the author that we have
no reason to be discouraged respecting the
progress of temperance principles and prac-
tice ; for it renders it obvious that for
many centuries our forefathers nave imbued
their descendants with faith in the health-
giving virtues of alcoholic indulgence. Who
can expect the results of such long-continued
convictions and customs to be eradicated
easily or promptly, and what wonder is it
that men continue to credit alcoholics with
many virtues that they do not possess?
With regard to the physiological action of
alcohol Repeated experiments on robust,
