8,2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
still sought for by intelligent inquirers all
over the world ; and the present chief of
the department has found the answering of
letters from outside the limits of the State,
as well as within them, touching the results
of the surveys, no unimportant part of his
official duties. Mr. Thompsons Compen-
dium includes sketches of the several
geological formations, in their order, which
are exposed in the State, from the Hudson
River Group to the Coal-measures ; an ac-
count of the building-stones, of which the
oolitic- limestone of the Sub-carboniferous
is considered the best in the world ; and
descriptions of the clays, chalk-beds, gla-
cial deposits, and terminal moraine which
passes into Illinois from Warren and Ben-
ton Counties, and into Ohio from Randolph
and Wayne Counties, and may be seen in
section in railroad-cuttings just south of
Lafayette. Attention is called in a special
study by S. S. Sorby to the Wabash Arch, a
line of disturbance whose general direction
is indicated by its name, which, it is believed,
may have some connection with the occur-
rence of natural gas. A paper on the Ori-
gin of the Indiana Flora, considered with
reference to localities as well as in general,
is contributed by Professor Coulter and Har-
vey Thompson ; Mr. Thompson describes
the Post-Pliocene mammals and the devel-
opments of natural gas ; and Mr. Sorby
gives a study of the prehistoric race of the
State. The report of the years special work
includes the surveys of thirteen counties or
parts of counties in the central and north-
ern central parts of Indiana.
Home Sanitation. By the Sanitary Science
Club of the Association of Collegiate
Alumna?. Boston : Ticknor Co. Pp.
80.
The club which avows the responsibility
for this book was organized in November,
1883, for the study of home sanitation. It
found, after two years of devotion to this
purpose, that the expenditure of time and
effort had been amply repaid by positive
and satisfactory results; and that it had
a store of information, derived from the
experiences and observations of its mem-
bers, worthy to be given to the public. This
information is embodied, in the form of pre-
liminary statement and questions, in short
chapters on the Situation of the House
and Care of the Cellar, Drainage and
Plumbing, Ventilation, Heating,
Lighting, Furnishing, Clothing,
Food and Drink, and Sanitary Work
for Women. The important part of the
text is in the questions, which suggest more
than they express or than is conveyed in the
statement above them, and are so framed
that an affirmative answer implies a satis-
factory arrangement, and also suggest a
remedy if the answer is negative. They
have been practically tested by the mem-
bers of the club in their own homes and by
other housekeepers, and have been adopted
as the basis of a course in sanitary science
offered by the Society to Encourage Studies
at Home.
Geological Survey of New Jersey. An-
nual Report of the State Geologist for
the Year 1886. By George H. Cook,
State Geologist. Trenton : The John L.
Murphy Publishing Company. Pp. 254.
The report, which simply records the
work done during the year, is arranged un-
der the four heads of Geographic Sur-
veys, Geological Surveys, Economic
Geology, and Miscellaneous Items. The
work of the geodetic and topographic sur-
veys, though it has all been under the direc-
tion of the State Geologist, has been done
at the expense chiefly of the United States
Coast and Geodetic and Geological Surveys.
The work has been going on for twelve
years, and will require two years more for
completion. Under it the latitude and lon-
gitude have been precisely determined for
four hundred and fifty-two points, which
stand at an average distance of about
twenty-five miles apart. The topographic
survey has been rapidly advanced, and has
been carried over a larger area than iu any
previous year, and now covers eighteen hun-
dred and ninety-seven square miles. The
results are to be recorded in engraved maps
on a scale of one inch to a mile, of which
there will be seventeen, twenty-seven by
thirty -four inches in size. The contour-
lines are drawn on these maps so as to
show every change of twenty feet in eleva-
tion in the hilly portions of the State, and
of ten feet in the more level portions. An-
other important work in this department
has been the fixing of bench-marks for the
accurate determination of elevations, which,
