8 5 +
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the two Houses, this volume appears earlier
than has been usual. It also covers a
shorter length of time, or only half of the
year. The report reviews the progress of
work in all the departments of the Institu-
tion ; the explorations in which it has been
interested, in all parts of North America,
with researches in the remains of prehis-
toric man in parts of France ; publications,
including Dr. Raus Prehistoric Fishing in
Europe and North America ; Vols. XXIV
and XXV of the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge; theSmithsonianMis-
cellaneous Collections, in which are included
several monographs ; the scientific writings
of Professor Joseph Henry ; the Report
on the Reptiles and Batrachians of North
America ; the Bulletin, and Proceed-
ings of the National Museum ; and the
publications of the National Museum. In-
formation is given concerning international
exchanges, and lists of some four thousand
foreign correspondents and of the institu-
tions in the United States to which the
Smithsonian publications are sent. In the
Appendix are found the record of scien-
tific progress in 1885, in the several depart-
ments of research ; various papers relating
to anthropology ; an Index to the Litera-
ture of Uranium, by H. Carrington Bolton ;
and a priced list of Smithsonian publica-
tions.
wlllem usselinsk, founder of the dutch
and Swedish West India Companies.
By J. Franklin Jameson. New York :
G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 234, paper.
Price, $1.
This memoir is one of the papers of the
American Historical Association (Vol. II,
No. 3). It is devoted to one of that class
of promoters of American settlement to
whom the author thinks that less than full
justice has been given of those who,
without themselves having come to this
country, or shared in the picturesque ad-
ventures of the age of settlement, stood
behind all efforts toward colonization, and
assisted them in ways more prosaic, but not
less efficient, nor less deserving of grateful
remembrance the class of colonial project-
ors. . . . It is the object of the present
essay to relate in sufficient detail to enable
its importance to be correctly estimated, the
career of a member of this latter class, a
man almost unknown to the English-reading
public, yet who was, though not directly the
founder, at any rate the originator of two of
our colonies that upon the Hudson, and
that upon the Delaware. In another place
Usselinsk is styled the Lesseps of the sev-
enteenth century. The materials for the
biography have been derived from the
books and pamphlets of Usselinsk, his
manuscripts, and manuscripts concerning
him. The abundance and scope of these
sources are illustrated by the copious bib-
liography which is affixed to the end of the
work.
Voice, Song, and Speech. By Lenox
Browne and Emil Behnke. New York :
G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 248.
This is the seventh edition of a work to
the merits of which we have already called
attention in a notice of a previous edition
in the Monthly for July, 1884. It owes
its origin to the fact that each of the authors
one a surgeon, and the other a teacher
having contributed to the literature of
the human voice, both found their views
one-sided and needing to be complemented
from the experience of the other. They
therefore joined to produce a single com-
prehensive work. In the present edition,
as well as in the sixth, the substitution of
engravings for the expensive photographs
of the larynx and soft palate has made
possible a very considerable reduction in
price from that of the earlier editions.
Local Government in Canada. By John
George Bourinot. Baltimore: N.Mur-
ray. Pp. 72. Price, 50 cents.
This is an historical study in the series
of Johns Hopkins University. The author,
by the public positions he has held, and by
the preparation of an account of the Ori-
gin and Growth of Parliamentary Institu-
tions in the Dominion, has enjoyed excel-
lent opportunities for qualifying himself
for this special research. His attention
was drawn to the subject through the in-
terest awakened by reading the histories
of local government in various of our own
States, which have appeared in this series.
He was convinced that a similar paper on
local government in Canada would be of
value to students of political science. The
