8s6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ties have been abandoned, the schools are
nourishing ; where they are maintained, the
reverse is true. Among hopeful indications
for the future of the common schools are
the efforts for the improvement of the teach-
ing force and for bringing the rural schools
under efficient supervision, and the increase
of the local school-tax in sections of the
country which have hitherto been negligent
of that provision. Brief histories are given
in the report of Governmental Provisions
for Education, and of the growth of State
and local educational reports. Space is given
to the discussion of the methods of colleges,
and of the development of the university
system, and to the subject of industrial
training; and the usual full and detailed
information is given concerning the schools
in the several States ; the different classes
of schools for special and the higher in-
struction ; and to the record of educational
progress in other countries.
The Latest Studies on Indian Reserva-
tions. By J. B. Harrison. Philadel-
phia : Indian Rights Association. Pp.
232.
The author, as a representative of the
Indian Rights Association, spent six months
in 1886 in visiting the schools at Carlisle
and Hampton, and the principal Indian
reservations. His purpose was to observe
whatever was connected with the condition
and character of the schools, farming, home-
life, and missionary work, and the general
and special relations of the Indians to civ-
ilization and their progress therein ; the
character and efficiency of the administra-
tion of affairs ; and the quality of Indian
land and its adaptation to sustain an agri-
cultural population. This book embodies,
in terse language, the results of his obser-
vations. The first part of it consists of
picturesque descriptive notes of what he
saw ; the second part, of opinions and re-
flections suggested to him by it.
Poetry and Philosophy of Goethe. Ed-
ited by Marion V. Dcdley. Chicago :
S. C. Griggs Co. Pp. 300.
This book comprises the lectures and
ex-tempore discussions that were given be-
fore the Milwaukee Literary School in Au-
gust, 1886. They are an Address of Wel-
come, by President John Johnston ; Goe-
thes Wilhehn Meistcr, by Professor W.
T. Harris ; Goethe as a Scientist , by
Mr. James MacAlister ; Goethes Relation
to English Literature, by Mr. F. B. San-
born ; The Divine Comedy and Faust,
by Mrs. Caroline K. Sherman ; Mythology
of the Second Part of Faust, by Professor
D. J. Snider ; The Elective Affinities, by-
Mrs. M. A. Shorcy ; and What is most
valuable to us in German Philosophy and
Literature, by Professor W. T. Harris. To
these are added Some Birthday Tributes,
including essays on Goethe as a Man,
by Professor W. T. Hewitt ; and Goethe
as a Writer, Savant, and Citizen, by Mrs.
Horace Rublee; a letter by Goethe, poet-
ical tributes, and an analysis of The Erl-
King.
Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthro-
pology. From the Smithsonian Report
for 1885. Washington : Government
Printing-Office. Pp. 49.
The first paper in this group Obser-
vations on Stone-Chipping by George Er-
col Sellers, gives the results of the authors
personal observations and researches re-
garding a prehistoric art of which little is
known, and adds to our knowledge on the
subject. The other papers, each also having
its own peculiar interest, are on Copper Im-
plements from Bayfield, Wisconsin, by Col-
onel Charles Whittlesey ; Ancient Remains
in Ohio, by J. P. MacLean ; A Primitive
Store-house of the Creek Indians, by
Charles C. Jones, Jr. ; Shell-Heaps and
Mounds in Florida, by James Shepard ;
Ancient Earthworks in China, by Mark
Williams; and a Plan for American Eth-
nological Investigation, by the late Henry
R. Schoolcraft.
The Doctorate Address delivered at the
Semi Centennial Anniversary of the
University of Louisville, Medical De-
partment. By David W. Yandell, M. D.
Pp. 26.
Dr. Yandell gives a retrospect of the
history of the institution, which was founded
in 1817, with brief notices of the many dis-
tinguished physicians who have filled chairs
of instruction in it. Among these were
Dr. Benjamin Silliman, Jr., and Dr. J. Law-
rence Smith, who also became famous in
general science. A view is also given of
