7 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
it only remains to add that the observance of moral requirements is
essential not only to physical well-being, but to the highest intellectual
development and happiness ; that, in fact, the pursuit of health and
the cultivation of morals are alike to be regarded only as means to
higher ends. It is obvious that the man of fine physique does not live
for the observance of the laws of hygiene merely, but he observes
hygienic laws as a necessary means of comfortable and wise living. So
neither does the upright man live merely for the observance of moral
laws, but he observes moral laws not only as the mode of living which
is alone endurable to him, but as essential to the full realization of
his best possibilities and powers as an intellectual and spiritual being.
Personal morality has, in fact, been defined as the highest degree of
psychical health. From this point of view it appears that as hygi-
enic laws are an expression of the most complete adjustment between
the physical life and its physical environment, so the moral law is an
expression of the most complete adjustment between the psychical
life and the social environment.
The most difficult of ethical problems is regarded as that of unit-
ing the highest well-being of the individual with the greatest good of
society the reconciliation of an advantageous egoism with that degree
of altruism which the welfare of society demands ; but that there is
ultimately no antagonism between these two objects is evident when
we look deeply enough and broadly enough at the problem. The
definition of morality just given brings out the fact that individual
progress and the progress of society at large are inextricably associated
that we can not, if we would, separate ourselves from the great
world of humanity of which we form a part.
Whoever, then, pursues a career which ministers to the welfare of
society as well as to his own individual good, contributes doubly to
the general progress. How conspicuously this applies to the medical
life (and in a far higher sense than is generally understood) it has
been my purpose to show this morning. May you pursue your chosen
work with all the devotion of heart naturally inspired by scientific
truth consecrated to the highest interests of humanity ! In contribut-
ing to these interests, your own personal aims can not fail of satisfac-
tory fulfillment.
The first Roman emperor whose name marks a golden era in his-
tory is said to have claimed as his greatest triumph that, having found
Rome a city of sunburned brick, he should leave it a city of marble.
May your ambition as far exceed that of the great Roman as the
future city of Ethica will outvalue that world-renowned city of the
past ! May you contribute toward the glad appearing of this long-
sought paradise this city of our dreams whose foundations shall be
laid upon recognized natural laws ; whose streets shall be paved with
good intentions realized ; whose walls shall sparkle with the gems and
fine gold of virtuous and generous conduct ; and whose atmosphere
