8,-8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Turner, J. B., Jacksonville, 111. Differentia-
tion of Energy as the Basis of Philosophy and
Religion. Christ and Creeds. Christ and Creeds
contrasted. Pp. about oO.
Grove, Sir George. A Dictionary of Music and
Musicians. Part XXII. London and New York :
Maemillan A: ( o. Pp. 130. $1.
Geikie, Archibald. The Teaching of Geography.
London and New YorK : Maemillan Co. Pp.
202. 60 cents.
Quackenbos, John D., and others. Physical
Geographv. Prepared on a New pnd Original Plan.
New York : D. Appleton Co. Pp. 14u. $1.60.
Garlanda, Federico. The Fortunes of Words.
New York : Lovell Co. Pp. 225.
Walker, Jerome. Health Lessons. New York. :
D Appleton Co. Pp. 194. 56 cents.
Byeily, W. E. Chauvenefs Treatise on Ele-
mentary Geometry, revised and abridged. Phila-
delphia: J. B. Lippineott Company. Pp. 3.2.
$1.20.
Iladdon, Alfred C. An Introduction to the
Study of Kmbryology. Philadelphia: P. Llakis-
ton, Son Co. Pp. 330.
Proceedings of the United States National Mu-
seum, Vol. IX, 1SS0. Washington . Government
Printing-office. Pp. 714, with Twenty-five Plates.
Powell. J. M., Director. Sixth Annual Report
of the United States Geological Survey, lS^i-ao.
Washington : Government Prin ting-Office Id
570.
CarrolL Lewis. The Game of Lojric. London
and New York : Maemillan Co. Pp. 96. $1.
Finck, Henry T. Romantic Love and Personal
Beauty. London and New York : Maemillan Co.
Pp. 660. $2.
Paz, Dr. Campos da. A Questao dos Yinhos (on
the Question of Wines). Rio de Janeiro. Pp.
3S4.
Ph. Pellin. Catalogue Special des Tn-truments
de Meteorologie (Special Catalogue of Meteorologi-
cal Instruments). Paris, France : Rue de fOdeon,
21. Pp. 32.
Nelson, Dr. Wolfred, of Montreal. Apercu de
quelques Difficultes a vai lere dans la Construction
du Canal de Panama (Summary of some of the Dif-
ficulties to be overcome in the Construction of the
Panama Canal). Paris, France: T. Symonds, 90
Rue Rochechouart. Pp. 71.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Economy of Food. In his American
Association paper ou Economy of Food,
Professor L. O. Atwater laid down the prin-
ciple that the cheapest food is that which
furnishes the actually nutritive materials at
least cost. The nutriments of vegetable
food are, he said, in general much less cost-
ly than the animal foods. The animal foods
have, however, the advantages of contain-
ing larger proportions of protein and of
fats, and the protein at least in more di-
gestible forms. Flour, meal, and other sta-
ple vegetable foods, furnish the nutriments
at only a fraction of their cost in ordinary
animal foods. At market prices, current in
the Eastern States, the cost of the protein
ranges at from eight to thirty-four cents a
pound in the staple vegetable foods, and
from eighteen cents to somewhat over one
dollar a pound in the staple animal foods.
In oysters it ranges at from two to three
dollars a pound, in salmon sometimes to
five dollars a pound, in beef at from ten
to twenty-five cents a pound from about
forty cents to one dollar and ten cents. In
many of the usual food-fishes the nutritive
material is dearer than in beef. The less
expensive kinds of meat contain as much
nutriment as the costlier kind ; and the dif-
ferent grades of flour have a much more
nearly equal nutritive value than is com-
monly supposed. Among the vegetable
foods, -wheat-flour, corn-meal, and other
cereal products are in general the cheapest
and most economical. Wheat -flour at six
dollars a barrel and potatoes at forty cents
a bushel would furnish nutritive material at
about the same cost. The prices of the
choicer food-materials are regulated by fla-
vor as well as by the amount of nutritive
material, which in some is hardly a fraction
of the price. With exceptions that are easi-
ly explained, the prices of foods that are
bought and used for their nutriment tend
to shape themselves proportionately accord-
ing to the actual values. Taking the world
through, the mass of people select those
foods which furnish the actual nutrients
at the lowest cost ; but there are marked
exceptions in the United States, where many,
even among those who desire to economize,
use needlessly expensive kinds of food.
They too often endeavor to make their diet
attractive by paying high prices in the mar-
ket rather than by skillful cooking and taste-
ful serving at home. Wastefulness of
food shows itself in the purchasing of more
than is needed ; in using part of the excess
to overload the alimentary organs and throw-
ing the rest away ; in purchasing food that
seems cheap but is really dear; in using
costly materials where less expensive ones
would serve as well ; and in the false econ-
omy of using too little of one material and
too much of another. Great evils accrue
from these practices, in the loss of money
and the deterioration of health ; and some
of the wisest students of physiology and hy-
giene are persuaded that improper eating,
and especially overeating, is a source of
more disease than any other one thing.
