P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY.
859
Virtnes of Mountain Air. It maybe re-
ceived as proved that mountain air is good
in cases of consumption. Why it is so, may
be explained by reference to the qualities
of the air of great altitudes, among the most
conspicuous of which are its purity, its rare-
faction, and its coldness. All modern ob-
servers, says the Lancet, are agreed that
pure air is the most essential recmisite in
the treatment of the scourge. Pure air is
not to be found near the great centers of
human population, nor even in ordinary
lowland country. To obtain it in perfection
we must look to the ocean, the desert, or to
great altitudes. In these three localities we
are far removed from the ordinary sources
of atmospheric contamination, and it is
hardly necessary to seek to assign any pre-
cedence among them, as in each case the
atmospheric purity is practically absolute.
The next and most essential characteristic of
the air, at great altitudes, is its rarefaction,
by virtue of which it provokes deep and full
respirations, thus promoting pulmonary ex-
pansion, and affording a favorable condition
for the absorption of morbid deposits. It
was long believed that rarefied air tended to
promote haemorrhage, and the well-authen-
ticated stories of the sufferings of mount-
aineers from epistaxis and inelama, seemed
to confirm the belief: But it was forgotten,
when these stories were brought forward,
that the conditions of blood-pressure at the
various orifices are different from those
which prevail in the internal organs. The
congestion at the surface of the body* must
be accompanied by a proportionate anaomia
of the deep-seated parts, and among them
of the lungs. Hence, rarefaction of the
air, so far from being injurious in cases of
pulmonary haemorrhage, affords a means
for its arrest and relief. Cold is now known
to be at least not unfavorable in phthisis.
The air at great altitudes is not only very
cold, but also very dry ; and this combina-
tion of conditions tends to correct unhealthy
secretions, while it is, at the same time, pro-
motive of appetite and physical activity.
This point is one of great magnitude.
Clothes-Moths. Clothes-moths, injuri-
ous to woolen goods and furs, are of the
species of Tinea pellionella, biselliella, tapct-
zella, or rustica. The most common one is
Tinea pell ionella, which in its mature state
carries about half an inch expanse of wings.
Its fore-wings are shining, grayish-yellow,
with three indistinct brownish spots in the
middle, and its hind-wings are whitish-gray.
It is abundant in houses, and may be found
at any time between January and October,
though most abundantly in the early sum-
mer months. The moth is innocent. The
larva, which does all the damage, is a tiny
caterpillar, dull whitish,with a reddish-brown
head. It is the only one of the four species
that makes a tunic or movable case for
itself. This case is very ingeniously con-
structed, and consists of an outer layer of
fragments of the articles it has fed upon,
and an inner layer of silk, forming a soft
and smooth lining. It is nearly cylindrical
in form, but of slightly larger diameter
across the middle, and a little flattened
above, and it is open at both ends. These
cases are varied in their appearance, and of
different colors, according to the color of
the goods from which they are formed. The
case is enlarged as the insect grows, both
by adding to its length and to its circum-
ference. For the latter enlargement, the
case is split and patched up in two slits at
each end, with an ingenuity that borders on
intelligence. The chrysalis state is assumed
inside of the case, the caterpillar becoming,
by throwing off its last larval skin, a little,
yellowish-brown, helpless thing, similar in
form to the chrysalides of the larger moths.
The chrysalis is anchored by fine threads to
the cloth in which the insect lives. From
this the perfect insect emerges, when its
time has been fulfilled, lays its eggs, and
then dies. The eggs are extremely minute,
and are deposited on the cloth, or in crev-
ices and corners close to a supply of food.
The young grubs begin life by attacking
the old cases of their progenitors, with
which they make cases for themselves, and
begin to feed on cloths proper at a later
period of life.
Polished Objects of Silieified Wood.
Mr. George F. Kunz, in exhibiting before
the American Association polished speci-
mens of jasperized and agatized woods from
Arizona, referred to the description of these
woods which he had published in the Month-
ly for March, 1886, their magnificent
