86o
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
colors, and their capacity, on account of the
large sections which they would afford, to
furnish art-objects of unexampled qualities.
Although it was thought that sections two
or three feet in diameter might be produced,
it has until very recently not been possible
to get such sections polished. At last ma-
chinery was found competent to do the
work ; and Mr. Kunz was able to show some
beautiful large specimens, which had been
cut by a gang of seven saws and polished at
Sioux Falls, Dakota, by water-power from
the falls, on wheels fourteen feet in diame-
ter. The objects exhibited included one
column eleven and a quarter inches wide
and twenty-one inches high, cut transverse-
ly across the tree so that the heart was
visible on two sides of it, with the radia-
tions in all directions ; also five sections,
measuring twenty-five, nineteen and a half,
twenty-four, seventeen and a half, and
thirteen inches in diameter, respectively,
so highly polished that, when turned with
the back to the light, they formed a perfect
mirror. All of the specimens were brilliant
in color.
Telephonic Communication between
Ships. Professor Lucien E. Blake described
in the American Association a method which
he had conceived in 18S3 for making tele-
phonic communication between ships at sea.
A sound-producing apparatus was to be at-
tached to each vessel, and to be worked
under the surface of the water ; and each
vessel was also to have a sound-receiving
apparatus, to take up the signals from other
vessels. Signals, intelligible by means of a
code, could be produced by this apparatus,
which would be transmitted in all directions
through the water with a velocity four or
five times that in the air. For steamships
the sound-producing apparatus was designed
to be a steam fog-horn or whistle, specially
constructed to sound under water, and to be
heard at least six or eight miles off. With
such whistles, a Morse alphabet, of long and
short blast3 and pauses, was to provide a
means of extended communication, while a
simple universal code would indicate a ships
course. Since ignorance of the very pres-
ence of a ship, rather than incorrect esti-
mates of her course, has been the principal
cause of ocean collisions, the simple hear-
ing of the sound would prove a most excel-
lent general safeguard. Bell-buoys were to
have a second bell added under water, while
lightships, lighthouses, and any headlands
might also be provided with submerged
bells, which could be rung from the shore
when necessary. Sailing-craft would also
have bells, which, if like ordinary locomo-
tive-bells, could be heard at least two miles
under water. By the method described, in
October, 1885, signals were transmitted and
received through one and a half mile in
the Wabash River from a locomotive-bell,
around
stream.
three or four windings of the
Teaching Physics in the Public Schools.
Professor W. A. Anthony, speaking in
the American Association, Section of Phys-
ics, on the importance of teaching physical
science in the public schools, said that
proper scientific instruction in the primary
schools would teach children to avoid the
mistake of attempting the impossible.
While grammar should be put off to the
last, language should be taught by reading,
not by rules ; the geography, after teaching
the form of the earth, should be used only
as a book of reference ; and the commercial
departments of arithmetic should be rele-
gated to the business-school ; children in
their earliest experiences have to do with
heat, light, sound, movement, and magnet-
ism. Physics should be taught by calling
attention to familiar facts, and then ex-
plaining them.
Effect of Light on Bacteria and other
Organisms. Messrs. Downes and Blunt, in
two papers read before the Royal Society
in 1877 and 1878 on the effect of light on
bacteria and other organisms, and on pro-
toplasm, announced the conclusion that light
is inimical to these organisms, and under
favorable circumstances may wholly prevent
their development. The effect was shown
to be due to oxidation, which was stimulated
by light, and ended in the extinction or
in the great depression of the vitality of
the organisms submitted to it. The authors
furthermore declared that the maximum of
the oxidizing effect was near the violet, or
in the more refrangible rays, and was com-
parable with the chemical phenomena of
