POPULAR MISCELLANY.
861
photography. When we come to the other
end of the spectrum, the yellow and red, or
more refrangible rays, we find that they
promote the formation of chlorophyl and
so turn vegetation exposed to them green,
favoring the growth of green plants. In
this we may discover one of the purposes
which chlorophyl fills as that of a special
coloring - matter to the plant to filter out
the more injurious rays and protect the del-
icate protoplasmic cell-contents from their
destructive action.
Healthy and Unhealthy Occupations.
The English Registrar-General has made a
comparison between healthy and unhealthy
occupations. Assuming the normal average
death-rate of the community as the unit of
comparison, and calling it 1,000, particular
occupations may be regarded as healthy
or unhealthy according as the death-rates
among those pursuing them fall above or
below that figure. The most healthy occu-
pation appears to be that of ministers of
religion, whose rate is 556. Next are
gardeners and nurserymen, 599 ; farmers
and graziers, 631 ; agricultural laborers,
701 ; schoolmasters, 719 ; and grocers, coal-
merchants, paper, lace, and hosiery manu-
facturers, wheelwrights, ship-builders and
coal-miners, with all of whom the average
death-rate is under 775. The most un-
healthy occupations are the trades con-
nected with the liquor -traffic and hotel
service, with which the death-rate is 2,205 ;
following these are general laborers in
London, 2,020 ; costermongers, bankers, and
street sellers, 1,879 ; innkeepers, etc., 1,521 ;
and brewers, 1,361. After the trades con-
cerned with alcohol, the highest rates are
furnished by occupations that involve the
breathing of dust other than coal-dust
and exposure to lead-poisoning. The death-
rate among butchers is also high, 1,170.
Cause of Thnnder. M. Him explains
thunder and the explosive noise of mete-
orites by observing that the air traversed by
an electric spark that is, a flash of light-
ning is suddenly raised to a very high tem-
perature, and has its volume considerably
increased. The column of gas thus sud-
denly heated and expanded is sometimes
several miles long ; as the duration of the
flash is not even a millionth of a second, it
follows that the noise bursts forth at once
from the whole column ; but for an observer
in any given place, it begins when the light-
ning is at the least distance. In precise
terms, the beginning of the thunder-clap
gives us the minimum distance of the light-
ning, and its duration the length of the
column. The author points out that a bul-
let whistles in traversing the air, so that we
can to a certain extent follow its flight ; the
same thing happens with a falling meteorite
just before striking the earth. The noise
actually heard has been compared to the
flight of wild geese, or to the sound pro-
duced when one tears linen ; it is due to the
fact that the air, rapidly pushed on one side
in front of the projectile, whether bullet or
meteorite, quickly rushes back to fill the gap
left in the rear. The velocity of the mete-
orite is so great that the matter on its sur-
face will be torn away by the violence of the
gaseous friction produced, and will be vapor-
ized at the same time by the heat. This is
undoubtedly the origin of the smoke which
meteorites leave trailing behind them. With
this velocity the sound following the mete-
orite is vastly deeper and more like thunder
than that which attends the passage of the
relatively slow-going bullet.
Prehistoric Chronology of America.
Dr. D. G. Brinton, Vice-President of the An-
thropological Section of the American Asso-
ciation, gave there a Review of the Data
for the Study of the Prehistoric Chronology
of America. The resemblances between
American legends and Oriental myths were
considered accidental. The annals of the
Mexicans, the Mayas of Yucatan, and the
Quichas of Peru, carry us back hardly more
than five hundred years. The recollections
of the more savage tribes did not extend back
more than two centuries. A calm weighing
of the testimony respecting the stone build-
ings of Mexico, Yucatan, and Peru, places
them all well within our own era, and most
of them within a few centuries of the dis-
covery. The much more ancient artificial
shell-heaps along the coasts furnish data to
prove that the land was inhabited several
thousand years ago. The industrial activity
of man in America may be traced by the re-
mains of his weapons, ornaments, and tools,
