86z
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
made of stone, bone, and shell. Specimens
of polished stone and pottery testify to a
reasonably-developed skill ; but in the Tren-
ton gravels and a few other localities, genu-
ine palaeolithic remains have been found,
putting man in America at a date coeval with
the close of the Glacial epoch, if not earlier.
Vast antiquity is further proved by the ex-
tensive dissemination of maize and tobacco,
and by the existence of about two hundred
radically different languages, both of which
must have required long periods of time in
development. The American race is dis-
tinctively a race by itself, and appears so
in the oldest crania from the Quaternary.
The Food of American Workmen. In
his American Association paper on Food
of Workingmen and its Relations to Work
Done, Professor L. 0. Atwater said that
statistics of the dietaries of considerable
numbers of Americans, mostly of the work-
ing-classes, show that their food is ample in
amount, and includes large proportions of
meat. Chemical examinations of the dieta-
ries showed them to be richer in actual nu-
tritive material and potential energy than
even the large quantities would imply. This
is because they contain so great proportions
of meat and other nitrogenous and fatty sub-
stances. Comparing the standard of diet
prevailing among the workingmen of Mas-
sachusetts with that of Germany, it is shown
that laborers in Massachusetts average just
about one half more than the German stand-
ard requires. It thus appears that the food
of the American laboring-man is much more
nutritious on the average than that of his
European competitors. It is also shown
that he turns off much more work than the
European workingman. He is better paid,
better housed, better clothed, and better fed
than the European. He has better oppor-
tunities for self-development, more to stim-
ulate his ambition, and more hope of reward
if his work is efficient. These factors are all
connected, but the explanation of his supe-
rior capacity for work is to be found largely
in his superior nourishment.
Optimistic and Pessimistic Diseases.
Dr. Charles Porter Hart read a paper in the
American Association On the Correction
of Certain Mental and Bodily Conditions in
Man, the burden of which was to indicate
that diseases located above the diaphragm
are optimistic in their tendencies, while
those below the diaphragm are pessimistic.
His attention was first called to the subject
by a patient who, suffering from an abdom-
inal disease which seemed to produce a men-
tal aberration, possessed most decidedly pes-
simistic views. Upon every subject that
could be suggested social, governmental,
or religious his views were of a markedly
gloomy character. According to the table
of disease-tendencies which the author has
constructed, chest-diseases give buoyancy to
the system, abdominal diseases are depress-
ing, and diseases of a constitutional and
chronic character, like rheumatism, malaria,
and dropsy, are equally pessimistic and opti-
mistic.
The Physical Aspect of Economics. Mr.
P. Geddes, in a British Association paper
on The Physical Aspect of Economics,
said that the present isolation of economic
from physical and biological studies, in spite
of the clear dependence of the social sciences
on the preliminary one, was to be accounted
for, not on rational but simply on tempora-
ry grounds that of the pressure of detailed
labor upon every specialist. Yet, the sci-
ences were needed on every hand. The
population question was a strictly biological
one. So, too, was that of competition, and
even of individualism versus socialism, which
largely came down to a dispute between the
advocates of natural and artificial selection
respectively. The popular idea of progress,
as lying essentially in the quantity of wealth
and in the number of population, needed
thorough replacement of the scientific one
that of the improved average individual
quality of the organisms composing the so-
ciety, and of the material surroundings upon
which their evolution depended.
The Falls of the Orange River. Mr. G.
A. Farini, who has recently made a journey
across the Kalahari Desert in South Africa,
succeeded in seeing and photographing the
falls of the Orange River, which he was
told could not be done. We had, he
says, to swim rapids, climb rocks, and de-
scend precipices by ropes in order to take
the views. The river is broken up into
many streams by huge rocks and bowlders,
some of them rejoining to form the main
