NOTES.
863
waterfall, and others cutting out separate
channels to the great gorge, some four hun-
dred feet deep and sixteen miles long, worn
in the solid granite. These streams form
many rapids, and, when the river is half
full, rise and form over a hundred separate
cascades, unsurpassed for beauty and pict-
uresque grandeur. When the river is full,
many of them join to make one mighty
sheet of water, rivaling the great Niagara,
as it pours into the abyss nearly four hun-
dred feet below. At low water, the only*
time it can be approached, the Hercules
Fall is one hundred and sixty-five feet high,
with several smaller falls at the sides, which
are three hundred and fifty feet high, and
are caused by the same water before it
reaches the main fall.
NOTES.
Pertinently to an expression of doubt
by Mr. David A. Wells in one of his articles
on Mexico, as to the Aztecs having knowl-
edge or making use of metal tools, Mr. W.
W. Blake, in the American Antiquarian,
mentions as being on exhibition in the Ar-
ch;eological Rooms of the National Museum
of Mexico, idols, beads, and engraved clasps
of gold ; lip-ornaments and other articles of
silver ; numerous tools, weapons, and orna-
ments of copper; and chopping-knives
of copper, which are supposed to have been
used as money.
Nine tenths of wild animals in confine-
ment are said by a medical writer to be sub-
ject to heart-disease ; but all animals have
their peculiarities. Elephants are subject
to many diseases, the mo3t common and fa-
tal of which is rheumatism. Monkeys and
baboons generally die from bronchial affec-
tions and heart-disease, and suffer much from
typhoid fever. Animals of the feline race are
most subject to dysentery and heart-disease ;
and their prey, deer, antelopes, etc., are most
liable to the same afflictions. Animals of the
canine tribe are the healthiest, but too many
wolves must not be kept together, or they will
eat one another.
Dr. R. W. Shufeldt believes that the
veterinary staff of our army needs improve-
ment, and has suggested a plan for its re-
organization, with a corps of officers care-
fully chosen. Thus properly organized, it
could form an invaluable nucleus on which
to build in time of war ; in time of peace
could do service to science by making com-
parative studies in diseases and injuries
among all the domesticated animals ; could
more fully develop the morphology and
physiology of our mammalian fauna a
work in which there is need for immediate
action before some of the types shall be-
come extinct.
In a paper on Indicative Plants, Dr.
R. W. Raymond considers a connection
which is reported to exist between certain
plants and the metallic contents of the soil
on which they grow. Among the instances
cited are the zinc violet ( Viola calaminaria),
of the Calamine Hills of Rhenish Prussia
and Belgium ; the lead-plant (Amorpha ca-
nescens), believed by American miners to
grow only in localities containing galena;
and the silver-plant (kriogonum ovalifo-
lium), which is regarded as a sign of silver-
ores. The theories on this subject, if there
be any, still lack the essential elements of
verification.
General Pkjetalsky is to be present-
ed by the Imperial Scientific Society of St.
Petersburg with a gold medal which has
been specially struck in his honor by order
of the emperor. It bears on the obverse
the initials of the recipient, and on the re-
verse the inscription, To the first student
of the natural history of Central Asia.
Indian botanists report upon a plant
which has the singular property of destroy-
ing the taste of sweetness. It is an ascle-
piad, and is called Gymnema sylvestre. Aft-
er chewing a few of the leaves for a short
time, if sugar be taken, the palate is found
to have become insensible to all of its pe-
culiar qualities, and it will have no more
taste than sand. General Ellis has found
that the Gymnema has also the property of
abolishing the power of enjoying a cigar. It
also destroys the bitter taste of quinine ; but
it does not affect pungent and saline things,
astringents, and acids. The peculiar prop-
erty of the leaves is dissolved out by alco-
hol, and appears to reside in an acid which
is called yymncmic acid.
The Swedish count, M. Bjornstjerna, sug-
gested more than forty years ago, in a book
on The Theogony of the Hindoos, that,
as both poles must have been cooled to a
suitable temperature at the same time, the
earth might have been peopled from the
north pole with its white races, and from
the south pole with its colored races.
Observations made at the late South
Kensington Aquarium upon the effect of
temperature on fish, show that the dogfish,
mullet, conger, skate, flounder, bass, cod,
trout, catfish, pike, and carp are extremely
hardy, and can exist in a temperature rang-
ing from 34 to 71. The gurnard, wrasse,
bull-head, sole, bream, cray-fish, blennie,
perch, dace, tench, minnow, chub, roach, and
gudgeon are sensitive to extremes of tem-
perature.
