80 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
feet and a half in height. The original was found buried in the
city of Mexico ninety-six years ago. Humboldt believes that this and
other idols were placed under-ground by Cortes and his men in order
to escape the observation of the Aztecs, to whom these idols would
doubtless prove a serious obstacle to their embracing Christianity ; but
it seems more reasonable to suppose that these idols were buried by
the Aztecs themselves, in order to prevent their capture by the sol-
diers. The goddess Teoyoamiqui was charged with the gathering
in of the souls of persons killed in battle, it being supposed that their
souls went to the mansion of the sun in heaven, where they were
eventually transformed into humming-birds.* Near this is a cast of
the statue of the goddess Mictlanteuhtli, who presided over Mictlan-
teuhtli, by which name the Mexicans denoted the place to which the
souls of those who died natural deaths were transmitted.
Perhaps the most interesting cast in this collection is that of the
Sacrificial Stone, which was found ninety-five years ago in the city of
Mexico. The complex figures and hieroglyphics on this stone utterly
astound the visitor to the Museum, and are only to be descried, to
say nothing of being understood, after the most careful examination.
This stone is about two feet eleven inches high and more than twenty-
seven feet in circumference. On its face is sculptured the image of
the sun, and around the stone are fifteen groups of two persons each,
one of each couple being represented as victorious over the other.
The number of victims indicates the number of conquered tribes. In
two couples the victim is a woman, which probably denotes that those
two tribes were governed by women. A groove running to the mar-
gin from the center marks the course for the flow of the victims blood.
The conqueror is Tizoc, sixth king of Mexico, who reigned from 1481
to 1486, and the monument is commemorative of his victories. A cast
of the famous statue of Chac-Mool (tiger), about two feet six inches
high, is in the collection. The statue is believed to be twelve thousand
years old, and was, it is said, erected to the memory of Chac-Mool by
his wife. In the valley of Mexico and in Tlascala statues of similar
form have been found, and it is therefore assumed by some that the
same divinity was worshiped both in Mexico and Yucatan. The
statue was discovered by Dr. A. Le Plongeon in the ruins of Chichen-
Itza, Yucatan, and removed by the Mexican Government to the Na-
tional Museum of Mexico. Of exceeding interest is the reproduction
of the Commemorative Stone in remembrance of laying the founda-
tion of the great temple of the Aztecs, the building of which was com-
menced by Tizoc, who was desirous of erecting a sacred edifice which
should be the wonder of all the nations on earth. It was not finished
by him, its completion being reserved for Ahuitzotl, his successor, in
the year 1487. This temple has now given place to a magnificent
* Charero, in his Analcs del Museo National de Mejico, vol. ii, p. 293, holds that it
represents the earth-god, Coatlicue.
