82
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
century, sadness and penitence gave way to the greatest hilarity, the
beginning of the feast being signalized by the priests, who, with the
aid of two dry sticks, ignited a tire which was carried far and wide in
token of the continuance of the worlds existence.
Placed near by is a cast of an immense head, which is supposed to
have occupied a position in the great Aztec temple. Some archaeolo-
gists believe that it rep-
resents the lost Atlantis,
with her head-dress of
water dotted with shells.
In the Mexican town of
Tenango was found a
stone about five feet ten
inches high, upon which
are sculptured the four
fatal epochs in Nature
which the Aztecs assert
had taken place. These
epochs are Atonatiuh, or
water-sun (corresponding
to our deluge) ; Ehecato-
natiuh, or wind - sun ;
Tletonatiuh, or fire-sun ;
and Tlaltonatiuh, or
earth-sun. A cast of this
stone is among the series.
We also notice a cast of
the Cross of Palenque.
The use of this symbol
by the Mexicans of remote date is by some advanced as an argument
to prove that, at that time, Christianity was established, or at least
taught, in their country. Others, however, regard the symbol merely
as an astronomical sign, indicative of the four seasons, four winds,
etc. On this cross is represented a priest offering up a child to the
sacred bird, which is perched on the top. At the bottom of the
cross is a large face with open mouth and an ornament hanging
from its nose. The Palenque Divinity is represented by the fig-
ure of a god on whose head is a diadem of plumes. On the fore-
head is typified Eves Serpent, in the form of a star, whose pres-
ence in the heavens is significant of harvest-time. This is the god
that creates and is opposed to the destructive genius. The serpent
referred to was Serapis among the Egyptians, Wischnou with the In-
dians, Vitzlipultzi in Mexico, Fohi in China, Esculapic with the
Greeks, and Thor among the Scandinavians. There is also a cast of
a bas-relief supposed to have come from Palenque. On it is depicted
a man being punished in some way, his hands tied behind him, and
Colossal Head op Tenango.
