86 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ter ; stalks hairy ; flowers blue, purple, or almost white ; woods, com-
mon East. II. acutiloba (sharp-lobed hepatica), wild from Vermont,
West, has pointed lobes to the leaves, sometimes five of them, and
paler flowers.
We are not favored with the round-lobed hepatica in this vicinity,
and can not say from observation how bright its flowers might be in
the pure, clear atmosphere of this prairie-region ; but it is true that
the sharp-lobed species does not pale in comparison with the East-
ern flowers of the A. hepatica, unless my memory has faded in the
mean titne. The blue we get is deeper than can be caught from the
sky on our clearest April day. There remains little else upon which
to hang the species except the shape of the lobes of the leaves, and
this is exceedingly variable. Last spring a patch of a hundred blooms
or more grew close by the retreating edge of a snow-bank, only a few
feet from my window, and the little clusters of blossoms varied so much
among each other that an unobserving person would look the second
time to note the shades of color. The foliage in like manner varied,
and in some instances it seemed that there was evidence enough in
that one bed to overthrow the strongest belief in there being two
species of American hepaticas. I say we do not have more than one
species here, and that is largely due to the fact that it is easier for
us to put them all under A. acutiloba than to try and distinguish the
two. To say that the acute-lobed leaves are sometimes tive-lobed,
is no distinction. In the college herbarium is a specimen of the round-
est of the round-lobed from Michigan, with this same characteristic.
The greater number of sepals (seven to twelve) in the A. acutiloba,
there being six to nine in the other, has little weight, especially if we
examine the specimens of A. hepatica from Europe. In turning to
The Manual, it is found that Dr. Gray, of course, comprehends the
situation, and adds the following saving clause at the close of the
description of II acutiloba : Perhaps runs into the other.
One further observation upon the hepatica, and then we will hasten
on to other and quickly following April flowers. One plant of the A.
acutiloba was found, the calyx of which was unusually small and dark
blue, while the involucre was larger than ordinary. A closer examina-
tion revealed that these flowers were pistillate, and only vestiges of
stamens could be found, and these in only two of the many flowers.
The pistils, thirty-five to fifty in each flower, were about double the
average number in ordinary blossoms. The plant seemed to be quite
generally off the track. The involucre of one flower had a fourth
leaf (the ordinary number being three), which resembled a sepal in
form and bright color. One of the three green leaves of the same in-
volucre, instead of being of the normal entire form, was trilobed at the
tip, giving it a strong resemblance to a leaflet of the meadow-rues
(Thalietrian), an adjoining genus. Upon looking up this interesting
unisexual tendency in the hepatica, it was found that Dr. S. Calloni
