PRAIRIE-FLOWERS OF EARLY SPRING. 87
had recently made a similar observation in Europe on Anemone he-
patiea, as indicated in the Journal of the Royal Microscopical So-
ciety for April of the present year.
The next in order of time of our early-blooming plants comes the
wild hazel (Corylus Americana, Walt.). This shrub would be passed
by by the seeker of showy blossoms. Like most of the species of its
order (Cupuliferce), including the oak, chestnut, beech, and horn-
beams, the staminate or male flowers are in drooping, cylindrical clus-
ters, without any showy calyx or corolla. The pistillate or female
flowers are elsewhere upon the same shrub, and are likewise incon-
spicuous. We have, therefore, in our first two flowering species, many
widely different characteristics. The hepatica is a small herb that
clings close to the earth, and may flourish under the protection that
the hazel-bush yields it. The liver-leaf has showy flowers, which it
holds up on long stalks in a conspicuous manner, and bears in each
blossom both the essential organs (stamens and pistils) for the produc-
tion of seed. The hazel has its sexes separated on the same shrub,
and attempts no display of attractive color or forms. These two spe-
cies, that bloom on almost the same early April day, have so little in
common that they can not be rivals in any sense. They are moving
along on independent lines, which for each, under its particular circum-
stances, are lines of least resistance. It may be that in this thought
we find a solution of the problem of their very early blooming.
On April 11th two widely different plants were found in flower,
namely, the first of the sedges (Carex Pennsylvanica,L.), and the
blood-root (Sanguinaria Canadensis, L.). The little early sedge may
claim some kinship with the hazel in this, that the flowers are of two
kinds, and the staminate or pollen-bearing are more conspicuous than
the inobtrusive pistillate or seed-bearing blossoms. Both the hazel
and sedge depend upon the capricious winds for the transport of their
pollen from the male to the female flowers. Darwin claimed that
Nature abhors continual close fertilization ; that is, the fertilization
of the ovules of a flower by the pollen of the same blossom. In the
hazel and the sedge we find the strongest sort of proof of such a doc-
trine. Close fertilization is impossible, from the simple fact that each
flower is unisexual. The blood-root presents us with another side of
the great and interesting subject of adaptations for cross-fertilization
which was developed by Conrad Sprengel nearly a century ago, and
given its present form by Darwin in 1862. What lover of flowers
does not know the blood-root in its home among the decaying leaves
along hedge-rows and out in the rich, open woods ? Who does not re-
call the strangely and neatly lobed palmate leaf, up through the coil of
which the plump bud pushes its way, and in a day has blossomed and
gone ? It may be some young botanists have been puzzled over the
sepals 2 of the manuals, forgetting that this wide-awake plant, hav-
ing no further need for the firm, protective covering to the flower-buds,
