88 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
drops its two sepals as they open, leaving the delicate, pure, white
petals and the April insects to succeed as best they can in the work of
cross-fertilization. Just what kinds of bees, or bugs, or beetles stand
ready to rob each opening flower of its sticky pollen, I am not prepared
to say. It is true that the blood-root has few competitors, at this time
of year, for the employment of the insect tribes. Its petals are large,
and doubtless catch the watchful eyes of the hungry insects at long
range. The plant and the insect work together, each selfishly, yet
each successfully. The mutual adaptation existing between some flow-
ers, as those of many orchids and their attendant insects, is so complete
that neither the plants nor the insects could well exist without one
another. Some plants are absolutely dependent upon certain insects for
the transfer of their pollen, while these same insects could not subsist
without the flowers from which to extract their daily food. In our
little blood-root, we do not believe such a thorough dependence exists*
If insects do not bring more potent pollen from some other flower, that
of its own, falling upon the stigma close by, will suffice.
On April 13th two species were found in flower, and between them
there are seemingly wider differences of structure than were pointed
out in the last two. The white elm ( Ulmns Americana, L.) is a large
tree, famous for its grace and beauty in the hands of the landscape -
gardener. The Stellaria media (Smith) is the common chickweed, so
abundant around dwellings in every part of the world. The stately
elm is an American species, as its botanical name indicates, while the
chickweed is one of a large class of plants which have come to us un-
bidden, and frequently unwelcomed, from beyond the sea. Its greatest
economic value seems to be as a salad-plant for canary and other im-
prisoned birds. This little, insignificant herb delights in cold, shady
soil, and frequently opens its blossoms beneath, or when surrounded
by, drifts of snow. There seems to be no good foundation for this
haste, as the plant continues in bloom during nearly its whole lifetime
of a year or more. It also seems as if it would be just as well to
delay flowering until insects are more numerous, at which times the
blossoms secrete so much honey that the drops may be seen without a
hand-lens. Among other insects, the prolific aphides (plant-lice) and
the ubiquitous house-fly (Musca domestica, L.) are attendant upon
the unobtrusive chickweed-flowers. The blossoms of the elm are also
small, but depend upon the winds for transfer of their pollen. The
leaves do not unfold until the flowers are past, and in this circumstance
we may see an instance of the working of the law of adaptation. The
foliage might interfere with the easy movement of the dry, dusty pol-
len from one tree or branch to another. Students of plant-life are
always pleased to observe that adaptations for cross-fertilization are
worked out along very many lines. The elm offers an instance in
which there is a seeming confusion in the floral type. Botanists say
the elms are polygamous, which only means that some flowers are per-
