PRAIRIE-FLOWERS OF EARLY SPRING. 89
feet or hermaphroditic, having both stamens and pistil, while others
are unisexual, being either staminate or pistillate. This appears to
indicate that the elm is passing through a transition state, either to-
ward a final separation of the sexes, as in the hazel, or is approaching
those plants which have their flowers all perfect, as the magnolias or
tulip-trees.
The Ranunculus reperis (L.) opened its bright-yellow petals on
April 14th, and was the only new flower for that date. This creeping
buttercup is one of a large genus Avhich takes its name from the Latin
word for a little frog, applied to these plants by Pliny, because many
species are aquatic and abound with the frogs. The English farmers
rank this early spring plant among their weeds, and like many other
plant-pests it has a remarkable provision for spreading and occupying
the land. Shortly after the flowers have faded the plants send out
runners which quickly take root at their joints as in the strawberry,
and before midsummer has passed the mother-plant may have a brood
of young extending far beyond the protection of her wings or
leaves.
April 15th has four species recorded against it on the note-book,
namely : Isopyrum biternatum (T. and G.), Dicentra cucullaria (DC),
Capsella Bursa-pastoris (Moench), and Erythronium albidum (Nutt).
What a variety is here presented in so small a number ! There are
as many orders represented as species. One is an endogen of the lily
family, and should be called spring-lily, instead of white dogs-tooth
violet. There is very little to suggest a violet in shape or color, and,
as for the dogs-tooth part, the quicker it is extracted the better !
The other three species are disposed among the exogens ; the isopy-
rum, or enemion, falling in close by the side of the crowfoots and the
marsh-mangolds, but a thousand times more delicate in habit than the
latter. It is the ordinary wind-flower exalted in its foliage to the
attractiveness of a maiden-hair fern. The student, during his first
spring among the early flowers, is quite liable to confuse this isopyrum
with the rue-anemone (Thalictrum anemonoides, Michx.). At this he
should not grieve because older heads have been troubled with this
little thalictrum which now is no more a thalictrum. Of it De Can-
dolle wrote, Habit and frondescence of isopyrum with the inflores-
cence of anemone and the fruit of thalictrum. Spach has placed the
little puzzler in a new genus and calls it a little anemone that is much
like a thalictrum, viz., Anemonella thalictroides. This is only one of
many instances where further study of a species has led to a new set-
ting in the system ; in fact, a large part of the work of the systematic
botanist in the future will be the erasing of old, confusing, ill-defined
lines, and the drawing of clearer and stronger ones. But, wherever
the rue-anemone may go in the classification, its likeness to the isopy-
rum will remain, and, coming as these two plants do at the same time
in April, they will always furnish a test for the discriminating powers
