TESTIMONIALS
To the merits of Messrs. Clayton, Shuttleworth, & Co's. Engines, Thrashing Machines, &c-,
(the originals may be seen on application at the works.)
To the Editor of the Scottish Agricultural Journal.
Almond Hill, near Edinburgh,
February 9th, 1849,
Sir, — Observing a paragraph in your
excellent paper of the 3rd ult., relating to
a Portable Steam Engine made by Messrs.
Clayton, Shuttleworth, & Co., of Lincoln,
which was exhibited in Edinburgh on the
previous Wednesday, I beg to acknow-
ledge that I was the farmer alluded to in
that paragraph who stated, at first sight,
that the elegant little machine before us
"would do very well to spin thrums,"
thinking it improbable that so small a
bulk could wield so much power as was
stated, viz , that of working a thrashing
mill usually employing six horses. I now
beg to add that 1 was one of those farmers
who went to Dumfriesshire, accompanied
by Mr. Patterson, of Meadow-field, and
Mr. J. Hume, the intelligent agent of
Messrs. C, S., & Co., last Friday, for
the purpose of examining minutely the
capabilities of this compact instrument;
and I have much pleasure in stating the
result was in every degree favourable to
the skill of the engineers, so much so,
that I feel convinced their engines will
soon be extensively introduced into Scot-
land. This individual engine was manu-
factured for Sir Wm. Jardine, Bart., of
Applegarth, for bis home farm at Jardine
Hall. Requiring no buildings what*
we there saw it attached with ease and
readiness to the thrashing mill ; and it
commenced at eleven o'clock in the fore-
noon to thrash out a good-sized stack of
oats, which was finished a considerable
time before two in the afternoon — a work
which, with six horses in a mill, would,
with similar corn, take at least five hours.
During the thrashing, repeated attempts
were made to overpower the engine by
excessive feeding; but its power was
quite superior to all such attempts, and
the very small quantity of fuel used dur-
ing the operation was quite extraordinary.
Sir Wm. Jardine mentioned that he meant
to apply it likewise for sawing wood, and
making tiles and bi'icks. A half ton of
coals with this engine will thrash as much
as a whole ton would do with our ordinary
steam engine, and likewise effect a great
saving in oil. Its great advantage is,
being easily attached to a thrashing ma-
chine, and being removed from one place
to another by two horses. Another advan-
tage would be that, at the end of a lease,
it could either be easily removed or dis-
posed of, if the landlord or incoming
truant did not choose to take it at a valu-
ation. I have to remark that, as this is
only a five-horse-power engine (mechani-
cal calculation), it might be considered
preferable, if it were to be attached to a
mill where bruisers and elevators were
required, to make a Bis: horse power. I
cannot conclude without noticing the ur-
banity and kindness of Sir Wm. Jardine,
and his lady, to the party : they not only
extended to us the utmost hospitality at
Jardine Hall, but they also sent a carriage
both for us and with us. from and to the
railway station.
1 am. Sir, -
John Dudgeon.
