TESTIMONIALS.
Canwick, near Lincoln,
Gentlemen, 19th June, 1848-
In answer to }-our enquiry relative
to the " Portable Steam Thrashing En-
gine" which I purchased of you in June,
184G, I have great pleasure in stating that
I have found it a very efficient implement,
and one which I would not be without on
any consideration. It is very economical,
easily moved from place to place, and so
simple that one of my own laborers attends
to it. It can thrash out more corn per
day than twelve horses, does it better, re-
quires no more hands, and only consumes
from eight to ten cwt of coals.
If I can be of any use to you as a refer-
ence, I shall be most happy to answer any
enquiry.
I remain, Gentlemen,
Your obedient sen-ant,
Edwd. Clarke.
To
Messes. Clayton, Shuttleworth, & Co.
Sunderland Docks, Contractor's Office.
Gentlemen, 5th July, 1848.
In reply to your enquiry as to how
the "Portable Engines" we have had from
you suit us, we have to say, they give us
entire satisfaction, and far exceed our
most sanguine expectations respecting
them. Our opinion of them for Sawing,
Pile Driving, Pumping, &c. (in fact for the
general uses that contractors can apply
Engines to), is that, so far as any thing
of the sort that we have seen, they cannot
be surpassed, either for doing the same
quantity of work with the least quantity of
fuel, or for little expense in keeping them
in repair.
We are, Gentlemen,
Yours truly,
John Craven & Son.
To
Messrs. Clayton, Shuttleworth, & Co.
Engineers, Stamp-end Works.
Kenwick Hall, Clenchwarton,
Near Lynn, 18th June, 1848.
Gentlemen, — It is with great pleasure
I send you my opinion of the li Steam
Engine and Thrasher" you made me last
year. I have no hesitation in saying it
far surpasses all 1 have seen : its simplicity
of construction, compactness, and porta-
bility, combined with its accuracy and
great power, render it quite a favorite
with all who have seen it work.
I approve of the principle of the double
cylinder adopted by you, thereby doing
away with a ponderous fly-wheel (which,
in a Portable Engine adds materially to
its weight ; consequently is an objection
to its being moved about). Three horses
will move the engine you made me with
perfect ease on a tolerable road. The
engine is so simple that a farm servant
of mine drives it quite as well as any skilled
mechanic, and keeps it in good order
without any difficulty.
The quantity of coal consumed, all must
be aware, will depend upon the quality.
I find with good hard coals eight cwt. will
work the engine for ten hours ; and with
that quantity of coals I have thrashed
sixty quarters of wheat, the straw of which
was very long and stiff, and was loaded
on to w r aggons as thrashed, and there were
thirty-four waggon loads. I have no hesi-
tation in saying, that in a season when
the straw is not beyond its average length
we could thrash a much greater quantity.
I have only to add, you are quite at
liberty to make use of this communication
in any way you think proper ; and any
gentlemen you may refer to me, I shall be
happy to answer their inquiries.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yours, Ac,
William Stanton.
To
Messrs. Clayton, Shuttleworth, & Co.,
Stamp-end Iron Works, Lincoln.
