LITERARY NOTICES.
U5
Forest Protection, and the Tariff on
Lumber. New York : Spirit of the
Tress. Pp. 35.
The whole country is suffering to an in-
creasing extent every year from the disas-
trous effects of the removal of the forests ;
and the best economical thought of the na-
tion is busy with the problem of preventing
further destruction, and repairing the dam-
age that has already been done. Yet the
Government, in imposing a tariff on foreign
lumber, is offering a premium for further
destruction and a direct encouragement to
a continued course of ruin. Vigorous ex-
pressions of public opinion against this
senseless policy have been made through
various journals. The most important of
the protests are collected in this pamphlet
in aid of a fuller discussion and better un-
derstanding of the subject, and for the fur-
therance of measures for forest conserva-
tion.
Annual Report of the Connecticut Agri-
cultural Experiment Station for 1882.
Address, New Haven, Conn. Pp. 114.
The station was removed on the 1st of
September last, from the rooms of the Shef-
field Scientific School to the property of
five acres, which had been bought for it on
Suburban Street, nearly a mile and five
eighths from the City Hall of New Haven.
The analyses were interrupted at that time,
yet nearly the usual number of fertilizer
analyses were made during the year, and of
these a large proportion were on samples of
complex composition. In connection with
analyses of salt and saltpeter at the request
of the Wilton Farmers' Club, the use of
those substances as antiseptic or preserva-
tive material is discussed. The testing of
milk has assumed much prominence ; and in
connection with it considerable information
of value is furnished respecting the qualities
of the specimens examined. In connection
with the reports of the analyses of fertiliz-
ers, a review of the fertilizer market is
given, with notices of the prices of its prin-
cipal staples ; and an interesting observa-
tion is reported of the value of marine mud
as a fertilizer. The reports on the analyses
of ensilage go to confirm, generally, the rep-
resentations previously made of the value
of that preparation. Interesting informa-
tion and suggestions are given in connection
with the seed-tests, of which twenty-four
were made, mostly on sweet-corn and onion-
seed.
Seed-Breeding. By E. Lewis Sturtevant,
M. D., South Framingham, Mass.
The art of breeding seeds consists in
producing and selecting such variations as
may be found desirable, and then of estab-
lishing them so that they shall be trans-
missible either in their present or in an im-
proved condition, by seed. Bceeding may
be carried on through the act of selection
for several generations under well-consid-
ered conditions of environment, by which
the heredity of the seed in the desired direc-
tion shall be strengthened. Particular at-
tention is given in this pamphlet to the
means by which the best selections of seed-
corn may be developed, and established in
character.
Report on the Development of the Min-
eral, Metallurgical, Agricultural,
Pastoral, and other Resources of
Colorado for 1881 and 1882. By J.
Alden Smith, State Geologist. Denver,
Col. : Chain & Hardy. Pp. 159.
The report claims that, by virtue of the
largest returns, Colorado is the head of the
mining states of the world as a producer of
the precious metals. Its mines have also,
for the past two years, furnished more than
half the total lead product of the United
States. The mining field is very large, em-
bracing nearly all the mountain-ranges, and
is extremely inviting to all persons interest-
ed in that pursuit. The report is well ar-
ranged, and gives in succession a history
and description of the railroads of the State,
accounts of the resources of the several
counties, more general notices of certain
mineral and agricultural staples and indus-
tries, and a systematic descriptive catalogue
of the principal minerals in Colorado.
The Manual Training-School of Washing-
ton University, St. Louis, 1882-83. C.
M. Woodward, Secretary. Pp. 45.
The managers of this school do not as-
sume that in other schools there is too much
intellectual and moral training, but that
there is too little manual training for ordi-
nary American boys. They exact cfose and
thoughtful study with books, as well as with
