POPULAR MISCELLANY.
139
picture taken with this instrument the first
daguerreotype of still-life taken in this coun-
try was a view of the old Brick Church and
the City Ilall in New York, and was a great
curiosity. Daguerre's process required an
exposure of twenty minutes, and he said
that living objects could not be taken by
it, on account of the difficulty of their keep-
ing still so long. Professor Draper suc-
ceeded in shortening the exposure by sub-
stituting bromide of iodine for the iodine
used by Daguerre, and with the aid of this
compound took the first portrait of the hu-
man face. This was in 1839, and the suc-
cess of the experiment was announced in a
note dated March 81, 1840, in the London
"Philosophical Magazine" for June, 1840.
Professor Morse afterward tried the process,
and took a portrait of his daughter. Mr.
Prosch opened a daguerrean gallery at the
corner of Broadway and Liberty Street, where
Professor West was the first to sit for his
portrait. The light of the sun was thrown
directly upon his face by reflection from a
mirror ; consequently, he had to shut his
eyes, and they were represented closed. Mr.
\Yolcott was not ready to begin his work till
the spring of 1840; but he was successful
in taking the best portraits in the city. The
question of priority was not raised till 1860,
when it was considered by a committee of
the American Institute, to whom Professor
Draper submitted a written statement, while
the friends of Wolcott failed to do so.
Draper is also credited in the " Edinburgh
Keview " for January, 1843, with having
been the first person who took portraits by
the daguerreotype process.
The Prevention of Insanity. Dr. Na-
than Allen, of Lowell, Massachusetts, in a
pamphlet on that subject, calls attention to
the prevention of insanity as a question
which, although much neglected, is at least
quite as important as that of the cure of in-
sanity. The disease is very largely depend-
ent on physical and sanitary conditions, and
these should be studied out and brought
within such regulation as will prevent its
development. Since, according to the late
Sir James Coxe, insanity originates in some
form of disease or in a deteiioration of the
body rather than in an exclusive affection
of the nervous system, its growth should be
checked by a general diffusion of the knowl-
edge of the laws of the human organism
and the use of all means necessary for the
preservation of good health. So far as in-
sanity is hereditary, its transmission should
be prevented by avoiding marriage with
persons predisposed to it. It should be the
aim of the medical profession to become so
well acquainted with the diseases of the
nervous system and the brain that they
could detect the first symptoms of disturbed
or deranged states of mind, so as to be able
to treat them understandingly, and, in all
probability, in many cases successfully.
The New York State Musenm of Natu-
ral History. The Trustees of the New York
State Museum of Natural History, having
about eight thousand square feet of space
available for the exhibition of specimens
requiring twenty-one thousand square feet
for their proper display, complain that the
present museum-building has become en-
tirely inadequate for its intended purpose.
Relief is anticipated, however, from the
gradual occupation of the State Hall, a fire-
proof building, which is authorized as fast
as its rooms may become vacant by the re-
moval of State offices to the new Capitol.
A consolidation of the scientific work done
under the patronage of the State, which is
now scattered under several distinct heads,
is recommended by the trustees, so as to
make it all a part of the museum. The re-
ports of the museum, and the scientific
work generally, now lagging far behind, un-
der the operation of the political patronage
and plunder system of printing, are impa-
tiently waited for by the scientific world,
and the trustees suggest that the demand
could be more speedily and fully satisfied if
the printing of them were intrusted directly
to the institution. Four volumes of valu-
able museum reports are still unprinted,
though long due. Of the Geological Sur-
vey's work on Paleontology, five parts have
been published in seven bound volumes.
Five bound volumes are required to com-
plete the work, for which a considerable
proportion of the plates and manuscript are
prepared. Seventeen letters and declara-
tions, from as many eminent scientific men
and societies, are published, in connection
with the statement of the trustees of the
