140
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
museum, attesting the anxiety with which
they are looking for the completion of this,
one of the most important and meritorious
works of the kind ever attempted.
The Solar Eclipse of May, 1883 M.
Janssen announced in the French Academy
of Sciences, on the 26th of February, that the
French Scientific Expedition to observe the
total eclipse of the sun in May would start
on the 6th of March, to meet at Panama a
French naval vessel which would take it to
Caroline Island, a hundred leagues north of
Tahiti. After the observation is completed,
the expedition will proceed to Tahiti and
San Francisco, whence M. Janssen proposes
to visit the observatories and scientific estab-
lishments of the United States. Search for
intra-Mercurial planets will be made for
the first time by the aid of photography. A
grand photographic apparatus has been pre-
pared to take in the whole field surrounding
the sun for about thirty degrees, which will
furnish images, if the sky is clear, of all the
stars to the eighth magnitude. Gelatine
plates of extreme sensibility will be em-
ployed. Other instruments are provided for
photographing the corona and its spectrum,
for examining the spectrum of the corona,
and for the exploration of the solar regions.
Several foreign astronomers will be attached
to the expedition at their own request, and
the American and English expeditions will
co-operate with it at the same place; so
that the ordinarily uninhabited Island of
Caroline will become, for the hour, the sci-
entific center of the world. It will enjoy
this distinction chiefly because it and Flint
Island, not very far off, are the spots most
favorable for the observation of the eclipse.
This eclipse is expected to offer unusual
facilities for observation, on account of the
long duration of totality (5 m - 33'- at Flint
Island, 5 m - 13 3 - at Caroline Island).
What shall we do with onr Drunkards ?
Dr. Orpheus Everts, Superintendent of
the Cincinnati Sanitarium, in an inquiry on
"What shall we do with the drunkard?"
regards drunkenness as a disease. The
only ways of dealing with it effectually are
by prohibition of the sale of intoxicating
liquors and inhibition or restriction of the
drunkard. The former measure he dismisses
as essentially impracticable, on account of
the antagonism it must always excite ; and
he is left only the latter one, which he would
have surrounded with the sanctions of the
law. He proposes a scheme of a law for
the establishment of Public Hospitals for the
Cure of Drunkenness and Conservatories for
the Protection of the Infirm, to which per-
sons defined by it as coming under its im-
port may be formally and legally committed
for cure or care. When thus committed,
they should be allowed every liberty or nat-
ural right which can be conserved without
lessening the efficiency of the law, and
should be protected, under the sanction of
stringent penalties, against assaults upon
their weakness, or temptations from any
source.
Niagara Falls as a State Park. The
movement for the rescue and preservation
of Niagara Falls is gathering strength, and
is now seeking legislative action, authorizing
the appointment of a commission to examine
the question and estimate the cost of carry-
ing out the project as an enterprise of the
State of New York. It is a real disgrace to
our people that this, the most wonderful ob-
ject of the kind on the earth, the first feature
of our natural scenery which strangers from
all climes hasten to see, and which ought of
right to belong to mankind, should have
been left in the hands of speculators till it
has been shorn of many of its natural beau-
ties, and it can not be seen at all from our
territory except on the payment of a show-
man's fee. By reason of these facts, and
the endless extortions characteristic of the
place, what used to be one of the favorite
pleasure-grounds of the continent is now
visited for a few hours only, as a kind of
side-show, and that largely by excursions in
the lump. The plan for the State's acqui-
sition of the territory, as approved by the
State Survey, contemplates the purchase of
really only a small area, generally of about
a hundred feet in width, extending from the
head of the rapids to the upper suspension-
bridge, and of the islands. Then by suitable
plantations and the provision of water-breaks
the ground is to be restored as nearly as
possible to its natural condition and kept so.
With these improvements, and the relief
from extortion that will accompany State
