P OP TJLAR MIS CELL ANY.
141
ownership, visitors will be attracted in
greater numbers than ever before, as the
facilities of access are improved, and what
now offends their eyes is removed. The
present condition of the falls and the char-
acter of their visitors, the imminent danger
they are in of being robbed of all that makes
them attractive, and the facts that make the
question of their immediate rescue a press-
ing one, are forcibly presented by Mr. J. B.
Harrison, Corresponding Secretary of the
Niagara Falls Association, Franklin Falls,
New Hampshire, in a pamphlet " On the
Condition of Niagara Falls and the Means
needed to preserve them." California has
reserved the Yosemite Valley and the Big-
Tree Grounds, and the United States the
Yellowstone Lake and Geysers, as public
parks. It should be the duty of the State
of New York to add to the list its stupen-
dous cataract.
Dyspepsia. The late Dr. Leared, in his
recently published essay on " The Causes
and Treatment of Indigestion," lays down
as a fundamental principle that the amount
of food which each man is capable of di-
gesting with ease always has a limit which
bears relation to his age, constitution,
health, and habits, and that indigestion is a
consequence of exceeding this limit. Dif-
ferent kinds of food are also differently
adapted to different constitutions. Dys-
pepsia may be brought on by eating irregu-
larly, by allowing too long an interval be-
tween meals, and by eating too often. Fre-
quently the meals are not gauged as to their
relative amount, or distributed with a due
regard to health. Thus, when we go out
after taking a light breakfast and keep at
our work, with a still lighter lunch only
during the interval, till evening, we are apt,
with the solid meal which tempts us to in-
dulgence, to put the stomach to a harder test
than it can bear. " When a light breakfast
is eaten, a solid meal is requisite in the mid-
dle of the day. When the organs are left
too long unemployed they secrete an excess
of mucus which greatly interferes with di-
gestion. One meal has a direct influence on
the next ; and a poor breakfast leaves the
stomach over-active for dinner. . . . The
point to bear in mind is, that not to eat a
sufficiency at one meal makes you too hun-
gry for the next ; and that, when you arc too
hungry, you are apt to overload the stom-
ach, and give the gastric juices more to do
than they have the power to perform."
Persons who eat one meal too quickly on
another must likewise expect the stomach
finally to give notice that it is imposed upon.
Other provocatives of dyspepsia are imper-
fect mastication, smoking, and snuff-taking,
which occasion a waste of saliva although
some people find that smoking assists di-
gestion, if done in moderation sitting in
positions that cramp the stomach, and the
pressure that is inflicted on the stomach by
the tools of some trades, as of curriers,
shoe-makers, and weavers. The general
symptoms of dyspepsia are well known.
Some that deserve special remark are fan-
cies that the limbs or the hands are distort-
ed, mental depression, extreme nervousness,
hypochondria, and other affections of the
mind. The cure is to be sought in avoiding
the food and habits by which dyspepsia is
promoted, and using and practicing those
which arc found to agree best with the sys-
tem of the subject. Regularity in the hours
of meals can not be too strongly insisted on.
" The stomach should not be disappointed
when it expects to be replenished. If dis-
appointed, even a diminished amount of
food will be taken without appetite, which
causes the secretions to injure the stomach,
or else impairs its muscular action."
Scotch Funerals in the Olden Time.
Mr. William McQueen, in " Macmillan's
Magazine," gives a somewhat amusing de-
scription of the Scotch funeral customs of
the olden time. The usages varied in de-
tails in different parts of the country, but
were marked as a whole by a general sim-
ilarity. In some places every man who
heard of a death made it a point to attend
the funeral ; if a Sunday intervened, the
time of the funeral was intimated in the
church-yard between the services. In other
places messengers were sent around to give
information of the death not to invite
friends to attend, for that was regarded as
a matter of course ; but in Glen Urquhart
the next-door neighbor of the deceased
would not go to a funeral without receiv-
ing a direct invitation. The custom of sup-
plying drink at the funeral was once uni-
