2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
says Dr. Jennings, " and also in your grave and more distressing affec-
tions, to regard the movement concerned in them in a friendly aspect
designed for and tending to the removal of a difficulty of whose
existence you were before unaware, and which, if suffered to remain
and accumulate, might prove the destruction of the house you live in
and that, instead of its needing to be ' cured,' it is itself a curative
operation ; and that what should be called disease lies back of the
symptoms which, in fact, are made for the express purpose of remov-
ing the real disorder or difficulty " (" Medical Reform," p. 310).
Drugs can rarely do more than change the form of the disease, or
postpone its crisis. Mercurial salve, which conscientious physicians
have almost ceased to regard as a lesser evil of any alternative, was
once a favorite prescription for all kinds of cutaneous diseases : it
cleansed the skin by driving the ulcers from the surface to the interior
of the body. A drastic purge counteracts constipation for a day or
two by inducing a still less desirable state of artificial dysentery.
Combined with venesection the same " remedy " will suppress the
symptoms of various inflammatory affections by compelling the ex-
hausted system to postpone the crisis of the disease ; in other words,
by interrupting a curative process. The best way to " assist " Nature
in such cases is to give her fair play by forbearing to meddle with her
restorative methods, and by removing the predisposing cause of the
disorder. Diseases plead for desistance, rather than for assistance, and
the discovery of the cause is the discovery of the remedy. For there
is a strong upward and healthward tendency in the constitution of
every living organism : Nature's revenge is but an enforced condition
of peace. Pain, discomfort, and even the premature loss of organic
vigor, are the attendant symptoms of a reconstructive process, and their
permanence is a presumptive p>roof that, in spite of such admonitions,
that process is a struggle against a permanent obstacle, or against a
constantly repeated frustration of its efforts.
To this self-regulating tendency of the living organism, certain dis-
orders (the lues veneris, prurigo, etc.) probably due to the agency of
microscopic parasites oppose a life-energy of their own, and have
thus far resisted the influence of hygienic or non-medicinal remedies.
But, with that exception, it may be laid down as a general rule that the
virulence and duration of every disease are proportioned to the degree
and the contumacy of the provocation a retribution proportioned to
the degree of the guilt, we should say, if Nature did not administer
her code after the principle that ignorance of the law constitutes no
excuse. The ignorant mother who, with the best intentions in the
world, forces her child to sleep in an air-tight bedroom, incurs the pen-
alties of an inexorable law as surely as the vicious father who tempts
his child to a life of infamy.
In the aggregate, hygienic errors cause more mischief than hygienic
recklessness ; and, if we would know the most baneful of those errors,
