MEDICAL QUACKS AND QUACKERIES. 147
some, peculiarly English in its origin, was exercised in England for
nearly seven hundred years. Edward the Confessor was the first who
touched for the king's-evil, and transmitted the gift to all his success-
ors. His power was attributed not to his royalty but to his sanctity,
and there " seemed little reason why his successors, who were, as a
rule, no saints, should be so specially favored." The kings of France
also claimed the right to dispense the gift of healing, and traced their
right to Clovis. Queen Anne was the last to exercise this gift in Eng-
land, and it is well known that she touched, among others, the cele-
brated Dr. Johnson, who was brought to the King by his mother on
the recommendation of Sir John Floyer, a distinguished physician of
Litchfield.* William III had too much sense to pander to the su-
perstitious feelings of many of his subjects, and never employed
the touch but once, and then he said, on laying his hands on the
patient, " May God give you better health and more sense ! " Queen
Elizabeth was averse to the ]Dractice, but extensively performed it.
Charles II excelled all his predecessors and successors in this cere-
mony. During his reign he touched nearly one hundred thousand
persons for the evil. One year (1682) over eight thousand suffer-
ers were subjected to his sacred touch. The patients were first
examined by the King's surgeons, and, if thought to be fitting ob-
jects of relief, they were given tickets to admit them to the royal
presence. When admitted, the patient knelt and was touched by the
King. The clei'k of the closet now handed his Majesty a gold coin,
to which was attached a piece of white ribbon, and, while the King
hung this round the neck of the patient, others read the prayers and
ceremonies specially appointed for this purpose. We are told that the
gold was a token of good-will, and not necessary to the cure, as many
were healed without it, or with silver employed instead. Evidences
of the efficacy of the royal touch are not wanting : Jeremy Collier says
of Edward the Confessor : " That this prince cured king's-evil is be-
yond dispute, and, since the credit of this miracle is unquestionable, I
see no reason why we should not believe the rest." John Browne, sur-
geon to Charles II, and a man of eminence and reputation in his
profession, wrote an " Anatomick-Chirurgical Treatise on Glandules
and Struma?, together with the Royal Gift of Healing or Cure thereof
by Contact or Imposition of Hands," etc. In this treatise he gives
" many wonderful examples of cures by the sacred touch " of Charles
II ; he also relates several cases of scrofulous tumor and sore cured
by being touched with handkerchiefs which had been dipped in the
blood of the martyr Charles I, and asserts that the usurper Cromwell
tried in vain to exercise this royal prerogative, "he having no more
right to the healing power than he had to regal jurisdiction." Wise-
man, in his work on surgery, which was the best book on the subject
* The gold coin presented to Dr. Johnson by the Queen is at the present time in the
British Museum.
