148 the popular science monthly.
at that time, says : " I myself have been a frequent eye-witness of
many hundred cures performed by his Majesty's touch alone, without
any assistance of chirurgery " ; still it does not appear that he sent his
patients to the King, and he gives his own method of curing scrofula
with great minuteness. This evidence as to the cures is apparently
most complete, and is that of men skilled in the medical art who were
eye-witnesses and assisted in the ceremonies. Of course now no one
believes that there was virtue in the royal touch any more than that
the philosopher's stone could convert baser metals into gold. If the
King could cure scrofula, how is it that during Charles II's reign scrof-
ula was more prevalent than for many years previously ? No doubt
it was because people neglected ordinary methods of treatment, in their
desire to be cured miraculously.
The only way it is possible to explain the evidence of Browne and
Wiseman is that they were ardent royalists, and held the efficacy of
the royal touch to be as much a party tenet as the divine right of
kings, and that by doing so they pleased the court and so advanced
their own interests. Had they doubted it, they would have incurred
the suspicion of being disaffected to the government.* Failures of
cure were attributed, as in our own day, to want of faith, as one writer
puts it, " none ever failed of receiving benefit unless their little faith
and credulity starved their merits."
Curing diseases by the laying on of hands was practiced with great
success by Valentine Creatraikes, an Irish gentleman of good family,
who served under Cromwell both in a military and civil capacity. At
the Restoration, being deprived of his offices, he undertook to cure the
king's-evil by touch, or stroking, as it was called ; he succeeded so
well in this that he extended the field of his labors and treated epi-
lepsy, asthma, convulsions, deafness, etc., by the same method. The
latter diseases being all clue to disorders of the nervous system, benefit
was no doubt frequently obtained through the effect of the imagina-
tion. " Imagination," says Lord Bacon, " is next akin to a miracle-
working faith." Greatraikes's fame soon spread, and he was sent for
from far and near ; the Earl of Orrery and Lord Conway patronized
him, and he even deceived the great Robert Boyle. At length he
arrived in London, where for some time he was most popular. The
majority of his admirers were ladies, and on the more hysterical of the
sex he performed marvelous cures. Soon, however, the tongues of
slander and ridicule assailed him, and he retired to his native country
and obscurity. Many others succeeded Greatraikes. John Everett, or
Leverett, the seventh son of a seventh son, and a gardener, practiced
* One Thomas Rosewcll was actually tried for high treason in 108-1 for saying that
" people made a flocking to the King, upon pretense of being healed of the king's-evil,
which he could not do, but that they, being priests and prophets, could by their prayers
do as much." Iiosewell was tried by the celebrated Judge Jeffries and found guilty, but
afterward pardoned. (Wadd's " Mems and Maxims," p. 136.)
