MEDICAL QUACKS AND QUACKERIES. 149
the "manual exercise," and declared that after touching thirty to
forty a day he felt the goodness go out of him. No doubt these peo-
ple practiced unconsciously what Mesmer many years after practiced
by design. On the subject of Mesmerism and spiritualism I do not
propose to enter. Of late years cures by the laying on of hands,
assisted, however, by prayer, and the anointing with oil, have be-
come very common, especially in the United States, the hot-bed of
all sorts of quackeries. This summer there has been a " faith con-
vention " at Old Orchard, in Maine, where many people were publicly
cured by this method; all the diseases treated appeared to be, from the
indefinite history of cases reported in religious newspapers, affections
of the nervous system. Many hysterical cases were possibly benefited
purely by the effect of the imagination : as the disases are ones of the
imagination, so are the cures. We have yet to hear of a case of actual
disease, such as is daily seen in our hospitals, cured by this method.
The immediate progenitor of our present race of quacks is Para-
celsus, who flourished in the sixteenth century ; he generally styled
himself Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Paracelsus Bombastus von
Hohenheim. His father, who was the natural son of a prince, gave
him an excellent education. He studied medicine, and afterward was
for some time professor at Basle, in Switzerland. Paracelsus denied
the utility of knowing the cause or mode of origin of disease ; he said
all he wanted to know was, how to cure it. He styled himself the
monarch of physicians, and asserted that the hair on the back of his
head knew more than all the writers from Galen to Avicenna, and he
publicly burned their books. He invented a nostrum called " azoth,"
which he vaunted as the philosopher's stone, the tincture of life. He
proclaimed that he had the power of making man immortal, yet he
died at the age of forty-eight. Still, by the aid of opium, antimony,
and mercury, he performed some wonderful cures, and to him must
be awarded the credit of first drawing the attention of the j)rofession
to the value of these remedies in the treatment of diseases. He also
helped medicine to advance by showing contempt for traditional
methods of treatment and the humoral pathology of the ancients,
which had held sway for over two thousand years.
The most remarkable example of credulity and superstition of the
public is found in the history of two quackeries which flourished in
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. I refer to the weapon-oint-
ment and sympathetic-poicder cures. The weapon-ointment was used
in healing wounds ; but, instead of the ointment being applied to the
wound, it was applied to the weapon which caused it. This was for-
tunate for the people so treated, as the applications to fresh wounds in
those times were most barbarous. The ointment was prepared in various
ways, and its ingredients were most diverse, consisting of human fat
and blood, mummy, moss from a dead man's skull, bull's blood and fat,
etc. At one time there was a schism in the weapon-salve school, and a
