MEDICAL QUACKS AND QUACKERIES. 153
inches long, blunt at one end and pointed at the other." They (so he
affirmed) " cured rheumatism, local pains, inflammation, and even tumors,
by drawing them over the affected parts for a few minutes." Dr. Per-
kins patented his discovery, and soon found numerous adherents, many
of them being men of wealth and position. His son, Benjamin Doug-
lass Perkins, crossed the Atlantic with the tractors, and in 1798 they
were employed in the Royal Hospital in Copenhagen. In London
their reputation was quickly established, and they soon became the
fashion. The Royal Society accepted Perkins's tractors and book, and
passed a vote of thanks to him ; by 1804 a " Perkinean Institution "
had been founded, which published transactions and held annual din-
ners. Lord Rivers was the first president, Governor Franklin vice-
president, and Lord Henneker, a fellow of the Royal Society, one of
the members. All this time Douglass Perkins was coining money
by selling tractors at five guineas each, which cost about ninepence.
A hospital was built, where the only treatment was " tractoration."
Persons in the highest positions willingly gave testimonials, telling
of the marvelous cures wrought on themselves and their friends by
these wonderful tractors. The bishops and clergymen on both sides of
the Atlantic were most eager to thrust forward evidence on this medical
topic ; whole pages of panegyric were contributed by them. One writes,
" I have used the tractors with success in several other cases in my own
family, and, although like Naaman, the Syrian, I can not tell why the
waters of Jordan should be better than Abana and Pharpar, rivers of
Damascus, yet since experience has proved them so no reasoning can
change the opinion " (" Currents and Counter-Currents," p. 85).
Many ministers of religion were furnished with tractors gratui-
tously, and Dr. Holmes remarks that one of the risks of infancy he
had to encounter was Perkins's tractors. The medical profession was
ever hostile to the new revelation, and their hostility by many was
attributed to jealousy and self-interest. The Connecticut Medical
Society, in 1797, expelled Dr. Perkins, for violating their regulations
against nostrums and secret remedies. The bubble was burst by Dr.
Haygarth, of Bath, who experimented on patients with bogus tractors
made of wood : he was quite as successful with them as with the five-
guinea ones ! These experiments did not immediately destroy the be-
lief of the real Perkinistic enthusiasts, because, as Froude says, " be-
lief in the marvelous does not rise from evidence, and will not yield
to it." After a time, however, Perkinism passed away so quietly that
the date of its death is unrecorded. Lord Byron, in his "English
Bards and Scotch Reviewers," refers to these celebrated Tractors :*
* " Thus saith the Preacher, ' Naught beneath the sun
Is new,' yet still from change to change we run ;
What varied wonders tempt us as they pass !
The cow-pox, Tractors, galvanism, gas,
In turns appear to make the vulgar stare,
Till the swoll'n bubble bursts and all is air ! "
