THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 3
we must inquire after the cause of the most fatal disease. The alcohol-
habit slays its thousands every year ; but statistics prove that human
life has a more terrible foe. The proportion of deaths from all diseases
that can be ascribed to the effects of intemperance relates as three and a
half to ten in Northern Europe, and as four to ten in the United States
and Canada to the mortality-rate of pulmonary consumption. With-
out counting acute pneumonia and other fatal lung-diseases, tubercular
phthisis alone claims yearly one life out of 410 to 415 ; or an aggregate
which, for the United States, has been estimated at 94,000 ; in Great
Britain and Ireland, 110,000 (or one of every 300 inhabitants) ; in
France, 80,000 ; in European Russia, 105,000 ; in Northern Germany
(including the Polish provinces of Prussia), 82,000. And the quantum
of the mischief is still aggravated by its quality. Consumption ful-
fills no scavenger's mission : the most voracious is, withal, the most
fastidious disease, and selects its victims from the most industrious
classes of the noblest nations ; hard-working mechanics, devoted sup-
porters of large families, bread-winning laborers and prize-winning
students are its favorite victims. For the last fifty years its ravages
have steadily increased ; but the excess of the evil has finally revealed
the means of deliverance, and the worst scourge of the human race
has one redeeming feature : that its cause, and consequently its proper
cure, have at last been determined with absolute certainty. Not more
than fifty years ago the consumption-problem was still the crux medi-
corum ; the disease seemed almost unaccountable and wholly incurable.
Practical physicians had ascertained the value of certain secondary rem-
edies, the prophylactic influence of fat and phosphates (cod-liver oil,
etc.), and of chest-expanding gymnastics ; but they had failed to recog-
nize the great specific. Misled by the most prevalent of all popular
delusions the Cold- Air Fallacy * they ascribed consumption to the
influence of a low temperature, and tried to cure it by sending their
wealthier patients to a warmer climate and the poorer to an air-tight
sick-room. There were hospitals for consumptives where invalids were
nursed with a care that would have insured recovery from almost every
other disease, but here all calculations were defeated by the result of
one wrong factor ; the chief efficacy of the treatment was supposed to
depend upon the exclusion of every draught of fresh air.
But statistics have at last exploded that delusion. It was ascer-
tained that consumption is essentially a house-disease. North or south,
* " Dry and intensely cold air preserves decaying organic tissues by arresting decom-
position, and it would be difficult to explain how the most effective remedy came to be
suspected of being the cause of tuberculosis, unless we remember that, where fuel is ac-
cessible, the disciples of civilization rarely fail to take refuge from excessive cold in its
opposite extreme an overheated, artificial atmosphere, and thus come to connect severe
winters with the idea of pectoral complaints. . . . They avoid cold instead of impurity,
just as tipplers, on a warm day, imagine that they would ' catch their death ' by a draught
from a cool fountain, but never hesitate to swallow the monstrous mixtures of the liquor-
venders " (" Physical Education," p. 80 ; compare pp. 85, 98, and 248).
