MEDICAL QUACKS AND QUACKERIES. i 57
with. Hahnemann, and no one now wishes to detract from the laurels
he may have won by thus simplifying the etiology of diseases which
hitherto have been so obscure in their origin.
Unfortunately for his theory, since the discovery of the sarcoptls
hominis, or itch-insect, the dogma about the psora being such a pow-
erful factor in the causation of disease has fallen to the ground, and
homoeopaths are not fond of referring to it. Like Paracelsus, Hahne-
mann paid no attention to the pathology * or cause of disease, but only
sought for symptoms. For instance, in a case of dropsy, the cause,
whether it be from the heart, the kidneys, or the liver, is not inquired
into, but the symptom dropsy is treated. Dr. Black, in his " Practice of
Homoeopathy," tells us : " If the cause of the disease be an inflamma-
tion of the brain, a remedy has to be chosen which produces this patho-
logical condition ; and, if the exciting cause can be traced to the
abuse of alcoholic liquors, a remedy should be selected which is near-
est akin to alcohol in its action." This is what is called " a proving."
The dilutions are directed to be prepared by Hahnemann with as
much mystery and jugglery as the " sympathetic powder.." The follow-
ing directions are taken from Hahnemann's " Organon " : "A grain of
the substance, if it is solid, and a drop, if liquid, is to be added to
about a third part of 100 grains of sugar of milk in an unglazed porce-
lain capsule, which has had the polish removed from the lower part of
its cavity by rubbing with wet sand ; they are to be mingled for an
instant with a bone or horn spatula, and then rubbed together for six
minutes ; then the mass is to be scraped together from the mortar and
pestle, which is to take four minutes, then to be again rubbed for six
minutes with equal force. Four minutes are then to be devoted to
scraping the powder into a heap, and the second third of the 100 grains
of sugar of milk to be added. Then they are to be stirred an instant
and rubbed six minutes, again to be scraped together for four, and
forcibly rubbed for six, once more scraped together for four minutes
and rubbed down for six. Then the last third of the 100 grains of
sugar of milk is to be added and mingled by stirring with a spatula.
Six minutes of forcible rubbing, four of scraping together, six more
of rubbing, finish the process. Now to one grain of the powder so
manufactured is to be added a third part of 100 grains of sugar of
milk, and the whole mixed in a mortar, and having triturated each
third portion for six minutes, and scraped for four minutes, the whole
powder is placed in a corked bottle and marked with its degree of
attenuation, which will be the 16 ^ 00 or second dilution. The same
method is observed for this pow T der as was detailed for the last for
making any attenuation up to a decillionth and quintillionth."
A new school, which has arisen within the last few years, also pays no attention to
pathology. The members of this school do not wait for symptoms even, but endeavor to
" jugulate " the disease at once. They call themselves the "Dosimetric School," because
they treat disease by granules containing alkaloids and metallic salts in fixed doses.
