i 5 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The method for making fluid dilutions is the same, but instead of
sugar of milk alcohol is used. The scrapings and triturations are ex-
changed for shakes of the bottle in certain directions. Toward the
close of his life Hahnemann reduced the number of his shakes. He
says, "A long. experience and multiplied observations upon the sick
lead me within the last few years to prefer giving only two shakes to
medicinal liquids, whereas I formerly used to give ten."
Now to give one an idea of the potency of these drugs : to obtain
a grain of the original substance in the third attenuation, one would
have to swallow four hundred-weight of sugar ; or, to get a drop of
the original tincture, a barrel of alcohol would have to be imbibed.
Now, this is only the third dilution. In the eighth dilution, to obtain
a drop of the tincture the whole Atlantic Ocean full of alcohol would
be necessary. Dr. Black, to whom I have referred, says he uses the
first, third, sixth, ninth, up to the thirtieth dilution. Imagine the
effect of one-drop doses of the thirtieth dilution ! The finite mind can
not comprehend the infinitesimal when thus expressed.
Homoeopathy, although not yet deceased, retains hardly anything
of its original character but the name. The efficacy of infinitesimal
doses is doubted by the leaders of the school, and even the doctrine of
slmilia similibiis curantur is not now considered universal. Dr.
George Wild, Vice-President of the British Homoeopathic Society, in
a letter to the London "Lancet," June, 1877, says that he believes
" palpable doses of medicine are generally more efficacious in the treat-
ment of disease than infinitesimal ones." Also, that "some diseases
are best treated by similars and some by contraries."
The third dogma, with regard to the psora, or itch, has been, since
the discovery of the itch-insect, effectually disposed of forever. As
Dr. Holmes remarks, "What there is left of the three-legged stool
after one of its legs is pulled out, and the other two sawed half or
three quarters through, seems hardly worth sitting down on."
The name homoeopathy has a charm for the public, and so is re-
tained to juggle w T ith. When, in 1833, the edition of the " Organon "
from which I have quoted was published, the translator, in the pref-
ace, mentioned that this new system of medicine was spreading
through the Continent of Europe with the rapidity of lightning. In
1880, in an address read before the Institute of Homoeopathy, in Mil-
waukee " How can we best advance Homoeopathy ? " the author
says : " It can not be denied that homoeopathy has not advanced, and
is not advancing, as rapidly as we once had just and reasonable
grounds for expecting. In Great Britain there are but two hundred
and seventy-five homoeopathic physicians, and in the United States
there is not one legally recognized school of homoeopathy." He con-
cludes by saying that there seems to be everywhere stagnation, if not
retrogression. Dr. Smyth, in his book on " Medical Heresies," men-
tions that a short time since the County Hospital, Sacramento, was in
