162 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
when a patient consults him he terrifies him into believing he has some
serious disease which only his medicine can cure. This is a very old
form of quackery. Robert Pitt, in a book called " The Crafts and
Frauds of Physic exposed," published in London in 1703, says, "A
quack is a practitioner who takes no fee in specie, but makes the de-
luded patient pay very extravagant fees by the intolerable prices he
puts on all cheap medicines, and by passing upon him very many more
doses than the disease requires or the constitution can bear."
That this, the last quarter of our nineteenth century of progress
and boasted enlightenment, is as rich in credulity and superstition as
any of the preceding ones, is proved by the fact that thousands yearly
visit shrines and sacred springs, if Catholics, and attend " faith conven-
tions," if Protestants, to be cured of bodily ailments. Not long since
one of England's proudest nobles traveled on a pilgrimage to Lourdes
in the hopes that Notre Dame de Lourdes would make his only son,
who is a deaf-mute, hear and speak. Every day in our own immediate
neighborhood, hundreds and thousands of the maimed and the blind
make pilgrimages to the sacred spring of Ste. Anne de Beaupre and are
miraculously healed have they not a mountain of crutches bearing
witness to the fact ? Lately in this city (Montreal), a noted female
quack has made the blind to see and the lame to walk at least I
have been told so by eye-witnesses and in consequence has attracted
crowds of infatuated simpletons, who could not hand in their dollars
fast enough to secure a bottle of her wonderful nostrum. The priests
of a neighboring city, jealous of poaching on their own grounds,
denounced her as a charlatan, and told the afflicted that, instead of
being duped by this unholy woman, they should make a pilgrimage to
Ste. Anne de Beaupre and be healed !
The success of this mode of treatment in hysterical cases is being
recognized in France by physicians : they now, when they have an hys-
terical patient of a devout frame of mind, on whom they have exer-
cised their skill in vain, as a dernier ressort advise that a visit should
be made to the shrine of Notre Dame de Lourdes. Thus imagination
often works a cure where medicine fails. These cures, as I said above,
only take place when the disease is one of the imagination.
Why is quackery so much more prevalent in medicine than in any
other science ? Because the medical quack attributes to himself what
is due to Nature. Nature can not build a railway, but she can very
often cure disease. A witty Frenchman has said that medicine amuses
the patient while Nature cures the disease.
Is there ever any chance of quackery becoming extinct ? I fear
not as long as human nature exists in its present condition. Still, no
doubt, there is a probability of the number of believers in quackery
being diminished by a greater diffusion of philosophical habits of
thought and a more general knowledge of physiology. A writer
many years ago, in one of the London medical papers, said : " The final
