THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 187
often be found in the neighborhood of Hastings, derived from the
wealden formation.
The curious so-called mineral beekite is really coral or shelly mat-
ter which has been replaced by silica. Researches into the behavior
of the colloid form of silica, already spoken of, have shown how in
many instances large deposits of silica, such as the flinty bands of the
cretaceous formation, may have originated. Mr. Church's experiments,
made some years since, proved that the minutest j^article of carbonate
of lime was sufficient to transform the pure aqueous solution of silica
into the solid state in the course of a few minutes ; and he was able,
by the infiltration of silica in solution, to replace almost entirely the
carbonate of lime in recent coral by silica, producing by this means
what may be looked upon as a kind of artificial beekite. Thus in the
slower, perhaps, but mighty chemistry of nature, marvelous reactions
may have taken place, giving rise to some of the multitudinous forms
in which silica presents itself to the mineralogical student. Science-
Gossij).
-*-
THE REMEDIES OF NATURE.
By FELIX L. OSWALD, M. D.
CONSUMPTION (Concluded).
THE MOUNTAIN-CUBE.
CARBONIC acid, the lung-poisoning residuum of respiration and
combustion, is heavier than the atmospheric air, and accumulates
in low places in wells, in cellars, in deep, narrow valleys, etc. and
often mingles with the malarious exhalations of low, swampy plains.
On very high mountains, on the other hand, the air becomes too rare-
fied to be breathed with impunity. It accelerates the respiratory pro-
cess, as the amount of air inhaled at one inspiration does not contain
oxygen enough to supply the wants of the organism at the ordinary
rate of breathing, and is therefore especially distressing to diseased
(wasted) lungs, whose functions are already abnormally quickened,
and can not be further stimulated without overstraining their mech-
anism.
In the temperate zone, the purest and at the same time most respir-
able air is found at an elevation of about four thousand feet above
the level of the sea, an altitude corresponding to the midway ter-
races of the European Alps and the average summit-regions of our
Southern Alleghanies. The broad table-lands of the Cumberland
Range are several hundred feet above the dust-* and-mosquito level.
* While the treeless plateaus of the Pacific slope are in a chronic state of sand hazi-
ness. In Southern Colorado, too, every high wind shrouds the mountains in whirls of a
kind of sand-dust that can be felt under the eyelids and between the teeth.
