i88 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Between the thirty-fourth and thirty-sixth degrees of north latitude
the elevated plateaus have the further advantage that their climate
equalizes the contrasts of the season : it mitigates the summer more
than it aggravates the winter. Southerly winds predominate, and
melt the snow with the same breezes that cool the midsummer weeks,
for in the dog days the Mexican table-lands are considerably cooler
than our Northern prairie States. In the Alps of North Carolina,
Tennessee, and Northern Georgia land and labor are so cheap that even
people of moderate means can build a sanitarium of their own. It has
been often observed that the moral effect of a residence at a place
where consumptives congregate is not favorable to the cure of the dis-
ease ; and, moreover, a private establishment lessens the danger of con-
tagion. The cheapness of living may be inferred from the fact that
at the Chalybeate Springs of Benton, Tennessee, where board-ratfes
vary from fifty to seventy-five cents a day, the visitors from the sur-
rounding country towns, nevertheless, prefer to board on the co-opera-
tive plan : the proprietor of a kitchen-garden furnishes vegetables, a
stock-farmer fresh meat, the owner of a carriage free transportation,
and every family has a little cottage of its own. Summer-guests
who come to drink mountain air can build their cabins wherever they
find a convenient plateau, and contract with the next farmer for
all the comestibles they may need in addition to their canned pro-
visions. They can cook at their own fireplace. A log-house can be
made as airy as any tent, and is out and out moTe comfortable. A
rough-hewed porch-roof, projecting like the veranda of a Swiss chalet,
will keep the cabin both dry and airy ; square holes in the center of
each wall can serve as windows in fine weather, and during a storm
can be shut with a sliding-board. Between May and November the
winds in the Southern Alleghanies come from the south or southwest,
nine days out of ten, and, in order to get the full benefit of the pure
air, the house should face one of the thousand promontories of the
southwestern slope that rises in terraces from the " Piedmont coun-
ties " of North Carolina and Northern Georgia, with a free horizon to-
ward the plains of the Gulf-coast. Have the door on the south side,
and keep it wide open all night, as well as the windows or louvers in the
opposite wall. If the windows do not reach to the ground, spread
your bedclothes upon a hurdle-bedstead rather than on the floor, in
order to enjoy every afflatus of the night-breeze. Night and day one
can thus breathe mountain airs that have not been tainted by the
touch of earthly things since they left the pine-forests of the Mexi-
can Sierras. Every inspiration is a draught from the fountain-head of
the atmospheric stream.
There is no need of living on oiled sardines where the brooks are
full of speckled trout. Those who must break the commandment
of Brahma (and the highland air confers certain immunities), may de-
vour their humble relatives in the form of wild-turkeys, quails, and
