4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
east or west, the death-rate from lung-diseases was found to bear an
exact proportion to the percentage of the inhabitants habitually en-
gaged in sedentary and in-door occupations. Towns suffer more than
the rural districts, cities more than country towns, manufacturing cities
more than commercial and semi-agricultural cities, weaver-towns more
than foundry-towns. " If a perfectly sound man is imprisoned for
life," says Baron d'Arblay, the Belgian philanthropist, " his lungs, as
a rule, will first show symptoms of disease, and shorten his misery by
a hectic decline, unless he should commit suicide."
Moreover, it was shown that in non-manufacturing (uncivilized or
pastoral) regions a low temperature seems to afford a protection against
pulmonary disorders. Professor Jacoud found that, at an elevation of
four thousand feet, the cold Alpine districts of Northern Savoy are
almost free from lung-diseases. The medical statistics of the Austrian
army have established the fact that recruits from the Tyrol, from
Carinthia, and the Carpathians (Transylvania), i. e., from the highest,
and consequently the coldest, provinces of the empire, enjoy a re-
markable immunity from tubercular consumption. Dr. Hjaltelin, a
resident of Iceland, states that among the inhabitants of that country
pulmonary diseases are almost unknown.
But in the temperate zone consumption-statistics alone would en-
able us to infer the amount of dust-breathing and in-door work inci-
dental to the pursuit of each trade. In the Italian cities that have
largely engaged in the production of textile fabrics, consumption has
become as frequent as in Lancashire. Irrespective of race-differences
and special dietetic habits, the habitual breathing of vitiated air leads
to the development of pulmonary scrofula. And science has furnished
the rationale of that result. Physiology has demonstrated that air is
gaseous food, and respiration a process of digestion. The atmosphere
furnishes the raw material of the pulmonary pabulum ; at each inspi-
ration the organism of the lungs imbibes the oxygenous or nutritive
principle of the air-draught, and excretes the indigestible elements.
By breathing the same air over and over again, the atmospheric ali-
ment becomes azotized, i. e., depleted of its life-sustaining principle,
and therefore unfit to supply the wants of the animal economy. The
continued inhalation of such vitiated air fills the respiratory organs
with indigestible elements, which gradually accumulate beyond the
dislodging ability of the vital forces, and at last corrupt the tissue of
the congested organ and favor the development of parasites. Con-
sumption is one of the diseases that seem to confirm the tenets of the
germ-theory. A tubercular diathesis is favored by stagnant impurities
of the circulatory system, by a warm and humid climate, and counter-
acted by cold air and other antiseptics. Six years ago a German phy-
sician demonstrated that the progress of pulmonary scrofula can be
arrested by a pectoral injection of carbolic acid ; and one of his coun-
trymen lately ascertained that the tubercle-virus is alive with micro-
