198 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
but laws of the " ought " ; not laws of conduct in general, hut of con-
duct of a certain kind. As logic establishes the regulative laws and
postulates of scientific knowledge, ethics establishes the regulative
principles of moral life.
The stand-point assumed by the author, in dealing with evolution,
serves also in ethics. It appears to him evident that, from indifferent
actions to actions which are good or bad, the transition is quite grad-
ual. In ethics, as in evolution, the higher development must be ex-
plained by the lower. The study of ethical problems presupposes the
study of human action as a whole, and this again presupposes that of
the actions of living beings in general. The study of the evolution of
action forms the preparation for ethics.
It is shown, in the first place, that " higher organic development
is accompanied by more highly developed action." The latter is
"an improving adjustment of actions to ends, such as furthers the
prolongation of life, such as furthers an increased amount of life."
Action adapts itself more and more to self and race maintenance ; and
here also the general evolutionary principle is applicable. " Race-
maintaining conduct, like self-maintaining conduct, arises gradually
out of that which can not be called conduct ; adjusted actions are
preceded by unadjusted ones."
In treating of good and bad conduct, Herbert Spencer, in the first
place, endeavors to establish the meaning of the terms " good " and
"bad." Actions properly adapted to ends are good, and actions not
so adapted are evil, both these definitions being taken in a relative
sense only. Good conduct is identical with the most highly devel-
oped conduct, which " simultaneously achieves the greatest totality of
life in self, in offspring, and in our fellow-men."
Pessimistic verdicts upon the value of life are combated by the
author with all the might of his intellect, as standing in harsh contra-
diction to every paragraph of the unwritten moral code of humanity.
He leans toward a limited optimism. He rightly urges that pessi-
mists and optimists agree on one point. Both "assume it to be self-
evident that life is good or bad according as it does, or does not,
bring a surplus of agreeable feeling. . . . Each makes the kind of
sentiency which accompanies life the test."
A general consideration of the conflicting views of life brings the
author to the conclusion that the good, on the whole, is that which
causes pleasure ; that our ideas of good and evil arise from the cer-
tainty or probability that the same will call forth, somewhere or some
time, pleasure or suffering.
Not man as an individual, independent of social relations, of family,
people, state, society ; not man or humanity in the abstract ; but man
in society, the social individual, the member of the social union, is the
subject for whose moral action, for the adaptations of whose conduct
to the highest aims of social life, it is the business of scientific ethics
