A GERMAN VIEW OF THE "DATA OF ETHICS:' 199
to establish normal principles. It was, therefore, necessary to loosen
the bonds which had bound ethics to unscientific propositions and
dogmas of traditional transcendentalism, and to establish its scientific
character by a union with the foundations of our scientific knowledge.
This, in brief, is the programme for the reform of ethics, or, rather,
for its establishment on a new basis. The unscientific methods em-
ployed by ethical writers are sharply criticised ; the logical propositions
upon which the foundation of scientific ethics depends are clearly
stated ; and the false premises exposed which render all scientific pro-
cedure impossible.
In the exposition of the relativity of suffering and enjoyment, and
in the sections on " Egoism versus Altruism " and " Altruism versus
Egoism," the author grapples with the fundamental problems of an-
thropological ethics. The priority of egoism is convincingly set forth,
the spontaneous origin of pure altruism, and the interdependence and
complementary relations of both principles ; while the one-sided as-
sertions and demands of their respective champions are refuted. The
final reconciliation of egoism and altruism is inferred from evolution,
from which the author also reaches that conciliatory and compromising
position which enables him to reconcile many seemingly contradictory
phenomena.
Evolutionary morals are wholly hedonistic. The happiness-giving
is the good ; and it is owing to theological and political influences
alone that mankind overlook this truth. The idea and the desire of
happiness, of perfect well-being, necessarily mark the character of
good conduct. Moral life is a series of compromises between egoism
and altruism. All other moral principles derive their conditional
justification from this first principle of human action, which is charac-
terized by Kant as the negation of all morality. The idea of perfecti-
bility is tried by the same standard, and we are reminded that capacity
for the reception of happiness is the highest proof of the perfectibility
of human nature. Aristotle, who recognized happiness as the highest
aim of human endeavor, took a step out of his way when he " sought
to define happiness by the aid of the word ' virtue,' instead of defining
virtue by the aid of the word ' happiness.' " Hence it must be con-
ceded that " the conception of virtue can not be separated from the
conception of happiness-producing conduct ; and that, as this holds of
all the virtues, however otherwise unlike, it is from their conducive-
ness to happiness that they come to be classed as virtues."
The welfare of society as a whole is regarded as the first problem,
but not as the final object, being preparatory to the furthering of indi-
vidual life and welfare, which is to be compassed by the fostering of
social interests. The subjection of personal to social welfare is re-
garded as a temporary consequence of the existence of antagonistic
societies ; and, when the social aggregate, arrived at a certain ele-
vation of development, shall no longer be in danger, the welfare
