SCIENCE-TEACHING IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 207
er^y has had one eternity in which to dissipate itself. "What one
eternity has not sufficed to bring about, will never be consummated.
It may be interesting, but it is not essential to the demonstration, to
investigate the method by which energy dissipated becomes once more
potential. Perhaps the most tenable theory is, that it will be accom-
plished by the collision of dead worlds with each other, and the re-
sulting mechanical evolution of light and heat. According to this
view, attraction is the grand reservoir of the generic energy of the
universe, on which all matter may draw when its differentiated force
has been dissipated. But, be this as it may, the fruitful union of mat-
ter and energy in the infinite past is a stable guarantee that they will
never be divorced.
ON SCIENCE-TEACHING IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS*
THE repeated appointment, by this body, in successive years, of
committees to look into the scientific education of the public
schools, must be taken as showing that such an inquiry is regarded
as both legitimate and important. Yet the duties of such a commit-
tee have not been defined by the Association, nor have any of our pred-
ecessors opened the way to a consideration of the subject. It was
probably expected that we would furnish a digest of information from
many quarters, as to what sciences are taught in the public schools,
with what facilities, and to what extent ; accompanied by such recom-
mendations regarding the increase of scientific studies as the results
might suggest. But our course has not proved to be so clear. We
have been arrested at the outset by a question of the quality of the
science-teaching in these schools which demands the first consideration.
There are certain radical deficiencies in current science-teaching, the
nature and extent of which must be understood before any measures
of practical improvement can be intelligently taken up. We shall here
confine ourselves to this preliminary inquiry.
The investigation has interest from the immense extent and rap-
idly increasing influence of the American public schools. There are
now nearly a hundred and fifty thousand of these schools, supported
at an annual expense of probably seventy or eighty million dollars.
Maintained by State authority, they are firmly established in the re-
spect and confidence of the community. Under the influence of nor-
mal schools, teachers' institutes, systematic superintendence, school
boards, regulative legislation, and an extensive literature devoted spe-
* Preliminary report of the committee, appointed at the Saratoga meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, on " Science-Teaching in the Pub-
lic Schools," read at the Boston meeting, in August, 1880, and published in the " Trans-
actions " of the Association.
