2io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Mr. Everett said, " I will thank any person to show why it is expedient
and beneficial in the community to make public provision for teach-
ing the elements of learning, and not expedient or beneficial to make
similar provision to aid the learner's progress toward the mastery of
the most difficult branches of science and the choicest refinements of lit-
erature." Under the influence of such considerations the rudimentary
studies rapidly developed into courses of study embracing a variety
of subjects. This led to the systematizing of instruction and the
grading of schools, so that in nearly all the towns of the United States
the public schools have been divided into primaries for the younger
pupils and grammar-schools for older pupils ; while within twenty-
five years a third grade has arisen known as the high-schools for the
most advanced students. In each division there are sub-grades, and,
wherever improvements in public-school education are attempted, the
principle of gradation is fundamental. So essential is it considered,
that no aid is granted from the Peabody fund except to graded
schools. As regards the plan of studies adopted, there was no guiding
principle. All sorts of subjects, and these for all sorts of reasons, were
taken up, and among them the sciences which are now regular parts
of public-school study. Classes are formed in physics, chemistry,
mineralogy, geology,, physiology, botany, and zoology. There are
text-books upon all these branches, graded to the varying capacities
of learners. Teachers prepare in them, and in many cases apparatus
is provided, and there are lectures with experiments, specimens, maps,
and charts for illustrations.
The old ideal of a school is a place where knowledge is got from
books by the help of teachers, and our public-school system grew up
in conformity with this ideal. The early effect of grading was to fix
and consolidate imperfect methods. The sciences were assimilated to
the old practice, and the science-teaching falls short at just the points
where it was inevitable that it should fall short. The methods of
school-teaching, and the habits of the teachers, had grown rigid under
the regime of book-studies. As a consequence the science-teaching in
the public schools is generally carried on by instruction. Through
books and teachers the pupil is filled up with information in regard to
science. Its facts and principles are explained as far as possible, and
then left in the memory with his other school acquisitions. He learns
the sciences much as he learns geography and history. Only in a
few exceptional schools is he put to any direct mental work upon the
subject-matter of science, or taught to think for himself.
As thus treated the sciences have but little value in education.
They fall below other studies as means of mental cultivation. Arith-
metic rouses mental reaction. The rational study of language, by
analytical and constructive tasks and the mastery of principles,
strengthens the mental processes ; but the sciences are not employed
to train the faculties in the various ways to which they are severally
