s>>
220 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bacco-pipe. Presently it will become turbid. Continue tbe blowing,
and tbe turbidity will increase up to a certain degree of milkiness.
Go on blowing witb " commendable perseverance," and an inversion
of effect will follow : the turbidity diminishes, and at last the water
becomes clear again.
The chemistry of this is simple enough. From the lungs a mix-
ture of nitrogen, oxygen, and carbonic acid is exhaled. The carbonic
acid combines with the soluble lime and forms a carbonate of lime
which is insoluble in mere water. But this carbonate of lime is to a
certain extent soluble in water saturated with carbonic acid, and such
saturation is effected by the continuation of blowing.
Now take some of the lime-water that has been thus treated, place
it in a clean glass flask, and boil it. After a short time the flask will
be found incrusted with a thin film of something. This is the carbon-
ate of lime, which has been thrown down again by the action of boil-
ing in drawing off its solvent, the carbonic acid. This crust will
effervesce if a little acid is added to it.
In this manner our tea-kettles, engine-boilers, etc., become incrusted
when fed with calcareous waters, and most waters are calcareous ;
those supplied to London, which is surrounded by chalk, are largely
so. Thus the boiling or cooking of such water effects a removal of its
mineral impurities more or less completely. Other waters contain
such mineral matter as salts of sodium and potassium. These are not
removable by mere boiling.
Usually we have no very strong motive for removing either these
or the dissolved carbonate of lime, or the atmospheric gases from
water, but there is another class of impurities of serious importance.
These are the organic matters dissolved in all water that has run over
land covered with vegetable growth, or, more especially, which has
received contributiono from sewers or any other form of house-drain-
age. Such water supplies nutriment to those microscopic abomina-
tions, the mirococci, bacilli, bacteria, etc., which are now shown to be
connected with blood-poisoning possibly do the whole of the poison-
ing business. These little pests are harmless, and probably nutritious,
when cooked, but in their raw and wriggling state are horribly prolific in
the blood of people who are in certain states of what is called " recep-
tivity." They (the bacteria, etc.) appear to be poisoned or somehow
killed off by the digestive secretions of the blood of some people, and
nourished luxuriantly in the blood of others. As nobody can be quite
sure to which class he belongs, or may presently belong, or whether the
water supplied to his household is free from blood-poisoning organ-
isms, cooked water is a safer beverage than raw water.
The requirement for this simple operation of cooking increases
with the density of our population, which on reaching a certain degree
renders the pollution of all water obtained from the ordinary sources
almost inevitable.
