THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 9
that in Guinea-pigs, rabbits, and other animals, the symptoms of tu-
berculosis can be artificially produced by a repeated inoculation with
scrofula virus ; and in the children of scrofulous parents the inherited
taint often leads to the development of a malignant form of tuber-
culosis. Consumptives should therefore avoid all scorbutific articles of
diet : salt meat, pickles, indigestible made dishes, rancid fat, pungent
spices, cheese, and all kinds of intoxicating liquors. A predilection
for such diet is often encouraged by the circumstance that in the in-
cipient stages of consumption it can be indulged without apparent
inconvenience to the digestive organs. The victims of pulmonary
disorders often enjoy an omnivorous appetite. But they should not
forget that their diseased lungs act as an absorbent of all morbid mat-
ter, and that the immunities of the digestive apparatus are purchased
at the expense of the respiratory organs.
Pathological conditions, involving an abnormal waste of tissue, re-
quire, indeed, an extra supply of nutritive aliments, and the patient
may claim the right to indulge his appetite in regard to the quantity
of his food, but he should earn that right by restricting himself in re-
gard to the quality. His diet should be nutritious, non-stimulating,
and slightly aperient ; the regulation of the quantum may be trusted
to the promptings of Nature. The first full meal, however, should not
be taken before the morning exercise. Those who are in the habit of
wasting the energy of the day's prime on the digestion of a massive
breakfast may palliate their craving with a glass of sweet milk, or a
piece of brown bread, dabbed with treacle or cream. Fresh cream,
Graham bread, honey, beans baked with butter instead of pork, and a
liberal dessert of such fruit as sweet grapes, pears, strawberries, or
stewed prunes, at about 1 p. m. At six or seven a similar meal ; for the
sake of variety, perhaps buckwheat-cakes instead of bread, and apple-
butter instead of honey. In point of quantity let the supper rival the
dinner, with the proviso that the rules of the bedroom hygiene shall be
duly observed, for, if the vigor of the digestive organs is aided by a
liberal supply of oxygen, it is a fallacy to suppose that the night is an
unfavorable time for the assimilation of a hearty meal. Animals rest
after repletion, and some of them never sleep till they have a good meal
to digest. There is no doubt that after meals neither mental nor mus-
cular exertion is favorable to the performance of the organic functions
which concur to effect the nutrition of the system. And, if the stom-
ach can bear it, before going to bed an extra glass or two of sweet-
ened cream may be taken not as a food, but as a medicine. It is an
established fact that fat counteracts a tuberculous diathesis. The in-
habitants of the polar regions consume enormous quantities of non-
nitrogenous food. Our negroes, to whom the climate of the United
States must be semi-polar, lose no opportunity to gorge themselves
with fat meat. The poor monkeys of our Northern menageries are
ravenously fond of sweet milk and cream ; instinct teaches them that
