OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS. 227
ant, unless the court in which the judgment of divorce was rendered
shall modify such judgment on satisfactory proof that the complain-
ant has remarried, that five years have elapsed since the divorce was
granted, and that the conduct of the defendant since the dissolution of
the marriage has been uniformly good.
No formality is necessary for the solemnization of marriages in New
York. But, for the purpose of being registered and authenticated, the
statute provides that marriages may be solemnized by ministers of the
gospel and priests ; and when solemnized by them the ceremony must
be according to the forms and customs of the church or society to
which they belong. Marriages may also be solemnized by mayors,
recorders, and aldermen of cities, judges of the county court, justices
of the peace, and by justices and judges of courts of record. When
solemnized by a magistrate, no particular form is required, except that
the parties shall declare in the presence of the magistrate and attend-
ing witnesses that they take each other for husband and wife. It is
the duty of the officiating minister or magistrate to enter the names,
ages, and residences of the parties, and the witnesses to the marriage,
in a book to be kept for that purpose, and he shall upon application
furnish to the parties a certificate of such marriage. This certificate,
if presented to the clerk of the city or town where the marriage was
solemnized, or where either of the parties resides, shall be filed by such
clerk and entered in a book. The entry, or a certified copy thereof,
or the marriage certificate, shall be received as evidence of such
marriage. The provisions of the law regulating the solemnization of
marriages, however, do not apply to the people called Quakers, nor
to Jews, who are married according to the regulations of their respec-
tive churches.
In Connecticut the statute declares that no man shall marry his
mother, grandmother, daughter, granddaughter, sister, aunt, niece,
step-mother or step-daughter ; that no woman shall marry her father,
grandfather, son, grandson, brother, uncle, nephew, step-father, or step-
son ; and that, if any man or woman shall marry within the degrees
aforesaid, such marriage shall be void. It provides further that no
persons shall be married until one of them shall inform the register of
the town, or the town-clerk, in which the marriage is to be celebrated,
of the name, age, color, occupation, birthplace, residence, and con-
dition whether single, widowed, or divorced of each. Such regis-
ter, or town-clerk, shall thereupon issue his certificate that the parties
therein named have complied with the law, which certificate shall be
a license for any person authorized to solemnize marriages to give in
marriage, in said town only, the parties therein named ; but no such
certificate shall be issued if either of the parties is a minor, under the
control of a parent or a guardian, until such parent or guardian shall
give to the register, or town-clerk, his written consent ; and any regis-
ter, or town-clerk, who shall knowingly issue such certificate without
