228 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
such consent, shall forfeit to the State one hundred dollars ; and any
person who shall join any persons in marriage without having received
such certificate shall forfeit a like sum of one hundred dollars. Every
person who shall join any persons in marriage shall certify upon the
license certificate the fact, time, and place of such marriage, and return
it to the register of the town where it was issued, hefore or during the
first week of the month next succeeding such marriage, and upon fail-
ure thereof shall forfeit ten dollars. The certificate shall be prima
facie evidence of such marriage. All judges, justices of the peace,
and ordained or licensed clergymen while in the ministry, may join
persons in marriage, and all marriages attempted to be celebrated by
any other person shall be void ; but all marriages which shall be
solemnized according to the forms and usages of any religious de-
nomination in the State shall be valid.
While the laws of these three States differ and, perhaps, no two
States in the Union agree as to who are competent to contract mar-
riage the provisions of the statutes of each regulating its solemniza-
tion would seem to be sufficient to protect society against hasty and
indiscriminate alliances, to guard either party against fraud, and to
furnish record evidence in any case where proof of marriage might be
required. And yet, upon the provisions of the statutes defining who
may solemnize marriages, the greatest confusion prevails throughout
the Union between the courts and the law. In Connecticut, we have
seen that "all marriages attempted to be celebrated by any other
person " (than those named) " shall be void." In Ohio and New York,
and in many other States, where no words of nullity are expressed in
the statutes, such marriages are held valid.
But in Massachusetts, and in several other States, it has been held,
where no words of nullity are expressed, that such marriages are not
valid. And yet, it is generally accepted as the law, on principle, not-
withstanding the marriage is celebrated without license, and the cere-
mony performed by an unauthorized person, that if the parties simply
by mutual consent agree to marry, and live together as man and wife,
such consent and cohabitation are valid and binding between the par-
ties, and the issue thereof are entitled to all the rights of legitimate
children. To reverse this common-law doctrine by general statutory
provisions might work hardship in some individual cases ; but its exist-
ence works more harm to society and bastardizes more children than
would the enactment of stringent marriage laws, for parties would
then be more careful and not enter into such relation without proof of
marriage. Marriage is not a contract to be entered into in haste and
repented of at leisure. It is of more importance to the parties, and
far more to society, than the acquirement of a good title to a piece of
real estate. Yet no one would think it a hardship to comply with the
law for the proper execution and registration of a deed of conveyance,
and no court would hold, as a general rule, that a valid title passed,
