230 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
only. In Ohio and other States there are many ; but in Connecticut,
Indiana, Illinois, North Carolina, and Maine, there is any cause that a
discontented and dishonest party may allege, or that a judge in his
discretion, influenced by sympathy or corrupt motives, may approve.
In these extremes of the law, we have the tyranny of bigotry and the
liberty of license, this opening the gates of temptation to the licen-
tiousness of man, and the other driving in the victims. Surely there
is a happy medium sufficiently circumscribed to restrain the vicious
and dishonest, and yet liberal enough to afford relief to the innocent
and injured ! Thus, it will be seen that uniformity in the operation of
the divorce laws, as a part of the marriage contract, is made necessary
by the facility with which divorces are now " made easy, and without
publicity." The cases where a husband or wife has abandoned home
and family, and gone into a neighboring State to procure a divorce that
could not be obtained at home, are so frequent and notorious, that the
public conscience has ceased to be more shocked over such an occur-
rence than over a bank-president's embezzlement, or a willful murder.
And yet society should be shocked to the very depths of humiliation,
for the histories of the majority of such cases show that they are in-
stigated by the basest motives of the human heart. For some fancied
or real grievance that could easily be explained by love, or remedied
by law ; for the slightest incompatibility that could exist between any
two independent individuals, and which might be softened by intelli-
gent forbearance, but which must be endured by all under any form
of contract ; or, from a sensual desire to form another marriage rela-
tion, or for apparent causes that have no deeper root of evil than fash-
ionable folly, petty jealousy, and irritability of temper the laws of
many of the States offer a way for the dissolution of the marriage
contract. It is, however, to the credit of our humanity that the
noble and enduring men and women of our race those upon whom
the world must ever rely for the true advancement of man toward so-
cial perfection and individual happiness seldom or never resort to the
courts, even of their own State, for release from a contract which may
have become onerous or even disgraceful to bear. Under the present
liberal laws, regulating the relation of husband and wife, in some of
the more progressive States, the parties stand so nearly equal before
the law as individuals, in their personal and property rights, that there
can not be the same excuses for resorting to divorce as a remedy for a
real or supposed wrong, and certainly not the necessity for the assign-
ment of so many statutory causes, as in former years. And while
there should be other causes than adultery assigned for divorce, there
is no other cause by which the family and society can be so deeply
injured ; no other cause that might not be adjusted between the par-
ties, or removed by law, the same as if the marriage relation did not
exist, or for which the innocent party might not suffer just as severely
in his or her relation to society as in the relation of husband or wife.
