23 2 THE POPULAM SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the plaintiff, being within the jurisdiction of the court, why is it neces-
sary to bring the non-resident party into court even by constructive
service ? Divorce in either case will not change the relation of the
non-resident party to the laws of the State in which he or she resides ;
it might, if it were the woman who obtained the divorce, leave the hus-
band a married man without a wife, or, if it were he who obtained the
divorce, leave her a married woman without a husband ; and if the
one thus left should marry again, though the marriage should be held
legal, he or she might be punished under the laws of the State for
bigamy or adultery. Such is the right of sovereignty each State has
over its own subjects. But no State should take jurisdiction to dis-
solve a marriage contract between parties not situated in a way to ren-
der the sentence of dissolution binding, on general principles of law,
upon every other State. Yet it is so often done that the cases in one
State to set aside divorces obtained in another State are notoriously
frequent. There is no subject so intermixed with so much legal rub-
bish and confusion, none in relation to which there is so much diver-
sity of law and judicial conflict and uncertainty, as tbat relating to
marriage, whether considered as a contract or a status, and none to
which the statesman should more earnestly address himself to relieve
it of these absurd legal perplexities. But how can uniformity be at-
tained after so many long years of confusion ?
Congress should pass a law establishing uniform rules of marriage
and divorce throughout the United States. It should declare that the
marriage contract is of that kind within the meaning of the Constitu-
tion which declares that "no State shall pass any law impairing the
obligation of contracts." Where both the parties are domiciled in the
same State, it should leave them subject to the laws of the State in
which they reside ; but, when they become " citizens of different
States " for the purpose of divorce, it should require the suit to be
brought in the United States courts ; and perhaps when woman, as a
citizen, becomes co-equal with man before the law, it will in such
cases be obliged to do so. This would give the courts jurisdiction of
both parties, or the status of both parties, without resorting to legal
subterfuge or fiction ; and would, where the suit was between " citi-
zens of different States," preserve the individual sovereignty and dig-
nity of the two States. It would also harmonize the foregoing pro-
vision of the Constitution which declares that "no State shall pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts," with the provision
which also declares that " full faith and credit shall be given in each
State to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every
other State" a harmony that has never heretofore existed. The
obligation to give " full faith and credit " to the " public acts " and
"judicial proceedings" of a State is reciprocal between States ; how
then, when the "public acts" of two States are in conflict on the sub-
ject of divorce, can one State, in a judicial proceeding by a resident of
