234 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
since the foundation of the government, to the national protection of
and non-interference with a local institution which no longer exists.
The reasons upon which those principles were based and the status in
whose interest the decisions were formulated into law having passed
away, it is time that the judicial mind should readjust itself to the de-
mands of a newer condition of life and a higher civilization. But the
conservative judicial mind is the last phase of energy in which the
theory of evolution evolves, and " general principles of law " handed
down by judicial prejudice from generation to generation are the
last to give way in matters of progress and reform, not only when
the reasons on which they were based no longer exist, but when other
and better reasons demand a change.
There is another phase of this question which assumes a peculiar
interest at the present time. It is that the marriageable portion of
seven eighths of the citizens of the United States is interdicted from
intermarrying with any one of the marriageable portion of the other
one eighth of the citizens. Not that any one of the marriageable por-
tion of the seven eighths, or of the one eighth, competent to contract
marriage, is prohibited from marrying ; but if love, admiration, pe-
cuniary interest, or convenience, should move one of the marriageable
portion of the seven eighths to desire in marriage one of the marriage-
able portion of the one eighth who reciprocates the love, admiration,
pecuniary interest, or convenience of the other, the law interferes and
makes such marriage a criminal offense ! Why ? Because of a preju-
dice held by the seven eighths against the one eighth held for the
reason that all of the one eighth are related in a near or remote degree
to a race that was for centuries held as slaves to the other. It is a
prejudice, not so much against " color " as against " previous con-
dition" color being a legal designation to identify the individual
with the proscribed race.
Marriage is a natural right into which the question of color does
not enter except as an individual preference expressed by the parties
to the marriage. It is so recognized by the laws of all nations except
our own, though in a few States this natural right is now acknowledged
by statute law. In Ohio the statute declares that " a person of pure
white blood, who intermarries with any negro, or person having a dis-
tinct and visible admixture of African blood, and any negro or person
having a distinct and visible admixture of African blood, who inter-
marries with any person of pure white blood, shall be fined not more
than one hundred dollars, or imprisoned not more than three months,
or both." And the judge who knowingly issues the license and the
person who knowingly solemnizes the marriage are subject to the
same penalties. It is possible, however, on the common-law principle,
that a marriage of this kind, followed by the parties living together as
man and wife, would be held valid, though they would be subject to
the penalties of the law. But in a number of other States mostly
