THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 239
Come, a fraternal grasp, thou hand of stone !
The flesh that once was thine is now mine own.
v.
Sublime is life, though in beginnings base
At first enkindled. In this clod of mold
Beats with faint spirit-pulse the heart of gold
That warms the lily's cheek ; its silent grace
Dwells unborn 'neath this sod. Fain would I trace
The potent mystery which, like Midas' hand,
Thrills the mean clay into refulgence grand ;
For, gazing down the misty aisles of space
And time, upon my sight vast visions throng
Of the imperial destiny of man.
The life that throbbed in plant and beast ere long
Will break still wider orbits in its van
A race of peace-robed conquerors and kings,
Achieving evermore diviner things.
From " Idyls of Norway.''''
*
THE BOUNDAKIES OF ASTRONOMY.
11.
THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS.
Br KOBERT S. BALL, F.E. S.,
ASTRONOMER-BO TAL OF IRELAND.
THE whole range of astronomy presents no speculations which have
attracted more attention than the celebrated nebular hypotheses
of Herschel and of Laplace. We shall first enunciate these specula-
tions, and then we shall attempt to indicate how far they seem to be
warranted by the actual state of scientific knowledge. In one of his
most memorable papers, Sir William Herschel presents us with a sum-
mary of his observations on the nebulae, arranged in such a manner as
to suggest his theory of the gradual transmutation of nebulae into stars.
He first shows us that there are regions in the heavens where a faint
diffused nebulosity is all that can be detected by the telescope. There
are other nebulse in which a nucleus can be just discerned ; others
again in which the nucleus is easily seen ; and still others where the
nucleus is a brilliant, star-like point. The transition from an object
of this kind to a nebulous star is very natural, while the nebulous stars
pass into the ordinary stars by a few graduated stages. It is thus
possible to enumerate a series of objects, beginning at one end with
the most diffused nebulosity, and ending at the other with an ordinary
