THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 243
portions of the ring would be much, denser than others, and the denser portion
would gradually attract the rarer portions around it, until instead of a ring we
should have a single mass, composed of a nearly solid center, surrounded by an
immense atmosphere of fiery vapor. This condensation of the ring of vapor
around a single point would have produced no change in the amount of rotary
motion originally existing in the ring ; the planet surrounded by its fiery atmos-
phere would therefore be in rotation, and would be, in miniature, a reproduction
of tbe case of the sun surrounded by his atmosphere with which we set out. In
the same way that the solar atmosphere formed itself first into rings, and then
these rings condensed into planets, so, if the planetary atmosphere were suffi-
ciently extensive, they would form themselves into rings, and these rings would
condense into satellites. In the case of Saturn, however, one of the rings was
so perfectly uniform that there could be no denser portion to draw the rest of
the ring around it, and thus we have the well-known rings of Saturn.
It will thus be seen that one of the principal features in the solar
system for which the nebular theory has been invoked is the fact that
the planets all revolve round the sun in the same direction. It will
therefore be natural to take up first the discussion of this subject, and
to inquire how far the common motion of the planets can be claimed
in support of Laplace's nebular theory. The value of this argument is
very materially influenced by another consideration of a somewhat
peculiar character. If it were quite immaterial to the welfare of the
planetary system whether all the planets moved the same way, or
whether some moved one way and some another, then the nebular hy-
pothesis would be entitled to all the support which could be derived
from the circumstances of the case. Take, for instance, the eight
principal planets Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn,
Uranus, Neptune. All these planets move in the same way around
the sun. The chances against such an occurrence are 127 to 1. The
probability that the system of eight planets have been guided to move
in the same direction by some cause may be taken to be 127 to 1. If
we include the two hundred minor planets, the probability would be
enormously enhanced. The nebular theory seems a reasonable explana-
tion of how this uniformity of movements could arise, and therefore
the advocates of the nebular theory may seem entitled to claim, all this
high degree of probability in their favor. There is, however, quite a
different point of view from which the question may be regarded.
There are reasons which imperatively demand that the planets (at all
events the large planets) shall revolve in uniform directions, which lie
quite outside the view taken in the nebular theory. If the big planets
did not all revolve in the same direction, the system would have per-
ished long ago, and we should not now be here to discuss the nebular
or any other hypothesis.
It is well known that, in consequence of the gravitation which per-
vades the solar system, each of the planets has its movements mainly
subordinated to the attraction of the sun. But each of the planets
attracts every other planet. In consequence of these attractions the
