THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 247
of it is intercepted by the earth, hut this portion is less than one two-
thousand-millionth part of the whole ; the planets also, no doubt,
each intercept a small portion of the solar radiation ; but the great
mass of radiated heat from the sun entirely escapes. This heat is
supposed not to be restored to the sun. The sun certainly must re-
ceive some heat by the radiation from the stars ; but this is quite in-
finitesimal in comparison with the stupendous radiation from the sun.
"We therefore conclude that the sun's heat is being squandered with
prodigal liberality.* We also know that the store of heat which the
sun can possess, though no doubt enormously great, is still limited in
amount. It is, indeed, a question of very great interest to decide
what are the probable sources by which the sun is able to maintain
its present rate of expenditure. The sun must have some source of
heat in addition to that which it would possess in virtue of its tem-
perature as an incandescent body. If we suppose the sun to be a vast
incandescent body, formed of materials which possess the same spe-
cific heat as the materials of which our earth is composed, the sun
would then cool at the rate of from 5 to 10 per annum. At this
rate the sun could not have lasted for more than a few thousand years
before it cooled down. "VVe are therefore compelled to inquire
whether the sun may not have some other source of heat to supply
its radiation beyond that which arises merely from the temperature.
Of the various sources which have been suggested, it will here only
be necessary to mention two. It has been supposed that the heat of
the sun may be recruited by the incessant falling of meteoric matter
upon the sun's surface. If that matter had been drawn only by the
sun's attraction from the remote depths of space, it would fall upon
the sun with an enormously great velocity, amounting to about 300
miles a second. It follows from the principle of the equivalence be-
tween heat and mechanical energy that a body entering the sun with
this velocity would contribute to the sun a considerable quantity of
heat. It is known that small meteoroids abound in the solar system ;
they are constantly seen in the form of shooting-stars when they dash
into our atmosphere, and it can hardly be doubted that myriads of
such bodies must fall into the sun. It does not, however, seem likely
that enough matter of this kind can enter the sun to account for its
mighty radiation of heat. It can be shown that the quantity of mat-
ter necessary for this purpose is so large that a mass equal in the
aggregate to the mass of the earth would have to fall into the sun
every century if the radiation of the sun were to be defrayed from
this source. That so large a stream of matter should be perennially
drawn into the sun is, to say the least, highly improbable. But it is
* A remarkable theory has recently been put forward by Dr. Siemens, according to
which the sun's radiant energy is ultimately restored to the sun. Even the possibility of
some such theory being true most seriously affects the abore arguments in favor of the
nebular hypothesis.
