DARWIN AND COPERNICUS. H9
Should any one be skeptical as to the sufficiency of these laws to account for the
present state of things, science can furnish no evidence strong enough to over-
throw his doubts until the sun shall be found growing smaller by actual meas-
urement, or the nebulas be actually seen to condense into stars and systems.
DARWIN AND COPERNICUS.*
By Professor E. DU B01S-EEYM0ND.
THE losses by death -which natural science has sustained during the
past year are unusually heavy. The fertile and ingenious mathe-
matician -who for more than a generation held a leading position among
French men of science as the publisher of one of the best-known
mathematical journals ; the chemist who, by the first organic synthe-
sis, helped to dispel the illusion of vital energy ; the physiologist who
solved one of the oldest problems of humanity are men whose death
leaves a void not easily filled up. But the luster of even such names
as Liouville, Wohler, and Bischoff pales before that of the first on our
list, Charles Darwin. Nearly every learned society in existence has
publicly deplored his loss. As this Academy has not hitherto found a
fitting opportunity for doing so, it is necessary to add a few words to
the formal mention of his decease, to show that we also appreciate the
greatness of the man and of the loss science has sustained in him.
To say anything fresh concerning him will only be possible when
the lapse of time and the progress of science have opened up new
points of view ; and the speaker, who has often had occasion to dis-
cuss Darwin before this Academy, finds it especially difficult not to
repeat himself, the more so as opinions of his w^ork are still somewhat
apt to be influenced by personal feeling.
Darwin seems to me to be the Copernicus of the organic world.
In the sixteenth century Copernicus put an end to the anthropocentric
theory by doing away with the Ptolemaic spheres and bringing our
earth down to the rank of an insignificant planet. At the same time
he proved the non-existence of the so-called empyrean, the supposed
abode of the heavenly hosts, beyond the seventh sphere, although Gi-
ordano Bruno was the first who actually drew the inference.
Man, however, still stood apart from the rest of animated beings
not at the top of the scale, his proper place, but quite away, as a being
absolutely incommensurable with them. One hundred years later Des-
cartes still held that man alone had a soul, and that beasts were mere
automata. Notwithstanding all the labor of naturalists since the days
of Lmnseus, notwithstanding the resurrection of vanished genera and
species by Cuvier, the theory of the origin and interdependence of
* Address delivered at the anniversary meeting of the Berlin Academy of Sciences.
