WHISTLING. 257
" Only a little hour ago,
I was whistling to St. Antonio
For a capful of wind to fill our sail,
And, instead of a breeze, he has sent a gale."
Sir Walter Scott, too (" Rokeby," ii, 11), says :
" "What gales are sold on Lapland's shore !
How whistle rash bids tempests roar ! "
Among the numerous anecdotes connected with whistling, it may
be remembered that in the train of Anne of Denmark, when she went
to Scotland with James VI, was a gigantic Dane of matchless drinking
capacity. He possessed an ebony whistle which, at the beginning of a
drinking-bout, he would lay on the table, and whoever was last able
to blow it was by general consent considered to be the " champion of
the whistle." It happened, however, that during his stay in Scotland
the Dane was defeated by Sir Robert Laurie, of Maxwelton, who, after
three days and three nights of hard drinking, left the Dane under the
table, and " blew on the whistle his requiem shrill." The whistle re-
mained in the family seven years, when it was won by Sir Walter
Laurie, son of Sir Robert. The last person who carried it off was Alex-
ander Ferguson, of Craig-darroch, son of " Annie Laurie," so well
known. Burns has immortalized the subject in a poem entitled " The
Whistle," from which we quote the following stanzas :
"I sing of a whistle, a whistle of a worth,
I sing of a whistle, the pride of the North,
Was brought to the court of our good Scottish king,
And long with this whistle all Scotland shall ring.
Old Loda, still rueing the arm of Fingal,
The god of the bottle sends down from his hall ;
' This whistle's your challenge to Scotland get o'er,
And drink them to hell, sir, or ne'er see me more ! ' " etc.
The Russians in the Ukraine tell a queer story about a whistling
robber of olden times, who evidently was a person of gigantic pro-
portions, for he was in the habit of sitting on nine oak-trees at once.
One of the nicknames given to him was " Nightingale," on account
of his extraordinary whistling powers. Should an unwary traveler
come across his path, he would whistle so melodiously that his victim
would quickly faint away, whereupon he stepped forward and killed
him outright. At last, however, a well-known hero, by name Ilja
Marometz, determined to subdue the robber, and, having shot him
with an arrow, took him prisoner, carrying him off to the court of the
Grand Prince Vladimir. Even there he proved dangerous, for when
the grand prince, merely from curiosity, commanded him to whistle,
the grand princess and all the royal children being present, the man
commenced whistling in such an overpowering manner that soon Vladi-
mir with his whole family would inevitably have been dead had not
TOL. XXIII. 17
