SKETCH OF PROF. BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, LED 261
of books and philosophical and chemical apparatus. Professor Silliman
applied for the privilege of going as purchasing agent, suggesting that
his salary, which would be continued, and the agent's commission
would pay his expenses, and he would, at the same time, have an
opportunity of improving in his profession. His proposition was ac-
cepted ; armed with a multitude of letters of introduction, the general
effect of which he found to be equivalent to an order " Sir : Please
to give the bearer a dinner, and charge the same to yours," etc. he
spent a year in Europe. He performed experiments with Frederick
Accum, the German chemist, and attended the lectures of Dr. George
Pearson on chemistry, materia medica, and therapeutics, in London ;
heard Drs. Hope, Gregory, and Murray, in chemistry and geology ;
subscribed to Dr. Munroe's and attended Dr. Barclay's courses in
anatomy, at Edinburgh ; visited the Continent, and made the acquaint-
ance of the most eminent scientific men of the day. Geological science
at that time, he says, in his " Reminiscences," " did not exist among
us, except in the minds of a very few individuals, and instruction was
not attainable in any public institutions." In Edinburgh there were
learned and eloquent geologists and lecturers, and ardent and success-
ful explorers, and the contest between the Wernerians and the Hut-
tonians was at its height. Professor Silliman was interested in the
discussions, and, giving his attention to the subject, reached a stand-
ard of attainment in geology which he believed he could not have
gained at home. He read the arguments on both sides, and came to
the conclusion on which geologists are generally now tacitly agreed,
that " both theories were founded in truth, and that the crust of the
earth had been formed and greatly modified by the combined, or some-
times antagonistic and conflicting, powers of fire and water."
Professor Silliman had already attended to the care of the modest
collections of minerals belonging to the college. There were a few
metallic ores which had been named by Dr. Adam Seybert, of Phila-
delphia ; a small collection which Dr. Semper had brought from Eng-
land, containing some beautiful specimens, particularly in the lime
family ; and his own collections made in the mines of Derbyshire and
Cornwall, in England, and local specimens obtained in his rambles
among the trap-rocks of the Scottish capital, with a purchased suite
of Italian polished marbles, all of which " when arranged, labeled,
and described in illustration of the mineral portion of the chemical
lectures, served to awaken an interest in the subject of mineralogy,
and to produce both aspirations and hopes looking toward a collec-
tion which should by-and-by deserve the name of a cabinet." One of
the first things to be done after returning home was to study the geol-
ogy of the vicinity of New Haven, in the light of the knowledge that
had been gained in Edinburgh. The result of this survey was a re-
port, printed in the first volume of the " Transactions " of the Connec-
ticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, in which an attentive reperusal
