262 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by the author fifty-two years afterward suggested very few alterations
and disclosed no important errors. The cabinet of Mr. Benjamin D.
Perkins was shortly afterward purchased for a thousand dollars, and
in 1810 the splendid cabinet of Colonel George Gibbs was deposited
in the college. The latter cabinet, which attracted visitors from all
parts of the country, was bought fifteen years afterward. While
Professor Silliman was engaged in arranging it, the Rev. Dr. Ely ac-
costed him : " Why, dominie, is there not danger that with these phys-
ical attractions you will overtop the Latin and the Greek ? " Professor
Silliman replied : " Sir, let the literary gentlemen push and sustain
their departments. It is my duty to give full effect to the sciences
committed to my care."
An " American Journal of Mineralogy " had been started by Dr.
Archibald Bruce, of New York, in 1810, but had been suspended after
the publication of four numbers. Professor Silliman, at the suggestion
of Colonel Gibbs, and with the approbation of Dr. Bruce, started, in
1818, a journal intended to include the entire circle of the physical
sciences and their applications. This was ' Silliman's " (now the
"American ") "Journal of Science," which is still continued under the
direction of the son and son-in-law of its founder.
The courses of popular lectures on scientific subjects which were
conducted by Professor Silliman in the different cities of the United
States, originated in 1808, when a course in chemistry for ladies and
gentlemen was proposed to him, and gladly assented to, as a scheme
in the interest of scientific progress. A class of about forty-five per-
sons was formed, and listened to the instruction given them apparently
with complete satisfaction, for it appeared afterward, the lecturer re-
marks, in speaking of the matter, that the course " turned on female
hinges," and " sentiment lubricated the joints. ... It was my province
to explain the affinities of matter, and I had not advanced far in my
pleasing duties before I discovered that moral affinities, also moving
without my intervention, were playing an important part." One of
the affinities involved the professor, and his marriage to Miss Harriet
Trumbull, daughter of the second Governor Trumbull, and one of his
hearers, followed in the course of the next year. Many years after-
ward he was invited to deliver a course in Hartford the first out of
New Haven; then followed courses in Lowell, Boston (where "the
Orthodox and Unitarian influence was united in his favor," and where
he returned to lecture in several successive years afterward), other
New England towns, and New York. In 1843 he lectured in Pitts-
burg, where he received most "vivid demonstrations of kind and
gratified feelings" ; the next year in Baltimore, where he found that
" people who came for once, staid " ; and afterward in Baltimore
again, Mobile, New Orleans, Natchez, at Washington before the
.Smithsonian Institution, and in St. Louis. The calls to lecture con-
tinued actively through twenty-three years, from 1834 to 1857. In
