12 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
where my plan of operation involved a ten hours' march across a
snow-covered mountain-range. I reached the camp foot-sore and al-
most feverish with exhaustion ; but the catarrh, too, had exhausted its
resources, and the next morning I awakened with half-healed feet and
wholly-cured bronchi. One day of pedestrian fatigues had saved me
two weeks of pulmonary distress.
Next to fresh air, active exercise is the best prophylactic :
"Deru Athleten wird vergeben
Was der Schwachling theuer busst."
By stimulating the action of the circulatory system, gymnastics pro-
mote the elimination of morbific matter ; disease- germs are removed be-
fore they have time to take root. Every gymnastic apparatus is worth
dozens of patent medicines ; the beneficial effect of the "movement-
cure " is permanent, as well as safe and prompt. The five gymnastic spe-
cifics for pulmonary disorders are dumb-bells, Indian-clubs, long-handled
oars, spears, and a grapple-swing. Ger-werfen, or spear-throwing, is a
popular pastime of the Turner-Hall. The missile is a javelin of some
tough wood, about ten feet long and as thick as a common axe-handle.
It terminates either in an iron lance-head, or in a brass knob, to keep
the wood from splintering. A rough-hewed log-man, with a movable
head, forms the target, and the problem is to decapitate the figure
from a distance of about twenty paces for tyros and forty for veteran
lancers. The shock of the throw expands the chest, and has a mag-
ical influence on the stitch-like pains of a lingering pleuritic affection.
It is a mechanical anaesthetic for all kinds of pulmonary disorders.
The grapple-swing consists of a pair of iron (leather-covered) rings,
suspended at a height of about four feet from the floor, and affords
opportunities if not facilities for a great variety of acrobatic exer-
cises. The complex evolutions are somewhat arduous, but even the
simplest use of the contrivance swinging to and fro like a pendulum
exerts a mitigating influence on the strictures of the respiratory
organs, dyspnoea, and asthmatic troubles. Faute de mieux, trundling
a wheelbarrow, with a gradual increase of the load, chopping or saw-
ing wood, or grubbing out stumps with a mattock, is worth ship-loads
of cough-sirup, though it is doubtful in what degree the individual
predilections of the patient might bias his choice.
But people of means and leisure can remove that doubt by making
out-door exercise pleasant enough to be preferable to any drug ; and
the following plan would combine, under the most favorable condi-
tions, the best atmospheric, gymnastic, and dietetic remedies for the
disorders of the respiratory organs.*
* The treatise on consumption will be concluded in our next issue, as the first of a
series of articles on the hygienic treatment of the prevalent disorders of the human or-
ganization, including dyspepsia, pulmonary diseases, the alcohol-habit, rheumatism, and
climatic fevers.
[To be concluded.]
