SKETCH OF PROF. BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, LL.D. 263
summing up the results of these courses, Professor Silliman expressed
a feeling of satisfactory assurance that he had popularized science ;
that at no period of his life had his efforts heen more useful, hoth to
his country and his family ; and that there was no part of his profes-
sional career which he reflected upon with more satisfaction.
lie was accustomed to explain the success of his lectures, and the
uninterrupted interest they attracted, by stating that he always pre-
pared them " with all possible care, and arranged every experiment and
illustration so as to insure success. Then I could stand before the
largest audience without anxiety or embarrassment ; could, without
manuscript, clearly state and explain my subject, and, when the proof
became necessary, I could perform the experiments successfully and
even beautifully, and exhibit the specimens which some other truth
demanded, to insure conviction."
In 1830 Professor Silliman made a visit of exploration to the val-
ley of Wyoming and its coal formations, where he examined some
hundred mines and localities of coal, extending through forty miles in
length ; in 1832-'33 he was engaged, under a commission from the
General Government, in a scientific examination on the subject of the
culture and manufacture of sugar ; and in 1836 he made a tour of in-
vestigation among the gold-mines of Virginia.
In 1840 an association of geologists was formed in Philadelphia
for the purpose of promoting the progress of their science and its
applications in this country, and Professor Silliman was chosen its
first president. This society was in time succeeded by the " American
Association of Geologists and Naturalists," and the latter eventually
became the " American Association for the Advancement of Science."
In 1849 Professor Silliman, having reached the age of seventy
years, tendered a resignation of his professorship, to take effect at the
end of the ensuing academic year. The corporation, only half accept-
ing his resignation, requested him to continue his lectures in the de-
partment of mineralogy and geology, should his life and health be
spared. Later, at the request of the corporation, he reconsidered his
resignation, and continued in the full occupation of his professorship
till 1853, when, "wishing to go out before he should be compelled by
infirmity, and to march out of the camp with colors flying," he retired
finally. "Thus," he remarks in his journal, after referring to the
public notices that were taken of his retirement during commence-
ment-week, " I have finished my regular connection with Yale College,
after having been almost fifty-four years an officer of the institution
three years a tutor, fifty-one a professor, and almost fifty a lecturer.
... I seem to have attended my own academic funeral, and many to
be the mourners on the occasion." The corporation requested him to
continue as a professor emeritus, with the right to vote in the academ-
ical and medical faculties. His professorship was divided, and he had
the satisfaction of seeing his son placed in the chair of Chemistry, and
