NOTES.
2$7
is, the descendant of early English settlers
as displaying physically (I do not say intel-
lectually and morally) a notable degree of
reversion or rather deviation toward the
aboriginal type displayed in the best ex-
amples of red Indians i. e., the old fighting
chiefs."
Publication of Astronomical News.
The supervision of the announcement of
astronomical discoveries, which has hitherto
rested with the Smithsonian Institution, has
been transferred by it to the Harvard Uni-
versity Observatory. The first scheme for
publishing news of this class in the United
States was started by Professor Peters, who
arranged with European astronomers for an
exchange of reports with the Smithsonian
Institution. The orbits of comets were
published only in the German "Astrono-
mische Nachrichten " till 1878, when their
publication was begun by the Boston Scien-
tific Society, through Mr. S. C. Chandler,
in its " Science Observer." Mr. Chandler
devised a new and improved code of signals
for the transmission of announcements by
the Atlantic cable, and engaged the co-oper-
ation of the Harvard Observatory in com-
puting the cometary orbits. His publica-
tions in the " Science Observer " attracted
attention in Europe, so that when the " Cen-
tralstelle f iir Astronomische Telegramme "
was formed at Kiel, Prussia, in 1882, Mr.
Chandler and his colleagues were made its
agents for the distribution of astronomical
intelligence in this country. Wishing to
provide for their trust a more solid respon-
sibility than their personalities could give
it, they offered it to the Harvard Observa-
tory, which accepted it. This act has now
been ratified by the Smithsonian Institution.
Influence of Vapor on Radiation. Pro-
fessor Tyndall has published an account of
some interesting experiments he has made on
the variations in the radiation of heat from
the earth's surface. On an elevated plateau
he hung a thermometer four feet from the
ground, and placed another on cotton-wool
at the surface. The difference in the regis-
try of the two instruments, that of the surface
thermometer being always lowest, varied
from four degrees to seventeen degrees, even
when no difference was apparent in the
clearness of the atmosphere. A careful re-
view of the hygrometric conditions under
which the different observations were made
established the fact that the variations were
dependent upon the existence or withdrawal
of the check to radiation which is imposed
by the presence of aqueous vapor. As a
general conclusion, it may be said that,
" with atmospheric conditions sensibly alike,
the waste of heat from the earth varies
from day to day ; a result due to the action
of a body which escapes the sense of vision."
Similar conclusions, or the basis for form-
ing them, are derived from the observations
of Professor Soret, of Geneva, and General
Strachev.
NOTES.
The Annisquam Laboratory of the Bos-
ton Society of Natural History, which has
been in operation for two summers, will be
open for the reception of students during
the coming summer from July 1st to Sep-
tember 1st. It is situated on an inlet of
Ipswich Bay, on the north side of Cape Ann,
about three miles and a half by coach from
the Eastern Railroad station at Gloucester.
It is intended for persons who have already
made some progress in the study ; and no
lectures or stated courses of instruction will
be given, but suitable direction and advice.
Collecting implements and row-boats are pro-
vided, and a yacht will be at hand for dredg-
ing parties. Applications may be made to
Alpheus Hyatt, curator, Boston.
Professor Edmond PERRiERhas identified
a new crinoid, the Blastocrinus, among the
animals brought up by the Travailleur from
the deep seas off the coast of Morocco. This
raises the number of known living species
of these most ancient animals of the sea to
thirteen. The Blastocrinus is marked by a
stem of large size supporting a calyx which
is composed of five pieces, to which are fixed
articulate and very mobile arms. The stem
is also composed of a succession of circular
articulations, placed one upon another. The
radical system of this animal is very inter-
esting. Instead of being concentrated into
a single stem, it branches out into a kind of
tuft, and the animal seems to have the fac-
ulty of putting out a sort of runners, like
those of the strawberry.
Professor Frederic Augustus Abel, the
eminent English chemist, is to receive from
the Queen the honor of knighthood for his
services in the War Department in relation
to the chemistry of explosives, etc. Pro-
fessor Lyon Playfair, F. R. S., has also re-
ceived from her Majesty the honor of Knight
Commandership of the Bath.
