288
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
M. Ed. Landrin has deduced from cer-
tain experiments that the " setting " prop-
erties of hydraulic cements are due to the
presence of an allotropic variety of silica
which he calls hydraulic silica. He has pre-
pared this form of silica, and has found that
it has the property of forming with lime
mixtures that harden under water. At the
same time, while primarily it is insoluble in
hydrochloric acid, it becomes when mixed
with lime susceptible to its influence. He
has further discovered that aluminates of
lime are at least as soluble in water as gyp-
sum, and are liable to spoil any cement in
which they may be present.
Herr Josef Knorlein, the entomologist,
died at Linz, February 12th, in the seventy-
eighth year of his age.
A company has been formed and char-
tered to construct and work an electric rail-
way running from Charing Cross to Water-
loo, in London. The line will pass under the
Thames through iron caissons. The power
will be transmitted from a stationaiy engine
to the carriages, and these will run sep-
arately, starting as filled, and occupying
about three and a half minutes in the trip.
A contract has been made with the Siemens
Company to supply machinery and rolling-
stock, and the construction of the road has
been let, to be finished in eighteen months
from the beginning.
The death is announced, at Basle, of Dr.
Ziegler, the distinguished cartographer. He
studied under Carl Ritter, and afterward es-
tablished in his native town of Winterthur
the cartographic establishment now con-
ducted by Messrs. Wurster and Randegger.
His most important maps are his great map
of Switzerland, maps of Glarus, of St. Gall,
and of the Engadine, and a hypsometric
map of the world. A geological atlas and
an explanatory description of the geological
map of Switzerland by him are now in press.
It is estimated that the ivory which was
imported into Great Britain during the nine
years from 1872 to 1881 (5,286 tons) repre-
sented 296,016 pairs of tusks, and conse-
quently a corresponding number of ele-
phants that have been slaughtered. At this
rate of destruction the elephant must in no
very long time become extinct. Notice is
taken in one of the reports of Mr. Webster,
our consul at Shelfield, to the Government
of the United States, of the small size of a
large proportion of the tusks brought to the
market, as indicating a wasteful destruction
of young elephants. It is time, if this val-
uable game is to be preserved, to look for
some means of checking the reckless hunt-
ing of it which is going on.
IIerr Johann Spatzier, a botanist of Si-
lesia, has recently died, at the age of seventy-
seven years.
Professor P. C. Zeller, the distin-
guished Prussian entomologist, died sud-
denly, of heart-disease, on the 27th of
March, in the seventy-sixth year of his age.
He was the author of a valuable work on
Lepidoptera, and had made important stud-
ies of American forms.
More than twelve months ago, a "per-
petual " clock was started at Brussels. An
up-draught is obtained in a tube or shaft by
exposing it to the sun ; this draught turns a
fan, which winds up the weight of the clock
until it reaches the top, when it actuates a
brake that stops the fan, but leaves it free
to start again when the weight has gone
down a little. This clock was keeping good
time in June, after running continuously for
nine months.
M. Pasteur's recommendation of vac-
cination as a safe preventive of anthrax
in sheep is contradicted by the professors
in the veterinary school at Turin, who aver
that, in their own experiments, they have
found the vaccinated animals to be as liable
as any others to be fatally attacked by the
disease on inoculation. M. Pasteur has taken
notice of their criticisms, and expresses the
opinion that the animals they experimented
with did not contract and die of anthrax, but
of septicaemia, which is infallibly developed
twenty-four hours after death in all animals
dying of anthrax. He has offered to subject
his views to a practical test, by going to Turin
and experimenting with the professors, to
show that vaccination, while it may not pro-
tect against septicaemia, is proof against real
anthrax.
Dr. BErxTiLLON, an eminent French sta-
tistician, died on the 3d of March last, hav-
ing reached the age of sixty-one years. He
is credited with having made new applica-
tions of the study of statistics, and with hav-
ing been the founder of demographic sci-
ence. He was also a naturalist and a close
observer of animal structure and life; he
paid considerable attention to botany ; and
has left some valuable labors in mycology.
Dr. Bertillon's works in science were per-
formed during the greater part of his life
without reward. The chair of Demography
in the School of Anthropology, offered him
in 1876, was the first public position he held.
In 1880 he was appointed by the Prefect of
the Seine to the head of the Bureau of Mu-
nicipal Statistics of Paris, which was found-
ed at that time.
M. Tacchini has succeeded in observing
the solar prominences upon the very disk of
the sun. By enlarging the opening of his
spectroscope, he has been able a few times
to recognize on the edges of the spots these
grand eruptions of hydrogen and the un-
known substance helium.
