RAILROAD PROBLEM IX THE UNITED STATES. 291
the early railroad charters those of New York State, for instance
whereby the profits divisible annually were limited to ten per cent ;
but this provision, intended to secure shippers against unduly high
rates, has been evaded by the process known as stock-watering. To
illustrate : The contract for the consolidation of the lines forming the
New York Central Railroad was made in 1853, and the ten amounts
of capital then fused formed a total of $23,000,000, on which premiums
were granted aggregating $8,900,000. In 1868 and 1869 the New
York Central and Hudson River Railroad Companies were consoli-
dated as a single company, which named its capital at nearly $15,000,-
000 more than the capitals of the two lines before union. Of course,
more than ten per cent would have to be earned on the inflated figures
before the State law would apply, and by that time doubtless a new
company would appear to buy the road at a handsome advance on its
nominal capital. The critics of stock-watering or of the capitalizing
of surplus earnings say that it is in substance exacting money from the
people, creating an indebtedness representing the same, and making
this the basis for forever asking the public to pay interest upon their
money so exacted. These critics would limit the profits of the lucra-
tive roads, but, unjustly it would seem, would leave the struggling
lines to their fate.
The railroad companies are told, " You may earn as little as you can,
but, if by good fortune and good management you earn more than ten
per cent, the State will seize the surplus." Practically, however, the
law can not be enforced, as the common rights of sale and purchase
can be exercised to evade it.
In response to the conrplaints against the New York roads, the
Assembly in February, 1879, appointed a special committee, with Mr.
A. B. Hepburn as chairman, to investigate alleged abuses, propose
remedies, and report. The testimony before this committee fully
established the truth of the alleged abuses in discrimination. Mr.
Goodman, Assistant General Freight Agent of the New York Central
Railroad Company, testified that special rates were given to all points
almost invariably when asked. About ninety per cent of the business
between New York and Syracuse was done at reductions from tariff
terms, and about one half the business between New York and other
points was done at special rates. Other witnesses proved that flour
had been carried from Milwaukee to New York while the tariff rate
was thirty-six cents, at the specially reduced price of twenty cents,
the maintained rate at the time from Rochester being thirty cents.
Rochester is 350 miles from New York, and Milwaukee 1,030 miles.
So marked and inconsistent a difference did there exist between local
and through freight charges, that Mr. W. W. Mack, of Rochester,
could ship edge-tools to New York and thence to Cincinnati via
Rochester, and save fourteen cents per hundred ; to St. Louis by the
same route, eighteen cents per hundred in each case the goods being
