RAILROAD PROBLEM IX THE UNITED STATES. 295
very keen, and at times so violent as to set all considerations of profit
at defiance. The routes connecting the great West with the Atlantic
ports vary in directness, in gradients, and in the thickness of the
population in the districts through which they run ; it follows that
their- inequality of desirableness as freight lines must be balanced by
differences in rates. To establish and maintain these differences in
rates, it has been the practice for the roads to enter into agreements
with one another, and, in making these agreements on fair and sat-
isfactory terms, and in enforcing the agreements when made, have
been encountered the most perplexing tasks of railway management.
In arguing for a basis of rates, two widely different stand-points are
occupied by the trunk-lines running eastward from Chicago. The
great interests centering in New York declare that the cost of service
should be the prevailing consideration in proportioning rates among
comDetintj lines.
It is adduced that the easy gradients of the New York Central
and the immense traffic which belongs to the cities and towns through
which it runs enable it to be operated at less cost per ton per mile
than any other road in the country : the geographical and census argu-
ments should, therefore, be permitted to give New York a preference
over competing cities in the framing of joint tariffs. Philadelphia
and Baltimore take different ground : they point out that they are re-
spectively one hundred and thirty-two and one hundred and fifty-two
miles nearer Chicago than is New York via the New York Central,
and therefore they desire freight rates to be fixed on the basis of mile-
age. Contests, which have consumed many millions of dollars, leave
the question open as to which of these two principles shall govern the
charges of the trunk-lines on through business. Another reason for
the difficulty attending the making and keeping of agreements be-
tween railroads is the fact that the temptation to bad faith is ex-
treme. If one road can defraud another of some freight by an ille-
gitimate reduction of rate, the cash so earned is almost wholly profit,
for the fixed expenses of the road are scarcely affected whether that
freight be carried by it or not. The bad faith of a single road can
lead to the breach of an agreement entered into by several great
roads ; and often it is the weak or bankrupt line whose dishonorable
dealing leads to a war of rates being declared which may cost a mill-
ion dollars before it ends. And a curious point comes up just here :
so dear to the heart of the average shipper are these wars of rates,
that clear-headed men who know his inner springs aver that the ship-
per does not desire permanent peace among the railroads, and does not
wish to see them earn their incomes with the steady regularity enjoyed
by the investor, say, in Government bonds. Peace to the shipper
would be as distasteful as the absence of fluctuations to the speculator
in stocks or grain, for railroad men and those who find fault with
them seem to be made of the same clay.
