296 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Railroads have enemies within as well as without. Intense compe-
tition has given birth to a class of soliciting freight agents, to whom
reference has already been made ; these men are empowered to grant
reduced rates at discretion ; their bargains are binding on all the lines
forming the routes for which they solicit business, and their acts are
in their nature so difficult of detection, and so inimical to the integrity
of agreements, that a sound business policy would dictate that their
powers should only be wielded by officers of the roads sufficiently
high in position and character to guarantee good faith in carrying out
the joint contracts made by the presidents of the lines.
It is a strange fact in railroad history that the contracts between
roads for the maintenance of rates have never, up to the present time,
invoked legal sanction and enforcement; they have been made and
broken purely at will. Good authorities, among whom may be named
the Railroad Commissioners of Massachusetts, state that the existing
laws of the country afford all the provisions needed for the purpose ;
while, again, the chief railroad expert in the country, Mr. Fink, holds
that special legislation is necessary. So important does Mr. Fink hold
this matter to be, that he states that when the necessary enactments
have been passed, and when railroad managers have the good sense to
co-operate and avail themselves of legal authority, he will regard the
railroad problem solved as far as solution is possible.
In March, 1882, a commission at Washington, appointed to con-
sider the railway question, brought together Mr. Fink and General
Reagan, of Texas, the member of Congress who proposed a bill for
the direct regulation of the railroads by the Federal Government.
General Reagan's bill is chiefly aimed at what he and many others
conceive to be a grave injustice, namely, the discrimination which
makes through freight pay a much less rate than local freight, and
which grants one shipper more favorable terms than another for the
same service. The bill would make the rate per mile uniform over all
roads, and would make through rates the sum of the local rates
charged over the component parts of a line. The testimony of Mr.
Fink before the commission, and particularly in reply to General Rea-
gan, is one of the most instructive pieces of railway literature so far
given to the public. Mr. Fink deemed the railroad problem too diffi-
cult to be handled by a directly appointed commission : all that he
could recommend was a commission to investigate complaints. He
pointed out the great services railroads had done the country, and de-
clared the evils attending the management of the business to be largely
unavoidable amid affairs so vast and involved. As an example of the
benefits railroads had conferred upon the public, he stated that in the
fall of 1880 the rate from Chicago to the East was but six tenths of
one cent per ton per mile, or equal to carrying seventeen barrels of
flour one mile for one cent ! The intense competition between roads
has been one of the main causes of the remarkable economy of their
