RAILROAD PROBLEM IN THE UNITED STATES. 297
management, and their eagerness to adopt every improvement as soon
as produced, chief among which improvements must rank the steel
rail. Quoting from Mr. Edward Atkinson, Mr. Fink said that an
artisan in the Eastern States pays the transportation from Chicago on
a year's food by a single day's labor, and so great have been the re-
ductions during recent years, in railway charges, that, had the rates of
1873 been maintained until 1879, the roads would have had in the inter-
val 89-22,000,000 more revenue than they actually collected. In 1880
more than three times as much freight was carried by the roads as in
1868, and at sixty per cent less rate ; and, although shippers may
grudge certain companies the appreciation of their property which has
taken place an advance in value decidedly less than that which has
overtaken real-estate holdings generally no agitation has yet been
promoted to pay dividends or make up deficiencies on unprofitable
lines, although such lines have been indirectly great sources of pros-
perity to their districts and the country at large. Mr. Fink recognizes
the injustice of charging different prices to different firms for the
same service, but has no faith in any attempted legal preventives of
the practice. Rebates may be granted a year or two after a transac-
tion, or may take the form of gifts, or in other ways detection may be
evaded. His explanation of the disparity so often complained of, be-
tween local and through rates, is very interesting. A line is built
chiefly to accommodate and develop the region through which it
passes ; that region, without it, might remain backwoods or unbroken
prairie ; and, therefore, as the services of the road are of most value to
its own district, that district should in justice principally contribute to
its support. Now, when a road has a fair local business at regular
tariff rates, and can add to its business without proportionate increase
of expense by taking through freight originating in a city like Chi-
cago, where many competing roads center, then it is allowable to
grant marked reductions in terms to attract a share of through busi-
ness. It is plainly unfair, under the circumstances, to take the stand
of certain complainants and ask that local rates be based upon through
rates. Mr. Stanford, President of the Central Pacific Railroad, ex-
plains some of the discriminations of his line on the same principle.
A car-load is taken from New York to San Francisco for $300, but
if dropped at Elcho, G19 miles east of San Francisco, the charge is
$800, the sum of the through rate from New York to San Francisco,
plus the charge from San Francisco to Elcho. Mr. Stanford points
out that his road has to meet severe water competition at San Fran-
cisco, and that therefore the local rates charged towns created by the
line can have no relation to competitive terms, and must wholly rest
on considerations of the revenue to be earned on the capital employed,
after the expenses of management are paid. Facts worthy of being
weighed in this connection are that cars carrying local freights are, on
an average, not more than a quarter filled, and that they are subject
