298 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to long delays at way-stations, causes justifying low rates on full cars
in active motion on long, unbroken journeys.
Another form of allowable discrimination Mr. Fink holds to arise
where a new industry awaits development, and offers all it can afford
to pay a rate somewhat under the tariff. He gives as an example a
case where staves from a Western point were to be sent to England, to
compete there with staves from Norway : he holds it to have been
good railway policy to create freight by carrying it at a reduced fig-
ure, if it gave promise of increased business in the future, with a pros-
pect of building up a new industry for the country.
The Anti-Monopoly League of New York, an association formed to
expose railroad abuses, and to endeavor to have them corrected by po-
litical agitation and legislative enactment, has widely circulated as the
policy of the Erie and New York Central Railroads a statement signed
by their presidents, wherein they declare it their principle to charge
all an article will bear, and at the same time stimulate its production
(they probably meant, not interfere with its production). On the
Central Pacific Railroad the value of a shipment of ore or merchan-
dise affects the cost of its carriage, and at first view the fact certainly
has an arbitrary look. The explanation of the somewhat carelessly
stated principle is this : Ores of various values are offered to the
Central Pacific road, let us say; the least valuable can- not afford to pay
tariff rates, although it can pay the cost of transportation and a small
percentage of return to the capital of the line. The manager decides
that a little profit is better than none, and accepts the ore of small
value at a reduced rate. The same principle of classification makes,
dry-goods pay a higher rate than coals, just as letters cost more for
postage than books and parcels ; its adoption develops the utmost
quantity of railroad business, cheapening the average charge, and ad-
justing the burden of expense to the various capabilities of the differ-
ent elements of traffic. Railroad managers, on the same general prin-
ciple, find it pays to develop suburban passenger and excursion business
on terms much below the charges for single tickets.
Against the proposal of General Reagan and others to make a uni-
form rate for every mile of railroad in the country, it is very properly
urged that tariffs must vary from many considerations : the indirect-
ness of one road competing with a shorter one obliging it to charge a
lower rate per mile, or do no business ; the determination of freight in
a single direction, as of lumber from the Wisconsin forests, which re-
quires the hauling of empty cars northwestward ; the comparatively
small business of some lines such as those common in the West, which
serve as mere gatherers-up for the trunk-lines and feeders of them ;
the cost of fuel, three times as much in some parts of the country as
in others, and, at the cheapest, a main element of railroad expense ;
difficulties of grade, which may make a single mile more costly in main-
tenance and operation than ten miles of level track ; contingencies of
