3 02 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are subject to government control for the enforcement of reasonable
rates. Chief -Justice "Waite has decided that a State has the right to
regulate any business such as grain-elevating, dedicated to a public
use, and this decision is held to apply a fortiori to railroads. All au-
thorities agree that each State can, if it chooses, supervise the railroads
within its borders in the public interest, and the allowability of Federal
control is deduced from that paragraph in the Constitution which says
that Congress has power to regulate commerce between the States.
Against all this the railroads urge that the essence of property is in
control, and that if the Government wishes to manage the lines it
should buy them. It is contended that no Government officials can
fitly prescribe rules for the regulation of a business so complicated as
railroading, and that complaints so far from being abated would in-
crease were the blight of political patronage to fall upon the transpor-
tation lines of the country. The party who urge the necessity of
Government control of railroads among their arguments give promi-
nence to the fact that an area of public lands, nine times that of Ohio,
has been given to railroads to aid in their construction. In reply, the
corporations say that these lands formed part of the business considera-
tion on which they began work ; and, furthermore, the value of these
lands for the most part has been created solely by the existence of
railroad facilities.
The debate for and against leaving the railroad problem to solve
itself has not shown that the people who wish to invoke control by
the Federal Government have numbers or influence or very sound ar-
guments on their side. To throw the management of between six
and seven thousand millions of capital into the hands of political par-
tisans, who only represent the people in an indirect way through cum-
brous elective machinery, is a proposal which few seriously consider ;
but, if the Federal Government can not honestly and safely be called
upon to control railroads, the establishment of railroad commissions
may render important services to the public. Twenty-six of the States
have such commissions, intended to supervise and regulate railroads in
the public interest, but the variety in the laws creating them, the lim-
its of State jurisdiction in the presence of so many interstate roads,
and their general lack of authority, render their efforts but feeble.
These commissions depend for success on the degree of good sense
which is employed in forming them, in the personal character and
ability of their boards, and in the commissioners remaining long enough
in office to be able to gain and use experience in their duties. Of the
commissions so far established in the Union, that of Massachusetts
takes the lead ; its guiding principle is not that of force, so popular in
Western railroad legislation, but that of publicity, trusting to the in-
fluence of an enlightened public opinion. The Massachusetts Com-
mission has authority to obtain and publish in full detail the annual
statements of the railroads of the Commonwealth. Their capitals,
