THE REMEDIES OF NATURE.
35
But their descendants finally solved that problem. To the alco-
holic stimulants of the ancients we have added tea, coffee, tobacco,
absinthe, chloral, opium, and pungent spices. Every year increases the
number of our elaborately unwholesome-made dishes, and decreases our
devotion to the field-sports that helped our forefathers to digest their
boar-steaks. We have no time to masticate our food ; we bolt it, and
grumble if we can not bolt it smoking hot. The competition of our
domestic and public kitchens tempts us to eat three full meals a day,
and two of them at a time when the exigencies of our business-routine
leave us no leisure for digestion. At night, when the opportunity for
that leisure arrives, we counteract the efforts of the digestive apparatus
by hot stove-fires and stifling bedrooms. Since the beginning of the
commercial-epicurean age of the nineteenth century the votaries of
fashion have persistently vied in compelling their stomachs to dispose
of the largest possible amount of the most indigestible food under the
least favorable circumstances.
That persistence has at last exhausted the self-regulating resources
of our digestive organs. But even after such provocations the stomach
does not strike work without repeated warning's. The first omen of
the wrath to come is the morning languor, the hollow-eyed lassitude
which proves that the arduous labor of the assimilative organs has
made the night the most fatiguing part of the twenty-four hours.
The expression of the face becomes haggard and sallow. The tongue
feels gritty, the palate parched, in spite of the restless activity of the
salivary glands, which every now and then try to respond to the ap-
peals of the distressed stomach. Gastric acidity betrays itself by
many disagreeable symptoms ; loss of appetite, however, marks a later
stage of the malady. For years the infinite patience of Nature labors
every night to undo the mischief of every day, and before noon the
surfeited organs again report ready for duty. Habitual excess in eat-
ing and drinking sometimes begets an unnatural appetency that ena-
bles the glutton to indulge his penchant to the last, only with this
difference, that the relish for special kinds of food has changed into a
vague craving for repletion, just as the fondness for a special stimu-
lant is apt to turn into a chronic poison-hunger. This craving after
engorgement forms a distinctive symptom of plethoric dyspepsia, but
even in the first stage of asthenic or nervous dyspepsia the hankering
after food is not hunger proper, but a nervous uneasiness, suggesting
the idea that a good meal would, somehow, supply the means of relief.
The first full meal, however, entails penalties which the sufferer would
gladly exchange for the less positive discomfort of the morning. In-
stinct fails to keep its promise, as a proof that Nature has been sup-
planted by a deceptive second-nature. Headache, heart-burn, eructa-
tions, humming in the ears, nausea, vertigo, and gastric spasms, make
the after-dinner hour " the saddest of the sad twenty-four " : a dull mist
of discontent broods over the whole afternoon, and yields only to tea
VOL. XXIII. 20
