THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 307
necessitous system has no strength to spare for such purposes as an
effort of the motive organs. But nine out of ten dyspeptics resort to
the drug-store. They get a bottle of "tonic bitters." They try Dr.
Quack's " Dyspepsia Elixir."' They try a " blue pill " in the hope of
rousing Nature, as it were, to a sense of her proper duty.
Now, what such " tonics " can really do for them is this : they
goad the system into the transient and abnormal activity incident to
the necessity of expelling a virulent poison. With the accomplish-
ment of that purpose the exertion ceases, and the ensuing exhaustion
is worse than the first by just as much as the poison-fever has robbed
the system of a larger or smaller share of its little remaining strength.
The stimulant has wasted the organic energy which it seemed to re-
vive. " But," says the invalid, " if a repetition of the dose can relieve
the second reaction, would the result not be preferable to the languor
of the unstimulated system ? Wouldn't it be the best plan to let me
support my strength by sticking to my patent tonic ? "
Yes, it would be very convenient, especially in times of scarcity, if
a starving horse could be supported by the daily application of a patent
spur. It would save both oats and oaths. Even a fastidious nag could
not help acknowledging the pungency of the goad. But it so hap-
pens that spur-fed horses are somewhat short-lived, though at first
the diet certainly seems to act like a charm. For a day or two the
drug stimulates the activity of the digestive organs as well as of
the mental faculties, but the subsequent prostration is so intolerable
that the patient soon chooses the alternative of another poison-fever.
Before long the pleasant phase of the febrile process becomes shorter
and the reaction more severe ; the jaded system is less able to respond
to the goad, and, in order to make up for the difference, the dose of
the stimulant has to be steadily increased. The invalid becomes a
bondsman to the drug-store, and hugs the chain that drags him down
to the slavery of a confirmed poison-habit.
Circumstances may differ. A dyspeptic who intends to make his
own quietus within a month or two, and in the mean while has a certain
amount of work to finish, would be justified in stimulating his working
capacities by all means, in order to improve to the utmost whatever
chances of mundane activity may remain to him. But he who intends
to stay has to make up his mind that recovery can not be hoped for
till he has not only discontinued his drug, but expiated the burden of
sin which the stimulant outrage has added to the original cause of the
disease. Nature has to overcome the effects both of malnutrition and
of malpractice. The drug has complicated the disease.
In childhood chronic dyspepsia is nearly always the effect of chronic
medication. Indigestion is not an hereditary complaint. A dietetic
sin per excessum, a quantitative surfeit with sweetmeats and pastry,
may derange the digestive process for a few hours or so, but the
trouble passes by with the holiday. Lock up the short-cakes, admin-
