3 o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ister a glass of cold water, and, my life for yours, that on Monday
morning the little glutton will be ready to climb the steepest hill in
the county. But stuff him with liver-pills, drench him with cough-
sirup and paregoric, and in a month or two he will not be able to
satisfy the cravings of the inner boy without " assisting Nature " with
a patent stimulant.
But is it fair to denounce a palliative when the radical remedies
have lost their efficacy ? What dietetic reform can avail a man to
whom oatmeal-gruel has become a poison ? How can he invigorate
his system by exercise if he is hardly able to support himself on his
legs ? The asthenic stage of the disease can reach a degree when the
mere suggestion of gymnastic enterprises is enough to produce a fit of
nervous spasms. I have known of dyspeptics who would not have
crossed a room to save a pet bird from the claws of a cat, and who
would have joined an expedition to the north pole as soon as to the
skating-ring. Theirs is a sad plight, for a rule that holds good of
unnatural habits in general applies more especially to the chronic es-
tablishment of dietetic abuses, namely, that the further we have strayed
from nature, the longer and wearier will be the road of reform. Be-
fore the invalid can restore the health and vigor of his system, he has
to restore his capacity for exercise. The first object is to create a
healthy demand for nourishment. Under normal circumstances that
demand is proportioned to the amount of the organic expenditure.
The nursing females of the mammalia require a larger amount of
nourishing diet than the ordinary wants of the system would account
for. During the age of rapid growth, children eat and digest as much
as hard-working men. Diabetes, the first stage of consumption and
other wasting diseases, is characterized by an exorbitant appetite.
Every increase of muscular activity involves an augmented demand
for nourishment ; cceteris paribus, the man who walks a mile from his
shop to his home will digest his supper more easily than he who takes
the street-car. The hotel-boarder who makes it a rule to walk up
the four flights of stairs to his attic will sleep sounder, and awaken
more refreshed, than he who uses the elevator.
But the far-gone dyspeptic who is incapable of an active effort has
to begin with a passive method of natural stimulation the refriger-
ation-cure, based on the tonic influence of cold air and cold water.
Voracity increases with the distance from the equator. An Esqui-
mau eats a quantum that would crapulate three Hottentots and six
Hindoos. A cold winter curtails the profits of boarding-houses.
Camping in the open air whets the appetite even without the aid of
active exercise. A bracing temperature exacts a sort of automatic
exercise : it accelerates the circulation, it promotes the oxidation of the
blood, and indirectly stimulates the whole respiratory process.* The
* " Why should sickness prevail during the warm, pleasant weather so much more
frequently than during the cold ? The reason appears to me very plain. The cold weather
