THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 309
generation of animal caloric has to be increased to balance the depres-
sion of the external temperature. Hence the invigorating effect of
mountain-air, of sea-bathing, and, in high latitudes, of sea-voyages.
The first dose of the tonic can be applied in-doors : sponge and shower
baths, or Franklin's air-baths a few minutes' pause between undress
and bed-time.
People who have got rid of the night-air superstition can almost
defy dyspepsia by sleeping in a cross-draught, or, in cold weather, at
least near a half -open window. Cold, fresh air is an invaluable aid to
the assimilation of non-nitrogenous articles of food (fat meat, butter,
etc.). Stifling bedrooms almost neutralize the effects of out-door exer-
cise. Winter is, therefore, on the whole, the most auspicious time
for beginning a dyspepsia-cure. In summer a highland sanitarium is
the best place to start with, or, for coast-dwellers, a surfy sea-shore.
Early rising, a cold bath before breakfast, frequent ablutions, deep
draughts of cold water, flavored with Seltzer and sugar or a few drops
of raspberry-sirup, an air-bath before going to bed, and wide-open
bedroom-windows, will score an important point in favor of Nature
the return of a normal appetite, and with it of renewed strength and
mental elasticity. If the after-dinner affliction should show no direct
signs of abatement, the patient must bide his time, and, under no cir-
cumstances, resort to the drug-exorcism. Temporary blue-devils are
far preferable to a persistent blue-pill Beelzebub. But aid Nature by
all legitimate means. Masticate thoroughly every mouthful of solid
food. Eschew spices. Avoid pickles, cheese, salt meat, sour-krout, and
hot drinks. Take a light breakfast, a lighter lunch, postpone the
principal meal till the day's work is done, and make the after-dinner
hour as pleasant as possible. Court fresh air at all times of the day
and the night, and, in the course of two or three weeks, the capacity
for active exercise will return. That point gained, the problem of
recovery is reduced to a question of perseverance. The distress of the
first attempts suggests almost the expediency of an unconditional sur-
render, but, after a dozen morning promenades in the park, and as
many dumb-bell soirees, the three chief remedies begin to work hand
in hand exercise, refrigeration, and temperance. Exercise spices non-
stimulating food, fresh air promotes digestion, and restored digestion
gives strength for more exercise.
There will be fluctuations in the progress of convalescence. The
valor of it, the confidence in the possibility of complete expiation, will
sometimes falter under the realizing sense of past sins. The very
effectiveness of the remedies will demonstrate the almost unpardon-
able mistake of their long neglect. But the stomach is not implacable,
and, in spite of a few fretful relapses, it will, on the whole, accept the
terms of reconciliation and ratify the treaty from week to week, till
braces us up, gives us a sharp appetite, and we indulge freely in food which, while the
cold weather continues, can be tolerated by the system." (Dr. C. E. Page.)
