THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 311
ing, or (about three hours after the last meal) in the cool of the
evening.
Dietetic eefoems should begin with the prescription of a strictly
non-stimulating diet. A spoonful of mustard, a glass of small-beer or
claret, may seem a mere trifle ; but the trouble is that all stimulant-
habits are progressive : the pungent spices are apt to slide into pun-
gent tobacco, and the claret into port, or something worse. Fresh
apple- vinegar, with a fruity flavor, can perhaps not do much more
harm than sweet cider, but salt is not quite above suspicion, and the
safest plan is to stick to comestibles that can be eaten without it.
Cream, for that and other reasons, is better than fat meat, a whortle-
berry-soup better than a gravy-soup, and a raspberry-pudding prefer-
able to a blood-pudding. All fried and broiled viands, all pickles, all
rancid cheese, butter, and sausages, all smoked meats, are suspicious.
Catchup-vials harbor the bottled-up demon of indigestion. But, withal?
the diet should not be insipid. Ultra-vegetarians denounce all kinds
of fat. Ultra-Grahamites suspect all sorts of sweetmeats. " Let your
cook distinctly understand," says one peptic philosopher, "that, on
peril of her life, she is to set nothing savory before you." Many
hygienic institutes feed their dyspeptics on stale bran-bread, water-
gruel, and watery vegetables. Man has a right to decline existence on
such terms. Not the naturally palatable, but the unnaturally stimu-
lating, qualities of a dish tempt the dyspeptic to eat to excess. For
one man who surfeits himself with sweet grapes or pancakes, a thou-
sand, at least, derange their digestion with strong cheese, or hot-pep-
pered ragouts. Alcoholic stimulants kill hundreds every year ; how
many intemperate drinkers have ever killed themselves with fresh milk
or lemonade ? And can not fruits, flour, milk, eggs, sugar, and orange-
juice, furnish the ingredients of a very tolerable meal ? not to men-
tion berries, tubers, and dozens of harmless vegetables that can be
creamed and sugared into tidbits to rival the entrees of the Freres
Provencaux in everything except virulence, alias pungency. It is
better to improve the digestion than to spoil the appetite, for no man
can thrive on a naturally distasteful diet. Nature intended us to be
vegetarians ; but I can not help thinking that the word is misleading
by its popular association with the idea of kitchen-vegetables. Our
next relatives in the animal kingdom do not live on pot-herbs, but on
fruit. The victims of plethoric dyspepsia, the chronic gluttons who
gorge for the sake of repletion, would stuff themselves with a potful
of watery spinach as quick as with an eel-pie ; and theirs is a rare,
but indeed rather embarrassing predicament : they seem as unable to
stop eating as to begin digesting. They are evermore esurient, though
as cachectic as a starved Silesian weaver ; I have seen gouty gluttons,
to whom the sight of a restaurant-window was as tempting as a tavern-
sign to a toper. Certain drugs would abridge their penchant, but, with
it, also, the last traces of a digestive function ; and, instead of reduc-
