3 i2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing their appetite, it is better to reduce its capacity for mischief, by-
limiting the number of their daily meals. For, after all, that capacity
is circumscribed by the caliber of the stomach, and, if the quality of
the food is unexceptionable, there is no serious danger of a man's eat-
ing more at one meal than his system, under otherwise favorable cir-
cumstances, can dispose of in the course of the next twenty-three hours.
The apprehension in such cases as to the insufficiency of one meal a
day is wholly gratuitous. For more than a thousand years the one-
meal system was the rule in two countries that could raise armies of
men every one of whom would have made his fortune as a modern
athlete men who marched for days under a load of iron (besides
clothes and provisions) that would stagger a modern porter. Even
here, abstinence is easier than temperance ; for twenty-three hours of
each day it is far easier to abstain from food (though, of course, not
from water) than to begin eating and stop in time. Not one glutton
in a thousand will do it. Dio Lewis recommends a limited number of
dishes "never put mpre on the table than you intend to eat" ; but
the first mouthful reawakens the passion of Polyphemus, and for those
who can not govern their appetite it is just about as easy to call for
another dish as to reach for another plateful. But it is an excellent
rule to prolong the pauses between the several dishes of a full meal, in
order to give the stomach time to indicate the real wants of the sys-
tem. " The ingestion of food," says Dr. Carpenter, " can not at once
produce the effect of diminishing the feeling of hunger, though it will
do so after a short time, so that, if we eat with undue rapidity, we
may continue swallowing food long after we have taken as much as
the wants of the body require."
The origin of the glutton-habit can often be traced to the mistaken
liberality of a host who constantly urges the conviviality of his young
guests, or even to the fatuous tenderness of nursing mothers, who so
frequently think it their duty, as Dr. Page expresses it, to make a baby
" guzzle till it is ready to die with fatty degeneration."
Begin with reducing the number of daily meals, and exercise, a
change of climate and of habits will by-and-by help to subdue the bane-
ful penchant. Occasional relapses can not be avoided ; but the pro-
gressive relief from a number of the worst gastric afflictions will at
last induce the veriest cormorant to stick to the one-meal plan.
The best time for that one meal is the end of the working-day
4 or 5 p. m. when business-cares can be laid aside for the rest of the
evening. Asthenic dyspeptics, too all, at least, who are not com-
pletely masters of their own time had better choose that hour for
their principal meal. No other hygienic mistake, not even the stimu-
lant-fallacy, has done so much to make ours a dyspeptic generation as
the fatal habit of after-dinner head-work severe mental labor in the
study, the school-room, or the counting-house, at a time when the
whole strength of the system is claimed by the digestion of a heavy
