THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 3l5
the Germans call the eleven-o'clock refreshment, used at least to con-
sist of cold meats ; but competing saloon-keepers have now intro-
duced hot lunches, and in our larger cities there is no escape for dys-
peptics ; " the smoke of their torment ariseth for ever and ever."
The gastric irritability which forms a lingering after-effect of
chronic dyspepsia can be better allayed by a vegetable diet than by
the nutritive extracts which are supposed to aid the work of diges-
tion. The bulk of innutritive admixtures somehow excites and main-
tains the vigor of the digestive organs ; and the human organism can
not thrive on concentrated nourishment, as for similar reasons the
lungs can not be fed on pure oxygen. Water, either pure or in organic
compounds, is likewise an effective sedative and depuratory ; it aids
the process of eliminating the indigestible or noxious elements of
various articles of food, whose ingestion therefore excites thirst. But,
without waiting for that urgent appeal, we should remember that the
diet of our instinct-guided relatives contains about ninety per cent of
water, and that a dearth of fruit should be compensated by artificial
compounds, supplying the requisite amount of fluids in a palatable
form. The remedial influence of many famous spas is due to the
water as much as to its mineral admixtures. About fifty years ago,
the Brooklyn hotels were crowded with visitors, attracted by the fame
of a doctor who cured all manner of diseases with pure rain-water.
The mystic motto of Thales, " Ariston men liydor " (" The best of all
things is water "), might perhaps be explained from such facts. Our
diet, in fact, is much too dry, and could be improved without resort-
ing to lager-beer, which redeems its deleterious influence to some de-
gree by helping the Germans to digest their pungent comestibles.
Water, in some of its combinations, is also an effective aperient ; in
watermelons and whey, for instance ; but still more in conjunction
with a dish of legumina peas, lentils, and beans. No constipation
can long withstand the suasion of a daily dose of pea-soup, or baked
beans, flavored with a modicum of brown butter, and glorified with a
cup of cold spring-water ; and, moreover, the aperient effect is not
followed by an astringent reaction the cure, once effected, is perma-
nent. Plethoric dyspepsia is almost invariably accompanied by close
stools, and the drugs that have been swallowed to ease Nature for a
day would poison half the living creatures of the American Con-
tinent.
But rather forego the beans than eat them with pork. The inter-
dict of the Hebrew lawgiver, I suspect, has something to do with the
climate-proof health of his countrymen, for in warm weather fat pork
is about as digestible as yellow soap. The Hungarian peasants are
ravenously fond of it, and neither out-door life nor the vigor of their
Turanian stomachs can save them from the consequences. Every sum-
mer, and sometimes three and four times a year, the digestive system
of the rustic Magyar relieves itself by an expurgative process known
