3 i6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as the tzomor, or pork-surfeit, a three clays' purgatory of heart-burns,
nausea, and violent retching, accompanied by a burning thirst and an
unspeakable loathing of all solid food. He who weathers the storm,
says the traveler Kohl, feels like a new-made man, and reappears at
the family table ; but so does the pork-pot, and a few months after
the respited sinner has another seizure, and groans, " O Jesus, Maria,
meg tzomoretem it's got me again ! "
After the re-establishment of intestinal digestion, flatulence, ver-
tigo, and that terror of constipated tea-drinkers, dull headache, be-
come less and less frequent ; the spell of the deliquium is broken, and
the redevelopment of the wasted muscles proves that the system is no
longer obliged to feed upon its own tissue. But these first symptoms
of improvement should not encourage the patient to relax the rigor of
the regimen before he is sure that the gastric inflammation has wholly
subsided. As long as spasms and acrid eructations (water-brash) in-
dicate the danger of a relapse, give the stomach all the rest you can.
Never miss an opportunity that will make it easy to forego a meal or
two. There are ways to make a fast-day a very trifling inconven-
ience, and its remedial value exceeds that of a round-trip to all the
spas of the Eastern Continent. In my experiments on the operation of
the fasting-cure, I have noticed the curious fact that for the first day
or two the clamors of the stomach are restricted to certain hours, and
can be induced to waive a disregarded claim. Convalescents who
have already reduced the morning lunch to the standard of a Spartan
breakfast, a " heathen fig and a thrice-accursed biscuit," can beguile
the dinner-honr by diverting pastimes a boat-trip, a fishing-excur-
sion, a visit to the Zoo and upon their return home will find that the
craving for food has yielded to sleepiness, and the sweetness of the
night's rest will be worth seven meals. It is during such periods of
undisturbed rest that the work of repair makes its surest progress,
and for the first three or four months it would be a good plan to imi-
tate the example of the Ebonite heretics, who observed a weekly fast-
day in the Ugolino sense of the word. Water, of course, should never
be stinted, and, after a long fast, will have an especially good chance
to depurate the vacated passages of the abdominal labyrinth.
An advanced stage of alcoholism (which will be treated in a sepa-
rate chapter) often results in that malignant form of chronic indiges-
tion known as hepatic or bilious dyspepsia, a complete derangement of
the digestive process, accompanied by headaches, which for months
defy the influence of an hygienic regimen, and yield only to the heroic
remedies of the pedestrian-cure. But, with that exception, ten weeks
of strict temperance, fresh air, and moderate exercise, will generally
suffice to appease the resentment of the outraged stomach. During
the next twelve months the reconciled digestive apparatus helps to
redress the impairments of other organs. For it is a generic pecul-
iarity of dyspeptic affections that the symptomatic outlast the idio-
