UNWRITTEN HISTORY. 319
that which constitutes a man of science is not the pursuit of this or
that specialty, but a living faith in the supreme importance of truth,
and an unshakable conviction that order reigns over all things, and
that chance has no more place in human affairs than elsewhere.
Now, the generation of the science of history took place in this wise :
Somewhere in the earlier half of the fifth century, a sort of side skir-
mish of the Persian wars drove out of house and home a Greek gen-
tleman one Herodotus, with whose name you will be sufficiently
familiar. He was a man of great intelligence and unflagging energy,
well versed in all the learning of his time. The magnitude and the
interest of the events which bad taken place, either within his own
memory or within that of men with whom he had talked, seem early
to have taken strong hold of his mind, and he determined to devote his
life to writing an account of them, in which truth should be sifted
from error, and the causation of events displayed to the best of his
ability.
With this end in view, Herodotus was not content with collecting
and collating all the information which he could obtain from trust-
worthy sources, but he determined to become personally acquainted
with the chief countries and people implicated in the contest. There
lay the primary conditions of the problem which "the father of his-
tory " had set himself to study ; and there is no better evidence of his
strong scientific turn than the conviction on which he acted, that, if
he would understand these conditions, he must know them of his own
knowledge.
Egypt was one of the countries involved in the Persian wars. He-
rodotus visited the country somewhere about 450 b. c, and he has left
a most curious and entertaining account of his own observations, and
of the information which he obtained from the priests of Thebes and
the literati of Heliopolis, with whom, his interpreter, or dragoman, as
we should now call him, brought him into contact.
I dare say you read the second book of Herodotus, and know a
great deal more about it than I do. Nevertheless, it may not be super-
fluous to remind you that the historian speaks with admiration of the
learning of the Egyptians, and of the remarkable pains which they
took to preserve the memory of the past in their records. Among a
great many other things, they read to him from a papyrus the names
of three hundred and thirty monarchs who had reigned over Egypt,
from Menes, the first Pharaoh, to their own time.
The average length of the reigns of any long series of Western sov-
ereigns is about twenty-five years, so that, if the records of the Egyp-
tians were to be trusted and the average length of reign among them
was the same, Menes should have ascended the throne more than ten
thousand years ago.
Within my recollection it was very much the fashion to regard He-
rodotus as a garrulous old gentleman, who willingly allowed himself
