3 20 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to be crammed with interesting fictions ; and the pretension of the
Egyptians to such prodigious antiquity of their state was regarded as
one of the most patent examples of such figments. Yet it is probable
that, in respect of this and other pieces of information of like charac-
ter, the learned Egyptians said no more, not only than they fully be-
lieved, but than they might fairly enough think they had good reason
for believing ; and modern investigations have shown that they were
certainly much nearer the truth than sundry of their critics.
Among the achievements of scientific method in this century, none
is, to my mind, more wonderful than the disinterment of so much of
a past, to all appearance hopelessly dead, by the interpretation of the
hieroglyphic and cuneiform inscriptions in which the ancient inhabitants
of the valleys of the Nile and the Euphrates chronicled the events of
their history. Thanks to the sagacity and the untiring toil of such
men as Lepsius just about to receive the congratulations of all the
world on the completion of half a century of fruitful labor of Birch,
of JMariette, of Brugsch, the student of Egyptology, guided by the
sj^irit of scientific criticism, is probably far more accurately informed
about the ancient history of Egypt than was the whole College of
Heliopolis in Herodotus's time.
An exact chronology of Egyptian history is yet to be constructed ;
but those best qualified to judge agree that contemporary monuments
tell us of the state of Egypt more than five thousand years ago ; and
since they prove, beyond the possibility of doubt, that the people who
erected them possessed a complex social orgaiiization, as replete with
all the necessaries and conveniences of life as that of any nation in Eu-
rope in the middle ages, and not inferior in literature or in skill in the
arts of painting, sculpture, and architecture, it is but rational to con-
clude that, even at this farthest point of time to which written records
take us, the Egyptian people had, for long ages, left barbarism behind,
and constituted a settled and a civilized polity. So that, whether
Menes was followed by three hundred and thirty kings or not, the
general impression of the vast antiquity of the Egyptian state wdiich
Herodotus received, and has transmitted to us, has full justification.
But that which is so characteristically modern about Herodotus is
that he was not satisfied to stop where written records halt, or to ac-
cept traditional accounts of an earlier time without discussion. His
informants told him that, when Menes began to reign, Lower Egypt
was covered with water, a dismal and pestilent swamp, and that the
first Pharaoh drained and rendered habitable that alluvial soil which
they called "the gift of the Nile."
Herodotus was evidently very much interested in this statement.
Perhaps he asked his Heliopolitan friends how they knew this. Per-
haps they answered him as they did a countryman of his, " You Greeks
always were and always will be children," asking the why of the
wherefore. A true saying, which, however it may have been intended,
