326 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
expansion and contraction which they undergo, as if they had been
broken by a road-maker's hammer ; and the fragments collect in great
heaps at the bottom of every steep incline. Not a blade of grass,
not a drop of water, is to be seen anywhere ; and yet the form and
arrangement of the ravines are such that it is impossible to doubt that
they have been formed, like other valleys, by the scoring and denud-
ing action of rapid streams.
I remember that one day, wandering in the desert, northeast of
Cairo, in the direction of the petrified forest, I was exceedingly struck
with the resemblance of the superficial scorings of the surface of the
rocky soil to those which are ordinarily made by rain. I was puzzling
myself to account for the fact, when a sudden storm, accompanied by
very heavy rain, came up, drenched me to the skin and vanished, all
in less than an hour. Immediately after the rain began to fall, every
one of the ramified scorings which had interested me was filled by a
stream of water, rushing to join with its fellows and flow down some
bigger groove to a lower level. It was obvious that the resemblance
which had struck me was not deceptive, and that all these ramified
scorings were miniature " wadys " the dry beds of minute rivulets
produced by former sudden showers of the same sort as that which I
had experienced.
It was a capital lesson in physiography, and I did not forget it
when I looked down on the great wadys of the Libyan desert at
Thebes. Twelve hours' heavy rain would send a roaring torrent,
sweeping before it all the accumulated debris of years, down every
one of them. And if we suppose the process repeated only every
twenty years ; still, since the Libyan Hills have been where they are
for the last ten thousand years, five hundred repetitions of the ap-
plication of this most efficient rain-plow would have cut some pretty
deep furrows, even if, during all this time, rain has never been more
frequent or more abundant than it is now.
Still farther to the south, about El Kab, close upon the twenty-
fifth parallel of latitude, the fringe of cultivable land which borders
the Nile becomes narrower and narrower, and the limestones in which
the valley has hitherto been excavated are replaced by sandstones as
far as Assouan. The low hills of such rock (rarely more than two
hundred feet high) which lie on each side of the river at Gebel Selsi-
leh, about forty miles north of Assouan, approach one another so
closely that the gorge through which the stream passes is little more
than one thousand feet wide. There is every reason to believe that
the opposite walls of this gorge were once continuous, and that the
river swept as a rapid over the correspondingly elevated margin of
the sandstone plateau, through which it has since cut its channel back
to Assouan, until, at present, its bed, for the forty miles to that place,
has no greater inclination than elsewhere.
Near Assouan, under the twenty-fourth parallel, on the frontier of
