328 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
just mentioned is more than two thousand English miles, the mean
inclination of the river, if it ran straight, would somewhat exceed a
foot per mile. Taking the actual hends into consideration, however,
it must be considerably less than this amount.
"Without a knowledge of the facts thus briefly sketched, the peri-
odical inundation of the valley of Egypt by the Nile is unintelligible.
And, since no one till long after Herodotus's time possessed such
knowledge, we may proceed to consider this singular phenomenon
without troubling ourselves about his curious speculations as to its
causes.
In the month of May and the beginning of June, the Egyptian
Nile is little better than a great sluggish ditch, the surface of which,
in Upper Egypt, lies many feet below that of its steep banks of irreg-
ularly stratified mud and sand. A short distance north of Cairo, it
divides into two main branches, which take a northerly course through
the delta and finally debouch, the one at Rosetta and the other at Da-
mietta. Innumerable artificial canals connect these arms of the Nile
with one another, and branch off east and west for purposes of irriga-
tion ; while, in the north, the complex system of water-courses com-
municates with the series of lakes and marshes, from Mariout, on the
west, to Menzaleh on the east, which, as I have already said, occupy a
large portion of the area of the delta southward of the sea-coast.
In the latter part of June, about the time of the summer solstice,
the motion of the torpid waters of the Nile seaward is quickened, and
their level rises, while at the same time they take on a green color.
The rise and the flow quicken, and the green color is succeeded by a
reddish brown ; the water becomes turbid and opaque, and is found to
be laden with sediment, varying in consistency from moderately coarse
sand, which falls to the bottom at once when the water is still, to mud
of impalpable fineness which takes a long time to subside. In fact,
when the sun approaches the northernmost limit of his course, as the
snows of Abyssinia begin to melt, and the heavy intertropical rains
set in, a prodigious volume of water is poured into the White and
Blue Niles, and drives before it the accumulated living and dead par-
ticles of organic matter which have sweltered in the half-stagnant
pools and marshes of the Soudan during the preceding six months.
Hence, apparently, the preliminary flow of green water. The Blue
Nile and the Atbara must sweep down a vast quantity of river-gravel
from the Abyssinian uplands, but it may be doubted whether any of
this gets beyond the middle cataracts, except in the condition of fine
sand. And I suspect that the chief part, if not the whole, of the coarse
sediment of the waters of the high Nile must be derived from Nubia,
from the weathering of the rocks, by the heating and cooling process
already described, and the action of the winds in blowing the sand
thus produced into the stream. The Nile continues to rise for three
