UNWRITTEN HISTORY. 33 i
the ancient records of Egypt which lends support to such an hy-
pothesis.
But we are indebted to Dr. Leith Adams for proof that the Nile,
between the first and the second cataracts, once stood very much more
than twenty-five feet above its present level. From Assouan to Derr,
in fact, he observed abundant patches and continuous terraces of allu-
vium, containing shells of the same kinds of fresh-water mollusks as
those which now inhabit the Nile, one hundred to one hundred and
twenty feet above the highest level now reached by its waters ; and
he concludes that " the primeval Nile was a larger and more rapid
river than it is now." I am disposed to think that the " primeval "
Nile was so, but I question whether these terraces were made by the
river in its youth. I see no reason why they should not be affairs of
a geological yesterday say, a mere twenty or thirty thousand years
ago.
There can be no reasonable doubt of the correctness of the view
first, so far as I am aware, distinctly enunciated by M. Louis Lartet,*
that the whole of the principal valley of the Nile has been excavated
by the river itself. I am disposed, for my own part, to think that the
Nile might have done this great work if the mass of its waters had
never been much greater than now. And, with respect to the innu-
merable lateral ravines which debouch into the main valley, I think it
-would not be safe to affirm that they could not have been excavated
by the rains, even if the meteorological conditions of the country had
never been very widely different from what they are now.
But, in some parts of Lower Egypt, and in the peninsula of Sinai,
many of the dry wadys exhibit such massive deposits of more or less
stratified materials, that it is hardly credible they can have been formed
under anything like existing conditions. Indeed, in some localities,
very competent observers have considered that there is good evidence
of th'j former existence of glaciers in the valleys of Sinai. And it is
well worthy of consideration whether, as Fraas and Lartet have sug-
gested, these deposits were not contemporaneous with the so-called
glacial epoch, when the climate of Northern Europe resembled that of
Greenland, and when the Mediterranean covered the Sahara and
washed the western flanks of the Libyan range.
Under such changed conditions, Egypt must have been one of the
wet countries of the world, instead of one of the driest ; and, as there
need have been no diminution in the bulk of water poured in by the
White and Blue Niles, the accumulation of water in the valley of
EgyP^ partly in virtue of its own rainfall, and partly by the dimi-
* u
Essai sur la Geologie de la Palestine et des Contrees avoisinantes, telles que
l'Egypte et l'Arabie," 1869. The Rev. Barham Zincke, in his interesting work " Egypt
of the Pharaohs," 1871, has expressed similar conclusions ; and I may say that they
forced themselves on my own mind in the course of my journey to the first cataract in
1872.
