SCIEXCE AND CONSCIENCE. 19
rality are part of the change which in matters of government is rep-
resented by the decay of aristocracy and the spread of democracy.
" The theory of the Church," Mr. Stopford Brooke says (" Faith and
Freedom," Boston, 1881, page 333), "is an aristocratic theory, and it
has ministered to that imperialistic conception of God which in the-
ology has done as much harm as despotism or caste system of any kind
has done to society." In England the Church exists as a part of the
general aristocratic system of a country in which non-conformity is
detested mainly as a social stigma ; in America we see the clearest
proofs of the altered circumstances, and these are visible on every side.
The formal side of ecclesiasticism loses its force, while ethical teaching
gives and receives fresh life. Dogmas linger a couple of centuries be-
hind what people really believe, and even the most conservative are
far more liberal than they try to be, or than they say they are. Even
the most fervent Roman Catholic refuses to believe that his Protestant
friend is doomed to eternal damnation.
If theology is willing to satisfy itself with furthering right living
and right thinking, its future is bright ; if it demands assent to irrec-
oncilable dogmas, it must in time disappear like everything which rests
on sheer authority. Yet probably no age will ever be confronted with
this direct question ; the present one has come near it, and, while a
century ago the general discussion was tabooed by the cautious, lest
the whole social system should be swept by the board, it is now seen
more or less clearly that men can think variously about dogmas with-
out relapsing into barbarism. In time this will be generally acknowl-
edged what we now feel in our hearts that the eternal laws of risjht
and wrong, of justice and injustice, of truth and falsehood, are safe
from the bungling of copyists, the destruction of wars, and the con-
fusion of commentators.
This, however, is taking us from the question immediately before
us, which is the relation that religion bears to contemporary thought.
We can judge of what may be in store in the future only from the
past and the present. If we fail to detect any modification of older
ways of thought, there is no firm ground for prophecy about what is
yet to happen. Yet we have seen Christianity molded into a church
by the force of the current Roman ideas ; we have seen feudalism tri-
umphant in things terrestrial and things celestial ; we have seen new
freedom come into relisrion as into the rest of the world with the Re-
naissance, and we have seen a renewed reaction into old ideas follow-
ing this freedom, as we see medievalism in the fantastic robes and
many candles of the Church when, in its turn, it was affected by the
Romantic movement. In the wider freedom that begets science we
see new tolerance for freedom of thought, and this freedom of thought
can not fail to undermine some of the artificial constructions of the
past. That it will destroy the essential principles of religion need
scarcely be feared, any more than that science will expel literature.
