THE GREAT BRIDGE AND ITS LESSONS. 345
origin of the work, or any complicity with fraud in its execution and
completion. It is this consideration which induced me to accept the
unexpected invitation of the trustees to speak for the city of New York
on the present occasion. When they thus honored me, they did not
know that John A. Roebling addressed to me the letter in which he first
suggested (and, as far as I am aware, he was the first engineer to sug-
gest) the feasibility of a bridge between the two cities, so constructed
as to preserve unimpaired the freedom of navigation. This letter, dated
June 19, 1857, I caused to be printed in the " Journal of Commerce,"
where it attracted great attention because it came from an engineer
who had already demonstrated, by successfully building suspension
bridges over the Schuylkill, the Ohio, and the Niagara Rivers, that he
spoke with the voice of experience and authority. This letter was the
first step toward the construction of the work, which, however, came
about in a manner different from his expectations, and was finally com-
pleted on a plan more extensive than he had ventured to describe. It
has been charged that the original estimates of cost have been far ex-
ceeded by the actual outlay. If this were true, the words of praise
which I have uttered for the engineers who designed and executed this
work ought rather to have been a sentence of censure and condemna-
tion. Hence the invitation, which came to me unsought, seemed rather
to be an appeal from the grave for such vindication as it was within
my power to make, and which could not come with equal force from
any other quarter.
Engineers are of two kinds the creative and the constructive.
The power to conceive great works demands imagination and faith.
The creative engineer, like the poet, is born, not made. If to the
power to conceive is added the ability to execute, then have we one
of those rare geniuses who not only benefit the world but add new
glory to humanity. Such men were Michael Angelo, Leonardo da
Yinci, Watt, Wedgwood, Brunei, and Stephenson ; and such a man
was John A. Roebling. It was his striking peculiarity that, while his
conceptions were bold and original, his execution was always exact
and within the limits of cost which he assigned to the work of his
brain. He had made bridges a study, and had declared in favor of
the suspension principle for heavy traffic, when the greatest living au-
thorities had condemned it as costly and unsafe. When he undertook
to build a suspension-bridge for railway use, he did so in the face of
the deliberate judgment of the profession, that success would be im-
possible. George Stephenson had condemned the suspension principle
and approved the tubular girder for railway traffic. But it was the
Nemesis of Stephenson's fate that, when he came out to approve the
location of the great tubular bridge at Montreal, he should pass over
the Niagara River in a railway-train, on a suspension-bridge, which he
had declared to be an impracticable undertaking.
When Roebling suggested the bridge over the East River, his ideas
