346 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
were limited to the demands of tlie time, and controlled by the neces-
sity for a profitable investment. He had no expectation that the two
cities would embark in the enterjDrise. Indeed, in one of bis letters so
late as April 14, 18G0, he says, "As to the corporations of New York
and Brooklyn undertaking the job, no such hope may be entertained in
our time." In eight years thereafter, these cities had undertaken the
task upon a scale of expense far exceeding his original ideas of a
structure to be built exclusively by private capital for the sake of
profit.
How came this miracle to pass ? The war of the rebellion oc-
curred, delaying for a time the further consideration of Roebling's
ideas. This war accustomed the nation to expenditures on a scale of
which it had no previous conception. It did more than expend large
sums of money. Officials became corrupt, and organized themselves
for plunder. In the city of New York especially, the government fell
into the hands of a band of thieves, who engaged in a series of great
and beneficial public works, not for the good they might do, but for
the opportunity which they would afford to rob the public treasury.
They erected court-houses and armories ; they opened roads, boule-
vards, and parks ; and they organized two of the grandest devices for
transportation which the genius of man has ever conceived : a rapid-
transit railway for New York,' and a great highway between New York
and Brooklyn. The bridge was commenced, but the ring was driven
into exile by the force of public indignation, before the rapid-transit
scheme, since executed on a different route by private capital, was un-
dertaken. The collapse of the ring brought the work on the bridge to
a stand-still.
It was a timely event. The patriotic New-Yorker might well have
exclaimed, just before this great deliverance, in the words of the con-
sul of ancient Rome, in Macaulay's stirring poem :
" And if they once may win the bridge,
"What hope to save the town ? "
Meanwhile, the elder Roebling had died, leaving behind him his
estimates and the general plans of the structure, to cost, independent
of land damages and interest, about $7,000,000. This great work,
which, if not " conceived in sin," was " brought forth in iniquity,"
thus became the object of great suspicion, and of a prejudice which
has not been removed to this day. I know that to many I make a
startling announcement Avhen I state the incontrovertible fact that no
money was ever stolen by the ring from the funds of the bridge ; that
the whole money raised has been honestly expended ; that the esti-
mates for construction have not been materially exceeded, and that
the excess of cost over the estimates is due to purchases of land which
were never included in the estimates, to interest paid on the city sub-
scriptions, and to the cost of additional height and breadth of the
