350 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cent of the total population. This percentage slowly gained at each
successive census, until in 1840 it had reached 8'5 per cent. In fifty-
years it had thus gained a little over 5 per cent. But in 1850 it rose
to 12*5 per cent, in 1860 it was 161 per cent ; in 1870 it was 20'9 per
cent, having in this one decade gained as much as in the first fifty
years of our political existence. In 1880 the population resident in
cities was 22 5 per cent of the whole population.
Contemporaneous with this rapid growth of urban population have
grown the complaints of corrupt administration and bad municipal
government. The outcry may be said to be universal, for it comes
from both sides of the Atlantic ; and the complaints appear to be in
direct proportion to the size of cities. It is obvious, therefore, that
the knowledge of the art of local government has not kept pace with
the growth of population. I am here by your favor to speak for the
city of New York, and I should be the last person to throw any dis-
credit on its fair fame ; but I think I only give voice to the general
feeling when I say that the citizens of New York are satisfied neither
with the structure of its government nor with its actual administra-
tion, even when it is in the hands of intelligent and honest officials.
Dissatisfied as we are, no man has been able to devise a system which
commends itself to the general approval, and it may be asserted that
the remedy is not to be found in devices for any special machinery of
government. Experiments without number have been tried, and sug-
gestions in infinite variety have been offered, but to-day no man can
say that we have approached any nearer to the idea of good govern-
ment which is demanded by the intelligence and the wants of the com-
munity.
If, therefore, New York has not yet learned to govern itself, how
can it be expected to be better governed by adding half a million to
its population and a great territory to its area, unless it be with the
idea that a " little leaven leaveneth the whole lump " ? .Is Brooklyn that
leaven ? And if not, and if possibly " the salt has lost its savor, where-
with shall it be salted ?" Brooklyn is now struggling with this prob-
lem it remains to be seen with what success ; but meanwhile it is idle
to consider the idea of getting rid of our common evils by adding
them together.
Besides, it is a fundamental axiom in politics, approved by the ex-
perience of older countries as well as of our own, that the sources of
power should never be far removed from those who are to feel its
exercise. It is the violation of this principle which produces chronic
revolution in France, and makes the British rule so obnoxious to the
Irish people. This evil is happily avoided when a natural boundary
circumscribes administration within narrow limits. While, therefore,
we rejoice together at the new bond between New York and Brook-
lin, we ought to rejoice the more that it destroys none of the con-
ditions which permit each city to govern itself, but rather urges them
