SELECTION IN GRAIN-GROWING. 355
During these investigations no single circumstance more forcibly
illustrated the necessity for repeated selection than the fact that, of
the grains in the same ear, one is found to excel greatly all the others
in vital power, as in the case of the Bellevue Talavera. The original
two ears together contained 87 grains ; these were all planted singly.
One of them produced ten ears containing 688 grains, and not only
could the produce of no other single grain compare with them, but the
finest ten ears which could be collected from the produce of the whole
of the other 86 grains contained only 598 ; yet supposing that this
superior grain grew in the smaller of the two original ears, and that
this contained but 40 grains, there must still have been 39 of these
86 grains which grew in the same ear. So far as regards contents of
ears.
The next year the grains from the largest ear of the finest plant of
the previous year were planted singly, twelve inches apart, in a con-
tinuous row ; one of them produced a plant consisting of fifty-two ears ;
those next to and on either side of it of twenty-nine and seventeen
ears respectively ; and the finest of all the other plants consisted of
only forty ears.
The following are the chief points of the standard in the order of
their importance, but all have to be duly considered :
1. Hardihood of constitution.
2. Trueness of type.
3. Quality of sample.
4. Productiveness.
5. Power of tillering.
6. Stiffness and toughness of straw.
7. Earliness of ripening.
The system of selection here pursued is as follows : A grain pro-
duces a plant, consisting of many ears. Then are planted the grains
from these ears in such a manner that each ear occupies a row by it-
self, each of its grains occupying a hole in this row, the holes being
twelve inches apart every way. At harvest, after the most careful
study and comparison of the plants from all these grains, the finest
one is selected, which is proof that its parent-grain was the best of
all, under the peculiar circumstances of that season. This process is
repeated annually, starting every year with the proved best grain,
although the verification of this superiority is not obtained until the
following harvest.
The subjoined statement will illustrate this system of selection, as
the facts given are due to its influence alone : the kind of seed, the
land, and the system of culture employed were precisely the same for
every plant for four consecutive years ; neither was any manure used,
nor any artificial means of fostering the plants resorted to.
The following table shows the character of each additional gen-
eration of selection :
