zo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Only what has within it the seeds of mortality can be killed, and re-
ligion and imagination are outside of science ; but ecclesiasticism, which
has been built by men, can be destroyed by men, just as literary con-
ventions, which were the work of scholars, can be torn to shreds by
scholars and writers.
PHYSICS m GENERAL EDUCATION*
By Professor T. C. MENDENHALL.
THIS is an " Association for the Advancement of Science." But
the forces which have to do with aiding or retarding this ad-
vancement are so various that we are in danger of losing sight of
some of them. We are mistaken if we suppose that science is ad-
vanced only through contributions which are the result of original re-
search in our laboratories and libraries. Even if so narrow a view be
taken, it will be admitted that the talent for research is fostered and
encouraged, if not indeed created, by an atmosphere of recognition
and appreciation. The existence of such an atmosphere is in itself a
blessing, and its production is certainly worthy of our highest efforts.
To this end it is desirable and necessary to bring about a more
general diffusion of accurate knowledge concerning the elementary
principles and propositions of the science of physics, as well as some
degree of familiarity with the methods of physical investigation. I
do not refer, of course, to the demands or the necessities of those who
expect to undergo a course of training for the purpose of becoming
themselves physicists, but rather to the diffusion of this knowledge
among the masses of educated people in general.
That this diffusion is not taking place to any great extent, and will
not, according to natural laws alone, is patent to any observing physi-
cist, who can not fail to have come in contact with prevailing and
pernicious errors, which often carry the weight of repetition, and now
and then of recognized authority.
I am aware that this is not an association of educators, and that
pedagogics is not, as yet, one of the sciences specifically indicated as
worthy of advancement at our hands ; but, if the growth of a tree is
to be made healthy and permanent, it is not safe to neglect the soil
into which its roots penetrate. Train it and prune it as you will, to
grow into vigor and strength it must spring from a rich and generous
earth which, though beneath it and below it, must be in harmony with
it in order to supply the proper and necessary materials for its suste-
nance.
* Substance of a vice-presidential address delivered before the Section of Physics at
the Montreal meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Au-
gust, 1882.
