SELECTION IN GRAIN-GROWING. 361
it must be hereditary, and on this fact the whole argument for selected
seed-grain rests.
Let it not be supposed, from what has been stated, that the use of
artificial fertilizers is sought to be prejudiced. On the contrary, if im-
provement can be secured without them, it will be immensely greater
when aided by them. But while the purchase of good seed of pedigree
stock in small quantity, though the farmer bought it at six dollars
(Major Hallett frequently obtains five), would be a very economical
proceeding if he does not use more than two gallons, the cost of which
would only be one dollar and a half per acre, whereas buying common
seed at one dollar, and using two to three bushels, involves a greater
outlay. Therefore, in proposing this reform, it will be seen that it
does not mean spending more, but less, on seed. The weeding, if
done properly, may cost two dollars per acre ; and if, after this, the
grower has any money to spend on fertilizers, let him invest by all
means. As a general rule, it may be confidently asserted that what
would be saved in the outlay for seed would pay the cost of horse-
hoeinsx.
Considering how rapid is the improvement of the process of selec-
tion during the first five years, its effect on the wheat-crop of the
country would be enormous. If we take 500,000,000 bushels of wheat
as the present product (which is much less than it is), then doubling
the crop and adding at the very least fifty per cent improvement in
quality to the grain, we should obtain an increase of about $750,000,000,
without bringing an additional acre into cultivation. I have not said
much of the effect on the corn-crop, but on a crop of 1,750,000,000
bushels, at an average value of 38 cents, would, if but fifty per cent
increase, in five years could be realized on 27 - 5, be astounding. To-
day, the area in corn is not less than 65,000,000 acres ; 12*50 bushels
increase, at 40 cents per bushel, would be five dollars an acre, or
$325,000,000 : $1,075,000,000 of additional food in the short space of
five years would give a new impetus to the milling trade in this coun-
try, and the hog-business would grow with a rapidity out of all pro-
portion to its past career. Neither steel nor electricity can promise
anything so great in so short a time, and no reform accomplished in
this century will be able to measure this one.
Who will be the first to carry out such a scheme ? In the Wash-
ington Department of Agriculture and in several other parts of the
country, pedigree cereals have been used, but the results have not
been taken much advantage of. The experimentalists of the State
College farming-stations are especially qualified to lead in so import-
ant a work. The time is not far distant when intensive rather than
extensive culture must be the rule of American farming. Alreadv, in
the East and in the South, men are finding it pays better to cultivate
100 acres well than 300 acres carelessly. When the hunger for large
areas abates, we may hope to see attention paid to better cultivation.
