THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE. 385
CONSTRUCTIVE ELEMENTS OF THE EAST RIVER
BRIDGE.
By F. A. FERNALD.
THE New York Bridge Company, having for its object the build-
ing of the suspension-bridge between New York and Brooklyn
across the East River, was chartered by the State Legislature April
16, 1867. The work was begun by this company, and continued until
its control was transferred to the two cities, June 5, 1874, from which
time until the completion of the structure it was carried on by a board
of trustees. John A. Roebling was at first chosen chief -engineer, but,
dying two years later, he was succeeded by his son and associate, Colo-
nel Washington A. Roebling.
The engineer's plans and estimates were submitted in September,
1867, and were finally approved in the spring of 1869. The mechani-
cal work was begun on the site of the Brooklyn tower January 3,
1870. The finished tower rises 278 feet above high-water mark, and
measures from top to foundation 316 feet. It is faced above water
with granite, but is built partly of blue limestone. At the water-level
the tower is 140 feet wide and 59 feet thick ; the roadway passes
through it at a height of 119 feet 3 inches by means of two archways
each 117 feet high, and 33 feet 9 inches wide at the base. Where this
tower stands, the river-bed is a compact conglomerate of clay, sand,
and bowlders, in which its foundation rests at a depth of 44^ feet
below high-water mark. The lowest course of masonry rests on a
layer of pine-beams 15 feet thick, i. e., the roof of the caisson used to
carry down the foundation. Under the roof of the caisson are built
72 brick pillars, 9^- feet high, and the rest of the space is filled in with
a solid concrete. The Brooklyn tower was finished in May, 1875.
The New York tower differs from this in being three feet wider, and
in extending down for 78 feet below high-water mark, where it
reaches some spurs of the bed-rock, making the total height of the
tower 350 feet. The roof of the caisson was made 22 feet thick, so
as to support the greater weight of masonry to be built upon it during
its descent. This tower was finished in July, 1876. Neither has as
yet settled two inches.
The four cables are each 15f inches in diameter, over two thirds of
a mile long (3,578^- feet), and each consists of 5,282 galvanized steel
wires, not twisted as in a small wire rope, but lying parallel from end
to end. No. 7 wire was used, which is a little over one eighth of an
inch thick, and each cable was made in nineteen strands. The coils
of wire for one strand were spliced together, so that each strand con-
sists of a continuous wire running back and forth across the river, and
at each end passing around a grooved piece of iron called a shoe. The
TOL. ixiu. 25
