390 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Here we find most marked the personal affection, the intimate com-
panionship, the community of interests, the common responsibility and
care for the children, which are the characteristics of the family. The
related life of the group so formed constitutes domestic life. But if
the personal relations of woman to the family are thus fixed and en-
during, her industrial relation to it is by no means so unchanging.
The work which she must do for it varies according to external con-
ditions. There is no one kind of work which absolutely belongs to
domestic life ; there is hardly any kind of work that has not in some
phase of society been considered to belong to it.
In the savage state, women built the wigwam, raised the corn, pre-
pared the clothes, carried on in its rudest and most elementary form
all the work which is to-day the object of modern industry. But since
these simple forms of labor have developed into architecture and agri-
culture and manufactures, it is held that women can not follow their
old occupations under their new forms, under penalty of personal de-
terioration and social disaster. It is the conditions under which work
is done, apparently, which constitute it domestic work, rather than the
nature of the work itself. Weaving was domestic work when done at
home, but ceased to be so when done in a factory.
Domestic work, therefore, is all work for the family which, under
our present arrangements, must be done at home, upon a small scale,
by individual workers, free from the organization and comjDetition of
business. Precisely in the degree that outside occupations partake of
any of these characteristics of domestic work, are they considered ap-
propriate to women. On the other hand, how feminine soever the
nature of a work, as soon as it is seized upon by the modern system
of outside labor, begins to be carried on upon a large scale, and to be
subject to the laws of business competition, it thenceforth ceases to
belong to women. It has departed from the conditions of domestic
work.
If this definition of domestic work be correct, two questions natu-
rally arise in connection with it : 1. Will the work now done at home
always continue to be so done ? 2. If the conditions of domestic
work are those most favorable to the well-being of women, what is the
reason of their growing distaste for domestic service ? The answers
to these two questions are very closely connected with each other, and
with the main question of the industrial position of Avomcn.
When we consider, on one hand, how pressing and increasing an
evil is the lack of skillful and reliable servants, how severely the want
of efficient service weighs upon the mothers of families, and, on the
other hand, how liberal is the compensation and how certain the em-
ployment for women having even a moderate degree of skill in house-
work, there seems, at first sight, some truth in the assertion that the
difficulty with women is not the want of work, but the inclination to
shirk their own work in order to invade that of men. The complaint
