THE INDUSTRIAL POSITION OF WOMEN. 391
of the difficulty incident to finding well-paid work does not come from
our domestic servants. The Irish girl finds work from the day of her
landing, and begins almost immediately to send remittances of money
to her friends at home. The American girl, thrown upon her own re-
sources, struggles miserably to keep soul and body together upon the
scanty wages of the shop or the factory. Yet so decided is the disin-
clination to domestic service, the largest and most profitable field for
women to work, that American women have virtually abandoned it.
The Irish girls gradually absorb the same distaste, and are less avail-
able as they become Americanized. "We already hear the suggestion
in favor of the Chinese, that they are needed to supplant the Irish serv-
ants, as the Irish have taken the place of Americans.
Is not the cause of this dislike to be found in the servile nature of
domestic service, which renders it necessary to bring in a constant suc-
cession of servile labor to fill it ? Is it not just in proportion as women
rise above the servile tone of feeling that they become restive in the
position, and will sacrifice comfort and pecuniary advantage to escape
from it ? Almost every feature of domestic service partakes of this
repellent character. On entering it, the woman, like the slave, drops
the surname which marks her as a member of a family of a social con-
nection, for the personal name which sinks her at once into a rank
below that in which social connection is recognized. Reversing the
natural order of things, the woman addresses the children and young
men of the family by terms of respect implying superiority, while they
address her by the familiar name implying inferiority. She abandons
family life, having no daily intercourse with her relatives as do out-door
workers living in their own homes. She loses her personal freedom,
for she is always under the authority of her employer. She can never
leave the house without permission ; there is no hour of the day in
which she is not at the bidding of her mistress ; there is no time in her
life, except the few stated seasons of absence, for which she may not
be called to account. Though her accommodations are probably far
better than she would have at home, their relative inferiority renders
them less acceptable than the poorer quarters in which she shares freely
the best there is to have. Every distinction of dress which is a badge
of domestic service is universally felt to be derogatory. It is creditable
to a man to refuse any domestic position that entails the wearing of a
livery, while the uniform of even the lowest ranks of the public ser-
vice of the policeman or the postman is assumed with satisfaction.
The white cap and apron that become almost a uniform when worn
by the graduates of the training-schools for nurses, as the mark of a
superior class, are assumed with reluctance as an accompaniment of
domestic service.
Precisely in the degree in which house-work has this character it is
shunned. When American women do engage in domestic work out of
their own families, it is not the easiest and best-paid positions which
