396 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ness exposes them. There is no greater source of suffering and vice
among women than the fallacy of taking for granted that they will
not need to support themselves.
4. The wider the range of occupations for women, the more numer-
ous will he the points at which the lives of men and women touch.
One of the objects to be accomplished by advancing civilization is the
bringing of men and women into easy and natural companionship.
Under existing circumstances almost the only meeting-ground for
young men and women is in society. Those who can not take an
active part in this are almost shut off from acquaintance with the
opposite sex. Numbers of girls educated at girls' schools, and after-
ward living at home in narrow circumstances, or going into work con-
ducted by and among women, remain single because they pass the age
for marriage without sufficient opportunity for meeting men of their
own standing, or make unsatisfactory marriages, because they do not
choose from knowledge, but accept the only opportunity that offers.
The same is true of young men not in society. Their life is passed
almost exclusively among men from their school-days upward. Their
acquaintance with women of their own age is extremely limited and
superficial. The more complete the separation of men and women in
work, the more must this division in life be the result. The more
numerous the common interests and occupations in which they meet
in recognized and honorable companionship, the more numerous the
chances for suitable and happy marriage. So far, therefore, from de-
ploring the encroachments of business organization on domestic work
as a danger to the happiness of domestic life, we should see in them
an agency which will lead to its higher development.
But if, as we have shown, it be in the natural course of things for
women to take part in industrial pursuits, what is the meaning of the
warning notes that attend their steps in that direction ? We are told
that women break down under the strain of college education ; that
their health gives way under the requirements of book-keeping, teleg-
raphy, factory-work, every kind of business ; that their work is poor
and unreliable, and will command only starvation wages, etc., and
these discouraging reports come not only from illiberal opponents, but
from sincere friends and well-wishers. The most important of these
objections is based upon the assumption that the physical constitution
of women unfits them for safely bearing the strain of brain-work or
business.
It is true that the health of women is not what it should be ; but
the cause of this lies neither in their peculiar organization nor in their
efforts in new directions. It is to be found in the influences surround-
ing them from infancy, which prevent our girls from acquiring the
physical vigor which should accompany maturity. This defective
health is nowhere shown more conspicuously than in domestic life.
Nowhere do women break down more frequently and completely than
