4 o2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
neither good nor harm, and troubles himself only about the whites, who
owe their skill and wealth to him.
The woods and fields, however, are supposed to be inhabited by
numerous sprites which go out to trouble and vex the blacks, never
doing them any good, but are at their best when they are satisfied to
be harmless. The dead are regarded as in the same position as toward
the living. A third, still more dangerous class of hostile powers, con-
sists of the wicked enchanters among the black's own neighbors, with
whom he is in daily intercourse. The magicians are also capable of
doing harm to the whites, while the genii and spirits of the dead are
not. All sickness, all loss in business, every misfortune, even strokes
of lightning, are referred to one or another of these evil influences.
The religious aspirations and ritual of the Bantu relate chiefly to
provisions against these three negative principles. Among the de-
fenses against evil are oracles, medicine-men, and prayer. The tech-
nic of the oracle, the duties relating to which are generally performed
by some person who has gained a repute for skill in the art, is extremely
childish and ridiculous, and depends upon the crudest and most pal-
pable deception. A favorite method of managing it is to take a piece
of board with a smooth groove cut upon it. The oracle-priest rubs a
stick back and forth in the groove, all the time asking, if, for instance,
the object is to discover who has been guilty of some trespass or
witchery : " Was it the Shamuhongo ? " " Was it Joao ? " and so on.
All at once the stick will stop and refuse to slide any more in the
groove. The person whose name has just been pronounced when this
happens is the guilty individual. None of the by-standers will have
any doubt on the subject ; for, it is fair to remark, the priest has gen-
erally previously taken care to inform himself of the state of public
opinion in the matter. Men's lives are frequently risked by these ex-
periments ; for the person who is accused in them has afterward to
undergo the ordeal of poison. Another method is for the oracle-priest
and the person consulting the oracle to take a position in the open air
and both grasp with their right hands the handle of an axe which has
been placed upright on the ground, the questioner's hand uppermost.
The questioner tries with all his might to hold the axe fast to the
ground, the oracle-man exerts his strength to lift it up. The answer
is given when the axe sticks so fast to the ground that it can not be
moved at all. The fear which prevails and is generally quite strong, of
beinsr accused bv some of the oracles, has a beneficial effect in restrain-
ing malicious mischief and promoting peaceableness.
Of the two chief motives of European prayer the fervor of devo-
tion and the strength of desire the negro is acquainted only with the
latter, or selfish one. He has a kind of instinctive, unconscious idea
that he may attain his wish by giving it constant utterance, and every
other higher blossoming of religious wants is strange to him. Prayer
is made with a sort of litany, in which the praying-master, swinging
