SKETCH OF DR. WILLIAM FARR. 405
plicability and permanent value of which became every year more
evident. Of these reports, as a whole, the registrar-general says in
his report for 1879 : " To his scientific researches and reports I at-
tribute any reputation that may have accrued to the General Register
Office of England and Wales from the time he accepted office in this
department." Besides these letters, many special and supplementary
reports were contributed by Dr. Farr to the publications issued by
the registrar-general. Among them were the " English Life Tables,"
the first, for 1841, based upon the deaths in all of England and Wales
for that year; and the second, for 1844, on the mortality of the seven
preceding years ; while the third, for 1854, on the seventeen preceding
years, was published as a distinct work, prepared by direction of the
Government for use as the basis of the post-office insurance system.
In 1852 he published a report on the cholera epidemic of 1848-'49 ;
and, in connection with the twenty-ninth annual report of his chief, a
report on the cholera epidemic of 18G6. Of special value also were
his decennial reports on the English mortality statistics of the three
decades, 1841-'50, 1851-'60, and 18Gl-'70, the last of which, says the
" Lancet," " especially is a mine of statistical wealth, not only as a
treasury of well-arranged and analyzed facts, but as suggestive of
fruitful fields for future investigation."
Dr. Farr was appointed an assistant commissioner under the direc-
tion of the registrar-general for taking the censuses of 1851, 1861, and
1871 ; did valuable service in statistically organizing and superintend-
ing each of the enumerations, and wrote the greater part of each of
the three reports. He was one of the earliest members of the Statis-
tical Society, and was for forty-two years a member of its council, its
treasurer for twelve years, and its president in 1871 and 1872. His
papers to this society have been pronounced by Mr. Leoni Levi, also
an eminent statistician, "replete with facts, rich with mathematical
lore, and remarkable for close reasoning," but never dry ; and his
work was invariably marked by a distinct and due regard to prac-
tical results. He was an early and valued supporter of the British
Association, the British Medical Association, and the Social Science
Association, in the proceedings of all of which bodies papers by him
may be found, and was largely instrumental in the formation of the
Section of Statistics and Economical Science in the British Asso-
ciation.
Dr. Farr served the state on a large number of royal commissions
and parliamentary committees on sanitary and other subjects, in the
work of which his special attainments, his familiarity with statistics
relating to them, and his mathematical skill, made his assistance de-
sirable, and sometimes indispensable. Among the special subjects
with which he was thus at one time or another engaged, were army
medical statistics, the health of the army in India, the condition of
mines in Great Britain, water-supply, public health, and police super-
