412
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
feature of the day. It was simple, per-
tinent, instructive, and timely, in the
considerations suggested by the com-
pleted undertaking. It is not often the
happy fortune of a man to put the
trimmings on a great occasion with such
fine propriety as did the oratorical
representative of New York in con-
summating its closer alliance with
Brooklyn. We print this speech, and
also a brief article on the statistics of
the bridge, which, however, can not be
authoritative and complete till the issue
of the final official report.
THE TYNDALL SCHOLARSHIPS.
Dk. Lucien J. Blake returns to this
country at the present vacation from
Berlin, where he has been studying
physics in the university laboratory
of Professor Helmholtz, as a Tyndall
Scholar, for the past two years. He
has distinguished himself in original
work, and will be prepared to take an
honorable position as professor in an
American college. With the resigna-
tion of Dr. Blake there will be two
vacant scholarships of the Tyndall Trust
Fund, the revenue of which is devoted
to the aid of American students of
promise who desire to obtain Conti-
nental facilities for training in physical
investigation. It will be remembered
that Professor Tyndall consecrated the
total profits of his American lectures
ten years ago to this noble object. The
proceeds of those lectures, beyond the
payment of necessary expenses, he re-
fused to regard as belonging to him-
self, but left them as a fund in the
hands of trustees to be used for the
benefit of American young men of ca-
pacity and ambition, to prepare them-
selves for a life of original experiment-
al work in physical science. The pro-
vision was wise as it was generous,
for while, on one hand, the students
of pure science are without the Btrong
incitements of pecuniary reward for
their labors, on the other hand, the en-
couragements to scientific study are
too often in the direction of its imme-
diate utilities. Aw r are of the strong
temptation in these times to cultivate
science from the lower motives, Pro-
fessor Tyndall has lent the influence of
his example, his teachings, and his sub-
stantial earnings to stimulate and sus-
tain those youthful devotees of scientific
truth who would pursue the work of
research from the simple and elevated
motive of a desire for the extension of
valuable knowledge. Those wishing to
obtain the benefits of the Tyndall Fund
should apply to its trustees, Professor
Joseph Lovering, of Harvard College,
Cambridge, Massachusetts; President
F. A. P. Barnard, of Columbia College,
New York; and the senior editor of
this periodical.
PROGRESS AND THE HOME.
Dr. Emily Blackwell discusses the
industrial position of woman in a way
that appears to us especially signifi-
cant at the present time. We said
not long ago, "If there is one thing
that pervades and characterizes what is
called the 'woman's movement' it is
the spirit of revolt against the home,
and the determination to escape from
it into the outer spheres of activity that
will bring her into direct and open com-
petition with men." This statement has
been criticised as unjust ; but we cer-
tainly did not mean to intimate that
there may not be many women thor-
oughly enlisted in the " woman's move-
ment," and who, nevertheless, retain a
strong home interest. Our statement
was general, and simply affirmed a wide-
spread tendency, the unmistakable drift
of which, we think, the article on u The
Industrial Position of Woman " deci-
sively illustrates.
It will be seen that Dr. Blackwell
writes as a student of social tendencies.
She appeals to the primitive condition
of society, falls back upon the law of
progress, and forecasts the results of its
