PHYSICS IN GENERAL EDUCATION. 23
3. Course in general physics, involving a previous knowledge of
trigonometry, and including laboratory work.
The other courses, up to ten in number, are elementary in their
character, and do not concern the present investigation.
The report contains statistics gathered from nearly four hundred
universities and colleges, agricultural colleges, and scientific schools.
In nearly all of these the study of physics is pursued to a greater or
less extent, although it appears that in some instances no report upon
physics was forthcoming on account of ignorance as to what was
meant by the word. Out of the whole number there were thirty-three
institutions in which the instruction in physics fell within the limits
established above. Of these there were four of the first rank, two of
the second, and twenty-seven of the third.
In chemistry, however, laboratory instruction is to be found in at
least one hundred and fifty institutions, the opportunities for instruc-
tion in this subject thus outnumbering those offered for similar in-
struction in physics in about the ratio of five to one. But it will be
remembered that in this contest chemistry has many things in its
favor, and that physics is handicapped by the great cost, relatively, of
the first establishment, as well as by the lack of well-defined and sys-
tematic courses of instruction.
Taking it as a whole it will be admitted that there has been a rapid
and, I believe, a permanent growth, and that the work has already be-
come so extensive that it appears to be worth while to subject it to
criticism, and to determine by conference and consultation what im-
provements, if any, might be suggested.
Admitting the necessity of the laboratory as a means of instruc-
tion in physics, two important questions present themselves : First, of
the total amount of time given to the subject, what proportion should
be spent in the laboratory ? and, second, what should be the character
of the work done there ?
I shall not undertake to answer these questions,. but will submit
one or two conclusions which have been thrust upon me by observa-
tion and experience.
Concerning the first, something ought to be said. It will be re-
membered that the new instruction began at a time which was charac-
terized not only by unusual scientific activity, but as well by what
almost amounted to a revolution in educational processes. A great
teacher. had told us that we studied Nature in books, and when we
met her face to face she passed unrecognized. There sprang up
a new method, the essence of which was that the mysteries of
Nature could not be known at second-hand ; that a knowledge of
things could only be obtained by a contact with things themselves.
The use of the text-book fell into disrepute, and the student was
encouraged to become his own authority. It was as if all men were
to cast aside their maps, globes, histories, books of travel, etc., and
