EDITOR'S TABLE.
4*5
processes of gestation and lactation.
But will progress, under such heroic in-
terpretation, leave even this shred of
a domestic sphere? Is not the stirpi-
culturist abroad with his lamentations
over the evils of the unregulated multi-
plication of human beings, and is he not
predicting the time when human perfec-
tion shall be attained through the total
disappearance of present domestic rela-
tions, and their better discharge under
the control of outside organization?
Dr. Blackwell declares that the per-
sonal relations in the family are "a
fixed and constant element"; what is
her warrant for the declaration in the
light of the slow-working progress
she invokes.
Dr. Blackwell's argument rigidly
carried out would sweep the family and
the home out of existence, and merge
it in the outside life of society, where
all regulation falls within the province
of the state. Her reasoning goes to the
most chimerical lengths through a fail-
ure to recognize that there is a perma-
nent sphere of legitimate distinctive
womanly work. Her affirmations that
"there is no one kind of work which
absolutely belongs to domestic life,"
and that "there is no necessary con-
nection between domestic life and do-
mestic work " can not for a moment be
accepted as true. They are no more true
than would be the proposition that there
is no necessary connection between life
and work at all. There are plenty of
people who live and never work, but it
remains true that human life is inex-
orably conditioned upon work. There
are women who never do domestic work,
who abandon the home, and live in ho-
tels; but it is still true that domestic
work is a condition and necessity of
home-life sotrue that, if domestic work
disappears, the home is impossible. If
there is a house, there must be house-
keeping ; if there are children, they must
be.. '3d for; if there are invalids, they
must be nursed; if there is food, it must
be prepared, and all these things involve
work as a simple practical necessity. Be-
cause there has been a great deal of for-
eign and unfeminine work carried on in
the household is no reason for asserting
that there is no such thing as proper
feminine domestic work. The home
has, of course, been burdened by these
industries, and women made drudges to
them, and we all bid Godspeed to their
exodus. But for what reason ? That
woman may be released from exhaust-
ing, unfeminine occupations, togi ve more
strength to the proper performance of
her legitimate duties as wife, mother,
and household administrator. Weaving,
cheese-making, and domestic manufac-
tures stand in no relation to the essen-
tial nature and characteristic duties of
woman. Such occupations have robbed
her of leisure for self-improvement, and
want of suitable culture has hitherto pre-
vented the mass of women from proper-
ly performing the duties which lie in the
very heart of home. Every step of prog-
ress from the primitive state to the pres-
ent has been in the direction of woman's
emancipation from the hardships of
physical labor, and coincident with this
relief there has been an improvement in
her nature, the gentler virtues appear
and the finer qualities of the feminine
mind are developed. But the ideal of
womanhood toward which such con-
siderable progress has been made is not
the fine lady, idle of hand and brain,
the gadding and gossiping woman of
leisure and society, who evades or dis-
charges with wretched incompetence
the cares and responsibilities of domes-
tic life. Womanly talent and cultiva-
tion are demanded in the line of strictly
feminine occupations, that the home
shall become more and more instead of
less and less in the social life of the fu-
ture.
We have no space here even to enu-
merate the varied forms of womanly
activity involved in the home, when all
its extrinsic burdens are removed. That
which progress must bring us is not
exemption from them, but their more
