416
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
intelligent and congenial performance.
The adequate education of woman for
the home sphere we have never had, and
it is now resisted with all the power of
traditional habit and all the influence of
the old educational ideals and the or-
ganized systems of study. Men are edu-
cated by the newer colleges for their
special work in life ; women never !
The prejudice against studying things
domestic, although the problems opened
are many and of the deepest intellectual
interest, abides with a strange inveter-
acy. Dr. Blackwell recognizes no amel-
ioration of the home through intelligent
preparation for it. Though education is
now the standard solvent of all the diffi-
culties in our civilization, she concedes
to it no potency in renovating and de-
veloping home-life. She asserts, indeed,
that women must have technical train-
ing for the sphere of outside competi-
tion, but nothing is said of its need as
a preparation for domestic activities.
As long as the home endures, it is to
continue the stronghold of servility and
degradation. Progress is to do won-
ders, but the home must remain the as-
phyxiating Black-IIole of menial igno-
rance and stupidity as lasting as may
be the vestige of the institution. There
are perhaps not many who will go to
this visionary extreme, but in so far as
the " woman's movement " exemplifies
the feeling it merits unsparing condem-
nation.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Conflict in Nature and Life: A Study
of Antagonism in the Constitution of
Things. For the Elucidation of the
Problem of Good and Evil, and the
Reconciliation of Optimism and Pes-
simism. New York : D. Appleton & Co.
Pp. 488. Price, $2.
This anonymous work is in the most
comprehensive sense an ethical essay upon
human life in connection with the order of
nature. It is a philosophical inquiry into
the constitution of natural things, as it
ln'ars on the fundamental problems of good
and evil, which, as the writer thinks, have
been prematurely resolved in the theological
stages of thought, before science had fur-
nished the conditioning data for dealing
with the morality of nature and the ethical
possibilities of mankind. With legendary
ideals of golden ages and paradisiacal states,
at the opening of man's career, and the
hopes and prophecies of millennial felicity
to be finally attained, and with numerous
intervening revelations, evolutions, and
reforms, as means of regaining the lost
paradise and reaching a condition of ulti-
mate perfection and supreme happiness
as exemplified by all this, the author thinks
that we have been dominated by a chaotic
and groundless philosophy, only to be es-
caped through a better understanding of
the existing order of things, and the way it
must operate until replaced with quite an-
other order. Is the optimist justified in
blessing the world ? is the pessimist justi-
fied in cursing it ? or is it a mixed affair,
that must be systematically comprehended
before it can be morally estimated ?
It appears that, long ago, while the
author was hoping for harmony and happi-
ness on the basis of an optimistic constitu-
tion of nature, he began to perceive that, at
every point gained in the direction of free-
dom and intelligence to secure greater
harmony and perfection in life, some new
element of discord and danger would arise
to vitiate the result such element be-
ing not incidental but necessary, and bound
up with the scheme of things. Thus, in
order to avoid the evils of ignorance, we
must promote education, which increases
the sensibilities for keener enjoyment, but
which at the same time whets them equally
for intenser suffering. Civilized people
enjoy more than savages, but they also
suffer more ; and, while the higher classes
enjoy more exquisitely than the lower, they
have their own characteristic troubles to
deal with. Further, personal sorereignty
has a p;ood side, but also an evil side ; and
there is no such thing as absolute or per-
fect freedom. Freedom is self-limiting, and
hedged about by barriers which are neces-
sarily impassable, except at the expense of
freedom itself. Again, political centraliza-
tion has advantages whieh no great people
can afford to dispense with, but it must be
carefully guarded or it will result in despot-
