LITERARY NOTICES.
4!7
ism. So, also, local self-government has pe-
culiar benefits which no tree and intelligent
people should ever forego ; but local au-
tonomy involves political weakness, which
is not to be neglected. And so in attempt-
ing to get away from the evils of indissolu-
ble marriage by opening a way of escape,
we find ourselves at once in the presence of
new evils, and the proper balance of strin-
gency and liberality is by no means clearly
seen and ready of attainment.
It was this conception of life, as involv-
ing in all its aspects a choice of evils, that
led the author on to the study of the ne-
cessary antagonisms in the constitution of
nature, and which he found to be equally
displayed in the lower orders of life, and to
be rooted in the actions and reactions of
the physical forces themselves. His book
is an attempt to trace out this principle of
conflict in the order of natural things, from
its simplest to its most complicated mani-
festations.
Part I is intended to show the past
prevalence of optimism and the fragment-
ary and fruitless conceptions of antagonism
exemplified in the views of eminent repre-
sentative men by summaries and brief quo-
tations from their writings. Part II deals
with the fundamental conceptions of exist-
ence, and speculations concerning the pri-
mary forces into which the conception of
conflict has entered as an undefined princi-
ple of the philosophy of science. Its illus-
trations are traced through a series of the
principal branches of science, physics, chem-
istry, biology, mind, morals, etc. The last
chapter deals with morality in accordance
with the ethical systems that have grown
out of utilitarian experience, on the hypoth-
esis that the moral instincts become fixed
by association and habit, and in which the
higher faculties or the later organized or
more complex feelings overrule the lower or
earlier developed feelings in determining
ethical action. This chapter insists on the
struggle in life through which morality has
taken form as conduct in the direction of
least social conflict. The author maintains
that the prevalence of moral order has been
determined and is maintained through con-
flict as really and to quite as great a degree
as the struggle for existence has produced
the local forms among plants and animals.
vol. xxiii. 27
The writer observes that Mr. Spencer recog-
nizes antagonism in the origin and develop-
ment of moral systems, but also indulges in
optimistic anticipations which are without
warrant in " the constitution of things." He
interprets Spencer as maintaining that in-
dustrialism is to supersede militancy in such
a manner that antagonism will be done
away with. But the author insists that any
possible industrialism only complicates an-
tagonism and changes its forms. Part III
illustrates the subject from a survey of his-
tory, and Part IV deals with it in connection
with the theory of evolution. The doctrine
is, of course, accepted, and the exposition
of it given in Spencer's " First Principles "
is taken as authoritative ; but the writer
is of opinion that the principle of antago-
nism is not accorded its due weight, and
various exceptions are taken to the Spen-
cerian argument. Part V is chiefly devoted
to the discussion from the point of view of
geology and meteorology, showing that the
necessary conditions of physical life and
enjoyment necessarily involve discord and
pain. Part VI illustrates the subject in
relation to practical life, and aims to show
that, whatever schemes of improvement may
be adopted, there are always drawbacks,
accompanying evils, which stand in the way
of perfection in results. The chapter on
" Relative Prolificacy " deals with this agen-
cy not only as a permanent and perpetual
social element, but in its immediate bear-
ing upon the various grades and classes of
society, and it involves a criticism of the
tendency to overrate the optimistic side of
evolution.
It will appear, from what we have said,
that this work on conflict is offered as a
contribution to the philosophy of life, or as
deepening the foundations for such a phi-
losophy. The claims in this direction are
brought out in a general way in the final
chapter. Its conclusions are broadly prac-
tical. The philosophy of conflict inculcates
moderate expectations. Avoiding the ex-
tremes of optimism and pessimism, of con-
servatism and radicalism, it aims to do work
only where work will be effectual work
that will make things better, and work
which prevents them from becoming worse.
We have here endeavored simply to
state the general object of the book before
