418
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
us, and briefly to outline the course of its
argument ; but our sketch gives no ade-
quate idea of the number and importance
of the specific topics that are treated in the
course of the exposition. Many of the
larger and more urgent questions of the
time are taken up, and, while considered in
relation to the fundamental principle which
it is the object of the work to develop, they
are handled in a way that is full of sug-
gestiveness and valuable instruction.
Our Home Physician : A Popular Guide
to the Art of preserving Health and
treating disease. by george m.
Beard, M. D., assisted by Eminent Medi-
cal Authorities. New York : E. B. Treat.
Pp. 1,506, with Plates. Price, $6.
This work is designed to present, in a
form intelligible to ordinary readers, a re-
view of the whole field of medical science,
so far as it is of practical application and
popular acquaintance with it is desirable.
It includes within its scope anatomy, physi-
ology, hygiene, and the employment of sim-
ple treatment and remedies. It gives in-
formation concerning the structure of the
human body and the functions of its organs ;
on diet, stimulants, narcotics, air, sunlight,
exercise, and bathing ; on the care of the
sick-room, the management of infants and
children ; on the general laws and history of
disease ; and on the treatment of accidents
and emergencies, with descriptions of fa-
miliar remedies, for all persons and every
household ; together with suggestions con-
cerning the special care and treatment of
obscure and grave diseases and the applica-
tion of powerful remedies, for persons who,
like planters, miners, sailors, travelers, and
dwellers in remote districts, are beyond the
reach of skillful medical aid, and must be
either treated by themselves or by their
friends, or left to suffer. The great advance
that has been made in the science of medi-
cine during the last quarter of a century is
duly recognized ; and prominence is given
to the view that the types, phases, and
names of diseases have wonderfully changed
during that period, and that a greater revo-
lution has been wrought in the method of
treatment and the selection of remedies.
Hence, physicians are more successful in the
treatment of disease now than formerally ;
and the fact is enforced that a large num-
ber of maladies formerly regarded as incur-
able have been found susceptible of relief
and cure, and that the accession of a con-
siderable proportion of diseases may be pre-
vented by timely and suitable precautions.
On the subject of medical schools and sys-
tems, the broad principle is assumed that
" the wise physician of our time uses for his
patients all things that have been proved to
be beneficial." The author has been aided
by authorities and physicians of recognized
standing in the preparation of the several
departments of his work. His aim has been,
in his own words, " to prepare a comprehen-
sive, popular treatise, . . . that shall say just
enough to instruct and not so much as to be-
wilder ; that shall fairly represent the va-
rious departments in language both clear
and attractive, as well as accurate and in.
structive ; that shall make broad and plain
the boundaries between those subjects which
the people can and should know and those
which they should not attempt to know ; and
that shall treat all this large variety of
themes in such a manner as not to offend
the taste of the best-ordered household."
The work is illustrated by fifteen chromo-
lithographic plates and numerous woodcuts.
The Correspondence of Thomas Carlyle
and Halm Waldo Emerson, lS34-"72.
Boston: James R. Osgood & Co. Vol.
I, pp. 368 ; Vol. II, pp. 383. Price, $4.
This work, edited by Charles Elliot Nor-
ton, is one of remarkable interest, and is
unique in literature. It covers a period of
thirty-eight years in the intellectual life of
two gifted and remarkable men belonging to
different nationalities, and who were early
drawn together by a sympathy of ideas and a
mutual appreciation of genius before either
had conquered a position in the world of pub-
lic letters. The work has all the interest of
personality, and is a sort of compound auto-
biography or revelation of the inside life of
the distinguished men whose intimate and
prolonged correspondence makes up the vol-
umes. The characters of Carlyle and Em-
erson were, of course, both formed before
they came into this relation of close corre-
spondence ; but the epistolary record covers
the period of their mental development, and
brings it to the maturity of advanced age,
when it ceased, through the decline of liter-
