422
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
"While earth-burial, either with or without
embalmment or partial cremation, seems to
have been the general custom among North
American Indians, other methods of dispos-
ing of bodies are also known : as aerial sepul-
ture, or leaving the body in a box or canoe,
which is supported on a scaffold or tree ; and
aquatic burial, which consists in sinking
the body in a stream, or setting it afloat in
a canoe. Violent expressions of grief are
expected from the friends of the dead, and
especially from widows. Some of these are,
blackening the face, shaving the head, and
cutting the flesh all being accompanied by
mournful cries, and sometimes hired mourn-
ers being employed. In some tribes, the
widow observes a long period of mourning,
involving many discomforts, and in others
she submits to being put to death at the
grave. This volume does not include all
the material collected before its date, nor
does it mark the end of the bureau's labors ;
all investigators of American ethnology are
earnestly requested to co-operate in the
further work of the bureau, and cordial
thanks are offered to those who have al-
ready contributed their observations.
American Humorists. By the Rev. H. R.
Haweis, M. A. New York : Funk &
"W agnails. Pp. 180. Price, 75 cents.
This is a reprint of a course of lectures
which were delivered at the Royal Institu-
tion in London, on six of those whom the
English regard as our most characteristic and
typical humorous writers, viz., Washington
Irving, Dr. Holmes, Mr. Lowell, Arternus
Ward, Mark Twain, and Bret Harte. The
pervading quality of the wit of each of these
authors is analyzed, and is illustrated by lib-
eral citations from the most characteristic
of their writings. The work is not satisfac-
tory to all the critics, but this arises proba-
bly as much from the fact that the flavor of
humor can not be conveyed, as from any
deficiencies of the author.
Jesus, his Opinions and Character : The
New Testament Studies of a Layman.
Boston : George II. Ellis. Pp. 471.
Price, $1.50.
Taking a judicial and critical rather
than a partisan attitude, the author has col-
lected and arranged systematically what Je-
sus seems to have thought about the various
subjects upon which his followers represent
him as teaching. The author's data are
taken from the first three gospels, while the
fourth is regarded as a genuine early com-
mentary, and as such is referred to by way
of illustration. "Every great historical per-
sonage," our anonymous author writes, "to
be understood, must be studied in connec-
tion with his dominant idea." This domi-
nant idea in the case of Jesus he finds to be
the " doctrine of the kingdom of heaven,"
and insists that this doctrine be kept clearly
in view, as the central idea " around which
was grouped all that he said and taught.'.'
Successive chapters take up the political,
ethical, philosophical, and religious ideas of
Jesus, his ideas of a future life, the miracles
attributed to him, his arrest, trial, and death,
his personal pretensions and character, and
the legend of the resurrection, the last
chapter being devoted to the " Influence on
Historic Christianity of Paul and John."
An Introduction to the Study of Or-
ganic Chemistry. By Adolph Pinker,
Th. D. Translated and revised from
the sixth German edition, by Peter T.
Austen, Ph. D., F. C. S., Professor of
Chemistry in Rutgers College and the
New Jersey State Scientific School. New
York : John Wiley & Sons. Pp. 382.
Price, $2.55.
English-speaking students of organic
chemistry have suffered from a dearth of
suitable elementary text-books in their own
language; hence this translation of Pinner's
standard work is to be heartily welcomed.
The book is too well appreciated in the
original to need comment here ; the trans-
lation follows the easy lecture-style of the
original, and contains additional matter de-
scribing the most important recent discov-
eries.
Entomological Papers from the Transac-
tions of the Iowa State Horticultu-
ral Society, for the Year 1882. Des
Moines, Iowa: F. M. Mills, State Printer.
Pp. 42.
The papers include one on the injury
done by insects in orchards, by the Hon. J.
N. Dixon ; notes on the " Injurious Insects
of 1882," by Miss Alice B. Walton; and
"Entomological Notes," for the year, by
Professor Herbert Osborn, all of which
have a practical bearing.
