POPULAR MISCELLANY.
425
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Higher Professional Aims. " The High-
er Professional Life" was the subject of
Dr. J. M. Da Costa's recent valedictory ad-
dress to the graduating class of Jefferson
Medical College, Philadelphia. The higher
aim of the physician should be to add to
knowledge and increase the resources of
his profession. It may be sought in vari-
ous ways: by making original inquiries in
the way that Darwin and Pasteur have so
brightly illuminated ; by cultivating liter-
ary tastes, and thereby becoming quicker
in perception and more skillful in dissem-
inating truths once learned ; by mixing in
the great movements that are to benefit
mankind, and becoming influential in them ;
and by becoming active for the advance-
ment of sanitative and preventive medicine.
" There are thus many ways in which the
aspirations of a higher professional life may
be realized in useful or in great work. Some
of these can be followed only when success
has brought comparative leisure ; but all
can be kept in mind ; one or all can be
aimed at throughout our careers, and ac-
cording to our individual strength."
The Glacial Moraine in Pennsylvania.
TVe have already mentioned the fact that
Professor H. Carvill Lewis has traced the
great glacial terminal moraine along its
whole course through Pennsylvania. An
account of his investigations is given in a
paper recently read by him before the
Franklin Institute of Philadelphia. The
moraine enters the State in Northampton
County, at latitude 40 49', and may be fol-
lowed in a northwesterly direction till it
enters New York from Potter County, at a
height of 2,580 feet. It afterward turns
at right angles to its former course, and,
trending to the southwest, re-enters Penn-
sylvania at Pine Grove township, Warren
County, whence it may be traced till it
crosses the State line into Ohio at Darling-
ton township, Beaver County, latitude 40
50'. It thus leaves Pennsylvania at almost
precisely the latitude at which it entered
it ; and, if a straight line were drawn across
the State between these two points, the
line of the moraine would form with it a
right-angled triangle, whose apex would be
a hundred miles distant from its base. The
moraine crosses the Delaware at an ele-
vation of 250 feet, the Allegheny River at
an elevation of 1,425 feet, and the Beaver
at an elevation of 800 feet above the sea,
or 225 feet above Lake Erie. Upon the
highlands it rises a thousand feet or more
higher. The distinction between the glaci-
ated portion of the State and the region
south of glacial action is very marked, and
the moraine itself is so sharply defined that
at one point, Buck Mountain in Luzerne
County, Professor Lewis was able to stand
with one foot upon the glaciated and the
other upon the non-glaciated region. The
moraine is very finely developed west of
Bangor, in Northumberland County, where
it forms a series of " hummocky " hills
one or two hundred feet high. Its course
in Monroe County, as it winds from the top
of the Kittatinny Mountain down to Cherry
Valley, and then up again on to the Pocono,
is a complete vindication of the glacial
hypothesis. It is in no sense a water-level,
nor could it have been formed by floating
ice or by any other cause than that of a
great glacier. It is wonderfully shown upon
the summit of Pocono Mountain, over 2,000
feet above the sea, where a great ridge of
moraine hills, twelve miles long, one mile
wide, and 100 feet or more high, composed
of unstratified till, and bearing numerous
bowlders of Adirondack gneisses and gran-
ites, rises out of the plateau. The " kames "
of Cherry Valley, with their accompany-
ing "kettle-holes," and the terraces near
Stroudsburg are also interesting features.
Immense as was the power of the slowly
moving glacier, says Professor Lewis, "it
had but slight effect upon the topography
of the country. It is a mistake to suppose
that glaciers can level down mountains or
scoop out canons. The glacier had merely
' sand-papered ' the surface of the rocks."
Joseph Dnncan Putnam. Joseph Dun-
can Putnam, late President of the Daven-
port (Iowa) Academy of Natural Sciences)
who died December 10, 1881, had accom-
plished a remarkable amount of scientific
work during his short life of twenty-seven
years. lie was born in Jacksonville, Illi-
nois, in 1855 ; began making a collection
of insects when eleven years old, and at-
