426
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tempted their scientific classification in his
fourteenth year. At the same time he was
interested in other branches of science and
collections. In 187- he spent three months
in the mountains of Colorado with Dr. C.
C. Parry ; in 1873, five months as meteor-
ologist to Captain Jones's Yellowstone ex-
pedition. The next year he spent chiefly
in Colorado, completing a series of expedi-
tions in which he collected altogether 25,000
specimens of insects, many of them very
rare. From 1869 he was one of the most
active and useful members of the Daven-
port Academy, and was in succession its
recording secretary, corresponding secre-
tary, and president ; and he sustained a
large share of the burden of the editorial
supervision and publication of its "Pro-
ceedings." Mr. Putnam's scientific publica-
tions were not voluminous. With one or
two exceptions his most important inves-
tigations were never fully elaborated, and
were embodied only in notes, letters, and
incomplete manuscripts. A list of twenty-
one is given, of which the most valuable
are papers on bark-lice, and on his investi-
gations of the Salpugidce, a group interme-
diate between the scorpions and the spiders.
A paper by him on " Insects and Flowers
of Colorado" was published in the tenth
volume of " The Topular Science Monthly."
Getting Water in the Desert. The sup-
ply of water always formed a principal ques-
tion, and often a preponderant one, during
the marches of the French troops in Algeria
and Tunis. Rivers having a permanent sup-
ply of water are very rare in those countries,
but wadies beds of torrents, generally dry,
but full after a shower are numerous. The
most ordinary supplies of water were sedirs,
or puddles of rain-water held in natural
basins of clay or stone, near which the
camps were pitched whenever they were ac-
cessible. They are to be found in the beds
of wadies, and sometimes in slight depres-
sions of the plain, where they are frequently
of considerable extent. When full they
contain, notwithstanding they are so shal-
low, prodigious quantities of water, which
is, however, exposed to an enormous evap-
oration, so that it does not last long. These
natural reservoirs have been covered with
sand in many places, where a permeable bed
several feet high has been formed, with a
dry surface corresponding with the general
level of the surrounding land. It is only
necessary to dig a hole, and wait a little
while, for the water to rise to a certain
level, forming a kind of extemporaneous
well, which the Arabs call an oglat. These
wells contain but little water, and are soon
dried up when drawn from, but will become
filled again in the course of a few hours.
These resources, precarious at the best, are
often wanting ; but the country is full of
ruins, attesting the former existence of a
large population, and among them are many
useful structures, including well-made cis-
terns still almost entire, and very deep.
Water is got from them by going down
steps to the surface, or by means of a de-
vice called the guerber, which is in general
use. This is a leathern bottle, adjusted at
the curb of the well by means of pulleys
and ropes, which are worked in such a man-
ner by a man and an ox that the vessel goes
up and down, fills itself with water and
empties itself, without any one having to
handle it directly.
Symptomatic Anthrax and Disinfectants.
The Lyons " Medicale " publishes the re-
sults of some valuable experiments which
have been made by MM. Arloing, Cornevin,
and Thomas, on the influence of various
disinfecting agents on the virus of symp-
tomatic anthrax. If the contents of a tumor
in this disease be allowed to dry slowlv at
a temperature of 35 Cent, (or 95 Fahr.), a
residue is obtained in which the organisms of
anthrax retain their full activity. Water,
through which a little of the residue is dif-
fused, has a virulence not infciior to that
possessed by the fresh virus, and which con-
tinues for at least two years. It was found,
in carrying on the experiments, that the re-
sisting power of the dried virus is much
greater than that of the fresh. Whatever
destroys the dried is capable of destroying
also the fresh virus, while the converse is not
true. The following substances were found
to have no effect even upon the fresh virus :
alcohol saturated with camphor or carbolic
acid, glycerine, ammonia, acetate and sul-
phate of ammonia and sulphate of ammo-
nium, benzine, a saturated solution of chlo-
ride of sodium, quicklime and lime-water,
