P OP ULAR MIS CELL AX Y
429
in the ruins and near the idol, some of which
were comparatively fresh, are supposed to
have been made and brought by them ; and
the suggestion is offered that it is the fact of
these Indians still holding in reverence the
temples built by their ancestors and offer-
ing incense in them that has led to the cur-
rent Central American belief in the exist-
ence of one of the ancient cities still exist-
ing hidden somewhere in the forest. The
mythic city has been gradually driven far-
ther back, and this river, the Usumacinta,
now marks about the last place where it
could be looked for.
Lightiiing-Rods.-
senting
A committee, repre-
several societies interested in the
subject, which was appointed some time ago
to inquire into the best method of con-
structing and adjusting lightning-rods, has
recently made a most valuable report, based
upon all the information it was possible to
procure. Inasmuch as sharp points, even if
made of platinum, are liable to be melted
and blunted, the report recommends that
the rod should preserve its full diameter
nearly to the extremity, and be merely bev-
eled off. To preserve the sharp points for
drawing off the silent discharges of elec-
tricity, the attachment of a copper ring,
bearing three or four needles of suitable
size, at a distance of about a foot below
the extreme top of the rod, is suggested.
Vanes, finials, and other ornamental iron-
work on the upper part of a building, must
be metallically connected with the conduct-
or. A coronal, consisting of a copper band,
with stout copper points, each a foot long,
at intervals of two or three feet on its cir-
cumference, is recommended for the chim-
neys of factories. Copper is preferred to
iron as the material for rods, chiefly because
it is less liable to be injured and rendered
inefficient by rust. The diameter should be
three eighths of an inch for copper rods, half
an inch for copper rope, and nine tenths of
an inch for iron rods. The rods should not
be insulated from the building, but should
be attached to it by fastenings of the same
metal as the rod itself. A good earth-con-
nection is specially important. In towns,
connection with the iron water and gas
mains is recommended, but not with lead
pipes, because they are too liable to be
melted. As a general rule, the lower end
of the conductor should be soldered to a
plate of the same metal as itself, having an
area of not less than a square yard, while
the hole in which this plate is sunk must be
so deep that the earth surrounding the plate
shall be moist even in the driest weather.
Drains and water-courses may be utilized
for keeping the plate in connection with a
large extent of moist earth. It is recom-
mended that the height of the rod be such
that a cone having its vertex at the upper
terminal, and its sides sloping at forty-five
degrees, shall inclose the whole building, or
as much of it as this particular rod is re-
quired to protect.
Too Long School-Sessions. A govern-
mental commission in Alsace-Lorraine for
the investigation of the sanitary conditions
of school-life has made a report in which,
besides noticing the unfavorable conditions
that usually receive attention in such docu-
ments, stress is laid upon the fact that the
principles of mental education have not par-
taken during late years of the progressive
improvement which has characterized most
branches of knowledge. Thus, the greater
variety in the instruction which is imparted
by modern education fails in many cases to
accomplish its purpose, and is of advantage
only to pupils of more than average capa-
city. Much evil is believed to arise from
school - children remaining too lonff in a
cramped or otherwise restrained position,
and from the excessive and premature strain
to which the youthful brain is often sub-
jected, while the dangers of moral and physi-
cal infection are always present. Improve-
ments in the ventilation and sanitary ar-
rangements of schools, however important
in themselves, are, it is urged, of compara-
tively little use, when the pupil is kept for
too long a time every day in a combined
state of bodily inactivity and mental tension.
Schools and Infectious Diseases. The
question is sometimes presented whether it
is expedient to close a school, among some
of the pupils of which infectious diseases
have appeared. The fact that the condi-
tions and customs of school associations give
facilities for the dissemination of contagion
which are quite unknown in any other phase
