NOTES.
43i
seaward at high water, and will swing back
landward at the ebb. At sixty miles away
from the Atlantic coast the deflection due
to tidal action of this kind is probably quite
as great as the greatest deflection due di-
rectly to the moon. These flexures are not
confined to the surface, but must extend in
almost equal degree beyond the depth of
the deepest mine. Until the atmospheric
pressure and the state of the tides at each
moment can be accurately known for a great
distance around any given spot, the experi-
mental determination of the lunar disturb-
ance of gravity is out of our reach ; our in-
strument, even in the most favorable site,
must needs record incessant variations of
which no satisfactory account can be given.
A gravitational observatory must, therefore,
for the present content itself with register-
ing the more or less irregular tremors of the
earth that are allied with earthquake-move-
ments.
English and Metric Measures. The fol-
lowing comparative summary of English
and French (or metric) standards of meas-
ures and weights will be useful : The Eng-
lish inch is equivalent to 2'5-i centimetres ;
the foot to 30 - 48 centimetres ; the yard, to
94*44 centimetres; the mile to 1609 - 33 me-
tres ; the nautical mile, to 1852"30 metres.
The square inch is equivalent to 6 - 45
square centimetres ; the square foot, to
929'01 square centimetres ; the square yard,
to 8364 , 13 square centimetres.
The cubic inch is equivalent to 16 , 3S7
cubic centimetres ; the cubic foot, to 28"516
cubic decimetres ; the cubic yard, to 764 - 535
cubic decimetres ; the pint, to 0'567 cubic
decimetre; the gallon, to 45*410 cubic deci-
metres.
The English grain is equivalent to 64*799
milligrammes ; the ounce avoirdupois, to
2S-349 grammes; the pound, to 453'590
grammes ; the ton, to 1016-050 kilogrammes.
The foot-pound is equivalent to 0'13825
kilogrammetre ; the French horse-power, to
75 kilogrammetres a second ; and the Eng-
lish horse-power (550 foot-pounds a second,
or 33,000 foot-pounds a minute), to 76 kilo-
grammetres a second.
The metrical unit of pressure is the kilo-
gramme per square centimetre. We may
also count by centimetres of mercury or by
atmospheres. A pressure of one atmosphere
corresponds to a column of mercury 76 cen-
timetres high, or to 1'033 kilogramme per
square centimetre. The English pound per
square inch corresponds with 70"3 grammes
per square centimetre.
False Fangs in Harmless Snakes. The
blowing-viper or puffing-adder of the United
States, although it is timid and unaggressive,
and can rarely be provoked to bite, and
then does no particular harm, has been
reputed a dangerous and venomous reptile
because it has long, fang-like posterior
teeth. It belongs to the genus Heterodon,
which is so called on account of this un-
usual and irregular dentition. It is of the
same group as the Xenodons, or strange-
tooths, of tropical America, which are also
supposed there to be poisonous, possibly
for no better reason than our North Ameri-
can genera are. Dr. Stradling allowed one
to bite him, and suffered no ill effects from
the wound. Mrs. Catharine C. Hopley states,
in " Land and Water," that she has lately
examined one of these strange - toothed
snakes for the purpose of seeing the fangs,
when she observed that they are mobile,
or what are called in the viperine snakes
hinged teeth that is, they are so set that
the snake can erect or depress them at
pleasure by a volitional movement of the
jaw. It is known, she says, that no poison-
gland exists in this snake, " and it was only
on venturing to feel the teeth, in order to
judge of their relative sizes, that the reptile
let me know it had a larger pair safely
tucked away in case I took too many liber-
ties."
NOTES.
A step toward fixing a system of uni-
form standards of time was made by the
convention of railroad managers which was
held at St. Louis, April 11th. Hour-lines
were agreed upon at fifteen degrees of longi-
tude apart, to which the clocks in the dis-
tricts respectively appertaining to them shall
be made to conform. Four standards were
made: Eastern time, to agree with that of
the 75th meridian ; central time, one hour
slower, to be regulated by the 90th me-
ridian ; and two other standards, two and
three hours slower than Eastern time, to be
fixed by the 105th and 120th meridians.
All changes in time will be made at the ter-
mini of roads or at the ends of divisions.
