438 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
question of the utmost importance. To a certain extent it operates as
a thermometer to show the rise and fall of national prosperity. The
process of its operations may seem slow, but certain results are sure
to follow.
In respect to this agency, a most surprising change has gradually
been taking place in New England. Near the close of the last cen-
tury, Malthus, after making a survey of all the nations on the earth,
selected the United States (virtually New England, which was the
most populous part) upon which to base his theory of population.
Seeing that the inhabitants of these States doubled in twenty-five
years by natural increase, he considered that it afforded most favorable
indications of prosperity. At that time the birth-rate was high, fami-
lies were large, and few were found without children.
From the first settlement at Plymouth in 1620, this prosperous
state of increase continued without much chansre for two hundred
years, but early in the present century some decline in the birth-rate
commenced. It is impossible to trace the exact changes which have
taken place for the last two or three generations.
In some parts of New England the precincts and towns were accus-
tomed to keep very correct records of all births, but they were not
genei'ally printed, so no comparison of them can be made. But for
thirty years or more several of the New England States have pub-
lished registration reports of births in their cities and towns, so that
very correct comparisons can be instituted. Without going into a de-
tailed sketch by statistics, figures, etc., of the changes in birth-rate,
we present some general statements on this subject. Forty or fifty
years ago large families, numbering six, eight, ten, and twelve, were
quite common ; now they are rare in fact, a large number of such
families can not at the present time be found in any one neighborhood
or even in a single country town. Formerly, in the rural districts of
New England, there were few families having only one, two, or three
children, and in case there were none it was so rare as to attract par-
ticular attention, and was considered by many a great calamity. But
what a contrast is found in the present state of society ! In the great
majority of our American families only one, two, or three children
are now found, and in very many families not one. And such a state
of society is approved by the fashions and prevailing sentiment of the
day!
As registration reports generally return the births of the foreign
population in the same tables with the American, and as the term
native is applied to all infants whose parents were born in this coun-
try, though of foreign descent, it will be at once seen how difficult it
is to obtain the exact birth-rate separate of each class. Two facts are
pretty well established : 1. That the birth-rate of the foreign class is
more than twice as large as the strictly American ; and, 2. That, in the
country districts of New England settled mainly by the Americans,
