CHANGES IN NEW ENGLAND POPULATION. 443
with the high pressure in education and the neglect of house-work.
The nerves and the brain have been cultivated at the expense of the
muscles and physical stamina.
In this artificial state of society wants multiply and fashion has a
powerful influence. A high and extravagant standard of living is set
up, and young people are unwilling to commence life as their fathers or
grandfathers did before them. For twenty or thirty years there has
been a steady decline in the marriage-rate. There are powerful influ-
ences, starting partly from internal sources and partly from external
agencies, which threaten the permanency and best interests of the
family. If the laws of the human system can be so changed or vio-
lated as to defeat its primary objects, this institution must suffer and
decay. There is a normal and healthy organization of the body as
well as of the brain, which favors married life and the family relations.
On the other hand, there is such a thing as an abnormal develop-
ment of the body and a morbid condition of the nervous system, which
is decidedly unfavorable to the domestic relations ; especially is this
the case with females.
The law of maternity is already violated to such an extent that it
is questionable whether half our New England women can properly
nurse their offspring. There is a general law in nature that " supply
and demand'''' go together and are co-equal, and if one fails the other
is endangered. There are also decided evidences that the maternal
instinct, " love of offspring," one of the strongest and holiest instincts
of our nature, is fading away.
It should be borne in mind that when the harmony or balance of
organization in the body is materially changed that is, certain parts
obtain an extreme development, while the functions of others become
very much weakened a similar change and derangement of action
apply to the brain. The fact is well established that certain portions
of the brain perform distinct and separate functions. Let that portion
of the brain whose functions pertain to the family relation, and to do-
mestic life, fail in proper development and healthy action, and supreme
attention be given to the culture of the intellect and moral sentiment,
and, in process of time, its effects on character will become very mani-
fest. If this change in mental development applied only to an individ-
ual here and there, its effects on society would not be so marked or
injurious ; but, when the great majority of persons are affected by it,
the results become far more extensive and serious in their character.
Again : the family constitutes the foundation or groundwork of
all society, and, when properly established, is the most powerful agency
in the world for human improvement. This institution must have its
bases and supplies in the social and domestic affections, guided by the
intellect and controlled by the moral sentiments. Without such a
foundation it can not be made permanent, happy, and prosperous.
The intellectual faculties will never alone cement and perpetuate this
