444 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
institution. Some singular developments on this subject have recently
been brought to public notice that is, in matters connected with the
subject of divorce.
Among no other civilized people is there such a breaking up of the
family. Why should it occur here, among a people so highly educated
and moral ? Some attribute it to changes in legislation, but the pri-
mary causes of the evil existed before, and will continue, in spite of any
changes in legislation. Its outward developments may by this means
be checked, but the evil is not cured. The primary causes of these
anomalous developments have, we believe, a broad and deep foun-
dation in physical organization. We do not see how all the facts con-
nected with this alarming evil can be accounted for in any other way.
There is one consideration connected with this whole subject, of
vast importance, which can here only be mentioned that is, heredity.
The changes in organization are directly and most intimately connect-
ed with hereditary influences. The effects of such changes through the
laws of inheritance are so great and far-reaching that they can not be
described or measured. Judging from a physiological stand-point, the
introduction of this foreign element into New England, instead of
proving a blessing, may result in one of the greatest misfortunes that
ever befell any race or people.
THE ANAECHY OF MODEEN POLITICS.
By W. D. LE BUEUE, B. A.
IN the Editor's Table of the April number of this magazine, there
appeared what seemed to me some most excellent remarks on " The
Hindrances to the Science of Politics." One of the chief of these the
writer declared to be the wide-spread skepticism as to the possibility
of such a science. " In no country," he added, " was this skepticism so
pronounced as in the United States." Members of Congress and of
the State Legislatures would all alike agree that the idea of con-
stituting such a science was wholly chimerical. It was also stated, and
pretty conclusively shown, that popular forms of government " favor
and foster states of mind that exclude all considerations of a scientific
nature," by calling into ascendency in a special degree " the incalcula-
ble element of personal caprice. ... In a country where everybody
is eligible to office, where the incentives to office-seeking are universal,
where politics has become such a natural pastime that the whole
scheme of public education is subordinated to it, personal aspirations
and the interests of selfish ambition will dominate unrestricted in the
management of public affairs." Offices being filled by partisans,
whose lives have been largely spent in intrigue and the practice
