THE ANARCHY OF MODERN POLITICS. 445
of various vicious arts, " the first presumption in regard to an office-
bolder is, that he is unfit for the place. . . . These of course are not
the men to appreciate the scientific elements and aspects of govern-
mental affairs."
As I read all this, I could not help thinking how closely the writer's
diagnosis of the conditions of modern political life resembled that
given by Auguste Comte in the first chapter of the fourth volume of
his " Philosophic Positive." But as Comte analyzes these conditions
in greater detail, and treats the whole subject from the point of view
of his own systematic philosophy, it occurred to me that something
like a paraphrase of his views might not be unwelcome to the readers
of the " Monthly," to whom the subject in its general bearings has
been so well opened up in the article from which the above quotations
are made.
The main motif of the "Positive Philosophy" is the importance,
or rather the absolute necessity, if a stable and satisfactory condition
of society is ever to be attained, of applying to social and political
affairs those scientific principles and methods which have proved their
efficacy in the physical domain. The circle of the sciences, he holds,
can never be complete until there is a duly constituted science of
society. So long as there exists a region, the phenomena of which
are not recognized as subject to law, human thought can not assume
a really integral character ; while, in that outlying region, a more or
less hurtful confusion must prevail. Theology has in the past assumed
to rule human life, and has done so, according to a synthesis of its
own. The feudal and ecclesiastical organization of society in the
middle ages was the perfect exemplification of this rule. Now, how-
ever, the power of theology has been broken ; it has its spokesmen
still, who in its name issue mandates to the modern world ; but the
civilized nations have no mind to return to what would now be a
house of bondage though in its day it may have been, and in
Comte's opinion was, a house of shelter. But, meantime, what are the
civilized nations doing ? "What guidance, if any, are they now follow-
ing ? Comte recognizes, looking chiefly at the European nations, three
doctrines, or schools, as striving for the mastery in our day the re-
actionary, the revolutionary, and the stationary. The first, as its name
imports, would fain bring modern society back under the theological
regime, placing morality and government on a supernatural basis, and
using the lures and terrors of another world as a means (supplemented,
of course, by the hangman, in whom reactionists always have a fervent
and affectionate belief) of repressing disorders in this. On this con-
tinent we have, perhaps, no school which openly avows these aims ;
and yet there are movements visible from time to time which show
that Comte could at least find the rudiments of a reactionary party
even in this land of liberty and light. Governor Benjamin F. But-
ler's recent Fast-day proclamation was a singularly impudent at-
