THE ANARCHY OF MODERN POLITICS. 447
not be reproduced in the numerous countries to which English insti-
tutions are sought to he applied. This " essentially loyal regime"
he further says, is approaching its end even in the country to which
it is native ; and English authorities, as I may have occasion to show
before I close, are not wanting who share the same opinion. The
polity to which the future belongs is one that will not set order against
progress and progress against order, but that will make equal pro-
vision for both, and make each contribute to the other ; so that order
shall facilitate progress, and progress strengthen order. This is the
positivist ideal.
On this continent political parties can not be said to be consti-
tuted on the lines here marked out. Owing to the absence of political
privilege and the comparative uniformity of social conditions, we do
not as yet see any party, of sufficient importance to be taken into ac-
count, to which the term revolutionary could be applied. For the
same reasons we have no distinctly reactionary party. At the same
time, taking a wider view of things, and looking rather at the consti-
tution of opinion than at the structure of parties, we shall probably
see that the two opposite schools mentioned by Comte are sufficiently
well developed, and that the third or " stationary " school comprises
a very large section of the entire population. The forces are at work,
though, as the politicians say, they may not yet be "in politics."
All three concur in creating and continually intensifying the con-
fusion, skepticism, and apathy which are such marked characteristics
of the political thought and action of our time. What now remains
is to study the results of these general conditions in a little more
detail.
By reason of their greater complexity,* and also on account of
their closer contact with the whole range of human passions, social
questions ought to be reserved more scrupulously than any others
for intelligences, necessarily few in number, that by a severe pre-
liminary training have been gradually pi-epared to work them out
to satisfactory results. That this is the normal state of things we
have abundant historical evidence to prove ; and when, in an epoch of
revolution, the situation is changed, we can only regard the case as
pathological ; though, possibly, as already explained, provisionally in-
evitable and indispensable. What, then, must have been the ravages
of this social malady in a time when all individuals, however inferior
their intelligence, however destitute of all suitable preparation, were
summoned indiscriminately and by the most energetic modes of appeal
to decide day by day, with the most deplorable levity, and without
guidance or check of any kind, the most fundamental questions of
politics ! Instead of being surprised at the alarming divergence of
* From this point onward I shall, for the most part, be giving what at the outset I
proposed to give, namely, a paraphrase rather than a translation of what Comte has
written on this subject. (See "Philosophie Positive," first edition, vol. iv, p. 118 et seq.)
