THE ANARCHY OF MODERN POLITICS. 449
their defects being generally very obvious, while the facts that justify
them, though in reality far more decisive, lie sometimes far below the
surface, and are only brought to light by a careful and delicate analy-
sis. But to abandon the rules of social action to the blind and arbi-
trary decision of an incompetent public, is really to destroy their
authority. Before, therefore, there can be that convergence of opinion
in relation to such matters which is indispensable to social well-being,
there must be a voluntary and intentional abdication by the major-
ity of their sovereign right of judgment an abdication which they
would probably be very willing to make if they could only find suita-
ble organs for the exercise of the function. In the wretched routine
of our political struggles, it is common to find the most judicious and
honorable men accusing one another of folly or of wickedness, on the
strength of the vain antagonism of their political principles ; while, in
every important crisis, the most opposite political principles are habitu-
ally defended by partisans of apparently equal respectability. How,
then, is it possible that the influence of this double spectacle, essentially
incompatible as it is with any deep and permanent conviction, should
not destroy all true political morality in the minds of those alike who
take part in it or who view it with admiration ?
Private morality depends, fortunately, on many other general con-
ditions besides fixity of opinion. Here, in ordinary cases, a true natu-
ral sentiment speaks much more powerfully than it does in regard to
public relations. The disorganizing forces have, moreover, been coun-
terbalanced to a great extent ; partly by a progressive softening of
manners, the result of more general intellectual culture, bringing in its
train a greater familiarity with and a juster appreciation of the fine
arts, and partly by the unceasing development of industry. It must
be added that the rules of domestic or personal morality, as they de-
pend on simpler conditions, and admit of easier demonstration, are
naturally less endangered by the incursions of individual analysis.
And yet the time has undoubtedly come when, in the private as well
as in the public sphere, we are called upon to witness the lamentable
results of the general unsettlement of opinion. Whether we consider
the relations of the sexes, or of different ages and conditions, we shall
find that the necessary elements of all satisfactory social life are di-
rectly compromised, and are daily becoming more so, by the action of
a corrosive discussion, dominated by no real principles, which delivers
up to hopeless uncertainty every idea of duty. The family, which the
fiercest blasts of the revolutionary /tempest in the last century had left
untouched, is, in our day, radically assailed in its two essential foun-
dations, marriage and inheritance. We have seen even the most gen-
eral and obvious principle of individual morality, the subordination
of the passions to the reason, flatly contradicted by certain would-
be reformers, who, without stopping to consider the teachings of uni-
versal experience, rationally sanctioned as they are by the scientific
vol. xxm. 29
