45Q THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
study of human nature, have tried to establish, as the fundamental
doctrine of their improved morality, the systematic domination of the
passions !
As a necessaiy and direct result of such disorder in the intellectual
region, we see corruption erected into a recognized and indispensable
means of carrying on government. So powerless have general ideas
become, into such discredit have they fallen, that they no longer avail
to prompt any course of action ; and governments find themselves,
therefore, without any other resource for securing such union of indi-
viduals as is necessary to the maintenance of a rude material order,
than an almost open appeal to purely personal interests. But, were
men animated by profound convictions, such a means of influence
would never have to be resorted to. Even in characters of the least
elevation, human nature seldom debases itself so far as to follow out a
line of conduct in direct opposition to any set of convictions. "VVe see
this proved in the case of men of science : in politics, where the reign
of law is not yet established, they frequently exhibit the most shame-
ful tergiversation ; while they stand firm against all temptation to
abandon their anti-theological opinions for which they believe they
have a scientific warrant. We thus see that the prevalent intellectual
confusion not only allows the development of political corruption, but
absolutely renders it necessary as a means of government, which of
course can not be carried on unless a certain number of individuals
can be brought to act in harmony. This fact, however, does not ex-
cuse the governments of our time for showing such a preference as
they do for this particular means of influence ; nor for using it, as
they do, almost exclusively in their own personal interests. Bad as
the instrument is, it might be used to better ends than is commonly
the case, if the " practical politicians," instead of casting scorn on all
attempts to establish a science of politics, were to lend such aid as
they could to its elaboration. They could lend some aid by a mere
change of attitude.
The political corruption of our day is not confined, however, to the
direct offer by governments of material inducements for political sup-
port. We see a form of it in the awarding of distinctions and titles ;
and, taking a wider view, we see that all our institutions work together
to call into activity the selfish ambition of all the more energetic mem-
bers of the community. In this most important respect, the existing
condition of society itself may be said to be eminently corrupting.
At the same time that the prevalent intellectual anarchy has dissolved
any public prejudices that stood in the Avay of unlimited individual
self-assertion, the inevitable decomposition of the ancient social classi-
fication has likewise thrown down the barriers to private ambition,
which is now, in the name of progress, invited to take the very high-
est flights. Carried along by an irresistible current, governments have
had to try and meet the new demands of the time by an extravagant
