RANK AND TITLE. 453
who now profess to take things as they come, and make light of all at-
tempts to construct a philosophy applicable to human affairs, might be
compelled to humble themselves to believe that Science may have a
word to say in regard to the highest order of phenomena just as she
has had in regard to all orders up to the highest. If the pride of indi-
vidualism should ever have such a fall as this, there is no doubt, in the
mind of the present writer, that Science will respond nobly to the new
call upon her, and will show how order and progress can be reconciled,
and a moving equilibrium be established which shall be the proper
manifestation and expression of a normal and healthy social life.
--
RANK AND TITLE.
By F. D. Y. CAEPENTEE.
THERE is a lamentable want of method in the titular nomencla-
ture of our public service. A first-class clerk on the civil list is a
novice, receiving twelve hundred dollars a year ; he becomes a fourth-
class clerk, at eighteen hundred a year, only after three promotions.
A lieutenant in the army is far beneath the major, but a lieutenant-
general is above the major-general. Nor do the grades of lieutenant and
captain in the army by any means correspond in importance with simi-
lar titles in the navy. Who can tell which is the higher officer of the
navy, the chief-engineer or the engineer-in-chief ? Or to whom shall
we give precedence, the " chief clerk " of the Senate or the " principal
clerk " of that body ? The titles of the " door-keepers " of Congress
convey but a faint idea of the importance and multiplicity of their
duties.
During the last session of Congress an unsuccessful attempt was
made to do away with the inferior titles of assistant surgeon and passed-
assistant surgeon in the navy, and, in plain English, to call a surgeon a
surgeon, as we call a spade a spade. The medical service of the army
descends not only to the assistant surgeon, but also to the lower estate
of acting assistant surgeon. But the latter official is a surgeon in every
sense of the word. He has won the title by years of study and prac-
tice. His diploma gives him the right to it, and his professional ex-
perience has confirmed him in the possession of it. As such he is quali-
fied to saw a leg off, or treat a fever ; and when the Government de-
grades him with the title of acting assistant surgeon, which might be
more properly applied to the boy who temporarily whets the knives
and mixes the powders, it robs him of his reputation.
" But he that filches from me my good name,
Robs me of that which not enriches him,
And makes me poor indeed."
