RANK AND TITLE. 455
engineer by virtue of diploma and experience, he should be allowed
the simple justice of remaining such. But, if one of these anomalous
beings should presume to sign himself " XJ. S. Civil Engineer," which
is his natural and most graphic description, he is guilty of a technical
falsehood, as the War Department, by recognizing such a grade as
that, and then leaving it practically empty, there being but two United
States civil engineers on the rolls, has debarred from its use the many
other civil engineers who are equally entitled to that distinction.
There are engineers and engineers civil, mechanical, sanitary, geo-
graphical, hydraulic, steam, locomotive, fire-department, and dozens
more. For a man to say that he is an engineer conveys but a vague
idea of his business. To say that he is an assistant engineer adds hu-
miliation to vagueness. To continue, that he is an assistant United
States engineer, working under the Engineer Corps of the army, would
probably place him, in the popular comprehension, as an assistant to
one of the soldiers of the engineer battalion. At any rate, it is not a
distinction in which the American civil engineer can take great pride.
To show its worthlessness for purposes of classification and descrip-
tion, which is the principal use of titles, we have but to say that in
the pay-rolls of the Engineer Department, as published in the " United
States Official Register," we find "Engineer, $60 per month," and
"Assistant Engineer, $250 per month" ; the former, we infer, being a
steam-engineer, and the latter, it is to be presumed, a civil engineer.
The civil engineers of America are not a haughty class, but still they
do not wish to pass into official history in such a shape as that,
Words are principally useful for the conveyance of ideas, and when
they convey no idea, or, at best, an erroneous one, they fail of their
mission. A man's title is in some sense the measure of the respect
which the world gives him, and justice to himself and a due regard
for the world's convenience demand that it should be expressed in
words that will plainly describe his occupation. In private life this is
so, and when a man is called an oculist, a photographer, or a grocer,
we immediately know his place and importance as a member of so-
ciety. When a barber dubs himself a " tonsorial artist," and when the
Government, with its red tape, assembles lawyer, physician, and stat-
istician under the omnium gatherum title of " clerk," it is an offense
against good English language. Since the true worker is always an
enthusiast in his profession, and resents being classified under any
other head, it is equally an injury to himself. How, for instance, can
the lawyer of the Interior Department or the financier of the Treasury
go home to his friends and describe himself as a fourth-class clerk
without feeling the blush of shame upon his brow ?
It was left to the Coast Survey to invent the ingeniously menial
designation of " acting sub-assistant," and it is difficult to see how any
man, loaded down with the ignominy of such a name, could ever do
good work or rise to better things. Whatever may be the duties of
