ON RADIATION. 459
development of cold. By placing a drop of chilled water upon the
junction of the two metals, Lenz subsequently congealed the water to
ice by the passage of the current.
The source of power in the thermopile is here revealed, and a rela-
tion of the utmost importance is established between heat and elec-
tricity. Heat is shown to be the nutriment of the electric current.
When one face of a thermopile is warmed, the current produced,
which is always from bismuth to antimony, is simply heat consumed
and transmuted into electricity.
Loner before the death of Melloni, what the Germans call " Die
Identitats-Frage," that is to say, the question of the identity of light
and radiant heat, agitated men's minds and spurred their inquiries.
In the world of science men differ from each other in wisdom and
penetration, and a new theoretic truth has always at first the minority
on its side. But time, holding incessantly up to the gaze of inquirers
the unalterable pattern of Nature, gradually stamps that pattern on
the human mind. For twenty years Henry Brougham was able to
quench the light of Thomas Young, and to retard, in like proportion,
the diffusion of correct notions regarding the nature and propagation
of radiant heat. But such opposing forces are, in the end, driven in,
and the undulatory theory of light being once established, soon made
room for the undulatory theory of radiant heat. It was shown by
degrees that every purely physical effect manifested by light was
equally manifested by the invisible form of radiation. Reflection,
refraction, double refraction, polarization, magnetization, were all
proved true of radiant heat, just as certainly as they had been proved
true of light. It was at length clearly realized that radiant heat, like
light, was propagated in waves through that wondrous luminiferous
medium which fills all space, the only real difference between them
being a difference in the length and frequency of the ethereal waves.
Light, as a sensation, was seen to be produced by a particular kind of
radiant heat, which possessed the power of exciting the retina.
And now we approach a deeper and more subtile portion of our
subject. What, we have to ask, is the origin of the ether-waves,
some of which constitute light, and all of which constitute radiant
heat ? The answer to this question is that the waves have their origin
in the vibrations of the ultimate particles of bodies. But we must be
more strict in our definition of ultimate particles. The ultimate par-
ticle of water, for example, is a molecide. If you go beyond this
molecule and decompose it, the result is no longer water, but the dis-
crete atoms of oxygen and hydrogen. The molecule of water consists
of three such atoms held tightly together, but still capable of indi-
vidual vibration. The question now arises, Is it the molecules vibrat-
ing as wholes, or the shivering atoms of the molecules, that are to be
