486 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
friends of a yellow-fever convalescent. But even with chile they
would hesitate to tempt him with garbanzas or guisado, well knowing
that the mere smell of greasy viands is often enough to bring on a re-
lapse of the vomit. Disagreeable smells of any kind are, in fact, a
potent adjuvant, if not independent cause, of a febrile diathesis. " A
manufacture of artificial manure," says Professor Grainger, " formerly
existedimm ediately opposite Christchurch workhouse, Spitalfields,
"which building was occupied by about four hundred children with a
few adult paupers. Whenever the works were actively carried on,
particularly when the wind blew in the direction of the house, there
were produced numerous cases of fever, of an intractable and typhoid
form. . . . The proprietor at last was compelled to close his estab-
lishment, and the children returned to their ordinary health. Five
months afterward, the works were recommenced ; in a day or two
subsequently, the wind blowing from the manufactory, a most power-
ful stench pervaded the building. In the night following forty-five
of the boys, whose dormitories faced the manufactory, were again
seized with severe diarrhoea, while the girls, whose dormitories were in
a more distant part, and faced in another direction, escaped. The
manufactory having been again suppressed, there was no subsequent
return of the diarrhoea " (" Report on the Hygienic Condition of the
Metropolis," p. 36).
The Turkish custom-house officers fumigate their quarantine-build-
ings with a powerful but agreeably aromatic kind of incense-powder,
which seems to serve all the purposes of disinfection, and could in
many cases be substituted for the carbolic-acid libations that fill our
hospitals with their scandalous odors. To the stomach of a fever-
patient, however, the smell of boiling fat is still more offensive, and
kitchen-fumes should be carefully excluded from the sick-room.
If these precautions are adopted in time, a common remittent gen-
erally terminates with the third fit, and yellow fever takes the form of
a " walking case," as the Memphis physicians call that mild type of
the disease which limits its symptoms to a few shivering fits, and a
night's headache, and seems, in fact, to be nothing but a modified sort
of a summer ague. Every pyrexial affection is essentially an enteric
disorder, a bowel-complaint, and dietetic management alone will gen-
erally insure a favorable issue of the disease. The Spanish cigar-ped-
dlers and Spanish and Italian fruit-venders of New Orleans inhabit
the vilest alleys of the " French quarter," but their frugality has
saved them again and again, when their flesh-eating neighbors died by
hundreds. I have known vegetarians to survive in tenements where
the rooms above, below, and around them were filled with fever-
stricken families decimated from week to week, dreading removal to
the hospital like a sentence of death, but sticking to their flesh-pots
and alcoholic " tonics." How fruit, the chief febrifuge of nature,
came ever to be suspected of being the cause of pyrexial disorders,
