THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 487
would be utterly inexplicable without the analogies of the post hoc
ergo propter hoc fallacy our liability to mistake a coincidence for a
causal connection. In cold weather the hyperborean biped retreats to
his unventilated den and contracts a catarrh, which he ascribes, not
to its true cause, foul air, but to cold air, having noticed that winter
and pulmonary affections are annual concomitants. Fruits, like count-
less other products of nature, are most abundant when they are most
needed, and have for ages preserved the health of our tropical ances-
tors ; but their carnivorous descendant ascribes his affliction, not to
his daily beefsteaks, but to the occasional peaches and watermelons
of which he happened to partake about the time the fever took hold of
him. At the end of the year, when fruits become scarce, fevers too
disappear, and the proof seems complete. Inductive logic : but the
precipitate follower of Viscount Verulam fails to explain the fact that
in the swampiest and hottest districts of the Eastern Continent fevers
and fruits exclude each other like science and superstition, and the
still stranger fact that hundreds of Northlanders who scrupulously
abstain from fruit are nevertheless victimized whenever they brave
the sun of the lower latitudes. In cholera the fruit-delusion may have
derived a color of plausibility from the circumstance that persons
who have for months subsisted upon beef and farinaceous food are
liable to an attack of diarrhoea after their first experiments with a
more digestible diet. For analogous reasons a long incarceration
makes a prisoner unable to bear the fresh air and clear light of the
outer world. The Creoles use pepper enough with their meat to dis-
pense with other antiseptics, and yet eat fruit with every meal as the
French serve a dessert of cakes and raisins ''pour la bonne bouche."
A dime's worth per day for every man, woman, and child, of such
fruits as oranges, melons, or " Chickasaw plums," that can be bought in
almost every Southern town, would soon ruin the business of the qui-
nine-manufacturers and reduce the trade of the " bitters " distillers
to customers who like to drink whisky under some more respectable
name.
The Spaniards divide all articles of diet into comidas frias and
comidas calientes ; but their definition of calorific food does not quite
coincide with Liebig's theory.* According to the nitrogenous and
non-nitrogenous system, starch, sugar, gums, are "respiratory" food,
and as exclusively heat-making as fat, while the experience-taught
South American would unhesitatingly class starchy potatoes and starchy
corn-bread with the comidas frias, the "cooling comestibles"; and
flesh, eggs, and rich cheese with the heat-producers. Cold milk would
be assigned to the former class, and, together with unleavened and
* Professor Draper ("Human Physiology," p. 27) warns us that Liebig's classification
has been only " adopted for the sake of convenience," having no natural foundation.
Funke, in his " Lehrbuch der Physiologic," p. 186, accepts it with considerable reserva-
tions. Yerdeil, Tiobin, Mulder, and Moleschott, reject it as wholly untenable.
