490 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cipal part of the day's work in the cool of the morning, and eats his
principal meal in the cool of the evening, who rests during the hottest
hour of the afternoon, and takes active exercise only in the swimming-
school, may indulge in the dietetic prerogatives of the higher lati-
tudes ; Nature will condone his beefsteaks, pork-fritters, and some of
his cocktails ; his mince-pies will not rise and bear witness against him.
But the happier biped who can waive those prerogatives will free
his stomach from the necessity of digesting winter food in a summer
climate, and, in return, will enjoy the freedom of the land, the privilege
to work, play, eat, rest, laugh, or get mad, at any time he pleases.
He has reconciled himself to Nature, and shares the natural rights of
the creatures who have not forfeited their earthly paradise ; for the
artificial comforts of the North are, after all, only more or less imper-
fect imitations of the gratuitous luxuries which our forefathers en-
joyed in their tropical garden home.
--
ASSOCIATION OF COLORS WITH SOUNDS.
By HENEI DE PAEVILLE.
POPULAR expressions are often very significant. "I saw three
dozen lights of all colors," or some similar expression, may fre-
quently be heard from persons who have received violent blows on the
head or face. Under the influence of shocks of this kind, the eye really
seems to see infinite numbers of sparks. Shocks of a certain class im-
pressed upon the nervous system seem to have the faculty of producing
phenomena of light. This remark has been suggested by the facts
we are about to relate, which lead us to suppose that sonorous vibra-
tions are susceptible in certain cases of provoking luminous sensations.
There are, in fact, persons who are endowed with such sensibility that
they can not hear a sound without at the same time perceiving colors.
Each sound to them has its peculiar color ; this word corresponds
with red and that one with green, one note is blue and another is yel-
low. This phenomenon, " color-hearing," as the English call it, has
been hitherto little observed.
Dr. Nussbaumer, of Vienna, appears to have been the first person
who took serious notice of it. While still a child, when playing one
day with his brother, striking a fork against a glass to hear the ring-
ing, he discovered that he saw colors at the same time that he per-
ceived the sound ; and so well did he discern the color that, when he.
stopped his ears, he could divine by it how loud a sound the fork had
produced. His brother also had similar experiences. Dr. Nussbaumer
was afterward able to add to his own observations nearly identical ones
made by a medical student in Zurich. To this young man, musical
