THE FORMATION OF SEA-WAVES. 495
storms. The transmission may be effected at very great distances
several hundred miles, for example. It presents a kind of analogy
with earthquake-shocks which pass over dead points, and make them-
selves felt only in places where there are faults or differences in the
density of the terrestrial strata.
At Havre, on stormy days, the perturbations of the open sea, trans-
mitted to the shoals of the roadstead, cause oscillations of the water
within it, and produce what the sailors call the levee, which, in bad
weather, prevents the transatlantic steamers from entering the port.
Crossing the entrance of the port, with its breakwaters, the levee pene-
trates into the outer harbor and spreads out there, attaining two or
three metres in amplitude. It enters the Bassin du Boi through a
sluice sixteen metres in width, and thence is propagated through a
sluice thirteen metres wide to the Bassin du Commerce, where, involved
in the ins and outs of the quays, it does not reach more than thirty or
fifty centimetres in amplitude. This remarkable phenomenon of the
levee, passing into a chain of basins, appears analogous to that of the
vibrations of a tense cord divided into sections by a series of frets
in contact with it. "When we draw a bow over one of the sections
of the cord, the others will also vibrate, while a dead point or node
will be formed at each place of contact. In the phenomenon under
consideration, the entrance of the port and each sluice give rise to
a node.
When a mass of water in motion meets an obstacle, it accumulates
against it by virtue of its inertia ; the water rises, then falls back.
This is called the surf, and may be observed along all coasts. It is
produced at sea after every tide. The most curious effect induced by
it is the back-flow in rivers. The Seine, for instance, flows rapidly at
low water ; but, as the tide rises, a liquid obstacle several metres high
is piled up in less than two hours against the mouth of the river. The
water of the Seine then stops, rises, and falls back as surf, while the
surf in its turn acts as an obstacle to the current of the river above
it. The phenomenon is repeated, and again, and so on, steadily going
higher up the river, so that in effect a strong wave ascends the stream.
The phenomenon may be easily reproduced on a small scale ; every
time we suddenly stop the rapid current of a brook or any stream of
water, we may see a back-water ascend it.
The amplitude of the movement of waves remains to be spoken of.
It appears to be proportional for direct waves to the force of the wind.
On the other hand, since each ripple, wavelet, or wave, occupies a given
space, and since, as I have already said, a certain number of these are
necessary to give rise to a billow or a heavy sea, it is evident that,
with a given wind, a billow of a particular dimension can be formed
only if a sheet of water extends over a certain area of surface. This
is precisely what takes place, and the dimensions of the billows pro-
duced by a given wind appear to be proportional to the extent of the
