MENTAL CAPACITY OF THE ELEPHANT. 497
MENTAL CAPACITY OF THE ELEPHANT.
By WILLIAM T. HORNADAY.
ACCORDING to the popular idea, man is the only animal en-
dowed with reason. Even after modern scientific classification
forced from all the humiliating admission that man is an animal, the
idea of his supreme superiority over all the rest of the animal king-
dom was embalmed in the formula, " Man is a reasoning being." The
reasoning faculty is, to the popular mind, the gulf which separates
him from the so-called dumb brutes, wide, fathomless, and impassable.
While there are many who believe that this gulf which separates rea-
son from absence of reason is occasionally bridged over, as it were, in
the case of individual animals of phenomenal intelligence, there are a
few who deny its existence altogether. Whenever enough evidence
is accumulated to compel the unconditional surrender of the ground
man has assigned for his exclusive occupancy, whenever it is clearly
and conclusively shown that man's intellectual supremacy over the
lower animals is due to the degree and not to the quality of his in-
tellect, it will mark the beginning of a new era in psychological
thought.
The principal purpose of this paper is to show the scope and qual-
ity of intelligence displayed by the animals of a certain species, the
elephant, and to afford some data for a comparison of the mental pro-
cesses of this animal with those of man.
Of late years, or we may even say during the last decade, the ques-
tion as to whother any of the lower animals are ever capable of reason-
ing: has been often discussed. Hundreds of instances of unusual intelli-
gence displayed by domestic animals have been related, and in many
cases the actions of certain individuals have been admitted to be the re-
sult of reasoning. The dog has furnished a far greater number of such
instances than any other animal, but we believe that this is due not so
much to his superior intelligence as to the fact that he is brought into
closer relations with his master, man, than is any other animal. A
great many stories are told of the horse, cat, and elephant, and a few
others detailing the performances of three or four remarkably intelli-
gent chimpanzees and orangs have been repeated until they are now
worn threadbare. Siamangs, baboons, and other members of the
monkey tribe, parrots, canaries, and even fleas, have also attracted at-
tention by their intelligent independent actions, or their performances
under training. It appears that by universal consent the dog has
been given the first place in the arrangement of animals according to
their intelligence. Dr. W. L. Lindsay, however, who has made a care-
ful, critical, and highly elaborate study of the subject of " Mind in the
Lower Animals," thus arranges the orders of mammalia in a descend-
TOL. XXIII. 32
