MENTAL CAPACITY OF THE ELEPHANT . 503
12. Halt.
13. Ground arms. (All lie down, and lie motionless.)
14. Attention. (All get up.)
15. Shoulder arms. (All stand up on their hind-legs.)
In all, fifteen commands obeyed by the whole company of elephants.
It being impossible, or at least impracticable, to supply so large a
number of animals with furniture and stage property for a further uni-
versal performance, certain individuals were supplied with the proper
articles when necessary, for a continuation of the performance, as
follows :
16. Ringing bells.
17. Climbing up a step-ladder.
18. Going lame in a fore-leg.
19. Going lame in a hind-leg.
20. Stepping up on a tub turned bottom up.
21. Standing on a tub on two right-legs only.
22. The same, on opposite fore- and hind-leg.
23. The same, on the fore-legs only.
24. The same, on the hind-legs only.
25. Using a fan.
26. Tui-ning a hand-organ.
27. Using a handkerchief to wipe the eyes.
28. Sitting in a chair.
29. Kneeling, on the knees proper.
30. Kneeling on " fore-knees " (so called), or wrists.
31. Walking astride a man lying lengthwise.
32. Stepping over a man lying crosswise.
33. Forming a pyramid of elephants by using tubs of various sizes.
While it is true that every act in the latter part of this performance
was not participated in by every one of the elephants who went through
the military drill, there is no room for cloubt of the entire ability of
each individual to understand the meaning of the whole thirty-three
commands, and to remember them all accurately and without confu-
sion. The most astonishing feature of the performance was, aside
from the perfect obedience of the huge beasts, their power of mem-
ory, which is without a parallel in the history of trained animals.
We come now to a consideration of the
Accomplishments of Working Elephants.
In all the timber-forests of Southern India every captive elephant
is taught to perform all the following acts and services, as I have wit-
nessed on many occasions :
1. To salaam, or salute, by raising the trunk.
2. To kneel, to receive a load or a passenger.
3. When standing, to hold up a fore-foot, to serve the driver as a
block in climbing to his place.
