5 o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
wolves of mature age as newly-caught elephants. But, so far from
this being the ease, it is safe to assert that it would be impossible to
train the most intelligent company of pointers, setters, or collies ever
got together to perform the feats accomplished with such promptness
and accuracy by all regularly trained circus-elephants.
The successful training of all elephants up to the required working
point is so fully conceded in India that the market value of an animal
depends wholly upon his age, sex, build, and the presence or absence
of good tusks. The animal's education is either sufficient for the
buyer, or, if not, he knows it can be made so.
The time required for the training of newly-captured elephants,
and fitting them for all kinds of work, varies from four to six months,
although instances are known wherein some have been worked in har-
ness two months after capture.
The fourth quality, which serves as a key to the mental capacity
and mental processes of an animal, is the degree of its
Promptness and Accuracy in the Execution of Man's Orders.
The most impressive feature of a performance of elephants in the
circus-ring is the fact that every command uttered is obeyed with true
military promptness and freedom from hesitation, and so accurately
that an entire performance is often conducted and concluded without
the repetition of a single command. One by one the orders are exe-
cuted with the most human-like precision and steadiness, amounting
sometimes to actual nonchalance. Human beings of the highest type
could scarcely do better. To some savage races for example, the na-
tive Australians, the veddahs of Ceylon, or the jackoons of the Malay
Peninsula I believe such a performance would be impossible, even un-
der training. I do not believe their minds act with sufficient rapidity
and accuracy to enable a company of them to go through with such a
wholly artificial performance as successfully as the elephant's.
The thoughtful observer does not need to be told that the brain of
the ponderous quadruped acts, as far as it goes, with the same light-
ning rapidity and clearness as that of the most intelligent man this,
.too, be it remembered, in a performance wholly artificial and acquired,
in which the animal depends solely upon the words of the trainer. I
particularly noted the fact that the performance of Barn urn's ele-
phants was conducted without the use of any signs whatever.
In the performance of Bartholomew's horses, of which I once kept a
record in detail, even the most accomplished members of his stud often
had to be commanded again and again before they would obey. A com-
mand was often repeated for the sixth time before the desired result
was obtained. I noted particularly that not one of his horses, which are
perhaps the most fully trained of any living, was an exception to this
rule, or performed his tasks with the prompt obedience and self-confi-
dence so noticeable in every one of the sixteen elephants. The horses
