3 2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
As M. Miquel remarks, the use of aeroscopes will be of value for the
discovery in the air of the germs of the molds which attack our cere-
als. Regarding the etiology of certain contagious affections, he con-
tinues : " It does not seem to be proved that the various spores in-
troduced into our economy, to the number of 300,000 a day, or
100,000,000 a year, are perfectly innocuous. The appearance of thrush
in the mouths of young children and in the respiratory canals of the
dying seems to demonstrate also that the molds form a part of the
class of parasites which are ready to take possession of our organism
whenever it presents a vulnerable point or a point of weak resisting
power."
M. Pasteur has long insisted on the utility of these researches.
" I believe," he wrote in 1862, " that it would be of great advantage
to multiply the studies on this subject, and to compare in the same
place at different seasons, and in different places at the same time, the
number of corjmscles disseminated in the atmosphere. Our knowl-
edge of the phenomena of morbid contagion, especially during the
jDrevalence of epidemics, would, it appears to me, gain from researches
prosecuted in this direction."
Since M. Pasteur has established the parasitic character of zymotic
diseases like the hen-cholera, sheep-rot, septicaemia, measles, etc., the
rnicrographic statistics of the air has risen to a considerable impor-
tance. It has had, however, to concentrate its efforts chiefly upon a
class of rudimentary organisms very different from the green algae
and the molds of which we have spoken. This group is the one to
which the viruses belong. The plants composing it, and which are
designated under the common denomination of bacteria, escape the
process of numeration in use for the higher cryptogams. In conse-
quence of their extreme minuteness and refractive power, they are
nO Jy> If m
^c g D
08'
<^ o
-c^o
>
J
/
c c
O a
^O. fV r, , p o
V
c
I0fm'&
y # <r^
Fio. 4. Specimens of bacteria. A, Micrococcus in isolated cells or aggregated into balls and
strings; B, Bacterium ; C. Bacillus; a, batonnets (adult bacilli i; b, batonncts with spore6 ;
c, isolated spores ; d, germinating spores.
invisible, and unrecognizable in the preparations of the aeroscopes.
Their existence in the air was long denied, and the proof that they
abound in it only dates from the experiments that were instituted by
M. Pasteur for the solution of the question of heterogeny. The meth-
