OUR INDIAN MYTHOLOGY. 527
place of man in nature." Whatever emotion the application of the
doctrine of evolution to the moral world may cause, and however
grave may be the shock it inflicts on the edifice of beliefs, it should
be accepted with confidence, for it is true, and the truth can not be
wrong. Even if it exacts a transformation of the social order by
transforming beliefs, it must be faced resolutely. The natural sciences
thus impose themselves on the attention even of the statesman. " It
is necessary attentively to follow their progress, to measure the bear-
ing of their discoveries, to study their actual or possible influence on
current beliefs and ideas, and to endeavor to construct a new edifice
all the more quickly as the bases of the old one appear to be seriously
threatened.
These declarations deserve a hearing. They have a considerable
importance, not only because they come from a naturalist whose
works* and position assure him one of the first places among the
French scientific men of his generation, but also and especially because
this naturalist is not suspected of any inconsiderate enthusiasm for
the doctrine of evolution, and because he only yesterday was defend-
ing the beliefs we have spoken of against it. The honorable scruples
which have kept him back seem at last to have yielded to the force of
accumulated proofs : he lets fall the barriers which he seemed dis-
posed to keep up between nature and man ; he perceives that mechan-
ism and science blend, and does not hesitate to say so. We expected
nothing less from his clear-sightedness and his sincerity. Translated
for the Popular Science Monthly from the Revue Philosophique.
OUR INDIAN MYTHOLOGY.
By J. HENRY GEST.
THE myths of a people are the first crude embodiments of its re-
ligious feeling. They are first formulated in stories told over the
fires of long winter evenings, and pass on as traditions from father
to son, until written language at last makes a record of them. How
carefully European students have gathered them together, seeking to
extract from the scanty records the hidden image which inspired them !
Any reader of this can recall some myth of Greece, or Rome, or early
Europe ; but how many are aware that here, among our own Indians,
there exists a mythology from which not a little can be learned of the
religious feeling of a rude civilization such as our own Aryan ancestors
passed through long centuries ago ?
Among recent German publications is a small pamphlet of seventy
* One of these works, a study of the organization of worni3, has been pronounced
" admirable " by Mr. Darwin.
