LOCUSTS AS FOOD FOR MAN. 533
jority of our people, unaccustomed to anything of the sort, and asso-
ciating with the word ' insect ' or ' bug,' everything horrid and repul-
sive. Yet I was governed by weightier reasons than mere curiosity ;
for many a family in Kansas and Nebraska was, in 1874, brought to
the brink of the grave by sheer lack of food, while the St. Louis
papers reported cases of actual death from starvation in some sec-
tions of Missouri, where the insects abounded and ate up every green
thing, in the spring of 1875.
" Whenever the occasion presented, I partook of locusts prepared
in different ways, and one day I ate of no other kind of food, and must
have consumed, in one way or another, the substance of several thou-
sand half-grown locusts. Commencing the experiments with some
misgivings, and fully expecting to have to overcome disagreeable fla-
voi', I was soon agreeably surprised to find that the insects were quite
palatable in whatever way prepared. The flavor of the raw locust is
most strong and disagreeable, but that of the cooked insect is agree-
able and sufficiently mild to be easily neutralized by anything with
which they may be mixed, and to admit of easy disguise, according to
taste or fancy. But the great point I would make in their favor is
that they need no elaborate preparation or seasoning, and that they
really require no disguise ; and herein lies their value in exceptional
emergencies, for, when people are driven to the point of starvation by
these ravenous pests, it follows that all other food is scarce or unat-
tainable. A broth, made by boiling the unfledged calopteni for two
hours in the proper quantity of water, and seasoned with nothing but
pepper and salt, is quite palatable and scarcely to be distinguished
from beef-broth, though it has a slight flavor peculiar to it and not
easy to be described. The addition of a little butter improves it, and
the flavor can, of course, be modified with mint, sage, and other spices
ad libitum. Fried or roasted in nothing but their own oil, with the ad-
dition of a little salt, they are by no means unpleasant eating, and have
quite a nutty flavor. In fact, it is a flavor, like most peculiar and not
unpleasant flavors, that one can soon learn to get fond of. Prepared
in this manner, ground and compressed, they would doubtless keep for
a long time. Yet their consumption in large quantities in this form
would not, I think, prove as wholesome as when made into soup or
broth, for I found the chitinous covering and corneous parts, especially
the spines on the tibise, dry and chippy, and somewhat irritating to the
throat. This objection would not apply with the same force to the
mature individuals, especially of the larger species, where the heads,
legs, and wings are carefully separated before cooking ; and, in fact,
some of the mature insects prepared in this way, then boilerl, and
afterward stewed with a few vegetables, and a little butter, pepper,
salt, and vinegar, made an excellent fricassee. . . .
" I sent a bushel of scalded insects to Mr. John Bonnet, one of the
oldest and best-known caterers of St. Louis. Master of the mys-
