534 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
teries of the cuisine, he made a soup which was really delicious, and
was so pronounced by dozens of prominent St. Louisians who tried it.
Shaw, in his 'Travels in Barbary ' (Oxford, England, 1738), in which
two pages are devoted to a description of the ravages of locusts,
mentions that they are sprinkled with salt and fried, when they taste
like crawfish ; and Mr. Bonnet declared that this locust-soup reminded
him of nothing so much as crawfish bisque, which is so highly es-
teemed by connoisseurs. He also declared that he would gladly have
it on his bill of fare every day if he could only get the insects.
" His method of preparation was to boil on a brisk fire, having pre-
viously seasoned them with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, the whole
being occasionally stirred. When cooked, they are pounded in a mor-
tar with bread fried brown, or puree of rice. They are then replaced
in the saucepan and thickened to a broth by placing on the warm part
of the stove, but not allowed to boil. For use, the broth is passed
through a strainer and a few croutons are added. I carried a small
box of fried ones to Europe, where they were tasted by numerous per-
sons, including members of the London Entomological Society and of
the Societe Entomologique de France. Without exception, they were
pronounced far better than was expected, and those fried in their own
oil, with a little salt, remained good and fresh for several months ;
others fried in butter became slightly rancid, a fault of the butter.
Mr. C. Home, F. Z. S., writing to ' Science Gossip,' says : ' In the
evening I had asked two gentlemen to dinner, and gave them a curry
and croquette of locusts. They passed for Cabool shrimps, which in
flavor they very much resembled ; but the cook having inadvertently
left a hind-leg in a croquette, they were found out, to the infinite dis-
gust of one of the party and the amusement of the other.' . . .
" Locusts will hardly come into general use for food, except where
they are annually abundant ; and our Western farmers, who occasion-
ally suffer from them, will not easily be brought to a due appreciation
of them for this purpose. Prejudiced against them, fighting to over-
come them, killing them in large quantities, until the stench from their
decomposing bodies becomes at times most offensive, they find little
that is attractive in the pests.
" For these reasons, as long as other food is attainable, the locust
will be apt to be rejected by most persons. Yet the fact remains that
they do make very good food. When freshly caught in large quanti-
ties, the mangled mass presents a not very appetizing appearance,
and emits a strong and not overpleasant odor ; but, rinsed and scald-
ed, they turn a brownish red, look much more inviting, and give no
disagreeable smell."
That locusts have been used as food from remote antiquity is well
attested by historical writers. As stated before, they are classed
among the "clean meats" in Leviticus (xi, 22), and are referred to
in other parts of the Bible as human food. One of the Nineveh
