A NATURAL SEA-WALL.
537
the well-known Farragut House. This section of the wall is by far
the most symmetrical and characteristic, and is the one selected for a
more detailed examination and description. Beyond this point the
wall runs with occasional breaks to its northern terminus without pre-
senting any novel features.
The annexed diagram, enlarged from measurements by the United
States Coast Survey, shows that part of the wall between Fox Hill
Fig. i.
Point and the Farragut House. It has the form of a shallow crescent,
and follows high- water mark quite closely, just east of the highway.
It has the general peculiarities very strongly marked, but near its
northern extremity is so modified by an adjacent shoal as to give an
easily-followed clew to the method of its formation. It has the three
neat terraces common to the whole of the wall, and, at the time of
examination, had not been marred by the walk previously mentioned.
This walk was built directly along the summit, which was smoothed
for this purpose, thus almost obliterating the upper terrace, and lower-
ing the whole crest. Previously, the wall has remained substantially
as originally formed, for its steepness and height were such that, as a
path, it was far from alluring. But now along its landward base runs
the road from Little Boar's Head to Rye Beach; the situation of this
road has been matei'ially changed by the encroachments of the sea
during the last fifty years, and its old location is approximately in-
dicated on the diagram by the dotted line.
At the highest point of the crescent near its middle the road is
about twelve feet below the summit of the wall, and only four or
five feet above high-water mark. Diagram number two is a cross-
section at this place, drawn to scale from personal measurements.
The slope inward, it will be noticed, is comparatively gradual and
quite regular, while the sea-face is formed in terraces, very regular
and individually steep. The general seaward angle of inclination is
