A NATURAL SEA-WALL. 539
water. After a severe storm the road is sometimes strewed thickly
with these great pebbles, and some trouble is necessary to clear it.
So, at least, says popular tradition, but it is probable that very many
of the larger stones, found some rods inland, were deposited there be-
fore the wall existed in anything like its present condition. For it is
almost certain, from the character of the formation and its known his-
tory, that it has been piled up in comparatively recent times.
Some of the old inhabitants assert that the terrific storm that in
1851 devastated the whole New England coast and snapped like pipe-
stems the iron pillars of the Minot's Ledge light-house, is responsible,
too, for the wall. While that noted storm certainly did perform some
tremendous feats, and in some places permanently changed the con-
tour of the shore, no one storm could do its work in a very systematic
or regular fashion. No one storm could have formed the three ter-
races that compose the sea-face of our wall. The Minot's Ledge
storm may have greatly augmented an existing pile and changed its
shape somewhat (as there is reason to believe it did), but, powerful as
it was, it did not do anything more than this.
It is said that the above-mentioned storm so blockaded the exist-
ing highway that it was moved a short distance inland, and there is
evidence to show that this road once ran near the present high-water
mark, on or about the line now occupied by the wall.
It is, then, probable that a double process has been going on. The
sea has been encroaching on the beach, and at the same time obstruct-
ing its own course with the debris of former invasions. It is worthy of
notice that the wall has only been thrown up along the sandy beach,
whei-e the waves had an unobstructed passage. On the ledges that
are of frequent occurrence no signs of any extensive deposit are visi-
ble. The wall is absent or much modified where a shoal intervenes.
These facts show that the deposit has been the result of successive
storms heaping up the material, and the ordinary course of the waves
and tides molding and arranging it. When the angle of the pile
exceeded the natural slope of such materials, growth in that particular
plane ceased, and a terrace was formed. Thus the wall, as far as its
seaward side is concerned, seems to be a sort of concretion, the ter-
races being formed in succession, partly out of new material furnished
by annual storms and partly from what was left after the first terrace
had reached its present angle. Constant pounding of the waves has
solidified the wall, though various storms have partially undermined
it and necessitated the re-formation of its face. To these storms is due
the motion landward that has from time to time taken place. The
materials of the wall have been collected from a large area, as is
shown by their diverse character, and why they should have been de-
posited at this particular point is a matter of some doubt. It may
be that submarine ledges off this part of the coast have furnished
a quarry for the waves. The method of formation, however, has
