54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
been substantially as above recorded, and the results have been of
such a curious character as to be well worth a visit from those inter-
ested in the influence of the sea in modifying and eroding the coast.
-+*+-
THE TELEPHONE, WITH A SKETCH OF ITS INVENT-
OE, PHILIPP KEIS.
By WILLIAM F. CHANNING, M. D.
A BOOK of absorbing public interest is announced shortly to
appear in England and this country a history of the telephone
of Johann Philipp Reis, with a biographical sketch of its inventor, by
Professor Sylvanus P. Thompson.
The telephone outranks all previous discoveries in its direct en-
largement of human power. The telescope and microscope are its
nearest compeers. The telegraph, beside it, is a clumsy mechanism.
The telephone, which makes a whispering-gallery of the round earth,
may well exert an influence on civilization, comparable with that
of the railroad and steamship. Already the business centers expand,
and the values of city lands change, under the magic of an inven-
tion which places every man at every other man's ear. But this
promise or prophecy of the telephone is not all that affects the inter-
est of the American people. There is a menace in connection with its
present history which justly awakens public concern. Rapacious
hands have clutched the throat of the telephone, to extort oppressive
tribute for every word which it utters.
Professor Thompson's book, which treats exhaustively the early
history of the telephone, is therefore not only of scientific but of
social interest and importance. It establishes beyond honest doubt
or question, by historical evidence, by the reproduction of original
documents and illustrations, and by the public records of scientific
bodies, that Philipp Reis discovered the electric transmission of S2)eech
in 1860-'61 ; that he elaborately described and exhibited his telephone
in 1861 ; that he invented transmitting and receiving instruments,
which not only talked then and talk now, but which include the essen-
tial principles of the transmitters and receivers now in use ; and that
he manufactui'ed, placed on the market, and sold his instruments in
18G3, for the purpose of illustrating the electric transmission of
speech and song. That an invention so important, made in the heart
of Germany, should not have been instantly perfected and utilized
would surprise us in this country, if history did not abundantly teach
that inventions complete in themselves often lie sterile until the favor-
able season and soil are found for their commercial adoption and de-
velopment.
