THE TELEPHONE AND ITS INVENTOR. 547
block and is closed at d by a membrane. A platinum strip, b, extends
from the screw-cup p, to the center of tbe membrane d, to which it is
attached. From the screw-cup n a spring, n d, carrying a platinum
style, makes contact at d with the platinum strip p d. This original
instrument, presented by Reis to Professor Bottger, is now in the pos-
session of Professor Thompson. It has an adjusting screw in the
course of the spring n d.
Reis's claim as an inventor is discussed by Professor Thompson
and fully substantiated under the three following heads : "1. Reis's
telephone was expressly intended to transmit speech. 2. Reis's tele-
phone, in the hands of lieis and his contemporaries, did transmit
speech. 3. Reis's telephone w ill transmit speech.'''' Before bringing
forward evidence on these points, Professor Thompson disposes of a
current prejudice against Reis's telephone, which has been not alto-
gether innocently created. It has been called a " tone-telephone," or
musical telephone, by those interested in relegating it to the category
of harmonic instruments. Reis called it neither an articulating nor
tone telephone, but simply " Das Telephon." He spoke habitually of
reproducing any and all sounds through its agency, the German word
used being Ton, plural Tone, which is nearly the equivalent of our
English word " sound." By transferring the German word (untrans-
lated) to the English it has been attempted to narrow the scope of his
discovery as stated in his own words. It is in place here to say that
Reis was no musician, and could hardly distinguish one tune from
another.
Reis's first memoir on the telephone, delivered before the Physical
Society of Frankf ort-on-the-Main, in 1861, and printed in their " An-
nual " for the same year, begins thus : " The surprising results in the
domain of telegraphy have often already suggested the question
whether it may not be possible to communicate the very ' tones '
[sounds] of speech direct to a distance." He says that " the cardinal
question " always was " how could a single instrument reproduce at
once the total action of all the organs operated by human speech."
Could the expression of intention be plainer ? He says, again : " Until
now [1861], it has not been possible to reproduce the 'tones' [sounds]
of human speech with a distinctness to satisfy everybody. TJie con-
sonants are for the most part tolerably distinctly reproduced, but the
vowels not yet in an equal degree.'''' Was this only a "tone-tele-
phone " ? He proceeds to show the cause of the difficulty in the case
of vowels by diagrams of the undulating curves representing con-
sonant and vowel sounds. The memoir concludes thus : " There may
probably remain much to be done toward making the telephone of
practiced commercial value. For physics, however, it has already
sufficient interest in that it has opened out a new field of labor. . . .
Philipp Reis, December, 1861." It will be observed that this date
precedes the improved forms of Reis's telephone, by which the some-
