THE TELEPHONE AND ITS IN VENT OB. 549
telephone for an hour at a time, the distance of the stations from each
other heing about one hundred and fifty feet. He says : " I remem-
ber especially that Mr. Reis speaking through his instrument I dis-
tinctly heard the words, 'Guten Morgen, Ilerr Fischer' ; 'Ich komme
gleich ' ; ' Passe auf ' ; ' Wie viel Uhr ist es ? ' ' Wie heisst du ? ' "
Heinrich Hold, a colleague of Reis in the same institute, gives de-
tailed testimony of talking successfully through the telephone. Hein-
rich F. Peter, the musical teacher, then and still at Garnier's Institute,
says, "Philipp Schmidt read long sentences from Spiess's 'Turnbuch,'
which sentences Philipp Reis, who was listening, understood perfectly,
and repeated to us." Being incredulous, and to further test it, Herr
Peter spoke some impromptu nonsensical sentences through the tele-
phone, such as "Die Sonne ist von Kupfer," which Reis understood
as " Die Sonne ist von Zucker."
Mr. S. M. Yeates, instrument-maker of Dublin, writes that in 1865
he exhibited Reis's telephone to the Dublin Philosophical Society,
substituting an improved electro-magnetic receiver for the knitting-
needle receiver (shown in Fig. 2), the transmitter being the same as in
that figure. Yeates's receiver was an electro-magnet with a vibrating
armature, mounted on a spring attached to a sounding-box. William
Frazer, M. D., member of the Council of the Royal Irish Academy,
writes, March 13, 1883, that he was present on this occasion, that
various questions were asked and answered, and that "the separate
words were most distinct, the singing less so." The individual who
spoke was easily recognized by his voice. (It has been stated else-
where that Yeates improved the Reis transmitter by placing a drop
of water between the platinum surfaces of loose contact.)
In an appendix, which is not really separable from nor less impor-
tant than the rest of the work, Professor Thompson discusses the rela-
tion of Reis's instruments to those now in use, and also Reis's devel-
opment and use of the variable or "undulatory" electric current,
corresponding to the undulatory curves of sound-pressure, which he
graphically represents, and to which he often refers.
In the first section, Professor Thompson points out that Reis's
transmitters preserve throughout, first, the tympanum to collect the
voice-waves, and, second, two or more electric elements in loose or
imperfect contact with each other, so combined with the tympanum
that the motions of the latter correspondingly alter the current of
electricity flowing between the contact-pieces. Reis's apparatus is
not, therefore, an " interruptor," but a " current-regulator." The con-
tact-pieces, one or both, were mounted with adjustable springs, or held
together by gravity, so as to vary the current without completely
breaking contact, in the same way, and for the same purpose, as in
the Berliner, Blake, and other modern transmitters. Disregarding
induction-coils and other accessories, the fundamental principle of
these later instruments is the combination of a tympanum with a cur-
