554
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
able that the sudden clatter impressed the
startled animal as being the sound uttered
by some dangerous enemy. If such were
the case, it was natural for the beast to
search for the thing itself that terrified him,
which in fact was done, for he immediately
fastened his gaze upon the leaf that lay on
the floor and commenced against it his timid
hostilities. This conduct upon his part jus-
tifies the inference that the noise of the fall-
ing stick suggested a visible enemy, possibly
a serpent ; and so, the withdrawing of his
paw accompanied by the licking of it would
seem to tell us that the illusion or hallucina-
tion affected the sense of touch as well as
those of hearing and sight.
Having once passed through this experi-
ence as following the hearing of the noise
made by the falling stick, it was natural
that there should be an association within
him between sudden noises in general and
the thing of terror, and hence, as Mr. Ringue-
berg tells us, he was apt to be thrown by
such noises into paroxysms ; and so, the
sound which caused the first trouble having
arisen in the kitchen, noises coming subse-
quently from that quarter were the most
disturbing to him, just as stated. Proceed-
ing one step further, as the first attack came
upon Pluto in the kitchen, it was natural for
him to regard that spot as the abiding-place
of this enemy, and to show signs of terror,
as he did, at all times when passing through
that apartment. And, when particularly dis-
posed to a violent attack, the association of
ideas connected with the kitchen was most
likely to there bring upon him the climax of
his trouble.
Mr. Ringueberg speaks always of these
paroxysms as accompanied by a fixed star-
ing at some particular object, whether a
spot upon the ceiling, a hanging towel, or
something else, and a terrified retreat there-
from ; all of which suggests a false sight,
bringing up the image of some material
enemy, and it is rather imaginative, under
all the circumstances, to suppose that it was
ghosts, or things spiritual, which he had be-
fore him, in imagination.
Respectfully yours,
Frank McGloin.
New Orleans, May 18, 1SS3.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
HERBERT SPENCER AND THE FRENCH
ACADEMY.
MR. HERBERT SPENCER has
been chosen a member of the In-
stitute of France. "We learn that he was
elected in May by a nearly unanimous
vote as a Foreign Correspondent of the
Academy of Moral and Political Sci-
ences, to fill a vacancy caused by the
death of Henry P. Tappan, of Detroit.
These academical distinctions are so
often unworthily bestowed, that Mr.
Spencer does not hold them in much
esteem as indications of genuine merit;
but, as it may be assumed that he is not
indifferent to the good opinion of his
eminent contemporaries, he will, no
doubt, appreciate at its true worth this
well-intended compliment, and make
his acknowledgments accordingly.
But there is an interest in the trans-
action not confined to the immediate
parties to it. When an institution,
standing highest in the world as a dis-
penser of the titles to intellectual emi-
nence, and which has become a kind
of authoritative arbiter in such matters,
undertakes to assign the position of a
man like Spencer, there are many who
will desire to know with what discrim-
ination, and what rectitude of judg-
ment, the award has been made. The
honors of the Institute are not all of
equal dignity: that of Foreign Associ-
ate is highest, while that of Foreign
Correspondent is of secondary rank.
The French academicians, after having
certainly taken abundant time for de-
liberation, now decide that Mr. Spen-
cer's claims are not such as to entitle
him to the highest rank among the in-
tellectual leaders of the time. We think
the Academy has here made a consid-
erable mistake, which it is important
should be corrected.*
* It may be as well to say that wo are not to
expect too much from the French Academy. Its
predominant historic spirit has been time-serving,
and it is declared by high authority that, instead of
fostering originality, it has rather been its policy to
hamper and crush it. We should not, therefore,
look to it for a very liberal appreciation of Herbert
Spencer; his qualities, in fact, are very much those
which it has not been its policy to honor. The fol-
lowing estimate of its influence, by M. Langfrey, is
