EDITOR'S TABLE.
555
By the theory of all such institu-
tions, the relative rank of great men is
a determinable thing. The supreme ob-
ject of the Institute of France, through
the organization of its five great Acade-
mies, is the extension and improvement
of human knowledge in all its compre-
hensive departments ; while, subsidiary
to this object, it assumes the function
of honoring the men in foreign coun-
tries who have contributed in eminent
ways to this advance of knowledge.
Mr. Spencer is, therefore, to be estimat-
ed by the import of his contributions to
the progress of thought. The tests of
pre-eminence here are not doubtful. To
produce any wide or profound impres-
sion upon the state of knowledge at the
present day requires the rarest order of
mind. There must be a thorough mas-
tery of many departments, comprehen-
sive insight, great capacity of generali-
zation and of organization, and the fer-
tility of creative conception, the inde-
pendence and the originality of ideas
that belong to genius. It will not be
difficult to show that Herbert Spencer
possesses these traits in so marked a
degree as to have made him a leading
power in the greatest intellectual move-
ment of modern times.
probably but too correct. He says, in his " History
of Napoleon " : " Founded by the monarchy and for
the monarchy, eminently favorable to the spirit of
intrigue and favoritism, . . . wasting all its ener-
gies in childish tournaments, in which the flatteries
that it showers on others are only the foretaste of
the compliments it expects in return for itself, the
French Academy seems to have received from its
founders the special mission to transform genius
into hel-esprit, and it would be hard to produce a
man with talent whom it has not demoralized. . . .
If we examine its influence on the national genius,
we shall see that it has given it a flexibility, a brill-
iancy, a polish, which it never possessed before;
but it has done so at the expense of its masculine
qualities, its originality, its spontaneity, its vigor,
its natural grace. It has disciplined it. but it has
emasculated, impoverished, and rigidified it. It
sees in taste not a sense of the beautiful, but a cer-
tain type of correctness, an elegant form of medioc-
rity. It. has substituted pomp for grandeur, school-
routine for individual inspiration, elaborateness for
simplicity, fadeur and the monotony of literary
orthodoxy for variety the source and spring of
literary life ; and, in the works produced under its
auspices, we discover the rhetorician and the writer,
never the man. By all its traditions, the Academy
was made to be the natural ornament of a monarch-
ical society. Kichelieu conceived and created it as a
sort of superior centralization applied to intellect, as
a high literary court to maintain intellectual unity
and protest against innovation."
Mr. Spencer published in 1855 a phil-
osophical treatise entitled "The Prin-
ciples of Psychology," an original and
powerful work, putting the science of
mind upon a new basis, and which the
best judge in England, John Stuart Mill,
pronounced "the finest example we pos-
sess of the psychological method in its
full power." This work anticipated and
reduced to valid application in the high-
est phenomenal sphere those fundament-
al doctrines of nature and life which
have since become firmly established in
the scientific world. Holding the prin-
ciple of evolution to be a fundamental
truth while yet it was generally held to
be a baseless speculation, he founded
upon it a systematic exposition of the
laws of mental phenomena. The con-
stitution of mind was investigated by
the genetic method, and the develop-
ment of the mental elements, organic
and psychical, was traced from their sim-
plest to their most complex relations in
correspondence with the phenomenal
relations of environing nature, by inter-
course with which all mind is unfolded.
The book was greatly in advance of the
age, and its significance was at first
comprehended by only a few ; but these
were so powerfully affected hy it that
a new direction was given to psycho-
logical study, and its influence was soon
widely recognized in the ablest litera-
ture of the subject.
A single illustration of its insight
and originality may be here instanced.
From early times down to the present,
philosophers have been split into two
parties over the question of the genesis
of ideas, one maintaining that they are
innate, and the other that they origi-
nate in experience. From Plato to
Kant on the one side, and from Aris-
totle to Locke on the other side, the
representatives of these schools have
battled over the problem in thousands
of futile books, which left the question
as unsettled as they found it. Herbert
Spencer solved the problem and recon-
ciled the antagonism through the basal
