THE GERM-THEORY OF DISEASE. 583
share their fate. If all of us are threatened alike by the invisible ene-
mies in the air we breathe, how is it that so many escape ? If we ex-
pose a hundred flasks of meat-broth to the same atmosphere, they will
all become tainted alike, and in the same time. But the animal body
is not a dead soil in which bacteria can vegetate without disturbance.
Though our blood and juices are the most perfect food the parasites
require, though the animal temperature gives them the best conditions
of life, they must still struggle for their existence with the cells of the
animal body. We do not know yet in what way our tissues defend
themselves, but that they do resist, and often successfully, is an inevi-
table conclusion. We can show this resistance experimentally in some
cases. The ordinary putrefaction-bacteria can thrive excellently in
dead blood, but if injected into the living blood-vessels they speedily
perish. Disease-producing germs, however, are better adapted to the
conditions they meet with in the body they invade, and hence they
can the longer battle with their host, even though they succumb in
the end.
The resistance or want of resistance which the body opposes to its
invaders is medically referred to as the predisposition to the disease.
What the real conditions of this predisposition are, we do not know.
Experience has simply shown that different individuals have not an
equal power to cope with the parasites. Here, as throughout all
nature, the battle ends with the survival of the fittest. The invaders,
if they gain a foothold at all, soon secure an advantage by reason of
their terrific rate of increase. In some instances they carry on the
war by producing poisonous substances, in others they rob the animal
cells of food and oxygen. If the organism can withstand these as-
saults, can keep up its nutrition during the long siege, can ultimately
destroy its assailants, it wins the battle. Fortunately for us, victory
for once means victory forever, at least in many cases. Most conta-
gious diseases attack an individual but once in his lifetime. The
nature of this lucky immunity is unknown. The popular notion, that
the disease has taken an alleged "poison" out of the body, has just as
little substantial basis as the contrary assumption that the parasites
have left in the body a substance destructive to themselves. It is not
likely, indeed, that an explanation will ever be given on a purely
chemical basis, but in what way the cells have been altered so as to
baffle their assailants in a second attempt at invasion is as yet a mat-
ter of speculation. Unfortunately for us, there are other diseases of
probable bacterial origin, which do not protect against, but directly
invite, future attacks.
A question now much agitated is, whether each kind of disease-
germs amounts to a distinct and separate species, or whether the para-
site of one disease can be so changed as to produce other affections as
well. When investigations on bacteria were first begun, it was taken
for granted that all bacterial forms, yeast-cells, and mold-fungus,
