36
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nearly every tube that receives a centimetre of the water will become
turbid ; but, if the number of bacteria is only half as many, half the
tubes will remain sterile. This rule, though inexact in theory, seems
to prevail with an approach to exactness in practice. M. Miquel ap-
plied it to the estimation of the bacteria in rain-water, and found that
at the beginning of storms the water of precipitation contained a con-
siderable number, amounting sometimes to as many as fifteen per cubic
centimetre, and that the number immediately began to diminish ;
but that, strange to say, " after two or three days of moist and rainy
weather the meteoric water frequently contained more bacteria than
at the beginning of the rain. As the atmosphere was then in a condi-
tion of extreme purity a fact that was established simultaneously by
the statistics of the germs in the air it seemed to be shown that the
bacteria could live and multiply in the very midst of the clouds, or,
perhaps, that the clouds might in their course through space charge
themselves with a very valuable contingent of germs."
In studying under the microscope the development of these little
organisms, in the preparations of which they have taken possession, a
very curious evolution of one of the microbes of the air is revealed.
The organism is a bacterium, which presents at first sight the charac-
teristics of a very long, filamentous bacillus. M. Miquel affirms that
he has seen this organism afterward divide itself into segments of
unequal size, in such a way as to form strings of micrococci. The
observation deserves consideration, for, if it is confirmed, and the
Fig. 7. Successive Phases in the Transformation op the same Organism (after M. Miguel).
Magnified 1,000 diameters.
habit is proved to be general, it will establish a line of union between
the different types of the inferior algae, which were believed to be
fixed, but may be, after all, only transient genera.
It is important to have the microbes collected in the broth of the
tubes sown in different kinds of liquors. Such treatment furnishes
