5 88 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
wealthy and luxurious epicure, because I am convinced, not merely
from theoretical considerations, but also from practical experiments,
that all kinds of meat may be not merely as well roasted in a close
oven as before an open fire, but that the close chamber, properly man-
aged, produces better results in every respect than can possibly be
obtained by roasting in the open air.
To obtain such results there must be no compromise, no concession
to any false theory respecting a necessity for ventilation.
Many modern kitchen-ranges are fitted with such compromises in
the shape of a ventilated roasting-oven, the action of which ventilation
is purely and simply mischievous, excepting in the case of semi-putrid
game or venison, which require to be carbonized and disinfected as
well as cooked, and, of course, also demand the speedy removal of
their noxious vapors.
Not so with fresh meats. There is nothing in the vapor of beef
that can injure the flavor of beef, nor in the vapor of mutton that is
damaging to mutton, and so on with the rest. But there is much that
can, and does, actually improve them ; or, more strictly speaking, pre-
vents the deterioration to which they are liable when roasted before
an open fire. I will endeavor to explain this.
Carefully-conducted experiments have demonstrated the general
law that atmospheric air is a vacuum to the vapor of water and other
similar vapors, while each particular vapor is a plenum to itself, though
not to other vapors ; or, otherwise stated, if a given space, at a given
temperature, be filled with air, the quantity of aqueous vapor that it is
capable of holding is the same as though this space contained no air
at all, nor anything else. But this same space may contain a much
smaller quantity of aqueous vapor, and yet be absolutely impenetrable
to aqueous vapor, provided its temperature is unaltered.
Thus, if a bell-glass, filled with air under ordinary pressure, at the
temperature of 100 Fahr., be placed over a dish of water at same
temperature, a quantity of vapor, equal to one thirtieth (in round
numbers) of the weight of the air, will rise into the bell-glass, and
there remain diffused throughout. If there were less air, or no air at
all (temperature remaining the same), the bell-glass would obtain and
hold the same quantity of vapor.
If, instead of being filled with air, it contained at the outset only
this one thirtieth of aqueous vapor, it would now be an impenetrable
plenum, behaving like a solid to aqueous vapor no more can be
forced into it without raising its temperature.
But while thus charged with aqueous vapor, there would still be
room for vapor of alcohol, or turpentine, or ether, or chloroform, etc.
It would be a vacuum to these, though a plenum to itself. On the
other hand, if the alcohol, turpentine, ether, or chloroform were al-
lowed to evaporate into the bell-glass, a certain quantity of either of
these vapors would presently enter it, and then this vapor would act
