592 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The tube v, Fig. 1, is for carrying away vapor, if necessary. This
tube may be opened or closed by means of a damper moved by the
little handle shown on the right. The heat of the roaster is regulated
by means of the register c in the ash-pit door of the fireplace, its
dryness by the above-named damper of the steam-tube v, and also by
the blow-pipes, bp.
These are iron tubes, about two and a half inches in diameter,
placed underneath, so as to be in the midst of the flame as it ascends
from the fire into the enveloping flue, shown by the dotted lines, Fig.
4, where their external openings are shown at bp, bp, and the plugs
by which they may be opened or closed in Fig. 1. It is evident that
by removing these plugs and opening the damper of the steam-pipe a
blast of hot, dry air will be delivered into the roaster at its back part,
and it must pass forward to escape by the steam-pipe. As these
blow-pipes are raised to a red heat when the fire is burning briskly,
the temperature of this blast of air may be very high ; with even a
very moderate fire, sufficiently high to desiccate and spoil the meat if
they were kept open during all the time of cooking. They are ac-
cordingly to be kept closed until the last stage of the roasting is
reached ; then the fire is urged by opening the ash-pit register, and
when the blow-pipes are about red-hot their plugs are removed, and
the steam-pipe damper is opened for a few minutes to brown the meat
by means of the hot wind thus generated.
It will be observed that a special fire directly under the roaster is
here designed, and that this fire is inclosed in brickwork. This is a
general feature of Rumford's arrangements, which I shall have to
discuss more fully when I come to the subject of kitchen-fires. The
economy of the whole device will be understood by the fact that, in a
test experiment at the Foundling Institution of London, he roasted
one hundred and twelve pounds of beef with a consumption of only
twenty-two pounds of coal (three pennyworth, at twenty-five shillings
per ton).
Rumford tells us that " when these roasters were first proposed,
and before their merit was established, many doubts were entertained
respecting the taste of the food prepared in them," but that, after
many practical trials, it was proved that "meat of every kind, with-
out any exception, roasted in a roaster, is better tasted, higher flavored,
and much more juicy and delicate than when roasted on a spit before
an open fire." These italics are in the original, and the testimony of
competent judges is quoted.
I must describe one experiment in detail. Two legs of mutton
from the same carcass made equal in weight before cooking were
roasted, one before the fire and the other in a roaster. When cooked
both were weighed, and the joint roasted in the roaster proved to be
heavier than the other by six per cent. They were brought upon
table at the same time, "and a large and perfectly unprejudiced com-
