594 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
antly until the oxidation of the great air-chamber proved that the
engine burned iron as well as coal at a ruinous cost.
Although no mention is made by Rumford of such destruction of
the blow-pipes, he was evidently conscious of the costliness of his
original roaster, as he describes another which may be economically
substituted for it. This has an air-chamber formed by bringing the
body of the oven-door so as to inclose the space occupied by the blow-
pipes shown in Fig. 1, and placing the dripping-pan on a false bottom
joined to the front face of the roaster just below the door, but not ex-
tending quite to the back. An adjustable register door opens at the
front into this air-chamber, and when this is opened the air passes
along from front to back under the false bottom, and rises behind to
an outlet pipe like that shown at v, Fig. 1. In thus passing along the
hot bottom of the oven the air is heated, but not so greatly as by the
blow-pipes, which, being surrounded by the flame on all sides, are
heated above as well as below, and the air in passing through them is
much more exposed to heat than in passing through the air-chamber.
To increase the heat transmitted in the latter, Rumford proposes
that " a certain quantity of iron wire, in loose curls, or of iron turn-
ings, be put into the air-chamber."
This modification he called a " roasting-oven," to distinguish it
from the first described, the " roaster." He states that the roasting-
oven is not quite so effective as the roaster, but from its greater cheap-
ness may be largely used. This anticipation has been realized. The
modern " kitchener," which in so many forms is gradually and steadily
supplanting the ancient open range, is an apparatus in which roasting
in the open air before a fire is superseded by roasting in a closed
chamber or roasting oven. Having made three removals within the
last twelve years, each preceded by a tedious amount of house-hunting,
I have seen a great many kitchens of newly-built houses, and find that
about ninety per cent of these have closed kitcheners, and only about
ten per cent are fitted with open ranges of the old pattern. Bottle-
jacks, like smoke-jacks and spits, are gradually falling into disuse.
When these kitcheners were first introduced, a great point was
made by the manufacturer of the distinction between the roasting and
the baking oven ; the first being provided with a special apparatus for
effecting ventilation by devices more or less resembling that in Rum-
ford's roasting-oven. Gradually these degenerated into mere shams,
and now in the best kitcheners even a pretense to ventilation is aban-
doned. Having reasoned out my own theory of the conditions de-
manded for perfect roasting some time ago (about 18G0, when I
lectured on " Household Philosophy " to a class of ladies at the Bir-
mingham and Midland Institute), I have watched the gradual disap-
pearance of these concessions to popular prejudice with some interest,
as they show how practical experience has confirmed this theory,
which, as already expounded, is that the meat should be cooked by the
