THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY
595
action of radiant heat, projected toward it from all sides, while it is
immersed in an atmosphere saturated toith its own vapors.
Herein I diverge from ray teacher, as the preceding description of
both his roaster and roasting-oven shows. His explanation of the
prejudice of Englishmen against baked meats may have been to some
extent justified by his own experience, seeing that he heated his ovens
by a fire placed below, and, if he first used these without his water-pan,
they doubtless effected the decomposition of the dripping and gravy
of which he speaks (see No. XI of this series, page 591) ; but even
in this case the flavor of merely burned fat is not very serious far
less objectionable than that of the vile mixture of vapors described in
No. X.
The few domestic fireplace ovens that existed in Rumford's time
were clumsily heated by raking some of the fire from the grate into a
space left below the oven. Those of the best modern kitcheners are
heated by flues going round them, generally starting from the top,
which thus attains the highest temperature. The radiation from this
does the " browning " for which Rumford's blow-pipes were designed.
According to my view of the philosophy of roasting, this brown-
ing, or the application of the highest temperature, should take place
at the beginning rather than the end of the process, in order that a
crust of firmly coagulated albumen may surround the joint and retain
the juices of the meat. All that is necessary to obtain this effect in a
sufficient degree is to raise the roasting-oven to its full temperature
before the meat is put in. Supposing an equal fire is maintained all
the while, this initial temperature will exceed that of the continuing
temperature, because, when the meat is in the oven, the radiant heat
from its sides are intercepted by the joint and doing work upon it ;
heat can not do work without a corresponding fall of temperature.
While the oven is empty, the radiations from each side cross the open
space to re-enforce the temperature of the other sides.
Is there, then, any difference at all between roasting and baking ?
There is. In roasting, the temperature, after the first start, is main-
tained about uniformly throughout ; while, in baking by the old-
fashioned method, the temperature continually declines from the be-
ginning to the end of the process ; but, in order that a dweller in
cities, or the cook of an ordinary town household, may understand
this difference, some explanation is necessary. The old-fashioned
oven, such as was generally used in Rumford's time, and is still used
in country houses and by old-fashioned bakers, was an arched cavity
of brick, with a flat brick floor. This cavity is closed by a suitable
door, which, in its primitive and perhaps its best form, was a flat tile
that was pressed against the opening, and luted round with clay.
Such ovens were, and still are, heated by simply spreading on the
brick floor a sufficient quantity of wood preferably well-dried twigs ;
these, being lighted, raise the temperature of the arched roof to a
