HOW MUCH ANIMALS KNOW. 39
we take against such evasive foes working as we do in the dark bo-
using antiseptics, are evidently insufficient. A substance that kills
one bacterium may not hinder the development of its neighbor, and
our employment of antiseptics is always dependent upon their specific
action. There exists no universal remedy against microbes. Science
alone can teach us how to contend against them. Translated for the
Popular Science Monthly from the Revue Scientifiaue.
HOW MUCH ANIMALS KNOW.
By F. A. FEENALD.
~\TO phenomena in nature are watched with more interest by all
-i-N classes, young and old, ignorant and educated, than the displays
of intelligence in the inferior animals. From the dog, which occupies
a position of intelligent companionship with man, down through the
less favored species even to the lowest groups of animal life, we see
manifested all degrees of that wonderful attribute which in its highest
perfection constitutes the human mind. It is not surprising that these
various indications of something like a capacity for thought should be
of universal interest, but it also has a deeper meaning, which it is the
office of science and philosophy to explore, and which relates to the
profound and mysterious problem of " mind in nature." Before phi-
losophy can make much headway with this question, however, there
must be a more critical scrutiny of the question as to what degrees of
intelligence different grades of animals really possess. Dr. George J.
Romanes, in his recent interesting book on "Animal Intelligence,"
engages with this subject as a scientific question of comparative psy-
chology, and he has done a good deal toward winnowing away the
fictions that have become current in relation to the mental manifesta-
tions of the lower tribes, and has given us probably the most trust-
worthy book extant upon the subject. We cull from his pages a series
of representative instances of animal sagacity which the reader will
find both entertaining and instructive.
It is common to quote the oyster as the lowest example of stupidity,
or absence of anything mental, and, as it is a headless creature, the
accusation might not seem wholly unfounded. Yet the oyster is not
such a fool but that it can learn by experience, for Dicquemase asserts
that, if it be taken from a depth never uncovered by the sea, it opens
its shell, loses the water within, and perishes. But oysters taken from
the same depth, if kept in reservoirs where they are occasionally left
uncovered for a short time, learn to keep their shells closed, and then
live for a much longer time when taken out of the water.
This fact is also stated by Bingley, and is now turned to practical
