AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS. 601
Our State and national governments have recognized the impor-
tance of agricultural education by founding the agricultural colleges,
and in so doing they have done well ; but, unless we are prepared to
maintain that we know already all that we can or all that we need of
the science of agriculture, the system needs, to complete it, such pro-
vision for increasing our knowledge in this direction as well-equipped
experiment stations can furnish. Despite the great advances of agri-
cultural science in the last thirty years, there is still a vast region to
be explored ; there are many errors to be corrected and partial views
to be extended ; and, unless the professors in our agricultural colleges
have and impart to their students a sense of the extent of their igno-
rance and a thirst for more and fuller knowledge, their instruction will
be largely fruitless. We must provide for teaching the teachers. As
the colleges are now situated, it is in most cases practically impossible
for the professors to undertake any extended experimental work. Agri-
cultural experimentation, especially, demands both time and money,
and usually no large amount of either is available for it. It is not a
work that can be taken up at odd minutes, in the intervals of other
occupations, with any hope of success. It must be followed as a busi-
ness, and this it can be only in an institution maintained for this pur-
pose i. e., in an experiment station.
It would appear, then, that agricultural experiment stations are
important agents in promoting the welfare of the agricultural classes,
and through them that of the whole community. They may do this
by repressing fraud or adulteration, and thus preventing pecuniary
loss ; or, by developing practical applications of scientific principles,
and thus leading to pecuniary gain ; or, last, but by no means least,
by promoting the advancement of agricultural science and of sound
agricultural education, and so contributing both to the physical and
mental well-being of important classes in the community.
We emphasize this latter function of experiment stations, not with
a desire to depreciate their other uses, which are highly important, but
which are also sure of general appreciation, but because it is the one
most likely to be overlooked, and because it seems to us the most im-
portant of all. Our experiment stations will doubtless continue to
test fertilizers, seeds, etc., as they have done, and they will, in all
likelihood, extend the scope and number of their field and feeding
experiments. How far they will enter upon purely scientific work it
is not so easy to foretell. Many, doubtless, will take it up to a small
extent, if at all, finding their time and means fully occupied with
other things. It must also depend largely on the public sentiment,
particularly in the case of stations supported by the State, and it is
perhaps questionable whether much but " practical " work can be ex-
pected from them. Private stations, of course, would be free from
any limitations arising from lack of public appreciation, and, provided
their means were adequate, might very appropriately devote them-
