THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 605
to a certain degree, their utmost activity is insufficient to supply the
needs of the organism, and the patient suffers the tortures of an ir-
remediable air-famine. The automatic action of the lungs has to be
supplemented by a desperate muscular effort, the motions of the con-
tracted organ become spasmodic and wheezing, the sufferer is unable
to breathe in an horizontal position, and after a short slumber awakens
with a sense of suffocation. But a chronic disposition to all these
symptoms in their extreme malignity may exist without a phthisical
diathesis, and remain latent for weeks and years. The exciting cause
generally operates without a moment's warning. During the labori-
ous digestion of a heavy dinner, or even after a moderate meal, eaten
on a sultry day, the process of respiration begins to alternate Avith in-
ert pauses, relieved at first by an occasional yawn, by-and-by only by
a violent gasp ; a feeling of uneasiness supervenes, the air-deficit be-
comes more and more perceptible, and the patient suddenly realizes
that he is booked for a five days' struggle with a pulmonary torpor.
Changes of temperature, a sudden thaw in midwinter, or a sultry day
after a protracted rain, have a similar tendency, but the most frequent
proximate cause is violent mental emotion fear, anxiety, and espe-
cially suppressed anger. Nothing else so strikingly illustrates the in-
timate interaction of mental and physical conditions as this sudden
pathological effect of a purely physical cause. In the same instant
almost, when a fit of wrath even in the form of a transient irritation
accelerates the throbbing of the heart, its reaction on the respiratory
organs betrays itself by a spasmodic gasp, the patient instinctively
clutches his ribs and tries to master the incipient mischief, but emo-
tional asthma is a form of the disease that can rarely be nipped in the
bud ; the primum mobile can not be revoked, and the sufferer may
think himself lucky to get off with a result of twenty-four hours'
misery. Excessive exercise lifting weights, running, wrestling, etc.
is merely an adjuvant of tbe fore-named cause. With his mind at
ease, an asthmatic may chop cord -wood on the warmest day in the
year, carry corn-sacks, or run up-hill till his lungs are ready to burst
with panting ; that panting will be entirely distinct from the ineffect-
ual gasps of the air-famine. But, under the depressing influence of
mental worry, an exhausting physical effort will bring on a fit of
asthma as surely as heat and exercise would result in perspiration.
Among the rarer proximate causes are loss of blood, starvation,
nervous exhaustion from mental overwork, sexual excesses, and sudden
fright, or rather the shudder which sometimes follows the nervous
shock produced by a real or imaginary danger, as a slip of the foot at
the brink of a steep declivity, a snake-panic, the unexpected visit of a
stranger, etc. Nausea in some of its forms may produce an analogous
effect. " A young lady," says a correspondent of the London "Lan-
cet," "was sitting at dinner, apparently in perfect health. She par-
took, among other things, of some rabbit, and in about ten minutes or
