THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 607
though it diminishes the danger of future attacks. We have seen that
a strenuous physical effort can under circumstances become the direct
cause of an asthma-paroxysm, yet under proper precautions exercise is
the best corrective of an asthmatic disposition ; for all vital vigor is
based upon muscular strength. It would be a mistake to suppose that
the invigoration of the lungs alone could be a protection against
asthma. An asthmatic diathesis may coexist with a perfect freedom
from the usual symptoms of weak lungs ; nay, chronic asthma seems
to counteract the development of pulmonary phthisis. The asthmatic
predisposition seems rather to consist in a general want of vital energy,
and the object of the treatment should therefore be the invigoration
of the whole system, not by means of " chest-expanders " alone, but
by out-door life, pleasant exercise such as gardening, hunting, or co-
operative gymnastics by a free use of cold water, and a liberal but
non-stimulating diet. The latter proviso would exclude a large num-
ber of comestibles which the Brunonians would enumerate among the
essentials of a " tonic regimen " : The beef-and-beer cure deals in
sham-remedies. We are not nourished by what we eat, but by what
we digest. Plethora is not strength, but often its very opposite : the
accumulation of expletive fat impairs the disease-resisting power of
the organism ; a gaunt wood-cutter, a wiry peddler or mail-rider, will
survive epidemics that slaughter hecatombs of stall-fed burghers. The
modern macrobiots, the long-lived inhabitants of the Ionian Archipel-
ago, subsist on figs, goat-milk, and maize-bread ; the herculean natives
of the eastern Caucasus live on honey, barley-cakes, and poor cheese.
The self-made Samson of modern times, Dr. Winship, of Boston, satis-
fied his craving for animal food with an occasional box of oiled sar-
dines, and, on a diet of fruit and farinaceous dishes, spiced with daily
gymnastics, made his body a complex of superhuman muscles and sin-
ews. A constitution, built up after that pattern, might not secure the
possessor against heart-disease, nor if he confined himself to in-door
gymnastics against consumption, but it would insure him against
asthma. In ninety-nine out of a hundred cases, an asthmatic disposi-
tion is combined with a deficient muscular development.
The pathological peculiarities of the disease make it safest to begin
the movement-cure in midwinter, and suspend it during premature
spring weather, and again during the moist, hot weeks of early summer
June being, par excellence, the asthma-month of the year. I knew
people who could foretell the very week when they had to get their
" asthma- weeds " ready. By a permanent suspension of his exercises an
hygienic gymnast would gradually lose the gained vantage-ground, but
during a few days' pause the unemployed surplus of vital energy is put
at the disposition of the organism. Such pauses, therefore, become ad-
visable whenever the premonitory symptoms of the disease indicate the
agency of asthenic influences, and for greater security also after every
annoying mental emotion. The occasions for such annoyances should,
