4 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
account in the so-called " oyster-schools " of France. The distance
from the coast to Paris being too great for the newly-dredged oysters
to travel without opening their shells, they are first taught in the
schools to bear a longer and longer exposure to the air without gaping,
and when their education in this respect is completed, they are sent on
their journey to the metropolis, where they arrive with closed shells
and in a healthy condition.
The social life of ants has many parallels to that of the barbarous
races of human beings. Thus, the habit of making slaves is said to
obtain among at least three species of ant. A community attacks a
nest of another species in a body ; there is a great fight with much
slaughter, and, if victorious, the slave-makers carry off the pupae of
the vanquished nest in order to hatch them out as slaves. When the
pupae hatch out in the nest of their captors, the young slaves begin
their life of work, and seem to regard their masters' home as their
own ; for they never attempt to escape, and they fight no less keenly
than their masters in defense of the nest. In the nests of Formica
sanguinea the comparatively few captives are kept as household slaves.
They never leave the nest, and so all the out-door work of foraging,
slave-capturing, etc., is performed by the masters.
F. rufescens, on the other hand, assigns a much larger share of
labor to the slaves. In this species the males and fertile females do
no work of any kind, and the workers, or sterile females, though most
energetic in capturing slaves, do no other kind of work. Therefore
the whole community is absolutely dependent upon its slaves. Huber
shut up thirty masters without a slave and with abundance of their
favorite food, and also with their own larva? and pupae as a stimulus
to work ; but they could not feed even themselves, and many died of
hunger. He then introduced a single slave, and she at once set to
work, fed the surviving masters, attended to the larvae, and made some
cells.
A predatory expedition of ants for capturing slaves, or robbing the
storehouse of another nest, marches out in a close column numbering
from a few hundreds to several thousands. The army is guided to its
destination, which may be an hour's march distant, by several ants
who run from side to side with heads down, evidently finding their
way by scent. A marauding excursion of the F. rufescens, or Ama-
zons, against the F. rufibarbis, a sub-species of the F.fusca, or small
black ants, took place as follows : The vanguard of the robber army
found that it had reached the neighborhood of the hostile nest more
quickly than it had expected ; for it halted suddenly and decidedly,
and sent a number of messengers which brought up the main body
and the rear-guard with incredible speed. In less than thirty seconds
the whole army had closed up, and hurled itself in a mass on the dome
of the hostile nest. This was the more necessary, as the rvfibarbes
during the short halt had discovered the approach of the enemy, and
