WAYS OF PRESERVING FOOD. 623
However destructive to the material wealth of the country may be
the vast losses of property by fire, they sink completely out of view
when compared with the terrible sacrifices of human life that are con-
stantly resulting from unsafe building construction. Against these
fearful consequences, humanity can reasonably protest, and claim, for
the sake of human welfare, that such structures as hotels, theatres,
public schools, and all other places of public resort, shall be made in-
vulnerable to fire.
The writer has heretofore declined to make any public statement
concerning the experiments herein described, for the reason that he
considered that they ought to undergo thoroughly satisfactory tests of
severe weather exposures, and varying temperatures, through a period
of time long enough to determine their true and relative value.
In conclusion, it is to be hoped that these experiments may shed
enough additional light on the fire-proof building question to make the
way easy for reducing re-enforced beton construction to a system, that
will deserve public confidence, and ultimately find general adoption.
WAYS OF PRESERVING FOOD.
By Dr. HERMANN KEATZEB.
THE protein constituents of our animal and vegetable foods, such
as albumen, etc., render them in a high degree sensitive to exter-
nal influences and easily susceptible to decay. For this reason atten-
tion has for a considerable time been given to the search for methods
of preserving them as long as possible unchanged. Formerly, this
matter was left to the housekeeping department ; but within the last
eighteen or twenty years it has become an object of scientific investi-
gation.
The most common methods of protecting meat, fish, vegetables, and
fruits against destruction have been to preserve them in sugar, salt, or
vinegar ; and the processes of pickling, smoking, drying, pressing,
and refrigeration, have been devised for this purpose. Extracts of
the essential constituents have also been employed, and forms of com-
pressed meat have been introduced. A number of other special meth-
ods of preservation will be described in this article.
A well-known process of securing meat, vegetables, etc., against
decay is by canning, which consists in heating the substances so as to
drive out the air, and sealing them up while still hot in air-tight ves-
sels. For this purpose they are put into the cans, only a small hole
being left in the top of the vessel and exposed to a salt-water bath, in
which they are heated to a higher temperature than the boiling-point
of pure water, when the can is closed. This method has the advantage
