624 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of preserving all the nourishing qualities of the substances and their
taste unimpaired. The use of glass and earthen ware jars instead
of tin cans is familiar.
A method has been patented in England for preserving meat in
gross. The beast is killed, and, after all the blood has run out, is
at once skinned and disemboweled. It is then dipped entire into a
mixture of 72 per cent alcohol and one per cent of carbolic acid, and
after it has dried is laid in a concentrated alcoholic solution of sugar.
It is then cut up and packed in casks which are afterward filled with
melted fat.
By another English patented process the meat is soaked during
from twenty-four to thirty-six hours in a solution of 150 grammes of
boric acid, 300 grammes of borax, 155 grammes of common salt, and
53 grammes of saltpeter, which had been previously dissolved in two
litres of water, after which it is packed in casks. A practicable
method of preparing meat for long transportation is to expose it to
a current of refrigerated air till it is stiffened, then sprinkle pow-
dered borax upon it, and put it in a refrigerator-car.
Herr F. Wickerskeimer's process employs a solution of 36 grammes
of potash, 15 grammes of common salt, and 6 grammes of alum, with
three litres of water, which is heated to 122 and added to a second
solution of 9 grammes of salicylic acid, 45 grammes of methyl alcohol,
and 250 grammes of glycerine ; and with this the whole animal is
charged.
Kauffmann's method of preparation has been tried in household
practice, with satisfaction. The top of a cask is removed carefully so
that it can be tightly fitted in again, and a pan of sulphur is put in
the bottom of the barrel and set fire to. The top, to which the meat has
been hung, is then fitted in. By repeating the fumigation often enough,
meat can be kept for a long time even in the summer, without ice, and
without imbibing the odor or taste of the sulphur.
The exclusion of the air is sought in the canning processes. The
real object is to exclude the germs of decay that are brought in with
the air. The same purpose may be effected by filtering the air. To
do this, a thickness of cotton between two pieces of linen may be put
over the mouth of the jar. The vessel with its contents having been
heated to expel the air within, the air that returns upon cooling de-
posits its germs upon the cotton in passing through it. The vessel
may then be tightly closed with parchment-paper.
Among other methods of preserving foods are the familiar ones
with sugar, salt, saltpeter, and vinegar. The first three substances
act by withdrawing water from the conserves and leaving in place of
it their own concentrated solutions, which are unfavorable to the de-
velopment of germs. To obtain a perfect preservation, the solutions
should be in a state of very great concentration and shoidd surround
the food-matter on every side. The sugar-process is expensive on ac-
