HOW MUCH ANIMALS KNOW. 4 i
had utilized the time to cover the dome with defenders. An inde-
scribable struggle followed, but the superior numbers of the Amazons
overcame, and they penetrated into the nest, while the defenders poured
by thousands out of the same holes, with their larvae and pupae in their
jaws, and escaped to the nearest plants and bushes, running over the
heaps of their assailants. These looked on the matter as hopeless, and
began to retreat. But the rujibarbes, furious at their proceedings, pur-
sued them, and endeavored to get away from them the few pupa? they
had obtained, by trying to seize the Amazons' legs and to snatch away
the pupae. The Amazon lets its jaws slip slowly along the captive
pupa, as far as the head of its opponent, and pierces it, if it does not,
as generally happens, draw back. But it often manages to seize the
pupa at the instant at which the Amazon lets it go, and flees with it.
This is managed the more easily when a comrade holds the robber by
the legs, and compels it to loose its prey in order to guard itself against
its assailant. The strength of the rujibarbes proved at last so great
that the rear-guard of the retreating army was seriously pressed, and
was obliged to give up its booty. A number of the Amazons also were
overpowered and killed, but not without the rujibarbes also losing many
people. Nevertheless, some individuals, as though desperate, rushed
into the thickest hosts of the enemy, penetrated again into the nest,
and carried off several pupae by sheer audacity and skill. Ten minutes
after the commencement of the retreat, all the Amazons had left the
nest, and, being swifter than their opponents, they were only pursued
for about half-way back. Their attack had failed on account of a
short delay.
It seems to be a pretty general habit among many species of ants to
dispose of the dead bodies of their comrades very carefully. The fol-
lowing especially notable account is given by an Australian observer :
" I saw a large number of ants surrounding the dead ones, and de-
termined to watch their proceedings closely. I followed four or five
that started off from the rest toward a hillock a short distance off, in
which was an ants' nest. This they entered, and in about five minutes
they reappeared, followed by others. All fell into rank, walking reg-
ularly and slowly two by two, until they arrived at the spot where lay
the dead bodies of the soldier-ants. In a few minutes two of the ants
advanced and took up the dead body of one of their comrades ; then
two others, and so on, until all were ready to march. First walked
two ants bearing a body, then two without a burden ; then two others
with another dead ant, and so on, until the line was extended to about
forty pairs, and the procession now moved slowly onward, followed by
an irregular body of about two hundred ants. Occasionally the two
laden ants stopped, and, laying down the dead ant, it was taken up by
the two walking unburdened behind them, and thus, by occasionally
relieving each other, they arrived at a sandy spot near the sea. The
body of ants now commenced digging with their jaws a number of holes
