626 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which has a faint smell of roast meat, is very good, and can be used
in the preparation of soups and broths.
The meat-biscuit of Gail Borden is prepared by seething freshly-
killed beef with hot water till all the nourishing constituents are ex-
tracted. The solution of these constituents is then dried to the con-
sistency of an extract, and this is mixed w r ith flour into a dough which
is made into cakes and baked in a moderately hot oven. According
to Mr. Borden, five hundred grammes of the biscuit contain as much
nutritive matter as two and a half kilogrammes of fresh meat. In a
similar way, turnips, celery, spinach, and other vegetables, are dried
and compressed in square cakes, which, enveloped in tin-foil, will keep
fresh in the market for a very long time.
Other methods of preservation depend on the use of antiseptics.
Besides carbolic and salicylic acids, borax, boric acid, boroglycerine,
and xanthogenate of potash, may be used in preserving. Aqueous
solutions of boric acid and borax are very effective preservatives, for
many months, of meats, fish, vegetables, or fruits, which are immersed
in them. Pulverized borax is also effective, whether by itself or mixed
with pulverized alum and gypsum.
The substance called boroglycerine has recently attracted consid-
erable attention. With it Professor Barff has prepared meat for pre-
servation during long voyages, and has shipped experimental packages
of beef across the Atlantic Ocean and back without their undergoing
any change. Mr. Russell, President of the English Society of Arts,
has also, independently of Professor Barff, found it excellent for the
preservation of meat and milk. It promises to come into general use,
for its application is without the slightest danger to the healthful or
other qualities of the food, and it is very cheap. The " Deutschen
Industrie Zeitung " gives the following directions for its preparation :
Glycerine is heated to as high a temperature as it will bear without
decomposition, and as much crystallized boric acid is added to it as it
will dissolve. The usual proportion is 92 parts of glycerine to 62
parts of boric acid. The mixture is then heated to a temperature of
about 400, till after four or five hours the vapor of water ceases to
pass from it. The resultant product, after cooling, is boroglycerine,
in the form of a yellow, transparent mass, soluble in water and alco-
hol. It is applied to organic substances in solutions of one part to
forty parts of water.
With xanthic acid, Professor Zollner, of Vienna, has preserved
beef and veal, poultry, pigeons, and over-ripe plums. Its operation is
the more effective because it is volatile at ordinary temperatures, and
a very small proportion of its vapor in the air of a chamber is efficient
to prevent all decay.
A preservative salt, patented by a German manufacturer, consists
of crystallized boric acid and phosphate of soda, to which a mixture
of common salt and saltpeter is added.
