INSANITY. 627
We stop, without having yet exhausted the list of possible pro-
cesses for preserving food. New ones are discovered from time to
time, which may prove practically applicable for general use ; and
many are still in an experimental stage, not yet sufficiently tested or
sufficiently perfected to justify recommending them to the public.
Translated for the Popular Science Monthly from, Die Natur.
INSANITY.
BY ONE WHO HAS BEEN INSANE.
PERHAPS, if some of our most celebrated experts, in cases of in-
sanity, had been, for a while at least, insane themselves, it would
have been to the advantage of science. Of some diseases, like malarial
fever, or small-pox, a physician can doubtless give a better idea than
the patient who has suffered from them ; because, these diseases be-
ing distinctly physical, the symptoms furnished by the body are gen-
erally sufficient data for an accurate diagnosis. But insanity may be
said to possess more of a psychological than a physiological character.
The brain, being the organ through which the mind communicates
with the outside world, can not, if it becomes disordered or diseased,
give or receive any trustworthy intelligence. Only the patient him-
self can know his condition, and he only so far as he can subsequently
recall his experiences. Sometimes his recollections are confused and
worthless, and at other times they are remarkably vivid. I have
been undoubtedly insane twice, the delusions on each occasion con-
tinuing for the space of three or four weeks. These attacks occurred
several years ago, and were about six or seven months apart. I pro-
pose, in this article, to allude to so much of my experience, during
the two periods, as may throw some little light upon a subject that
has always been as interesting as it is obscure, and that has occupied
the attention of some of the ablest intellects in this country and in
Europe.
In consequence of overwork, excitement, and mental anxiety, my
nervous system had become almost totally prostrated, and I suddenly
and without warning lost my reason. Neither my friends nor myself
had received any such intimations as led us to apprehend a calamity
of that kind. So far as we knew, there had never been any insanity
among my ancestors or relatives. During the trial of Guiteau, it may
be remembered, the question was raised, to what extent insanity could
be regarded as hereditary. A distinction without a difference was
drawn between inheriting insanity and inheriting a tendency to become
insane. Few persons, perhaps, are born insane ; and few are born
with consumption. A man whose ancestors have been drunkards is
