INSANITY. 63 1
proportion, will be found to be greatly in excess. For my own part,
I would sooner trust my life with an insane man than with one whose
brain has been inflamed by over-indulgence in the liquors sold in the
saloons and grog-shops. Before a person becomes insane there are
two symptoms that almost invariably manifest themselves, insomnia
and constipation. All the testimony I have been able to collect upon
the subject goes to show this ; and I have made very extensive in-
quiries. There has never been a single case brought to my notice,
where the patient's mind was much drawn to any one subject, that it
did not, to a greater or less extent, prevent his sleeping, and always
enough to excite the attention of those about him. For my own part,
although I believed Guiteau to be a " cranky" individual, of very pe-
culiar mental characteristics, I never thought him in a sufficiently
abnormal condition to be called insane, and principally for this reason,
that with all the intensity of his purpose to shoot President Garfield,
and notwithstanding the "pressure" he alleged that he felt upon his
mind, he was never known to lose a night's rest. He himself said that
he always slept well. Now, an insane man, in the condition which
Guiteau wished to make the world believe he was, would not have slept
well. He would have been up and down in his room all night, and
would have been a nuisance to any one trying to sleep in an adjoin-
ing apartment. Nor did Guiteau suffer from constipation. The absence
of either of these symptoms would have been sufficient to occasion dis-
trust as- to his insanity ; but the lack of both, to my mind at least,
furnished conclusive evidence that he was a responsible man.
Before concluding this article, I wish to say a few words in behalf
of a certain class of insane patients that, perhaps more than any
others, deserve the sympathies of the public.
When I was convalescent, in the asylum, I attended an evening
card-party, given in one of the pleasantest wards, for the amusement
of those patients that were well enough to appreciate and enjoy such
an occasion. I met a lady, a patient, who had been in the asylum
three years. Although I could see that she was somewhat flighty, yet
in all other respects she was quite an intelligent person. She told me
that she had left at Home her daughter, an only child, about fourteen
years old, whom she had not seen in all that time. This lady's hus-
band had virtually put her in prison, and had never taken the pains to
call on her himself oftener than once a year, and had never allowed
her daughter to visit her. Tears stood in the poor woman's eyes as
she told me these things, and I had no reason to believe that she was
deceiving either herself or me. And upon inquiry I found that her
case was not an exceptional one. There are mothers confined in all
our asylums, as there were in the institution where I was, who, while
they are insane enough to warrant their being put under restraint, are
yet sufficiently intelligent to be sensible of their condition, and, like
the lady I have alluded to, be overwhelmed by the thought that they
