632 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are in a hopelessly helpless condition, and may be kept imprisoned
thus for years, or even for life, away from their kindred and friends,
and from the little ones for whom their hearts yearn with an intensity
that no human being can appreciate, except some mother that has
lost a child. This lady said she had known such patients, when talk-
ing about the little children from whom they had been separated, to
sob and moan for hours at a time. But the law is inexorable. It
says that a husband may confine his wife in an asylum if he can prove
that she is insane and that is a very comprehensive word. In some
States the certificates of two physicians will accomplish this purpose ;
and, when once a patient is shut up in a ward, there is no deliver-
ance that can be depended upon, as I shall presently proceed to show.
But not only do the women suffer in this way, for there are men
whose affections are as keen and as strong as those of any woman, who
long to be with their boys and girls, to see them growing to manhood
and womanhood, but who know neither the day nor the hour when
that longing shall be gratified.
In some of our asylums, if not in all, there is a disinclination on
the part of the superintendent to take the responsibility of discharging
a patient, even when cured. One superintendent explained it to me in
this way : " There is," he said, " no certain way of knowing whether
a patient is thoroughly cured. Now, if I discharge one such, while
his friends do not wish him to be sent away, and he subsequently be-
comes insane again, I am held responsible, and it tells against my repu-
tation, and, in some cases, I may be obliged to pay the expense of
getting the patient back again into the asylum. For that reason," he
continued, " I never like to discharge any one until his friends call for
him. I keep them informed of his condition, and leave it to them to
decide when they will take him away."
But some one will say, there is a Board of Charities or some such
arrangement by which the asylums are visited and such patients lib-
erated. In most cases such visitors do not visit in the way the public
imagines or the law requires. I have yet to learn of a case of deliver-
ance effected by any such board. They go to the asylum, glance
through the " crack wards," and then partake of a sumptuous dinner
got up for their benefit by the superintendent, and that is all. But
as to any careful search and investigation, to see whether there are
not patients whose conditions might not be improved, or whose suffer-
ings alleviated, I never heard of anything of the sort, nor have I ever
talked with any one that had. Now, I am not saying that superintend-
ents are cruel, nor that they do not do their duty. I am simply point-
ing out a system that affords every facility for the perpetration of the
grossest and most outrageous injustice ; and I leave it to the public to
say whether any such system ever existed long anywhere without suf-
fering the perversions which it seemed to invite. Some way should
be devised and a legal enactment would be the best remedy by
