INSANITY. 633
which those who confine, or are instrumental in confining, persons that
have children, should be compelled to see that the children are brought,
a certain number of times every year, to visit the parent thus confined.
Again, patients should have greater freedom in communicating with
the outside world. As it is, every letter written by a patient is care-
fully read by the superintendent or some officer ; now, suppose a man
is unjustly confined, and that the superintendent is an accessory to this
false imprisonment. What opportunity would such an unfortunate
prisoner have to obtain his freedom? The superintendent can pre-
vent any letter going out that contains any reflections upon himself or
the institution in his care. Should friends wish to see such a patient,
all the superintendent need do is to say that he can not permit an in-
terview, because the patient is excitable or sick any such excuse will
do. It is always against rules for a patient to address visitors unless
they come to see him particularly. But suppose a patient was success-
ful in laying before a stranger a case of injustice what then ? Why,
the superintendent can say that the patient did not know what he was
talking about, and that would end the matter with ninety-nine people
out of a hundred, for every one knows how humiliating it is to appear
to be deceived by an insane person !
Let the reader remember that I am not publishing this to bring a
railing accusation against asylums or superintendents. While I was
confined I was treated like a gentleman, and was shown every consid-
eration by the superintendent and all the officers. I do not believe
that in the institution where I was a case of unjust imprisonment could
possibly occur while the present superintendent is in charge. What I
wish to demonstrate is that the system invites abuses by making it so
easy for an unprincipled superintendent to act in collusion with an un-
principled outside party, where there are financial or other temptations
to deprive some innocent man or woman of his or her personal liberty.
It is enough to say there is the writ of habeas corpus ; but how is an
unfortunate person in such a case to inform a lawyer that he wants
such a writ issued in his behalf ? And does any one believe that, if
the Board of Visitors in New York could have been relied upon to do
their duty thoroughly, any such outrage as that upon Mr. Silkman
could ever have been perpetrated, or that it would have ever been
attempted ?
The " cottage system " has been spoken of as one means of render-
ing asylum-life pleasanter. But, although that system is better for the
patients, it is not nearly so convenient for the officers ; and, as these
latter have always more to say on the subject than the patients, it is
not likely that the cottage plan will ever be very extensively adopted.
It is much easier to manage an institution where everybody and every-
thing are in one large building than where they are scattered in dif-
ferent houses. Nevertheless if patients could have more of out-door
life, could move about in a flower-garden and breathe the fresh air and
