THE LITTLE MISSOURI BAD LANDS.
6 35
light as from a desert absolute. Far as you can look or listen there
conies not the faintest sign or whisper of living thing. No bird visits
those forgotten hills, no insect stirs about your feet or beats with
humming wings the air ; the very wind is silent, and from the glowing
buttes, as from a furnace, the heated atmosphere rises in shimmering
columns. It seems as if it had never rained, or, if it has rained, it
seems as though it would never rain again. Here is the trail by which,
in 1863, passed General Sully and his train when all these hill-tops
were alive with hostile Sioux. The Indians are long since gone, but
the trail remains unchanged, and can be easily followed after a lapse
of twenty years. Yonder, along that other trail still so clearly visible
over the distant buttes, went Custer and his band when they marched
away to the west and disappeared from human sight forever. The
climate is an arid one, and the process of erosion slow. Looking out
over the landscape as we now see it, none would imagine that all this
territory was at one time favored with a climate perhaps nearly semi-
tropical, that over all this wide area were waving forests of perpetual
green, stretching away to the north, south, east, and west, almost to
the limits of the so-called " Plains." Yet such is the case, and this
complete transition from the wealth of primeval woods to the poverty
of semi-desert has been brought about not by the devastation of short-
sighted man, but by the orderly procedure of all those indefinite forces
which for convenient description men sum up as Nature. The evidence
of this transition is not far to seek. Scattered over the grassy low-
lands, crowning many an isolated pillar of sandstone or clay, lying
here and there on all the high hills, are remnants of gigantic trees,
remnants more or less perfectly silicified, stumps, boles, and branches.
In some localities these " petrified stumps " cover the whole face of
Fig. 1. Longitudinal Section op Selicified
Wood, x 150.
Fig. 2. Microscopic Section of tiie Wood op
the Common Larch, cut in the Long Direc-
tion op the Fibers.
the country, and scores have been carried away on flat-cars to decorate
the lawns of those able to pay freight on such unwieldy " curiosities."
Scientists are frequently disposed to doubt petrifactions, and are often
compelled to disajDpoint popular expectation in regard to forms most
