42 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the ground, into each of which a dead ant was laid, where they now
labored on until they had filled up the ants' graves. This did not
quite finish the remarkable circumstances attending this funeral of the
ants. Some six or seven of the ants had attempted to run off without
performing their share of the task of digging ; these were caught and
brought back, when they were at once attacked by the body of ants and
killed. A single grave was quickly dug, and they were all dropped
into it."
A remarkable acquaintance with mechanical principles is shown by
spiders in building and attaching their webs. This ingenuity is per-
haps most strikingly shown in making the repairs that some accident
has necessitated. A web had been broken from one of its attachments
during a storm and flapped violently in the wind. The spider let it-
self down to the ground, and crawled to a place where lay some splin-
tered pieces of a wooden fence thrown down by the storm. It fast-
ened a thread to one of the bits of wood, turned back with it, and
hung it to the lower part of its nest, about five feet from the ground.
The performance was a wonderful one, for the weight of the wood
sufficed to keep the nest tolerably firm, while it was yet light enough
to yield to the wind, and so prevent further injury. The piece of
wood was about two and a half inches long, and as thick as a goose-
quill. On the following day a careless servant knocked her head
against the wood and it fell down. But in the course of a few hours
the spider had found it and brought it back to its place. When the
storm ceased the spider mended her web, broke the supporting thread,
and let the wood fall to the ground !
The following interesting observation on the intelligence of snakes
shows, not only that these animals are well able to distinguish persons,
but also that they possess an intensity of amiable emotion scarcely to
be expected in this class. A writer to the London " Times " thus de-
scribes the behavior of some pet snakes kept by a gentleman and lady
of his acquaintance :
" Mr. M , after we had talked for a little time, asked if I had any
fear of snakes ; and after a timid ' No, not very,' from me, he pro-
duced out of a cupboard a large boa-constrictor, a python, and several
small snakes, which at once made themselves at home on the writing-
table among pens, ink, and books. I was at first a good deal startled,
especially when the two large snakes coiled round and round my
friend, and began to notice me with their bright eyes and forked
tongues ; but soon finding how tame they were, I ceased to feel
frightened. After a short time Mr. M expressed a wish to call Mrs.
M , and left me with the boa deposited on an arm-chair. I felt a
little queer when the animal began gradually to come near, but the en-
trance of my host and hostess, followed by two charming little children,
put me at my ease again. After the first interchange of civilities, she
and the children went at once to the boa, and, calling it by the most en-
