THE LITTLE MISSOURI BAD LANDS.
641
sides, the strata have evidently never been disturbed in such a way as
to afford any great variety of altitude in this locality. We are there-
fore shut up to the conclusion that, at the time these leaves were green,
a climate prevailed very different from any now known in the same
latitude anywhere in North America.
The climate must have been warm and / \
equable. Indeed, that the climate, not / \
of Dakota only, but of the whole north- / \
ern hemisphere, was at one time far / \
milder than now seems proved, for leaves
such as these of which we speak have
been found in Greenland and many
other circumpolar lands. What may
have been the prime cause of this former
high temperature in high latitudes we
leave students of physical geography and
surface geology to decide, but we may
say this : the warm and equable climates
of the world are maritime, or character-
istic of islands, as the climate of Italy or
the Grecian Archipelago. That a large
body of fresh water may work wonders
in temperature and amount of moisture,
is to us a familiar fact witnessed by the
climate of the peninsula of Michigan.
And so, to meet the requisite climatic conditions suggested by these
few leaves, we are ready to accept without doubt the statements of
men who from their study of the topography of the Bad Lands de-
clare the whole region to have been, perhaps again and again, the
bed of a wide-spread inland lake or sea. On the shores and islands
of this Mediterranean of the Western world stood the forests pri-
meval whose foliage has come down to us like the sad memory of
better days.
As one looks upon these fairly outlined relics of a long-forgotten
age, he may catch glimpses of landscapes in presence of which all the
bleakness and barrenness of the present disappear. Instead of sterile
hills and buttes, far stretches the quiet sea, unvexed by storms, but filled
with happy islands like the " Islands of the Blest." Over the islands
the laurel blooms, abundant fig-trees spread their dense and shining
foliage, and send down aerial roots in thickets impenetrable. Along
the curving shores the bending willows sweep the water's surface,
while hard by stands the broad-leaved plane-tree and the feathery elm,
and farther back the hazel and its kindred oak. The poplar shakes its
shining leaves and fills the air with fragrance. Over the cornel and
the hornbeam creeps the vine, and high above all, walling the horizon
like the cryptomeria in the forests of Japan, sequoias, magnificent se-
FlG. 12. COKNTS RHAMNIFOLIA (O.
Weber).
VOL. XXIII.-
