FACTJL^E AND SUN-SPOTS. 643
rapidly shattered in pieces. They appear generally in groups, though
single spots are seen at times. When a large one is divided into
parts, they seem to repel one another, and move away in various direc-
tions with great velocity ; it is not uncommon that this separation is
equal to one thousand miles in an hour. Respecting what is some-
times seen about or crossing spots, we call attention to the simultane-
ous observations of Mr. Carrington and Mr. Hodgson upon two lumi-
nous objects, resembling in shape two new moons, each 8,000 miles in
length and 2,000 miles wide : these, separated by at least 12,000
miles, came instantly into view at the edge of a large sun-spot, with a
brightness several times greater than the surrounding photosphere,
then passed eastward over the spot, and disappeared in about five min-
utes, having gone not less than 36,000 miles. In no way did the dis-
turbance apparently affect the shape of the spot (passing probably
above it). On the following evening a great magnetic storm and aurora
were decidedly manifest, and there can be little doubt that they were
connected with the event seen in the sun the day preceding. Like-
wise we know that a great solar storm is in progress when our north-
ern heavens are so beautifully illuminated with the northern light.
As to the formation of some spots they have been very slow, requiring
no small amount of time after the disappearance of the facular waves ;
again, as stated, some come and go in a few hours, and assume in some
cases huge dimensions as compared with any one thing on the earth.
A single spot has measured from 40,000 to 50,000 miles in diameter,
in which, as will be readily seen, we could put our earth for a standing
point of observation, and note how the vast facular waves roll and leap
about the edge of the spot, and also how the metallic rain is formed
from the warmer portions of the sun. In June, 1843, a solar spot
remained a week visible to the naked eye, having a diameter of about
77,000 miles ; and in 1837 a cluster of spots covered an area of nearly
4,000,000,000 square miles. When we call to mind that the small-
est spot which can be seen with the most powerful telescope must
have an area of about 50,000 miles, we can readily 6ee how large a
spot must be in order to be visible to the unaided eye. Pasteroff,
in 1828, measured a spot whose umbra had an extent four times greater
than the earth's surface. In August, 1858, a spot was measured by
Newall, and it had a diameter of 58,000 miles more, as you will see,
than seven times the diameter of the earth. The largest spot that has
ever been known to astronomy was no less in diameter than 153,500
miles, so that across this you could have placed side by side eighteen
globes as large as the earth ; and, when the depth of this cavity is
considered mathematically, the result shows that probably not less
than one hundred globes the size of our earth would have been requi-
site to bring it up to the photosphere of the sun. So numerous have
been the observations and measurements, that any attempt to present
them all would require many pages.
