INSECTS AND DISEASE. 645
as also its greater frequency in Siberia and Lapland, where insects of
the mosquito tribe are the great pest of the traveler. In Lapland the
popular belief was long ago universal that the disease was caused by a
peculiar insect, which suddenly descended from the air, and as suddenly
disappeared. In the London " Times" (1860) it is reported that four
hundred persons lost their lives in the south of Russia and in the
province of Kiev from the sting of a " venomous fly " imported from
Asia, the same fly having made its appearance there on another occa-
sion, sixty or seventy years before. Virchow, who has made malig-
nant pustule a special study, says : " Most probably, insects with pierc-
ing probosces effect the inoculation, such as gadflies (Bremse) ; but
flies which make no wound may also implant the poison on the skin
by their soiled wings and feet." The bites of these same flies may be
generally harmless ; they have no venomous power of their own, but
only convey poison from sources of infection to man and animals.
Furthermore, when it is remembered that disease-producing bacte-
ric germs are so minute that a million may rest on the head of a pin,
and that the smallest puncture of the finest needle-point (as in Pas-
teur's experiments with chicken-cholera), when charged with an atom
of infecting matter, may be sufficient to infect the body with the sep-
tic matter, it scarcely seems possible to ignore any longer the punc-
tures of mosquitoes and other proboscidian insects as possible sources
of both infection and contagion. With our present knowledge of the
"germ theory" one would hardly dare, even once, to plunge an inocu-
lating needle into the blood of a yellow-fever or typhus-fever patient,
whether living and comatose or recently dead, and then withdraw it
and plunge it into his own blood or the blood of other persons, yet this
is exactly what the mosquito is doing in nearly every yellow-fever epi-
demic, and what, perhaps, the flea is doing in the filthy jails and ships
infested with t3^phus. In the yellow-fever instance, it is to be noted,
also, that the spread of the disease ceases with frost ; so also do the
peregrinations of the mosquito.
In this paper, however, my chief design is to present what facts I
may be able in support of the mosquital origin of malarial disease
in fact, of ague. And, while the data to be presented can not be held
to prove the theory, they may go so far as to initiate and encour-
age experiments and observations by which the truth or fallacy of
the views held may be demonstrated, which, either way, will be a
step in the line of progress. It is scarcely necessary to premise that
other nay, all insects that infest and wound the human body may
share in the guilt that will here be charged, in particular, to the ctdex;
and so, of course, other diseases than ague, yellow fever, etc., may
possibly have a similar history. Be it noted en passant that, so far
back as 1848, Dr. Josiah Nott, of Mobile, Alabama, published a
lengthy essay on yellow fever, in which he maintained the insect origin
of that disease, and also suggested the "mosquito of the lowlands"
