646 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as a probable cause of malarial fever, in place of the marsb-vapors of
Lanscisci (" New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal," vol. iv,
pp. 5G3-G01, 1848). And, even before bis time, I find tbat a paper on
tbe " Mosquital Origin of Malarial Disease " was publisbed by Dr. Jobn
Crawford in a periodical known as tbe " Baltimore Observer," 1807,
no copy of wbicb I bave yet been able to get bold of.
I now propose to present a series of facts some of tbe best known
and most generally establisbed facts witb regard to the so-called
" malaria] poison," and to sbow bow they may be explicable by the
supposition that the mosquito is the real source of disease, rather than
the inhalation or cutaneous absorption of a marsh-vapor. These facts
are, briefly, as follows : *
1. "Malaria affects, by preference, low and moist localities" in
fact, swamps, fens, jungles, marshes, etc. This statement no one will
dispute. Conformably with it we find the mosquito does the same.
The female lays her eggs, to the number of two hundred and fifty or
three hundred, in a boat-shaped mass, on the surface of any natural or
artificial receptacle for fresh water. Early in spring the larvae are found
in the bottoms of pools and ditches, feeding upon decaying matter
(hence the works on entomology state that they are of great benefit in
clearing swamps of miasms (?)). These larva? are the so-called " wrig-
glers," or " wigglers," to be found in great numbers in any stagnant
pools of water during summer. They change into pupa?, and, in a few
days more, the pupa-skin is cast, and floating on this latter, like a raft,
the insect finally takes flight, a full-developed gnat. Many thousands
perish by drowning, or are devoured by fish while extricating them-
selves from their pupa-cases. As the eggs develop into perfect in-
sects in three or four weeks, many broods are hatched during the
warm season, which accounts for their increasing numbers during the
later summer and autumnal months. Some species deposit their eggs
in soft mud or in dry sand, but all require moisture in the larval state.
2. " Malaria is hardly ever developed at a lower temperature than
60 Fahr." A temperature of G0 F. is necessary for the development
of the mosquito.
3. " Tbe evolution or active agency of malaria is checked by a
temperature of 32 F." The mosquito is killed or paralyzed, so that
its active agency is checked, by a temperature of 32.
4. Malaria "is most abundant and most virulent as we approach
the equator and the sea-coast." The swarms of mosquitoes (as well as
of sand-flies, ants, and other insect-plagues) that infest many equa-
torial regions are well known ; and, with regard to sea-coasts, the accu-
mulation of mosquitoes is both a fact and easily susceptible of expla-
nation. Under the influence of gentle land-breezes the mosquito is
wafted toward the ocean, but, in the absence of strong winds that
* Most of them are quoted from a paper read by Dr. John T. Metcalfe, United States
Sanitary Commission, 1862 ; see, also, Flint's " Practice," p. 826, edition of 1867.
