INSECTS AND DISEASE. 647
would carry it out to sea, the water will form a barrier to its farther
progress seaward, for it is not a marine insect. Mosquitoes, therefore,
accumulate on sea-coasts notably at some of our familiar summer re-
sorts, Cape May, Atlantic City, etc.
5. Malaria " has an affinity for dense foliage, which has the power
of accumulating it when lying in the course of winds blowing from
malarious localities."
6. " Forests or even woods have the power of obstructing or pre-
venting its transmission under these circumstances."
These last two propositions, embodying, first, the " accumulation,"
and, second, the " obstruction," of malaria by forests and trees, may be
considered together. That a wind coming from a marsh (from, in fact,
a mosquito nursery), and bearing a colony of mosquitoes, should be
screened or sifted of its insect burden by passing through the foliage
of a forest, or a belt of trees, is certainly far more comprehensible than
the conception of a malarial vapor being so screened by virtue of its
" affinity for foliage." And though, in the case of a single belt of
trees, even the mosquital filter may appear imperfect, the insect, should
it have been carried far, is probably anxious to settle, and may so
vary its course by steering as to take the first opportunity of clinging
to anything that may come in its way; and, having settled, we may
readily conceive its shifting round to the leeward side of a leaf or
branch, and there holding on until the wind sufficiently subsides to
allow of safer flight. Thus mosquitoes, "like malaria, may both accu-
mulate in, and be obstructed by, forests and trees.
The conduct, or rather the mechanical properties, of the mosquito,
when carried by the wind, can hardly be better described than in the
following verbatim quotation from Sir Francis I)ay, in his description
of malaria. He says : " Malaria may be carried by the winds to places
where it was not generated ; it is obstructed by and hangs in the foli-
age of trees, or in mosquito-curtains ; it subsides into low places, and
may be blown over a hill, and, may be very virulent on the side oppo-
site to that on which it was formed. In like manner it may be taken
up the side of a hill, and, as a lull takes place in the atmosphere, con-
sequent upon its weight it rolls down, and may thus envelop its base
with a deadly belt of fever, for there, hanging in the leaves of the
trees, it gradually sinks through them to the earth beneath, in which
situations it is most dangerous to pass the night " (Sir Francis Day's
work, p. 87).
7. "By atmospheric currents it" (malaria) "is capable of being
transported to considerable distances, probably as far as five miles."
So, certainly, is the mosquito.
8. " It " (malaria) " may be developed in previously healthy places
by turning up of the soil, as in making excavations for the foundations
of houses, tracks for railroads, and beds for canals." Here two things
are confounded, viz. : 1. Turning up of the soil, as by plowing or dig-
