648 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ging ; and, 2. Making excavations. Which of these two is the more
fruitful in producing malaria is not stated, nor is the modus operandi
of either suggested. In Hong-Kong, an island consisting of little more
than bare and barren rocks of weather-beaten granite, and whose soil
contains but two per cent of organic matter, malarial disease was
formerly unknown, and only became prevalent, as it is at present, after
excavations had been made in digging granite for building purposes.
So, again, tanks and pools of water cess-pools, mill-ponds, reservoirs,
and bilge-water on shipboard appear to be specially productive of
malaria. In Ceylon, the tanks of Candelay and Minery the one
twenty miles in circumference, the other twelve have been consid-
ered the cause of malaria in that region (see Davy on " Diseases of
the Army," p. 51, etc.). It is easy to comprehend how such pools,
tanks, and excavations containing water may constitute mosquito-
nurseries, where the female may deposit her eggs and propagate,
which would probably have been prevented in the absence of such
water accumulations. How simply digging up the soil may contrib-
ute to the formation of malaria, or to the development of mosquitoes,
tcithout excavations, I am not able to explain.
9. " In certain countries it " (malaria) " seems to be attracted and
absorbed by bodies of water lying in the course of such winds as waft
it from the miasmatic source." That the malaria itself is absorbed by
water is pure hypothesis. The known fact embodied in this ninth
statement is really this : A body of water intervening between a healthy
locality and a fever district will, j:>rovided it be sufficiently wide (three
fourths of a mile or more) prevent the transmission of fever from the
infected to the healthy locality, also provided, of course, that the pre-
vailing wind does not blow the fever-generating element from one side
to the other, as we have already seen it may do over a much wider
space probably five miles. This, again, is not difficult of possible ex-
planation by the mosquito theory. All depends upon the answer to
this question : Over how wide a sheet of water will the mosquito, in
the absence of irresistible winds, attempt to fly ? I am unable to
answer this question positively. It may depend upon the degree to
which the insect possesses far-sightedness, for, if it can not see land
across a body of water three fourths of a mile wide, such a width
would appear to its vision boundless as an ocean, and under those
circumstances it might not voluntarily attempt to cross. Further-
more, the flight of the insect being mostly nocturnal, long vision would
be all the more difficult. These suggestions need confirmation : they
are tentative, but still sufficient to suggest the possibility of the pro-
tective influence of wide bodies of water being explicable on the
mosquital basis.
10. " In proportion as countries, previously malarious, are cleared
up and thickly settled, periodical fevers disappear." Here, too, we
may remark that in such countries the land is cultivated, and' its
