654 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In further support of the mosquital origin of malarial disease, we
may remark the general admission on the part of medical authorities
that sickly seasons and localities are usually accompanied with an ex-
traordinary number of winged insects, many of them being blood-
sucking diptera. Lind, in his "Essay on the Health of Semen" (p.
58), referring to an army of Christians, half of whom were lost by
fever while passing through Hungary, tells us, " The air swarmed with
insects a sure sign of its malignancy " (p. 60) ; and, in referring to
the climate of Guinea and of the East and West Indies as being fatal
to Europeans, he adds, " More especially when molested with heat
within-doors, and the plague of mosquitoes, they have ventured to
sleep in the open night-air" (p. 71). And again, describing a journey
from the interior of Guinea to Senegal, he says (p. 94) : " The earth
had its white ants, the air its wild bees, its sand-flies, and its mosqui-
toes. These insects, though not the most tremendous, were perhaps
their (the travelers') most distressing enemies." On page 77 he remarks :
" The greatest plague was the mosquitoes and sand-flies, whose inces-
sant buzzing and painful stings were more insupportable than any
symptom of the fever." After landing on the Canaries the health of
the men immediately improved, but they were here no longer " tor-
tured with swarms of blood-sucking gnats and flies " (pp. 83, 85).
Mosquitoes are not generally troublesome in England, yet in the
ague-fens of Lincolnshire and the swamps of Essex the use of mos-
quito-nets is as necessary and common as in India or any other tropical
climate ("Chambers's Cyclopaedia," article "Gnat"). The prevalence
of the mosquito-plague in the fever-districts of Italy is also well known.
Furthermore, in certain districts where the so-called " malarial poi-
son " is supposed to be lodged in trees and bushy plants near the
ground, it has been observed that those persons are particularly prone
to fever who cut down or disturb these malaria-laden plants, which is
extremely suggestive of the mosquitoes being disturbed from their re-
posing haunts, just as one might get stung by stirring up a bee-tree or
a hornet's nest. La Roche, in his well-known work (p. 282), says :
" Malaria is collected by plants, particularly those of a dense and en-
tangling foliage, so as to be disengaged on cutting them down or root-
ing them up, thus exciting fever in the laborers who might otherwise
have escaped, as proved by the circumstance that in all these situ-
ations, while the workmen are in the erect posture and engaged at
their work, they escape the fever, but are attacked if they sit, and
more particularly if they lie down on the ground and that whether
they sleep or not."
Here it may be observed that the circumstances stated to conduce
to the production of fever (viz., sitting or lying still) are exactly those
which would favor being bitten by mosquitoes, the insect having less
chance of inflicting its inoculating wound while the men when in mo-
tion are " engaged at their work."
