44 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
they all ate, or rather gorged it, the deceived dog looking vacant and
bewildered for a moment, after which he sat under the tree and barked
at them inanely."
Crows have also been observed to hold general assemblies whose
functions seem to be those of a criminal court. It often takes a day
or two for the meeting to assemble; a palaver is then held, at the close
of which the whole body sets upon two or three apparent culprits and
kills them. No witness of such a scene can fail to be convinced that
the accused have had a fair trial, and have not been put to death with-
out cause.
The higher mental faculties are moi*e developed in the elephant
than in any other animal, except the dog and the monkey. The gen-
eral fact that elephants are habitually employed in parts of India for
storing timber, building, etc., shows a high level of docile intelligence.
But perhaps in no labor in which they are employed do they display a
more wonderful sagacity than in helping to catch wild elephants. A
herd of wild elephants is driven into a corral, and two tame ones rid-
den in among them. The decoys will crowd up on either side of a
wild one, and protect the nooser until a rope is fastened round the
wild elephant's leg, when the tame one, to whose collar the other end
of the rope is attached, will drag the captive out, and wind the rope
round a tree, while the other decoy prevents any interference from the
herd, and pushes the captive toward the tree, thus enabling the first
one to take in the slack of the rope. The conduct of the tame ones
during all these proceedings is truly wonderful. They display the
most perfect conception of every movement, both of the object to be
attained and of the means to accomplish it. On one occasion, in tying
up a large elephant, he contrived, before he could be hauled close up
to the tree, to walk once or twice round it, carrying the rope with
him ; the decoy, perceiving the advantage he had thus gained over the
nooser, walked up of her own accord, and pushed him backward with
her head, till she made him unwind himself again ; upon which the
rope was hauled tight and made fast.
One could almost fancy there was a display of dry humor in the
manner in which the decoys thus play with the fears of the wild herd,
and make light of their efforts at resistance. When reluctant they
shove them forward, when violent they drive them back ; when the
wild ones throw themselves down, the tame ones butt them with head
and shoulders and force them up again ; and, when it is necessary to
keep them down, they kneel upon them, and prevent them from rising,
till the ropes are secured.
A remarkable degree of cunning was displayed by an elephant who
had been chained to a tree, and whose driver had then made an oven
at a short distance, into which he put some rice-cakes to bake. The
man covered his cakes with stones and grass, and went away. When
he was gone, the elephant with his trunk unfastened the chain round
