SKETCH OF SIR WILLIAM F. LOGAN, LL.L., F. G. S. 691
eggs before they are of much use for actual nutriment ; and many a
child has been starved to death through its parents' ignorance of this
fact. It is true, medical men often recommend arrowroot for those in
delicate health, as it is of great importance to keep up the natural heat
of the body with the least exertion of the digestive organs ; but it can
not be too widely known that arrowroot pure and simple is a mere
heat-producer ; and milk, beef-tea, soup, or other suitable flesh-forming
food, must be given with it, if the child or invalid is to be kept alive.
On the other hand, semolina, hominy, lentil-meal, pea-flour, etc., not
being prepared by washing, contain a much greater amount of flesh-
forming material than sago, arrowroot, etc.
The starches are largely used in several important manufactures.
Dextrine or British gum is prepared by heating starch to a tempera-
ture of about 400 Fahr., and is preferred to gum-arabic because it is
not so liable to crack or curl up the stamps or other paper prepared
with it. Immense quantities of starch are used, too, in the manufac-
ture of glucose or grape-sugar, which has exactly the same composi-
tion as starch, and is prepared by acting on the starch with sulphuric
acid (oil of vitriol), which has the same effect as the ptyaline of the
saliva. Linen rags are largely used for the same purpose, too ; and,
indeed, it is w r onderful how few things are altogether useless at the
present day. Old boots and horns provide some of our most brillianr
colors ; while dye-colors innumerable are made from the refuse of out
gas-works ; and the wash-heaps of our factories are proving mines of
wealth, instead of mounds of rubbish. Chambers's Journal.
SKETCH OF SIK WILLIAM E. LOGAN, LL. D., F. G. S.
JAMES LOGAN, the grandfather of Sir William, came to Mont-
real from the parish of Stirling, Scotland, about 1784, bringing
his wife and two sons. He established himself as a baker in that city,
the occupation he had followed at home, and was assisted in the busi-
ness by his older son William, then a young man. After a few years,
Miss Janet E. Edmond came to Montreal from Scotland, and was mar-
ried to her cousin William. The third of their nine children, William
Edmond Logan, the subject of this sketch, was born April 20, 1798.
The first school to which he was sent was one kept by a Scotchman in
Montreal ; but, in 1814, he and one of his brothers were sent over to
Scotland and placed in an advanced class in the Edinburgh High
School. The studies of the school were mainly classical. During his
two years here, young William was much of the time " dux " of his
class, and won several prizes. In the mean time his father, leaving
his oldest son to manage the business in Montreal, had removed the
