HOW MUCH ANIMALS KNOW. 45
his foot, went to the oven and uncovered it, took out and ate the cakes,
re-covered the oven with the stones and grass as before, and went back
to his place. He could not fasten the chain again round his own foot,
so he twisted it round and round it, in order to look the same, and
when the driver returned the elephant was standing with his back to
the oven. The driver went for his cakes, discovered the theft, and,
looking round, caught the elephant's eye as he looked back over his
shoulder out of the corner of it. Instantly he detected the culprit,
and condign punishment followed.
The well-known intelligence of the dog is seldom more curiously
manifested than in the cases of those who learn the use of money. A
gentleman in Birmingham was acquainted with a small mongrel dog
who, on being presented with a penny or a half-penny, would run with
it in his mouth to a baker's, jump on to the top of the half -door lead-
ing into the shop, and ring the bell behind the door until the baker
came forward and gave him a bun or a biscuit in exchange for the
coin. The dog would accept any small biscuit for a half-penny, but
nothing less than a bun would satisfy him for a penny. On one oc-
casion the baker (being annoyed at the dog's too frequent visits), after
receiving the coin, refused to give the dog anything in exchange, and
on every future occasion the latter (who declined being taken in a
second time) would put the coin on the floor, and not permit the baker
to pick it up until he had received its equivalent.
In what may be called the chief pursuit of dogs that of game
they often show great ingenuity in overcoming unusual obstacles. A
little Skye terrier was once observed snuffing about on a wheat-stack
which was in the course of being thrashed, when suddenly a very large
rat bounced off, just from under her nose. It darted into a pit of wa-
ter about a dozen yards from the stack, and tried to escape. The
Skye, however, plunged after, and swam for some distance, but found
she was being left behind. So she turned to the shore again, and ran
round to the other side of the pit, and was ready and caught it just on
landing.
Another dog, which had been sent to bring in a couple of wounded
ducks from across a pretty wide stream, at first attempted to bring
them both, but one always struggled out of his mouth ; he then laid
down one, intending to bring the other, but, whenever he attempted to
cross, the bird left fluttered into the water ; he immediately returned
again, laid down the first on the shore, and recovered the other. The
first now fluttered away, but he instantly secured it, and, standing over
them both, seemed to cogitate for a moment ; then, although on any
other occasion he never ruffled a feather, he deliberately killed one,
brought over the other, and then returned for the dead bird.
An instance of sagacity indeed, amounting to reason in a French
poodle is told by Canon . Being a guest at luncheon with the
dog's master, the canon fed the dog with pieces of beef. After lunch-
