SKETCH OF SIR WILLIAM E. LOGAN, LL.D., F.G.S. 697
cal grooves in which it ran, and if on returning to Rockfield, after
the worries of the office or the hardships of the forest, there had been
more of the attractions of home, his life would have been happier and
possibly even longer than it was. . . . Earnestness and singleness of
purpose were among the most marked features of Sir William's char-
acter. From the time that he began the geological survey until the
day of his death, the great aim which was perpetually before him was
to thoroughly elucidate the geology of Canada, and to render the
knowledge acquired subservient to the practical purposes of life and
to the advancement of his native country. He was continually beset
with requests to examine and report upon mines in various parts of
the country, but invariably refused unless he felt that the information
derived would be of advantage to the public. Nor would he, on any
such occasion, accept of remuneration for his services. Any bona fide
attempt on the part of individuals or companies to develop the mineral
resources of the country was sure of his encouragement and advice if
asked for ; but the impostors who tried to palm off " salted " mines
or impossible geological discoveries upon the unsuspecting public he
despised, and always took an intense pleasure in exposing their
schemes. . . .
" Sir William had little capacity for literary work, and, although
he usually expressed himself with precision and force, his style was
lacking in ease and gracefulness. Fine writing, however, was not his
object, but rather to describe in simple language the results of obser-
vations in the field. ... As he advanced in life, he found the work of
composition more and more arduous. For some years before his death
he contributed nothing to the literature of science, and even ordinary
correspondence became increasingly distasteful to him."
Logan was a member of more than a dozen learned societies ; his
degree of LL. D. was bestowed by McGill University in 1856, and that
of D. C. L. by the University of Lennoxville the year before. Over
twenty medals, and various other testimonials, show the esteem in
which his work was held. His most important writings have already
been mentioned ; some other papers were, " On the Footprints occur-
ring in the Potsdam Sandstone of Canada," " On the Division of the
Azoic Rocks of Canada into Huronian and Laurentian," " Considera-
tions relating to the Quebec Group and the Upper Copper-bearing
Rocks of Lake Superior," etc.
