6 9 8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
A CRITICISM AND A REPLY.
Messrs. Editors :
IN the realm of popular science a clear,
piquant style is good, to unfold and ad-
here strictly to truth is better ; but a union
of these is the best of all. No one who has
read Dr. Oswald's series of papers on health
and disease in this " Monthly " can deny him
the first attribute ; but he must be superfi-
cial, indeed, who will allow him the second.
I do not mean to say that all or even the
larger part of his inculcations are false, but
only that some of them are so glaringly
contrary to fact that the special and culti-
vated observer can only tolerate the reading
of them by the vigorous excellence of their
surroundings.
It is not my intention to point out all
the errors that have appeared in his long
series of papers. I shall only refer to a
few in his last article (July), entitled " The
Remedies of Nature" for dyspepsia a mis-
nomer, by-the-way, as the remedies recom-
mended are not Nature's, but Dr. Oswald's ;
as, for instance, " sleeping in a cross-
draught" whatever this may mean, as a bul-
wark against dyspepsia.
On page 307 the doctor asserts that dys-
pepsia is not an hereditary complaint. If it is
not, then there is no such thing. When con-
sumption, cancer, and insanity, are spoken
of as hereditary, the meaning is not that
either of these diseases exists per se from
the moment of conception, only that the
tendency to them does. But the tendency
to dyspepsia in some families is even more
literally hereditary than the diseases named,
for every careful and wide-observing physi-
cian knows that the offspring of some par-
ents, almost from the moment of birth,
manifests a facility for indigestion from the
most trifling indiscretions. Observant moth-
ers know that their own or neighbors' chil-
dren, all of like habits and conditions of
life, are strikingly unequal in digestive
strength. Some of them can not eat this
or that without severe suffering, others can
eat of every unwholesome viand, and laugh
at warnings; and this, not only in child-
hood, but more or less all through life. The
difference is wholly inexplicable, except on
the principle of heredity.
Our bright and spicy writer tells the
dyspeptic " under no circumstances to re-
sort to drug-exorcism." Only a person of
superficial knowledge, of strong physique,
and bigoted withal, who judges all others
by his own personal equation, could dis-
course thus. Men and women will eat and
drink, cither with or without knowledge,
what they ought not ; as a consequence, the
stomach rebels, and intense suffering en-
sues. Only a short time since I saw a wom-
an who had been writhing every few min-
utes with terrible gastric cramps for ten
hours. Clearly it was an attack of acute
dyspepsia. To the suggestion of an emetic
she answered that a vomit nearly killed her,
and, besides, nothing could be on her stom-
ach, as nothing had been eaten all day.
But another paroxysm of cramp led her to
exclaim, " Well, anything for relief ! " In a
few minutes she threw up nearly a gallon of
fermenting food, that filled her chamber
with the fumes of a fetid sourness worse
than that of an August swill-tub. Half an
hour after, she fell into a calm sleep. If
humans will eat and drink what they ought
not eating, not for need but for pleasure,
not as a means but as an end the physi-
cian's duty is clearly to relieve suffering by
the removal of its immediate cause, as by
an emetic or cathartic. Of course, the ho-
moeopathic dogma (all dogmas in science
are heretical) is to do nothing of the kind ;
to wait on Nature, and she will remove all
the impurities of the alimentary canal her-
self. It is a source of surprise that these
idealists, if they wish to be thought consist-
ent, should ever use any soap and water to
remove the impurities from their skins ;
they should wait on Nature, and she will
scale the dirt off herself. Certes, skin-foul-
ness is as nothing compared to bowel-filth,
and a cathartic soap often lifts, as no skin-
cleaning does, an oppressive incubus from
the presence of organic decomposing mat-
ter in the intestines, which is death itself
when a little of it finds its way into the
blood. A grain of aloin thrown into the
blood-current hypodermically will simply act
as a purge ; a grain of decaying animal mat-
ter similarly used will kill just as surely as
a bullet through the lungs. Homoeopaths
magnify drug-poisoning five hundred diame-
ters ; but when they look for the poisons of
diseases they reverse the microscope, seeing
nothing at all.
Our lively doctor argues for fewer meals
per day even for the single-meal system
as the remedy for dyspepsia (page 312).
Vaporific theorizing, without a scintilla of
verification, is scarcely worthy of notice.
After thirty years' reading and close prac-
tical observations, I have yet to learn of a
man, not a sensational crank, who seriously
proposed, much less gave instances in which
it had been successfully employed, as a
remedy for dyspepsia. Tens of thousands
of practical scientists have tried and found
