702
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
side in the great educational contro-
versy between the rival claims of the
old classics and the new science. But,
to the surprise of nearly everybody,
Mr. Mill came out the ultra-defender
of the dead languages as against the
living languages and modern studies,
and went to the utmost extreme iD his
vindication of the traditional suprem-
acy of the ancient classics.
It was recognized at the time that
this was an anomalous and not fully
explicable proceeding. We have it on
good authority that, when Mr. Mill was
inquired of as to his unexpected course,
he excused it by saying that the scien-
tific tendencies of the times are becom-
ing too strong, and require to be checked
an explanation that still needed to be
explained. Had Mr. Mill been himself
less of a classicist and more of a scien-
tist, less a devotee of the humanities
and more a student of nature, he would
have seen that these modern scientific
tendencies are the inevitable results of
a great evolutionary process of the hu-
man mind a movement in the direc-
tion of higher knowledge and no more
to be withstood than the unfolding
transformations of the natural world or
the progress of human society.
But it was at that time too early to
get the full explanation of Mr. Mill's
position so as to understand his over-
whelming bias in favor of the ascend-
ency of dead languages and ancient lit-
erature in the collegiate preparation of
young men. Not until the appearance
of his " Autobiography " and the pub-
lication of the "Life of James Mill,"
his father, by Mr. Bain, was the secret
of the situation fully revealed. It was
of course known that James Mill was a
man of great intellectual capacity and
force, and it was believed that the son
inherited from him these qualities in an
eminent degree. But James Mill was
a man who held very positive views on
the subject of education, believed pro-
foundly in its omnipotence, and resolved
to show, in the case of his son, what it
is capable of doing. He was, besides,
an infatuated classicist, and a passionate
admirer of the Greek language. And
when we further remember that he
was an iron-willed tyrant, and would
not trust his son to other teachers, but
himself became his tutor from babyhood
to manhood, we can begin to appreciate
the kind of influence to which young
Mill was subjected. Crammed with
classics in his earliest childhood, think-
ing in Greek at seven years of age,
and overloaded with intellectual ac-
quisitions of the highest order by his
father's fanatical pedantry, the young
fellow's faculties were kept upon the
strain during the period of his bodily
growth, until he was brought to the
verge of insanity before he was yet of
age. His strong mental constitution
did not give way, but it was so warped
and subjugated by his one-sided disci-
pline that he was the last man living
from whom to expect an unprejudiced
judgment on the subject of mental cul-
tivation.
When, therefore, Mr. Mill came to
lay down the broad requirements of
higher education, in his St. Andrew's
discourse, he reasoned from his own re-
markable experience, and insisted upon
the inexorable predominance of the
studies of which he had himself been
made the victim. He went in for the
ancient languages and the ancient lit-
erature as supreme, and relegated to a
secondary place all the great results of
modern thought. He ruled out from
his curriculum the studies of history, of
geography, of modern languages, and
modern literature. Admitting the im-
portance of science, he nevertheless as-
signed it a subordinate place in his
scheme of education. Taking little ac-
count in his imposing plan either of the
limitations of the human mind, the
varying grades of human capacity, or
the actual circumstances of human be-
ings, he drew a scheme of culture that
had but small application to the prac-
tical necessities of human life. His
