EDITOR'S TABLE.
705
forced itself upon the thought of the
present age with the following result :
" I made for myself what might per-
haps be called a specialty in connection
with the development of the railroad
system. I do not hesitate to say that
I have been incapacitated from prop-
erly developing my specialty by the
sins of omission and commission inci-
dent to my college training. The mis-
chief is done, and, so far as I am con-
cerned, is irreparable. I am only one
more sacrifice to the fetich. But I do
not propose to be a silent sacrifice. I
am here to-day to put the responsibility
for my failure so far as I have failed
at the door of my preparatory and col-
lege education."
Mr. Adams charges that this failure
is very far from being a thing of imagi-
nation or sentiment ; but, on the con-
trary, it has been not only matter-of-
fact and real, but to the last degree
humiliating. He convicts his college
of having refused to furnish him with
that modern knowledge which is indis-
pensable to effective work in mod-
ern life ; of withholding from him the
knowledge of those living languages
which open communication with the
world of contemporary thought ; of
wasting his youthful years upon dead
languages which were never learned ;
of substituting a lax superficiality for
thoroughness of attainment; of forcing
its vicious system back upon the pre-
paratory schools ; and of adhering with
superstitious tenacity to an educational
policy fitted only to turn out incompe-
tent smatterers, not half taught in sub-
jects of very small importance. We
quote some pointed passages of his in-
dictment :
Now as respects' the college preparation
we received to fit us to take part in this
world' s debate. As one goes on in life, espe-
cially in modem lite, a few conclusions are
hammered into us by the hard logic of facts.
Among those conclusions I think I may, with-
out much fear of contradiction, enumerate
such practical, common-sense, and common-
place precepts as that superficiality is danger-
vol. xxiii. 45
ous, as well as contemptible, in that it is apt
to invite defeat ; or, again, that what is worth
doing at all is worth doing well ; or, third,
that when one is given work to do, it is well
to prepare one's self for that specific work,
and not to occupy one's time in acquiring in-
formation, no matter how innocent or elegant,
or generally useful, which has no probable
bearing on that work ; or, finally and this
I regard as the greatest of all practical pre-
cepts that every man should in life master
some one thing, be it great or be it small, so
that thereon he may be the highest living au-
thority ; that one thing he should know thor-
oughly.
How did Harvard College prepare me,
and my ninety-two classmates of the year
1S56, for our work in a life in which we have
had these homely precepts brought close to
us 1 In answering the question it is not alto-
gether easy to preserve one's gravity. The
college fitted us for this active, bustling, hard-
hitting, many-tongued world, caring nothing
for authority and little for the past, but full
of its living thought and living issues, in deal-
ing with which there was no man who did
not stand in pressing and constant need of
every possible preparation as respects knowl-
edge and exactitude and thoroughness the
poor old college prepared us to play our parts,
in this world by compelling us, directly and
indirectly, to devote the best part of our
school lives to acquiring a confessedly super-
ficial knowledge of two dead languages.
In regard to the theory of what we call a 1
liberal education, there is, as I understand
it, not much room for difference of opinion.
There are certain fundamental requirements
without a thorough mastery of which no one
can pursue a specialty to advantage. Upon
these common fundamentals are grafted the
specialties the students' electives, as we call
them. The man is simply mad who in these
days takes all knowdedge for his province.
He who professes to do so can only mean that
he proposes, in so far as in him lies, to reduce
superficiality to a science.
Such is the theory. Now, what is the prac-
tice ? Thirty years ago, as for three centu-
ries before, Greek and Latin were the funda-
mentals. The grammatical study of two dead
languages was the basis of all liberal educa-
tion. It is still its basis. But, following the
theory out, I think all will admit that, as re-
spects the fundamentals, the college training
should be compulsory and severe. It should
extend through the whole course. No one
ought to become a Bachelor of Arts until,
upon these fundamentals, he had passed an
examination, the scope and thoroughness of
