?o6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which should set at defiance what is perfect-
ly well defined as the science of cramming.
Could the graduates of my time have passed
such an examination in Latin and Greek ? If
they could have done that, I should now
see a reason in the course pursued with us.
When we were graduated, we should have
acquired a training, such as it was ; it would
have amounted to something ; and, having a
bearing on the future, it would have been of
use in it. But it never was for a moment as-
sumed that we could have passed any such
examination. In justice to all, I must admit
that no self-deception was indulged in on this
point. Not only was the knowledge of our
theoretical fundamentals to the last degree
superficial, but nothing better was expected.
The requirements spoke for themselves ; and
the subsequent examinations never could
have deceived any one who had a proper con-
ception of what real knowledge was.
But in pursuing Greek and Latin we had
ignored our mother-tongue. We were no
more competent to pass a really searching ex-
amination in English literature and English
composition than in the languages and litera-
ture of Greece and Borne. We were college
graduates ; and yet how many of us could
follow out a line of sustained, close thought,
expressing ourselves in clear, concise terms ?
The faculty of doing this should result from
a mastery of well-selected fundamentals. The
difficulty was that the fundamentals were not
well selected, and that they had never been
mastered. They had become a tradition.
They were studied no longer as a means, but
as an end the end being to get into college.
Accordingly, thirty years ago there was no
real living basis of a Harvard education.
Honest, solid foundations were not laid. The
superstructure, such as it was, rested upon
an empty formula.
The reason of all this I could not under-
stand then, though it is clear enough to me
now. I take it to be simply this : The classic
tongues were far more remote from our world
than they had been from the world our fathers
lived in. They are much more remote from
the world of to-day than they were from the
world of thirty years ago. The human mind,
outside of the cloisters, is occupied with other
and more pressing things. Especially is it
occupied with a class of thoughts scientific
thoughts which do not find their nutriment
in the remote past. They are not in sympa-
thy with it. Accordingly, the world turns
more and more from the classics to those
other and living sources in which alone it
finds what it seeks. Students come to college
from the hearthstones of the modern world.
They have been brought up in the new at-
mosphere. They are consequently more and
more disposed to regard the dead languages
as a mere requirement to college admission.
This reacts upon the institution. The college
does not change there is no conservatism 1
have ever met, so hard, so unreasoning, so
impenetrable, as the conservatism of profes-
sional educators about their methods the
college does not change ; it only accepts the
situation. The routine goes on, but super-
ficiality is accepted as of course ; and so thirty
years ago, as now, a surface acquaintance
with two dead languages was the chief re-
quirement for admission to Harvard ; and,
to acquiring it, years of school life were de-
voted.
Nor in my time did the mischief end here.
On the contrary, it begau here. As a slip-
shod method of training was accepted in
those studies to which the greatest promi-
nence was given, the same method was ac-
cepted in other studies. The whole standard
was lowered. Thirty years ago I say it
after a careful search through my memory
thoroughness of training in any real-life sense
of the term was unknown in those branches
of college education with which I came in
contact. Everything was taught as Latin and
Greek were taught. Even now, I do not see
how I could have got solid, exhaustive teach-
ing in the class-room, even if I had known
enough to want it. A limp superficiality was
all-pervasive. To the best of my recollec-
tion the idea of hard thoroughness was not
there. ... rt
Many of you are scientific men ; others are
literary men ; some are professional men. I
believe, from your own personal experience,
you will bear me out when I say that, with a
single exception, there is no modern scien-
tific study which can be thoroughly pursued
in any one living language, even with the as-
sistance of all the dead languages that ever
were spoken. The modern languages are
thus the avenues to modern life and living
thought. Under these circumstances, what
was the position of the college toward them
thirty years ago ? What is its position to-day ?
It intervened, and practically said then that
its graduates should not acquire those lan-
guages at that period when only they could
be acquired perfectly and with ease. It occu-
pies the same position still. It did and does
this none the less effectually because indi-
rectly. The thing came about, as it still
comes about, in this way : The college fixes
the requirements for admission to its course.
The schools and the academies adapt them-
selves to those requirements. The business
