46 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
eon the beef was taken into the larder. The dog did not think he had
his fair share. What did he do ? Now, he had been taught to stand
on his hind-legs, put his paw on a lady's wrist, and hand her into the
dining-room. He adopted the same tactics with the canon, stood on
his hind-legs, put his paw on his arm, and made for the door. To see
what would follow, Canon suffered himself to be led, but the
sagacious dog, instead of steering for the dining-room, led him in the
direction of the larder, along a passage, down steps, etc., and did not
halt till he brought him to the larder, and close to the shelf where the
beef had been put. The dog had a small bit given him for his sagaci-
ty, and Canon returned to the drawing-room. But the dog was
still not satisfied. He tried the same trick again, but this time fruit-
lessly. The canon was not going again with him to the larder. What
was Mori to do ? And here comes the instance of reason in the poodle :
Finding he could not prevail on the visitor to make a second excursion
to the larder, he went out into the hall, took in his teeth the canon's
hat from off the hall-table, and carried it under the shelf in the larder
where the coveted beef lay out of his reach. There he was found,
waiting for the owner of the hat, and expecting another savory bit
when he should come for it.
CHEMISTRY AND PHARMACY.*
Bt Professor IEA EEMSEN.
CHEMISTRY owes a debt of gratitude to Pharmacy which she has
for years been striving to repay. And when a disciple of the
new science is called upon to address those who stand at the threshold
of a career which will bind them to the old art, his thoughts naturally
turn to the day when the occupations of the chemist and the pharma-
cist were united in one person when all that was worth knowing of
chemistry was mastered by the pharmacist, and the art of pharmacy
was practiced by the chemist. We are far removed from that day
now. Both the subjects once so intimately associated have developed
to an enormous extent, and he would be a brave person who would
attempt to make himself master of the lore of both pharmacy and
chemistry. The term " chemist " has come to have a signification quite
different from that which it once had, though it is used now, as of old,
in two entirely distinct senses. There is, first, the chemist who makes
use of facts already established for a variety of useful purposes, some
of them of the greatest value to the human race. Such a one practices
the art of chemistry. Then there is, in the second place, the chemist
* An address delivered in the Academy of Music, Baltimore, before the graduating
class of the Maryland College of Pharmacy.
