joS
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
verbal memorizing will probably enable its
fortunate possessor to get off many an apt
quotation at tbe dinner-table, and far be it
from me to detractTrom that much-longed-for
accomplishment; but, after all, the college
professes to fit its students for life rather than
for its dinner-tables, and in life a happy
knack at quotations is in the long run an in-
different substitute for the power of close ob-
servation, and correct inference from it. To
be able to follow out a line of exact, sustained
thought to a given result is invaluable. It is
a weapon which all who would engage suc-
cessfully in the struggle of modern life must
sooner or later acquire, and they are apt to
succeed just in the degree they acquire it.
In my youth we were supposed to acquire it
through the blundering application of rules
of grammar in a language we did not under-
stand. The training which ought to have
been obtained in physics and mathematics
was thus sought for long, and in vain, in
Greek. That it was not found is small cause
for wonder now. And so, looking back from
this stand-point of thirty years later, and
thinking of the game which has now been
lost or won, I silently listen to that talk about
"the severe intellectual training," in which
a parrot-like memorizing did its best to de-
grade boys to the level of learned dogs.
But the case, as presented by Mr.
Adams, was really much stronger than
any individual experience could make
it. He is descended from an illustrious
line of scholars and statesmen men
eminent in affairs and of large national
influence. His great-grandfather and
his grandfather were Presidents of the
United States, and his father repre-
sented this nation as minister to the
English court at a very critical period
in tbe relations of the two countries.
These distinguished men were all gradu-
ates of Harvard College, and it must be
assumed that they were capable of do-
ing the best honor to their opportu-
nities. But the representative of the
fourth generation appeals to a family
experience, extending through nearly a
century and a half, in reprobation of
the system which he had himself found
so worthless and injurious. It was the
same old story Greek half-learned,
good for nothing, and forgotten, while
modern languages had to be acquired
as indispensable implements of success-
ful work in practical life. "We can not
give this interesting special history
which so effectually clinches the case ;
but we quote the reference to the fourth
and fifth generations, which shows that
the system of fetichistic immolation is
still practiced with desperate perversity
at Harvard College :
I come now to the fourth generation, cut-
ting deep into the second century. My fa-
ther had four sons. We were all brought up
on strict traditional principles, the special
family experience being carefully ignored.
We went to the Latin schools, and there
wasted the best hours of our youth over the
Greek grammar hours during which we
might have been talking French and German
and presently we went to Harvard. When
we got there we dropped Greek, and with one
j voice we have all deplored the irreparable
: loss we sustained in being forced to devote
to it that time and labor which, otherwise ap-
plied, would have produced results now in-
valuable. One brother, since a professor at
, Harvard, whose work here was not without
results, wiser than the rest, went abroad after
graduation, and devoted two years to there
supplying, imperfectly and with great labor,
. the more glaring deficiencies of his college
training. Since then the post - graduate
1 knowledge thus acquired has been to him an
] indispensable tool of his trade. Sharing in
the modern contempt for a superficial learn-
I ing, he has not wasted his time over dead
languages which he could not hope thor-
oughly to master. Another of the four, now
a Fellow of the University, has certainly
made no effort to keep up his Greek. When,
however, his sons came forward, a fifth gen-
eration to fit for college, looking back over
his own experience as he watched them at
their studies, his eyes were opened. Then
in language certainly not lacking in pictur-
esque vigor, but rather profane than either
classical or sacred, he expressed to me his
mature judgment. While he looked with in-
expressible self-contempt on that worthless
smatter of the classics which gave him the
title of an educated man, he declared that
his inability to follow modern thought in
other tongues, or to meet strangers on the
neutral ground of speech, had been and was
to him a source of life-long regret and the
keenest mortification. In obedience to the
stern behest of his Alma Mater, he then
proceeded to sacrifice his children to the
fetich.
