712
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
School-Books on Physiology and Hygi-
ene. By Stanford E. Chaille, of the
University of Louisiana.
Having received many requests for ad-
vice respecting the best school text-books
on hygiene, Dr. Chaille examined the vari-
ous books in the market, for comparison
with one another and with his own stand-
ard of merit, which was that they should
give predominance to teaching the care and
proper use of the organs and the preserva-
tion of health. Of twenty books regarded
as living candidates for favor, three were
found fairly suitable for children ten or
twelve years of age, while the others were
more or less adapted to the comprehension
of youth of different greater ages. Of the
more advanced works, Draper's, Dalton's,
and Huxley and Youmans's " are excellent,"
and the two latter and Foster's primer (pri-
mary) " bear the unmistakable stamp of the
master's hand," and illustrate the rule "that
even the most elementary books can be
better written by distinguished experts."
The pervading fault of most of the books
is that they pay too little attention to hy-
giene.
The Evolution of the American Trot-
ting-Horse, pp. 5 ; and The American
Trotting-Horse : why he is and what
nE is, pp. 28. By Professor William
II. Brewer, of Yale College.
Professor Brewer regards the trotting-
horse as essentially a development of the
present century, and as still in process of
evolution. His training has been stimulated
by a combination of influences. The an-
cients did not have " trotters," and did not
want them, because, not possessing light
spring-wagons, they knew nothing of driv-
ing for pleasure, and for riding they pre-
ferred animals of more even gait. A little
attention seems to have begun to be paid to
trotting at about the time of the close of
the Revolutionary War ; the first mention of
a " trotting-stallion " is found in 1788. The
first definite notice of trotting on the course
is in 1806, when Yankee trotted a mile in
two minutes and fifty-nine seconds. At
about this time a prejudice, resulting in the
enactment of prohibitory laws, was devel-
oped against horse-racing (competitive run-
ning), and trotting-matches against time
were introduced. A demand for trotters
sprang up in the French West Indies ; and
light spring-wagons were invented, and, as
they became fashionable, the taste for fast
driving increased. These and kindred cir-
cumstances favored the development of the
trotting-horse, and it has gone on speedily.
In 1806, 2-59 was the fastest time that had
been made by trotting; 2 40 became the
synonym for speed in 1824. In 1S43, one
horse, Lady Suffolk, had trotted a mile in
less than 2-30; in 1882, 1,654 horses had
made that record, and the fastest time had
been reduced by Maud S. to 2*10J.
Natural Cure of Consumption, Constipa-
tion, Bright's Disease, Neuralgia,
Rheumatism, Colds (Fevers), etc. The
Origin, Prevention, and Removal of Dis-
ease. By C. E. Page, M. D. New York :
Fowler & Wells. Pp. 278. Price, $1.
TnE author maintains that bad living is
the primary cause of the diseases named ;
that no mere accident of exposure, like
those to which they are commonly ascribed,
is competent to produce them unless the
system has already been made peculiarly
sensitive to them by habitual overloading
of the stomach, living in bad air, or indo-
lence ; and that they are susceptible of be-
ing cured by adopting and adhering to a
" natural " treatment and regime. In all
this Dr. Page agrees fully with Dr. Oswald,
and quotes him freely. He gives several
remarkable examples of wonderful cures
which he knows of having been effected by
following the principles he lays down.
Whether the course he recommends will be
quite as effective, in all cases, as he seems
to believe it will be, or not, he has laid
down principles which may be followed
with profit, and the following of which
may relieve many cases regarded as des-
perate ; and he has given the public a most
valuable manual of hygiene.
" The Medico-Legal Journal." Vol. I, No.
1, June, 1883. Published under the
Auspices of the Medico-Legal Society of
New York. Pp. 118. Price, $3 a year.
This is claimed to be the only journal in
any part of the world devoted exclusively
to the science of medical jurisprudence. It
will publish the leading papers of the Medi-
co-Legal Society, and a summary of its
transactions and contributions from all
