LITERARY NOTICES.
713
sources on subjects and questions appropri-
ate to its sphere. The present number
contains a portrait of Dr. George W. Beard,
who was a leader in projecting the journal ;
the inaugural address of President Clark
Bell, of the Medico-Legal Society, in which
is embodied a review of the progress of
medical jurisprudence in the several coun-
tries of the world; reports on coroners,
medical. examiners, amendments to the lu-
nacy laws of New York, and on the Penn-
sylvania lunacy laws, and miscellaneous mat-
ters.
Van Loan's Catskill Mountan Guiide for
1883. With Bird's-eye Views of the
Mountains, and Maps. Catskill, N. Y. :
Walton Van Loan. Pp.126. Price, 40
cents.
Besides notices of the principal resorts
and attractions in the mountains, with di-
rections for reaching them, and directories
of hotels and boarding-houses, arranged by
towns, the " Guide " contains some well-con-
sidered and condensed notes, intended to as-
sist in geological observations in the Cats-
kill region. The whole would be a valua-
ble and desirable acquisition to tourists, but
for the sprawling advertisements that are
intruded among the reading-matter. In a
book to which a price is attached, the two
kinds of matter should occupy their sepa-
rate pages.
Political Economy. By Francis A. Walk-
er. New York : Henry Ilolt & Co. Pp.
490. 2.25.
This volume is the fifth of the " Ameri-
can Science Series," the principal objects of
which are defined to be " to supply the lack
of authoritative books whose principles are,
so far as practicable, illustrated by familiar
American facts, and also to supply the other
lack that the advance of science perennially
creates, of text-books which at least do not
contradict the latest generalizations." The
list of the works to be included in the series
shows that the publishers have made it a
rule to go to authors whose names carry
authority, and who speak as original inves-
tigators, having their facts at first hand.
Professor Walker's discussion, in this vol-
ume, of the questions included under the
general title of political economy in their
varied and complicated aspects and relations
is full and rich in citations of authorities
and in illustrations, and covers such a mul-
tiplicity of topics that it would be impos-
sible, in an ordinary notice, to give even
an outline of it. It is conducted with such
clearness as to make the book quite read-
able and readily understood. After the in-
troductory chapter, or part, in which the
" Character and Logical Method of Political
Economy " are considered and its claims to
be ranked as a science and its relations
with other branches are discussed, the whole
subject is topically divided and treated
under the several heads of "Production,"
" Exchange," " Distribution," " Consump-
tion," and " Some Applications of Economi-
cal Principles." The numerous questions
growing out of the labor agitation, the sub-
jects of the currency, paper money, bimet-
allism, protection vs. free trade, and other
economic topics now vital among us, receive
attention in their appropriate places.
" Mastery." Useful Pastimes for Young
People. A Weekly Magazine. New
York : Mastery, 842 Broadway. Pp. 16.
Price, V cents a number, $3 a year.
The character of this publication is well
indicated by the subordinate title. It is in-
tended not only to amuse and instruct, but
also to direct the natural bent of its readers
to some practical work ; and the numbers
we have seen of it seem well adapted to
these purposes. In two of them we have
a story illustrating the magical effects that
may be wrought through simple applica-
tions of modern scientific discoveries ; pa-
pers relating to natural history, astronomy,
and physiology ; and lessons and sugges-
tions regarding various arts and sports with
which youth may find it pleasant and per-
haps profitable to amuse themselves.
A Visit to Ceylon. By Ernst Haeckel.
Translated by Clara Bell. Boston :
S. E. Cassino & Co. Pp. 337. Price, $2.
A book from an author who has had
such an influence upon the scientific thought
of his countrymen as Herr Haeckel has ex-
erted must have a value of its own, even
though it be not directly scientific. The
" Visit to Ceylon " records the impressions
of a tourist ; yet not of the ordinary tourist,
who skims over a country and takes the
merest superficial view of everything, but
