POPULAR MISCELLANY.
715
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
A Cod-Monntain in the Sea. The " con-
ference" at the Fisheries Exhibition was
opened with a lecture by Professor Iluxley,
in which he said : " Those who have watched
the cod-fisheries off the Loffoden Isles, on the
coast of Norway, say that the coming in of the
cod, in January and February, is one of the
most wonderful sights in the world ; that the
cod form what is called a ' cod-mountain,'
which may occupy a vertical height of from
twenty to thirty fathoms that is to say,
one hundred and twenty to one hundred
and thirty feet in the sea ; and that these
shoals of enormous extent keep on coming
in great numbers from the westward and
southward for a period of something like
two months. The number of these fish is
so prodigious that Pofessor Sars tells us
that when the fishermen let down their
loaded nets they feel the weight knocking
against the bodies of the codfish for a long
time before it gets to the bottom. I have
made a computation which leads to this re-
sult, that if you allow each fish four feet in
length, and let them be a yard apart, there
will be in a square mile of such shoals
something like one hundred and twenty
million fish. I believe I am greatly under-
stating the actual number, for I believe the
fish lie much closer. These facts about the
cod apply also to the herring, for not only
Professor Sars, but all observers, who are
familiar with the life of the cod when it
has attained a considerable size, tell us that
the main food of the cod i3 the herring, so
these one hundred and twenty million of
cod in the square mile have to be fed with
herring, and it i3 easy to see, if you allow
them only one herring a day, that the num-
ber of herriug which they will want in a
week will be something like eight hundred
and forty million."
Copyright in China. A pamphlet on this
subject, by Dr. D. J. Macgowan, has been
published in Shanghai, and from the copy
sent us by the author we extract the follow-
ing: "One finds not infrequently on the
title-pages of Chinese newly-published books
a caution against their unauthorized publi-
cation, in some instances threatening the
forfeiture or destruction of all blocks that
may be cut for their printing, showing at
once that literary property is liable to be
stolen, and that redress is afforded to au-
thors thus wronged. The penal code, how-
ever, will be searched in vain for an enact-
ment on the subject of copyright. Chinese
law has never conceived it necessary to speci-
fy that particular form of robbery which con-
sists in despoiling a scholar of the fruit of
his toil, any more than to name the products
of husbandmen and artisans as under the
protection of law, all alike being regarded
as property by natural right. The offend-
ing publisher is arraigned and punished
under that section of the code which takes
cognizance of larcenies of a grave character,
the penalty, to which one who prints and
sells an author's works without authority is
liable, being one hundred blows and three
years' deportation. This right of exclusive
publication by an author of his works is
held in perpetuity by his heirs and assigns.
It is not the custom with Chinese authors to
make arrangements with publishers, that
being undignified. They have their books
cut and printed on their own premises, and
then sell them to the trade, usually at twice
the cost of publication. Manuscript novels
and other ephemeral books are sold to pub-
lishers, but in such a case neither author nor
publisher can prosecute a printer for bring-
ing out a rival edition. Among the subjects
which this new era brings to the considera-
tion of Chinese statesmen, that of interna-
tional copyright may be included. Cheng
Ch'engchai, an artist and also a poet, has
lately published several hundred of his choice
pictures, accompanied by stanzas, the fruit
of a life of toil. There is some prospect of
his literary harvest being blighted by the
appearance of his work at four dollars a
set the author's charge being eight dollars.
The pirated copies come from Japan. In
Japan the rights of authors are regarded in
the same light as in China, but, as a license
must first be obtained before a book can be
published, the prevention of copyright in-
fringements is more facile there than in
China. It is well known that the Japanese
Government have long been maturing a
copyright law, and the time is favorable,
therefore, for these two empires to concert
measures for increasing the security of lit-
erary property.
