7i 6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Spontaneous Combustion. Many fires,
which appear to be of mysterious origin, can
with great plausibility be referred to spon-
taneous combustion. Such was probably the
cause of a fire which destroyed the carriage-
shops at Forest Hill, Maryland, a year or
two ago. This is indicated by the fact that,
shortly after the shops were rebuilt, a hole
was burned through one of the floors and the
establishment narrowly escaped destruction
a second time from the spontaneous com-
bustion of a rag saturated with Valentine's
patent wood-filling, which had been left in
the paint-room overnight. Rags similarly
saturated had been carelessly left in the old
building just before the fire. To test the
liability of this substance to take fire, a cloth
was saturated with it and put in a tin bucket.
Combustion began within a few hours af-
terward. Lamp-black is extremely liable to
take fire spontaneously, particularly if a
small quantity of oil is in contact with it.
It can not be safely wrapped up in printed
paper on account of the danger from the oil
in the ink. A tub of loose lamp-black in a
carriage-shop in England was set on fire in
consequence of the presence of a palette-
knife on which a little oil had been left.
Even the dry paint which accumulates on
the blades of these knives near the handle
is sufficient to cause ignition. It is, how-
ever, only the small quantities of oil that are
dangerous; the peril is greatly reduced if
the lampblack is saturated with oil. The
danger of the spontaneous combustion of
coal in cargoes is generally recognized by
shippers and insurance-men.
Chiriqni Funerals. M. Alphonse Pinart
has recently given an account, before the
Ethnographical Society of Paris, of the
burial-places and funeral customs of the
Dorasks, a people of the Isthmus of Darien,
whom he regards as of Mexican origin.
The burial-places, called huacas, which he
claims to have discovered and excavated,
are most abundant in the valley of Cbiriqui,
though they may be found in some other
places. They generally lie at the foot of
little hills, and are always marked by the
presence of stones covered with figures and
inscriptions. They are shaped like a well,
the entrance to which is marked by a cross
of stones, some twenty feet, more or less,
in diameter, and are from six to thirty feet
deep. At the bottom are excavated niches,
corresponding with the four points of the
compass, in which are deposited the bones
and the articles that are buried with them
garments, vessels of most perfect shape
and finish, and ornaments of gold, either
solid or mixed with copper, representing
animals, and undoubtedly of artistic value.
The bones in these tombs are always bro-
ken, in accordance with a custom which pre-
scribes the breaking of them as one of the
peculiar features of the funeral rites. On
the death of one of the Indians, the body is
wrapped in a cotton shroud, and, after a
short ceremony with a funeral oration, is
borne to a solitary place in the forest, where
it is laid upon a kind of scaffold covered with
branches of trees, and left for a year. At
the expiration of this period, the kanitru, a
functionary expressly designated for this
duty, and who is the only one that can per-
form it without having to undergo a costly
purification, goes to the spot and prepares
the corpse for the final ceremonies. Re-
moving the limbs, he collects the bones,
cleanses them from all adhering flesh, and
breaks them up, together with the skull,
and compresses the fragments into a small
packet no larger than a new-born child.
Having performed this duty, he calls his
assistants, who have been waiting in the
vicinity, and they bear the packet to a kind
of catafalque, around which funeral services
are held through parts of three days. At
sunset of the third day the kanuru goes
alone with the body, the dresses, and the
ornaments that have been provided for
the sepulchre, to the family tomb. No
white man has ever been permitted to wit-
ness this part of the ceremonies.
Capacity of Brazilian Indians. An an-
thropological collection, illustrative of the
life of the savage tribes of South America,
particularly of Brazil, is now on exhibition
in London. Besides the scientific and ar-
tistic value of the cabinet, the collector,
Senhor C. Ribeiro, seeks to commend the
value of the country for colonization, and
to remove prejudices against it. Among
other things, he wishes to show that the
Botocudos Indians are not the dangerous
?a\ ages they have been reported, and that
