POPULAR MISCELLANY.
7*7
the specimens of their handiwork useful
articles of straw and bark, tastefully made
head-dresses of feathers, and ingeniously
fashioned weapons of war and the chase,
decorated in geometrical figures point to
a capacity for civilization. Hitherto these
Indians have had the advantages of civiliza-
tion presented to them too often only with
arguments of fire and sword ; but Senhor
Eibeiro asserts that they may be easily in-
duced to work, and that with kind treatment
and proper direction they might be made
instrumental in the development of the nat-
ural wealth of their land.
John Duncan, the Weaver-Botanist.
John Duncan, the Scotch weaver and bota-
nist, to whose scientific merit attention was
drawn about two years ago, just in time for
public recognition to make his dying days
more comfortable, gained a thorough knowl-
edge of botany and formed a valuable her-
barium in the face of formidable difficulties
arising from poverty and laborious occupa-
tion. He had also some knowledge of as-
tronomy, learned something of Latin, so that
he might understand botanical terms, and
even tried Greek. In his pursuit of knowl-
edge he bore privation cheerfully, denying
himself almost the necessaries of life to
buy books, and carrying on his studies in a
loft above a stable, lighted only by an un-
glazed hole in the door, where he lived with-
out fire or candle for fear of burning the
thatch. His love for plants began to de-
velop when he was about ten years old, and
out on farm-service. " I just took a no-
tion," he used to say, " to ken ae plant by
anither when I was rinning aboot the braes.
I never saw a plant but I lookit for the mar-
rows o't " (the like of it) ; " and as I had aye
a guid memory when I kent a flower ance,
I kent it aye." He read in the " Herbal of
Nicholas Culpepper," imbibed that quaint
author's doctrine of the effect of astrologi-
cal influences on plants, and was led from
it to study astronomy as far as he could go
without mathematics. When forty years
old he fell in with a gentleman's gardener
of the village who was also a scientific bot-
anist, and was introduced by him to the
regular study of the science. Before long
he had learned enough to help his friend in
the formation of a herbarium. For many
years, at the season when weaving was dull,
he was accustomed to go about doing har-
vest-work and studying the flora of Scot-
land, while he earned a little extra money ;
and he turned these excursions to such
good account that, when in his old age he
handed over his collection to a friend to be
catalogued, as a preliminary to presenting
it to Aberdeen University, it contained 1,131
specimens of the 1,428 species that form the
flora of England and Scotland. A selection
was made from this collection, and 750 spe-
cimens were finally presented to the univer-
sity. Up to his seventy-third year, Duncan
was able to earn his own living by work at
the loom. Then work became scarce and
his strength feeble, and he was forced to
seek parochial relief. Finally attention was
called to his case in " Nature," in January,
1881, and a subscription was made for him.
The story of his life has been told by Mr.
W. Jolly, in a book which has just been
published in London.
A Smoke-consuming Furnace. Mr. P.
H. Jackson, of San Francisco, has patented
a device for securing the more perfect com-
bustion of coal by, first, securing the re-
moval of the carbonic acid which arises
from the fire, and, if allowed to remain
mingled with the other products, interferes
with their further combustion ; and, second,
by causing the hydrocarbons and other com-
bustible products to be drawn under the fur-
nace and perfectly mixed with atmospheric
air before passing through the fire again.
The carbonic acid is eliminated through the
action of the affinity of carbonate of soda,
which is placed in a chamber above the
furnace, whence an outlet is provided for
the escape of any surplus of acid. The
hydrocarbons are drawn down under the
furnace through a pipe at the side of the
stove, by the suction of a strong current of
atmospheric air, which is made to flow to
feed the fire through a chamber into which
the lower end of the pipe abuts.
Curves of Mortality in London and New
York. Dr. John W. Tripe, President of the
Society of Medical Officers of Health, Eng-
land, has observed, from a comparison of
the mortality returns of London and New
York, that the curve representing the prev-
