CHEMISTRY AND PHARMACY. 49
that it is rather the study of chemical action than the particular study
of this or that substance as such that tends to improve the method of
work. In this way many obscure substances have contributed largely
to the improvement of chemistry, and consequently to the improve-
ment of pharmacy. There is a not uncommon feeling that it is a
waste of time to work for years endeavoring to unravel the secrets of
some apparently insignificant substance. If the substance itself can
not be used, and there is no prospect that it ever can be used, then, it
is argued, it can not be important. To you, gentlemen, who have been
under especially good instruction in these matters, this argument will
not appear to be of much weight, but permit me to turn my attention
for a moment to the larger audience before us, and to say a word in
defense of those who spend their lives in what are commonly looked
upon as unprofitable investigations.
Not long ago I heard this story, which may serve as a sort of
overture to what I want to say : An excellent gentleman, on being
informed that a certain scientific man was engaged in work upon frogs,
replied, " Why spend his time in such trivial work, when there is the
human soul to investigate ? " The feeling which actuated the speaker
is one which I repeat is not uncommon, and I may add it is quite
natural, but it is certainly wrong in principle. If we analyze the
underlying thought of those who cavil at ordinary scientific investiga-
tion, we shall find that there are two distinct ideas contained in it:
First, that, in order that any investigation shall be of value or of im-
portance, it must bear direct fruit. The substance discovered must be
useful for some " practical " purpose, either as a medicine or as a dye-
stuff, an explosive or a poison no matter what, so that it can be used
for something. A second idea is that, in order to solve the problems
of nature, only those of the most evident importance should be at-
tacked. Such questions as What is life? What is electricity? What
is the attraction of gravitation ? What is force ? What is matter ?
these are the ones which, in the opinion of many, should occupy in-
vestigators, to the exclusion of the less important.
As regards the latter idea, it may be said that there are a great
many very strongly fortified citadels in nature. Scientific investi-
gators have attacked these from time to time and have been repulsed.
A good commander, having discovered that a stronghold is invulner-
able from a given point, does not continue to attempt its capture from
that side, but looks around him for other means of approach; he
strengthens his forces, he collects more ammunition, and endeavors to
keep his army in general in good condition, studying the surrounding
country, and awaiting new revelations. There is, further, a great
deal of insignificant camp-work to be done, and, if this is neglected,
ultimate success can not be hoped for.
So, too, the scientific investigator finding that a certain problem
of paramount importance can not be solved, turns his attention to
VOL. XXIII.
