724 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which is now certainty having once been assumption. When Co-
pernicus divined that the planets revolve around the sun ; when
Kepler suggested that the planetary orbits are ellipses ; when New-
ton proposed the law of gravitation, and, later, the identity of gravi-
tation with the central force of the solar system ; when Huygens
conjectured that light is propagated by undulations ; when Harvey, in
the profession of which Dr. Beale is an ornament, supposed that the
blood flows from the left side of the heart into the right through the
arteries and veins ; when Locke asserted that heat is motion ; when
Franklin assumed that lightning and electricity are one ; when Dalton
affirmed that elements combine in definite, reciprocal, and multiple
proportions ; when Leverrier announced the existence and position of
a planet outside the orbit of Uranus ; when Faraday conceived the
principle of definite electro-chemical decomposition they each and all
indulged in what were " prophetic assumptions,'" until in due time the
assumptions were proved and the prophecy accomplished. And so,
for the most part, with the rest. Wherever, indeed, there is an in-
quisitor of nature, whether observer or experimenter, there is likely to
stand behind him some hypothesis, more or less shifting, more or less
defined, more or less probable, which guides his inquiries and shapes
their results ; and what is generally true of the experimental sciences
is true in greater degree of the sciences in which experiment is impos-
sible or possible only within a narrow range, such as astronomy, biol-
ogy, psychology, sociology. The truth is, without "prophetic assump-
tions," science would need either omnipotent insight, to see through
every problem at once, or that omnipotent blindness which enables its
happy possessor to solve every problem, as Dr. Beale would solve the
problem of life, by referring it out of hand to some agency beyond the
bounds of human knowledge ; but, as science is endowed with neither,
it has, in general, no other course, certainly no better course, than to
proceed tentatively by " prophetic assumptions," careful only, though
rigorously careful, that these shall fulfill the acknowledged conditions
of a legitimate hypothesis. As for such " assumptions " as Di*. Beale's,
they are not "prophetic," it is true, but only because they forever re-
nounce the hope of explanation. Science rejects them, as we have
seen.
Let us see whether or not the hypothesis of the evolution of living
from not-living matter encounters the same fate.
To begin with, the hypothesis, it will not be denied, is verifiable,
for it assumes only a certain competency in the properties of matter,
which, if it exists, is capable of proof under possible conditions, and,
if it does not exist, is capable in like manner of disproof ; so that in
the end the assumption must lead to certainty or step down and out.
Such being the case, it fulfills the first condition of a legitimate hy-
pothesis.
The hypothesis, in the next place, assumes no special cause, known
