50 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
others, the solution of which may in the end contribute to clearing up
greater mysteries. There are hosts of minor questions to be answered,
and these must be answered before the fundamental questions of na-
ture can be. Through the insignificant lie the roads of advancement.
A fallen leaf, a bit of stone, a tiny flower, a microscopic animal, may
contain within themselves the answers to the most important ques-
tions. It is not the leaf, or the stone, or the animal that is specially
investigated, but the principles involved in their existence. Explain
these, if possible, and the explanations will serve for a thousand other
things. Then, too, though the explanations sought for may not be
found, the correct study of any fact or phenomenon of nature is of
assistance to science as a whole. It strengthens her forces, it supplies
her with ammunition. An enormous amount of camp-work must be
done, or results of value can not be attained. Let the work upon the
insignificant problems cease, and the world would sink into darkness.
To fully understand the laws of the universe as a whole, we must first
learn all we can in regard to the smallest subdivisions of the universe
the atoms.
As regards the idea that an investigation must bear direct fruit to
be valuable, I would say that the reply to this is contained partly in
what I have already said, but it can be refuted much more clearly and
appropriately for our present purpose by the consideration of an ex-
ample or two. As I remarked a few minutes since, when a new sub-
stance is discovered by a chemist, the first question asked by most
persons is, What is it good for ? what can it be used for ? As I desire
to show that pharmacy is much indebted to chemistry in recent times,
it would seem that I ought first to show that many new substances
have been discovered by chemists which are of use in pharmacy. This
is, however, so obvious that I prefer to show how some of the most
abstruse chemical investigations may ultimately yield fruit of much
value to pharmacy. In an address which I had the honor to deliver a
few years ago in this building, before the " Medical and Chirurgical
Faculty of Maryland," I referred to the purely scientific investigations
which led to the discovery of choral, and to a method for the manu-
facture of salicylic acid on the large scale. It can easily be shown
that these discoveries were made, not because the discoverers were at-
tempting to find substances gifted with the properties which these two
are known to possess, but that they were made as the result of abstruse
chemical investigation, undertaken simply with the object of adding
to the possessions of science. I shall not repeat what I then said, for
there are enough new examples, as well as old, to furnish us with
interesting material.
Of comparatively recent discoveries, which may be classed among
those which are of direct importance to pharmacy, is that of the arti-
ficial preparation of the oil of mustard. This substance is now made
by a patented process entirely independently of the mustard-plant. I
