732 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
exhibits not so much " decline " as destitution. However, I am not
inclined to deal severely with the distinguished professor, and accord-
ingly content myself with flinging back the title-page into his teeth.
-*-
HOMOEOPATHY AS A SCIENCE.
By EDWAED BAYAED, M. D.
" Philosophy and science arc so related as to constitute a unity." " The Eelations
of Mind and Brain," Calderwood.
~\ /TANY of the most important discoveries of the psychologists were
J3JL rejected by the physiologists, because they could not be proved
by their law and conversely with the psychologists. These contend-
ing forces have been brought into lasting alliance by Professor Calder-
wood. It is believed that as close a relation can be established be-
tween Nature's laws and those of homoeopathy.
Vaccination, as the sole and sure preventive of small-pox, is one of
the great, dominant, fixed facts of the old school. Here is the open
and avowed application of tbe law of cure by similars, similia simili-
bus curantur. If it be a law of cure in one case, by what logical
process can it be demonstrated to fail in all others ? Those most con-
versant with Nature's laws assert, and truly, that she makes no excep-
tions : the laAV of gravity ; that water seeks its own level ; that the
pressure of water is equal in all directions ; that sound ascends ; that
heat expands. It was this universality of the law of Nature which en-
abled the great naturalist, Cuvier, to construct a whole skeleton from
two or three bones. So, with equal certainty, if necessary, could the
skeleton of the homoeopathic law be evolved from this single bone of
its structure vaccination. Starting from different stand-points, the
old and new schools have progressed in the same direction, to dimin-
ished doses, both in size and repetition. This is concededly due in
the old school to the influence of homoeopathy, in the new it is the
growth of its own experience.
Messrs. Bell and Laird, in their admirable monograph on diarrhoea,
say : " There is indeed a somewhat prevalent opinion that the strength
of the dose makes up for want of due care or knowledge in selection.
This may be stated in mathematical terms, as follows : If the thirtieth
potency of arsenic is equal to a complete knowledge of the drug, one
fifth of a grain of arsenious acid is equal to complete ignorance of it.
Stated in this, its true form, we grant it."
Homoeopathy, as a science, is the law of the vital force ; the body
is but the mechanism upon which it operates. The dissecting-knife
has laid bare to the astonished gaze of the student a perfect organism,
while the operating-table presents the companion picture of an organ-
