HOMCEOPATHY AS A SCIENCE. 735
has been the means of lessening in a considerable degree the monstrous
poly-pharmacy which has always been the disgrace of our art, by at
once diminishing the frequency of administration of drugs and lessen-
ing their dose. . . .
" In a word, almost every drug in our overflowing materia medica,
whether inert or active, has been on one ground or another copiously
prescribed in every variety of disease under the supposed sanction of
this pseudo-specific on empirical indication. Nor let it be supposed
that this empirical practice is one of the past day only. It is at this
very time in as great vogue as ever, although its employment may be
often veiled under the technicalities of newer science.
" Nor is it confined to the ignorant or inexperienced among us, but
adopted and followed by men of the greatest abilities and greatest
eminence in the profession. . . .
" As in religion and politics, and in those departments of knowl-
edge which are not of a positive or demonstrable kind, early and long-
continued education, comprising not merely direct instruction, prop-
erly so called, but the influence of habitual example, deference to sen-
iority and superiority, unconscious imitation, etc., induce conventional
belief of the strongest kind strong as demonstrated truth itself and
create a sort of wizard circle of power, beyond which the mind of the
disciple, however bold, scarcely ever dares to wander. So in medicine,
the great majority of practitioners retain the same doctrines and pur-
sue the same practice which they learned in the schools, or, if changing
both doctrine and practice, as time and fashion dictate, hold fast, at
least, the great fundamental doctrine impressed upon the very core of
their professional hearts viz., that the interference of Art is essential
in all cases, and therefore never to be foregone. It need not, there-
fore, surprise us that it is only a very small minority of medical prac-
titioners who, in ordinary circumstances, can see in disease the true
workings of Nature through the artificial veil which conventionalism
and professional superstition have thrown over them. . . .
" The conviction of the great autocracy of Nature, in the cure of
diseases derived from this source, is much more widely spread among
the senior members of the profession than is at all believed by the
great body of practitioners. . . . The number of cases that recover
and would have died had Art not interfered is extremely small."
These trenchant words from Sir John Forbes carry great weight
as a commanding critic in his own profession. Had his strictures upon
his brethren and their practices come from an alien pen, they would
undoubtedly have been attributed by the allopathic school to malevo-
lence and ignorance ; and, doubtless, Sir John Forbes will not escape
the same fate, because, if his statements are true, those of whom they
are spoken are incapable of perceiving or admitting their truth.
But, conceding the allopathic to be a correct or a possible system
of cure, it by no means follows that because it requires large doses to
