THE LIVER-FLUKE OF SHEEP.
74i
utable, by those who maintain the germ-theory in disease, to atomic
germs. The number of disease-germs does not matter, as is evidenced
by the communication of disease by letter where the number must
necessarily be limited. The atomic dose is but a stimulus to Nature.
Nature cures, aided or unaided. The atomic dose but excites in a
greater degree those powers of reaction and resistance of Nature al-
ready set in motion by disease which is a disturbing cause. Nature
always seeks to restore the equilibrium of her forces.
-"--
THE LIVER-FLUKE OF SHEEP.
By BYKON D. IIALSTED, Sc. D.
THE object of this paper is to briefly summarize the present knowl-
edge of the liver-fluke, causing the much-dreaded and fatal
rot " in sheep. Professor A. P.
Thomas,
of Balliol College, Ox-
7 ,
,,-y
miij(|:'H ; \
ford, has completed his long and extended researches on this parasite,
which have been carried on under the direction of the Royal Agricul-
tural Society of England. Professor Thomas's
concluding report appeared in the last issue of
the " Royal Agricultural Journal," from which
the leading facts here given are drawn and the
engravings borrowed.
The liver-fluke, shown twice the natural size
in Fig. 1, is a sucking-worm related to the com-
mon leech, and known to zoologists as Fasciola
hepatica. It has the shape of a privet-leaf, is
pale brown or flesh-colored, and from an inch
to an inch and a third in length. There is a
short projection at one end, and at its tip, y, is a
sucking-mouth by which the fluke can attach it-
self to the surface of the bile-ducts of the sheep.
A second sucker, y', is situated at the place where
the head joins the body. These flukes are found
in abundance in the livers of sheep and other
animals infested with the " rot," and produce
vast numbers of eggs. Each of these eggs
under proper conditions gives rise to an animal
" which is never like its parent, never does be-
come like it, and never lives where its parent
lives." It will be seen that in the liver-fluke we have an example of
what is known among naturalists as an alternation of generations.
The eggs, one of which is shown in Fig. 2 very highly magnified,
are about -$fa of an inch in length, but may be made visible to the
Fig. 1.
