THE LIVER-FLUKE OF SHEEP.
743
while it remains within the infested sheep. The eggs are, however,
naturally washed away by the bile into the intestines, and finally pass
from the sheep and are distributed with the droppings. If the eggs
fall upon wet land, further changes take place during warm weather,
and an embryo is formed. Fig. 3 shows a fluke-egg with the em-
bryo fully formed within the shell. The body of the embryo is cov-
ered with cilia, by the motion of which the young trematode is pi'o*-
pelled through the water. Both of the engravings (Figs. 3 and 4)
are highly magnified. In swimming, the broader end is directed for-
ward, and in its center is a projection, used as a boring-tool. The
embryo has very simple eye-spots, which render it sensitive to light,
and aid it in finding its future home. When the swimming embryo
comes in contact with any object, it feels about, and, if not suited to
its wants, starts off again. If the object met with is the snail {Lim-
nceus truncatulus), shown in Fig. 5, it at once bores into it. In boring
through the shell of the snail, the peg-like projection is extended, and
the embryo spins around rapidly by means of the cilia. The natural
place for the further growth of the embryo is in or near the lung of
the snail, and when once lodged there its eye-spots and cilia disappear,
and the body becomes oval in shape. Figure 6 shows the embryo
while the changes are taking place. When the changes are completed
the animal is called a sporocyst, meaning a sac of germs. The sporo-
cysts live at the expense of the snail, and will, in July weather, reach
their full growth, -fa of an inch, in a fortnight. Fig. 7 shows a full-
Fig. 5.
Fig. 7.
grown sporocyst, or first generation of the liver-fluke. It contains a
number of germs, the lower one of which is ready to hatch out.
This is the second generation, and is named reclia, after Redi, the cele-
brated anatomist. The young redia, when ready, breaks through the
wall of the parent, and the wound thus formed closes up, and the re-
