754 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lutely repel this view, for it discusses the possible existence of pre-
adamites. Religion even seems disinterested in the question, for the
Abbe Bourgeois, whose discoveries have given rise to M. de Mortillet's
anthropopithecuses, and who has not rejected the theory, has always
passed for a soundly orthodox priest, while he is known to be a keen
observer. Nothing is against an imj)artial examination of the ques-
tion. Only the objections may be offered to his views that no one has
ever seen an anthropopithecus, the structure and characteristics of
which have been worked out by pure reasoning alone, and that the
distance that must have separated the precursor of man from man
himself is calculated upon the extremely uncertain basis of the dis-
tance between quaternary and existing man.
According to M. de Mortillet's admission, quaternary man was him-
self gradually modified. " His blood," he says, " was infused into the
new race, and may even reappear by atavism in our own times." The
question is reduced to one of learning whether there existed in Europe,
alongside of the miocene anthrojtomorphs of St. Gaudens, a primitive
and rudimentary man of unknown physical qualities, who had indus-
trial instinct enough to cut flints for his use. We are thus brought to
the inquiry whether the instruments collected at Thenay by Abbe
Bourgeois, and those discovered afterward in Portugal, in more recent
but unquestionably tertiary formations, are authentic, or are not sim-
ple flakes and natural fragments that have been confounded with ar-
ticles intentionally fabricated. Thenay, where the earlier of these
flints were discovered, is in the Lower Miocene, an inferior forma-
tion to that of Sansan, in which the anthropomorphic fauna we have
spoken of were included. The existence of the rhinoceros at the time
of its formation is still in doubt, the mastodons had not yet appeared,
the elephants were still far off ; the hipparions, the predecessors of the
horse, were not to make their appearance till long afterward. The
marsupials had disappeared, and the carnivora were represented only
by ambiguous types. None of the animal forms that were to accom-
pany the earlier steps of man, and which he would have to contend
against or tame, had showed themselves. Yet man is to be placed, in
this rudest condition of nature, already in possession of fire ! There
is certainly little a priori probability of this. To be convinced of it,
we need more evidence than has yet been presented to us a few flints
among many thousands of others, that may have been intentionally
chipped. This is a little, but not enough, in view of the improba-
bilities which accumulate, against our putting faith in such indica-
tions.
The tertiary flints of Portugal are not calculated to add strength
to the conviction. They come from an unquestionably tertiary fresh-
water formation of the recent Miocene age. The Portuguese flora of
the age was characterized by the presence of elms, poplars, cinnamon-
trees, saponarias, and tamarinds, which testify to a mild and equable
