5 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
impossible to conceive of any method by which our knowledge con-
cerning them could be materially enlarged. Recently, however, a
change has come over the scene, and now, in consequence of a very
simple scientific observation, a large number of chemists have turned
their attention to this field, and it looks as though the time is not far
distant when the chemist will be able to produce artificially in the
laboratory the alkaloids for which we have hitherto been entirely
dependent upon nature. How did this come about ? By carrying on
investigations on insignificant substances, simply for scientific pur-
poses, to learn more regarding these substances for the sake of increas-
ing our knowledge.
In the year 1851 Anderson, a Scotch chemist, undertook the exam-
ination of the oil which is formed when bones are heated. We all
know the extremely disagreeable properties of this oil. Its odor would
be enough to prevent any but a bold man from undertaking its exam-
ination. It is a very complex substance also, and, at first, it seems
almost impossible to get from it pure and definite substances. An-
derson, recognizing the difficulties before him, went at the problem in
a large way. He distilled about two hundred and fifty gallons, or
more than a ton, of the disgusting bone-oil, and repeated this operation
over and over again. He was finally rewarded by the discovery of
some curious substances which he called pyridine, picoline, and luti-
dine. These substances have from time to time been met with since,
but they have played a very subordinate part in chemistry until very
recently. About two years ago a young chemist (and, as chance would
have it, again a Scotchman) tried an experiment which gave him the
startling result that from quinine there can easily be obtained a sub-
stance closely related to the pyridine of Anderson ; and, indeed, by a
further step pyridine itself was obtained. This gave the first hint as
to the chemical nature of quinine, and chemists at once recognized the
importance of the discovery. Immediately great activity showed itself
in the further examination of bone-oil or animal-tar, and our knowledge
of this substance was rapidly increased. At the same time it has been
shown that not only quinine, but many other alkaloids, are related to
pyridine and the other substances discovered by Anderson thirty years
ago. Every month we receive reports of rapid advances, and it looks,
indeed, as though we should not have long to wait before we hear it
announced that quinine and morphine, and perhaps a host of other val-
uable alkaloids, have been made from the offensive oil which is given
off when bones are heated. In view of many past achievements I do
not think that this is too much to expect. Look at the unpromising
coal-tar, at one time the bugbear of gas-manufacturers ! It has become
the source of many of the most valuable and interesting chemical sub-
stances. Nothing could less suggest the beautiful dye-stuffs, the deli-
cious essences, which can be and are obtained from it in quantity.
Surely, with the knowledge already in our possession we have a right
