HOW THE EARTH WAS PEOPLED. 755
climate throughout Europe, in which man would have found conditions
most favorable to his development. When, however, we undertake
to establish his existence thei*e, we have in evidence only a deposit of
sandstone mixed with silicious pebbles, partly disaggregated, which
have been submitted to subsequent erosions and atmospheric influences
that sufficiently explain the numerous fragments scattered over the
ground from which those believed to have been intentionally cut have
been sifted after a long search. M. Cazalis de Fondouce, who was a
member of the Prehistoric Congress at Lisbon in 1880 a man of ac-
knowledged competence in such matters visited the miocene beds of
Monte Redondo, and justifies his reservation of opinion on the charac-
ter of the very few flints which it is possible to assimilate with those
of the Moustier period, by reference to the denudations and disturb-
ances the beds have suffered. It is not impossible that the stones
were cut by man. One of them appears to have been taken from a
bed that had not been disturbed ; but, if this is admitted, is it not
better to wait, than to attempt to solve so great a problem at once and
without direct proof ? M. de Mortillet is himself wise enough not to
affirm directly anything but the authenticity of the instruments. He
adds that their small size leads him to believe that the beings that
made them, if of proportionate dimensions, were not and could not
have been real men. The doubt which he admits respecting the crea-
tures whose intervention he invokes, we extend to the instruments, and
wait for the results of future discoveries to resolve it.
Acceptation of these relics as evidences of a tertiary man is made
more difficult by the bright light of the following period, which M.
de Mortillet calls " Chellean," from the station of Chelles, near Paris,
which he regards as typical of it. Man reveals himself in this epoch
with an evident industry primitive, for it presents only a single cate-
gory of instruments, which are, however, so clearly characterized by
their form and size that the most prejudiced mind could not fail to
recognize them at once as belonging to the same race. The deposit
of Chelles is even more characteristic than that of St. Acheul, where
similar instruments have been found in so great numbers. The Ele-
jihas antiquus of Falconer, the probable ancestor of the Indian ele-
phant, and the predecessor of the mammoth in Eurcme, is found
exclusively at Chelles, associated with human implements, while at
St. Acheul the mammoth is more frequently found, although the other
species is not absent. Thus, Chellean man saw two species of elephants
merge one into the other. Probably, also, the climate changed insen-
sibly and became colder, without disturbance to his habits or his in-
dustry. In the long run, however, the action of the physiological
and biological events of which Europe became the theatre had an in-
fluence on quaternary man ; and the Chellean race, passing into that
of Moustier, gradually changed its habits, while it learned to fashion
other instruments. There need have been nothing abrupt in this evo-
