POSITION AND STROKE IN SWIMMING. 55
above water. But, when the correct position is once mastered, this
difficulty disappears, and swimming is made as natural and easy a
function of the body as running or walking.
Fig. 2, showing the correct position of the body while swimming,
has been drawn from empirical analysis, and is as plausible in theory
as in practice. All of the propulsory exertions should be given so as
to have but one tendency that of advancing the body directly for-
ward. (The proper method for accomplishing this end will be spoken
of further on.) Now, admitting that the whole tendency of the stroke
is to force the body in the direction of the component, c, if the body
be so bent that the chest and part of the abdomen will form a resist-
ance, making an angle with the direction of the force as a, b, c the
tendency of that resistance will be to form a resultant in the direction
Fig. 2.
of b, which forms, with the natural buoyancy of the body, the force
that keeps the head above water.
A concomitant advantage in the position under discussion is, that
the neck and head are free to take their natural positions, and hence
the avoidance of the evil referred to in speaking of the position of the
head assumed by beginners.
The greatest difficulty to the beginner is to learn to keep the proper
position of the body after attaining it. This difficulty can only be
overcome by using the proper stroke after having placed the body in
the correct position.
In the use of the arms, the only direction that can be given is to
remember that, when the arms are thrust forward at the beginning of
the stroke, such position of the elbows and hands should be taken as
will make the least resistance to the water. To accomplish this, the
hands should be placed palm to palm, and the elbows made to come quite
close together, starting them from under the chest, as in the cut. In
making the effective part of the stroke, our object is to get a forward
motion only. The arms and hands should be so placed as to produce
the greatest resistance upon the water. To accomplish this, the palms
of the hands should be thrown outward, and the plane of the direction
of the stroke of the arms made parallel to the surface of the water.
The most important and the most often defective point in swim-
ming is the mode of using the legs. It would be well for a beginner
to observe the swimming of a frog, for undoubtedly the same method
