60 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Such formations are of frequent occurrence in the coal-measures,
in alternation with the seams of coal and the marine deposits left by
the overflow of the sea, and this was doubtless their origin. The fos-
sil forests which have been discovered in the same regions may be
similarly accounted for. The trees growing around the perimeters of
the lagoons would be partially submerged by the overflowing water,
and the sections of them buried in its muddy dejjosit would be left to
decay and fossilize in it. The persistent root-stocks of the sigillarias
and calamites, unharmed by the flood, would send up new aerial stems ;
and most of the other plants, having the power of sending out adven-
titious roots from their trunks, would be able to live and continue to
grow by that means, leaving their old lower parts to die, while they
lifted themselves, as it were, bodily up with the ascensional movement
of the soil. Several examples of such successive emissions of roots
are figured in the "Memoire." M. Grand' Eury has assumed that
the concurrence of two principal circumstances, acting coincidently
and in combination with each other, contributed essentially to the
formation of coal. One was the transportation by water for short
distances of all the vegetable matter of a region to be spread out flat
and stratified at the bottom of the lagoon destined to receive it ; the
other was the exposure of the matter, previous to this process, in the
open air to a certain amount of decay, of the nature and effects of
which he has made a patient analysis. From these principles he has
deduced a theory which may be summarized thus : The water which
served as the vehicle for the vegetable matter, which must have been
perfectly clean, because it was free from all mud, strong enough to
carry along its drift, and plentiful enough to sweep all the points of the
wooded region, could not have been any other than rain-water shed
upon slopes pronounced enough to make it easy for it to run and carry
the vegetable residues along with it, yet level enough not to allow the
ground to be cut up. The land over which the water flowed must
have been covered with a mass of plants and accumulated fragments
abundant enough to furnish much flotsam matter, and matted enough
to prevent its eroding the subjacent soil. The water must have been
intermittent, else the fallen trunks of trees and the fragments of every
kind which lay scattered over the ground would not have had time to
undergo the partial decomposition and disaggregation of their tissues
which necessarily preceded complete submersion. There must have
been, then, if not real seasons, intervals of relative calm, in which the
decomposition could have taken place, to be succeeded by times of
protraoted and extremely violent precipitation. The fact that a trans-
portation and deposition of the parts took place is attested by the
stratified structure of the coal. In both the coal and the schisto-car-
bonaceous laminae, all of the fragments, down to the most delicate
isolated organs, are always, with only the rarest exceptions, spread out
flat, and cemented one over another, lying together like the leaves of
