LENGTHENING THE VISIBLE SPECTRUM. 89
Our proposition is, " May not these rays, even if only partially, be
rendered visible to the eye ? " Let us, for this purpose, shut out all the
other vividly luminous colors of the spectrum, so that they shall not
interfere, by their excess of illumination, with the feeble effect of the
ultra-violet rays. We interpose a black screen in their path, and cut
off all except the extreme violet ones. The ultra-violet rays now be-
come visible upon the white screen ; * we see them of a feebly lustrous
lavender-gray.
This method of rendering the ultra-violet rays visible is extremely
primitive. Stokes, the successor of the great Newton in the professor's
chair of the University of Cambridge, indicated a means by which our
object is attained much more effectively. He introduced a piece of
calcic fluoride into the ultra-violet part of the spectrum, and found
that this crystal began to shine brightly with a blue light. Before we
attempt to elucidate this peculiarity, however, let us consider the in-
fluence of the motion of ether upon a body.
When a ray arrives upon the surface of a body, three things may
be imagined : The ray is either reflected, or it is transmitted, or ab-
sorbed. We describe the first two cases as reflection and refraction.
In the third case, the ray is absorbed, and serves for heating the body,
which itself emits again the arriving motion of ether in the form of
calorific rays.f Besides these three cases, another, a fourth one, is
possible, to wit, that, although the arriving rays are absorbed, they
are not wholly employed in the heating of the body, but are partly
altered into rays of another number of waves, and are emitted again
under their changed form. Stokes, who first investigated this altera-
tion more minutely, named it fluorescence.
Investigations demonstrate that, besides the calcic fluoride, there
are an entire series of fluid substances possessing this property of con-
version : for instance, petroleum ; again, the solution of the highly
esteemed febrifuge quinine sulphate ; esculine, an extract of the bark
of the common horse-chestnut ; leaf-green, or chlorophyl ; eosine, fre-
quently used in the manufacture of red ink ; and, finally, in a high
degree, the solution of a substance discovered by Bayer, of Munich,
fluoresceine (resorcinphtaline).
Let us get better acquainted with these fluorescing substances.
Best for this purpose is a narrow glass tube, filled with rarefied air
a so-called Geissler's tube, surrounded by an envelope, containing solu-
tions of such substances in four divisions (Fig. 1).
By means of the electric current we bring the inclosed air to a red
heat. It emits whitish-violet light, which penetrates into the fluores-
cing solutions, and is by them partly transmitted and partly absorbed.
* In this experiment, the screen, impregnated with silver chloride, was replaced by a
white one.
f The name of caloresccnce would be far more applicable to this peculiarity than to
the one mentioned further below.
