9 o
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Fig. 1.
We find the transmitted light to be colored differently by the different
fluids, but that these latter themselves begin to shine in different col-
ors for instance, eosine, green ; quinine sulphate, blue. By the former,
the transmitted light is red ; by the
latter, almost white. In both cases,
consequently, the rays emanating
from the red-hot gas were screened
as it were, and the retained part con-
verted into rays of another number
of undulations, to wit, into green
with eosine, and blue with quinine.
Far more intense and admirable
in color become the appearances,
when we make the powerful rays
of the electric light parallel by
means of a condensing lens, pass them through a square glass vessel
filled with pure water, and to this add the substances by drops. We
will begin with eosine. We pour a little of the solution into the water,
and an admirable, vividly green-colored cloud at once spreads within
the vessel. If we place a white screen behind the vessel, we find that
the transmitted light appears red upon it. Eosine, consequently,
possesses the property of only permitting the red rays to pass, and of
altering them into green light, while absorbing all the others. We
take fresh water, and repeat the experiment with fluoresceine. The
green of the generated cloud now is far more vivid, while the trans-
mitted light is yellow. We close the experiments with quinine sul-
phate. The cloud is colored delicately blue, but the transmitted light
is pure white. Which rays were absorbed in this case ? A later ex-
periment will answer the question.
There is an occurrence very generally found in nature which is
dissimilar in form, but analogous in essence, with the fluorescence.
With fluorescent substances, the emission of light ceases as soon as
illumination is interrupted. If light is thrown upon calcium prepara-
tions, a part of the rays is also absorbed, and altered into rays of
another number of waves. But these preparations emit the absorbed
rays partly only after the cessation of illumination. Owing to the
weakness of the light emitted, it becomes visible only ofter the prep-
arations have been placed in darkness. Since this peculiarity of sub-
sequent illumination is analogous to the development of light occur-
ring when a piece of phosphorus is rubbed in darkness, it has been
called phosphorescence. Both the duration and intensity of this sub-
sequent light depend upon the nature of the substances employed.
There are those known, the light of which disappears very quickly
after its emission, and again those by which the illumination lasts as
long as eighteen hours of course, while growing constantly feebler.
For the study of this phosphorescence we again make use of a
