LENGTHENING THE VISIBLE SPECTRUM. 91
Geissler's tube, the exterior envelope of which contains four phosphor-
escent substances in four divisions (Fig. 2). By means of the electric
current, we raise the temperature of the inclosed air to a glow-heat,
and cause the emitted rays of light to operate for about a minute upon
calcium salts.
Fig. 2.
After interrupting the light, the salts appear in four different
colors, to wit : orange, yellow, green, and blue. This property of
phosphorescence is universally found in nature. I call to mind the
glowing of decayed wood, that of fire-bugs, etc. Various inferior
organisms are provided with special glands for secreting phosphor-
escent substance. During excitement this is exuded by the animal,
and begins to emit light. The phosphorescent light of the tropical
waters is produced by myriads of minute organisms, by which the
substance is secreted.
An Englishman, Balmain, succeeded some time ago in manufactur-
ing a substance of a fairly intense and durable phosphorescence. It
is used for painting watch-dials, match-boxes, door-signs, etc., to make
them self-illuminating. In tenor with the nature of things, these ar-
ticles can discharge their functions only after they have previously been
exposed to the light of day, or some other energetic source of light.
We have in this manner become acquainted with means of altering
rays of one number of waves into those of another number, and we
will employ these means of rendering the ultra-violet rays visible to
the eye. For this purpose, we must seek for substances possessing
the property of absorbing these ultra-red rays, in order to emit them
as rays of an inferior number of undulations. Besides the calcic fluo-
ride, the above-named solutions of quinine sulphate and of esculine
will answer our purpose.
We again throw a spectrum in the above-described manner, and
introduce a calcic fluoride crystal into the ultra-violet part. It begins
at once to shine vividly with a blue light. A writing with cyanuret
of barium and platinum upon white paper is invisible in ordinary white
light, but, as soon as we expose it in the ultra-violet end of the spec-
trum, it emits greenish-blue light. Finally, if we throw the spectrum
upon a screen, the paper covering of which is saturated with quinine
sulphate, we shall at once observe that it extends largely beyond the
violet end. The ultra-violet rays now begin to appear with a pale-blue
color. By the operation upon the quinine sulphate, therefore, the in-
visible rays have been converted into visible, illuminating ones.
Deeply violet-colored glass possesses the property of transmitting
only the extreme violet and ultra-violet rays, and absorbing all the
others. We cause a pencil of white luminous rays to emanate from
the incandescent carbon-points of an electric light, which, rendered
