THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 99
the confines of the solar system. Does Sirius, for instance, attract the
pole-star ? We really do not know. Nor can we ever expect to know.
If Sirius and the pole-star do attract each other, and if the law of their
attraction be the same as the law of attraction in the solar system, it
will then be easy to show that the effect of this attraction is so minute
that it would he entirely outside the range of our instruments even to
detect it. Observation is hopeless on such a matter. If we can not
detect any attraction between a star in one constellation and a star in
another, no more can we detect any attraction between our sun and
the stars. Such attractions may exist, or they may not exist : we have
no means of knowing. Should any one assert that there is absolutely
no gravitation between two bodies more than a billion miles apart, we
know no facts by which he can be contradicted.
If we know so little about the existence of gravitation in the space
accessible to our telescopes, what are we to say of those distant regions
of space to which our view can never penetrate ? Let a vast sphere be
described of such mighty dimensions that it embraces not only all the
objects visible to the unaided eye, not only all the objects visible in
our most powerful telescopes, but even every object that the most
fertile imagination can conceive, what relation must this stupendous
sphere bear to the whole of space ? The mighty sphere can only be an
infinitely small part of space. It must bear to the whole of space a
ratio infinitely less than the water in a single dew-drop bears to the
water in the Atlantic Ocean. Are we then entitled to assert that every
particle in the universe attracts every other particle with a force which
is proportional to the product of their masses, and which varies in-
versely as the square of their distance ? We have, indeed, but a slen-
der basis of fact on which to rest a proposition so universal. Let us
attempt to enunciate the law of gravitation so as to commit ourselves
to no assertion not absolutely proved. The statement would then run
somewhat as follows :
Of the whole contents of space we know nothing except within
that infinitely small region which contains the bodies visible in our
telescopes. Nor can we assert that gravitation pervades the entire of
even this infinitely small region. It is true that in one very minute
part of this infinitely small region the law of gravitation appears to
reign supreme. This minute part is of course the solar system. There
are also a few binary stars in this infinitely small region whose move-
ments would admit of being explained by gravitation, though as yet
they can hardly be held to absolutely prove its existence.
It must then be admitted that, when the law of gravitation is spoken
of as being universal, we are using language infinitely more general
than the facts absolutely warrant. At the present moment we only
know that gravitation exists to a very small extent in a certain in-
definitely small portion of space. Our knowledge would have to be
enormously extended before we can assert that gravitation extended
