ioo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
entirely through this very limited region ; and, even when we have
proved this, we should have only made an infinitesimal advance to a
proof that gravitation is absolutely universal.
I do not for a moment assert that our ordinary statement of the
law of gravitation is untrue. I merely say that it has not been proved,
and we may also add that it does not seem as if it ever could be proved.
Most people who have considered the matter will probably believe
that gravitation is universal. Nor is this belief unnatural. If we set
aside comets' tails, and perhaps one or two other slightly doubtful
matters, we may assert that we always find the law of gravitation to
be true whenever we have an opportunity of testing it. These oppor-
tunities are very limited, so that we have but very slender supports for
the induction that gravitation is universal. But it must be admitted
that an hypothesis which has practically borne every test which can be
applied has very strong grounds for our acceptance : such, then, are
the claims of the law of gravitation to be admitted to a place among
the laws of Nature.
The wondrous series of spectroscopic researches by which Mr. Hug-
gins has so vastly extended our knowledge should also be here referred
to. Mr. Huggins has shown that many of the substances most abun-
dant on the earth are widely spread through the universe. Take, for
instance, the metal iron and the gas hydrogen. We can detect the
existence of these elements in objects enormously distant. Both iron
and hydrogen exist in many stars, and hydrogen has been shown, in all
probability, to be an important constituent of the nebula?. That the
rest of the sidereal system should thus be composed of materials known
to be to a large extent identical with the materials in the solar system
is a presumption in favor of the universality of gravitation.
In what has hitherto been said, we have attempted to give an out-
line of the facts so far as they are certainly known to us. Into mere
speculations we have no desire to enter. We may, however, sketch
out a brief chapter in modern sidereal astronomy, which seems to
throw a ray of light into the constituents of the vast abyss of space
which lies beyond the scope of our telescopes. The ray of light is no
doubt but a feeble one, but we must take Avhatever information we
can obtain, even though it may fall far short of that which an intel-
lectual curiosity will desire. The question now before us may be
simply stated : Are Ave entitled to suppose that the part of the uni-
verse accessible to our telescopes is fairly typical of the other parts
of the universe," or are we to believe that the system we know is alto-
gether exceptional ; that there are stars in other parts quite unlike
our stars, composed of different materials, acted upon by different
laws, of which we have no conception ? The presumption is, that the
materials of which our system is composed are representative of the
materials elsewhere. This presumption is strengthened by the very
important considerations now to be adduced.
