THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 101
In the first place, let us distinctly understand what is meant by our
sidereal system. We have already dwelt on the isolated position of
the sun and the attendant planets. The grandest truth in the whole
of astronomy is that which asserts that our sun is only a star separated
by the most gigantic distances from the other stars around. Our sun,
indeed, appears to be but one of the vast host of stars which form the
milky way. We need not here enter into the often-discussed question
as to whether the nebulae are, generally speaking, at distances of the
same order as the stars. There seems to be no doubt that some of the
nebulne are quite as near to us as some of the stars. At all events, for
our present purpose, we may group the milky way, the nebulae, the
stars, and the clusters, all into one whole which we call our sidereal
system. Is this sidereal system as thus defined an isolated object in
space ? are its members all so bound together by the law of universal
gravitation that each body, whatever be its movements, can only de-
scribe a certain path such that it can never depart finally from the
system '? This is a question of no small importance. It presents
features analogous to certain very interesting problems in biology
which the labors of Mr. Wallace have done so much to elucidate. We
are told that the fauna and flora of an oceanic island, cut off from
the perpetual immigration of new forms, often assumes a very re-
markable type. The evolution of life under such circumstances pro-
ceeds in a very different manner to the corresponding evolution in an
equal area of land which is connected with the great continental
masses. Is our sidereal system to be regarded as an oceanic island
in space, or is it in such connection with the systems in other parts of
space as might lead us to infer that the various systems had a common
character ?
The evidence seems to show that the stars in our system are prob-
ably not permanently associated together, but that in the course of
time some stars enter our system and other stars leave it, in such a
manner as to suggest that the bodies visible to us are fairly typical of
the general contents of the universe. The strongest evidence that can
be presented on this subject is met with in the peculiar circumstances
of one particular star. The star in question is known as No. 1830
of Groombridge's catalogue. It is a small star, not to be seen with-
out the aid of a telescope. This star is endowed with a very large
proper motion. It would not be correct to say that its proper motion
exceeds that of any other known star, but it certainly has the largest
visible proper motion of any star of which the distance is known. The
proper motion of 1830 Groombridge amounts to over seven seconds
annually. It would take between two and three centuries to move
over a distance in the heavens equal to the apparent diameter of the
moon. The distance of this star is much greater than might have
been anticipated from its very large proper motion. The estimates
of the distance present some irregularities, but we shall probably be
