THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 103
If therefore, the velocities of the stars were under no circumstances
more than twenty-five miles a second, then, supposing the system to
have the character we have described, that system might be always
the same. The stars might be in incessant motion, but they must
always remain in the vicinity of our present system, and our whole
sidereal system might be an isolated object in space, just as our solar
system is an isolated object in the extent of the sidereal system. We
have, however, seen that for one star at all events the velocity is no
less than 200 miles a second. If this star dash through the system,
then the attractions of all the bodies in the system will unite in one
grand effort to recall the wanderer. This attraction must, to some
extent, be acknowledged ; the speed of the wanderer must gradually
diminish as he recedes into space ; but that speed will never be lessened
sufficiently to bring the star back again. As the star retreats farther
and farther, the potency of the attraction will decrease ; but, owing
to the velocity of the star being over twenty-five miles a second, the
attraction can never overcome the velocity ; so that the star seems
destined to escape. This calculation is of course founded on our as-
sumption as to the total mass of the stars and other bodies which form
our sidereal system. That estimate was founded on a liberal, indeed,
a very liberal interpretation of the evidence which our telescopes have
afforded. But it may still fall short of the truth. There may be more
than a hundred million stars in our system : their average weight may
be more than five times the weight of our sun. But, unless the as-
sumption we have made is enormously short of the truth, our inference
can not be challenged. If the stars are sixty-four times as numerous,
or if the whole mass of the system be sixty-four times as great as we
have supposed, then the critical velocity would be 200 miles a second
instead of twenty-five miles a second. Our estimate of the system
would therefore have to be enlarged sixty-four-fold, if the attraction
of that system is to be adequate to recall 1830 Groombridge. It should
also be recollected that our assumption of the velocity of the star is
very moderate, so that it is not at all unlikely that a system at least one
hundred times as massive as the system we have supposed would be
required if this star was to be recalled. The result of this inquiry is
really only to be stated as an alternative : either our sidereal system
is not an entirely isolated object, or its bodies must be vastly more
numerous or more massive than even our most liberal interpretation of
observations would seem to warrant. It seems more reasonable to
adopt the first branch of the alternative. If this be so, then we see
that 1830 Groombridge, having traveled from an indefinitely great
distance on one side of the heavens, is now passing through our sys-
tem for the first and the only time. After leaving our system this star
will retreat again into the depths of space, to a distance which, for
anything we can tell, may be practically regarded as infinite. Although
we have only used this one star as an illustration, yet it is not to be
