SKETCH OF PROFESSOR RICHARD OWEN, F.R.S. 109
workers rank among the very poorest. Young men are now warned
by their friends to avoid the highest class of brain-work, and even to
shun the learned professions, " because they do not pay." I meet with
books containing the records of original research, yet for which the
author has received less than the wages of a stone-breaker for the time
employed. I meet with inventions which ruin the inventor and enrich
his followers. Verily the manual laborer has scant cause to envy the
brain- worker. Journal of Science.
SKETCH OF PROFESSOR RICHARD OWEN, F. R. S.
PROFESSOR OWEN'S especial field of labor, that of compara-
tive anatomy, covers every portion of the realm of zoology ;
and in that field, as one of his biographers well observes, he has pub-
lished original papers on every branch of the animal kingdom, living
and fossil. Another writer, reviewing his work, has said felicitously
and justly that, " from the sponge to man, he has thrown light on
every subject he has touched."
Richard Owe^ was bora in Lancaster, England, July 20, 1804.
He received an elementary education at the grammar-school of his
native town, and was for some time a pupil of a surgeon in that place.
He became a student of the University of Edinburgh in 1824, and
there enjoyed the guidance of the third Monro, Alison, Jameson, and
Hope, in the university, and of Barclay in the out-door school. He
was one of the founders of the Hunterian Society, and was chosen
president of it in 1825. He visited Paris in the same year, and made
the acquaintance of Baron Cuvier. Having spent about a year in the
study of medicine at Edinburgh, he went to London, and became a
student in the medical school of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where
he received the diploma of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1826.
He had intended to enter the navy, but had settled down to practice
in London, when Dr. Abernethy, with whom he had been associated for
a little time at St. Bartholomew's as one of the dissectors, procured for
him a position as assistant to Dr. Clift, Curator of the Museum of the
Royal College of Surgeons. In this position it was his duty to make
the catalogue of the Hunterian collection ; and he prepared catalogues
of the " Pathological Specimens," " Monsters and Malformations,"
and, chiefly, of the " Specimens of Natural History in Spirits," in 1830
and 1831. He continued the study of these collections through many
years, succeeding Clift as curator of the museum on his death, and
was gradually led by them to the extensive field of research with
which his name is connected. In order to identify the specimens, it
was necessary to make new dissections ; and these were constantly
opening new paths of inquiry and leading to new discoveries. He
