no THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
issued a " Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological
Series of Comparative Anatomy," in sections, from 1833 to 1840 ; the
" Paleontological Catalogue," in 1845 and 1854 ; and the " Catalogue
of Recent Osteology," in which he described 5,906 specimens, in
1854. The work of cataloguing and examining for the catalogues
was accompanied with constant additions to the specimens and conse-
quent growth of the collection till, in 1856, when Owen's connection
with the work ceased, they filled ten times the space that had been
sufficient for them in 1828.
An important corollary to these labors was the editorial work he
performed upon the writings of Hunter, the illusti'ious founder of the
collection. In 1837 he published a new edition of Hunter's "Animal
Economy," to which he added all the known published papers of the
author ; and he gave, in the preface, the first descriptive narrative
of Hunter's real discoveries. He afterward published two volumes
of Hunter's " Essays and Observations on Natural History, Anatomy,
etc.," which had been transcribed by Clift before Home destroyed
the originals, and had been deposited by him, with an autographic
authentication, in Owen's hands. The preface to this work embodied
a showing of the advanced views which Hunter entertained in geology
and paleontology.
In 1834 Dr. Owen was appointed to the newly-founded chair of
Comparative Anatomy in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and two years
afterward was made the first Hunterian Professor in the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons. He filled this position for twenty years, after
which, in 1856, he was appointed Superintendent of the Natural His-
tory Department of the British Museum.
The history of the whole of the earlier thirty years of Professor
Owen's active life is illustrated by the records of his anatomical and
zoological investigations. His earliest published paper was a demon-
stration of the manner in which an aneurism had been obliterated by
Dr. Stevens, of Santa Cruz, by means of a ligature of the internal
iliac artery, which was communicated to the Medical Society of St.
Bartholomew's Hospital in 1830. Soon after becoming connected with
the Hunterian Museum, he obtained a specimen of the Nautilus pom-
pilius, or pearly nautilus, an animal then almost unknown, on which
he published a memoir, with drawings by himself, foreshadowing the
advanced views on structure and affinities which characterize his sci-
entific system. In 1835 he published the first account of the Trichina
spiralis, that remarkable nematoid worm of swine and men which has
since become famous as a cause of disease.
Professor Owen's earliest communications to the Royal Society
were papers on the generation of the ornithorhyncus and the kanga-
roo. In numerous later memoirs he discussed the structure and affin-
ities of the higher quadrumana, and proposed the use of the brain-
structure as an important element of classification. Between 1840 ami
