SKETCH OF PROFESSOR RICHARD OWEN, F.R.S. 113
Geographical Distribution of Mammals,' 1859 ; a ' Manual of Pale-
ontology.' The long list of papers published in the ' proceedings ' of
learned societies, to be found in the Royal Society's invaluable cata-
logue (numbering over three hundred and sixty), includes many the
scientific value of most of which would have given an abiding fame
to their author."
Professor Owen was a member of the commission to inquire into
the health of towns, in 1843 and 1846 ; was one of the commissioners
on the health of the metropolis, in 1846 and 1848 ; and was a mem-
ber of the commission on the meat-supply in 1849. In 1848 he pub-
lished a special report on the sanitary condition of his native town
of Lancaster, which was followed by the introduction of an improved
sewerage and a new water-supply. He was one of the commissioners
for the Great Exhibition of 1851, and was chairman of two of the ju-
ries in the Great Exhibition of Paris in 1855.
In the way of honors, Professor Owen received the Royal Medal
from the Royal Society in 1842, and the Copley Medal in 1846 ; the
" Ordre pour le Merite," from the King of Portugal, in 1851, and the
Cross of the Legion of Honor from Napoleon III in 1855 ; degrees
from the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin ; and an
honorary Fellowship in the Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland. In
1858 he was elected one of the eight foreign associates of the Insti-
tute of France, in place of the botanist, Robert Brown. Prussia gave
him its order of merit, and Italy its order of St. Maurice and St. La-
zare ; the Emperor of Brazil, the Imperial Order of the Rose ; the
Queen of England, the order of the Bath. He was President of the
British Association in 1857, and his name is on the lists of honorary or
corresponding members of most of the learned societies of Europe and
America. In 1874 he gave new evidence of the extent and com-
prehensiveness of his researches by presenting to the Anthropolog-
ical Institute an interesting paper on the races of ancient Egypt, as
depicted in the sculptures. Continuing his studies in this direction,
as well as in the whole field of anthropology, he made before the In-
ternational Congress of Orientalists in the same year, as president
of its ethnological section, the most remarkable address of the meet-
ing, in which he recommended adherence to the scientific method in
the study of ethnology, and particularly of ancient Egyptian and
Oriental history.
In 1880 " Nature " reported Professor Owen as still active in labor
at an age when most men have to cease from their work ; and added
that no better proof could be given of a spirit still young, than to wit-
ness the energy with which he had entered upon the occupation of the
new home for natural history at South Kensington. Still, in the pres-
ent year, by the latest accounts received from him, though he is
seventy-nine years old, he was in good health, and publishing important
papers.
TOL. XXIII. 8
