U4
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
FLOEIDA AS A HEALTH EESOET FOE CON-
SUMPTIVES.
Messrs. Editors.
IN " The Popular Science Monthly " for
March, Dr. George E. Walton, of Cin-
cinnati, has an article on " The Remedial
Value of the Climate of Florida," some of
the statements in which, for the sake of ac-
curacy, it seems desirable to correct.
What Dr. Walton says of the humidity is
true. It can not be compared with Minne-
sota (that is, the northern part of Minneso-
ta) for dryness ; but it will compare favor-
ably with other southern localities in Europe
and America; for instance, we see by Dr.
Walton's table, page 644, that the humidity
of San Antonio and Florida is about the
same ; and just here let me say that writers on
Florida climate are apt to take Jacksonville
as a representative locality, because the avail-
able statistics usually come from there.
The Signal-Office is there. But it is by no
means the best locality for invalids. It has
the advantages and the disadvantages of a
city, though a small one. It is much damper
than other points in East Florida frequented
by invalids ; fogs are more prevalent, and
last longer. It is not so safe to be out after
sundown. As we go up the river the damp-
ness lessens for a hundred miles. During
the months of February, March, and April,
1878, using a Mason's psychrometer (wet
and dry bull)), and comparing my obser-
vations with those of the Signal-Office at
Jacksonville, the relative humidity for three
months, in 1S78, is for that city 66 - 2, accord-
ing to Dr. Baldwin's observations for sev-
eral years 62 - 6, while for Palatka it is 61 # 3.
The summer dampness is just what Dr.
Walton says of it, three fourths of all the
rain-fall of the year occurring during that
season. But, further on, Dr. Walton says,
" The prime need of a consumptive is that
he shall be a great deal out-of-doors, that
he shall breathe pure air," etc. "Is the
climate of Florida fitted to do this ? . . . I
answer no ! " On the contrary, I answer
emphatically yes ! Here is just the advan-
tage of Florida over the cold and cool re-
sorts. Here, one is constantly incited by
the sunshine and the delightful climate to
be all the time out-of-doors. As regards
physical exercise, during most of the time
one is not incited to it. But there are cool
changes during the winter and spring months
(which are peculiar to this climate, distin-
guishing it from a purely tropical), during
which one may exercise on horseback, on
foot, or by rowing. That people here are
indisposed to exercise is true ; but it is not
always, by any means, because "of the tem-
perature, but of constitutional indolence
Those who take an interest in their sur-
roundings, or who are fond of fishing and
hunting, may be seen at all times, in warm
and cold weather, putting forth all requisite
energy. Persons must seek occupation and
amusements in order to get the benefit of cli-
mate. What Dr. Walton says about tubercu-
lar consumption, especially the latter stage,
is true, and it is true of cool and cold climates
also, but not to the same extent, perhaps, as
of warm and moist. That is, the universal
admission of all honest writers on climates
and health resorts is, that such cases die
wherever they go. They are necessarily in-
curable, with very few exceptions, and nota-
ble exceptions occur here as elsewhere. And
here let me explain why so many more con-
sumptive cases die in Florida than in other
resorts. When they get reduced almost to
death's door by softening of deposits, fever,
diarrhoea, etc., they are too ill to go to Eu-
rope, and also unable to bear any change,
except to a warm climate ; consequently, the
mass of them come to Florida, often with a
knowledge on the part of the physician and
friends that they are certain to die, but
clinging to the last straw themselves.
Dr. Walton says . " During the last six
months of 1881 there were thirteen deaths
in Jacksonville (population, 8,000) from con-
sumption, these deaths being of residents
only, and excluding all non-residents or
visiting invalids. This is a mortality of
1"62 per 1,000, being a greater mortality
than occurred in Cincinnati during the same
time, which was 424 in a population of
280,000, or 151 per 1,000. ... It may be
stated in this connection that natives of
Florida taken with consumption frequently
seek other places and climates as a means
of cure."
I am certain that Dr. Walton has fallen
into an error in his statement with refer-
ence to the deaths from phthisis among resi-
dcttts, if he means natives or even persons
who have lived many years in Florida. The
population of the State is made up very
largely of Northerners who have lived here
one, two, five, ten years. No doubt many
of the deaths referred to by him occurred
among this class, probably all of them ; for
consumption is rare among natives, although
they live in every way, for the most part, in
opposition to the rules of health poor food,
poor water, poor habitations, insufficient
clothes in cold weather that is, the middle
and lower classes do all tending to the de-
velopment of tubercular disease, and which
