CORRESP ONDENCE.
J1 5
would inevitably produce it in a less favor-
able climate.
Dr. Walton also refers to the want of
statistics from here with regard to the re-
sults of the treatment in individual cases.
The habit, almost universal, of cases of
phthisis moving from place to place in Flori-
da, after a few days' or a week or two's resi-
dence, renders the collection of such sta-
tistics impossible. And this is one of the
reasons why the cases do not get the full
benefit of this admirable climate. Even
when they are improving rapidly in one
location, they get tired and start off to some
other, or because some one member of the
party fancies a change, or because they have
a friend or pleasant acquaintance some-
where else, although a physician may assure
them that the change will be for the worse.
Even patients who are referred to me by
prominent physicians, and told to get my
advice as to treatment and locality, go off
to some entirely unsuitable place, contrary
to my advice, and on that of some casual
acquaintance. So much has this come to
be the rule, that I now cease to waste my
breath in trying to talk them out of their
notions. Respectfully, yours,
Frederick D. Lente, M. D.
Palatka, Florida, March 10, 1883.
AN INTERCEPTED LETTER.
To the Editors of the Popular Science Monthly :
The subjoined letter accidentally fell
into my hands, and, as it bears upon a cer-
tain much-discussed topic, I venture to send
it to you for publication. 0. B. B.
New York, April 1, 1883.
Dear Ma: When Suse and me got to
the city we found Cousin Ralph at the depot
to meet us, and we went right home with
him. We had a real nice supper, and as
nobody was by but Cousin Lucy, I just told
Cousin Ralph plain that Suse and me had
come to Xew York to get what some folks
call a higher education. Cousin Ralph, who
is real pert, said that some folks he knew,
would like to hire an education, but I told
him that if we could hire an education all
right, but we wanted a first class education
anyhow, right off, and that Pa was already
to pay for it. I said that we had gone through
our scmnary at home and learned all that
old Mrs. Bookup could teach us, and that
was why we come to York. Well, Cousin
Ralph laughed a little, and then he looked
serious, and told us things that made our
hair stand on end. Why it taint no use
trying to get a first class education here in
York because the mean nasty men folk wont
let us women get it. What do you think-
Cousin Ralph says that they have six police,
man before the big liberay they call the
Astur liberay to keep women from getting
at the books there. He says the street is
just full of women a wanting to get into
that liberay, but these police officers with
their clubs wont let em. There are lots and
lots of books in that liberay, Cousin Ralph
says, big histories, and big ologies, and big
dictionaries, and big books upon ever so
many things, and women might get ever so
much education by just sitting down and
studying them books, but the men are afraid
of educated women, so they just put police-
men there to drive off everybody that is a fe-
male. I declare its a burning shame. Why,
Ma, Suse and me might learn all about Bible
times, and about astronomy, and geology,
and geography, and about Julius Cesar,
and Crist6fer Columbus, and I don't know
what else, and get a higher education all by
ourselves if it werent that the men wont
let us. I know it will make you real mad
when you read this, just as it does Suse and
me.
But that isnt all Ma. Would you be-
lieve that they won't let women buy books
at the bookstores, because if they did they
might get a higher education unbeknown.
Cousin Ralph says that women cant get
nothing but novels to read. The book-
stores are just full of books that teach
everything you can think of, and yet even
when women have got the money to buy
them the men wont let them do so. Cousin
Ralph says there are books full of learning
by somebody called Spensur, and some one
called Hucklee, and another man called
Tindell, but that it is as much as a wom-
an's life is worth to go in and buy one.
Cousin Ralph thinks she couldnt get out
alive, at least he says he never saw a live
woman come out of a book store with one
of them books. All women would have to
do to get a real first class education would
be to go and get books out of the book
stores, but the mean jealous men say they
shant do it, and so keep them just as ig-
norant as they can be. And then Cousin
Ralph says they wont let women go to lec-
tures on history, and the siences as folks
say. There are lectures given free at what
I think Cousin Ralph called the Hooper
Union, but he says if women went there to
get lectures free, theyd be just driven off
by policemen. Lots of things might be
learned by going to lectures, but the poor
women arent allowed to. Its real dreadful
what a time we women have in trying to
get learning.
And then Cousin Ralph says that the
publishers wont publish books anymore
with learning in them. Why they just
print lots and lots of trashy novels which
women have got to buy because they wont
print nothing else. There's what is called
the Franklin square liberay and the Sea
side liberay, that keep on printing good for
