848
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
homoeopathy, should not go unnoticed. The
very fact of homoeopathy being classed with
quackeries is an insult to the nearly nine
thousand physicians of that school in the
United States, and their hundreds of thou-
sands of patrons from the most intelligent
and enlightened portion of the community.
The writer of the article makes an utterly un-
fair and garbled presentation of our system
of medicine, and some of his statements are
absolutely false ; as, for instance, he pre-
tends to quote from an address delivered at
the meeting of the American Institute of
Homoeopathy, held in Milwaukee in 1880.
I have before me the proceedings of that
meeting, and there is absolutely nothing,
from the first page to the last, that could
be even willfully distorted into such a state-
ment as he makes regarding the progress of
homoeopathy. As for the legal recognition
of homoeopathy, let our fifty-four hospi-
tals, our twelve fully-equipped colleges, our
forty dispensaries, our medical departments
in State universities, our insane asylums
and hospitals under State and city patron-
age, speak for themselves.
As a reader of your excellent journal
for many years, I protest against such treat-
ment of a recognized system of medicine,
and trust that you will permit a fair and
just presentation of homoeopathy to be
made in the journal.
Respectfully yours,
H. R. Stout, M. D.
Jacksonville, Fla., July 2, 1S83.
INTELLIGENCE SHOWN BY ELEPHANTS.
Messrs. Editors :
The article on the " Mental Capacity of
the Elephant," in the August number of
" The Popular Science Monthly " was of
much interest, and I beg to add a few more
instances of the intelligence shown by these
animals. . In my childhood, when circuses
or menageries exhibited near my home, it
was my custom to rise early the next morn-
ing and feed the elephants with biscuit and
grass. On one occasion, an elephant seemed
to be trying to attract my attention, and
when I approached he began moving the
end of his trunk over the surface of his
body, as if to rub himself, but not touching
it. It was his method of begging in panto-
mime for a piece of wood. I picked up a
piece of the thin end of a shingle, about
the size of a page of " The Popular Sci-
ence Monthly," and gave it to the elephant,
eo that he would be obliged to take it on the
side, thinking that he would break it when
it was put to use. To my surprise, after
looking at the piece of shingle, he dropped
it and picked it up by the end, and scratched
himself, without breaking it. It has always
seemed to me that this act of pantomime,
and subsequent use of a piece of wood in
the direction of maximum strength, involved
a higher degree of animal intelligence than
I ever saw exhibited elsewhere.
I attended Forepaugh's circus at Brock-
ton, Massachusetts, on the 8th of last June,
and I recollect seeing other feats than
those cited by Mr. Homaday, such as tilt-
ing on a see-saw, sitting with the fore-legs
straight, " like a cat," and then saluting
with the trunk ; also dancing in various
steps. But, shortly after the afternoon per-
formance, two of the elephants were called
upon to perform a task requiring more intelli-
gence than any of the conventional ring
feats. The facts are given in the following
extract from the Boston " Herald " of June
10th:
The incident referred to took place on the fair-
grounds at Brockton, where Mr. Forepaugh's show
was exhibiting. Shortly after the mutinee per-
formance had concluded, a one-story frame build-
ing, used as a police-station, caught fire, and in a
few moments tbe entire building was enveloped in
flames. Attached to the station-house was a row
of horse-sheds, and connecting with the latter was
the grand stand, in close proximity to which were
Mr. Forepaugh's tents. There being no fire appli-
ances on the grounds, it may well be assumed that
the burning building gave serious alarm to the
circus-people, as] well as to the citizens, many of
whom had not yet left the grounds. At this junc-
ture, Mr. Forepaugh and his general manager, C.
W. Fuller, appeared on the scene. It was plainly
apparent that,;; unless the horse-sheds were torn
down, tho grand stand would burn, and, in that
event, the destruction of the circus-tents was inevi-
table. While all were excited and making futile at-
tempts to pull down the building with their hands,
Adam Forepaugh, Jr., came running up, and, taking
in the situation at a glance, called his colored as-
sistant and hastened to the elephant quarters, soon
after appearing with Bolivar and Basil, the latter
being next to the former in point of size. The two
huge beasts were hurried over to the fire, and,
much to the surprise of the spectators, began pull-
ing down the hor6e-sheds, in obedience to the direc-
tion of the junior Forepaugh. The by-standers re-
moved the debris as fast as it accumulated under
the mighty blows of the elephantine firemen, who
seemingly looked upon the affair as a matter of little
moment. In an incredibly short space of time the
horse-sheds were demolished, the grand stand was
saved, and the circus-tents loomed up as proudly
as ever.
C. J. H. W.
Bobton, August 1, 1S83.
ASSOCIATION OF COLORS WITH SOUNDS.
Messrs. Editors :
In the August number of your " Monthly"
you present a translation of a notice on the
" Association of Colors with Sounds." The
phenomena in question occur also in the
sphere of other senses. Two Zurich stu-
dents * notice association of sounds with
lights : c. g., to one subject the full moon
looked at through a red glass brings up the
sound of an / joined to an 0. Tastes, smells,
even the shapes of bodies, pains, warmth,
and cold arouse color visualizations in some
subjects. All these are far less common
* Bleuler and Lehmann, " Zwangsmiissige
Lichtempnndung durch Schall," etc., Leipsic, 18S1.
