EDITOR'S TABLE.
119
activities which directly minister to self-
preservation " ; and, next, "those activi-
ties which secure the necessaries of life,
and so indirectly minister to self-pres-
ervation " ; and then " those which have
for their end the rearing and discipline
of offspring." The social and political
relations come next in importance ; and,
finally, those matters of literature and
art which belong to the leisure part of
life. Mr. Sill says that this scheme is
fundamentally erroneous, and, in fact,
" the exact reverse of the truth." Bod-
ily and material interests are studiously
belittled. Mr. Sill says: " The ordinary
man, unenlightened by education, man-
ages pretty well this matter of getting a
living for his body ; which is, no doubt,
a necessary condition to any intellectual
life, but is intrinsically of considerably
less importance than that higher end,
which alone, indeed, gives it any value
whatever." Again, " As to the body,
and as to the getting a living for it, and
even as to the care of offspring, some-
thing may be left to nature and to natu-
ral instinct"; and yet again, when a
youth has first become " an intelligent
man," according to the traditional ideal,
" he will be able to get his handy infor-
mation for himself afterward, as hap-
pens to be most useful to him."
This undisguised contempt of a
knowledge of the human constitution
and the conditions of its welfare is
more than classical. The ancients were
ignorant of these things, and therefore
indifferent to them ; it is only in the
degraded scholastic ages that we find
the body and bodily interests systemat-
ically undervalued and despised. But
better reasons could be given in those
days for hating and crucifying the cor-
poreal nature than can now be given
for neglecting to study and understand
it. Mr. Sill reasons that it is only the
" higher end " which it subserves which
gives man's bodily organism any value
whatever ; and this higher end is " spir-
itual enlargement," and, as spiritual en-
largement is to come by vital contact
" with the living men who thought in
Latin and Greek," we arrive at the
luminous conclusion that the final pur-
pose of the human constitution is to
acquire a knowledge of the dead lan-
guages. If this is the upshot of our
existence, Mallock's question, "Is life
worth living? " is not, after all, so fu-
tile. But, if we grant that it is worth
living, that knowledge is of first im-
portance which qualifies us to preserve
it. To disparage this knowledge, to
discourage it, or to crowd it out by any
other knowledge whatever, on any pre-
text, is nothing less than a crime. That
life is imperiled on all sides, by agencies
working so variously and so fatally, and
to the ignorant so mysteriously, that
Divine Providence is constantly accused
of arbitrary interference to destroy it,
is undeniable. Science alone has fur-
nished that knowledge of the human
organism and of surrounding nature
that confers the power of warding off
the causes of death, and thus leads to a
more reverent view of the government
of the world. Eight and left, and every
day, and all around us, men, women,
and children are struck down and sent
to unripe graves for lack of the knowl-
edge which science has given of the
avoidable causes of death. And the
same thing may be said of a great num-
ber of the diseases by which, if life is
not ended, it is turned into a calamity
and a curse. Again, science informs us
concerning the operation of those nu-
merous causes by which vitality is de-
pressed, the bodily and mental consti-
tution enfeebled and undermined, and
existence made worthless for all its
better purposes. And, yet again, we
owe to science the knowledge of those
laws and conditions of the human or-
ganism by which it may be improved,
increased in its capacities of enjoyment,
and augmented in its powers of effect-
ive action.
Classical education is worthless for
all these objects. It leaves its victims
in a state of ignorance as baleful as that
