120
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the helpless illiterates who have
never crossed the threshold of a school-
house. We pick up an admirable pam-
phlet by an experienced teacher of this
city, Mr. John McMullen, on '"The
Education of the Rich." Now, the edu-
cation of the rich is generally fashion-
able, traditional, and classical, but for
the vital purposes of well-being it gives
them but little advantage over the
wholly untaught. Mr. McMullen pleads
that the rich need to study vulgar and
common things as well as the indus-
trial classes. His words are well calcu-
lated to enforce the view taken in this
article. He says :
" Is it not time that some humane
person should make a movement in fa-
vor of the industrial education of the
rich? Since they must live in houses,
why should they not be taught some-
thing about them ? Defective masonry
means cracked walls and obstructed
doors ; defective carpentry means gen-
eral discomfort and an occasional crash ;
defective flues mean midnight fires ;
while defective plumbing and ventila-
tion mean diphtheria and death.
" Let us at least teach them enough
to prevent them from being poisoned
by the plumber, dying ' as the fool
dieth,' like rats in a corner, in the lux-
urious homes which they themselves,
perhaps, have reared. Tims we have
read recently in the papers, of one man
who built an expensive and luxurious
house, and lost four children in one
month from diphtheria. Some three
years ago, I had in my school two bright
boys, the sons of intelligent and edu-
cated parents. A little brother at home
sickened and died ; then a little sister;
and then one of my scholars became
sick. A thorough examination of the
house was made, and a faint, musty
smell was traced to the bath-room. The
mother found, to her horror, that these
deaths were due to defective plumbing,
and that they might have been prevent-
ed. She fled in terror from the city, and
has never since returned."
DR. DIX ON THE WOMAN QUESTION.
From the amount of screaming and
denunciation in the newspapers, both
by editors and by correspondents, re-
garding Dr. Dix's lectures on woman,
we infer that somebody has been badly
hit, and that the doctor is to be paid
off in abuse. A lady, for example,
writes to the " World " : "I have ob-
served that Dr. Dix has made haste to
publish his Lenten lectures without
waiting for the close of Lent. This
alertness is creditable to the practical
and mercantile instincts of Dr. Dix.
His lectures will sell now if they are
ever to sell." Probably in anticipation
of such insinuations, the author has pre-
fixed a note to his volume from which
we quote a few words: "I ask the
reader of the following lectures to bear
in mind 1. That they were written
for my own people, and in the line of
my usual pastoral work. 2. That they
were not intended for publication. 3.
That I now give them to the public in
my own defense, because of the mis-
representation of my views by critics
who had not the means of knowing
exactly what I said, or all that I said.
They are printed just as they were de-
livered, with scarcely the change of a
word; and, in order to comply with
the request of the publishers that they
should appear at the earliest possible
day, I am obliged to omit adding a
large number of notes and quotations
by which, if more time were allowed
me, I should have endeavored to fortify
by strong authorities the position which
I have taken." Whether it was wise
in Dr. Dix to yield to the hurry of his
publishers, and send out his volume un-
fortified by the evidence at his com-
mand, may be a question ; but that it
was done in compliance with their
wishes shows that his own preference
was otherwise, and sufficiently relieves
him from the mercenary imputation of
the " World's " correspondent.
Dr. Dix is entitled to have his read-
