EDITOR'S TABLE.
121
era remember that the lectures were
prepared exclusively for pastoral use,
and not intended for publication, and
that they have had to be printed in
self-defense against misrepresentation ;
and this consideration should be borne
in mind in their public criticism. It
by no means follows that he keeps a
private set of opinions for special pas-
toral application, and for which he is
unwilling to be held publicly respon-
sible. He was addressing a class of
Christian believers who profess allegi-
ance to Christian doctrine, as expound-
ed by his Church ; and he very natural-
ly gave prominence to considerations
which would have but comparatively
little force with outside multitudes who
are not in sympathy with his ecclesias-
tical views. As to the theological ar-
guments which Dr. Dix brings to bear
upon the woman question, we have no
interest in them except so far as they
strike downward and find their basis in
the truth of nature. But with the main
fundamental doctrines he lays down as
of all-determining influence, we are in
cordial agreement.
The last phase of attack upon him
is an accusation that his views are not
new. The "Pall Mall Gazette" de-
clares that many of the faults of wom-
en which he notices are not Ameri-
can but universal, and have been rec-
ognized and satirized in all ages; and
an American commentator observes
that "his views of the character and
duties of woman do not differ greatly
from those set out in the laws of Manu,
which, according to the Hindoo theo-
logians, were drafted thirty millions of
years ago."
But when the New York "Evening
Post" proceeds to affirm of the cardinal
doctrines of Dr. Dix that " they are in
fact the views by which every step in
the elevation of woman, from the beast
of burden of the savage to the mistress
of the modern drawing-room, has been
contested by conservative or timid
males, lay and clerical," it becomes
worth while to revert to the author's
own statement of them. The follow-
ing passages from the first Lenten lec-
ture may be fairly taken as the key to
the whole exposition :
The place and work of woman in this
world arc, then, a place and a work in social
life. And her place and work are not those
of the man. His work lies outside, hers
within. Without her, society could not have
existed ; without her, it can not last. The
fact that in forming society man and woman
have distinct parts implies tbis, that in main-
taining and developing their work they shall
continue to act in distinct relations to it.
Something there shall be which man only can
do ; something which woman only can do.
If she leave her own work and try to take
up his, her work will remain undone ; for
man is not fool enough to try to do hers.
And her work is inner rather than outer ; it
runs in the line of ordering, comforting, and
beautifying. Her place is in the home first,
and then in general society ; and these de-
pend on her for a grace, a help, a harmony,
a good ordering, which no one else can give.
These considerations give the turn to
every thought of ours about woman's work.
It is impossible for me to think of it at all,
without first thinking of her place in the
home. That is her normal, primal seat;
thence are derived all true conceptions of her
rights, duty, and mission. I know the ob-
jections which will arise in your minds : that
there are many women without homes or the
means to make them ; and, again, that, as if
by a bitter sarcasm of fate, the world of to-
day is so changed that it often seems as if
woman must work the harder of the two in
order to support the shiftless man. There
are answers to these and similar objections :
I shall try to give them by-and-by. But for
the present I must leave the subject at this
point, adding but one suggestion. I do this
earnestly, seriously, and as one would speak
of a matter of life or death. Let me then say
that, whatever it be in thought, deed, or will
that works among us now to break up the
home, to make the home-idea mean and con-
temptible in the eyes of woman, or to unfit
her for domestic duties and disgust her with
her proper work, whatever now- acts on her
high-wrought nature, her ambition, her self-
love, to turn her steps away from the home-
life, and inflate her with visions of a career
in the public places outside this, whatever
it be, is working against the best interests,
the hope, the happiness of the human race.
