124
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
given to the world is probably the most
trustworthy and instructive that has yet
been contributed to that science. There has
been a copious literature of anecdote de-
signed to illustrate the mental capacities of
the most intelligent members of the animal
series as the dog, the elephant, the monk-
ey, and the ant; but while, on the one
hand, the statements have often been so ex-
travagant as to awaken incredulity, on the
other there has been but little exposition of
principles which would enable the reader to
judge of the truth or error of current repre-
sentations. The interest in the subject has
always been great, and, with the prevailing
lax habits of criticising evidence, many sto-
ries have passed into circulation, and been ac-
cepted, which would hardly bear examina-
tion. It was eminently desirable, therefore,
and for scientific purposes imperative, that
the popular statements should be rigorously
sifted, in order that we may find out what
may be relied upon as true. It is obvious
that only the thoroughly prepared psycholo-
gist is competent for such work, and many
years of study in this field have well quali-
fied Mr. Romanes to undertake it.
The present volume is in a certain sense
complete in itself ; and from another point
of view it is but a foundation, which is yet
to have its superstructure. It has long been
the author's intention to write a treatise
upon comparative psychology, in the light of
the doctrine of evolution, and his intention
was to treat the whole subject in a single
work. His preliminary inquiry was, of
course, into the facts upon which such a
view must rest, but he found his materials
so extensive, and in themselves so impor-
tant, that he was compelled to arrange for
two separate books ; the first to be made up
of the observed facts, carefully collated and
classified, so as to give the grades of intelli-
gence actually reached in the various groups
of the animal kingilom, and to leave for a
second volume the problem of psychical de-
velopment to be derived from these data.
The present book on " Animal Intelligence "
is the first, and is mainly descriptive, while
the second, to be built upon it, will be more
analytic and philosophic.
Undoubtedly the present volume will
have the highest interest for general read-
ers, as it involves no speculation or abstruse
reasoning, and aims only at descriptions
and discriminating estimates of the degree
of intelligence manifested in the different
groups of animate creatures.
But while Mr. Romanes has closely sift-
ed his materials, so as to furnish only au-
thenticated facts, it would be a great mis-
take to suppose that his pages are less en-
tertaining than the loose compilations with
which we have been familiar upon this sub.
ject. The phenomena are equally surprising
and wonderful, but with the further advan-
tage that we have a fair confidence in their
reality. The intelligence displayed by the
inferior animals is often well calculated to
awaken astonishment, and we are free to
confess that some of Mr. Romanes's stories
would excite incredulity if we had not a
pretty strong confidence in his caution, and
if the special manifestations alleged were
not confirmed by other and similar observa-
tions. To the general reader, the book will
prove a fund of interest on one of the most
fascinating of subjects, and to the student
of natural history it will have a scientific
value as affording a sound basis for the for-
mation of conclusions respecting the psychi-
cal capacities of animals.
In regard to the vexed question of mind
and instinct in the lower animals, of which
so much has been written, the author lays
down at the outset the principle that he will
follow in determining mental gradation, and
this may be gathered from the following re-
marks in his introduction :
" The criterion of mind, therefore, which
I propose, and to which I shall adhere
throughout the present volume, is as fol-
lows : Does the organism learn to make new
adjustments, or to modify old ones, in ac-
cordance with the results of its own indi-
vidual experience ? . . . I may, however,
here explain that in my use of this criterion
I shall always regard it as fixing only the
upper limit of non-mental action ; I shall
never regard it as fixing the lower limit
of mental action. ... In other words, be-
cause a lowly-organized animal does not
learn by its own individual experience, we
may not therefore conclude that, in perform-
ing its natural or ancestral adaptations to
appropriate stimuli, consciousness, or the
mind-element, is wholly absent ; we can only
say that this element, if present, reveals no
