LITERARY NOTICES.
125
evidence of the fact. But, on the other
hand, if a lowly-organized animal docs learn
by its own individual experience, we are in
possession of the best available evidence of
conscious memory leading to intentional
adaptation."
Essays in Jurisprudence and Ethics. By
Frederic Pollock, M. A., LL. D. Mac-
millan & Co. Pp. 377. Price, $3.
Although but little oneness of form
will be expected in a work like this, com-
posed of occasional pieces which have ap-
peared in divers journals and reviews, yet
so much unity of purpose and thought are
to be found in it as to give a considerable
measure of coherence. The essays fall into
two divisions, in the first of which legal
topics predominate, in the second ethical.
In the first, it has been the author's aim to
consider legal ideas and institutions as af-
fected by or as affecting the wider interests
of history, politics, and practical legisla-
tion. In the second division he has endeav-
ored to bring to a better-defined issue cer-
tain points of ethical discussion, by the help
of distinctions founded on familiar legal
conceptions, and by specifically applying
those conceptions and distinctions to ad-
mitted facts. In both subjects he has pre-
ferred to use the historical method taking
the term in a pretty wide sense. Yet, in re-
spect to the method followed, whether criti-
cal or analytical, the author takes no narrow
view, and it will help to the understanding
of the character of his book if we quote his
prefatory remarks upon this subject :
There may be an apparent inconsistency in
the points of view taken in some of the legal
essays. I have started sometimes from the pure
analysis of the modern English school of juris-
prudence, sometimes from history, sometimes
from practical expediency. My own opinion is
that all these methods are legitimate, and that,
if their results fail to agree, it is the fault, not
of the instrument, but of the worker; No doubt
there exists a tendency to conflict between the
historical and the analytical manner of consider-
ing legal phenomena. The historical student is
tempted to regard analytical jurisprudence as
shallow sciolism, while the analytical jurist is
apt to charge the historical and comparative
method with laxity of thought and antiquarian
pedantry < Both methods are, in truth, useful
and necessary, and either of them alone is im-
perfect; the modern developments of legal the-
ory have shown them in their power and in their
shortcomings.
The history of law was by no means neglect-
ed before the rise of modern critical jurispru-
dence ; but its results were of little value so
long as they could not be read in the light of
general ideas and principles. Blackstone gives
the history of English law from the thirteenth
century onward, with sufficient fullness for all
ordinary purposes, and, as a rule, with great
accuracy; the historical merit of his "Com-
mentaries" has been too much overlooked in
the discussion of his faulty arrangement and in-
adequate theories. Montesquieu not only col-
lects a great quantity of materials for legal his-
tory, but has a notion of historical method and
comparative research far in advance of other
writers of his time. Yet all this work remained
unfruitful for the best part of a century. It had
to be fertilized by the ideas of the analytical
school. Bentham, on the other band, bad no
room in bis mind for history. He would have
liked to make a clean sweep of all the laws
and customs of Europe, and start afresh with a
code warranted to secure the greatest happi-
ness. Even language had for him no continuity
to be respected. He seriously drafted specimens
of legislation in a style invented by himself as
the most appropriate for the purpose, and defy-
ing all the usages of common syntax. A system
proceeding from this habit of mind could not
easily adapt itself to the facts of different ages
and societies. Its general propositions were,
in truth, like those of political economy, drawn
from the conditions of a particular society at a
particular time, or, rather, those conditions as
they would be in the absence of disturbing ele-
ments. These conditions have still their pecul-
iar value for scientific jurisprudence, insomuch
as they are those which more and more tend to
be realized in the progress of modern civilized
communities. But this value can not be rightly
perceived, and set on its true footing, until the
extreme claims of abstract analysis have broken
down in the presence of unforeseen and refrac-
tory elements of fact.
Among the papers in this interesting
volume we have been most impressed with
those on the " Laws of Nature and Laws of
Man," " The Theory of Persecution," " The
Casuistry of Common Sense," and a " Review
of Spencer's ' Data of Ethics.' "
A History of the People of the United
States, from the Revolution to the
Civil War. By John Bach McMaster.
In five volumes. Vol. I. New York : D.
Appleton & Co. Pp. 622. Price, $2.50.
In two provinces of thought, not for-
merly regarded as scientific, a powerful in-
fluence has, nevertheless, been exerted by
the physical science of the present century
we refer to philology and to history. It
is not the students of these subjects that
have initiated the changes they have re-
spectively undergone : the influence exerted
