LITERARY NOTICES.
129
be allowed to languish for the want of a
little support at a critical period.
Admirable papers on subjects connected
with Lcpidoptera are either in hand or prom-
ised by their authors for the present volume.
Each monthly part contains from eighteen to
twenty-five pages, and at least four colored
plates will be given during the year. For
its aims, value of its articles, and general
appearance, " Papilio " is one of the cheap-
est scientific publications in the world, and
its directors promise that nothing shall here-
after be wanting on their part to maintain
it in the high position to which it aspires.
A Practical Treatise ox Diseases of the
Skin. By Louis A. Duhring, M. D.,
Professor in the Hospital of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania. Third edition,
revised and enlarged. Philadelphia: J.
B. Lippincott & Co. Pp. 685. Price,
$6.
This is a competent and comprehensive
work that admirably fulfills the aim with
which the author says he set out, " to write
a concise and practical treatise, one which,
while making no pretensions to being ex-
haustive, should comprise sufficient to afford
a clear insight into the elements of derma-
tology, and a knowledge of the important
facts in connection with each disease treated
of." Simplicity and intelligibility have been
primarily sought, and therefore questions of
theory, discussions of unsettled points, and
obsolete terms have been avoided. The
classification of Hebra has been adopted,
with some changes and modifications. The
definitions of the diseases have been made
from the clinical stand-point, with a view to
giving them practical value, and to having
them embody succinct descriptions of char-
acteristic symptoms. In the matter of treat-
ment, the methods favorably regarded by
dermatologists at large have been mentioned,
and the author has furthermore taken the
pains to describe the remedies and mode of
treatment which have proved of the greatest
benefit in his own experience. The work
was considerably enlarged in the second edi-
tion, with many additions and new chapters,
and was entirely rewritten to meet the re-
markable progress which had been made in
the science of dermatology during the five
years since the first edition was published,
in 1876. Then, in a little more than an-
vol. xxiii. 9
other year, a critical revision was called for,
with a rewriting and elaboration of the
chapter on the anatomy and physiology of
the skin, for the sake of incorporating the
later results of the studies in microscopic
anatomy. Advantage was taken of the re-
vision to introduce additional cases illustrat-
ing rare forms of disease, and new and im-
portant observations and personal experi-
ences. The method and arrangement of the
treatise deserve commendation. The gen-
eral considerations of the subject are given
in the first part under the headings " Anat-
omy and Physiology," "Symptomatology,"
"Etiology," "Pathology," "Diagnosis,"
"Treatment," "Prognosis," and "Classifi-
cation." The second part is devoted to the
account of special diseases, which are classi-
fied as " Disorders of Secretion," " Hyper-
aemias," " Inflammations," " Haemorrhages,"
" Hypertrophies," " Atrophies," " New
Growths," " Neuroses," and " Parasites."
In connection with each disease are given
its synonyms, a general description in a sen-
tence, its symptoms, diagnosis, etiology,
pathology, prognosis, treatment, and, when
proper, illustrations. The curious facts are
brought out by the author that skin-diseases
manifest variations of type in different
parts of the world ; that the differences are
quite material between the United States
and Europe ; and that the diseases met
with here resemble more closely those of
Great Britain than those of cither France
or Germany. These facts give the work the
more value as an American treatise describ-
ing American types of disease.
A Dictionary of Electricity; or, The
Electrician's Hand-Book. By Henry
Greer. 1883. Pp. 192. Price, $2. To
be obtained of the author, College of
Electrical Engineering, 122 East Twenty-
sixth Street.
The Storage of Electricity. Bv the same.
18S3. Price, $1.
Mr. Greer hopes, in the preface to his
dictionary, that " the explanations may meet
the wants of students and others engaged
in these professions" (electrical and tele-
graph engineering), and it may be presumed
that such was his object in preparing it ; but
had he been attempting instead to crowd
the greatest amount of rubbish possible
into the least space, he would have had no
