13
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
occasion to depart widely from his present
performance. One example his descrip-
tion of the Edison steam-dynamo will suf-
fice to show the accuracy and lucidity of the
definitions of this remarkable dictionary :
Dynamo-Machine, Edison's Large. This
is a machine directly in the piston of an engine,
and is composed of four electro-maguets, the
pcles, and with pipes for the circulation of air.
The machine and Porter & Allen's engines are
all built on a cast-iron base, the whole weighing
about twenty-two tons. The field-magnets are
of cast-iron, and the resistance varies between
one and two ohms. The magnets are wound
with No. 10 wire, Brown and Sharp gauge. The
enormous pole-pieces are of cast-iron, and Edi-
son maintains the necessity for using such pole-
pieces. The armature consists of a steel shaft
six inches in diameter. Mr. Edison and many
other electricians claim that a low-resistance
machine is the best form. Edison's latest dy-
namo-machine has a resistance of one two-thou-
sandth of an ohm. Ninety-seven per cent of
the electricity out of the machine is available.
The pamphlet on the storage of elec-
tricity has the advantage of the dictionary
in that Mr. Greer's work consists in little
more than editorial revision. The pamphlet
contains a good part of Professor Sylvanus
Thompson's excellent lecture before the So-
ciety of Arts on the storage of electricity,
the advantage of the storage-battery as set
forth in the circular of the Brush-Swan
Company, and the statement of the value of
the Faure battery given in the circular is-
sued by the American company controlling
this apparatus, together with descriptions
of various other storage-batteries, some
taken from different technical journals, and
some written by Mr. Greer.
On Prehistoric Trephining and Cranial
Amulets. By Robert Fletcher, Act-
ing Assistant-Surgeon, United States
Army. Washington : Government Print-
ing-Office. Pp. 32, with Nine Plates.
Though published as one of the docu-
ments of the Powell Geographical and Geo-
logical Survey, the matter of this mono-
graph is more European than American, but
is susceptible of an American application.
Tve author has aimed, starting from Broca's
summary of the subject in 1877, to collect
the accounts of discoveries of examples of
trephining and cranial amulets scattered
through the journals of anthropology, not
only on account of their interest in them-
selves, but also for the sake of the illus-
tration and guidance they may afford in
American research. Numerous curious in-
stances of the practice of trephining and
the fabrication of amulets are brought to
light, and the conclusions are adduced that
the large number of perforated crania, ex-
hibiting cicatrized edges, establishes the
existence of a custom of trephining ; that
the operation was performed on both sexes?
and generally at an early age ; that it seems
(from analogy) to have been for the relief
of disease of brain, injury of skull, epilepsy,
or convulsions; that it was probably per-
formed by scraping, possibly by a scries of
punctures ; that posthumous trephining con-
sisted in removing fragments of the skull
of a person who had undergone surgical
trephining, in which each fragment was
probably to form an amulet to protect from
the same disease or injury for relief of
which the operation had been performed ;
and that the evidence so far confines the
custom to neolithic man on the Continent of
Europe.
The Naval Use of the Dynamo-Machine
and Electric Light. By Lieutenant J.
B. Murdock, U. S. Navy, U. S. Naval
Institute, Annapolis, Md. Pp. 44.
In this paper, Lieutenant Murdock has
collected and compiled from the current sci-
entific literature of the day such information
bearing on the subject as will enable one to
reach a more exact comprehension of the
field open for the electric light in modern
naval warfare. The applicability of the va-
rious machines and apparatuses that have
been introduced is discussed, and the modi-
fications are considered that may be neces-
sary to adapt them to use on shipboard.
" The Sociologist." A Monthly Journal de-
voted to the Increase of Knowledge of
the Natural Laws that control Human
Happiness. Adair Creek, Knox County,
East Tennessee : A. Chavannes & Co. Pp.
10. Fifty cents a year.
The publication of this journal has been
undertaken for the love of the cause. The
editor has sought for a paper especially de-
voted to the study of sociology, and, not find-
ing it, has decided to furnish one. Profit is
not the especial object of the publishers,
but to create a means of communication and
a means of exchango of thoughts and opin-
ions.
