132
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
memoirs on all branches of natural science,
and notes on the occurrence and habits of
local plants and animals. While practical
work and research are especially cultivated
and encouraged, the aesthetic is not dis-
dained, and we find the " Bulletin " as bright
on that side as it is instructive on the other.
Among the papers which may be mentioned
as of general interest are Mr. Cowell's study
of the " Adventives " plants that have
been brought, by the railroads and other
means, from distant points that have made
their appearance in the stock-yards at East
Buffalo, and Professor Linden's account of
prominent objects of scientific interest with-
in convenient access of the city and its
neighborhood.
Report of an Exploration of Parts of
Wyoming, Idaho and Montana, in Au-
gust and September, 1882, made by Lieu-
tenant-General P. H. Sheridan. Wash-
ington : Government Printing-Office. Pp.
69.
The report is accompanied by the itiner-
ary of Colonel James F. Gregory, and a geo-
logical and botanical report by Surgeon W.
H. Forwood. The expeditions centred around
the Yellowstone National Park. General
Sheridan recommends an enlargement of
the park by extending it about forty miles
east and ten miles south, and making it a
national game reservation, within which the
killing of game shall be prohibited. Colonel
Gregory's journey resulted in a demonstra-
tion of the practicability of the route into
the park from the forks of Wind River, by
way of Lincoln Pass, the valleys of the Gros
Ventre and Snake Rivers and Lewis's or Lake
Fork of the Snake River. Surgeon Forwood's
report illustrates the general features, natu-
ral history, and resources of the regions ex-
plored.
The Place of Original Research in Col-
lege Education. By JonN Henry
Wright, Associate Professor of Greek
in Dartmouth College. Boston : Alfred
Mudge & Son, Printers. Pp. 29.
" Original research," as used by the
author in connection with a college educa-
tion, means chiefly work pursued in subjects
embraced in college instruction ; and, inas-
much as the major part of the college course
is made up of linguistic, literary, historical,
and philosophical studies, the topics of in-
quiry are ordinarily drawn from those fields,
as well as from physical science, in connec-
tion with which the term is more commonly
used. The essential character of the work
is that it consists in and is based upon di-
rect personal observation and actual exam-
ination, together with inductions suggested
by the facts investigated and discovered,
made independently by the inquirer and
without outside help. In the recorded re-
sults of the studies, the matter of chief con-
sequence will be the earnest, independent
work, the exact observation, and the hard
thinking that they represent. The manner
in which research of this kind is furthered
and encouraged at the German universities
and seminaries is described ; the question
whether similar methods can be applied at
American institutions is answered in the af-
firmative ; and observations and suggestions
are added as to the manner in which the ap-
plications may be made.
A Study of the Manuscript Troano. By
Cyrus Thomas, Ph. D. With an Intro-
duction by D. G. Brinton, M. D. With
Nine Plates. Washington : Government
Printing-Office. Pp. 236.
This is an attempt to give intelligibility
to one of those mysterious documents which
have been left to us from the former mas-
ters of Central America ; from the people
who probably built some of the cities the
ruins of which are numerous in that region,
and were the authors of the inscriptions of
Palenque. The manuscript, or Codex Tro-
ano, was so called by the Abbe Brasseur de
Bourbourg, after the gentleman, Don Juan
de Tro y Ortolano, of Madrid, a descendant
of Hernando Cortez, in whose possession he
found it. It is written, like the two other
Maya codexes which have been chromo-litho-
graphed and published, on paper manufac-
tured from the leaves of the maguey plant.
In form, it was folded into thirty-five folds,
like the panoramic books of illustrations or
" souvenirs," which are sold at the watering-
places, and was written on both sides of the
folds, giving seventy pages. The inscrip-
tions consist of lines and columns of charac-
ters and numerals occupying the top and left
side of the page, and inframing, in the rest
of the space, symbolical or descriptive fig-
ures. Dr. Thomas, who acknowledges that
his investigation is not as complete as he
