on various Objects. 89
Jvf . Berzelius *, in a letter which 1 received from him a
few months ago, states, that in making an analysis of cast
iron, he found that it contained the metal of silex, and m&£
this metal in being oxidated took up nearly halt* its weight
of oxygen.
If the composition of ammonia be calculated upon, ac
cording to the principle above stated, it ought to consist of
53 of "metallic matter, and about 47 t of oxygen, whic*.
agrees verv nearly with the quantity off hydrogen and
ammonia produced from the amalgam.
Though the early chemists considered the earths and the
metallic oxides as belonging to the same class of bodies,
and the earths as calces which they had not found the
means of combining with phlogiston, and though Lavoisier
insisted upon this analogy with his usual sagacity, yet still
the alkalies, earths, and oxides have been generally con-
sidered as separate natural orders. The earths, it has been
said, are not precipitated by the triple prussiates, or by the
solutions of galls t ; and the alkalies and alkaline earths
are both distinguished by their solubility in water; but if
such characters be admitted as grounds of distinct classi-
fication, the common metals must be arranged under many
different divisions ; and the more the subject is inquired
into, the more distinct will the general relations of all me-
tallic substances appear. The alkalies and alkaline earths
combine with prussic acid, and form compounds of dif-
ferent degrees of solubility ; and solutions of barytes (as
has been shown bv Dr. Henry and M. Guvton) precipitate
the triple prussiate of potash; the power of combination is
general, but the compounds formed are soluble in different
degrees in water. The case is analogous with solutions off
galls ; these, as I have mentioned in a paper published in
the Philosophical Transactions for 180.5, are precipitated by
almost all ncuirosaline solutions; and they form com-
pounds more or less soluble in water, more or less coloured*
and differently coloured with all salifiable bases. It is
needless to dwell upon the combinations of the alkalies and
* In the same communication this able chemist Informed me, that lie had
.succeeded in decomposing the earths, by igniting them strongly with iron
and charcoal.
f I take the proportions of the volumes from the very curious paper of
jMT. Gay Lussac, on the combinations of gaseous bodies, Mnu. d\hiutil>
fom. ii. page '-'13, and the weights from mv own estimation, according to
which 100 cubic inches of muriatic acid gas weigh 39 grains, at the mean
temperature and pressure, which is very nearly the same as the weight
given by MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard.
£ Ktaproth, Annates de Ckuuir, tome s, ;•:. *77.
earths,
