QO On some new Electrochemical Researches
earths, with oils, to form soaps ; and of the earthy soaps,
some are equally insoluble with the metallic soaps. The
oxide of tin, and other oxides abounding in oxygen, ap-
proach very near in their general characters to zircon, silex,
and alumine ; and in habits of amalgamation, and of alloy,
how near dp the metals of the alkalies approach to the
lightest class of oxidable metals !
It will be unnecessary, I trust, to pursue these analogies
any further, and I shall conclude this section by a few re-
marks on the alloys of the metals of the common earths.
It is probable that these alloys may be formed in many
metallurgical operations, and that small quantities of them
may influence materially the properties of the compound
jn which they exist.
In the conversion of cast into malleable iron, by the
process of blooming, a considerable quantity of glass se-
parates^ which, as far as I have been able to determine,
from a coarse examination, is principally silex, alumine,
and lime, vitrified with oxide of iron.
Cast iron from a particular spot will make only cold-
short iron ; whilst, from another spot, it will make hot-
short ; but by a combination of the two in due propor-
tions, good iron is produced ; may not this be owing to
the circumstance of their containing different metals of the
earths, which in compound alloy may be more oxidable
than in simple alloys, and may be more easily separated
by combustion ?
Copper, M. Berzelius informs me, is hardened by sili-
cium. In some experiments that I made on the action of i
potassium and iron on silex, the iron, as I have mentioned
before, was rendered white, and very hard and brittle, but
it did not seem to be more oxidable. Researches upon
this subject do not appear unworthy of pursuit, and thev
may possibly tend to improve some of our most important
manufactures, and give new instruments to the useful arts.
V. Some Considerations of Theory illustrated by new
Facts.
Hydrogen is the body which combines with the largest
proportion of oxygen, and yet it forms with it a neutral
compound. This, on the hypothesis of electrical energy,
would show that it must be much more highly positive
than any other substance ; and therefore, if it be an oxide,
it is not likely that it should be deprived of oxygen by any
simple chemical attractions. The fact of its forming a
substance approaching to an acid in its nature, when com-
binet|
