on various Objects . • 91
bined.with a metallic substance, tellurium, is opposed to
the idea of its being a gaseous metal, and perhaps to the
idea that it is simple, or that it exists in its common form
in the amalgam of ammonium. The phenomena presented
by sulphuretted hydrogen are of the same kind, and lead to
similar conclusions.
Muriatic. acid gas, as I have shown, and as is further
proved by the researches of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard,
is a compound of a body unknown in a separate state, and
water., The water, I believe, cannot be decompounded,
unless a new combination is formed : thus it is not changed
by charcoal ignited in the gas by Voltaic electricity ; but
it is decompounded by all the metals ; and in these cases
hydrogen is elicited, in a manner similar to that in which
one metal is precipitated by another; the oxygen being
found in the new compound. This, at first view, might
be supposed in favour of the idea that hydrogen is a simple
substance ; but the same reasoning may be applied to a
protoxide as to a metal ; and in the case of the nitromu-
riatic acid, when the nitrous acid is decomposed to assist
in the formation of a metallic muriate, the body disengaged
(nitrous gas) is known to be in a high state of oxyge-
nation.
That nitrogen is not a metal in the form of gas, is al-
most demonstrated by the nature of the fusible substance
from ammonia, and (even supposing no reference to be
made to the experiments detailed in this paper) the general
analogy of chemistry would lead to the notion of its being
compounded.
Should it be established by future researches that hvdro-
gen is a protoxide of ammonium, ammonia a deutoxide,
and nitrogen a tritoxide of the same metal, the theory of
chemistry would attain a happy simplicity, and the existing
arrangements would harmonize with all the new facts.
The class of pure inflammable bases would be metals ca-
pable of alloying with each other, and of combining with
protoxides. Some of the bases would be known only in
combination, those of sulphur, phosphorus*, and of the
boracic,
* The electrization of sulphur and phosphorus goes far to prove that
they contain combined hydrogen. From the phenomena of the action of
potassium upon them in my first experiments, I conceived that they con.
tained oxygen, though, as I have stated in the appendix to the last Bakerian
lecture, the effect* may he explained on a different supposition. The vivid*
ness of the ignition in the process appeared an evidence in favour of their
containing oxygen, till I discovered that similar phenomena were produced
by the combination of arsenic and tellurium with potassium. In some iate
(experiment* on the action of putassium on sulphur and phosphorus, and on
sulphuretted
