02 On some new Elect rocfimnical Researches
boracic, fluoric, and muriatic acids ; but the relations of
their compounds would lead to the suspicion of their being
metallic. The salifiable bases might be considered either
as protoxides, deutoxides, or tritoxides : and the general
relations of salifiable matter, to acid mutter, might be sup-
posed capable of being ascertained by their relations to
oxygen, or bv the peculiar state of their electrical energy.
The whole tenour of the antiphlogistic doctrines neces-
sarily points to such an order; but in considering the facts
under other points of view, solutions may be found, which,
if not so simple, account for the phenomena with at least
equal facility.
If hydrogen, according to an hypothesis to which I have
often referred, be considered as the principle which gives
inflammability, and as the cause of metallization, then our
list of simple substances will include oxygen, hydrogen,
and unknown bases only ; metals and inflammable solids
will be compounds of these bases, with hydrogen; the
earths, the fixed alkalies, metallic oxides, and the common
acids, will be compounds of the same bases, with water.
The strongest arguments in favour of this notion, in
addition to those I have before stated, which at present
occur to me, are: First, The properties which seem to be
inherent in certain bodies, and which are either developed
or concealed, according to the nature of their combinations.
Thus sulphur, when it is dissolved in water either in com-
bination with hydrogen or oxygen, uniformly manifests
acid properties ; and the same quantity of sulphur, whe-
ther in combination with hydrogen, whether in its simple
form, or ih combination with one proportion of oxygen,
or a double proportion, from my experiments seems to
combine with the same quantity of alkali. Tellurium,
whether in the state of oxide or of hydruret, seems to have
the same tendency of combination with alkali; and the
alkaline metals, and the acidifjable bases, act with the
greatest energy on each other.
sulphuretted hydrogen, and on phosphurettcd hydrogen, I find that the
phenomena differ very much according to the circumstances ot the experi-
ment, and in some instances I have obtained a larger volume of gas front
potassium after it had been exposed to the action ot certain ot these bodies,
than it would haye*gtven »!one. These experiments are still in .progress,
and I shall soon lay an account of them before the Society. The idea of the
existence of oxygen in sulphur and phosphorus is however still supported
bv various analogies- Their being nonconductors of electricity is one ar-
gument in favour of this. Potassium and sodium I find when heated in
hydrogen, mixed with a small quantity of atmospheric air, absorb both
o'<vgen and hydrogen, and become nonconducting inflammable bodies ana T
logous to resinous and oily substances.
Second,
