94 On some new Electrochemical Researches
combination, and one of hydrogen is given off; and in
the action of water on potassium to form potash, the same
quantity of hydrogen ought to be expelled. From my
analysis* of sulphuretted hydrogen, it would appear, that
if potassium in forming a combination with this substance
sets free hydrogen, it will be nearly the same quantity as it
would cause to be evolved from water. And if the analysis
of Mr. Proust and Mr. Hatchett, of the sulphuret of iron,
be made a basis of calculation, iron, in attracting sulphur
from sulphuretted hydrogen, will liberate the same propor-
tion of hydrogen as during its solution in diluted sulphuric
acid ; and taking Mr. Dalton's Jaw of proportion, the case
will be similar with respect to other metals : and if such
reasoning were to be adopted, as that metals are proved to"
be compounds of hydrogen, because, in acting upon dif-
ferent combinations containing hydrogen, they produce
the evolution of equal proportions of this gas, then it might
be proved that almost any kind of matter is contained in
any other. The same quantity of potash, in acting upon
either muriate, sulphate, or nitrate of magnesia, will pre-
cipitate equal quantities of magnesia; but it would be ab-
surd to infer from this, that potash contained magnesia, as
one of its elements ; the power of repelling one kind of
matter, and of attracting another kind, must be equally de-
finite, and governed by the same circumstances.
Potassium, sodium, iron, mercury, and all metals that I
* The composition may be deduced from the experiments in the last
Bakerian lecture, which show that it contains a volume of hydrogen equal
to its own. If its specific gravity be taken as 35 grains, for 100 cubical
inches, then it will consist of 227 of hydrogen, and 32*73 of sulphur. When
sulphuretted hydrogen is decomposed by common electricity, in very refined
experiments, there is a slight diminution of volume, and the precipitated
sulphur has a whitish tint, and probably contains a minute quantity of hy-
drogen. When it is decomposed by Voltaic sparks, the sulphur is precipi-
tated in its common form, and there is no change of volume ; in the last case
the sulphur is probably ignited at the moment of its production. In some
experiments lately made in the laboratory of the Royal Institution, on ar-
seniuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen, it was found that when these gases
were decomposed by electricity, there was no change in their volumes ; but
neither the arsenic nor the phosphorus seemed to be thrown down in their
common state * the phosphorus was dark-coloured, and the arsenic appeared
as a brown powder, both were probably hydrurets : this is confirmed like-
wise by the action of potassium upon aseniuretted and phosphuretted hy-
drogen ; when the metal is in smaller quantity than is sufficient to decom- r
pose the whole of the gases, there is always an expansion of volume ; so that
arse.iiuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen contain in equal volumes, more
hydrogen than sulphuretted hydrogen, probably half as much more, or
twice as much more. From some experiments made on the weights of phos-
phuretted and arseniuretted hydrogen, it would appear that 100 cubic inches
of the first weigh about JO grains, at the mean temperature and pressure,
*nd 100 of the second about 15 grains.
have
