on various Objects. £5
have experimented upon, in acting upon muriatic acid gas,
evolve the same quantity of hydrogen, and all form dry
muriates ; so that any theory of metallization, applicable
to potash and soda, must likewise apply to the common
metallic oxides. If we assume the existence of water in
the potash, formed in muriatic acid gas, we must likewise
infer its existence in the oxides of iron and mercury, pro-
duced in similar operations.
The solution of the general question concerning the
presence of hydrogen in all inflammable bodies, will un-
doubtedly be influenced by the decision upon the nature of
the amalgam from ammonia, and a matter of so much im-
portance ought not to be hastily decided upon. The diffi-
culty of finding any multiple of the quantity of oxygen,
which may be supposed to exist in hydrogen, that might
be applied to explain the composition of nitrogen from the
same basis, is undoubtedly against the simplest view of the
subject. But still the phlogistic explanation, that the me-
tal of ammonia is merely a compound of hydrogen and
nitrogen ; or that a substance which is metallic can be
composed from substances not in their own nature metallic,
is equally opposed to the general tenour of our chemical
reasonings.
I shall not at present occupy the time of the Society by
entering any further into these discussions ; hypothesis can
scarcely be considered as of any value, except as leading to
new experiments; and the objects in the novel field of
electrochemical research have not been sufficiently ex-
amined to enable to decide upon their nature, and their
relations, or to form any general theory concerning them
which is likely to be permanent.
Explanation of the Figures,
Fig. 1. The apparatus for electrizing potassium in gases,
A the glass tube. B the wire negatively electrified. C
and D the cup and wire posicivelv electrified.
Fig. 2. The apparatus for decomposing water, out of
the contact of air, page 20. AA the cones containing the
water. BBB the tubes for conveying the gas. C and D
the pneumatic apparatus.
Fig. 3. The apparatus for decomposing and recompos-
>ng water under oil. CC the wires for communicating the
Voltaic electricity. DD the \\4res for producing the ex-
plosion. B the tube. A the vessel containing it. a, d, c,
the level of the different fluids.
Fig. 4. The apparatus for exposing water to the action
©**
