CoW'Pock Institution. 97
children to small- pox infection. As far, however, as the
immediate observation of the Institution extends, cow-
pock has been found to resist all such trials, with three
exceptions only.
It now appears by increasing experience, that in a very
few instances the vaccine infection will form fairly on the
arm, and go through its regular stages, without being ab-
sorbed into the blood. The same thing has repeatedly
happened in inoculating for the small-pox, where no erup-
tive fever or eruption succeeded the inoculation. In the
three cases of small -pox which have succeeded vaccination,
the disease has been mild and of short duration.
The efficacy of cow-pock, as far as Dublin is concerned,
does not rest upon the proofs adduced in its favour by this
Institution, for it has been extensively practised during the
last five or six years. There are grounds for believing that
the number vaccinated throughout the city, including the
above 12,065, does not fall short of 35,000. The cases of
small-pox following cow-pock which have been reported,
upon any reasonable authority, to the Institution, do not
exceed six. No one who is acquainted with the careless
and inattentive manner in which many practitioners have
hitherto conducted vaccination, can be surprised to hear of
cases of failure. The neglect of parents also to have their
children examined at the regular periods after inoculation,
tends to bring the practice into disrepute. To obviate this
inconvenience, it has been the practice for some time at
this Institution, to oblige parents to deposit a small sum,
to be returned after the child has gone through the disease,
provided they have attended agreeably to instruction; other-
wise the sum is forfeited. This regulation has had the de-
sired effect.
It was reported at an early period of the practice, that
vaccination afforded only a temporary security, which was
at first limited to three years. Numerous experiments,
tried in different quarters, satisfactorily proved the falsehood
of this assertion. A similar opinion has been lately revived,
but the period of security extended to five or six years.
Neither analogv nor experience justifies such an idea, and
the history of casual cow-pock fully refutes the allegation,
as numerous cases are on record of persons, after having
casual cow-pock, resisting during a long life the small-
pox, under every circumstance of exposure, inoculation, &c.
Besides, had the preventive powers of cow-pock not been
permanent, it is but reasonable to suppose that many of
Vol. 36. No, US. August J810. G the
