98 Report of the Dublin
the above 12,065 must, under the existing circumstances
of exposure, have taken the small-pox. Above twenty
children who were Vaccinated five or six years ago, have
lately, by order of the directors, been submitted to vario-
lous inoculation, but without the effect of producing small-
pox. Similar experiments have been instituted, under the
direction of other practitioners, with the like result. Nine-
teen children who had the cow-pock eight and nine years
ago, have been lately inoculated with small -pox matter, at
the Foundling Hospital, underlhe inspection of Mr. Stewart,
surgeon-general, and Mr. Creighton, surgeon of the hos-
pital, but with no other effect than local inflammation. —
In a letter just received from Mr. Bryce, of Edinburgh, he
observes: — u I have lately finished an experiment of ino-
culating about twenty children with the small- pox, who
were vaccinated from eight years to five months. — The re-
sult is most satisfactory, and shows clearly that a pustule
with surrounding inflammation is as readily produced five
months after vaccination, as at the end of eight years, con-
sequently that the security is as complete at the latter pe-
riod as the former."
The following extract from the Report of the Small-Pox
Hospital, London, should be recorded : — " Eleven thou-
sand eight hundred patients, and upwards, have been vac-
cinated, of which number twenty -five hundred were after-
wards proved to be secured from the natural small-pox, by
receiving a further inoculation with small -pox matter,
which took no effect. A number amply sufficient to sa-
tisfy the public mind, of the security and success of the
new practice of vaccination." — December, 1802. — So great,
a number submitted to the test of variolous inoculation,
and exposed in a hospital full of small-pox infection with-
out effect, should of itself convince every reasonable mind
of the efficacy of vaccination. VidelS/h. Charles Murray's
Answer to Mr. Highmore, p. 37.
A report having been lately circulated, that Dr. Jenner
himself was beginning to entertain some doubt of the
efficacy of his discovery, the directors thought it expedient
to direct their secretary to write to him, and to lay his an-
swer upon the subject before the public.
u Dear sir, — Your obliging letter of the 3d instant, in-
closing the Annual Report of the Cow-Pock Institution, in
Dublin, has just reached me. The former letter you allude
to, has not yet been delivered. It is with the greatest plea-
sure I perceive the rapid increase of vaccination in your
metropolis,
