Cow-Pock Institution. 09
metropolis, and the uninterrupted success that has attended
the practice, at once a proof of the zeal, industry and at-
tention of the medical officers \ for which I beg leave to
make my most grateful acknowledgements.
" And now, sir, a few remarks on the very extraordinary
communication you have make to me respecting Lady
C -. It has been one of the usual devices of the ene-
mies of vaccination, almost from the time of my first mak-
ing it known, to represent me as having lost my confidence
of its prophylactic powers, or, at least, that I was wavering
on the subject. Can T, who, with the aid of my nephews,
have vaccinated a number of persons little short of 30,000,
without one single instance of accident or of failure, that
ever reached my ears, for a moment entertain such an ab-
surd idea? Or could I have ever thought of inoculating
for the small-pox, while I hold that practice in abhorrence,
and condemn it both publicly and privately ? Believe me,
the whole story you relate to me is an entire fiction, with-
out the faintest shadow of foundation. Never from the
commencement of my experiments to the present hour,
have I used a particle of variolous matter, except for the
purpose of putting some of those to a test on whom I
made my first trials. For some years past, I have relied
wholly on the vaccine lymph, for testing those on whom
any material irregularity appeared in the progress of the
pustule.
u Believe me, &c.
Berkeley, Feb. 19, 1809. « EDWARD JeNNER."
While the directors, with such weight of evidence in its
favour, feel themselves warranted in continuing to recom-
mend vaccination as a preventive of small-pox, they cannot
but regret that in a few cases it has been difficult to deter-
mine whether a patient has had the disease constitutionally
or locally. They however confidently hope that by pur-
suing Mr. Bryce's test, and by increased attention to the
progress of the disease, practitioners will be enabled to sur-
mount the only objection to a practice which tends to pre-
serve more than 30,000 lives annually, in the British Isles>
Mr. Bryce proposes that a 3econd inoculation be per-
formed about the sixth day after the first : the vesicle pro-
duced by this second inoculation is accelerated in its pro-
gress, so as to arrive at maturity, and again fade, at nearly
the same time as the affection arising from the first inocu-
lation. Mr, B. considers the acceleration of the second
G 2 inoculation
