100 Report of the Dulliii
inoculation to be the effect of the constitutional affection
produced by the first ; and therefore, if it shall be found that
no such acceleration takes place, but that the second ino-
culation proceeds by a slow progress through all the stages,
it is to be concluded, that no constitutional action has taken
place from the first insertion of the virus ; and when this is
the case, the second inoculation must be regarded as a pri-
mary affection, and a third puncture made according to the
plan laid down for conducting the second inoculation ; and
thus (he says) we may go on until the proper test be ob-
tained; or until we be satisfied that the constitution com-
pletely resists the action of cow-pock.
Although small-pox is by no means exterminated from
Dublin, among the poor, yet the general substitution of
vaccine for variolous inoculation has considerably di-
minished the number of patients brought to the hospitals
and dispensaries for advice. In the upper ranks of society
death from small -pox is unheard-of, and the most exten-
sive practitioners acknowledge that a case of small-pox in
private practice is a very rare occurrence. And although
the reintroduction of small-pox into society would add
greatly to the emoluments both of physic and surgery,
there is no liberal man in either profession who would not
sincerely deplore such a calamity.
Signed by order,
January 10,1810. "S. 13. Labatt, Secretary.
Foundling Hospital, Dublin, Jan. 4, 1810.
The following Report having been laid before the Governors
of the Foundling Plospital, and appearing to be highly
satisfactorv: — Ordered, That three thousand copies there-
of be printed, for the purpose of their being circulated as
generally throughout the United Kingdom as possible.
By order,
A. Bailie, Register.
AS some persons have lately attempted to prejudice the
minds of the public by representing vaccine inoculation as
a doubtful security against small- pox, limiting its' influence
to a certain period, and wishing us to believe that its pre-
ventive powers diminish in proportion to the distance of
time from inoculation ; — I have, therefore, at the request
of the right honourable and honourable the governors of
the Foundling Hospital, instituted such experiments as
enable me (a second time) to congratulate the public on
their successful event. From
