Cow-Pock Institution. 101
From my situation, as surgeon to the Foundling Hospi-
tal, I have had it fully in my power to select such cases as
had been faithfully recorded by me to have undergone vac-
cination at the earliest period of cow-pock inoculation in
this city, and such have been approved of by those gentle-
men who have honoured me with their presence, to wit-
ness and subscribe their names to the progress and event
of the following experiment on nineteen children chosen
for the purpose, who were divided into two (.lasses. The
first nine comprehend those who in a state of infancy were
vaccinate d I v me between the 30th of December 1800
and 3d of July 1801, now more than eight years. These
were again inocuUucd with sn»all-pox infection by George
Stewart, esq. surgeon-general, on the 24th of July, 1804,
(and witnessed by several gentlemen of the first respecta-
bility in their profession,) m like manner to disprove the
assertions of Mr. Goldson, as may be seen in the twelfth
volume of the Medical ami Physical Journal, and with the
most complete success — all having resisted the small-pox,
although exposed to it in every way possible. These nine
children, with ten others, who were also vaccinated by me
in a state of infancy, from 15th of July 1801 to 30th of
August 1802, upwards of seven years, were again submitted
to small-pox inoculation, on Friday, 22d of December last;
the infection taken from a child of Mr. Stafford's, No. 7,
Hanbury-lane, in confluent small-pox, and the matter in-
serted in two places in the arm of each child, in a fluid
state,- and in the greatest quantity. In every instance, the
punctures in the arm of each child from the third day in-
flamed, and continued until the seventh, when the inflam-
mation gradually subsided, as certified by Mr. Stewart, and
marked in a table, which, in another publication, will be
more fully expressed ; — which circumstance has proved the
activity of the small-pox matter inserted, and which must
have affected the constitution, were it in the least suscepti-
ble of the disease. Fourteen days have now elapsed, the
inflammation of the punctures is entirely gone, and never
was attended with the slightest fever, sickness, or eruption.
J n corroboration of the above facts, conducted with
everv decree of accuracy, and which cannot admit of the
smallest doubt on the minds of those gentlemen who have
witnessed them, and hereunto subscribed their names; I
can safelv assert, that T have submitted upwards of five
hundred infants and children, vaccinated by me at this In-
stitution, and at the Dispensary for Infant Poor and Cow-
G 3 pock
