102 Mr. Smeaton's Harks, &?c*
pock Inoculation, as established in the year 1800, to a like
experiment, and with the same result in every instance.
Dublin, Mcrrion-square, West, J # CllEIGHTON.
January 4, 1810.
George Stewart, A. Colles,
Gustavus Hume, William Hartigan,
S. Wilmot, . Philip Crampton,
Ralph S. Obre,
Members of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.
Edmund Connell, William Dillon,
Samuel Bell, James M'Creight,
Apothecaries.
XVII. Information, that a further Publication of the late
Mr, Smeaton's Engineery Designs and Papers is in
hand. — Copy of a. List of the principal British Strata,
by the late Rev. John Michel, (of whose posthumous
Papers on Geological Subjects, further Information is
requested ;) — witfi some Experiments of Mr. Smeaton's
on Limestones, — and Queries respecting Mr. Tofield.
Communicated by Mr. John Farey.
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, As my eldest son was a few days ago employed, in
examining the miscellaneous bundles of papers, which be-
longed to the late ingenious Mr. John Smeaton, the civil
engineer, now in Sir Joseph Banks's possession, with a
view to the further publication by Messrs. Longman, Hurst,
Rees,andCo. of hisDrawings and Reports on civil engineery,
which so long and impatiently have been expected by those
interested in this branch of the useful arts ? he found a small
scrap of paper (only four inches by three) in the hand-
writing of Mr. Smeaton, part of the cover of a letter, as
appears by part of a seal and the London post-mark of
November 21, 1788, on the back of it, which, having ob-
tained Sir Joseph's permission, I think of sufficient im-
portance, in a geological point of view, to request the
favour of you to lay before your readers.
It relates to the order and thicknesses of the strata in
England, as appears by Mr. Smeaton's title or endorse-
ment on it, viz. " Mr. Michel's account of the south of
.England strata," \\hich is as follows, viz.
Yards
f Chalk 1 20 ►
Golt 50
Sand,
