Mr. Smeaton 9 s IFvrks, Gte 103
Yards
Sand, of Bedfordshire 10 or 20
Northampton lime and Portland; limes \
lying in several strata J
Lyas strata 70 or 100
Sand, of Newark about 30
Ked elay, of Tuxford and several 100
Sherewood Forest, pebbles and gravel ... 50 unequal
Very fine white sand uncertain
Roch Abbey and Brotherton limes 100
Coal strata,' of Yorkshire "
The Mr. Michel alluded to, was, it appears, the late Rev.
John Michel, rector of Thornhill, near Wakefield, York-
shire, who was an intimate friend of Mr. Smeaton, the late
Mr. Cavendish, Sec. &c, and whose name must be very
familiar to most of your readers, from his (natty valuable
papers in the Transactions of the Royal Society of London,
of which he was a member.
This account of the strata, imperfect as it is, appears to
me important, as showing, that Mr. Michel was acquainted
with the principal features of the south of England strata,
at an earlier period than any thing was published on the
subject, especially if we suppose, as is most reasonable,
that this communication was made verbally by Mr. Michel
to his friend Mr. Smeaton, very soon after November 1788,
who took it down on the cover of a recent letter, as being
the only piece of paper then at hand; for Mr. Smeaton's
decease in September 1792? shows that it must have been
prior to that time.
It appears to me probable, that this account was princi-
pally made from the result of Mr. Michel's observations,
m his journeying* by thegreatNorth road between the place
of his residence and London; The " chalk" being that
which appears from near Hatfield to Baldock ; the " golt"
being the chalk- marie (and perhaps some alluvial clays
also) thence to near Sandy in Bedfordshire; where, doubt-
less, the " sand" is situate, to which he alludes. Jn cross-
ing Northamptonshire from Wansford to Stamford, the
" limes" are first noticed, which he rightly associates with,
and considers the same as, those of Portland-Island, though
distant 170 miles therefrom in a straight line! The next
are the " lyas" strata, which appear between Grantham and
Balderton; and here, the use of a term for these strata of
limestone, which was not then known or in use, I believe,
nearer than Gloucestershire or Somersetshire, shows again
G 4 that
