Mr. SmealorCs Wvrks, &c. 105
London clay, the Woolwich or Black- heath sand, the
Avlesburv limestone, the Chinch clay*, the Be Iford lime-
stone and clays, beneath it, the Barnack rag, and Colley-
weston lime and slate, the Foston blue clay, and the Maid-
well lime, all of which occur above the lias-clay; while
the coal series above the yellow lime (under the Sherwood
gravel as I suspect) and the important blue beds in the
yellow limestone series, are unnoticed : enough however is
contained in the above list, to show, that the late Rev.
John Michel ought to he ranked among those, to whom
geological science is indebted; and I take this method of
addressing myself to those, who may be now in possession
of his papers, to search for and communicate whatever de-
tails they may contain on the British strata, that will either
further explain the above communication to Mr. Smeaton,
or show the source, whence Mr. M. may have derived the
above particulars of the South British strata f: which
would be conferring a great obligation on
Your obedient humble servant,
1 2, Upper Crown Street, Westminster, JOHN FAREY, Sen.
August 4, J 810.
XV1H. An
* Between the Bedfordshire orWobuin sand, and the Northamptonshire
limes or Bath freestone, which clay extends under almost all the Lincolnshire
fens, and most of those in Cambridgeshire and in Yorkshire.
t P. S. Since writing the above I have been informed, that Mr. Michel,
whose death happened April 21, 1793, was at an early part of his life keeper
of the Woodwardian collection of fossils at Cambridge, which is thought
by some to be the very best general geological collection in existence,
though made near a century ago, owing to the great care and minuteness
with which the localities and attendant circumstances of the fossils therein,
are described: essential particulars, which 1 yet have appeared beneath the
attention of too many of our modern mineralogists and geologists, as it
should seem. It is not improbable, that a comparison of the fossil-; and
their localities, in this celebrated collection, first suggested the ideas of a
determinate order in the British strata to Mr. Michel, and the examination
of his papers is therefore a matter of the greater importance from the pro-
bability, that some such arrangement of the facts in theWoodwardian cata-
logue, may be found among them. Perhaps also, the present keeper of
the Woodwardian collection and papers will have the goodness to inform
us, whether any such arrangement of the British strata in a series is to be
found, or minutes of any such attempts, among the Woodwardian papers?
Another scrap of paper, found among Mr. Smeaton's loose memoran-
dums, contains his experiments on twelve sorts of limestone, by dissolving
40 grains of each in aquafortis, and drying the clayey undissolved res;duum6
in the sun, the weights of which are a» follow, vi/. Grains.
* Yellow lyas, of Axmyister . . . . . . 5^
Ditto with shining spangles (mica probably) . . ££
Yellow snake-stone, of Glastonbury . . . , . . 5
Blue lyas, of Watchet .. .. .. .. 4f
Ditto ofAberthaw
Ditto of Bath
Ditto of Axminster
Yellow clump-stone, of Sherborne .. ., ., 3""
White
4*
