C '06 ]
XVTTT. An Analysis of several Varieties of British and
Foreign Salt, (Muriate of Soda,) with a view to ex-
plain their Fitness for different ceconomical Purposes, Bif
William Henry, M.D. F.R.S. Vice-Pres. of the Li-
terary and Philosophical Society, arid Physician to the
Infirmary at Manchester*.
Sect. I. General Observations.
JLn undertaking the series of experiments described in the
following pages, I had not so much in view the discovery
of novelties in science, as the determination, by the careful
employment of known processes, and by the improvement
of methods of analysis, of a number of facts, the establish-
ment of which (it appeared to me probable) might have an
influence on an important branch of national revenue and
industry.
An opinion has for some time past existed, and I believe
has been pretty general both in this and other countries, to
the disadvantage of British salt as a preserver of animal
food; and a decided preference has been given to the salt
procured from France, Spain, Portugal, and other warm
climates, where it is prepared by the spontaneous evapora-
tion of sea water. In conformity with this opinion, large
sums of money are annually paid to foreign nations, for
the supply of an article, which Great Britain possesses, be-
yond almost any other country in Europe, the means of
drawing from her own internal resources. It becomes,
therefore, of much consequence to ascertain, whether this
preference of foreign salt be founded on accurate ex-
perience, or be merely a matter of prejudice; and, in the
Grains.
White lyas, with shining spangles, of Wells . . . . 1|
Brown kmestone, of Plymouth .. .. .. i
of Chidley (Chidgley ?) . . . . 0|
Forty grains of burnt lime in flower, dissolved in aquafortis, left of clayey
ipatter when dried in the sun, as follows, viz.
Blue lyas, of Watchet . . . . . . . . 4{
-• — of Briddistow . . . . . . . . Jtt
The Watchet (residuum) made into a ball just stuck together, the Brid-
distow scarcely."
When I wasai the house of Mr. Jessop the engineer (who was formerly a
pupil and ass'srant of Mr. Smcatoi:) at Butterley in Derbyshire, he mentioned
that a Mr. 'JofteU, a civil engineer of the southern part of Yorkshire, formed
a design 30 years ago, of investigating the British strata. I shall he thank-
ful to any of your readers who can communicate any particulars of this
undertaking, and of its author, if they will do so.
* From Philosophical Transactions for 18 1Q, Fart I.
former
