Analysis of British and Foreign Salt, * IOT
former case, whether any chemical difference can be dis-
covered, that may explain the superiority of the one to the
other. '
The comparative fitness of these varieties of salt for the
curing of provisions, which has been a subject of much
controversy among the parties who are interested, can be
decided, it is obvious, in no other way, than by a careful
examination of the evidence on both sides. Where evi-
dence, however, is doubtful, and where there exists, as in
this case, much contrariety of testimony, it cannot be un-
fair to yield our belief to that which best accords with the
chemical and physical qualities of the substances in ques-
tion. Again, if salt of British production should be
proved to be really inferior in chemical purity to foreign
salt, it would be important to ascertain, as the basis of all
attempts towards its improvement, in what, precisely, this
inferiority consists. It seemed desirable, also, to examine
whether any di [Terences of chemical composition exist
among the several varieties of home-made salt, which can
explain their variable fitness for ceconomical purposes.
Such were the considerations that induced me to under-
take an inquiry, which has occupied, for several months
past, a large share of my leisure and attention. I began
the investigation, wholly uninfluenced by any precon-
ceived opinions on the subject ; and I had no motive
\o see the facts in any other than their true light, since I
have no personal* interest, either directly or remotely, in
the decision of the question.
The principal sources of the salt, which is manufactured
in this country, are rock salt, brine springs, and sea water.
The first material is confined entirely, and the second
chiefly, though not wholly, to a particular district of Che-
shire. Of the extent and boundaries of this district, the
process of manufacture, and other circumstances interest-
ing to the mineralogist as well as to the chemist, an ample
and excellent history has feeen given by Mr. Henry Hol-
land, in the agricultural report of the county of Chester*.
Prom hi:* account, I shall extract, in order to render some
parts of this memoir more intelligible, a very brief state-
ment of the characteristic differences of the several varieties
of salt, which are prepared in Northwich and its neigh-
bourhood.
In making the stoved or lump salt, the brine is brought
to a boiling heat, which,, in brine fully saturated, is 226^
* Published in 1808.
of
