108 Anctlyis of several Varieties of
of Fahrenheit. This temperature is continued during the
whole process; and as the evaporation proceeds, small
flaky crystals continue to form themselves, and to fall lo
the bottom of the boiler. At the end of from eight to
twelve hours, the greatest part of the water of solution is
found to he evaporated ; so much only being left, as barely
to cover the salt and the bottom of the pan. The salt is
then removed into conical wicker baskets, termed harrows ;
and, after being well drained, is dried in stoves, where it
sustains a loss of about one-seventh of its weight.
On the first application of heat to the brine, a quantity
of carbonate of lime, and sometimes a little oxide of iron,
both of which had been held in solution by an excess of
carbonic acid, are separated ; and are cither removed by
skimming, or are allowed to subside to the bottom of the
pan, along with the salt first formed, and with some sul-
phate oi lime ; and are afterwards raked out. These two
operations are called clearing the pan. Some brines scarcely
require them at all, and others only occasionally. The
whole of the impurities, however, are not thus removed; for
a part, subsiding to the bottom, forms a solid incrustation,
termed by the workmen pan-scale* The portion of this,
which is lowest, acquires so much induration and adhesion
to the pan, that it is necessary to remove it, once every
three or four weeks, by heavy blows with a pick-axe.
These sediments are formed, also, in making the other va-
rieties of salt.
In preparing co?mnon salt, the brine is first raised to a
boding heat, with the double view of bringing it as quickly
as possible to the point of saturation, and of clearing it
from its earthy contents. The fires are then slackened,
and the evaporation is carried on for 24 hours, with the
brine heated to 160 or 170 J Fahrenheit. The salt, thus
formed, is in quadrangular pyramids or hoppers, which are
close and hard in their texture. The remainder of the
process is similar to that of making stoved salt, except that
after being drained it is carried immediately to the store-
house, and not afterwards exposed to heat, an operation
confined to the stoved salt.
The large- grained flaky salt is made with an evapora-
tion conducted at the heat of 130 or 140 degrees. The
salt thus formed is somewhat harder than common salt,
and approaches more nearjy to' the cubic shape of the cry-
stals of muriate of soda.
L;irge-gramed or fishery salt is prepared from brine
heated only to 100° or 110° Fahrenheit. No perceptible
agitation,
