British and Foreign Salt, 1 13
Some estimate of its general proportion, when ascertained
on a larger scale, may be formed from the fact that Go-
vernment, in levying the duties, allows 65lb. to the. bushel
of rock salt, instead of 56lb., the usual weight of a bushel
of salt.
III. The earthy muriates, and especially that with base
of magnesia, abound most in salt which is prepared by the
rapid evaporation of sea water. Now since common salt,
in all its forms, contains, as will afterwards appear, very
little water of crystallization, it is probable that the muriate
of magnesia, discovered by the analysis of sea salt, is de-
rived entirely from that portion of the mother liquor
which adheres to the salt after being drained, and which
amounts to about one-seventh of its weight. The larger
the size of the grain, the less is the quantity of this solu-
tion which the salt holds suspended ; and hence the salt
prepared at a lower degree of heat, being in larger crystals,
is less debased by the magnesian muriate, than the salt
formed at a boiling temperature. It is probable, also, that
when the salt is drawn at intervals from the boiler, the pro-
portion of the earthy muriate will vary with the period of
the evaporation at which it is removed. For it may readily
be conceived, that as the proportion of the earthy muriates
in any brine is increased by the separation of muriate of
soda, the greater will be the quantity of the muriates which
the crystals of common salt, formed in the midst of the
brine, will retain ; thence it follows, that, so far as the
earthy muriates only are concerned, salt must diminish in
purity as the process of evaporation advances.
In the several varieties of Cheshire salt, the earthy mu-
riates do not exceed one thousandth part of this weight,
and they are precisely (or so nearly so that the difference
is not ascertainable) the same in all. This will cease to be
matter of surprise, when it is considered that the salt ob-
tained by evaporating to dryness the whole of a portion of
Cheshire brine, does not give more than five parts of earthy
muriates in 1000. In the entire salt of sea water, accord-
ing to Bergman, the earthy muriates form no less than 213
parts in the same quantity.
According to the proportion in which the earthy mu-
riates are present in any kind of salt, will be its power of
deliquescence, or of attracting moisture from the atmo-
sphere. It is not entirely, however, from the salts with
earthy base that common salt derives this quality ; for the
most transparent specimens of rock salt, which I find to
Vol. 36. No. 148. slugtist 1810. H consist
