114 Analysis of several Varieties of
consist of absolutely pure muriate of soda, attract much
moisture from a humid atmosphere.
IV. The sulphate of magnesia and the sulphate of lime
both enter into the composition of all the varieties of salt
prepaTed from sea water; but the sulphate of lime alone is
found in Cheshire salt. The proportion of sulphate of
magnesia is greatest in that variety of sea salt which has
been formed by rapid evaporation. In foreign bay salt its-
quantity is very insignificant.
From the table \\ may be seen, that the proportion of
sulphate of lime is greater in foreign bay salt than in any
variety of British salt, even than in those which are pre-
pared from sea water with a boiling heat. The only ex-
planation of this fact, that oceurs to me, is, that during
the rapid evaporation of sea water a considerable part of
the calcareous sulphate is precipitated at an early stage of
the process, and is partly removed in clearing the boiler, a
process which can scarcely be performed during the for-
mation of bay salt, in pits whose sides are composed of
moist clay. The remainder of the selenite, thus precipi-
tated by the rapid evaporation of sea water, enters into the
composition of the pan-scale.
In the course of this inquiry I was induced to repeat the
same experiments several times, on various specimens of
salt bearing the same designation; and was surprised to
find that the results by no means corresponded. In one
instance, for example, fishery salt was found in 1000 parts
to contain no less then 16 parts of sulphate of lime; while
another specimen, nominally the same, contained only ll±
parts of selenite in the same quantity; and a third only 5±.
At length it occurred to me that these differences were
probably owing to the circumstance of the salt having been
taken from the boiler at different periods of the evaporation.
I requested, therefore, to be furnished with specimens of
salt, drawn at different stages of the process from a given
portion of brine, evaporated in the same boiler. These
were submitted to analysis; and the results are shown in
the following table.
Common salt drawn from the boiler two f •£ -
hours after the first application of heat . . } | 5
Salt drawn four hours after do ] | g
Salt drawn six hours after do L 2 2 J 2>\
Hence it appears that there was a gradually increasing
purity in the salt from sulphate of lime, as the process of
evaporation
