British and Foreign Salt. 1 1 5
evaporation advanced, the greatest part of this earthy com-
pound being deposited at an early stage of the process.
Different specimens of the same kind of salt may, there-
fore, differ in chemical purity as much from each other as
from other varieties. But when the impurities contained
in a solution of muriate of soda are of a different species
from those of Cheshire brine, and consist chiefly of the
earthy muriates, the order will be reversed, and the purest
salt, as I have already suggested, will be that which is first
deposited, the contamination with the muriate of lime or
of magnesia continuing to increase as the process advances
to a conclusion *.
At an early period of the inquiry, it appeared to me pro-
bable thai the differences between the several varieties of
culinary salt might depend, in some degree, on their con-
taining variable proportions of water of crystallization. It
was found, however, by experiment, that the proportion of
water in any variety of common salt, after being dried at
2 12 J Fahrenheit, is not much greater or less than that which
is contained in any other variety. Pure transparent rock-
salt, calcined for half an hour in a low red heM, ( = 4° or
5° of Wedgwood's pyrometer,) lost absolutely uothing of
its weight. It is remarkable, also, that the pure native salt,
if free from adventitious moisture, may be suddenly and
strongly heated, with scarcely any of that sound called de-
crepUationf, which is produced bv the similar treatment of
all the varieties of artificial salt. Even these varieties, how-
ever, exposed during equal times to a low red heat, do not
lose more than from half a grain to three grains in one hun-
dred. This comparison cannot be extended to the salt
prepared at a boiling temperature from sea water ; because
the muriate of magnesia which these varieties contain, is
decomposed at a red heat, and deprived of its acid.
* I cannot on any other principle explain the considerable differences, as
to the proportion of muriate of magnesia, that were discovered in the se-
veral varieties of Scotch salt sent tome hy Dr. Thomson. For this reason,
in seating the analysis of Scotch salt, I have given, in the table, that result
which was most frequently obtained; and have withheld the names of the
manufacturers, because the differences were probably in a great measure
accidental, and not the result of greater or less skill in the preparation. One
specimen of Lymington salt which I examined, contained fully as much
muriate of magnesia as any of the Scotch samples. The cat salt of that
place, however, contrary to my expectation, proved to possess a very ex-
traordinary degree of purity; a fact of vvlu'ch I satisfied myself by repeated
experiments.
f Decrepitation is occasioned by the sudden conversion into vapour of
the v.arer contained in salts, when its quantity is ir.sCiflicient to effect the
watery fusion. It is a property peculiar to salts which hold only a very
small proportion of water in combination ; as muriate of soda, nitrate of
lead, and sulphate of potash. H 2 The
