1 16 Analysis of several Varieties of
The following; table shows the quantity of water con-
tained in several kinds of salt, inferred from the loss which
they sustain by ignition during equal times, after being-
first dried at 212°.
100 parts of large-grained fishery salt contain of
water 3
100 foreign bay salt (St. Martin's) .... 3
100 ditto (Oleron) S|
100 ^ . . . ditto, Cheshire common salt li
100 ditto stoved salt o£
The loudness and violence of the decrepitation was, as
nearly as could be judged, in the same order, and was most
remarkable in the large-grained varieties.
To determine the proportions of real muriate of soda in
those varieties of artificial salt which are nearly free from
earthy muriates, I employed also the process of decompo-
sition by nitrate of silver. The following are the quantities
of fused luiia cornea obtained from 1 00 grains of each of
three varieties dried, previously to solution, at the tem-
perature of 212° Fahrenheit.
100 gr. pure transparent rock s'alt gave of luna
cornea 24 2
100 . . . .stoved salt, remarkably pure 239
100 fishery salt. do 237*
The proportion of ingredients in the several kinds of
muriate of soda (setting apart the impurities) appears,
therefore, to be nearly the same in all. And as the very
minute quantity of water discovered by analysis is not
constant in the several varieties, it may be inferred to be
rather an accidental than a necessary ingredient; for in the
latter case an invariable proportion might be expected,
.conformably to the important law, establishing an uni-
formity in the proportions of chemical compounds, which
has been explained bv Mr. Dal ion, and confirmed by Drs.
Thomson and Wollaston.
What then, it may be inquired, is the cause of those
* From 100 grains of pure artificial muriate of soda, previously heated
to redness, Dr. Marcet has since informed me that he obtained 24*16 grains
of fused luna cornea. The weight^of the precipitates thrown down in my
experiments by nitrate of silver are not, I am aware, exactly those which
might have been expected from the table of the comparative proportions
of water given in the text. Each experiment, however, was twice repeated
with every precaution 1 could adopt, and with the same results. That dif-
ferent kinds of salt give different proportions of luna cornea, is proved also
by comparing the experiment of Dr. Marcet with the results of Dr. Black
and Klaproth, both of whom found the fused muriate of silver from 100
parts of common salt to weigh 2?>5 grains.
differences
