British and Foreign Salt. 1 1 7
differences which are acknowledged, on all hands, to exist
among the several species of muriate of soda, so far as re-
spects their fitness for (economical purposes ? If I were to
hazard an opinion, on a subject about which there must
still be some uncertainty, it would be that the differences
of chemical composition, discovered by the preceding train
of experiments, in the several varieties of culinary salt, are
scarcely sufficient to account for those properties which
are imputed to them on the ground of experience. The
stoved and fishery salt, for example, though differing in a
very trivial degree as to the kind or proportion of their
ingredients, are adapted to widely different uses. Thus
the large-grained salt is peculiarly fitted for the packing of
fish and other provisions, a purpose to which the small-
grained salts are much less suitable. Their differenl powers,
then, of preserving food must depend on some mechanical
property; and the only obvious one is the magnitude of
the crystals, and their degree of compactness and hardness.
Quickness of solution, it is well known, is pretty nearly
proportional, all other circumstances being equal to the
quantity of surface exposed. And since the -surfaces of
cubes are as the squares of their sides, it should follow that
a salt whose crystals are of a given magnitude will dissolve
four times more slowly than one whose cube3 have only
half the size.
That kind of salt, then, which possesses most eminently
the combined properties of hardness, compactness, and
perfection of crystals, will be best adapted to the purpose
of packing fish and other provisions, because it will remain
permanently between the different layers, or will be very
gradually dissolved by the fluids that exude from the pro-
visions; thus furnishing a slow but constant supply of
saturated brine. On the other hand, for tiie purpose of
preparing the pickle, or of striking the meat, which is done
by immersion in a saturated solution of salt, the smaller-
grained varieties answer equally well; or, on account of
their greater solubility, even better.
With the hardness or strong aggregation of the several
varieties of salt, it seemed to me not improbable that their
specific gravity might in some degree be connected. The
exact determination of this property in saline substances is,
however, a problem of considerable difficulty, as will suffi-
ciently appear from the various results which have been
given, with respect to the same salts, by different experi-
mentalists. Thus Muschenbroek makes the specific gra-
vity of artificial muriate of soda to vary from 1918 to 2148,
H 3 the
