Description of a Metallic Thermometer. 1 19
If the above mode of determination at all approach to
correctness, it would appear that the specific gravity of
rock salt is diminished, by being broken into small frag-
ments, from 2125 to 2112, probably in consequence of the
quantity of air which the fragments envelop, and which
cannot be entirely separated by agitation. From the num-
bers given in the last column, it is evident that the smaller-
grained salts are specifically heavier than those which are
composed of larger and more perfect crystals. A difference
of only one or two hundredth parts of a cubic inch is
perhaps entitled, in a process of this kind, to little reliance;
and I do not therefore regard it as indicating any material
difference in the specific gravity of the first four or last
three salts submitted to experiment. But when the dif-
ference amounts to eight hundredths, as between the small-
and large-grained salt, it may safely be imputed to an in-
ferior specific gravity in that species, which occupies so
much greater a proportional bulk*.
The last series of experiments proves decisively, that in
an important quality, (viz. that of specific gravity,) which
is probably connected with the mechanical property of
hardness and compactness of crystals, little or no difference
is discoverable between the large-grained salt of British,
and that of foreign manufacture. If ho superiority, then,
be claimed for British salt as applicable to ceconomical
purposes, on account of the greater degree of chemical pu-
rity which unquestionably belongs to it, it may«safely, I
believe, be asserted that the larger-grained varieties are, as
to their mechanical properties, fully equal to the foreign
bay salt. And the period, it may be hoped, is not far di-
stant, when a prejudice (for such, from the result of this
investigation, it appears to be,) will be done awav, which
has long proved injurious to the interests and prosperity of
an important branch of British manufacture.
[To be continued.]
XIX. Description of a Metallic Thermometer for indicating
the higher Degrees of Temperature,
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, 1 beg leave, through the medium of your Magazine,
briefly to mention the principle of a new thermometer,
* M. Hassenfratz seems to have suspected that a difference in the specific
gravity of the same salt may be occasioned by a variation in its state of
crystallization. De la Pesanieur specify ue des Sels t Ann. de Chim. xxviii. p. I7 r
H 4 con-
