On Cry st allograph]/, 121
much too small to admit of its being a convenient measure
of temperature.
I should not despair, however, (availing myself of every
advantage, viz. increasing the length of a metallic wire,
by giving it a spiral form, in order to comprise a consi-
derable length in small compass ; with the application of
the lever-index, and a good magnifier.) of constructing a
thermometer upon this principle, so as to render the scale
apparent even to single degrees; using silver for the lower
temperatures, and platina for the higher, or employing
iron wire, only up to its ultimate point of expansion in a
solid state *.
I am, sir,
Your obedient servant.
Queen-street, Oxford, PvICHARD WALKER.
Aug. 6, 1810.
XX. On Crystallography. By M. Hauy. Translated
from the last Paris Edition of his Traite de Mineralogie.
[Continued from p. 69.]
THEORY OF THE LAWS TO WHICH THE STRUCTURE OP
CRYSTALS IS SUBJECTED. GEOMETRICAL PART.
Preliminary Notions,
1. JL he theory which I here propose to submit to calcu-
lation has for its object, to determine all the different forms
which may arise from a superposition of decreasing laminae
following known directions and laws, on the various faces
of a solid, the figure of which is also given f.
2. The solid which I call nucleus or primitive form is
always one of the six following: 1st, the parallelopipedon;
2d, the regular hexahedral prism ; 3d, the rhomboidal
dodecahedron; 4th, the octahedron ; 5th, the tetrahedron,
which in this case is always regular; 6th, the bipyramidal
dodecahedron.
3. By subdividing each of these solids parallel to its dif-
ferent faces, and sometimes also in other directions, we
obtain the integrant molecules, which are aKvays either
parallelopipedons, triangular prisms, or tetrahedrons. <
* For the means of rendering exceedingly minute divisions distinct, see
a. method described in the Monthly Magazine for May 1810.
f I presume that my readers are acquainted with that part of my treatise
jn which the same theory is detailed by simple reasoning. I shall there-
fore now confine myself to resuming in a succinct manner the most general,
principles of this theory.
4. When
