1C2 On Crystallography.
4. When the nucleus being a parallelopipedon is divisi-
ble only by planes parallel to its six faces, it is evident that
the integrant molecule is itself a parallelopipedon similar
to this nucleus.
5. But even when the integrant molecules differ from
the parallelopipedon, thev are always situated in the interior
of the nucleus, in such a manner that being taken by small
groups they compose parallelopipedons ; and the decre-
ments which give the secondary forms are always made by
rows of these parallelopipedons as in the case first men-
tioned.
J give the name of subtractive molecules to the small
parallelopipedons, divisible or not divisible, the subtraction
of which determines the decrements of the laminae of su-
perposition.
It follows from what has been said, that the subtractive
molecule is a kind of unity, to which we may refer the
structure of all crystals in general, so that we are at liberty
to adhere to the data which it furnishes in the application
of calculation to every possible crystalline form. To know
afterwards if this unity be indivisible, or if it has fractional
parts,is a matter of observation which maybe interesting in
natural history, but independent of which the theory would
not admit of our proceeding towards the object in view.
6. In the case where the nueleus itself differs from the
parallelopipedon, we may always substitute for it a solid
of that form, either by abstracting from some of its faces,
if there are more than six, or by multiplying the subdivi-
sions alwavs in the direction of the natural joints, if it be
a tetrahedron. But we frequently obtain more simple re-
sults, by giving the preference to the true nucleus.
7. The decrements undergone by the laminae of super-
position may be effected in all imaginable directions. The
limits of these directions are the edges and the diagonals of
the faces of the nucleus. Between these two limits there
is an infinity of intermediate ones, according as the small
solids, the rows of which determine the quantity of the de-
crements, are considered as double, treble, quadruple, &c.
of the subtractive molecule. I call decrements on the edges
those which takq,, place parallel to the edges of the faces
of the nucleus ; decrements on the angles, those which take
place parallel to the diagonals ; and intermediary decre-
ments, those which are made parallel to lines comprehended
between the edges and the diagonals.
I shall now successively treat of the different primitive
forms above mentioned, and give, relatively to each of them,
the
