On Crystallography. 123
ihe method of calculating the results of all the laws of de-
crements of which it is susceptible. I shall begin with
the parallelopipedon, which is as it were the term of com-
parison to which the other forms refer.
1 . Theory of the Parallelopipedon.
8. Let AG (fig. 1, PI. IX) be a parallelopipedon, the faces
of which may have whatever respective dimensions and
measurements of angles we please. Let us conceive this
solid subdivided, by plans secting parallel to its different faces,
into a multitude of elementary parallelopipedons which
will be the integrant molecules. Each of the same faces
will be separated in its turn into a certain number of small
parallelograms, which will be the exterior faces of as many
molecules.
If we choose any two of the six faces in question, pro-
vided they are opposite, we may consider the solid as an
assemblage of lamina? distinguished by the secting plans
parallel to these very faces.
9. Let us now imagine pew laminae formed of small
parallelopipedons similar and equal to the foregoing, which
are placed as if in steps above various faces of Ihe generator
parallelopipedon, in such a manner that the facets in con-
tact coincide exactly, like what takes place in the interior
of this solid. Here there are three cases to be distinguished.
The first is that in which the laminae extend by their edges
so as to envelop completely the generator parallelopiptvion,
which wilf grow without changing its form. The second
is that in which the laminae would remain on a level by their
edges with the faces adjacent to the generator parallelopipe-
don, in which case it is easy to see that thev would form
re entering angles at the places of the ridges DC, BC, CG,
&c. In the third case, the laminae will go on decreasing,
following certain directions, in such a manner that each
will be exceeded by the foregoing in a quantity equal to
one or more rows, either in breadth or height.
Of thee three cases, the first is relative to the primitive
forms given immediately by crystallization, and admits of
no difficulty. The second is foreign to Our views, because
nature presents us with no exampleof it in simple crystals.
We shall dwell at some length upon the third, which is.
properly the object of the theory.
10. Let us conceive in the first place that the decrements
are produced in breadth on all the ridges by subtraction of
an equal number of rows, and let us confide ourselves for
the
