124 On Crystallography.
the moment to the consideration of the effect of the de-
crement which takes place parallel to the ridge BC,
ascending above the parallelogram A BCD.
If we suppose that the form of the integrant molecule
which is similar to the generator parallelopipedon is deter-
mined, and that the law of decrement is known, it will be
easy to find the angle formed with ABCD by the face pro-
duced in virtue of This decrement.
Let a g (fig. 2) be one of the molecules, of which the
faces analogous to those of the parallelopipedon, fig. 1, are
marked with the same letters. From the point c I draw
cs and cr perpendicular on h c. Now, by the hypothesis,
the relation between these two lines is given, as well as the
angle res which measures the incidence of abed upon
b c g h.
Now let op (fig. 1) be the distance between the ridge
BC and the first lamina of superposition, which distance
is regarded as being measured on the plane ABCD. It is
clear that op is equal to c r (fig. 2) multiplied by the num-
ber 7? of rows subtracted. Therefore op = n xcr. From
the point p (fig. 1) raise pu lying upon that of the lateral
faces of the first lamina, which is turned from the same
side, and equal to the height of this face. We shall have
puz=cs (fig. 2) and opu = scr. Complete the triangle
upo (fig. I). It is visible that the line ou will coincide
with the face of the secondary crystal, which rises on the
ridge BC, and that the angle pou will measure the inci-
dence of this face on the parallelogram ABCD. Thus,
since in the triangle up we know the two sides op, p u,
and the comprehended angle opu, it will be easy to get
the angle pou which gives the incidence wanted.
] 1. The triangle p ou is caFled mensurator triangle ; and
1 shall subsequently give this name to all the triangles
which perform the same function.
12. Let us now consider the effect of the decrement
wtirch takes place parallel to the same ridge BC, by de-
scending on the face BCGH. Let ik be the mensurator
triangle, in which i is the distance between the ridge
BC and the first lamina of superposition, ill coincides
with that of the lateral faces of this lamina, which looks to-
wards the ridge BC, and besides it is equal to the height
of the face in question; finally, oh is laid on the face
which results from the decrement.
Let w' be the number of rows subtracted. We shall
have oi (fig. 1,) = n' xcs (fig. 2). Also ill (fig. 1) = cr
(fig-
