On Crystallography, 125
(fig. 2), and oilier cs. Thus it will be easy to determine
the ancrle which the face produced by the decrement forms
with BCGH (fig. 1 )
13. It may happen that the two decrements which act
on both sides of the ridge BC have such a connexion
with each other that the two faces which will result from
them will coincide upon one and the same plane, so that
the side oh of the triangle oih is upon the direction of
the side ou which belongs to the triangle upo, as we see
in fig. 3. . To prove this, we may remark, that in this
case the triangles upo, oik are similar, as well on ac-
count of the equality of the angles op u, hi o, and the pa-
rallelism of the sides op, i h, as on account of the coinci-
dence of the sides ou, ho upon one and the same direction.
Therefore pu : op : : oi : ill.
Or rather cs (fig. 2) : n x cr : :n' x cs : cr.
Which gives n' = — .
That is to say, the case in question will happen every
time that the decrements which take place on proceeding
from BC towards GU are in the inverse ratio to those
which take place in going from BC towards AD, or, what
comes to the same thing, at all times when there is on one
side a decrement in height equal to that which shall be on
the opposite side. We may easily conceive that the two
faces will be still on one and the same plane in the peculiar
case of a decrement by one row on both sides.
14. Hence we may conclude, that in all circumstances-
similar to those which have been cited, we may make abs-
traction of one of the two decrements, by considering the
face which results from it as the continuation of that which
arises from the other decrement.
We see what would have been necessary for determining
in a similar way the incidences of the faces produced by
the other decrements upon the analogous faces of the
generator parallelopipedon.
15. The greatest number of faces which the secondary
solid can have, is twenty-four, since the generator parallelo-
pipedon has twelve ridges, each of which is the line of
departure of two decrements which act in an opposite direc-
tion. These faces will all be triangles, or some triangles and
others trapeziums, according as the generator paralielopipe- ■'
don will be found more elongated in one. direction than in
the other, or as the decrements which will take place pa-
rallel to certain edges will follow a more rapid course than
those which would act parallel to other edges.
The
