126 On Crystallography.
The smallest number of faces which the secondary cry-
stal can have is twelve. Then all the decrements consi-
dered two by two, setting out from one and the same ridgey
v. ill be inverse to each other.
The simplest case is that in which the generator parallelo-
pipedon being a cube, we have n— i and //— l. On this
•hypothesis, the secondary solid is a dodecahedron with
rhombic planes all equal and similar, as we have explained
m the reasoning part of the work.
16* We now proceed to the method of determining the
decrements upon the angles. But we mav previously re-
mark, that in this case the decreasing parts of the lamina?:
of superposition form angles alternately re-entering and
salient^ in Stteb a way, however, that all the ridges of mo-
lecule situated at the places of the salient angles are on
one and the same plan : we shall consequently designate
the series of these ridges by the name of lateral face.
This being done, let us conceive that decrements in
breadth are produced by equal numbers of rows on all the
angles of the parallelopipedon, fig. 1 ; and let us take for
instance that which takes place upon the angle BCD.
Let Ckl be the mensurator triangle, in which C/e measures
the distance between the point C and the first lamina of
superposition, kl is regarded as being applied on the cor-
responding lateral face, the height of which it measures,
and C / coincides with the face of the secondary crystal,
produced by the decrement in question.
Having traced the diagonals db,fh (fig. 2) on the
bases of the molecules, I draw ct perpendicular upon d b,
and x% perpendicular as well upon db as upOQ\fk,
Let N be the number of rows subtracted. We shall
have Ck (6g..l) ssNXcf (fig. $}, and k I (fig. 1) = x z
(fig. 2); besides the angle Ckl (fig. l) will be equal to
that formed by the plane bdfk (fig. 2) with fgh. Now
these three quantities are regarded as being known, since
the form of the molecule is determined. Thus it will be
easy to find the angle kCl (tig. l) which measures the
inclination of the face produced by the decrement upon
the parallelogram ABCD. We shall conduct ourselves in
the same manner in order to calculate the effects of the de-
crements on the other angles.
17. Let us now consider the hypothesis in which the
decrements which take place on the two angles DCG,
BCG would have such a connexion with that which acts
on the angle BCD, that the faces produced by these three
decrements would coincide on one and the same plane.
Let
