On Crystallography. 1 27
Let AG (fig. 4) always be the generator parsllelopipedon.
Suppose that the decrement which takes place in breadth
upon the angle BCD has such a measurement, that the
lower edge of the first lamina of superposition passes by
m r, in which case such of the lines Cm, Cr will contain
as many ridges of molecule equal to c d, or cb (fig. 2), as
there will be rows subtracted by the decrement. Having
taken upon CG (fig. 4) a part Cc equal to eg (fig. 2),
make a plane pass by the points m,c,r. / say that this
plane is parallel to the face which results from the decrement.
In order to prove it, having drawn indefinitely the lines
m s and ru parallel to CG, I prolong them each upwards,
so as lo have him, or Rr equal to Cc. Now these pro-
longations M m and R r represent two of the ridges situated
on the lateral face of the first lamina. Therefore the face
produced by the decrement passes by the points M, R. But
besides it passes by the point C, which is the term of de-
parture of the decrement; therefore the plane MCR coin-
cides with it. Now the small lines Cc, M?n, Rr, being
three longitudinal ridges of molecule, situated parallel to
each other between the two planes mcr, MCR, it is visible
that these two planes are themselves parallel, i.e. that mcr
is parallel to the face which arises from the decrement.
The same reasoning applies to the hypothesis in which
the decrement should take place in height. In this case it
would be necessary, in order to make the, plane mcr be
parallel to the face produced, that we should have cm — cd
(fig. 2) ; cr=:cb', and that the line Cc (fig. 4) should
contain as many times eg (fig. 2) as there would be ranges
subtracted in the direction of the height.
18. Let us suppose that the plane MCR is prolonged
above the faces CDFG, BCGH, and consider the pro-
longations as two faces which would be the effect of two
decrements, the one upon the angle DCG, the other upon
BCG. These decrements being equal, we shall confine
ourselves to that which acts upon the angle DCG. Since
the plan cmr is parallel to the face which results from
this decrement, it is clear that cm coincides with ttie
lower edge of the first lamina of superposition applied
upon CDFG, and that Cr contains as many ridges of
molecule as there are ranges subtracted in height.
1Q. If the decrement relative to the angle BCD takes
place by one row, it is evident that the two other decre-
ments relative the one to the angle DCG, the other to the
angle BCG, will also take place by one row : since then the
three lines Cm, Cr, Cc, are equal each to one ridge of
molecules,
