130 On Crystallography.
Thus n I : t y : : ~ : 2 : : 6 : 5. Besides, in this same
case, the angle v t y is straight ; from which we see how
easy it is to find the angle y n t.
£7- The mensuralor triangles relative to the decrements
on the angles may be substituted for those which we have
considered in the decrements on the edges, and serve
equally well for determining the secondary forms. Let us
suppose, for example, that AG (fig. 8) represents a cubical
nucleus, which undergoes decrements by two ranges on
the four edges of the base A BCD, and that we wish to
know the angles of the pyramid SADCB produced by this
decrement. Having traced the diagonals BD, AC, I draw
from their point o of intersection the line op perpendicular
upon CD, then sp. If I take upon po the part, pr equal
to two ridges of molecule, and from the point r I raise r u
perpendicular upon A BCD, and which by the hypothesis
will be found equal to one ridge of molecule, the triangle
upr will perform the function of the ordinary mensurator
triangle, and by means of the right angle urp, and of the
relation 2: 1 between the sides pr and ur, we shall easily
find the incidence of DSC upon the base ABCD, as well
as the values of the other angles. For, on account of the
similar triangles u pr, spo> every thing is reduced to the
calculation of the a?igles of a straight pyramid in which
the side BC of the base, which is double of po, is to the
axis os in the relation of 4 to 1.
On the other hand, — If I take upon Co the part Cn
equal to two diagonals of molecule ; and if from the point
n I raise nz perpendicular upon ABCD, On will represent
the distance from the point C to the fust lamina of super-
position, taken in the direction of Co, and nz will be
equal to one ridge of molecule; from which it follows that
the triangle z C n may also perform the function of men-
surator triangle.
We shall therefore have Cn : nz : : -2 v 7 2 : 1, and be-
cause the triangle zCn is similar to the triangle .?Co, the
question considered under this new point of view will be
reduced to seek the angles of a straight pyramid, in which
the demi-diagonal Co of the base is to the axis os, as
2 s/ e~: 1, which is sufficient for having all the rest. We
shall have occasion more than once thus to substitute one
mensurator triangle for the other, when there will result
from it more facility in resolving the problems.
All the details upon which we have acted ought to be
regarded
