On Cupping. 131
regarded as preliminary notions intended particularly to
enable students clearly to understand the use of the men-
surator triang'cs which will incessantly recur in the ap-
plications which we shall make of the calculus to the
laws of decrements. We shall now proceed more particu-
larly to the methods relative to this object; and as the
rhomboid, which likewise comprehends the cube, is of all
the kinds of parallelopipedon the most fertile in diversified
results, and at the same time that which is the most easily
adapted to the employment of general formulae, we shall
first give the theory of this solid ; after which we shall re-
sume that of the parallelopipedons of a different form.
%* Understanding that an English Translation of the whole of Mi-.Hauy's
valuable work on Crystallography is now preparing for the press, we in-
tend, for the present, to suspend our labours upon it, as a full translation
cannot fail to answer the object we had in view, ^better than those disjoined
portions which can alone be admissible into the pages of a p6riodical work.
— Should the propo.scd translation not appear in some reasonable time, we
may hereafter resume our labours.
XXI. Dr. Healy on Cupping.
To Mr. Tilloch.
I No. 1, Clarendon-street, Dublin.
hequest you will permit me to contradict an ob-
servation which has been made, in the Retrospect of Dis-
coveries, stating that the mode which I propose for cup-
ping without the assistance of the syringe, is so far from
new, that it occurred nearly £000 years ago, to Hero of
Alexandria, and that the figure is exhibited in the Maiht-
matici Vetercs.—l consulted the Parisian edition, and fiud
his contrivance (as described page 207) entirely different
from mine. Suffice it to say, a partial exhaustion is pro-
duced by the mouth from a secondary cavity, and two stop-
cocks are made use of. The syringe, which is an improve-
ment, and answers for the secondary cavity of Hero, is the
usual mode at present of producing the vacuum, and not, as
the observer states, the spirit lamp or tow. The apparatus
which I propose will still, I imagine, be found new, more
teconomical, and less complicated, than any that has been
hitherto adopted.
Your much obliged,
My i9, i8io. Robert Healy, M.B.
I 2 • XXII. Obser-
