t 132 ]
XXII. Observations on the Purity of Standard Gold. By
M. Fabbroni, of Florence, corresponding Member of 'the
French Institute, To which are subjoined Notes by
ili. D'Arcet, Assay Master of the French Mint*,
Almost all naturalists (following perhaps implicitly the
assertion of Pliny t) maintain that native gold is never
found pure; i.e. entirely free from alloy, chiefly of silver,
and that the finest is scarcely from 0*575 to 0*917, or 21 or
22 carats. The gold iu dust, in spangles, or in sand, which
is brought from Africa, is most frequently within these li-
mits. I have seen some gold from the country of Barn-
buck in Africa, which was 0*927, or 22 carats and one-
fourth -, in the mint of Florence it has also been seen at
0*958, or 23 carats -. this gold had been brought from
Morocco. The carat in Tuscany is divided into eighths.
It is probable that in the early ages money was coined
with native gold, in the state in which it was found, there
being no grounds for supposing that they took pains to
refine it.
It has been thought that the oldest gold coin known is
that of Battus IV, which was melted or struck at Cyrene
in Africa in the time of Pisistratus : it does not appear that
the standard of this gold was known. Of all the Grecian
coins which are in the hands of the collectors of medals,
the most ancient are the beautiful pieces of Philip the fa-
ther of Alexander. That enterprising man, who from his
infancy conceived the idea of ascending the throne of
Macedon, and becoming master of Greece, was fortunate
enough to find several rich mines of gold, which he knew
how to prize. Mount Pangea annually furnished him with
gold to the amount of 5,22p,000 francs, and from thence
he derived the most powerful resources for the success of
his political designs and military talents. It is not known
whether this metal of Philip's underwent any particular
operations before parsing to the mint. There are some
* Annates de Chimie, tomehxti. p. 25.
f Pliny says, lib. 33, that there is »o kind of gold more perfect than
spangle gold » that gold obtained by searching the beds of rivers does not
require melting, and that it is native and perfect gold. But Pliny says in
the same book that lead is more malleable and heavier than gold ; which
proves that the gold which he regarded a? pure was in reality an alloy.
He says likewise a little further on, that all gold is mixed with silver, and
that the gold which is the least alloyed with silver camefrom Albicratum
in Gaul, and that it contained only J d . From all this it is evident that
Pliny's opinion is not to be followed, Mil recourse must be had to experi-
ments.
grounds,
