134 Observations on the Purity of Standard Gold,
with that found at Arezzo. The weight of two of these,
completely similar in external appearance, was precisely 176
grains of Florence each. The same weight was found in
another distinguished by a monogram formed by a large K,
and a little o ; the same weight in another which had a
thunderbolt; the same in another with a vase; and lastly,
in another with a grain of wheat, the mark or' the Leontini.
These six weights or' the largest staterae which remain, and
which are equal, gave grounds for concluding that the
above was the weight prescribed for the Greek money.
This being granted, we may infer that the drachma weighed
88 grains. (Koine de PJsle assigns three grains more to
the great Attic drachma.) The proof of the accuracy
of this calculation is to be found in the Athenian demi-
drachma, or x\siatic drachma, or the fourth part of the
statera of Philip, which is preserved in the same gallery :
this fragment weighs precisely 4-J- grains. The face of this
small piece of gold presents the head of Hercules covered
with a lion's skin, and on the reverse we see the bow, the
vase, and club. M. JMillin has communicated to me the
weight of five staterae preserved in the Imperial library,
which are as follow : No. 1. 160*5 grains ; No. 2. 1(3 1 grains
precisely; No. 3. 1 6 1 grains; No. 4. 162 grains precisely;
No. 5. 16-2 grains. The two heaviest seem to be so from
having bf en less worn. The largest would answer to 175-16
grains of Florence, and would be lighter by gr. 0*84 than
ours, which ought therefore to be regarded, as less worn
and more precise.
Mr. Greaves, in England, weighed two staterae of Alexan-
der, one of which was 133 English grains, and the other
133 and a half. He thought that the half-grain had been^
wasted by friction, and he concluded that the drachma
ought to be reputed as being precisely at 67 grains. The
second weight as given by Mr. Greaves would be equivalent
to 87 grains and six-tenths of Florence. Snellius found the
statera of Philip and of Alexander to weigh 179 Dutch
grains, which makes 124 and a half English; and this, ac-
cording to the foregoing comparison, would give to the
drachma in Florence weight 87 grains Q ; all of them be-
ing a little lighter, but closely approaching that which we
had fixed at 68 grains.
Barthelemy, in France, found after various weighings
that the drachma was precisely 81 French grains and an
eighth : now, by the foregoing comparison, we ought to
have for the drachma in Florence weight 87 grains and
three* fourths. But this last author wishes to suppose a
friction
