Observations on the Purity of Standard Gold, 135
friction of se/en -eighths of a grain for 2,200 years wearing,
and he gratuitously makes the drachma to he 82 whole
French grains, which would make 88 and a half of Florence
weight. It is best to banish entirely from our calculations
all suppositions of friction, because, by admitting this to
have been the case, we might draw a variety of vague con-
clusions. The weight of 88 grains which we have assigned
to the gold drachma is confirmed by a silver one of this
very Philip, also preserved in the Florence cabinet: this
piece has on its face the head of Hercules without a beard,
covered with a lion's skin ; and on the reverse a Jupiter
sitting, holding the eagle in his right hand and a spear in
his left. It is distinguished from the others by a lyre, and
the letter A under the seat. This drachma is also a proof
of the exactness of its weight in its half, also in silver,
of the same king, which weighs precisely 44 grains : on
its face is the head of Jupiter with the diadem ; on the re-
verse is a figure on horseback, with the name on the exergue
and a mark which is unintelligible. Besides, there are four
pieces of four drachmas of Alexander of the same metal,
the face and reverse of which are similar: all of these weigh
14 pennyweights and 16 grains, and prove completely that
the weight of the drachma is 88 grains. These tetra-
drachmas are distinguished in the type by the addition of
various signs, as we have said with respect to the staterce :
one has in front a lamp, and under the seat a moon and a
star: another has in front the letter T with a circumflex
accent, and under the seat the letter K : another has in
front a buckler, and under the seat a serpent : the fourth
has in front a crown, and under the seat a monogram com-
posed of M. Finally, we have also a real drachma of this
king of the precise weight of 88 grains, and which is di-
stinguished by a monogram formed by an II, the cross bar
of which has a kind of circumflex accent.
Among the tetradrachmas of Thrace there is one in the
Florence collection, and the twelfth of the list, heavier
than the rest; it weighs precisely 14 pennyweights and 16
grains: here we have a proof of the identity of the weights
of the Thracians and Macedonians, as long ago supposed
by the learned.
After the weighing of the Arezzo coin was finished, it
was submitted to the cupel and to quartation. The stand-
ard was found to be the same with Ruin's examination, i.e.
0'9"9> or 23 carats and a half: it contained only half a
carat, or 0.021, of silver.
The art of assaying was known in the earliest times, as
1 4 attested
