Observations on the Purity of Standard Gold. 137
hammers, afterwards pound it, bruise it, and wash it; and
finally, that the gold, when put into a close crucible, with
a little lead, salt, a little tin, and barley meal, was exposed
over the fire for rive days.
The money-coiners of Darius certainly employed this
method, or a similar one, when this enlightened king wished
<o give his subjects ihe noble and useful example of a mint
made with the purest gold, similar to that of fine silver,
which his satrap Ariander afterwards did.
To conclude: — It is not easy to form an intelligible idea
of the docimastic method, which Agatharchides has trans-
mitted to us. But if in the operation which he describes
there is no mention made of cementation, but of a true and
prolonged fusion, it remains to explain how we can re-
concile with the object in view, the employment of a close
crucible held over the fire, as he describes : far less can we
comprehend the use of the barley meal.
When we reflect, however, on the ingenious method de-
scribed by Heilot as being practised at Lyons, in order to
refine, purifv, and separate cupelled silver from the small
quantity of lead which adheres to it after the first refining,
we may perhaps comprehend what is meant *.
In Lyons they use crucibles thirteen inches high, and
five broad at their orifice. About three inches deep of
pounded charcoal is then put into the crucible and kept
down bv a lid, or rather a triangular piece of the crucible,
which is kept in its place. Oil this lid or false bottom
they put CO or 6 j pounds of long and thin ingots, in order
to be melted and purified. The wind furnace employed
for this purpose is 14 inches high, seven in diameter at the
grate, and nine at the top. The metal in melting was ob-
served to fall three inches from the edges of the crucible:
then, when it had acquired a sufficient degree of' heat, it was
seen to boil with the force and the agitation of' water ex-
posed to the heat of a strong fire ; and in this state it was
kept for seven or eight hours.
The elastic fluid, which in this case is extricated from
the charcoal at the bottom of the crucible, produces the
agitation above alluded to; and it forms, as it were, a kind
* It wou.ld be necessary, before deciding finally on the process detailed by
Agatharchides and that which is practised at Lyons, to repeat them, taking
the greatest care to apply the modern methods of chemical analysis, and
above all the pneumato-chemical apparatus: it would be necessary to de-
termine the nature of the gas, which passes through the melted siiver, and
ascert iin why the gas is formed under a certain pressure, and why it doet
out pass out through the pores of the crucible. The experiment of M. Fab-
broni does np£ seem to- mc to be conclusive.
of
