Observations on the Purity of Standard Gold. 13<>
the barley, or the barley meal, was used instead of charcoal,
in order to form what the Lyonnese call the soul of the
crucible, which was placed at the bottom of it, where it was
retained by a covering (from which probably comes the
expression of dosed crucible), on which i he 'gold in fusion
was placed by means of a little lead (in order to vitrify the
base metals which it might contain,) and some common
salt, sulphurct of antimony or of lead, in order that
they may lay hold of the fine silver and volatilize it with
the lead, or reduce it to scoriae. The elastic fluids, extri-
cated from the vegetable matter by the action of the fire,
form the office of bellows for incessantly agitating the
metal during several days, which makes all the impurities
swim above, and which ought to be skimmed off as the
Lyonnese do.
Properly speaking, a fire which lasts five days gives ra-
ther an idea of the cementation of the moderns, and ana-
logous to that which Pliny has communicated to us, than
a real fusion in close crucibles, — a circumstance which
would be directly contrary to the object in view. Thus, in
Hungary, in order the better to open all the interior parts
jof the gold to the muriatic acid reduced into vapour in the
cementation, they are accustomed to add lead to the mass,
which is afterwards reduced into small hollow drops, or, in
other words, into grains. It may be that the lead indi-
cated by Agatharchides has the same object: the tin may
have been taken by an equivoque for crude antimony, for
galenum, or for -the native sulphuret of lead: it is possible
likewise that the barley meal was merely intended to serve
for the equal distribution of the little salt, a stratum of
which must be placed on the gold, and perhaps assisted to
decompose it, as argil or sulphate of iron now does.
In order to obtain some light upon this curious subject,
there were put into a crucible covered by another crucible
turned upside down, thirty pennyweights of barlev-meal,
and an ounce of common salt: it was then made red-hot,
and kept 3r3 hours in this state. Tbe.e was put in, more
for the sake of curiosity than any thing else, a thin piece of
gold weighing 24 grains, and a piece of silver weighing 40
grains. The lower crucible was half full, and an opening
was left at the joining of the two crucibles to let out the
elastic vapour.
After this space of time, the apparatus being cooled was
opened, and there was found a small earthy residue slightly
saline and whitish, weighing eleven grains and a half. The
gold was above; it was increased one eighth'of a grain in
weight,
