Observations on the Vurity of Standard Gold, 1 4 1
Many persons will probably doubt that gold is found in
nature so near a state of perfect purity, although Strabo
intimates that perfectly pure gold was found in the Alps,
and Pliny is cited as asserting that no silver was ever found
in it. But without remaining in suspense with respect to
the assertions and opinions of others, I am enabled from
my own experiments to remove all uncertainty, having
ascertained that native gold is 24 carats (1000).
I had for some time the charge of the fine collection of
natural historv belonging to our sovereign, who was fond of
that science. His majesty possessed many specimens ot
mineralized gold and native gold, among which I remarked
two well formed crystals of gold, viz. one cubical, the other
prismatic with four faces, surmounted by a pyramid with
four faces also. It would be interesting to know what
substances united to the gold have determined these various
figures formed naturally in the bowels of the earth, and
which are totally different from those which are produced
in the laboratories of the chemist after melted gold is
cooled. The cube is very pale, the prism is higher co-
loured; but these two crystals, which I found by chance,
(when choosing among several natural grains,) are unique
in this depot ; so that it would be improper to subject
them to an examination which would alter their form.
An unshapen specimen, but at the same time a remark-
able one, from the Brazils, enriches this collection. The
weight of this piece is about fourteen pounds ; and I ex-
amined a bit of it by the cupel and by quartatidn, without
omitting also to examine its solution in the nitro-muriatic
acid, with the sulphate of iron, and with neutral salts with
a base of potash. I have been convinced by all these ope-
rations, that this was pure gold of 24 carats without any
alloy of inferior metal.
From all that I can learn, therefore, it appears that gold
is found in a native state in various degrees of purity, and
to prove this baa been the object of the present dissertation.
tive gold. M.Deluc informs us that the gold found at W'icklow in Ireland
was alloyed with a ninth part of its weight in silver.
M. Fabbroni is the iirst who has demonstrated that native gold is found
in a state of purity: thu is a most important observation; but it does not
teem to destroy the idea that native gold is a natural alloy of gold and silver:
a principle establislud by a great number of facts, and to which we as yet
know but one exception.
It would be interesting to ascertain whether lead is present in ancient coins
or medals : this would be the surest method of determining whether th^
ancients refined their gold, or employed it as nature presented it.
XXIII. An
