Oil the Arhor Diance. 143
35 shoulders of mutton weighing 350 O
Lost in roasting i0<) lO
The loss oF weight in shoulders of mutton, by roasting,
is about 3 Ji per cent.
lis. ozs.
J 6 loins of mutton weighing 141
Lost in roasting 49 14
Hence loins of mutton lose, by roasting, about 35] per
cent.
II"!. CZ.<!.
10 necks of mutton weighing 100 O
Lost in roast-ins 32 6
The loss of necks of mutton, by roasting, is about 32-J-
pcr cent.
We shall only draw two practical inferences from the
foregoing statement : — 1st. In respect of ceconomy, it is
more profitable lo boil meat than to roast it. 2dly, Whe-
ther we roast or boil meat, it loses, by being cooked, from
one- fifth to one-third of its whole weight.
XXIV. Letter from M. Vitams, Vrofessor of Chemistry at
Rouen, to M. Boi >llon Lagrange, oti the Amalgam of
Mercury and Siluer, called Arbor Diance *.
JL he process described by Bannie, and which is generally
adopted for obtaining the amalgam of mercury and silver,
known in chemistry by the name of arbor Diance, is not
the onlv one which is capable of exhibiting the beautiful
crystalline forms which characterize this curious produc-
tion. I attained the same object, by modifying the com-
mon method ; and this modification admits of our extract-
ing with facility the metallic vegetation from the liquor, and
preserving it, without any alteration, out of the vessel in
which it has been formed.
The operation is very simple. In the nitric solutions of
mercury and silver, both being well saturated and diluted
with the quantity of water prescribed by Baume, I suspend
a small knot of fine linen rag doubled up, and containing
five or six drachms of very pure mercury.
The metallic solutions soon penetrate to the mercury,
which is inclosed in the rag, and we soon see some beauti-
ful spiculae formed and grouped around the rag, adhering
to the nucleus of mercury, which serves as a kind of sup-
port to them.
• Annates tit Chimie, tome ixiii. p. 93.
These
