144 Analysis of the Atropa belladonna.
These spicuhe progressively increase in size., and in s
short time exceed an inch in length.
When we perceive that the metallic vegetation makes
no more progress, the piece of rag vvrth the spiculse may
be withdrawn from the liquor, and by means of a silk
thread fastened to the cork of the bottle, the whole may
be suspended under a bell glass. The crystals, which are
tetrahedrons, may thus be kept as long as wanted.
I have in my own laboratory a crystallization of this
description, which has preserved all its original beauty for
these two years past.
It may be easily seen that, in the above process, the play
of attractions is a little different from the common method
as developed by M. Fourcroy in Systime des Connois sauces
chhniqnes.
The solidity of the metallic crystals obtained by my me-
thod, compared with the softness of the threads, the assem-
blage of which forms the common arbor Diana?, led me to
think that the proportions of mercury and silver are not
the same in both cases ; and I would have endeavoured to
have ascertained the difference, if M. Vauquelin, to whom I
communicated the circumstance, had not intimated his in-
tention of taking up the subject at full length, and publish-
ing his experiments in some future number of the Annahs
de Cfiimie.
The configuration of the above crystals also suggests
some interesting inquiries, which I may probably be able
to accomplish at a future time.
XXV. Analysis of the Atropa Belladonna. By M. Vau-
quelin *.
J. he experiments which I am about to detail were made
with a view to ascertain whether this plant, which is of
the same family with the tobacco plants, contained the
acrid principle which has been found in the latter, but
which, as will be shown in the sequel, it does not.
1. The expressed and filtered juice of the belladonna has
a dark brown colour, with a bitter and nauseous taste. It
is freely coagulableby heat, and by the aqueous infusion of
gall nuts.
2. The substance coagulated by fire in the juice of bella-
donna is of a yellowish gray, becomes black on desiccation,
* Annates de Chivrie, tome lxxii. p. 96.
and
