Analysis of the Atropa Belladonna. 145
anil presents a smooth and polished fracture like that of
the resins. It burns with decrepitation, becomes soft, and
gives out vapours of the smell produced by horn when
subjected to the same operation.
3. The juice of belladonna, distilled until reduced to
the consistence of liquid extract, only furnished a water
which had a fetid j herbaceous taste, and by no means the
acerbity of that of tobacco. The only re-agent among all
those resorted to, which slightly disturbed it, was acetate
of lead.
4. The juice concentrated to the consistence of extract
having been treated by alcohol, a part was dissolved: the
Solution deposited upon cooling, crystals of nitrate of potash
and a little muriate of potash.
The alcohol separated from these crystals of nitrate of
potash^ and evaporated, left as a residue a brownish yellow
matter of an extremely bitter and nauseous taste, which, on
being taken up again by alcohol well dephlegrriated, left a
new quantity of insoluble matter, and also deposited some
crystals of the same salt*
The matter cleansed as much as possible by the above
process, rrom the greatest part of the saltpetre and from
the substance insoluble in alcohol, I evaporated the latter,
and submitted the residue to the following experiments :
1 . It is dissolved abundantly and speedily in water, and
it is even deliquescent in the air.
2. The solution is of a yellowish brown; it has a very
bitter and disagreeable taste.
3. It reddens in a very intetise manner turnsole paper.
4. It is precipitated in abundance by the alcoholic so-
lution of gall nuts, and is not so by the acetate of lead
when the latter is sufficiently diluted in water ; because, as
this matter contains a little muriate of potash, it would
precipitate the acetate of lead without this precaution.
5. This solution mixed with sulphuric acid diffused a
very sensible smell of acetic acid.
6*. The same solution is precipitated by the nitrate of
Silver in a true muriate of silver.
7. Caustic potash develops in the solution of this sub-
stance a fetid smell* very like that of an old ley which has
passed over linen and begins to turn putrid : ammoniacal
vapours also rise, which may be made perceptible by weak
nitric acid, presented at some distance from the mixture.
8. The addition of some drops of sulphate of iron gives
a much deeper colour to the solution.
9. The extract itself exposed to burning coals, bubbles
Vol. 36. No. 143. August 1810. K up,
