14G Analysis of the Atropa Belladonna,
up, and exhales pungent acrid vapours, in which ammonia
cannot be distinguished.
We may conclude from the effects produced in the so-
lution oF the extract of belladonna by the various re-agents
above employed .- 1st, that it contains a free acid; 2d, an al-
kaline muriate; 3d, a small quantity of an ammoniacal salt.
The nature of the acid which exists in this substance
can be nothing but acetic acid, since the sulphuric acid
develops the smell of it, and the acetate of lead does not
form any precipitate in it, which would take place if it were
malic, tariarous, or oxalic acid. A part of this acid ought
to be combined with the potash, and it is without doubt
this combination which communicates to the extractive
mass the property of attracting humidity from the air.
But it is neither these salts nor these acids which give
poisonous qualities to the matter; these certainly reside in
the vegetable substance itself: what then is the order of
composition, which thus forms out of the same principles
both our food and our poison ? This is a difficulty which
chemistry has not yet overcome, and unfortunately it is
behind this barrier that secrets the most important to hu-
manity are retained.
For want of the means of ascertaining accurately the dif-
ferences which exist between vegetable compounds whose
properties are diametrically opposite, we shall have recourse
to their effects. ,
One of the means resorted to as the most proper for
guiding us as to the nature of the substance of belladonna
•soluble m alcohol, was its decompostion by means of heat. I
'introduced therefore two grammes and seven-tenths into a
gla*s retort, and administered the heat by degrees 3 until the
water of solution was distilled: there passed over a yellow
ammoniacal liquid, afterwards a thick oil which had a very
singular disagreeable smell.
The examination of the liquid product enabled me to
•recognise a good deal of ammonia, partly free and partly
combined ; for the addition of some drops of caustic potash
rendered the ammoniacal smell much stronger, and the oil
was thick, black, and very acrid.
The charcoal remaining in the retort weighed one gram-
me, and had an alkaline and prussialed taste: when washed
in boiling water, it yielded a ley which when mixed with
•sulphate of iron furnished a quantity of prussian blue very
considerable with respect to trie small quantity of matter
xM*mloved. ' This charcoal after having been lixiviated and
dried still weighed -fa of a gramme.
The
