Analysis of the Atropa Belladonna. 147
The above quantity of charcoal, independently of that
which was incrusted in the retort by the violence of the
fire, and which I could not detach, is more considerable
than any furnished by most of the other vegetable matters
which I have hitherto had occasion to distill ; for the 2*7
grammes of extract, in the state in which I took it, certainly
contained more than 0'7 of a gramme of water and of ni-
trate and acetate of potash.
It seems that it also contains a great quantity of azote
and of hydrogen, since it gave on distillation a great deal
of ammonia, prussic acid, and oil. But as this matter may
have contained a little nitrate, I supposed that a part at
least of the azote, forming the ammonia and the prussic
acid, had been produced by the nitric acid.
In order to clear up this doubt, I mixed six grammes of
gum arabic, believed not to contain any azote, with a
tenth part of saltpetre, and after submitting it to distilla-
tion I examined the products. The liquid which passed was
in part ammoniacal, and its smell became still stronger by
the addition of potash \ which proves that an acid was
formed at the' same time with the alkali.
The charcoal remaining in the retort, weighing two
grammes, and which was extremely phosphoric, contained
prussiate of potash, like that of my matter. But although
1 employed in this experiment three times more gum, and
probably more saltpetre, this mixture did not furnish such
a great quantity of ammonia or prussic acid as the nauseous
principle of the belladonna did.
Taking it for granted, therefore, that the saltpetre con-
tained in the two grammes of this principle had given rise
to prussic acid and to ammonia, we ought not to infer that
the vegetable matter in question lias not furnished some
itself. This is the more probable, as its solution is preci-
{)itated by the infusion of gall nuts. However this may
>e, the experiment proves that it is difficult to judge by
distillation, whether the organic matters which contain salt-
petre are of a vegetable or animal nature.
The results of this analysis, although still very imperfect,
are nevertheless sufficient to show that the article in ques-
tion contains a considerable quantity of charcoal, hvdrogen,
and azote, and but little oxygen, if we may judge by the
small quantity of carbonic acid which is formed during its
decomposition in the fire.
From what lias been said, may we be permitted to infer
that the narcotic effects of belladonna on the animal cecono-
my are owing to the superabundance of the radical com-
K 2 bustibles,
