148 Analysis of the Atropa Belladonna,
bustibles, and particularly to that of the charcoal over that
of the oxygen in the principle of this plant soluble in alco-
hol ? — WiThout going the length of positively affirming it,
it is nevertheless certain that all the vegetable substances
which produce analogous effects are rich in charcoal, hy-
drogen, and azote, whereas substances that are highly oxy-
genized produce contrary effects.
It must also be admitted, that many vegetable products
equally abundant in these two principles do not possess the
tfame virtues ; but the azote, which is always found asso-
ciated with hydrogen and carbon in the narcQtic plants,
does not exist, at least in the same quantity, in those as in the
others.
Examination of that Part of the Belladonna which is insolu-
ble in Alcohol.
1. This substance dissolved in water communicates to
it the property of frothing when agitated.
2. Its solution is abundantly precipitated by the aqueous
infusion of galls.
3. By the nitrate of barytes into a matter which is partly
soluble in the nitric«acid.
4. By the muriate of lime into a precipitate entirely so-
luble in the nitric acid.
5. This solution reddens turnsole paper.
6. The nitrate of silver produces no effect on it.
7. When burnt in a crucible, it leaves an alkaline and
hepatic charcoal.
We may conclude from these effects, that this part of the
belladonna is composed of an anim<U matter, of sulphate of
potash, of acidulated oxalate with the same base, probably
some nitrate, and that it contains no muriate. We may also
conclude from these effects, that there are no earthy salts in
it, since the muriate of lime forms in it a precipitate, as
well as the nitrate of barytes.
I have ascertained by some experiments on a larger scale,
that the precipitates produced in the solution of the sub-
stance in question by the nitrate of barytes, were in the
first instance oxalate of lime, and in the second sulphate
of barytes.
The oxalate of lime had taken up with it a great quantity
of animal matter, which gave it a brown colour; which in-
dicates that this salt has a strong affinity with animal mat-
ters, and explains the reason of mural calculi, which, as we
all know, are composed of oxalate of lime, and are of a
much deeper colour than the other species of calculi.
1 After
