Analysis of the Atropa Belladomia. ] 49
After having successively precipitated, as I have already
Baid, the sulphate of potash and the acidulated oxalate of
potash, I evaporated the liquor, which was always co-
loured, and which contained nitrate of potash and muriate
of lime, and I treated it with the nitric acid in order to
ascertain if it contained gum ; but not having obtained an
atom of saccho-lactic acid, I concluded that this substance
does not contain gum. It is merely formed of oxalic acid
and a yellow matter. This substance seems therefore to
be entirely of an animal nature.
From what has been said above, we find that the juice
of belladonna contains the following substances :
1. An animal substance, which is partly coagulated by
heat, and partly remains in solution in the juice, in conse-
quence of the free acetic acid which exists in it.
2. A substance soluble in alcohol, which has a bitter
and nauseous taste, which on being combined with tannin
becomes insoluble, and furnishes ammonia by its decom-
position in the fire.
3. Several salts with a base of potash, viz. a good deal
of nitrate, muriate, sulphate, acidulated oxalate, and acetate.
The refuse or husks of the belladonna, from which the
juice had been extracted, having been washed in warm
water, dried, and afterwards burnt, furnished ashes com-r
posed of a considerable quantity of lime, phosphate of lime,
jron, and silex. s
This lime announces that the plant contained oxalate of
lime, which had been decomposed by the fire. It is by no
means doubtful, that that part of the belladonna which is
soluble in alcohol is not the only substance which in
this plant produces a deleterious effect on the animal oeco-
nomy ; for it is the only one which has any taste; and the
well known effects of all the other substances which accom-
pany it have nothing in them resembling those of the plant
in question.
To put this assertion beyond all doubt, I administered
to a dog a certain quantity of this principle mixed up with
crumbs of bread.
First Experiment. About mid-day, I gave the animal a
gramme of extract invtlopcd in ten grammes of paste.
Symptoms. In about three quarters of an hour the
animal seemed inclined to sleep ; he held down his head,
and seemed unable to keep it up : he laid his head on the
ground several times, and slight convulsions agitated his
]egs : his jaws also moved as in the act of chewing. These
K 3 effect§
