150 Analysis of the Airopa Belladonna.
effects lasted about three quarters of an hour, and the dog
then resumed his former appearance.
Second Experiment. At two o'clock I gave him two
grammes of extract with twelve of paste: the above sym-
ptoms re-appeared, but they were feebler and of shorter
duration. /
Third Experiment. At three o'clock, I made him swal-
low four grammes of the same extract, with about 30
grammes of paste.
A few minutes afterwards he was seized with a continual
but uncertain and difficult motion, chiefly in the abdominal
region : he uttered some plaintive moans.
At half past three he experienced great difficulty in mov-
ing, and frequently fell on his hind feet : his respiration
was much obstructed. He endeavoured several times to
force his wav through the wall, which indicated a kind of
delirium : he was now seized with trembling in all his
muscles.
At a quarter past four the animal lay down, and appeared
to be plunged in a profound sleep ; his pulsations were re-
peated faster than could be counted.
At half past four be vomited the paste which he had
taken, some time after which he rose up; but he still walked
with difficulty, sometimes falling on one side, and some-
times on his crupper. He held his head very low, hi*
eyelids fell, and he did not distinguish objects; at least he
continually ran against the walls, and the furniture of the
laboratory: his nose was no longer affected by the smell
of ammonia, and his ears seemed also to have lost their
functions, for the loudest noise made no impression on
him.
He had not lost his memory, however; for, upon placing
him in the same posture in which he was made to swallow
the paste, in order to give him some vinegar and water, he
became furious, as if all his powers were suddenlv renewed.
From this moment, the symptoms which he had exhibited
insensibly diminished, and about eight o'clock in the even-*
ing he recovered all his senses; but he was still much fa-
tigued. Next day he ate as usual.
Every one must recognise in the above symptoms the
effects of narcotics, and drunkenness carried to the highest
pitch, from which resulted a kind of delirium. It is pro-
bable that if the animal had not vomited the greater part of
the matter before it produced its effects, it would have died.
XXVI. Case
