[ 151 ]
KXVI. Case of Hydrocele, improperly treated as Buptvre.
By John Taunton, Esq., Surgeon to the City and
Finsbury Dispensaries, and to the City Truss Society for
the Relief of the Ruptured Poor.
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, Jt is not the least of the evils which accompany a
state of distase among the poorer classes of this large me-
tropolis, that their complaints are frequently misunderstood,
and consequently treated in a manner which tends to in-
crease rather than to alleviate their sufferings. The super-
ficial and hasty view which is but too often taken, even by
regular medical practitioners, of the diseased victim of po-
verty on the one hand, and the allurements held out by
mercenary and ignorant pretenders to medical skill on the
other, are the causes of this additional affliction to the poor.
Those who officiate as medical officers to the numerous
public charities which do honour to this great city,, have
daily opportunities of witnessing the melancholy effec:s of
the errors thus committed. The following case of this
kind, which occurred lately uuder my own inspection, and
which bad nearly terminated iatally to the patient, is one
of the many illustrations of this observation which may
be adduced.
Thomas Erskine, set. 53, servant to Mr. Thomas Butcher,
of Charing Cross, a few years ago received a kick in the
scrotum, which occasioned a swelling, and which has con-
tinued ever since. At first it was attended with extreme
pain ; but this soon ceased, and the tumour assumed an in-
durated appearance. The poor man applied to tw.o regular
surgeons in his immediate neighbourhood, *yho informed
him that his complaint was a rupture, and recommended a
truss. Attracted by an alluring advertisement from some
truss-maktrs in Soho, the patient applied to them : these
gentlemen, after examining the patient, and affecting a
great deal of medical and anatomical knowledge, confirmed
the opinion of the surgeons, and applied a truss to the tu-
mour, for which they charged the exorbitant price of a
guinea. This happened three years ago, and the palient
has ever since worn the instrument thus applied, with more
or less inconvenience. A few weeks ago he was admitted
a patient at the City Dispensary, when on examining him
J found the ease to be a decided hydrocele. The operation
of tapping was immediately performed, and the patient in
K 4 a few
