152 Royal Society.
a few days was restored to his former state of health,
Pilulae rhei cum terebinth, formed the only prescription
which 1 found necessary to administer.
I am, &c.
Grerille Street, Hatton-Garden, JOHN TAUNTON'
August 24, 1810. ' •
XXVII. Proceedings of Learned Societies,
ROYAL SOCIETY.
X he experiments detailed in Mr. Davy's paper respecting
the muriatic acid, of which we gave a brief report in our
last Number, are so highly interesting, that ho apology can
be necessary for again bringing the subject before our
readers, and endeavouring to present the results in a con-
cise yet perspicuous form. But before proceeding to this,
we must beg our readers to correct two typographical errors
in our last report. In page 71, line 20, for rt nine "modes,"
read nice modes; and in line 22, for " nine decUic^ions,"
read some deductions.
The conclusions drawn by Mr. Davy from the scries of
facts with which this valuable paper is enriched, will serve
to extend and enlighten the theory of chemistry to even a
greater extent than any of the brilliant discoveries formerly
made by this indefatigable philosopher. The following
are the conclusions to which we allude :• —
1st. The ox y muriatic acid is (as far as our knowledge
extends) a simple substance, 'which may be classed in the
same order of natural bodies as oxygen gas; being deter-
mined like oxygen to the pusitive surface in Voltaic com-
binations, and like oxygen, combining with inflammable
substances, producing heatand light.
2dly. That its combinations with inflammable bodies
are analogous to oxides and acids in their properties, and
powers of combination, but they ditTer' from t'nem in being
for the most part decomposable by water.
3dly. ''That' hydrogen is the basis of the muriatic acid,
and oxymuriatic acid its acidifying principle.
4thly. Thai the compounds or phosphorus, arsenic, tin,
Sec , with oxymuriatic acid, approach in their nature to
acids, and neutralize ammonia and other salifiable bases.
5thly That the combination of ammonia with phos-
phorus acidified by oxymuriatic acid is a peculiar com-
pound, having propertied like those of an earth, and is not
decomposable at an intenbe red heat*
6thly.
