French National Institute. • 133
tfthly. That oxymuriatic acid has a stronger attraction,
for most inflammable bodies than oxygen; and that on
the hypothesis of the connexion of electrical powers with
chemical attractions, it must be highest in the scale of ne-
gative power ; and that the oxygen which has been sup-
Sosed to exist in oxymuriatic acid has always been expellee!
y it from water or oxides,
FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
The readers of the Philosophical Magazine must have
seen from the accounts which have lately appeared ip our
pages, of the labours* of the French chemists, that those
gentleman had questioned the accuracy of the inferences
drawn by Mr. Davy from the numerous experiments he
had made, in the course of his electro-chemical researches,
respecting the nature o,f the alkalies and the earths; main-
taining that the metallic bodies obtained from these sub-
stances, in place of being simple, as asserted by Mr. Davy,
were compounds of the respective alkalies and earths with
hydrogen; or, in other words, that the new bodies were
hydrurets.. Of this opinion were Gay Lussac, Thenard, and
most of the French chemists. Berthollet among the rest
warmly contested the correctness of Mr. Davy's inferences,
and maintained the accuracy of the French conclusions.
They have now, however, changed their opinion, and done
justice to our countryman.
At a meeting of the French National Institute in the
end of June, Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard read a notice
containing the results of a great variety of experiments on
the new metals ; trom all of which they conclude, after a
most rigorous investigation, that professor Davy was per-
fectly correct in his inferences, and, with a degree of frank-
ness honourable to themselves, renounce their former
opinion that these new metals are hydrurets.
'We cannot but take notice here of an assertion made irv
the Report of the Labours of the Institute, (published in a
former volume of the Philosophical Magazine,) which sa-
vours of a blundering, but probably not intended, pla-
giarism. The Report states, that Messrs. Gay Lussac and
Thenard discovered the mode of metallizing ammonia by
potassium ; whereas these gentlemen themselves, who have
more than once uncandidly assumed Mr. Davy's facts,
acknowledge this to have been that gentleman's discovery,
in their paper on ammonia.
The result of the present contest, we cannot but hope,
will serve as an admonition to the editors of some of our
periodical
