154 JV>7/' Method of constructing wooden Bridges,
periodical works, not to be hasty to commit themselves in
questions of science, on the authority of reports drawn up
by jealous rivals for national fame. We could name a
most respectable journal which has fallen into this blunder.
As to some more obscure writcrs/who have ventured to talk
about " the pretended discovery of the decomposition of
the alkalies," they will probably show a little more modesty
in their remarks in future.
XXVIII. Intelligence mid Miscellaneous Articles.
jVI. Wikbkking, director of roads and bridges to the
king of Bavaria, has discovered a method of constructing
wooden bridges, which in point of strength and solidity
promise a duration of several centuries. They are also re-
markable for the elegance of their form and the width of
the arches. A bridge has been constructed on the above
plan over the river Roth, five leagues from Passau, consist-
ing of a single arch two hundred feet wide: another
has been made for a large city, two hundred and eighty six
feet wide. These arches mav be so constructed as to ad-
mit of ships of war or merchant vessels passing through
them, an aperture being made in the centre, which can be
opened and shut at pleasure. Another advantage possessed
by these bridges is that of being speedily taken to pieces :
if it be necessary to stop the progress of an enemy, the
arch may be removed in one day, and th2 abutments in
another, without cutting the smallest piece of timber.
With respect to the advantages in point of ceconomy
resuliing from the adoption of M. Wiebeking's plan ; it has
been estimated that a stone bridge of similar dimensions to
a wooden one of a given size would cost two millions of
florins, whereas the latter would cost only 50,000 florins ;
and on the supposition that a wooden bridge will only last
100 years, it follows that, taking the interest on the prin-
cipal sum into the computation, there will result a sav-
ing of eleven millions six hundred and eighty thousand
florins.
The Pharmaceutical Society of Paris has announced the
following as prize questions for the present year :
1. Ascertain as far as possible, whether there exists in
vegetables an identical principle which chemists have de-
signated by the name of extractive? — Ought we to retain
the
