New Optical Instrument. 155
the ancient classification adopted for pharmaceutical ex-
tracts, divided, according to Rouelle, into gummy, resi-
nous, gummo resinous, resino-gummy, and saponaceous
extracts ? — Can a more methodical and more exact classifi-
cation be established by means of chemical experiments
made on the principal substances in pharmacy furnished by
extracts ? — Indicate, according to the nature of their dif-
ferent constituent principles, the mode of preparation best
adapted for each, and the nature of the menstrua which
ought to be employed."
2. " What is the present state of pharmacy in France?
what rank does it hold in the healing art ? and what are the
ameliorations of which it is susceptible V*
The prize offered lor the best memoir on the first question
is a gold medal of the value of 200 francs. That offered for
the best paper on the second question is of the value of 100
francs. The memoirs to be transmitted to Paris on or be-
fore the 1st of October 1810.
The following account of a new optical instrument is
extracted from a recent French journal: " Jt is well known
that the art of perspective consists in representing on a plane
surface objects in the position in which the eye perceives
them. Descriptive geometry furnishes the means of doina
this; but the method which it teaches presupposes science,
and demands time. The painter, without having recourse
to geometry $ draws on a simple purview from habit and
practice in his art. However excellent his eve, and how-
ever skilful an artist mav be, he cannot flatter himself
with obtaining geometrical preeision. A new instrument
has therefore been invented, by means of which every
draftsman, without knowing the rides of perspective, may
design with ease and correctness all kinds of subjects on
every scale not exceeding 5 decimetres square. This inven-
tion belongs to M. Roggcro, of the Conservatory of Arts
and Manufactures.
tc Some very ingenious instruments have been already
contrived with this view, and amono; others that of Mr.
George Adams, who has been peculiarly distinguished.
But from the great number of joints of which the me-
chanism is composed, all of these instruments were more
or less liable to disadvantages, which M. Roggero's instru-
ment has overcome, lie has also united solTditv to preci-
sion in the transmission of the movements, besides having
furnished his instrument with ;n\ achromatic glass, by
means of which we may tracp'the perspective of object's
placed at a distance." On
