1,56 Ichthyology.
On digging lately at Frescati in Italy, not far from the
ancient Tusculum,a quantity of amis, vases, human bones,
and a broken statue were found. The latter seemed to be
that of a Roman consul ; and a few days afterwards another
statue was found resembling that of a Roman matron.
M. Vincenzio has lately published at Rome two scien-
tific works: one entitled Lettere scicntifiche, and the other,
Spiegazione di due fascetti di gemma anticke. The same
author has also written a dissertation, to prove that the
colossal horses of the Ouirinal have been changed in
their places, and that they have been in fact badly placecj
originally.
ICHTHYOLOGY-,
Mr. Joseph Foster, fishmonger in Carlisle, has at pre-
sent in his possession a pilot fish, the only one we believe
that has appeared on these coasts. — The fish is of the order
of thoracici, which comprehends seventeen genera and up-
wards of two hundred and twenty species. It is found in
the Mediterranean and Atlantic, chiefly towards the equator;
The body is shaped somewhat like that of a mackarel ; the
head is long and smooth, and the snout advances some di-
stance beyond the mouth. It has two small fins ntarthe
head; another running along the back from the head to the
tail ; and one under the belly, of similar length. The co-
lour in general is brownish, changing into gold; and there
are several transverse black belts. Mariners observe, that
this fish frequently accompanies their vessels: and as they
see it generally towards the fore part of the ship, they ima-
gine it is employed in guiding and tracing out the course ;
whence it has received its name. Probably it is either
amusing itself, or pursuing its prey. It sometimes attends
the dog-fish and the shark ; and swims at the height of a
foot and a half from the snout of the latter ; imitates all
its movements, and seizes with address any part of the
spoil which the shark allows to escape. Though so small
as not to exceed six inches, it will keep pace with ships in
their swiftest course. — The one in Mr. Foster's possession
was caught a few days ago in the Sol way Frith.
A species of hemp, manufactured from the leaves of a
particular kind of palm, which abounds in Sierra L,eone
and its neighbourhood, has recently been sent to this
country; and being made into cord, subjected to experi-
ments calculated to ascertain its strength, as compared
with
