Lectures. 157
\vith the same length and weight of common hempen cord,
the result was very satisfactory — it being found that hempen
cord broke with a weight of 43lbs. three-fifths, while the
African cord did not give way to less weight than 53lbs.
two-firths, making a difference in favour of the latter of
lOlbs. in 43lbs.
LECTURES.
Theatre of Anatomy {Blenheim- Street, Great Marlborough-
Street.
The Autumnal Course of Lectures on Anatomy, Physio-
logy, and Surgery, will be commenced on Monday the 1st
of October, at Two o'clock, by Mr. Brookes.
In these Lectures the Structure of the Human Body will
be demonstrated on recent subjects, and further illustrated
by Preparations, and the functions of the different organs
will be explained.
The Surgical operations are performed and every part of
Surgery so elucidated as may best tend to complete the
operating Surgeon. The art of Injecting, and of making
Anatomical Preparations, will be taught practically.
Gentlemen zealous in the pursuit of Zoology will meet
with uncommon opportunities of prosecuting their re-
searches in Comparative Anatomy.
Surgeons in the Army and Navy may be assisted in re-
newing their Anatomical Knowledge, and every possible
attention will be paid to their accommodation as well as
instruction.
Anatomical Converzationes will be held weekly, when
the different Subjects treated of will be discussed familiarlv,
and the Students' views forwarded. — To these none but
Pupils can be admitted.
Spacious Apartments, thoroughly ventilated, and replete
with every convenience, are opened all the Morning, for
the purposes of Dissecting and Injecting, where Mr. Brookes
attends to direct the Students, and demonstrate the various
parts as they appear on Dissection.
An extensive Museum, containing Preparations illustra-
tive of every part of the Human Body, and its Diseases,
appertains to this Theatre, to which Students will have oc-
casional admittance. — Gentlemen inclined to support this
School by contributing preternatural or morbid parts, sub-
jects in Natural History, £ec. (individually of little value to
the possessors) may have the pleasure of seeing them pre-
served, arranged, and registered, with the names of the
Donors. ...
Terms.
