Geological Travels in the North of Europe, &c. ^ b
these primordial stones and gravel were projectedyrow he~
neath, by the explosions t*f gases and torrents of water,
that the descending masses of strata forced from the ca-
verns previously existing under them, at the time that the
dislocations of the strata and formation of mountains, hills
and valleys, by the subsidences and angular motions of the
strata, took place, according to the theory of M.De Luc: who,
at page 61 of the present volume, speaks of " certain circular
ridges of hills, which if seen from a distance by those un-
acquainted with their nature, might be taken for the bases
or circumferences of large volcanic cones, which had fallen
in ;" as existing along the course of the Rhine, covered by
such primordial blocks. I naturally expected, I say, that
many similar spot9 would have been pointed out, in the
vast tract of gravel and holders in the north of Europe^
which lie has so well described in this volume.
At pages 123, 127, 129, 277, &c. my author speaks of
flints, which had belonged to the chalk strata, as constitut-
ing part of the gravel, and considers such, as the remains
or dissolved strata of chalk ; but wherever he speaks of the
undisturbed strata, below the gravel and holders, in his
route on the south side of the Baltic, they are uniformly
said to be of sand, clay, and marie, and seem to me to
answer either to the upper part of the Paris strata, de-
scribed in your 35th volume, p. 5TJ, &c. or to strata cover-
ing them, and answering to some that cover the chalk in
England, and in the Netherlands also, according to the
opinion of your correspondent, Mr. Farey, p. 131 of your
£ame volume.
And here it may be proper to remark, that M. De Luc^
in the volume before me, p. 248 and 250, speaks, on the
authority of M. Von Willich, of similar strata of sand and
clay in the island of Rugeu in the Baltic, as being, if I
rightly understand hirp, upper strata to the cliffs of chalk,
with layers of flints and marine bodies, £00 and even 360^
feet high, in the peninsulas of Wittow apd Jasmund, in
the north part of that island : and at page 387, on the
authority of M. Harrz, he mentions, cliffs or strata of
chalk and Hints in Hedding in the island of Zeland, and
also in the promontories of Maglebye and Mandemark in
the island of Moen or Mona belonging to Denmark : all
of which seem, I think, to c^iflrm Mr. Farcy's opinion
above referred to, viz. that the ehalk strata (instead of be-
ing dissolved) still underlay all the country, across which
M. De Luc travelled : the coal and sandstone strata in the
island of Bornbolm (p. 387), prob&blv answering;, to those
A3 of
