158 Lectures.
Terms. &. s.
For a Course of Lectures, including the Dissections, 5 5
"For a Perpetual Pupil to the Lectures and Dissections, 10 10
The Inconveniences usually attending; Anatomical In-
vestigations are counteracted by an antiseptic Process, the
result or' Experiments made by Mr. Brookes on Human
Subjects, at Paris, in the year 1782, the account or* which
was delivered to the Royal Society, and read on the 17th
of June 1784. This method has since been so far im-
proved, that the iiorid colour of the muscles is preserved,
and even heightened. Pupils may be accommodated in the
House. Gentlemen established in Practice, desirous of re-
newir.g their Anatomical Knowledge, may be accommodated
with an Apartment to Dissect in privately.
Theatre of Anatomy, Greville- Street , Hatton- Garden.
Mr. Taunton will commence his Autumnal Course of
Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology and Surgery,
on Saturday, October 6th, at Eight o'clock in the Evening
precisely, to be continued every Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturday, at the same hour. In this Course of Lectures it
is proposed to take a comprehensive view of the Structure
and CEconomy of the Living Body, and to consider the
causes, symptoms and treatment of surgical diseases, with
the mode of performing the different surgical operations.
An ample opportunity for professional improvement will
also be afforded by the attendance of the Pupils, if they are
so inclined, at the Finsbury and City Dispensaries, to which
Mr. Taunton is Surgeon. Further particulars may be had
on application to Mr. Taunton, at his house in Greville-
street.
St. Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals.
The Autumnal Courses of Lectures at these adjoining
Hospitals will begin the tirst of October, viz.
At St. Thomas's. Anatomy, and the Operations of Sur-
gery, by Mr. Cline and Mr. Cooper. — Principles and
Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Cooper.
At Guy's. Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Babington and
Dr. Curry. — Chemistry, by Dr. liabington, Dr. Marcet,
and Mr. Allen. — Experimental Philosophy, by Mr. Allen.
— Theory of Medicine, and Materia Medica, by Dr. Curry
and Dr. Cholmelev. — Midwifery, and Diseases of Women
and Children, by Dr. Haighton. — Physiology, or Laws of
ihe Animal Gvconomy, by Dr. Haighton. — Structure and
Dist'ascs/of the Teeth, by Mr. Fox.
,N. B. These several Lectures are so arranged, that no
two
