List of Patents Jar new Inventions, lofj)
two of them interfere in the hours of attendance; and the
whole is calculated to forma complete Course or' Medical
and Chirurgical Instruction. Terms and other Particulars
may be learnt at the respective Hospitals.
Dr. Clarke's and Mr. Clarke's Lectures on Midwifery, and
the Diseases of Women and Children.
The Winter Course of these Lectures will commence on
Friday the 5th of October, at the house of Mr. Clarke,
No. 10, Upper John-Street, Golden-Square.
The Lectures are read every day from a Quarter past Ten
o'clock in the Morning till a Quarter past Eleven, for the
convenience of Students attending the Hospitals. The
Students will have Labours when properly qualified. For
particulars apply to Dr. Clarke, No. l, New Burlington-
Street; or, to Mr. Clarke, No. 10, Upper John-Street,
Golden-Square.
Mr. Stevenson,. of Great Russel-Street, Bloomsbury, who
as Pupil is intimately acquainted with the Practice of the
late Mr. Saunders, is preparing a practical Work on a fre-
quent Disease of the Lye, which we understand is nearly
ready for publication.
, LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
To Joseph Charles Dyer, of Boston, North America, now
residing in Westminster, a patent (in consequence of a
communication made to him by a certain foreigner residing
abroad) for certain machinery for cutting and heading of
nails and beads of all kinds and sizes, from strips or plates
made of iron, copper, or any other metal capable of being
rolled into plates. — July 26, 1810.
To Thomas Wade, of Nelson Place, Kent Road, in the
countv of Surry, gent., for Ins method, or process, of imitat-
ing lapis lazuli, porphyry, jasper, the various sorts or kinds
of marble, and all other stones usually wrought, carved,
sculptured, or polished ; also inlaid or Mosaic work to be
used for or in the formation or manufacture of chimney
pieces, slabs, funeral monuments, and for every other
purpose to which such stones and marbles are, or may be,
applied. — July L 26
To Edgar Dobbs, of the Borough of Southwark, gentle-
man, for a variety of compositions for making a waier-
proof cement mortar and stucco, the same being also
applicable as durable colouring washes for buildings.—
August 2.
METEO-
