162 A Sketch of a Mis lory of Pus,
or abscess. On that account mention is made of the trial*
with water and fire. Pus sinks, it is observed, in not only
mere water, but in salt water; while the secreted slimy sub-
stance of the bronchial membrane called mucus is frothy,
and floats on water : — the former substance is readily dif-
fusible through water, but the latter is not so. If pus be
contained in sputum, it emits a most offensive smell while
burning on an ignited coal. From the earliest writers it
appears that the judgement was regulated by observation
of the circumstances of the discharge of purulent matter,
as well as of its properties : that from suppurated tubercles
was distinguished from the abscesses called vomica, and em-
pyema by acute inflammation, such as of peripneumony
and pleurisy; but a third source from the lungs, now well
ascertained, viz. by secretion fron the bronchial membrane-
without any breach in its continuity or loss of its substance,
was made known in consequence of the observations pub-
lished about the same time by the learned De Haen of
Vienna, and by our most ingenious countrymen Mr. John
Hunter and Mr. Hewson. Previously to these pathologists,
Mr. Sharp in his Critical Essays, p. 142; and Mr. Gataker
mhh Essays, p. 97, as well as, I believe, other authors, had
asserted that puriform matter is producible without ulcer_
or loss of substance or breach, by inflammation, or merely
by irritation occasioned by extraneous bodies in gonorrhoea,
ophthalmia, &c. It was, however, generally considered as
doubtful, whether or not this matter was the same as that
of ulcers and abscesses. This indecision was founded, pro-
bably, on prejudice rather than on any actual observation
of differences of properties. The proof by dissection that
membranous surfaces, in their entire state, produce matter
of the same sort as that of sores and abscesses, was hitherto
the most important pathological fact brought to fight sub-
sequently to the Greek writers.
About 40 years ago, Simpson of St. Andrews, DeHaen,
Gaber, Pringle, Cullen, Fordyce, Hunter, Hewson with
his pupil Hendy*, were the prominent parties in the dis-
cussion of the point — the matter from which pus was im-
mediately derived. The first person who considered pus to be
the product of vessels becoming, or at least performing the
office of, glands, as far as I know, was Simpson. De Haen's
observations confirmed this opinion ; but the deposition of
an opake white matter from serum of blood on standing,
induced Gaber, Pringle and? Cullen to account for the pro-
* Tentamen Inaugurate de Secretionc glandulari. Edinburgh, 1774.
duction
