1 61 A Sketch of a History of Pus.
dally promoted by the honorary rewards offered by severaf
associated bodies. Hence some improvements have been
made. But physicians were still continually complaining
or the disadvantage in practice, from the distinguishing
properties of pus not being satisfactorily determined; above;
all, for the purpose of judging in pulmonary diseases whe-
ther or not the sputum was purulent. In the year 177®>
the late Mr. Charles Darwin received the gold medal
from the yE>culapian Society at Edinburgh, for his sup-
posed discoveries of the criteria by which pus and mucus
are distinguishable. It was asserted that, water being ad-j
ded to a dissolution of pus in sulphuric acid, a precipitation
talffes place, but such a dissolution of mucus affords on the*
addition of water merely suspended flakes ; — that pus is
diffusible through diluted sulphuric acid, but mucus is;
not; — that these effects are also observed with water, or salt
water. In 1787, Dr. Brugman, in his Inaugural Disserta-
tion on Pus, among a number of other experiments, which-
I do not think necessary to be noticed, relates that dry
volatile alkali (carbonate of ammonia) with an equal quan-
tity of pus becomes viscid, semi-transparent and white?
that caustic ammonia partially dissolves it, and the rest
yields a very viscid fluid, but on adding water the whole is
deposited in a viscid state; — that all neutral salts thicken
pus, and still more so the earthy salts, and most of all the
metallic salts ;-^-that alcohol condenses it by uniting to its
aqueous parts, but neither coagulates nor dissolves it. But
previously to these experiments, Mr. Hunter had observed,
that pus is " coagulated by sal ammoniac" (muriate of
ammonia), which he, and subsequently Mr. Home, depend
upon, as affording a criterion between pus and other animal
fluids. Grassmayer is quoted by several authors for the
fact that pus is precipitable in a gelatinous state by caustic,
alkaline lixivium, but if mucus be present it is suspended;
The mistake in the fact that pus was highly putrescible,
was perhaps first exposed by my fellow-student Dr. Hendy,
h iwas subsequently confirmed by Mr. Home. Several
foreign authors, as Plenciz, Murray, Schroeder, Salmuth,
^)ucsnay, either adopted subsequently, or coincided in, the
opinion that pus is a secreted fluid. Mr. Home's inge*
nious' Dissertation on Pus was published in 1788, audi
find ho accession of facts from that date up to the present
time. J J is wovk is valuable, not only for his own obser*
.vations, but for a just exposition of those of Mr. Hunter.
It is here attempted to be shown that f« pus is composed
of globules swimming in a transparent aqueous .fluid, yet
that
