On different Systems of Tuning Musical Instruments. 1 65
that the globules are formed in the fluid after its secretion,
wh ; le lying upon the sore or other inflamed surface, in
different times, according to the state of the constitution
and secreting part, the pus being secreted in a transparent
condition * ; — that inflammation is the absolute cause of
the formation of this fluid; that the globules in pus are not
soluble in cold water like those of blood, but are decom-
posed by boiling water, and the fluid in which they swim
is not coagulable by heat, but is by sal ammoniac, which
serum or the blood itself is not: the globules also are
smaller than those of chyle, but much larger than those of
pancreatic juice ; and they are of the same size, but les3
numerous than those of milk;-— that the distance from the
heart influences much the condition of the pus ; — that the
depravation of this fluid is in proportion to the flaky or
curdy particles seen floating in the fluid with the globules ;
and that the flaky parts are in the greatest proportion where
the inflammation has been least, or the process on other
accounts most defective.
In this historical account of the fluid under inquiry, if I
have omitted to state the observations of any other authors,
that must be imputed to my unacquaintance with them.
I also purposely do not notice various pathological facts;
such as the effects of pus of variolous eruptions, siphylitic,
and other contagious diseases. As it appears from the
confession of physicians that the nature and distinguish-
ing properties of pus have not been satisfactorily ascer-
tained, I engaged in an inquiry into the properties of this
substance ; some of the results of which I shall offer to the
public.
« ■ ) . -, , ■ ■ '
XXX. Eeinarks on the Rev. C.J. Smyth's Letter on Systems
of Tuning -Musical Instruments. Vol. xxxv. p. 448.
After bestowing cUie praise on Mr. A. F. C. Kallmann's
improvement of the theory of musical composition,
Mr. S. makes objections to Kirnberger's temperament,
which Mr. K. had recommended on page 9 of his " New
Theory;" and concludes with several assertions of little
M papcrvn rhpertorared Matter, (see Phil. Ma*, vol xxxv.
p, 12 — 20,) I erroneously assigned the discovery of the globularity of pus to
vu ! Icune. It is but justice in me to declare that this Gentleman no
whe.v chums the discovery : on. the contrary, I have since found that he re-
feio it to Mr. Hunter. I rake for gr*nMdcHtft&onta observation of this fact
;»Jre;:Jy enjo^. . !y to Mi\ Hunter's, hut 1 find no authority
.for the jeiact period of the discovery by either p arty,
L 3 weight,
