166 Remarks on Systems of Tuning.
weight, because (and I consider his " palatable dishes*')
they are mere matters of taste. And it is curious that he
should presume " organ-tuners will continue to tune in the
same way as their ancestors did before them, till arguments
are produced to prove the superiority of Kirnberger's tem-
perament" to theirs; for a person but slightly acquainted
with the subject might from this suppose there are no bet-
ter unequal temperaments. However, there are others
which, for my own part, I do decidedly prefer. Un-
doubtedly Kirnberger's system is one of the worst ; and in
the ancient system (as M. de Bethizy observes, Exposition,
p. 130, 1764), the sounds in some of the scales are so
altered that they are insupportable to a delicate ear. The
equal temperament has been preferred by Couperin, Mar-
purg, Rameau, Cavallo, professor Chladni, and many other
eminent philosophers and musicians: it is certainly the
best for piano fortes ; but for the organ perhaps a good
unequal temperament is better, on account of the loudness
of the beats.
As one of your musical readers, I am obliged to Mr. S.
for undergoing "the drudgery of calculation" on our ac-
count : he would still further merit our thanks by sending
to your valuable Magazine tables of the numbers of vibra-
tions, the monochord-lengths, and the beats in fifteen se-
conds, belonging to the other unequal temperaments that
have been proposed ; and I think he ought to send a table
for the common system, as the chief end of his communi-
cation seems to be, to compare it with Kirnberger's, and to
show its superiority *.
As to the generality of tuners (and many of them are
very conceited men), I believe they know but little or no-
thing of harmonics. They learn one method by ear only,
and remember it as they would a tune, without knowing a
rule on which either is founded. That the ear and the
memory alone are sufficient, after proper exercise, I am
well convinced ; for I can tune my harp with the same ac-
curacy diatonically and without sounding two strings at a
time, as it can be tuned in the usual way by consonances ;
and I have a pupil, only twelve years old, whose ear and
remembrance of sounds are so accurate, that she can, while
in a different room from the instrument, name any num-
• It would be an improvement of the first column of these tables, to foN
low the German tabiature, described in art. 34 of Dr. Callcott's Musical
Grammar, 2d edit. 1809. Mr. S. in some future communication, would
much oblige me by stating precisely what he means by the terra Wolf'm
tuning.
ber
