On Tuning an Equal Temperament. 167
ber of notes that can be struck with one hand in any part
of the piano forte which she has been a little while accus-
tomed to play on,
I know one tuner who, after studying ratios a little,
thinks with Eximeno : — " Qua! sciocchezza non e qucsta,
supporre la musica fondata in certe ragioni, che bisogna
guastare per ridurre la musica ad esecuzione ? Almeno
msegnasse la matematica a far quesio guastamento ; ma
dopo un grand' apparato di ragioni matematiche, ciascun
le guasta per la pratica a modo suo. I Francesi hanno
fatto peril temperamento del cembalo difusissimi calcoli ;
ma tutti egualmente capricciosi che inutili, poiche in fine
Vistinto senza riguardo a* numeri c' insegna ad accordar
gli strumenti, come c' insegna a metter insieme le lettere
per formar le parole, &c." p. 71.
August 11,1810. M.*
XXXI. An Examination of the Instructions given in an
anonymous Pamphlet published in 1 809, for Tuning an
Equal Temperament of the Musical Scale, By a Cor-
BESPONDENT#
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, ± he table by your correspondent the Rev. Mr. Smyth,
at page 452 of your last volume, has enabled me to make a
comparison of the method of tuning laid down in a recent
pamphlet, sold by Becket and Co. ; and perhaps you will
oblige me in laying the same before your readers, with the
necessary plate and extracts from the pamphlet alluded to;
which, after some well directed sarcasms, explains the nature
of the musical scale and the necessity of temperament, by
a professed extract from Earl Stanhope's pamphlet, that
was reprinted in your 25th volume. It then proceeds to
extract Mr. Emerson's opinion, in favour of the Equal Tem-
perament; founded solely, on there being wo fifth in it,
which is tempered more than -^ part of a note; while the
more important circumstances are overlooked, that there
are in it 12 major thirds, each of which is more than -^
part of a note too sharp, and 12 minor sixths as much too
flat; also 12 major sixths almost -fa part of a note too
sharp, and 12 minor thirds as much too flat.
In page 21 of the pamphlet, I find an expression, di-
* Can any of your readers favour me with any particulars respecting the
manufacture of tuning-forks, and the standard by which they are tuned?
L 4 rectly
