6 Review of (he first Volume ofM. J. A. De Luc's
of Leige and other continental collieries, above the chalk,
and not to any part of the British series of strata, of which
thc chalks seem nearly the uppermost.
The important question, as to whether the chalk under-
pays the south-eastern shore of the Baltic, might, I think,
receive an answer, by a minute examination of the strata
of the higher parts of the islands of Hiddensee and Um-
mantz on the west of Rugen and of Greifswaldiska Oe on
the south-east, which are said (p. 249), on the autho-
rity of M. Von Willich, to consist of calcareous strata,
which contain marine bodies, and are intermixed with*
strata of porcelain earth; since these would, seemingly,
answer to the very characteristic limestones and potter's-
clays of the basin of Paris, page 44, he, of your 35th
volume.
If Mr. Farey be right, in asserting (p. 1 3Q of the above
volume), that three miles, (or 5280 yards) in thickness of
strata are known in England, below the chalk strata, of
which I have been speaking, without the intervention of
granites of any kind, or of any of what M. De Luc calls pri-
mordial stones, in such strata (as I have understood to be
the case), does it seem probable, that the numerous ca-
vernous blasts and torrents, to which M. De Luc resorts,
for projecting his primordial blocks towards the sky, whence
they fell to the earth's surface, could have failed to have pro-
jected along with them, numerous and large specimens of
the hard British limestones, sandstones, basalts, and others ?•
but of which we read nothing in the volume of geological
travels before us, except of a few flints.
From numerous passages in this volume, and in the
Geology of M. De Luc lately published, it is plain, that at
the time of writing them, this veteran geologist was un-
acquainted with: the suggestions of Mr. Farey, in various
parts of your late volumes, as to the reversed action of
gravity, and the tidal currents, occasioned by a former and
large satellite of this planet, whereby the extensive and
vast abruptions, as Dr. William Richardson calls them*
(or the denudations as Mr. F. calls them), which the-
earth's surface in so many places has sustained, are sup-
posed to have been occasioned, as weil as the transportation
of its alluvia, and the excavation of its numerous valleys
also, if I mistake not the drift of Mr. Farey ; s arguments-
with Mr. Carr, in your 33d and 34th volumes.
X very much wish, sir, that I could call the attention of
* See page 1 14 and page 25% of our 33d volume. — Editor.
M.De
