#$8 On Tuning an Equal Temperament.
•rectly contrary to what your correspondent Mr. Smv
.says,' at page 450, as to l lie temperament now in use upon
the organ, viz. Organs are " universally tuned according to
the equal temperament-:" and the author continues^ " the
trials which I have myself made of the equal and unequal
temperaments, amongst the latter of which was that re-
commended by Earl Stanhope, have induced me to adopt
the equal temperament as the best for practice."
" The method of tuning a piano-forte, &c. according to
the equal temperament, is explained by the following in-
structions, and further elucidated by the annexed tuning
table*, to which the reader is desired,, as he proceeds, to
refer."
" Observe, that the capital letter? in the tuning table, in-
dicate the notes when tuned ; the small letters, the notes
to be tuned from them ; aim 1 the crosses the notes already
tuned, with which the tuning notes are to be tried in
chords, as will be shown in the instructions ; and that these
crosses stand for the natural -notes, except when otherwise
marked." . , , I fft
1. " By means or a tuning fork, tune the C next above
the middle C, and from the former, tune the middle c a
perfect octave.
2. "From middte'C tune g, next above it, a little flatter
than a perfect fifth : and in order to ascertain whether it is
too flat or not flat enough, try it in a chord with the two
C's already tuned. If it make a tolerably good fifth, with
, the C below, and at the same time a tolerably good fourth,
with the C above, it is ivell tuned:'
Here, sir, I have to remark, that the little which the
fifth Cg is to be flattened, supposing the tenor- clifFc
of the usual concert pitch, or to make 240 c6mplete vi-
brations in cue second of time, 1 is just such, according
' to Mr. Smyth's table, that it may beat" 12 times in
one quarter of a minute, or 15 seconds, a space of
time always to be understood when a number of beats
are mentioned, in what follows: and that the pre-
tended trial in the latter part of this precept, is inap-
plicable ciiid ridiculous, since every 'complement of a
tempered concord, to the octave, is alike tempered
with itself, wiale'ver that degree of temperament may
. and consequently whether well or ill tuned, for the
purpose of an ei/ual temperament, is almost as remote
from this test, as would be the hour or minute of the
(lay, on which such fifth was tuned..
# See Plate V.
3. " From
