On Timing an Equal Temperament. I69
3. " From G tunc g below it, a perfect octave, and try
it in a chord with the C between them.''
4. " From the last tuned G tune d a little flatter than a
perfect fifth, and try it in a chord, with the G above it al-
ready timed, until you have Gd a good fifth and dG a good
fourth. "
This fifth G d must beat 9 times, and the fourth d G
1^ times*, and the pretended trial is nugatory and
absurd, for its professed purpose.
5. " From D, tune a, a little flatter than a perfect fifth,
and try it in a chord, with C above it, until you have Da
a good fifth, and aC a good third/'
The fifth D a must beat 13 times : and the first trial
or check of any use which occurs, is the minor third
aC, beating 326 times, but which no organist in Eng-
land would, I think, call " a good third."
6. " From A, tune a below it, a perfect octave, and try
it in a chord with D between them."
7. i\ From the last tuned A, tune e a flat fifth, and try
it with C and G, until you have three good thirds, AC,
Ce,eG.
Now since the minor third AC beats 163, and the
thirds Ce and eG, 142 and ,244 respectively, such
must be tried a long time, so that all idea of perfect
chords is forgot, before any musician would pronounce
them " good thirds."
8. " From E, tune b a flat fifth, and try it with G, until
you have two good thirds EG and Gb."
This -flr'th Eh must beat 15 times, and the thirds
above mentioned will beat 244, and 21.4, and conse-
quently are noi " good thirds."
9. ff From £>, tune b below it a perfect octave, and try
it with D and G."
lirre b.D beats 183, and GB beats 214; on which
I forbear to comment.
10. <•" From the last tuned B tune f* a flat fifth, and try
it with'D and b until you have Df* a good third, and f*B
a good fourth,"
Now Bf# beats 11 times, and 160 and 22 are the
other beatings.
11. "From F*, tune f* below it a perfect octave, and
try it with A and D."
* Because the minor consonance (the 4th) is the uj\ ermost son Dr. Sm a*s
Jlannomcs, 2d edit. p. 93. Here
