1 72 Analysis of several Varieties of
Each specimen of salt was reduced to a fine powder, and
was dried, in the temperature oi 180°. of Fahrenheit, during
the space of two hours. This was clone in order th
different ex peri men: s might be made on precisely equal
quantities of salt.
I. To separata the earthy Muriates.
(A.) On 1000 grains of the dried and pulverized salt,
(except in the case or' the foreign salts, when only 500
grains were used,) four ounce measures of alcohol were
poured, of a specific gravity, varying from 815 to 820, and
at nearly a boiling temperature. To insure the access of
the fluid to every part of the salt, they were ground toge-
ther for some time in a mortar, and then transferred into a
glass matrass, where they were digested for some hours,
and frequently agitated. The alcohol was next separated
by filtration, and the undissolved part was washed, as it
jay oti the filter, with four ounce measures of fresh alcohol.
(B.) The united washings were evaporated to dryness*,
and to the dry mass a small portion of fresh alcohol was
added, to separate the earthy muriates from a little common
salt, which had been dissolved along with them. This so-
lution might, however, still contain a minute portion of
muriate or soda. It was therefore again evaporated, redis-
solved in hot water, and mixed with a solution of carbonate
of soda. By boiling for some -minutes., the whole of the
earths were precipitated, and, after being well washed, were
re-dissolvcd in muriatic acid. This solution, being eva-
porated to dryness, gave the weight of the earthy muriates,
wh re h had bee hex trae ted b y al coh ol f .
(B.a.) The dry mass thus obtained might consist either
of muriate of magnesia, of muriate of lime, or of both.
An aliquot part, therefore, was dissolved, separately, for
the purpose of assaying it by the usual tests. Sometimes,
as in the case of the earthy muriates procured from sea salt,
muriate of magnesia alone was indie/, .- d, and any further
process was rendered unnecessary. Muriate of lime was
* In this and all similar cases, the heat was very cautiously regulated to-
wards the close of the piob
•j* By the analysis of arrificia: mixtures of pure muriate of soda with the
earthy muriates in known quantities, I afterwards found- that the frill
amount of the earthy muriates was not ascertained in this w.iy of .proceeding.
The deficiency of the latter salts was ahout one sixth; but as the error must
necessarily have bee:* the samy in all, it does not affect the comparison of
different varieties of salt, as to their proportion of this ingredient. If the
numbers in the 5th c : . table (indicating: the total earthy mu-
riates) be increased in the proportion of six to five, we shall then obtain the
*rue quantities in each variet
m
i
