British and Foreign Salt. 173
hi ho instance found uncombined ; but in the majority of
cases (as in the earthy muriates obtained from Cheshire)
salt was mixed with muriate of magnesia.
(B.b.) TV the solution of two earthy muriates was
added fully'saturaied carbonate of ammonia, which has thd
property of throwing down lime in combination with car-
bonic acid, but has no effect on the muriate of magnesia at
ordinary temperatures. The 'solution of the latter salt, along
with that of the excess of carbonate of ammonia, was
therefore separated by filtration ; and to the filtered liquor a
solution of phosphate of soda was addedj according to the
formula of Dr. Wollaston*.
(B.c.) By direct experiments I had learned that 10O
grains of muriate of magnesia, when thus decomposed by
carbonate of ammonia, conjoined with phosphate of soda,
give 151 grains of an insoluble ammoniaco-magnesian
phosphate dried at about 90° of Fahrenheit. Hence it wag
easy, from the weight of the precipitate, to calculate how
much of the former salt was contained in the mixture
of muriate of lime and muriate of magnesia. Thus, if 20
grains of a mixture of the two muriates yielded l.W of
ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, it is obvious that the
mixture must have consisted of equal weights of muriate
of lime and muriate of magnesia.
(B. d.) T«he estimation of the proportion of muriate of
rime, in a mixture of this salt with muriate of magnesia,
vvas sometimes performed in a diti'e rent way. To a cold
solution of a known weight of the two salts, super-oxalate
of potash was added ; and the precipitate was collected,
washed, and dried at about {CO' 5 Fahrenheit. Of this pre-
cipitate f had previously found that 1 16 grains are formed
by the decomposition of 100 grains of dry muriate of lime.
From the qiiantit/of oxalate of lime it was easy, therefore,
to infer that of the muriate, from whose decomposition it
resulted ; and this subtracted from the weight of the two
salts^ gave the weight of the muriate of magnesia.
II. To separate a fid estimate the earthy Sulphates.
(C.) The portion of salt which had resisted the action
of alcohol, was dissolved by long boiling in sixteen ounce
measures of distilled water, and the solution was filtered.
On the filter a small quantity of undissolved matter ge-
nerally remained, which was washed with hot water, till it
• * See Dr. Marcet's analysis of the Brighton Chalybeate, published in th$
last edition of Saunders, on Mineral. Waters.
ceased
