174 Analysis of several Varieties of
ceased to have any action. The weight of the insoluble
portion was then ascertained*
(C. a.) By this operation were, dissolved, not only the
muriate of soda, but all the other salts, insoluble in alco-
hol, which might he mingled with it. To the solution,
carbonate of soda was added; and the liquid, which in
most cases gave, on this addition, an abundant precipitate,
was boiled briskly for several minutes, in order that none
of the earthy carbonates, which were separated, might re-
main dissolved by an excess of carbonic acid.
(C. b.) The precipitated earths were allowed to subside,
and were well edulcorated with boiling water, the washing
being added to the liquor first decanted from the precipitate.
To these united liquids (after the addition of more mu-
riatic acid than was required for saturation) muriate of
barytes was added, till it ceased to occasion any further
precipitate. The sulphate of barytes was then washed suf-
ficiently; dried; ignited; and its amount ascertained.
To the earthy carbonates, an excess of sulphuric acid was
added in a platina dish, and the mixture was triturated, till
all effervescence ceased. It was then evaporated to dryness,
calcined in a low red heat, and the weight of the earthy
sulphates was ascertained.
(D.a.) The dry sulphates were washed with a small
quantity of lukewarm water. In several instances, the loss
of weight, thus sustained, was extremely trifling, nothing
being dissolved but a very minute portion of sulphate of
lime, of which earthy salt, solely, the residue was presumed
to be composed.
(D. b.) But in other cases, a considerable loss of weight
ensued ; and in these, to the watery solution was added a
mixture of equal parts of saturated solutions of carbonate
of ammonia, and phosphate of soda. A precipitate more
or less copious was produced, which was collected, dried at
90° Fahrenheit, and weighed.
(D. c.) By direct experiments I had determined, that 90
grains of this precipitate result from the decomposition of
100 grains of sulphate of magnesia, of such a degree of
dryness, as to lose 44 grains out of 100, by exposure to a
low red heat. Hence 100 grains of ammoniaco-magnesian
phosphate indicate 111 grains of crystallized, on 62*2 of
desiccated, sulphate of magnesia*. From the weight of
the
* The assumption that crystallized sulphate of magnesia contains only 44
Fer cent, of water, though it was correctly true with the specimen on which
operated, is below the average, which, I find from several experiments, is
about
