British and Foreign Salt. 1 ?3
the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, it is easy, therefore*
to infer the proportion of sulphate of magnesia in any mix-
ture of the two earthy sulphates.
(D.d.) It was possible, however, that in addition to the
sulphates of lime and of magnesia, the quantity of which
had been determined by the foregoing process, the speci-
men of salt under examination might contain also an alka-
line sulphate. To decide this point, it was necessary to
compare the amount of the acid, deducible from the weight
of the sulphate of barytes (C. b.), with that which ought
to exist in the sulphate of lime and sulphate of magnesia
actually found by experiment. But to make this com-
parison, some collateral experiments were previously ne-
cessary.
(D. e.) By these experiments, I found that sulphate of
lime prepared by double decomposition, then calcined in a
low red heat, and afterwards dissolved in a large quantity
of boiling distilled water, yields, when precipitated by a
barytic salt, in the proportion of 175*9 grains of sulphate
of barytes from 100 of the calcareous sulphate*. The
same quantity of ignited sulphate of lime (=128 grains
dried at 160° Fahrenheit), precipitated by super-oxalate of
potash, gives 102*3 of oxalate of lime; or, precipitated by
sub -carbonate of potash at a boiling heat, 74*3 grains of
carbonate of limef. One hundred grains of crystallized
sulphate of magnesia ( = 56 desiccated) afford, when preci-
pitated by muriate of barytes, 111 or 112 of the barytic
sulphate.
(E.) By a comparison of the above proportions with
those obtained in the analysis of any specimen of com-
mon salt, we may learn whether it contain other sulphates
beside those with earthy bases. For example, if the pre-
cipitate (D.) consist of carbonate of lime only, and bear to
about one half the weight of the salt. Mr. Kirwan states the water of cry-
stallization to be 53*6 in 100 grains; but this, I believe, a little exceeds the
truth. ^
* This result corresponds, within a fraction of a grain, with one obtained
in a somewhat different way by Dr. Marcet, and ve-y nearly with an ex-
periment of my friend Mr. James Thomson, who found the barytic sul-
phate, precipitated from 100 grains of sulphate of lime by nitrate of barytes,
to weigh 173 grains.
f On reversing this experiment, I found that 100 grains of carbonate of
lime, saturated with sulphuric acid, and calcined in a low red reat, afford
135 of sulphate of lime. A similar experiment of Mr. Thomson gave 134*6
grains. Dr. Marcet also informs me, that from 9355 grains of pure marble
he obtained 1 25*95 grains of sulphate of lime, proportions which exactly
coincide with those of Mr. Thomson.
the
