176 Analysis of several Varieties of
the sulphate of barytes (C. b.) the proportion of 74 to l1$ f
or very nearly so, we may infer, that no other sulphate id
present but that of lime. The same conclusion will tal-
low, if, after having decomposed one half of the watery
solution (C.) by muriate of barytes, and another half by
oxalate of potash, we find that the sulphate of barytes bears
to the oxalate of lime, the proportion of 175*9 to 102*5.
Now these proportions were, as nearly as could be ex-
pected, obtained in ibe analysis of North wich salt; from
tvhence we mav conclude, that the only sulphate which it
contains is gypsum, or the sulphate of lime
It must be remembered, however, that the calcareous
sulphate, contained in any variety of common salt, cannot
be in a state of complete desiccation, but. would lose 22
parts out of 100, bv exposure to a red heat*. It becomes
necessary, therefore, either to increase, in the proportion
of 5 to 4, our estimate of the sulphate of lime obtained
by the foregoing rule, or, more simply, to assume that 10O
grains of sulphate of barytes indicate 73 grains of sulphate
of lime, dried at 3 60° Fahrenheit, =57 ignited.
(F.) When sulphate of lime and sulphate of magnesia
were both ascertained, and other sulphates also might pos-
sibly be present, as in the varieties of salt from sea water,
the calculation became a little more complicated. In this
case, after determining the quantity of both sulphates, (by
the processes D. &c.) I estimated how much sulphate of
barvtes they ought respectively to afford ; and then com-
pared the estimated quantity, with that which was actually
obtained. The earthy carbonates, for.example, precipitated
from 1000 grains of Lymington salt, which had previously
been digested with alcohol, were converted into 31 grains
of calcined sulphates, consisting of 19 grains of dry sul-
phate of magnesia, and 12 grains of dry sulphate of lime.
Now from the magnesian sulphate 38 grains of sulphate of
barytes should result, and from the sulphate of lime, 21 grains,
the sum of which is 59. But the quantity actually obtained
was 59*8. There is only, therefore, an excess of 0*8 grain of
the actual above the estimated quantity, a difference much
too trivial to be admitted as an indication of any sulphate
with an alkaline base; and arising, probably, from un-
avoidable errors in the experiment.
* This I find to be the loss sustained by 100 grains of artificial selenite,
dried at 160°, 'and then ignited. The same quantity of crystallized native
selenite, 1 learn from Dr JNIarcet, loses 20-7 grains, by being calcined in a
strong red heat.
(F.a.)
