British and Foreign Salt. 177
(F. a.) If in any mixture of salts, free from the earthy
muriates, we are certain that no other sulphates exist be-
side those of lime and magnesia, their estimation becomes
extremely simple. Decompose two equal quantities of the
salt in question, the one by muriate of barytes, the other
by oxalate of potash. From the weight of the latter pre-
cipitate, we may calculate the quantity of sulphate of lime.
Suppose, for example, the oxalate of lime (as was actually
the case with the precipitate from 1000 grains of Lyming-
ton salt) to weigh twelve grains; these denote 15 of sul-
phate of lime, dried at 160° Fahrenheit, which quantity, if
decomposed, would give 20^ of sulphate of barytes. The
latter number (20-£), subtracted from the weight of sulphate
of barytes actually obtained (say 60), gives 3ox grains for
the sulphate of barytes resulting from the decomposition
of sulphate of magnesia. The quantity of the latter salt,
it will be found therefore by applying the rule already given
(D. e.), must be 35 grains.
(F. b.) The same object may be accomplished by decom-
posing two equal quantities, the one by oxalate of potash,
the other by the compound solution (D. c). From the
weights of the precipitates, it is easy to calculate from how
much of the calcareous and magnesian sulphates they have
resulted.
(G.) When the salt left by alcohol was known to con-
tain muriate of soda and sulphate of magnesia, but no sul-
phate of lime, the presence of alkaline sulphates was in-
vestigated in the following manner. The salt was dissolved
in water, and the solution was divided into two equal por-
tions. To the one muriate of barytes was added, and to
the other, the compound precipitant of carbonate of am-
monia, and phosphate of soda. If the sulphate of barytes,
thus produced, bore to the ammoniaco-magnesian phos-
phate the proportion of 112 to 90, it was concluded that
no other sulphate had been decomposed, but that with base
of magnesia.
(H.) At one time I expected to have ascertained the
quantity of sulphate of soda, in an artificial mixture of that
salt with sulphate of magnesia and muriate of soda, by the
following formula. To d solution of the three salts, heated
to a boiling temperature, I added sub-carbonate pf am-r
monia, which decomposes the sulphate of magnesia only.
I had then a solution containing muriate and sulphate of
soda, with sulphate of ammonia; and some carbonate of
ammonia. This solution was evaporated to dryness^ and
Vol. 36. No. 149. Sept. 1810. JVI * the
