Geological Travels in the North of Europe, &c. %
M. De Luc to the above subjects, and that we might hear,
what his long experience in studying nature, and in the
consideration and discussion of geological systems, would
offer, on this new hypothesis, for explaining the disrup-
tions of the strata, the transportation of alluvial matters, and
others of the vast and most mysterious operations, to which
the terraqueous globe has been subjected.
But it is perhaps high time that I should mention the
remaining subjects of the volume, which I undertook to ex-
plain, and as soon as possible conclude tins desultory letter.
The 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, and 22d propositions, or
heads, are employed on the question, Whether the gulfs
and steep cliffs on the coasts of the ocean, were occasioned
ly its action P At page 333 it is said, " that the inden-
tations of the coasts have not been formed by the sea, but
are simply the extremities of vales, or other original in-
flections of the surface, which lay below the level of the
sea, when it came first to occupy its present bed;" and
in numerous parts of the volume before me, Facts are ad-
duced, to show that, so far from the sea being now capa-
ble of excavating gulfs, such are almost uniformly in the
process of Jill big up.
I am yet by no means satisfied, with the evidence
adduced, to decide the other part of this proposition as
M. De Luc has done, viz. that the cliffs on the sea-shore
did not originate with the action of tfce sea. A neces-'
sary consequence of numerous valleys having opened in-
to the sea below its present level, as stated above by
M. De Luc, is, that separating ridges or points of hills
equally numerous, projected or run out into the sea; and
from having often and attentively observed, the great ef-
fect which waves propelled by a high wind, oblique to the
shore in particular, have upon all projecting points, and
the powerful tendency which the beach or strand has tb
assume a regular line without sudden indentations, in al-
most all situations, I am inclined to ascribe to the waves a
power, of commencing and carrying on the ravages which
most points of hills projecting into the sea have suffered :
yet, without at all invalidating or calling in question the
Mosaic chronology, which M. De Luc is so properly in-
tent on supporting ; and I am further disposed to assume,
that so correct an observer and reasoner as M. De Luc,
could not have overlooked these circumstances, had he not
too much relied on his position, of the original marine clifls
or fecades, being the mere effect of the subsidences an&
angular motions of the strata : and not duly considering,
A 4 that
