1 78 Analysis of several Varieties of
the mass was sufficiently heated to expel the ammoniacal
salts. I found, however, that at this temperature the sul-
phate of ammonia acted upon the muriate of soda, and
produced an additional and not inconsiderable quantity of
sulphate of soda.
Having determined, by the foregoing processes, the
quantity and kind of (he earthy muriates, the amount of
the insoluble matter, and the proportion of sulphates, the
weights of all these different impurities were added together ;
and the sum being deducted from the weight of the sale
submitted to experiment, the remainder was assumed as
the amount of the pure muriate of soda in the specimen
under examination *.
Though I purposely refrain from giving the details of the
several analyses, which were made according to the fore-
going plan, from the conviction that they would be both
tedious and unnecessary, yet there are a few circumstances
which it may be proper to mention more fully than car*
be done in the form of a table.
1. The brine which I examined was from Northwich,
and was sent to me in the state in which it was taken fro»ri
the spring f. At the temperature of 56° Fahrenheit, it had
the specific gravity of 1205. It was perfectly limpid, but
lost a little of its transparency when raised to a boiling
heat, in consequence of the deposition of a very minute
quantity of carbonate of lime and oxi^e of iron. It was
immediately precipitated by muriate of barytes, oxalate of
ammonia, and alkaline solutions, both mild and caustic.
Eight ounce measures, evaporated to dryness in a sand heat,
gave 1230 grains of salt, which, for the sake of distinction,
I term entire salt. It proved, on analysis, to contain i«
one thousand parts J ;
* I have deemed it unnecessary to state, in the table, the quantities of
acid and base in the several varieties of muriate of soda. They may readily
be estimated from the proportion, deduced by Dr. Marcet, of 46 acid, and
54 soda, in 100 of the pure muriate. In this determination he assumes, that
100 parts of luna cornea, after being melted and heated to redness, consist
of 1905 parts of acid, to 80-95 oxide of silver. This statement agrees very
nearly with the recent one of Gay Lussac, who makes 100 parts of silver
to combine with 7-60 oxygen, and this oxide to neutralize 25'71 parts of
real muriatic acid.
4- I have lately been informed that this brine had been pumped out of a
rock-salt mine, into which, from the impossibility of obtaining the salt in a
solid form, it was allowed to flow. Hence it was fully saturated with muriate
of soda.
| The specific gravity and proportion of earthy sulphates in Cheshire brine
appears to differ considerably in the brine of different springs. See Hol-
land's Cheshire Report, p. 45, &c.
Carbonate
