Analysis of the Scammonies from Aleppo and Smyrna. 1 81
From the very near approximation of the proportions be-
tween the sulphate of barytes and ammoniaco-magnesian
phosphate, obtained in the analysis of all these products of
sea water, to those which result from the decomposition of
two equal quantities of sulphate of magnesia, it may be
inferred that they contain no sulphate of soda*., For ex-
ample, to decide whether the Scotch salt contains an alka-
line sulphate, or not, I dissolved 1500 grains in a pint of
boiling water, and evaporated till fourteen drachm measures
only remained, the common salt being removed as soon as
it was formed. The residuary liquid was divided into two
equal portions, one of which gave \S\ grains of sulphate
of barytes, and the other, 14 grains of ammoniaco-mag-
nesian phosphate. The proportion between these numbers
is so nearly that which has been already assigned, (viz. 112
to 90,) that we may safely infer the total absence of sul-
phate of soda. This salt, indeed, is considered as incom-
patible with muriate of magnesia; but after digesting, for
two or three days, 100 grains of the former, with 20 of the
latter, evaporating to dryness, and washing the residuum
with repeated affusions of alcohol, I found that two grains
of the muriate of magnesia had escaped decomposition.
Manchester, June 19, 1809.
XXXIIP. Analysis of the Scammonies from Aleppo and
Smyrna; to which are subjoined some Observations on the
red Colour given to Turnsole by the Resins. By Messrs,
Bouillon Lagrange and VoGELf.
J_ he two species of scammony in question are procured
from the root of a plant which grows in Syria. It seems
that il is by an incision made in the root that the juice is
extracted ; each root yields about two drachms. only. The
juice thus extracted is dried in the sun, and then exposed
for sale : at least it is in this way that the finest and purest
scammony is obtained. Frequently, however, the inhabitants
of Syria and Natolia, in order to procure a greater quantity
of the sap, extract it by expression, not only from the
root, but from the stalks and leaves: occasionally also they
adulterate the scammony by mixing the juice procured from
* l employed more attention in investigating the presence of sulphate of
soda in the products of sea water ; because this salt is stated to be one of its
ingredients by the Bishop of Llandaff, (Chemistry, vol. ii. p. 62,) and by
other chemical writers.
f Annates dc CUimie, tome lxxii. p. 69.
M3 it
