Aleppo and Smyrna. 183
by alcohol, a matter of a gray colour, which, when dried,
weighed 0*26.
The alcoholic solution was evaporated to a syrupy con-
sistence. Cold water precipitated from it a resin forming
a homogeneous mass : the supernatant liquor was trans-
parent and colourless. Evaporated to dryness, we obtained
a brown matter soluble in water and in alcohol, forming a
precipitate by the acetate of lead. This substance seems
to be what is called the extractive matter : its weight was
found to be 0'2 after having been dried.
The resinous mass separated and dried had a yellow co-
lour, and weighed 0*60.
We afterwards treated the 0*26 of matter which was in-
soluble in alcohol, with boiling water. There remained
after the evaporation a gluey matter, weighing 0*3, having
all the characters of gum. The rest was merely the refuse
of vegetable matter and a little silex.
The distillation of the scammony of Aleppo presented
nothing remarkable. It gave as products, a very acid
brown liquor and a light blackish oil. The charcoal re-
sulting from the operation was black, brilliant, and compact;
it contained carbonate of potash, carbonate of lime, alu-
mine, silex, and a little iron.
Examination of t fie Scammony of Smyrna.- — The fusion
of the Smyrna scammony is less complete than that of
Aleppo : instead of going into a mass with boiling water,
it became knotty, and the water was dyed yellow. It is
neither acid nor alkaline : the acetate of lead precipitates
yellowish flakes from it.
100 parts of this scammony taken up by boiling alcohol,
although less charged with resin, gave a deeper-coloured
tincture than that which was made with Aleppo scammony.
We obtained from the evaporation of the alcohol a brownish
transparent resin, the weight of which was 0*28. We
found 066 of insoluble matter in the alcohol. This re-
sidue treated with boiling water coloured it yellow : it had a
putrid sweetish taste, and alcohol precipitated from it flakes
soluble in water. The liquor evaporated left a thick gluey
matter like mucilage, soluble in weak nitric acid when
warm ; precipitating, on cooling, a white pulverulent matter
which presented all the characters of mucous acid.
Iivthis experiment, the water had only taken up 0*8 of
the matter which was insoluble in the alcohol. The rest
was submitted, with the help of heat, to the action of the
nitric acid, which dissolves it with effervescence. Am-
M4 monia
