18-4 Analysis of the Scammon'tes from
rnonia added to this nitric solution formed a precipitate so-
luble in potash. The potash and the oxalate of ammonia
also occasioned a precipitation. This residue is composed
therefore of alumine and carbonate of lime, besides the re-
fuse of vegetable matter, and that substance which is inso-
luble in water and in alcohol, a substance which seems to
be oxygenated extract.
This substance incinerated left a whitish powder, solu-
ble in a great measure, and with effervescence, in the mu-
riatic acid. This solution contains alumine, lime, and a
little iron. The portion not soluble in the muriatic acid,
when treated by potash, gave a siliceous precipitate on the
addition of an acid.
The water which had served to precipitate the resin, left,
after the evaporation, a brown substance, weighing 0*5, of
a bitter taste, attracting humidity from the atmosphere,
soluble in alcohol, and abundantly precipitated from the
aqueous solution by the acetate of lead. This substance
presented all the properties of the extractive principle.
It results therefore from this analysis : 1st. That 100
parts of Aleppo scammony are thus constituted :
Resin 60
Gum 3
Extractive principle 2
Vegetable and earthy matter, &c 35
100.
£?. That Smyrna scammony contains :
Resin . . . ; 29
Gum . . . I 8
Extractive principle * . . . . 5
Vegetable and earthy matter 58
100.
As the resin obtained from both kinds of scammony is
much the same, excepting that the Aleppo resin is yellow,
transparent and friable, whereas that of Smyrna is more
highly coloured and more difficult to pulverise, we thought it
would be useful to ascertain if there was any difference in
their medicinal properties. Several physicians have since
made experiments with both kinds on individuals of similar
habits, and have observed no difference in point of purga-
tive properties.
We may conclude therefore, from what precedes, that
scammony is a true gum resin mixed with a little extractive
matter.
