Aleppo and Smyrna. 185
matter. Tt contains indeed much less gum than the other
gum resins, but enough, however, to form a milky liquid
with water.
The action of the alcoholic tincture of scammony on
turnsole, naturally led us to ascertain whether the property
of reddening this blue colour was owing to an acid. Our
experiments not having enabled us to acquire a direct
proof, we tried some resins in a comparative manner, which
we submitted to the following experiments.
]. Sandarach. This resin is converted into a knotty or
grumous mass on being boiled with water. The filtered
liquor remains- clear: when properly evaporated, it slightly
reddens turnsole tincture: the taste is bitter : it does not
change the infusion of violets, is not precipitated by alco-
hol or by the acetate of lead ; which proves that it contains
neither gum nor extractive principle. It is therefore a pure
resin.
The resin which had bCen treated with boiling water,
was dissolved in alcohol. This liquor reddens turnsole
tincture strongly, and has no action upon syrup of violets.
We also digested sandarach reduced into powder in al-
cohol, adding to the liquor, when warmed and filtered,
boiling water, which precipitated the resin from it. The
filtered liquor was turbid upon cooling. It had the strong
smell of sandarach resin : its taste was bitter; and its action
on turnsole tincture was so weak, that we could not pre-
sume the existence of a free acid.
2. Mastich. This substance presents nearly the same
phaenomena with the above : the resin however runs into a
mass in boiling water like turpentine. The water has a
bitter taste, and has no action either upon turnsole or upon
violet syrup. The resin, on the contrary, reddens turnsole
tincture strongly.
3. Olibanum forms in hot water a thick magma, which
is separated with difficulty from the liquor, even by filtra-
tion. This water has a blackish brown colour, is not pre-
cipitated by the acetate of lead, and does not change the
colour of turnsole, but alcohol precipitates it in abundance;
which proves that this substance is composed of gum and
resin.
The alcoholic tincture reddens turnsole tincture strongly.
If we carefully heat in a sand bath the resins which have
most action on the colour of turnsole, no acid is sublimed.
When treated with lime according to Scheele's process,
no calcareous benzoates are formed.
4. Ammoniacal gum resin, myrrh, gum elemi, gal-
banum,
