1 80 On prime and ultimate Ratios.
banum, tacamahaca, resin of common jalap, Venice tur-
pentine, oil of turpentine, and several other resinous and
gummo-resinous substances, gave the same results with
those obtained from the scammonies, sandarach, and o!i-
banum. From these facts we may infer that it is still dif-
ficult to resolve this question : Is it to the presence of an
acid in the resins, that we ought to ascribe the reddening of
turnsole ?
► If the acids alone had the property of reddening the blue
vegetable colours, we should not hesitate in recognising the
existence of this property in the resins, although experiments
have not yet proved it. As to the infusion of violets, over
which the resins have no action, this property is found in
the sublimated benzoic acid, which strongly reddens turn-
sole tincture, and which does not change the colour of vio-
'lets. Has this acid, notwithstanding its solubility in water,
any analogv to the resins ? We shall abstain from deciding
on this subject, although we are induced to believe that this
substance is a compound of a vegetable acid, and a small
quantity of resin, which perhaps gives it the concrete state:
lastly, as all the vegetable acids are soluble in water, it is
still difficult to ascribe to the presence of an acid, the pro-
perty which resins have of reddening turnsole. It seems
probable therefore, until some new experiments prove the
contrary, that we may regard it as being one of the cha-
racters of the resins to redden the blue colour of turnsole.
XXXIV. On prime and ultimate Ratios; with their Appli-
cation to the first Principles of the Jluxionary Calculus.
By Mr. Mark at.
JLyatio denotes the relation which two quantities bear to
each other.
The two quantities must be of the same kind, otherwise
no comparison can be made between them.
The measure of a ratio is obtained by considering what
part, or parts, one te. in of the ratio is of the other. Thus,
let a and b denote the tertns of a ratio, or let y express
any ratio; then, its measure is had by considering what
part, or parts, a is of b, '
Let us denote a by 6, and b by 2, then, -|= f, or 3 is the
measure of the ratio £ .
If a=2 and Z/=6, then, ■§.=-] ; or -J- is the measure of
the ratio of, |-; and so on for other quantities.
The
