On prime and ultimate Ratios. 187
The part b of the ratio is called the antecedent) and a is
its consequent.
The antecedent may be equal to the .consequent, and
then the ratio is called a ratio of equality ; though it would
be more proper to say, the terms of the ratio are equal :—
when the terms of a ratio are equal, its measure is always
equal to unity.
If the terms of a ratio vary, the measure of the ratio
may have any magnitude whatever ; and if one term re-
main constant while the olher\ varies, the measure of the
ratio will vary with the varying term.
Let — represent any ratio, and let a remain constant,
while b is variable; it is obvious that if b decrease, the
measure of the ratio will increase ; and, when b is become
indefinitely small, the measure of the ratio is then indefi-
nitely near to a; and when b entirely vanishes, the mea-
sure of the ratio is exactly equal to a.
On the contrary, when b increases, the measure of the
ratio decreases. Again, let b remain constant while a is
variable: then, as a increases the measure of the ratio in-
creases, but it decreases as a decreases, and when a entirely
vanishes the measure of the ratio is equal to —.
As another example, suppose we have the ratio >
where x is variable and a constant ; the measure of this
ratio may vary through all possible degrees of magnitude, as
in the preceding example.
1. Let x continually increase ; then, the measure of the
ratio — - will decrease; and when x is indefinitely great, it
will become nearly a constant ratio, or a ratio of equality ;
that is, the terms of the ratio will be nearly equal : be-
cause the addition of a to a quantity x which is indefi-
nitely great, will alter the measure of the ratio only in an
indefinitely small degree: hence it continually verges to a
ratio of equality as a limit.
2. Let x decrease ; then, the measure of the ratio r
x
will increase; and when x is indefinitely small, the measure
or the ratio is indefinitely .near to a:' when x vanishes, the
ratio is equal to a, exactly.
From the above illustrations it is exceedingly obvious,
that a ratio in which the terms continually vary, or where
one is variable and the other constant, or where part of one
term is constant, as in this latter example, — it is obvious,
I sa\>
