8 Observations on the Effects of
that the valley*; being of the same or usual form, which
descend into and much below the level of the sea, the se-
parating hills must have been of such usual form also; and
since, on following any mioe of hill on land, we scarcely
ever meet with a facade or perpendicular rise in or across its
height, it follows, that the numerous and almost invariably
abrupt endings of lulls at the sea, is the effect of their
abrasion, or being worn away by the waves, and not of
faults or depressions.
The 27th head dismisses the question, Whether the level
of the present sea has ever changed ? Here I cannot but
admire the address, with which M. De Luc has brought
the numerous and, indeed, invariable instances of the hori-
zontality of the new formed or modern alluvial lands, to
bear on the question, and prove, as several others of the facts
which he relates also do, that the sea has remained at its
present level, or verv near it, ever since the present race of
men, animals, or plants have existed upon the earth; and
1 may add perhaps, ever since the present race, of fish also,
have existed in its waters.
The remaining four heads, viz. the 23d, 24th, 25th, and
• 26th, relate to the question, What is the age of our present
Continents P From a chain of facts, too numerous for me
here to particularize, as they run through the whole book,
mv author endeavours to prove, and successfully, as I think,
_and have hinted already, that natural appearances and the
state of society concur in proving that, our continents can-
not at the most, be more ancient than the Scripture chrono-
logy represents them to be. i wait with some impatience
for the appearance of the 2d volume of these Travels, which
is to treat of scenes somewhat more familiar to me, and
am, sir, Yours, &c.
m July 1,1810. A. B.
II. Observations on the Effects of Magnesia, in prevent-
ing an increased Formation of Uric Acid; with some
Remarks on the Composition of the Urine. Communicated
by Mr. William T. 1>raxdk, F.R. t S. to the Society for
trie Improvement of Animal Chemistry, and by ihem to
the Royal Society*.
JVJ r. Home's inquiries into the functions ot the stomach,
and his discovery ol' liquids passing from the cardiac por-
tion, into the circulation or the Blood f, led him to con*
* From the Philosophical Traduction* for 1810, P.nrt I.
sider.
