1 90 On prima and ultimate Ratios,
creased, and the fluxion of the area is (#+ i) 2 — # 4 ; that
is = c jxx-\-x 2 . Now in order that we may neglect i ,;
without affecting the result of the operation, we must sup-
pose that x is a quantity less than any assignable, or that
it is only in a nascent state : according to this supposition,
the error, by neglecting x l , will be extremely small, and
will no way affect the fluxionary increase of the square ;
but, except x vanishes, and that would annihilate the
fluxional increase altogether, we are obliged to acknowledge
that the result is not strictly and logically true.
Again, let x and y denote the sides of a rectangle, and,
by the motion of those sides, let them become aj + iand
y+y) then, the fluxion of the area of this rectangle will
be (x-\-x) X (y+y) — XV, or = xy+iy + xy. Here, also, that
the rectangle iy .may be neglected, i and z/ must be inde-
finitely small, or in a nascent state; but even then an error
is committed, and, however trifling it may be, the result
will not be strictly and geometrically true. Fluxions, then,
do not produce results which are exactly true; but, as was
observed above, they give us approximations differing from
the truth by less than any assignable quantity, however
small, and, therefore, may be esteemed as true with respect
to their practical conclusion. To proceed further would
be of no use: the application of those principles to curvi-
linear spaces is given in every book of fluxions. What has
been given above may probably be of some use to students,
as it may possibly serve to elucidate the principles of a
science, which has been the instrument by which almost all
the improvements in philosophy have been brought to
light. The principle of such a science ought to be esta-
blished upon a sure foundation ; and should what has been
said be of any use in removing the cavils that have been
made against the fluxionary calculus, a service will be done
to philosophy, and the writer of this essay mav at least
hope to be excused for endeavouring to contribute some-'
thing towards elucidating the elements of those very use-
ful but too much neglected studies.
I remain, sir,
Your very humble servant,
Boston, Sept. 10, 1810. W. MARRAT.
XXXV. Com'
