[ 191 ]
XXXV. Comparative Examination of the Mucous Acid
formed by the Action of the Nitric Acid: \st 9 on the
Gums; Qdly, on the Sugar of Milk. ByM. Laugier*.
JYjL Vauquelin ascertained by his experiments on gam
arabic and gum tragacanth the existence of a very consi-
derable quantity of lime in these substances.
The perusal of his experiments suggested the following
reflections : —
1. What becomes of the lime contained in these gums
when we treat them by the nitric acid^ with the view of
procuring mucous acid ?
2. Is it not combined with the oxalic acid which is
formed almost at the same time with the mucous acid ?
3. The oxalate of lime being more insoluble in water
than the mucous acid, is it not precipitated with this acid,
when we wash the residue after the operation ? and does it
not alter in a sensible manner its properties ?
4. What ought to be the means of ascertaining the pre-
sence of the oxalate of lime in the mucous acid obtained
from the gums, and of separating this calcareous salt from
the acid whose purity it injures?
With a view to resolve these questions, I undertook the
following experiments :
I digested with eight parts (480 grammes) of pure nitric
acid at 360° one part (60 grammes) of gum tragacanth ;
I heated the mixture until it was reduced into a honey-like
substance, and I added a sufficient quantity of water.
The latter would not dissolve a white pulverulent matter,
which I gathered on a filter, and which when dried in the
air weighed {) grammes and a half, and this was mucous
acid. The liquor containing the soluble portion of the
mixture was of a yellow colour. I evaporated it, and did
not take it from the fire until I saw if covered with a slight
pellicle which was formed at its surface : by and by, upon
cooling, the liquor deposited a great quantity of crystals,,
some in lamince, others in needles very well defined as
oxalic acid. With the view of separating this last acid
from the mucous acid, I poured upon the mixture alcohol
at 40°, which dissolved the oxalic acid without touching the
mucous acid which I collected on a filter. The second
portion of mucous acid weighed two grammes 0*]0. The
.alcoholic solution furnished, on a gentle evaporation, a co-
• Anmi-Ui de Chimie, tome Ixxii. p. 81.
loured
