192 Comparative Examination of the Mucous Acid
loured mass, which I redissolved in water in order to ob-
tain whiter and purer crystals.
The mother waters of this second portion of mucous
acid and of oxalic acid, contained a mixture of oxalic and
malic acids, which I separated from each other, by means
which I shall not detail, because they would lead me away
from the principal object of my experiments,
The first portion of mucous acid which I obtained
weighed nine grammes and a half, it was very white; when
dried it had the grumous appearance of starch. This was
the substance which I employed in my experiments. I re-
jected the second portion, because it did not seem to be of
the same purity.
With the view of ascertaining the presence of the oxalate
of lime in this mucous acid, T mixed one part of the nitric
acid as above, with ten parts of distilled water, and poured
this mixture upon the nine grammes and a half of mucous
acid. I exposed the whole to a heat of 40 or 50 degrees
during twice 24 hours, taking care to stir it from time to
time, to facilitate the action of the solvent. I decanted the
supernatant liquor, in which ammonia immediately pro-
duced the precipitation of a white earthy salt,' in silky fila-
ments, which had all the physical properties of the cal-
careous oxalate.
A second portion of weak nitric acid, added to the sedi-
ment of the foregoing liquor, and left to itself during the
same time, furnished with ammonia a new quantity of
oxalate of lime.
It required eight portions of weak nitric acid, successively
added, to clear entirely from oxalate of lime the mucous
acid submitted to the experiment. Every time the am-
monia, when mixed with the decanted and filtered liquor,
separated from it a quantity of calcareous oxalate, the pro-
portion of which diminished at each digestion in a striking
manner. The ninth portion exhibited but very minute
traces of it.
The eight precipitates united together gave a total weight
of two grammes three decigrammes.
It was important to ascertain, if this substance, which
was foreign to the mucous acid, and whose appearance and
physical characters appeared to me to be similar to those
of the oxalate of lime, was really this calcareous salt.
With this view I boiled this substance, with a saturated
solution of carbonate of potash ; and when the reciprocal
decomposition of the two salts seemed to me to be com-
pleted, I collected on a filter the portion which was de-
posited,
