lQi Comparative Examination of the Mucous Acid
I took, in consequence, one part of sugar of milk, which
I boiled with eight parts of nitric acid of the same strength
with the foregoing. I separated by decantation the first
portions of mucous acid which were formed, and I added
to the residue a new quantity of nitric acid. A second
portion of mucous acid was deposited, which when united
with the first gave a total weight of twelve grammes, or the
fifth part of the sugar of milk submitted to the experiment.
I remarked that, after washing, this mucous acid, di-
luted in water, had an appearance equally flaky with that of
the gum when it was deprived of its oxalate of lime by
the weak acid. This remark inclined me to think that
this acid was much purer than that of the gum, and this
opinion was confirmed by the nitric acid having had no
action on it. It did not take up from it the smallest quan-
tity of oxalate of lime, after a long continued digestion, for
the ammonia did not take the slightest effect on the super-
natant liquor.
In addition to this, what leaves no doubt as to the per-
fect purity of the mucous acid of the sugar of milk, is, the
circumstance of its easily and entirely dissolving in boiling
water. This entire solubility in boiling water proves that
it enjoys a greater purity than the mucous acid of gum,
even when the latter has been purified by the means above
mentioned: in fact, the Tatter, well freed from oxalate of
lime, still leaves, when it is boiled with distilled water, an
insoluble flaky matter forming the 0*06 of its weight,
which dries into a gray horny semitransparent body, similar
in appearance to the mucous substance which connects the
molecules of animal concretions, although on burning
coals it does not furnish the ammoniacal and fetid smell
of animal compounds, and which furnishes on calcination
carbonate of lime. The too small quantity which I ob-
tained of it did not admit of my making experiments which
would have thrown more light on the nature of this body.
From the facts detailed in this memoir, we may draw
the following consequences :
1. There exists a very remarkable difference between the
mucous acid procured from gums, and that which we ob-
tain from the sugar of milk by the action of the nitric acid.
2. This difference consists in ahe first being constantly
altered by the mixture of a quantity of oxalate of lime in
proportion to that of the earth which the gums contain,
whereas the mucous acid of the sugar of milk does not
offer the slightest trace of this calcareous salt, and seems
perfectly pure.
3. We
