1 96 On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.
at first that I had thus produced the conversion of the
mucous acid either into malic acid or tartarous acid ; but
the experiments which I made to verity this opinion, do
iK)i vet appear sufficient to permit me to venture an opinion
on the nature or' the change which takes place in the ex-
periment which I have described.
XXXVI. On the Prussic and Prussous Acids. By Mr.
R. Porrett, Junior, of the Tower.*
v CONSIDERABLE differences of opinion exist among the
most celebrated chemists respecting the composition of the
prussic acid; some agreeing with Fourcroy and Vauquelin,
that Oxygen is one of its component parts, and others with
Berfholletand Proust, who dispute its presence. Mr. Proust,
in his history of the -prussiates, asserts, "That there is no
fact that indicates oxygen in- make a part of this acid, and
that from the well-known affinities of its three elements,
added to the circumstances under winch it is formed, it
can scarcely be thought that it does.'* This difference of
opinion implies a want of some decisive experiments, which
may set the question for ever at rest ; and those which I
am coins; to relate I am induced to think are of that de-
scription.
Some time back, F proposed to myself the discovery of
a method ot preparing a triple prussiate of potash, in a
pure state, which should be free from the objections to
which the processes in general use are subject. In reflect-
ing on the means most likely to attain this end, it occurred
to me, that I should succeed if I decomposed prussiate of
iron by double elective attraction rather than by single,
employing, instead of a pure potash, that alkali, in com-
bination with a substance uniting the properties of solu-
bility when combined with potash, strong attraction for
oxide of iron, and insolubility when unittd to that oxide.
The only substances I could think of possessing all these
requisite properties were the succinic acid and sulphur ; as
the high price of the former precluded its' use for ihis pur-
pose, I determined to employ the latter. I therefore took
oni- ounce of dry sulphuret of potash, and one ounce and a
half of the best prussian blue, previously well washed and
powdered, and put them into a Florence rla?k, two thirds
* From Traxtactwn* of the Society fur the Encouragemeyit of Arts, Manv-
s, and Commerce, vol. xxvii. The Society volcd their silver medal
to Mr. Porrett for this communication.
• filled
