Magnesia, in Calculous Complaints, 9
skier, that the generality of calculous complaints- might
possibly be prevented, by introducing into the stomach,
such substances as are capable of preventing the formation
of uric acid, and that this mode of treatment would have
many advantages over the usual method, which consists in
attempting to dissolve the uric acid after it is formed.
He consulted Mr. Uatchett on the substance most likely
to produce this effect, and asked if magnesia, from its in-
solubility in water, was not well adapted for the purpose,
as it wuuld remain in the stomach, until it idiould combine
with any acid, or be carried along with the food towards
the pylorus.
Mr. Hatchett knew of nothing more likely to produce
the desired effect; and on putting this theory to the lest of
experiment, it was found by a very careful examination of
the urine, that in several instances where there was an in-
creased formation of uric acid, magnesia diminished it in
a much greater, degree than had been effected by the use,
and that a very liberal one, of the alkalies in the same
patient.
This circumstance led Mr. Home to wish for a more .
'complete investigation of the subject,, and he requested
me to assist him in the* prosecution of it. Since that time
many opportunities have occurred of carrying on the in-
quiry du.mg. an attendance on patients labouring under
calculous complain; s.
It is proposed to lay the results of our joint labours be-
fore this society, with a view to establish a fact of so much
imnortauce in the treatment of those diseases.
Fhe four foilowmg cases include the principal varieties
of the disorder, which have been met with, and are there-
fore selected from among many others, to prevent unne-
cessary repetitions. In each of them the urine was occa-
sionally Carefully analysed
Cask I.
A gentleman, sixty years of age, who had been in the
fcabit of induVmg in the free use of acid liquors, had re-
peatedly passed small calculi composed entirely of uric
acid; his unne .immediately after being voided, depositee!
at all th.ies a considerable quantity of that substance, in
the form of a red powder, and occasionally in large
crystals.
Nine drachms of snbearbonate of soda, dissolved in wa-
ter highly impregnated with carbonic acid, and tak< n in
<he course oi the day at three doses, appeared to have no
effect
