200 On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.
the other salts with which it was contaminated, I asked
myself to what were its formation and the simultaneous dis-
appearance of the prussic acid, during the second ebullition,
owing? I could imagine but five causes for this that were
likely to have been efficient, concerning each of which I
made a question to be resolved by experiment, viz.
Ouestion I. Was it owing to the complete separation of
the oxide of iron from the triple of prussiate by the sul-
phur, and the subsequent decomposition of the simple prus-
siate by the heat of ebullition long continued ?
Question IT. Was it owing to the action of the sul-
phurous acid produced ? v
Ouestion TIT. Was it owing to the action of the sulphu-
retted hydrogen ?
Ouestion IV. Was it owing to a combination of the
prussiate of potash and sulphur?
Question V. Was it owing to the de-oxidation of the
prussic acid, by the hydroguretted sulphuret?
To answer jhe first question, it is only necessary to at-
tend to the results afforded by long-continued boiling of
the simple prussiate of potash. I shall state these results
as I find them recorded by professor Proust.
They are carbonate of ammonia, carbonate of potash,
and some simple prussiate that escapes decomposition, even
after four or five successive distillations : there is, therefore,
no analogy between the products of this experiment and
the liquid A; for, had the latter contained carbonate of
potash, it must have changed turmeric paper brown ; had
it contained carbonate of ammonia, it must have done the
same, and likewise have given out ammoniacal gas when
potash and lime were added ; it must also have turned blue
the solution of copper; 'and had it contained prussiate of
potash,, it must have produced prussiate of iron when added
to the green sulphate of that metal : it will be seen by re-
ferring to Table T. that none of these effects were produced.
Were further evidence necessary of the dissimilarity of the
two liquids, it might he mentioned that professor Proust
poured alcohol on the saline residuum of his distillation of
the prussiate, which took up a part that he found to be
prussiate of potash : had any of the tingeing salt B been
present, the alcohol must have dissolved that likewise, and
it could not have escaped his observation. We have, there-
fore, ample grounds for negativing the first question.
In order to answer the second question, I passed sul-
phurous acid gas for a long time through a solution of tri-
ple prussiate of potash; the prussic acid was expelled, and
sulphite
