On the Prussic and Pr us sous Acids. 201
su.pbite of potash formed ; but this sulphite was not mixed
with any tingeing salt. On the supposition that the disap-
pearance of the prussic acid, in the liquid A. might have
been owing to its having been expelled entirely by the sul-
phurous acid, and that the tingeing liquid resulted from the
mutual action of the other principles, namely, the oxide of
iron and hydroguretted sulphuret of potash; I subjected a
mixture of these materials to long boiling, but could not by
this means produce a liquid that tinted oxy-sulphateof iron
red. Sulphurous acid gas, passed through water in which
prussjan blue was diffused, did not in the least affect that
compound. These experiments completely refute the opi-
nioiton which the second question was grounded.
To enable me to replv to the third question, I passed sul-
phuretted hydrogen gas for several hours through a solu-
tion of triple prussiate of potash, on which it was found to
have no effect.
We shall be little disposed to allow that there is any
foundation for the fourth question, when we consider the
circumstances of the last -mentioned experiment, In which
sulphur in the state of the most minute division was of-
fered to the triple prussiate, without any combination en-
suing; and also when we compare the effects of the me-
tallic soluhons in Table II. with those which 'would ensue
with liquids containing sulphur. But, if any doubt should
still be entertained on this subject, the following experi-
ment will perhaps remove it: Into a solution of prussiate
of mercury throw some pieces of phosphuret of lime, the
oxide of mercury of this prussiate will thus be reduced and
separated from the liquid which is to be filtered ; some of
this liquid poured into carbonate of iron turns it red, the
red colour soon disappears, and a white precipitate begins
to form ; this white precipitate soon changes to green,
and if a little nitric or oxy-muriatic acid be now poured
upon it, it becomes a perfect blue prussiate of iron. This
experiment, in which a liquid turning a solution of iron
red was produced without the employment of a particle of
sulphur, goes very far to negative our fourth question;
and when considered in conjunction with the preceding
ones, we can hardly do otherwise than dissent from the
supposition which gave rise to that question.
But if the experiment last adduced tends to refute the
fourth question, it very strongly supports the fifth ; for the
changes of colour observable were undoubtedly owing to
successive stages of oxidation by the contact of the atmo-
sphere. In confirmation of this question, it may likewise
be
