202 On the Prussic and Prussous Acids,
be asserted, that the long boiling with the hydrdguretted
' sulphuret is a powerful de-oxidating process. But it will be
said to me, If it is really true that the prussic acid has been
deoxidated by this process, you ought to be able to recom-
pose that acid from the solution B by oxidation. This
struck me very Vorcibly ; and being anxious to give this
last proof of the truth of my deductions, I attempted the
recom position of this acid by several oxidating processes
for some time without success: 1 had at last, however, the
particular satisfaction of succeeding completely by the
agency of nascent hyper-oxy muriatic acid. The method
I employed was the following :
A little hyper-oxymuriate of potash was put into the bot-
tom of a glass tube. Over this some of the liquid B mixed
with a few drops of diluted sulphuric acid was poured. The
heat of a candle was then applied to the bottom of the tube ;
and as soon as a violent action commenced, the heat was
withdrawn : by this process the v prussic acid was repro-
duced, and was proved beyond the possibility of a doubt
by the formation of blue prussiate of iron, when poured in-
to a mixture of green and red sulphate of that metal. Blue
prussiate may also be produced at once, by substituting for
the diluted sulphuric acid, a solution of green sulphate of
iron, with excess of acid.
Having thus succeeded in proving that the tingeing prin-
ciple of the liquid B was sub-oxidized prussic acid, my next
object was to obtain that principle in a free state : for we
roust recollect that we have hitherto considered it onlv in
combination with potash, with which it formed a neutral
salt ; this circumstance gave me reason for supposing it an
acid, and I therefore determined to attempt its separation
by abstracting its base by a stronger acid. The following
was the process I employed for the purpose.
The liquid B was evaporated nearly to dryness, and put
into a retort with diluted sulphuric acid ; a receiver was then
adapted to it, and about two- thirds of, the liquid distilled
over by a gentle heat; what remained in the retort was sul-
phate of potash. The receiver contained a colourless liquid,
with a faint, sour, disagreeable smell, and a decided acid
taste. This liquor I have named, in conformity with the
principles of the new nomenclature, prussous acid, and its
salts prussileSf of which the liquid B contained one in so-
lution, namely the prussite of potash.
The effects of the prussous acid on the earthy and me-
tallic solutions, as far as I have tried them, are noted in the
following table.
Table
