204 On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.
I wish also to observe, that the proportion of prussian
blue I have mentioned for boiling with the sulphuret is
much larger than is necessary, as 1 have since succeeded in
obtaining prussite of potash when the proportion of prussian
blue was only equal to that of the sulphuret, but long boiled
with the latter in two distinct and' equal portions. The
prussite of potash thus obtained is, however, mixed with a
much larger quantity of hydroguretted sulphurct than when
a greater portion of prussian blue is employed.
Whether the prussous acid can be applied to any use,
time and future experiments must decide. It appears to me
to be a very delicate test of silver and of iron in solution. •
The preceding experiments, by proving the presence of
oxygen in prussic acid, give it a stronger claim than it be-
fore possessed for being placed among the acids.
The prussous acid possessing stronger acid properties
than the prussic is a curious, though not a solitary, instance
of the effect of oxygen in diminishing acidify, when its
quantity exceeds a certain fixed proportion; in this respect
the prussic acid is analogous to the oxy-muriatic. -
To recur to the attempt which gave rise to the researches
that are the subject of this memoir, I beg leave to state,
that I have succeeded in producing pure triple prussiate of
potash, by stopping the process before the change which
produced the prussite ensued, and by subsequent purifica-
tion of the lixivium from sulphates and sulphites, by acetate
of barytes ; from sulphur by acetate of lead ; and, lastly,
from the acetate of potash thus formed by crystallization 5
but on account of the complication of this process, 1 hesi-
tate to recommend it for general use.
Tower, London, April 21, 1809. ROBERT PoRRETT, Jun.
p.S. — It is essential to the success of the experiment, in
which the prussicacid is regenerated from the liquid B by the
nascenthy per-oxygenized muriatic acid, that the excess of
acid remaining in the liquid, after the oxygenizing process,
should be neutralized by an alkali previous to pouring it into
the solution of iron, which should likewise be perfectly
neutral.
May S, 1S09. PiOBERT PoRRETT, Jlin.
XXXVII. Memoir
