[ 205 ] ,
XXXVII. Memoir on the Muriate of Tin. By M. Be-
raid, Ex~ Projector of Chemistry in Mmtpellier.
-L he preparation on a large scale of muriate of tin has fur-
nished me w ith the opportunity of observing some interest-
ing facts. They will serve as appendages to those which
have been described by various writers, and perhaps may
tend to accelerate the discovery of an uniform and certain
method of preparing and using the composition for dyeing
scat let, which is a kind of salt of tin.
The solution of tin by the muriatic acid, as described by-
various authors, and as practised by Baume, is operated
by pouring on one part of the metal in a state of very mi-
nute division, lour parts of common muriatic acid, and as-
sisting the chemical action by the heat of a Band-batb. The'
water, which serves as a vehicle to the acid, is decomposed,
the oxygen oxidizes the metal, which is then combined with
the acid, while the hydrogen is liberated in the gaseous state,
carrying off with it some particles of the metal employed,
which render it very fetid. But the action is slow, and the
solution is effected in an imperfect manner. I observed
that a verv great part of the acid employed was evaporated
and lost ; and that if we wished to operate the entire solu-
tion of the metal, we must not only add acid in the place of
that which was evaporated, but also keep up the action by
heat for several days. I tried to perform this operation in
the cold way, and two months were insufficient. Bayer and
Charlard, in their inquiries upon tin, employed six months
in the operation. , r
M. Chaptal assists the chemical action between the mu-
riatic acid and the tin, by placing, when he has prepared this
,acid,the metal in the vessels ofWoolPs apparatus, m which
was the water which might to receive the vapours. The
heat which is extricated produces the best effect, and the
action becomes very brisk towards the end of the operation.
But *his ingenious contrivance still leaves something to be
desired, in so far as the acid only dissolves the fourth of its
weight of tin, and. we must terminate the solution by other
means.
We may operate the solution of tin still better by receiv-
ing into a large receiver, in \\ hich we have introduced a suf-
ficient quantity of the metal in minute division, the vapours
of muriatic acid, which are liberated from a mixture of mu-
riate of soda in powder and of sulphuric acid weakened to
the 40th degree of Baume's areometer. On operating a
simple
