206 On the Muriate of Tin.
simple distillation in this manner, the vapours of muriatic
acid are very easily condensed and combined.
If we direct vapours of oxygenized muriatic acid into a
vessel containing tin and common muriatic acid, the so-
lution takes place perfectly, and in a short time. The acid
at 20° then takes up one third of its weight in tin.
I tried various mixtures of muriatic acid and nitric acid,
from one- sixth part of the latter up to one-tenth ; all of
them acted on the tin with extreme heat and violence, the
substances being forcibly ejected from the vessel. One part
of nitric acid, or the aqua fortis of commerce, at 35° of
Baume's areometer, and twelve parts of common muriatic
acid, at 20°, form a mixture very well adapted for the so-
lution of tin, which is thereby operated in a very short
time. This acid when mixed takes up about one-third of its
weight of tin, and the solution extends to the 45th degree.
I tried to make the action of the muriatic acid, and that
of the atmospheric air, alternately concur on tin divided into
small pieces, in operating its solution, and I succeeded com-
pletely. For this purpose I filled a large glass saucer with
the tin, and covered it with muriatic acid at 20° for a few
hours ; I then poured the acid into another vessel, and it had
already ascended to the 25th degree. The tin becomes black
the moment it comes in contact with the air. There is an
absorption of atmospheric oxygen gas, an extrication of ca-
loric, which renders the metal very hot, and a lighted candle
when plunged into the saucer is speedily extinguished. As
soon as the vessel began to cool, I replaced the acid, which
acted with new vigour, and in a short time was as high as
35°. I withdrew it again, in order to give the action of the
air to the tin, and I rtplaced^it in the same manner, that it
might once more act. I repeated this operation from time
to time until the action ceased. In two days the solution
was at 45°, which it would attain e,ven in one day if we em-
ployed a series of saucers filled with tin: while the acid acts
upon some of the vessels, the air acts on the rest, and thus
the operation is never interrupted.
The muriatic solution of tin, when recent, combines
speedily with oxygen gas from the atmosphere, as Messrs.
Pelletier, Guyton Morveau, and other celebrated chemists
have observed. It is sufficient to turn upside down a bell-
glass, full of atmospheric air, on a capsule or saucer filled
with this liquor, in order to see the latter ascend Into the
bell-glass until all the oxygen be absorbed. The absorption
is still more rapid, and becomes almost total in a short time/
when
