10 Observations on the Effects of
effect whatever on the formation of uric acid; the red
sand was deposited as usual, and the small calculi continued
to form.
On account of the inefficacy of this medicine, he Was
advised to try the vegetable alkali, and three drachms of
subcarbonate of potash, dissolved in water slightly impreg-
nated with carbonic acid, were taken at similar intervals.
The deposit of uric acid in the urine was now some-
what diminished ; but during this free use of alkalies,
which, with little interruption, was persevered in for more
than a year, the small calculi still continued to be voided.
The very unusual disposition to form uric acid, and the
complete failure of the common alkaline medicines, ren-
dered this case particularly favourable for the trial of mag-
nesia, as it would afford an opportunity of comparing its
effects with those of the alkalies.
Previous to giving the magnesia, the urine was ex-
amined, to ascertain the quantity of uric acid it contained :
this being done, the patient was directed to take fifteen
grains of magnesia three times a day, in an ounce and a
half of infusion of gentian : in a week the uric acid was
found, by examining the urine, to have diminished in
quantity, and after the first three weeks it was only occa^
sionally met with.
The use of magnesia has been persevered in for eight
months, during which time no calculi have been voided,
nor has there been any material deposit in the urine.
This patient was extremely subject to heartburn, and he
likewise complained of a sense of w r eight and uneasiness
about the region of the stomach, both of which symptoms
have disappeared.
Case II.
A gentleman, about 40 years of age, had during four
years occasionally voided considerable quantities of uric
acid, in the form of red sand, and had once passed a small
calculus.
His urine was generally more or less turbid, and after
taking any iking which disagreed with his stomach, even
in a sligh-. degree, the red sand often made its appearance.
He had never used the alkalies nor any other medicine, to
alleviate his disorder : he was consequently desired to take
a drachm and a half of subcarbonate of soda, dissolved in
a pin: and a half of water highly impregnated with carbonic
acid, in the course of the day, and to persevere in this
treatment for some time.
On
