208 On the Muriate of Tin.
a silky mass of crystals of muriate of tin. If we purify
the crystals of muriate of tin by solutions in pure water
and by crystallization they assume more consistence and
more density.
The crystallized muriate of tin is very" soluble in cold
water; the solution lakes place verv speedily,' and produces
a considerable decrease of temperature. The mean decrease
of temperature in the experiments which I made was 9° of
Reaumur, the temperature of the atmosphere and that of the
substances employed being 5 Q . The mixture of the mother
waters and of pure water produces no change of temperature.
As I had observed that these mother waters became a
little fuming on being concentrated, I tried to distil both
the highly concentrated mother waters and crystallized
muriate, to see if I could not obtain a muriate of tin similar
to that which was known by the denomination of fuming
liquor of Libavius : I obtained at first a weak muriatic acid,
and afterwards the muriate passed into the receiver, where
it was sublimed into the neck of the retort in a white mass
formerly known by the name of butter of tin. With the
same view I passed muriatic acid gas as dry as possible
through the concentrated mother water of muriate of tin :
it became fuming, and gave crystals on its mixture with
pure water. JBufl ought to observe that the fuming li-
quor of Libavius exhales vapours much thicker and more
abundant, the whiter and the denser it is.
The combinations of muriatic acid and tin in the state
of solution, of crystals and of mother water, are always
effected with an excess of ,acid ; and we see from what has
been said, that all of them are susceptible of infinite varia-
tions in their state. We must not be astonished, therefore,
if the results which they produce in dyeing are so uncertain
and so different from each other. The least variable state
of muriate of tin seems to be that of very while and well-
formed crystals. It is in this state that this mordant ought
always to be employed in dyeing, by associating it with a
greater or less quantity of pure nitric acid, according to
the shade which we wish to obtain : such a composition
can alone be always uniform and give constant results.
By taking advantage of the facts contained in this me-
moir, it would he easy to describe a simple and advantageous
process for preparing on a large scale the muriate of tin in
crystals : I have nevertheless met with some very embarrass-
ing difficulties in the execution, which I have succeeded in
removing; and the full description of my labours will be
given in a subsequent memoir,
XXXVIII. The
