[ 209 ]
XXXVIII. The Case of a Man who died in consequence of
the Bile of a Rattlesnake : with an Account of the Ef-
fects produced by the Poison. By Everard Home,
Esq. F.R.S*
Opportunities of tracing the symptoms produced by
the bite of' poisonous snakes, and ascertaining the local
effects on the human body when the bite proves fatal, are
of such rare occurrence, that no well described case of this
kind is to be met with in any of the records that I have
examined. I am therefore induced to lay before this So-
ciety the following account, with the view of elucidating
this subject, in which the interests of humanity are so
deeply concerned.
Thomas Soper, 26 years of age, of a spare habit, on the
17th of October 180Q, went into the room in which two
healthy rattle-snakes, brought from America in the pre-
ceding summer, were exhibited. He teased one of them
with the end of a foot rule, but could not induce the snake
to bite it, and on the rule dropping out of his hand, he
opened the door of the cage to take it out : the snake im-
mediately darted at the hand, and bit it twice in succession*
making two wounds on the back part of the first phalanx
of the thumb, and two on the side of the second joint of
the fore finger. The snake is between four and five feet
long, and when much irritated bites the object twice, which
1 believe snakes do not usually do.
The bite took place at half past two o'clock. He went
immediately to Mr. Hanbury, a chemist in the neighbour-
hood. There was at that time no swelling on the hand^
and the man was so incoherent in his language and be-
haviour, that Mr. Hanbury considered him to be in a state
of intoxication^ and gave him a dose of jalap to take off
the effects of the liquor, and made some slight application
to the bites. It appeared on inquiry, that the man had
been drinking, but that before he was bitten there was no-
thing unusual in his behaviour. After leaving Mr. Han-
bury, the hand began to swell ; which alarmed him, and he
went to St. George's hospital. He arrived there at three
o'clock. The wristband of his shirt had been unloosed,
and the swelling had extended half way up the forearm be-
fore his admission. The skin on the back of his hand was
very tense, and the part very painful. At four o'clock the
* From the Philosophical Transactions for 181Q, Part I.
Vol. 36. No. 149. Sept. 1 8 10. O swelling
