310 The Case of a Man who died
swelling extended to the elbow, and at half past four it hat!
reached half way up the arm, and the pain had extended
to the axilla. At this time Mr. Brodie, who visited him in
my absence, firat saw him: he found the skin cold ; the
man's answers were incoherent: his pulse beat 100 strokes
in a minute, and he complained of sickness. Forty drops
of aqua ammonias puree, and thirty drops of spiritus setheris
vitriolici in an ounce of mistura camphorata, were given to
him, but did not remain on his stomach. The wounds
were bathed with the aqua ammonia purse, and the arm and
forearm had compresses wetted with camphorated spirits
applied to them. At five o'clock he took two drachms of
spiritus ammoniae compositus, and 30 drops of aether, in
an ounce and a half of mistura camphorata, which re-
mained on his stomach. At six o'clock his pulse was
stronger; at half past seven his pulse was very feeble, and
30 drops of aether, and the same quantity of aqua ammoniae
pure were given in water. At half past eight it was re-
peated. At nine o'clock he had the feeling of great de-
pression, his skin was cold, his pulse weak, beating 80
strokes iu a minute. The dose was increased to 50 drops
of both medicines, and repeated. At a quarter past ten
o'clock the pain had become very violent in the arm : hi*
pulse was stronger, but fits of faintness attacked him every
15 minutes, in which the pulse was not perceptible, but in
the interval his spirits were less depressed. In the course
of the evening he had two stools. At half past eleven
o'clock I first saw him. The hand, wrist, forearm, and
arm were much swelled up te> the top of the shoulder, and
into the axilla. The arm was quite cold, and no pulse
could be felt in any part, not even in the axilla, the swell-
ing preventing me from feeling the axillary artery with any
degree of accuracy. The wounds made on the thumb were
just perceptible ; those on the finger were very distinct.
His skin generally was unusually cold. I took some pains
to diminish his alarm of danger, and found his mind per-
fectly collected: he said he hoped he should recover. At
one o'clock in the morning of the 18th, he talked indi-
stinctly: his pulse beat 100 in a minute; the attacks of
faintness came on occasionally. The mediciue was re-
peated every hour.
At eight o'clock in the morning of the 18th, his pulse
beat 132 strokes in a minute, and was very feeble. The
swelling had not extended beyond the shoulder to the
neck, but there was a fulness down the side, and blood
was cxtiavasated under the skin as low as the loins, giving
the>
