hi consequence of the Bite of a Rattlesnake, 21 1
the hack on the right side a mottled appearance. The
whole arm and hand was cold, but painfnl when pressed;
the skin was very tense; on the inside of the arm below
the axilla, and near the elbow, vesications had formed;
and under each of the vesications there was a red spot in
the cutis, of the size of a crown piece. The skin generally
over the body had become warm. He was low and de-
pressed ; there was a tremulous motion of his lips, and the
faintings recurred at nearly the same intervals as in the
preceding evening. The last dose of medicine was re-
jected by vomiting, but some warm wine remained on his
stomach. The arm was fomented. At twelve o'clock, in
addition to the above symptoms, there was a starting of his
limbs. He had attempted to take some broth, but his
stomach did not retain it. The skin of the whole arm had
a livid appearance, similar to what is met with in a dead
body, when putrefaction has begun to take place, unlikfc
any thing which I had ever seen in so large a portion of the
living body. An obscure fluctuation was felt under the
skin of the outside of the wrist and forearm, which induced
me to make a puncture with a lancet, but only a small
portion of a serous fluid was discharged. My colleague,
Dr. Nevinson, was present at this visit, and we agreed to
continue the internal use of the volatile alkali, with the
view of rousing the stomach to action, not considering it as
having any specific power over the poison. • At eleven
o'clock in the evening, finding that his stomach did not
always retain the medicines, nor even small quantities of
brandy, which we're given him, I directed the volatile alkali
to be left off, and two grains of opium to be given, and
repeated every four hours. At this time his pulse was
scarcely perceptible at the wrist, the fainting fits were not
less frequent. The vesications and red spots were increased
in size.
October 19. At nine o'clock in the morning his pulse
was scarcely perceptible: his extremities were cold; the
vesications were larger, and the size of the arm was dimi-
nished. He was drowsy, probably from the effect of the
opium. He had taken nothing but brandy during the
night. At three o'clock in the afternoon he was more
depressed : spoke only in whispers : the vesications were
increased: the fainting fits less frequent. The aim wa$.
diminished in size, and he had sensation in it down to the
fingers. At eleven o'clock at night his pulse beat 130 in a
minute, and was low. The opium was left off. A stool
was procured by clyster. He was ordered to have a glass
2 of
