JU The Case of a Man who died
of camphoaated mixture occasionally, and wine and brandy
as often as he could be induced to take them.
October 20. He had dozed at intervals during the night;
his spirits were better, and his extremities warmer. At
nine o'clock he took coffee for breakfast. He afterwards
took some fish for dinner, but it did not remain on his
stomach ; he therefore took brandy and coffee at intervals,
half an ounce at a time, as larger quantities did not remain
on his stomach.
October 21. He had slept at intervals during the night,
but was occasionally delirious : his pulse 120 in a minute.
Brandy and jelly were the only things that stayed on his
stomach. The size of the arm was reduced, but the skin
was extremely tender.
October 22. He had slept during the greatest part of
the night : his pulse beat <JS in a minute : he took some
veal for dinner, and brandy at intervals. In the evening
his pulse became full and strong : he was ordered wine in-
stead of brandy. The right side of the back down to the
loins was inflamed and painful ; and had a very mottled
appearance, from the extravasated blood under the skin.
October 23. His pulse continued full, and the arm was
very painful, though reduced in size. The vesications had
burst, and the exposed cutis was dressed with white oint-
ment. Stools were procured by an opening medicine. He
took some veal and porter for dinner; the wine was left
off. In the evening he had a saline draught with anti-
monial wine.
October 24. There was no material change.
October 25. His pulse had increased in frequency, but
fn other respects he was nearly the same. His bowels were
opened by medicine.
October 26. The arm was more swelled and inflamed.
October 27. The inflammation of the arm had in-
creased : his tongue was furred, and his pulse was very fre-
quent. He attempted to sit up, but the weight of the arm
and the pain prevented him. The arm was bathed with
spirits of wine and aqua ammonia acetata; in equal quan-
tities.
October 28. A slough had begun to separate from the
inside of the arm below the axilla, and a purging had come
on, for which he was ordered chalk mixture and laudanum.
In the night he had a rigor.
October 29. The purging had abated ; his pulse beat
100 in a minute, and was feeble. A large abscess had
formed on the outside of the elbow, which was opened,
and
