in consequence of the Bite of a Rattle-snake. 213
and half a pint of reddish brown matter was discharged
with sloughs of cellular membrane floating in it. The
lower part 'of the arm became much smaller, but the upper
part continued tense. A poultice was applied to the
wound. The lower portion of the arm and the forearm
were covered with circular stripes of soap cerate. He was
ordered to take the bark, and allowed wine and porter.
October 30. The redness and swelling of the upper part
of the arm had subsided : the pulse was 100 in a minute.
The purging had returned. The bark was left off: the
chalk mixture and laudanum were given, and an opiate
clyster administered.
October 31. The pulse beat 120 in a minute. The
discharge from the abscess had diminished, the purging
continued, and at night he had a rigor.
November 1. The pulse was 1 20. His voice was feeble ;
he had no appetite; was delirious at intervals. Ulceration
had taken place on the opening of the abscess, so that it
was much increased in size. He drank two pints of porter
in the course of the day.
November 2. His pulse was very weak ; his countenance
was depressed ; his tongue brown ; the ulceration had spread
to the extent of two or three inches. Mortification had
taken place in the 6kin nearer the axilla. His stomach re-
jected every thing but porter: in the night he was de-
lirious.
November 3. The mortification had spread consider-
ably ; the purging continued : the forefinger, which had
mortified, was removed at the second joint,
November 4, He died at half past four o'clock in the
afternoon.
Sixteen hours after death, the body was examined by
Mr. Brodie and myself, in the presence of Mr. Maynard,
the house surgeon, and several of the pupils of the hospital.
With the exception of the right arm which had been
bitten, the body had the natural appearance. The skin was
clear and white; and the muscles contracted.
The wounds made by the fangs at the base of the thumb
were healed, but the puncture made by the lancet at the
back of the wrist, was still open. That part of the back
of the hand, which immediately surrounded the wounds
made by the fangs, for the extent of an inch and a half in
every direction, as also the whole of the palm, was in a
natural state, except that there was a small quantity of ex-
travasated blood in the cellular membrane. The orifice of
the abscess was enlarged, so as to form a sore on the outside
3 Ot
