214 The Case of a Man who died
of the arm, elbow, and forearm, near six inches in length.
Around this, the skin was in a state of mortification, more
than half way up the outside of the arm, and as far down-
wards, on the outside of the forearm. The skin still ad-
hered to the biceps flexor muscle in the arm, and flexor
muscles in the forearm, by a dark-coloured cellular mem-
brane. Every where else in the arm and forearm, from the
axilla downwards, the skin was separated from the muscles,
and between these parts there was a dark-coloured fluid,
with an offensive smell, and sloughs of cellular membrane
resembling wet tow, floating in it. The muscles had their'
natural appearance every where, except on the surface,,
which was next the abscess. Beyond the limits of the
abscess, blood was extiava«ated in the cellular membrane,
and this appearance was observable on the right side of the
hack as far as the loins, and on the right side of the chest
over the serratus major amicus muscle.
In the thorax the lungs had their natural appearance.
The exterior part of the loose fold of the pericardium, where
it is exposed, on elevating the sternum was dry, resembling
a dried bladder. The cavity of the pericardium contained
half an ounce of serous fluid, which had a frothy appear-
ance, from an admixture of bubbles of air. On cutting
into the aorta, a small quantity of blood escaped, which
had a similar appearance. The cavities of the heart con^
tained coagulated blood.
Jn the abdomen, the cardiac portion of the stomach was
moderately distended with fluid : the pyloric portion was
much contracted; the internal membrane had its vessels
very turgid with blood. The intestines and liver had a
healthy appearance. The gall bladder was moderately full
of healthy bde. The lacteal? and the thoracic duct were
empty; they had a natural appearance.
In the cranium the vessels of the- pia mater and brain
were tunrid with blood ; the ventricles contained rather
more water than is usual, and water was effused into the
cells connecting the pia mater and tunica araehnoides. It
is to be observed, that these appearances in the brain and
its membranes are very frequently found in cases of "acute
diseases, which terminate fataliy.
The following cases were sent from India, to my late
friend Dr. Patrick Russell: thev arrived after his deaths
and Mr. Claude Russell very kindly gave them to me,
knowing the subject of them to be one in which I had
taken an interest. As they correspond in many of the
circumstances with that which has been detailed, I have
inserted
