in consequence of the Bite of a Rattle-snake. ^15
inserted them in this place, as well as an experiment which
1 had an opportunity of making in the West Indies, on the
effects or the snake's poison on animals.
A boy, a slave of a gentlemen in India, was bitten by a
snake called Kamnlee by the natives, in the lower part of
the arm, at eight o'clock in the evening. The blood ilowed
very freely for some time. He died next day at noon in
great pain.
A sepoy, €0 years of age, was admitted into the hospital
of his regiment, under the care of Mr. Perrin, assistant
strhjeon, at lour o'clock in the afternoon of the 15th of
Oc.ober, 1802, in consequence of his being bitten by a
cobra di capello on the back part of the hand. At the
time of his admission he complained of pain running up
the arm. He immediately took a drachm of eaw de luce,
and this dose was repeated every half hour, and the same
remedy was applied externally as a lotion to the arm and
forearm. At four o'clock in the morning of the 16th of
October, the pain be^an to increase, and the arm to swell
with great hardness and stiffness, and tumour in the axilla^
with much inclination to vomit. He took twelve grains
of Dr. James's powder, which brought up a great quantity
of bilious matter. He drank copiously of warm water, but
no perspiration was induced. He appeared relieved for a
short lime. At eight o'clock in the morning the arm was
distended, painful, and discoloured. He took four ounces
of brandy, and repeated it every hour until twelve o'clock,
with a drachm of eau de luce occasionally. At this time
he was a little revived. The brandy was reduced to two
ounces, which were carefully and regularly given every
hour, until twelve at noon on the 17th of October, when
the arm was more free from pain, but much swelled, hard,
and black : his spirits and pulse also were considerably re-
lieved. The eau de luce was now omitted, but the brandy
was continued every hour, until twelve o'clock at noon on
the 18th of October, when the stiffness and tumor in the
axilla had disappeared ; the arm was still swelled, but was
softer, and less painful. The brandy was omitted: at
night he took six grains of Dr. James's powder. On the
lyth of October the arm was less, softer, with little or no
pain ; a blister was formed and burst on the back of the
hand, which discharged three ounces of black foetid pus.
On the 20th, an abscess burst on the hand, in the same
situation as the blister, which discharged a large quantity
of a fluid having an offensive smell. lie was directed to
O 4 take
