hi consequence of the Bite of a Rattle-snake. 21 7
It appears from the facts which have been stated, that
the effects of the bite of a snake vary according to the in-
tensity of the poison.
When the poison is very active, the local irritation is so
sudden and so violent, and its effects on the general system
are so great, that death soon takes place. When the body
is afterwards inspected, the only alteration of structure met
with, is in the parts close to the bite, where the cellular
membrane is completely destroyed, and the neighbouring
muscles very considerably inflamed. *
When the poison is less intense, the shock to the general
system does not prove fatal. It brings on a slight degree
of delirium, and the pain in the part bitten is very severe;
in about half an hour, swelling takes place from an effu-
sion of serum in the cellular membrane, which continues
to increase with greater or less rapidity for about twelve
hours, extending during that period into the neighbourhood
of the bite ; the blood ceases to flow in the smaller vessels
of the swoln parts ; the skin over them becomes quite cold,
the action of the heart is so weak, that the pulse is scarcely-
perceptible, and the stomach is so irritable, that nothing
is retained in it. In about (50 hours these symptoms go
off, inflammation and suppuration take place in the injured
parts, and when the abscess formed is very great, it proves
fatal. When the bite has been in the finger, that part has
immediately mortified. When death has taken place under
such circumstances, the absorbent vessels and their glands
have undergone no chance similar to the effect of morbid
poisons, flor has any part lost its natural appearance, ex-
cept those immediately connected with the abscess.
In those patients who recover with difficulty from the
bite, the symptoms produced by it go off more readily, and
more completely, than those produced by a morbid poison
which has been received into the system.
The violent effects which the poison produces on the part
bitten, and on the general system, and the shortness of their
duration, where they o*o not terminate fatally, has frequently
induced the belief, that the recovery depended on the me-
dicines employed ; and 10 the East Indies eau de luce is
considered as a specific for the cure of the bite of the cobra
fii capello.
There does not appear to be any foundation for such an
opinion; for, when the poison is so intense as to give a
sufficient shock to the constitution, death immediately takes
place, and where the poison produces a local injury of suf-
ficient
