Magnesia in Calculous Complaints. , 1 1
On the 30th of January 1 809, he left Loudon, and re-
turned on the 6th of March following.
During his absence he had voided rather less uric acid
than usual, but had had one severe attack, in conse-
quence of which, twenty drops of the solution of pur©
potash were added to each dose of the soda water : this,
however, had not the desired effect ; for on the 10th of
March, having taken more wine than usual on the preced-
ing day, he was attacked with pain in the right kidney,
and voided with his urine a considerable quantity of uric
acid, in the form of minute red crystals. During the suc-
ceeding day, he made but little water, which deposited a
copious sediment of red sand.
For the removal of ibis symptom, he was directed to take
magnesia, in the dose of twenty grains every night and
morning, in a little water; for three successive days his
bowels were unusually relaxed, but. afterwards became re-
gular. He persevered in its use for six weeks without in-
termission : his urine was several times examined during
that period, and contained no superabundant uric acid; and
he has not had the slightest return of his complaint, al-
though he has put himself under no unusual restraint in
his mode of Jiving.
Case III.
About the middle of October 1808, a gentleman, forty-
three years of -age, after talcing violent horse exercise, was
seized with pain in the right kidney and ureter. In the
course of the night he passed a small uric calculus. For
some months previous to this attack, he bad felt occasional
pain in the kidney, but had never voided either calculi or
sand. His urine was now always turbid, and occasionally
deposited red sand.
On the 28th of October he began the use of soda water,
and for a time his urine was much improved in ap-
pearance, but the uric acid gradually returned, and at the
end of December, notwithstanding the. continued use o£
the soda water, he voided more sand, and his urine was
more loaded with mucus than it had ever been before.
In consequence of these symptoms, on the 3d of January
1809, he was directed to take twenty grains of magnesia
every night.
The urine was examined after the third dose, and the
deposit of red sand was diminished in quantity, but it
did not disappear entirely, ai:er the magnesia had been
taken for three weeks.
About.
