218 On extracting liquid Sugar
ficient extent, the patient also dies, while all slighter cases
recover.
The effect of the poison on the constitution is so imme-r
diate, and the irritability of the stomach is so great, that
there is no opportunity of exhibiting medicines till it has
fairly taken place, and then there is little chance of beneficial
effects being produced.
The only rational local treatment to prevent the secon-
dary mischief, is making ligatures above the tumefied part,
to compress the* cellular membrane, and set bounds to the
swelling, which only spreads in the loose parts under the
skin ; and scarifying freely the parts already swoln, that the
effused serum may escape, and the matter be discharged as
soon as it is formed. Ligatures are employed in America,
but with a different view, namely, to prevent the poison
being absorbed into the system.
JXXXIX. On extracting liquid Sugar from Ajjplcs and
Pears.
JL he high price of sugar in France, occasioned by circum-
stances connected with the war, has induced the French
chemists to endeavour to discover processes by which sac-
charine substitutes may be extracted from vegetable sub-
stances produced in the Old World. On this subject M. Du-
buc has lately published in the jinnalrs de Ckimie various
experiments on extracting sugar from apples and pears. As
these were chiefly for the purpose of ascertaining the quan-
tity produred by different varieties of apples and pears pro-
duced in France, it will be quite sufficient for the English
reader to state ihe process and the general result.
Boil eight quarts of the juice of ripe apples in a brass
pan for about a quarter of an hour, and then, for the pur-
pose of neutralizing the acid of the fruit, add, in four sepa-
rate portions, about two minutes after each other, ten
drachms of finely pounded chalk. The chalk occasions an
effervescence in the juice, by the escape of the carbonic acid
from the chalk in the form of gas. The boiling is to be con-
tinued for eight or ten minutes longer, and the mixture to
be kept stirred, to multiply the points of contact between the
ju'cc and the chalk.
The whites of three eggs beat up in three glasses of cold
water are then to be added at once to the mixture, and well
jstirred into it for the purpose of clarifying the syrup. Let
it
