from Apples and Pears. 210
h still boil for a quarter of an hour. The white of the eggs,
coagulating by the boiling, entangles the impurities of the
juice, which is then to be strained through a flannel strainer
supported at the four corners.
When about half-cooled strain it again, that it may be
well clarified.
By these operations the juice loses about one-third of its
weight. What remains is to be reduced to about one-half
of its bulk bv boiling ; after which the heat must be lower-
ed ; but the evaporation must be continued below the boil-
ing point, until the syrup be so concentrated, that on cool-
ing it may be of the consistence of common treacle.
Those who are acquainted with chemical processes will
know, when it is sufficiently concentrated by observing the
pellicle formed on its surface. A vessel capable of contain-
ing a quart, or two pounds of water, will contain 2lb. 10 oz.
of svrup or liquid sugar.
This liquid sugar is represented as savoury, fresh, and
capable of sweetening water very well, or even milk without
curdling it.
In one of M. Dubuc's experiments the juice had a milky
look, even after the white or egfts was added. To remedy
this, h< employed twelve drachms of powdered charcoal,
and stirred and boiled the mixture for about ten minutes ;
alter which he strained it once through a conical bag, and
wh«m nearly cold passed it through the filter a second time,
the sediment of the first filtration being left to make the filter
the closer.
The success of this experiment induced him to try to ob-
tain the clarified liquid sugar by using chalk and charcoal
only, without employing white of eggs. To six quarts of
apple juice boiled for a quarter of an hour, he added, at four
separate times; two minutes from each other, a mixture of
seven drachms of chalk, and one drachm of small coal in
fine powder. The boiling was continued till the liquid was
reduced one half: when half cooled it was passed through
flannel, as directed above, and when nearly cold was strained
a second time, and lastly it was evaporated with the above-
mentioned precautions.
The process for extracting the saccharine matter from
pears diners not at all from the above ; but more chalk seems
to be required to saturate and separate the acid.
If the fruit be suffered to lie bruised for about 24 hours
before expressing the juice, the produce of sugar will be
greater, — this process contributing in some way or other
fo the development of the saccharine principle.
When
