220 On Musical Time,
When the boiling heat is too long continued, the colour
of the syrup becomes darker. Does not this serve to sug-
gest that the process might be improved by employing a wa-
ter bath, instead of applying the heat directly to the boiler
or kettle ?
XL. On Musical Time*
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, It has long been a matter of just complaint among
musicians, that no method has yet been invented to regulate
musical time. The terms Largo, Adagio, Andante, Presto,
&c. seem to be mere terms of expression, and not the de-
finite characters of time; for it is absurd to suppose that
these terms mean any portion of time whatever, so that the
performer is left entirely to use his own taste and judgement.
To remove this imperfection, Loulie, a French musician, in^
vented an instrument called The Musical Chronometer, for
the purpose of measuring time by means of a pendulum.
But this instrument, though it appears perfect in theory,
could never be brought into practice, either from the trouble
of adjusting it at the beginning of every movement, or the
difficulty which the performer experienced in conforming to
mechanical rules.
Another chronometer of a more simple construction hag
$ince been invented, consisting of a tape graduated into feet
and inches, with a plummet affixed to it. The way of using
this instrument is to prefix one of the notes to each move-
ment, and also the length of the pendulum, which vibrates
once during its performance. But surely this method must
be attended with as much uncertainty as to find the time
that a person would be in walking a mile, by finding what
time it would take him to walk a yard.
Although these modes of introducing chronometers have
hitherto failed, yet I am inclined to believe, that, by a proper
use of timerkeepers, it will be very easy for the present and
future composers to fix the time to their music, so as not to
be misunderstood even by a young performer. This may be
done very correctly without any other instrument than a
pocket- watch which shows minutes and seconds : Thus,
Let the composer take notice of the number of minutes
and seconds that elapse during the performance of' any
movement, according to the time in which he intends it
should be played or sung, and let these numbers be written
at the beginning of it. The words Largo, Adagio, An-
dante,
