Analysis of Socotrine and Hepatic Aloes. 221
dante, Presto, &c. should still be used as terms of ex-
pression, — not as the definite characters of time.
Suppose, for example, that a piece consists of three move-
ments : — the first is performed id to', 40" ; the second in
(i\ 30"; and the third in 8', 10". These figures being
written at the beginning of each respectively, will convey an
exact idea of the author's time to all future performers. And
thus a check may be put upon the licentiousness of the
fiddle-slick ; for some performers are so rapid in their move-
ments, as to neglect both taste and expression. This rapid
mode of playing seems to be a growing evil ; for it has been
said by good judges of the subject, that Handel's music
was performed much slower a century ago, than it is in our
best concerts at this time.
St. Austin Street,
Sept. 23, 1810. W.
XLT. Comparative Analysis of Socotrine and Hepatic Aloes .
By M. Tromsdorff. Extracted by M. Vogel*.
Jljesides the two kind of aloes known by the name of
socotrine and hepatic, there are two others, one of which,
lucid aloes, is extremely rare, and the other, cahalline aloes,
is so inferior, and so variable in its qualities, that M. Troms-
dorff did not think it worth alluding to in his inquiries.
After having spoken of the natural history and of the ex-
traction of the juice of the plant, an analysis of the two
kinds is given, and it is this part of his worjc that we pro-
ceed to notice.
Experiments on Socotrine Aloes.
Action of tvater. a.) Four ounces of socotrine aloes
pounded, were boiled with three pounds of distilled water
in a silver vessel. The aloes, being entirely dissolved, pre-
sented a transparent liquid of a deep yellow; but, when al-
lowed to cool, a yellow powder was precipitated. When
the liquor was quite cold it was decanted and filtered, and
a brown transparent mass remained at the bottom of the
vessel.
After desiccation, this substance weighed one ounce, and
exhibited the following character : —
1. ft was transparent, of a brownish yellow, very brittle,
and of a titter taste.
2. It melted at a gentle heat.
* Aivialcs de Chimir, tome lxviii. p. 11.
3. It
