2£2 Comparative Analysis of
. 3. It was insoluble in water, but very soluble in alcohol
and in liquid potash.
4. When a lighted candle was applied to it, it burned
with a brisk flame.
l'Voin the above it is evident that this substance was the
resinous part of the aloes. It is also very remarkable, that
this great quantity of resin, joined to the other parts of the
aloes, is easily soluble in warm water; but it is separated
from it on cooling.
b.) The aqueous solution, which contained three ounces
of dissolved parts, acted in the following manner: —
1. It was perfectly transparent, or' a golden ye' low colour :
when placed in contact with the air, it became of a brown
colour, but without being turbid.
2. It reddened turnsole paper.
3. The alkalis and the alkaline carbonates deprived it
of the property of reddening the blue colours, but these
solutions produced no other changes in it.
4. Some drops of muriate of iron at the maximum pro-
duced a black colour.
5. The nitrates of silver and of lead disturbed it slightly j
nitric acid restored its transparency to the liquor.
6. The sulphuric, nitric, and muriatic acids precipitated
from it a small quantity of a yellow powder, which acted
like a resin, and which did not exceed 0-02.
7. A solution of animal gelatine experienced no change
in it.
c.) The aqueous solution was evaporated to dryness in
the sand-bath : there remained a mass similar to aloes, and
of a bitter taste. It was completely dissolved in hot or
cold alcohol.
Ether which was digested with part of this powder was
not coloured with it, and did not dissolve a single atom of
it.
These properties induced the author to take that part of
the aloes for the principle which M. Hermstadt designated
by the name of saponaceous principle, or soap of plants ; the
essential character of which is solubility in water and in
alcohol, but insolubility in ether.
This saponaceous principle is found in several vegetables,
as in saffron, rhubarb, &c. : it is nevertheless probable that
there are different species of a more or less bitter taste.
Action of Alcohol, a.) Four ounces of aloes were di-
gested with 16 ounces of alcohol. The solution was com-
plete, and there only remained on the filter 12 grains of lig-
neous matter which was contained in the aloes.
b.) The
