Analysis of Aloes. 225
tained by cutting transversely tbe leaves of the aloe perfo-
liata socotrina, placing earthen vessels underneath it to
receive the juice, which is thickened in the sun.
The aloes which was made the subject of the examina-
tion is of a yellowish red, and semi-transparent : it pre-
sents, in its fracture, several yellow points which glister on
a red ground : reduced to powder it is a fine yellow colour :
it has a very bitter taste, and a smell which some persons
think is not disagreeable: it does not become electrical on
friction.
• When exposed to a heat of 80° + of Reaumur, it be-
gins to soften, and then melts : on account of its being
easy of fusion, it is much easier to pulverize it in winter
than in summer. If we present a piece of it to the flame
of a candle, it melts with a crackling noise, and inflames.
§ II. 50 grammes of aloes were distilled at a heat very
gentle at first, and incapable of decomposing it, when the
following products were obtained : 1st. Eight grammes of
water charged with an essential oil which gives aloes their
smell. 2d. At a greater heat there passed over 8*7 gram-
mes of almost colourless water, in which I found one gram-
me of acetic acid, but no ammonia, on adding quicklime
in powder to the liquor. 3d. Five grammes of a heavy red
oil soluble in alcohol. 4th. A great quantity of oleaginous
hydrogen gas and carbonic acid. 5th. There remained in
the retort (which had begun to melt) twenty grammes of a
hard charcoal very voluminous and honeycombed, which
retained a great quantity of hydrogen, which we saw burnt
by exposing it a long time in a crucible at a strong heat in
order to incinerate it, which was impossible : it preserved all
its blackness, its shining appearance, and a great hardness :
it had lost however 12*5, which I attribute in a great mea-
sure to the hydrogen. The 7*5 grammes which remained
did not contain any potash. This charcoal was treated
with muriatic acid : the filtered liquor was precipitated by
ammonia, which separated oxide of iron and a small quan-
tity of phosphate or lime : the carbonate of potash preci-
pitated some decigrammes of carbonate of lime.
If we heat nitric acid on this charcoal, we obtain a small
quantity of tanning matter which precipitates strong glue.
§111. Aloes in powder, bruised in a glass mortar witli cold
water, yielded a mass which, squeezed through the hands,
was tacky like turpentine. We succeeded in obtaining
a complete solution by adding water in successive quanti-
ties, but it required a great quantity ; the last portion which
remained to dissolve was similar to the first in point of
Vol. 36. No. 149. Sept. 1810. P bitterness
