226 Analysis of Aloes,
bitterness and its other properties : this solution becatfrtj
frothy on being shaken.
One hundred and forty-eight grammes of water at 3'&°-\- &
of Reaumur were sufficient entirely to dissolve four grammes
of aloes, with the exception of one decigramme of an im-
pure ligneous matter : the liquor became turbid as it cooled,
and deposited part of the matter dissolved. This solubility
of aloes in water increases in such a manner, in consequence
of heat, that we may obtain a syrupy solution, which then
ceases to deposit any sediment.
When tried by the re- agents, the solution of aloes in
water presented the following effects :
1. It reddened turnsole tincture in a very marked man-
Tier.
2. The alkalis and lime water render the colour darker^
without precipitating any thing from it.
3. The sulphate of iron produces a brown colour, and a
precipitate of the same colour soOn afterwards.
4. The decoction of gall nuts forms a flaky yellowish
precipitate. The supernatant liquor is much less bitter, and
weaker in colour.
5. The subacetatje of lead also produces a precipitate in
this liquor. The supernatant liquor becomes almost co-
lourless.
6. The nitrate of copper and of lead and muriate of tin
produce slight sediments in it, but which do not appear to
me to be true chemical combinations; for solutions of
muriate of soda and of the other neutral salts produce quite
as much. These saline matters therefore acton the solution
of aloes in the same manner as upon that of tannin in
water, bv weakening the action of this fluid on the not
very soluble matter which is dissolved in it.
The above solution of aloes, which was of a fine golden
colour, was put into three bottles : the first, which held a
pint, was entirely filled with it and well corked : the second,
which was* of the same capacity, was half rilled and left
open : the third, being a medicine phial, was one quarter
filled. In two months and a half the following phaenomena
were observed : The liquor of the first bottle had preserved
its colour without alteration; that of the second was a very
dark red, and was discoloured by the oxygenized muriatic
acid, which produced a flaky precipitate. Jn the third a
quantity of mucus was formed. The coloured liquor of
these two last bottles had acquired a kind of viscositv. It
would seem, in fact, that there is a substance produced ana-
logous to gelatine; for the decoction of gall nuts formed in
it
