12 Observations on the Effects of
About this time (on the 26th of January) he caught
cold, and his urine was again veryaurbid, but this was
found to be wholly the effect of mucus, and the symptom
soon left him.
On the 30ih of January he took twenty grains of mag-
nesia, and repeated it every night and motning, until the
1st of March, when his urine was perfectly healthy, and
he left it off.
On the 1st of June he again voided a little uric acid, in
the form of red crystalline sand : this attack was attended
with a slight pain along the right ureter. He returned to
the use of the magnesia, which he took twiee a day for
three weeks, in the same dose as before, and from that time
to the middle of November there had been no symptoms
of a return of tire complaint.
Case IV.
A gentleman, aged fifty- six, after recovering from a se-
vere tit of the gout, voided constantly a large quantity of
mucus in his urine, a symptom which he had never before
noticed. There was also, occasionally, abundance of red
•?and, consisting principally of uric acid, but he had never
voided a calculus.
His stomach was uncommonly weak, he was often af-
fected with heartburn, and an almost constant pain in the
neighbourhood of the right kidney. He had been in the
habit of taking tincture of bark, and other spirituous me-
dicines, from a belief that the pain in his right side arose
from gout in the stomach. ,
H« had aheady attempted to use the alkalies, which had
produced such unpleasant sensations in the stomach, that he
could not be prevailed upon to try them again in any form.
Under these circumstances, he readily acceded to a new
plan of treatment. He was directed to omit the use of
spirituous medicines, and take twenty grams of magnesia
xhree times a day in water ; but this operating too power-
fully upon the bowels, the same quantity of magnesia was
taken twice a day only, with an addition of five drops of
laudanum to each dose.
This plan was pursued without intermission for three
weeks, and he received considerable benefit, as far as con-
cerned the state of the stomach, and pain in the region of
the kidney. The urine, which was examined once a week,
was also, on the whole, improved ; but it occasionally de-
posited a very copious sediment, consisting of uric acid,
with a variable proportion of mucous secretion.
After
