230 Fatal Case of Inguinal Hernia*
and which may perhaps lead to some great and useful dis-
coveries.
We know that aloes taken internally act as a very active
tonic, and are powerfully antiseptic when applied externally.
Surgeons daily use aloes in tincture, as a detergent for old
ulcers, caries, and gangrenes, which proceed rapidly. Would
it have this antiseptic property if taken internally ? We
know it besides for its febrifuge and purgative virtues : —
but it has certainly never been known before, that it ceases
to purge the instant it is united to gall-nuts in powder, as I
have had occasion to verify.
XL1II. A Fatal Case of Inguinal Hernia, by John Taun-
ton, Esq. Surgeon to the City and Finshury Dispensa-
ries, and to the City Truss Society for the Relief of the
Ruptured Poor.
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, uhould the following case of hernia (which was
attended with some important peculiarities) be deemed
worthy of a place in your valuable Magazine, the recording
of it will give me pleasure.
Mr. J. H. a^t. 53, an able-bodied man, of a good consti-
tution, has always lived a very regular life, and enjoyed
good health, has been subject to hernia in the left groin for
many years ; for which complaint he constantly wore a truss,
which prevented him from suffering any serious inconveni-
ence.
On the 5th of August, the intestine passed through the
abdominal ring, and formed a tumour of considerable size
in the left side of ihe scrotum. The tumour was very tense
and painful on pressure, but was apparently reduced with
considerable difficulty by a surgeon who resided near the pa-
tient.
The abdomen continued painful on pressure, the pain be-
ing referred principally to the umbilicus and region of the
stomach, with a sensation of heat. Fomentations and the
warm bath were emploved without any relief. The bowels
remained in a constipated state : no stool could be procured
either by medicines taken by the mouth, or by cathartic
glysters, several of which were injected.
The hiccough became very troublesome j every thing
taken bv the mouth was rejected by the stomach ; feculent
matter was vomited in large quantities; the tongue was
much
