Fated Case of Inguinal Hernia. 231
much furred ; the pulse irregular, frequent, and intermit-
ted. There was also great thirst and fever.
The countenance became livid ; the eye had that peculiar
stare which often precedes death from strangulated hernia;
the extremhies became cold; the skin generally cold and
clammy, in a partial state of cold perspiration.
These symptoms ended in death in 13 days from the first
attack; nor does it appear (although the symptoms of
strangulated hernia continued from the beginning of the
•disease) that any attention was ever directed to the hernia,
beyond that of pressing the protruded viscera within the ex-
ternal abdominal ring on the first day of the disease.
The medicines were cathartics, opiates, saline draughts,
and glysters. Fomentations to the abdomen and the warm
bath were also used.
These particulars were related to me by two of the pro-
fessional gentlemen who attended him, as I did not visii#the
patient during life, but only attended to examine the parts
after death, when the following appearances were noted.
The whole of the thoracic viscera were, healthy. The
gall bladder was distended with bile, and contained several
small biliary calculi.
The liver, spleen, pancreas, and omentum were healthy;
the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, and ilium were much
distended with flatus. The jejunum and ilium inflamed:
.the inflammation increased as the intestines were turned
downwards to the left abdominal ring, through which a con-
volution of the ilium had protruded about twelve inches
before its termination in the ccecum. The protrusion
formed a tumour about as large as a middle-sized apple,
and situated on the anterior part of the spermatic process,
between the peritoneum and abdominal muscles, so as not
to form any tumour visible on the external part of the body;
but there cannot be a doubt but it might have been disco-
vered during the life of the patient by pressure.
The stricture was produced by the peritoneum only.
There were not any adhesions between the hernial sac
and intestine, nor had the sac suffered from chronic inflam-
mation. The portion of intestine contained in the sac was
highly inflamed, but not in a state of gangrene. The in-
testines below the stricture were empty and much con-
tracted ; the inflammation extended along the intestine
only about four inches below the part where the stricture
was situated.
The rest of the abdominal viscera were perfectly healthy.
The appearances, on dissectiou, of this case show, that
P4 if
