232 Hoy at Academy of Copenhagen*
if an operation had been performed early, there is every rea*
son to suppose that the life of the individual might have
been preserved.
It also proves the necessity of carefully examining every
part of the abdomen usually the seat of hernia, when the
symptoms of that disease exist.
I cannot too earnestly recommend the early performance
of an operation in strangulated hernia, when it resists the
usual means of reduction *. For want of attention to this
circumstance alone, many valuable lives have been lost to the
community, and their families left unprotected ; their wi-
dows and orphans become a burden to the public, relying
for their support only on parochial assistance.
Sept. 26, lsio. John Taunton.
XLIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies*
# ROYAL ACADEMY OF COPENHAGEN,
J. his academy has proposed the following prize-questions
for 1810 : — In Mathematics. A body which has the form
and figure of a cylinder, such as Congreve's rockets, is pro-
jected at a certain elevation or angle with the horizon, and
is continually impelled by the flames which issue from it.
The substance which feeds the fire is gradually consumed,
and the weight of the body diminished. This being the
case, 1. What is the curve described by that body ? 2. If
the inflammable matter contained by the cylinder bums in
such a manner that the inflamed strata are neither parallel
to each other, nor perpendicular to the axis, to what per-
turbations will the rocket be. subject ? how are they to be
prevented or corrected ? 3. As it is necessary that the cy-
linder be perforated and hollowed, so as to afford the flame
a greater surface, and to increase the force of the flame that
issues from it, it is required to know what form or figure is
most advantageous for the excavation ? The society wishes
that attention be paid, if possible, to the resistance aud pres-'
sure of the air; but yet the prize will be adjudged to the
best answer to the above three questions.
In Natural Philosophy. — Philosophers have long be-
stowed great pains on seeking to discover the connexion
that subsists between electricity and magnetism, which ex^
hibit phenomena so similar and so different. Modern ob-
servations and discoveries have furnished new means of pro-
* Few, if any, would be the fatal cases in this .li&ease, If the time and the
performance of the operation were sufficiently attended to. — Hay's Observa-
tions on Surgery.
secutins
