Royal Academy of Copenhagen. 233
secuting these researches. The older philosophers have left
, us numerous experiments on this subject, which do not ex-
actly correspond with the principles of the experimental
philosophy of the present day. Some philosophers have
made new and important experiment*, which have not been
sufficiently examined or repeated. The [loyal S' cietv, thinks
ing that this part of experimental philosophy may be consi-
derably improved, offers a prize-to the writer, who, taking
experience for his guide and support/ shall give the best ex-
position of the mutual connexion between electricity and
magnetism.
In Philosophy. — 1. There are persons who still deny the
utility or' physical doctrines and experiments in explaining
the phenomena of the mind and soul : others, on the con-
trary, contemptuously reject psychological observations and
reasons, in researches which relate to the body, or restrict
the application of them to certain diseases. It would be
useful to discuss these two opinions, to show and establish
more clearly how far psychology and natural philosophy
may be combined ; and to demonstrate, bv historical ev 1-
dence, what each of these sciences has hitherto 'contributed
to the advancement of the other. 2. The idea of an uni->
yersal and characteristic language, proposed by Leibnitz,
having never been sufficiently explained by himself, and ap-
pearing to have not been understood by any person, the
question is, to give an accurate and luminous designation of
that language, to point out the way that is capable of lead-
ing to this desirable object, and at the same time to examine
how far the methods hitherto tried in certain sciences, for
instance, in mathematics and chemistry, might be correctly
applied to philosophy and J^e other branches of human
knowledge. For the best answer to each of these questions
the academy offers a cold medal of the value of ilfty Danish
ducats. Answers to all, except the last, the term of which
is extended to 181 J, must be sent before the conclusion of
1810, either in Latin, French, English. German, Swedish,
or Danish, toM. Buyge, professor of astronomy at Copen-
hagen.
WERNERIAN NATURAL HISTORY SOCIETY,
At the meeting of this Society, on Saturday 2»st of July
last, Mr. Campbell of Carbrook re 'd some observations on
the cause of the antilunar or inferior tide, impre»>ing the
Newtonian theory on that subject; and Dr. Thomas Thorn*.
son read an account of two natural combinations of hydro-
gen and carbon, viz. carburetted hydrogen and supercar-
buretted hydrogen, neither of them containing anv b.xygen^
xlv:// 2 .
