gethlem Hospital. 23$
fcXchange, with the City of London, the present contracted
site of the hospital, for a piece of ground, containing nearly
twelve acres, 9itualed in Saint George's Fields; on which
£pot the unhappy Subjects of mental derangement will, in
addition to their former advantages, possess such superior
requisites of air and exercise as they have never yet enjoyed,
which are not only likely to add in a considerable degree to
their comfort, but also to accelerate their cure. The plan
of the ancient structure is very capable of improvement,
and has long inueed required it. The Governors therefore
have advertised for plans for the new building, and offered
premiums of jf .200 for the best, £.100 for the second, and
£•60 for ihe third best designs, in the full confidence of
being adequately assisted in their anxious desires to erect
an hospital which may be at once a monument of a bene*-
volent and enlightened age, and an honour to a great and
distinguished nation. — The present intention of the Go-
vernors is to erect a building capable of containing four
hundred patients, but not to confine themselves even to
tfyat enlarged number, if they shall be enabled, by ihe libe-
rality of the public, to proceed further in their design. — The
funds of the hospital, which are applicable to the purposes
of a new building, amount, however, at this time, to little
more than £.27,000, while the cost of a new hospital,,
upon the scale proposed, can hardly be estimated at a
smaller sum than £. J 00,000. — To effect, therefore, so de-
sirable a purpose as that in view, it will be obvious, that
nothing short of a liberal subscription on the part of the
public at large can suffice. The Governors have therefore
published an address, most earnestly entreating all corpo-
rate bodies, as well as individuals, throughout the kingdom,
to contribute, by their benevolence, more extensive means
of relief and cure, than have ever yet been afforded, to the
unfortunate subjects of the most afflicting malady with
which it has pleased the Almighty in his wisdom to visit
his creatures. Their appeal we are confident will not be
in vain, in a country whose greatest characteristic is its
noble and generous solicitude to alleviate the miseries,
administer to the .necessities, and heal the diseases of its
people.
Subscriptions are received by Richard Clarke, Esq,
Chamberlain of London, (the Treasurer of Bethlem Hos-
pital), Bridge Street, Black- friars; and by most of the
banking-houses in London.
MATilE-
