236 Mathematics. — Portrait of Buchanan*
MATHEMATICS. s
It is well known to mathematicians, that the doctrine of
solid angles was left in a very imperfect state by Euclid, and
has scarcely at all been advanced by subsequent geometers 5
one of the latest commentators on Euclid, Professor PI ay fair,
having remarked that " we have no way of expounding,
" even in the simplest cases, the ratio which one of them
"bears to another. " Dr. Gregory, of the Royal Military
Academy, has recently invented a theory of solid angles,
which is at once simple', satisfactory, and universal in its
application. By means of this theory, the relative mag-
niludes of solid angles may be ascertained, not only when
they are of the same class, — as those formed by the meeting
of three planes, those by the meeting of four planes, the
angles at the vertices of cones, &c. : but angles of one
class may be compared with those of another, with respect
to magnitude; and their mutual relations determined, by
processes as obvious and elementary as the usual operations
in Plane Trigonometry. He finds, for example, that the
solid angles of the regular tetraedron, octaedron, hexae-
dron, and of the right-angled cone, are denoted by the
numbers 87*7361 1," 216*35185, 250, and 292*89322, re»
jpectively ; the maximum limit of solid angles being ex-
pressed by 1000,
Having been favoured with a most exquisite original por-
trait of Buchanan, by Titian, we have procured it to be
engraved by Woolnoth in his best manner, as one of the
embellishments of the present Number. Such of our readers
as wish to possess proofs (of which a few have been worked
oiT) of this admirable likeness may obtain them from the
Publishers of the Magazine, at five shillings each.
Xotice respecting the Preface to the 4th Edition of the
Encyclopaedia Britannica .
In writing the preface to the Encyclopaedia Britannica,
some mistakes having occurred, relative to the writers en-
gaged in the publication, the conductors of that work beg
leave to assure their subscribers and the public, that they
are v* holly unintentional ; as it never could be their design
to detract, in any way, from the merits of the authors
whom they employed. They understand, in particular,
from Dr. Kirby, that the article Physiology , attributed by
mistake to another gentleman, was written by him ; and
that the following articles, viz. Farriery, Geography,
Geology)
