Magnesia in Calculous Complaints, 1 3
After a further continuance of the use of the magnesia
for three weeks, the urine was often much loaded with
uric acid and mucus; but these appearances, which before
the use of the magnesia were constant, are now only occa-
sional, so that the disposition to form a redundant quan-
tity of uric acid is much diminished: it is also deserving
of remark, i:.at there has not been the slightest symptom
of gout from the time of the last attack, winch is more
than a year back, alo'riger interval of ease than this patient
has experienced for the last six years.
He has now omitted the regular use of the magnesia;
but on perceiving any unplca-ant. sensation in the stomach,
he returns to it for a week or ten days, and then again
J eaves it off.
From the preceding cases it appears, that the effects of
magnesia taken into the stomach, are in many respects difr
ferent from those produced by the alkalies, in those patients
in whom there is a disposition to form a superabundant
quantity of uric acid.
With a view to ascertain their comparative effects on
health v urine, when taken under the same circumstances,
{he following experiments were made.
Experiment 1. On Soda.
Two drachms of subearbonate of soda were taken on
an empty stomach at nine o'clock in the morning, dis-
solved in three ounces of water, and immediately after-
wards, a large cup of warm tea.
In six minutes, about one ounce of urine was voided ;
jn twenty minutes six ounces more; and after two hours,
a similar quantity.
The first portion became very lurbid, within ten minutes
after it had been voided, and deposited a copious sediment
of the phosphates, in consequence of the action of the al-
kali upon the urine. It slightly restored the blue -colour to
litmus paper reddened with vinegar: the alkali, therefore.
was not merely in sufficient quantity to saturate the un-
combined acid in the urine, and consequently to throw
down the phosphates; but it was in excess, and the urine
was voided alkaline.
The urine voided after twenty minutes, also deposited h.
cloud of the phosphates ; but the transparency of that void-
ed two hours after the alknli had been taken, was not drs*
turbed.
Here, therefore, the effect of the alkali upon the urine,
veas at its maximum, probably in less than a quarter of an
hour
