i$9 tecturc*.
On the sam£ day Dr. Anderson will begin his Course
bf Lectures on Practical Chemistry.
Lectures oil. Materia Medica form a part of the above
Courses.
Further particulars may be known by applying to Dr,
Anderson, as above, or to Dr. Adams, 2, New Bridge-
street.
Dr. Clutterbuck will begin his Autumnal Course of
Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Physic. Materia
Medica, and Chemistry, &c. on Friday the 5th October,
at Ten o'clock in the morning precisely, at his house,
No. J, Crescent, New Bridge "street ;_ where further par-
ticulars may be had ; or at the General Dispensary? Al-
dersgate-street. The Lectures are given daily ; Theory and
Practice, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays ; Materia
Medica and Chemistry, on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sa-
turdays, at the same hour.
George-street, Hanover- square; and St. George's Hospital,
On Saturday, Oct. 6, a Course of Lectures on Physic
and Chemistry will recommence in George-street, at the
usual morning hours : viz. Therapeutics at Eight, the
Practice of Physic at Half after Eight, and the Chemistry
a Quarter after Nine, hy George Pearson, M.D. F.R.S.
Senior Physician to St. George's Hospital, of the College
of Physicians, &c.
Clinical Lectures are given, as usual, on the Patients of
St. George's Hospital, every Saturday morning at Nine
o'clock.
LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
To Charles Williams, of Gravel -lane, South wark, mill-
wright, for a machine for grinding or cutting malt, splitting
beans, and any other kind of grain, and various other arti-
cles. — Aug. 2, 1810.
To Marc Isambard Brumel, of Chelsea, for certain ma-
chinery for the purpose of making or manufacturing shoes
and boots. — Aug. 2.
^To Thomas Collins, London, warehouseman, for an im-
proved mode of making ladders, which being formed of
different pieces, and capable of being put together by socket
joints, will be found extremely useful for the purposes of
escalade, engineering, escapes from fire, erecting of build-
ings, and for all other purposes for which ladders of any
description are necessarv. — Aug. 10.
To
