List of Patents for ?iew Inventions, 23|
To William Whitmore, of Dudmarton, Salop, esq. for a
magnetic toy to facilitate the teaching of children to spell,
read and cypher, in any tongue, with ease to the teacher,
pleasure to the children, and proportional expedition. — -
Aug. 14.
To Peter Durand, of Hoxton Square, merchant, in con-
sequence of a communication made to him by a certain
foreigner residing abroad, for a method for preserving ani-
mal food, vegetable food, and other perishable articles, a
long time from perishing or becoming useless. — Aug. 25.
To James Walker, of Wapping, in the county of Mid-
dlesex, ship-chandler, for his machine or vessel for the safe
conveyance of gunpowder, and for its preservation from
injury by damp. — Sept. 7.
To James Weldon, of the county and city of Litchfield,
engineer, for his further new improvements on a mill for
grinding bark and other articles. — Sept. 7.
To Joseph C. Dyer, of Boston, State of Massachusetts,
one of the United States, now residing in the city of West-
minster, merchant, who, in consequence of a communication
made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad, is be-
come possessed of a machine for cutting or removing all
the various kinds of furs which are used in hat-making
from the skins or pelts, and for cutting the said skins or
pelts into strips or small pieces. — Sept. 7»
To David Mathews, of Rotherhithe, engineer, for his
improved method, of constructing and building locks with
a groin or Gothic conic arch. Also an improved form of
the gates, and an improved method of opening and shutting
the same. — Sept. 7»
To Joseph Johnson, of the county of Surry, gentleman,
for his new mode of communicating intelligence from one
apartment of a house to another by means of machinery or
apparatus, which he denominates a domestic telegraph. —
Sept. 17.
To Jonathan Varty, of Liverpool, coach-maker, for his
improvements in the axle-trees of carriages. — Sept. 17.
To Peter Brown, of Henrietta-Street, Covent-Garden,
Middlesex, gentleman, for his new construction of buoys
for ships or vessels, and for mooring-chains or similar pur-
poses. — Sept. 26.
To Richard Seaton, of Berwick-Street, Middlesex, liquor-
merchant; and Thomas Rice, of Whitecross-Street, Mid-
dlesex, spring roasting-jack-maker, for their new burner
upon an improved construction, applicable to all kinds of
lamps. — Sept. 26-
METEO-
7
