[ 241 ]
XLVt. On the New Mountain Barometer. By Sir Henry
C. Englefield, Bart. F.R.S. and F.S.A.
To Mn Tilloch.
Sir, JL he experience of three years having ascertained the
convenience and utility of the mountain barometers, made
on the principles of which a description, drawn up by me,
was inserted in your Journal, (vol. xxx. p. 46,) I am induced
to address you again on the subject ; both to inform the public
~f some improvements made in their construction since my
former letter, and to propose some mode of collecting, for
general^enefit, the observations made by individuals.
The improvement in the construction is principally hi
the cistern. It had been found that when exposed to great
motion in an unfavourable position, which in long journeys
is not easily avoided, the agitation of the mercury had
several times cracked the tube towards the top, in a fissure
scarcely perceptible to the eye, yet sufficient to Jet in slowly
a small portion of air. To remedy this inconvenience, the
cistern has now a bottom of leather on which a screw presses
in the usual mode, so as to force the mercury nearly to
the top of the tube when packed for carriage. This screw
is to be unscrewed as far as it can, when the barometer is
prepared for use; and the leather bag is so adjusted, that
there is no reason to fear that the capacity of the cistern
thus unscrewed for use, will ever be sensibly different from
itself at different times. It may be just mentioned, that
when the barometer is carried by a careful person, it is by
no means necessary to screw up the bag between every
station; as, when unscrewed, the instrument is in precisely
the same state that it always was, in those of the first con-
struction*.
Mr. Jones, at the desire of several gentlemen, has en-
deavoured to add a gauge point and adjustment to keep the
mercury in the cistern ever to the same height, as -in other
mountain barometers, but such addition has been found in
practice productive of more inc onveniencc than advantage.
He now, therefore, measures the content of every tube se-
parately, and engraves on the mounting the correction to
be made to the results, as stated in the former paper; and
by this method it is presumed that all errors from the
want of a gauge point must be prevented. Mr. Jones has
* The screw which frees the cistern for use, is protected by an outer cap
from being spoiled by idle curiosity, or irjurcd by a blow, which often
happened to those barometers where this screw was unprotected.
Vol. 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810. Q now
