942 On the New Mountain Barometer,
now sold above 150 barometers of this construction. Of?
these, it cannot be doubted that by far the greater part ha^
been purchased by gentlemen both able and desirous to
use them for the purpose of measuring heights ; and 1 know
that a great number of valuable observations have been
made with them in different parts of our islands. While,
however, these observations remain in the hands of the
observers, the public is little benefited by them; and I
doubt not that if it were generally known that a deposit
for them was provided, all those gentlemen who have made
observations of altitudes with these, or any other go- ?
mountain barometers, would readily send their observations,
and contribute their part to the common stock of valuable
information which would be deduced from the publication
either of the observations themselves or the results of them.
For this purpose Mr. Jones, late of Mount- street, now
of Kenton-street, Brunswick-square, the same ingenious
artist who made these barometers at first under my inspec-
tion, has kindly consented, at my request, to receive and
arrange all such observations as may be transmitted to him
(post paid or franked) by the gentlemen who have made
them ; and I shall be happy not only to assist him in com-
puting them, but will readily superintend the publication
of them, either in the literary journals, or in a separate work,
as may in process of time appear the most eligible. It seems
the most desirable that the names of the observers should
be published with their observations, as giving the stamp
of authenticity to them : this, however, will be done, or
omitted, as the several contributors may wish.
As it is to be hoped that the communications may be
numerous, it will materially diminish the labours of ar-
rangement, if a general form be adopted in sending the ob-
servations; and it is hoped that the specimen here annexed
will be found convenient to the observers themselves, as
well as to those whose province it maybe to collect them.
Extensive geological observations would be in this case
out of their place; yet it might be useful, and productive
of little additional labour or trouble, if the soil of the spot
where each observation was made could, if possible, be
specified. Another observation nearly connected with that
of the barometer and thermometer for altitudes, is the
temperature of the waters at or near the places of observa-
tion. Wells of 40 or 50 feet deep are, for this purpose,
more to be depended on than springs, which often run at
so small a depth below the surface of the ground as to be
much affected by the heat and cold of summer and winter.
It
