244 On the Land Winds of Coronlandct,
confined to any regularity, though they are fe!t sometimes
with a great degree of severity, and for hours together.
I understand also that in the upper parts of Bengal they
are sometimes experienced vcrv severely ; hut whether from
the west or the northward, or irt what part of the year, [
have not been able to ascertain. As far as this only tends
to prove the insufficiency of the denomination, h would
signify little, although in other respects it would be of
more moment.
As they are generally supposed to be peculiar to this
country, and are felt during several months in the year, we
should imagine their history and causes to have been per-
fectly investigated and understood ; but, I know r.ot why,
neither the one nor the other have as yet been satisfactorily
explained.
The most plausible reason generally given for the great
accumulation of heat in them is the heat of the season in
which they prevail, and the long tract of country over
which they have to pass. That this, however, is not the
true cause, it shall be my endeavour to demonstrate; to
which I will add an attempt to point out the most probable
one, founded on known chemical principles.
Respecting the theory I have to offer, I regret that it has
found but few patrons in this'country, which, however, I
flatter myself may be ascribed more to the manner in which
it has been proposed, than to the foundation on which it is
constructed.
In order to facilitate the explanation of mv sentiments,
as well as to show thlt the land winds really deserve some
attention from the philosopher, I shall briefly recount the
phenomena accompanying their beginning and progress,
as well as the effects by which they are generally followed.
Could my pen equal my sensations, I should be able to
paint their effects in the most lively colours, aided by eight
rears experience in a country the most noted on the coast*
for their intensity.
The land winds are preceded in the latter end of March
or in the beginning of April bv whirlwinds, which between
eleven and twelve o'clock at noon hurrv in various direc-
tions, mostly from west to east, towards the sea. These are
called by the natives Peshashs or Devils, because they some-
times do a little mischief to the lighter buildings.
About the same time," or a little after the appearance
of the whirlwinds, we may observe all ranges of hills gar-
* Sarr.ulcotah in the Northern Circars.
. * imbed
