(ml Ihelr Causes. 245
ntshed as it were with clouds, which become daily darker
and heavier, until they discharge themselves with much
thunder and lightning in a heavy shower of rain. After
this marked phenomenon the land winds set m imme-
diately with all the violence of which they are capable.
Their commencement is generally in the lat'.er end of
April, or beginning of May, and their reign lasts to the
earlier days of June, during which period they generally
cx^rt their violence from ten or eleven o'clock in the morn-
ing until about three or four o'clock in the afternoon.
In this season the atmosphere is commonly hazy and
thick, except that in the evenings and nights the sky is
serene and clear, provided the land winds do not continue
the whole day.
The rising sun which portends a land wind day appears
of a fiery red, and as if involved in mist, which mist is
changed afterwards into clouds that lie heavy on the
Ghauts.
The land wind of each day is almost always preceded
by a long calm, and immediately by a cloud of dust.
Their diurnal violence is terminated along the coast about
two or three o'clock, by the setting in of the sea-breeze,
which wafts delight and health as far as its influence ex-
tends, which is not more than ten or twelve miles inland.
An abatement of their intensity from thence to the Ghauts
is all that can be hoped for.
The sea-breeze regularly begins in the afternoon at one
or two o'clock, blowing pretty steadily until sunset, when
it dies away gradually, and at sunrise it is again perceptible,
though weakly.
Wnen I say its influence is only felt ten miles inland, I
do not wish to be understood that it does not extend iur-
ttier : I mean only its powerful refreshing properties, which
it loses in proportion to the distance from the sea, and in
an inverse ratio to its strength, which is not great. In
general it arrives at thirty miles distance from the sea in
the evening, and is then only agreeable by the ventilation
it effectuates.
In the country above the Ghauts, as in Mysore, the cast
wind prevails also in the afternoon, but from a period muc.li
earlier, orcotemporancous with the sea-breeze on the coast,
which renders it clear that this inland breeze either does
not extend further than to the Ghauts, or redly originates
there; a point which deserves to be ascertained, as another
phenomenon depends upon this circumstance.
'" ' ()3 Should
