246 On the Land IV bids of Coromandel,
Should the sea-breeze fail, as sometimes happens, the
land wind decreases gradually until it dies away in the be-
ginning of the night, which, on account of its calmness, is
dismal to a degree : next morning, a little motion of the air
is again perceptible, but at the usual time the wind sets in
as strong and hot as the day before. Every thing we put our
hands upon is then distressing to the touch, which must
be the case when the temperature of the body is inferior to
that of the atmosphere. This we experienced for almost a
fortnight in the year 1799 in the Northern Circars, when
the thermometer at eight o'clock in the night stood at
108째, and at noon at 1 12째. Shades, globes, tumblers, then
very often crack and break to pieces, and the wooden fur-
niture warps and shrinks so much, that even the nails fall
out of doors and tables, &c. In their greatest intensity,
however, I have never seen the thermometer rise higher
than 1 15째, viz. in the coolest part of the house, though
some say they have observed it at 130째.
The Ghauts, and the hills at no great distance from them,
are then seen lighted all night by spontaneous fires, and
often in a very picturesque manner.
These illuminations appear, in general, about the middle
of the mountains, and seldom or never extend to the top v
or bottom of them. They take place especially on those
hills on which the bamboos grow very thick; which has
probably led the natives to explain this phenomenon so
rationally, by ascribing it to the friction of these bushes
against each other.
Lieutenant Kater, of his majesty's 12th regiment, thinks
that the corky bark of the adenanthera pavonina is often
spontaneously inflamed, as he has frequently found, on his
surveys, its bark converted i into charcoal, and several of
these trees burnt clown to the roots, although they were
not in the vicinity of any other trees.
In Europe 1 know these spontaneous ignitions have been
much discredited ; and I doubt not but should these few
sheets ever be published, many objections will be raised
against what I have related : but 1 have endeavoured to
state tacts only, which a luxuriant imagination might have
painted in more striking colours, but I am sure not with
stricter adherence to truth.
The land winds are noted for the dryness which they
generally produce on the face of the country, as well as on
that of the animal creation. This sensation is particularly
felt in the eyelids^ which become in some measure quite
stiff
