and their Causes. . 447
stiff and painful. This is owing to the immediate volatili-
zation of all humids that irrigate our organs, and which, in
this particular one, probably gives rise to inflammations of
the eyes, so frequent at this time of the year*.
The continuance of this wind causes pain in the bones,
and a general lassitude, in all that live; and, in some, pa-
ralytic or hemiplectic affections. Its sudden approach has,
besides, the dreadful effect of destroying men and animals
instantaneously.
It is not very uncommon to see large kites or crows, as
they fly, drop down dead ; and smaller birds I have known
to die, or take refuge in houses, in such numbers, that a
very numerous family has used nothing else for their daily
meals than these victims of the inclemency of the season
and their inhospitality. In populous places it is also not
very uncommon to hear, that four or five people f have
died in the streets in the course of a day, in consequence of*
being taken unprepared. This happens especially at the first
setting in of those winds.
The natives use no other means of securing themselves
against this wind but shutting up their houses, and bathing
in the morning and evening ; Europeans cool it through
wetted yatsj made of straw or grass, sometimes of the roots
of the wattie§, which, wetted, exhale a pleasant but faint
smell. It will be incredible to those that have never wit-
nessed it, but the evaporation is really so great, that several
people must be kept constantly throwing water upon the
tats (eight feet by four) in order to have the desired effect
of cooling a small room.
Tt would be scarcely necessary to observe, if it were not
in contradiction to public opinion, that the cold produced
is not a peculiar property of the wind, but depends upon
the general principle, that all liquids passing into an aeri-
form state absorb heat, and cause immediately around them
* The eye flics, so often supposed to occasion it, produce a transient and
sharp pain in the eye, but never, I believe, a lasting inflammation.
It is generally thought infectious, and may be so by the interference of
the eye flies carrying the contagious matter from an affected eye to a sound
one.
f Four people dropped down dead at Yanam, in the year 1797, an hour
after my arrival there from Masulipatam: and at Samulcotah tour or five
died the same day on the short road between that place and Peddapore: the
number of inhabitants of either of these places does not exceed, I believe,
five thousand.
t The frame of them is made of bamboos in the form of the opening in
the house to be tatted, let it be door or window, which is then covered
with straw in the manner every one thinks best suited to retain the water
longest.
§ AiidTopagonmuricatiim,
g4 aoV
