14 Observations on the Effects of
hour after it had been taken into the stomach, and in less
than two hours the whole of the alkali had passed off.
Experiment <2. On Soda, with excess of Carbonic Arid.
The same quantity of soda, dissolved in eighi ounces of
water very highly impregnated with carhoi ic .:cid, was
taken under the same circumstances as in the former ex-
periment, and the urine was voided at nearly similar in«j
tcrvals.
The separation of the phosphates was less distinct, and
less rapid. In two hours after the urine had been voided,
there was a small deposit, composed principally of phos-
phate of lime ; there was also a distinct pellicle on the sur-
face, consisting of the triple phosphate of ammonia and
magnesia. This appearance, produced by the escape of
the carbonic acid, which had before retained the ammonia-*
co-magnesian phosphate iti solution, and which now oc-
casions its deposition on the surface, is by no means un*
common, even in the urine of healthy persons : in the pre-
sent instance, it appears to prove, that carbonic acid passes
off from the stomach, by the kidneys ; for, after taking the
alkalies, in water very highly impregnated with it, the pel-
licle is uniformly produced, and is also much more abun-r
(lant and distinct than under any other circumstances
In similar experiments with potash, the results were in
all cases as similar as could be expected in researches of
this nature.
Experiment 3. On Magnesia,
Magnesia was taken under circumstances similar to those
of the soda in the former experiment: in the quantity of
half a drachm, it produced no sensible effect upon the
urine during the whole day. When taken in the dose of
a drachm at nine o'clock in the morning, the urine voided
at twelve o'clock became slightly turbid : at three o'clock
the effect of the magnesia was at its maximum, and a di-
stinct separation of the phosphate* took place, partly in
the form of a film, which when examined was found to
be the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, and
partly in the state of a white powder, consisting almost
entirely of the triple phosphate and phosphate of lime.
The effect of large doses of magnesia, in producing a
white sediment in the urine, is very commonly known, and
has been erroneously attributed to the magnesia passing
off by the kidneys.
These experiments show that magnesia, even in very
large
