and their Causes. * 249
' . Time is another measure applicable to the acquisition" of
beat, as it increases to the greatest pitch which a body is
m capable of receiving in proportion to its continuance: the
land winds should therefore be cooler when they set in at
ten or eleven o'clock, and hottest at their termination in
the afternoon ; they should be so at least at noon, when
the sun is nearlv vertical, and has the greatest influence oti
the substances from which heat is to be attracted. The
contrary, however, comes nearest to the truth ; for it is
known that these winds set in with their greatest violence*
and heat at once, which rather abate than increase, as
might be expected.
We should, on this principle, further suppose the heat
v/ould increase gradually with the return of the sun to our
latitudes, from its southern declination, and stand always
in proportion to its position. We find, however, that ex-
perience also contradicts this point of the theory under dis-
cussion; for after the sun has passed our zenith*, the land
■winds set in at once with all their intensity, in the manner
before described, and they cease as abruptly before its re-
turn again f .
A material change in the temperature of this climate is
certainly effected by the approach of the sun from the south ;
but the heat which is thus caused, and which increases
by imperceptible degrees, is never so great, and is only felt
by those who expose themselves to it unprotected; for the
air remains proportionally cool, and our houses afford, in
this season, a pleasant retreat. We find it far otherwise
in a land wind ; for this penetrates our inmost recesses, and
renders life miserable every where.
I have before observed, that winds equally hot with those
of periodical duration are felt in all parts of the 'country,
and at different seasons; a circumstance alone sufficient,
if proved, to overthrow the groundwork of the old theory.
For a confirmation of this, I will appeal to the general
. observation, that immediately before a long rain the weather
fs sultry, and that a single shower is always preceded by a
warm disagreeable wind.
We are very particularly reminded of the approaching
great monsoon in October by the oppressive'heat we have in
the calm evenings of that month, which, I am persuaded,
would equal that of the land winds in May, if the atmo-
* The sun is in the zenith at Madras about the 2Cth of April,
f The sun is again in our zenith on its southern, declination about the-
J Oth oi Auguft.
sphere
