and their Causes, , 25 1
lative to what can not be the cause of the heat in the land
winds.
It remains now to point out a theory., supported on a
firmer basis, which I shall endeavour to do in the follow-
ing pages. It is founded on a chemical principle, and will
explain, I think, the heat of these winds in a satisfactory
manner.
The principle itself needs no demonstration, as it is ad-
mitted as a general law ; viz. that " all bodies, when they
become more dense, suffer heat to escape ; or, what is the
same, they give out heat." For example, when gases or
aeriform substances become vapours, they discharge as
much heat as was necessary to keep them in their former
gaseous state : further, vapours in condensing into fluids
are known to do the same, as also fluids, acquiring solidity.
I am sorry that the quantity of heat set free in the con-
v densation of vapours required for a pound of water has
escaped my memory; but I recollect it was very considera-
ble. We know, however, that a great deal of it is re-
quired for the evaporation of the same measure, and it is
but reasonable to admit that the same quantity with which
it has combined should be discharged oa its returning to
its former state of fluidity.
In order to apply this principle to explain the presence
of heat in our land winds, I must first observe, that the
atmosphere in January, February, and March, is perfectly
clear and serene; and then I will call to mind what has
been said of the phenomena of those winds, that they are
preceded by clouds on and among the Ghauts, and that a
heavy shower of rain from that quarter announces their ar-
rival ; that during their continuance clouds are observed to
lie on the Ghauts ; and that the atmosphere, even in the
low country, is hazy and thick. I must add also, that the
countries west of the Ghauts are at this season frequently
visited bv heavy showers of rain, accompanied with much
thunder and lightning, and sometimes with hail. Here in
the Mysore country I have found the heaviest showers of
this kind to come from the north-west*, which is exactly
in the direction of the countries remarkable for the great
heat of the land winds in this season. At times, wc have
also showers from the east and south-east, and my attention
shall not be wanting to ascertain whether it is not at the
time when the land winds blow hottest in the Carnati-j.
* The hottest land winds in this season ( 1 S04) at Madras were, I uader-
stand, from the north-west ; which corresponds with the direction trom which
the rains came in Mysore at that period.
By
