ffrg On the Land Winds of Coromandel, and their Causes,
By this we see, that the clouds formed on the Ghauts,
charged with water and electricity (by causes I am not now
to investigate), are drawn to the westward, whilst the heat
which, during the formation of these clouds, must neces-
sarily be discharged, is carried to the east or to the lower
parts of the coast, and causes the properties for which the
land winds are so remarkable.
I have acknowledged already, that the heat occasioned
by the power of the sun in this season, contributes to the
aggregate of it in the wind; but I must observe also, that
it acts only as a secondary cause, and passively, by pre-
venting its absorption and diminution in the career over a
variety of substances, particularly moisture* with which it
would combine, if they had not been previously removed
or incapacitated.
In colder climates, this absorption takes place in a greater
degree, as substances are abundant with which the heat
produced by the formation of rain can combine and be-
come imperceptible*. It is, however, there also often m*
marked, that the heat of the sun in a cloudy day is more
powerful than at any other time. In common this is
ascribed to the reflection of the rays of the sun from the
clouds ; but I opine it is often the consequence of the for-
mation of water in the clouds_, which obscure the sky at
that moment.
It has been observed, that the heat of the land winds is
not felt on the top of high hills, or on plains of a very in-
considerable perpendicular height above those in which it
rages most violently ; as for example, in Mysore near the
Ghauts, which is only about five hundred feet higher than
the valleys immediately below. This might be considered a
weighty objection against my theory ; as heat, considered
in the light of an elastic fluid, expands equally on all sides;
and from whatever cause it proceeds, it should be supposed
to extend even further where it meets with less resistance,
as from the air in higher regions, which is known to be
lighter and more penetrable than near the earth.
"But the reverse takes place; for almost immediately
above the clouds no other heat is perceptible than what
might be owing to the nature of the climate.
This circumstance may be accounted for by the dimi-
nished density of the air in the lower parts of the country,
* Carl Dundonald's Treatise, p. CO. " The frequent changes in the de-
gree of heat arid cold in the atmosphere are to he aserihed more to the alter-
nate disengagement and fixation of heat by chemical combination, than to
the effect! of the solar raya."
produced
