254 flints respecting a New Theory
carried from one vortex to another in right lines: but
Cassini supposed from his observations that they moved in
circles very eccentric, and containing the earth's orbit within
them ; and from hence was led to think the comet of 1680
and 1681 was the same as appeared in 1577. By means
of this and some others he had an opportunity of seeing,
he determined that comets moved through the constella-
tions Antinous, Pegasus, Andromeda, Taurus, Centaur,
Scorpio, and the bow of Sagittarius, which he called the
zodiac of comets. That this is not the case, later observa-
tions have proved. The comet that appeared in September
1808 was first seen in Serpentarius, it then passed through
the right shoulder of Hercules, the Lyre, and disappeared ill
the tail of the Swan, which is a course widely different from
the zodiac laid down by Cassini. James Bernouilli, in his
System of Comets, published in 1682, considers them to be
satellites moving about a primary planet, which revolved
around the sun, at a distance equal to 2583 semidiameters
of the Magnus orbis, in four years and 157 days, although
Saturn, who is 258 times nearer, makes only one revolu-
tion in about 30 years. This primary, he says, we can
never see, on account of its smallness and immense di-
stance, and these comets or satellites are only visible when
they descend towards us in perigeum. In this theory we
have a greater body revolving round and carried with a
smaller; which is contrary to what is observed with regard
to the other planets and their satellites. May we not con-
sider this as one of those theories which, had it not come
from so great a man, would have been buried long ago in
oblivion ?
Sir Isaac Newton, Dr. David Gregory, Dr. Ualley, and
others, imagine them to move in very eccentric ellipses,
having the centre of the sun in one of their foci : but some
in their calculations have substituted a portion of a parabola
having the same vertex and focus, which they observe is its
tnte trajectory, if it never returns. This supposition only
leads us from one difficulty to another ; for we may next
ask, By what means did it come within the attraction of
the sun, and from whence ? Are we to suppose it passes
from one fixed star to another in a serpentine direction,
which is the theory adopted by Mr. Cole of Colchester ?
All the celestial phenomena with which we are acquainted,
are obedient to certain laws of attraction, and move either
in circles or ellipses, but none in the manner above men-
tioned.
But to return to the former theory j that is, that they"
move
