on the Orhlts of Comets. 25*
move in very eccentric ellipses, in one of the foci of which is
placed our sun ; for, as La Place says in his System of the
World, analogy leads us to imagine that comets move int
orbits, which, instead of being nearly circular, like those of
the other planets, are very eccentric, and the sun extremely
near that part in which they are visible to us; and to observe
the same law as the other planets.
Hence is it not probable that they revolve about two
fixed stars, placed in the two foci of their orbits? This
opinion, I think, is strengthened by the amazing eccen-
tricity of their orbits, which, as was observed above, ap-
proaches very near to a parabola, no comet has yet been seen
that would answer to an hyperbola : of this amazing di-
stance, the exceeding small part we see before a comet ap-
proaches the sun, and when it leaves him, would not differ
much from a right line. Again, as the two foci of the
ellipse in which it moves are so very distant, is it not pro-
bable there are two attracting powers ? that, is one in each
focus"; and as the attraction of one body begins at the point
where the other ends, let us conceive the comet to be put
in motion a little beyond that point, as at A r and by the
time it arrived at B, its centrifugal C
force becomes great enough to jy r~~~~ * >n
throw it within the attraction Of n^ '+£m ^
the focus D, which we will sup- A
pose at C : it is now acted upon by the attractive power at
D, and acquires in moving from C to D a velocity great
enough to bring it again to A \ and thus it will revolve
about the two fixed stars B D, in a very eccentric ellipse.
This will also account for their appearance from every part
of the heavens: and it is supposed that more than 450 have
been seen in different directions ; for about the same fixed
star many may revolve, yet only one about the same two
fixed stars.
Ferguson, in his Astronomy, estimates the nearest fixed
star at about 32,000,000,000,000 miles distance from the
earth, consequently it is 32,000,082,000,000 miles from
the sun; and Adams, in his Astronomical Essays, says that
the comet seen by Brydone at Palermo in 1770 moved at
the rate of 60,000,000 miles an hour. Now admitting this
to be its average rate, and that it performed a revolution
once in 129 year9, which is the period assigned to that
which appeared in 1 061, we shall have 67,802,400,000,000
miles for the length of its orbit ; and it is not improbable
that this would be the perimeter of an eccentric ellipse
whose foci were the distance above mentioned. . „
