256 Machine for securing Persons attempting Depredations
All Nature is held together by an universal bond: the ve-
getable kingdom is joined to the animal by the sensitive
plant; birds and fishes by the bat and beaver; the monkey
joins beast to men ; and the sun by his vast influence hinds
the worlds together that form our system. Let us extend
our views a little further, and we shall have the blazing
comet uniting the systems of other suns to ours, forming
the links of that chain by which the universe is supported.
XLIX. Description of a Machine for securing Persons
attempting Depredations without affecting their Life or
Limbs, By Mr. Robert Salmon, of IVoburn *.
Sir, 1 beg leave to submit to the Society of Arts, &c. a
mantrap, which I hope will meet with their approbation.
To those who live in the country it is needless To explain
the frequency of petty depredations committed on gardens,
orchards, &c. and which are sometimes very vexatious. Few-
persons would like to endanger the life or limb of the de-
predator bv setting the common steel man-trap, yet it is pre-
sumed there are but few who would not wish to detect the
offender. The instrument which I have the honour to sub-
mit to the Society is for the purpose of catching and holding
the person without injury. At the Agricultural Meeting
at Woburn last summer, an ingenious invention for a si-
milar purpose was produced by Sir Theophilus Biddulph; it
consisted of a wood box, containing two springs in iron
barrels, and two chains passingover and round them : when
this was set, the chains were withdrawn from round the
barrels, and extended to a certain distance. A trigger then
kept the trap from closing. The whole was then covered over
with thin iron plates ; so that if a person set his foot on
those plates his leg dropped into the box, and the chains
closed round it and held the leg; but as the box was about
three feet square and a foot deep, it was requisite that it
should at setting be let into the ground, which would be a
work of considerable labour, and when done it would be
difficult to dispose of the stuff from the hole, or to conceal
the trap ; and as the whole apparatus was cumbersome and
expensive, it appeared to me not to be well applicable in
practice.
* From Trans action.', of the Society for the fcncnurageme?it of Arts, Manu-
and Commerce., vol-, xxvii. The silver medal of the Society was
voted to Mr. Salmon for this communication, and one of the machines is
reserved in the Society's repository for the inspection 01 the public.
I think
