without affecting their Life or Limls. 257
1 think it right to give this explanation in justice to Sir
Theophilus Biddulph, from whom my idea of the utility of
something of the kind arose, as also to show the difference
-between his invention and the trap I have made, which is
so very simple as hardly to require explanation. When set,
it only requires thai the two keys be withdrawn, and that
the trap be covered with a few loose leaves or mould. To
the trap I have attached a piece of chain and a screw to be
screwed into the ground, so as to prevent its being carried
away ; but against any person that may be caught such a
precaution is perhaps unnecessary, for any person who is
caught will find the jaws of the trap close so fast on the
leg that he caniiot drag the trap far without great pain, and
will consequently be glad to stand still and to call out for
relief. For the convenience of explanation I have applied
mufflers to the jaws of the trap, so that any person may put
ill his leg without the least inconvenience. I have even
tried it without, yet, though void of danger, the sensation
is not pleasant. The muffle will of course be omitted when
set for use, as it is not then necessary to guard against a
little inconvenience, otherwise the springs might be made
weaker. I remain, sir,
Your most obedient humble servant,
Woburn, Feb. 12, 1809. ROBERT SALMON.
to C. Taylor, M.D. Sec.
P. S. — Permit me strongly to recommend to the notice
Of the Society the earth screw attached to the trap, as excel-
lent for the purpose of fixing any thing steadily in the earth.
This screw is far superior to the common way of driving an
iron point or stake therein.
I have employed it for several years in fixing cross- staffs
and other surveying instruments with great advantage. The
very act of driving a spiked instrument into the earth leaves
it loose with some play or movement, which prevents it
from being easily secured ; but with ? screw of this kind at
the bottom or the instrument it is firmly fixed in the ground,
and a turn of the screw will again fix it, if it should by any
means be moved or loosened. It may also be screwed into
the ground with any instrument upon it, which would be
spoiled by the act of driving it in.
Description of Mr. Salmon's Man-Trap, it'hich detains the
Offender^ without injuring or maiming him. See Plate
VIrFig 1.
The principal figure in the fore-ground of Plate VI. is a
Vol, 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810. R perspective
