Magnesia in Calculous Complaints, 15
large doses, neither produces so rapid an effect upon the
urine, nor so copious a separation of the phosphates, as the
alkalies ; on this its value as a remedy in calculous dis-
orders seems materially to depend.
Experiment 4. On Lime.
Two ounces of lime water, taken in the morning upon
an empty stomach, with a cup of milk and water, pro-
duced no effect whatever.
A pint of lime water, taken at four intervals of an hour
each, produced a slight deposition of the phosphates at the
end of the fifth hour. The urine voided at the third hour
was not at all affected ; at the fifth hour, the effect appeared
at its height, but was not nearly so distinct as from small
doses of soda, notwithstanding the insoluble compounds
which lime might be expected to form with the acids in
the urine.
The unpleasant taste of lime water, the quantity in which
it requires to be taken, on account of the small proportion
of the earth which is held in solution, and the uncertainty
of its effect, are circumstances which render it of little use,
excepting in some very rare cases, where it has been found
to agree particularly well with the stomach.
The effect of carbonate of lime upon the urine was much
less distinct than that of lime water: at times it produced
no effect, but when taken in very large doses, a slight de-
position of the phosphates was produced.
These experiments were repeated upon three different
individuals, and there was always an uniformity in the re-
sults.
When the medicines were taken some hours after food
being received into the stomach, their effects upon the
urine were retarded, but not prevented.
The effects of many other substances upon the urine
were examined into during this investigation ; but they
varied so much according to circumstances, that no satis-
factory results were produced.
As it is found in the foregoing experiments, that the
effects of soda on the urine are modified by the presence of
carbonic acid, the following experiment was made, to as-
certain whether any sensible effects are produced by that
acid on healthy urine.
Twelve ounces of water very highly impregnated with
carbonic acid, were taken upon an empty stomach at nine
o'clock in the morning. At ten o'clock about eight
ounces of urine were voided, which had a natural appear-
ance.
