On the charging Capacity of coated Electrical Jars, 250
fcross m\ and having thus removed the obstruction, the two
frames e efg are closed together by the springs pp> so that
the bars^g inclose his leg, and the clicks in the locks pre-
vent the bars being opened without the screws S. In some
of the machines which Mr. Salmon has made since the
model was deposited with the Society, the locks are made
like figure 2, L, where a common key is to be introduced,
and, when turned round, catches the tail of the click ; it
may have wards to prevent the using of a false key, though
ho wards are shown in the plate. Part of the screw D for
securing the trap from being carried away by depredators,
is shown on a larger scale at N, in order that the peculiar
form of its threads may be better seen, which fix it firmly
in the earth. Such - screws would be very serviceable in
fastening horses at grass, 8cc.
L. An Account of a New Method of increasing the charging
Capacity of coated Electrical Jdrs, discovered by John
Wingfield, Esq. of Shrewsbury *. Communicated by
Mr. John Cuthbertson, Philosophical Instrument-
Maker ', Poland Street, Soho; iv it h some Experiments by
himself on that Subject.
Ls my treatise entitled Practical Electricity and Galvanism,
page 103, I have said that breathing into coated electrical
jars increased their charging capacity to such an astonishing
degree, that their discharge would fuse four times the length,
of wire more than they could in ordinary circumstances ;
which I proved by experiments 147 and 155. Since that
publication, large electrical batteries are become more ge-
neral, and the number of jars increased; so that batteries
containing thirty, sixty, and even a hundred jars are fre-
quently met with; and, when so numerous, breathing inU)
each jar is very disagreeable; and not only that, but in very
dry states of the atmosphere, when most wanted, is even
ineffectual, as those jars first breathed into lose ihat pro-
perty which was produced in them by breathing, before the
last can have obtained it : so that various other means have
been tried ; such as wetting the inside of the jars, and put-
ting wet sponges into them, or by greasing and oiling the
uncoated part in the inside ; all of which gave very uncer-
tain results, till John Wingfield, esq. communicated to me,
* A gentleman who has lately very much, distinguished himself, not only
in the electrical science, but in all other branches of experimental philo-
sophy.
R 8 he
