2Co On increasing the charging Capacity
he had discovered, that pasting of paper on the inside and
outside of the jars above the coating, had the effect of pre-
venting the jars from exploding to ihe outside coating, and
believed that their charging capacity would be increased
thereby.
I embraced the first opportunity to try the effect of that
discovery with single jars.
Experiment I. — I took a very thick jar (which had been,
used to show the phenomena of voluntary explosions with-
out breaking) twelve inches high, and the' coating nine
inches, containing in the whole about 17 1 square inches; it
was applied to the conductor of a plate electrical machine,
and six turns of the plate caused a voluntary explosion to
the coating : the state of the atmosphere not being very dry,
it required eight and twelve turns to produce a second and
a third explosion : a fourth could not be produced ; but when
cleaned and dried as before, six turns caused a voluntary
discharge.
Experiment II. — A slip of paper one inch broad was
taken, of sufficient length to fit round the outside of the
jar when the two ends were pasted together : this was slip-
ped on to its outside to about one inch from the coating:'
the uncoated part being rubbed clean and dry, and applied
to the machine, eleven turns of the plate produced a volun-
tary discharge to the outside coaling.
Experiment \U. — The paper ring was then slipped down
to touch the coating, and then applied to the conductor: no-
voluntary discharge could be produced ; and when dis-
charged in the common way, its power did not seem to be
increased, — to prove which,
Erperiment IV.— The common discharging electrome-
ter (which is alwavs fixed to the basement of my machines)
was used, to try to what distance the discharge could be
made to pass from the knob of the conductor to the ball
of the electrometer ; which was found to be one inch and
five-eighths.
.Experiment V.— A piece of iron wire, -j-J- th part of an
inch in diameter and one inch in length, was hung to the
electrometer, through which a second discharge was made
to pass, and the wire was blued.
Experiment VI. — The paper ring was then taken off and
breathed into twice ; the discharge was then produced at the
distance of two inches, and the wire was fused into balls.
Experiment VIL- — The jar was then rubbed clean and
dry, and a piece of the same sort of wire and the same
length was bling to the electrometer in the same manner
as
