i)f ccaied Electrical Jars. ' 261
as before, and it appeared that the greatest charge it could
take had not the least effect upon the wire: thus it appears
that a paper ring so applied docs not increase the charging
capacity of' jars in the same degree as breathing.
Experiment VIII. — The jar was highly charged, and ex-
amined in the dark : the paper ring appeared luminous all
round the uppermost edge.
Experiment IX. — The ring was taken off, and pasted on
in the inside close to the coating : 23 turns caused a volun-
tary explosion through the ring to the outside coating.
Experiment X.— A second ring three quarters of an inch
broad was pasted on close to the other: the same number
of turns produced a voluntary explosion, and the paper was
torn by the discharge, which was repaired and left to dry.
Experiment XI. --When dry, no voluntary explosion
could be obtained.
Experiment XII. — Its greatest power was' then tried, and
was found to be exactly the same as in Experiment V\.{\\ hen
it was breathed into) : it discharged at two inches distance,
and the same length of wire was fused into balls.
Experiment XIII. — A second jar was taken of a larger
size, being 13 inches high, and its coating seven inches;
in the whole it contained about 1 90 square inches: after
being rubbed clean and dry, it was applied to the conductor
of themachirre: twelve turns of the plate produced a volun-
tary explosion to the outside coaring.
Experiment XIV. — A paper ring was put round the un-
coated part on the outside at about 1-|- inch distant from
the coating : eleven turns of the plate produced a voluntary
explosion to the outside coating : the paper ring was then
pushed down to the coating, alter which no voluntary ex-
plosion to the coating could be obtained ; but it discharged
itself to the electrometer ball standing at the distance of Sc-
inches from the knob of the conductor.
Experiment XV. — The same sort of wire, two inches
Jong, as used in Experiment VI, was hung to the electrome-
ter, and the discharge made it blue with several bendings, —
a proof that it had been nearly red hot.
Experiment XVI. — A ring of common writing- paper
one inch broad Avas pasted on the inside close to the coat-
ing, and when dry no voluntary explosion to the coating
could be obtained ; but it discharged itself to the electro-
meter ball standing at the distance of 2-} inches, and the wire
was fused into balls.
Experiment XVII. — The paper rings were now taken off,
and the micoaled part made clean and dry : 19 turns pro-
R 3 dueed
