562 On the charging Capacity of coated Electrical Jan.
duced a discbarge to the electrometer ball at the same di-
stance, and the same length of wire was slightly blued.
Experiment XVIII. — The jar was then breathed into*
and a discharge was produced at the same distance, but
the wire was not fused.
Experiment XIX. — The same jar was breathed into a,
second time, and a discharge was caused at the same di-
stance, and the wire was fused into balls exactly the same
as when the paper rings were on.
Experiment XX.— A third jar nine inches high and four
inches diameter, the whole containing about 61 square
inches, when rubbed clean and dry* two turns of the plate
caused a voluntary discharge to the outside coating.
Experiment XXL— A paper ring was pasted on both
sides close to the coating, and one inch from the top, after
which no voluntary explosion could be obtained, but the
electric fluid was seen to run over the brim of the glass to
the outside coating as quick as the machine could give it ;
the discharging distance was seven-eighths of an inch : it
had not power sufficient to make any impression on one
inch of wire.
Experiment XXIT. — The paper rings were then cut nar-
rower at different times, and tried, which increased the dis-<
charging distance, when there remained only one quarter of
an inch which seemed to be the most favourable above the
coating: the discharging distance was If inch,, and the
wire was fused, and dispersed in balls.
Experiment XXIII. — The paper rings were taken off, and
the jar carefully breathed into : six turns of the plate caused
a discharge to the electrometer standing at the distance of
\\ inch, and one inch of wire was fused, and dispersed in
balls, equal with the last experiment.
The above experiments are sufficient to prove that paper
rings pasted on to electrical jars in the manner explained,
do hinder voluntary explosions, and increase the charging
capacity of coated jars, in the same degree as breathing into
them.
Further experiments and observations, setting forth the
advantages that electricians are likely to obtain from the
above discovery, will be the subject of a future paper.
LI. Method
