t 263 ] ;
JJ.i Method of constructing commodious Houses witfy
Earthen Walls, By Mr, Robert Salmon, of fVoburn*.
Dear Sir, .Having for some years past practised at this
place the art of pise, or constructing walls with earth, and
having in consequence been several times both publicly
and privately called on to communicate my observations
thereon, I have been led to consider that the best mode of
generally communicating what I know on the subject would
be through the medium of the Society of Arts, &q. I have
accordingly, by the waggon, forwarded a case containing a
model of my frames and apparatus for performing the work,
with every particular in my power to give, for the infor-
mation of any persons inclined to build in that way, and
they will, I hope, be found worthy a place in the collection
of the Societv.
To such as may be inclined to see specimens of this work,
and may not have an opportunity of going far distant from
London, I can recommend a house and other works built,
and some of them inhabited by my brother, Mr. William
Salmon, Builder, at Henley-Hill, near Barnet, Herts.
I have the honour to be,
The Society's and your most obedient servant,
Woburn Park, Dec. 8th, 1808. Kc-BERT SALMON.
To C. Taylor, M. D. Sec.
Description of the Engraving of Mr. Salmon 9 s Method of
building Pise or Earthen Walls.
Fig. 4. of* Plate VI. is a perspective view of the apparatus
or moulds, in which the earths are rammed to form a wall.
The mould consists of two long planks Ff, twelve foet long,
twenty inches broad, and one inch thick, each made in two
breadths ; they are strengthened by several pieces of wood
nailed across them. Holes are made through these pieces
of wood at top and bottom, to receive iron bolts, which
hold the two boards parallel to each other, fourteen or six-
teen inches asunder, which is the thickness of the wall in-
tended to be formed between them. The bolts have a large
head at one end, and a key passes through. the other, to
keep the planks together. When a wall is to be built, the
foundation is laid in. brickwork, which is carried about nine
* From Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Mavvfac-
lures, and Commerce, vol. xxvii. — —The Society voted twenty guineas to
Mr. Salmon for this communication, and models of the apparatus arfe re-
served in their Repository tor public inspection.
R 4 inches
