commodious Houses with Earthen Walls. £65
manner as the joints of brickwork : this is accomplished by
making the lower course of wail upon the brickwork only
half the length of the mould, which is clone by placing'the
end board G of the mould in the middle of it. The next,
course over this is to be made the whole length of the mould,
the next one only half, and so on, as shown in the figure.
Improved Moulds and Description of making Earth IFalls,
by Mr. R. Salmon, ofWohurn, Bedfordshire,
The model of the frame in possession of the Society \<&
made to a scale of an inch to a foot, the frame at large is
made of 1^- inch deal, ploughed and tongucd together. The
bolts and pins or keys of iron, as are also the plates on the
holes in the sides of the frame; These plates are put to
prevent the keys from cutting into the wood, and the ho!e$
from gulling and wearing.
This sort of mould is calculated for making walls, either
fourteen or sixteen inches thick, and the model (or perspec-
tive view of it in the distance of Plate VI.) shows how the
mould is to be applied for making the corner of a building
of the sixteen inch wall ; the same moulds may be applied
for a fourteen inch wall, ffbt'ing the outer sides. FH the
inner sides. When employed for straight walls, or making
good between the corners of buildings, the two returns of
the frames are used in pairs, ff and FH make two sets of
frames. "The board marked G must be of width equal to
the thickness of walls to be made, and are for the purpose
of stopping the earth, and making ends or jaumbs to doors
or windows, or wherever wanted. The piece of wood P is
two inches thick, and is for the purpose of making out the
external sides of the moulds, from a fourteen inch to a six-
teen inch wall : by introducing this piece between the two
sidesyy, and putting the fixed iron pins in the outer holes
Z Z, and taking away the blocks under the heads of the
outer bolts, the sides of the frame will then be sixteen inches,
as under, and thereby adapted for a sixteen inch wall. Fio-. tj|
are pieces of wood about 1 J- inch square, and cut to the
length of the thickness of the wall, and are for gauges to
be applied on top of the bolt, to keep the keys from draw-
ing the sides too close together.
In beginning the wall, some of them are necessary at the
bottom, the more firmly to support the frame on the brick
or stone work. They .are then worked into the wall, and,
after the frame is taken down, drove out. Alter the first
course, they are only necessary to the top irons, aud may
J)c taken out as soon as the earth is rammed up near them,
SQ
•
