266 Method of constructing
fco that no holes are left in the upper courses of the wall,
more than the bolt holes.
When these frames are used, one side is placed in such a
direction, that the front or end may be required to be taken
away, and then by means of the angular iron brace K, the
other return is sure to stand at right angles with the first.
Care should then be taken, in the first course, to set the
sides level : that being done, the other upper courses, from
the nature of the frames, and manner of using them, must
of course come upright and level without any particular
care,and a wall being properly begun, cannot well gel wrong.
After the first course of a building is done, the moulds
should be moved to another, and so on till all the courses
are up; and as the top holes of each preceding course be-
come the bottom holes in the succeeding ones, no difficulty
will be found in fixing the mould after the first course is
properly done.
Fig. 6. shows the iron pin and staples that keep the in-
ternal angle of the frame together. K, fig. 4. an iron stay
to set the returns at right angles. This is only wanted
where other means of setting the building square are not to
be obtained.
Having described the frame, and means of applying it
generally, it may be necessary to observe the following par-
ticulars in the process.- Having carried one course round
the building, it frequently happens that the top thereof be-
comes too dry to attach to the next succeeding course, and
therefore it is adviseable that, as soon as the frame is set for
the succeeding course, a small quantity of thick grout, com-
posed of ~ lime, and ± earth, be poured on top of each
course, immediately before the first layer of earth is put in.
A very small quantity is sufficient, and will add much to
the strength of the work, by cementing the courses well
together at the joints. The workman should also, with
the corner of hjs rammer, in ramming home to the upright
joints, cut down a little of that part of the wall, up to which
he works; this will make the upright joints key together,
and unite in a solid manner. Having thus proceeded and
got up the walls, the next thing will be to stop the bolt
holes, with mortar made \ jime and -f- earth the same as the
wall.
The earth proper for this work should be neither sand nor
clay, but partaking of both. Clay is particularly objection-
able, as is also chalk, or calcareous earth of any sort. Sand
is also not proper, unless accompanied with some binding
quality : the bolder and coarser the sort of earth the better.
When
