commodious Houses with Earthen Walls, 26f
When used, it should retain no more moisture than just to
make it adhere together, under the pressure of the thumb
jand finger. Notwithstanding earths bordering on sand ap-
pear to make the strongest work, nevertheless good earths
may often be found in parts that do not abound with sand.
Those that abound with a mixture of grit or fine gravel are
generally the best. Having provided proper earth, as much
should be put in each layer as to form about an vnch and a
Jialf when compressed bv ramming.
The rammer X should not be more than half an inch
wide on the edge, in order that it may more forcibly com-
press every part of the earth, which a flat rammer would
not do so well.
Tn making the walls, about three inches in thickness
of loose earth should be put in each course, which done,
the same, by means of a trowel made for the purpose, is
drawn back and cleared from the face of the wall, and the
space then filled up with the facing composition, forming
on an average about one inch in thickness ; the whole then
is firmly rammed, (in which, and properly preparing the
facing stuff, much depends the perfection of the work) till
it is quite hard, when it will be compressed to about pne
inch and a half in thickness. The common facing stuff is
composed of lime one part, and earth, the same sort as used
for walling, three parts. The lime and earth mixed and
slacked together, the same as for mortar. The more it is
slacked and wetted the better, provided time can be allowed
for it again to dry and pulverize, so as to be fit for ramming.
The better sort of facing stutf may have a small quantity
more of lime in it.
The foundation should be of brick or stone, carried up
nine inches above the ground ; and if a plinth is to be shown,
then one course above the same should be of brick or stone,
to prevent the water that might lodge on the plinth from
damaging the earth wall.
The proper season for performing this work is any time
that the earth is to be procured sufficiently dry for the pur-
pose; the more early in the season the better, in order to
give it time to dry before finishing, or if late it would be ad-
viseable not to finish till the year after it is built.
Windows and doors may be left in the walls wherever
wanted, by fixing the head of the moulds and carrying up
quoins to form the same: in erecting which some bond tim-
ber should be laid in coarse moi tar and rammed in with the
earth. Lintels may also be laid at the proper height. This
intthod ig cheapest, where only one window or door of a
size
