16 On Alterations in the Scales of Thermometers.
ancc, but, when compared with urine voided under common
circumstances, was found to contain a superabundant quan-
tity of carbonic acid : this gas was copiously given off
when the urine was gently heated, or when it was exposed
under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump.
In a patient who had a calculus of large dimensions
extracted from the bladder, composed entirely of the phos-
phates, and whose stomach did not Vomit of the use of
stronger acids, carbonic acid was given in water; it was
found peculiarly grateful to the stomach, and upon ex-
amining the urine during its use, the phosphates were
only voided in solution ; hut when at anv time it was left
■ oif, thev were voided in the form of white sand.
J 1 1. Remarks on Mr. Richard Walker's proposed At*
t era t ions in the ScW&s of Thermometers, in our last
dumber.
To Mr. Alloch.
Sir, 1 he reading of Mr. R. Walker's paper on thermo-
meters in your last number, induces me to trouble you, for
the purpose of pointing out to that gentleman, what I
conceive to have been the reason, why various improve-
ments and suggested reforms, in the weights, measures,
and modes of estimating quantities in this country and
others, have been neglected and most of them forgotten, viz.
their authors' having neglected to asign new and appropriate
names and characters to the new denominations or things,
which it was their object to introduce; but transferring the
old names, as foot, inch, ounce, pound, degree, &c. &c. to
things almost as new and dissimilar, as these are from each
other.
if the most precise and short compound words were
fixed on, indicative of degrees of heat and degrees of cold,
derived perhaps from the Greek or Latin, as being dead or
standard languages universally understood, to be used as new
prefixes or additions (with distinctive characters* which
could be used as abbreviations of these) to the nuinlcr of
tbermometric divisions proposed, instead of using cither the
word degrees or the character ° in present use ; I do not
dtspair of seeing Mr. W.'s scale or even scales (if each have
their own names and characters) adopted by many, since
* Perhaps the initial Greek letters of the names might answer the*e pur*
poses.
negative
