265 Method of constructing
size is wanted ; but if many, the readiest way would be to
make some rough frames of boards of width equal to thick-
ness of walls, and place them in the situation ol the windows
and doors. When done, the earth is rammed up to them,
laying bond timber at the sides and lintels over them. In
both cases the windows and door-frames are to be put in
their places and fastened to the bond -timber, after the wall
is up. The bond timber, lintel, and plates, should be kept
as thin as possible, in order to prevent any disagreement be-
tween the earth and timber in the shrinking or drying; of
the same. The bond timber about 4 inches by l-i-; floor or
wall plates 6 inches by 2; lintels about 4 inches thick ; and
it may be worthy of notice that any slabs or rough stuff may
be used, the earth being sure to ram close to it and keep it
in place.
For common cottages, when the whole of the walls are
up and covered in, the holes should- be stopped with very
coarse mortar made the same as the facing stuff, but used
wetter, and the wall then lime-washed over with lime and
sharp sand, which should be made up in small quantities
and used while hot. This may readily be done by adding a
knob of lime and sand a little at a time as it is used.
For better kind of cottages the better sort of facing stuff
may be used, and then, as before, the whole lime-whited;
cr if it be required to* make the finishing as perfect as pos-
sible, the following is the best" mode, viz. with water and a
brush thoroughly wet and soak the face of the wall for two
or three yards in stiperfjcie at a time; all which part, during
the said wetting, should be continually rubbed and worked
apout with a hand float, till such time the face is rubbed
smooth and even, by which the facing composition will so
wash upas to become a pleasant regularcolour, theface smooth
and hard when dry, and not liable to scale off as a coat of
plastering would do. This finishing will be still improved
by a small quantity of lime bein£ put in the water used for
soaking the face, and if, after the wall is well soaked and
rubbed, as above mentioned, there be thrown thereon with
a brush some of the lime and sand, (such as used for lime-
whiting,) and that also worked into the face; theface will
then become as perfect; and hard as stucco.
Having explained the frames as constructed by me for
performing earth walling, as also the manner of finishing \X X
I beg leave to lay before the Society some observations on
these, compared with the original French means and man-
ner of performing the same, as described in the first volume
of pommunications to the Board of Agriculture.
The
