commodious Houses ivith Earthen Walls, 9 Go
The sides of the frames, as formerly constructed, were
supported on joists or cross pieces of timber, which pieces
were cut into the lop of each course of walling. The sides
were then kept together by upright timbers framed into the
cross pieces or joists, and the tops of the upright pieces
were wristed and held together by ropes going across the
frame from one side to the other. In consequence of this
construction, by experience F found much labour was lost
in cutting the channels to lay the cross pieces in.- These
channels, after the buUdings were up, look labour and ma-
terials to fill them in, and rendered the walls less strong.
Also the difficulty of getting the frame rightly placed every
time it was moved, and the elasticity of the rope across the
top, made the whole very imperfect, so much so that all
work done in that manner was untrue and unsound ; as the
rope, however tight it might be strained, would yield to a
certain degree, The labour of moving was g;reat, and when
the frames were set, the cross ropes and uprights above the
sides were much in the way of the workmen.
On examining the model I have the honour to send, it
may be seen that these frames being once set true, they re-
quire very little care afterwards : being kept together by
iron bolts, no elasticity can occur, and the earth will be as
firmly compressed as if rammed between two walls. No
cutting away for cross pieces is required, nor any holes but
the small bolt holes to make good ; and as nothing slicks up
above the frames, the workman cannot be impeded. In
consequence of these alterations the work may be more
cheaply and truly executed than with the old sort of frame.
Previously to entering into the expense of this sort of
work, on my conceptions as to its advantage, it may be ne-
cessary briefly to state from whence such is collected.
About sixteen or eighteen years ago, the late Duke of
Bedford directed a foreigner, who was then making some
walls in Lancashire, lo come and make some specimens
here, and wishing to know how far it might be usefully in-
troduced, T was directed to give attention and every aid to
the man employed. Accordingly frames of the old sort
were made, exactly like those' before described, and with
them some specimens being made, the man returned. These
specimens I considered were very bad walling, and in at-
tending to the execution thereof, seeing sufficient room for
improvement, I was directed further to practise it. Frames
were then constructed like the model, and several walls
erected, among which were some cottages now standing,
and.
