$70 Method of constructing Houses with Earthen Watli*
and lastly, thfe house I now live in. This has been builf-
about twelVe years, and is a sufficient proof of the utility of
the practice: the house being as close, warm, and dry in
the walls, as" if built of any materials whatever.
With regard to the expense of the walls of this sort, as
labour is the principal part of the expense, and as in some
places labour is dearer than in others, the best mode of esti-
mating it at different places will be from the quantify that a
man should do in a day, and which I have found* to be \\
yard superficial, in the common day's labour of ten hours.
At this piace the expense may be estimated as follows :
£. s. d.
Labour to making facing composition, fitting in
and ramming to a 1 6-inch wall, where the earth
is at hand (labourer's being is. lod. per day)
per yard superficial . . * . . 2 2f '
Value of lime used in the composition rammed
into the face of a yard superficial (lime being
8c?. per bushel) 3
Lime and labour to rubbing up and finishing the
outside face' of the wall . . . ♦ < o 3
Total finished and faced on one side 2 8
If a wall to a garden or otherwise, and finished and
faced on both sides* then add 8
*• I,, .,
Total for walls finished on both sides 3 4
At this place the value of a yard of brick-work is more
than ten shillings, of walling only 14 inches thick, the
bracks being 425. per 1000; and lime 8d. per bushel ; con-
sequently tlje economy of the pise must appear; and the
same difference will be found in any other place where lime
and bricks bear the same price, and proper earth can be
found at hand. But as attempting this sort of work, where
it is not applicable, or improperly doing it so as to lead to
failure, mav prevent its introduction where it would be use-
ful, I shall endeavour to point out any precautions that
have struck me, and every thing that has appeared to make
against it.
Many persons have supposed, and it has been asserted,
that almost any earth will do: but such is certainly very er-
Toneous ; for proper earth cannot in all places be found ; and
it being difficult to describe it, or to be sure when it is
found, it seems adviseable, before the entering on any con-
siderablef
