2*2 Alterations ivliich the Light of the Sun undergoes
On high mountains, at an equal height above the hori-
zon, the disk of the sun is constantly seen whiter than iflf
valleys and plains.
In general, the white, yellow, orange, or red colour of
the disk depends (if the purity of the air be the same) on
the thickness of the strata of air which the ray passes
through before reaching the eye of the spectator: the thin-
ner the strata which are passed through, the whiter is the
disk: aud vice versa ; the disk being at first yellow, then
orange, and afterwards red. When the air is filled with
exhalations, when it contains solid or liquid substances in
suspension, and when its purity is thereby affected, the disk
of the sun is sometimes coloured ; but more frequently the
intensity of its light diminishes, and the disk remains
white*.'
The cause of the colouring of the sun's disk is one of
those problems which ought to occupy the attention of
philosopher*, and which Interests them the more in propor-
tion to its influence in the phenomena of optics.
It has been strongly asserted, that this effect was caused
bv rays subtracted from the fasciculus during its passage
through the air; but we are entirely ignorant what is the
number and species of the molecules subtracted. Each of
the colours of the disk may result from the separation of
one or more coloured molecules : the only condition that
ought to be fulfilled, is, that the colours engendered by the
subtracted rays should be complementary to those which
are perceived.
The azure colour in which the sky appears to our eyesy
has induced some persons to suppose that it was by the
subtraction of some blue molecules reflected by the air
that the colour of the disk was produced: others have
thought that the purple, violet, blue and green rays, being
more refrangible and more reflexible than the others, were
separated from them in passing through the atmosphere;
and that me red, orange and yellow rays combined with
them, which had not been reflected, occasioned by their
junction the colour of the disk : finally, others have pre-
sumed that the violet and green molecule? were reflected
by the air at the same time that the red molecules and some
green molecules were refracted.
Although the colour of the sun's disk seemed to an-
nounce an action of the air on the coloured molecules ; and*
* Hist.tfe I ' 'Acad. des Sciences, 1721. De. Maifan relates an observation,
of the sun having appeared the whole day through vapours. Its disk wai*
white, and its lustre as usual, but without any rays.
although
