on passing through the Atmosphere. 273
although it ought to be presumed that the solar spectrum
should undergo variations flowing from this action; as
no astronomer, to my knowledge, has announced, that it!
the experiments which have been repeated at various times,
and in different places, variations have heen observed in the
colour of the spectrum, and as all are silent as to a phseno-
menon so singular ; it might be supposed that the cause of
the colouring of the disk depended on an order of alteration
with which the spectrum was not affected.
Those hypotheses which attribute to the molecules of air
properties so different were presented under an aspect more
or less seducing; all of them could be discussed, defended,
and adopted, if the reasonings and authorities of authors
had been sufficient : but as none of those who have proposed
them have supported them by any positive facts, I appeal
to experience.
The most natural experiment, and that which every author
ought to make before proposing his hypothesis, is the ana-
lysis of the rays of light when the disk of the sun is present-
ed under colours so various. This analysis has been effected,
and I now present the results to the class.
I fixed upon some fine days in the summer of 1799, when
the sky was pure and the disk of the sun white, which al-
ways happens towards noon, when the sun is at its greatest
elevation.
With this view T introduced a solar ray into a dark room
through an aperture of the size of 25 decimillimeti^s : I
received it on the surface of a prism, which I turned so as
to make the angles formed by the ray refracted, and the
two faces of the prism equal. I observed at one and the
same time both the series of the colours of the spectrum
and its length at 30 decimetres distance from the prism.
I remarked that all the colours were perfectly distinguished
from the purple to the red, and that on the evening of the
same day, at sunset, when its disk appeared yellow, the
spectrums formed by the solar rays were not so long : the
purple no longer existed, and a greater or less portion of
the violet was wanting, and sometimes it was even entirely
wanting.
The experiments thusmade at noon and evening were re*
commenced m the fine weather of the following years, and
gave the same result.
I have the honour to present to the class three spectrums
obtained with the same prism on the 13th of January 1801.
They are remarkable for their length, and for the colours
which i'ovm them. At half past ten o'clock A.M., the
spcclrum, fig. 1, (Plate VII.) was 145 millimetre* long;
Vol. 36. No. 150. Oct. J 810. S at
