274 Alterations in the Light of the Sun.
at noon, fig. 2, 185; at four o'clock P. M., fig. 3, 110; ana
ut ten minutes past four, fig. 4, 100.
When the spectrum was longest, the yellow interposed
between the green and the orange was pure; when the
violet disappeared, the yellow assumed a deeper tinge : it
was coloured red, and partook of the orange colour.
I repealed these observations several times, at various
times of the year, and always with the same success; the
spectrum increased or diminished in length according as
the colour of the disk was whiter or yellower.
Finally, on the 15th of January 1605, I remarked, on
observing the decomposition of the light of the setting sun,
that when the disk of that orb was of a fine red, the length
of the spectrum was diminished more than one half: it
was no more than 70 millimetres long; whereas at mid-
day it was 1S5 ; and in the series of colours separated by the
prism, we could only distinguish the red, orange, and green.
M. Gerard, draftsman to the polytechnic school, having
been present on the above occasion, drew and coloured the
solar spectrum in question. Figure 5 is the copy of the
drawing, and fig. 6 presents the image of the sun when it
was received on a white card in the dark room : this tint is
deep orange, approaching the blush of dawn.
The subtraction of one or several coloured rays in the
fasciculus which the sun sends us, when its disk is yellow,
orange, or red, may be easily remarked in the irises observed
at different hours of the day, either in the series of colours
which they present, or in the breadth of the coloured arcs.
I have several times verified this fact since my experiment
in 1802; an experiment which, I must confess, then
seemed to be very important. I have even remarked in the
sky, when the disk of the sun was red, irises which con-
tained only red, orange, and green, like the figure of the
spectrum which I have presented to the class.
From these facts we may conclude, that among the causes
which may produce the alterations observed in the colour oi
the sun's disk, one of the most important is the subtrac-
tion of the coloured rays intercepted by the medium which
they pass through ; and the coloured' molecules separated
from the fasciculus of white light are, the purples and a
part of the violets, when the disk appears yellow: the pur-
ples, the violets, the yellows, and a part of the indigo blues,
when the disk appears orange : the purples, the violets, the
indigo blues, the blues, the yellows, and a Utile of the
orange, when the disk appears red : finally, that there may
be a arm, a colouring of the disk in red, undir the polar
circle, at which all the coloured molecules, at least the red,
are
