application of Barometer for indicating the Weather, 275
are subtracted by the air, and that in this case the spectra
and the irises ought to present a single colour only, which
is the red.
LI 1 1. On the Application of the Barometer for indicating
the Weather , and for measuring of Heights in the AtmO"
sphere. By Richard Walker, Esq,
To Mr, Tilloch,
Sir, In order to prognosticate the weather by means of the
barometer, one general rule should be premised, viz. that, pre-
viously to observing the barometer, the state of the weather
at the time should be accurately noticed in every particular.
Hence, to speak figuratively, we might affix this motto to
the barometer, " Tell me what the weather is, and I will
tell you what it will be."
The circumstances to be collected previously to inspect-
ing the barometer are, 1st, The state of the atmosphere,
respecting its degree of clearness or cloudiness : 2dly, The
direction of the wind, together with its steadiness or varia-
bleness: and 3dly, The altitude and density of the clouds.
Signs of Fair Weather,
1. The barometer rising may be considered as a general
indication that the weather, comparatively with the state of
it at the time of observation, is becoming clearer.
2. The atmosphere apparently becoming clearer, and the
barometer above rain, and rising, show a disposition in the
air for fair weather.*
3. The atmosphere becoming clear, and the barometer
above changeable, and rising, indicate fair weather.
4. The atmosphere clear, and the barometer near fair,
and rising, denote continued fair weather.
5. Our prognostic of the weather is to be guided, rela-
tively, thus : If, notwithstanding the sinking of the baro-
meter, little or no rain follow, and it afterwards rise, we
may expect continued dry weather.
6. If, during a series of cloudy rainy weather, the baro-
meter rise gradually, though yet below rain, especially if
the wind change from the south or west towards the north
or east points, clear and dry weather mav be expected.
7. The weather for a short period, viz. from morning
until evening, may commonly be foretold with a considera-
ble degree of certainty. If the barometer has risen during
the night and is still rising, the clouds are high and ap-
parently dispersing, and the wind calm, especially if it be
in or about the north or east points, a dry day may be con-
S 2 fidently
