276 Application of Barometer for indicating the Weather,
fidently expected : — the same rule applies for predicting the
weather from evening till morning.
8. During the increase of the moon there seems to be
a greater disposition or effort in the air for clear dry weather
than in the wain,: but this disposition does not usually
commence till about three or four days alter the new moon,
and ceases about three or four days after the full moon.
9. The barometer should be observed occasionally thrice
in the day, or oftener when the weather is changeable, in
order to notice whether the mercury be stationary, rising,
or sinking; for from this circumstance, together with the
direction of the wind and the apparent state of the air at the
time, is information to be collected, and a continuance of the
same, or a sudden change of the weather, to be foreseen*.
10. Lastly, Observe always — The higher the mercury
shall stand in the scale in each instance, and the more re-
gularly progressive its motion shall be, the stronger will be
the indication : likewise, The more the wind inclines towards
the north or east points, the greater will be the disposition
in the air for fair weather.
The indications of rainy lueather will obviously be the
direct reverse of those rules which predict fair weather.
Frost is indicated in winter by the same rules that in-
dicate fair weather, the wind being in or about the north
or east points, and the thermometer sinking towards 32.
A fall of snow seldom comes without a previous frost of
come duration, and is indicated by the sinking of the baro-
meter, especially if the mercury be below changeable,
and the thermometer at or near the freezing point.
When the temperature of the air is about 35°, snow and
rain sometimes fall together; at a warmer temperature than
35° it seldom snows, or rains at a colder temperature.
Thunder is presaged by the same rules which indicate rain,
accompanied bv sultry heat ; the thermometer being up to 75.
Storms, hurricanes, and high winds, are indicated by the
barometer falling suddenly, or sinking considerably below
MVCll KAIX.
The barometer is known to be rising or sinking by the
mercury having either a convex or concave surface, or by
the perceptible rise or descent of the mercury if at the time
of observation the barometer be gently rapped f.
if at any time the weather should differ widely from the
* A barometer, conveniently portable, merely for the purpose of ascer-
taining whether 1 the atmosphere U beconrng denser or rarer, is a great desi-
derafum, hut, 1 should apprehend, not very easy to be constructed.
f The best index for these observations is a plate of metal extending as
far as the middle of the column of mercury iu the barometer, having a
0<*ff4f><g line acres.; [I s ceatre of the plate.
indications
