On some new Electrochemical Researches, 17
negative signs would thus become unnecessary, and no con-
fusion could arise from their use; while on the other hand,
every true friend of science and accuracy, will naturally ad-
here to the divisions in use, as answering their intended ends,
although not in the best or most perfect manner; and set
their face against imperfectly contrived changes.
It would have been desirable, in the last note at bottom
of page 420, that Mr. R. Walker had pointed out a material
circumstance affecting the uses of mercurial and alcoholial
thermometers, viz. the very different periods of time ne-
cessary, for each to act in, or acquire and indicate the
temperature of any medium under experiment. — See the
Monthly Magazine, vol. xvii. p. 213.
I am ; sir,
Yours, &c.
JulyS, 1810. LONDINENSIS.
IV. The Baker ian Lecture for 1 80 9. On some new Elec-
trochemical Researches on various Objects, particularly
the metallic Bodies, from the Alkalies, and Earths,
' and on some Combinations of Hydrogen, By Hum-
phry Davf, Esq. Sec.R.S. F.R.S.E. M.R.LA*
[Continued from vol. xxxv. p. 415.]
'ill. Experiments on Nitrogen, Ammonia, and the Amal-
gam from Ammonia.
vJne of the queries that I advanced, in attempting to
reason upon the singular phsenomena produced by the
action of potassium upon ammonia, was, that nitrogen
might possibly consist of oxygen and hydrogen, or that it
might be composed from water.
1 shall have to detail in this section a great number of
laborious experiments, and minute and tedious processes,
made with the hopes of solving this problem. My results
have been for the most part negative ; but I shall venture
to state them fully, because I hope they will tend to eluci-
date some points of discussion, and may prevent other che-
mists from pursuing the same paths of inquiry, and which
at first view do not appear unpromising.
The formation of nitrogen has been often asserted to
take place in many processes, in which none of its known
combinations were concerned. 'It is not necessary to enter
into the discussion of the ideas entertained by the German
* From Philosophical Transactions for 1310, Parti.
Vol. 36. No. 147. July 1810. B chemists,
