278 Application of Barometer for indicating the Weather 9
4thly Seek in the column of temperatures, Table I., for
the temperature observed at the stations, (or for the mean
of the two, if they differ,) and note down the number of
feet, tenths, and hundredths, which are placed opposite to
that temperature in the adjoining column.
5thly. Make corrections (if requisite) from Table II.
6thly. Multiply the numbers, so found and corrected,
by the difference between the altitudes of the barometer at
the lower and upper stations.
7thlv. Add to the product the increased ratio, from
Table III., which finishes the process.
Table I exhibits the number of feet, tenths, and hun-
dredths, in perpendicular altitude, indicated by the descent
of the mercury in the barometer for each hundredth part
of an inch; which descent varies according to the tem-
perature of the air, at the rate shown in the corresponding
column. This table is constructed on the supposition that
the barometer at the lower station is at 30 inches.
N. B. Although this calculation be given for each hun-
dredth part of an inch of variation on the barometer, it may
be used for variations of one tenth, or of one inch, by merely
altering the denomination of the figures in the column, thus :
Feet. Tenth Hund.
The variation of 100th part of an inch, at temO .
perature 90°, indicates altitude of r' '
Feet. Tenth.
The variation of a 10th part of an inch 99 > 5.
Feet.
The variation of an inch 995.
Table II. shows the alteration which must be made in
the numbers taken from Table I., when the barometer is
not at 30 inches in the lower station. If it be lower than
30 inches, the number of feet, which are placed opposite to
the barometer's height in this table, must be added to the
feet r& altitude corresponding with the descent of the mer-
cury in the barometer for one inch. If it be higher than 30
inches, subtract instead of adding.
N. B. It the variation of the barometer be not so much
as an inch, but only some tenths of an inch, then the
figures in the second column will not represent feet, but
tenths of feet to be added or subtracted.
Table III. shows the number of feet to be ultimately
added to each 100 feet of altitude. This number varies
from 1 to 46 > according as the barometer in the upper sta-
tion stands between the altitudes of 31 and 14 inches.
N. B. A table for the correction, or equation of heat,, in
the barometer, when the temperature of the atmosphere
differs at the upper and lower stations, is provided for here,
by the adjustment of the table of temperatures. T\ble
