f82 Process for the Preparation of Muriate of Mercury.
closes of corrosive sublimate, and of metallic mercury, which
ought to be used in this preparation ; M. Planche, after nu-
merous trials, has ascertained that it is sufficient, in order
to obtain calomel, to sublime a mixture of sulphate of mer-
cury at the ininimum, and of dry muriate of soda.
Preparation of the Sulphate of Mercury. Introduce into
a stone retort placed in a reverberating furnace one part of
crude mercury, and one part and a half of sulphuric acid
at 66° of Baume's areometer. Fix an adopter and a tubu-
lated receiver to the retort, which must be made to com-
municate either with distilled water contained in Woulf's
flasks, if we wish to collect the sulphurous acid; or with
the external air, if the situation of the place admit of the
gas being set at liberty. Gradually heat the retort until the
acid boils, and keep up the fire while the acid vapours are
disengaged in abundance, taking care to slacken it towards
the end of the operation, i.e. when the drops of the liquid
which passes from the retort into the bell-glass succeed
each other slowly, and when there is a diminution of the
white vapours. After this operation, which lasts four or five
hours, the retort may be broken ; or, rather, we may sepa-
rate by means of tongs the sulphate of mercury, which is
easily detached.
The acid sulphate of mercury thus obtained is very white
and very friable ; it passes to the yellow colour on the ad-
dition of the most trifling quantity of cold water. In or-
der to carry this salt to the state of sulphate at the minimum,
the author combines it with quicksilver in the following
manner.
He takes 18 parts of the above acid sulphate of mercury,
and eleven parts of mercury. He triturates them together
in a mortar, or in a porcelain capsule, adding by degrees
six parts of cold water.
The first portions of water make the sulphate assume a
yellow colour, which soon disappears on shaking it. Heat
is developed. The matter assumes a very deep gray co-
lour. After a few minutes trituration, he adds a sufficient
quantity of water to give to the whole the consistence of a
thick broth ; and he continues to triturate until the mass
has become of a dirty white, and the mercury has totally
disappeared, which lasis for five or six hours when the mass
is considerable. He afterwards dries this substance in a
stove at a temperature of 30° to 35° of Reaumur.
M. Planche is of opinion, that the mercurial mass which
results from this operation is in the state of sulphate at the
minimum, and he proves it by the following experiments.
1. It
