Process for metallizing Potash and Soda. 283
1. It is soluble in distilled water, and its solution does
not alter the tincture of turnsole or the syrup of violets.
2. It is precipitated black by lime water, and gray by
ammonia.
Preparation of the mild Muriate of Mercury. To convert
the sulphate of mercury into calomel, mix intimately, on a
porphyry stone, equal parts in weight of the sulphate of
mercury as above designated at the minimum, and of sea
salt purified and dried : introduce the mixture into matrasses
with flat bottoms two- thirds of which are left empty, and
proceed to sublimation in the usual way. After the opera-
tion, which lasts five or six hours, there will be found in
the arch of the subliming vessel a loaf of calomel of the
weight of about 30 ounces, if four pounds of mixture are
operated upon. This salt is as white as that of commerce,
and purer than that which we commonly meet with as
coming from the laboratories of Switzerland.
In order to add to its purity, particularly when the heat
has not been well managed, the author of the memoir pro-
poses the following method, which perfectly succeeded with
jiim, and which has the advantage of having no action on
the mercurial salt.
Purification of Calomel. Pulverize the calomel in a
mortar of marble or of hard stone. Pass it through a fine
hair sieve in order to obtain a homogeneous powder tole-
rably fine. Introduce the pulverized salt into matrasses of
the same form as in the foregoing operation : afterwards
cover it with a' layer about two lines thick of fine sand, pre-
viously washed with water slightly sharpened with muriatic
acid, in order to free it from the carbonate of lime and
oxide of iron which are mixed with it, and sublime as be-
fore directed. The calomel purified by this process is very
pure. M. Planche has presented to the Institution a loaf of
it very regularly crystallized, and in whiteness equal to that
of corrosive sublimate.
LV. Description of a Process hy means of which we may
metallize Potash and Soda without the Assistance of Iron.
By M. Curaudau*.
A he decomposition of the alkalis, which I have never re-
garded as simple bodies, having been long an object of my
inquiries, I became anxious to repeat the experiment ac-
cording to which Messrs. Thenard and Gay Lussac have
• Jitn&les de Chimie^ tome lxvi, p. 97.
announced
