£?S4 Process for mela! r rz>ng Potash and Soda.
announced that potash and soda mi^ht be converted into
metal hv means oF iron; but not having obtained results
more satisfactory than those who to my knowledge have
repeated the same experiment, I continued my inquiries,
which appeared to me to he the more likely to be successful,
as Mr. Davy had thrown so much light upon certain phe-
nomena which I had observed, but could not till then ac-
count for.
In short ; if, according to the hypothesis of the celebrated
Kn&jish chemist, potash and soda were metallic oxides, wis
it not more than probable that the prussic calcinations were
nothing else than the combination of this metal with char-
coal ? Such at least was my opinion then, and it will be
seen how far it was well founded, since I succeeded in
metallizing potash and soda, by heating strongly one of
these two alkalis with charcoal ; a process which, as we
shall find, enters into the prussic calcinations.
The metallization of potash and of soda taking place
with one or other of the two mixtures which I have pointed
out, and succeeding equally well in stone retorts as in iron
pipes, we may employ the former or latter process indis-
criminately. As to the nature of the vessel, I prefer an
iron one, because it is more permeable to the caloric, ami
less subject to fuse than stone, particularly when the latter
is penetrated with alkali ; an inconvenience which prevents
us from bringing the operation to an end : which docs not
so frequently happen with the iron.
Firsl Process. Mix exactly four parts of well pulverized
rnimal charcoal with three parts of carbonate of soda dried
in the fire without having been melted : combine the whole
with a sufficient quantity of linseed oil, but so as not to
make a paste.
Stcvvd Process. Take two parts of flour, and mix them
Ultimately with one part of carbonate of soda prepared as
in the foregoing experiment : add to the mixture a sufficient
quaotitv of linseed oil, but so as not to prevent it from be-
ing in a pulverulent state.
Whatever be the kind of vessel emplovcd for calcining
the eub.-tar.ee in question, and whether the^' first or se-
cond mixture be used, we must always begin by heating
gradually: but as soon as the matter is a dull red, we may
increase the fife until we sec in the inside of the retort or
iron pipe a tine celestial blue light, the areola of which js
greenish. To this light there soon succeeds a very abun-
dant vapour, which ouscures the whole inside of the vessel,
and which is the metal extricating itself from the mixture.
The
