£86 Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
entered in combination, and which in my opinion would
be in a very condensed state in it*.
To conclude : — During the whole operation, hydrogen is
extricated, alkali not metallized, and radical prussic gas. I
have collected this last product in particular in great quan-
tities.
These results tend, therefore, to prove either that hydro-
gen is one of the constituent parts of the alkalis, and the
disengagement of which is favoured by charcoal, or rather
that the charcoal itself is a compound of which hydrogen
is one of the principles. We must choose between one or
other of these hypotheses.
fc .... .,,,,., j i
LVI. Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems. By
R. Chenevix, Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.I.A., &c. Trans-
lated entire from the Frejich, with Notes by the Trans-
lator f.
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES AND GENERAL EXAMINATION
OF THE WERNERIAN SCHEME.
INature has given to all bodies properties which are either
immediately or mediately sensible. This is the basis of all
systems of mineralogy. One mean of rendering our learn-
ing useful is by establishing unities, to which every thing
may be referred, and which we afterwards adopt either
wholly or in part. We seek a principle the most general
and least variable possible, to employ it as a basis for the
determination of these unities : in natural history, it is
agreed to call the latter by the name of species. In the ve-
getable and animal kingdoms, the faculty of reproducing
individuals fecund and similar to their parents constitutes
a species.
This principle of specification has been received as law-
ful ; but it is not applicable to the mineral kingdom. Does
there exist any other? If we consult the ancient works on
mineralogy, we are tempted to believe that it is totally
wanting. In more modern times, M.Werner is engaged in
seeking and noting in minerals every niing that immediately
* The opinion expressed in this paragraph has been since retracted by
the French chemists. — Edit.
f As the learned author has not thought proper to publish these ingenious
and scientific reflections in his native language, a circumstance much to be
regretted, the translator has, for the sake of perspicuity, taken the liberty of
classing them under different heads, according to the subject discussed: he
has also ventured occasionally to introduce in [ ] the real or approximate
synonyms of the various minerals mentioned by the author, in order to
enable the English reader to form more precise notions of the different sub-
«ance6, and feel the force and justice of the author's reasoning. B.
strikes
