18 On some new Electrochemical Researches
chemists, on the origin of nitrogen, produced during the
passage of water through red-hot tubes, or the speculations
of Girtanner, founded on these, and other erroneous data :
the early discovery of Priestley on the passage of gase9
through red-hot tubes of earthen-ware, the accurate re-
searches of Berthollet, and the experiments of Bouillon La
Grange, have afforded a complete solution of this problem.
One of the most striking cases, in which nitrogen has
been supposed to appear without the presence of any other
matter but water, which can be conceived to supply its
elements, is in the decomposition and rccomposition of
water by electricity*. To ascertain If nitrogen could be
generated in this manner, I had an apparatus made, by
which a quantity of water could be acted upon by Voltaic
electricity, so as to produce oxygen and hydrogen with
great rapidity, and ill which these gase9 could be detonated,
without the exposure of the water to the atmosphere; so
that this fluid was in contact with platina, mercury, and
glass only ; and the wires for completing the Voltaic and
common electrical circuit were hermetically inserted into
rhe tube. 500 double plates of the Voltaic combination
were used, in such activity that about the eighth of a cu-
bical inch of the mixed gases, upon an average, was pro-
duced from 20 to 30 times in everv day. The water used
in this experiment was about a half a cubic inch ; it had
been carefully purged of air by the air-pump and by boil-
ing, and had been introduced into the rube, and secured
from the influence of the atmosphere whilst warm. After
the fir^t detonation of the oxygen and hydrogen, which
together equalled about the eighth of a cubical inch, there
was a residuum of about 1 ' (T of the volume of the gases;
after every detonation this residuum was found to increase,
and when about 50 detonations had been made, it equalled
rather more than { of the volume of the water, i. e. {■ of a
cubical inch. It was examined by the test of nitrous gas;
it contained no oxygen ; six measures mixed with three
measures of oxygen diminished to five; so that it consisted
of 2*6 of hydrogen, and 3*4 of a gas having the characters
of nitrogen.
This experiment seemed in favour of the idea of the
production of nitrogen from pure water in these electrical
processes ; but though the platina wires were hermetically
sealed into the tube, it occurred to me as possible that at
* See Dr. Pearson V. elaborate experiments, on the decomposition of water
by electrical "explosions. Nicholson's Journal, 4to, vol. i. page 301.
the
