"Reflections on some Mirier ah gical Systems, 2S&
among the colours) effects the translation of a mineral from
one species to that of another, as it is that which, super-
added to the first, forms the fourth characteristic difference,
while the other minerals always remain in the same species
as before. — It is the last pound under which the camel suc«
cumbs.
Here is a second example of the very serious incon-
veniences arising from making the species depend on any
fixed number of characters. Form is a character, crystal-
lization is comprehended in forms. M.Werner admits the
prism only where there exist certain proportions between
its height and its breadth ; if we diminish the former, the
prism becomes, a table. The prism and table are considered
as making two different species of primitive forms. Take
a crystal of calcareous spar in a hexahedral prism, and an-
other crystal of the same in a hexahedral table; here is a
different primary specific character in these two specimens
of calcareous spar. Suppose the table very near becoming
a prism, and the prism approaching very near to the table ;
and suppose the one translucid and the other ©pake; add
two specific characters not less insignificant than these two >
and behold a new species at very little expense. But, had
the causes which determine crystallization added some mo-
lecules of carbonate of lime to the calcareous spar, in the
direction of the axis of the prism which was considered a
table, it would have been saved from this forced separation
from its equals.
In establishing a subspecies, if the liberty of choosing two
or three for the number of characters by which the ob-
server decides, leave any influence to the particular value
of each character, it is necessary that this value should rest
on a solid basis ; otherwise we risk the danger of making
arbitrary dispositions, and the same mineral may be found
belonging to as many different species as there will be per-
sons who shall examine it. M. Werner, indeed, has di-
stinguished some characters by the order of importance iii
the determination of the species, as well as in the diagnosis
of minerals. He gives sometimes to the specific gravity,
sometimes to the colour, more value than to the greater part
of the other characters, t have seized every opportunity
to acquire clear ideas on this subject, either in consulting
M. Werner himself, or addressing those who had profited
most by his instructions ; and all that I have been able to
learn amounts only to this, That the value of a character
varies from one species to another : thus, then, to decide
on it, it is necessary to know the species, that is to say, in
Vol. 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810. T algebraic
