290 Reflections on some Mineralogkal Systems,
algebraic language, for to find the value of x, we must
commence with knowing it.
AVERNERIAN DIVISION OF THE EXTERNAL CHARACTERS.
M. Werner has divided the external characters into ge-
neric characters, specific characters, and characters of va-
rieties which influence the systematical distribution of mi-
nerals under analogous denominations. The colour, lustre,
and specific gravity undergo subdivisions. White, gray,
black, blue, green, yellow and brown, are species among
the colours. The shades of these characters form subdivi-
sions, and they are pronounced in adding an epithet to the
word which designates the specific character. Thus, cela-
don- or sea-green is a variety of green ; gosling- {serin) green
is another,- sky-blue is a variety of blue, as sulphur-yellow
is one of yellow. These distinctions cannot be mistaken
as soon as we understand to pronounce the attributes of the
specific colour according to the rules. But the difference
between celadon-green and gosling-green is really greater
than between sky-blue and celadon-green, and the same
between gosling-green and sulphur-yellow: that is to say,
the varieties of the same species differ more from each other
than two species differ. This mode of distribution may-
suffice for the nomenclature, but by no means for the thing;
it satisfies the ear, because the ear does not judge of colours.
The division of external characters into specific and ge-
neric characters, and characters of variety, places us in a
new difficulty ; for we here see a third principle of classifica-
tion relative to minerals. We had the number of different
characters, and the value of each character; now we have
the intensity of these same characters. It is also impossible
to see clearly how we ought to form species and varieties
in minerals : if it is by the number solely, we exclude the
importance of characters, and the shades are all of the same
value ; if we concede any thing to the importance, we must
modify the rules respecting the number; and if the character
of variety be sufficient to establish the mineralogical variety,
as but one is wanting, What shall we do when it is a specific
character which differs? How many characters of variety
are equivalent to a specific character ? How many to a gene-
ric ? In all these', too, we must carefully avoid taking the least
possible difference of characters to establish the mineralo-
gical subdivision, which is not itself the smallest.
Unity of principle in a system of classification is that
which tends most to give it precision. If we feel ourselves
obliged to admit several principles, it loses this advantage,
unless
