•
Reflections on some Miner alogkal Systems. 291
iinless that the consistence of these principles be not so
necessarily united as to prevent their separation. For ex-
ample ; if a certain colour was an inevitable consequence of
the presence of a certain constituent part, we might adopt
the colour as a principle of classification, at the same time
with the presence or absence of this constituent part. But,
in doing this, we would admit at bottom but one single
principle as the basis of the system, since the existence of
the one would necessarily imply that of the other. As
M. Werner has admitted external characters to form the
basis of his system, at the same time that he explicitly de-
clares, that " all minerals which have essentially the same
constituent parts both with respect to quality and quantity
form the same species," we must suppose that he has dis-
covered certain connexions which exist between these
characters and the essential chemical composition of the
same mineral. The results of chemical analysis, never-
theless, do not correspond with this supposition; and the
science which unfolds the composition of minerals pro-
nounces it in a manner that does not agree with our re-
ceived ideas of the external characters. At the first glance
over the classification of M. Werner, we may perceive the
difficuliy in which this contradiction involves us; for the
desire of reconciling two things dissimilar in themselves,
has introduced an uncertainty which prevails over all its
parts. If we wish that this celebrated author should re-
main faithful to his principles, I see no other mode than
to suppose that he takes the testimony of external charac-
ters as the index of the chemical composition, rather than
the results of chemistry itself.
Other authors, who have published works according to
the principles of M.Werner, tell us, that although this phi-
losopher considers all minerals which correspond in external
character and chemical composition, as belonging to the
same species, he does not pretend that his arrangement
should agree with the experiments of the chemist. This is
to speak at hazard, and to avow frankly that he regards
theoretical assertions as superior to experience, and the
system which he has adopted as preferable to the principles
of science. It would therefore only be when the chemi-
cal results agree with the external resemblances of minerals,
that they could occupy a place in this system. We see
sensible characters combined with chemical composition to
determine a species ; but if they do not agree with the
results of chemistrv, this science can be of no utility.
T 2 ' Such
