2S4 Reflections on some Miner alogical Systems,
I neglepted no means of forming to myself a distinct idea
of the former. Sometimes they spoke to me of the che^
mical composition ; but when I cited the zircon and hy-
acinth, I was answered, that the external characters made
the difference. If heavy spar and eel es tine were the subject,
they again referred to chemistry. Often they spoke to me
of approximate characters (caractcres des rapprochemens),
or characters of agreement and disagreement, of which no
mention has been made in the enumeration ; and they
quoted to me, as a reason for placing potter's clay (glaise)
and schistose avgil in the same species, that both are disunited
in water. To justify the separation of chalk from mineral
agaric [rock milk, Jameson ; and spongy carbonated lime,
Haiiy], of foaming earth [or schaum earth of Jameson,
silvery chalk of Kirwan, talcous pearly carbonated lime of
Haiiy] from schiejferspatk [slate spar of Jameson, argentine
of Kirwan], they relied on the external characters; and to
prove that bitter spath [muricalcite, Kirwan ; chaux carbo-
natee inagnesifere, Haiiy ; chaux carbonatee lone picrite,
Brogniart] justly makes a species different from calcareous
spar, they turned about to chemistry without daring openly
to claim its support. Sometimes the colours were but
shades or accidents; sometimes they offered characters of
the highest importance. At other moments they confessed
to me that they made species by instinct: and when I com-
plained of not being satisfied with some conclusions indi-
cated by this guide, they answered, " One is not always
in his instinct.^ Finally, after being detected in every
manner, they referred the specification to the tact of the
observer*. But, in this respect, who should venture to
make species if not M. Werner alone?
If I have spoken of these details which I often collected
* True philosophers are deeply indebted to Mr. C. for this clear and
manly exposition of a system not of science but of delusion worthy only of
the lowest religious jugglers and fanatics. The " mineralogical instinct" is
certainly a new faculty discovered in the human mind by, the philosophers
of Freybcrg, whose ardent zeal in propagating their opinions furnishes a
better proof of their passions than of their logic or reasoning powers. It
may, perhaps, be laid down as a general truism, applicable in every branch
of natural philosophy, that all schemes or systems of natural knowledge
may be esteemed scientific or dogmatic just in proportion as their followers
embrace them by reason or by passion. Science is properly a creature of
reason, and modestly retires whenever the passions or affections appear:
opinions, being originally suggested by the feelings, are naturally supported
and propagated bv the passions, while science can only be maintained and
disseminated by close abstract reasoning. Hence it is not difficult to con-
ceive why some of the more imprudent WVrnerians have expressed them-
selves with so much violence against the volume containing the above state-
ment of facts and reflections.— Tran»»
in
