Reflections on some Miner alogical Systems. QQ5
in conversation, and if I have quoted the words of other
persons as well as M. Werner, it is to prove that in the
system of external characters there are no principles of spe-
cification which could serve as the basis of any science ; for,
if there had been any, it is more than probable that some
one would have been able to show me them ;and, until that
I receive a clear and distinct answer on this head, I shall
be pardoned for believing and saying that there are none.
BASIS OF A SCIENTIFIC SYSTEM OF MINERALOGICAL
SPECIFICATION.
If in the multitude of properties which distinguish bodies
we are fortunate enough to find those whieh lead to a more
certain and exact determination, let us hope that when pro-
perly unfolded they may be converted into principles, and
that a science shall spring up from the whole. The pre-
cision of the terms which it shall employ will be the mea-
sure of its accuracy, and the definitions become its language.
The knowledge which we have hitherto acquired, fur-
nishes us with two means of appreciating in bodies those
qualities which escape the cognizance of our senses. These
means are physical and chemical ; they unite, to the advan-
tage of being able to appreciate with more precision the
properties which on the first view are but imperfectly dis-
covered, that still greater, of developing the new properties
which are only manifested by indirect means. Having
seen the little success attending the system of immediately
sensible properties, and the little hope which remains of
improving it, since M.Werner has not been able to make
it better, let us have recourse to the succour of these two
sciences to establish minerajogical species.
Physics and chemistry furnish us two modes of attaining
the final results of the division of bodies. Without enter-
ing into useless metaphysical discussions on infinity, we
may suppose any substance whatever reduced to the finest
and most imperceptible particles which the mind can
imagine. This is the last point of physical division, and
one of these grains presents us with the physical element
of a body. Yet this element may be still very compound
in another point of view, and uridergo another species jF
division by means which are properly the province of
chemistry. When the latter is also carried to its ultimate
point, we obtain the chemical element. By physical ele-
ment we understand that which occupies the smallest por-
tion of space which we can conceive; chemical element
supposes the least possible number of component principles.
T4 The
