296 Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
The forme- eludes our senses by its extreme tenuity long
before it has attained its limit ; the latter would not be less
correctly represented by a mountain of pure silica than by
the smallest atom. The function of the one in nature is to
aggregate itself in quantities more or less considerable to
form masses, from those particles which we can perceive
only by the aid of the mircroscope, to those enormous piles
which we can scarcely embrace in imagination; the office
of the other is to form bodies which we ball compound : thus
the simplicity of one of these elements does not affect the
other. They have nothing in common, but as being the
results to which we are led by the only two means of divi-
sion hitherto known. We may affirm that in every case we
can obtain these results, or that we cannot be obliged to
£ake the limits of our knowledge for those of nature. This
is sufficient; and we are not in opposition to philosophy,
when, in making some efforts to advance towards the end,
we substitute the one for the other; and when we find a
representation, which in every thing essential resembles the
object of research, we may dispense with a rigour which
would in some respects be superfluous.
Hence, from the combination of these elements under
different circumstances, results that infinite variety of
nature which we call fantastical when we do not compre-
hend it ; and it is by depriving the products of nature of
the accidents which alter them, that we bring them back to
that simplicity in which alone they are constant. What,
then, remains for genius to do, but to investigate nature in
a manner in which it cannot escape our researches, and to
obtain unequivocal proofs, or else consider it in a state in
which it ceases to be changeable?,
MECHANICO-CHEMICAL OR CRYSTALLOGRAPHICAL SYSTEM
OF HAUY, AND HIS DEFINITION OF MINERALOGICAL
SPECIES.
Now, what has the author of a mineralogical system
founded on internal properties effected in our times? In-
stead of stopping at the surface, he has penetrated into the
interior of the mineral, and a new world has presented itself
to bis contemplation. He has seen it in its simplicity,
considered the elements which compose it, examined their
habits and mutual relations, discovered the chain which in
an invariable manner unites the final results of the only
two means of division of which we know ^he possibility,
and has defined the species. "The mineralogical species,"
says M. Haiiy, il is a collection of minerals whose integral
molecules
