'Reflections on some Miner alogical Systems, 297
molecules are similar, and composed of the same elements
united in the same proportion. " It is the assemblage of
all the minerals which agree, with respect to the final re-
sults of division, in their physical and chemical molecules,
in the true expression of nature reduced to its greatest sim-
plicity*.
This definition of the mineralogical species is rigorous,
and leaves noihing to be desired ; but it requires a know-
ledge of the integral molecules. In the first place, it re-
quires us to ascertain what its form is in all cases similar to
itself: in the second place, we must be able to determine
the nature and relations of its chemical elements. The first
problem consists in finding the planes which terminate the
small solid called the integral molecule, or, what amounts
to the same thing, a solid which may resemble it ; for it is
not the absolute but the relative dimensions of this mole-
cule which are required. But, the planes which terminate
this solid can be but those which are parallel to the different
directions in which a mineral is divisible without break-
insr, or what has been denominated the direction of the
cleavage.
It is otherwise with the problem respecting the chemical
element. We know that there exist vacuums between the
molecules of bodies, and that even these vacuities are very
considerable : hence it is that foreign matters have so often
interposed themselves, and altered the sensible characters
of a group of molecules or of a mass. Suppose that all the
directions of the cleavage parallel to the planes which ter-
minate the physical molecule are ascertained. Whatever
may be the dimensions of the piece in which these direc-
tions are found, we have the representative of the mole-
cule ; but as these dimensions necessarily exceed those of
the molecule itself, it follows that the piece contains more
than one molecule, and hence foreign matters may deposit
themselves in the interstices. Hitherto chemistry possesses
only the means of distinguishing the simple parts which
compose the physical elements from those which are inter-
posed. Hence a source of uncertainty in the results of
chemical analysis j and, in order that it" may enjoy all the
* Most assuredly this conception, even were it devoid of basis, would do
honour to the human intellect. Man is placed in the middle of the universe,
as if to contemplate the infinite space which surrounds him. On whatever
side he looks, — whether he contemplates those worlds whose volumes and
remote distances lire to him without measure, or whether he considers the
atoms which form them and the laws by which these atoms are united, — every-
thing is to him infinite, and begets in his mind that sentiment of sublimity
originating m a grandeur for which we have no expression.
confidence
