on various Objects, 1$
the moment of the explosion by the electrical discharge,
the sudden expansions and contractions might occasion
some momentary communication with the external air
through the aperture ; and I resolved to make the experi-
ments in a method by which the atmosphere was entirely
excluded. This was easily done by plunging the whole of
the apparatus, except the upper parts of the communicating
wires, under oil, and carrying on the process as before. In
this experiment the residuum did not seem to increase
quite so fast as in the former one. It was carried on for
nearly two months. After 310 explosions, the permanent
gas equalled -£fo of a cubical inch. It was carefully exa-
mined : six measures of it, detonated with three measures
of oxygen, diminished to rather less than one measure ; — a
result which seems to show, that nitrogen is not formed
during the electrical decomposition and recomposition of
water, and that the residual gas is hydrogen. That the
hydrogen is in excess, may be easily referred to a slight
oxidation of the platina.
The refined experiments of Mr. Cavendish on the defla-
gration of mixtures of oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen,
lead directly to the conclusion, that the nitrous acid some-
times generated in experiments on the production of water,
owes its origin to nitrogen, mixed with the oxygen and
hydrogen, and is never produced from those two gases
alone. In the Bakerian lecture for 1806, I have stated
several facts, which seem to show that the nitrous acid,
which appears in many processes of the Voltaic electrization
of water, cannot be formed, unless nitrogen be present.
Though in these experiments I endeavoured to guard
with great care against all causes of mistake, and though I
do not well see how I could fall into an error, yet I find
that the assertion, that both acids and alkalies may be pro-
duced from pure water, has again been repeated*. The
energy with which the large Voltaic apparatus, recently
constructed in the Royal Institution, acts upon water, en-
abled me to put this question to a more decided test than
was before in my power. J had formerly found in an ex-
periment, in which pure water was electrified in two gold
cones in hydrogen gas, that no nitrous acid nor alkali was
formed. It might be said, that in this case the presence of
hydrogen dissolved in the water, would prevent nitrous
acid from appearing; I therefore made two series of ex-
periments, one in a jar filled with oxygen gas, and the
* Nicholson's Journal, Augutt 1809, p. 258.
B 2 other
