208 Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
confidence which the state of our knowledge should insure
it, we should apply it only to the physical molecules which
have been previously separated one by one to carry off
the foreign matter interposed. But, as the true physical
molecule is situated beyond our means, and the thought
only can reach it, a knowledge of the chemical element
would seem to be too remote for us ever to aspire to it.
Nevertheless nature and labour offer us some means. First,
it does not always happen that the physical molecules are
embarrassed by foreign matter: next, suppose several mi-
nerals whose physical division gives, for instance, an irre-
gular tetrahedron, but in all of uniform dimensions, and
that chemistry finds in one the elements a, b, c,d,e; in an-
other, a, b> c, J; in short, that J, e, and others if we please,
may be variable, but that a, b, c, may be sensibly invariable
in all the different pieces: now the species is unchangeable ;
therefore we have a right to conclude that a, b, c, are the
chemical elements of the species, and that the others are ac-
cidental. Jt is thus that chemistry itself furnishes a method
of correction which has been found sufficiently rigorous,
and the two molecules are still in out power.
Taking the point in its most general sense; every time
that we can discover in any mineral whatever the relative
connexions of the simple component substances which
have been observed to be invariable, as well as the relative
dimensions of the solid which is produced by division in
all the divers directions of the cleavage, we have every thing
necessary to define a species. All minerals, however, do
not present the?e data; and this principle of specification,
however precise it may be, does not embrace the whole of
the mineral kingdom.
Let us suppose a thousand individuals or mineral .mole-
cules of a single species suspended in the same solvent.
By a diminution of the dissolving power, these individuals
would tend to unite themselves in groups; it might then
happen either that the molecules should assume such an
arrangement as the aggregate would easily yield to me-
chanical division, whence we might extract the integral
molecule of the species or its representative J or that the
molecules might unite confusedly in an irregular mass, so
that the t vpe of the species could not be. recognized. Again ;
if wc suppose the molecules of several species in the same
solvent, we shall have two analogous cases ; the molecules
of each species might unite to form aggregates of sensible
dimensions, and aherwards concur in the formation of the
mass, in which each species would be perfectly discerni-
ble;
