Reflections on some Mineraloglcal Systems. 299
ble 5 or, tljey might be so blended together in iheir origin,
that in the mass which would be produced, it would be im-
possible to discover one simple species whose molecules
had contributed to form it.
TRUE PRINCIPLES OP FORMING MINERALOGICAL SPECIES.
In the mineral kingdom, therefore, we must admit the
following four conditions, arising from circumstances which
have presided at the formation of minerals :
] st. Simple minerals whose molecule we are able to dis-
cover :
2d. Simple minerals whose molecule -eludes our re-
searches :
3d. Compound minerals in which the simple component
minerals are discernible:
4th. Compound minerals in which we cannot distinguish
the simple components.
Of these four conditions there is but the first which gives
the species with strictness, and which truly appertains to
science; but the others belong to nature, and must not be
excluded from the method of classification. If, then, we
find in any mineral, characters sufficiently marked to esta-
blish a well-founded opinion that it is of the same species
with some one of the first section, we refer it by analogy to
this, and consider it as belonging to the same species.
What is carbonated lime? — It is a mineral composed of
0*55 lime, and 0*45 carbonic acid, and which has for its
molecule an obtuse rhomboid, whose great angle is 101*
32' 13". Here is carbonated lime defined ; and it is evi-
dent that in our principles a mineral which has these pro-
pertiesnecessarily belongs to this species. What is com-
pact carbonated lime ? — It is a mineral whose chemical com-
position makes us presume with the utmost likelihood that
it is of the same species as crystallized carbonated lime,
and that it differs only in the circumstances under which it
has been formed, not having permitted the symmetrical ar-
rangement of its molecules, so that one might extract from
the mass the solid, which it represent*;. Here the type is
but presumed ; and it is only after strong proof from ana-
logy that we resolve to class in the species of carbonated
lime, a substance which cannot be proved strictly to belong
to it.
In granite, gneiss, and porphyry wc distinguish the pieces
of simple minerals or which they are composed. They appear
to have enjoyed in their formation fill the circumstauces
which could favour the union of the molecules of the same
species
