300 Reflections on 'some Mlneralogical Systems.
specie^ together, to form masses of a perceptible magni-
tude. If the result appears to be invariable, at least in
what relates to the general mode of aggregation, should it
be every where the same, we shall be obliged to admit that
nature here also works by immutable laws, and that we
must find means to comprehend them in the system of
science. These masses will therefore be mixed species,
and appertain to geognosis; they will be strictly gcognostic
species, seeing that the simple minerals of which they are
composed are so, that in their union they have observed
invariable laws, and that it is no more difficult to pro-
nounce on three species united, provided that the specific
character be there distinctly visible, than on three species
when thev are separated.
The minerals in the fourth condition constitute the
greatest difficulty in mineralogy. This science here finds its
cryptogamia.
The analogy which led us to assign a place to the con-
fused mixtures of molecules of one species, abandons us as
soon as we wish to apply it to pieces which are composed
of imperceptible molecules of divers species. In the sup-
position that we cannot discern those molecules of each
species, it is impossible to refer the piece with propriety to
any one. ,But if we observe in these masses the same con-
stancy of character as in the mixtures of perceptible species,
although we can demonstrate nothing in their constitution,
we must assign them a place, and the appreciation of na-
ture here be abandoned in some measure to the conscience
of the observer. The tirst difficulty is to know what is the
number of different species, the molecules of which have
contributed to the formation of the mass. Suppose an ag-
gregate in v\ hi eh we cannot discover any form of mole-
cule, which at the same time effervesces with acids, and
emits fire with steel, of which one part dissolves in muriatic
acid, leaving carbonic acid gas to escape, while the other is
entirely insoluble ; that the dissolved part be lime, the
other silica *, To what species shall it be referred ? Is it
even possible to refer it to any ? There is carbonated lime
and silica, and our operations inform us that there has been
a mixture of the two species. But this advantage, how-
ever weak it may be, no longer exists, if all the molecules
which are found in the same mass act in the same manner
with the same chemical and physical instruments; and wc
have no more resources to learn if it is composed of mole-
cules of one species, of two, or of several. I shall cite the
agate, jaspjr, hornstUnc, and the long list of species which
are.
