Reflections on some Miner ah glcal Systems, 301
are found in the argillaceous or clay genus of Werner, of
which we are ignorant, and perhaps for ever shall be ig-
norant, to hovv"niany simple species they owe their origin.
What do we know of the family of argillaceous schist, of
serpentine, of pierre ollaire [potstone, Jameson ; talc o/-
laire, Haiiy, and serpentine ollaire, Brogniart], of pipe-clay,
and of fuller's earth ; except that we do not conceive why
they have been made strictly species? Whenever a mineral
gives no true representative of the species, and that we do
not there find other physical or chemical properties to re-
fer it with sufficient certainty to any whatever, in which it
may be strictly admissible, it is better to make it a species
of convention, in order to complete the outline which na-
ture has traced.
DISTINCTION BETWEEN MINERALOGICAL SPECIES.
In this point of view, the species of the mineral kingdom
should be divided into four sections, corresponding with
the four conditions of which I have already spoken. The
first should contain the species strictly so called (especes de
rigu'eur); the second, those by analogy; the third, those
which I call geognostic ; and the fourth, those of conven-
tion. All belong to nature ; the first only appertains to
science, if we wish to preserve to this word that idea of
rigour which it necessarily carries with it.
The principle of M. Haiiy embraces all those which are
known in the first section, therefore this system embraces
all the mineralogy which is capable of beeoming a science.
The method of M. Werner extends to all the mineral
kingdom. il Who embraces too much, badly binds," it is
said: thus we know not what is a species, because all are
species. We have a measure without unity.
I pretend not that the system of mineralogy should
be subjected to the division indicated by these four sec-
tions; but if we wish to consider the bodies which com-
pose this kingdom with respect to the rank which they
ought strictly to occupy, we can no longer divide them
otherwise ; and even in classing them according to more
essential principles, it would not be useless to mention this,
in order that each individual may be estimated at its just
value.
The advantages that mineralogy has derived from the
philosophic spirit which directed the researches into the
true type of the species, and the happy application of an
exact method of determinating it, have been immense. All
at once it is become a science ; it is supported by fixed
principles
