302 Reflections on some Miner alogicat Sy sterns*
principles susceptible of demonstration, and has resolvecf
problems, enlightened futurity, and anticipated the results
of analysis.
SYSTEM OF HAUY AND WERNER CONTRASTED.
By a happv anticipation of chemistry, which has been
confirmed by experiment, we owe to the system of latent
properties the union of beryl with emerald, granatite with
staurolite, as well as the separation of chabasie from anal-
cime [both are denominated cubic zeolite by Werner and
his disciple Jameson], stylbite [foliated zeolite, Jameson]
from mesotype [radiated zeolite, Jameson], and the acan-
ticone from thallite. It has left existing the harmony by
which nature has united zircon, hyacinth, and zirconite ;
garnet and pyrope, quartz and eisenkiesel (iron flint). It
has not made a mineralogical species of heliotrope, com-
posed, according to Werner, who admits it as a species, of
chalcedony and green earth, of prase, which consists ofquartz
and straldstein [actinolite, Jameson ; actinote, Haiiv j am-
phibole actinote, Brogniart]. It has not placed sapphire
and corundum in two different genera; but agreeing with
chemistry, and renouncing prejudices, it has not classed a
fossil entirely composed of alumine in the siliceous genus
merely because it is hard. It lias no repugnance to the
admission of the diamond among combustibles. In the
argillaceous genus, where the subdivisions are so little cha-
racterized, it has not made 3-2 species no more than 14 in
carbonated iime, nor two in sulphated lime, or four in sul-
phated barytes ; and above all, we have not 103 species m
the earthy fossils. It has not transposed a mineral this
year to the side of a species from which it was separated in
the preceding, and which some mouths after will be chased
from the side of its new neighbour to pursue its fortune
elsewhere. It has not made different species, the one after
the other, traverse the whole fist of minerals, without being
able to find where to fix themselves, like those importunate
guests, who go every where and whom all persons evade.
lis principles are fixed ; and although it occupies more
time to pronounce, it virtually decides sooner, as it dis-
poses more surely and leaves nothing arbitrary. It neither
makes distinctions without differences, approximations [r#p-
proc/iemens] without analogies, nor species without cha-
racters.
Notwithstanding, it will not pretend that minerals should
persevere in retaining a rank which principles refuse them ;
nor will it deem the circumstance a misfortune, that the
* * science
