On the Decomposition of Water ly Charcoal. 303
science varies in gaining new means of improving itself.
Since the publication of his work, M. Haiiy has already
made considerable changes in his system, but all of them
were foreseen and previously indicated, with the single ex-
ception of sphene, which he then knew only by some in-
distinct crystals. When one has laid down certain princi-
ples, the path of science is then found circumscribed, but
its march is direct : it it change, it is only for a rational
melioration, and it proceeds in advancing. If delivered to
the current of opinions, or of hypotheses, it is discussed in
every sense, and fortunate if it does not retrograde. For it
there is no more surety, each one buffeting it at his pleasure.
To reform is a great art, and to retouch without defacing
requires great ability. Principles produce improvements,
arbitrariness induces revolutions.
M. Haiiy had formerly determined the molecule of spar-
gelstein [asparagus -stone, the chaux phosphatce chrysolithe
of Haiiy and Brogniart] as well as that of appatite; but at
an interval of several years, as the idea of comparing his
results did not occur till M. Vauquelin had discovered that
spargelsiein is a phosphate of lime. Here chemistry was
found to agree with crystallography.
A mineral was discovered, which some thought to be of
the calcareous genus, which dissolved in acids without
either effervescing or emitting fluoric acid., but which never-
theless gave traces of a combination with an acid ; and M.
Werner pronounced it a phosphate of lime. He was not
deceived ; but the difference which there is between reason-
ing and divining, is, to set out on a principle, or to start at
hazard. Yet, even in setting out on a principle, we are
not always sure of reasoning. Phosphorus in burning is
phosphorescent and odorous ; quartz when rubbed has the
same properties; therefore silica is composed of phosphoric
acid and lime. It is thus that a very celebrated German
professor spoke, and he pretended to reason : his preten-
sions were so much the greater, that the combination of
phoshoric acid and lime is neither phosphorescent nor
odorous.
[To be continued.]
LVIT. On the Decomposition of Water hy Charcoal. By
M. Tordeux, Student of Chemistry in the Polytechnic
School*.
Xn the note at the end of the observations of M. Flguier,
«n the sulphurets contained in the soda of commerce, in a
• Annaits dc Chimiot tome lxvi. p. 318. preceding
