304 On the Decomposition of Water by Charcoal.
preceding Number of the Annales, M. Figuier adduces an
example of the explosions which sometimes take place in
soap-works, which he ascribes to the hydrogen cas mixed
with atmospheric air, existing in the interior of the
vat, above the caustic lixivium ; and he explains the for-
mation of this gas, by supposing that the sulphurets which
crude soda contains, set free a quantity of hydrogen ex-
ceeding that which is necessary for the formation of the
hvdrogenated sulphured when we treat this kind of soda
with water.
We know that when an alkaline sulphuret is put into
water, the latter is partly decomposed. A sulphate is
formed, and the hydrogen set at liberty is combined with
the remains of the sulphur and the base, in order to form a
hydrogenated sulphuiet. We know also that in this ex-
periment there is no extrication of gas if we operate at a
low temperature.
Hence it is evident that the hydrogen gas which swims
over the soap-maker's ley, does not proceed from the de-
composition of the water by the alkaline sulphuret.
I have been led to ascribe the production of this gas to
the charcoal always met with in the soda of commerce, by
a remark which I made several months ago. I had ob-
served that potash purified by lime, which had been long in
contact with vegetable substances, and which was strongly-
coloured by the charred substances which it had taken up
from them 4 , when fused in a crucible, gave out a great deal
of gas which took fire spontaneously ; and when the alkali
was red hot, its combustion resembled that of hydrogen
gas.
It appeared to me on reading the memoir of M. Figuier, that
the hydrogen of which he speaks might have been pro-
duced by a nearly similar cause. I made some experiments
on this subject, and the object of this note is to detail the
results.
The potash, on which I made the first observation, be-
sides charred substances, also contained a quantity of water,
the more considerable, as it had not been reddened in the
desiccation 5 and all circumstances being favourable, it ap-
peared tome that the carbonic acid might have been formed
in this case by the resulting attraction of charcoal for oxy-
gen, and of potash for this acid ; and that the hydrogen gas
must have been extricated pure or carburelted.
In order to ascertain if this was really the case, 1 distilled
in a stone retort, potash similar to that which I had used in
the crucible : in an instant the heat was sufficient to drive
off
