On the Decomposition of Water ly Charcoal. 305
oflf water from the potash, and a gas began to be set free,
which issued incessantly during parts of the operation. This
gas was insoluble in water; it had a feeble empyreumatic
smell ; it did not disturb lime water, and it was inflam-
mable, burning like a mixture of hydrogen gas and carbu-
retted hydrogen gas : it made lime water turbid after its
combustion; when mixed with oxygen in Volta's eudio-
meter, it detonated by the electric spark.
The disengagement was kept up a long time at a weak
heat ; nevertheless I increased the fire until the bottom of
the retort was red hot : I always obtained the same product,
only the hydrogen became purer.
After some lime the disengagement of gas slackened. I
increased the fire : and when the retort was very red it be-
gan again; but the gas which I obtained this time was en-
tirely absorbed by the water, and by the lime water which it
rendered turbid. It was no longer inflammable, and proved
to be pure carbonic acid. At the end of the operation, how-
ever, it left a combustible residue, when it was shaken with
lime water: this residue was probably gazeous oxide of car-
bon. The potash had become almost white, and the re-
tort was attacked.
It appears to me that we may explain this operation in,
the following manner : The water in presence of the char-
coal and of the potash, acts in the same way as when it is
in contact with an alkaline sulphuret or phosphuret. Car-
bonic acid and a carbonate are formed; since the potash
purified by lime may contain at this temperature a greater
quantity of carbonic acid than that which it contains al-
ready ; and if when the retort is red hot it is extricated from
this acid, this perhaps is merely owing to the combination
of the potash with the earths of the retort, a combination
which does not admit of the presence of carbonic acid.
Lastly, the gaseous oxide of carbon certainly proceeds from
the decomposition of a little acid by a residuum of charcoal.
I confirmed this experiment on potash very much charred
and carbonated, obtained in the following manner : — I eva-
porated to dryness alcohol containing a great quantity of
potash in solution; not effervescing with the acids, but
very high coloured, although transparent. The evapora-
tion was effected in a silver vessel in order to obtain pure
potash : in proportion as the operation advanced, the potash
became very black ; and towards the end it swelled up, giv-
ing out an inflammable gas: filially, it became dry and
spongy. It was treated with water, and evaporated to dry-
ness without filtering ; it was black like charcoal, and ef-
Vol. 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810. U 'fervesced
