306 Expulsion of Tcenia hj Oleum Tcrelinlhince.
fervesced a little. It was in this state that I submitted it
to distillation in a stone retort, as 1 had done with respect
to the lime potash. The results of the operation were ab-
solutely similar ; and when I removed the potash from the
retort, it was white, and exhibited some effervescence.
I should in all probability have obtained the same results
with soda purified by lime, if I had subjected it to the same
experiments, considering the great resemblance which exists
between these two alkalis.
In order to assimilate my experiments a little- with those
which are performed on a great scale in the soap-works,
it remained to form the caustic lixivium of the soap-makers,
and to observe what took place in this operation. With
this view I made a paste with 500 grammes of pulverized
alicant soda, and 250 grammes of lime newly slacked. I
diluted it in water, and left it ten or twelve days at a tem-
perature from 10° to 15° of Reaumur in a proper apparatus.
Some bubbles of azotic gas only were set free. Although
the result of this last experiment teaches us nothing satis-
factory, I am not less inclined to think that the hydrogen
gas, whether pure or carburetted, which is produced in soap-
works, is owing, as 1 have observed above, to the decom-
position of water by charcoal. In fact, it is not to be
doubted that the circumstances of this experiment are ex-
tremely different from those which we meet with in the
manufactories where large masses are operated upon, or
where '.he soda employed is better adapted for the opera-
tion, either from containing more charcoal, or from being
in more minute division. In short, there is a variety of cir-
cumstances which must' necessarily modify the results.
LVIII. Cases illustrating the. Effects of Oil of Turpentine
in expelling the Tape- worm.
Case I.'
By John Coakley Lettsom, M. D. and President of the
Medical Society.
JCiARLY in September 1809, I was consulted by J. 1\ esq.,
about thirty-five years of age, on account of an uneasiness
in the abdomen, with dyspepsia, which were supposed to
originate fitofri Uenia, or tape-worm, as small portions of it
had occasionally been evacuated bv the rectum.
I prescribed a course of the male fern, with occasional
* From Transactions of the Medical Sscietij of London, vol. i- part I.
caihartics,
