Expulsion ofTcenia by Oleum Terebhithince . 307
cathartics, as recommended by Madame Nouflet. In this
plan he persevered for the space of three months, in which
period he discharged, at two different times, about eight
yards of the taenia. In April 1810, he again applied to
me, in consequence of labouring under his former com-
plaints ; adding, that he imagined, from the long use of the
plant I had recommended, his pains, and particularly the
dyspepsia and general debility, had increased.
At this time I ordered the oleum terebinthinae rectifica-
tum, in a dose of nine drachms by weight,-and after it a
little honey to remove the heat and unpleasant taste it might
occasion. In a week after taking the oil, he called upon
me agreeably to my request, and gave me the following in-
formation : That, as far as he could judge, in swallowing
this medicine, it occasioned less heat than would have re-
sulted from taking the same quantity of brandy, or other
spirit ; and that the taste and heat it produced were soon
removed by the honey.
In about three hours after taking this dose, a laxative
motion was produced, without any discharge of taenia : but
soon afterwards, with the second stool, more than four
yards of the worm were discharged, and also a quantity of
matter, resembling, as the patient expressed it, the substance
and skins of the taenia. On the surface of this evacuation
he noticed the oil floating, together with the taenia and the
substance mentioned. It produced little or no pain, and
certainly much less than the purgative he had taken after
the use of the male fern. The subsequent motions con-
tained no taenia, nor any of the substance before noticed.
He experienced no pain or heat in the urinary passages,
though the urine continued to impart a terebinthinate smell
for three or four successive days.
My patient has since remained in perfect health, enjoy-
ing a degree of comfort to which he had been a stranger
for the preceding half year.
From this andother instances, I am induced to conclude,
that the best method of taking the oil is without any ad-
mixture; and that the dose of nine drachms occasions very
little inconvenience : and further, that this quantity, per-
haps owing to its quick purgative effect, excites no irritation
in the urinary passages, although it imparts its peculiar
smell to the urine.
I do not recollect that it has been heretofore observed,
that the oil has been evacuated in its original state. It
might hence be inferred, that it is most efficacious when
v U2 exhibited
