to On some new Electrochemical Researches
other in an apparatus in which glass, water, mercury, and
mires of platina only, were present.
In the first series 1000 double plates were used, the two
cones were of platina, and contained about -pV of a cubical inch
each, and filaments of asbestos were employed, to connect
them together. In these trials, when the batteries were in
full action, the heat was so great, and the gases were dis-
engaged with so much rapidity, that more than half the
water was lost in the course of a few minutes. By using
a weaker charge, the process was carried on for some hours,
and in some cases for from two to three days. In no in-
stance, in which slowly distilled water was employed, and
in which the receiver was filled with pure oxygen from
oxymuriate of potash, was any acid or alkali exhibited in
the cones ; even when nitrogen was present, the indications
of the production of acid and alkaline matter were very-
feeble ; though, if the asbestus was touched with unwashed
hands, or the smallest particle of neutro-saline matter in-
troduced, there was an immediate separation of acid and
alkali, at the points of contact of the asbestus with the
platina, which could be made evident by the usual tests.
In the second series of experiments, the oxygen and hy-
drogen produced from the water were collected under mer-
cury, and the two portions of water communicated directly
with each other. In several trials made in this way, with
a combination of 500 plates, and continued for some days,
it was always found that fixed alkali separated in the glass
negatively electrified ; and a minute quantity of acid, which
could barelv be made evident by litmus, in the glass posi-
tively electrified. This acid rendered cloudy nitrate of sil-
ver* Whether its presence was owing to impurities which
might rise in distillation with the mercury, or to muriatic
acid existing in the glaste, I cannot say ; but as common
salt perfectly dry is not decomposed by silex, it seems very
likely that muriatic acid in its arid state may exist in com-
bination in glass.
I tried several experiments on the ignition and fusion of
platina by Voltaic electricity, in mixtures of the vapour of
water and oxygen gas. I thought it possible, if water could
be combined with more oayge7i 9 that this heat, the most
intense we are acquainted with, might produce the effect.
When the oxygen was mixed with nitrogen, nitrous acid
was formed ; but when it consisted of the last portions
from oxymuriate of potash, there was not the slightest in-
dication of such a result.
Water in vapour was passed through oxide of man-
ganese,
