308 National Vaccine EstalUsh?kenl.
exhibited uncombined, in which state it is not attended
with any particular inconvenience.
It is well known that taenia may exist in a healthy state
of the system; and that hence its presence cannot be ac-
curately ascertained by any other circumstance than the
actual discharge of portions of the worm itself. Some-
times, indeed, there is felt a heavy pain in the epigastrium,
attended with dyspepsia and emaciation; but these are not
pathognomonic symptoms, as they may arise from other
causes.
fTo be continued.]
LIX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles .
NATIONAL VACCINE ESTABLISHMENT.
JL he Board appointed by His Majesty's Government to
regulate the affairs of this establishment has ordered that
the following description of the vaccine vesicle, and in-
structions relative to vaccination, which have been pre-
sented by the director, be strictly observed by the vacci-
nating surgeons.
Description of the regular Vaccine Vesicle.
When vaccination succeeds, a small red spot is observa-
ble on the third day, the day the operation is performed
being reckoned the first. If the spot is touched, an eleva-
tion is felt ; and if examined with a magnifying glass, the
little tumour appears surrounded l>y a very slight efflores-
cence.
The spot gradually enlarges ; and between the third and
sixth day a circular vesicle appears. The edge of the vac-
cine vesicle is elevated, the centre depressed. The colour
is at first of a light pink, sometimes of a blueish tint ; and
changes by degrees to a pearl colour. The centre is some-
what darker than the other parts.
The vesicle is hard to the touch.
In its internal structure it is cellular; the cells being filled
with transparent lymph.
The vesicle commonly augments till the tenth or eleventh
day.
In the early stages, there is usually round the base an
inflamed rirg; or this takes place on the seventh or eighth
day; towards the ninth it spreads rapidly, and near the
tenth forms an areola of about an inch and a half in diameter.
This areola is of the usual colour of inflamed skin; it is
bard, and accompanied with some degree of tumefaction.
H
