National Vaccine Establishment < 311
tient from whom the lymph is to be taken should be present,
and the lymph should be transferred from the one to the other.
Vaccination is generally performed in the arm near the
insertion of the deltoid muscle ; but in order to hide the
scar, and in adults who are likely to use the arm much, it
may be adviseable to vaccinate the outside of the leg, a little
above or below the knee.
The skin being stretched, a lancet charged with vaccine
lymph should be held with its flat surface to the skin; and
the point insinuated slantingly through the cuticle till it
touches the cutis. It should be retained there for a few
seconds.
The lancet should be dipped in water and wiped after each
operation, even when several successive inoculations are to
be performed.
Dry lymph on glass may be moistened with a very little
cold or tep>id water on the point of a lancet, allowing it
some time to dissolve, and blending it by a little friction
with the lancet. It must not be much diluted, but of a
thick consistence : it is to be inserted in the same manner
as the recent fluid.
When quills, ivory lancets, or toothpicks charged with
dry lymph are used, the lymph should not be diluted ; but
a puncture having been first made with a common lancet,
the point of the instrument is to be inserted, and held in
the puncture half a minute or more, that the lymph may
gradually dissolve and remain in the wound. If the part of
the instrument which is charged be afterwards wiped re-
peatedly upon the edges of the puncture, it will tend still
further to ensure success.
Vaccinated patients must 'be cautious not to wear tight
sleeves, nor to injure the vesicle by pressure, friction, or
any other violence; lest considerable inflammation or ul-
ceration should ensue.
One perfect vaccine vesicle is sufficient ; but. for various
reasons it is always prudent to make two or three punc-
tures, especially when the danger or receiving the small-pox
is imminent, the lymph dry, or the patient's residence di-
stant. Besides, greater securitv is obtained against a chance
of failure from the derangement or destruction of one ve-
sicle by accidental injury, or by the taking of lymph for
vaccination. When two punctures are to be made m oue
limb, they should be at least two inches asunder, on ac-
count of the irritation they may occasion.
One vesicle should be always permitted to go through its
course without being punctured.
Lancets for vaccination should be kept clean and bright.
U 4 Constitutional
