312 National Vaccine EsiaU'ishment .
Constitutional Symptoms,
Constitutional symptoms sometimes occur at a very early
period, but more commonly from the seventh to the ele-
venth day. These are drowsiness, restlessness, a chilliness
succeeded by heat, thirst, head-ach, and other marks of
febrile affection. Now and then sickness or vomiting takes
place, especially in infants.
The constitutional symptoms are in general slight and
transient.
in a great proportion of cases there is no perceptible in-
disposition ; nevertheless, the person vaccinated is not the
less secure from the future infection of the small-pox, pro-
vided the progress of the vesicle has been regular and com-
plete.
Care should be taken not to confound the symptoms of
other diseases with those produced by vaccine inoculation.
Medical Treatment,
In general no medicine is required in this mild affection ;
but if the symptoms happen to run a little higher than
nsual, the same remedies are to be applied as if they pro-
ceeded from any other cause.
No preparatory medicines are necessary before vaccinating,
and commonlv no cathartics need be given afterwards.
Should the local inflammation exceed the usual bounds,
which rarely happens, unless from tight sleeves, pressure,
or friction, it may soon be checked by the frequent appli-
cation of compresses of linen dipped in water, in liquor
Plumbi Acetatis dilutus, or in a solution of one drachm of
Plumbi Superacetas in a pint of water. These are to be
applied cold.
If the scab be rubbed off prematurely, and ulceration take
place, cooling and astringent applications may be used ; such
as a drop of liquor Plumbi Acetatis, which should be allowed
to dry on the part, and then be covered with compresses
dipped in water, or in either of the preparations of lead
above-mentioned, and frequently renewed.
When ulceration is deep or extensive, a poultice either of
bread and milk, or of bread with any of the preparations of
lead may be applied, as the case seems to require. They
must never be applied till they are nearly or quite cold.
In Such foul and obstinate sores as resist the foregoing
applications, the Unguentum Hydrargyri Nitratis, mixed
with an equal quantity o\^ Unguentum Cetacei or other si-
milar applicat : * - nipy sometimes be resorted to with advan-
tage. And at other times these sores may be healed by the
Ceratum Plumbi Superacetatis, or the mildest applications.
The
