Mount Vesuvius. 313
The irregular vesicles and pustules are frequently fol-
lowed by ulceration at an early period, which is to be treated
in the same manner as if it proceeded from the regular ve-
sicle.
"When the patient has been previously exposed to the in-
fection of small-pox, this disease will be either superseded
or not, according to the time which has elapsed before vac-
cination.
Medical gentlemen in all parts of the empire may be
supplied with vacciue lymph, without any expense, from
the National Vaccine Establishment.
Applications for lymph, letters, and communications re-
specting vaccination, will meet with proper attention: they
should be addressed to Dr. Hervey, register, Leicester-
square ; and when from a distance, put under a cover, di-
rected to The Right Hon. the Secretary of State for the
Home Department.
Board Room, 21, Leicester Square, Feb. 22, 1810.
MOUNT VESUVIUS.
Naples, Sept. 24.
The recent eruption will make the year 1810 an epoch in
- the annals of Vesuvius, on account of the manner in which
it began, and the. disasters it has produced. It is considered
as a very extraordinary circumstance that this eruption was
not preceded by the usual indications ; every convulsion of
Vesuvius being previously announced by the drying up of
the wells of Naples. This phenomenon did not take place
on this occasion, and, to the great surprise of the inhabi-
tants, Vesuvius began to emit flames on the night of the
10th of September.
On the morning of the 1 1th the flames became more in-
tense, and the lava began to flow from the east and south-
east sides of the mountain. Towards evening the confla-
gration increased, and about twilight two grand streams of
tire were seen to flow down the ridge of the volcano; night
produce4 no change in this stale of things.
On the morning of the 12th a hollow sound was heard,
which continued increasing; the fire and smoke ;also aug-
mented in intensity, and towards evening the horizon was
obscured. The breeze, usual in these parts, having blown
from the south-east, dissipated the accumulated clouds.
The mountain continued to vomit lava and a dense smoke,
which even at a distance was strongly sulphureous; the
hollow noise in the sides of the mountain continued to
increase.
Curious
