314 Mount Vesuvius,
Curious to witness as near as possible one of the most
astonishing phcenomena of nature, and forgetting the mis-
fortune of Pliny, I set out from Naples, ana at eight in the
evening I reached Portici. From thence to the summit of
the mountain the road is long and difficult. About half
way there is a hermitage, which has long served for
refuge and shelter to the traveller: — a good hermit has
there fix. d his residence, and takes care to furnish for
a moderate sum, refreshments, which to the fatigued tra-
veller are worth their weight in gold. The environs of
this hermitage produce the famous wine called Lachryma
Christi. — From the hermitage to the foot of the cave there
is a long quarter of a league of road, tolerably good; but
in order to reach from thence the crater, it is necessary to
climb a mountain of cinders, where at every step you sink
up to the mid- leg. It took my companions, myself, and
our guides, two hours to make this ascent ; and it was al-
ready midnight when we reached the crater.
The fire of the volcano served us for a torch ; the noise
had totally ceased for two hours ; the flame had also consi-
derably decreased : — these circumstances augmented our se-
curity, and supplied us with the necessary confidence in
traversing such dangerous ground. We approached as
near as the heat would permit, and we set fire to the sticks
of our guides in the lava, which slowly ran through the
hollows from the crater. The surface of this inflamed matter
nearly resembles metal in a state of fusion ) but as it flows
it carries a kind of scum, which hardens as it cools, and
then forms masses of scoria, which dash against each other,
and roll all on fire, with noise, to the foot of the mountain.
Strong fumes of sulphuric acid gas arise in abundance from
these scoria, and by their caustic and penetrating qualities
render respiration difficult.
Wc seemed to be pretty secure in this situation, and were
far from thinking of retiring, when a frightful explosion,
which launched into the air fragments of burning rocks to
the distance of more than 100 toises, reminded us of the
danger to which we were exposed. None of us hesitated
a moment in embracing a retreat ; and in five minutes we
cleared in our descent a space of ground which we had
taken two hours to climb.
We had not reached the hermitage before a noise more
frightful than ever was heard, and the volcano, in all its
fury, began to launch a mass equal to some thousand cart-
loads of stones and fragments of burning rocks, with a
projectile force which it would be difficult to calculate. As
the projection was vertical, almost the whole of this burn-
ing
