3 1 6 Native Magnesia. — Meteoric Sio?ics. — Coffee,
" No, father, they won't bite; they only eat the bread I
give them."
NATIVE MAGNESIA.
Although magnesia enters into the composition of many
mineral substances, yet its existence in the mineral king-
dom, in an uucombined state, has, till within these lew
years, been unknown.
At Hoboken, in New Jersey, on the estate of Mr. John
Stevens, is found a mineral which, agreeably to the experi-
ments of Professor Bruce, of New Jersey, contains in the
hundred parts,
Magnesia 70
Water of crystallization 30
100,
SHOWER OF METEORIC STONES IN NORTH AMERICA.
Raleigh, New Connecticut, March 1, 1810.
On Tuesday, the 30th of January last, at two o'clock
P.M. there was a fall of meteoric stones in Caswell county.
Their descent was seen for a considerable distance round,
and two reports distinctly heard at Hillsborough, a distance
of 50 miles. — A fragment weighing a pound and three
quarters struck a tree in the new ground of a Mr. Taylor,
r.ear where some woodcutters were at work, who, appre-
hending the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah, ran home with-
out once looking behind them. Encouraged, however, by
a woman, whose curiosity was superior to her fears, they
returned with her to the place, and brought away the stone,
which was still hot. We understand that Governor„Williams
of the Mississippi territory, now in Rockingham, intends
sending it to the Chemical Society in New York to be
analysed: it is, he informs us, of a dark brown colour,
porous, and probably contains iron.
COFFEE.
A foreign journal announces that a M. Bamas, a cloth-
manufacturer in the department of the Seine and Marne,
has succeeded in growing coffee in France. He sowed
some Mocha coffee, and obtained a produce of about 15
pounds of beans possessing the proper flavour and form.
Perhaps the most important circumstance attending this
experiment was his neither employing a green -hou<e nor
glass frames, nor any unusual shelter, but simply preparing
the soil with some care.
DE LUC'S
