Electric Column . — Lectures, 3 1 7
DE LUC'S ELECTRIC COLUMN.
We have again to notice the ringing of the small bells by
means of De Luc's electric column. They were ringing on
the evening of the 24th of August, and had been so doing,
without being observed to have stopped, for a period of 152
days and a half. This long continuance renders it not im-
probable that (as was suggested in our Magazine for March)
u the weight of the clapper may be so adapted to the power
of the apparatus, as to cause small bells to continue ringing
for several "years without intermission. "
If any of our mechanical readers can suggest to us an
easy method, by which a pendulum vibrating can give mo-
tion to wheel-work, they are requested to communicate such
contrivance to us. It is much wished that an instrument
may be made, which by the motion of an index hand and
dial-plate may show the number of vibrations in a given
time, as it would be very interesting to observe what altera-
tions may take place in different states of the atmosphere.
LECTURES.
Middlesex Hospital,
Medical Lectures, 1810-11, by Richard Patrick Satterley,
M.D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Physician
to this Hospital, and to the Foundling Hospital ; and
Thomas Young, M.D.F.R.S. Fellow of the Royal College
of Physicians.
Dr. Satterley's Course of Clinical Instruction will begin
the first week in November: the attendance on the Patients
will be continued daily, and Lectures will be given once
a week, or oftener when it may be necessary, at Eleven
o'Clock. — Mr. Cartwright, Surgeon to the Hospital, will
undertake such occasional demonstrations of morbid ana-
tomy as may be required for the illustration of the respec-
tive cases. The objects of the Course will also be extended
to such remarkable peculiarities in the diseases of Children,
as may occur in the Foundling Hospital. Terms of admis-
sion, to Pupils of the Hospital, Five Guineas.
Dr. Young will begin, in February, a Course of Lectures
on Physiology, and on the most important parts of the
Practice of Physic; in particular the Nature and Treatment
of Febrile Diseases : he will deliver them on Tuesdays and
Fridays, at Seven o'Clock in the Evening. Admission,
Two Guineas : to former Pupils, One Guinea.
Those who are desirous of attending either of these
Courses, are requested to leave their names with the Apothe-
cary at the Hospital, from whom further particulars may
be known. Electrical
