on various Objects, 21
ganesc, made red hot in a glazed porcelain tube, the bore of
which was nearly an inch in diameter; in this case a so-
lution of nitrous acid, sufficiently strong to be disagreeably
sour to the taste, and which readily dissolved copper, was
formed.
This experiment was repeated several times, and, when
the diameter of the tube was large, with precisely the same
results. When red oxide of lead was used instead of oxide
of manganese, no acid was however generated; but upon
this sub nance a single trial only was made, and that in a
small tube, so that no conclusion can with propriety be
drawn from this failure.
1 stated in the last Bakerian lecture, that in attempting
to produce ammonia from a mixture of charcoal and pearl-
ash, that had been ignited by the action of water, in the
manner stated by Dr. Woodhouse, 1 tailed in the trial in
which the mixture was cooled in contact with hvdrogen.
I have since made a number of similar experiments. In
general, when the mixture had not been exposed to air,
there was little or no indication of the production of the
volatile alkali ; but the result was not so constant as to be
entirely satisfactory; and the same circumstances could
not be uniformly obtained in this simple form of the ex-
periment. I had an apparatus made, in which the pheno-
mena of the process could be more rigorously examined.
Pure potash and charcoal, in the proportion of one to four
in weight, were ignited in the middle of a tube of iron,
furnished with a system of stopcocks, and connected with
a pneumatic apparatus, in such a manner that the mixture
could be cooled in contact with the gas produced during
the operation ; and that water exhausted of air could be
made to act upon the cooled mixture, and afterwards di-
stilled from it : figures of this apparatus, and an account
of the manner in which it was used, are annexed to this
paper. In this place I shall state merely the general re-
sults of the operations, which were carried on for nearly
two months, a variety of precautions being used to prevent
the interference of nitrogen from the atmosphere.
In all cases in which the water was brought in contact
with the mixture of charcoal and potash, when it was per-
fectly cool, and afterwards distilled from it by a low heat,
it was found to hold in solution small quantities of am-
monia ; when the operation was repeated upon the same
mixture, ignited a second time, the proportion diminished ;
in a third operation it was sensible, but in the fourth barely
perceptible. The same mixture, however, by the addition
B3 of
