3 1 8 List of Patents for new Inventions,
Electrical and Electro- Chemical Science.
Mr. George Singer will commence a Course of Lectures
on Electrical Phenomena, comprehending all the new Dis-
coveries, and illustrated by numerous original Experiments.
Early in the ensuing season a Prospectus of the Plan of
Instruction may be had of Mr. Cuthbertson, 54, Poland-
street ; or of Mr. Singer, at the Institution, 3, Princes-street,
Cavendish-square.
Surry Institution.
The Annual Courses of Popular Lectures at the Surry
Institution, Blackfriars Bridge, commenced on the 15th ult.
and will continue every succeeding Monday and Thursday
Evening, at Seven o'Clock, during the Season. — The fol-
lowing Gentlemen have been engaged for the following De-
partments, viz.
Zoology George Shaw, M.D. F.R.S.
Music Mr. S. Wesley.
Zoonomy John Mason Good, Esq.
The Chemistry of the Arts F. Accum, M.R.I. A.
Natural Philosophy andl M Hardie
Astronomy J
LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
To Thomas Norris, late of Manchester, cotton merchant,
for his new mode of sheathing or covering the bottoms of
ships or vessels with certain matter or materials, so as to
be a substitute for copper. — Sept. 26.
To Samuel Hobday, of Woodcock-Street, in the parish
of Aston, near Birmingham, snuffer- maker, for his lever,
by the application of which alone, or with the addition of a
rack, he can make snuffers to act without springs. — Sep-
tember 26.
To Marck Isambard Brunei, of Chelsea, gent, who, in con-
sequence of a communication made to him by a certain fo-
reigner residing abroad, is become possessed of an apparatus
for giving motion to machinery; part of which is aJsq ap-
plicable to hydraulic and pneumatic purposes. — Oct. 1.
To Benjamin Milne, of Bridlington, in the county of York,
collector of the customs, for an improved bell- and gun-
alarm. — Oct. 1.
To Joseph C. Dyer, of Boston, state of Massachusetts,
one of the United States, now residing in London, mer-
chant, in consequence of a communication made to him
by a certain foreigner residing abroad, who is become pos-
sessed of certain improvements in the construction and
method
