List of Patents for new Inventions. 3ig
'method of using plates and presses, and for combining
various species of work in the same plate for the kind of
printing usually called plate printing, designed for the ob-
jects of detecting counterfeits, for multiplying impressions,
and saving labour. — Oct. 1.
To George Miller, of Panton-street, near the Haymar-
ket, musical instrument-maker, for his method of making
wind instruments commonly called military fifes, of sub-
stances never before used for that purpose. — Oct. J.
To John Towill Rutt, of Goswell-street, in the county
of Middlesex ; John Webb, of Hoxton, in the said county;
and John Tretton, of the city of London, card manufac-
turers, for their improved apparatus to machines for making
fillet, sheet, and hard cards, such as are used for carding
wool, cotton, flax, silk, and all substances capable of being
carded. — Oct. 8.
To Ebenezer Parker, of Highfield^ in the parish of Shef-
field, in the county of York, silver-plater ; and Francis
Cleeley, of Sheffield aforesaid, surgeons' instrument-manu-
facturer, for their method or plan of making an adjusting
bedstead on a double frame with a four- fold method, for the
relief of sick, lame, infirm and aged persons. — Oct. 8.
To John Hazledine, of Bridgenorth, in the count v of
Salop, engineer, for his manifest improvements in the con-
struction of a plough for the cultivation of land. — Oct. 8.
To George Hodson, of the city of Edinburgh, North
Britain, ash-manufacturer, for his improved method of se-
parating the alkaline salt from the acid as it exists in the
following substances, viz. kelp, black ashes, soaoer's salts,
spent leys, sosa natrose, j-ock salt, common salt, brine, sea
water, caput mortuum of aqua-fortis, caput mortuum of
oil of vitriol, and caput mortuum of salt used by bleachers,
being on a principle entirely new. — Oct. 8.
To Charles Francis, of Phcenix Wharf, Nine Elms, in
4 the parish of Battersta, Surry, temper lime-burner; and
William Waters, of Princes-street, in the parish of St.
Mary, Lambeth, Surry, potter, for their improved method
of joining pipes. — Oct. 8.
To Henry Stubbs, o,f Piccadilly, in the county of Middle-
sex, blind-maker, for his new grand imperial aulaeum, from
three to 18 or 20 feet wide, without seam, and to any length
or colour, for decorating the most super!) or useful room, for
such as drapery, curtains, and fringes, chairs, sofas, tables,
&c. or finished on one side only for ornamental hangings,
borders, and every other species of dt-joration. — Oct. 8.
METEORO-
