32^ Description of a Camp Telegraph.
vernment. Perhaps it may not be improper to state, that
my invention has already been honoured with the appro-
bation of several general and olher officers very capable of
forming correct opinions on the subject; — and that I have
frequently asked a question with it at the distance of six
miles, and have received an answer within three minutes.
Any officer of ordinary capacity will be able, after two hours'
application, to direct a station; any private will perform
the duty of a signal-man after half an hour's drill ; — and,
the apparatus not being more cumbrous than a Serjeant's
pike, there seems no necessity whatever for a separate esta-
blishment to manage it.
EXPLANATION.
To work the Camp Telegraph; which is numerical, the
director of each station must be assisted by three privates
or others, to be called signal-men ; one of whom must be
furnished with a staff 13 or 14 feet high, on which must
be mounted two flexible balls, about three feet diameter, as
described below : — this is called the centre-point. The
other two signal-men must each be furnished with a staff
ten feet high, mounted with one flexible ball.
The signals must be made by one or both of the signal-
men taking an ordeied number of paces to the right or left
of the centre-point; in the rear of which the director
takes his stand, during-the time of making communications.
All signals must be made by order of the director of the
station, who must give the word for the necessary number
of paces. These are to be taken by the signal-men, in
double-quick time, carrying their balls at the trail ; and when
they have arrived at the point or points ordered, the balls
must be instantly elevated.
All signals must be repeated by the corresponding sta-
tion; and when the director of the station making the
communication, observes this is done, he gives the word
" Down," and his signal-men n\ust then retire in double-
quick time to the rear of the centre-point, carrying their
balls at the trail. The word iC Down" must likewise be
given by the director of the station receiving a communica-
tion, the instant he observes the signal-men at the corre-
sponding station begin to retire.
A. (Plate VIII.) Is the signal of communication, and is
made by placing one of the signal-men at 20 paces to the
right, and the other at 20 paces to the left, of the centre-
point.
ft Is
