324 Description of a Camp Telegraph.
The flexible ball is constructed in the following man-
ner :
Take an ash or deal stafFof the required length, and the
substance of a stout pike. Take twelve whalebones, four
feet six inches long, and fix them at nine inches from the
top of the staff, in the way the whalebones of umbrellas are
fixed : — fix the lower ends of these whalebones to a strong
slide (like the slide of an umbrella), the pipe of which must
be 18 inches long, and project upwards. To the top of
this pipe, stretchers 18 inches long must be affixed, and
also to the middle of each whalebone, like the stretchers of
an umbrella, to keep the ball stiff when in use. Theie must
then be a strong umbrella- spring fixed on the staff, at three
feet from the upper fastenings of the whalebones, or top of
the ball, so that, when the slide is pushed up, the whale-
bones will form a sphere of three feet diameter.
The skeleton of the ball being thus prepared, it is to be
covered with glazed linen, half black and half white, di-
vided vertically. Letter G is a drawing of the skeleton of
the ball, but only showing two whalebones instead of
twelve. When the balls are not in use, they will be un-
sprung, and covered with strong cloth cases.
SIGNALS BY NIGHT.
To make these, it will require two lamps, about nine
inches square and 12 inches high, to be elevated, one above
the other, at the distance of three or four feet, for the cen-
tre-point: and one lamp for each signal-man, to be fixed
on the top of the ball -staff.
Each lamp must have two hollow lenses, about four inches
diameter, filled with different-coloured transparent fluids —
(say pale green and pale red), — which will distinguish them
from common lights. % They must be suspended upon a pin,
put through a strong iron frame, resembling the frame of a
sign which is fixed upon an upright sign-post, so that when
the staff is raised they will -swing perpendicularly; and
when, they are carried at the trail, they will still be in a per-
pendicular position.
The reservoir for the oil must be made like those for the
agitable lamps; the wicks must be flat, and about one inch
broad.
£. is a front view of the lamp for night signals.
r. is a side view of the same.
A code of numerical signals, and a numerical vocabulary
applicable
