Charges of greatest Efficacy for Artillery at Sea. 325
applicable to the land service, arranged upon the plan of Sir
Home Popham's tor the naval service, will be necessary.
When a tent or any other object is fixed upon as a cen-
tre-point, it is then generally unnecessary to use the double
ball.
When stations are taken below the horizon, the white
sides of the balls are to be turned to your correspondent,
and it is advantageous to have the men in white cr fatigue
dresses.
When stations are taken above the horizon, the black
sides are to be turned towards your correspondent, and then
it is advantageous to have the men in uniform.
I am, sir,
Your obedient servant,
Surry Institution, KNIGHT SpENCER.
Nov. 6, 1810.
x..: 7 ..':,-, • ■ ■ ' ■ ' ■ '■ . ' : ' ' : < ■ r
LXI. On the Penetration of Balls into uniform resisting
Substances. By W. Moore, Esq.
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, Ohould the following paper on the destruction of
an enemy's vessel at sea by artillery be thought deserving
a place in your excellent Magazine, you are at liberty to
make use of it accordingly.
I am, sir,
Your most obedient servant,
Royal Military Academy, W # MOORE.
Woolwich, November 10, 1810.
Lemma I.
If two spheres of different diameters and different specific
gravities impinge perpendicularly on two uniform resisting
fixed obstacles, and penetrate into them ; the forces which
retard the progress of the spheres will be as the absolute re-
sisting forces or strengths of the fibres of the substances
directly, and the diameters and specific gravities of the
sp h eres i n ' crse ly .
Lei R and r denote the absolute resisting forces of the
two substances ; F and/ the retardive forces ; D, d the dia-
meters of the spheres; O, q their quantities of matter,
and N, n their respective specific quantities. Then the
whole resistances to the spheres, being bv mechanics pro-
portional to the quantities of motion destroyed in a given
time, will be as the absolute resisting forces of the sub-
X 3j§ stances
