Charges of greatest Efficacy for Artillery at Sea. 327
velocity and weight of ball jointly*. Hence, since it has
been determined from experiment that a charge of half a
pound impelled a shot weighing one pound with a velocity
of lo'OO feet per second ; we shall, considering V the velo-
city of any ball impinging on the side of the vessel, have
for the expression of the charge impelling it through the
_ $dnRv*w
s P aceS -2Di^x^r
Now to apply this in the present instance, it is first ne-
cessary that a case be known concerning the penetration
of a given shot into oak. Such a case is presented at
page 273 of Dr. Hutton's Robins's New Principles of
Gunnery. It is there asserted that an 18-pounder cast-iron
ball penetrated a block of well-seasoned oak, such as ships
of war are generally built with, to the depth of 2>\ inches
when fired with a velocity of 400 feet per second. Making,
therefore, this the standard of comparison for all cases where
the object is of oak substance, we shall have for the charge
7 . 400* x *42 SnRw .
generally =- x -^ — ; or, because the balls
2xi600*x ir
24
are of the same specific gravity, and the substance the
j tvt • -n u 400* X '42
same, or R = r, and N = ra; it will be — x
2xi6Wx —
— - == '045 x — ,y ; that is the charge vanes as the space
to be penetrated and weight of ball directly, and diameter
of the ball inversely.
But the charge by the question being to produce the
greatest effect possible in the destruction of the vessel; S
in the above formula must always be put equal to the given
thickness of its side plus the radius of the ball; since it is
well ascertained that, for a shot to produce the most damage
to any splintering object, such as oak; it must lose all its
motion just as it quits the superior or further surface of it.
-ft , » . • (S-r4DW '
Hence the charge in question is =«045 x — . o
being the thicknes of the side of the vessel, iu the weight
of the ball, and D its diameter.
We have supposed, that the resistance opposed to the
( ball's motion is uniform throughout the entire penetration;
* This law of variation of the char -rei does not exactly obtain in practice
after a certain charge, on account of the definite lengths of the guns: but it
is presumed the deviation from it, if known, would not materially affect
pur re.su Its,
X 4 which
