22 On some new Electrochemical Researches
of a new quantity of potash, again gained the power of
producing ammonia in two or three successive operations ;
and when any mixture had ceased to give ammonia, the
power was not restored by cooling it in contact with air.
Ammonia was produced in a case in which more than
200 cubical inches of gas had passed over from the action
of water upon a mixture, and when the last portions only
were preserved in contact with it during the cooling. In
a comparative trial it was however found, that considerably
more ammonia was produced, when a mixture was cooled
in contact with the atmosphere, than when it was cooled
in contact with the gas developed in the operation.
I shall not attempt to draw any conclusions from these
processes. It would appear from some experiments of
M. Berthoilet, that nitrogen adheres very strongly to char-
coal*. The circumstances that the ammonia ceases to be
produced after a certain number of operations, and that the
quantity is much greater when free nitrogen is present,
are perhaps against the idea that nitrogen is composed in
the process. But till the weights of the substances conr
cerned and produced in these operations are compared, no,
correct decision on the question can be made.
The experiments of Dr. Priestley upon the production of
nitrogen, during the freezing of water, induced that philo-
sopher to conceive, either that water was capable of being
converted into nitrogen, or that it contained much more
nitrogen than is usually suspected.
I have made some repetitions of his processes. A quan-
tity of water, (about a cubical inch and a quarter,) that
had been produced from snow, boiled and inverted over
mercury whilst hot, was converted into ice, and thawed in
16 successive operations ; gas was produced, hut after the
first three or four times of freezing there was no notable
increase of the volume. At the end of the experiment,
about -5^5- of a cubical inch was obtained, which proved tcj
be common air.
About four cubical inches of water from melted snow
were converted into ice and thawed, four successive times,
in a conical vessel of wrought iron. At the end of the
fourth process, the volume of gas equalled about -^l- of the
volume of the water. It proved to contain about T } ^ oxy-
gen, -jSjj- hydrogen, and T ^ nitrogen.
Mr. Kirwan observed the fact, that when nitrous gas
and sulphuretted hydrogen are kept in contact for some
Mem. tf Arcueil, torn. ii. page 485.
time^
