[ 335 ]
LXII. Cases illustrating the Effects of Oil of Turpentine in
expelling the Tape-ivorm*.
Case U.
By Thomas Hancock, M.D.F.M.S., Physician to the
Finsbury Dispensary .
[Concluded from p. 308.]
JL have used the ol. terebinth, in only one case of taenia.
Jane Woodward, a poor woman, about 45 years of age, first
applied to me at the London 'Electrical Dispensary, some
months ago. She had been for more than seven years af-
flicted in a very distressing manner with this complaint,
and was four times a patient in different hospitals; where,
by the use of active remedies, she obtained temporary relief
from pain, and frequently voided large portions of the taenia
per anum. So soon as she had recovered a little strength,
by indulging her appetite, after the violent operation of
purgatives in these hospitals, her abdomen began to increase
considerably in size, and small detached portions of taenia,.
about an inch or more in length, apparently endowed with
life, continued to pass at times through the rectum; so
that she was prevented from earning her bread, by this very
distressing circumstance. She had generally recourse to
purgatives on these occasions, and their operation had re-
gularly the effect of reducing the size of the abdomen; but.
her disease continued. I may also observe, that, after these
courses of medicine, she had less of rumbling in the intes-
tines, and felt less pain, than when she freely indulged her
appetite ; for then, to use her own expression, " the worms
appeared to gain strength, " according to the increase of her
own strength.
About two weeks after the application of electrical sparks
to the abdomen, she discharged a portion of taenia, seven
yards in length, without any appearance of head, which
lived in cold water nearly three hours after its expulsion.
Mr. Chamberlaine informs me he has known the taenia live
nearly as long in water which was much above the tem-
perature of the human body; a sufficient proof of the ex-
traordinary tenacity of life in this animal.
Electricity was continued for some weeks longer; but as
her pains also continued, and no more of the worm came
away, my friend Mr. Chamberlaine kindly offered to try the
* From Transactions of the Medical Society of London, vol. i. part I. just
published.
effect
