336 Expulsion of Tcenia ty Oleum Terelinthina.
effect of his electuary of the dolichos pruriens. The pa-
tient took this at first without, but afterwards with, the
scobs stanni in large quantities, and for a considerable time:
but though, as she asserted, these medicines, more than any
she had ever taken, relieved her sufferings, they produced
no discharge of taenia.
I now heard of the ol. tereb. having been administered
in this complaint, and resolved to give it a fair trial, espe-
cially as my patient was herself very anxious to use any re-
medy that promised the slightest probability of success.
I may premise, that her abdomen was enlarged as formerly,
her stools slimy, and, in short, all her symptoms indicated
that she had still large portions of taenia in her intestines.
I ordered her at first small doses of this oil, viz. two drachms
twice a day, mixed with treacle to disguise its taste. This
produced no other effect than an increase of pain and un-
easiness, and particularly on going to stool, as if it irritated
the rectum. The dose was now increased to half an ounce,
at longer intervals. The first dose in this quantity, which
she took without treacle, produced a little sickness and
confusion of ideas, and afterwards operated as a purge. She
complained of no uneasiness whatever in the urinary or-
gans. After these doses, she passed such a quantity of slimy
mucus, with such relief in all her painful symptoms, that
she earnestly entreated I would allow her to take a double
dose. The quantity of an ounce, which she now took, al-
ways produced a great degree of giddiness, as if she was in-
toxicated, which came on shortly after taking it, and con-
tinued for an hour or more, until the violent cathartic effect
which followed, removed it.
Although tins medicine was repeated, after this manner,
every two or three days for a fortnight or more, by her own
particular desire, there was no appearance of taenia in her
stools. I could not, however, but observe, that the mucus
which was discharged so abundantly by the operation of
the ol. tereb. sometimes exhibited the appearance of white
films, as if the substance of the worm had been broken
down. She took the very large dose of an ounce and half
two or three times, afier the medicine began to lose its
effect, with results similar to those I have described. In
short, by her own account, violent purging was the only
thing that relieved her; and all kinds of strengthening re-
medies, as well as nourishing diet, uniformly increased
her sufferings, so that she abstained from food when her
appetite craved it, in order to avoid the anticipated pain.
I have since heard that she went into the London Hospital,
and
