Expulsion of Taenia by Oleum Terelinthince. 337
and had again taken the ol. tereb.; for I strongly advised
her to discontinue its use some time before she left the Fins-
bury Dispensary, having lost all hopes of its ultimately
curing her.
Case Til.
By Samuel Fotiiergill, M.D.F.M.S., Physician to the
Western Dispensary .
A soldier, aged about 40, applied to the Western Dis-
pensary, the 28th of October 1809. He stated that he had
been subject to tape-worm during the last four years, pre-
viously to which he had served with the army in Egypt,
and attributed the origin of his complaint to the badness of
the water which he drank in that country. He is now a
private in the Middlesex militia. He complains of gnaw-
ing pains in the abdomen, irregular appetite, debility, and
anxiety. He is somewhat emaciated, and his complexion
is rather sallow. Whilst with his regiment, he had occa-
sionally taken, by order of the surgeon, a variety of worm-
medicines, and small pieces of tape-worm were passed at
times; they even sometimes came away alive, without me-
dicine having been taken, and without a stool.
I directed him to take pulv. scammon. cum calomel. 9j.
every third morning. Two doses operated freely, but only
a few very short pieces of tape-worm were brought away.
I now directed him to take half an ounce of the oil of tur-
pentine. He took it as ordered, November 9, in a little
tea, sweetened with honey. In a quarter of an hour he was
seized with retching, and in the course of the day passed
four copious stools, in one of which was a tape-worm of
several yards in length. The portion which the patiant
brought me I found measured four yards ; he threw the
smaller pieces away ; but thought that altogether the length
might be ten yards. The worm was dead, and had a livid
appearance: the patient remarked that the pieces which
formerly passed from him were of a whiter colour and
brighter aspect.
The dose of the medicine was increased to six drachms,
and was repeated twice a week for the space of a month.
During the first fortnight small pieces of worm continued
to pass away, both after taking the medicine and at other
times ; but in the second fortnight the stools were natural,
and contained mo vestige of taenia. The remedy was con-
sequently discontinued j and the man called some weeks
afterwards to acquaint me that he had remained entirely
Vol. 36. No. 151. Nov. 1810. Y free
