on various Oljects. 23
time, there is a great diminution of volume, and that the
nitrous gas becomes converted into nitrous oxide, and that
suIptuiMS deposited which has an ammoniacal ,-mcll. I
repeated this experiment several times in 1800 with similar
results, and I found, that the diminution of the yolume of
the gases when they were mixed in equal proportions., was
to rather less than j , which seemed to be nitrous oxide.
In reasoning upon this phenomenon, I saw grounds for
a minute investigation of it. Sulphuretted hydrogen, as
appears from experiments which I have stated on a former
occasion, and from some that I shall detail towards the
conclusion of this lecture, contains a volume of hydrogen
equal to its own. But one of hydrogen demands half
its volume of oxygen to convert it into water, and nitrous
gas consists of about half a part in volume of oxygen ; so
ihar, supposing the whole of the hydrogen employed in ab-
sorbing oxygen from nitrous gas, nitrogen alone ought to
he formed, and not nitrous oxide. Or, if the whole of the
gas is nitrous oxide, this should contain all the nitrogen of
the nitrous gas, leaving none to be supplied to the am-
monia. I mixed together five cubical inches of nitrous
fas, and five of sulphuretted hydrogen over mercury, the
arometer being at 2Q-5 in \ thermometer at .51° Fahrenheit;
twelve hours had elapsed before any change was perceived;
there was then a whitish precipitate formed, and a deep
yellow liquid becran to appear in drops, on the inside of the
jar, and the volume of the gases quicklv diminished;
after two days the diminution ceased, and the volume be^
came stationary; the barometer was at 30 , 45 :n# , and ther-r
momcter 52° Fahrenheit ; when it equalled 2*3. The gas
proved to be about | nitrous oxide, and the remaining
fourth was inflammable. An experiment was made ex-
pressly to determine the nature of the deep yellow liquid in
the jar. It proved to be of the same kind as Boyle's
fuming liquor, the hydrosulphuret of ammonia, but with
sulphur in great excess.
In this experiment there was evidently no formation
of nitrogen, and these complicated changes ended in the
production of two new compounds; nitrogen, hydrogen;
oxygen and sulphur combining to form one; and a part of
the nitrogen and oxygen, becoming more condensed, to
form another.
Having stated the results of the investigation on the pro-
duction of nitrous acid and of ammonia, in various pro-
ceases of chemistry, I shall notice some attempts that I
made to decompound nitrogen, by agents which I con-
B 4 ceive4
