338 Expulsion ofTcenia ly Oleum Terebinthince .
free from all symptoms of his complaint, and had regained
his strength and cheerfulness.
He was generally a little sick after taking the medicine,
and for a day or two was affected with a severe pain in the
back part of his 4iead, but complained of no other unplea-
sant effects from its use.
Cases IV. and V.
By George Birkbeck, M.D.F.M.S., Physician to the
General Dispensary .
Dr. Birkbeck stated to the Society that he had admini-
stered the oil of turpentine, successfully, to two middle-aged
females who had long been troubled with the tape- worm.
In the first case half an ounce was given : no unpleasant
sensation occurred whilst it was swallowed, but consider-
able confusion of ideas and vertigo, with a slight degree of
nausea, were soon produced. In a short time a discharge
from the bowels took place; this was quickly followed by
another, with which more than four yards of the worm
were evacuated. The patient, in consequence of the fre-
quent spontaneous escape of small portions of taenia, and
the expulsion of a larger quantity about twelve months be-
fore by an active purgative medicine, had an opportunity of
comparing the ordinary appearance of the vvorm with that
which it now presented. Instead of being whitish, smooth,
full, and in motion, she represented it to be dark-coloured,
shrivelled, filmy, and lifeless. A second dose of the oil
did not expel any more of the worm, nor, when he last saw
her, about three months afterwards, had it again appeared.
In that interval she had not been disturbed by any of the
unpleasant feelings to which she was before subjected.
Considerable derangement of the general health and great
pain in the pit of the stomach were produced by the tape-
worm, in the second case in which the oil of turpentine
was employed. Although one tea-spoonful only was in-
troduced, sickness and acute pain followed: this dose was
repeated several successive mornings, always with the same
immediate effects; but occasionally it was succeeded by
the expulsion of large portions of the worm. The worm
was represented to have the appearance before noticed. The
patient had sufficient resolution and confidence to continue
for some time the use of the medicine, and at length be-
came free, not only from any further appearance of taenia
in the stools, but iikewise from all those sensations which
had so long denoted its presence in the intestines.
Case
