Expulsion of Tcenia ly Oleum Terehinthince. 339
Case VI.
By James Saner, Surgeon, F.M.S.
A woman, about 40 years of age, came to me in May
last, very much agitated, having just voided about six or
eight feet of tape- worm. She told me, that pieces had
come away for the last seven years whenever she took a
dose of jalap, which she had done that morning. She ne-
ver found any thing to relieve her so much as the jalap,
though she had taken a great deal of medicine from respec-
table practitioners, and had also been under the care of a
noted empiric for two years.
Ithought this a good opportunity for trying the ol. tereb.
rectificat. I therefore gave her one ounce with an equal
quantity of syrup of saffron. In less than two hours she
returned to me with about eight feet of the worm, with
the head attached. She was very much gratified by this,
as she had been told to look for the small black head. The
medicine did not produce any unpleasant sensation; merely
a slight degree of nausea, a giddiness as if intoxicated, and
a frequent desire to void urine, though without pain.
The day after, she complained of a feeling of emptiness
in the stomach. I gave her the decoct, cinchonae for a few
days, which completely removed the sensation, and she has
remained perfectly well ever since.
P.S. — The woman informed me she used to eat raw meat
formerly, as it seemed to ease her stomach more than any
thing else; but since she voided the worm, she has had no
craving for it.
Case VII.
By the same.
Since communicating the above, I am sorry to say I hays
had a case of taenia, where the ol. tereb. rect. has not so
completely answered my expectation.
Being very sanguine in my opinion of it, in consequence
of my former success, I mentioned the case to a relation of.
mine, who informed me he knew a labouring mechanic (a
Russian) who had voided large pieces of tape-worm for a
number of years. He persuaded this man to visit me, and
I gave him the same dose I had given my former patient.
It brought away a very large quantity, but so very soft that
I could not measure it. As I could not perceive any thing
like the head of the worm, I advised him to repeat the dose
in a few days, which he very readily complied with, as he
had suffered very littie from the first.
Y 2 I gave
