340 On "Refraction,
I gave him the same quantity as before (viz. ol. tercb.
rect. et syr. croci aajj). This produced violent retchings,
tenesmus, strangury, and great pain in the back ; the urine
was also a little tinged with blood. The strangury and
tenesmus continued nearly a week, and the patient was not
able to work for several days after. As he had not voided
any portion of worm with the last dose, I concluded that
he was quite well, but requested he wou4d call on me again
in about two months. He called last week, and T advised
him to try his old remedy (a drachm of jalap), which had
its usual effect, in bringing away a large quantity of the
worm. I fear I shall not be able to induce him again to
try the ol. tereb., from the severe symptoms which U pro-
duced when he last used it.
Aug. 27, 1810.
LXIII. A short Account of the Improvements gradually
made in determining the Astronomic Refraction, By
T. S. Evans.
X he principal object which the astronomer has in view,
is to determine the real places of the heavenly bodies, from
the apparent ones observed from a point situated on the
earth's surface. In general, it is necessary to reduce them
to what they would have been found, were the observer
situated in the sun's centre : and it is very seldom that they
do not require to be reduced to some other point. Various
equations and corrections are of course necessary for this
purpose, but none of greater importance than the refraction,
which is caused by the atmosphere that surrounds the earth,
and produces in' every ray of light that traverses it, a greater
or less deviation from its rectilinear course, according to
the density of the air, and the altitude of the object above
the horizon. Perhaps there is nothing that has opposed so
great an obstacle to the improvement of astronomy as re-
fraction, and nothing requires greater attention by every
one who makes observations of any accuracy, since there
are very strong reasons for presuming that it is different,' in
some degree, in almost every different situation. Most of
the principal astronomers from Tycho Brahe down to the
present time have done something which tended to improve
the method of finding it : but further observations and
experiments are still wanting, for there is, even now, an
uncertainty of several seconds in it, at low altitudes. To
bring under one point of view, aud in the compass of a small
sketch,
