On Refraction. 341
sketch, the various endeavours of these illustrious men, is
the humble attempt or this short essay ; which, it is hoped,
will have the desired effect of stimulating others, who pos-
sess the means, to the consideration of the subject, that
we may shortly be enabled to discover its quantity with the
greatest accuracy, at all altitudes, and under all changes of
the atmosphere.
There appears to be but little doubt that the astronomic
refraction was known to the ancients, since it is expressly-
mentioned by Ptolomy, although not made use of in his
calculations *. He says, near the end of the eighth book of
the Almagest, that in the rising and setting of the heavenly
bodies there are changes which depend upon the atmosphere:
and he mentioned it more at length in a work on optics
which unfortunately has not been handed down to usf .
Alhazen, an Arabian writer, who is generally supposed
to have lived about the vear 1100, and to have taken the
greater part of his optics from the works of Ptolomy, speaks
also decidedly of it, and shows the manner of convincing
ourselves o its existence by experiment J.
" Take/' he says, "an armillary sphere which turns round
its poles, and measure the distance of a star from the pole of
the world when it passes near the zenith in the meridian,
and when it is rising or setting near the horizon, and you
will find the distance from the pole less in the latter case."
He then demonstrates that this must arise in consequence
of the refraction, but he does not state its quantity.
In the collection of observations made by Bernard Wal-
ter, published by Willebrord Snell, in the year 1618, it is
stated, the observations were so exact that they pointed out
to Walter the quantity by which the altitudes of the stars
and planets were increased on account of the refraction.
TychoBrahe§, however, appears to have been the first
who asserted, with any degree of accuracy, that the refrac-
tion elevates the heavenly bodies rather more than half a
degree when in the horizon. But either his instruments or
his observations were not sufficiently correct to determine
it with certainty for all degrees from the zenith to the ho-
rizon : and accordingly where these failed the rest was sup-
plied bv conjecture. He believed that the sun's refraction
was 34' in the horizon, and that it became insensible at 45°
of altitude. For the stars, however, he assumed an en-
* La Lande's Astronomy, 2163, 3d edit. Encyciop. Yverd. art. Rrfrnctivn.
Encycl. Mcth. do. a
+ Lh Lande's Astronomy, as above. Smith's Optics, p. 58. Remarks.
Friestley's Hist. Opt. 4to, p. 18.
\ Encyciop. Yverd. art. Refraction. § Progymn. p. 15.
Y 3 tirely
