342 On Tie fraction.
tirclv different quantity, viz. 30' in the horizon: but this,
according to him, terminated at only 20° of altitude*.
The following is the manner in which it is related that
Tycho made this discoveryf. He had determined with one
or two instruments, extremely well made, the latitude of
the place, by observations of polaris above and below the
pole. He determined it also by the sun's altitude in both
solstices, and found it four minutes less by the latter. At
first he doubted the goodness of his instrument, and there-
fore constructed with the utmost care as many as ten others
of different sizes and forms, but they all gave nearly the
same result. He could no longer attribute this difference
between the two determinations of the latitude to any de-
fect in the observations, and therefore endeavoured, by an
attentive consideration of the subject, to find out the cause
of this curious phenomenon. At length he supp- sed it
could only arise from the refraction, which elevated the
sun at the winter solstice, having then only 11° of altitude
above the horizon. This conjecture agreed very well with
the principles of optics ; but still Tycho Brahe could
scarcely persuade limself that the refraction was sufficiently
large to produce so great a difference : on this account he
made other instruments of ten feet diameter, whose axis
corresponded exactly with the pole, of the world; and with
these he measured the declination of the stars out of the
meridian %. He thtn found, that even in summer, the re-
fraction, although insensible at the meridian altitude of the
sun, was very considerable near the horizon ; and that the
defect was about half a degree in the horizon,
A copy of Tycho Brahe s Table§ of Refrac-
tion for a star is given in the margin.
In this state did the refraction continue for
many years. Even Riccioli || in 1665 sup
posed it nothing at about 26^ of altitude :
but he thought the moon had only 2?/ of
horizontal retraction in summer; the sun 30',
and the stars 30' 3 7".
* Mem. de PAcad. av. s. renouv. torn. v. p, 82. Long'* Astronomy, vol. i.
p. 254, where a comparison is given of his Table with those of Newton and
Flamsteed. f Encycl. Method.
X The greater part of these very curious and ingenious instruments are
given in his j&slronom\ce instaurata Mcchanica, printed at Wandesburg in
1598. This work is now become extremely ran- , and to be met with only
in a few of the great public libraries : on which account M. Jeaurat had
the plates engraved again upon a reduced scale, and published in the Me-
moirs of the Academy of Sciences or%>ari5 for the year 17(>3, p 120.
§ Progymn. p. 79. 104. Street's. Astr. Carol, p. 119. Long's Astr. vol. j.
p. 254. Maria Cunitia Urania Propitia. p. 286, fol. 1(350.
(| Astr. Reformat. Astr. ref. Tabul. p. 47. Iv
Alt.
J
Refract.
30' 0"
1
ll 1 -30
2
15.30
3
12-30
4
11-00
5
10-00
