344 On Pefraction.
than 45° of altitude : and he is generally considered as
the first who proved that it reached all the way to the
zenith*. He also supposed that near the equator the
horizontal retraction was less than in our climate by
about one-third ; that this difference decreased as far up
as 60°, after which it was the same nearly for both cli-
mates.
From this discovery it followed, as a natural conse-
quence, that the refraction must be greater near the pole
than at Paris : and this was shortly afterwards proved to
the Academy by the publication of a work expressly on
that subject f. The king of Sweden, being in 1694 at
Tornea in West Bothnia, near the latitude of 65° 45', and
observing that the sun did not set there in the summer sol-
stice, sent the following year some mathematicians to
make more certain and exact observations of this curious
phenomenon. They are contained in this book, and
Messrs. Cassini and De la Hire J concluded from them,
that in the latitude of 65° 45' the horizontal refraction must
be 58', or nearly double of that at Paris.
According to an observation made by some Dutchmen§
who passed the winter of 1596-7 in Nova Zembla, in lati-
tude 76° north, the sun, which had entirely disappeared the
14th of November, began to rise again the 24th of January,
viz. six days sooner than was expected according to astro-
nomical calculations ||. If so, when the sun has been two
or three months under the horizon, as the Dutchmen ob-
served in 1597, the cold becomes dreadful, and perhaps
the refraction increases prodigiously. M. le Monnier as-
sures us, that he found by the observations printed in 1599,
that the 24th and 27th of January 1597, there were more
than 4\ degrees of refraction : that he could neither explain
these observations, reject them as doubtful, nor suppose
any error, as was done bv most of the other astronomers,
Kepler, Cassini, Scotto, and, lastly, M. le Gentilf, who
maintained that there were errors in the observations, and
accordingly read a memoir on the subject. If it were not
so difficult a task to winter in these high latitudes, we
might expect such observations as would remove all doubt
* Mem. de l'Acad. 1700, p. 1 12.
f " Refractio solis inoccidui," &c. Holmiae, 4to, 1 695. These observations
in Lapland were made by Messrs. Spole and Bilberg.
\ In two papers of remarks on these observations published by them in
the Mem.de I'Acad. 1700, p. 37.
§ Smith's Optics, p. 61. Remarks. Dr. Jurin's Notes on Varenius's
Geography, vol. i. p. 441. || Leipsic Acts, 1G79.
\ Voy. dans les Mers des Indes, torn. i. p. 395; torn. ii. p. 832.
on
