24 On some new Electrochemical Researches
ceived might act at the same time on oxygen, and on the'
basis of nitrogen. Potassium, as I have before stated,
sublimes in nitrogen, without altering it, or being itself
changed : but I thought it possible, that the case might be
different, if this powerful agent were made to act upon ni-
ti\>gcn, assisted by the intense heat and decomposing ener-
gy of Voltaic electricity.
I had an apparatus made, by which the Voltaic circuit
could be completed in nitrogen gas, confined by mercury,
by means of potassium and platina. The potassium, in the
quantity of about two or three grains, was placed in a cup
of platina, and by contact with a wire of platina it could
be fused and sublimed in the gas. The quantity of nitro-
gen was usually about a cubical inch. The battery em-
ployed was always in full action for these experiments, and
consisted of one thousand double plates. The phaenomena
were very brilliant : as soon as the contact with the potas-
sium was made there was always a bright light, so intense
as to be painful to the eye ; the platina became white hot ;
the potassium rose in vapour; and by increasing the di-
stance of the cup from the wire, the electricity passed
through the vapour of the potassium, producing a most
brilliant flaine, of from half an inch to an inch and a
quarter in length; and the vapour seemed to combine with
the platina, which was thrown off in small globules in a
State of fusion, producing an appearance similar to that
produced by the combustion of iron in oxygen gas.
In all trials of this kind, hydrogen was produced"; and
in some of them there was a loss of nitrogen. This at first
seemed* to lead to the inference that nitrogen is decom-
pounded in the process ; but I found that, in proportion
as the potassium was introduced more free from a crust of
potash, which would furnish water and consequently hy-
drogen in the experiment, so in proportion was there less
of this gas evolved ; and in a case in which the greatest
precautions were taken, the quantity did not equal | of
the volume of gas, and there was no sensible quantity of
nitrogen lost.
The largest proportion of nitrogen which disappeared in
any experiment, was T \ of the quantity used; but in this
case the crust of potash was considerable, 3nd a volume of
hydrogen, nearly equal to J of the nitrogen, was produced.
It cannot be said that the nitrogen is not decomposed in
this operation ; but it seems much more likely that the
slight loss is owing to its combination with nascent hy-
drogen, and its being separated with the potassium in the
form
