34 9 On Refraction.
tion to be about one-seventh less than in Europe*. The
horizontal retraction he found to be 27': but at 6' of alti-
tude it is 7' 4" ; and at 45° it is 44". Buuguer then gives
a tablet for Quito, which is more elevated above the level
of the sea. M. le Gen til \ found it greater at Pondieherry
in India, although in the torrid zone.
The refraction diminishes when we are elevated above
the level of the sea. Bouguer observed § the quantity of it
at Chimboraco, 2388 toises above the level of the sea, and
found it in the horizon only 19-3-'. At the cross of Pit-
chinca, 2044 toises above the sea, he found it 20' 4&"; at
Quito, 1479 toises above the sea, 22' 50": but at the level
of the sea 27'. These observations, when joined with the
theory, produced the following rule ; That if we take the
excess of 515S toises above the elevation of the place, with
regard to the level of the sea, the refraction will be as the
square root of this excess. Thus the square root of 5158
toises is 2?', for the horizontal refraction at the level of the
sea, in the torrid zone : and the square root of the excess
of 5158 above the elevation of the place will be its hori-
zontal refraction. The quantity 5158 is the height above
which the refractive matter no longer produces any sensible
effect, at least in the torrid zone||.
But although by this time considerable attention had been
paid to the subject, yet great differences were to be found in
the tables then most in use. Thus at the altitude of 30°,
according to Flamsteed, the refraction was l' 23"; New-
ton V 30"; Cassini V 42"; and de la Hire l' 55^ ; leaving
an uncertainty of more than half a minute: and it must
have been very mortifying to an observer, after having taken
the utmost pains to avoid errors of two or three seconds, to
find his reduced observations liable to so great an error, ac-
cording to the choice of his table of refraction.
It is indeed rather extraordinary, that in a memoir pub-
lished by Cassini de Thury, among those of the Academy
for 1745, he attempted to reconcile a number of observa-
tions with each other, by considering the state of the ther-
mometer only, without at all noticing that of the barome-
ter; although at that time Hauksbee's experiments had
been published about 37 years.
He concludes his paper, as is very natural to suppose,
without being able to make the observations agree : nor
does it clearly appear that the French noticed the above-
* This Table is in the memoir above cited.
t Mem. 1749. Conn. ties Mouv. Celest.p. 1765. J Mem. 1774. Voyage,
torn. i. § Mem. p. 1749. |) Encycl. Method, art. Refr.
mentioned
