Thunder-storm at London. 34$
mentioned experiments made by Hauksbee till about the
year 174 9*. It is also worthy of remark, that although the
necessity of introducing corrections on account of the al-
terations of the barometer and thermometer were likewise
shown to be absolutely necessary by Dr. Halley t, and the
circumstance mentioned, and in some degree admitted by
Le Monnier J, yet it does not appear that he followed the
advice of his illustrious contemporary, but merely endea-
voured, as Cassini did, to reconcile his observations with the
state of the thermometer at the time of making these obser-
vations, without taking the barometer into account§.
[To be continued.]
LXI V. Some Particulars respecting the Thunder-storm at
London* and in its Vicinity, on the 3\st of August 1810.
By SirH. C. Englefield, Bart. F.R.S. and F.S.A.
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, x\s the stroke of thunder, which was felt in London
at about half after two o'clock in the morning of the 31st
of August last, was, perhaps, the most violent and awful
ever experienced in this country, you may not think the
following account of it from an eye-witness, and who was
very near the spot where it fell and did mischief, unworthy
of insertion in your Journal.
I was with three friends in a coach standing at a house
where we had supped. The house-door was still open, and
there was a strong light from a large lustre in the hall, full
on the coach, and two very bright lamps at the door of the
house. This circumstance was in favour of our seeing the
nature of the light distinctly ; for, had we been in the dark, its
excessive brightness would have so dazzled our eyes as to
prevent all distinct vision. As we got into the coach there
was a small mizzling rain, and a very strong flash of distant
lightning in the N.E., but no thunder that we could hear.
The servants at the door said there had been much distant
lightning for an hour or two.
The sky over head appeared very dark, but the lights pre-
vented accurate observation of it. We were just seated in
* Mem. de I'Acad. 1749, p. 106.— Probably this was on account of some
reflections made by him on the French philosophers who repeated his experi-
ments before the Ro.yal Academy of Paris, and failed in their results. —
Vide his book, p. 196.
f Philosophical Transactions 1720, No. 364.
| Hist. Celeste, 4to. Paris, 1741.
§ See the whole of his Discours prelim, prefixed to tbe work before cited.
the
