350 Thunder-storm at London,
the carriage, and my eyes were directed out of the front
window nearly towards the tree which was struck, but
which however I could not see. Two of my companions
were looking out of the window towards the house-door,
from which we were distant five or six feet. We were at
once enveloped by an excessively bright diffused blue light
of more than instantaneous duration, which appeared to
explode into sparks moving in zigzag lines in all directions.
My friends saw them between the carriage and the door,
and their motion was so strong as to make the pillars of
the porch appear to vibrate. The whole had very much
the effect of what in artificial fire-works is called a balloon,
which as it bursts throws out, from its luminous centre,
squibs in all directions. Simultaneous with these zigzag
sparks an astonishingly loud, heavy and single explosion
took place, similar in sound to the discharge of an enormous
cannon directly at us; but incomparably more violent.
The explosion seemed quite on the ground, and was ac-
companied by a sensation of a dull concussion, as if a
vast weight had fallen from a great height on the soft earth
close by us. The sound rose in the air, rolling and echoing
for a very long time much like common thunder.
Astonishment and terror kept us silent for a little while:
we then agreed to quit the coach and take shelter in the
house, the door of which remained open. A few heavy
drops of rain then fell. On re-entering the hall we found
the servants standing aghast at the stroke, which had seemed
to them to threaten to crush the whole building. A very
heavy rain now came on, which lasted for a few minutes.
We were all in fearful expectation of another explosion,
but nothing followed. The rain ceased, and we set out.
As we passed the gate which leads to the palace from Ken-
sington, we stopped, and asked the sentinel what he had seen
and felt. He told us that he could give no distinct account,
for that he was dazzled and nearly stunned by the stroke,
and was scarcely himself for a minute or two, but that it
seemed to him that avast cannon had been fired at him.
In our way to town we saw several severe flashes of light-
ning to the N. W. with very distant thunder, and by the
time we arrived in town the sky was nearly clear, and the
stars very bright.
The succeeding day was bright sunshine, and for the sea-
son extremely hot ; the thermometer being -84 in the shade,'
and free from reflected heat. In the evening there was a
severe thunder-storm and heavy rain, but which did not
cool the air, for both Saturday and Sunday were nearly as
hot
