352 Researches on the muriatic Acid
waked by it, and waked with the idea of a cannon fired close
to them.
The watchmen in the streets, and the toll-man at Hyde-
park corner, described the air as completely on fire, and the
tremendous sound as being quite close to them. Jt is not
improbable that the discharge, whether to or from the cloud,
took place in several points at once. If the account in the
papers of a sentinel being struck down, near the Horse-
Guards, was true, this must have been the case, and will
account for the explosion having been so violent in London.
I am, sir,
Your obedient servant,
Tilney-street, Nov. 7, 1810. H. C. EnGLEFIELD.
LXV. Researches on the oxymuriatic Acid, its Nature and
Combinations; and on the Elements of the muriatic Acid.
With some Experiments on Sulphur and Phosphorus,
made in the Laboratory of' the Roi/al Institution*. By
H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.L F.R.S.E.f
JL he illustrious discoverer of the oxymuriatic acid consi-
dered it as muriatic acid freed from hydrogen %, and the
common muriatic acid as a compound of hydrogen and
oxymuriatic acid; and on this theory he denominated oxy-
muriatic acid dephlogisticated muriatic acid.
M. Berthollet ยง, a few years after the discovery of Scheele,
made a number of important and curious experiments on
this body ; from which he concluded, that it was composed
of muriatic acid gas and oxygen; and this idea for nearly
20 years has been almost universally adopted.
Dr. Henry, in an elaborate series of experiments, made
with the view of decomposing muriatic acid gas, ascertained
that hydrogen was produced from it by electricity; and he
attributed ihe phenomenon to water contained in the gas ||.
In the Bakerian lecture for 1808, I have given an account
of the action of potassium upon muriatic acid gas, by which
more than one-third of its volume of hydrogen is produced;
and I have stated, that muriatic acid can in no instance be
procured from oxymuriatic acid, or from dry muriates, un-
less water or its elements be present.
Tn the second volume, of the Memoires d'Arcueil, MM.
* Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Managers of
the Royal Institution,
f From the Philosophical Transactions for 1809, Part JI.
$ Mem. Acad. Stockholm for 1774, p. 94.
$ Journal de Physique, 1785, p. 325. j| Phil. Trani. for 1800, p. 191.
Gay
