in its different States. 353
Gay Lussac and Thenard have detailed an extensive series
of facts upon muriatic acid and oxy muriatic acid. Some
of their experiments are similar to those I have detailed in
the paper just referred to; others are peculiarly their own,
and of a very curious kind : their general conclusion is, that
muriatic acid gas contains about one quarter of its weight
of water ; and that oxvmuriatic acid is not decomposable
by any substances but hydrogen, or such as can form triple
combinations with it.
One of the most singular facts that I have observed on
this subject, and whjeh I have before referred to, is, that
charcoal, even when ignited to whiteness in oxymuriatic or
muriatic acid gases, by the Voltaic battery, effects no change
ID ihcm ; if it has been previously freed from hydrogen and
moisture by intense ignition in vacuo.
This experiment, which I have several times repeated,
led me to doubt of the existence of oxygen in that sub-
stance, which has been supposed to contain it above all
others in a loose and active state; and to make a more ri-
gorous investigation than had been hitherto attempted for
its detection.
If oxymuriatic acid gas be introduced into a vessel ex-
hausted of air, containing tin ; and the tin be gently heated,
and the gas in sufficient quantity, the tin and the gas dis-
appear, and a limpid fluid, precisely the same as Libavius's
liquor, is formed : — it occurred to me, that if this substance
is a combination of muriatic acid and oxide of tin, oxide of
tin ought to be separated from it by means of ammonia. I
admitted ammoniacal gas over mercury to a small quantity
of the liquor of Libavius; it was absorbed with great heat,
and no gas was generated; a solid result was obtained,
which was of a dull white colour; some of it was heated,
to ascertain if it contained oxide of tin ; but the whole vo-
latilized, producing dense punarent fumes.
Another experiment of the same kind, made with great
care, and in which the ammonia was used in great excess,
proved that the liquor of Libavius cannot be decompounded
by ammonia; but that it forms a new combination with
this substance.
I have described, on a former occasion, the nature of
the operation of phosphorus on oxymuriatic acid, and I
have stated that two compounds, one fluid and the other
solid, are formed in the process of combustion, of which
the lirst, on the generally received theory of the nature of
oxymuriatic acid, must be considered as a compound of
muriatic acid and phosphorous acid. It occurred to me, that
Vol. 36. No. 151. AW. 1810. Z if
