354 Researches on the muriatic Acid
if the acids of phosphorus really existed in these combina-
tions, it would not be difficult to obtain them, and thus to
gain proofs of the existence of oxygen in oxymuriatic acid.
I made a considerable quantity of the solid compound of
oxymuriatic acid and phosphorus by combustion, and sa-
turated it with ammonia, by heating it in a proper receiver
filled with ammoniacal gas, on which it acted with great
energy, producing much heat; and they formed a white
opake powder. Supposing that this substance was com-
posed of the dry muriates and phosphates of ammonia; as
muriate of ammonia is very volatile, and as ammonia is
driven off from phosphoric acid, by a heat below redness, I
conceived that, by igniting the product obtained, I should
procure phosphoric acid ; I therefore introduced some of
the powder into a tube of green glass, and heated it to red-
ness, out of the contact of air, by a spirit lamp ; but found,
to my great surprise, that it was not at all volatile nor de-
composable at this degree of heat, and that it gave off no
gaseous matter.
The circumstance that a substance composed principally
of oxymuriatic acid, and ammonia, should resist decom-
position or change at so high a temperature, induced me to
pay particular attention to the properties of this new body.
It had no taste nor smell ; it did not seem to be soluble,
nor did it undergo any perceptible change when digested in
boiling water : it did not appear to be acted upon by sul-
phuric, muriatic, or nitric acids, nor by a strong lixivium
of potash. The only processes by which it seemed sus-
ceptible of decomposition were by combustion, or the action
of ignited hydrat of potash. When brought into the flame
of a spirit lamp and made red-hot, it gave feeble indications
of inflammation, and tinged the name of a yellow colour,
and left a fixed acid having the properties of phosphoric
acid. When acted on by red-hot hydrat of potash, it
emitted a smell of ammonia, burnt where it was in contact
with air, and appeared to dissolve in the alkali. The pot-
ash which had been so acted upon gave muriatic acid, by
the addition of sulphuric acid.
I heated some of the powder to whiteness, in a tube of
platina; but it did not appear to alter ; and after ignition
gave ammonia by the action of fused hydrat of potash.
I caused ammonia, made as dry as possible, to act on the
phosphuretted liquor of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard;
and on the sulphuretted muriatic liquor of Dr. Thomson;
but no decomposition took place; nor was any muriate of
ammonia formed when proper precautions were taken to
- exclude.
