in Us different States. 3j7
chemistry, and which, till it is minutely examined, appears
so beautiful and satisfactory, rests, in the present state of ,
our knowledge, upon hypothetical grounds.
When oxymuriatic acid is acted upon by nearly an equal
volume of hydrogen, a combination takes place between
them, and muriatic acid gas results. When muriatic acid
gas is acted on by mercury, or any other metal, the oxy-
muriatic acid is attracted from the hydrogen, by the stronger
affinity of the metal ; and an oxvmuriate, exactly similar to
that formed by combustion, is produced.
The action of water upon those compounds, which have
been usually considered as muriates, or as dry muriates, but
which are properly combinations of oxymuriatic acid with
inflammable bases, may be easily explained, according to
these views of the subject. When water is added in certain
quantities to Libavius's liquor, a solid crystallized mass is
obtained, from which oxide of tin and muriate of ammonia
can be procured by ammonia. In this case, oxygen may
be conceived to be supplied to the tin, and hydrogen to the
oxymuriatic acid.
The compound formed by burning phosphorus in oxy-
muriatic acid is in a similar relation to water : if that sub-
stance be added to it, it is resolved into two powerful acids ;
oxygen, it may be supposed, is furnished to the phosphorus
to form phosphoric acid, hydrogen to the oxymuriatic acid
to form common muriatic acid gas.
None of the combinations of the oxymuriatic acid with
inflammable bodies can be decomposed by dry acids ; and
this seems to be the test which distinguishes the oxymu-
riatic combinations from the muriates, though they have
"hitherto been confounded together. Muriate of potash for
instance, if M. Berthollet's estimation of its composition
approaches towards accuracy, when ignited, is a com-
pound of oxymuriatic acid with potassium : muriate of am-
monia is a compound of muriatic acid £as and ammonia ;
and when acted on by potassium, is is decompounded : the
oxymuriatic acid may be conceived to combine with the
potassium to form muriate of potash, and the ammonia and
hydrogen are set free.
The vivid combustion of bodies in oxymuriatic acid gas,
at first view, appears a reason why oxygen should be ad-
mitted in it ; out heat and light are merely results of the
intense agency of combination. Sulphur and metals, al-
kaline earths and acids, become ignited during their mutual,
agency; and such an effect might be expected in an opera -
Z 3 lion
