in its different States. 35?
rvf oxygen in oxymuriatic acid gas, a natural question arises
concerning the nature of these compounds, in which the
muriatic acid has been supposed to exist, combined with
much more oxygen than oxymuriatic acid, in the state in
which it has been named, by Mr. Chenevix, hyperoxy-
genized muriatic acid.
Can the oxymuriatic acid combine either with oxygen or
hydrogen, and ibrm with each of them an acid compound ;
of which that with hydrogen has the strongest, and that
with oxygen the weakest affinity for bases ? for the able
chemist to whom I have just referred, conceives that hyper-
oxymuriates are decomposed by muriatic acid. Or, is hy-
peroxymuriatic acid the basis of all this class of bodies, the
most simple form of this species of matter?
The phaenomena of the composition and decomposition
of the hyperoxymuriates may be explained on either of
these suppositions; but they are mere suppositions unsup-
ported by experiment.
I have endeavoured to obtain the neutralizing acid, which
has been imagined to be hyperoxygenized^ from hyperoxy-
muriate of potash, by various modes, but uniformly with-
out success. By distilling the salt with dry boracicacid,
though a little oxymuriatic acid is generated, yet oxygen
is the chief gaseous product, and a muriate of potash not
decomposable is produced.
The distillation of the orange-coloured fluid, produced
by dissolving hyperoxymuriate of potash in sulphuric acid,
affords only oxygen in great excess, and oxymuriatic acid.
When solutions of muriates, or muriatic acid are elec-
trized in the Voltaic circuit, oxymuriatic acid is evolved at
the positive surface, and hydrogen at the negative surface.
When a solution of oxymuriatic acid in water is electrized,
oxymuriatic acid and oxygen appear* at the positive sur-
face, and hydrogen at the negative surface; facts which are
certainly unfavourable to the idea of the existence of hy-
peroxvgenized muriatic acid, whether it be imagined a
compound of oxymuriatic acid with oxygen, or the basis
of oxymuriatic acid.
If the facts respecting the hyperoxymuriate of potash,
indeed, be closely reasoned upon, it must be regarded as
nothing more than as a triple compound of oxymuriatic
acid, potassium, and oxygen. We have no right to
* The quantity of oxymuriatic acid in the aqueous solution is so small,
that the principal products must be referred to the decomposition of water.
This happens in other instances; the water only is decomposed in dilute
solution* of nitric and sulphuric acids.
Z 4 assume
