36 1 Of the Bogs in Ireland.
Major Taylor's excellent map of the county of Kildare fur-
nisbed us with every necessary information, so far as that
county was in question: but of the King's county there was
no map published; and as it contains not less than 124,000
English acres of bog, it became a most important object
to possess ourselves of the necessary information with re-
spect to them.
" We therefore thought ourselves fortunate in finding
that Mr. Larkin, a surveyor of eminence, had surveyed
the county for the grand jury ; and we contracted with him
to furnish us with*, map of it, on the large scale required
by our instructions 5 and Mr. Larkin making himself re-
sponsible for the accuracy of the survey, we agreed to give
him for it 300/. being at the rate of less than three far-
things per acre for every acre of bog it contained. With
these and the assistance of other documents, we divided
all the bogs, containing above 500 acres, in the counties
of Kildare, King's county, Tipperary, Westmeath, and
Longford, into seven districts : of these we gave the one
which forms the north-eastern part of the Bog of Allen, in
charge to Mr. Richard Griffith ; the south-eastern to Mr.
Brassington ; the north-western to Mr. Townshend ; the ,
south-western to Mr. Longrield ; a district lying princi-
pally in Westmeath to Mr. Jones ; and the bogs in the
county of Longford, and on both banks of the river Inny,
to Mr. Edgeworth.
" We also gave a large district of bog in the county of
Tipperary, which runs nearly parallel to the suir from Ros-
crea to Cashell, in charge to Mr, Aher, wishing to take
advantage of the circumstance of his being able to give a
portion of his time to that district, although not to any
other, on account of his other engagements.
kW We next laid down the principles which were 1o go-
vern our expenditure, in such manner as to secure that the
amount of our disbursements should depend in every in-
stance on the degree of labour to be performed.
" With these views, we fixed the, pay of engineers at
two guineas a day for every day actually employed, and one ,
guinea a day in lieu of allowances lor travelling and. board
and lodging. That of their surveyors at one guinea a day
for each, while employed, to be at once their pay and in
lieu of all allowances of every description. For the starT-
men, chain- men, and labourers, we intrusted the engineers
to make the best bargains in their power, not exceeding
three shillings per day in any instance ; and these terms
we trust will appear extremely moderate when compared
with
