Of the Bogs in Ireland, 36*5
with those usual in Great Britain, and considering the
hardships attendant on this peculiar service. The appoint-
ment of the engineers we necessarily hold in our hands,
and select them under the obligation of our oaths ; the
appointment of the surveyors we commit entirely to the
engineers, holding the latter responsible for the qualifica-
tions of the persons they employ.
" We account with every engineer once a week, and he
makes his return to us upon his oath.
" To ccive an idea of the scale and nature of our expen-
diture, we subjoin, as the second and third articles of our
Appendix, copies of accounts already called for by your
honourable house.
" Owing to- the winter season having set in, almost im-
mediately after the appointment of the engineers, and which
was particularly unfavourable to the execution of the sur-
vey, We have as yet received but one of their reports, al-
though thev are most of them, we believe, in a state of con-
siderable forwardness.
" This report we have determined on laying at once be-
fore vour honourable house, considering it as sufficient in
itself, to enable the public to form a pretty accurate opinion
of the degree of information which may be expected from
the execution of our commission ; and feeling also, that if
we deferred it any longer, we should have no other oppor-
tunity before the opening: of the next session : we have ac-
cordinglv subjoined it as the fourth article of the Appendix
to this Report.
" The district reported on contains 36,430 English acres
of bog, and forms the eastern extremity of the Bog of Al-
len. The map furnished to us by Mr. Griffith is on a scale
of four inches to an Irish mile, and is accompanied by
sections of the bog of nearly 200 miles in extent.
" As these maps and sections could not be engraved
without enormous expense, we have subjoined to this re-
port a map executed on a scale as much reduced as is con-
sistent with clearness, and which scale we propose to ap-
ply universally in the different maps which in the execution
of the commission it will become our duty to furnish to
your honourable house; and this map we have accompanied
with three lines of sections of the bog, to serve at once as
specimens of the manner in which the sections are ex-
ecuted, and to convey a clearer view than could be expressed
in words, of the internal structure of a great bog ; a view,
we believe, materially different from any of those generally
received.
" Thcra
