26 On some new Electrochemical Researches
cal inch of ammonia, four of nitrogen, and eight of hy-
drogen. The portion of gas given off in the second ope-
ration equalled 3 '6 cubical inches; which consisted of
2*5 hydrogen, and ri nitrogen. The potassium produced
in the ^operation was sufficient to generate 3*1 cubical
inches of hydrogen.
As the iron in these experiments had been heated to in-
tense whiteness, and must have been very soft ; it was not
impossible, considering the recent experiments of M. Has-
senfratz *, that the loss of so large a portion of potassium
might depend upon an intimate union of that body with
iron, and its penetration into the substance of the tube.
This idea is countenanced by another experiment of the
same kind, in which the heat was raised to whiteness, and
the barrel cut into pieces when cool :* on examining the
lower part of it, I found in it a very thin film of potash ;
but which, I conceive, could scarcely equal a grain in
weight. The pieces of the barrel were introduced under a
jar inverted in water ; at the end of two days nearly 2-3
cubical inches of hydrogen were found to be generated.
In the experiments detailed in page 53. of the last volume
of the Transactions f, a loss of nitrogen, and a production of
hydrogen, was perceived in a case in which the residuum
from a portion of fusible substance, which had been ex-
posed to a low red heat, was distilled in a tube of platina ;
but in this case the residuum had been covered by naphtha,
and it is possible that ammonia might have been regene-
rated by hydrogen from the uaphtha, and absorbed by that
fluid ; and a part of the hydrogen might likewise proceed
from the decomposition of the naphtha: and in several
experiments in which I have burnt the entire fusible sub-
stance, I have found no loss of nitrogen.
Even the considerable excess of hydrogen, and deficiencv
of nitrogen, in the processes in which the fusible substance
is distilled with a new quantity of potassium, page 451 J, it
is possible to refer to the larger quantity of moisture, which
must be absorbed by ,the fusible substance from the air,
during the time occupied in attaching the potassium to the
tray, and likewise from the moisture adhering to the crust
of potash, which always forms upon the potassium, during
its exposure to air.
These objections are the strongest that occur to me,
Phil. Mag. vol xrxiii. page 8. \ Ibid. vol. xxxW. p?gc 3S9.
against.
