3T3S Of the Bogs in Ireland.
The commissioners then report their opinion of the prd*
bable expense of these operations, &c. &c. By Mr. Grif-
fith's report to the commissioners, the total amount of es-
timate for draining' the several bogs contained in the eastern
division, or district No. 1, is 147,032/. 6s. \\d. and the
quantity of land to be gained 22,490 Irish (equal .to 36,430
English) acres.
The following description of a section of a turf bank in
Timahoe Bog (see Plate IX.) is copied from the conclusion
of Mr. Griffith's report : —
" The foregoing section is an exact representation of a
turf bank on the southern edge of Timahoe Boo-.
" The surface of the bog has been partially drained for
about 20 perches into the interior, which has occasioned the
upper and most porous part, to subside three feet, the fibresof
moss having lost their watery support, and not being suf-
ficiently strong in themselves to retain their former eleva-
tion. The annual growth of moss on this bog being prevented
by the absence of water, it may be considered as dead.
" In the Report, page 30, T have stated, that in drained
bogs, when the bog- mosses, &c. which compose the upper
surface shall have subsided, and by the near approach of
their mossy fibres (which when alive are kept asunder by
water) and their exposure to the atmosphere shall become
(to a certain degree) putrid, it will be found that various
grasses of good qualjtv, and even white clover, will vege-
tate spontaneously on its surface.
" The bog, of which the section is the face, has now
been superficially drained for three years, and the effect
above described has taken place to a certain degree, as
the common meadow, the tivrin, or jointed grass, and
white clover, are now growing on its surface, though spa-
ringlv ; and the surface of the bog has been so far acted
upon by the atmosphere as to have totally lost the texture
of the moss,' and to have assumed a close-grained earthy
appearance ; whilst in the bed immediately below it, the
mossv fibres are so perfect, as to render the different species
perfectly distinguishable to the botanist, as may be seen by
the specimens which 1 now lay before the commissioners.
" DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS.
" No. ] 2 feet thick.
" Surface of bog decomposed by exposure to the atmo-
sphere : mass compact ; contains rarely any vegetable re-
mains ; where they occur thev arechieflv composed of fibres
of
