372 n purifying Olive Oil j 6r
to be able to lay before the commissioners a more detailed
analysis, containing a minute examination of the compo-
sition of the ashes contained in the charcoal, and also the
exact composition of the gaseous products."
LXVII. On purifying Olive Oil for the Pivots of Chro-
nometers, By Ez. Walker, Esq.
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, After all the experiments which have been made
to decrease friction in time-keepers, nothing has yet been
found to answer this purpose so well as oi!. But it has
long been known that the application of this fluid to ma-
rine chronometers is attended with very pernicious conse-
quences ; for it gradually loses its fluidity during a long voy-
age, and adheres to the parts of the machine, by which all
regularity in its performance is destroyed. Hence I was
led to suppose, that time-keepers might be improved if oil
of a better quality, than that which had been commonly
used, could be procured.
About the year 1799? I made several experiments to se-
parate from olive oil some of those impurities which it is
known to contain, and I succeeded so far as to separate a
thick mucilaginous matter from the best I could procure.
This mucilage is an opake whitish matter, heavier than oil
but lighter than water. The oil from which the mucilage
has been taken is exceedingly transparent in a fluid state,
but after it has been frozen it appears much whiter than
common oil exposed to the same degree of cold.
About ten years ago I sent a small quantity of this oil to
Mr. Barraud, requesting him to make trial of it, and to
March 1802 he gave me the following account: —
" I have," says Mr. Barraud, "just received a chrono-
meter, in which the oil you favoured me with was used ;
which having performed a voyage of 16 months to and from
India, is vibrating as freely as at first, and keeping the rate
it went out with to a fraction of a second. "
Since that time Mr. Barraud has frequently applied to
me for more of this oil, and continues to use it in his best
time-keepers; but to be informed more particularly respect-
ing it, I wrote to him requesting to know the result of his
long experience, and the following extract is taken from his
interesting answer : —
"To
