the Pivots of Chronometers, 373
« To Mr. Walker.
" London, 13th October, 1810.
" Dear sir, — Tt is, I believe, upwards of ten years since
you fiist favoured me with some of your purified oil, which
/ have ever since constantly applied to my chronometers;
and on their return from a long voyage I have always
found your oil in good condition, much better indeed than
any which I had before been able to obtain; nor has the
superior quality of yours been confined to my own obser-
vation.
" The late Mr. John Brockbank was complaining to me,
some years ago, of the bad stale in which he found the oil
in his chronometers on their return from India, many of
which had failed in consequence, although the oil he used
was the best he could obtain. I then mentioned the suc-
cess which had attended yours, and at his request furnished
him with a small quantity, which he applied to his chrono-
meters, and afterwards very gratefully acknowledged the
advantage he had derived from its use; having found, on the
return of his chronometers from India, your oil in excellent
condition, and deemed it far superior in quality, for such
purposes, to any he bad before been able to procure.
i( I have presented one of the last phials, which you fa-
voured me with, to Mr. Vulliamy of Pall Mall, who pur-
poses to give it a trial ; but I hope you will be induced, by
what has been already ascertained, to make your discovery
known.
" I am, * * * .
" P. P. Barraud."
Pure oil, such as I have at different times sent to Mr.
Barraudy may be obtained by attending to the following di-
rections.
Put a quantity of the best olive oil into a phial with two
or three times as much water, so that the phial may be
about half full. Shake the phial briskly for a little time,
turn the cork downwards, and let most part of the water
flow out between the side of the cork and the neck of the
phial. Thus the oil must be washed five or six times. —
After the last quantity of water has been drawn off, what
remains is a mixture of water, oil, and mucilage. To se-
parate these from each other, put the phial into hot water .
for three or four minutes, and most part of the water will
fall to the bottom, which mtict be drawn ofl* as before*
The oil must then be poured into a smaller phial, which,
2 A 3 being
