[ 376 ]
LXIX. On the Barometer, By Richard Walker, Esq,
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, An consequence of its having been intimated to me,
that a short rationale, or general view of the various changes
in the weather, and the indications of the barometer, as
connected with them, might not be unacceptable, 1 beg
leave to transmit the following, which maybe considered as
an 1 appendage to the paper " On the Application of the Ba-
rometer for indicating the Weather, &c." you did me the
favour to insert in your last Number.
Water exists in the atmosphere in two different stales,
viz. 1st, in a state of chemical combination; that is, so
completely incorporated with the air, as to form with it
one homogeneous transparent fluid; — and, 2dly, in a state
of mechanical combination; which is, when the minute
particles of water are merely suspended in the air, forming
that state of the atmosphere, which is denominated cloudy
or misty.
The dense state of the air being fittest for the chemical
combination above mentioned; clear, dry weather, generally
speaking, accompanies the higher degrees of the mercury
in the barometer, whilst, a rare state of the air being less
capable of receiving the water into chemical combination,
it is then merely suspended in a state of mechanical com-
lination, forming, clouds, mists, &c.
Hence it follows, that, when the mercury stands at or
near fair, clear dry weather is indicated generally ; and
when at or near rain, cloudy or wet weather ; and when
fluctuating mid- way, changeable weather.
It occasionally happens, however, that the atmosphere
is cloudy, and even wet, whilst the barometer is as high as
fair; and clear and dry, whilst the barometer stands as
low as rain. The reason of this, in the first instance, is,
that the air, having become replete or over-loaded with
water, is incapable (by an alteration of temperature, viz.
the air and its contents having become colder) of retaining
or suspending it in a state of chemical combination ; and in
the latter case, which happens after rain, succeeding a con-
tinned dry state of the atmosphere, which having swept
down the vapour with it in its descent ; the air, though then
in a rarer state, is yet sufficient to retain the proportion of
water, now much reduced in quantity, in a state of chemical
combination.
The
