378 Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
obvious effects of the sun's varying influence in raising
and dispelling vapours, we may, I think, account pretty
satisfactorily for the various vicissitudes of weather, which
mark the different seasons throughout the year; and, by the
relation of the barometer to those causes, be enabled to
foresee, with a considerably greater degree of certainty than
is commonly supposed, the different'ehanges of weather
which are, at all times, about to take place.
I am, sir,
Your obedient servant,
Queen-street, Oxford, R D . WALKER.
Nov. 17th, 1810.
LXX. Reflections on some Miner alooical Systems. By
E. Chenevix, Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.LA.,'&c. Trans-
lated entire from the French, with Notes by the Trans*
lator.
{ [Continued from p. 303.]
SUPPOSED DEFECTS OF THE CRYSTALLOGRAPHJCAL
SYSTEM.
1V1. Hauy has been reproached for his principle of speci-
fication and his definition of the species : one alleging that,
according to him, muriated soda and sulphated lead are of
the same species ; another, that the two indications of the
species are often in contradiction, and that the same form
of molecule does not always accompany the same chemical
composition, and vice versa. Some do not like the octaedron
for a primitive form, because, to preserve unity of form in
the integral molecule, it is necessary to suppose empty spaces ;
others, in short, reproach him with the difficulty of finding
all the directions of the cleavage (or the construction of the
cleft), and the system also with a want of generalization;
and finally, as a dernier resource, that we must return to
the system of external characters.
Will it be believed that I have heard the first of these ob-
jections made by a celebrated philosopher, a professor who
draws around him from all parts of the world the zealous
lovers of mineralogy, and who repeats it at least once a
year in his public lectures ? that I have seen it printed and
published in a work which passes for one of the best on the
systems of this professor ? It is of German origin, and
proceeds, no doubt, from the circumstance that they have
not yet learned to count even to two on their lingers ; a
great misfortune for a philosopher. Identity of form in the
integral molecule, — this is one condition in order that two
minerals
