Reflections on some Miner alogkal Systems. 379
minerals should be of the same species ; and hitherto mu-
riated soda and sulphated lead are in this state. Identity of
chemical composition, — here are two conditions, if I have
rightly calculated ; and muriated soda and sulphated lead
are not of the same species.
M. Haiiy himself has answered the second objection in
a manner which leaves nothing to be added. It is true, that
with the same form of integral molecule we have a different
chemical composition j but let us observe under what cir-
cumstances.
There are three geometrical figures which perform the
office of integral molecule : Admirable simplicity of nature,
that with such slender means can compose forms in an in-
finite number I These figures consist of those with four
sides, the least number possible to contain a solid ; those
with five, and those with six ; all are the most simple. But
they are all susceptible of an infinite variety in the dimen-
sions of their sides and in the inclination of the faces which
terminate them, although all have a fixed term of regu-
larity towards which they tend. It is but in these terms,
which in this respect are the limits, that we find the iden-
tity of the physical with a diversity in the chemical mole-
cule. The repetition of regular forms which are the li-
mits of others, such as the cube and regular tetraedron in
the different species, appears to me to prove nothing against
the system of M. Haiiy ; on the contrary, it gives us cause
to admire the mechanism of nature, which delights in mul-
tiplying its severe and rigorous features amidst the variety
in which it indulges. The most regular forms are also the
most simple ; and I take it for an axiom, that it is but in
approaching simplicity that we approach nature.
Let us examine if the reverse of this be equally true ; that
is to say, if with the same chemical composition we find a
difference in the physical molecule. There is only one case
well ascertained ; it is that of carbonated lime and arraoo-
nite. Chemists the most celebrated in the art of analysis,
Messrs. Vauquelin, Thenard, and Klaproth, have found no
difference between these two minerals ; and I acknowledge
that I have repeated the analysis of six different specimens
of arragonite, comparatively with the carbonated lime, and
I am convinced of their identity of composition. M. I Jaiiy
found a difference in the form of their integral molecules.
How admirable is this science, to which, — in the first years
of its existence, and before that time has impressed it with
those marks of rigour which continued observations inva-
riably effect, — only one objection can be made against it
that
