380 Reflections on some Miner alogical Systems.
that appears to have any foundation ! How many do \\t
not find against those sciences which have been refined by
the lapse of ages^ and which have resisted the persecutions
of inquisitors armed with all the severity of bad inten-
tion ? If the cavils of certain persons had been listened
to against the axioms and definitions in mathematics, we
should now, indeed, have been destitute of this route.
Others would have deprived us of physics and chemistry, at
the same time with the very matter which served them as an
object, and, scarcely will it be believed, our'own existence.
If we make a thousand steps in advance, and one remains
which we are unable to pass, should we for this abandon
that which we have already attained ? The philosopher
ought at least to wait, and watch with a calm eye and un-
shaken patience the moment when nature shall betray itself,
if our efforts can effect nothing on it. The state of science
is a state of expectation.
Even when ve have a rigorous demonstration that che-
mistry and mineralogy do not correspond in this solitary
case, what then shall we say ? In every thing which nature
presents to our contemplation, it leads us, by views taken
in all directions, to the point where we find ourselves ar-
rested. In the mass of our learning, what system compre-
hends it entirely ? yet, notwithstanding their imperfections,
systems still serve us. No one thing appears better deter-
mined than the species in zoology, as it consists in a cate-
gorical answer to a very simple question. There are, how-
ever, animals respecting which it is still disputed whether
they should be admitted as species or varieties. The vege-
table kingdom has also its causes of uncertainty. Never-
theless, these two kingdoms offer a greater number of cha-
racters, as the beings which they embrace are endowed
with more marked and more elevated qualities than those
which belong to the mineral kingdom. Why then should
more rigour be required of the latter, with less means ?
Why is it wished to deprive us, on a single deposition
against it, of a system which is supported on mathematics
and confirmed by chemistry ?
Ferriferous carbonated lime * is a mineral often cited by
those
* Brown spar of Jameson, sidero calcite of Kirwan, chant cqrlonotfe
bfttirisfante oi Brogtiiart, who makes it the ninth subspecies of carbonated
lime (or calcareous spar), and separates it from what he calls for spithicjiie,
or sparr; iron, which he arranges among the metals, on account of its su-
perior ' .ty, and its power of occasionally attracting the magnet.
The property oi b( own when exposed to nitric acid or the fire,
„;cs the above name ; but this is cemmoo to both kinds.
This
