382 Reflections on seme Mineralogical Systems
be more distinct, and the-specific gravity greatly augmented,
as the spaces otherwise empty or occupied with air shall be
filled with heavier matter. The action of chemical men-
strua may likewise be modified ; and if a molecule of a sub-
stance easily soluble is surrounded with molecules of
another which resists chemical solvents much longer, the
former may be in some measure protected from their power.
Other effects may take place ; but, we repeat it, the inte-
gral molecule remains the same. Now, in the ferriferous
carbonated lime we do not find the same Variety of forms
as in the simple carbonate ; the former is opaque, the latter
is transparent ; the one has lines which seem to mark a
direction of the cleavage more than in the other; the
specific gravity of the first is 3*784, that of the second is
2-718 ; and the ferriferous carbonate is more easily dissolved
in acids. These are all the phenomena which result from
the interposition of extraneous substances in the empty
spaces between the molecules of one of the bodies exhibited
in this example.
EXAMINATION OF THE IDENTITY/ AND UNIFORMITY OF
THE INTEGRAL MOLECULE. OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
But I shall be told that the molecule differs, since there
is a direction of the cleavage more in the one than in the
other. It is the foreign substances which render the junc-
tures more sensible in one case than in another ; and it 19
possible that the same junctures exist in the simple as well
as in the ferriferous carbonate, without our having as yet
commonly observed them. I can almost venture to assert
that thev do exist. I have a specimen of carbonated lime
very white and very well crystallized in an obtuse rhomboid
of a primitive form, and of the same specific gravity as the
simple ordinary carbonate, but of a milky transparence,
and in which the lines are as distinct as in any specimen
whatever of ferriferous carbonated lime. This specimen,
nevertheless, presents in analysis no trace of any substance
foreign to the purest Iceland spar. It is therefore very pro-
bable that simple as well as ferriferous carbonate may be
divided in the direction of the great diagonal : hence it is
expected to overturn the system of M. Haiiy. But in all
that we know, and all that we seek to know, it is uniformly
our own horizon which we substitute for the limits of na-
ture. M. Haiiy has found in carbonated lime three direc-
tions of the cleavage parallel to the faces of an obtuse
rhomboid, and no more. He stopped there, and has not
wandered in the regions of imagination. Although his
work
