Reflections on some Miner alogkal Systems. 383
work was finished, that of nature was not; and it may still
present some specimen which shall reveal its secret. If
we find that carbonated lime may be divided more than
once, it thence results only that we have taken for an inte-
gral molecule: that which we have been able to observe, but
not that which really exists; precisely as chemistry declared
that the emerald was composed of silica, alumine, iron and
lime, until it was discovered that what was considered only
as alumine contained also glucine, and that the iron was
combined with chromium. But for this chemistry did
not lose its importance. The integral molecule likewise
may be found different from what has been believed, if what
T have here observed should prove true; yet the general
.system of the molecule is unshaken.
A recent analysis, however, appears to have excited much
interest in this point. Some of this pretended ferriferous
carbonated lime has been found, in which there exists
scarcely a trace of lime*. I readily believe it, but shall
not for that renounce the method. In M. Haiiy's col-
lection^ there is a mineral which at one end is ferriferous
carbonated lime, excessively yellow, containing iron,
striated and dividing in rhombs. In extending from this
end the colour fades, and the other characters which distin-
guish the common from the ferriferous carbonated lime
become weaker till they finally disappear. Whoever ex-
* The Wernerians, however, cannot consistently avail themselves of this
defect, as the mineral still retains the same external characters ; it is the
chemists only who are entitled or qualified to decide on it, and they wili not
be very precipitate in pronouncing a sentence, since Mr. Davy has proved
that even one per cent, of oxygen can produce effects on the external
character of substances, which would serve the Wernerians not merely for a
specific but even a generic difference. Should they object to the introduction
of lime in the name of this mineral, they must recollect their own holzstem,
woodstone, or petrified wood, which they have thus denominated, and
made a particular species in flint genus, although they will not pretend that
it contains any vegetable or woody matter ; only that, like the .mineral
under consideration, it owes its form to that substance. Mr. Jameson,
indeed, makes an apology for considering a petrification (not petrefaction, as
he erroneously writes it, and which the learned Dr. Kidd applies to incrus-
tations), " a particular fossil species," by alleging " that woodstone
differing in its external characters from all other fossils, the justness of the
Wernerian method is evident." Upon this principle he should have divided
his species, as the colours, and even specific gravity of petrified oak, ash, &c.
are very different. He adds, that " it re. reives a good polish, and serves for
the same purposes as agate. '* I have examined many specimens of petrified
wood in various countries, but have never been so fortunate as to find any
that could be substituted for agate, or was susceptible of a polish even equal
to coarse marble. Surely the professor cannot have noticed such characters
merely to make Werner's fine chemical theory of the solution and infiltra-
tion of agate less fanciful, or give an example of transition from Wood to
■ petrifaction agate, which is wood penetrated with se>:e r al of the fossils
that constitute agate ? "—Trans.
amines
