384 Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems,
amines this specimen attentively and unprejudicedly, must
believe that the whole has been common carbonated lime,
which has been exposed to the action of a sulphuric or
other solution of iron, that the carbonate of lime has been
gradually dissolved, and yielded its place to the oxide of
iron, precipitated from its solvent by the double affinity of
the lime for the acid in the solution of iron, and the oxide
of this metal for the carbonic acid. The carbonated lime
has served as a matrix to the oxide of iron, and it is very
possible that the direction of the laminae in the way of
the great diagonals may be rendered more sensible by the
solution of the old and precipitation of the new molecules
which came to deposit themselves in this abode. If, how-
ever, I have admitted the existence of a ferriferous carbo-
nated lime, where there is no lime, it is because I have seen
petrified wood where there was no wood.
But, in taking the first explmation.generally, it seems
that, far from making the case of which I have spoken the
subject of an objection, it is for chemistry to draw from it
the greatest possible advantage. A grand effort which yet
remains to be made, is to distinguish between mixtures and
combinations. Let us suppose a mass, A, composed of
any number of physical elements, which have for chemical
molecules the substances a ! b + c, and another mass, B,
the chemical elements of which may be m + n. It is de-
manded if a mixture or a combination shall take place in
putting the bodies A and B together? If by physical divi-
sion we find a molecule similar to the molecule A, another
similar to that of B, and that by ehemical division we found
the chemical elements (a + b + c \ m + n,) it is evident that
we have a mixture, Cut it we find a new molecule, C,
with the same chemical result (a -\- b + c + m A- n), we
have a combination. It is therefore for chemistry, en-
lightened by physical (or mechanical) division, to resolve
this great problem ; and it is to restrain its influence too
much to confine within the province of mineralogy, that
which may guide our researches over the whole of nature
or the material world.
Let us lake one particular case, — the neutral tartrate of
potash. This salt, like all others, has a physical and che-
mical constitution peculiar to itself, i\', in, adding to it
tartaric acid in a quantity sufficient to convert it into acid
tartrate ol potash, and in submitting these two substances
to all the chemical means of combining them, we find the
same form of physical molecule in the one part, and the
form of the physical molecule of tartaric acid in the other;
we
