Reflections on some Mlneralogical Systems, 385
we can safely say that no combination has taken place between
these two substances, whatever may be the difficulty ex-
perienced in separating them. If, on the contrary, these
two molecules lose the form peculiar to them, as tartrate of
potash and tartaric acid, to effect another conjointly, we
should conclude that thev have combined to form but one.
By afterwards adding some soda as a neutralizer, we may
learn the true state of these principles, with respect to each
other, in consulting crystallotomy to know if molecules
of tartrate of potash and also those of tartrate of soda
are found, or molecules of another form, which will be
that of a tartrate with a double base.
The great quantity of foreign matter which has been
found interposed between the physical molecules, without
effecting any change in their form, has shaken the faith
of many persons. The gres (sandstone) of Fontain-
bleau (quartziferous carbonated lime, Haiiy), in which the
law is the same as in the pure calcareous spar which
sometimes accompanies it, is an example. But the
degree of tendency to a regular form may be much greater
in one mineral than in another, and surmount all the
obstacles which the mixture of heterogeneous species
could oppose to it. This is what we see in our labo-
ratories; it is what the gres of Fontainbleau shows us
in that of nature. The power of becoming symmetrical
may vary in crystallizable substances, like the capacity of
saturation in salifiable bases.
As to the octaedron considered as a primitive form, it
has been observed that sections by planes parallel to its
faces, divide it again into eight tetraedrons and six oc-
tacdrons, and this in succession to the ultimate point ;
so that, to maintain the unity of the integral molecule,
we must suppress in the mind one of these two figures.
In order to adhere to the most simple, as that which
appears to have the most just title to a place in nature, the
preference has been given to the tetraedron, in supposing
that between the molecules there are empty octaedral spaces.
Geometry has found that this hypothesis embraces one
third of the quantity of matter in a mineral which has
this primitive figure, and that the two other thirds are
empty. But this takes place precisely in the species of the
calcareous genus which has the greatest specific gravity,
while nothing is said of the vacuums in the other species.
Here, it is said, there is a contradiction.
If we were still ignorant of all that we have learned
respecting the density of bodies, this objection would be
Vol. 36. No. 151. Nov. 1810. 2 B some-
