Reflections on some Miner a logical Systems, 387
nutting in the molecule of filiated lime the necessary den-
sity to obviate this objection, we do not commit any indis-
cretion.
Now let us take the contrary hypothesis, and say that
the molecules of all bodies have the same density, so that
the variation of specific gravity in them all depends solely
on the vacuums which exist between them. If in any
body whatever the quantity of vacuum be zero, we have
an absolute plenum ; and the heaviest body which we
know should be that which would present us with this
state of things. Platina furnishes us with an example,
while this collection of hypotheses contains the fact most
favourable to the objection.
Chabaneau has found the specific gravity of platina to
be 2*400, others 2*300, some 2*200, and 1 have observed
it beyond 2*1 ; that of filiated lime is 3*191. Let us
simplify the expression of these relative weights, and we
shall have, in an equal volume, the quantity of matter in
platina, in fluated lime, and in water : : 1 : 4- : T l T . There is
then -f- of vacuum in fluated lime, or ££-, while the hypo-
thesis of M. Hauy notices only ±±. There remain, then,
■iff more than are wanting to combat the objection. There
are also necessarily vacuums in other calcareous species. In
taking platina, as above, for an example of an absolute
plenum, we shall have, according to the data which the
specific gravity of this body furnishes, ~-f£ of vacuum in
carbonated lime ; -£f4 in phosphated as well as in filiated,
and £f£ in sulphated lime. The hypothesis of M. Hauy,
instead of being incompatible with what observation
teaches respecting the density of fluated lime, is not suffi-
cient to account for its lightness; and the -ffo of which it
takes no notice, as well as the vacuums in other species
which are passed over in silence, are so many particular
cases of a verity demonstrated in physics : its great noto-
riety doubtless made M. Haiiy believe that it was unneces-
sary to anticipate this objection by answering it at first.
Instead, therefore, of accusing him of having carried off'
too much matter from fluated lime as a mineralogist, we
should rather consult him as an examiner of nature {physi-
cien) 9 on the fate of nearly -±-£ of which he is silent. It is
difficult to conceive how any one could permit himself to
make such objections, especially when we consider ike
source whence \hey sprung,
r l lie divisibility or carbonated lime before mentioned, by
supersections which yield molecules of two different
iorms, and also what we have just observed respeeting the
2 B 2 oetaedron
