2£ On some new Eltctrochemkal Researches
moisture, during or after the electrization ; but the wires .
were unifoimly tarnished ; and in an experiment in which
surfaces of brass were used, a small quantity of olive-co-
loured matter formed on the metal ; but though in this case
nearly eight cubical inches of ammonia were decomposed,
the weight of the oxidated matter was so minute as to he
scarcely sensible. By the use of a freezing mixture of
muriate of Jime and ice, which diminished the temperature
lo —15°, there was a very feeble indication given of the
addition of hydrometrical moisture.
In these experiments the increase of the gas was uni-
formly (within a range of five parts) from 100 to 185,
and the hydrogen was to the nitrogen in the average pro-
portions of from 7374 to 2726; the proper corrections
being made, and the precautions before referred to being
taken * .
Assuming the common estimations of the specific gra-
vity of ammonia, of hydrogen, and nitrogen, the con-
clusions which I have advanced in the Bakerian lecture for
1807 would be supported by these new experiments; but
as the moisture and oxygen visibly separated cannot be
conceived to be as much as -fa or T V of the weight of the
ammonia, I resolved to investigate, more precisely than I
had reason to think had been hitherto done, the specific
gravities of the gases concerned in their dry state ; and
the ve r y delicate balance belonging to the Royal Institution
placed the means of doing this in my power.
Nitrogen, hydrogen, and ammonia, were dried by a long
* Philosophical Transactions 1 809, page 459. M. Berthollet, Jim. in the
second volume of the Memoirs of Arcueil, has given a paper on the Uccom-
position of ammonia, and he enters into an examination of my idea of the
oxygen separated in the electrical decomposition of ammonia, which he
supposes I rate at 20 per cent, and at the same time he confutes some ex-
periments which he is pleased to attribute to me, of the combustion of
charcoal and iron in ammonia. His argumenis and his facts upon these
points appear to me perfectly conclusive; but as I never formed such an
opinion, as that 20 of oxygen were separated in the experiment, and never
imagined such results as the combustion of iron and charcoal in ammonia,
and never published any thing which could receive such an interpretation,
I shall not enter into any criticism on this part of his paper. The experi-
ments of this ingenious chemist on the direct decomposition of ammonia
seem to have been conducted with much care, except as to the circumstauce
of his not boiling the quicksilver; which I conceive has occasioned him to
over-rate the increase of volume. At *il events a loss of weight is more
to be expected than an increase of weight, in all very refined experiments of
this kind. It is possible ihat the volume may be exactly doubled, and that
the nitrogen may be to the hydrogen as one to three; but neither the
numerous experiments of IV. Henry, nor those that I have tried, establish
ihis; it is one of the hypothetical inferences that may be made, but it can-
not be regarded as an absolute fact.
continued
