388 Reflections on some Miner alogicul Systems,
octaedron as a primitive figure, give occasion for some
reflections which I shall here venture, although I feel by
their importance, and by the considerations necessary to
give I hem due illustration and support, that these points
merit being treated separately and at greater length. It is
possible that there bad been but one single form of mole-
cule in all nature, and that this form was a tetraedron.
In the octaedron the existence of this figure is inevitable,
since it results from sections parallel even to the faces of
the octaedron. It also occurs, and simultaneously with
other figures, from supersections made in the direction of
the diagonals of all the faces of a parallelopiped. The
triangular prism likewise affords it, but of different forms,
by supersections in the direction of the diagonals of the
lateral faces. As we must necessarily allow of vacuums
between the molecules of bodies, we may suppose that the
interstices are those portions of spaces, from which every
other figure (except * the tetraedral molecule of the body,)
would have disappeared. The form and the quantity of
these interstices, conjointly with the presence of a greater
number of the proper molecules of the body, will pro-
duce all the diversities of specific gravity which are known
in nature ; and when we consider that a portion of space
cannot be inclosed by less than four planes, we observe in
the tetraedron that mark of simplicity which nature im-
presses on all her works.
*f All the molecules in nature are spherical," said a most
celebrated German, in showing me that with small balls of
ivory he produced all the figures which he wished. " The
English and the French have not yet advanced so far," he
added. " From reason," said I to myself. The proba-
bility that nature would have given the preference to such a
solid rather than to another for an universal molecule, every
thing otherwise being equal, would be inversely as the
number of planes which terminate them. Between the
sphere and the tetraedron it would be as four to infinity.
Besides its being hitherto impossible to extend the system
of the integral -molecule to all minerals, there are naturalists
who reproach it with the difficulty of finding the directions
of the cleavage in many cases, the trouble of calculating
them, 8cc. We should no longer use the microscope, the
* This exception enclosed in ( ) appears superfluous ; the author is
speaking of the presumed vacant spaces or vacuums between the molecules ;
but neither the figure nor the forms of these vacuums interest the practical
erystallographer, as tangible solids are quite sufficient to establish the va-
lidiiy of the general principle.— Trans.
telescope,
