Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems'. 389
telescope, nor the chronometer, for they also are very dif-
ficult to execute. Let us content ourselves with dress-
ing, sleeping, and eating, convinced that without the pen-
dulum and the telescope the stars will continue their
course, and bring back the hours of sleep and the restora-
tion of our powers.
The last objection to which I shall pay any attention is
that which says, briefly, " We must abandon the system of
M. Haiiy for that of the external characters, as the inte-
gral molecule cannot be observed in all minerals. " One of
the great advantages of the system of M. Haiiy, one of
its principal beauties, is to follow nature, and to speak as she
does. Where she has finished her work in the highest
manner of which it is susceptible, M. Haiiy does the
same; and if she produces a mineral endowed with all the
characters which, according to us, compose the most per-
fect state, it is classed and defined as such. If she has
been sometimes less rigorous in impressing her mark of
perfection, the system follows the same course; while the
method of external characters renders equally the honours
of rigorous classification to sapphire and to the alumina of
Halle. To say that we should make no use of an excellent
system because cases occur where it is unavailable, is to say
to a patient, Lie not on a feather bed ; for, if you are de-
prived of it, you will be reduced to the necessity of sleep-
ing on a board. It is to tell a man in health not to take
nourishment, for if the provisions become deficient he
could no longer eat.
WERNERIAN TRANSITION OR PASSAGE.
Before terminating these considerations on the species,
there is a mineralogical being of which it is necessary
to say a few words. It is a being which is neither of this
nor that species, but belongs to all. It is not sapphire, for
instance, but it resembles it; it is not ruby, but it would
be perhaps if it were not something else. It is so consti-
tuted that, with a real and material existence, it lives by
borrowing, as to its modifications, and puts on the cha-
racters of others. It is a hermaphrodite mineral; an infant
with two fathers that both disown it ; that the other king-
doms of nature reject as a monster; but that mild and
easy mineralogy has received into its bosom, and called it
passage.
There are two manners of conceiving the existence of
this interesting refuse of the organized kingdoms.
Let us first suppose a mineral less hard, less brilliant, less
2 B 3 blue
