390 Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems,
hlue and lighter than sapphire ; but harder, more brilliant,
bluer and heavier than alumina of Halle. Ii will represent
to us what should be understood by a passage from alu-
mina of Halle to sapphire. It is in this manner that
they have given a very great number of passages ; too
great, indeed, to cite them. Let us take some analogous
cases in another kingdom.
A great naturalist has told us that the paw of a bat brings
it near to man; and that every one may see the organ of
flight, which merits it a place among birds. Here then is
a passage from a bird to man. But what is meant by
that? Is it understood that nature, having succeeded in
making a bird, conceived the project of forming a more
perfect being, but that her first essay produced nothing
better than the image of a hand and a horrible grimace ? Or,
is it pretended that, if in the metempsychosis/ the lord of
the earth should become a bird, he must pass under the
form of this hideous animal ?
Of all that we can consider as passage, there is nothing;
so marked as an animal engendered between two indivi-
duals of different species. Such is the mule ; every mem-
ber of which participates in the qua! 1 lies of one or other
of its parents. In the capital of the beautiful kingdom
of Valencia I learned the following facts from eye-wit-
nesses. A silk weaver kept a stallion and a mule in the
same stable. One night in winter the mule was taken ill,
rolled on the ground, and appeared ready to die. At
last it brought forth a foal, so well formed that the finest
marecould not have produced^ better. The stallion and
mule were left together during eight years, in whieh
time the latter brought forth five male and two female
foals*. Now the mule was half horse half ass; its off-
spring were half horse half mule. But, will it be said
that the latter, which were perfect horses, contained a
portion of the ass, which portion of ass might have
passed by the mule to become horse ? Most assuredly
no sensible person will say so. Nature has not instituted
the mule species ; and when in successive generations all
traces of the ass are effaced in the foals of the mule,
* A9 this fact has been questioned by some French theorists, from the
forced and miniature experiments of BufFon, it is not foreign to the pre-
sent subject to say that the writer of this note has also heard it from unim-
peachable eye-witnesses who were well acquainted with the whole circum-
stances, and that he knew a gentleman, an amateur mineralogist in Valen-
cia, who found one of the offspring of the mule the most serviceable horse
that he ever possessed. — Trans.
it
