Notices respecting New Books, . 391
it is Nature which resumes her rights, and puts a limit
to a race of monsters.
The other circumstance which gave birth to the brilliant
idea of passage, is that which takes place when a mineral
is an aggregate of two simple species: such are the helio-
trope, composed of quartz and green earth; and prase, com-
posed of quartz and green schorl (rayonnante) [actinolite of
Kirwan and Jameson ; amphibole"* actinote of Haiiy and
Brogniart], It is at first a veiy great and irreparable error
to consider mixtures as species, the essence of which is
simplicity.
fTo be continued.]
LXXI. Notices respecting New Books,
X he Philosophical Transactions for the Year 1810, Part 1 1,
has just made its appearance. Its contents^ are: — Sup-
plement to the First and Second Part of the Paper of Ex-
periments for investigating the Cause of Coloured Con-
centric Rings between Object Glasses, and other Appearances
of a similar Nature. By William Herschel,LL.D. F.R.S. —
On the Parts of Trees primarily impaired by Age. In a
Letter from T. A. Knight, Esq. F.R.S. to the Rt. Hon. Sir
Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. — On the Gizzards of
Grazing Birds. By Everard Home, Esq. F.R.S. — Obser-
vations on atmospherical Refraction as it affects astrono-
mical Observations ; in a Letter from S. Groombridge, Esq.
to the Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, D.D. F.R.S. Astronomer
* The union of amphibole (hornblende) with actinote (actynolite) is
another fact highly honourable to the study of crystallography. Haiiy an-
nounced his opinion of their identity, which was fully confirmed by M.
Laugier's analysis in the An. d'Hist. Xal. vol. v. p. 73.
Amphibole contains Actinote
Silica 4202 50-OQ
Oxide of iron 22-69 II <X>
Magnesia 1O90 19-25
Lime 9 80 975
Alumina 7-69 0-75
Oxide of manganese 115 0-50
Chromium 000 3-00
Potash 0O0 0-5O
Water and loss 515 5.25
10000 100*00
The object of this analysis being to compare the nature and proportion.*;
at the constituent principles of amphibole and actinote, between which cry-
stallography had found a perfect analogy, the comparative resuU was such,
that it appeared necessary to blend them together under the same species oi
mineral, the latter presenting only some new varieties of colour of the for-
mer. — Trans.
2B4 Roval.
