392 Royal Society,
Royal. Communicated by the Astronomer Royal. — Extract
of a Letter from the Rev. John Brinkley, D.D. F.R.S.
Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of
Dublin, to the Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, D.D. F.R.S. Astro-
nomer Royal, on the annual Parallax of a Lyrae. — On the
Mode of Breeding of the Oviviviparous Shark, and on the
Aeration of the foetal Blood in different Classes of Animals.
By Everard Home, Esq F.R.S. — On Cystic Oxide, a new
Species of Urinary Calculus. By William Hyde Wol-
laston, M.D. Sec. R.S. — Researches on the oxymuriatic
Acid, its Nature and Combinations ; and on the Elements
of the muriatic Acid. With some Experiments on Sulphur
and Phosphorus, made in the Laboratory of the Roval In-
stitution. By H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.I.
F.R.S. E. — Observations upon Luminous Animals. By J.
Macartney, Esq. Communicated by Everard Home, Esq.
F.R.S. — Observations and Experiments on Pus. By Geo.
Pearson, M.D. F.R S. — Presents received by the Royal So-
ciety from November 180Q to July 1810.
GEOGRAPHY.
Mr. Myers, of the Royal Military Academy, will shortly
complete an Introduction to Historical, Physical, and Poli-
tical Geography; accompanied with Maps, and adapted to
the higher Classes of Pupils, under both public and private
Tuition. Mr. M.'s inducement to the undertaking, and his
guide in its accomplishment, has been utility ; and to at-
tain this object he has condensed into one moderate-sized
Octavo Volume the most valuable matter of more extensive
Systems. In the construction of the Maps, particular
attention is paid to simplicity, perspicuity, and accuracy;
and it is presumed that these qualities, so essential in every
elementary Treatise, will be found to prevail, in a superior
degree, throughout the whole performance.
LXXII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
ROYAL SOCIETY.
vJn the 22d of Nov. Dr. Wollaston read a paper iC On
some of the Combinations of oxymuriatic Gas and Oxygen,
and on the Chemical Relations of these Principles to
inflammable Bodies. " By H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S.
In this paper Mr. Davy details a great number of experi-
ments which he has made on the combinations of oxymu-
riatic gas and oxygen with the metals of the fixed alkalies,
the metals of the earths, and the common metals j with a
view
