Royal Society. 393
view to illustrate the nature, properties, and combinations
of oxymuriatic gas, and its relations to inflammable bodies,
as compared with those of oxygen. He also offers some
general views and conclusions concerning the chemical
powers of different species of matter, and the proportions in
which they combine. And lastly, he concludes his paper
by some observations on the impropriety of the present
nomenclature, in reference to the oxymuriatic gas and its
combinations ; and proposes some concise modes of di-
stinguishing these novel bodies.
Mr. Davy made some previous experiments on the com-
binations of potassium and sodium with oxygen ; and of
potash and soda with water, from which he concludes that
those metals when burnt in oxygen gas are at their highest
state of oxygenation — and at their lowest, when in the state
of potash and soda. He also found that ignited potash
contains about 16 per cent, of water, and ignited soda 22*9
per cent.
The spontaneous inflammation of the metals of the fixed
alkalies in oxymuriatic gas, affords a proof of the intensity
of their attractions. In these operations, no water is se-
parated, but mere binary combinations formed ; the same
as those produced by igniting muriate of potash and soda.
Similar compounds are formed when dry potash and soda
are heated in oxymuriatic gas, and oxygen is evolved.
Mr. Davy mentions a simple mode by which pure sodium
may be obtained. It is by mixing common salt which has
been ignited to redness, with potassium, and exposing the
whole to a red heat in a glass tube or retort ; for every two
parts of potassium employed, one part of sodium is obtained.
As the muriates of lime, barytes and strontites remain
unaltered by any simple attractions, even at a white heat,
Mr. Davy conceived that these compounds consist merely
of the metallic bases of the earths in union with oxymu-
riatic gas, and the experiments he has made confirm this
conclusion. Thus when lime, barytes, &c. were heated in
oxymuriatic gas, oxvgen was expelled, and substances ex-
actly similar to the dry muriates were formed.
In operating on the metals, Mr. Davy employed green
glass retorts holdiug from three to six cubical inches of gas,
they were furnished with stop-cocks. The metal was first
introduced into the retort, it was then exhausted and filled
with oxymuriatic gas, the heat of a spirit lamp was em-
ployed in the processes. The products from arsenic, anti-
mony, and bismuth, were the butters of arsenic, antimony,
and bismuth j and on the addition of water, the white oxides
and
