3Q4 New Engine.
and muriatic acid. Tin produced Libavius's liquor, mer-
cury, corrosive sublimate, silver and lead, horn silver, and
horn lead. Iron, a beautiful, volatile, crystallized substance
which gave the red muriate of iron on the addition of water.
Mr. Davy also found that oxvmuriatic gas decomposes
the metallic oxides at a heat below redness ; — those of the
volatile metals more easily than those of the fixed metals,
and protoxides more readily than peroxide?. Mr. Davy
notices two beautiful experiments on the agency of oxy-
muriatic gas on white oxide of arsenic, and black oxide of
iron* In these cases, no oxygen was evolved, the portion
separated from one part of the oxides combined with the
other part, and the products were butter of arsenic and
arsenic acid, and ferruginous sublimate and red oxide of iron.
Mr. Davy notices an experiment in which he decom-
posed the gray oxide of tin by muriatic acid gas. In this
case, water rapidly separated and Libavius's liquor was
formed.
Mr. Davy conceives that these new inquiries confirm all
the conclusions he has drawn in his recent paper on " Oxy-
muriatic Acid, &c."
LXXIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
^ NEW ENGINE.
An engine has been lately invented by Mr. Taylor of Hol-
well, Engineer to the Tavistock Canal, which may be put
into motion either by water or steam, without any alteration
in its construction or in any of its parts. It is extremely
simple, and may be erected at a moderate expense. Its
power when worked by water is, as in other hydraulic ma-
chines, in proportion to the quantity employed and height
of the fall. When steam is substituted, the area of the
piston determines the effect.
It may probably be a valuable machine in cases where a
falling stream may be had equal to useful purposes at one
period of the year, and deficient in a proper supply in dry
seasons. Many mines and manufactories are in this situa-
tion, and might by a single engine of this sort work un-
interruptedly, saving the expense of coal when the stream
of water was sufficient, and using the boiler only when the
supply of water fell short. It is of the kind of hydraulic
machines usually called Pressure Engines; various con-
structions of which have been attempted, but none have yet
been very successfully made, at least upon a large scale.
The
