Meteor seen in Holland, 3{)5
The difficulty which has attended the opening and closing
valves of sufficient water-way, having presented great ob-
stacles to a regularity of movement, — this objection is
surmounted in this instance by the invention of a new
valve, which admits apertures of large size, and is opened
and closed with any required velocity, and is applicable to
the passage either of waier or steam.
To Mr, Tilloch.
Sir, — If you will please to communicate the following
fact through the medium of your very intelligent Magazine,
some of your readers will probably favour the public with
their opinions upon the subject.
On my passage from Rio de .Taniero to this place, on
Jjoard the ship Favorite, Capt. Atkinson, on July the 14th,
being in latitude 31° 56' and longitude per account 39° 30',
at six A.M., when below, felt a very singular sensation
which lasted near a minute. All below ran upon deck,
feeling the ship shake as if she was passing over a wreck,
rubbing very hard ; or as if some very heavy body was
rolled from one end of the ship to the other. To the officer
and people on deck the sensation was as if the ship was
going over a bar, touching, but not stopping ; this lasted
nearly the space of a minute. Some ran few the lead, which
was hove in the shortest time possible, — no bottom : others
sounded the pump, — no difference; — each looked astonished
and panic-struck. The sea was smooth, a gentle breeze
westerly, all sail set ; the ship was loaded with coffee. At
about seven A. M., an hour after, the same sensation was
felt, less sensible and of shorter duration. — Could it arise
from electricity ?
Any of your readers favouring the public with their
opinion, will much oblige
Your humble servant,
A Passknger.
MKTEOR SEEN IN HOLLAND.
Wall (on the Meuse}, Sept. 22.
On the 19th of this month, between the hours of five and
six in the evening, a luminous meteor appeared to the
south, and about the distance of a quarter of a league from
the small commune of Brezeau : persons who attentively
examined it assert that it was nearly a quarter of an hour
in collecting, floating over the place where it was fi** seen ;
and
