396 Miinzo Parke.
^ v
and that when all its parts had united, it appeared all at
once as a very considerable globe of fire, taking a northerly
direction : it spread terror amongst the inhabitants of the
village, who believed their houses would be burnt, and they
themselves perish. This globe was accompanied by a fright-
ful noise, which was heard at the distance of more than a
league and a half, and sometimes resembled the rolling of
a rapid chariot ; at others, the noise of rain driven by the
wind. It was followed by a very thick fog, and carried up
from the ground every thing it met in its passage. In
crossing a river it absorbed water, which soon afterwards
fell in rain. It wandered for some time near the village.
One thing certain is, that the roof of a house was thrown
down, which is the only trace it has left. It was accom-
panied and followed by an abundant rain, much lightning,
and loud claps of thunder. Continuing in the same direc-
tion, it suddenly turned into a column of fire, which, with
the fog, rose towards the heavens. This made many per-
sons believe the fog was smoke. It remained about a quar-
ter of an hour in this state, a quarter of a league to the
north of the village, and at a short distance from the forest
of Beaulieu. This column now sunk a little, and at last it
suddenly disappeared, leaving a thick fog which had no
smell. This phaenomenon lasted three quarters of an hour,
and travelled over the space of half a league*
MR. MUNGO PAKKE.
November 8, 1810.
The painful incertitude respecting the fate of this adven-
turous character yet exists. An account has however been
received in town this week, which again revives the almost
extinguished spark of hope. It is stated by a very respecta-
ble gentleman, Capt. Davison, commander of a vessel of
Messrs. Anderson, lately returned from the Coast of Africa,
that on the 26th of July last a Moor arrived from the in-
terior at Bunce Island, in the river Sierra Leone, from whom
the following particulars were learned. — In January 1809
Mr. Parke was seen by the Moor, at a short distance from
Tombuctoo, in a state of very bad health, in one of the
natives' huts, after having been imprisoned by a native
chief. He was, however, all that time at liberty, and had
received permission to proceed on his route. Capt. Davison
interrogated the man frequently and minutely ; and, from
the consistency of his answers, entertains no doubt of the
correctness of his narrative.
To
