Improvement in writing and printing Numbers, 397
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Should the following idea be considered by you
as an 'improvement in writing and printing numbers con-
sisting of many digits, its insertion in your publication will
confer an honour on, Sir,
Your very humble servant,
Spitalfields, 19th Nov. 1810. A ReIRTALP.
When a number such as 69,470,600,078,406,300,097
presents itself, though pointed in periods of three figures,
the manner of expressing it in words does not immediately
occur to the mind. The mode I would beg leave to offer
as an improvement is, besides pointing it in periods of
three figures, to place one accent over the seventh figure,
or millions; two accents over the 13th figure, or billions ;
and so on, increasing the accents at every myriad, thus : —
69,470,600,078,406,300,097, — by which we can perceive
at once that the two first figures denote trillions, without
the usual mode of reckoning according to the Numeration
Table.
EARTHQUAKE.
Extract of a letter, dated St. Michael (Azores), August
24. — " One of those dreadful phenomena never witnessed
in your country has plunged many here in unspeakable
wretchedness and affliction, and continues to occasion great
terror to all the inhabitants of this island. On the I lth of
August, at ten P. M. slight shocks of an earthquake were
felt at intervals of a few minutes for four hours. During
this time the inhabitants, under the influence of alarm for
their personal safety as well as property, were running to
and fro in the greatest distress. Between two and three a
dreadful rocking was experienced throughout the whole
island; several houses, unable to resist its violence, were
thrown down, and many others were greatly damaged ;
and such persons as sought safety in the open air were
dashed to the ground. Hitherto che calamity had been
confined in its effects, and though great injury had been
sustained, we had to congratulate ourselves on the loss of
few lives ; but we were yet to witness a most dreadful spec-
tacle. On the 12th at mid-day, a hollow-rumbling sound
was heard, the clouds gathered, and the wind was hushed
into silence ; therocking returned, and in a few minutes
after the village of Gozas, situated on a plain, comprising
22 houses, was swallowed up, and in the spot where it stood
a lake of boiling water gushed forth. Many of the un-
fortunate inhabitants, who had previously retired to the
elevated ground,^ beheld the sight with a degree of horror
and
