t 401 ]
LXXIV. Theoretical Suggestions for the Improvement of
Practical Surgery. By A Correspondent.
1st. In that part of the operation of amputation when the
hone is to be sawed through, it appears to me that a steady-
support to the bone would materially facilitate and secure
the correct action of the saw : In the present mode, when
the only means of steadying the bone and resistance to the
action of the saw is made by the grasp and manual force of
frequently agitated assistants, the difficulty of dividing the
bone, without splintering and ruggedness, is very consider-
able. Might not a perpendicular prop from the floor, with
a semicircular hollow to receive the bone, be of great effect
in rendering it steady ? When a retractor is used, might
not such prop form part of that instrument? Carpenters,
when they saw timber, always take care to make it steady
previous to the application of the saw ; Why should not
the same mode be u*ed when sawing the bones of the arm
or leg? The soft parts could not be injured by such a me-
thod ; as by the present mode of amputation, by double in-
cision, a considerable length of bone is bared before the saw
is used, and why might not the proposed support be applied
to that part ?
2d. In the operation of trepaning the skull, when the
scalp is sufficiently removed, it is essential to remove just
so much of the pericranium and no more, as the head of
the trephine will include; because the cranium, when de-
nuded of its pericranium, will, like other bones denuded of
their periosteum, grow carious. This part of the operation
is now generally performed by an instrument called a
raspatory, or by scraping the skull with a small scalpel.
Would not this be performed much more complete bv
having a head adjusted to the trephine handle, precisely the
dimensions of the serrated head, and which head would
have a circular cutting edge, with a species of concave plane
or scraper within it? One turn of such an instrument as I
can imagine, and as any person could easily contrive, but
which I find difficult to describe bywords, would completely
remove the exact portion of pericranium and no more*.
3d. Were surgeons to make themselves acquainted with
tin implements ur ; ed in different mechanical professions, it
is possible some valuable additions might be made to the
have reason to believe that there is such an instrument as the one
above .Alluded to. It was said to h^ve been the invention of Mr. Henry
Cline, juoii
Vol. 30. No. 152. Dec, 1810. 2 C present
