402 Theoretical Suggestions for the Improvement
present instruments of surgery. They should likewise ob-
serve, with a professional eye, the various mechanieai im-
provements which are daily taking place. Might not the
circular saw be introduced in some operations ? Small cir-
cular saws, cutters, or wheels with toothed edges -of dif-
ferent sizes and thickness, might perhaps be used with ef-
fect in insulating and removing the depressed angular pieces
of bone which occur in fractures of the skull. When the
trephine is inadmissible, a circular cutter applied to the
edge of the fracture, might, if used with proper precaution,
cut away the bone with safety, and make a space sufficient
to admit the elevator. Such a cutter might be turned by
the hand, as great velocity would be dangerous. A method
could easily be contrived to apply such an instrument with
the requisite steadiness to the part.
4th. The centre point of the trephine necessarily protrudes
beyond its teeth ; in consequence of which, when the inex-
perienced operator neglects too long to remove it, the most
serious effects are sure to follow. Might not this be easily
prevented by having a shoulder, as mechanics term it, to
surround the point, just so far down from the extremity of
the point, as to permit the saw to fix itself, and no more?
5th. Would not a contrivance be useful, in trepanning
the skull, to fix the head in the most favourable posture?
6lh. The best shape for the points of one description of
piercing instruments has, 1 think, never yet been exactly
ascertained; and it is certainly a question of considerable
importance. I mean those piercing instruments, where
breadth of instrument is requisite immediately on insertion ;
for, as to common needles, and other small instruments
merely for piercing, it is evident the more acute we make
their points, the better. In some instruments, however,
where a point is merely necessary for their insertion, when
that point is much prolonged beyond the efficient part of the
instrument, it becomes injurious: What point will suit such
an instrument best? Is it well ascertained that the drill or
shear point is the most advantageous ? Ft' the point formed
an acute angle, sloped to one side, would it not answer as
well? What is the proper angle for such a point? Me-
chanics pierce brass, copper, and steel with drills of different
shapes: May not ihere be an appropriate point for piercing
animal membranes ? The French discovered by experi-
ments (fatal experiments!) that the descending blade of the
guillotine cut best when sloped to a certain angle. How-
ever confident wc may be in our opinion, to experiment
we should always have recourse, whui possible; and in sa-
tisfying
