of Practical Surgery. 403
tisfying our present doubts, it is very possible. An appa-
ratus might easily be contrived for the purpose. All that
is requisite is, a piece of brass, about four inches long and
two inches square, supported by two or more feet, and per-
forated longitudinally, lo admit a thick steel pin, which
pin is to be fitted to the perforation in the brass, so as to
move very freely, and to exceed the brass about two inches
or more in length. On the upper end of this pin, I would
have a small flat piece of brass fixed, capable of holding
weights ; and in the lower end, a hole made, into which the
different shaped points on which we are desirous to make
experiments are to be fixed, similarly to the shifting feet of
common compasses. Immediately below this pin I would
place a species of drum, consisting of a small box, with
bladder or other elastic substance stretched over it to imitate
ihe animal tunics. Now it is evident, that by placing dif-
ferent weights on the upper end of the pin, until the point
we are experimenting on pierce the stretched bladder, we
may be able exactly to appreciate the comparative advantage
of the different kinds of point v
7th. The operation of couching frequently fails, from the
cataract or opake crystalline lens being of a soft consistency;
which the couching needle, instead of depressing, passes
through and divides. If the broad part which is, I believe,
frequently used in depression, were made concave so as to
fit the convex edge of the lens, might it not in some degree
remedy this evil ?
8th. Considering that the majority of calculi in the blad-
der are more or less spherical, it appears to me that the
forceps now used in lithotomy is not of the most advan-
tageous construction. By each side of the beak of the
usual forceps being concave, with an oval hole at the bot-
tom of the concavity, similar to the forceps once used in
extracting polypi, the edges of which hole A and the sides
of the concavity, might have teeth, Would it not be more
iikely to lay hold of even an irregularly spherical calculus
than the forceps at present used, with toothed beaks and
flat sides ? and which seems better contrived for crushing
a soft calculus to pieces, than for holding it fast and with-
drawing it whole.
9th. Grown bold by practice, I shall now venture, as my
last suggestion, to propose another kind of forceps for ex-
tracting the stone. Let us suppose a forceps with the beaks
formed of two narrow elliptical rims, jointed so as in some
degree, by tjie pressure upon a calculus, to conform them-
selves lo its size. To the edges of these rims I would at-
2 C 2 taefi
