404: Researches on the muriatic Acid
tach a piece of linen or leather, forming- to each beak a
small purse or sack. When tluse forceps should he closed
upon a calculus in the least spherical, the steel rims would
extend to let it pass, and it would then be completely sur-
rounded. The advantages of this forceps would be, that
the calculus could not escape: and the bulk to be with-
drawn through the wound, would be very little more than
the exact bulk of the calculus.
LXXV. Researches on the oxymuriatic Acid, its Nature and
Combinations ; and on the Elements of the muriatic Acid.
With some Experiments on Sulphur end Phosphorus,
made in the Laboratory of the Royal Institution. By
H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.L F.R.S.E. .
[Concluded from p. 361.]
It is extremely probable that there are many combinations
of the oxymuriatic acid with inflammable bodies which
have not been yet investigated. With phosphorus it seems
capable of combining in at least three proportions ; the
phosphuretted muriatic acid of Gav-Lussac and Thenard is
the compound containing the maximum of phosphorus.
The crystalline phosphoric sublimate, and the liquor formed
by the combustion of phosphorus in oxymuriatic acid gas,
disengage no phosphorus by the action of water ; the
sublimate, as I have already mentioned, affords phosphoric
and muriatic acid ; and the liquid, I believe only phos-
phorous acid and muriatic acid.
The sublimate from the boracic basis gives, I believe,
only boracic and muriatic acid, and may be regarded as
boracium acidified by oxymuriatic acid.
It is evident, that whenever an oxymuriatic combination
is decomposed by water, the oxide or acid or alkali or oxi-
dated body formed must be in the same proportion as the
muriatic acid gas, as the oxygen and hydrogen must bear
the same relation to each other; and experiments upon
these compounds will prohablv afford simple modes of as-
certaining the proportions of the elements, in the different
oxides, acids, and alkaline earths.
If, according to the ingenious idea of Mr. Dalton, hy-
drogen be considered as one in weight, in the proportion it
exists in water, then oxygen will be nearly 7*5 ; and as-
suming that potash is composed of one proportion of oxy-
gen, and gne of potassium, then potash will be 48, and
potassium
