in its different States. 405
potassium * about 40-5 ; and from an experiment which I
have detailed in the last Bakerian lecture, on the combus-
tion of potassium in muriatic acic! gas, oxymurialic acid will
be represented by 32*9, and muriatic acid gas, of course,
bv 33*9 ; and this estimation agrees with the specific gravity
of oxvmuriatic acid gas, and muriatic aeid gas. From my
experiments, 100 cubical inches or oxy muriatic acid gas
weigh, the reductions being made for the mean temperature
and pressure, 74*5 grains ; whereas by estimation they should
weigh 74'6*. Muriatic acid gas I find weighs, under like
circumstances, in the quantity of 100 cubic inches, 39
grains; by estimation it should weigh 38*4 grains.
It is easy from these data, knowing the composition of
any dry muriate, to ascertain the quantity t - of oxide or of
acid it would furnish by the action of water, and consequently
the quantity of oxygen with which the inflammable matter
will combine f.
In considering the dry muriates, as compounds of oxy-
muriatic acid and inflammable bodies; the argument that I
have used in the last Bakerian lecture, to show that potas-
sium does not form hydrate of potash by combustion, ig
considerably strengthened ; for from the quantity of oxy-
muriatic acid the metal requires to produce a muriate, it
seems to be shown that it is the simplest known form of the
alkaline matter. This I think approaches to an experi-
mentum crucis. Potash made by alcohol, and that has
* Supposing potash to contain nearly 15'6 per cent, of oxygen.
f I have stated in the last Bakerian lecture, that during the decomposition
of the amalgam from ammonia, one in volume of hydrogen to two of am-
monia is evolved: it is remarkable, that whatever theory of the nature of
this extraordinary compound he adopted, there will be a happy coincidence
as to definite proportions. If it be supposed that the hydrogen arises from
the decomposition of water; then the oxygen that must be assumed to exist
in ammonia, will be exactly bufllcient to neutralize the hydrogen, in an
equal volume of muriatic acid; or if it be said that ammonium is a com-
pound of two of ammonia and one of hydrogen in volume, then equal volumes
of muriatic acid gas aud ammonia will produce the same compound as oxv-
muriatic acid and ammonium, supposing they could be immediately com-
bined. I once thought that the phenomena of metallization might be ex-
plained according to a modified phlogistic theory, by supposing three dif-
ferent classes of metallic bodies: First, The metal of ammonia, in which
hydrogen was so loosely combinued as to be separable with great ease, and
whirl., in consequence of the small affinity of the basis for water, it had little
tendency to combine with oxygen. The second, the metals of the alkalies
and alkaline earths, in whicli the hydrogen was more firmly combined, but
in combustion, forming writer capable of being separated from the basis.
And, thirdly, the metals of the earths and common metals, in which the
hydrogen was more intimately combined-, producing by union with oxygen,
water not separable by any new attractions. '1 'lie phenomena of theaction
of potassium and sodium upon muriatic acid, referred to in the text, seem
however to overturn these speculation so far as they concern the metal*
from the fixed alkalies.
2 C 3 been
