406 Researches on the muriatic Acid
been heated to redness, appears to be a hydrate of potash,
whilst the potash formed by the combustion of potassium
must be considered as a pure metallic oxide, which requires
about 19 per cent, of water to convert into a hydrat.
Amongst all the known combustible bodies, charcoal is
the only one which does not combine directly with oxy-
muriatic acid gas ; and yet there is reason for believing that
this combination may be formed by the intermedium of
hydrogen. I am inclined to consider the oily substance
produced by the action of oxymuriatic acid gas, and olefiant
gas, as a ternary compound of these bodies; for they com-
bine nearly in equal volumes; and 1 find that, by the action
of potassium upon the oil so produced, muriate of potash
is formed, and gaseous matter, which I have not vet been
able to collect in sufficient quantity to decide upon its na-
ture, is formed. Artificial camphor, and muriatic ether, as
is probable from the ingenious experiments of M. Gehlen
and M. Thenard, must be combinations of a similar kind,
one probably with more hydrogen, aud the other with more
carbon.
One of the greatest problems in oeconomical chemistry,
is the decomposition of the muriates of soda and potash.
The solution of this problem will, perhaps, be facilitated by
these new views. The affinity of potassium and sodium
for oxymuriatic acid is very strong ; but so likewise is their
attraction for oxygen, and the affinity of their oxides for
water. The affinities of oxymuriatic acid tras for hydrogen,
and of muriatic acid gas for water, are likewise of a power-
ful kind. Water, therefore, should be present in all cases,
when it is intended to attempt to produce alkali. Jt is not
difficult after these views to explain the decomposition of
common salt, by aluminous or siliceous substances, which,
as it has been long known, act only when they contain wa-
ter. In these cases the sodium may be conceived to com-
bine with the oxygen of the water and with the earth, to
form a vitreous compound ; and the oxymuriatic acid to
unite with the hydrogen of the water, forming muriatic acid
gas.
It is also easy, according to these new ideas, to explain
the decomposition of salt by moistened litharge, the theory
of which has so much perplexed the most acute chemists.
It may be conceived to be an instance of compound affinity :
the oxymuriatic acid is attracted by the lead, and the sodium
combines with the oxygen of the litharge and with water to
form hydrat of soda, which gradually attracts carbonic acid
from the air.
As
