in its different States. 407
As iron has a strong affinity for oxymnriatic acid, T at-
tempted to procure soda by passing steam over a mixture
or' iron filings, and muriate of soda intensely heated: and
in this way I succeeded in decomposing some or' the salt:
hydrogen came over: a little hydrate of soda was formed;
and muriate of iron was produced.
It does not seem improbable, supposing the views that
have beeen developed accurate, that, by complex affinities,
even potassium and sodium in their metallic form may be
procured from their oxymuriatic combinations: for this
purpose the oxymuriatic acid should be attracted by one
substance, and the alkaline metals by another; and such
bodies should be selected for the experiment, as would pro-
duce compounds differing considerably in degree of vola-
tility.
I cannot conclude the subject of the application of these
doctrines, without asking permission to direct the attention
of the Society to some of the theoretical relations of the
facts noticed in the preceding pages.
That a body principally composed of oxymuriatic acid
and ammonia, two substances which have been generally
conceived incapable of existing together, should be so dif-
ficult of decomposition, as to be scarcely affected by any of
the agents of chemistry, is a phcenomenon of a perfectly
new kind. Three bodies, two of which are permanent
gases, and the other of which is considerably volatile, form
in this instance a substance neither fusible nor volatile, at a
white heat. It could not have been expected that ammonia
would remain fixed at such a temperature ; but that it
should remain fixed in combination with oxymuriatic acid,
would have appeared incredible, according to all the existing
analogies of chemistry. The experiments on which these
conclusions are founded, are, however, uniform in their re-
sults: and it is easy to repeat them. They seem to show,
that the common chemical proposition, that complexity of
composition is uniformly connected with facility of decom-
position, is not well founded. The compound of oxymu-
riatic acid, phosphorus, and ammonia, resembles an oxide,
such as silex, or that of columbium in its general chemical
characters, and is as refractorv when treated by common
re-agents ; and except by the effects of combustion, or the
agency of fused potash, its nature could not be detected by
any of the usual methods of analysis. Is it not likely, rea-
soning from these circumstances, that many of the sub-
stances, now supposed to be elementary, may be reduced
into simpler forms of matter? and that an intense attrac-
2 C 4 tfodj
