30 On some new Electrochemical Researches
I have tried various devices wilh the hopes of being able
to form it from ammonia in a dry state, but without suc-
cess. Neither the amalgams of potassium, sodium, or
barium, produce it in ammooiacal gas; and when they are
heated with muriate of ammonia, unless the salt is moist,
there is no metallization of the alkali.
I have acted upon ammonia by different, metallic amal-
gams negatively electrified, such as the amalgams of gold
and silver, the amalgam of zinc, and the liquid amalgam
of bismuth and lead; but in all these cases the effect was
less distinct than when pure mercury was used.
By exposing the mercury to a cold of —20° Fahrenheit,
in a close tube, I have succeeded in obtaining an amalgam
in a much more solid state ; yet this decomposed nearly as>
rapidly as the common amalgam, but it gave off much more
gaseous matter; and in one instance I obtained a quantity
which was nearly equal to six times its volume.
The amalgam which I have reason to believe can be made
most free from adhering moisture, is that of potassium,
mercury, and ammonium in a solid state. This, as I have
mentioned in my former communication, decomposes very
slowly, even in contact with water, and, when it has been
carefully wiped with bibulous paper, bears a considerable
heat without alteration. I have lately made several new
attempts to distil the ammonium from it, but without suc-
cess. When it is strongly heated in a green glass tube filled
with hydrogen gas, there is always a partial regeneration of
ammonia; but with this ammonia there is from -/V to t^
of hydrogen produced.
As it does not seem possible to obtain an amalgam in an
uniform state, as to adhering moisture, it is not easy to
say what would be the exact ratio between the hydrogen
and ammonia produced, if no more water was present
than would be decomposed in oxidating the basis. But in
the most refined experiments which I have been able to
make, this ratio is that of one to two; and in no instance
in which proper precautions are taken, is it less ; but un-
der common circumstances often more. If this result is>
taken as accurate, then it would follow, that ammonia
(supposing it to be an oxide) must contain about 48 per
cent, of oxygen, which, as will be hereafter seen, will agree
■with the relations of the attractions of this alkali for acids,
to those of other salifiable bases'*.
If
* Even in common air, the amalgam evolves hydrogen and ammonia,
keaxly in these proportions, and in one experiment which I lately tried,
there
