Sulphur and Phosphorus. 409
that by employing crystallized native Sulphur, which had
been recently sublimed in nitrogen, I should avoid the pre-
sence of any foreign matter, yet I am inclined to believe
that this is not the case; for bv subliming some similar
sulphur in nitrogen, I find that litmus paper placed in the
upper part of the retort is slightly reddened.
When potassium is made To unite with sulphur, if the
retort employed is not lined with sulphur, some of the po-
tassium is destroyed by acting upon the glass ; and when
large quantities of sulphur are used, it is very difficult to
decompose the whole of the sulphuret of potassium by an
acid ; sulphuretted hydrogen likewise is soluble in muriatic
acid : and this circumstance led me to under-rate the quan-
tity of sulphuretted hydrogen given oft* in experiments of
this kind *.
In acting upon sulphuretted hydrogen by potassium in my
early experiments, I used large quantities of the gas and of
the metal ; and in these cases I have reason to believe that
the violence of the combustion occasioned the decomposi-
tion of a considerable quantity of the gas ; and, in conse-r
quence, led me to form erroneous conclusions concerning
the nature of this curious operation.
Jn all late experiments in which sulphur or sulphuretted
hydrogen was concerned, I have used muriatic acid saliw
rated with sulphuretted hydrogen over mercury. I have
employed sulphur distilled from iron pyrites in vacuo, which
did not in the slightest degree affect litmus paper, and [
have combined it with potassium in retorts of green-glass,
or plate- glass lined with sulphur and filled with very pure
nitrogen or hydrogen. In making potassium act upon sul-
phuretted hydrogen, I have employed the gas only in the
quantities of from one to three cubical inches, and have made
the combination in narrow curved tubes of green-glass over
dry mercury. With all these precautions, and after having
made a great number of experiments, I am notable to gain
perfectly uniform rtsuks. Yet there is a sufficient corre-
spondence between them to enable me to form conclusions,
whieh I may venture to say cannot be far from the truth.
When one grain of potassium, which would give by the.
* This circumstance has been '.jointed out by MM. Gay Luaac and
T/heoard, i° :1 ' a P L - r P r »nted in the Journal de Physique for December, in
which there gentlenler! endeavour to show that, whether potassium ha? been
acted upon by large or un II qiUU hi- ot suiplnn ard under all circum-
stances, it evolves a quantity 01 gas exactly e^aal to that which it produces
by the action of water. I ha\ been able \o gain no results i > precise on
this subject. I have in another place (the same journal in whieh their me-
nioir has appeared) offered some observations on their inquiries.
action
