412 ( Researches on Sulphur and Phosphorus,
inflammable o;as disengaged from them by electricity, is
necessary to the peculiar form in which these bodies exist,
is not erroneous. Phosphorus, as I have stated in the last
Bakerian lecture, is capable of forming a solid hydruret:
and a part oF the sulphur distilled from iron pyrites is
visually of a soft consistence, and emits the smell of sul-
phuretted hydrogen, and probably contains that body. It
is not unlikely, that in all cases, phosphorus and sulphur
contain small quantities of the hydrurets oF phosphorus
and sulphur; fchd the production oF a minute portion of
sulphuric acid in the blow combustion of sulphur, is pro-
bably connected with the production of water. Though
the pure oxides of sulphur and phosphorus have never been
obtained, yet irom the doctrine of definite proportions, these
bodies ought, under, certain circumstances, to be formed.
And I am inclined to believe, that they sometimes exist in
minute quantities in common phosphorus and sulphur,
and with hydrogen give to them their variable properties.
The colours of different specimens of phosphorus, as well as
of sulphur, differ considerably ; the red colour of phosphorus
as it is commonly prepared, is probably owing to a slight
mixture of oxide. Common roll sulphur is of a very pale
yellow, the Sicilian sulphur of an orange colour, and the
sulphur distilled from iron pyrites in vacuo, which arose in
the last period of the process, of a pale yellowish-green
colour. All the late experiments that I have made, as well
as mv former researches, induce me to suspect a notable
proportion of oxygen in Sicilian sulphur, which is probably
owing to the presence of oxide of sulphur, which may give
rise to sulphuric acid in distillation, or to sulphuric acid
itself.
Conceiving that, if definite proportions of oxygen and
hydrogen existed in sulphur and phosphorus, they ought to
be manifested in the agency of oxy muriatic acid gas on
these bodies, I made some experiments on the results of
these operations. In the first trial, on the combination of
sulphur with oxvmuriatic acid gas, I employed five grains
of roil sulphur, and admitted the gas into the exhausted
retort, from a vessel in which it had been in contact with
warm water: in this case more than a half a cubical inch
of oxvgen gas, and nearly two cubical inches of muriatic
acid gas, were produced. Suspecting in this instance, that
aqueous vapour had been decomposed, I employed cold
water in the next experiment, and dried the gas by muriate
of lime: in this case, though Sicilian sulphur was used, no
oxygen gas was evolved - } and not a half a cubical inch of
muriatic
