Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems, 413
muriatic acid; the quantity was the same as in the last expe-
riment ; and it was found, that between \G and 17 cubical
inches of oxymuriatic acid gas disappeared ; the whole of the
sulphur was sublimed in the gas 5 and the liquor formed was
of a tawny orange colour.
No oxygen was expelled during the combustion of phos-
phorus in oxymuriatic acid gas, nor could I ascertain that
any muriatic acid had been formed; three grain? of phos-
phorus were entirely converted into sublimate, by the ab-
sorption of about 23 cubical inches and a half of the ga9.
It would seem from these quantities, that the sulphu-
retted liquor formed by subliming suiphur in oxymuriatic
acid gas, consists of one proportion of sulphur, represented
by 13*5, and one of oxymuriatic gas represented by 329,
and that ihe phosphoric sublimate must be composed of
three portions of oxymuriatic gas, represented by 98'7 and
one of phosphorus represented by 16'5.
LXXVT. Reflections on some Miner ah a real Systems. By
JR. Chenkvix, Esq* F.R.S. and M.R.LA.^ &c. Trans-
lated entire from the French, with Notes by the Trans-
lator.
[Continued from p. 391.]
JL here is not a shepherd among those whose eyes and
mind have never exiended beyond the flocks which they
keep, the plains which nourish them, and the day which
affords them light, who could not convince the mineralogist
of the absurdity, should the latter wish to teach him that
a flock of wethers and ewes was a flock of animals of a new
species; and if the miner could perceive the mineralogical
individual, as the shepherd sees his wethers and ewes, the
doctrine of passages would excite laughter from Siberia to
Peru. It is below any other criticism*.
Finally,
* This is too severe; since M. Werner, not content to imitate Button in
world-makiag and forming the habitable giobe of a ball of glass invokes the
•hade of Moses, and furnishes us with " transition rocks, which are supposed
to have been deposited during the tmssoge or transition of the earth fi
chaotic to its habitable state " This knowledge, doubtless, is se perfectly
within the sphere of our senses, that we must congratulate the champions of
alt-nails on their singular modesty and consistency. " Hence," continues the
passenger or transitionist, ** they contain the first traces of organic remains
and mechanical depositions, and are denominated transitiQh rocks. They
are also highly important, as connecting the primitive with the fioetz rocks,
and thus preserving the beautiful wits of transitions which are to be traced
itom the oldest primitive to the newest alluvia! formations." Utahappiiy
tluoc
