Reflections on some Mlneralogical Systems* 4 1 7
idea of certain exclusive properties. Silica is not the only
substance which in its aggregation can acquire extreme hard-
ness ; there are other earths which can become harder than
it : an aggregate of alumine surpasses it in thi* respect, as
we see in sapphire. And what shall we say of the dia-
mond ? Most assuredly we shall not consider it, like a cele-
brated German who said to me, when I made some ob-
jections to him on the place which he assigned (his fossil
and the new discoveries respecting it ; ie And who will tell
me that carbon is not also an earth ?"
DIAGNOSTIC OR DESCRIPTIVE MINERALOGY
We shall now proceed to the second part of mineralogy;
to the means which assist us in the diagnosis or art of know-
ing minerals. This will comprehend the art of making
them known to others, or that of describing them.
M. Werner has divided the diagnostic characters into,
1st, external characters ; 2(1, chemical or internal characters;
3d, physical characters; and, 4th, empirical characters.
Perhaps it may surprise some to see the latter epithet thus
confined to only a part of this system.
The preference given by M. Werner to external charac-
ters is manifest from what follows : (Brochant, Introduc-
tion, p. 30.) He examines these characters corresponding
to the five following questions : " What are the characters
which always manifest themselves, and in all minerals?
These are the external characters and the chemical charac-
ters, although thesmallness of the specimens often prevents
the latter from being discovered. (Is there not here a little
contradiction in the characters which always manifest them-
selves, and that often cannot be discovered ?)— What are
those which most certainly indicate an essential difference ?
The chemical characters; nevertheless, the external charac-
ters equally indicate the state of aggregation — What are
those which we can determine more exactly ? The external
characters, because the others require delicate operations. —
What are the most easily and most promptly found ? The
external characters, because they immediately strike our
senses. — What arc those which we can discover without
destroving the mineral ? The exterrial characters."
M. Werner principally employs but two chemical cha-
racters; fusibility bythe blow-pipe, and the proof of acids.
The physical properties which he mentions are electricity,
magnetism and phosphorescence, with their modifications; ^
and even the indication of these characters has no other ob-
ject but to complete the description of the minerals. In the
Vol. 30. No. 1S2. Dec. 1810. 2 D art
