on various Objects. 3 1
IF hydrogen be supposed to be a simple body, and nitro*
gen an oxide, then, on the hypothesis above stated, nitrogen
would consist of nearly 48 of oxygen, and 34 of basis ; but
if the opinion be adopted, that hydrogen and nitrogen are
both oxides of the same metal, then the quantity of oxygen
in nitrogen must be supposed less.
These views are the most obvious that can be formed,
on the antiphlogistic hypothesis, of the nature of metallic
substances ; but if the facts concerning ammonia were to
be reasoned upon, independently of the other general phe-
nomena of chemical science, they perhaps might be more
easily explained on the notion of nitrogen being a basis,
which became alkaline by combining with one portion of
hydrogen, and metallic, by combining with a greater pro-
portion.
The solution of the question concerning the quantity of
matter added to the mercury in the formation of the amal-
gam, depends upon this discussion 5 for, if the phlogistic
view of the subject be adopted, the amalgam must be sup-
posed to contain nearly twice as much matter as it is con-
ceived to contain on the hypothesis of deoxygenation. In
the last Bakerian lecture, I have rated the proportion at
ttotto > Dut this is the least quantity that can be assumed,,
the mercury bein«; supposed to give off only one and a half
its volume of ammonia. If the proportion stated in page
56 [page 30 preceding] be taken as the basis of calculation,
which is the maximum that I have obtained, the amalgam
would contain about -f-g-Vo of new matter, on the antiphlo-
gistic view, and about -g-^- on the phlogistic view.
I shall have, occasion to recur to, and to discuss more
fully, these ideas, and I shall conclude this section by
stating, that though the researches on the decomposition
and composition of nitrogen, which have occupied so large
a space in the foregoing pages, have been negative, as to
the primary object, yet they may not possibly be devoid of
useful applications. It does not seem improbable, that
the passage of steam over hot manganese may be applied
there seemed to be no absorption of oxygen from the atmosphere. This
circumstance appears to me in favour of the antiphlogistic view of the me-
tallization of the volatile alkali ; for it the hydrogen be supposed to bf
given off from the mercury, and not to arise from the decomposition of water
Sphering to the amalgam,' it might be conceived, that being in the nascent
state, it would rapidly absorb oxygen. In my first experiments upon the
amalgam, finding that common air, to which it hud been exposed, gave less
diminution with nitrous gas than before, I concluded naturally, that oxy-
gen had been absorbed; but this difference might have arisen, partly at
!e^-t, from the mixture of hydrogen. Whether in any ca*e the amalgam
absorbs osv£cn g?»<. is a question for further foyesrigasfoih
00
