Reflections on some Mlneralogical Systems, s 410
to exculpate him*. Among the metals, indeed, he considers
it as of great weight, and in this he is supported by chemistry.
It is because the colour attracts the sight, that sense which
first informs us of the presence or* objects in general, that it
occupies the first place. The other universal external cha-
racters are cohesion^ unctuOsity, coldness, gravity, smell,
and taste. They are called universal, because they belong
to all minerals. It must be confessed, however, that among
them there are some which are of very little importance, and
merit slight attention. But specific gravity is not of this
number, and it will not be uninteresting to see the manner
in which it is treated.
A good hydrostatic balance or an areometer is all that if
necessary to take the specific gravity of a body, and the
operation is one of the most easy. Only a little patience*
Jess knowledge, and no reasoning are necessary to succeed.
But Werner banishes all exact modes, and says in general,
that a body swims on water ; that it is light when, water
being I,o00, it does nojt weigh 2,000 ; moderately heavy, if
from 2,000 to 4,000 ; heavy, from 4,000 to 6,000*; and very
heavy, if above 6,000. All that we can say from these for*
* This is candid and liberal, becoming a man of science i But how does
Werner's pupil estimate this character ? " In giving (says Mr. Jam. vol. i.) an
account of the crystallization of a mineral, we meniion its fundamental figure
or figures, describe their varieties, and arrange them according to their na*
tural alliances. Colour, which is a very important character, must also be
treated in a similar manner: the species and varieties must be correctly de-
termined, and arranged according to their affinities with each other? other-
wise, particularly in minerals possessing extensive suites of colour, as diamond
and sapphire, it would be very difficult to recollect them, and when remem-
bered would not convey to the mind a very distinct picture of this highly z'/j-
ferestiiig character. (Here the truth has transpired involuntarily.) I have
therefore been careful in the descriptions to determine the colours with pre-
cision, and to arrange them as much as possible in a natural order. In the
treatise of Haiiy, the colours are not arranged, and very seldom accurately
determined : this is the case, although not in so great a degree, with a more
useful work, The Miner;- logy of Brochant.'' It is true, the colours are not
arranged by Haiiy; as he, like a man of real science, treats them as purely
accidental characters. But what is the intrinsic value of the arranged
" suites of colours ? " There are perhaps no two persons living who have
identically the same ideas of colours, still less can any two equally find
■terms to describe their own notions of the matter. It follows then that each
individual will have his peculiar H suite of colours," arid that this " suite"
must be ranked with the " mineralogical instinct" of the Wernerians. I
have seen a German, a French, an Italian, a Spanish, a Portuguese, and an
English* mineralogist make the experiment together; each described sepa-
rately his own ideas of the colour of a Certain mineral in his native and in
all the other languages i the descriptions were then compared, first with
respect to the individual and nation, and next with respect to the six lan-
guages; and the disparity was such as would make any delicate mind feel
ashamed of the system built on such a sandy and indefinite basis. Yet Wer-
ner has not hesiuted to give his idea of the colour of a mineral as a name to
k U— Trans.
2 D 2 mulae
