Reflections on some Miner alogical Systems. 421
posed of two bent faces, but they result from an infinite
number of planes. The character of simplicity therefore is
totally wanting in this choice.
Still, however, there are many more objections to this me-
thod. There is scarcely any figure which I have not heard
considered in several points of view. The dodecaedron with
rhomboidal faces has been sometimes regarded asahexaedral
prism, terminated at each extremity by a triedral pyramid.
The hexaedron appears entirely useless, as besides this
figure there may be two modes of considering all the cry-
stals which belong to it. The cube, for instance, is a hexae-
dron, but at the same time it is a quadrangular prism with
square faces. The rhomboid is also a hexaedron and a
quadrangular prism, with rhomboidal faces; and every te-
traedral prism terminated by planes as bases is a hexaedron.
Moreover, these figures may be considered as two mutilated
triedral pyramids, united, it is true, base to base, with the
edge against the face. Here then is a crystal which belongs
to three different species of principal forms ; and such is the
influence of this character in the specification of minerals,
that the same mineral may very weli belong to three species
in the oryctognostic system.
The table is nothing but a prism extremely shortened.
The geometer knows as well as any other what a table is :
but 1 suspect that from Archimedes to Newton ; from the
first who failed in squaring the circle, till the learned Ger-
man who told me that he had discovered a fourth dimension
in space,^— no geometer has treated it as a geometrical figure.
This invention is purely mineralogical. But where does
the prism finish, and the table commence ? Is there a point
where a crystal being no longer a prism is not yet a table ? I
do not see why the table should not be ranked among the
imitativeiforms, as the club, bush, comb, mirror, and other
usual instruments.
WERNERIAX PRETENSIONS TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE
INTEGRAL MOLECULE.
There is an article in the external characters of Werner,
which at first seems to have some resemblance to the form
of Haiiy's integral molecule : I mean what relates to the
lamellated fraciure. After having spoken of the perfection,
imperfection, ike. of the lamince, their direction and their
form, he speaks of the structure of the laminae (lamina-
tion), or of the cleavage (durchga?ig der blatier), and says
that it may be double, triple, quadruple, and sextuple. If
it were wished to enter into all the details of this subject,
2 D 3 we
