422 Reflections on some Mineralogical System*.
we could find nothing more proper to demonstrate the weak-,
ness and futility of the system of external characters ; but
it is not, in fact, worthy of attention. Let us take only two
instances. Mica is given as a mineral which has only a
single direction of cleavage; this supposes two faces termi-
nated by planes. But two planes are not sufficient to con-
tain a solid. What then terminates the other faces of mica?
This is what Hauy found in discovering other directions of the
laminae, by which he was led to determine the primitive form
and integral molecule of mica, which is a right quadrangu-
lar prism whose bases are rhombs. Consequently there are
three directions of the cleavage, and each of these three has
another parallel to it, whence result six parallel faces two
and two, or a parallelopiped. According to Werner, hya-
cinth has but two directions of cleavage. Haiiy found its
primitive form an octaedron with isoscele triangles, and con-
sequently its integral molecule a regular tetraedron, and four
directions of cleavage. Werner stopped his researches
where his senses abandoned him. Hauy has availed him-
self of all the means which a profound knowledge of the
different branches of the natural sciences has put in his.
power ; and in throwing a strong light on certain minerals,
he has rendered sensible the fissures which could not other-
wise- have been perceived.
Some persons, indeed, have pretended to infer from what
Werner says respecting the property of cleavage, that he
also knew the form of the integral molecule, but having
perceived its futility as a principle of classification, he
abandoned the idea. Two notes (p. 28 and 127 of the
French translation), in his Treatise on External Characters,
nave been pointed out as announcing clearly his opinion.
I have been able to see nothing in the first, except that ani-.
mals and vegetables have different parts, which we call or-
gans, and that the separation of those parts destroys the
animal or vegetable, while we can divide a mineraj into as
many small parcels lis we please, without its ceasing to be the
same mineral. But jf we destroy its composition, then the
mineral is destroyed. Tt is not therefore doubtful that their
relations consist in their composition. In p. 31, there is the
following remarkable but just observation : " The systems
oft hose who have wished to arrange fossils by their external
characters* have already furnished a proof of the inconve-
nience
* I have been assured by an old pupil and relative of Werner, that it wai
not originally his intention to form any system of mineralogy on external
characters^
