'Reflections on some Minerahgical Systems. 423
nience of this method, as we there see fossils essentially
different plaeed together, while those of the same species
are dispersed in consequence of some accidental variety."
In a note, p. 127, he speaks or " aggregated parts, or of
those which we can obtain by mechanical division, and of
those whose union forms the preceding, or of simple parts
which are not divisible without changing their nature. As
to those which compose the simple parts, and which, in fact,
are themselves compounds (I cite the words of the author),
they take the name of constituent parts. I shall, however,
call primitive constituent parts those which form the con-
stituents, and which are neither compounds nor aggregates,
but absolutely simple parts or the first elements of matter.'*
It appears to me that there is nothing in all that I have
quoted, which has any reference to the form of the inte-
gral molecule. It is there said that bodies have molecules
and elements; and we also learn something new, such as
simple part which are compounded, and compounds of com-
posed parts ; but there is not a word of integral molecule.
To me, indeed, it appears rather censuring than excusing
M. Werner, to say that the discovery of the integral mole-
cule is due to this philosopher. If he had perceived its ex-
istence, why has he abandoned it ? why did he leave a field
so fertile in brilliant discoveries to be cultivated by any
other than himself? But these questions are superfluous,
as we have seen that the learned mineralogist (or, if he will,
oryctognost) of Frevberg had no knowledge of the integral
molecule before M, Haiiy. Judging, indeed, from the ob-
servations which I have heard him make more recently on
this subject, it does not appear that he has yet sufficiently
studied the matter to comprehend it perfectly even at the
present day.
[To be continued.]
characters, but merely to digest, arrange, ormethodize those characters, so that
various chemists migkt easily discover .whether it was identically the same
piineral which they analysed, and that they might have less trouble and be
more accurate in their descriptions of the subjects cither produced or ope-
rated on. In his preface, indeed, he observes explicitly, " It will be seen
that I have taken care that no one should make ut>t of these external characters
1» rsfjikl.tsh a si/s!r»iatic division of minerals, as has been hitherto done ; but
solely to determine the idea of their exterior appearance, and fix the method
of descrii'iufr them." Had he still adhered to this judicious and necessary
plan, he would have contributed very materially to facilitate the progress
of mineralogicai science; but the vanitv of making worlds, forming mo\m-
tains, transitions, primitive rocks, and finally deciding on the effects of water
and the construction of the whole crust of the earth, has propagated the
propensity for *' those wonstr<inties known under the name of theories of the
(P'h" which flarrer the imagination, but retard the progress of reason and
rue science. — 1 ran a.
2 D 4 LXXVII. Me-
