[ 424 ]
LXXVII. Memoir on the Diminution of the Olliquity of the.
Ecliptic, as resulting from ancient Observations. By
M. Laplace. Translated from the " Connoissance
des Terns for 181 1" &y Thomas Firminger, Esq.
To Mr. TillocL
Sir, J. he variation of the obliquity of the ecliptic having
been a phenomenon in astronomy of a nature to engage the
most lively interest of those who have made this sublime
and useful science the subject of their study, and as its in-
vestigation has never been fully developed till the appearance
of that profound work the Mecanique Celeste of M. Laplace,
I have no doubt the following comparison of ancient ob-
servations with the deductions derived from his formula
will be highly interesting to many of your readers. The
article is taken from the Connoissance des Terns for the year
1811; and the only apology offered for its translation is
the extreme scarcity of that work in this country : it was
drawn up by the profound mathematician and philosopher
above mentioned, with a view to compare his deductions
with the actual state of the system at an interval of time as
great as observations of sufficient accuracy would admit;
and the coincidence, taking into consideration the imperfect
state of science in those ages, is remarkably striking. It
pres'ents to us not only one of the most undeniable proofs
of the Newtonian principle of gravitation, a fabric on which
the whole of the Mecanique Celeste is founded, but furnishes
the historian with facts which give additional credit to the
faithfulness of the narration. On this as well as on other
occasions we have a right to form our opinion from analogy.
We see the recorded observations agree, as nearly as the state
of science in those days will admit, with what theory has
assigned to them; and as they do not make a separate his-
tory of themselves, but are coupled with the history of
the times in which they were made, the known truth of the
one gives a satisfaction to the mind in appreciating the value
to be affixed to the other. If we look to the account given
in the Lunar Tables published by the Board of Longitude
in France, we shall find those tables were compiled princi-
pally from the astronomical observations made in the Royal
Observatory at Greenwich ; and not only the epocha, but the
present state of diminution in the obliquity of the ecliptic
has been in a great measure determined from them: we
shall not, therefore, be surprised to fiud, hereafter, a nearer
coin-
