Diminution of the OHiqitiiy of the Ecliptic. 425
coincidence in the actual state of the ancient observations,
and the deductions drawn from theory, when we possess, as
we hope soon to do, the means of settling this epoeha and
actual state of diminution at the present period. The grand
mural circle now making for the Royal Observatory, by
Mr. Troughlon, will, it is expected, be in readiness for ob-
servation early in the ensuing year; and we cannot doubt
but that the first object to be determined with it, will be
the settling of the above-mentioned data, so essential in the
theory and practice of astronomy. TLe observations of
Mr. Pond have clearly tended to show errors in the mural
quadrants at Greenwich of considerable magnitude ; and
whatever accuracy these instruments might originally possess,
we have now no hesitation, from a comparison of contem-
porary observations, not only of Mr. Pond, but of Mr.
Groombridge, Dr. Brinklv, &c, to express our satisfaction
on this point. Indeed it is not difficult to account for the
above-mentioned errors, when we take into consideration
the construction of the mural quadrants, and of the obser-
vatory in which they are contained. These instruments are
freely suspended, in a line nearly with their centre of gra-
vity, by two pins from a large stone pier; the upper and
'lower parts are therefore very differently affected by every
change of temperature in the atmosphere: for instance, if
we suppose an increase of heat to be equally diffused over
the whole instrument; the upper part (for "we must consi-
der the expansion as taking place from the point of suspen-
sion) will be less affected than the lower, it. having the ac-
tion of gravity counteracting the force of expansion, whilst
the lower part is assisted in its expansion from the same
force of gravity, and vice versa ; or, in other words_, with its
own weight, which in these instruments is very great, the
whole I think amounting to nearly 1000 pounds each. We
shall therefore observe, that it is scarcely possible for these
instruments to have retained their original accuracy for but
a very short space of time after they were first put up : the
change however might be inperceptible for several years ;
but as we now know that metals when continually acted
upon, do not retain their first figure except where the parts
arc duly balanced, we can easilvsee how the change of figure
must necessarily happen. In running our eye over the ob-
servations made by Dr. Bradley with Bird's mural quadrant,
we find frequent mention, when observing the stars in the
night-time, and particularly when the difference in the tem-
perature of the atmosphere within and without was very con-
siderable,
