420 Memoir on the Diminution of the
siderahle, that it was necessary to lower the quadrant a little ;
and it was a practice always to keep the plumb-line constantly
over the point at bottom, without any regard to the variable
temperature of the instrument. Admitting, therefore, the in-
strument at the commencement of observation to have had an
equable temperature and to have been nicely adjusted; it is
evident that a readjustment, after a partial effect has taken
place, is to throw so much error into the observation. I have
often been surprised that so sagacious a man as Dr. Bradley
should not have noticed this circumstance. It accounts* in
the most satisfactory manner for, the disagreement in the
deductions of the observation of the stars in the feet of Ge-
mini, used in carrying forward the error of collimation de-
duced from comparative observations with the zenith sector
and quadrant. The variations in these instruments are
likewise rendered still greater from the construct ion of the
Observatory, which, having a slanting roof, receives the
Fun's rays almost perpendicularly upon it, and is so much
heated in summer as to occasion a change of temperature
in the top and bottom of the room amounting to 10° or
1-2°. Such a roof is perhaps capable of many facilities in
the opening and shutting the necessary shutters, but I think
it is the very worst form for an observatory. The adoption
of circular instruments in the &tead of quadrants is one of
the greatest improvements in practical astronomy. In the
instrument now making by Mr. Trough ton, any part may
be made the depending one, and the whole instrument be-
ing constantly turned about must preserve its proper figure.
The article which I have herewith sent you, sir, being a
very long one, I will not trespass further at present, intend-
ing at some future period to take an extensive view of the
progress and im proved state of practical astronomy*
Your very obliged
and obedient humble servant,
Thomas Firmingkr.
Although the successive diminution of the obliquity of
the ecliptic, as we approach to modem times, cannot now
be controverted, still it is with the greatest interest that
we witness at the end of ages the slow development of
the great inequalities of the system of the world. In
aiter ages, when with the results of theory a long series of
very accurate observations can be compared, this sublime
spectacle can be enjoyed much better than it is by us, to
whom antiquity has only transmitted such observations a,s
oftea*«
