Obliquity of tin Ecliptic, 42f
oftentimes are doubtful. But even those observations, when
submitted to sound criticism, may, owing to the distance
of time when they were made, throw great light on several
important elements of astronomy, and therefore deserve all
the attention of geometers and astronomers.
OF OBSERVATIONS ANTERIOR TO OUR ^ERA.
Chinese Observations,
The Chinese observations I am going to relate, are ex-
traded from the " Edifying Letters on the History of Chinese
Astronomy by the learned Father Gaubil," published bv
Father Sauchet, and particularly from a precious manuscript
sent from China by the said Father Gaubil in 1/34, which
I have published in the Conn, des Terns of 1SOQ.
The most ancient observation that has reached us, relative
to the ecliptic's obli<]uitv, is Tcheou-Kong's, the brother of
Vou-vang emperor or China, who, towards the year 1 loo
previous to our sera, had occupied himself with particular
care in making astronomical observations. After his bro-
ther's death, he was regent of the empire, and his memory
is still in great veneration among the Chinese, as having
been one of the best princes that ever governed. His ob-
servations on the length of the gnomon at the solstices are
the most ancient astronomical observations that can be used,
All anterior observations of eclipses and solstices that have
reached us, are related in too vague a way to serve for astro-
nomical determinations ; they are of service only to en-
lighten chronology ; and if other observations are wanted
that can be truly useful to astronomy, we must go back
from the epocha of Tcheou-Kong to the time when the
lunar eclipse was observed at Rabylon, the year 720 previous
to our sera, as related in the Almagestes of Ptolomy. This
great antiquity of Tcheou- Kong's observations, and their
vast importance, induce me to expect that the details I am
about to enter into respecting them will be perused with
interest. Here, first of all, is what Father Gaubil records in
his History of the Ancient Astronomy of the Chinese, in-
serted in the xxvith vol. of.* 4 Edifying Letters," p. 142.
^Tcheou-Kong, as well as his father prince Ou-en-ouang,
and one of his ancestors, prince Kong-hicon, of whom men-
tion has been made, took a delight in observing the shadea
of gnomons. In the town of Tching-tcheou he drew with
care a meridian line, he levelled the ground for observation,
he measured the shadow at noon and afternoon; at night he
pbser\;ed the pol.ar star. This prince also caused observa-
tions
