32 Description and Analysis
to the manufacture of nitrous acid. And there is reason
to believe that the ignition of charcoal and potash, and
their exposure to water, may be advantageously applied to>-
thc production of volatile alkali, in countries where fuel is
cheap.
[To be continued.]
V. Description and Analysis of the Meteoric Stone which
Jell at IVestony in North America, the 4th December
1807. By David Bailie Warden, Esq, Consul-,
general of the United States at Paris *.
DESCRIPTION.
JL his aerolite presents, in general, the same characters as
those hitherto examined. It is enveloped with a thin,
black, and uneven crust. The mass is principally com*
posed of a granular substance, which breaks easily; it has
an earthy appearance and a gray cinereous colour, which,
in certain parts, passes to a whitish gray.
Those portions which possess this last tint, and which are
as if glued in the mass, have a round form, so that they
are distinguished by circular or oval spots which interrupt
the general colour. Its specific gravity is about 3*3 ; the
sharp parts cut glass.
In observing the fractured parts of the stone, we there
perceive : 1째. Particular globules which are easily detached;
little cells in which they are placed, and of which the sub-
stance is like that of the stone itself, except that its grain
is more compact, and its fracture smoother.
In exposing it to a strong light, we see traces of a la-
mellar tissue : 2째. grains of metallic iron, which, by polish,
assume a whiteness, yield to the hammer, and attract very
sensibly the magnetic needle : 3째. grains of oxided iron of
the colour of rust : 4째. metallic particles extremely small,
of a silver white colour, which seem to be of iron ; and
this opinion is strengthened, when we recollect that the
native iron of Kamerdorf, and that of pseudo-volcanic
origin, present, in certain parts, a silver white colour.
I have not seen any mark of sulphurated iron, although
I found it by the analysis, as will hereafter appear.
All the fragments of this stone have a magnetic property,
but without polarity ; and the iron, which is very visible in
certain parts, is so disseminated in all others where it
escapes the eye, that the property of which there is ques-
* From Annates de Chimie oi March 18 10,
