Obliquity of the EcUplk. 429
brother of Vou-vang, in the town of Loyang. According
o tradition, a gnomon of eight feet cast at noon a shadow
one foot five inches long at the summer solstice. This
shadow is mentioned in the ancient hook of Tcheou-li, and
in other books, and the authors of the Han consider the
observation as incontestable.
" Loyang is the town of Hon-an-fou in Hon-an. Ac-
cording to Father Regis's observation, this town is placed at
the latitude of 3<T i$ 15". Father Demaille observed, to-
gether with Father Regis, as well at Cai-fong-ion as at
Hang-tcheou.
" A shadow of one foot five inches from a gnomon eight
feet long, gives a latitude of near 34° 22', supposing the
declination of the ecliptic 23° 29/. Tcheou-Kong governed
the empire for his nephew in the year 1 100 before Christ;
and it was he' that caused the imperial palace to be built at
Loyang, which was a second court of Teheou's empire.
Therefore, if we were to admit a declination of v 2Q J 55' at
the time of the observation, the latitude would be 34*
48' 51"; which is remarkable.
6i It was again a tradition, that in fhe winter solstice
Tcheou-Kong observed with the same gnomon a shadow
of 13 feet. This tradition is not so certain as the. former.
This shadow would <rivc a true altitude for the sun's centre
of 3 1° 18' 42". The summer shadow gives 79° l f 1 1"; — dif-
ference 47° 48' 49"; half of which, 23° 54' 24" 80*', would
be the ecliptic's obliquity; which is worthy of remark. If
the calculation of the ) uitude was made from the shadow
at the winter solstice, supposing the declination 23° 2i/,
it would give a much more northerly latitude than what
the altitude in the summer solstice gives."
In vol. ii. p. 21, of his History of Chinese Astronomv,
published by Father Sauehet, Father Gaubil attributes the
same observation to the authors of the Astronomv of Sfefen
in the said town of Loyang. But in the manuscript I have
just quoted, he relates what follows, [Conn, des Terns JS09,
p. 394.)
The authors of Sfefcn's Treatise of Astronomv have, no-
ticed for Loyang at the two solstices, the shadows observed
by Tcheou-Kong, and recorded in the first observation.
These authors have given shadows for the other days of the
year in the equinoxes. These 'shadows are so faulty that
no dependance can be placed on the observations. The
authors no doubt considered Tcheou-Kong's observation
as unreformable.
" In several treatises of Chinese astronomy, the shadows-
in
