430 Memoir on the Diminution of the
in the solsliccs at Loyang, attributed to Tcheou-Kong, arc
first «ct down ; after which rules are given to add to, or sub-
tract from, the length of these shadows, according as the
places are further north or south than Loyang, What I
here mention is clearly explained in some of the said works?
but in others, the editors have not been careful to give the
rules for the increase or decrease of the shadows observed
by Tcheou-Kong, for application to places iurther north or
south ; whence it arises that in calendars for Nanking or
Ilin-tcheou, or other towns, the shadows are ^given for
Loyang only."
From the foregoing, it appears to me that no doubt can
be entertained of the quoted observation not wholly belong-
ing to Tcheou-Kong. The learned Freret has calculated this
important observation in the third part of his excellent Dis-
sertation on the Certainty and Antiquity of the Chinese
Chronology. This is what he says:
" The most ancient observation of the solstices that is
known with certainty is prince Tcheou-Kong's, brother to
Vou-vang the founder of the dynasty Tcheou. Tcheou-
-Kong was regent of the empire from the year 1104 to the
year 1098. The observation was made in one of these six
years. The precise date of the observation for the time of
the cycle and moon is not marked, but the place of ob-
servation and length of shadows are known. This detail is
related in the Tcheou-li, which is a part of the Li-ki or
Book. of Kites.
"A gnomon was made use of, of eight feet Chinese: at the
summer solstice the shadow was one foot five-tenths, and
in the winter it was 13 feet ; which gives for the obliquity
of the ecliptic 23° 54' 14"; the same quantity nearly as was
supposed by the ancient Greek astronomers Pytheas, Era-
tosthenes, Hipparchus, and Ptolomy.
" The altitude of the pole at Loyang, (place of the obser-
vation) as determined by the altitude of the sun above the
horizon and by the resulting obliquity of the ecliptic, is
found 34° 4/' 33". Regis and Mailla, by an observation
made with accurate instruments, have found it 34° 46' 15".
By the obliquity of 23,29 as supposed by our modern astro-
nomers, Loyang would be placed at 34° 3-/, differing only
15' 13''; which gives room to presume that the obliquity of
the ecliptic must have changed.
" The observation of Tcheou-Kong was made at a time
anterior to Solomon's reign, and about the war of Troy. Its
exactness proves that observations must have been made in
China several centuries back."
Frerct's
