Obliquity of the tlctipiic. 433
fcong's determination. This difference will appear very
small, when we consider the uncertainty of the precise
epocha of the observation on which this determination is
founded, and above all the uncertainty even of the -observa-
tions. It would suffice to remove 54 years beyond the UOOdth
before our aera > to reduce this difference to nothing, and
then the observation would belong to the time of Ou-en-
ouang, father of Tcheou-Kong, Whom Father Gaubil men-
tions as having much loved and cultivated astronomy. The
Chinese astronomers determined the moment of the solstice*
by observing equal lengths of the gnomons' shadows forty
or fifty days previous and after the solstice; and from
that there may already be some error inTcheou-Kong's de-
termination. But the greatest error that is to be appre-
hended in the observation is in the manner of referring the
solstice to the stars, in order to which the moment of the
passage of such stars as crossed the meridian twelve hours after
the moment of the solstice was observed: thus the right
ascension of the opposite point to the summer solstice
would be determined, and therefore also that of the win-
ter solstice. But for so doing it was necessary to measure
an interval of twelve hours. It appears that hour-vessels
were used for measuring the time that a vessel was in fill-
ing to different heights with the water falling from a higher
vessel (Treatise of Chinese Astronomy of Father Gaubil,
published by Father Sauchet, Part I. p. 37.) It is easy to
perceive how uncertain this manner of measuring time was,
and three minutes of time, in an interval of twelve hours,
are sufficient to account for the error of Tcheou-Kong's
determination. The Chinese astronomers made likewise
use of the moon's situation relatively to the star3 in the
lunar eclipses, to obtain the place of the sun, and therefore
that of the winter solstice, at which they fixed the com*
mencement of their year.
We must come down a thousand years, from Tcheou-
Kong's epocha, before we find a second observation of the
gnomons' shadows made in the solstices in China. Towards
the year 104 before our aera, the astronomers Lieou-hiang and
Lo-hia-hong observed the length of the shadow of an eight-
feet gnomon at the winter and summer solstices. They
found it 13 feet one inch four fen, or 13ft, 14 at the
former, and one foot Cive inches eight fen, or lft,58 at
the latter (vol. ii. of Chinese History, published by Father
Sauchet, p. 8). This observation is supposed to have been
made in the town of Siganfou, then the capital of the em-
pire : but this is an error which Father Gaubil has rectified
Vol. 36. No. 152. Dec. 1810. 2 E in
