434 Diminution of the Obliquity of the Ecliptic*
in the quoted manuscript; in which is read as follows :(Comr,
des Terns, I8O9.)
" Lieou-hiano-, father of Lieou-hia, wrote upwards of 50
years before Chiist. This author says that an eight -feet
gnomon gave the noon shadow in the winter solstice 13
feet one inch four fen, in the summer's it was one foot
five inches four fen. Litchun-foung, an astronomer of
the dynasty of the Tangs, complains that these shades were
improperly applied to Siganfou. Lieou-hiang mentions
neither the place nor the time of these observations."
The shade at the summer solstice is not exactly the
same as that published in the quoted History of Chinese
Astronomy ; but I think that this last ought to be preferred,
the shadow given in the MS. giving an evidently too con-
siderable obliquity of ecliptic. It is very likely that in the
manuscript Father Gaubil may have written, in a mistake,
instead of eight fen the same number that he wrote for the
winter solstice. Adopting therefore, lft, 14 and 13ft, 58
for the lengths of the shadows at the summer and
winter solstices, and allowing for the refraction and the
sun's parallax, I find 31° 2' 23" and 78° 33' 4l" for the
altitudes of the sun's centre, resulting from these observa-
tions. Half of their difference gives 23° 45' 39" for the
ecliptic's obliquity. If we add it to the complement of 78*
33' 41", we shall have for the altitude of the pole 35° 11'
58", an altitude very different from that of Siganfou, which
the Jesuits have found 34° 16' 45''. Litchun-foung was
therefore right to complain that these noon shadows had
been improperly referred to Siganfou.
To compare my formula with this observation, I suppose
that t = — 1850, and then it gives for the obliquity of the
ecliptic 23° 43' 59" ,4, and by adding 5', as we have done
for the preceding observation, we shall have 23° 44' 4'', 4,
which only differs l' 34",6 from the result of this second
observation. These two observations are the only ones
before the commencement of our sera, that Father Gaubil
has made us acquainted with; and it is to be supposed that
this learned missionary could not discover others : the de-
struction of books by fire, which took place 213 vears pre-
vious to the Christian aera, having caused the loss of the
•greatest number of preceding observations.
[To be continued.]
LXXVHI. Re-
