[ 435 ]
LXXVIH. Reply to Mr. M.'s Remarks on Mr. Smyth's
Comparative Table in vol. xxxv. p. 488. By Mr. Smyth,
To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, JL shall esteem it a favour if you will insert the fol-
lowing answer to the gentleman who signs himself M. in
your Magazine for September.
Mr. M~ says it is " curious that Mr, S. should presume
organ-tuners will continue to tune as their ancestors did
before them, till irrefragable arguments are produced to
prove the superiority of Kiruberger's temperament." Here,
I confess, 1 stand convicted of inconclusive reasoning.
The fact, however, I imagine to be this: an organ, with
compound stops', will not admit of the major thirds being
tuned sufficiently sharp to ameliorate, in any considerable
degree, those greatly tempered chords which are called
wolves; of which I wish the breed were extinct.
I am glad to find that Mr. M. agrees with me in opinion,
thai Kirnberger's is one of the worst unequal temperaments.
Had Mr. M. stated in definite terms his own favourite sy-
stem, it should have been submitted to examination.
Mr. M. says, " perhaps for the organ a good unequal
temperament is preferable to the Isotonic." I was not ig-
norant that even for this instrument the Isotonic has had
its advocates; and Mr. M. presents to my view the names
of Couperin,Marpurg, Rameau, Cavallo, professor Chladni,
and many other eminent philosophers. Now, not being a
philosopher myself, I take the liberty of asking one plarn
question, which relates 1 solely to the temperament of the
organ : — Can any man living prove, that there ever was one
organ in Christendom tuned according to the equal tem-
perament, in consequence of a peremptory order from any
one of these gentlemen, and suffered to remain in that state ?
This is coming to the point,
A person disposed to cavil might raise arithmetical and
philosophical doubts whether a real equal temperament has
ever been heard.
1 wish Mr. M. would inform us, and explain precisely,
what the system is which he tunes so dexterously on his
harp, by the melody alone, without striking consonances.
Had his instrument so tuned been intended for melody
alone, this mode of tuning might answer the purpose; but,
as each of the strings has various relations to other strings,
and a temperament of a diatonic interval, too small to pro-
2 E 2 duce
