of a Meteoric Stone, 33
ti on, -manifests itself even in the smallest particles isolated
by trituration.
I found it even in the globulous bodies which are first
mentioned.
Pieces of this stone weighed from six to even 100 pounds,
ANALYSIS.
Having ascertained, by preliminary essays, that this stone
contained chrome, nickel, iron, manganese, lime, magnesia,
silex, alumine, and sulphur; I employed the following me-
thod of separating each of these substances.
1° 100 grains of this stone, from which the metallic iron
was isolated, by means of the magnetic needle, after being
pulverised, were treated with a considerable quantity of
water, through which was passed a current of oxygenated
muriatic gas : by this means, the sulphur being converted
into sulphuric acid, by the oxygen of the oxygenated mu-
riatic acid, sulphates and muriates were obtained.
2°. The whole was evaporated to siccity, and treated
with two parts of alcoholic potash : after fusion the mass
presented a fallow colour, and its dissolution in water was
of a fine yellow.
3°. The portions of the mass, which remained undis-
solved in water, were dissolved in an excess of muriatic
acid ; and being evaporated to siccity, I separated the silex,
which after calcination weighed 41 grains.
4°. Into the muriatic acid was poured carbonate of potash
in excess, which formed an abundant precipitate after an
hour of ebullition.
5°. The liquor contained sulphate and chromate of potash :
after being made acid, it was precipitated by muriate of
barvtes in excess, and there was obtained sulphate of bar\ tes,
corresponding to 2-^- of sulphur : and saturating afterwards
the excess of acid by an alkali, I obtained chromate of
barytes, corresponding to 2^- of chromic acid.
6°. The precipitate, No. 4, was submitted (still in a
humid state) to the action of alcoholic potash, and after
filtration, the liquor gave, by means of the muriate of am-
monia, a grain of alumine.
7°. Ammonia was poured into the remains of the pre-
cipitate, after having dissolved it in an excess of muriatic
acid. The oxides of iron and manganese were precipitated,
and the lime and magnesia remained in dissolution.
8°. The precipitate was isolated, and the lime separated
from the magnesia by the oxalate of ammonia, which,
after calcination, weighed three grains.
Vol. 30. No. 147.t/% 1810. C The
