Of the Bogs in Ireland, 43$
t< 9th. — In all cases where the bogs arc wholly or par-
tially surrounded by high land, whose natural inclination is
to the bog, the engineers are to consider where catch-water
drains may be necessary ; and as it will generally happen
that these catch- water' drains may admit of a greater tall
than it will be practicable to gi *e to the main drains, care
must be taken, where the catch-water drains are to join,
the main drains after their issue from the bog, that it shall
be at such a distance, or on such a level, as to preclude the
danger of the water to the catch -water drains, in lime of
floods, penning back the water of the main drains, so as to
overflow the bog. Where the levels will not admit of the
waters of the catch-water drains being conducted into the
main drains without being subject to this inconvenience,
provision must be made for conducting them through sepa-
rate channels into the river, or other place, where the waters
of the bog are to be discharged.
" 10th. — Each of the engineers is to prepare a map of
the district assigned to him, distinguishing,
" 1. The extent and boundaries of the bogs which it con-
tains.
" 2. The nature of the soil and country immediately con-
tiguous to each bog, particularly specifying the situations of
lime-stone, lime-sTone gravel, marie, or other manures.
" 3. The surface of the bog, whether firm black bog,
or shaking quagmire.
u 4. The situation of any springs, rivers, or lakes, which
appear to occasion the wetness of any of the bogs.
" 5. The course of any rivers, streams, roads, or canals,
by which the bog is intersected.
"6. The drains and other works proposed by the en-
gineers.
" 7. Such lines of new roads as appear most proper for
the carriage of manure, for carrying out the future produce
of the reclaimed bogs, and for communication with the
roads in the vicinity.
" 11. These maps are to be accompanied with sections,
delineating the surface and bottom of the bog, and the na-
ture and depth (as far as may be necessary) of the under
strata on which it rests.
*' 12. The maps and longitudinal sections are to be drawn
on a scale of four inches to an Irish mile, and the perpen-
dicular scale of the sections to be ^ inch on the foot.
" 13. They are to be accompanied with index maps, on
the scale of one inch to a mile.
" i4. In taking the levels necessary for determining ths
* 2 E 4 sscuoni,
