440 Of the Bogs hi Ireland.
sections, the engineers are to take care that their assistants
proceed^ in all cases, so as to cross and correct each other.
The engineers are to be responsible for the correctness o£
the whole.
" 15. The main drains are generally to be laid down so
as to allow the collateral drains communicating with them,
to embrace the greatest extent of surface the nature of the
bog will admit of: but where the inequalities of level in it*
surface, or the outlets of discharge for the waters, present
a. choice of plans for its drainage, so as to induce any doubt
in the mind of the engineer which plan mav be most eli-
gible, he is to submit the different plans to the commisf
sioners.
if 16. The engineers are to accompany the maps with
written reports, containing generally whatever occurs to
them on the subject of the drainage of the districts assigned
to them, and particularly specifying,
* c 17. The probable expense of such drains, roads, ca-
nals, locks, and other works, as they recommend.
W 18. The names of the proprietors who claim any right
or interest in the bogs, and to what extent, and in what
proportions, as far as they can learn.
" 19. Whether any, and what tracts of bog in their di-
, stricts have already been reclaimed, and what have been the
manures used, and the modes pursued, in their amelioration,,
and what is the nature and the state of the crops which
they actually produce.
^ 20. The probable value of the land when reclaimed,
and the mode of culture which maybe the best adapted for
it, particularly distinguishing those parts that may be best
suited for planting.
* f 21. Where any of the bogs proposed to be drained are
at present used for the supply of fuel, the engineer is to re-
port how far the quantity and quality of the fuel is likely tq
be injured or improved by the works which he recommends.
" 22. Where the wetness of the bog appears to be occa-
sioned by a lake on a higher level, the engineer is to report
on the practicability and means of draining the lake; and
also on the difference of levels in summer and winter of all
rivers and lakes connected with the bogs.
" 23. Where the botlqm of the nog is lower than the
river into which it would be convenient to discharge the
waters of the drains, the engineer is to report on the prac-
ticability of lowering the river sufficiently to receive them.
" 24. As in many instances the levels may not admit of
the bogs being drained in the usual planner, in such cases
th«
