442 Of the Bogs in Ireland.
t€ 30. The engineers are to act under these instructions,
in respect to all such bogs within their districts as contain
by estimation or repute more than 500 Irish acres ; of hogs
of inferior extent, they need only report the existence arid
situation.
" 31. The commissioners intend to provide the best
levelling instruments, which they will supply at the original
price to such of the surveyors employed as are not already
furnished with instruments of sufficient accuracy. They
intend also to procure some rain-gauges, to enable them to
determine the dimensions of the principal drains. They
request that any gentleman disposed to assist bv keeping an
account of the rain in the vicinity of the bogs, will be so
good as to signify his intentions to their secretary.
By order of the Board.
Dublin Society House, £. M c CarTH^,
sept. 28, 1809. Secy tQ the Commissioners.
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS.
" 32. The commissioners have determined to alter the
longitudinal scales of the sections referred to in the twelfth
article of the instructions, from eighty perches to an inch
(as therein directed) to forty perches to an inch, the scale
which on further consideration they have preferred to adopt.
M The perpendicular scale of the sections (namely ■^ s -
inch to a foot) is to continue unaltered.
" 33. As it will probably be found inexpedient to incur
the expense of engraving the drawings of the sections, re-
ferred to in the eleventh article, of the inductions, the en-
gineers are to specify the lines of sections, and the amount
of fall in each in their reports ; and further to specify them
upon their maps, so far as they may find it not inconve-
nient to do so.
"34. The commissioners have determined that, it will
not be necessary (at least for (he present) to execute the
index maps referred to in the 13th article of the instruc-
tions.
" 35. The engineers are to prepare, for the purpose of
being presented to parliament, maps on the scale of two
inches to an Irish mile, reduced from their large maps, spe-
cifying every thing contained in the large maps. These re-
duced maps are to be sent in along with the reports of the
engineers to the commissioners. The largest sized copper
plate that can be allowed for these maps is twenty-six inches
Jong by twenty broad. Where the district is so large that a
map of the whole of it cannot be contained within these
dimensions,
