446 On Refraction,
feldspar, are frequently to be met with on the surface : I
did not find any of this rock in its native bed.
" The hill called the Chair of Kildarc and Dunmurry
Hill, situated to the south-west of the Hill of Allen, are also
composed of greenstone* ; the Red Hills are conglomerate.
" Besides the general ridge which (with the exception of
two low passes through which the bog rivers flow) sur-
rounds the district, and the Island of Allen which divides
the interior, there are frequently minor and more detached
ridges, usually of moderate elevation, bounding the several
bogs, and preventing the passage of the waters to the rivjrs-
or principal streams, which usually run in valleys beyond
the ridges, and nearly parallel to the ed^e of the bogs.
" These interior ridges, where there is no river, usually
form the line of separation between different begs."
J am, sir,
Your obedient servant,
William Farev.
LXXX. A short Account of the Improvements gradually
made in determining the Astronomic Refraction. By
Afr.T. S. Evans, Master of the Mathematical School at
New Charlton, near Woolwich, Kent ; late of the Royal
Observatory, Greenwich, and oj the Royal Military Aca-
demy, Woolwich.
[Continued from p. 349.]
It would be endless to notice the different opinions re-
specting both the terrestrial and the astronomic refraction
which are to be met with in the writings of various authors
on the subject : and it would be equally useless to notice
all the tables of its quantity given by them, some of which
differ very much from others. It will be sufficient to men-
tion those only who made some considerable advances to-
wards obtaining it with greater accuracy.
The next of these in order was La Caillef, who in de-
termining it certainly bestowed very great pains, by making
and reducing an immense number of observations, and
afterwards comparing them with others made at Green-
wich by Dr. Bradley, at Gottingen by Mayer, at Bologna
b\ X noiti, and by La Laurie who was then at Berlin.
From these it appeared that the refraction at 45 3 of altitude
was tif3 u" ; but ibis, as will hereafter be seen, Was too great
* This is the first discovery of rock ef the trap formation in this part of
ftrafa d.
f Mem. dc i'Ac de Sc. 1755, p. 547.
by
