448 0?i Refraction*
found that his correction for the thermometer was a littid
over- rated ; and accordingly, for his new table, altered it
to Vr * or eacu degree. And here it may be observed that
La Caille did not correct his altitudes above 36° at Paris,
and 30° at the Cape ; first, because he only noted the baro-
meter and thermometer in the night, when he observed
stars below 30° of altitude. Secondly, because, that at 36 }
of altitude, where the mean refraction is about !•£■ minute,
the variation which belongs to 10 degrees or' the thermo-
meter only amounts to 3£ seconds ; a quantity about equal
to the limits of the errors of observations made with an in-
strument of six feet.
The formula given byEuler* appeared also about this
time. It took into account the variation of the refraction
depending upon the thermometer and barometer, but was
certainly too complicated to be generally adopted. He shows
however, that in very different hypotheses the refraction
will be sufficiently exact, if taken in the inverse ratio of the
degrees of heat, when the star or planet is not too near the
horizon, but the precise quantity of this ratio was unknown
to him.
In this state the refraction stood when Dr. Bradley took
the subject into consideration, and began to find its quantity
from his own observations. The rule which he adopted,
although a very elegant one, he neither lived to complete
nor to present to the world ; but it was published after his
death by Dr. JMaskelyne f, and has commonly been used
in England up to the present time. He found the mean re-
fraction at 45° of altitude 57", and, that at all other alti-
tudes it was equal to 57" multiplied by the tangent of the
zenith distance, diminished by three times the refraction.
Then supposing the mean state of the atmosphere to be at
29*6 in. of the barometer, and 50° of Fahrenheit's thermo-
meter, he made the true or corrected refraction equal to
57 " x ,,(Z.D.~Sr) x b ^: x -ggl. where it is to be
understood that the mass of air is supposed to increase in
bulk T J- - for each degree of Fahrenheit's scale.
A variety of experiments have been made at various
times to ascertain the increase in bulk of a quantity of air
represented by unity for a certain number of degrees of rise
of the thermometer. The following is a list of some of
them J : —
* Mnj. de l'Ac dc Berlin, 1754, p. 131.
f Pief. to 1st vol. of Obs. 1765. Phil. Tram. 1764 and 17S7, p. 157.
Req. Tables, &c.
f Sec La Landes Astr. 2241. 3d ed. Thomson's Chemistry, vol. i. p. 489.
La Place's Mec. Ce!. vol. iv. p. 270. Phil. Trana. 1809, &c. &c.
