450 On Refraction*
progression, -therefore an hypothesis which participates of
both these progressions would seem to represent the re-
fraction, and the observed diminution of heat in the at-
mospheric layers ; accordingly he makes this curious as-
sumption, and deduces a formula by means of it.
He then applies the same analysis to the finding of an
equation for the retraction at altitudes below 12% and gives
us an expression which has the advantage of being inde-
pendent of all hypotheses respecting the constitution of
the atmosphere, resting only upon the nature of it in the
place where the observation is made, as indicated by the
barometer and thermometer, after which he determines the
value of his coefficients. With respect to that depending
upon the thermometer, he requested M. Gay Lussac to re-
peat his experiments, with all possible care, by graduating
his thermometers exactly, and by paying the gteatest atten-
tion to dry the tubes well, which he made use of: for it
appeared to him, that upon this depended principally the
great differences in the re suit 9 hitherto found by philoso-
phers. Attending well to the expansion of glass*, and to
the corrections on account of the variableness of the baro-
meter, during each experiment Gay- Lussac found, by a mean
of twenty-five experiments, that a volume of air expressed
by unity at zero of temperature of the centigrade thermo-
meter became 1*37.5 at the heat of boiling water, under a
pressure equivalent to that of a column of mercury = 0*76
of a metre in height.
The other coefficient was determined by M. Delambre,
who, by comparing a great number of observations, found the
refraction to be 186'"f28at 50'of apparent altitudef,thetem-
perature being zero, and height of the barometer 0* 76 metre.
After this he proceeds to consider the effect of moisture
in the atmosphere, and concludes the following values for
the increase of the refraction, for extreme humidity in the
air from 15' to 45- of temperature.
Degree--. Increase of Refraction.
15° 0-.563" t,
20 0-/14 /,
25 O977 t,
30 1274 t,
35 1-051 t,
40 . .2-122 t y
Where represents the apparent altitude.
* Upon this and some other points connected with the subject of this
•viper, see Thomson's Chemistry, hook i, cliv. '.?, seel. 4, edit, of 18 iO.
'• According to the new centesimal division of the circle; hut this, ac-
^ to our division of the circle, will be 60" 499872 at 45° of apparent
-, when the barometer is 29 92152 EugL in., «:ud Fahrenheit's theun.
cord*.
altitnj*
