On Refraction. 451
" It results from this table," he says, " that the effect of
moisture iu the air on the refraction is very small ; the ex-
cess of the refractive power of the aqueous vapour on that
of the air being compensated in a great measure by its less
density. We may nevertheless attend to it by means of the
preceding table, in cases of extreme humidity. Observa-
tions of the hygrometer will point- out the ratio of the quan-
tity of vapour spread in a given volume of air to the quan-
tity which would produce extreme humidity in this volume*
The increase of refraction which corresponds with extreme
humidity must then be multiplied by this ratio. " He con-
cludes the subject with the following remark :
iC If we would take into account the figure of the earth
in the theory of refraction, it is to be observed that at the
point where the observer is situated, we may always con-
ceive an osculatory circle to the surface of the earth, whose
plane passes through the star: now the figure of the atmo-
spheric layers is very nearly the same as that of the earth ;
the circles, concentric to the circle in question, are there-
fore oscillators likewise of these different figures; and we
may determine the refraction of the star by supposing
the earth to be spheric, and of a radius equal to this oscula-
tory circle. Thus wee see, 1st, That the refraction always
takes place in the vertical plane: 2dly, That it is not the
same on all sides of the horizon, since the oseulatory cir-
cles are not the same in every direction; but we may rest
assured, that the error is insensible, when the star is a little
elevated. At the horizon, however, differences of some se-
conds may occur." Thus terminates one of the most
masterly chapters on this subject ever written ; after which
he proceeds to treat of the terrestrial refraction.
Upon these theorems * found by La Place, reduced to
rather a more convenient form, and with coefficients differ-
ing a little from his,Delambre has computed a set of Tables
bv means of which the refraction may be found with great
facility. They were first published by Puissant f in a work
closely connected with this subject, and are well arranged
for use. The first of them gives the refraction for every
degree of apparent zenith distance down to SO', and for
every 30' from thence to 00\ They are adapted for 0*71
metre -of height of the barometer, and 35° of the centigrade
thermometer]:. Besides the refraction and its difference for
* Paje 27 1 , and page 264 of the Mecan. Cel. vol. iv.
f Traite de Geodesic, fit the end, 4to, 180J. J Or, £7 953 English
inches, and 0j° of Fahrenheit's thermometer.
2 F 2 each
