On Refraction. 453
with the navy ; whilst it is well known, that at this mo-
ment a few of our best mathematicians are groaning tinder
insults, degradations, and injuries, as severe as they are un-
provoked and undeserved. Had France the tenth part of our
naval power, with her present number of scientific men, the
whole world must soon be subjected to her dominion : and
where so much is at stake, it behoves us, by giving all the
encouragement in our power, to place -our navy as much
above that of other nations in scientific knowledge, as it is
in all other high and great qualifications.
The gradual decrease of the study of mathematics in this
country has already been publicly noticed*; but its cause?,
although very evident, have not yet been mentioned. Per-
haps, at some future period, this may form the subject of
another communication. I have been led into this digres-
sion by considering the still more deplorable state if possi-
ble of astronomy, which at this moment is scarcely culti-
vated by half a dozen persons throughout the whole king-
dom. But to return.
It has been doubted, notwithstanding what is stated by
La Caille, \vhether the mean refraction of France be the
same as that of England,. What gave rise to this was the
use of Bradley's Table in the determination lately made
there of the obliquity of the ecliptic, wherein a difference
of some seconds was found, between the result obtained
from observations made in t the winter solstice, and that
from others made in the summer. This doubt has not yet
been satisfactorily removed : but the very accurate astrono-
mic circles lately made by our English artists, who are un-
doubtedly the best in the world, will, it is presumed, with
good assistance from theory, not onlv soon decide this
question, but furnish us with such observations as will de-
termine the refraction to a second, till we approach near the
horizon.
A very material step has lately been made towards this,
by the publication of Mr. Groombridae's valuable paper on
Refraction f, wherein he has determined, by a great number
of very accurate observations, both the quantity of mean
refraction at 45°, and the coefficients for correcting it on
account of the state of the atmosphere. The former of
these he makes 58"*] 192 by a mean of a great number of
observations, when the barometer is at 29*6 inches > and the
* Edinburgh Review of La Place's Mecanique Celeste.
f Philosophical Transactions for 1810.
2 F 3 mother-
