On Refraction. 4 57
responding to it, which is readily done at the same opening
of the book. Double this logarithmic cosine, and it is the
logarithm required of 1 — h?i*.
But in a letter dated 17th September 1810, which I
had the honour to receive from Mr. Groombridge, he in-
forms me that he has calculated on the data before men-
tioned a Table of Refraction for every io'down to 70° of
zenith distance; for every 5' from thence down to 86°;
for each 4' thence to 88°; each 6 thence to 89°; and for
everv %' from thence to 90° 18': together with an auxiliary
Table for the correction depending on the difference of the
barometer and thermometer from the mean state. He has
also contrived some very simple methods of performing
with great facility whatever arithmetic operations may be
requisite in using them. Every sincere lover of the science
will no doubt join with me in requesting that these tables
and methods may form the subject of another communica-
tion to the world, whereby it is presumed the mode of find-
ing the refraction will be made extremely easy, and an im-
portant service rendered to astronomy.
As an appendix to what has been said on the refraction,
I shall take the liberty of adding the following method of
finding the sun's parallax, which is rather more accurate
than as it is usually given in the Tables. Add together the
logarithmic sine of Ike sun's zenith distance, the logarithmic
distance for the given day taken from page iii Nautical Al-
manack, and the constant number 094151 : their sum, re-
jecting the tens in the index, will be the logarithm of the
sun's parallax in seconds.
It must however be observed, that 1 have taken the sun's
mean horizontal parallax at 8"*74: for it was found f by
observations made at the Cape of Good Hope, as well as
others made by M. Pingre and Mr. Short, 8"*8; by M. du
Sejour, 8*84; by M. Lexell and M. de la Lande, 8"*6.
The mean of these six determinations is 8"* 74, which is the
quantity we have adopted above.
* When the thermometer is below zero, this expression will of course
become 1 + f >n, in which case it may, as above, be compared with 1 + f 1 —f 1 .
but instances are extremely rare where any necessity for this occurs in En-
gland.
f La Lande's Astronomy, art. 1725,3d edit.
LXXXI. Be-
