under the River Thames. 35
Being informed that no particular plan has yet been de-
termined on by the Thames Tunnel Company *, they are
extremely welcome to adopt this if they think fit. 1 can-
not avoid encouraging a hope, that it will be found practi-
cable : but, should my partiality render me too sanguine in
favour of it, as the idea, 1 believe, is new, the publication of
it may lead to some other of more ingenuity, and which
may be easier and safer in the execution.
Explanation of a plan for constructing a tunnel of cast-
iron under- the river Thames : —
Fig. 1. A A, (Plate II.) section across the river. The
waving "line shows the present depth of the river; a a, the
additional depth required by the plan.
Fig. 2. B B B, three of the frames of which it is pro-
posed that the whole tunnel shall be formed : they are to
be of cast-iron, each of oik- piece, and to be joined together
by the flanchts ddd, which are all one foot broad a;* J four
inches thick, with the screws eee, in figs. 2 and 4, of four
inches, diameter, with half-inch sheet-lead between: — or
the joints may be secured with the cement employed by
steiMii -engine builders.
, Fig. 3. CC, section of the tunnel, showing the above
three frames, in figs. 2, in perspective ; each frame to be
ten feet in length, eighteen feet wide inside, and twelve
feet high at the sides; the top to be convex, rising two feet
in the middle; to be four inches thick at the bottom and
sides, and three at top. Each frame will weigh upwards of
forty tons t.
Fig. 4. DDD, elevation of the same frames, which
shows the screws that unite the exterior flanches, and also
the iron cramps, fj\ which embrace the two adjoining
flanches at bottom ; these cramps to be each twelve inches
broad, six inches thick, and two feet high.
Fig. 3. g g, tubes of eight inches bore, with openings
to receive leakage water, and to convey it to one o£, the
ends to be pumped out.
Hi, screw- holes. 'Hie dotted line kk expresses the
paving when the whole is completed.
* I believe the Thames Tunnel Company have settled the plan they mean
to follow ; but as the ideas suggested by Col. Lennox may prove useful oa
some future occasion, I have given it a place in this number. — Edit.
+ Should the carriage of pieces of this weight from the foundry be found
impracticable, the side*, and top and bottom, may be cast in separate pieces,
with flanches to join them at the corners. In this case the joinings of the
different parts may be so disposed thai no two of the transverse joinings
ghall coincide, which will give additional strength to the whole as every
joint may thks be supported with three solid pieces at that place in which
it £alis.
C2 By
