[ 458 ]
LXXXT. Description of a Manometer, hy means of which
we may ascertain the Changes which take place in the
Elasticity and in the Composition of a determinate Volume
of Air. By M. C. L. Berthollkt*.
jl he appellation of maho/meter has been given to various
instruments whieii have been contrived for ascertaining the
differences of density of the strata of the atmosphere ; for
we cannot determine by the barometer the variations which
depend upon heat and upon the hygrometrical state.
Otto Guerick describes a manometer, which was after-
wards given by Bovle as his own invention ; but neither of
these writers distinguishes its use from that of the barome-
ter. Varignon, Fouehi and Gerstner have since given
various manometers.
These instruments have been generally used for ascertain-
ing the changes of density in the air, by means of the dif-
ference between an empty globe and one full of air, but
sealed hermetically, and put in equilibrium with a metallic
weight; for, when the density of the external air changes,
the globe undergoes a change in its weight, which answers
to that which takes place in a volume of air equal to that
which it occupies, while the metallic weight, which is of a
small volume on!v, remains sensibly the same.
Bouguer employed a different method for comparing the
densities of the atmospheric airf : he used a pendulum
which he made to oscillate at various heights, in order to
judge, from the losses of motion experienced by the pen-
dulum in a given time, of the resistance of the air, and
consequently of its density. His experiments seemed to
him to confirm the opinion which he had been led to form,
viz. that, from the height at which the barometer supports
itself at 16 inches, to that at which it supports itself at 21
inches, there is a constant relation between the densities of
the air and the weights which compress it ; but that this
relation varies from that height down to the level of the sea,
which he attributes to a difference in the elasticity of the
molecules of the air. This error mav proceed from the
difficulty of obtaining results free from uncertainty by means
of the pendulum used by Bouguer, as has been proved by
M. de Saussurej, and from his neglecting to reckon the
effect of the heat, and of the hygrometrical stale of the air.
We might with propriety resort to these methods of
* From Mcmmrci de In SurK'' dTArnttil, torn. i.p. 2F2.
f Man. dt CAcud. des Sciences, 1753. J Joutn, de Physique, 1790.
• ascertain ins
