46o Description of a Manometer.
peraturc be different, we ought to bring back the gas to the
first by calculation.
This calculation requires that we should take in not only
the change of elasticity produced by the temperature, but
also that which flows from the tension of the vapour of the
water which is formed or destroyed; and for the latter pur-
pose we may use the observations of Mr. Dalton.
After having ascertained the variations which have taken
place in the elasticity at different times of the observation,
it is important to be able to determine the chemical changes
which have taken place in the atmosphere of the vegetable
or animal substance, and the nature of the gaseous sub-
stances which may be liberated or absorbed.
This object is attained by means of a stop-cock, above
which we adapt into a reservoir a graduated tube filled
with water : on opening the stop-cock the water falls into
the manometer, and its place is supplied in the tube by an
equal volume of gas : the stop-cock is closed, and we may
carry the tube with the gas which it contains.
We thus obtain a quantity of the gas contained in the
apparatus, every time that we wish to examine it, without
producing any change in the pressure of that which remains,
and in the elevation of the barometer : it is only requisite
to submit the gas which has been extracted to chemical
tests.
We determine the proportion of carbonic acid by the
absorption of lime water, afterwards that of the oxygen by
the hydrogenated sulphuret of lime, according to the
method of M. de Marty* : and lastly, we test the residuum
with oxygenated gas in the eudiometer of Volta, if we
suppose an inflammable gas to exist in it. The remainder
gives the proportion oi' the azote.
In most circumstances carbonic acid is formed, and
more or less of it is dissolved in the water which has been
introduced into the apparatus, according to its quantity,
temperature, and the pressure to which it is submitted.
M. Theodore de Saussure, in order to determine the quan-
tity of carbonic acid which was absorbed in several of his
experiments, contented himself with regarding it as equal
to the volume of water which was in his apparatus. This
determination is not sufficiently rigorous, since the quantity
which is absorbed by the water varies much by the circum-
stances which have been detailed.
The quantity of carbonic acid which has been absorbed
* Journal de Physique, tome lii. dnnalts de Chimie, tome Ixi.
by
