462 Description of a Manometer.
It appeared to me to be useful to examine whether these
results, which give the explanation of several transmutations
undergone by animal and vegetable substances, might con-
duce to general consequences, or if they ought to be re-
stricted to a certain class of phenomena.
M.de Saussure had already remarked that the oxvgen gas
was absorbed by the oils, without forming a corresponding
quantity of carbonic acid.
The theory of the solution of indigo by the alkaline bases
which are combined with it, when it is deprived of Oxygen,
and of its precipitation by the oxygen of the atmosphere,
which has been explained in the Elements of the Art of
Dyeing, seemed established on sufficient proofs. Neverthe-
less the analogy, with the facts observed by M. deSaussure,
might lead us to believe that the oxygen of the atmosphere
served to form carbonic acid, with a part of the carbon of
the indigo which had been rendered soluble.
A solution of indigo, made by means of the sulphate of
iron and of lime, limpid and of a fawn-colour, after having
been carefully separaied from the sediment, was introduced
into a manometer of 11 litres 632 capacity: the barometer
was at u m ,75.74, the thermometer at 12°: two days after-
wards the liquor was completely colourless, and the indigo
was precipitated in dark blue, the thermometer beingat 12,5,
the haromcier had fallen six millimetres.
The filtered liquor was covered while in the air with pel-
Jicles of carbonateof lime, and precipitated abundantly with
oxalate of ammonia : the blue precipitate retained or, a filter
did not effervesce with an acid, and gave with sulphuric
acid a very deep solution of indigo.
Thus we see that the lime preserved its state during: the
precipitation of the indigo, and that carbonic acid is not
formed.
On the other hand, the test of the air contained in the
manometer has shown that it was the oxygen gas which
alone had been absorbed bv the indigo, whose precipitation
it had operated. The experiment repeated a second time
gave similar results: but we bete neglect the calculations
necessary for determining the quantity of the absorption,
because we have not ascertained the weight of the indigo
precipitated. We confine ourselves to the conclusion, that
the quantity of oxygen which disappeared has not been
employed in this case to form carbonic acid ; but that it is
combined with the indigo, to which it lias theieby rendered
its insolubility and colour.
i was anxious to compare the changes which are pro-
duced
