4 64 Description of a Manometer.
The column of mercury sustained by the elastic vapour
which was produced during the experiment,
= O m .003ll.
The manometer brought to the primitive data has therefore
undergone a decrease
= ,n .050 •+ n, .0O864 + n, .00311 =s O m .06)75,
= 0.0813 of the volume of air used in the experiment.
In order to know on what substance the absorption acts,
we must keep an account of the quantity of carbonic acid
which ought to be dissolved; and as we have neglected to
do it by precipitation, as I have indicated, we shall confine
ourselves to regard, with M. de Saussure, this quantity as
equal in volume to the liquid.
The capacity of the manometer being four litres 676, the
volume of the liquid = 0,565, the volume of the air in the
experiment = 4 lit. Ill, the volume of the carbonic acid
dissolved by the liquor = lit. 565 y forms the 0,137 : now
on adding up the proportionsof carbonic acid and of oxygen
formed in the air, and supposing that the oxygen gas on
combining with the carbon is replaced by a volume of car-
bonic acid precisely equal to its own, we find that there
is wanting in 100 parts of air 10,54 of oxygen, or the 0,105
of the volume of the air, a quantity which only differs
0,032 from that of the carbonic acid which has been sup-
posed to be dissolved by the liquid. This difference ought
to be neglected, because the volume of the carbonic acid
absorbed ought to be inferior to that of the water, either on
account of the elevation of temperature, or on account of
the diminution of the pressure.
If we compare this result with the preceding indication
of the manometer, we find that there is only 0,02 of dif-
ference, a quantity which may be neglected, chiefly on ac-
count of the inaccurate valuation of the carbonic acid held
in solution.
The phaenomena, therefore, answer perfectly in this cir-
cumstance to the observations of M. de Saussure; the oxy-
gen gas is not absorbed by the decoction of campeachy ; but
the latter changes it into carbonic acid, on giving up car-
bon to it : at the same time, without doubt, water is
formed by the intimate union of the oxygen and hydrogen
which existed in the substance, which thereby becomes
more carbonized; and it is by these effects that we ought to
explain the alterations which it undergoes in its properties.
Then this solution gives only a yellow precipitate with
the nitro-muriate of tin, instead of a bright red precipitate:
an
