Description of a Manometer. 46$
a n olive-coloured precipitate with the solution of highly
oxidated iron, instead of a blackish blue precipitate: a fawn-
red precipitate with the muriate of copper, instead of a blue
precipitate.
Hence we see that, in the application to the arts, we may
obtain from the campeacby a different colour, according to
the kind of vessel in which we make the decoction : that
the action of the air, at least when it is continued too long,
changes its nature and decomposes it : so that the decoction
kept by the name of campeacby juice may be spoiled, if we
allow it to undergo the action of the air without some pre-
caution.
Results were obtained different from the two foregoing,
when we submitted gall-nuts to the. test of the mano-
meter, with the view of examining what passed in the de-
velopment of the gallic acid : a portion of the oxygen of
the air is transformed into carbonic acid by means of the
carbon of the substance; but another portion also is libe-
rated, the two elements of which it had furnished ; and
lastly, there is a considerable absorption of azote; a cir-
cumstance which requires ulterior observations.
Explanation of the Plate which represents the Manometer,
* and of the Method of using it.
Fig. I and 2. Vertical and horizontal projections of a
cylindrical manometer formed by a vessel A with a large
aperture, the neck of which has a copper rim B. The in-
side of this rim forms a screw for receiving the plate of
copper E, which serves to close the manometer : it rests on a
round pad of leather so arranged that when the lid is screwed
down upon it, the vessel is very closely shut. G,G, but-
tons on which are fixed the notches of the key represented
flat in R, and seen directly in S ; this key serves to keep
the vessel steady, while we turn and fasten the lid with the
other key T ; the square head of which embraces the button
of the same form, which we see at E in the two projections.
a, a j a, three hooks fixed in the lid from which we may
suspend a thermometer, a hygrometer, &c. D, a socket in
which we fix with hard mastic a barometer with a syphon :
as it would be difficult to give it, in this socket, a situation
exactly vertical, and besides, as the inclination of the screw
in the lid may remove it from this position, in order to oive
more precision to its indications, we rest the manometer on
a rim of wood, having three screws in it k, k, k, which we
move until the tube of the barometer be very vertical ; which
we may easily judge by means of the plummet IF, which
Vol. 36. No. 152. Dec. 1810. 2 G is
