466 Description of a Manometer*
is to be adjusted successively in two positions which form x
right angle with each other. This plummet is attached to :
a moveable brass scale H, to which we give only m .04 to
m .05 or' extent. This scale embraces, by means of two
rings b b, not shut, the barometrical" tube: it may thus be
placed at any height on the barometer, and preserve the
position- which is given to it. It is used to determine the
quantity which the height of the column of mercury has
varied in the course of an experiment: if this quantity
exceeds the limits of this scale, which is not very probable,,
it may be shifted so as to measure at several times the wholtr
variation observed. The absolute height of the mercury is
taken at the commencement of the experiment on a barometer,
and we fix one of the extremities of the scale H at the sum-
mit of the mercury at this moment. The small branch of
the syphon is furnished with a scale, in order also to ob-
serve the difference of the height of the mercury from the
commencement to the end of the experiment. When the
experiments require it, we give to the tube a length which
exceeds much that of the common barometers, and it may
he augmented sufficiently to indicate a pressure double that
of the atmosphere.
The plate E has at C a stop-cock intended to give .issue
to the air of the apparatus when we wish to examine it ;
and this stop-cock is adjusted in such a manner that we
may repeat these experiments as often as we jud^e it neces-
sary in the course of an experiment, without fearing to
change the nature, or even the state of compression, of the
air of the manometer. For this effect, the stop-cock has
■above Its collet at L (figures 2, 3,4, and 5) two nut-screws,
one internal and one external. On the latter is mounted a
copper salver M, which we fill with distilled water: the
glass tube N, graduated and furnished with a copper socket
at O, is adjusted upon the internal screw, after having been,
also filled with distilled water : the extremity of its screw
is furnished with a round of leather, which we compress.
On opening the stop-cock the water of the tube is dis-
placed by the air, which escapes from the manometer, and
when we perceive that a sufficient quantity has entered into
the tube, we shut the stop-cock. Upon unscrewing the
tube, the volume of the air which has entered generally
changes, and occ upies a smaller or larger space, in proportion
as it underwent in the manometer a pressure weaker or
stronger than that of the atmosphere. But we remove the
tube by plunging the finger into the water of the bason, and
closing with its extremity the orifice of the lube, and we
do
