On the Barometer, 467
do not measure the air until after we have determined with
the usual precautions the temperature and pressure to
which it is exposed.
We must only introduce in this manner into the mano-
meter, a liquid, which most commonly does not disturb the
results, and the influence, of which we can always ascertain :
if we were afraid, however, that it would interrupt the ex-
periment, we might receive it into a vessel disposed for this
purpose in the inside of the manometer.
Fig. 3 shows the various pieces just described, ready to
be adjusted : fig. 5 is a section of these same pieces all
adjusted.
We ought to take care, in the construction of this appa-
ratus, to give the hole of the key of the stop-cock a dia-
meter sufficiently large to admit of the easy no win j of the
waAer of the tube, and it ought not to be less than twelve
millimetres. In order that the air contained in this hole
may be in-thesame circumstances with that which occupies
the whole capacity of the manometer, we leave the stop-
cock open during the experiments, as seen in fig. ,1 and 2 ;
we intercept the communication with the external air by
means of a copper stopper O (fig. 1 and 4) which has the
same screw with the mounting of the divided tube, and
which is also furnished with a run of leather. In order to
close it properly, it has at its surface a square cavity which
is seen at p, into which we insert the stalk r of the same
form which is at the extremity of the handle of the key T.
We then only close the stop-cock at the moment when we
wish to extract the air from the manometer.
LXXXU. On the Barometer. By Richard Walker, Esq.
To Mr. Tdloch.
Sir, I^onsidering that I may not have been sufficiently
explicit in my last paper, respecting the effects of the
difference of temperature on the weather, 1 have been in-
duced 'to offer the following remarks on that part of the
subject.
A warm temperature of the air, at any degree of density
of the atmosphere, will retain a greater portion of water in
a state of chemical combination, than a cold temperature of
the air at a similar degree of density of the atmosphere.
Hence we may account for the almost constant dry state
»f the lower stratum of the atmosphere during the sum-
2 G 2 MEK
