470 Royal Society.
had been absorbed by the metal : and he stated, that the
proportions of oxygen or of oxyinuriatic gas which com-
bine with metals, are always definite; and that when two
proportions combine, the one bears a simple ratio to the
other.
Mr. Davy, inferring from the whole series of facts that
oxymuriatic gas must he considered as a substance as yet
undecompounded, and analogous in many or its properties
to oxygen gas, but having stronger attractions for most in-
flammable bodies, — suggests the necessity of altering its
name; which conveys so false an idea of its nature.
Conceiving it dangerous in the present improving state
of science to adopt any names connected with theoretical
arrangements, which may require alteration as knowledge
advances, — he ventures to suggest for the consideration of
chemical philosophers the name of chlorice, derived from
its screen colour; and he proposes to signify its compounds
by the name of the ba»is v with a termination in inc or awe :
thus hornsilver, improperly called muriate of silver, would
be named argentatte ; muriate of baryies, baryuwe, &c.
On the 13th and 20th, the Croonian Lecture on muscu-
lar motion, by ■ Brodic, Csq. F. K. S. was read. The
subjects introduced in this lecture were less numerous, and
the discussion less varied, than usual on similar occasions;
and very little or no reference was made to muscular
action, the ingenious lecturer confining himself to a simple
detail of the thermo metrical effects on the animal body, in
consequence of dividing the spinal marrow and afterwards
inflating the lungs artificially with a pair of bellows, and
continuing the circulation of the blood under such circum-
stances for nearly two hours. The subjects of operation
were chiefly rabbits: and the author made a great number
of experiments on these animals by dividing the spinal
marrow and suffering them to die in this manner, noticing
their temperature and that of the room at particular periods;
or, after dividing the spinal marrow, inflating the lungs, and
thus keeping up tire circulation for an hour, and even an
hour and a half; noting also the temperature of the heart,
intestines, and rectum, at various times during the experi-
ments. The result of the author's inquiries wa-, that ani-
mal heat dots not appear to be produced, as generally sup-
posed, by the action of the air on the lutfcs, and the cir-
culation of the blood ; as those animals whose lungs were
inflated, and ihe circulation artificially continued, were al-
wavs from one to three or four degrees colder in a certain
time than those whose spinal marrow was divided and s. f-
fered
