Royal Society of Edinburgh. 471
Fered to die. Professor Davy suggested to the author, that
the cold air thrown into the lungs (which produced the
usual change in the colour of the blood) might contribute
to this effect; and accordingly an experiment was madr to
obviate such consequence by means of a ligature : when it
appeared, that i:; an hour and forty minutes the body in
which the circulation was artificially continued after di-
v : dmg the spinal marrow, was only one degree colder than
that which died immediately. Mr. B.'s experiments seem to
militate against the doctrine of the vitality of the blood;
but they do little towards illustrating the fact, that tortoises
can live and walk about long alter having been deprived
entirely of the brain, and even part of the spinal marrow.
On the evening of the 20th, part of a letter from Dr.
Parry, of Bath, was read, on certain nervous affections; as
convulsions, tremulous motions, and sudden slartings or
pulsations of what is vulgarly called the life blood ; after
which the society adjourned till January 10.
KOV r AL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
On Monday the 5th of November, the Royal Society of
Edinburgh met for the first time in their new apartments
Sri George-street, when Dr. Thomas Thomson read two
papers, giving the account of the analyses of two new mi-
nerals from Greenland. To one of them he has given the
name of allanite, and to the other sodalite. In the first
he discovered a considerable portion of cerium, and in one
analysis he detected a quantity of a^ metallic oxide per-
fectly new in its properties, for which he proposed the
name of junonium. The other mineral, according to his
investigation, affords 23 percent, of soda and three of mu-
riatic acid. By an analysis of Mr. Ekeberg, the same con-
stituents were yielded in the proportions of 25 per cent, and
six per cent.
At the next meeting on the 19th, a short communica-
tion was read,, respecting a singular water-spout observed
at Ramsgate.
On the 3d inst. a paper by Dr. Brewster was read, being
a new demonstration of the fundamental properties of, the
lever. — Also a communication by Sir George Mackenzie,
Bart, relative to the hot springs of Iceland ; when Sir George
exhibited some beautiful drawings and part of a series of
magnificent specimens from that country, which he pro-
poses to deposit in the cabinet of the Society: and at the
last meeting, on the 1 7th, Sir George began a description
of the minerals of Iceland, when he exhibited specimen
from the district called the Guldbringe Syssel.
LXXXIV. In-
