[ 472 ]
LXXXTV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,
DE LUC'S ELECTRIC COLUMN.
W e have now to inform our readers, that the small pair of
bells connected with the electric column invented by Mr. de
Luc, which we have frequently noticed, were perceived to
cease ringing for about ten minutes on the 4th of September;
then (the apparatus remaining untouched) to begin again to
ring by intervals, stopping perhaps half a second or more
at a time : they stopped for several days after this, and be-
gan again, and at other times for hours ; and on the 18th
of November they were removed from the column, not
having been heard that morning.
1 3i h December, 1810.
Till the appearance of Dr. Adams's last edition of Mor-
bid Poison, it was universally believed that the unhappy
subjects of the Arabian leprosy are peculiarly salacious;
an opinion as old as Aretaeus, copied by most succeeding
authors and contradicted by none. Dr. Adams, from ac-
tual observation, has proved the fallacy of this opinion.
A melancholy case is now in St. Bartholomew's Hospital ;
a native of the Portuguese Brazils, about 30 years of age,
without beard, and with all the other peculiarities remarked
by the above accurate writer.
LECTURES.
Mr. Taunton's Spring Course of Lectures on Anatomy,
Physiology, Pathology, and Surgery, will commence on
Saturday, January 19th, 1811, at Eight o'clock in the
Evening precisely, and will be continued every Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday, at the same hour, at the Theatre
of Anatomy, Greville-Street, Hatton Garden.
Dr. Clutterbuck will begin his Spring Course of Lec-
tures on the Theory and Practice of Physic, Materia Medica,
and Chemistry, on Monday January 21st, at Ten o'clock in
the Morning : viz. Theory and Practice, on Mondays, Wed-
nesdays, and Fridays ; and the Materia Medica and Che-
mistry, on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Further
particulars maybe had at No. 1, Crescent, New Bridge-
Street.
Dr. Adams's Course of Lectures on the Institutes and
Practice of Medicine, will commence on Thursday the 10th
Instant, at his House in Hatton Garden, precisely at Ten
o'clock.
METEORO-
