40 Theorems on Musical Temperament.
the temperaments proper to the six several concords re-
spectively.
In regular douzeaves, none of these wolves occur, in
any of the six concords, upon any of the four middlemost
key-notes, viz. G, D, A or E respectively.
C, F, bB and bE have no wolves in their major concords
(i e. the III, V or VI upon them, re-
spectively.)
B, *F, *C and *G have no wolves in their minor con-
cords (i. e. 3d, 4th, or 6th.)
Whence it follows (see Dr. Smith's Harmonics, Plate
XIX, p. 162, 2d edit.) that in major Keys, modulation can
be made from C by *s, through the keys G, D, A and E
without false concords or wolves; but if we proceed further
by *s, B has a false III, *F has its III and VI false, *C has
its III and VI false, and *G has its V, III and VI false,
which last chord Mr. Smyth calls the wolf, by way of
eminence, p. 450 of last volume.
And in major kevs, modulation can also be made from
C by bs, through F, bB, and bE, and no major wolves occur,
(yet bE has a false 4th) ; but on proceeding further to bA
(or *G) its V, III and VI are false, as above.
In minor Keys, modulation can be made from A by *s
through E, B, * F, *C, and *G, without any minor wolf (yet
*G has a fa'se Vth),but on proceeding further to *D (or bE),
its 4th, 3d and 6th are false.
And in minor keys, modulation can also be made from
A by bs through D and G, without anv false concords or
wolves ; but on continuing thus to modulate, C has a false
0th, F has its 3d and-6th false, bB its 3d and 6th false, and
bE (or *D) has its 4th, 3d, and 6th false, as above.
The six following Theorems, express in terms, of the
r t
fractions and — (either proper or improper) of the small
intervals Schisma and most Minute* or 2 and m, all the
temperaments and wolves of the 72 concords, in any re-
gular douzeave; and whence, such temperaments can
rrad.ly be calculated for any proposed system, or the va-
rio s properties and relations of its intervals can be dis-
covered and computed : and by means of other theorems,
the beats can be calculated from such temperaments, in
terms of £ and m. In the article beats in the " Edin-
• See vol. xxviii. p. 142, and engraved table, plate V.
burgh
