Report on the Memoirs, &c. 53
This system answers to a division of the octave in-
to 55 equal paits, and according to tii<- papers of
M» Sauveur in Hit Memoirs of the Paris; a.:. Academy,
for 1707 and !7 11, W vvas the system used by m
Musicians of Paris at or previous to that time. See
his general table of tempered systems above referred to.
I am, sir,
Your obedient humble servant,
Westminster, July 11, 1810. J. FAREY.
VII. Report on the Memoirs presented to the Society of
Pharmacy at Paris, in consequence of the Prizes offered
in the Year 1809. Extracted by 37. Bouillon La-
grange from the full Report drawn up by Messrs.
Nachet, Dejiosne, and Vallee.
KJj nine memoirs sent to the Society, two have particu-
larly fixed the attention of the committee. They were
written in answer to the following question :
44 To prepare the acetate of potash, so as to obtain it white
and saturated, without employing radical vinegar, and
without having recourse to fusion ; — to point out which of
the two, the acid or the alkali, gives it the colouring prin-
ciple. "
The first memoir, with the motto Ex cognitis incognita,
is written with great precision.
The author, alter having ascertained the advantage which
would result from obtaining this salt in all its purity by a
simple and (Economical process, begins by inquiring from
whence the colouring principle arises : It cannot, he says,
be owing* to the alkali, when it is considered that the fusion
of the acetate of potash renders it insoluble, and that the
heat requisite for this fusion is not so strong as that which
is necessary tor the preparation of anv given potash; and
on the other hand, it cannot be essentia! to the acetic acid,
when radical vinegar is capable of instantly furnishing a
colourless salt. Consequently, this colouring principle
must be a foreign substance contained in common vinegar,
and which may be introduced into it it) distillation. But
this same principle is less volatile than the acetic acid,
since distilled vinegar leaves a residue of it if we evaporate
it a second time : it is not very soluble by itself, and it
cannot be dissolved except by the addition of acetic acid,
since it is precipitated, at least in part, when we saturate the
latter bv potash: and iinallv, it has been ascertained that
D 3 it
