Society of Pharmacy at Paris. 55
still leaves something to be desired, there remains a final
method of remedying it, which consists in filtering through
charcoal in powder. The action of this" substance, although
little known as to its theory, is nevertheless certain in its
effects ; since it is sufficient to boil slightly with it the so-
lution of the acetate as above prepared, in order to obtain
it perfectly white after filtration and evaporation carefully
managed. As to the empyreumatic oil, there is only one
wav of avoiding it, which is to stop the distillation of the
vinegar at the moment when this principle begins to come
over, and the product gives out an empyreumatic smell :
for, beyond this term, the vinegar, if still white in appear-
ance, would not undergo any change of colour during the
evaporation of the acetate; and this colour, when once
produced, could not be removed, either by charcoal powder
or by any other means whatever.
The second memoir presents fuller details. Its motto is
taken from Boileau :
" L' artifice agreable
Du plus affreux objet fait un objet aimable." ,
The author describes in the first instance the various
processes hitherto adopted in preparing the acetate of potash.
He mentions as the most exact the process of M. Bouillon
Lagrange, which consists in crystallizing this salt ; but he
regrets not having been able to put it in practice, from the
difficulty of separating the crystallized acetate from the mo-
ther waters, which are very thick. In order to obtain as ad-
vantageous a result by a more practicable process, he tried
double decompositions ; he treated acetate of lime with the
carbonate or sulphate of potash, but he did not obtain an
acetate of potash less coloured than if he had directly sa-
turated the carbonate of potash with distilled vinegar.
It would be necessary, as he observes, to employ a cry-
stallized acetate of lime, but in this case the process would
become too tedious and expensive. The decomposition of
the common acetate of lead by the carbonate of soda, fur-
nished him with a tolerably white acetate of potash : al-
though this method unites with the facility of using it the
advantage of being cheaper, the author of the memoir does
not think it right to resort to it, because the smallest neg-
ligence in the operation may change a wholesome medicine
into a deadly poison. Recurring to the combination de-
scribed of distilled vinegar and potash, he first inquires
whence arises the colour assumed by this salt during its
evaporation : he is also aware that it is owing to a foreign
principle contained in the distilled vinegar; but he after*
D 4 wards
