56 Report on the Memoirs presented to the
wards s:uv that this substance was very slightly of a co-
louring nature by itself: he observed that the acetate of
potash well saturated, is found a> a consequence of its eva-
poration with an excess of alkali ; and it is this excess of
alkali which reacts on the foreign principle contained in
the distilled vinegar, and colours it. In order to show
more clearly this reaction of the potash, he divided into
two equal portions a solution of acetate of potash : he eva-
porated both at the same degree of heat, maintaining con-
stantly in the one an excess of acid, and in the other an
excess of alkali : the salt produced by the liquor with ex-
cess of acid was much less coloured than that furnished by
the liquor with an excess of alkali *. After having ascer-
tained the origin of the colouring principle and the cause
which develops it, the author next endeavoured to destroy
it; and charcoal in his opinion is the fittest agent: with,
this view he filters the distilled vinegar through charcoal,
he then saturates it with carbonate of potash, leaving in it
an excess of acid, which he takes care to keep constantly
in the liquor during its evaporation. The result is an ace-
tate equally white with that obtained by means of fusion.
This process, although very simple, did not appear to
him to be practicable, because the acetate of potash is
mixed with a certain quantity of acetate of lime, to which
the lime contained in the charcoal has given rise; and this
salt, by altering the purity of the acetate of potash, retards
its desiccation. It would, indeed, be very easy to separate
it by adding a slight excess of carbonate of potash, in order
to precipitate the lime j and we should afterwards put in an
excess of acid : but it is easier to saturate the acid first.
The following is the process as described in the memoir:
Pour into distilled vinegar a solution of carbonate of
potash, until no mere carbouic acid is extricated: after-
wards evaporate the liquor, taking care always to Keep an
excess of acid in it : when it is reduced to three-fourths,
allow it to cool, in order to separate from it the sulphate
of potash and some impurities; decant it in order to heat
it, and pour it when hot on a charcoal filter f.
* We have reason to believe, from our own experiments, that the potash
st'll reacts, but much less on the colouring principle, even when the liquor
contains an excess of acid •, since by operating in this manner we always
obtain an acetate cf potash which is more or less coloured, whilst the same
vinegar is capable of furnishing acetate of lime, magnesia, and aluminc,
wh»ch are very white. Soda did not appear to us to act so strongly as
potash on this principle. — Kmte ty the ConuutHet.
f The acetate of lime when dried is less deliquescent than the acetate of
potash, and yet it is much more difficult: to produce the desiccation of it. —
■Note hj the Juihor. If
