Society of Pharmacy at Paris. 57
If the filtered liquor does not contain more free acid,
add a little di-nilied vinegar *; then evaporate to dryness ;
and if we wish to obtain the acetate of potash well cleaned,
we must, at the end of the evaporation, manage the fire
properly, and not stir it; but in this case it is not so white
as when we separate it with a silver spatula, and throw it
on the edges of the basin as fast as it is formed at the sur-
face of the liquid : this salt will also be whiter it' dried by
small portions.
On exposing for about 20 davs to the solar rays the
liquor filtered over charcoal, the author obtained a salt
much whiter: hence he thinks that the same result might
be obtained, by exposing la the light an acetate of potash
made from distilled vinegar, without being filtered through
charcoal.
He regrets that he has been unable to collect some
important facts relative 10 the colouring matter: he re-
marked that it was partly ,.recipitated after saturation ; that
it is a little soluble in water, and that a portion remains in
solution in the liquid acetate of potash; that after having
filtered distilled vinegar through very pure charcoal, like
that which is produced from crvstallized sugar, we no
jonger obtain, on saturating it with crvstallized carbonate
of potash, the same precipitate as before filtration.
The author of the memoir concludes, therefore, —
1. That the colouring matter of the acetate of potash be-
longs to a vegetable substance contained in distilled vinegar.
2. That this colouring matter is destroyed by charcoal.
3. That an excess of alkali, when we evaporate the result
pf the saturation of distilled vinegar by potash, may in-
fluence the whiteness of the acetate'of potash.
4. That in order to obtain the earth pure white and sa-
turated, it is sufficient to filter a concentrated solution of it
over a small quantity of charcoal in powder; to keep in it
afterwards to the end of the evaporation an excess of acid,
by adding from time to time distilled vinegar, and to ex-
pose it for some days to the solar li|$ht.
Jn a note which terminates this" memoir, the author
says, that according to the valuable observation of Messrs.
Vauquelin, Pou tier and Derosne, he .obtained two hecto-
grammes i,f excellent acetic ether, by rectifying over pot-
ash the first products of the distillation of 70*litres of distil-
< * A little acetic acid (radical vinegar) would he preferable ; very little
» Decenary when care has been taken to iilter the liquor in the neutral
•dates we must also take care that it is not acid, in consequence olfhe H-ne
wi^ch is in ;he charcoJ. ^^ c
