-58 Of the hifluence of Solar and Lunar
The committee carefully repeated the experiments de-
tailed in the above memoirs. Jr' we except the whitening
effects on exposing the acetate to the sun, which did not
succeed with them, they pronounced them to be all cor-
rect ; indeed, the principal agent in the. whitening process
was already known. Lowitz has recommended the use of
charcoal, in order to obtain an acetate of potash less coloured
than by the ordinary process ; but whether he has not suffi-
ciently described the method of using it, or employed vine-
gar of a bad quality, ill distilled or ill saturated, over which
the depurating qualities of the charcoal had no influence >
several chemists have been unsuccessful.
From these considerations, and particularly from the sa-
tisfactory results obtained by the committee, they think
themselves warranted in concluding, that the authors of the
two memoirs would have done better by making known the
principle and the causes of the colouring of this salt, at the
same time that thev indicated the means of preventing and
removing them.
By following carefully the rules which they prescribe,
and by taking all the precautions which they point out,
we shall easily obtain, without having recourse to fusion,
an acetate of potash very white and perfectly saturated.
The society has therefore decreed a gold medal of the
value of 100 francs to each of the authors of the memoirs.
The author of the memoir first mentioned is M. Ber-
noully of Bale; and of the second, M, Fremy of Versailles.
VIII. Of the Influence of Solar and Lunar Attraction on
Clouds and Vapours, By Salem Harris, Esq,
To Mr. Tdloclu
Sir, In perusing the theory of the tides as originally laid
clown by Kepler, and subsequently improved upon by Sir
Isaac Newton, I was forcibly struck with an idea, that if
the attraction of the sun and moon (more particularly the
latter) is capable (as the ebb and flow of the sea appears to
have proved beyond dispute) of acting with sufficient
power upon that immense and ponderous mass the ocean,
to raise its waters on those parts which the revolutions
of the heavenly bodies alternately place in the focus of
their attraction ; its effects upon the clouds, the lighter and
exhaling particles, or comparatively speaking the steam of
those waters-, must be still greater; and sufficient to pro-
duce, in conjunction with or opposition to the wind, those
frequent and apparently uncertain changes which we.
hourly
