68 On Crystallography.
5. SOLID WITH 24 EQUAL AND SIMILAR TRAPEZOIDS.
Names of the Substances. Primitive Forms.
Muriated ammonia Regular octahedron
Garnet . Rhomboidal dodecahedron
Amphigene Cube
Analcime Ditto
Sulphurated iron Ditto,
Explanation of the plan which has been adopted in the de-
scriptions of the different species of minerals.
After having given the sytfonymy of (he best known
authors, we have successively presented the essential cha-
racter of the substance, and the physical, geometrical, and
chemical characters, the assemblage of which forms the
specific character.
We have excluded from this character every thing con-
nected with fugitive accidents, such as colours, when they
are owing to a principle which is only interposed in the
substance.
In the detail of the geometrical characters, care has been
taken to indicate not only the direction of the natural joints,
Jbut also the greater or less facility of obtaining them, their
difference of neatness in one and the same crystal, and
those, in short, whose positions are only presumed. In
addition to this, we haVe made known, in a note, the re-
spective dimensions of the molecule, and all that may serve
as data for applying the theoretical calculus to the laws of
decrements upon which the secondary forms depend.
After the indication of the chemical characters, we have
"given the result of the analyses of the substance which
seem to have merited most confidence.
The table of varieties, which follows the characters, is
generally divided into two sections, one of which contains
the descriptions of the forms, and the other refers to the
accidents of lights. The forms are either determinable,
i.e. susceptible of being described geometrically, from the
number, the disposition and the mutual incidences of their
faces, or indeterminable, i. e. produced by a confused or
precipitated crystallization, so that geometry cannot de-
scribe them, and we can at most indicate the vague rela-
tions which exist between them and known objects ; as
when we say of a mineral that it is cylindrical, globular,
granular, &c. and the last term of this kind of degradation
of forms is expressed by the word amorphous, which de-
signates a substance in masses of a certain volume com-
pletely irregular. The
