On Crystallography, 69
The description of every determinable variety presents
successively the name which it bears, conformably to the
principles of the method of nomenclature which has been
above explained, the indication of its representative sign,
that of its figure, its synonymy, according to Korae de
1'Isle or other crystallographers; and lastly, the measure-
ments of its principal angles. When the structure of the
variety is complex, we add to its description explanations
proper for better understanding the results of the laws upon
which it depends.
The indications relative to colour and to transparency
compose the second section, under the title of Effects of
light*. It is proper to remark on this subject, that any-
given form may offer successively all the varieties of co-
lour and transparency, and that, in return, evary colour
and every degree of transparency may be met with in every
kind of form. But it is unnecessary to overload the me-
thod with all these combinations. It is sufficient, if it
presents a method of indicating that which exists in any
given variety, to describe' this variety completely. Thus
the table of the characters of telesie contains implicitly all
the following combinations : primitive limpid telesie; unit
tary red transparent telesie ; amorphous translucid telesie.
When the name which we have adopted for ori£ species
of mineral has been applied to different species, from a de-
lusive resemblance, such as colour, we indicate these doable
applications in a particular table placed at the end of that
of the varieties ; and I hope I shall be applauded for the
tedious task whrch I have entered upon, in order to clear
up the confusion which arose from these communications
of one and the same name to substances so ill adapted to
be associated with each other.
Each article is terminated by annotations relative to the
situation of the substanees'in the ground, to the researches
which have made us acquainted with them, to its physical
properties, its uses in the arts, medicine, &c. I have even
thought it right to present most of these objects more in
detail than has been generally done, so as to avoid the
dryness of too concise indications, without however giving
myself up to a multiplicity of details which would appear
to be misplaced in a treatise upon mineralogy.
[To be continued.]
* We have placed the word limpid at the head of effects of colours, be-
cause it seemed natural to commence here by the privation of character,
jince it indicates that the substance is in the greatest possible state of purity.
E3 X. Pro-
