C 70 )
X. Proceedings of Learned Societies,
ROYAL SOCIETY.
J une 28, The President in the chair. The conclusion of
M De l'Isle's paper on the poison of the Lohan upas and
a.ntea was read. The emetic power of this poison sug*
gested to the author the propriety of making some experi-
ments with other emetics, hy {meeting them into wounds
and blood-vessels in the same manner as he did the upas.
Ipecacuanha and tartar emetic were injected, and both pro-
duced very violent eftects, particularly the latter; but they
were not so destructive to animal life as the upas. On
dissecting the bodies of the animals killed by injecting this
poison, and comparing them with the effects of common
emetics, he was led to conclude that the upas does not kill
by any specific action on the nerves, but that, by acting on
the blood only, it is so instantaneously destructive to ani-
mal life.
A paper from Mr. Good was read, describing the nature
of the horny concretions which appeared all over the skin
S>f a heifer exhibited in London last year, The head, neck,
and shoulders of this animal were thickly covered with
little horns of various length and thickness, some of them
nearly three inches long. It appears that these horns were
chiefly composed of calcareous matter, and that one-fourth
of them was of an animal nature.
July 5, Dr. Wollaston read a paper on a peculiar species
of urinary calculus, which he called cystic oxide, only two
specimens of which he has been able to procure. The
cystic oxide dissolves in solutions of all the alkalies, but
not in saturated carbonate of ammonia. Dr. W. also took
occasion to correct some essential errors in his paper on
calculi, which appeared in the Philosophical Transactions
for 1 797 ; subsequent experience having convinced him that
phosphate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia rarely or
never exist together in the same calculi 1 .?.
A paper on muriatic acid, by Mr. Davy, was read. The
object of Mr. Davy's paper was to detail some new facts
respecting the muriatic acid. Finding that charcoal, though
janited to whiteness, will not burn or decompose oxy-
jnuriatic acid gas, he was hd to institute experiments to
determine whether oxygen could be procured from it by
anv means': and the results of his inquiries are, that there.
is no proof whatever of its containing that substance.
Muriatic acid gas may be decomposed into oxymuriatic
ack$
