Imperial Society of Natural History of Moscow. 7*
acid and hydrogen ; and recomposed from these bodies.
In ail cases in which oxygen gas is procured from oxy-
muriatic acid gas, water is present : and the oxygen is fur-
nished by the water; and hydrogen is always combined
with the oxymuriatic acid gas; so that, as inflammable
bodies decompose water by attracting oxygen, so oxymu-
riatic acid decomposes it by attracting hydrogen. Mr. Davy
has detailed some experiments which render it probable
that the body called bvperoxymuriatic acid is in fact the
simple basis of the muriatic compounds, and that it forms
oxymuriatic acid by uniting to hydrogen, and common
muriatic acid gas by uniting to more hydrogen.
In attempting to decompose oxymuriatic acid gas by the
combustion of phosphorus and the action of ammonia,
Mr. Davy discovered a very singular compound; which,
though composed of oxymuriatic acid and ammonia with
a little phosphorus, is neither fusible, volatile, nor decom-
posable at a while heat ; neither soluble in acid nor alkaline
menstrua; and possessed of no taste or smell.
Mr. Davy has detailed nine modes of decomposing
common salt, founded upon these new facts, and has,
formed nine deductions from them respecting the com-
position of chemical agents in general.
A paper on pus, by Dr. Pearson, was read. Previously
to the author's observations and experiments, a brief his-
torical account was given of what has been already done
on the subject. The conclusions among many others are ;
That the pus consists essentially of three differentsubstances,
viz. An opake animal oxide, seemingly already self- coagu-
lated; matter analogous to the coagulablc lymph of the
blood, but in a different state of aggregation. 2. Innumerable
spherical particles, seen with the microscope, separable by
chemical agents from the other parts. 3. A limpid co-
agulable liquid, in many properties similar to the serum of
blood. The saline impregnations are the same as those of
serum of blood aud expectorated matter, especially mu-
riate of soda, neutralized potash, and the phosphates of
lime. Various other substances are frequently found in
pus, which are considered to be accidental, and depend upon
different diseases.
The Society theu adjourned till Thursday the 8th of
November,.
IMPERIAL SGCPETY OF NATURAL HISTORY OF MOSCOW.
M. Fischer, president of this' society, has published the
following short account of their labours for the last four
£ 4 years.
