72 Imperial Society of Natural History of Moscow*
years. This sketch is arranged under the following heads :
I. Labours and Undertakings of the Society. II. Mis-
cellanies. ] II. Promotions and Rewards. IV. Necrology.
V. Literary Novelties. VT. Minutes of the Society, and
Report of the Presents made to the Society and to the Mu-
seum of the Imperial University. The following are the
contents of the first branch of their labours.
Journey to Siberia undertaken at the expense of the Society,
— This expedition set out on the 9th of February 1SOQ. and
is to last three years. It is composed of Professor Tauber,
who is known from his description of the valley of Flatten
in Saxony; M.James Mohr, known from his travels in
Germany, France, England, and Sweden; and M, Helm,
botanist and chemist, known by his description of several
new plants, and by several analyses : this is his second visit
to Siberia. These gentlemen are accompanied by two pu-
pils, Messrs. KotororFand Leslivsky, and they are provided
with every necessary, such as books, charts, instruments,
and a chemical laboratory. They were to be occupied the
iirst year with the Ouxal chain of mountains; the second,
with that of the Altai ; the third, with the mountains of
the Daourie; and, if circumstances will permit them, they
will also visit Kamschatka. The profound erudition and
zeal of the above gentlemen afford reason to hope for-
some important discoveries. They are also accompanied
by a draftsman, and by a person who is acquainted with
the art of stuffing and preserving animals.
Decription of the Government of Moscow. — His Im-
perial Majesty having given five thousand roubles to be
expended in examining the immense district which goes
by this name, the professors of Moscow have recently
visited several parts of the country with this view. The
following is an account of what has been already done:
Some astronomical and trigonometrical observations have
been repeated at Moscow, and in some districts of the go-
vernment, such as Svenigorod berea, Moja ; sk, Riotisa, by
professors Goldbach and Panthner, attached to the reposi-
tory for charts at St. Petersburgh. The latter has also
established, at the expense of the society, barometers and
thermometers at the above places, in order t© obtain some
useful observations.
M. Fischer undertook the natural history department :
he was accompanied in his excursion by M. Droucinine,
seerclary to the society; and by M. Gorke, one. of the
pupils at the university of Moscow. From the lateness
of
