Imperial Society of Natural History of Moscow. 73
of the season they procured but few plants or insects, but
they were more fortunate in their mineralogical pursuits.
Petrifactions of all. kinds, several mineral springs rich in
iron and carbonic acid, a good clay for earthenware, La-
brador stone, garnets in granite and in gneus, granatite
in gneus, and a new earthy substance, were procured by
them. This new substance is of a very fine lavender blue,
and is found in veins several lines thick between layers of
cimolitc, which in some places forms the transition to a
true mountain cork. Sometimes it is found on round
masses of flint, sometimes fossil shells are found in it, and
pectinitcs which are wholly black and changed into flint.
This substance contains, according to the analyses of
Messrs. Helm and Muller, lime, alumine, and phosphoric
acid. It forms, therefore, a new species adjoining the
Apatite, and it has been designated by the name of Katof-
kite, from the place where M. Fischer resides.
Mr. Davy's experiments. — M. Jacquin in a letter to
M. Fischer informs him, that in concert with his friends
the director Schreibers, colonel Tihursky, and M. JBremser,
he repeated the recent experiments of Mr. Davy with suc-
cess. They generally made use of a battery with vertical
piles composed of 1300 pairs of disks, which were generally
three inches in diameter, and formed together 70 square
feet of surface in contact: — the experiment succeeded how-
ever with 300 pairs of disks, and it was even perceptible
with 70 pairs. One of the processes adopted by the above
gentlemen seems to be somewhat novel : they placed in
a wine glass a small piece of alkali moistened in the air, on
a small plate of platina which communicates with the hy-
drogen pole, and which was entirely covered with rectified
petroleum. Finally, they placed on the alkali a thin plate
of platina, <md pressed it with a metallic rod communicating
with the oxygen pole. The effects being remarked, bub-
bles of air were extricated as in the first experiment;
sometimes there were trifling detonations ; and sometime
afterwards they found the whole of the inferior surface of
the alkali strewed with small scales having a metallic ap-
pearance like those which are seen floating in the petroleum.
This preparation is very beautiful, particularly when placed
in the microscope. It is not combined easilv wiih mer-
cury ; for a globule adhering to the point of the brass wire,
when plunged in mercury, was not detached, and after-
wards detonated in water as before.
In the experiment last described, the place of the platina
may be supplied by a flat piece of charcoal. The diamond
and
