74- Imperial Society of Natural History of Moscow.
and sulphur arc not conductors of the electric fluid, and,
produce no effect. The experiment does not succeed
better in vacuo than in the open air. u What is this sub-
stance (M. Fischer asks) which resembles a metal ? Is
it the alkali reduced, or one of its constituent parts, which
feeing combined with oxygen represents it, as Mr. Davy
seems to think? or, Is it hydruret of potash? But whence
this metallic appearance r"
Miscellanies. — Their majesties the Emperor Alexander I.
and the King of Prussia have examined with great interest
the skeleton of the mammoth brought from the shores of
the Lena by M. Adams *".
M. Tilesius, associate of the academy, well known for
his talent at painting objects in natural history, has pre-
pared 40 folio drawings of the mammoth. His observa-
tions do not seem to coincide entirely with those of
Cuvier.
The meteorological observations from Moscow prove
that the cold was greatest in the night between the 1 ] th
and 12th of January. Dr. Rehman froze mercury in a
saucer exposed to the air. Count Bontourline observed
that the mercury in three of his thermometers was frozen,
and sunk into the bowl. But in a thermometer which
was not frozen, he found that from six in the morning to
six in the evening, on the 12th of January, the cold was at
35° of Reaumur. M. Roger, of Troitsk, observed it at 34
degrees before the mercury was frozen.
The botanist Frederick Fischer, and M. Langsdorff asso-
ciate of the academy, who accompanied Krusenstern in his
voyage round the world, are occupied with a work on the
Ferns. They have prepared drawings of several new species.
M. Fischer, the professor and director of the academy, is
collecting materials for a comparative craniognosy. An
accurate knowledge, of the cranium, as one of the chief
organs of animal organization, will fill up an important
chasm in comparative anatomy. The craniology of Dr.
Gall will only be made use of in order to demonstrate the
influence of the brain on the form of the excavations of the
skull. It will appear in Latin and French, accompanied
with engravings.
M. Mohs has made a mineralogical excursion through
Carinthia, Carniola, &c. He has been particularly occu-
pied with the situation of the lead mines at Villach.
The Imperial Academy of Petersburgh proposed a prize
See Phi!. Mag. vol xxix. p. 141,
of
