Notices respecting New Books* — Electric Column. 7 J
»f 100 ducats for the best memoir on the following subject :
*' Give an easy method for ascertaining, independent of all
knowledge of botany, poisonous plants in an indubitable
manner. " Three memoirs were consequently given in;
but the prize has not been awarded to either.
A similar prize has been offered for the best " chrono-
logy of the Byzantine authors from the foundation or the
cov of Constantinople to its conquest by the Turks, ' The
memoirs on the above subject must be transmitted to St.
fetersburgh on or before the 1st of July 1811.
XI. Notices respecting New Books.
*■
IE Medical Society of London have in the press a vo-
lume of memoirs, containing several valuable communica-
tions, in medical and surgical science, from eminent resi-
dent and corresponding members of the society. The title
of the volume vvijl be " Transactions of the Medical Society
ot London, Vol. I. Part I." and it will be accompanied by
engravings. Fart 11 will appear in a few months after-
wajrcUj the society having come to the determination of
giving publicity to the^r transactions more frequently than
heretofore*
XI I. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,
PE J,UC\S EL' CTRIC COLUMN,
Jo Mr. Tillock.
NJuIy 23*1, 1810.
otwithstandixg the changes which have hap-
pened in the. state of the atmosphere, the small bells, which
are in communication with De Luc's electric column, have
pontmued to ring without ceasing, as far as my observa-
tions have gone, from the 25th ot March to this day. Al-
though we have of late had heavy rain accompanied with
thunder and lightning, we have not had any very damp
weather, which 1 imagine is the most likely to stop the mo»
tion ol the small clapper, by depositing moisture on the
insulating parts of the apparatus. — If you, or any of vour
readers, are acquainted With a method of preparing varnish
of a better insulating power than those varnishes mentioned
in Cavallo's Treatise on Electricity, I shall be glad to have
it communicated to me, and others who are interesting
(bemstjves in making experiments with this new column.
1 wish
