76 The Opulent Blind* — Artificial Cold,
' I wish here to correct a mistake which I made in the ac-
count of the electric column printed in your Magazine for
March last. I there have miscalled the ends of the co-
lumn : that which I have named the zinc end should have
been named the silver end, and the contrary. So that the
effects on the electrometer of the coated jar were, respect-
ing the plus and minus states, just what might have been
imagined they would be. The mistake arose owing to the
silver and paper being connected together; for, had the
two metals been united, and the paper separate, the instru-
ment would then have re?embled more the usual construc-
tion of a Galvanic trough ; and I should not, I imagine,
have been led into any error respecting the names of the
ends or poles of it. I remain, &c.
B. M. Forster.
THE OPULENT BLIND.
The plan to which we alluded in our last has been since
published in a prospectus. For the purpose of this Tiumane
institution a convenient house has been taken at No. 5,
Prospect Place, Lambeth. The prospectus states : That
under the patronage of his royal higness the Duke of Sus-
sex, a seminary is to be opened for the tuition of blind sub-
jects of the higher classes of society, where they may be
taught reading, writing, the means of corresponding with
distant friends, music, geography, the belles lettrcs, lan-
guages, the rudiments of the sciences generally, and such
a familiar acquaintance with prevailing accomplishments,
as will enable the blind of both sexes to partake of the in-
nocent amusements of societv, including draughts, back-
gammon, chess, cards, dancing^ &c. Among other addi-
tions to the plan of M. Haiiy, who succeeded in a similar
attempt at Paris before the revolution, and on whose mo-
del the institution professes to be formed, it adopts the idea
of its pupils deriving, from a constant and consoling illus-
tration of the Gospels, those dispositions to habitual cheer-
fulness and content which they are so eminently calculated
to excite when contemplated properly.
ARTIFICIAL COLD.
Professor Leslie, of Edinburgh, in following out a
series of experiments on the relations of air and moisture,
has within these few weeks been led to a very singular and
important discovery. Without any expenditure of male-
rials, he can, by means of a simple apparatus, in which the
action of certain chemical powers is combined, freeze a
mass
