Supposed New Earth. — Cranlology. 77
mass of water, and keep it for an indefinite length of time
in the state of ice. In the space of an hour he has, on a
small scale, formed a cake of ice 6 inches in diameter, and
three quarters of an inch thick. With very little trouble
he can produce a permanent cold of 90 degrees of Fahreu-
.heit below the temperature of the air, and might easily push
it to 100 or even 110. The professor is now engaged in
prosecuting these fruitful researches, and will soon, we
hope, favour the public with an account of his process, and
of the chief results.
SUPPOSED NKW EARTH.
M. Vinterl, of Pest in Hungary, has lately sent to the
French Institute several specimens of an earth which he
conceived to he new, and to which he gave the name of
Andronia. A committee of the Institute, consisting of
Messrs. Fourcroy, Guyton Morvcau, Berthollet, and Vau-
quelin, have analysed this substance, and have determined
that it is merely a compound of silex, lime, alumine, potash,
and iron;
ckaniology.
The following observations have been published in the
foreign journals on the system of craniology by M. Gall.
1. The Italian poet Dolce, who died in 1568, in his dia-
logue on the means of preserving and strengthening the
memory, alludes to a head which is represented at page 8
of the Venice editions of 1562 and 1566, the cranium of
which is divided and figured according to M. Gall's sy-
stem ; and under this wood-cut we read the following in-
scription: " In questa tu vedi ove e il senso commune,
ove la fantasia, la cogitativa, la imaginativa, la stimulativa,
la memorativa : ed anco 1'odorato e il gusto. "
2. The grand chancellor of Denmark, Schumacher,
count Griffenfield, who died in 1699, must have practised
cranioscopy with success, if we may credit M. Wedel
Simonson, the author of a dissertation read before the me-
dical society of Copenhagen. The same gentleman (M.
Schumacher) maintained a medical disputation in 1650,
De nervis ; Bartholin being then president of the above so-
ciety.
3. Frenair (a French author) says in his biography or
Laurence Sterne, who died in 1768, and which was pre-
fixed to the French translation of Sterne's works, iC that an
eminent surgeon had dissected the brain of Laurjnce
Sterne, under the persuasion that he would find something
extraordinary in its configuration."
4. , Swedenborg, wh6 diecf in 1774, taught that good o r
' - - bad
