78 List of Patents for new Inventions,
bad qualities had an influence on the form of the cra-»
nium.
5. The principal theorem of M. Gall, that the brain im-
presses on the cranium its different forms, is also to be
found in the " Fragmens Phyyiognomiqiies" of Lavater,
Leipsic, 1775 — 1778.
A German traveller has recently discovered in the neigh-
bourhood of the Red Sea the ruins of the ancient city of
Dscherraseh, probably the Gerusa of antiquity. He found
the remains of several public edifices, two amphitheatres,
several palaces, a temple, &c.
DEATH.
Geology and natural history have lately sustained a se-
vere loss by the premature death of Mr. William Martin,
of Macclesfield, Cheshire, a member of the Geological So-
ciety of London, and author of a most useful work, " Out-
lines of an Attempt to establish a Knowledge of extraneous
Fossils on scientific Principles," in octavo ; -and also of
1' Petrificata Derbiensia, or Figures and Descriptions of Pe-
trifactions collected in Derbyshire,'* in 4to. with coloured
plates; of which 52 are contained in the 1st volume pub-
lished less than a year before his death. We are truly con-
cerned to learn that Mr. Martin has left a wife and young
family without means of support ; the profession he fol-
low ed, that of a drawing-master, as commonly happens
in country places, not having proved very lucrative. We
should rejoice to hear that any considerable progress has
been made by Mr. M. towards a second volume of the
above highlv interesting and useful work, and that some
means were devised by the friends of geological science to
alleviate the situation or' his widow and orphan children.
LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
To the Rev. Henry Liston, of Eccjesmachen, in Scot-
land, and Charles B rough ton, of Edinburgh, writer to
the signet, for improvements in the construction of or-
gans. — July 3, 1810.
To Samuel Hill, of Serle-street, London, Esq., for a
method of joining stone pipes in a more effectual manner
than has been before discovered. — July 3.
To James Hall, of Walthamstow, for a method of
manufacturing a material from the twigs or branches of
broom, mallows, and rushes, and other shrubs or plants of
the like species, to be used instead of flax or hemp \ and
for the same purposes for which flax and hemp zx% now
used. — Jnlv 3. T%
