List of Patents for netv Inventions. .79
To John Kent, of Southampton, architect, for certain
improvements in the method of making artificial stone. —
July 3.
To Robert Howden, of Providence- row, Finsbury-
square, baker, for an improved method of extracting foul
air out of ships, whereby a constant succession of fresh
air will be introduced ; and at the same lime moderating;
the degree of heat according to the climate. And also of
extracting the foul air from mines and pits of every de-
scription, and of regulating the degree of heat, and of
giving heat and a constant succession of fresh air to
houses in general — July 3.
To William Shakespear, of Birmingham, and Thomas
Osier the younger, of the same place, for an improved
method, or methods, of manufacturing glass or paste
drops for chandeliers, lamps, and lustres. — July 5.
To Richard Vartey, of Cheadle Mosley, in the county of
Chester, for certain new additions to and improvements
upon the machinery now in use for the roving, spinning,
doubling, and twisting, of cotton, silk, flax, wool, mo-
hair, and other materials used for the manufacture of twist,
thread, or other kind of yarn. — July 7-
To George Hall, of the Strand, goldsmith, for certain
improvements in the art of working and making spoons,
forks, and such other articles of gold, silver, or other
metals, as usually are or may be stamped or struck by
means of seats and punches, or dies of any kind or de-
scription i and likewise in the tools or instruments to be
used in carrying the said improvements into effect and prac-
tice. — July 18
To Ralph Wedgwood, of Oxford- street, for his new
character for language, numbers, and music, and the me-
thods of applying the same.— July 18.
To George Stebbing, of Portsmouth, mathematical in-
strument maker, for certain improvements on the action
and other parts of sea and land compasses. — July 18.
To Benjamin Agerday, of Handsworth, Staffordshire,
for improvements in the construction of a toast-stand, (for
the purpose of holding a plate before the fire,) a hearth-
brush or dust brush, and toasting fork, and occasionally
in combining or uniting the said brush and toasting fork in
one utensil or article — July 18.
METRO-
