L 81 ]
XlV. On Pendulums. By Ez* Walker, Esq*
JL he mechanism of pendulums is a subject which has of
late years attracted much attention ; but whether any real
improvements have been made since the days or" Harrison,
is a question on which there are various opinions. Rods
of' zinc, pewter, lead, and other soft metals have been
substituted for those of brass, to reduce the gridiron pen*-
dulum to a more simple form : but it has been found by
experience that some of those soft metals, when under the
pressure of the weight of the lens, do hot long retain ftife
same power of expansion and contraction.
The late Mr. James Bullock, a very ingenious clock-
maker, and a man of much experience, told me, that brass
and steel were the only metals he could rely on, in the
construction of compound pendulums.
The gridiron pendulum is constructed on the supposition,
that it is kept invariably of the same length by rods of
different metalsj which have their lengths duly propor-
tioned to their expansions and contractions ; but late
writers have advanced several objections to this mode
of compensation. The principal of these objections are:
1st, The length of the pendulum may be increased by
its weight. 2dly, Where the rods pass through the con-
necting bars there is some friction, which causes theiri
to move by starts, and not according to the increase and
decrease of heat: and, 3dly, The difficulty of exactly ad-
justing the lengths of the rods. But there is another
source of error in this pendulum, which has not, I believe,
been attended to by writers on this subject.
Suppose that the distance between the centre of the lens"
and the point of suspension were hot to suffer any change
by the vicissitudes of heat and cold, still the length of the
pendulum might vary. For as the ends of the compensation
rods are connected by cross pieces, and as all these, except
one, are put in motion bv everv variation in the tempera-
ture of the air, some moving in a direction contrary to the
others ; therefore it is evident, that the motions of these
cross bars must alter the distance between the point of
suspension and the centre of oscillation, unless their
weights be adjusted according to their motions to and from
the point of suspension.
Suppose the cross piece which connects the two extreme
rods of the gridiron pendulum be fixed to the centre of
the lens, and that the expansions of steel and brass be as
Vol. 36. No. 148. August 1810. F three
