82 On Pendulums,
three to five : then, if the expansion of one of the extreme
steel rods raises the top bar three degrees nearer the point
of suspension, the brass rod, which is joined to the steel
rod at the top, will remove the cross bar fixed to its lower
end, only two degrees from the same point.
To investigate the ratio of the weights of these cross
pieces, that the centre of gravity of the pendulum may re-
main at the same distance from the point of suspension,
in all degrees of heat ; — Let CG represent an inflexible
lever, considered as without weight, kept in equilibrio upon
the fulcrum F, bv three weights, A, B, and W. And let
CF=.r, DF=y, and FG=z.
C D F G
B W
Then per mechanics A x x •{• B x y =W x z f or Ax-\-By
=Wz. And supposing x and y to flow in contrary di-
rections, we have j; + ixA+y-5*xB = Wz = Ax -f By,
Therefore, Ax = By, and consequently, A : B : : y : x.
Hence, if the weights of the cross pieces be inversely as
their motions, they will not alter the distance of the centre
of gravity from the point of suspension, and " the distance
of the centre of suspension from the centre of percussion
or oscillation, in the same body, will always remain the
same; if the distance of its centre of gravity from the
point of suspension, and the plane of its motion (in regard
to the body) remain the same*."
This alteration might improve the gridiron pendulum \
but it would be very difficult to exhibit a theorem com-
pletely accurate for a mode of compensation which is
liable to so many irregularities. A pendulum of a more
simple construction, and that might be more easily ad-
justed for heat and cold v is still an object that merits the
attention of the astronomer.
The mercurial pendulum is founded on principles mor6
simple and correct than any other compound pendulum
that has yet been invented j but the manner of construct-
ing it with a glass rod has- prevented its being more gene-
rally used in the best clocks. This objection is now ob-
viated, by the application of a steel rod with a glass vessel
attached to it containing quicksilver, so that when the
* Emmon's Flnxions, j»age 312. Steel
