£ 85 ]
XV. The Bakerian Lecture for 1609. On some new Elec-
trochemical Researches on various Objects, particularly
the metallic Bodies, from the Alkalies, and Earths,
and on some Combinations of Hydrogen. By Iliw-
PHRYDAvr, Esq. Sec. U.S. F.R.S.E. W.R.LJ.
[Concluded from p. 32.]
IV. On the Metals of Earths.
A have tried a number of experiments with the hopes of
gaining the same distinct evidences of the decomposition
of the common earths, as those afforded bv the electro-
chemical processes on the alkalies, and the alkaline earths.
I find that when iron wire ignited to whiteness, by the
power of 1000 double plates, is negatively electrified and
fused in contact with either silex,alumine or glucinc, slightly
moistened and placed in hydrogen gas; the iron becomes
brittle and whiter, and affords bv solution in acids, an
earth of the same kind as that which has been employed
in the experiment.
1 have passed potassium in vapour through each of these
earths, heated to whiteness in a platina tube : the results
were remarkable, and perhaps not unworthy of being fully
detailed.
When silex was employed, being in the proportion of
about ten grains to four of potassium, no gas was evolved,
except the common air of the tube mingled with a little
inflammable gas, not more than might be referred to the
moisture in the crust of alkali, formed upon the potassium.
The potassium* was entirely destroyed; and glass with
excess of alkali was formed in the lower part of the tube ;
when this glass was powdered, it exhibited dark specks,
having a dull metallic character not unlike thatfof the pro-
toxide of iron. When the mixture was thrown into water,
there was onlv a very slight effervescence ; but on the ad-
dition of muriatic acid to the water, globules of gas were
slowly liberated, and the effect continued for nearly an
* The results of this experiment are opposed to the idea that potassium
is a compound of hydrogen and potash or its basis ; for if so, it might be
expected that the hydrogen would be disengaged by the attraction of the
alkali for silex. In my first experiments on this combination, 1 operated
in an apparatus connected with water, and I found that the potassium
produced as much hydrogen as if it hud been made to act upon water; in
this case the metal had rapidly decomposed the Vapour of the water, which
must have been constantly supplied.
F 3 hour ;
