66 On some new Electrochemical Researches
hour; so that there is great reason to believe, that the silex
had been either entirely or partially deoxygenated, and was
slowly reproduced by the action of the water, assisted by
the slight attraction of the acid for the earth.
When the potassium was in the quantity of six grains,
and the silex of four grains, a part of the' result inflamed
spontaneously as it was taken out of the tube, though the
tube was quite cool, and left, as the result of its combustion,
alkali and silex. The part which did not inflame, was
similar in character to the matter which has been just de-
scribed, it did not act upon water, but effervesced with
muriatic acid.
Potassium in acting upon alumine and glucine, produced
more hydrogen than could be ascribed to the moisture pre-
sent in the crust of potash ; from which it seems probable
that even after ignition, water adheres to these earths.
The results of the action of the potassium were pyro-
phoric substances of a dark gray colour, which burnt,
throwing off brilliant sparks *, and leaving behind alkali
and earth, and which hissed violently when thrown upon
water, decomposing it with great violence. I examined the
products in two experiments, one on alumine, and one on
glucine, in which naphtha was introduced into the platina
tube, to prevent combustion ; the masses were very friable,
and presented small metallic particles, which were as soft
as potassium, but so small that they could not be separated,
so as to be more minutely examined; they melted in boil-
ing naphtha. Either a part of the potassium must have
been employed in decomposing the earths in these experi-
ments, or it had entered into combination with them ;
which is unlikely, and contrary to analogy, and opposed
by some experiments which will be immediately related.
Supposing the metals of the earths to be produced in
experiments of this kind, there was great reason to expect
that they might be alloyed with the common metals, as
well as with potassium. Mercury was the only substance
which it was safe to try in the tube of platina. In all cases
in which the potassium was in excess, I obtained amal-
gams by introducing mercury, whilst the tube was hot;
but the alkaline metal gave the characters to the amalgam,
and though in the case of glucine and alumine, a white
matter separated during the action of very weak muriatic
* The pyrophorus from alum, which I have supposed in the last Bakerian
lecture to be a compoumd of potassium, sulphur, aud charcoal, probably
contains this substance likewise.
acid
