on various Objects, BJ
acid upon the amalgam, yet I could not be entirely satis-
fied that there was any of the metals of these earths in
triple combination.
Mixtures of the earths with potassium, intensely ignited
in contact with iron filings, and covered with iron filings
in a clay crucible, gave much more distinct results. Whe-
ther silex, alumine, or glucine was used, there was always
a fused mass in the centre of the crucible; and this mass
had perfectly metallic characters. It was in all cases much
whiter and harder than iron. In the instance in which
silex was used, it broke under the hammer, and exhibited
a crystalline texture. The alloys from alumine and glu-
cine were imperfectly malleable. Each afforded, by solu-
tion in acids, evaporation, and treatment with re-agents,
oxide of iron, alkali, and notable quantities of the earth
employed in the experiment.
Though I could not procure decided evidences of the
production of an amalgam, from the metals of the com-
mon earths, yet I succeeded perfectly by the same method
of operating,' in making amalgams of the alkaline earths.
By passing potassium through lime and magnesia, aud
then introducing mercury, I obtained solid amalgams^
which consisted of potassium, the metal of the earth em-
ployed, and mercury.
The amalgam from magnesia was easily deprived of its
potassium by the action of water. It then appeared as a
solid white metallic mass, which by exposure to the air
became covered with a dry white powder, and which when
acted upon by weak muriatic acid, gave off hydrogen gas
in considerable quantities, and produced a solution of
magnesia.
By operations performed in this manner, there is good
reason to believe, it will be possible to procure quantities
of the metals of the alkaline earths, sufficient for determin-
ing their nature and agencies, and the quantities of oxygen
which they absorb ; and by the solution of the alloys con-
taining the metals of the common earths, it seems pro-
bable, that the proportions of metallic matter in these
bodies may likewise be ascertained.
On an hypothesis which I have before brought before
the Society, namely, that the power of chemical attraction
and electrical action may be different exhibitions of the
same property of matter, and that oxygen and inflamma-
ble bodies are in relations of attraction which correspond
to the function of being negative and positive respectively,
it would follow that the attractions of acids for salifiable
F 4 bases
