144 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
in certain beds of the older system, proving, for those particular beds
at least, an Ordovician horizon. But while these facts, as being the
best data available at the time, were regarded as affording sufficient
ground for the .provisional reference of the belts under discussion to
the system last named, it was stated as probable, both in maps and
reports, that older as well as newer sediments might afterwards be
found within the areas thus referred. It is now known that such is
the case.
It may be well to note here that the view that a portion if not
the whole of the belts in question might be of greater antiquity than
the Cambro-Silurian was entertained long prior to the publication of
the Survey maps and reports relating thereto. Thus in the geological
map of Dr. James Eobb, based upon the early observations of Dr. A.
Gesner, and published in 1850, they were represented as Cambrian.
Again, in 1864, Sir Wm. Logan, in a letter to Prof. H. Y. Hind, then
about to enter upon geological investigations in northern New Bruns-
wick, expresses his belief that these rocks may be a repetition of the
strata occurring along the south side of the St. Lawrence, here brought
up in connection with a great anticline, and again repeated along
the south shore of Nova Scotia; and Hind, adopting this view, describes
them under the name of the Quebec Group, comparing them with
those portions of the latter which are now known to be Cambrian. And
finally the writer, after a somewhat prolonged study of the gold bearing
rocks of the Atlantic Coast of Nova Scotia, instituted a comparison
between these and the slaty rocks of northern New Brunswick, asserting
his belief that if the former are accepted as of Cambrian age, a similar
view must also be entertained as regards the latter.
On the other hand, evidences were not wanting that a portion of
the strata included in the tracts under notice were certainly younger
than the age assigned to the tracts as a whole. Thus, even at the time
of the publication of the survey reports, a band of fossiliferous strata
containing Eo-Devonian fossils was known to exist upon the Eocky
brook, a branch of the Nashwaak river, in the vei-y heart of one of
the slate belts, and at a point but little removed from the great central
granite axis; while subsequently fossils of the same age, but with quite
different associations, were observed by W. Mclnnes upon one of
the upper branches of the Tobique river. The view entertained as to
the first of these was that the strata in question were merely a remnant
of a more recent formation infolded among the beds of the older
series and therefore preserved from removal, while in the latter case
no doubt could be entertained as to their resting unconformably upon
the highly crystalline rocks by which they were surrounded. But
