APPENDIX B. LV
Corresponding Secretary — F. F. Macpherson, B.A.
Recording Secretary — G. L. Johnston, B.A.
Treasurer — P. L. Scriven, Esq.
Librarian and Curator — Alex. Gaviller, Esq.
Assistant Librarian — Mr. J. Schuler.
Auditors— Messrs. H. S. Moore, and T. Hansel, D.D.S.
Council— Messrs. W. A. Childs, M.A., Geo. Black, J. F. Ballard,
H. Long, M.A., LL.B., aiid J. R. Heddle.
XXII. — From TJie Miramichi Natural History Association, through
Professoe Bailey.
In its last annual report, the Association had to announce the
death of its Patron, the late Hon. Peter Mitchell, but was able to con-
gratulate itself on the acceptance of the position by Dr. G. M. Dawson.
To-day it is again in mourning over the death of this young but distin-
guished Canadian scientist, whose Idndly interest and helpful influence
were contributing to the growth and permanence of the Association.
At its first regular meeting after Dr. Dawson's death, the Association
passed the following resolutions: —
" Whereas this Association has suffered a great loss in the death
of its distinguished Patron, Dr. G. M. Dawson, Director of the
Geological Survey of Canada; and
"Whereas the cause and progress of scientific research in our coun-
try has lost, in him, an able, enthusiastic and profound worker whose
untiring energy and devotion to duty were laying the foundation of a
great national museum to promote the development of Canada's
immense resources; therefore,
"Resolved: That the Miramichi Natural History Association de-
plores the early death of one of Canada's most distinguished sons, and
the loss the cause of science has suffered thereby, and
"Further Resolved: That these resolutions be recorded in the
minutes of the Association, and a copy sent to the family of the
deceased."
MEMBERSHIP.
Since the last report, there has been a gratifying increase in the
membership, the roll now numbering about one hundred.
MEETINGS, BUSINESS, LECTURES, PAPERS, ETC.
There have been nine regular monthly meetings held during tlie
year, and twelve additional ones for lectures, etc., all of which were
