[bailey] geological CORRELATIONS IN NEW BRUNSWICK 145
"when, still later, in 1898, the discovery was made by Mr, Wilson, of
the survey staiï, that a portion of the slates in the parish of Canterbury,
also at that time referred to the Cambro-Silurian, contained typical
Silurian forms of life, and a similar discovery was made by the writer
as regards certain limestones in the settlement of Waterville, fully
thirty miles distant from the former, it really began to look as though
a very serious mistake had been made in the coloration of the geolo-
gical map, and in the age assigned to these important groups of strata.
For at three if not four different and widely removed points fossiliferous
beds had been observed, in each case indicating a Silurian or even more
recent age, while nowhere, except upon the Beccaguimic river, had
anything older than Silurian been gathered, and this only Cambro-
Silurian. Proof of the existence of Cambrian rocks in the belts under
consideration was wholly wanting. And yet it is now almost certain
that the old view which regarded one at least of these belts as being
in large part Cambrian is the true one, while reasons exist for looking
upon considerable areas within the same belt as being still more ancient
or Huronian.
The facts upon which this belief reposes were observed only last
summer (1900) by the writer, who in the course of investigations made
under direction of the Geological Survey, with a view to determine
more exactly the position and relations of the fossiliferous Silurian
rocks of Canterbury, was fortunate enough to find strata carrying
characteristic Cambrian forms, besides other evidence confirming views
which upon other grounds he had long entertained as to the geological
age of this part of New Brunswick.
The fossils in .question occur in a series of very black and hard
siliceous and pyritous slates exposed upon the left bank of Eel river
quite near to the little village of Benton, and consist of numerous
remains, in some instances very perfectly preserved, of the beautiful
graptolitic form known as Dictyonema flabelliforme vel sociale, Eichwald,
a species found at Navy Island, near St. John, as well as on the lower
St. Lawrence, and figured by Matthew in Vol. IX, Series I, of the
Transactions of the Eoyal Society. Both Dr. Matthew and Dr. Ami
agree in the determination of the species, as in the belief that it fixes
the age of the containing beds as Upper Cambrian. We have now
to consider the bearing of this determination upon the age and relations
' of the associated strata and of other portions of the district.
The black graptolitic slates of Benton are separated by an
interval of only a few hundred yards from a great band of crystalline
rocks which, upon the side nearest to the slates, are of the nature of
partially altered and obscurely stratified deposits, but which at a short
