146 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
■distance gradually pass into a true syenite. The slates, including some
thin Lands of quartzite, as exposed at this point, have a breadth of
about 300 feet, and the fossil-bearing layers, as far as could be ascer-
tained, are confined to its lower or southern portion, and have a
thickness of not more than six inches. They are accompanied by what
are apparently worm-burrows, and Dr. G. F. Matthew has since observed
in them obscure remains of trilobites. At a distance of about half a mile
however, corresponding to the mill-pond connected with Murchie's mill,
very similar black slates, again including bands of quartzite, come once
more into view, and from this point, for a distance of over a mile across
the measures, exposures of such rocks, mainly black but .sometimes
greenish slates, may be seen in the bluffs forming the left bank of Eel
river, as well as in the nearly flat and partially cleared plateau above.
They are everywhere inclined at high angles, and in places give evidence
of violent twisting, while ordinary cleavage is often replaced by a
tendency to break into pyramidal or splintery blocks, often several
feet in length. At a point two miles and a half below Benton, or one
and a half below Murchie's mills, they give place to felspathic grits
and conglomerates, while one mile further in the same direction, at
the Eel Eiver Falls, are heavy masses of slate conglomerate. These
latter are supposed to be the northern boundary of a basin of Silurian
rocks, including the fossiliferous slates of this age observed by Mr.
Wilson, six miles north of Canterbury station, and which will be further
referred to in the sequel. At several points in the dark slates, and at
distances of a mile or more from the locality just noted at Benton,
similar remains of Dictyonema have been observed, while in some of
the sections along the track of the Canadian Pacific Eailway, which
here follows the course of Eel river somewhat closely, the slates are
found to contain dark phosphatic films which simulate the forms of
Obollelloid shells. There would seem to be no doubt that the whole
series of black slates and their associated quartzites, with possibly the
coarser beds with which the section terminates, are of Cambrian age,
though occupying a relatively high position in that system, and approxi-
mating to the age of the fossiliferous Ordovician strata of the Becca-
guimic valley.
In attempting to trace the black Cambrian slates upon their
strike to the northeastward, it was found that even at a very short
distance, a marked change in the character of the exposed strata was
to be met, the black slates apparently passing out of view and being
replaced by heavy beds of white weatiiering quartzite with comparatively
little slate, and that of a lighter colour. It would therefore seem that
the black slates are cut off by a fault along their line of contact with
