[bailey] geological CORRELATIONS IN NEW BRUNSWICK 147
the great syenite belt, which from this point to the St. John river is
everywhere flanked by gray rather than black strata, in which quarzites,
usually traversed by white quartz veins, are the predominant feature.
It is only upon some such supposition that one can account for the
utter want of similarity between the parallel sections of Eel river
and the St. John river, even though an interval of only six miles
separates the one from the other. Upon the St. John river no trace
of anything in the least resembling the black graptolitic strata of
Benton or the purple slates and conglomerates associated with them
is to be met with, while the very complete section here afforded between
the Woodstock bridge and the mouth of Eel river shows
a continuous succession of pale slates and quartzites, often a little
greenish from 'disseminated chlorite, and exhibiting repeated evidences
of short and sharp plications. Similar strata also, invaded irregularly
by masses of syenite and granite, occupy the whole of the country east
of the St. John, between the above line of section and the track of the
Woodstock branch of the C.P.R., ten or more miles to the eastward,
as well as beyond the latter in the direction of the branches of the
Becca,guimic river. These quartzites and slates are those which, from
their general appearance and relations to the Silurian, had, prior to
the discovery of the fossils at Benton, been compared with the supposed
Cambrian strata of the south coast of Nova Scotia, and in view of
that discovery may now with great probability be regarded as also
representing a portion of the Cambrian system, but occupying a position
somewhat lower than the graptolitic beds, i.e.. Middle Cambrian. That
they are not Upper Silurian or younger, is evidenced by the fact that
not only below the mouth of Eel river, but again in the settlement of
Waterville, they are overlaid by rocks (coarse conglomerates, limestones
and black slates) in some of which have been found remains of Favosi-
toid corals and crinoids. Thus the middle and upper Cambrian,
together with the lower Ordovician, in addition to the Silurian, appear
to be all represented in this portion of Carleton county; the Upper
Cambrian being represented by the black graptolitic beds at Benton,
but there faulted out of sight ; the IMiddle Cambrian by gray slates
and quartzites which cover enormous areas, especially to the eastward;
while the Ordovician is revealed over an area of only a few acres by
the deep erosion which marks the valley occupied by the Northeast
branch of the Beccaguimic river.
We may now turn with profit to consider the belt of rocks which,
to the west and southwest of the Benton syenite band, intervenes
between the latter and the great Silurian tract of northern New
Brunswick.
Sec. IV., 1901. 10.
