[bailey] geological CORRELATIONS IN NEW BRUNSWICK 149
yielded no fossils, probably represents the black graptolitic strata of
Benton.
Finally it is to be observed that along the northern side of the
great granite axis which in York county separates the two great slaty
belts referred to in the introduction of this paper, we have in the parish
of Canterbury what is probably a repetition of the beds described as
occurring about Woodstock and to the southwest of the latter; granitoid
grits, green and purple slates, amygdaloids, etc., occurring in the one as
in the other, and being similarly associated with massive quartzites and
gray slates. It is in the synclinal trough between these two great con-
verging belts of Cambrian or older rocks, with their associated erup-
tives, that we find the comparatively narrow belt of fossiliferous Silurian
slates discovered by Mr. Wilson, and in connection with which are con-
glomerates filled with fragments from the older series.
Compared with the Cambrian rocks of St. John county, the black
Dictyonema slates correspond to the Bretonian Division of the St. John
Group as established by Matthew, while the quartzites and slates repre-
sent the Johannian division of the same group. The only true Cambro-
Silurian or Ordovician strata are those of the Beccaguimic valley, and
these, representing the Lower Ordovician, are exposed only over a very
limited area.
If we now pass to the second great belt of slaty rocks in central
Kew Brunswick, viz., that lying south of the great central granite
axis, we find new light forthcoming here also, but in the direction of
indicating a more recent rather than a more ancient horizon for these
strata than had previously been entertained.
As in the case of the Carleton county beds, the necessity for a
change of view arises from the discovery of fossils. Up to the time
of the presentation of this paper the only organic remains observed
were certain obscure forms, resembling Didyophyta, found by Mr. W.
T. H. Eeed, in the slates of Spring Hill brook, five miles northwest of
Fredericton, and the collections made by Chas. Eobb and others in the
Nashwaak valley. Both of these tended to indicate Silurian horizons,
the latter even approximating to Devonian, yet the great bulk of the
strata, consisting of quartzites and slates, were still regarded and
represented as Cambro-Silurian. Quite re.cently, howeyer, the writer
has been fortunate in finding the latter beds also to be not only fossil-
iferous but Silurian, the fossils consisting mainly of graptolites of the
genus Monograptus. From their occurrence at two widely separated
localities (Murray's brook, seven miles northwest of Frederiction, and
the shore of the St. John river, opposite the mouth of its tributary,
the Mactaquac), and the almost unvarying character of the strata over
