Section IV., 1901. [ 151 ] Tkans. K. S. C.
XV. — The Value of Nature Study in Education.
By James Fletcher, LL.D., F.L.S.
(Read May 23, 1901.)
It is not my purpose on this occasion to present a plea that more
attention should be devoted to natural history studies by those en-
ti-iisted with the education of the youth of Canada, for I am thankful
to say that the educators of every Province of the Dominion have
already shown that they appreciate keenly the value of these studies
as an integral and effective part of a practical education. In Manitoba
and the North-west Territories remarkable results are now very ap-
parent in the improved condition of the whole country, as a direct
outcome of the simple instructions on plant life, illustrated by common
plants, which have been given in the rural schools for the last four or
five years, in connection with the vigorous campaigns which are being
annually waged against noxious weeds.
My appeal to-day is ratlier to the educated classes of Canada,
amongst whom it must be acknowledged there is an appalling and un-
necessary ignorance concerning many useful branches of knowledge,
some information upon which would make them far better citizens
and more efficient competitors in whatever branch of work they may
have adopted as a means of obtaining a livelihood ; for there is no
profession, trade or occupation in which definite exact knowledge is
not daily required with regard to subjects a consideration of which
comes vvàthin the scope of some branch of natural science. It is to
the Fellows of this Section of the Eoyal Society of Canada, as repre-
sentatives of the educated classes of the Dominion, that I have pre-
sumed to make my appeal to-day, not but that I know they themselves
all appreciate to a large extent every point I can lay before them, but
it is to draw more direct attention to what I consider a most important
matter, with the object of arousing their sympathy with what is now
a conspicuous and very popular movement in the educational world.
There is no more remarkable development in the history of the science
of education than that which has lately takem place with regard to
Nature Study. The Fellows of this Section must every one of them
have a large influence in their own immediate circle, and I shall have
succeeded well to-day if I can by any feeble effort of mine induce
them to think that it is a concern of theirs to second the efforts of the
educators of the country by encouraging and speaking well of this
