IS 2 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
movement, the object of which is to educate in its true meaning — i.e.,
draw forth and cultivate the faculties of youth — by means of the in-
numerable common objects of nature which surround us on every side
and are always at hand to teach their own lessons.
During the last half decade there has been a moist decided awaken-
ing on this subject ; years ago many of the public schools of England
had their natural history societies ; the universities in the Old World
and here all have their professors of variouts branches of biology, all of
whom have done and are doing grand work ; but that is not Nature
Study.
Nature Study, to be successful and to take its most useful place in
education, must deal with the beginnings of things and is for young
peoj^le, they cannot be too young. It is partieulao-ly suitable for the
lowest grades of scholars but commends itself equally to the most ad-
vanced., It is essentially kindergarten work, and kindergarten work is
essentially Nature Study. The imaginary objection to the wider adoption
of this study has sometimes been raised that there are neither text books
prepared nor a staff of trained teachers sufficiently equipped with special
knowdedge to undertake its direction. In reply, I claim that no written
text books are neoassary and no special advanced training is required in
the teacher. An elementary knowledge coupled with a love for nature
and an appreciation of general principles will at first suffice. Frequent
opportunities for increasing this knowledge will be provided while
directing the students. These latter mu^st be made to feel the humility
of the teacher when investigating the vast field of nature ; above all, to
inspire confidence and call forth original mental effort, the superior
knowledge of the teacher must be kept in the background ; freest and
fullest discussion must be allowed and encouraged. No dogmatic
dictum must be uttered, which cannot be proved by demonstration. A
modest acknowledgment that the teacher does not know, coupled with an
invitation to a .student to investigate a matter together with the teacher,
will, I feel sure, do more to stimulate effort than any help in the shape
of unearned information which the student should have been able to
work out for himself from the objects examined.
Objects for study abound without stint in all plaçais and at all
seasons of the year — spring, summer, autumn or winter, it is all the
same — for Nature itself is the book and every commonest object inside
the school and out is a text for a sermon — the very wood of the school-
room floor, of the desks or the furniture, the chalk used on the black-
board, even the speck of dust floating in the sunbeam, the light itself ;
outside, the drop of rain, the flake of snow, a stick, a straw, a stone, a
fallen leaf, a twig of any tree, a winter bud or a piece of bark, a bird,
