[FLETCHER] NATURE STUDY IN EDUCATION 153
a beetle or a butterfly, a frog, a snake, or even a toad. Everything is
■worthy of study from many points of view, and has a multitude of men-
tal uses and direct lessons to teach.
The scope of Nature Study should as much as possible be con-
fined to the simple elements of knowledge. It should not be taught
to the scholar hy the teacher, but studied by the teacher icith the
scholar, the teacher merely using his or her superior knowledge and
experience in directing and encouraging the scholars to strive to learn
for themselves from and of all things which come before them, in a
word, to be self-dependent and not to trust too much to what they
find in books written by others, but to examine and consider every-
thing for themselves.
There is beauty in everytliing, but to what an enormous extent
is that beauty hidden from human eyes ! How many of us go through
the world with our eyes open, but seeing nothing, because the scales
are still before our eyes and we have not yet learnt how to look for
and to see the beauty illimitable which is waiting to be revealed !
Nature Study properly directed will teach us to want tO' see and to
want to know about the thousand and one useful things which many
people have not yet learnt that there is any use in even wanting to
know about. But seeing is not all that Nature Study will teach ; for,
by natural sequence, the mind will be stimulated and instinctively
strive to arrive at accurate conclusions, which, being founded on per-
sonal observations, will be held intelligently and with confidence.
Another objection which has sometimes been advanced particu-
larly by teachers who have not as yet taken part in this latest develop-
ment of education, is that the curriculum of studies is now so full that
there is no time for anything more. This objection is quite natural,
for there is frequently danger in making a change ; but we know that
all progress is change ; and, in the case of Nature Study, if it is sys-
tematically undertaken, a very short time every day, ten or fifteen
minutes taken from the school time, will suffice. It is no violent
change that is suggested which would upset the old edifice of mental
training, but, on the contrary, is a happy blending of recreation with
the existing system of studies, by which the latter will be strengthened.
The experience of a thousand years has proved the wisdom shown
in the choice of subjects used in the training of boys and girls, and
there is no desire to do away with any of these ; but the object of
giving a boy a lesson in geography is not particularly to teach him
Avhere Timbuctoo or Kamtsehatka, or Kilimanjaro, are situated ; nor
m history is there any great use in his knowing and remembering in
after life — as far as making a good and useful citizen is concerned —
