LVI ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
well attended; and the character and scope of the papers and discourses
were interesting and varied, as a glance at the bulletin of the Associa-
tion will show. In July^ the Association made an outing for a week
to Eed Bank, the site of an extensive village dui'ing the Stone Age,
and succeeded in coJlecting a large variety of stone implements, and
many interesting facts connected with prehistoric man in this region.
Further exploration will be conducted in the same locality.
MUSEUM, HERBAEIUM, ETC.
Constant additions are being made to the museum, representative
of the natural history of the province, an encouraging feature being the
general interest taken in the Association by the people at large, as
shown by tiie number of donations thus received. These donations
are various, but aJl valuable, comprising birds, mammals, fishes, insects,
plants, fossils, and prehistoric relics. Systematic study of the
entomology, ichthyology, botany, etc., of Northern Xew Brunswick
is carried on by members of the Association, .and it is pleasing to
mention the valuable help given by Professor Macoun in identifpng
plants, and in other helpful ways.
The financial standing of the Association is satisfactory, and during
the coming summer cabinets to the value of $120 will be placed in the
museum. The need of more cabinet space is felt at present, to accom-
modate the material finding its way into the museum. In this
connection it must be remarked that, owing to an oversight, only one-
half of the donations were published in the Bulletin issued this year.
From the record of the last four years, it can be confidently
inferred that the Association must become a permanent, and growing
institution, the popularity of which is evidence of the want it is filling
and the way in which it is being appreciated.
OFFICERS.
President — Dr. Baxter.
Vice-Presidents — D. Ferguson, J. D. B. F. McKenzie.
Treasurer — Miss A. Loggie.
Secretary — G. B. Fraser.
Correspondirig Secretary — Dr. Cox.
Librarian — Miss B. Creighton.
Curators— Miss K. I. B. McLean, Miss A. G. Mcintosh, Dr.
Baxter, Dr. Cox.
Additional Members of the Coimcil— J. L. Stewart, S. TJ. McCul-
ley, James Mcintosh.
