156 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
try proves to him the value of every crop produced, whether as food
or as an ameliorator of the soil.
Although in this cui bono age the material aspect of every ques-
tion has always to he calculated with, there is another feature of these
studies which ranks high in importance, namely, the actual pleasure
which is to be derived from them. What pleasure can compare with
that of recognizing the indications of returning spring, so long and
anxiously looked for during the cold solitude of winter ? The hear-
ing of the cheery Shore Lark's song in hleak and blustery March is
the first unit in the glorious annual procession of the seasons. This
is soon followed, as the power of the sun increases, by the colouring
ol' the bark on the twigs of slirubs and trees, the happy songs of the
returning birds, the opening of the flowers, each in its season and in
its own .^pecial habitat, accompanied by the reviving of the army of their
busy humming insect allies, which, when seeking their own nourish-
ment, play such an important part as the chief means of securing the
cross-fertilization of flowers and the perpetuation of many plants. This
procession, beginning slowly at first and easily noted, before long un-
folds its variegated pageant with ever quickening steps, soon to rush
l)\ so quickly in its race, as to defy the powers of the quickest
observer, to note the constant changes in the crowded members of its
alternately widening and diminishing train, — birds, plants, mammals,
insects, all animated life. Each one has distinctive habits, correspond-
ing with the .seasons, «and every group is worthy of the closest study ;
there is nothing that does not provide a source of elevating pleasure
and a rich field in which the humblest observer may reap scientific
laurels. Many of the smaller wild birds, if treated as friends, will soon
learn to trust us, lose their fear, and respond to our advances. Some,
as the Wren, the Swallows, the American Eobin, the Chipping Sparrow,
will build their nests close to our houses and will even make use of
suitable sites which, have been provided for them. Here they may be
observed at leisure and will teach us many things Avhicli will constantly
delight and surprise us. A study of the lives and habits of the myriad
hosts of insects will show us perhaps more than anything else the
gigantic ends which are attainable by persistent, constantly applied
efl'oi-t, and by apparently inadequate means. An examination of tlie
structure of any part of the least of these will direct our thoughts and
reveal to our wondering eyes the universal perfection to be found in
all creation.
