[fletchkk] nature STUDY IN EDUCATION 1B7
The benefits wliich can be drawn from Nature Study may be
sumimarized as follows:
From the teacher's standpoint.
Sympathy with his pupils^ and an exhaustless supply of material
always available to maintain this bond, such as no other study gives.
New fields of personal and fascinating research of a useful and
healthful character.
From the pupil's standpoint.
1. Interest in studies. The attractive and novel nature of the
objects observed catches the attention and induces studious habits,
which soon extend to all other studies and promote perseverance.
2. Increased power of observation. With practice the faculties
of observation and comparison are wonderfully developed, and, with
this, greater reasoning powers are evolved.
3. System. The wonderful system everywhere manifested must
induce systematic and orderly habits — finishing completely everything
undertaken and ha'\dng a place for everytliing and keeping it there.
4. Neatness. The beauty of neatness will be constantly apparent
in natural objects, and its nature brought out later on by the necessity
of making constant notes, which will be useless for future reference
unless legibly and neatly wTitten. The advantage of neatness will also
be demonstrated and skill of hand developed in mounting, classifying,
and arranging numerous specimens, should collections be made.
5. Patience. There is nothing more necessary for effective work
in nature than patience, indeed it is so indispensable when studying
living animals, that little progress can be made without it ; the
development of this virtue then is a natural and unconscious outcome
of this work.
6. Literary value. A point which must not be forgotten in this
connection is the care necessary in expressing all records in concise,
definite and simple language, so that there may be no danger of doubt
or misunderstanding. This gives these studies much value in education.
7. Increase of knowledge. By an intelligent consideration of
the commonest objects which surround us, we derive an unexpected
and most useful increase in our practical knowledge of the tilings which
make up the world' we live in, and at the same time find in that know-
ledge a source of pure pleasure not provided by any other course of
^tudy.
8. Kindness. Nature Study introduces us to many friends among
the wild birds, animals and insects which wte should never have appre-
ciated as such but for its power in having removed some part of the
dense cloak of ignorance by which most of these are hidden. These
