158 ROYAL S0CII:TY OF CANADA
fellow creatures are thus more kindly treated as they deserve to be,
and we are enormously benefitted.
9. Truthfulness. The uniformity of habit to be found in all
the individuals of every living species of plant or animal safeguards
accuracy in recording observations. Any dleparture from truth, un-
conscious or otherwise, is sure to be detected by those better informed,
or to be exposed by subsequent investigators. Added to this, the great
mass of unrecorded facts in connection with almost every branch of
study demands the greatest care in seeing and in recording «very ob-
servation precisely as it appeared to the investigator. This cannot
but foster habits which must produce that greatest of all virtues^ —
strict truthfulness.
10. Healthful recreation. As a source of healthful recreation
both for the teacher and the scholar, the advantages of examining and
studying natural objects are at once apparent. Students who have
had their attention strained by abstract teaching, will find a welcome
relaxation in observing things coming under their senses, and as the
natural place to examine these objects is where they occur in a state
of nature, the student is led away from the school and his books into
the open air of the fields and woods.
There is, moreover, anothjer side to this picture, viz., the aesthetic
and moral use of these studies, which bring before us only what is always
true and perfect and which can produce nothing but reverence for the
great Author of all things. How beautifully has the poet Keble ex-
pressed some of the ideas I have tried to lay before you in the versC' —
" Nothing useless is or low :
Each thing in its place is best.
And what seems but idle show,
Strengthens and confirms the rest ! "
"The rest'' — ah, what is that "rest," and how full of meaning is that
one word, perhaps there almost accidentally used ? That rest is the
charming field, exquisite in detail, which forms the magnificent panoply
of nature around us, and which belongs to all, to you, to me, and to
everyone who will enjoy it. Mother Nature is no hard mistress. She
gives but one command before delivering up the free title deeds to
this rich domain, imposes but one condition : — " Look and see, study
and understand." That rest of creation referred to by the poet is
partially revealed by what strikes the eye when we look across the
broad landscape of nature, stretched. around us with lavish hand, which
appeals to our senses and calls forth our best instincts, be it in dewy.
