[FLETCHER] NATUKE STUDY IN EDUCATION 139
happy spring, when all is fresh and young with the vigour, hopeful-
ness, and ambition of youth ; in summer, when all things are maturer
grown and with brighter hopes of the autumn fruitage, or even in
winter with its changing moods of quiet restfulness or fierce tempestu-
ous rage. Nature is always changing but yet is always the same and
full of interest at every season. Everything is indeed best as it is, and
the more we strive to unlock its sealed door with the golden key of
knowledge, the happier we shall he and the more useful will our lives
have been.
In nature, until interfered with, all things are perfect, all things
are fitted exactly to the ends they have to serve. Perfect method,
perfect harmony, an all prevailing principle of absolute perfection,
there to he found and nowhere else. Well then may those entrusted
with the education of others turn to these natural models to inculcate
those principles so necessary in developing the mind. Alertness to
observe, coupled with an increasing power to think and draw the right
conclusions from things seen, a keen appreciation of the absolute
necessity of the strictest accuracy in recording, noting only what is
actually seen, whether understood or not, or even whether at the time
thought to be of value or not. All knowledge, if it really is knowledge,
that is an accurate observation, will at some time be useful either for
ourselves or someone else. All in nature is so systematic and neat
that the ardent student is led to see the value of these virtues in all
his work, and habits so acquired will remain for a lifetime.
Thus I claim that Nature Study gives all that education demands.
It is an open book written in plain characters which become plainer
the more we study it, with volume after volume in infinite number,
each one the close sequel of the last, free to everyone who will read,
absolutely reliable, liberally giving more than credit due to all its
readers, as though they had originated, and not merely read off the
plain record of their discoveries. These studies enlighten constantly
and give capacity for helping others and making them happy, because
everything seen is true, everything is perfect, everything is useful.
Nature is all-pervading, has no landmarks, no limits, is the free
possession of all. How natural it seems for thinking mankind, when
tired and weary of the things of this life and contact with other men,
to go out into nature, to find in the leafy woods, on the rolling mead,
or by the flowing stream, the quiet and peace so needful ! There, all
can understand and know and see that everything in its place is best
and does strengthen and confirm the rest. With all reverence I say it,
thank God, we have that rest, the free and beautiful world of nature,
where all can go and find true rest.
Mercantile LIBRARY.
MEW YORifC
