APPENDIX B. LVII
XXIII. — From The Canadian Forestry Association, through
Mr. E. Stewart, Secretary of the Association.
On behalf of the Canadian Forestry Association, I have the honour
to present the following report for the past year.
It may here be stated that the inauguration of this Association
dates only from the 7th of February, 1900, a Little over a year ago. A
report of this inauguration meeting was published in pamphlet form a
year ago, and the report of the second annual meeting held on the 8th
of March last is now in the hands of the printers and will shortly be
issued. This report wiU show that the success of the Association fully
justifies the opinion entertained by its promoters that forestry in its
various branches is a subject of lively interest to a comparatively large
section of the Canadian people.
The number of members on the 8th of last March stood at 248, five
being life members. The membership is divided as follows as regards
the provinces and districts: Prince Edward Island, 2; Nova Scotia, 5;
New Brunswick, 6; Quebec, 20; Ontario, 89; Manitoba, 56; Assiniboia,
7; Athabasca, 1; Saskatchewan, 2; Alberta, 43; British Columbia, 11;
Yukon, 1; United States, 5. These numbers have been considerably
increased since the date mentioned.
The primary objects of the Association as set out in its constitution
are:
(1) To advocate and encourage judicious methods in dealing with
our forests and woodlands.
(2) To awaken public interest to the sad results attending the
wholesale destruction of forests (as shown by the experience of older
countries) in the deterioration of the climate, diminution of fertility,
drying up of rivers and streams, etc., etc.
(3) To consider and recommend the exploration, as far as practic-
able, of our public domain and its division into agricultural, timber and
mineral lands, with a view of directing immigration and the pursuits
of our pioneers into channels best suited to advance their interests and
the puljlic welfare. With this accomplished, a portion of the unappro-
priated lands of the country could be permanently reserved for the
growth of timber.
(4) To encourage afforestation wherever advisable, and to promote
forest tree planting, especially in the treeless areas of our north-western
prairies; upon farm lands where the proportion of woodland is too low,
and upon highways and in the parks of our villages, towns and cities.
(5) To collect and disseminate, for the benefit of the public, reports
and information bearing on the forestry problem in general, and especi-
