LVIII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
ally with respect both to the wooded and prairie districts of Canada,
and to teach the rising generation the value of the forest with the view
of enlisting their efforts in its preservation.
In accordance with a resolution passed at the lirst annual meeting,
arrangements were made with the publishers of " Rod and Gun in
Canada," a monthly periodical devoted to the fishing, game an/d forest
interests of Canada, by which this publication was made the official
organ, and certain of its pages have since been set apart for forestry.
Provision was made over a year ago for the conduct of the Forestry
Department in the official organ by the appointment of Mr. E. Stewart
as editor and Mr. E. H. Campbell as sub-editor. The editors are
endeavouring to render this department as interesting and useful as
possible, and so far as the space at their disposal will permit they give
attention to all branches of the work of the Association.
A number of meetings in the interests of forestry have been held
in different parts of tJie country during the past year. In British
Columbia, through the efforts of our honoured President, who is now
the Lieutenant-Governor of that province, several meetings have been
held and a decided interest awakened in forestry in that part of the
Dominion. By the kindness of the Canadian Institute a well-attended
meeting was held in Toronto under the joint auspices of the Institute
and our Association on the 12th of January last, and on the 21st and
22nd of the same month, a conference on the subject of forestry educa-
tion was held at Queen's University, Kingston. The conference was
not initiated by the Association, which was, however, represented at its
deliberations. These meetings have done much to call attention to the
work of the Association and arouse an interest in forestry.
A large number of meetings were held in Manitoba and the North-
west Territories during the past winter by Mr. E. Stewart, the Dominion
Superintendent of Forestry. As a result considerable addition has
been made to our membership there, local forestry circles have been
formed at a number of places, and a very lively interest has been awak-
ened in the cultivation of shelter belts and forest groves where none
exist in a natural state.
The second annual meeting of the Association was held in the
railway committee room of the House of Commons, and was well
attended by gentlemen representing various interests in the country.
It was gratifying to find that those who had made a scientific study
of forestry were not by any means left alone to take part in the delibera-
tions, but that the leading lumbermen of the country showed by their
presence and addresses that they are alive to the necessity of the adoption
of more rational methods in their operations than formerly prevailed.
Papers were also read dealing with the subject of forest cultivation on
