APPENDIX B LXI
New Bnmswick— George U. Hay, M.A., Ph.B., St. John.
Quebec— Prof. D. P. Penhallow, B.Sc, McGill University, Montreal.
Ontario — Principal William Scott, B.A., Normal School, Toronto.
Manitoba— Eev. W. A. Bui-man, B.D, Winnipeg.
Assiniboia — Thomas R. Donnelly, Esq., Pheasant Forks.
Alberta— T. N. Willing, Esq., Olds.
Saskatchewan — Rev. C. W. Bryden, B.A., Willoughby.
British Columbia (Mainland)— J. K. Henry, B.A., High School,
Vancouver.
Vancouver Island — A. J. Pineo, B.A., High School, Victoria.
The exchange and determination of species can be most effectively
made by
James A. Macoun,
Curator of the Herbarium,
Department of the Geological Survey,
Ottav^^a.
Constitution, &c., of the Botanical Cluh of Canada.
The Botanical Club of Canada was organized by a committee of
section four of the Royal Society of Canada, at its meeting in Montreal,
May 29th, 1891.
The object is to promote by concerted local efforts and otherwise
the exploration of the flora of every portion of British America, to pub-
lish complete lists of the same in local papers as the work goes on, to
have these lists collected and carefully examined in order to arrive at a
correct knowedge of the precise character of our flora and its geographi-
cal distribution, and to carry on systematically seasonal observations on
botanical phenomena.
The intention is to stimulate, with the least possible paraphernalia
of constitution or rules, increased activity among botanists in each
locality, to create a corps of collecting botanists wherever there may be
few or none at present, to encourage the formation of field clubs, to
publish lists of local floras in the local press, to conduct from year to
year exact phenological observations, etc. ; for which purposes the secre-
taries for the provinces may appoint secretaries for counties or districts,
who will be expected, in like manner, to transmit the same impetus to
as many as possible in their more local spheres of action.
Members and secretaries, while carrying out plans of operation
which they may find to be promising of success in their particular dis-
tricts, will report as frequently as convenient to the officer under whom
they may be immediately acting.
