II ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The following Fellows were duly introduced and took their seats;
Mr. Henry S. Poole and Professor Kutherford.
The Honorary Secretary then read the following
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1901.
The Council of the Royal Society of Canada have the honour to
present their nineteenth report as follows : —
1. Printing of Transactions.
The sixth volume of the new octavo series is now bound, and in
course of distribution. It would have been ready for circulation by the
middle of March, had not a serious fire broken out in Montreal in the
month of January and destroyed a large quantity of the sheets then in
the bindery on St. Paul Street. Happily the insurance, which had been
wisely increased some months previously to meet just such an exigency,
fully met the loss and enabled the printers to re-print the sheets with
such great promptitude, that the book, although large, has appeared
much earlier than in any preceding year since the publication of the
Transactions. In addition to a hundred and sixty-four pages of pro-
ceedings it contains papers in the four sections comprising seven hundred
and seventy-two pages, and consequently nine hundred and thirty-four
pages from the title page to the end of the volume. Authors have
received with the usual liberality of the Society, about four thousand
copies altogether. The volume contains seventy-four maps, portraits,
diagrams and other illustrations which add greatly to its value and
interest. The seal of the Society for the first time appears before the
title page in accordance with the order of the last meeting. The editor
has also revised the rules to date, and given them in full at the begin-
ning of the volume. In order to ensure a speedy transmission of the
proceedings to all Fellows as soon as possible after the last annual
meeting, the editor immediately printed the report and such other
matters of business which interest directly the Society. The editor
felt that the old practice of publishing the reports of associated Societies
simultaneously with the proceedings of the Royal Society had the incon-
venience of delaying the printing of those matters which should be laid
without delay before all members. The same course will be followed
in the future.
The illustrations of the present volume have been, as in previous
years, supervised by the King's Printer, fortunately for the Society,
one of our Fellows, and the printing accounts have also been carefully
