[hill-tout] origin OF THE TOTEMISM OF THE ABORIGINES S
hordes by each other, may afford us an explanation of its origin. Later
and more extended investigation of totemism would seem to show that
its origin may be found in part in all these views ; but more particu-
larly in that of Tylor. The study of the subject as it presents
itself to the student in this region, particularly under the
aspect of personal or " individual totems," strongly confirms this
view, as it is manifestly born of the animistic conceptions of the
native mind. My own studies in this direction have led me to believe
that the current conception of totemism stands in need of serious
modification; and that up to the present time our study of it has not
been deep or comprehensive enough to enable us to do more than
fomiulate a merely provisional or very general definition of it. Since
the publication of Frazer's work, accounts have come in from different
parts of this continent and from other portions of the world, particularly
from Australia, which show that it is not that ideal and exact social or
religiouis system of savage regimentation which some writers have en-
deavoured to make it; that there are, indeed, scarcely any social pheno-
mena more difficult to bring under rule and precise definition, than this
same totemism,^ the "this is totemism" of Major Powell notwith-
standing.^
If we are to accept the definition of the Director of the American
Bureau of Ethnology, as that of the prevailing totemism of North
America, then we have a form of totemism on this coast strangely
aberrant in character, which defies all attempts to bring it into con-
formity with the normal type. It will be observed, however, that Major
Powell makes no reference to other than clan totems, nothing is said
respecting the personal totem. To understand the totemism of this
coast aright it is of the primest importance to consider' this phase of
^ For confirmation of this, see amongst other publications the Reports of
the Committee on the Physical Characteristics of the N.W. tribes of Can.,
published by the B.A.A.S.: the Fourth Report of the Committee for the Eth-
nological Survey of Canada; "The Native Tribes of Central Australia," by
Baldwin Spencer, M.A., and F. J. Gillen, London, 1899: and more especially
" Eaglehawk and Crow : A study of the Australian Aborigines," by John
Mathew, M.A., B.D., London and, New York, 1901 ; "The Melanesians: Their
Anthropology and Folklore," by Dr. Codrington, London, 1891; and Miss Flet-
cher's articles on the Sioux in the Reports of the Peabody Museum, Mass.
^ Since the above was written I have learnt from Mr. Hartland, late pre-
sident of the English FolMore Society, that, as a result of his presidential
address to the members of the Society, which dealt largely with the later
additions to our knowledge of totemism, the Society is printing a series of
queries on this head for circulation among students of ethnology. The author
of Totemism took part in the preparation of these queries, and he is there-
fore plainly not satisfied that we have learnt all there is to know concerning
totemism.
