6 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
the subject; for there is little room for doubt that our clan totems are
a development of the personal or individual totem or tutelar spirit,
as this is in turn a development of an earlier fetishism. Whether the
totemism of the southern and eastern tribes of this continent, or that
of other regions, has passed through these two stages, I will not take
upon myself to say, though as far as a large part of this continent is
concerned, T think it highly probable ; ^ but that totemism may at any
rate in some cases thus originate, the evidence I have gathered from my
studies of the different Salish tribes makes abundantly clear.
According to Major Powell, "it was customary for each clan to
adopt a tutelar god,"" which, "always gave the name to the clan." One
hesitates to «put oneself in conflict with such an authority on matters
Indian as Major Powell unquestionably is; but here no alternative is
left one. Such a definition of totemism and such an origin as is here
ascribed to it is entirely at variance with the facts of the case as they
are found to obtain in this part of the continent. Indeed, I am con-
strained to gravely question whether any clan anywhere ever deliberately
"adopts" or "selects" a tutelar deity by whose name they afterwards
call themselves. The origin of totems, as far as we have been able to
trace them, never, I think, gives us the view of a clan sitting down to
consider and determine what deity they shall "adopt" by whose name
they shall call themselves. It may be that Major Powell has here used
these two words "adopt" and "select" in some sense other than the
ordinary, which is the more unfortunate as tlie definition appears in a
popular work, and cannot fail to mislead those who seek therein for
information on this head. Moreover this definition seems to me to
conflict with his statements on the same head in his article on "Sociology,
or the Science of Institutions," where it is distinctly stated that : " The
totem of the clan is considered to be the progenitor or prototype of
the clan. The people of the Wolf clan claim to have descended from
the wolf, the people of the Eagle clan, from the eagle," etc. It is not
clear how this can be if the clan "adopt" and "select" its totem, and
thereafter call themselves by its name.
1 have dwelt upon this point rather because of the concluding and
very dogmatic (even for such a master as Major Powell) sentence of the
definition which rigidly narrows the question to very local limits and
permits the inquirer to gather no glimpse of the manifold phases under
which totemism manifests itself in various parts even of this continent.
^ Since the expression of this opinion, I find that it receives direct con-
firmation in the interesting and suggestive paper of Mr. J. Owen Dorsey on
the Sioux Cults, published in the 11th Annual Report of the American Bureau
of Ethnology.
