[hill-tout] origin OF THE ÏOTEMISM OF THE ABORIGINES 7
Reverting again to the origin of totems, there appears to me to
lie no reason to call in any such explanation as the "confusion" or
"supposed resemblance" theories. To take such views of the question
is to look at it from the culture-state of the European, and not from
that of the savage. To rightly understand savage conceptions one
must view things as far as is possible from the stand-point and mental
view of the savage. Many of our mistakes are due to our forgetfulness
or our inability to do this. Totemism and its kindred institutions are
obviously the outcome of animistic conceptions of the universe. No
one can study the present primitive races of the world, or at any rate
those of this continent, without having this conclusion forced upon him.
A study of the personal and gentile names of the Indians of this region
shows that names of animals, of plants and of familiar objects are
amongst the commonest of personal names. Nor are these nicknames,
but true praenomina, mostly given, in the case of individuals, shortly
after birth, before any resemblance is apparent or possible. It is true
later in life animal and other nicknames are not uncommonly applied to
individuals by their fellows from some fancied or real resemblance to
the form or character of the creature or object after which they are
named; or from some incident or peculiar circumstance in which these
have played an important part. For example, a man may be nicknamed
"Beaver" because he exhibits more than ordinary wisdom in the trans-
actions of his life; or "Coyote" because of his marked cunning and
duplicity. But such nicknaming does not furnish a tithe of the animal
names borne by the members of any given tribe; nor is it in this habit
that we must seek for the true explanation of this custom so common
among primitive races. To us who have passed, more or less, beyond the
animistic stage of philosophy it may at first sight appear strange that
human beings should customarily call themselves by the same names as
they call the animals or plants of their habitat, but from the point of
view of the animistic savage, ivJio sees no distinction and recognizes no
essential difference between manhind and the rest of creation, such
names are at once most rational and appropriate. With him animals
and plants, as well as every other object in nature, are only so many
transformed human or semi-human beings, many of which still possess
the power to appear in human guise at will, and all of which are pos-
sessed, like himself, of a shade or spiritual essence. In the myths I
have collected from the Salish tribes, which relate the circumstance and
occasion of many of these transformations, the animal, or plant, or rock,
or other object, bore the name by which it is now known before its meta-
morphosis took place. Instead then of the native calling himself by the
names of animals and plants, it is really the other way about; and these
now bear the names formerly applied to them when they were conceived
