8 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
and regarded as having human or semi-human forms. The measure of
the universe to the savages is truly and literally — Man.
Among the Salish tribes it is uniforaily believed that in the early
days before the time of the tribal heroes or great transformers, the beings
who then inhabited the world partook of the character of both man and
animals, assuming the form of either apparently at will. After the
advent of the Transformers they were mostly changed permanently to
their animal forms, and lost^ their power to assume the human form,
but their ^^hades or spiritual essences still possess their hiunan or semi-
human forms, and these sometimes appear to people. Among the
Alaskan tribes much the same is still held. Nelson informs us that the
Eskimo around Behring Strait '^believe that in early days all animate
beings had dual existence becoming at will either like man or the
animal forms they now wear. . . If an animal wished to assume
its human form, the forearm, wing or other limb was raised and pushed
up the muzzle or beak as if it were a mask, and the creature became
man-like in form and feature. This idea is still held, and it is believed
that many animals now possess this power. The man-like form
thus appearing is called the inua, and is supposed to represent the
thinking part of the creature, and at death becomes its shade." He
further tells us that they have masks representing their totemic animals,
the wearers of which are believed "to become actually the creature re-
presented, or at least to be endowed with its spiritual essence."^ Some
of these masks are made with double faces, thus representing the dual
nature and form of the totem or animal. In another passage he says:
" Nearly every attribute possessed by the shades of people is also pos-
sessed equally by the shades of animals, and the inua or shade of every
animal is believed to possess semi-human form."^ Again, "All animals
are believed to have changed from the original human-like beings,
taking thoughout life their present form, but the inua or shade is
still similar to its former appearance."^ And again : "All places, things,
and the elements are supposed each to have a yua or mystery, which is
human or semi-human in form . . , which are invisible except to
Shamans and others especially gifted."*
Once more, "The nûn-wûm, yiia is the essence or mystery which is
believed to be present in or near a lake, and when it goes away the
lake dries up. These yuit are believed to have the forms of men and
women; and when visiting remote lakes people make food offerings to
them so that they may be propitiated." ^
' " The Eskimo about Bering Strait," by E. W. Nelson, XVIIIth Report
of the American Bureau of Ethnology, pp. 394-5.
-Ibid, p. 423. 'Ibid, p. 427. * Ibid, p. 437. ''Ibid, p. 443.
