[hill-tout] origin OF THE TOTEMISM OF THE ABORIGINES 11
Trees: cedar, fir, yellow pine, biimt trees, stumps. Objects: tobacco,
pipe. The most powerful of these were the otter, wolf, eagle, i-attle-
snake, badger, chicken-hawk, grizzly bear, and also coyote and owl.
The following were guardian spirits of shamans only. Natural
phenomena: night, fog, blue sky, cast, west. Man and parts of human
body: woman, adolescent girl, child, hands of man, feet of man, privates
of man, privates of woman. Animal: bat. Objects referring to death:
land of souls, ghosts, lodge and poles at grave, heaps of rocks at grave,
dead man's hair, bones and teeth. . . .
The favourite guardian spirits of warriors were: Heavenly body:
sun. Natural phenomena: 1 bunder or thunder-bird, water, tops of
mountains. Animals: grizzly bear, wolf, eagles and hawks of all kinds,
raven. Parts of body: blood. Objects: all kinds of weapons, including
arrow, bow, knife, tomahawk, gun, bullet, arrow-head. The most
powerful among these were arrow, knife, and other weapons, the sun,
the thunder, the eagle, the grizzly bear, and the hawk.
Guardian spirits of the hunters were: — Natural phenomena: water,
tops of mountains. Animals : grizzly bear, black bear, wolf, wolverine,
lynx, coyote, marten, fisher, mink, deer, elk, beaver, hoary marmot,
hawks of all kinds, owls of all kinds, raven, crow, magpie, blue grouse.
Parts of animals: deer's tail, deer's nose. Objects: canoe, snare. Most
powerful among these were the wolf, wolverine and owl.
Guardian spirits of fishermen -were : — Natural phenomena : water.
Animals: loon, all kinds of ducks, almost all kinds of fish. Objects:
dug-out canoe, bark canoe, paddle, and fishing utensils, such' as nets,
spears, lines, hooks, weirs, parts of weirs.
Gamblers, runners, etc., had the following guardian spirits : — Natur-
al phenomena : creek, spring, stone, dawn of day. Animals : horse, musk-
rat, common marmot, rock-rabbit, big-horn sheep, mountain-goat (used
principally by the Lower Thompsons), buffalo, antelope, caribou, por-
cupine, wood-peckers of all kinds, whip-poor-will, blue jay, willow
grouse ptarmigan, prairie-chicken plover, goose, humming-bird, frog,
some kinds of flies, horsefly, wasp, bee, mosquito, ant, spider, wood-worm.
Parts of animals: feathers. Objects: sweat-house, tools of various kinds,
moccasins, tsamulaux (?), red and black paint, dentalia. Parts of plants:
fir branch, pine and fir cones.
Guardian spirits of women were : — Animal : mountain-goat.
Objects: baskets, kettle, root-digger, packing-line.
Animals that had no mysterious power did not become guardian
spirits of men. Such were, for instance, the mouse, chipmunk, squirrel,
rat, fool-hen, butterfly. Only few birds and hardly any trees or herbs,
could become guardian spirits. .... The frequent occurrence of
guardian spirits that are only part of an animal or weapon, as a deer's
