12 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
nose, the nipple of a gun, the left or right side of anything, the head,
the hand, the hair, the tail of an animal, is remarkable. Some Indians
had guardian spirits of nnusual colour or of some particular colour, — a
gra}^ tree, a white stump, a white horse, a black dog, a spotted dog, or
fish, a black fox, a blue sky, a red cloud, a black fog, a red fish, etc. The
favourite colours seem to have been black, white, spotted, red and blue.
. . . . It is evident from the above list that each person partook
of the qualities with which his guardian spirit was endowed. For this
reason certain guardian spirits were also considered more powerful than
others." ^
The guardian spirits or stilia of the Lower Fraser tribes, as far as
we can now gather, were similar to those of the Thompsons.
This practice of seeking sulia on the part of the Salish clearly
springs from their conceptions of life. In common with other animistic
races, they people their environment with mysterious beings and sentient
agencies of beneficent and maleficent character, mostly of the latter,
whence arises the power and influence of their shamans. The land, the
water, the air teems with mysteries;" they are surrounded on all
sides with capricious beings that have power to harm or destroy them.
They are at any moment of their lives liable to come under the influence
of these, to be made their victims or prey;^ consequently there is felt a
vital need of some protecting, guiding influence in their lives ; and
hence the practice of seeking tutelar spirits. Here is clearly the origin
and raison d'être of the personal totem. That these sulia, or tutelar
spirits, gave rise to the personal totem becomes evident as we consider
the beliefs and customs of the Halkômê'lem tribes which intervene
between the Thompsons and the Coast Salish, among whom totemism
has reached the gentile and clan stages. And that the peculiar clan
totemism of our northern coast tribes is the further evolution and
natural extension of the personal totem becomes equally clear under
the study of the origin and spread of personal and family crests and
emblems; these standing in much the same relation to the elan totem as
the fetish or sulia does to the personal totem. These crests and em-
blems, formerly so highly esteemed and jealously guarded by those
^ " The Thompson Indians of B.C.," by James Teit, Memoirs of the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, Vol. II., p. 354 et seq. 1900.
^ Compare with the beliefs of the Salish on this head the beliefs of the
Dakotas as given by Lynd: " The divinities of evil among the Dakotas may
be called legion. Their special delight is to make man miserable or to destroy
him. Demons wander through the earth, causing sickness and death. Spirits
of evil are ever ready to pounce upon and destroy the unwary. Spirits of
earth, air, flre and water surround him on every side, and with but one great
governing object in view — the misery and destruction of the human race."
Minn. Hist. Soc. Coll., Vol. II., pt. 2.
