[hill-ïoutJ OIIIGIN OF THE TOTEMISM OF THE ABORIGINES 13
entitled to the use of them, which entered into so largely and ali'ected
so profoundly the social life and organizations of our coast tribes, are
seen to have originated in two différent sources. The crest, which is a
visible representation, symbolic or otherwise, of the totem, springs from
pictographic or plastic realization of the sulia. The totemic emblems
and insignia are symbolic records of some event or adventure more or
less mythic in the life of the owner or of his ancestors from whom he
inherited them, the nature of which is well exemplified in the story of
the origin of that important crest or totem of the Halkômê'len tribes,
the squoi'agê, described by me in the fourth Report of the Committee
on the Ethnological Survey of Canada. This, I think, becomes clear
from a study of the social life of the various Salish tribes. Among the
Thompsons of the Interior the totem or crest, as I have said, is quite
unknown. Pictographic and even plastic representations of their sulia
are by no means rare. The former were quite commonly found on per-
sonal belongings, such as utensils, clothes, weapons, etc., but they never
appear to have assumed the character of a crest, their use seems to be
merely decorative. When we descend the river, however, and reach the
Halkômê'lem tribes, the personal and family crest and fraternal em-
blems appear. A carved or painted representation of an individual's
sulia is found on the posts of his house and on his family vault or
corpse-box, as wtII as upon other of his belongings. It has now become
identified with the owner and the owner with it. It is the mark or crest
by which he and his are distinguished from others of the tribe. That
these personal, distinguishing crests or totem-symbols are derived from
his sulia the name applied to them by the Indians themselves makes per-
fectly clear. They are called sululia, which is the collective form of
siilia, which, as I have said, comes from the w^ord ulia, to dream; dreams
and visions being the usual media of communication between the indi-
vidual and his sulia or guarding spirit or totem. From the personal
and family crest is but a step to the clan crest. The clan in this region
being but a collection of families or gentes related to each by their
common crest or totem.
Dr. Boas is inclined to see in the incipient clan totemism of the
Coast Salish the influence of the northern tribes. While this may be
true to some extent, it is clear that the Salish had among them the
germs of totemic organization and would in time have undoubtedly
developed an independent totem system of their own. Among the
Salish the village community apparently formed the original unit of
organization ; but among the Halkômê'lem and coast tribes of this
stock we see another classification arising, viz., that of totemic or phra-
trie organization. Tbc brotherhood of the Squoi'agê numbered its mem-
bers in every village community on the Lower Fraser, all of whom were
