14 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
connected by marriage ties. Here we see the evolution of a totemic
gens or phratry within the Salish tribes themselves without, I believe,
any extraneous suggestion from northern or other sources, this brother-
hood originating in the adventure of a youth and his sister far up the
river among the upper tribes, who probably never heard of the totemic
systems of the Haida-Tlingit and Tsimshian. When we reach the
Kwakiutl adjoining the Coast Salish, whose original social organization
was undoubtedly similar to, or identical with, that of the Salish to
whom they are linguistically and otherwise related, we find that by
amalgamation the gens has developed into the clan; and among that
isolated tribe of the Salish, the Bella-Coola, we find the same thing.
This tribe, according to Dr. Boas, is now divided into four clans. Like
the other Salish tribes, it is made up of a number of families, but the
families are here classified not on a village basis as among their con-
geners, but on a four-clan system, each clan being made up of groups of
gentes as among the northern tribes.
The northern crests and totems, according to Dr. Boas, uniformly
spring from the second of the two sources I have intimated, viz. : mythic
adventures. An abstract of one of these taken from the Tsimshian is
as follows: " An Indian went hunting mountain goats. When he had
reached a remote mountain range he met a black bear, who took him to
his home, taught him how to catch salmon and how to build boats. Two
years the man stayed with the bear ; then he returned to his village.
All the people were afraid of him, for he looked just like a bear. One
man caught him, however, and took him home. He could not speak and
could not eat anything but raw food. Then they rubbed him with
magic herbs and he was retransformed into the shape of a man. Thence-
forth when he was in want, he went into the woods, and his friend the
bear helped him. He built a house and painted the bear on the front
of it, and his sister made a dancing blanket, the design of which repre-
sented a bear. Therefore the descendants of his sister use the bear
for their crest." ^ The Tsimshian are governed by mother-right, hence
the sister's descendants and not his own l^ecame owners of the totem.
It is unnecessary to give other instances, for though the myths differ in
detail the same idea runs through them all, whether we find them among
the Tsimshian, Haida-Tlingit, Kwakiutl or Salish. A superficial view
of the accounts of the origin of these crests and totems will make them
appear childish and absurd; but when judged by the animistic concep-
tions of these tribes they are really consistent and wholly rational.
Neither Dr. Boas nor Dr. G. M. Dawson, our chief sources of informa-
tion on the totemic systems of the northern tribes, makes any mention
^ Fifth Report of the Committee on the Physical Characteristics, etc., of
the N.W. Tribes of Canada, B.A.A.S., p. 24. London, 1889.
