[BURPEE] CHARLES HEAVYSEGE 21
An interesting and graphic description is that given by one of his
fellow-poets in Montreal- — the only surviving member of a small con-
temporary group in which Heavysege was the most striking figure.
'" I first met Charles Heavysege" (he says), " in the summer of
1858. He was then living on St. Constant Street, Montreal, and pur-
suing his occupation as a carver in the firm of J. & W. Hilton, cabinet
makers and upholsterers. I was introduced to him by a Scotchman
who had been a friend of Charles Swain and other poets, and whose mind
was a rare treasure-house of quotable, and especially recitable, verse.
During the last two years many a time has the roll of his voice as he
recited Pringle's tribute to wild South Africa — ' Afar in the desert I
love to ride ' — come back to me over the distance of years. We called on
Heavysege together and had a pleasaait chat.
" Heavysege told me that he was accustomed to compose while he
v/as engaged at work, the occupation of his hands not interfering with
the efforts of his mind. Speaking especially of Saul, he said that in
this way he had elaborated some of the liveliest scenes. Tt was the
mistake of his life to give up his place in Hilton's factory in order to
undertake what must, to a man like him, have been painful drudgery.
It must be borne in mind that his gift a,s a poet was rather a hindrance
than a help to him in the writing of reports for the daily press. He
was most conscientious with his work, but, entering late in life on a
career that demands facility in the use of the pen, much concentration,
and occasionally great rapidity of thought and expression, he had to
waste precious time in acquiring an accomplishment in which he could
never really excel, and which, under the circumstances, must ultimately
ruin his prospects as a poet. I never saw him spending his intellectual
strength in that way without feeling how lamentable his choice had
been. "Whether such a course was suggested to him by some of his
friends, or was adopted without such prompting in the hope that he
might in a few years make a fair living, besides winning a reputation
as a man of letters, I do not know. He was much respected by all who
had the privilege of his acquaintance, though, as might be expected
from his character and habits, his range of interests was not very
comprehensive, and he liked most to converse with those whose tastes
enabled them to appreciate his poetry. He was not a widely read man
which have appeared from time to time in print, as to Heavysege' s poverty,
his employment having been that of a carpenter, etc., adds that no unpub-
lished poems of his remain in existence, as it was his habit to destroy anything
that he did not thinlc would live. This latter statement has some biblio-
graphical interest, as it has been several times stated in magazine articles
that Heavysege left a number of unpublished poems. See Appendix B.
' John Reade, F.R.S.C., now literary editor of the Montreal Gazette.
