22 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
even in the poets. Dramatic poetry engrossed his attention. At his
request 1 once lent him some of the Greek dramatists in English, but
(save the Iphigenias of Euripides) he did not seem much impressed
by anything that he read there. Shakespeare he had read more than
any other author, and, of course, he must have studied the Old Testa-
ment. In his quiet way he was strongly set in his opinions. This was
frequently exemplified while he was preparing the Boston edition of
Saul. Against the adîvice of friends, some of whom were (ex-officio
at least) men of large knowledge and practised judgment, he retained
passages that, for reasons given, were unsatisfactory to others. Indeed,
he never willingly consented to sacrifice a line that he had once penned.
His most successful venture in publication was, however, that in which
he accepted most largely the suggestions of friendly criticism. I mean
Jephthah's Daughter.
" I did not see much of the poet for a couple of years afterwards, as
T soon left Montreal, but on my return, in 1859, I renewed acquaintance
with him, and one of the first things he told me when-I saw him again
was that he had written a drama (a drama with a purpose, he called it)^
and that he thought of publishiug it. Early in the summer of 1860 it
was brought out. He was good enough to present me with a copy."
Mr. Keade again left Montreal about this time, and while away
received occasional letters from Heavysege, in one of which the dra-
matist writes (March 14th, 1862) :—
" I have no news worth communicating, except the circumstance of my
having given a reading from Saul, in Nordheimer's Hall, should be considered
such. There was no reason to be dissatisfied with either the number or the
behaviour of the audience."
Mr. Eeade continues : — " During my hurried visits to Montreal
I sometimes met Heavysege. I remember once (1865, I think) meeting
him and retiring for a chat to one of the squares. He was (I think)
then connected with the Witness. I met him again in the; spring of
1867, on Beaver Hall Hill, and we exchanged a few words. On the 1st
July, 1867, I met him on Haymarket (now Victoria) Square, and there,
amid the thunders of Colonel Stevensou's artillery, he regaled me with
his views on dramatic poetry. In the summer of 1872 I was for a short
time his co-worker. We met occasionally up to the time of his last
illness and death, and I often heard of him from his good friend, Greorge
Martin. I attended his funeral in July, 1876. Among those present
were the late Hon. Thomas White, Mr. John Eedpath Dougall. John E.
Logan, the late John Lesperance, the late George Martin, the late
Thomas D. King, and a number of others, literary men and Journalists."
^ Count Pilippo; or, The Unequal Marriage.
