[BURPEE] CHARLES HEAVYSEGE 23
One additional glimpse (in the manner of Pepys) is furnished by an
old Montreal printer/ who knew Heavysege for several years: — "Once,
in ^79" (he says), "I saw Heavysege in his work-shop at a job of carving.
I remarked to him that his was a poetic trade, — with which en passant
he seemed well pleased.'" -
Heavysege was an honorary member of the old Montreal Literary
Club,^ which flourished for a year or two, and expired shortly after the
death of Thomas D'Arcy McGee, who was one of its leading spirits.
It counted among its members, besides McGee, Dr. (afterwards Sir)
J. W. Dawson, Hon. Pierre J. 0. Chauveau, Sir William Logan, and
others. Mr, Henry J. Morgan, probably the only surviving member of
^ William Boyd.
- [Extract from a letter to the Witness, Montreal, signed " Admirer."]
" I remember well, when in Montreal, attending the funeral of Sir G-eorge
Cartier. It was a still June day, and so sultry that the languid leaves hung
limp on the drooping boughs. Multitudes thronged the streets, either from
curiosity or to do honour to him whose body had been borne across the
ocean for burial. Boys in the crowded streets sold medals and memorial
badges upon which was inscribed his name and portrait. The sombre
funeral car bearing aloft the coffin, trappings of woe and stately cross, moved
slowly along, the cross bent by coming in contact with telegraph wires and
low bending boughs. These incidents would probably have been forgotten
were it not for my companion who was with me at the time. He was of
medium build, and slender, with hair and whiskers of grey and white, expos-
ing rather than hiding a finely formed forehead and oval face. His form
was slightly bent, and his mild eyes seemed ever fixed on the future. The
whole presence suggested unusual personality.
" As we climbed up Beaver Hall Hill together, the band in advance poured
forth with mufiled drum the solernn music of the Dead March in " Saul."
My unknown companion seemed transformed; his soul, filled with the glorious
music, overflowed; his mellow voice grew firm; his words came fast, and he
spoke as one inspired with deep poetic feeling. King Saul was his theme,
and he dwelt on the fitness of such marvellous music in his memory. I then
recognized him for the first time as Charles Heavysege, who wrote 8aul, one
of the most remarkable and singular poems of modern times."
[I have since learned that this letter was written by Mr. George H. Flint,
now of the Linotype Company, Montreal, and formerly on the staff of the
Montreal Witness.'\
[Since the above notes were written, my attention has been drawn to
several very interesting letters, of an autobiographical nature, from Heavy-
sege to Charles Lanman, the American artist, essayist and journalist, and
the friend of Longfellow, Washington Irving, Daniel Webster and Horace
Greeley. These will be found in Appendix C, together with letters to Heavy-
sege from Emerson, Bayard Taylor and others.]
'It was after he joined the Montreal press that he was, on the proposi-
tion (I think) of the late Ven. Archdeacon Leach, made one of the few hon-
orary members of the Montreal Literary Club." — John Reade.
