^G ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Nathaniel Hawthorne, who warmly recommended it to his notice.
Praise from such a conservative and cautious English periodical as the
North British Review, of a Colonial production, was no common thing
in those days, and the author at once came in for a good deal of belated
and second-hand appreciation in Canada. Lighthall tells us that it
even became the fashion among tourists at Montreal to buy a copy of
Saul — presumably as a souvenir of the place. Wliat is more important,
however, as an outcome of this review, Heavysege wisely availed himself
of certain helpful suggestions made by the writer thereof, and subjected
the drama to a searching revision, cutting out a number of passages
which were not essential to, and in fact rather militated against, its
unity and simplicity.^
Longfellow had come upon a copy of the first edition, and was
much impressed with its genuine dramatic power and insight. He
said of Heavysege (somewhat extravagantly perhaps) that he was " the
greatest dramatist since Shakespeare." This opinion is interesting,
coming from such a source, but not exactly convincing. Longfellow was
more inspiring and reliable as poet than as critic. His estimates of the
work of his contemporaries were not always sound. He preferred rather
to over-praise than to risk giving pain by a strict adherence to critical
standards.
Bayard Taylor also praised Heavysege's work,- in the Atlantic
Monthly. He had already met him in Montreal. Saul was noticed, as
well, and on the whole very favourably, in a good many of the best
■ critical journals of the day, English and American." Eichard Grant
White, an American man-of-letters, wrote an appreciative notice in the
Galaxy, May, 1869. Charles Sangster, one of Heavysege's Canadian
contemporaries, had an interesting review in Stewart's Quarterly,"^ the
same year. Both these latter reviews had reference to the third and
^ "In Saul we found a certain power of expression and wealth of imagery
spoiled by defective versification, by anachronisms, and prolixity." — George
Murray.
''■ " Much of it might have been written by a contemporary of Shakes-
peare Never was so much genuine power so long silent." — Bayard
Taylor.
^ The first recognition of Heavysege in the United States was contained
in a paper by Charles Lanman, which appeared in the New York Evening Post,
in 1860. Five years afterwards Mr. Lanman wrote a much fuller notice, in
the Round Table, in reply to Bayard Taylor's article in the Atlantic. Mr.
Lanman thought that, while the tone of Mr. Taylor's criticism was kind,
manly and appreciative, in regard to matters of fact connected with Heavy-
sege's personal history it contained a few errors, which he thought proper
to correct.
* Stewart's Literary Quarterly, St. John,, N.B., Vol. III., p. 88.
