28 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
out many passages that were not essential, and in the third he made
still further changes in the text, and vastly improved the language of
some of the scenes, both in clearness and musical phrasing. It is signi-
ficant, too, that in many cases these revisions resulted in the substitution
of simple, strong Saxon phrases for the more pretentious and less direct
words of Latin origin. For instance, in the second edition, a Hebrew,
speaking of the King, says: —
" Had he a prescience that he
should be selected ? "
This becomes, in the third edition: —
" Did he foreknow
he was the great king coming ? "
In the second scene, Saul, having been anointed king by Samuel,
has returned to his home at Gibeah, and resumed his former calling of
herdsman. In the third and fourth scenes Saul appears as king among
the people, and summons them to Gibeah to withstand the Ammonites,
who are besieging Jabesh-Gilead. Nahash is defeated, and Saul returns
to Gilgal to be crowned.
The second act opens at jMichmasli. A messenger announces that
Jonathan has overthrown the Philistine garrison at Geba. Saul and
Jehoiadah the Priest hasten to the Hebrew camp at Gilgal, where the
ill-equipped and half-hearted followers of Saul are confronted by the
veteran hosts of Philistia. Saul, disheartened by the continual desertion
of his men, and chafing over the non-appearance of Samuel, himself
offers the burnt-sacrifice on the altar. Samuel appears and sternly
rebukes the king, telling him that his posterity shall not wear the
crown of Israel. Samuel goes out, and Saul tries to persuade himself
that his disobedience of God's command had been justifiable.
The Philistines are triumphant in the field, and Saul and Jonathan
retire, Saul bitterly complaining, Jonathan bravely resigned to the
inevitable. To Saul's pessimistic cry:
he replies
There is no virtue left in mortal man, —
Nay, women had done better.
What we have done, O king and sire, is ours, '
Part of ourselves: — yea, more, it will not die
When we shall, nor can any steal it ;
For honor hath that cleaving quality.
It sticks to us and no one may remove it.
Save our own selves by future deeds of baseness.
In the next act, Saul having been sufficiently humbled, the angel
Gloriel is sent to interpose on behalf of the Hebrews. He compels
