PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 VII
4. Nomination for a Corresponding Membership.
The Council have received the following recommendation duly
made by three Fellows, in accordance with rule 8, providing for the
election of, sixteen corresponding members of the Eoyal Society:
"We, the undersigned, beg to nominate William H. Metzler, Ph.D.,
of Syracuse University, for election as a foreign associate in section ITT.
of the Eoyal Society of Canada. Mr. IMetzler was born in Canada of
German parents, who many years ago made Canada their land of adop-
tion. He was educated in the public and high schools of Ontario, and
received his higher education at Victoria University before its affiliation
with Toronto. He then went to Johns Hopkins, where in due time he
obtained his Ph.D. He afterwards taught for some time in the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology before being offered his present position
as professor of mathematics in the Syracuse University. Dr. Metzler
is very active in the mathematical world, and his publications are known
to mathematicians everywhere."
(Signed), N. F. Dupuis,
W. L. Goodwin,
January 22nd, 1901. Henry T. Bovey.
The Council recommend that Dr. Metzler be elected one of the
associate members of the Eoyal Society of Canada, and that the rule
which requires a ballot to be taken be suspended in this case.
5. Proposed Meeting in Toronto.
The suggestion, which was made at the general meeting of 1900,
that the Eoyail Society should assemble next year in the city of Toronto,
may very properly be considered at the present time. Since its founda-
tion in 1882 the Society has held only two annual meetings outside of
Ottawa, one in Montreal, in response to an invitation from that city,
and the other at Halifax on the occasion of the Cabot celebration. No
doubt, it would be in the interests of this body were it possible to
assemble in the second largest city in the Dominion, a.nd bring our
members into direct contact with its intelligent population, to the
majority of whom the Society is only known by name and the trans-
actions found in all its libraries. But if the meeting is to be largely
attended, and otherwise successful, arrangements must be made in
Toronto for raising a small amount of money for the purpose of defray-
ing the travelling expenses of the Fellows and delegates who may be
