[BURPEE] CHARLES HEAVYSEGE 33
Saul's madness has but served to make him more bitter and unrea-
sonable. He believes Samuel and all others to be his enemies, and
broods over revenge. Even his gentle queen may not succeed in quieting
his restless mind.
By hell (he cries) it makes me fierce
To hear the cant of silly dames and priests.
Those talk of right, and charge great heaven with wrong ;
These dribble on my head their verbal spite,
And say 'tis the thunder of heaven's waterspouts :
Those honor me, yet count me reprobate ;
These send a fitful access unto me,
And name it the evil spirit from the Lord.
Out ! out ! shall I be silenced and beguiled
By a chicanery that drives me wild ?
Malzah again enters the poor king. Saul feels his madness coming
over him, and cries out against his tormentor:
Creature, begone, nor harrow me with horror !
Thine eyes are stars ; O, cover them, O, wrap
Them up within thy cloudy brows : stand off.
Contend not with me, but say who thou art.
Lo ! I am Saul, the sad demoniac king.
But who art thou, strange, yet familiar ?
Methinks I know thee, — yes, thou art my demon ;
Thou are the demon that torments my soul.
I charge thee say, mysterious visitant.
At w'hose behest thou comest, and for what
Offence deep of mine : nay, stand aloof :
Confess, malicious goblin, or else leave me ;
Leave me, O goblin, till my hour is come :
I'll meet thee after death ; appoint the place ;
On Gilead, or beside the flowing Jordan ;
Or, if parts gloomier suit thee, I'll repair
Down into Hinnom, or up to the top
Of Horeb in th' wilderness, or to the cloud —
Concealed height of Sinai ascend.
Or dwell with thee 'midst darkness in the grave.
In the third and last part of the drama, David, now married to
Michal, Saul's daughter, becomes the king-'s most detested enemy. Saul
cannot forgive him his popularity with the people, a popularity far
transcending that of Saul himself, and continually plans his death. At
length he openly broaches the subject to Jonathan, who cries out in
horror at the suggestion. "Would you assassinate him?" he asks. The
king deprecates the term.
Things are the same, (replied Jonathan)
However daintily the tongue approach them.
Bitter is bitter, though the lips be not
Allowed to wry themselves thereat.
