[BURPEE] CHARLES HEAVYSEGE 35
king alternates between fits of ungovernable rage, and bitter remorse.
One may even pity him.
There was a time (he says) when sleep
Was wont to approach me with her soundless feet,
And take me by surprise. I called her not,
And yet she'd come ; but now I even woo her.
And court her by the cunning use of drugs,
But still she will not turn to me her steps ;
Not even to approach, and, looking down.
Drop on these temples one oblivious tear.
I that am called a king, whose word is law, —
Awake I lie and toss, while the poor slave.
Whom I have taken prisoner in my wars,
Sleeps soundly ; and he who hath himself to service sold.
Although his cabin rock beneath the gale.
Hears not the uproar of the night, but, smiling,
Dreams of the year of jubilee. I would that I
Could sleep at night ; for then I should not hear
Ahinoam, poor grieved one, sighing near.
But if we pity Saul, how must we pity Jonathan, noble son of an
unworthy father. The iniquities of the father are indeed visited upon
the son. To his friend David, who has secretly visited him, Jonathan
says:—
David,
I could now prophesy, but let me not
Anticipate a melancholy doom ....
Grant me the privilege of sorrow ; for I
Feel that the fortune of our house is cast,
And that I never can be king in Israel.
He begs David to be kind to his family after he lies
" rotting in the sepulchre."
Saul, enraged at Jonathan because of his manly defence of David,
casts his javelin at his son, to the horror of his officers, and the disgust
even of Malzah, who, entering at the moment, says:
I've had no part in this. I'm sorry too
(Like thee, king) that I ever came unto thee.
Zounds ! why I ought to have strong penance set me,
Or else be branded with some sign of shame,
For having volunteered for his undoing.
There's no essential honor nor good i' th' world ;
But a pure selfishness is all in all.
Nay, I could curse my demonhood. and wish
Myself to be thrice lost for that behavior.
But T believe I am a very mean spirit. ;
Sec. II., 1901. ;i
