36 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The fruits of Saul's evil deeds he reaps with constant increase.
Estranged from all that were most dear to him, suspicious of treason and
treachery on every side, he has become a self-made outcast from his
kind. We tind him at Eamah, not far from Gibeah, seated beneath the
shade of a tree, surrounded by his courtiers and soldiers, not one of
whom he now counts either as friend or faithful servant.
I am alone (he cries), alone 'midst numbers.
I am a lone house 'midst a populous city
Whose tenants are abroad, where thieves have entered,
And there is none about to cry out " Robber ! "
I am deserted ; all do now desert me ;
And in the middle of this grove of men,
I'm bare and barren, waste and bitter hungry ;
Yea, hungry and no one will help to feed me, —
Will help to feed my gnawing, just revenge.
While Saul is pursuing David into the wilderness, Jonathan seeks
him in the forest. He sings:
Come to me, love, come to me, love.
Lo, the moon gaily climbs up heaven ;
And stars appear to twinkle clear.
And Hesper, queen o' th' seven.
For the gentle, nameless hour is come,
The hour 'tween day and night ;
When feeble Age takes rest at home.
And abroad young Love delight.
He finds David, and tells him of Saul's fierce purs ait. David's
sole comment is: "Alas, poor king !"
Yea, David, (says Jonathan) pity Saul ;
For as thou risest, 'tis his doom to fall :
But let Heaven's will be done, that orders all.
Saul returns from seeking David, to attack the Philistines, and
having defeated them, once more bethinks him of his hated son-in-law,
who " on the stony mountains of En-gedi at present roams."
Shall he elude me thrice ? (cries the king)
Three thousand chosen men I'll lead against him.
And end him now with all his band of outlaws.
There is an exciting passage-at-arms between the angel Zelehtha
and Malzah, Saul's evil spirit. Malzah is discovered deserting his post
for the more attractive regions of hell. Zelehtha says:
Whither art thou bound ?
Malzah replies:
To Acheron.
