[blkpbe] CHARLES HEAVYSEGE 4f
Count Filippo, or, The Unequal Marriage,'^ a drama in five acts,
was published by Heavysege at his own risk, in 1860. The play, while
from a technical point of view, in its phraseology, versification, etc..
it marks an advance upon the earlier aditions of Saul; in motif,
dramatic power, and psychological analysis it is vastly inferior to that
drama. One realizes, in fact , by a comparison of these two, the insuffi-
ciency of mere propriety of form or phrase to overcome radical weak-
nesses in thought and conception.
The play is founded upon the old problem of an unnatural and ill-
omened union betw^een youth and age. Count Filippo, an elderly
nobleman, and Chief Minister of State to the Duke of Pereza, marries
a beautiful young girl named Volina. The Duke, Tremohla, who feels
his end approaching, has, on the advice of Filippo, arranged a marriage
between his son Hylas and the daughter of the Duke of Arno — much to
Hylas' disgust. The young prince bitterly resents what he takes to be
Filippo's interference with his private affairs, and, at the instance of
Gallantio, a disreputable noble — who also has a grievance against the old
nobleman — determines to revenge himself upon Filippo by corrupting
his young wife, hitherto carefully guarded from the temptations of the
court. Hylas meets Volina, during Filippo's absence at Arno, and falls
desperately in love with her. His better nature prevails for a time, and
he repents of the wrong he would have committed against Volina. His
evil genius, Gallantio, is, however, ever at his elbow with specious
sophistry, which is strongly reinforced by the prince's own strong pas-
sions. Poor Volina withstands him for a time,, bui; she is inexperienced,
in love for the first time, and her would-be lover furnishes an all too
attractive contrast to the ancient Filippo. She weakens, and Hylas has
his way. Like Paola and Francesca they w^ander together in the garden,
and Volina has lost that which may never be regained. Volina's pitiful
appeal to Hylas to take her away to some forsaken spot where she may
be forgotten, furnishes one of the most effective passages in the book:
I cannot look the daylight in the face ;
How shall I meet my husband's angry eyes ?
Snatch me from Filippo or ere he come, —
Hide m.e where night perpetually reigns.
. . . . Pity me,
Whom thou hast ruined, help whom thou hast hurt.
Hylas comforts her, and promises to take her to a place of safety. After
he leaves her her bitter grief and remorse break out once more, and she
^ Count Filippo; or. The Unequal Marriage. A Drama in Five Acts. By the
Author of " Saul." Montreal : Printed for the Author ; and for sale at the
Booksellers. 1860. pp.153. /Cw^^^
o
^q^^.c
1^
^
UJ LI
