VIII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
able to attend. It is necessary to remember that nine-tenths of the
mem1)ers live between Ottawa, Kingston and Quebec, and it is conse-
quently possible to have a fair attendance at a relatively small cost in
Ottawa, where there are twenty-five resident Fellows. If the meeting is
called at Toronto, then the travelling expenses of the members of the
Society between Ottawa and Halifax will be increased, and it is hardly
jjossible to expect a large assemblage. In case, then, an invitation is
extended to the Eoyal Society to visit Toronto, due consideration should
be given to the important fact just stated. The Council may also call
attention to the desirability of meeting some time in June, when the
Universities are closed, in case it is determined to accept an invitation
to the West.
Aid to Members for Travelling Expenses.
The Council have deemed it in the interests of the Society to
appoint a Committee to consider the possibility of assisting members
who live at a considerable distance from Ottawa, and in that way insure
a larger attendance at our annual meetings than is practicable under
existing conditions; and they have named as members of this Committee
Sir S. Fleming, Dr. MacKay, Senator Poirier, Dr. Frechette and Dr.
Fletcher, who will report immediately to the present meeting.
6. The Death of Queen Victoria and the Accession of
King Edward VII.
As soon as the sad news was known in Canada, that the great
Queen who had reigned so long was dead, and that her eldest son had
become the King, the President of the Eoyal Society, Dr. Louis
Frechette, immediately transmitted to His Excellency the Governor-
General a telegram which expresses emphatically the sentiments that
animate all the members of this body which had the honour of being
founded by a Governor- General allied by marriage to the Eoyal Family.
To His Excellency the Governor-General, Ottaiva.
" May it please Your Excellency :
" As President of the Eoyal Society of Canada I have the
honour to request on their l)ehalf that you will be pleased to transmit to
His Majesty, King Edward VII., the deep expression of the sjmapathy
which all of us feel at the sad announcement of -the death of Her late
