46
ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
And then, at last, comes the change. She forgets self, and sees
the larger meaning of her death:
Were it not great to die for Israel —
To free a father from a flood of woe ?
Having cast the die, she turns to her maidens and takes leave of
them:
Now is the burden of it all " No more."
No more shall, wandering, we go gather flowers,
Nor tune our voices by the river's brink.
Nor in the grctto-fountain cool our limbs.
The priests enter, and she begs for a short respite.
Spare me some little moments more of life
Hark ! how the wood awakes, and starts to sing
A solemn anthem, and remotely hums
The mellow tumbling of the waterfall.
All beats with life, all yet is youthful, and
Rejoicing in the trust of coming days
Then, as she makes ready to go with the priests, she says :
Brief are the pangs of death ; the bliss enduring
Of having bought my country her repose,
My sire some peace, and left him undishonoured.
Jephthah, in his agony, urges the priests to search the law, if there
be not some way of escape from the sacrifice.
They reply:
Nothing, once dedicate to Heaven, returns ;
Nought, so to Heaven devoted, is withdrawn.
However costly, or however dear ; —
Jephthah's daughter takes leave of her father, and urges him to
comfort her mother.
Farewell, farewell,
To both, to all . . . .
And then the gates of the future are unlocked, and she sees herself
shrined in the hearts of youth and maiden, —
Recording how, inviolable, stood
The bounds of Israel, by my blood secured.
Nor more shall they thus celebrate myself
Than laud my sire ; who, in his day of might.
Swore, not in vain, unto the Lord, who gave
Him victory, although he took his child : —
Took her, but gave him, in her stead, his country,
With a renowned, imperishable name.* .
' There is great art in the development of "the daughter's feelings from
her first natural terror of death to the hallowed resignation with which she
finally prepares for it, still casting a sad, submissive glance on the fair world
she quits .... There is n sense, too, of noble pride in her sacrifice : she
gives herself for her country no less than for her father There is
no need after our quotations, to say that the character of Jephthah's daughter
displays both imagination and feeling." — Afhcnactnn (London).
