48 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
instructive as showing Ileavysege's constant efl'ort to bring his verses
nearer that artistic perfection which he had ever in view.
\
The stars are glittering in the frosty skj%
Frequent as pebble.s on a broad sea-coast ;
And o'er the vault the cloud-like galaxy
Has marshalled its innumerable host.
Alive all heaven seems ! with wondrous glow
Tenfold refulgent evei-y star appears,
As if some wide, celestial gale did blow.
And thrice illume the ever-kindled spheres.
Orbs, with glad orbs rejoicing, burning, beam,
Ray-crowned, with lambent lustre in their zones.
Till o'er the blue, bespangled spaces seem
Angels and great archangels on their thrones ;
A host divine, whose eyes are sparkling gems.
And forms more bright than diamond diadems.
The XIX sonnet is interesting as containing the only local refei-
ence to be found in Heavysege's poems. It has regard to Christ Church
Cathedral, Montreal, — the old church, not the present building.
How often do I hear thee, Christ Church Bell,
Tolling the quarters through the busy day.
And, with repeated, monitary knell,
Announce the moments still refuse to stay
Heavysege published four separate poems, in addition to those
already mentioned. None of them, however, appeared in book-form.
One was an Ode read at the Shakespeare Ter-centenary celebration in
Montreal, on the 23rd April, 1864. It contains about eight hundred
lines, and is very uneven and faulty in execution. The opening sentence
furnishes an excellent example of Heavysege's incorrigible longwinded-
ness. It covers eighty lines, — even Euskin could hardly have beaten
that! The poem is particularly disappointing inasmuch as one natur-
ally looked for Heavysege's very best work, when dealing with hi-
favourite poet. In spite of occasional passages of some merit, the Ode
is on the whole creditable neither to author nor subject.^
Jezebel, a poem in three cantos, published in the New Dominion
Monthly, Montreal, in 1867, is a much liner production in every way.
Heavysege was in his element when dealing with Biblical themes.
He caught the very spirit and atmosphere of the strenuous Hebrew life.
In this poem a masterful picture is drawn of the passionate and unscru-
' " Hardly worthy of the author of f^aul." — (Charles Lanman, Hapha~arrl
Personalities, p. 271.)
