[wiTHRow] THOxMAS HUTCHINSON 71
and then have destroyed the property committed to their care. Such
barbarity none of the Aborigines were ever guilty of. The Admiral
asked some of them next morning who was to pay the fiddler. . . .
The value of what is lost is 12 or £14,000 sterling."'
" 1 have taken a solemn oath/' he writes to Samuel Swift, on the
4th of January, 1774, " as Governor, to do everything in my power
that the Acts of Trade may be carried into execution. Now to have
granted a pass (for return to England) to a vessel which I knew had
not cleared at the custom-house, would have been such a direct coun-
tenancing and encouraging the violation of the Acts of Trade, that I
believe you would have altered your opinion of me, and seen me ever
after in an unfavourable light. I am sure if I could have preserved
the property that is destroyed, or could have complied with the general
desire of the people, consistent with the duty which my station requires,
T would most readily have done it."
The answer to the Tea Party was the bill closing the port of Boston,
thus threatening ruin to its trade. Thus the mother country and the
colonies drifted more and more widely asunder and soon came the armed
collision which precipitated the Anglo-Saxon schism. With h's super-
session by General Gage as military commandant the Governor's work
was done. He had for some months contemplated, and indeed announced
to the legislature, his intention of proceeding to Great Britain. On
the first day of June, 1774, one of the first and the most conspicuous
of the United Empire Loyalists, sailed away forever from his native
land, to which his best services had for nearly forty years been rendered.
His faithful services were not unappreciated by the better class of
the citizens. " One hundred and twenty merchants and gentlemen of
Boston," says Hosmer, " the members of the Bar, the Episcopal clergy,
the magistrates of Middlesex, a number of citizens of Salem and Mar-
blehead, sent him respectful addresses." The following is the account
given by his biographer of his departure from Boston : " There must
have been gloom in the Governor's soul as his eyes turned for what was
destined to be his last glance toward the spot of his birth and his life-
long striving. In the foreground lay the stubborn town that had so
thwarted and contemned him, and yet which he so much loved, — Copp's
Hill to the right where lay the dust of his fathers and his much-cher-
ished wife; the Beacon on the height in the centre ready to flame its
invitation to sedition inland. In the background rose the high lands
of the beautiful Province in which the old man had lived from the days
of his youth. He had written its history, tracing every detail. That its
boundaries swept wide and wore well ascertained was due to his watch-
fulness. No less was it due to him that its laws everywhere were well
administered, chief among its judges as he had been through m.any
