72 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
years. That m all public ways the people were honestly and diligently
served, his care had brought about; to him, too, the credit belonged
that, as each man bought and sold, the coin rang upon the counter solid
and undebased. Through him it was, in fact, that the Province was
in every way well-to-do, buoyant, enterprising before its sister Provinces.
With such a foundation, leadership came of necessity. A sad thing
was it in the eyes of the father-statesman that the strong child he had
nourished gave its energy and initiative in wilful ways, heading its
thirteen sisters in courses of disloyal folly."
Of the Loyalist refugees as a class Hosmer remarks : " There
were, in fact, no better men or women in Massachusetts, as regards intel-
ligence, substantial good purpose, and piety. The Tories were gener-
ally people of substance, their stake in the country was greater, even,
than that of their opponents ; their patriotism, no doubt, was to the full
as fervent. There is much that is melancholy, of which the world
knows but little, connected with their expulsion from the land they sin-
cerely loved. The estates of the Tories were among the fairest; their
stately mansions stood on the sightliest hill-brows; the richest and best-
tilled meadows were their farms; the long avenue, the broad lawn, the
trim hedge about the garden; servants, plate, pictures, — the varied cir-
cumstances, external and internal, of dignified and generous house-
keeping, — for the most part these things were at the homes of Tories.
It seemed to belong to such forms of life to be generously loyal to King
and Parliament without questioning too narrowly as to rights and
taxes
" The graceful, the chivalrous, the poetic, the spirits over whom
these feelings had power, were sure to be Tories. Democracy was some-
thing rude and coarse; independence, — what was it but a severance of
those connections of which a colonist ought to be proudest ? Hence,
when the country rose, many a high-bred, honourable gentleman turned
the key in his door, drove down his line of trees with his refined dame
and carefully guarded children at his side, turned his back on his hand-
some estate, and put himself under the shelter of the proud banner of
St. George
" The day went against them ; they crowded into ships with the
gates of their country barred forever Ijehind them. They found them-
selves penniless upon shores often bleak and barren, always showing
scant hospitality to outcasts who came empty-handed, and there they
were forced to begin life anew
" Tt should not be overlooked that in their despoilment and expatri-
ation the lot of the Tories was not without compensations. Vast grants
were made to them by the English goA^ernment of lands in Nova Scotia,
New Brunswick, and western Canada."
