[wiTHRow] THOMAS HUTCHINSON 73
The last Koyal Governor of the Province of Massachusetts Bay was
the s])ecial object for contumely and reproach. " As he was by far the
ablest and most eminent of his party," continues Hosmer, " so his suffer-
ing was especially sharp. His name was held to be a stigma. The
honourable ncte he had reached through foriy years of self-denying,
wisely directed public service was blotted out; for generations he was
a mark for obloquy. His possessions, even to the tomb where lay his
wife and ancestors, were snatched from him and his children. He
became in England a royal pensioner. But for this charity, the man
who for some years had been the most illustrious personage in America
might have died in want in the streets of London."
The fate of those heroic, patriotic men who became exiles for con-
science' sake called forth tlie sympathy of the mother country. The
leaders of both political parties spoke warmly on their behalf. The
Britisli Government made generous provision for their domicilation in
the sea-board provinces and in Upper and Lower Canada. Liberal land
grants were given and every possible provision for their temporary sus-
tenance was made. Yet many reached their place of exile in wretched
plight and had to be clothed and fed by public or private charity. A
grateful posterity recognizes their fidelity and valour and places the
wreath of honour on their graves. They bear forever the honoured
name of United Empire Loyalists. If it be true, as an American poet
has said, that the wheat of the earth was sifted for the planting of the
Xew England colonies, it is also true that the finest of the wheat was
twice sifted for the planting of our Canadian commonweal.
Hutchinson met kindly consideration at the British court. He was
received by the King with honour and sympathy. He writes somewhat
bitterly : " It is a remark more ancient than any British Colony that
' Gubernatorum vituperatio populo placet; ' and every Governor of
Massachusetts Bay, for near a century past, has by experience found the
truth of it."
A baronetcy was offered him, but he declined the honour because,
his fortune having been confiscated, he had not means to support the
title. He received, however, a generous pension. The University of
Oxford, — by a strange coincidence on the very day when his country-
men formally cut the bond that knit them to the fatherland, July 4,
1776, — conferred upon him the degree of Doctor Civilis Juris.
His six years of exile were full of pathos. " New England is wrote
upon my heart," he said, " in as strong characters as ' Calais ' was upon
Queen Mary's." "May God Almighty," he adds, " i)ut an end to this
contest." With his children and dependents upon him, his family
numbered twenty-five. He was " glad," he said, " he had a home for
them when so many exiles are in want." His beloved daughter Peggy
