74 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
passed away, his youngest son, too, was sinking to the grave. " I prefer
the natale solum to all other," he said; but as the Anglo-Saxon schism
widened, he wrote, " most of us expect to leave our bones here."
He was loyal to the last. " After all," he records as his deliberate
conviction, " T shall never see that there were just grounds for this
revolt." He adds with much point : " T should be impertinent if I
attempted to shew .... in what sense all men are created equal ;
or how far life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness may be said to be
unalienable; only I could wish to ask the delegates of Maryland, Vir-
ginia, and the Carolinas how their constituents justify the depriving
more than an hundred thousand Africans of their rights to liberty and
the pursuit of happiness, and in some degree to their lives, if these
rights are so absolutely unalienable."
He wrote to his son Thomas, who did not leave Boston till the
British evacuation in March, 1776, instructing him to remove the
remains of the wife of his youth who had lain in the old Copp's Hill
burying ground, to the family tomb on his country estate ; and he
charged the son to see that room was left for his father by her side. But
even this hope had to be given up, and he writes : " The prospect of
returning to America and laying my bones in the land of my forefathers
for four preceding generations is less than it has ever been. God grant
me a composed mind submissive to his will."
In his seventieth year the end came. The courtly old Loyalist,
feeling the approach of death, bade his servant bring him a fresh shirt,
saying that he " must die clean," and shortly after his heroic soul passed
away. His last conscious moment he spent in repeating texts of scrip-
ture and prayers.
" At the moment of his death," says Hosmer, " London was at the
mercy of the mob in the Gordon riots. The city was on tire in many
places ; a drunken multitude murdered right and left, laying hands even
upon the noblest of the land. The exile's funeral passed on its way
through smoke and uproar that might easily have been regarded as the
final crash of the social structure."
Out of seeming evil Divine Providence wrought lasting good.
Before the close of the following century the Empire had expanded
to many times its extent and influence at the time of the American
Eevolution. In Canada and Australia great commonwealths had grown
up. The revolted colonies also had become a great nation offering a
vast area for the extension of the English language and English litera-
ture and the principles of British law and liberty. The bitterness and
estrangement of war had largely passed away; the Aujlo-Saxon schism
was well nigh, or altogether, healed.
