Sectk.n it., 1901 [ 7S ] Trans. R. S. C.
IV. — Post Office Reforms in the Victorian Era: And the Development
of an Imperial Cable .Service}
By Sir Sandford Fleming, K.C.M.G., LL.D., CE.
(Read May 22, 1901.)
At an early date the postal service everywhere was of the most
primitive character. The English record points out tliat at one time
foot carriers were employed to convey the mails, and that they tra-
velled at the rate of 16 or 18 miles a day. Frequently two months
elapsed before any answer to a letter could be received in London
from Scotland or Ireland.
Great Britain has taken a leading part in post ofïiee reform.
This fact is universally recognized. When our groat and good Queen
came to the throne, the service was still deplorably unsatisfactory.
It is now 64 years since a process of transformation commenced
which has been marked by distinct stages of development, each stage
opening a new chapter in the history of the Post Office service. The
last chapter, yet unAvritten, may be regarded as having been opened
on the closing day of the century, when the contract for establishing
the Pacific Cable was signed on behalf of the Home Government and
the Governments of Canada, New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland
and New Zealand.
The British Post Office to-day is admirably administered, and
when the final development shall have been consummated, it will in
all probability take rank as one of the most perfect and most bene-
ficent of all human organizations.
In referring briefly to the development of the Post Office, it will
be convenient to allude to some of its functions and operations in con-
nection with the following reforms: —
1. The adoption of penny postage in the United Kingdom.
2. The adoption of the postal telegraph system in the United
Kingdom.
3. The adoption of penny postage throughout the Empire.
4. The adoption of a Postal Cable Service between all parts of
the Empire.
All these great advances are associated with the Victorian Era.
The first took its origin in the year when the young Princess Victoria
ascended the throne, and the last was initiated a few weeks beforo,
^ See Proceedings, supra, p. xliv.
