78 • ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
age" by increasing the weight of letters for which a penny suffices to
pay the carriage within the United Kingdom, from one ounce to
four ounces. No such letter rate exists in any other country in the
world.
THE SECOND EEFOBM.
The Queen had been on the throne ten years, when a new agency
of marvellous capabilities presiented itself as a means of human inter-
course and led eventually to the second reform.
The electric telegraph had no practical existence before 1847,
when through the enterprise of private companies, it began to be in-
troduced as a means of communication. Telegraph lines were soon
afterwards established between many of the principal cities of the
United Kingdom by joint stock companies. These ventures proved
most profitable to the promoters, but in course of time complaints
were made of exorbitant charges, of vexatious delays in the transmis-
sion of messages, and likewise that only important cities enjoyed the
advantages of telegraphic communications. After a number of years,
the conclusion was arrived at that the control of the electric lines by
the Government would be attended with advantages to the State and
the general public; accordingly, it was proposed to expropriate all the
private lines, and give to the country postal telegraph service under
State control.
As early as 1852, suggestions were made that the Post Office
should manage the telegraph system. Among others. Captain Galton
prepared a paper on the subject. A few years later, Mr. Frederick
Baines drew up an elaborate memorandum in which he advocated the
scheme of a Government system of telegraphs, the ^vires to extend
to every Post Office in England, Ireland and Scotland, and the man-
agement to be controlled by the Post Office Department. He laid his
views before the Duke of Argyll, then Postmaster General, and af-
terwards before Lord Stanley of Alderley, who strongly favoured the
idea. The names of Mr. Ricardo and Mr. Scudamore also appear in
the record as taking a prominent part in the introduction of the
scheme, although Mr. Scudamore disclaimed any originality for the
proposal so far as the British Post Office was concerned; government
telegraphs being already in operation in several other countries.
To the Chamber of Commerce of Edinburgh belongs, very large-
ly, the credit of creating public demand for the transfer of the services
from private companies to the State, and Sir George Harrison, the
convener of that body, was the moving spirit.
