[FLEMING] POST OFFICE REFORMS IN THE VICTORIAN ERA 83
whose main object is private profit. This great agency of civilization
has been given to man for nobler purposes. A little reflection will
show that brought under state control, it is destined to revolutionize
the world's correspondence. By carrying the postal telegraph service
to every Post Office in every British possession around the Globe, our
people, so widely sundered geographically, will telegraphically and prac-
tically be drawn into near neighbourhood.
This marvellous result is rendered certain by two remarkable facts.
First, the fact that telegraph messages are instantaneously transmitted,
gives them an immense advantage over the post. Take a single illus-
tration. If a correspondent in Canada writes to a friend in I^ew Zea-
land, he could not receive an answer for eight or ten weeks, while with
the telegTaph an answer would be due in a few hours. Secondly, dis-
tance does not appreciably add to the cost of sending a message by
telegraph. It has been elsewhere pointed out that there is practically
no greater outlay incurred in transmitting long distance than short dis-
tance messages. In the case of postal matter, the expenditure is con-
stant for every hour, and continuous for every mile; whereas, in tele-
graphy, there is an entire absence of such expenditure. With a tele-
graph properly established and equipped, messages may be transmitted
100 or 1,000 miles at no greater cost than one mile.
These striking facts give the strongest possible grounds for the
belief that, with the cable and telegraph service nationalisc'd and ex-
tended, an extremely low uniform charge, — a parallel to penny post-
age — by Imperial telegraphy, will be found possible. Would anything
else tend to develop in so high a degree a common feeling of kin-
ship among our people? Statesmen desirous of taking practical steps
towards consolidating the Empire, will now find the way open for
their efforts by furthering this the crowning development of the Bri-
tish Post Office.
