X ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
It is also encouraging to learn that the city of Ottawa will probably ere
long have a free public library worthy of the political capital of the
Dominion, though the satisfaction of some Canadians is somewhat
marred by the fact that this praiseworthy movement in the
direction of culture will owe its success to the generosity of a public-
spirited millionaire of the United States. While we think too much
praise cannot be given to Mr. Carnegie for the readiness with which he
has responded to the urgent request to place Ottawa in the list of the
numerous American cities where he has consented to establish libraries,
at the same time we do not believe that the fact is at all a reflection on
the public spirit or generosity of wealthy Canadians, many of whom
have already contributed large sums of money to education and similar
objects throughout the Dominion. We have little doubt that had an
earnest appeal been made to wealthy Canadians, even in Ottawa itself,
they would have responded to the request; but while we feel as Cana-
dians, bound to say this much, we see no reason whatever for raising a
doubt as to the propriety of accepting Mr. Carnegie's handsome offer.
In matters of learning and culture we need not consider geographical
or national distinctions, but simply the motive that animates the donor,
and the advantage which his liberality will confer on a community
which has been so long without a library to which all classes of the
people can go for literature, without the restraints that are necessarily
imposed by the Parliamentary library, which is an institution of a very
limited scope.
It is to be hoped that the public spirit which has made Ontario the
premier province in respect to public libraries as well as in other mat-
ters, will find itself reflected in other provinces. Quebec and the
]\Iaritime Provinces especially, have few libraries of any importance
outside of the cities. Charlottetown indeed is remarkably destitute in
this particular.
It must he admitted that among some thinking men there are
latent doubts that in these days, when the reading of fiction is so
dominant, the growth of public libraries may have on this account
deteriorating influence on the mass of the people. Statistics, however,
show that the establishment of libraries actually stimulates a taste for
reading and studying historical, scientific and other literature which is
thus made more accessible to a large body of readers who previously
were unable to obtain it on account of its greater cost compared with
fiction. In this connection the following letter written by an able
librarian to the Chicago Dial is worthy of the attention of the Canadian
public for whom these remarks are cheerfully intended.
