[MACKENZIE] THE BARONETS OF NOVA SCOTIA 91
than forty days. He was received with much honour and King Henry
was so greatly pleased with the discovery made that he knighted Cabot
who became known as The Great Admiral, and who was further re-
warded by a grant from the King's Privy Purse, 10th of August, 1497.
" To hym that founde the new isle £10." ^ Thus was North America
discovered by mariners sailing under the flag of England.
" The law of nations recognises the principle of right of the ter-
ritory of a heretofore unknown country, to the power under whose
flag the same may have been discovered. Thus the right to the coun-
try discovered by the Cabots appertained to the dominion of the brit-
ish monarch; and though, at that time, no settlement was made there-
on of an effectual nature, yet the entering thereon by the subjects of
any other nation, would be an unlawful intrusion, and an usurpa-
tion." 2
To King Henry the Seventh no less honour is due than to Cabot
in connection with this great achievement, for it was entirely owing to
that Monarch's s.agacity and foresight that the discoverer came to make
hi? memorable voyage under the Ensign of St. George. As was the
case when Columbus came to his Court, King Henry at once grasp-
ed the importance and feasibility of the scheme propounded by Cabot
and though his natural caution led him to do no more than grant his
Letttrs Patent authorizing the expedition, nevertheless when Cabot re-
turned, having accomplished what he undertook to do, the King re-
warded him, and gave him material assistance in fitting out a second
expedition of discovery, towards which he promised ten armed ships
and the gift of all his prisoners, except such as were confimed for high
treason, to take with him on the voyage.
"John Cabot was the pioneer of English discovery and English
colonisation. A long life of mercantile adventure had prepared him
for the great work; and the experienced old navigator was at least
sixty years of age when he offered his services to Henry VII. His
great merit was that he at once appreciated the genius and prevision
of Columbus, and understood the true significance of his magnificent
achievement. He studied the theories and methods of his illustrious
countryman, and understood the great work that was left for otiiers
to achieve by following his lead. The results more than justified his
representations." ^
Britain having shewn the way, mariners and adventurers of other
nations began to make the voyage to the new found lands.
In 1500 Caspar Corte Eeal obtained Letters Patent from the King
of Portugal, authorizing him to lead an expedition which sailed the
same year, and having reached the mainland of North America, he
