92 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
returned to Portugal, brino-ing with him several of the natives of the
new land. Corte Eeal started on another expedition, but never re-
turned. In 1502, Miguel, his brother, went in search of him, but like-
wise was heard of no more. Vasque, their eldest brother, then desired
to start on a voyage to seek them, but the King of Portugal forbade
the expedition.
During the ensuing years voA^ages were made to and from the new
land. In 1503, a traveller who brought some hawks thence, received
£1, and a priest who sailed thither the next year received £2.
Cape Breton was so named by some French fishermen who ven-
tured thus far in 1504 attracted by the fisheries on the coasts and
banks of Newfoundland.
In 1505, to "Portyngales that brought popyngais and catts of the
mountaign with other stuf to the King's grace," * from the Newfound
Island, £5 were paid.
In 1508, Captain Thomas Aubert of Dieppe visited the new land
and carried off some of the native Indians, whose appearance excited
the greatest interest upon their arrival in France.
In 1518, the Baron de Lery, a Frenchman, arrived, and landed
cattle at Isle de Sable, but failed to establish a settlement.
In 1523 Giovanni da Verrazano, a celebrated navigator of Flor-
ence, voyaged to the new lands under a commission from King Fran-
cis the First of France "who had become jealous of the enormous
pretensions of Spain and Portugal in the new world, and had on one
occasion sent word to his great rival, Charles the Fifth, that he was
not aware that ' our first father Adam had made the Spanish and Por-
tuguese Kings his sole heirs to the earth.' " ^
Da Verrazano sailed up the entire coast line from latitude 32°
north to latitude 50° north, giving to the whole region the name of
La Nouvelle France; which, in defiance of the prior right of England,
he claimed in the name of the King of France; but otherwise he
achieved nothing of importance.
The ancient name of this vast territory was Acadia; " In the
early maps of Gastaldi, a distinguished Italian cartographer, of the
sixteenth century, we see the name of ' Larcadia ' spread over the
country now known as the Maritime Provinces of the Dominion, and
other map makers of the same or later time frequently call it Laca-
dia." «
In 1525 Estevan Gomez, a Portuguese pilot in the service of
Spain, led an expedition which took a similar route, but made no im-
portant discoveries.
