[MACKENZIE] THE BARONETS OF NOVA SCOTIA 93
In 1534 King Francis the First of France gave a commission to
Jacques Cartier, a very adventurous mariner of that Kingdom to sail on
an expedition of discovery.
"As respects North America beyond the Gulf of Mexico and the
country to the north, dense ignorance still prevailed, and though a
coast line had been followed from Florida to Cape Breton by Cabot,
Gomez and Verrazano, it was believed either to belong to a part of
Asia, or to be a mere prolongation of Greenland." ''
Cartier, with two small ships each of sixty tons, and a crew of
sixty-one men, set sail from St. Malo in Brittany on his voyage of
discovery. " L.I. Anticoste ou l'Assomption et aux Habitans Natisco-
tec fut decowerte par Jacques Cartier l'an 1534." ® At Cape Gaspé
Cartier set up a cross thirty feet high bearing the Eoyal Arms of
France and inscribed, " vive le eoy de feance." He then returned
to France. It was now projected to found a French settlement in
the country, and with this object Cartier was invested with a new
commission, and in 1535 set sail vrith three ships. On this voyage he
discovered the Eiver St. Lawrence, " il fut nommé Hochelaga par lac-
ques Cartier qui le decowrit le premier en 1535." ^ Sailing up this
river Cartier arrived at the Kingdom of Saguenay, where he set up a
cross ensigned with the Eoyal Arms of France, and the inscription
"Feanciscvs Peimvs DEI Geatia Feancoevm Eex Eegnat," Con-
tinuing his voyage up the river, Cartier arrived at the present site
of Quebec, and the next year returned to France taking an Indian
chief and some other inhabitants of the country with him, whom King
Francis graciously received and treated with much kindness. In 1541
Cartier again sailed with an expedition to the new land and fortified
Cape Breton, but made no further discoveries of any moment.
Cartier was a great navigator and discoverer; his name must ever
be honoured, not only by his fellow-countrymen but by men of other
nations, by all who admire the performance of loyal and patriotic
services to King and country.
The next to arrive was Jean François de la Eoque, Seigneur de
Eoberval, who had been appointed by the King of France as his " lieu-
tenant in Canada, Hochelaga, Saguenay, Xewfoundland, Belle Isle,
Carpunt, Labrador, the Great Bay (St. Lawrence), and Baccalaos, as
well as lord of the mysterious region of Norumbega — an example of
the lavish use of titles and the assumption of royal dominion in an un-
kno^vn wilderness," ^^ De Eoberval sailed from France in 1542 and
returned the next year, having accomplished little, beyond building a
strong fort; though Captain Jehan Allefonsce, a pilot, who accom-
