96 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Only twelve of them were found alive, and when they returned, His
Majesty had the curiosity to see them in their seal skin dresses and
long heards. Their appearance was so squalid and distressing, that he
ordered them a general pardon for their offences, and gave to each of
the survivors a gratuity of fifty crowns." ^^
" The early attempts to establish Colonies upon these shores
were unsuccessful and even calamitous, yet the value of the fur trade,
the nature of the soil and the hope that always prevails of finding
riches in unexplored regions, excited the Huguenots and other Eu-
ropean merchants with the same spirit of foreign enterprise." ^^
In 1603, Pontgravé, a French merchant in whose company was
the famous Samuel Champlain, sailed up the Eiver St. Lawrence as far
as the Island of Montreal.
The same year King Henry the Fourth granted to Pierre de Gua,
Seigneur de Monts, a Gentleman of the Bedchamber, a patent of the
whole territory from 40° north latitude to 46° north latitude, with
power to colonize and rule it, and to subdue its native inhabitants and
convert them to Christianity. The expedition sailed from Havre
de Grace in 1604, accompanied by Champlain and Jean de Bien-
court, Baron de Poutrincourt, and having safely arrived "Pierre de Gua,
Seigneur de Monts, prit possession de la prouince de Cadie ou Acadie
pour le Eoy de France l'an 1604." ^*
During the ensuing exploration of the coast, the adventurers dis-
covered and named La Baye Françoise, now called the Bay of Fundv,
" They also discovered the narrow channel called Digby Gut. After
passing through this channel, they were delighted with the beautiful
basin into which it opened, it being surrounded with fine scenery, and
hills that poured down streams of fresh water into the level lands of
the shore. Poutrincourt was so much pleased with the extremity of
the basin and the river flowing into it, that he chose the land at their
junction for his residence and having obtained a grant of it from
De Monts, called it Port Royal." ^^ This lovely spot with " its grassy
meadows, its numerous streams, its cascades tumbling from the hills,
its forest-clad mountains," ^° was not destined, however, to become
the domain of French Seigneurs, but of Scottish Baronets; for here,
ere many years were passed, arose the fortress of the Baronets of Nova
Scotia, around which grew their old town, the name of which, long
after their enterprise in the Eoyal Province had ceased, was changed
from Port Eoyal to Annapolis Eoyal, in honour of Queen Anne.
In 1607, Sir John Gilbert, the brother of Sir Humphrey, following
in the footsteps of his gallant brother, fitted out a fleet, and having
arrived at the mouth of the Eiver Kenebec, wintered on a small island.
