[MACKENZIE] THE BARONETS OF NOVA SCOTIA 97
where, however, he died, and the remainder of the expedition, after
enduring great hardships, returned the next year to England.
In 1608, Champhiin laid the foundation of Quebec, a city which
he determined should become the capital of La Nouvelle France,
a vast and splendid Empire of the West; and though in after years
his 'dream was realised and the Empire of the West indeed arose, it
was not the Flag of France that was destined to wave above her forts
and cities, but the Ensign of Great Britain.
Champlain achieved for France by land what Cartier, his famous
predecessor, had done for her by sea, and his memory is green
to-day in the land he so widely explored and so ably ruled for France,
first as Lieut. -Governor and afterwards as Governor. He has left the
character of a valiant gentleman, a soldier, sailor, and scholar, in every
respect a worthy representative of the great nation to which he be-
longed.
During the ensuing years the French under De Monts, Cha;m-
plain, de Poutrincourt, Pontgravé and Champdore continued their ex-
plorations and discoveries, and the fortunes of Port Eoyal, their head-
quarters, rapidly advanced.
In 1613, the first blow was struck between Britain and France
in America. The Duchesse de la Eochefoucauld de Liancourt, who
had obtained from De Monts a resignation of his patent, and had re-
ceived from the King of France, a grant of the whole territory, from
the St. Lawrence to Florida, excepting Port Royal, sent out a vessel
under Monsieur La Saussaye, with two Jesuit priests, and a number
of adventurers, on board. Upon his arrival La Saussaye set up the
arms of the Duchesse, in token of her possession ; he ,then proceeded
to Port Royal and thence to the beautiful Isle de Menane, where the
Jesuits set iip a cross and made a settlement which they named St.
Sauveur. It happened at this time that one Captain Samuel Argall,
a brave and enterprising Englishman, celebrated as having formerly
carried off the famous and beautiful Indian princess, Pocahontas, the
young daughter of the Emperor Powhatan, was sailing on a voyage
of discovery, with a ship of one hundred and thirty tons, carrying four-
teen guns and sixty men, bound for Virginia. He was driven ashore
on the island by a storm, and learning from the natives that the
French had established a settlement, determined to at once attack
them. This he did with such fury, that the enemy immediately sur-
rendered. Having seized the French ship. Captain Argall proceeded
to Virginia, whence, without delay, he was despatched with an expedi-
tion to attack the other French settlements in Acadia. Returning
first to St. Sauveur, he threw down the cross erected there by the
