PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XI
Miscellaneous Library Statistics.
" While library workers are gratified at the increased attention given
library work and use, by students, critics and writers, believing that as a
result of any public agitation, additional knowledge of these institutions will
bring increased opportunities for good, they cannot but object to the plan
which seems to be so generally adopted, of measuring the work accomplished
by the percentage of the different classes of books issued for home use.
Writers in recent publications take the ' home use statistics ' of a number of
prominent libraries, and because they find, from the circulation tables, that
an average of three-fourths of the volumes so issued are classed under the
heading of fiction, argue that it is questionable whether the public library is
really a good thing for a community.
" It is unfortunate, perhaps, that library reports do not give the exact
'quality' of fiction circulated; that they do not say whether the library is
closely classified or not; whether a great many or a few titles are placed in
fiction which properly belong in other classes; whether juvenile fiction is
placed under fiction pure and simple, or is reported under the general heading
' juvenile books ' ; for without this information, and a few other* things which
will be here referred to, no one can accurately judge of the work being done
by any given library.
" The main point, however, is the injustice done the library by the attempt
to measure its value to a community solely by the books issued for home
reading. A visit to any library of considerable size will reveal the fact that
most of the real work is done in the library rooms ; that for every book
other than fiction taken home, from eight to fifteen will be used in the
building, and that in certain seasons, and especially in educational centres,
this proportion will be largely increased. This is true especially of the
library small in comparison with the population of the city in which it is
located and with limited means — this latter, a condition all but chronic west
of the Allegheny Mountains. A large proportion of this use of books in the
library is compulsory (if they are to be used at all) for various reasons, chief
among which is the inability of the library to supply a sufficient number of
copies of a given book or to provide enough other works upon the same
subject to meet a large but temporary demand. For instance, a study club
with an extensive membership or a high school or college class, is given a
subject to look up with references to comparatively few volumes, the library
should increase the ' home circulation ' of books other than fiction by issuing
these few volumes to the first comers of either the club or the class, while
the other for various reasons, later applicants at the library would be
deprived of the use of any of them. The rule in most of these libraries in
these emergencies, is to reserve these volumes for use in the library on the
basis of ' the greatest good for the greatest number.' With a number of such
clubs and classes one may readily see how a library could change its circu-
lation statistics if it would. Again, ose libraries unable to purchase more
than one copy of valuable works or one set of periodicals, place them in the
reference room for use in the library exclusively, where no record is kept of
their use, these rooms and shelves usually being open to the public. Here
at times they have a wonderfully extensive use.
" Thus, a library of twenty-five thousand volumes in a city of 100,000
inhabitants may be doing a large amount of commendable work, of lasting
