[MACKENZIE] THE BARONETS OF NOVA SCOTIA lOl
in the new land, on which their people should settle; hut also, by in-
vesting these leaders with high rank combined with sovereign juris-
diction within the bounds of their respective Baronies, to confer on
them the authority necessary for the good government thereof, by giv-
ing them almost absolute power over their vassals and followers and
all who should make settlement therein ?
The vast territory to be settled, the bounds of which were appoint-
ed by King James the First, included Anticosti, Cape Breton, and all
other adjacent islands as far as Newfoundland, and was bounded on
the north by the Kiver St. Lawrence, on the south by the Atlantic Ocean,
on the east by the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and on the west by " the
Eiver St. Croix to its head ; and a line thence to run north to the first
station for ships, river or spring falling into the great river of Can-
ada,'' ^^ and thence northward by that river.
Sir William Alexander of J\ienstrie, Knight, " that most excellent
spirit and earliest gem of our north," ^^ was appointed by King James
to carry out the great scheme, to whom accordingly His Majesty granted
this noble Province of Acadia by Eoyal Charter under the Great Seal
of Scotland, dated lOtli of September, 1631,* by the new name of Nova
Scotia.
The Erection of the Dignity of Baronet of Nova Scotia.
The Royal Province of Nova Scotia, its settlement, colonization, and
the conversion of its native inhabitants to the Christian religion, now
became the chief object of interest to the King of Great Britain. In a
Letter to his Privy Council of Scotland dated 18th of October 1624, he
declared that he was " so hopef ull of that enterprise " that he purposed
to make it a work of his own. For the furtherance of this project. His
Majesty in the same Letter stated that it was his desire to erect the
hereditary Order of Baronet within the Kingdom ' of Scotland " upoun
suche as wer worthie of that degree, and will agree for ane proportioun
of ground within New Scotland furnisheing furthe such a nomber of per-
sonis as salbe condiscended upoun to inhabite there. Thus sail bothe
these of the cheife sorte (avoydeing the usuall contentions at publick
meetings) being by this hereditarie honour preferred to others of meaner
cjualitie know ther owne places at home and likewyse sail have ther due
abroad from the subjects of our other countreyis according to the course
appointed for that our ancient Kingdome And the mentioning of so
nf;ble a cause within ther Pattents sail both serve the more by suche a
singular mérite to honour them and by so goode a ground to justifie our
* Reg. Mag. Sig. L.. 36.
