102 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
judgement with the posteritie. But thouch the conferring of honour be
meerely regall and to be done by us as we please yet we would proceed in
no matter of suche moment without your advyce." His Majesty further
stated how confident he was that from so noble a purpose as this settle-
ment of JSTova Scotia not only the Baronets themselves but the whole
Scottish nation would derive honour and profit.
The Lords of the Privy Council of Scotland in their reply dated
23rd of Novr. 1624, expressed themselves as sensible of His Majesty's
great affection towards his ancient Kingdom of Scotland and of his
" most judicious consideratioun in makeing choice of so excellent meanes
both noble and fitt, for the goode of the same," and after rendering
thanks to the King for liis goodness in consulting them, they proceed to
state that they "humblie wisse that this honour of Barronet sould be
C(.nferrit upoun none but upoun kniehts and gentlemen of cheife respect
fcr their birth, place, or fortounes.''
The Privy Council of Scotland issued a Proclamation announcing
the King's resolution and notifying the intended recipients of the honour
to appear before the Council to record their names. His Majesty did not,
however, live long enough to accomplish this crowning act of his great
project, for in the following year he lay upon his death-bed ; where,
'•' with plaintive but earnest words, the King again alluded to what was
still uppermost in his thoughts ; although to his son was to fall the privi-
lege of carrying out his scheme. He spoke of it as a good work, a Eoyal
work, and one for the good of the Kingdom in general, as well as for the
particular interest of every baronet." ^ King James died on the 27th of
March, 1625, but his wishes were not forgotten by his son and successor.
King Charles the First on succeeding to the Crown, lost no time in
carrying out his Eoyal Father's wishes with regard to the foundation of
the Baronetage of Nova Scotia, and " did erect, create, make, constitute,
and ordain that heritable state, degree, dignity, name, order, title, and
stile of baronet, to be enjoyed by every of these gentlemen who did
hazard for the good and increase of that plantation : and so preferred
'them to that order and title, creating them and their heirs-male herit-
able baronets in all time coming, with the place, pre-eminency, priority,
and precedency in all commissions, brieves, letters-patent, namings, and
writs, and in all sessions conventions, congregations, and places, at all
times and occasions whatsomever before all knights called équités aurati,
all lesser barons commonly called Lairds, and before all other gentlemen
excepting the al)ove Sir William Alexander, his Majesty's Lieutenant of
Xova Scotia." -
The Eoyal Charter under the Great Seal, " under which the ISTova
Bcotia Baronets were primarily created, and grants of lands conceded to
