104 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
sovereign jurisdiction, civil and criminal; and as a Lord of Regality his
criminal jurisdiction was " truly royal," " for he had " at least as many
of the privileges of an independent Prince as a Margrave or Pfalzgrave.
His courts were competent to try all questions, civil or criminal, that of
high treason against the sovereign alone excepted. He appointed judges
and executive officers, who were responsible only to himself. He had
within his territory a series of municipal systems — corporations with
their municipal officers, privileged markets, harbours, and mills, with
internally administered regulations of police, applicable to weights and
measures, fishing privileges, and other like useful institutions. He could
build prisons and coin money. When any of his people were put on
trial before the king's courts he could "^repledge' the accused to his own
court, only finding recognizances to execute justice in the matter." "^
Every Baronet of Nova Scotia was entitled to have hereditary seat
and voice in all the Legislative Assemblies of the Tloyal Province of
Nova Scotia; and it was ordained by His Majesty that the Baronets of
Nova Scotia " should be always called, intitled and designed by the
name and title of Baronet; and that in all Scotish speeches and writings,
the addition of Sir, and in all other discourses and writings a word
signifying the same should be proponed to their names and other titles,
and that the stile and title of Baronet should be postponed and subjoined
thereto in all letters patent and other writs whatsomever, as a necessary
addition of dignity.'' ®
Each Baronet of Nova Scotia was authorized to bear upon his Shield
of Arms as an honourable augmentation the Shield of Arms of the Eoyal
Province,! viz.: Argent, a Saltire, Azure; on an inescutcheon, Or, a Lion
rampant. Gules, langued and armed. Azure, within a double Tressure
fleurée, counter-fleurée of the Second; to be borne upon his Shield of
Arms either in a canton or in surtout, in his option, according to which-
ever method least dimidated or suppressed the existing charge or
charges upon his Shield of Arms. The canton might be either dexter
or sinister for the same reason. This honourable augmentation was
borne ensigned with an Imperial crown. " This is called an Imperial
Crown, in regard of the Imperial Jurisdiction and Prerogatives, that an
absolute King (to whom such a Crown is due) hath within his Kingdom.
The high rising of the Diadem doth signifie the greatness and perfection
of such a King, from whom there is no appellation; forasmuch as he
acknowledgeth no earthly Superiour in anything pertaining to his Royal
Jurisdiction; neither oweth he duty, but only to the King of all Kings,
of whom he holdeth by an immediate right." ^
t It has been supposed that the Crest, Supporters and Motto of the Royal
Province also formed part of the Honourable Aug'mentation, this is an error.
