108 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
ing ,so knighted, have the right to arrogate to themselves the conjunct
dignity of Knight and Baronet, saving and except those of the Order of
Nova Scotia who by their patents are both hereditary Knights and
Baronets.'^ ^"
'• On a controversy of precedence between tlie younger sons of Vis-
counts and Barons and. the Baronets, King James I., in 1612, issued a
decree, fixing the precedence of tlie latter next -after the former. By this
decree the King bound himself, his heirs and successors not at any time
to give precedence to any persons beneajth the degree of Lords of Par-
liament, higher before or equal to the place of baronets, and a similar
provision is to be found in the baronets patents of creation," ^^
It was ordained that at their funerals each Baronet " should have
two Assistants of the Body to support the Pall, one Principal Mourner,
and four Assistants to him, being the mean betwixt a Baron and a
Knight." ^«
The Baronets of Nova Scotia on their part each undertook either to
equip and maintain six armed men for the service of the Royal Province
for two years; or else to pay two thousand marks towards the enterprise
and one thousand merks towards the expenses incurred by Sir William
Alexander in exploring and settling the country; and "The King re-
served a tenth of all metals found in Nova Scotia by the Diplomas given
to the Baronets." ^^
The Baronetcies of Nova Scotia were limited either to heirs male of
the body, or to heirs male, or to heirs successive; that is heirs what-
somever.
A Baronetcy destined to the heir male of the body of the patentee
can be inherited only by a lineal descendant of the patentee, consequent-
ly several of the Baronetcies created with this limitation are now extinct.
A Baronetcy destined to the heir male of the patentee can never
become extinct though it may become dormant, for no person of .legi-
timate birth can be without an heir male. '' Every person bom in law-
ful wedlock is prima facie legitimate, for the maxim of the civil law,
paier est quern nuptiœ demonstrant, is admitted in England." ^^ Many of
the Baronetcies of Nova Scotia recorded in various works as being ex-
tinct are not so, they are merely dormant, the original destination having
been to the heir male.
A Baronetcy destined to the lieir successive of the patentee can like-
wise never become extinct, though it may become dormant; for, as in the
case of the heir male, no person of legitimate birth can be without an
heir.
It will thus be seen that a man may succeed to a Baronetcy of Nova
Scotia without himself being actually descended from the original pa-
