[MACKENZIE] THE BARONETS OF NOVA SCOTIA 111
In 1625 Sir William Alexander of Menstrie, Knight, His Ma-
jesty's hereditary Lieutenant was created a Baronet of Nova Scotia;
and in 1627 he despiatched a squadron to the Eoyal Province under
the command of Sir William, his eldest son, with whom sailed the
famous Sir David Kirk, and on the voyage they captured eighteen
French transports^ with 135 guns; bound for Acadia. Sir William
upon his arrival seized the Fort at Port Eoyal and proceeded to erect
a new fortress there; and entered upon his duties as Deputy Lieutenant
of the country.
The work being now so well begun. King Charles the First in
1629, " so desirous was he of adding every mark of dignity to his
favourite Order,'^ ^ and " to give stronger encouragement to persons
of honour and character to Join their assistance; and also to render
the dignity of baronet more inviting to seek," ^ resolved to confer upon
these Baronets a further high and honourable distinction. Accord-
ingly, by Eoyal Warrant, dated 17th of November, 1629, His Majesty
granted to each Baronet of Nova Scotia the right to wear an hereditary
personal decoration ; '' for ws and our successouris wee authorize and
allow the said Lieutenant and Baronets and euerie one of them, and
their heirs-male, to weare and carie about their neckis in all time
cuming, ane orange tannie silke ribban, whereon shall being pen-
dant in a scutcheon argent, a saltoire azur, thereon ane inescutcheon
of the armes of Scotland, with ane imperial! crowne above the scut-
cheon and encercled with this motto : Fax mentis honestge gloria." *
In the same warrant the King further stated that this decoration was
granted in order that the Baronets might be honoured and have place
in all respects according to the privileges granted by him; also that
they might " be the better knowen and distinguished from other per-
sounis." His Majesty further declared therein that " if any persoun
out of neglect or contempt shall presume to tak place or precedence
of the said Barronets, their wytfs or children, which is due unto them
by their patents, or to wear their cognizance," they shall be fined or
imprisoned " that otheris may be terrified from attempting the like."
In 1629, Quebec was captured by Kirk, in consequence of which
the King of France kept back 400,000 crowns belonging to the dowry
of the Queen of England.
In 1630, Sir William Alexander, Bart., His Majesty's Lieutenant
of Nova Scotia, was created Baron Alexander of Tullibody, and Vis-
count of Stirling in the Peerage of Scotland.
In 1631, King Charles empowered Sir Isaac Wake his ambassador
to settle the dispute with France which had arisen in consequence of
* Fax Mentis Honestse Gloria was the motto of Henry Frederick, Prince of
Wales, K.G., eldest son of King- James the First. He died 1612.
