112 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
the retention of the money forming part of the Queen's dowry. There-
after His Majesty in accordance with an agreement made with the
King of France commanded the Viscount of Stirling by Eoyal War-
rant dated 10th of July, 1631, to order the demolition of the fort at
Port Eoyal built by his son, and the removal of " all the people, goods,
ordnance, munitions, cattle and other things belonging unto that col-
onie, leaving the bounds altogether waste and unpeopled." To defray
the charges thereof, His Majesty subsequently granted to the Viscount
the sum of ten thousand pounds sterling. " The remains of this Fort
may he traced with great ease; the old parade, the embankment and
ditch have not been -disturbed, and preserve their original form." ^
Although harassed at this period by the rebellious conduct of the
English Parliament, the King was not forgetful of the Baronets of
Kova Scotia, nor unmindful of their interests, for in a Letter to the
Lords of Council and Exchequer, dated 12th of July, 1631, referring
to the settlement in Nova Scotia, after stating that he understood
" both by the reports that came from thence and by the sensible con-
sideration taken thereof by our neighbour countries how well that
work is begun, our right trustie and well beloved councellor Sir Wil-
liam Alexander, our Lieutenant there, having fullie performed what
was expected from him," His Majesty further added " we are so far
(whatsoever controversie be about it) from quitting our title to New
Scotland and Canada,, that we will be verie careful to maintain all our
good subjects who do plant themselves there, and let none of the
Baronets any way he prejudged in the honour and privileges contained
in their patents by punishing of all that dare presume to wrong them
therein."
The King of France having paid what was due in respect of the
dowry of the Queen of England, the Treaty of St. Germain-en-Laye
was signed 20th of March, 1632. Champlain, through the French
Ambassador in London, had made Cardinal Eichelieu acquainted
with the vast resources of Acadia, and accordingly, as soon as the
treaty was signed " Eichelieu sent out an expedition to take formal
possession of New France, and Isaac de Launoy de Eazilly, a military
man of distinction, a Knight of Malta, and a friend of the great min-
ister, was appointed Governor of all Acadia. He brought with him a
select colony, composed of artisans, farmers, several Capuchin friars,
and some gentlemen." * But although France thus occupied and held
the Eoyal Province, King Charles the First publicly declared that he
had given the forts only and not the soil to France. " A further proof
that the colony was never intentionally surrendered by the King; or
sold to the French by Sir William Alexander (as said by some authors)
