114 KOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Hockaday Dick, Bart., the heir of Sir William Dick, Bart, of Nova
Scotia, creation 1642 :
"To Compensation as Baronet of Nova Scotia: because, upon the
creation by King Charles the First, of the Baronetcy of his ancestor,
Sir William Dick, a Royal Charter was granted him, bestowing 16,000
Acres of Land, together with Colonizing Eights, in Nova Scotia, as
an endowment with the Title, .and towards the plantation of which
Colony Sir William subscribed 3,000 Merks.'' ^
Here we leave the history of the Royal Province itself, for the
immediate effect of the Treaty of St. Germain-en-Laye was to put an
end to the enterprise of the Baronets, though it did not destroy their
rights and privileges. Nevertheless, in the course of jiears the name
of Nova Scotia became little more than a " mystical but honourable
tradition " ^ in their families. The stirring events of the subsequent
history of the Eoyal Province are of the deepest interest and have been
graphically told by an historian f who has been well described as an
''Empire Builder of To-day."
National events of vast moment in the mother-country were now
to engage the attention of the Baronets of Nova Scotia, who having
already given evidence of their patriotism and loyalty in days of peace
by furthering their Sovereign's project in the matter of colonial enter-
prise, were about to prove their valour and devotion to the Crown in
time of war by taking up arms in defence of the Throne, the Church,
and the State ; for, " The cloud now began to gather, which soon after
broke, and laid the kingdom under a deluge of blood and confusion;
the weak suffered themselves to be debauched out of their loyalty, by
the artifices of the wicked, by whom the popular discontents were by
degrees wrought up to a most unnatural rebellion." ^^
When the struggle between the King and Parliament at length
commenced the Baronets of Nova Scotia with scarcely an exception
ranged themselves upon the side of His Majesty, and a great number
of them signally distinguished themselves in the service of their be-
loved Sovereign on many occasions and chiefly upon the bloody fields
of that great Civil War; and the extraordinary vicissitudes undergone
by members of the Order and their families at this period, and after
the murder of the King, find a parallel only in the pages of romance.
Under the usurper, Cromwell, the Baronets of Nova Scotia suf-
fered severely by the axe, imprisonment, forfeiture, and fine. The
Eevolulion of 1688 saw them mainly upon the side of King James the
Second, and during the troublous times of 1715. and again in 1745,
t Sir John George Bourinot, K.C.M.G.
