[MACKENZIE] THE BARONETS OF NOVA SCOTIA 121
avail, for the charters must all be interpreted according to their letter,
and the principle of the true consideration which induced their grant." ^
" In the Charters founding the order, it is declared in verho principis
by the Eoyal Founder that 'no lapse of time, non-user, or other adverse
circumstances shall ever bar the rights and privileges which they con-
vey.' These Charters have been twice ratified by Acts of Parliament, it
being covenanted in the latter of these Acts that the Letters Patent
granted to any individual Baronet of Scotland whatsoever 'Shall stand
and continue in force with all liberties and privileges etc. granted there-
with, in as ample a manner as if the bodies of the said Letters Patent
were therein particularly engrossed and expressed.' " *
" This piling of Pelion u.pon Ossa is not done with a view to urging
that the Provincial Grovernment of Nova Scotia should be compelled to
hand over 16,000 acres of land to every surviving baronet of that Pro-
vince and of Scotland who may demand it. Some things are just, but
not expedient. It would be impossible and ludicrous to demand a re-
vival of the seigneurial, legislative, or personal rights of the baronets,
involving as these did the holding of courts, levying of customs, and
tolls in their respective territories, the right of voting in all assemblies,
parliaments, synods, and conventions in Nova Scotia, freedom from ar-
rest, and exemption from all penalties of the laws. It would be equally
impossible to obtain, after so many years of indifference and absenteeism,
land which was given on the understanding that it was to be peopled and
cultivated through the instrumentality of the grantee, but which is now
either as wild as in the days of James I. or has been tilled and occupied
by others." ^
Although divorced from their ancient possessions in the Royal Pro-
vince the name of Nova Scotia will nevertheless be always honoured by
her Baronets, and with its historic associations and hallowed traditions
be for ever cherished in their families. But this alone is hardly enough;
" Noblesse OUige: the members of an order so distinguished should not be
indifferent to or ignorant of the province whose arms they wear, and
whose name enters into their titles. It is a province of which they
might well be proud; one for which nature has done great things, and
man might do much." •
Why should not wealthy and influential Baronets of Nova Scotia,
even at this late day, endeavour to carry out the purpose for which their
Order was founded? "If the heirs of Lord Stirling and the Baronets of
Nova Scotia should be permitted to carry out the objects of the original
patent, which was the actual settlement of wild lands in America, they
would yet find abundant scope for all their energies, as there are still im-
mense tracts of excellent land remaining in a wilderness state." ^
Sec. II., 1901. 8.
