122 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Who can doubt that not only would such permission be granted,
but that an undertaking of this description would be applauded and
meet with all the encouragement merited by enterprises that make for
the consolidation of the Empire, and the cultivation and settlement of
such portions of it as are yet in a condition of primeval wilderness ?
The gTeat resources and splendid capabilities of the Royal Province
ought to be within the knowledge of every one of her Baronets to-day,
and the contemplation of her natural features, the vast forests, the mag-
nificent harbours, the mineral wealth,* the numerous animals yielding
rich furs, the teeming fisheries, the lovely scenery of varied beauty, and
the glorious climate, should provide them with glowing themes of peren-
nial interest, and a sense of pride and gratification that they are still
entitled to designate themselves Baronets of ISToya Scotia.
The restoration by the Crown of the Baronies, or rather of a new
grant of land to each Baronet of Nova Scotia, would entail upon the lat-
ter duties and responsibilities which could not honourably be neglected;
and he who failed to improve his lands by cultivation or mining would
prove himself the peer of that wicked and slothful servant in Scripture
who when accounting for the talent entrusted by his Lord to his care,
could only say, " Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping
where thou has not sown, and gathering where thou has not strawed :
And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth; lo, there
thou hast that is thine." ^
Whether the present writei^'s suggestion above-made as to the
restoration of lands or new grants to the Baronets of Nova Scotia is
feasible or could ever be carried out, it is needless here to discuss, he
merely ventures the opinion that such a scheme undertaken by members
of the Order, might even at the present day further justify the pre-
vision of King James the First, and be attended with results
"whereby bothe they in particular and the whole natione generally
may have honour and profite." ^
But even as matters now stand the Baronets can do something:
for the land from which they take their designation, absentees though
they be. "The conquest by the mailed hand has been effected; but
only to a few of the Order is the credit due of being among the pioneers.
But every Baronet may still, as he extends a hand of sympathy and
aid, exclaim, /Munit haec,' and by bringing the merits of the Eoyal
Province before the world, he will build up walls of perfection in fiesh
and blood — ^will develop ties of union between the old country
and the new, will cultivate the unsettled soil until it vies with the
lovely valley round the old town of the baronets, Annapolis itself. In
* Vide E. Gilpin, M.A., LL.D., F.R. S.C., Ores of Nova Scotia, 1898.
