PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XIII
9. Injueious Circulation of Yellow Journals.
One thing is certain, that the establishment of the judiciously
selected free public library may have the effect of more or less diminish-
ing the rapidly increasing circulation of the yellow journals of the United
States throughout the Dominion. It is only necessai-y to go any day
into the news stores of our principal cities and towns to see to what a
remarkable extent the Sunday papers and low class periodicals of New
York and other places in the United States are being read by the youth
of both sexes. It may be stated emphatically that crime is fostered,
moral sentiment is weakened, all desire for rational amusement is
impaired, tmd a taste for the better class of reading is gradually destroyed
by the continuous perusal of voluminous sheets filled with a most
atrocious example of sensationalism nm riot. Papers of socialistic and
even atheistic principles are also finding their way now into the country,
and are already read with avidity in all the large cities of activity and
population. Through these papers, imported from our neighbours, our
young people are permeated by false ideas of social and religious life,
and are taught to look askance even on our own political institutions
compared with those of a country which has given birth to a Croker
and a political machine which is doing its best to drag political and civic
life to the lowest possible depths, that "bosses" may become rich and
powerful. It is a fact that for every copy of the weekly London Times
or Spectator, or the Quarterly Eeview, Fortnightly Review, or Black-
wood, or the Atlantic Monthly, or the New York Nation, all of which
represent the best conditions of journalism and literature in Europe and
America, a hundred copies of the Sunday yellow journals, and of the
low price periodicals, full of catchy illustrations and trashy stories, are
circulated in the cities and towns of Canada! Here assuredly we have
one most insidious enemy which culture has to fight against in this
young nation still in the infancy of its intellectual development.
10. International Congress of Zoology.
The Royal Society of Canada has received invitations to attend
the fifth International Congress of Zoology_, which opens at Berlin,
Germany, on August 12th, 1901, under the presidency of Dr. K. Mobius.
Every zoologist and every friend of zoology may become a member of
the congress on paying twenty marks to the treasurer before or during
the session. The following additional information will be useful to
those Fellows of the Royal Society who are interested in these zoological
