XIV EOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
studies, and may have an opportunity of visiting Berlin during the
coming summer: —
All letters and applications for tickets should be addressed to: —
Praesidium des V. Internationalen Zoologen-Congresses, 43 Invalident
strasse, Berlin N. 4.
Eemittances should be addressed to: — Herren Eobert Warschauer
& Co., 48 Behrenstrasse, Berlin, W. 64.
K. Mobius (Berlin), president of the Congress; F. E. Schulze
(Berlin), substitute of the president; E. Blanchard (Paris), le secrétaire
général du Comité permanent des Congrès Internationaux de Zoologie;
P. Matschie, M. Meissner, E. Hartmeyer, . secretaries of the Executive
Committee; H. Schalow, 0. Stutzbach, treasurers of the Executive Com-
mittee; L. H. Plate, officer of the Lecture Committee; L. Heck, officer
of the Eeception Committee; 0. Jakel, officer of the Arrangement
Committee.
11. Infoemation for Contributors to the Transactions.
As some misapprehension appears still to exist among workers in
science and literature, who are not members of the Society, the Council
think it advisable once more to call attention to the regulations which
expressly provide that "Communications by persons not members of the
Society may be submitted by members on the same conditions as their
own productions." A reference to the Transactions for many years past
will show that valuable papers, on different subjects by such persons
have appeared from time to time, and the Council desires to make this
fact as widely known as possible. The Eoyal Society was founded for
the purpose of bringing together all the leading workers in literature
and science throughout the Dominion, and has accordingly on two occa-
sions enlarged its membership so as to increase its usefulness. It has as-
sociated with its work, all societies which have the same objects in view,
and endeavoured as far as practicable to become a federation of learning
with which all provincial bodies can co-operate for the promotion of
the intellectual of this young nation.
12. The Publication of Historical Memoirs or Diaries.
The sixth volume of the Transactions contains an interesting diary
of a voyage made in 1821 through Canada to the present site of Winni-
peg, and thence to Hudson's Bay, by Nicholas Garry, a director of the
great fur company, who gave his name to the famous fort which was
