[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 141
INTRODUCTION.
A. The Personal Equation in Boundary Studies.
The histories of the boundary lines of different countries are won-
derfully diverse. On the one hand, as in western provinces or terri-
tories, a region may be established from the public land ])y legislative
enactment, with all its boundaries straight lines running north and
south and east and west. Such boundaries are not an evolution ; they
are a special creation, and anyone may tell without prejudice the plain
and simple facts of their origin. From this there are all gradations up
to the other extreme, such as New Brunswick shows, in which the
boundaries are of the most diverse ages and origins, and in which tlioy
are bound up with events which have aroused strong, and even violent,
partizan feeling. Such boundaries are an evolution, in the elucidation
of tlie factors of which the historian has to face two sets of difiiculties,
first, the obscurity or absence of records as to first evolutionary origin,
and second, the existence of partizan prejudice in himself or his readers.
As to the nature of the records, much will be said later in this paper.
But as to partizan prejudice something should be noted here.
There is, perhaps, no subject, excepting religion and politics, more
difficult for most people to discuss without prejudice than disputed
boundary lines, and certainly there is none about which nations are
more ready to go to war or individuals to law. This is of course natural
enough, for the prize of a temporary struggle is the lasting possession
of that tangible, permanent, and necessary object, — land. It is, I
believe, axiomatic in historical investigation that no one can justly esti-
mate events which arouse strong feeling in which he has himself shared.
It is natural, then, that men not accustomed to calm deliberation should
be prone to extreme partiz'anship in such matters, and also that they
should be loth to accept the conclusions of investigators which do not
happen to coincide with their own views. After all, regretfully though a
student must say it, unreasoning partizanship is the natural condition
of the human mind ; it is the condition of least resistance, the condi-
tion of relaxation to which the mind always reverts when preoccupied
with other matters. The judicial, non-partizan condition is the un-
natural condition, the condition of tension which can be maintained
only by constant effort. It is so much easier, and therefore more agree-
able, to believe one's enemy wholly wrong and one's self wholly right,
than to try to determine whether the enemy may not in something
