142 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
be right and one's ^self in something wrong, that most people, fully
occupied with other matters, naturally assume that attitude m most
controversial questions coming within range of their interests. More-
over, in its relation to new evidence, the mind appears to weave about
itself as it grows older a kind of netting with meshes so adjusted as to
admit such evidence as will assimilate readily with what is already
there, and to reject all other. The origin of this partizan condition is
of course plain enough. The mind, like the body, is the evolutionary
result of a survival of the fittest in the struggle for existence, and that
mind or body succeeds best in the struggle which does not stop to con-
cern itself with the merits of the case of its opponent, but which throws
all its energies into overcoming its opponent by every means in its
power. The habit of seeing but one side and striving with his whole
mind for that, has been one condition of man's development ; it is
therefore inevitable tliat the human mind should be naturally and
essentially partizan.
But is it not possible to secure impartial discussion of controverted
questions ? It is, at least practically so. And the requisite conditions
appear to me to be these. First, the student must not have felt per-
sonally the feelings aroused on either of the sides during the contro-
versy, either because some peculiarity of nationality or residence kept
him neutral at the time, or, better, because he belongs to a later genera-
tion. Second, he must be of a well-balanced and well-controlled tem-
perament which can prevent local pride or the natural desire to mag-
nify the importance of a subject to which he is devoting much labour
from warping his sense of proportion. Third, he must be trained
rigidly in tihe modern scientific spirit of inquiry, that spirit of desire
for the truth for its own great sake at any cost, that spirit which is
winning such brilliant and enduring triumphs not in science alone but
in history, in theology and in other fi.elds, which is giving us faithful
histories of the Loyalists by American authors, and of the causes and
events of the Eevolution by English scholars, and the higher criticism
of the Bible by clerg3^men. It is true that not even the most perfect
combination of these conditions can overcome entirely the hereditary
asymmetry of the partisan mind and make a perfect logical machine
out of such imperfect material ; biit abundant works exist to show that
practically impartial discussions of controversial questions are possible.
After these remarks, it will not surprise the ingenious reader to
hear that it is in this impartial and scientific spirit the present writer
has attempted to treat the controversial questions forming so essential
a part of the present subject ; though it may not be amiss to add, that
