[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 143
the facts in his biography having any connection with the present sub-
ject are in harmony with the requirements 'for such treatment outlined
above. I should further add that this work, like its predecessors in this
series, by no means attempts primarily to discuss those laiger phases
of the subject which interest historians in general, but it is intended to
treat it fully from the point of view of local history and geography.
B. The Eelation existing between Boundaries and History.
As already noted, the connection between history and boundaries
may be none at all, or of all degrees up to the most intimate possible.
The latter is the case with New Brunswick, in whose history the bound-
aries have played a part perhaps more prominent, directly or indirectly,
than in any other country whatever, as the following pages will demon-
strate. Her boundaxies are a product, and in some degree an epitome, of
her history, and much of her history has centered about her boundaries,
the two in an intimately reciprocal connection. So intimate is this
connection that the separation of the boundaries for distinct treatment
is somewhat difficult, and, as in the case of the preceding works of this
series, is only justified by practical considerations looking to the collec-
tion and organization of data for the later construction of a complete
synthetic history of the Province.
C. Sources of Information in the Study of Boundary Evolution.
Tn one respect the history of boundary lines is recoverable with
greater fulness than that of almost any other class of historical matter,
at all events so far as newer countries are concerned, for nearly every
boundary now existent has been both established and minutely described
in public statutes which are preserved and accessible. Every boundary
shown on the accompanying diagrammatic map (Map No. 1, frontispiece)
together with many that have vanished, are described in accessible
published records, which will be cited throughout this work. Tn one
important respect, however, these statutes fail us, namely, they rarely
or never tell why a certain line was established as it was, much less do
they give any particulars as to the interesting discussions of alternatives,
etc., which must have preceded its selection. But as to the reasons
for the selection of the lines, a knowledge of the history of the time,
combined with an acquaintance with the topography of the region, will
usually lead to a judgment which, while logically only a guess, prac-
tically amounts usually to a reasonable certainty. Thus, of all our New
Brunswick boundary line?, there is hardly one in which T have not deter-
