[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 14S
under two governments the Madawaska Acadians, who, from their com-
munity of race, history, customs and interests should form, and prefer
to form, a single people under one government. The great merit of a
river as a boundary is of course its unmistakability, and it was this
supposed property which determined the original selection oî the St.
Croix as a houndary in 1621, whence it has descended to us as the
international boundary.
Inferior to rivers in recognizal)ility, but superior to them in tlie
natural separation of peoples (for they are usually uninhabited) are
watersheds, and these are the better the higher and more inaccessible
they are, and best of all when they rise into unmistakable lines of dis-
tinct peaks. Wherever such a range comes anywhere in the vicinity of
a desired boundary it is almost sure to be chosen, or rather, it falls
naturally into its place, as a boundary. Most of the natural boundaries
of the old world are of this sort. But watersheds are often featureless
plateaus, as is the case with some in New Brunswdck, and in such cases
the line between the headwaters of the streams may be a very irregular
one, diflficult to recognize. In such cases artificial lines following the
general courses of the watersheds are the best boundaries, and such are
most of the county lines of New Brunswick.
Where very strongly marked natural Ijoundarics exist, it may hap-
pen that several successive peoples may use them quite independently of
one another, giving us several successive coincident boundaries having
no causal connection with one another. An excellent case of this is the
Bay of Fundy, with the narrow Isthmus of Chignecto at its head, which
together naturally mark off the peninsula from the mainland. Sir
William Alexander made this the boundary between his Provinces of
New Caledonia and New Alexandria in 1625; it was made the boundary
between the governments of Charnisay and LaTiour in 1638 ; it formed
the practical boundary of the French claim to the mainland of Acadia
after the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 ; and it became the boundary
betw^een the Provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick in 1784.
On all of these occasions the boundary was determined anew wdthout
reference to its earlier use, and solely by the nature of the topography.
Again, the Indians used the watersheds for their boundaries, and we use
them as a basis for our county lines, but there is merely physiographic
coincidence and no inheritance here concerned. On the other hand, a
natural boundary, even when less prominent, often forms an hereditary
connection, is an hereditary boundary, so to speak, from one period or
people to another, and is adopted by one, because it was in use by a
])receding ; such is the case mth the St. Croix, which has persisted as
a boundary from 1621 to the present.
