170 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
contemporary map, but an idea which formed the basis of a claim later
made by the British. When we remember that the 1621 boundary wâs
to run through to the St. Lawrence from the source of the river St.
Croix, we can scarcely doubt, with Champlain's map before us, that the
branch running farthest up towards the St. Lawrence, i.e., our present
Chiputneticook branch, was the one intended as the boundary, and not
the short western branch. This is confirmed by the fact that the long
branch shows at its head three branches, and it would seem probable
even to certainty that the words " western source " were added in order
to decide which one of these three was to form the boundary. That
these three branches do not exist at the head of the. Chiputneticook is
no ohjection to this view, thei point is, they were supposed to exist ; ^
and documents were prepared on what was supposed to be the case, not
on the unknown actual fact ; moreover, neither do they exist where the
western branch enters the main river. This is further confirmed by the
description of the north line which is to run northerly until it reaches
St. Lawrence waters, for, according to Champlain's map, such a Ime
would need to run but a short distance to reach a river emptying into the
St. Lawrence, apparently one nearly as large as the St. Croix itself.
Moreover, we can put the argument in another way ; even if the f ramers
of the charter of 1621 had had a modern map of the region before them,
such as that in map No. 1, since their aim was to establish a boundary
running approximately north and south, they would almost certainly
have chosen that branch which extends farthest directly into the
country, and not that which turns off at right angles less than one-
thirk of the way back from the coast. I am of opinion, therefore, that
the western source of the St. Croix intended by the charter of 1621
was not the Scoodic of the modern maps, but the western source of the
northern or Chiputneticook branch, the very one which does form the
present boundary.^
That the western branch of the three shown on the 1612 map (map
No. 6) should be chosen, rather than the middle or eastern, was natural
^ In fact there are at the head of the Chiputneticook branch of the St.
Croix three branches, namely, the main chain of lakes, the Palfrey branch
and the Little Digdeguash, and it is by no means impossible that it is these
three, laid down from information supplied by the Indians, that are intended
to be represented on this map. This, however, is very uncertain.
Since a line was to run northerly from the western source to the " nearest
spring," etc., it is probable that it was intended to run to the small lake
at the head of the river shown on this map.
^ If one considers from a certain resemblance between Lescarbot's map of
1609 and Alexander's of 1624 that the former was used by the framers of the
Charter, the case is still clearer for the Chiputneticook, for the three branches
there shown are obviously the three branches of the lower river forming the
cross, the westernmost of which is the present St. Croix River, with no trace
of its western or Scoodic branch.
