[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 173
islands in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the River St. Lawrence to its source,
with fifty leagues of extent from both banks, and all its branches, and all
the country fifty leagues on each side of a line between the source of the
St. Lawrence and the Gulf of California, with the islands in that gulf
and the lands adjacent. (Slaftcr's "Alexander," 241-242).
This grant, however, was never of any practical importance, though
under it Alexander had an interest in the reduction of Canada l)y Kirk
in 1629, and aside from its confirmation in an act of the Scottish Parlia-
ment in 1633 it disappears from history. Its extent, with others of
Alexander's grants are shown on the map in Banks's "x\nalytical State-
ment of the Case of Alexander Earl of Stirling " (London, 1832).
We are not here concerned with Alexander's attempts to settle Nova
Scotia, a subject fully traced in various local histories and with exhaus-
tive fulness in Slafter's work, and by Patterson in Volume X. of these
Transactions. It is of some importance to the completeness of our pre-
sent subject, however, to note Alexander's plan, of 1624, for the sub-
division of Nova Scotia, which was as follows : —
. . . . The country of New Scotland, being dividit into twa Provinces
and eache Province into several Dioceises or Bishoprikis, and each Diocese
in thrie Counteyis, and eache Countey into ten Baroneyis, every baronie being
three myle long vpon the coast and ten myle up into the countrie, dividit into
sax paroches, and eache paroche contening sax thousand aikars of land; . . .
(Patterson, these Transactions, X., ii., 88.)
The subdivision into two provinces was in one sense carried out, for Alex-
ander's own map (map No. 7) shows [New] Alexandria, the present New
Brunswick, and [New] Caledonia,, the present Nova Scotia. Thus was the
present division of our two provinces foreshadowed, with the Bay of
Fundy and the Isthmus of Chignccto as the boundary, though there is no
genetic connection but only a coincidence between Alexander's division
and that of the present. As to the Baronies, many of them were actually
granted,^ and the precept for the grant of one at the mouth of the St.
Croix is given in translation by Slafter (" Sir William Alexander," 51),
and the others were no doubt similar in form. Their locations can he
worked out from the volume of Registers of Grants, etc., in Nova Scotia,
preserved in the General Register House in Edinburg, although the sub-
ject is one of sentimental rather than practical historical interest.
We should here note also other local boundaries of this period. One
of the most important is the division of the country into the land of the
Etchemins (Maliseets), the Mainland, and of the Souriquois (Mic-
macs), the Peninsula, which became later of some importance in connec-
' Hannay, " History of Acadia," 112, states (no authority given) that 34 of
these were in the present New Brunswick.
