174 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
tion with the boundary disputes of 1751-1754. The division was clearly
made by Alexander's charter of 1621, which recognizes the Bay of Fundy
as such a boundary, for it is there referred to as " that great roadstead
which runs towards the eastern part of the land between the countries
of the Souriquois and Etchimins " (" ostium magnae illius stationis
navium trajicientes quae excurrit in terrae orientalem plagam inter
regiones Suriquorum Etcheminorum, vulgo Souriquois & Etehemines ").
The use of these names seems to imply that the framcrs of the charter
of 1631 had before them Lescarbot's map of 1609 in addition to those of
Champlain, for these names appear in large letters in Lesearbot
(omitted in No. 13, Cartography), but do not appear on either Champ-
Iain's 1612 or his 1613 map, though they are on his map of 1632. Many
maps continue to show these names of the Indian tribes even down into
the next century, and, in the absence of other recognized names for the
country they come at times to stand as the names of the country itself.
Thus they are used in this sense in the King's letter to Charnisay of
1638, later to be mentioned, and much importance was assigned to them
in this connection by the French commissioners in the boundary disputes
of 1751-1754.
Another division of this period is that of Norumbega, applied on
many pre-Champlain maps to the present Maine and a part of ISTew
Brunswick, but hardly surviving long into this period. Biard, however,
in 1613 (Eclations, IIT., 43) considered St. Croix as in Norumbega, but
this is the latest survival, of that name and division that I have observed.
In 1627 war broke out between England and France, and the Eng-
lish seized Port Eoyal, to which the French had returned after their
expulsion in 1613.- The war was in part ended by the Convention of
Susa in 1629, but finally by the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye in
1632 all places in Acadia held by England were restored to France.
B. Feom the Teeaty of St. Germain, 1632, to the Treaty of
Breda, 1667.
The part of the Treaty of St. Germain of importance to our present
subject reads thus : —
De la part de Sa Majesté de la Grande-Bretagne ledit sieur Ambassadeur,
en vertu du pouvoir qu'il a, lequel sera inséré en fin des présentes, a promis
& promet pour & au nom de sadite Majesté de rendre & restituer à Sa
Majesté Très-chretienne tous les lieux occupés en la nouvelle France, l'Acadie
& Canada, par les sujets de Sa Majesté de la Grande-Bretagne, iceux faire
retirer desdits lieux
{Mémoires des Commissaires, 12mo. éd. II. S.)
