[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 17S
Translation.
. The said Ambassador on behalf of his Majesty of Great Britain, by virtue
of the power he has, which shall be inserted at the end of these presents,
has promised and does promise for and in the name of his said Majesty to
give up and restore to his most Christian Majesty all the places in New
France, L'Acadie and Canada, occupied by the subjects of his Majesty
of Great Britain, (and) to make them withdraw from the said places; . . .^
The important fact from our present point of view about this Treaty
is this, — that England restored to France certain places in Acadia, but
of Acadia as a whole, there is no mention whatever, much less of any
boundaries for it.
Although the formal steps for the transfer of the places in Acadia
to France were taken in the Treaty of St. Germain, it had been known
since the Convention of Susa, three years before (1629) that this trans-
fer would be made, and hence France had proceeded to act on the
assumption that Acadia was hers. In 1631, Charles LaTour, in recog-
nition of his faithful service to the King of France, had been appointed
the King's Lieutenant-General in Acadia, while the Company of New
France had been preparing to exploit the country. In 1632, accordingly,
they sent out De Razilly to take possession of the forts held by the Eng-
lish, and to promote settlement and trade in Acadia, which he proceeded
earnestly to do. The French appear at once to have assumed that
Acadia extended to its ancient limits of 40°, for they proceeded to
drive the English from a trading post at Penobscot, and in 1635 took
possession of it themselves and held it successfully for some time there-
after. Moreover, De Eazilly sent formal notice to the New Englanders
not to advance their settlements beyond Pemaquid (Kennebec), and his
Lieutenant, Charnisay, seems, to have sent verbal notice that he regarded
Acadia as extending to the fortieth parallel, a claim which of course no
one could have taken seriously, for the flourishing New England settle-
ments of Massachusetts were north of that limit. De Eazilly, who took
up his own residence at La Have, was aided in Acadia by three lieuten-
ants, all of whom became prominent in Canadian history, i Charnisay
commanded the post at Penobscot, LaTour that at the mouth of the St.
John, while Denys, who later became governor of the entire St. Lawrence
coast from Cape Breton to Gaspé, at this time was with De Razilly at
LaHave. But there appear to have been no recognized bounds between
the spheres of activity of these lieutenants, and there was no need for
such, so widely separated were they. Such was the state of affairs at the
time of De Eazilly^s death in 1636.
In the meantime, however, i.e., between 1632 and 1636, two local
grants were made which we must notice in connection with our present
' Given also by Murdoch, Nova Scotia, I., 88.
