176 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
subject. In 1632 the Company of New France granted the Bay and
Eiver St. Croix to De Eazilly, and in 1635 they granted the territory at
the month of the St. John to LaTour. Both of these grants are fully
described and mapped in the preceding Monograph of this series (" His-
toric Sites of New Brunswick," 307, 308). Their bounds were perfectly
distinct and recognizable, but they lapsed into oblivion and never pro-
duced any effect either upon any boundaries which exist to-day, or upon
any later boundaries whatever.
After the death of De Eazilly in 1636, his rights in Acadia devolved
upon his brother, who sold them to Charnisay. Thus Charnisay claimed
Port Eoyal, LaHave and St. Croix, and immediately became aggressive
as to his rights in Acadia. This led to disputes with LaTour, and the
subject having been referred to the King of France, he, in a letter to
Charnisay in 1638, established boundaries between the two lieutenants
as follows : —
. . . . vous soyez mon Lieutenant général en la côte des Etchemins, à
prendre depuis le milieu de la terre ferme de la Baie Françoise, en tirant
vers les Virgines, & Gouverneur de Pentagoet ; & que le charge du sieur de
la Tour mon Lieutenant général en la côte d'Acadie, soit depuis le milieu de
la Baie Françoise jusqu'au détroit de Canseau. Ainsi vous ne pouvés chan-
ger aucun ordre dans l'habitation de la rivière Saint-Jean, faite par ledit
sieur de la Tour, qui ordonnera de son œconomie & peuple, & comme, il
jugera à propos ; & ledit sieur de la Tour ne s'ingérera non plus de rien
changer es habitations de la Hêve & Port Royal, ni des ports de ce qui y
est
(Memorials of the English and French Commissaries, 711.)
Translation.
You shall be my lieutenant general on the coast of the Etchemins, begin-
ning from the middle of the terra firma of the French Bay, ' [Fundy] and
thence towards "Virginia, — and governor of Pentagoet ; and that the charge
of the Sieur de la Tour, my lieutenant general on the coast of Acadie, shall
be from the middle of the French bay to the strait of Canseau. Further, you
are not empowered to change any arrangements in the settlement on the
River St. John, made by the said sieur de la Tour, who will direct his busi-
ness and his people according to his judgement : and the said sieur de la
Tour shall not attempt to change anything in the settlements of Lahève and
Port Royal, nor in the ports thereto belonging ^
The bounds here set, although not clearly stated, would seem, never-
theless, to be unmistakable, giving to LaTour the peninsula (the present
Nova Scotia) and to Charnisay the mainland (the present New Bruns-
wick and part of Maine) ; but as we shall presently see, a different inter-
pretation was afterwards given to these boundaries. Another very
important fact to be observed is that the name Acadia is confined to La-
* This letter is given in part in translation in Murdoch, I., 93.
