XVIII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The plan of the fort at Annapolis Royal, which is reproduced on
previous page, was enlarged by Mr. Harry Piers, the present curator,
from a map of the town and district in MS. 7^, an uncatalogued volume,
added tQ the collection since 1886. The index states that it was ''copied
from the original on file in the public ^record office, London." In one
corner is an "explanation of the figure,'' which runs as follows: —
" Plan of Annapolis Royall and Port the principall place of strenght
in Nova Scotia in America, its situation is upon a tongue of land formed
on the North-East Side by the river Dauphin, and on the South-East
by a large Morras, in 44 degs. 25 minuts north latitude. Surrendered
to Her Majesties armes under the command of the Hon. Col. Francis
Nicholson after Eight dayes siege in October, 1710." Enquiry at the
Record Offi'ce as to the age, history, etc., of the map proved fruitless,
but it is clearly to be dated about the time of the capture. The " Ex-
planation'' has reference to the place " where we landed our Cannon
and ammonition,'' and "The incampmeut of the severall Regiments."
The tracing shows the Vauban system of fortification, and preserves
the original contour, before the ravelins were added to the south and
east.
It is to be hoped that the example of the Nova Scotia Historical
Society will be followed by other associations in all the provinces.
Very much could be done in this direction in New Brunswick, where
there are a large number of archives relating to the Loyalists, who
founded that province, which ought to be collected and published with
the aid of private and public subscriptions. No doubt the most useful
work that historical societies can perform is the preservation and
publication of diaries and memoirs and other old documents which
are in the possession of individuals or in provincial archives.
The Ontario Historical Society has commenced to do good work in this
way, and the same is true of the Lundy^s Lane Historical Society, who
have recently issued the fourth part of the "Documentary history of
the campaign on the Niagara Frontier in 1812," edited by Major E.
Cruikshank, of Fort Erie.
It is consequently with much satisfaction that the Council of the
Royal Society has read the following communication, which the
Honorary Secretary has very recently received from the Reverend W. 0.
Raymond, of St. John, New Brunswick, who has devoted himself for
many years to the study of the history of the Loyalists, and is most
competent to edit the important work to which he refers.
By the joint assistance of the New Brunswick Historical Society
and Mr. F. E. Winslow, of Chatham, N.B., we are having printed the
