[ganongJ boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 181
the present Lunenburg). But the important fact for us is this, that this
document appears to use the name Acadia as if it were a place in Nova
Scotia, and moreover as if the " coast and country of Accadye " applied
specially to that part included within this grant. It was unquestionably
this use of the name Acadia which led to the distinction between Acadia
and Nova Scotia made in the grant by Cromwell to LaTour, Crown and
Temple in 1654, and by Temple in 1664, and which formed later so
strong an argument for the French contention that Acadia of old
included only a part of the peninsula. This grant would have been a
powerful argument for their side had they known of it, which appears
not to have been the case. If now we ask why Acadia was thus restricted
in this grant, the answer seems not difficult, namely, Acadia at that time
(as the French commissioners claimed in 1751) really was understood
to include only the southern part of the peninsula, an idea entirely in
harmony with the maps of the time, as we have already seen in an earlier
section (see page 161).
We come now to an event of much importance in the history of the
boundaries of this period. In 1654, despite the fact that England and
France were at peace,^ an expedition consisting of English ships and
New England soldiers took possession of all the French posts in Acadia
from Penobscot to Canso. It was done by Cromwell's orders, and with
the approval of the people of New England, and no doubt was justified
by the claim of King Charles that the cession of the places in Acadia did
not carry Acadia itself. France protested, though apparently with a
mildness altogether surprising under the circumstances. But the next
year, 1655, the Treaty of Westminster was signed, which contains in
Article XXV. this reference to places in Acadia : —
Et sur ce que ledit seigneur Ambassadeur de Sa Majesté Très-chrétien!ie
demandoit la restitution de trois forts, à savoir de Pentagoet, Saint-Jean &
Port-royal, pris depuis peu dans l'Amérique, ensembles des biens qui ont été
trouvés dans lesdits forts, & que les sieurs Commissaires de Son Altesse soû-
tenoient au contraire qu'ils ont droit de les retenir ; il a été accordé que ce
* At least they were nominally at peace. The English boundary commis-
sioners, however, claimed that this was not true. Thus in their Memorials
(page 259), they say : — " As to the Action in 1654, the French Commissaries
are mistaken when they say that the Commonwealth of Great Britain, and the
Crown of France were then in full Peace ; continual and open Hostilities
were carried on by the two Nations during the whole Tear 1652 [authority
cited]. France had entered into an offensive and defensive Alliance with the
declared Enemies of the Commonwealth of England, and Cromwell in this very
Year 1654 refused to admit France a party to a Treaty made with the States.
This mutual Ill-will and reciprocal Hostility continued until 1655, when the
Treaty of Westminster was made, which plainly appears by the Provisions of
it to have been made to re-establish Peace in general."
