182 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
différend sera, comme par ces présentes il est remis aux mêmes Commis-
saires & arbitres, auxquels les dommages soufferts de part & d'autre depuis
l'année 1640, sont remis par la teneur du précédent article, pour être de même
jugé & terminé dans ledit temps.
(Mémoires des Commissaires, 12mo. éd., II., 21.)
Translation.
And as to the fact that the said lord ambassador of his most Christian
majesty has demanded the restitution of three forts, namely, Pentagoet,
Saint-John and Port Royal, taken recently in America, together with the
property which has been found in the same forts, and (as to the fact) that
the Commissioners of his Highness [Cromwell] maintain on the contrary
that they have a right to retain them ; it has been agreed that this differ-
ence shall be, as by these presents it is, referred to the same Commissioners
and arbiters to whom the damages suffered on both sides since 1640 are
referred by the tenor of the preceding article, to be by the same judged
and finished within the said time (i.e., three months).
It hence appears that England still claimed a right to hold Pen-
obscot, St. John and Port Eoyal, but by what right does not appear, for
the contention of King Charles that he did not cede Acadia in 1832
would not apply to Port Royal at least. I have not been able to find
any reference to the labours or any decision of these Commissioners, but
whether backed by their decision or not,^ England the next year assumed
entire right to all of Acadia, for in 1656 Cromwell made to Thomas
Temple, William Crowne and Charles de LaTour a grant of the greater
part of Acadia, bounded thus : —
. . . . sçavoir, le pays & territoire appelle I'Acadie, & partie du pays
nommé la Nouvelle Ecosse, depuis Merliguesche du côté de l'est, jusqu'au
port & cap de le Hève, rangeant les côtes de la mer jusques au cap de Sable;
& de là, jusqu'à un certain port appelé le port la Tour, & à présent nommé
le port l'Esmeron ; & de là, rangeant les côtes & isles jusqu'au cap Fourchu;
& de là, jusques au cap & rivière Sainte-Marie, rangeant les côtes de la mer
jusqu'au Port Royal ; & de là, rangeant les côtes jusqu'au fond de la Baie ;
& de là, rangeant ladite Baie jusqu'au fort Saint-Jean ; & de là rangeant
toute la côte jusqu'à Pentagoet & rivière Saint-George dans Mescourus, situé
sur les confins de la Nouvelle Angleterre, du côté de l'ouest & en dedans les
terres tout le long desdites côtes jusqu'à cent lieues de profondeur
{Memorials of the English, and French Commissaries, 727.)
Translation.
that is to say, the country and territory called Acadia, and part of the
country called Nova Scotia, from Merliguesche on the east coast to the port
and cape of LaHave, continuing along the sea coast to Cape Sable ; and
from thence to a certain port called Port Latour, and now named Port
L'Esmeron ; and from thence continuing along the coast and islands to
'■ Palfrey's " New England" (II: 286) mentions that the French monarch
in 1658 complains of the express refusal of Cromwell to surrender the country.
