[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 183
Cape Fourchu ; and from thence to the Cape and River St. Mary, continuing
along the sea coast to Port Royal ; and from thence continuing along the
coast to the extremity of the bay ; and from thence continuing along the
said bay to the fort of St. John ; and from thence continuing all along the
coast to Pentagoet and the River St. George in Mescourus, on the borders of
New England on the west coast and into the lands throughout the said
coasts to one hundred leagues of depth ^
Although tliis document is not entirely free from the obscurities
common to such documents at that time, its meaning nevertheless seems
plain. It grants all that part of the peninsula previously granted in
1630 to the LaTours (this part being identical in boundaries, though
they are described in reverse order, as comparison with the grant of 1630,
given above, will show), together with both coasts of the Bay of Fundy
and all the mainland clear to the St. George's river near Kennebec. The
depth of 100 leagues inland, that is, over 250 miles, makes this grant
include practically all of the present New Brunswick and Gaspé to the
St. Lawrence, and all south of the St. Lawrence to the St. George's river.
It was hence equivalent to Alexander's Nova Scotia together with his
county of Canada and somewhat more, and the grant ignores any rights
of Alexander, which, of course, were assumed to have lapsed. The
limits of this grant are shown correctly upon the English boundary map
of 1755, but on the French map of the same year they are restricted to
much narrower limits (see later maps No.s. 12 and 13). The most im-
portant point, however, in this document, from our present point of view,
is the fact that it makes the same distinction between Acadia as a part
of the peninsula as had the earlier grant of 1631, and this grant of course
obviously adopts it from the latter. The fact was used with good effect
by ihe French boundaiy commissioneis later when they wished to
prove that ancient Acadia included only a part of the peninsula.
But while the English were thus calmly assuming a right to Nova
Scotia, and a Nova Scotia extending northward to the St. Lawrence, it
is important to notice that the French, even when holding all Acadia
without dispute, seem not to have viewed it as extending to the St. Law-
rence, but as only to the watershed between the St. Lawrence and the
Atlantic. This is reflected in the maps of the time, as we shall see, but
it is also more specifically stated in the commissions to their Governors
of Canada. Thus the prolongation of Montmagny's commission as Gov-
ernor in 1645 (" Memorials of the English and French Commissaries,"
715) makes him Governor and Lieutenant-General at Quebec and "on
the St. Lawrence and other rivers which discharge into it " (sur le fleuve
^ The original English form of this grant appears not to be known. It
appeared first in French in the " Mémoires des Commissaires."
