184 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
de Saint-Laurent, & autres rivières qui se décharge en icelui), and the
same limits are repeated in the commission to de Lauson in 1651 (do.
717), with the addition that ten leagues depth on both the south and
north coasts are mentioned (dans toute l'étendue dudit fleuve Saint-
Laurent en la Nouvelle France, isles & terres adjacentes de part & d'autre
dudit fleuve, & autres rivières qui se déchargent en icelui jusqu'à son
embouchure , à prendre dix lieues près de Miscou du côté du sud & du
côté du nord, autant que s'étendent les terres dudit pays). This was
repeated in almost identical words in the commission of d'Argenson in
1657 (do. 733), in that of de Mazi, 1663 (do. 737), and doubtless in
many others. It is plain then that the French considered Acadia as
limited to the region south of a line drawn ten leagues south of and par-
allel with the St. Lawrence.
Attempts were made by Temple (who bought out the rights of La-
Tour and Crowne) to utilize his immense grant of 1656 (the whole of
Acadia), but with these we have at present no concern. Eight years
later, however, another grant was made which does have a connection
with our present subject, for in that year (1663-1664) King Charles IL
granted to his brother, the Duke of York, a territory thus described : —
all that part of the main land of New England, beginning at a certain place,
called or known by the name of St. Croix, adjoining to New Scotland in
America ; and from thence extending along the sea coast, unto a certain
place called Pemaquin or Pemaquid, and so up the river thereof to the fur-
thest head of the same as it tendeth northwards, and extending from thence
to the river of Kennebec, and so up, by the shortest course, to the river of
Canada, northwards
{Vallatin, " Right of the United States," 2.)
If now one will compare the wording of this grant with that of
Alexander's Patent to the County of Canada in 1635 (see earlier, page
180), he will find them nearly identical, so that obviously it was Alex-
ander's old County of Canada which was now granted to the Duke of
York, and which later became known as the Territory of Sagadahock
(see map No. 4). But this grant not only gave territory which by all
right belonged to France (to which all the region at least to tlie Pen-
obscot had been ceded by the Treaty of St. Germain), but it ignored
entirely and unjustly the grant made to LaTour, Crowne and Temple
eight years before, another remarkable example of the disregard of the
rights of their subjects shown by the English rulers of that time. Per-
haps the King justified his action with the thought that the grant of
1654 had been made by the Protector Cromwell, whose acts he was not
bound to respect, but such would not excuse even if it explained his
action. But before any disputes as to this territory could arise, war
