[ganong] BOUNDAEIES OF NEW BRUNSWICK 185
broke out with France, to be ended finally by the Treaty of Breda, in
1667, which restored all Acadia to France.
C. From the Treaty of Breda, 1667, to the Treaty of
Utrecht, 1713.
The words of the Treaty of Breda, in which the Acadia ceded to
France is described, are as follows : —
Le ci-devant nommé seigneur le Roi de la Grande-Bretagne, restituera
aussi & rendra au ci-dessus nommé seigneur le Roi Très-chrétien ....
le pays appelé l'Acadie, situé dans l'Amérique septentrionale, dont le Roi
Très-chrétien a autrefois joui
(Mémoires des Commissaires, 12mo. éd., II., 34-)
Translation.
The heretofore mentioned lord the King of Great Britain, will restore also
and will give up to the aforementioned lord the Most Christian King ....
the country called Acadia, situated in North America, which the Most Chris-
tian King formerly possessed
The next year King Charles ceded by letters patent all Acadia to
France, and in this document Acadia is thus described : —
. ... all that Country called Acadia, lying in North America, which the
said most Christian King did formerly enjoy, as namely '■ the Forts and
Habitations of Pentagoet, St. John, Port Royal, la Hève and de Cape Sahle. . . .
And in French.
. . . . tout le pays appelé l'Acadie, situé dans l'Amérique septentrionale, dont
ledit Roi Très-chrétien jouissoit autrefois, nommément ^ les forts & habitations de
Pentagoet, Saint-Jean, Port Royal, la Hève & Cap de Sable. . . .
(Memorials of the English and French Commissaries, 584.)
Later, King Charles sent instructions to Temple to deliver Acadia
to the French, and these instructions mention the same places, namely,
Pentagoet, St. John, Port Eoyal, LaHere and Cape Sable.
Nothing could be more conclusive as to the intention of King
Charles to deliver up all Acadia as far as the Penobscot to Fnance. By
this cession, of course, the rights of Temple (who had purchased those
of LaTour and Crowne), and also (one would suppose) those of the
Duke of York to Sagadahock, were extinguished. When Temple received
the order to yield the several places in Acadia to the French, he refused
^ Here is inserted a marginal note, — " Inserted at the Request of M. de
Ruvigny," with its translation in the French version.
Sec. II., 1901, 12.
