186 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
to obey, on the following grounds, expressed in his letter to the French
representative designated to receive them : —
until his Majesty's Pleasure be further known, both as to the
Bounds and Limits of Acadia and Nova Scotia, there being no Places men-
tioned in my Order, but la Hève and Cape Sable, that belong to Acadia ; and
the rest of the Places mentioned, viz., Pentagoet, St. John's and Port Royal are
in Nova Scotia, bordering upon New England
(Memorials of the English and French Commissaries, 593.)
This claim of Temple was based of course upon the wording of his
own grant, already cited (see earlier, page 183), which made this dis-
tinction between Acadia and Nova Scotia. Doubtless he knew that this
claim could not hold, but it represented his only chance to save himself
from ruin. He had staked his alb upon his grant in Nova Scotia, and
he doubtless knew enough of the ways of princes, and particularly of the
Stuart princes, to realize; that his chances of obtaining any compensation
from the government for his rights to be extinguished by the cession of
his lands to France would be/ very slight, and in fact, though fully
entitled to compensation, he never received any whatsoever. His claim
was ineffectual, for in 1669 the King sent him orders to give up without
delay or difficulty all the above-mentioned places to France (" Mem-
orials of the English and French Commissaries," 743), and this he did.
Temple's claim was thus disallowed by King Charles in favour of the
French, but later when this country was in dispute, the French commis-
sioners used that very claim to their own advantage. (See page 205,
208).
All Acadia, therefore, even to its most extreme limits, from the
Peninsula to beyond the Penobscot was ceded unmistakably by England
to France. England in requiring the Forts at St. John and Penobscot to
be given up, recognized them as in Acadia, as did France in accepting
them. Thus was an extension of Acadia to the Penobscot given official
recognition by both nations.
Under the French, Acadia was peaceful for a few years, and during
this time some boundaries wore established of importance to our present
subject. The cession of Acadia to France obliterated the rights of Tem-
ple (including the purchased rights of LaTour), and of the Duke of
York to the territory of Sagadahock. Nevertheless, in 1674, Charles II.
actually granted a confirmation of the latter grant.
In 1663, when Acadia was considered by France as rightfully hers,
by an edict of the King of France all grants of earlier ' date of lands
which had not been cleared were revoked. Hence it came about that in
the part of Acadia now constituting New Brunswick, not a single grant
was in force, nor did a single boundary exist when France took full pos-
