[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 189
Mary, annexed it with Sagadahock to that state. In the charter it is
thus described : — '
. . . . and also the Lands and Hereditaments lying and being in the
Countrey or Territory commonly called Accada, or Nova Scotia ; and all those
Lands and Hereditaments lying and extending between the said Countrey or
Territory of Nova Scotia and the said River of Sagadahock, or any part thereof.
(From the Charter, published in Folio. London, 1692.)
Thus we see that in 1691 the English considered Acadia and ISFova
Scotia as synonymous, but were non-committal as to the limits of the
Duke of York^s territory of Sagadahock, which is evidently what is meant
by the lands between Nova Scotia and the river Sagadahock. Five
years later, in 1696, however, by an act of Parliament (Winsor, America,
v., 96) Nova Scotia appears to have been set off from Massachusetts
and erected into a separate province.^ This action was no doubt in
response to a petition from Massachusetts that that Province should be
freed from further expense in connection with Nova Scotia (Coll. Maine
Historical Society, second series, V., 447-451 ; Murdoch, I., 198).
In the meantime the war between the English and the French and
Indians went on with deadly cruelty and varying fortune until 1697.
The English did not hold Port Eoyal, and the French soon re-occupied
it. But the war came to an end with the peace of Eyswick in 1697. The
part of that treaty relating to Acadia was as follows : —
. . . . dominus rex Magnae Britanniae restituet domino regi Christian-
issimo omnes regiones insulas, arces, et colonias ubivis locorum sitas ques
possidebant Galli ante dictam ejusdam belli declarationem.
Translation.
. . . . the lord king of Great Britain shall restore to the lord the most
christian king all the regions, islands, citadels and colonies, wheresoever
situated, which the French possessed before the present war was declared.
(Murdoch, " Nova Scotia," I., 238.)
Acadia is not mentioned in the treaty by name, nor are any limits
assigned to it. But it is specified that the boundaries are to be settled
^ I have not been able to find any further information upon this point,
nor has the exhaustive search made for me by my friend, Mr. Victor H.
Paltsits, of the Lenox Library, resulted in the discovery of any document
describing this erection of Nova Scotia into a separate province. It is very
probable that the well-known petition of Massachusetts to the British Gov-
ernment in 1696 to garrison Port Royal and St. John was considered equiva-
lent to a relinquishment of Nova Scotia, which would thus revert to the
Crown. In this case the first formal re-establishment of Nova Scotia as a
distinct Province would be in 1719 as we shall see later. See page 194, note.
