190 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
by commissioners. Hence, by this treaty, although the act by whieli
Nova Scotia was erected in 1696 was nullified, the old claim of the Eng-
lish to Sagadahock was left in the same condition as before the war, and
Massachusetts continued to claim it under her charter of 1691. Ville-
bon, however, in 1698 sent formal notice to the Governor of Massachu-
setts that the French regarded the bounds of Acadia as extending to the
Kennebec.
The Commissioners under the Treaty of Ryswick accomplished at
least a part of their work, as various documents show, but I have been
unable to find any detailed account of their proceedings. Charlevoix,
as quoted in Jefîerys (" Conduct of the French," 41) states that Messrs.
De Tallard and D'Herbaut were obliged to remove the frontier backward
from the Kennebec to the St. Georges Eiver, and that this was settled in
1100 by M. DeVillieu, for the King of France and Mr. Soudric ^ for his
Britannic Majesty. Other references to the St. George's Eiver as a deter-
mined boundary between Acadia and New England occur (N.Y. Col-
onial Documents, IX,, 895, 912), and it is stated that the arms of Eng-
land and France were set up upon a post on an island at the mouth of
the St.'George^s River, to mark the boundary (Murdoch, " Nova Scotia,"
I., 474). The French ambassador appears to have had some part in
these negotiations (" Memorials of the English and French Commis-
saries," 31, 419), although the commissioners state (421) that no bound-
ary appeared to have been .settled.^ Later, by a decree of 1703 (Mur-
doch, " Nova Scotia," I., 261) the King of France granted to LeBorgne,
' Soudric is probably Southack (he is called Suddrick in the boundary MS.,
compare Kilby, Eastport, 102), an English captain in the employ of Massa-
chusetts, and maker of the charts of this coast. Compare also Shea's Charle-
voix, V. 93.
^ As this work is in press, I find in the " Histoire Géographique de la
Nouvelle Ecosse " (London, 1749) this statement (page 127) : — "La paix de
Riswick ayant été conclue en 1697, on nomma des Commissaires, conformé-
ment a ce traité, pour régler les limites entre la Nouvelle Ecosse & la Nou-
velle Angleterre, qu'ils fixaient alors à la rivière de Saint George qui est
entre Pemequid & Pentagoet. Cet arrangement s'acheva par des Députés
qu'on envoya exprès en 1700 dans l'Amérique septentrionale." A footnote
in this work questions whether this statement is correct and points out that
no such arrangement had been approved by the two crowns. The status
of the question is probably this, that the Commissioners agreed upon St.
George's River as a compromise between the Kennebec and Penobscot (and
Villieu and Southack were instructed to set up a mark there), but were unable
to agree as to the interior boundaries ; hence their work was never completed
and therefore never approved by the two governments.
Some interesting references to the subject, containing however nothing
new, are given in the recently published Canadian Archives volume, 1899,
Supplement, on pages 330, 336, 345, 347, 352.
