[qanong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 191
Pentagoet with ten leagues on each side of that river to the River St.
George.
But in 1702 war again broke out between England and France, and
was waged in America by bloody Indian methods and cruel reprisals
until in 1710 the English took Port Royal. Finally, in 1713, by the
Treaty of Utrecht, France ceded Acadia to England, in whose possession
it has remained to this day.
D. From the Treaty of Utrecht, 1713, to the Treaty of
Paris, 1763.
The Article, XII. of the Treaty of Utrecht, which ceded Acadia to
England, reads as follows : —
Le Roi Très-Chrétien fera remettre à la Reine de la Grande-Bretagne, le
jour de l'éxchange des ratifications du présent Traité de paix, des lettres & actes
authentiques qui feront foi de le cession faite à perpétuité à la Reine & à la
Couronne de la Grande-Bretagne, de l'isle de Saint-Christophe, que les sujets
de Sa Majesté Britannique posséderont désormais seuls; De la nouvelle Ecosse,
autrement dite Acadie, en son entier, conformément à ses anciennes limites,
comme aussi de la ville de Port-Royal, maintenant appelée Annapolis Royale;
& généralement de tout ce qui dépend desdites terres & isles de ce pays-là,
avec la souveraineté
(Memorials of the English and French Commissaries, SJ/.)
I
The Latin Description of the Places reads thus : —
Novam Scotiam, quoque sive Acadiam totam limitibus suis antiquis com-
prehensam, ut et Portus-Regii urbem, nunc Annapolim Regiam dictam . . .
Translation.
The most Christian King shall transfer to the Queen of Great Britain, the
day of the exchange of the present Treaty of peace, authoritative letters and
acts which will guarantee the cession made in perpetuity to the Queen and
crown of Great Britain, cf the Island of St. Christopher, which the subjects
of his Britannic Majesty will possess for the future exclusively ; of Nova
Scotia, otherwise called Acadia, in its entirety, conformably to its ancient
limits, as also the town of Port Royal, now called Annapolis Royal ; and
generally of all depending upon the said lands and islands of this country,
with the sovereignty
With the Island of St. Christopher we have nothing to do, but we
must note that Cape Breton, and the other islands in the Gulf of St.
Lawrence, including Isle St. John (now Prince Edward Island) were
specially reserved to France. The wording of this treaty is noteworthy
for our present subject, since, while apparently unmistakable, it really
opened the way to a series of disputes as to the boundaries of Acadia
which diplomacy was never able to settle, and which were not quieted
