192 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA ;
until the Treaty of Paris in 1763 settled the questions effectually by the
withdrawal of the French altogether from all New France.
The treaty seems to show that Nova Scotia and Acadia were con-
sidered one and the same territory by the contracting parties, and that it
was all ceded to England ; indeed, the language seems specially chosen
to emphasize the completeness of the cession. The French had always
vigorously contended for an Acadia extending to the Kennebec, or at
least to west of the Penobscot as long as the country was in their posses-
sion. When it passed from them by the Treaty of Utrecht they began to
claim that the Acadia of the Treaty was limited to a part of the penin-
sula of Nova Scotia.
For the remainder of this period, our subject falls naturally into
two parts : — first, the history of the dispute as to the limits of the Acadia
ceded by the Treaty of Utrecht (of which we shall make a separate chap-
ter), and second, the development of the boundaries during this period.
We shall consider first the boundary evolution between 1713 and
1763, and happily the story is simple and direct. The cession of Acadia
to the English revived Nova Scotia and Sagadahock ; this was the view
of Massachusetts, which indeed had never relinquished its claim to the
latter territory, which had been annexed to Massachusetts in 1691. In
Nova Scotia, however, a somewhat different view was taken, for it was
held that Nova Scotia included all of ancient Acadia, and hence to the
St. George's River. Thus Phillips, Governor of Nova Scotia, wrote to
England in 1719 that he imagined that the bounds of Nova Scotia ex-
tended to the Kennebec, and that Sagadahock was under the Government
of Nova Scotia (Murdoch, I., 359), and he mentions that the bounds
between New England and Nova Scotia had not been declared. The
Lords of Trade and Plantations informed him the next year that they
thought the lands between Kennebec and St. Croix not in his govern-
ment (do., 369). In the next year Phillips again emphasized his
view (do., 386), and it is set forth also in a description of Nova Scotia
by Masoairene at about the same time (do., 394). The commission of
Governor Phillips in 1719, and all others up to 1763 do not assign any
definite limits to Nova Scotia, but refer to it simply as " Nova Scotia or
Accadie." Again in 1732, the Nova Scotia authorities considered Nova
Scotia as extending to the St. George's River by inheritance from Acadia
(N.S. Archives, IL, 84), and surveys were made west of the St. Croix
(do. 175). As latel as 1762, Nova Scotia still claimed these lands, and
Massachusetts made propositions to Nova Scotia for an adjustment of
the boundary, which however Nova Scotia thought should be settled by
the Crown (Murdoch, I., 412). In the same year the Governors of Nova
Scotia and Massachusetts agreed not to make any more grants of land in
