PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XIX
papers of Edwai'd Winslow, the Loyalist — afterwards judge of the
►Superior Court, and ,at on.e time administrator of the Government in
tiiis Province.
The volume will be the most valuable collection of private papers
yet published in ' Canada. Including a good index and foot notes, it
will fill about 750 pages of the size of the Transactions of the liojaX
Society, and the paper being thicker, will make a volume about the
size of the last issue (Vol. 5, Second Series). The number of copies
printed will be 500.
There is a short preface and an introduction of some 10 pages,
giving a short sketch of the Winsilow family in America. Then the
papers and letters follow in chronological order — beginning with a
letter of Jonathan Sewell to Edward Winslow, of January 10th, 1776.
The correspondence during the revolution fills 65 pages, and is very
valuable from the Loyalist standpoint. Winalow as general muster-
master of the British American regiments, was brought into intimate
contact with those corps, and we learn much about the circumstances
under which they were organized. Their character, services, and sub-
sequent settlement in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.
The correspondence, etc., for the years 1783, 1784, is voluminous,
occupying about 185 pages, and throwing light on all the proceedings
connected with the division of the old province of Nova Scotia.
Thenceforth we have a vast amount of information respecting the
province of New Brunswick_, both politically and socially, and some
side lights on the history of the adjoining provinces.
Among those whose names appear among Winslow's correspond-
ence are the fallowing : — I italicize those with whom the corres-
pondence was voluminous: — Jonathan Sewell, Governor Montfort
Bro'WTie, Colonel Innes, Ward CMpman, Sir John Wentworth, Lord
Eawdon, Br. Gen. H. M. Gordon, Col. Edmund Fanning, Judge Joshua
Upham, George Leonard, Joshua Loring, Col. Benjamin Thompson
(Count Eumford), Judge Isaac Allen, Lt.-Col. De Lancey, Rev.
Jonathan Odell, Br. Gen. Fox, 8. S. Blowers, Lt.-Col. R. Hewlett,
Sir Guy Oarleton, Lt.-Col. Gabriel De Veber, Sir Wm. Pep-
perrell, Charles Morris, Lt. Col. J. H. Cruger, Major General
John Coffin, Col. Benjamin Robinson, Hon. Wm. Hazen, Major
Studholme, George Townsen, Thomas Aston Coffin, Mather Byles, Ben.
Marston, Thomas Knox, Thomas Williams (Annapolis), George
Timothy Ruggles, Major Thomas Barclay, Roger Johnson, Hon. Hugh
Finlay, Duke of Richmond, Duke of Northumberland, Duke of Kent,
Earl Sheffield, Col. E. G. Lutwyche, George Heriot, etc., etc.
