[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 193
the doubtful territory until tlie question of boundaries was determined
at home (do., 431). Finally came the Treaty of Paris, and in the same
year, 1763, the St. Croix and the north line were formally adopted by
Great Britain as the boundary between Nova Scotia and Massachusetts,
thus assigning Sagadahock to the latter state. ^ There was thus in this
period a long interprovincial boundary dispute, though happily one not
of a disturbing nature. This dispute between Nova Scotia and Massa-
chusetts, moreover, was over territory at the same time claimed by France
as belonging to her. But even the establishment of the line in 1763 did
not end the dispute finally, as we shall see, for it remained doubtful for
some time as to which of the rivers emptying into Passamaquoddy Bay
was the St. Croix.
Throughout this period after the Treaty of Utrecht, the English
viewed both Acadia and Nova Scotia as extending northward to the St.
Lawrence, and the maps of the time, as will presently be shown, clearly
reflect this idea. Very different, however, was the interpretation of the
Frencb, for not only did they consider Acadia as confined to the southern
part of the peninsula, and all of continental Acadia as belonging to New
France and in their possession, but New England they considered as
limited northward by the watershed between the Atlantic and the St.
Lawrence, and this view is reflected in the French maps. After the
Treaty of Utrecht the English did not take possession of continental
Acadia, indeed they could not through lack of soldiers and settlers, and
it continued to be held by the French. To help enforce their claim, the
French built the strong fort of Beauséjour on the north bank of the i\Iis-
seguash, and the English built Fort Lawrence to match it on the south
bank, thus informally establishing the Misseguash as a boundary between
the actual possessions of the French and English in Acadia, the third
time this isthmus had formed a boundary. After the treaty of Aix-la-
'■ That is, practically ; as shown later, in the Commission of 1763, a
reservation was inserted to the effect that the Province of right extended to
the Penobscot, and the intermediate territory was only finally assigned to
Massachusetts in 1764 or 1765. One reason for the non-interference earlier
by the home government appears to be the uncertainty of the authorities
as to the precise status of the territory in question. Thus in a letter of June
10, 1762, from W. Bollan, Provincial Agent in London, to the Secretary of
Massachusetts, we read ; " It seemed [in 1732] to be questioned whether their
Majesties, King William and Queen Mary, when they gave to the Province
their Charter, had such complete right to the lands lying between the Rivers
Penobscot and St. Croix so delivered up by King Charles the 2nd, to the
French King that they could then well grant the same, the French Knight's
right not being extinguished without a cession." (Boundary Ms.) And in
1734 the law Offlcers of the Crown appear to have been uncertain upon the
subject. But the Treaty of 1763 solved all doubts.
