[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 199
The British commissaries, Shirley and Mildmav, imrler date Paris,
Sept. 21st, 1750, presented '^'A Meanorial Describing the limits of Nova
Scotia and Acadia." They quote the 12th Article of the Treaty of
Utrecht, and the act of cession of Acadia signed by the French King
later in the same year, and then proceed to " declare what are the Limits
which they demand on the Part of his said Majesty, as the true Bound-
aries of the said Territories of Nova Scotia, or Acadia, in its entire, con-
formable to its ancient Limits." The description of these bounds
begins thus : —
On the West, towards New-England, by the River Penobscot, otherwise
called Pentagoet, that is to say, beginning at its Entrance, and from thence
drawing a streight Line Northwards to the River of St. Laurence, or the
great River of Canada
and so on by boundaries, including all of the region to the eastward
excepting Cape Breton and other Islands in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
These bounds are shown on the large map contained in their memorials.
As to the lands between the Penobscot and Kennebec, extending to the
St. Lawrence, they claim that these belong to England both by ancient
right and by the Treaty of Utrecht. iVnd they demand that orders be
dispatched for the due execution of this article of the treaty and for the
withdrawal of French establishments from within those limits. Obvi-
ously this is but a formal statement of the British position.
Under the same date the French commissaries, la G-alissonière and
de Silhouette, issue a shorter statement. They state that the King
ceded to England all Acadia according to its ancient limits, together
with (comme aussi) Port Eoyal or Annapolis. From this it results that
Annapolis was not comprised within the ancient limits of Acadia, a fact
agreeing with the most ancient descriptions of the country, and conse-
quently ancient Acadia included only a part of the peninsula [i.e., of
that peninsula forming the present Nova Scotia]. They hold that the
limits between New France and New England ought to remain the same
as before the Treaty of Utrecht, which made no change in that respect.
The discussion should not be limited to the discussion of the bounds of
Acadia alone, but extended to related matters. The statement aîso
refers to other matters not connected with our present subject of the
boundaries.
Tn another brief note of date Nov. 16th, 1750, the French commis-
sioners state that having been desired by the English commissioners to
explain more exactly the ancient limits of Acadia, they declare that : —
. . . . l'ancienne Acadie commence à l'extrémité de la Baye-françoise,
depuis le Cap de Sainte-Marie, ou le Cap Fourchu ; qu'elle s'étend de long
des Côtes, & qu'elle se termine au Cap Canseau.
