20O ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Translation.
.... the ancient Acadia commences at the extremity of the Bay Fran-
çoise (Bay of Fundy) from Cap de Sainte-Marie or Cape Fourchu ; that it
extends along the coasts and ends at Cape Canso.
Nothing is here said about the northern boundary of this Acadia,
but presumably the French commissioners meant it to be formed by a
line drawn from Cape St. Mary to Cape Canso, and in a later memorial
they suggest such a line following the central watershed.
Although it would appear that the burden of proof in the case rested
upon the French commissioners, it was the English commissioners who
first presented a full memorial setting forth their claims. This is dated
January 11, 1751, and occupies some 35 quarto pages of the memorials.
Their object is very clearly stated in the opening paragraph : —
We the underwritten Commissaries of the King of Great Britain having,
in our Memorial of the 21st of September last, mark'd out the Extent and
ancient Limits of Nova Scotia, or Acadia, yielded to the Crown of Great
Britain by the 12th. Article of the Treaty of Utrecht, shall now proceed to
evince the Truth of those Limits, and demonstrate His Majesty's just Title
to all the Lands, Continents, Islands, Shores, Bays and Rivers comprehended
within them. In doing this we shall argue upon no Facts which are not
authentick, and no Evidence which is not conclusive ; and we are so for-
tunate as to be able to support every Part of this Claim, not only from sev-
eral Declarations and Acts of State on the Part of the Crown of France, but
also from the uniform Possession of that Crown for many Years, both before
and after the Treaty of Breda, which Crown, as often as it claim'd and pos-
sess'd Acadia, claim'd and possess'd it in that Extent, and with the same
limits as we now contend for. (Page 13.)
The Commisioners proceed first to prove that the name Acadia pro-
perly belongs to the entire country claimed by them. For this they cite
many documents, printed in full in their volume of memorials. These
include (1) Charnisay's commission of 1647 from the King of France,
(2) LaTour's commission of 1651, (3) a letter of the Count d'Estrades
written in 1662, (4) Cromwell's warrant of 1656 to Leverett to give up
places in Acadia to Temple, (5) a letter of the Count d'Estrades of
1665, (6) the instrument of surrender of Acadia to France in 1667, (7)
the King of England's disclaimer in 1668 of Temple's contention that
Acadia was but a part of the peninsula (8) various French docmnents
showing that France between 1685 and 1710 applied the name Acadia
to the mainland as far as the Kennebec or at least the St. George's
river, (9) documents relating to the preliminaries to the Treaty of
Utrecht, in which both England and France recognized Acadia as includ-
ing all the mainland. The commissioners conclude that it results from
this evidence that the French prior to and in the preliminaries of the
