202 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
they hold that the context shows that it was ceded as a dependency
of A'^ova Scotia, and that such a form of specifying tlie cliief places
in ceded territory was not unusual in treaties and that there can be
no doubt on the point if the sense of the Treaty as a whole be con-
sidered.
finally they examine a memoir of the Sieur Durand presented
to the Court of Great Britain, June 7tli, 1749.^ They state that no
proofs are adduced that Acadia is ooniined to the Peninsula, and in
refutation of his maps cited to con£ne Acadia to the Peninsula, they
cite Delisle oi 1700 and 1703, Bellin of 1744 and d'Anville of 1746
as extending it to the mainland. They also contend that these map:S
sustain its extension 'to the St. La\vrenoe, though they admit the un-
satisfactory nature of such evidence in comparison with documentary
proofs. Other points of jlesser importance in the Sieur Durand's
Memorial are iansiwered, and finally the commiseioners close their mem-
orial by stating that having justified their contention as to the limits
of Acadia, — " it is equally incumbent on the Commissioners of the
Court of France, particularly to set forth the Limits which the Court
of France (would assign as the true Limits of Acadia or Nova Scotia,
and to produce their Proofs in Support of them."
The reply of the French Commissioners is dated October 4th, 1751,
and occupies 149 quarto pages of the memorials. It begins with a gen-
eral introduction, followed by 20 chapters and a summary. They begin
by maintaining that England's sole right to Acadia within its ancient
limits rests ujjon the Treaty of Utrecht, the important articles of which
they cite in full in Latin and in French. This treaty, they hold, was
clearly designed to give to the people of New England the best fishing
grounds, but was not intended to allow of the invasion of Canada nor to
close its entrance to France ; the court of England has not until lately
made such great pretensions, which suggest that some plan must be
forming in England to prepare to invade Canada at the first favourable
opportunity, as would be most easy if all one bank of the St. Lawrence
were to pass to England. The Treaties of Saint Germain and Breda,
cited by the English as evidence of the extent of Acadia, since they do
not cede, but restore, Acadia to France, have nothing to do with the
present discussion, which is concerned- only with the Acadia ceded by
the Treaty of Utrecht. The pretenses of the English commissioners
that the country they claim was part of the ancient domain of their
country, and that the French had confirmed their concessions are
groundless, for the French possessed the country before the English,
and England did not cede Acadia to the French by the earlier treaties
as the English claim, but simply restored it.
^ I have not been able to find this memorial.
