204 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
at the time vacant or occupied by pagans, but tbe country in question
being then occupied by the French, tempoirarily dispossessed by vio-
lence, the charter was void and in consequence tbe name of Nova
Scotia, which could become real only by this right, never had any ex-
istence, it wa^ a fanciful name, that is to say one which was borne by
nothing ; (par conséquent, le nom de nouvelle Ecosse, qui ne pouvoit
devenir réel que par cette concession, n"a eu alors aucune existence :
c'étoit un nom en Fair, c'est-à-dire, qui ne portoit sur rien). To
the allegation that the King of France in 1651 confirmed to LaTour
rights granted him by Alexander, thus giving recognition to Nova
Scotia, they point out correctly that the English commissioners are here
in error.^ As to the use of "Acadia commonly called Nova Scotia " in
Cromwell's order of 1656. they siy tliat it was an aict of little
authority which could rot be contradicted and that the English
occupation was then unjust and hence could not give a legitimate
existence to the name. The use of the name by the English was
only an artifice to substitute an English for a French name, so
as to seem to give an English right to the country. As to the
French ambassador's letiter of 1665 in which he speaks of the
coasts of Acadia or Nova Scotia, they point out correctly that the word
Nova Scotia does not occur in that document. All documents go to
show that France possessed this country under other designations, and
never used the name Nova Scotia until the Treaty of Utrecht. As to
the evidence as to the existence of a Nova Scotia taken from the Treaty
of Utrecht, " The English commissioners confound, throughout their
memoir, the ideal Nova Scotia of 1621 with the Nova Scotia of the
Treaty of Utrecht, and both of them with Acadie without distinction
of ancient limits, in order to extend thereby their pretensions to every-
thing, in whatsoever period, which can be designated by the name of
Nova Scotia or by that of Acadia " (Les Commissaires Angiois con-
fondent, dans tout le ' cours de leur Mémoire, la nouvelle Ecosse idéale
de 1621, avec la nouvelle Ecosse du Traité d'Utrecht, &■ l'une et l'autre
avec l'Acadie, sans distinctions de limites anciennes, afin d'étendre par-
la leurs prétentions à tout ce qui a. pu, en quelque temps que ce soit.
Être désigné par le nom de nouvelle Ecosse, ou par celui d' Acadie).
Since Nova Scotia had its existence only by the Treaty of Utrecht it
follows that there has been ceded to England the Nova Scotia, not
according to the extent that it might previously have had in idea and
imagination (non suivant l'étendue qu'elle pouvoit avoir auparavant
en idée & en imagination) but in the extent the treaty gave. There
was ceded to England the Nova Scotia of the Treaty of Utrecht, not
' See earlier, page 201.
