XX ' ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
15. The Preseevation of Places of Scenic and Historic Interest.
The Honorary Secretary has received from Mr. C. R. Ashbee, who
visited several prominent places in America during the past year, a
circular asking the Royal Society to take a direct interest in the aims
and work of " The National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or
Natural Beauty/' of which the Council is composed of the Marquess of
Dufferin, as President, and of many other distinguished men in Great
Britain and Ireland. This circular sets forth the following facts: —
" The National Trust is the only corporation in Great Britain empowered
to hold, for the public good, lands or buildings of beauty or historic interest.
The Trust is registered under the Joint Stock Companies Acts, on the express
condition that it shall make no profit for its members. All profits accruing
out of the properties of the Trust are devoted to furthering its objects.
It is, therefore, the only body of men whose aim in association is to
preserve for posterity historic sites and buildings, and to acquire land, by
gifts, by legacy or by purchase, with the idea of preserving its natural
features.
Although the Trust has been in existence only five years it can show
good work done in both of these directions. Among the properties already in
its possession are certain Elizabethan castles, mediaeval guild houses, various
specimens of fourteenth century domestic architecture, memorials of great
men, and some of the finest pieces of natural scenery in England and Ireland.
It was influential recently in preserving the rights of the public in the lakes
of Killarney.
The Trust appeals for its support not only to all lovers of their country,^
but also to all those who by race or language are brought up in English tradi-
tions, or to whom the historic associations of England are dear. It is hoped
that the work of the Trust will find support among English-speaking people
throughout the whole world; that the many who look to England as the
parent of their own institutions will take the opportunity of helping to pre-
serve her many charms for the enjoyment of the entire race.
It is essential to the success of the Trust that its funds should be very
largely increased. At present, lack of adequate financial support often
compels the Trust to remain inactive while places of interest and beauty
pass to an unmerited destruction.
With a view to facilitating this increase it is proposed to form local com-
mittees wherever possible in the United States and the British colonies.
All local committees in America will be asked to nominate members, —
one or more, according to the size of the town, — of a general American
Council. This body at its first meeting will effect a permanent organization;
decide upon a plan of campaign; appoint a banker, to receive funds, and a
secretary and treasurer; and prepare to co-operate in every way possible
with the English Council. Prior to this first meeting, which will be held
early in 1901, matters here will be under the control of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Council in London.
All American funds that may be collected will remain on deposit until
the American Council has been organized and has assumed control of affairs..
