[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 205
the Nova Scotia of 1621, nor of 1628 and 1654. But the Nova Scotia
of the Treaty of Utrecht is exactly defined by the treaty ; it is Acadia
according to its ancient limits. The contrary contentions of the Eng-
lish commissioners are vain. Itl is necessary to distinguish olearly the
ancient limits of Acadia, so as not to confound with the ancient Aca-
dia these countries which have betn given the name improperly in re-
cent times. The two names that are synonyms are ihe Nova Scotia
of the Treaty of Utrecht, and the ancient Acadia. It is not the
Acadia of any period of time that was ceded to England, but the Aca-
dia with its ancient limits. So the whole discussion resolves itself into
idetermining what were the ancient limits of Acadia
Chapter 6 examines the use of the name Acadia for the whole
country in the commissions of Charnisay and La Tour. This evidence
they 'consider as valueless since it is vitiated by the partizans'hip of Char-
nisay and later of LaTour in trying to extend their boundaries, leading
to a confusion which became fixed in 'the wording of their charters.
Chapter 7 examines the letters of Count d'Estrades which seem
to show that Pentagoet and ' St. John were in Acadia. The French
oommissioner-s do not deny that the name Aoadia has sometimes been
applied to the whole country, but 'that is not the question, only the
Acadia with its ancient limits is in discussion. Moreover the Count
d'Estrades wag not well informed as to the ancient limits of Acadia.
Chapter 8 opposeis the contention of the Engllish commissioners
that tl e Aoadia of the Treaty of Utrecht was the same as that of the
Treaty of Breda. They maintain there was no resemblance at all be-
tween them, and hence one cannot throw light upon the other.
Chapter 9 examines Temple's contention that Pentagoet and St.
John and Port Royal were not in Acadia but in Nova Scotia, and
they draw from it the conclusion that Temple was correct as to Acadia,
and partially as to Nova Scotia, and in his statement they see a power-»
ful support of the French dlaim.
Chapter 10 examines the various proofs of the English commis-
sioners that Acadia extended to the bounds of New England, and in
answer to them hold that all the,se pieces are posterior in date to the
Treaty of Breda when it became customary to extend the name
Acadia through that extent. These documents prove the later limits
of Acadia but not* the ancient limits, the only ones here in question.
The boundary between the French possessions and New England is
fully examined with the conclusion that the Kennebec is the rightful
boundary.
Chapter 11 examines the instructions to the English negotiators
of the Treaty of Utrecht, and holds that they are consistent with the
