206 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
French view of the limite of Acadia. The French commissioners rea-
son that it could never have been intended to give the whole southern
bank of the St. Lawrence Eiver to the English as this would be fatal
to the French control of that river, which seem^s to have been con-
ceded by granting to France the islands at the mouth of that river.
Chapter 12 discusses the objections of the English commissioners
to the indefinite limits assigned by the French commissioners to Aca-
dia, and the fact that ^ the Sieur Durand considered the whole penin-
sula as Acadia whereas they confine it to the southern part. As to
the indefinitenessi of the limits of Acadia proposed by them, it applies
only to the boundary in the interior (of the peninsula), and their fail-
ure to define it is proof of their good faith, since it is this very ques-
tion that the commissioners are appointed to decide. But the French
commissioners propose as most equitable and usual a line along the
watershed. As to the Sieur Durand, he was somewhat in error in
extending Acadia to the whole peninsula.
Chapter 13 discusses the English conception of the geography
of Acadia. As to the five maps they cite they are not ancient, and
hence they are better evidence of the more recent than of the ancient
boimds of Acadia, and moreover they show that they agree better with
the French than with the English contention, and they make the
most of their errors and inconsistencies. They espeicially disclaim
the contention of the Englis:h commissioners that these maps, and
other evidence, make the St. Lawrence the boundary between Eng-
lish and French. They agree \vith the English commissioners that
the maps should not be given very much weight. It is true most maps
apply Acadia to the entire peninsula, but that is only a cartographical
convenience. They assert that no chart prior to 1632 can be found
which extends the name Acadia to tlie mainland. De Laet of 1632,
Novae Fxanciae accurata descriptio of 1657, Tabula Novae Franciae of
1660, Sanson of 1656, Coronelli of 1698 (meaning 1689) and a map
by the German, Hotman, confine Acadia to the peninsula or its south-
em part, while a map by Halley in the reign of Queen Anne, an Eng-
lish atlas of 1728, Popple's map of 1733, and a map by Salmon in
1739 confine x\cadia to the southern part of the peninsula. They con-
clude that among the English themselves those most versed in history
and geography and who have examined «the documents have confined
Acadia to the south'east of the peninsula.
Chapter 14 discusses the principles upon which the bounds of
Acadia are to be determined. Having shown in the preceding chap-
ters how little foundation the English commissioners have for their
view, it is necessary now to demonstrate the true ancient boundaries
