[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 209
maps are discussed and their errors and the insufficient nature of tdieir
evidence emphasized, while their testimony is found in any case to
support the English rather than the French contention.^ The works
of Denys, and Champlain, and other early documents, are examined
at great length, and are found ,so far from favouring the French
claims to favour those of the English. As to New France being the
name of the mainland and Acadia of the peninsula, they show that
the former was a general name for all the French possessions, hence
including Acadia.
Finally on pages 293, 295, and 297 they summarize clearly their
arguments up to this point. They then return to the Treaty of Utrecht,
and show tliat the Acadia intended to be ceded by it was the same
Aciadia held by the French by 'the Treaties of Saint Germain and
Breda. The preliminaries to the treaty in which the French them-
selves speak of the Acadia ■ in question as extending to the Kennebec
or to the St. Georges they consider unanswerable evidence for this.
They then take up and answer the other points of the French conten-
tion. Finally (on page 525) comes a clear summary of the whole Brit-
ish position.
To this document no answer was made by the French commis-
sioners until June 1st, 1756, after negotiations had been broken off.
Tins answer was published in 1757 in Voil. IV. of the French
" Mémoires." In this volume the English Memoir of 1751 is printed
in full in English and French and after each section the French com-
missioners make their reply, but these answers appear to contain no-
thing essentially new. Here the discusion closed.
We should now summarize the entire discussion, both as to the
points at issue and the methods employed.
As to the merits' of the question at issue, there can be no question
whatever that the Eng»lish commissioners were right in claiming that
the Acadia of the Treaty of Utrecht was the Acadia of the time im-
mediately preceding, and of the Treaty of Breda, and that it included
the mainland to the Penobscot; the evidence of the preliminaries to
the treaty is conclusive upon this point. Their argument as to its
extension to the St. Lawrence, however, was less strong, for the French
had always considered the St. Lawrence slope as part of Canada
even when it beilonged entirely to them, and the English had
never either occupied or claimed it. The French, forced to cede
this country to England and keenly awake to the disaster its loss
' They are not always correct in their citations of these maps ; thus the
Purchas (meaning the Alexander) map (page 269) does not contain the name
Acadia as they imply, nor does Champlain's (page 273) extend the name to
the Penobscot.
