210 KO Y AL SOCIETY OF CANADA
meant to them in their eliorts to hoikl their possessions in America,
made a desperate effort to hold the, to them, most valuable part of it
by diplomacy. In the face of the words of the treaty, however, they
had a difficult task before them, and we cannot but admire, even ii
we do not approve, the ingenuity they displayed in their efforts to
retain it. Their commissioners took immediate advantage of the only
foothold the wording of the treaty allowed them, namely the expres-
sion "Acadia within its ancient limits," and the mention of Acadia
and Port Royal, which permitted a claim that the latter was not in
Acadia. Accordingly they claimed that the Aca-dia of .the Treaty of
Utrecht, and hence the only Acadia in question, was not the Acadia
of the ■ preceding eighty years, but the ancient Acadia antedating the
Treaty of Saint Germain, and the ancient limits . of this Acadia they
claimed comprehended but a part of the peninsula. In their contention
that this ancient Acadia included but a part of the peninsula they were
indeed upon firm ground, for upon the whole the evidence 'favours
this contention ^ and this point the English were never able to answer
effectually, though, indeed, they had no need to, for on their conten-
tion, these ancient limits were not in question. But a great difficulty
faced the French in the fact that the Treaty of Utrecht ceded Nova
Scotia or Acadia as if they were synonymous, and there was ample and
incontestable ' evidence that Nova Scotia included the mainland. It is
in meeting this point tha.t the French commissioners display the great-
est ingenuity, and by a subtle dissociation of words from ideas and a
eonjoentration of their attention 'upon the former, they are able to give
a verisimilitude of truth to their contention that the word Nova Scotia
was without meaning to the French, 'and indeed only a fanciful word
with no legal or other real existence until the Treaty 'of Utrecht, and
that treaty gave it an official standing as exactly equivalent to Acadia
within its ancient limits. This contention was of course groundless in
fact, and the E^iglish easily met it.
The Memorials themselves are of extreme interest to any one con-
cerned with the History of Acadia, and as well of the greatest value
to Acadian history. Both sets of documents are unusually fine ex-
amples of partisan pleadings. They are remarkably clear in their
style, and most dignified and courteous in their tone. Both use every
device to prejudice the reader in favour of their respective sides.
Both abound in the most positive declarations as to the completeness
and finality of their own proofs, and the weakness of those of their op-
ponents, and both endeavour, not only to meet and answer the argu-
ments of their opponents, but to turn them into evidence against them.
^ See earlier, page 162.
