212 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
But tliere was no tribunal to pass upon the evidence of the English
and French commissioners, when the commissioners themselves could
not agree ; and hence, after the publication of the volumes containing
the arguments nothing more could be done, and the question remained
in the same state as before. The English, however, seem to have shown
a conciliatory disposition, for in 1755 we find in the King's private
instructions to M. de Vaudreuil (N. Y. Colonial Documents, X., 293)
this statement : — "It is tme that the Court of England has declared
that it would consent to modification in the demands its commission-
ers have made in regard to Acadia, but the modifications that court
had announced, still leave too great an extent to the claim of the Pro-
vince under the Treaty of Utrecht." I have not been able to find these
propositions of England, but presumably they referred to adopting the
watershed south of the St. Lawrence instead of the St. Lawrence as
the northern boundary of Acadia.^
In the meantime, however, the subject of the extent of Acadia
was being ' settled in another, and characteristically British way. In
1755 the English captured Fort Beauséjour and the other French posts
in Acadia, and began to drive the French from the mainland. In 1758
they ravaged, 'with the cruelty proper to war, the French settlements
on the St. John and Miramichi and in other places in the present Kew
Brunswick. In 1759 Quebec fell, and in 1763 all boundary disputes
were ended by the cession of Canada to England.
F. The Caetogeaphical Histoey of the Boundaeies dueing the
Acadian Peetod. 1604-1763.
With Champlain began a new era in the cartography of eastern
Canada. The earlier, extremely inaccurate, maps of the Atlantic coast,
were by him swept away at 'one stroke and replaced by fair maps based
upon surveys. Indeed, so far as the Atlantic coast is concerned, I have
not been able to find a single name nor a single geographical feature
adopted by him from earlier maps.
As to the cartographical history 'of Acadia, we have already seen
(page 161) that this name before 1603 was applied to a limited' region
of coast. On Champlain's larger 'maps of 1612 and 1632 Acadia does
not appear, hut on his smaller 1613 map it is applied to the peninsula
^ Confirmed by a statement in Mills, " Boundaries of Ontario," 43. It is of
interest to note that Mills, in this work, takes the view that while England
had a clear right to the whole of the Peninsula, and a possible right to the
mainland along the Bay of Fundy, she never had any right to the mainland
north of the 46th parallel. In this lie is, of course, mistaken.
