[qanong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 213
in the form Acadye, a spelling whicli shows that it could not l.:ve been
taken directly from older maps, but must have been added in its ver-
nacular form. The next map to u-e the name is that of DeLaet of
1G30, which applies it to the peninsula. From this time on numerous
maps use the name, some of tuLiu apparently ajjplyiug it to the entire
peninsula, such as Creuxius, of 1G69, Sanson, 1656 and later; Visscher
of 16'(0 or thereaboitts ; Franquelin of 1686; Coronelli of 1689, and
others, while some apply the name only to the southern part of the
coast of the peninsula, stich as Boisseau of 1643,^ Franquelin of
1T07 and others. The very earliest map I have been able to find which
extends the name to the mainland is the French map of 1610-1650 in
Winsor's America, IV. 202, and this occurs upon several later maps
given by Winsor, and also upon Duval of 1677 and others. Summing
up the testimony of the maps therefore, they, like the documents,
show that there was no common agreement as to the bounds of Acadia
(of course for the very good reason that no definite limits had ever
been agreed upon for it), but that upon the whole, in the earlier part
of the seventeenth centur}^, there was a tendency to confine the name
Acadia to the peninsula and even to its southern part. In contending
therefore, that the ancient limits of Acadia confined it to the southern
part of the peninsula, the French commissioners in 1751-1754 were
upon fairly good ground, though where they were wrong was in main-
taining that these were the ancient limits meant by the treaty of 1713.
The transfer of the name Acadia to the mainland after 1632 is plain
enough, for after the Treaty of St. Germain in 1632 it became to the
interest of the 'French to extend the name as widely as possible, and
actually it was extended in common usage to the entire country east
of the Penobscot, a usage which soon became rejected in the maps.
This comes out clearly enough in Delisle, of 1700 and 1703 and upon
other maps cited by the English commissioners. After 1713 it became
to the interest of the French to confine the name to the peninsula,
and this again is reflected in French maps of that date such as those
of D'Anville, Bellin, Eobert and others.
We may here trace also the cartographical history of the name
Nova Scotia. Incidentally we may notice the causes which determined
the survival of the Latin instead of the English form of the name, a
^ :^Ty happy circumstance, for it must be admitted that from all points of
view Nova Scotia fulfils the requirements of a good place name far better
than Neiv Scotland would have done. The first appearance of the name
on a map is upon Alexandea-'s own map of 1624 (Map 'No. 7), where
of course it appears as New Scotland. Indeed this was the form Alex-
' Reproduced in " Jesuit Relations," XXIII., 234.
