214 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
ander himself wished to have used, for he tells us in his book "En-
couragement to Colonies " ^ that " my Countrimen would neuer aduen-
ture in such an Enterprize, vnless it were as there ■ was a New France,
a New Spaine, and a [New England, that they might likewise haue a
New Scotland." That Nova Scotia made its appearance at all is of
course the result of the fact ''(purely 'accidental from tliis point of
view), that the original charter was in Latin. Dudley, 1647, has Nova
Scotia but all of the names on his maps are Latinized. Visscher of
about 1G70 has both forms, while Ogilby of 1670 has Nova Scotia.
But New Scotland continues to 'be the common form, as on Moll and
others until after 1713 when Nova Scotia appears and soon entirely
displaces New Scotland. This survival of the Latin form is, I think,
without doubt due to the great prominence given to that form in the
discussions upon the limits of Nova Scotia and Acadia following the
Treaty of Utrecht. That treaty uses in both the Latin and the English
copies, exclusively the form Nova Scotia, no doubt because it was
drafted first in Latin, and then the Latin form was retained in the
English translation, though not in the Erench, which has Nouvelle
Ecosse. No doubt the retention of Nova Scotia in the English trans-
lation was partly a matter of convenience, but the form must already
have been familiar to English readers or it would not have been adopt-
ed. That familiarity was no doubt given through its use in connection
with the Order of Baronets of Nova Scotia, who were rarely or never
called Baronets of New Scotland, but usually or always of Nova Scotia,
no doubt because their individual charters were always in Latin. In
summary, then, we may say that the original intention was that the
country should be called New Scotland ; that the form Nova Scotia
owed its origin to the custom of the time of writing aU official docu-
ments in Latin ; that the prominence of the Order of Knights Baronets
of Nova Scotia made that form fairly familiar so that when the Latin
Treaty of Utrecht was translated into English it was possible to adopt
the convenience of using the Latin form; and that the i vigorous dis-
cussions following this treaty leading to its frequent citation and hence
the constant usio of Nova Scotia for the country, led to the permanent
abandonment of the English and final adoption of the Latin form.
As to the extent of country covered by the name Nova Scotia upon
the maps, Alexander applies it both to peninsula and mainland, but
after his time all maps, including many of those made in France,
which use the name Nouvelle Ecosse, apply it to the mainland only, no
doubt because the peninsula already had its 'name of Acadia. Indeed
I have not been able to find any map whatever after Alexander and
' Slafter's "Alexander," 196.
