PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XXr
One of the principal objects of the Trust is the formation of a Club House
and Bureau of Historical Information, available to all its members from all
parts of the English-speaking- world. To this end the London Council is at
present endeavouring: to secure the old Henry VIII. palace in Fleet Street, by
Temple Bar,— formerly the Chancery of the Duchy of Cornwall; and it is
proposed to give there facilities and direction to all members of the Trust
who may need them and are anxious to study the beautiful and historic
spots in the British Isles in the course of their travels in the Mother
Country."
The Council believes that the best way in which the Royal Society
can assist the very desirable object aimed at ^by the National Trust
is to forni a Canadian Committee for the preservation of places of
scenic and historic interest within the Canadian Dominion as a part
of the British Empire. Similar associations have been already formed
in the United States since Mr. Ashbee's visit to that country, and one
of them has very recently been incorporated by the legislature of the
State of New York, and gone vigorously to work to oarrj' out the
laudable pui-poses for which it was formed. Canada has a deep interest
in the formation of such an association, and the Council believe that
the Eoyal Society of Canada, essentially a national representation of
the two great French and British nationalities, should take the lead
in a movement so eminently calculated to stimulate a truly Canadian
spirit among the races who possess the Dominion. It is proposed that
a committee be formed from the first and second sections of the Royal
Society, to be called " The Committee for the Preservation of Scenic
and Historic Places in Canada," and that this body should communicate
with aill historical societies throughout the Dominion, and ask each
of them to nominate one member to act in .connection with the Royal
Society's Committee. It would be the object of this committee to
obtain accurate information on the matters under their cognizance,
and take such measures without delay as would be necessary to carry
rut the aims for which it has been formed. This Committee being
composed of all historical bodies interested in its objects, would be
able to work intelligently and energetically. It would report on the
work they may have done throughout the year to the general meeting of
the Society. A small grant of one hundred dollars or more should be
available for this Committee whenever it would be necessary to have a
special examination and reports made on some place of interest by a
member of the Committee, whose knowledge would make him specially
qualified to deal with the subject. The Council only attempts at
present to outline the primary aims of the Committee, whose duty it
will be to look thoroughly into the whole raison d'être of their existence
and make themselves a thoroughly effective organization in every
respect. The Council recommend that the following Fellows form the
