220 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
THE ENGLISH PEEIOD.
1763-1783.
The words of the Treaty of Paris by which the King of France
yielded all claim to Acadia and ceded Oang.da to England occur in Ar-
ticle IV. and are as follows : —
His Most Christian Majesty renounces all pretensions which he has here-
tofore formed, or might form, to Nova Scotia or Acadia, in all its parts, and
guarantees the whole of it, and with all its dependencies, to the King of Great
Britain : moreover His Most Christian Majesty cedes and guarantees to His
said Britannic Majesty, in full right, Canada, with all its dependencies, as
well as the Island of Cape Breton, and all the other islands and coasts in the
Gulf and River St. Lawrence
Thus came to an end all disputes between England and France
as to the bounds of Acadia.
The Treaty of Paris gave Canada to England, and, later in the
same year, 1763, it was erected by royal proolamation into a Province
under ihe name of Quebec, and its southern boundary was thus de-
scribed : —
.... crossing the River St. Lawrence and the Lake Champlain, in forty-
five degrees of north latitude, passes along the Highlands which divide the
rivers that empty themselves into the said river St. Lawrence from those
which fall into the sea, and also along the north coast of the Bay des Chaleurs
and the Coast of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, to Cape Rosiers. . . .
These boundaries of Quebec were further established by an act
passed in 1774 in which they were defined in practically an identical
manner, as follows : —
. . . . bounded, on the south, by a line from the Bay of Chaleurs along
the Highlands which divide the rivers that empty themselves into the River
St. Lawrence from those which fall into the sea, to a point in forty-five
degrees of northern latitude
While for the most part the meaning of these words is clear
enough, — namely, in establishing a St. Lawrence- Atlantic watershed
as the southern boundary of Quebec, they contain a remarkable double
inconsistency, namely, they leave a gap between the eastern end of
the highlands and the western end of the Bay Chaleur (for the High-
lands do not and cannot come to the head of such a bay), and second-
ly, they ignore the river Restigouche, which flows neither into the
