[ganon-g] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 223
There is one important point to be noted in all these maps,
namely, that while our modem maps show that a line northward from
the source of the St. Croix does not reach highlands separating rivers
flowing into the River St. Lawrence from those flowing into the
Atlantic, (compare Map No. 1), all the maps of that period^ do
show the north line reaching highlands as described in the documents
quoted ; in other words, it was supposed all through this period of our
history that a north line from the source of the St. Croix would meet
highlands forming a true St. Lawrence-Atlantic watershed.
Since the Provinces of Massachusetts and Nova Scotia had for-
merly been held by England to extend to the St. La-m-ence, and were
so understood generally, it is e\ddent that this new southern boundary
of Quebec became the northern boundary of those two states. This,
indeed, is specifically stated in official documents. Thus in the com-
mission to Montagu Wilmot as Governor of Nova Scotia dated at the
end of 1763 we read : —
. . . . Our Province of Nova Scotia, and which we have thought proper
to restrain and comprise within the following limits, viz. : To the northward
our said Province shall be bounded by the southern boundary of our Province
of Quebec, as far as the western extremity of the Bay des Chaleurs
These words were repeated in all the subsequent commissions to
Governors of Nova Scotia down to 1782, and all of the many maps pub-
lished in that interval show Nova Scotia bounded on the north by the
southern boundary of Quebec, so that there appears to have been no
misunderstanding upon the subject of the northern boundary of Nova
Scotia during all the interval from 1763 to 1783.
So much for the northern boundary during the English Period
of Nova Scotia ; we next consider the western boundary. This had
been left undefined from the preceding period, as we have seen, Massa-
chusetts claiming to the St. Croix by virtue of the annexation to her
of Sagadahock in 1691, while Nova Scotia claimed to the Penobscot
as heir of Acadia. But in 1763 the western boundary was temporarily
at least fixed by the commission to Governor Wilmot, which reads : —
. . . . although our said Province has anciently extended, and does of right
extend as far as the river Pentagoet or Penobscot, it shall be bounded by a
line drawn from Cape Sable across the entrance of the Bay of Fundy to the
mouth of the River St. Croix, by the said River to its source, and by a line
drawn due north from thence to the southern boundary of our Colony of
Quebec.
* With the exception of Des Barres (map No. 15), which, as pointed out in
the " Cartography," page 391, is remarkably and unaccountably more accu-
rate in many respects than any map of its time.
