224 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
This description of the north line was repeated in all subsequent
commissions down to 1782.
Granted the position of the St. Croix, the position of this north
line was ujnmistakable, and it is shown uniformly upon all maps of
the next twenty yearg, types of which are found in the accompanying
maps by Solland and by DesBarres (Nos. 14 and 15). Where this line
joins the boundary along the highlands it forms nearly a right angle on
most of the maps, 'and this angle is the " northwest angle of Nova
Scotia" of which so much was heard later in connection with the in-
ternational boundary disputes.
It will be noted that Wilmot's commission of 1763 contains the
statement that Nova Scotia anciently extended and does of right ex-
tend to the Penobscot, but this statement is omitted from all subse-
quent commissions. The reasons for its insertion here and its sub-
sequent omission are plain. Massachusetts and Nova Scotia had re-
ferred their dispute upon their boundary to the Crown and no decision
upon the merits of the case had yet (in 1763) been rendered, so these
words were inserted to prevent the boundary here established being con-
sidered a final decision upon the subject. This final decision appears
however to have been given not upon the abstract merits of the case
but upon a point of immediate practical convenience, which is explained
by Gallatin. He states that in 1764 the Agent of Massachusetts in
England wrote to the General Court of Massachusetts that he had au-
thority to state that if that Province would yield any right it might
have under its charter to the lands along the St. Lawrence intended
to be included by the Government in Quebec (i.e., the part north of
the watershed), the Government would waive any dispute as to 'the
claim of Massachusetts to the territory between the Penob|?cot and the
St. Croix, and the agent urges the acceptance of this ofi^er, pointing
out that this narrow strip beyond the watershed could not be of great
value to Massachusetts, but it was necessary to preserve the integrity
of the new Province of Quebec. Apparently Massachusetts accepted
this proposition, for, although I have not been able to find any docu-
ment to that effect, the watershed went without protest to Quebec,
Massachusetts assumed undisputed control over Sagadahock, and all
future commissions to Governors of Nova Scotia omitted the phrase
relating to the former boundary of Nova Scotia, and made the St.
Croix and the north line the western boundary without any qualifica-
tion.
In giving up that part of her territoxy north of the watershed.
Massachusetts thus received some compensation. Such 'however was
not the case with Nova Scotia, which yielded a very much larger terri-
