[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 22S
tory, for it included all of Gaspé. Probably there were two reasons
for this distinction between the provinces : — first, Massachusetts could
and would protest most vigorously against any alienation of any of
her rights and privileges without compensation. In fact in the rôle
of vigorous protestor, Massachusetts has always been a signal success.
But Nova Scotia, with its scantier and more divided population, the pro-
portionally greater influence of the Crown, and its much greater terri-
tory probably never thought of protest. Secondly, it may have been
held, and with perfect justice, that Nova Scotia had already received
far more pecuniary and other favours from the Crown than had Massa-
chusetts.
Shortly after 1763, therefore, the northern and western boundaries
of Nova Scotia had been definitely settled by legal enactments accord-
ing to the geographical lights of the time, but no attempt was made
to» trace out these legal lines through the actual country. As long as
the country was unsettled there was 'no need to do this, but with the
fall of Quebec and the removal of all danger from the French, an ac-
tive emigration had begun from Massachusetts to Nova Scotia. Set-
tlers began to take up lands at Passamaquoddy in 1763, and large
grants of land were sought there, less, however, for settlement than
for speculation. It soon became evident that there was much difference
of opinion as to which of the rivers emptying into the Passamaquoddy
Bay was the St. Croix forming the western boundary of Nova Scotia,
and hence it was doubtful whether the grants of certain land,? were to
be sought from Massachusetts or Nova Scotia. This confusion was
natural enough, for the position of the original St. Croix, as indeed
the reason for its naming and all its early associations had long since
been lost sight of, and in the absence of such knowledge it was im-
possible to give the legal St. Croix an actual topographical location.
This could only be done by identifying it with the original St. 'Croix
of Champlain of which it was an unquestioned lineal descendant, but
this was not done until 1797. In the meantime, however, manv attempts
to locate the St. C'roix were made, and these were of much interest in
themselves, and have such a bearing upon one phase of the subsequent
boundary disputes, that the subject deserves a separate treatment, which
will be found in the section to follow.
"We must first, however, consider the administrative and other
local boundaries in this period. It opened without a single local bound-
ary line of any sort whatever in the present New Brunswick, for the
old French 'boundaries had all vanished, and the bounds of the Town-
ship of Harrington, laid out in 1738, had been forgotten.
