226 EOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
We consider first the county bonndaTies of the period. In 1759
(Aug. 17), Nova Scotia was for the first time divided into counties,
and the part of the Minute of Council referring to the present New
Brunswick was as follows : —
That all the lands in the Province of Nova Scotia lying north of King's
County be erected into a County and hereafter called and known by the
name of the County of Cumberland.
(MS. Blinutes of Council, Halifax, N.S.)
All New Brunswick continued a part of Cumberland County until
1765 (April 30), when it 'was resolved by the Governor and Council at
Halifax, —
That St. John's River be erected into a county by the name of Sunbury.
No boundary between it and Cumberland County was established
until 1770 (May 24), when a minute of Council was passed as fol-
lows : — '
And the Boundary lines of Sunbury, to be as follows, Vizt., To begin at
the head of the Western branch of the River Copscook (called the River St.
Croix) Two Leagues above the Falls or Tide Rapids, and to run on the
Meridian Line, or North fourteen Degrees East by the Needle, 'till it meets
the River St. John, thence by the several Courses of the said River, to the
Southern boundary of Canada, then to begin again Twenty miles above Point
Mispeck up the Bay of Fundy being the Eastern point of Head Land of the
Harbour at the Mouth of the said River Saint John, thence to run North by
the needle till it meets Canada Southern Boundary aforesaid. To be bounded
Northerly by the said Southern Boundary of Canada, Southerly by the Bay
of Fundy & Passamaquoddy Bay, and to include all the Islands in said Bays,
and lying within Six Leagues of the last mentioned boundary.
(MS. Minutes of Council, preserved at Halifax, N.S.)
It is of some interest to note that the western boundary of the
county as here given would carry it far into Maine, for since the south-
ern boundary of Canada wa/S the line of highlands separating the
rivers flowing into the 'Atlantic from those flowing into the Eiver St.
Lawrence, it is obvious that the St. John could not possibly reach
those highlands except at its extreme source far to the westwiard, in the
vicinity of the source of the Chaudière (compare Map No. 16^).
^ When the map showing New Brunswick in the English Period contained
in the preceding Monograph was made, I had but scanty, and as it has since
proven erroneous information as to the bounds of Sunbury, and hence the
lines are given erroneously on that map. They are correct on the accom-
panying map No. 16.
The boundaries of Sunbury County above given seem, for the Passama-
quoddy region, remarkable, but they are explained by the fact that they
follow the western line of the grant of 1765 to Govej-nor Bernard and others.
