230
ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
going to St. Croix next day. Later he proceeded to the Magaguadavic
River and under June 5th we read : —
Requisted Three of Sd. Indians to Swear that the Sd. River that they
Showed us was actually Known By the name of St. Croix River. The Names
of Sd. Indians are as followeth. Lue. Nepton. Meesel and Mary Cattron.
These three Indians, then, swore to Mitchel that the Magaguadavic
was known to them as the St. Croix, and constantly in his narrative
Mitchel applies this name to it. He surveyed it to Second Falls, and
also Lake Utopia, together with Passamaquoddy Bay and at the end
of June completed his survey and returned to Boston. Mitchel's map
has hitherto been unknown, but a copy of its topography^ is given here-
with (No. 17) with annotations by Governor Bernard. The first printed
Map No. 18. Pownall, 1776.
From copy in Winsor ; original size.
map to show his survey is Pownall's map of 1776 reproduced herewith
(Map No. 18).'' Though the Field-book and certain other documents state
that Mitchel's deputy surveyed his St. Croix to its source, both map
and Field book show that he did not unless he considered the present
Lake Utopia as the source. Since however Pownall's map shows the
west or Scoodic branch for the first time and its close heading with the
Passadumkeag branch of Penobscot correctly and since Grovernor Ber-
^ That this map (map No. 17) is Mitchel's there can be no question, since
it agrees in topography, and in place names as far as they go, precisely with
the field book, even to showing the parts surveyed by Mitchel himself in
continuous lines, and the part surveyed by his deputy, Israel Jones, in dotted
lines. It does not, however, include all of Mitchel's place-names. The remarks
about the St. Croix are written by Governor Bernard, as will presently
appear. The map is in the Public Record Office, London, B.T., 10.59.
'^ Pownall's map shows also a lake at the source of the Magaguadavic.
This, however, is too erroneously laid down to have been placed by a sur-
veyor, and it was very probably added from the statement of the Indians,
or from some plan drawn by them for the surveyors.
