XXII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Committee in question: — Sir James Lemoine, B. Suite, Dr. S. E.
Dawson, Mr. Deville, Honourable Pascal Poirier, John S. Willison,
Lt.-Colonel George T. Denison^ and Sir John Bourinot, with power
to add to their numbers.
16. Public Lectuees on the Floea of Canada.
A suggestion has been made to the Council that the subject of the
popular lecture for the ,annuail meeting of 1902, may appropriately be
" The Wild Flowers of Canada," and that the lecturer be named by the
Fourth Section; and that a small sum of money be granted to him for
the preparation of the necessary illustrations and slides. Such a lecture
would meet a public want, and could be circulated to the pecuniary
advantage of the Society and the author throughout the Dominion.
The subject has been neglected for many years by the Society.
17. Peeseevation of the Site of Louisboueg.
At the May meeting of 1900, the Council laid before the Society
a letter from Professor Benjamin Rand, of Harvard University, who
diiected attention to the desirability of preserving for public uses the
site of the once famous fortress of Louisbourg, in the Is/land of Cape
Breton, which is in imminent danger of passing into the hands of
commercial speculators or private individuals at the present time when
capital and enterprise are busily engaged In that valuable section of
the Dominion.
It appears there is some doubt as to the accuracy of the statement
made by Dr. Eand on the authority of Attorney-General Longley of
Nova Scotia, that "whatever land at the old fortress not ceded to
individuals, or occupied by squatters, belongs now to the Canadian Gov-
ernment, by virtue of the fact that all military sites or property — the site
of Olid Annapolis Fort, for instance — have been handed over in trust
since Confederation by the Imperial authorities to the Dominion."
Since publishing Dr. Rand's letter, the attention of the Council
has been called to the fact that this very question came up for discus-
sion in the .Senate in the summer of 1895, just after the Society of
Colonial Wars in the United States had erected a monument on the
site of Louisbourg in honour of Pepperrell and other Colonials who
had taken the fortress in 1745. Sir Mackenzie Bowell, then Prime
Minister, laid before the House the following official statement, and
