[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 231
nard. himself states that his survey oxs had gone through from the
E. des Etchemins to the . PenohSfCot, soma mjemhers of Mitohel's party
must have ascended the Scoodic and cro,ssed by this route to the Pen-
obscot.
We must now examine somewhat further into the origin of Mitohel's
application of the name St. Croix to the Magaguadavic. In the next
period (in 1796-1798) when a commission was trying to determine the
true St. Croix, this testimony of Mitehel became of much importance, and
much was made of it by the American commis.sioners and mnch has
been made of it by American 'writers ever since. In addition to Mit-
cheFs statement, there is other confirmatory evidence of a similar sort.
Kilby in his " Eastport and Passamaqiioddy " has given the testimony
of several persons who were examined by the commis,sioners in 1797,
and who swore that the Magaguadavic was the only river known to
them by the name of St. Croix. Thus (Kilby, 101) John Frost testi-
fied that he settled at Pleasant Point in 1763 and knew the Indians
well, and that several of them often and uniformly declared to him
that the Magaguadavic was the St. Croix, and that he had never heard
the Scoodic called the St. Croix until after the loyalists settled at St.
Andrews. Similar testimony :wa,s given by William Bicker of Moose
Island, except that he had resided here only twenty-six years. Jolin
Boyd, who had lived at Passamaquoddy from 1763 confirms Mitchel's
account of the testimony of the Indians (Klilby, 107) as does Israel
Jones, Mitchel's deputy (Winslow Ms.). The year before, some of the
Passamaquoddy Indians had been questioned (not under oath) by the
English commissioners, and had declared that their tradition was that
the French had erected a cross at the mouth of the Magaguadavic the
year before they settled on the island in Scoodic river (Kilby, 114).
Francis Joseph, an Indian, in 1797, testified under oath to the same
effect, and that the Magaguadavic had always been known to him as
the St. Croix (Winslow Ms.) as another Indian had stated the year be-
fore (Kilby, 115). Among the Winslow papers are other depo,?itions
by James Nickels, Alexander Nickels, and John Fountain, early fisher-
men and settlers at 'Passamaquoddy to the same efliect, and some of
them testify that they never heard the Scoodic called the St. Croix.
Again, a document of 1795 prepared by the settlers at St. Andrews
(Kilby, 116) speaks of the Magaguadavic and the Scoodic as the
lesser and greater St. Croix, though this usage may have been taken
from Wright's map, presently to be mentioned. This array of deposi-
tions and documents would appear to put it beyond doubt that the
Indians really did in 1764 and subsequently apply the name St. Croix
to the Magaguadavic and not to the Scoodic, and it is barely possible
