232 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
that the tradition given by the Indians may really represent the origin
of the name. On the other hand there is some evidence tending to
negative tliis testimony. Aside from the fact that we now know beyond
question that the Scoodic really was the ancient St. Croix (though it
is of course quite possible that one river was known to the French as
St. Croix, and another to the Indians) tliere is some direct testimony.
Thus, among the Winslow papers in the testimony under oath of one
Alexander Hodges, who, by another document is shown to have come
to Passamaquoddy in 1767, and who swears that he heard Louis Nep-
tune and other Indians and also some white residents call the Scoodic
the St. Croix, and that he never heard the Magaguadavic so called.
Again, among the same papers is the testimony of one Currie who de-
poses in 1797 that he had heard Indians call the river Magaguadavic
the St. Croix since 1783 but not before. Again, Charles Morris, the-
younger, deposed (Winslow Ms.) that Indians had told him in 1783
the Scoodic was the great Piiver St. Croix and had ahvays gone by that
name, and that an Indian named Colonel Lewis had told him that the
Scoodiac was the true St. Croix ; further, that he had been several times
at the Magaguadavic, but had never heard it called St. Croix by the
Indians. Again, when the English commissioners interviewed the In-
dians in 1796 upon their ancient traditions as to the French settlements,
they state (Kilby, 115): "There appeared to be a strong inclination in
them (the Indians) to favour the idea that the Magaguadavic was the
boundary river, and of their having been instructed on the subject."
Moreover, another document written apparently by Edward Winslow in
1788 (1798 ?), (Winslow Papers, 355) says:—
It is the more necessary that this inquiry be immediately made while
the Indians are alive that have been called up to Boston to give their evidence,
which is to remain on the records there, which River was anciently called
St. Croix. They have declared upon their return that they were bribed to
say the Easternmost River.
It is of course useless at this day to attempt to disentangle this
conflicting testimony. There can seem to be no doubt that the Indians
did actually call the Magaguadavic the St. Croix when asked by Mitchel.
But as to whether the Indians actually used that name for the river
among themselves earlier, I am extremely seepti'cal.^ In studies upon
Indian Place-names embodied in an earlier Monograph of this series
(Place-Nomenclature of New Brunswick), I have become somewhat
^ Although the Report of 1771 by Brattle Bowdoin and Hubbard, presented
to the Massachusetts Legislature (Boundary MS.) states there is a witness
living who will swear that sixty years ago he traded with the Indians in that
region, and the river St. Croix was then so called by them, and was east of
Passamaquoddy. This is, however, too indefinite to be of much importance.
