[ganong] BOUNDAEIES OF NEW BEUNSWICK 233
familiar with the methods of using place names in vogue among our
Indians, and one very noticeable fact is this, that even at this day,
after more than another century of contact with the whites, they still
prefer to use their own native names for places, and do so among them-
selves. That the Indians could have obtained the name St. Croix from
the French in 1604 or 1605, and then have used it as a place-name
down to 1764 seems to me so entirely inconsistent with their methods,
that I find it impossible to believe it, besides which if they really had
obtained the name from the French at all they would have obtained it
for the Scoodic to which, as we now know, the French applied it.^ I
cannot believe therefore that the use of the name St. Croix by the
Indians much antedated the year 1764. But as to how they obtained
the name we have no evidence whatever. But we should note that if
some person : interested in having the boundary of Massachusetts made
as far east as possible, had chosen to put the idea into the heads of the
Indians that the Magaguadavic was the St. Croix, he would not have
had much difficulty in doing so, for an Indian, as I know by experience,
is very willing to give an inquirer the kind of information he sees the
latter desires, and once given he adh eres to it. The very fact mentioned
above that some of the Indians after declaring to the commissioners
at Passamaquoddy that they had always known the Magaguadavic as
the St. Croix, afterw^ards stated ,that they had been bribed to say so
shows how little reliance can be placed upon their word in such a case,
while the fact that some of them the next year (1765) as we shall pres-
ently see, told Surveyor General Morris of Nova Scotia that the Cob-
scook was known to them as the St. Croix, shows still further what value
is to be placed upon their testimony. I do not mean to state that the
Indians are habitually untruthful, but I do think that their minds are
very like those of young children, which do not view truth and false-
hood in the same moral light that the adult and moral Caucasian does,
and that, as in young children, the Indians will persist in such a false-
hood when once started.^ My opinion of the whole matter is that either
^ There is no evidence at all in Champlain or Lescarbot that DeMonts
erected any cross at the mouth of the Magaguadavic, and hence the name
could not have originated in that way. It is of course possible that some later
expedition visited the Bay and erected a cross at the mouth of the Magagua-
davic, but opposed to this is the fact that the traditions given in the bound-
ary MS. speak as if those who erected the cross afterwards settled on the
islands in the Scoodic (i.e., DeMonts' expedition). It is not impossible that
some of the Priests who probably established the mission at St. Andrews,
which originated that name, may also first have erected a cross at the mouth
of the Magaguadavic.
^ On this phase of Indian character, compare Baxter's Pioneers of
France, 85.
Sec. II., 1901. 15.
