234 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
their application of the name St. Croix to the Magagnadavic arose in
some accidental way entirely obscure, or else that it was the result of
an intrigue by someone interested in having the Massachusetts boundary
set as far to the eastward as possible.^
One other piece of evidence may here be added to this question.
In the year 1772, only eight years after Mitchel's , survey, this whole
region was surveyed with far greater accuracy by Thomas Wright, after-
wards Surveyor General, of St. John's (Prince Edward) Island, and his
great Ms. map in the British Museium, (of which I possess a photogra-
phic copy), calls the Scoodic the Great River St. Croix, and the Magag-
uadavic the Little St. Croix river. In 1797 Wright was interrogated
for the commissioners at St. Andrews as to the source from which he
obtained those names, and he declared under oath (Winslow Ms.) that
he could not state exactly, but that he had obtained them from the
residents, from whom he had obtained all the names, and thai he had
no inducement whatever to put down any names not actually in use
by the residents. This seems conclusive therefore that both the Scoodic
and the Magaguadavic were caUed St. Croix in 1772. No doubt those
who thought j the Magaguadavic was the proper boundary applied the
name to that river, while those who held that the Scoodic was the true
boundary applied the name acccordingly. In both cases any opinion
must have been no more than a pure guess, since the true original St.
Croix was entirely unknown to the residents.
We pass now to another stage in the search for the St. Croix. As
one of i the depositions of Israel Jones, above mentioned, states, copies
^ A partial explanation may be that Mitchel was too much Influenced by
the plan of Southack (map No. 23) by which he himself testified before the
Boundary Commissioners he was guided on his survey. "We cannot in any
other way explain the fact that he applied the name Passimaquoddy river to
the Scoodic, for certainly the Indians never used the name in that way. He
seems to have mistaken Southack's bay, north of Passamaquoddy island, for
the inner bay of Passamaquoddy (whereas,, as I shall show later, it is really
the outer bay between Deer Island and Campobello), and hence identified the
Passamaquoddy river of Southack with the Scoodic ; likewise he would be
bound to find somewhere a St. Croix river answering to Southack and a
natural river would be the Magaguadavic. If he himself approached the
Indians thoroughly convinced that the St. Croix was in that vicinity, it would
not be at all difficult for the Indians to agree with him that there was a St.
■Croix there, just as later they agreed with Morris that it was the Cobscook
and with others that it was the Scoodic. This is strongly confirmed by Mit-
chel's way of speaking of the subject in his testimony, for, referring to the
Southack plan, he says the Indians swore " that the river St. Croix, as laid
down in the annexed plan, was the ancient and only river known among them
by that name " (italics in original). Further, Mitchel was employed by Mas-
sachusetts and would naturally desire to find the boundary river as far east-
ward as possible.
