236 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
on the East Side of uhkh, whichever it is, I would have my friends placed. Since I
have consulted Champlain, I find they may safely go as far as the River Deck-
wessit ; I must therefore alter the Terms of the proposed boundaries, which I
will do in a separate paper. This is, that if it is necessary to make an imme-
diate grant & a survey it may be [done, lut] if you should think it proper to
make [an order] in Council that the Surveyor General shall [reserve} those
Townships on the East Side of [the river] St. Croix, & suspend the Execution
[0/ this] order, till it is determined which [river is the] St. Croix, I should like
it as well. And this probably will not lose much time : as I with my next
packet send home the [map] of the Bay with my observations [upon it]^ I
shall at the same time communicate to the grantees my thoughts upon this
subject ; and it is probable that about the end of July next, I shall have cer-
tain advices which may remove my doubts. In the meantime, if it is necessary
for your Survr to proceed to a Survey he may regard the enclosed paper. I
am with great truth & regard, Sr. your most obedt. humble Serv.
ERA. BERNARD.
His Excellency Gov Wilmot.
The " enclosed paper " gives detailed inetructions for laying out
80,000 acres between, the Digdeguash and the Magagnadavic.
This letter of Governor Bernard's is of great interest for several
reasons, and of no small importance to our present subject. It shows
that its autlyDr used, (and apparently was the very first to use) the only
true method of determining the position of the St. Croix, its identifica-
tion through the works of Champlain. But with Champlain's work
before him and the comparatively accurate map of l^iitchel, it seems
at first sight surprising that he did not determine the position of the
St. Croix correctly, but made the mistake of identifying it with the
Digdeguash. This, however, is the less remarkable when we note that
he used the 1632 edition, in which not only is the map of the St. Croix
very crude, but in which the map of St. Croix island and surroundings,
(which permitted the identification of the St. Croix by the commission
in 1798) does not occur. 'From the description alone his mistake was
not unnatural, the more especially in view of the great weight he gives
in his argument to the way the rivers are laid down upon the maps of
the time, which were so erroneous as to mislead him utterly. It is not
easy for us, with our superior knowledge, to understand the blindness
of those who have no accurate knowledge of a country and must depend
upon such maps as they have. This letter settles for us the authorship
of the remarks upon MitchePs map given herewith (Map No. 17) and
they show that Governor Bernard's interest in finding the St. Croix
was not so much ofi&cial as personal.
^ No doubt the very map in the Public Record Office here reproduced
(map No. 17).
