[ganong] BOUiNDARIES OF NEW BRUNSWICK 239
The next move in the loication of the St. Oroix is of much inter-
est. G^ovemoT Bernard haid specially requested, be it noted, that a
grant for his friends should be made to the eastward of St. Croix. But
on October 21st, 1765, a grant was made by Nova Scotia of 100,000
acres west of the Scoodic and between it and Cobscook. It was ma.de to
Francis Bernard, Thomas Pownal, John Mitchell, Thomas Thornton
and Richard Jackson. Now Miy'was the grant made| in this position ?
Either the Nova Scotia Council disregarded Bernard's wishes entirely,
(which is very unlikely since they were making the grant by his wish)
or else, they were so firmly convinced that tihe Cobscook was the St.
Croix that they considered it safe 'to make the grant where they did.
We cannot but notice also that the location of the grant in this posi-
tion was very good policy for Nova Scotia, sinjce, as Grovernor Bernard
wished the grant in Nova Scotia, its location west of the Scoodic would
secure his powerful influence in having the Cobscook fixed as the bound-
ary between Massachusetts, of which he was governor, and Nova Scotia.
Wrhy he wished to have his grant in Nova Scotia instead of Massachu-
setts is a isepiairate question, but we can undenstand that he oould not
dth propriety seek so great a, grant for himself and his friends from
the State of which he was G-ovemor. The Nova Scotia view seems to
have prevailed for a time, for, in Pownall's addition to Evans' map
(Map No. 18) followed on several maps, including one of 1776 by Hol-
land (Map No. 14), the western boundary of Nova Scotia is drawn run-
ning northward from the source of the Cobscook.
But his grant was afterwards escheated for non-fulfilment of con-
ditions, and so far as I can find no further attempts were made in this
period to settle the position of the St. Croix. The troubles which led
to the Eevolution soon after began ; the breach widened between Massa-
chusetts and Nova Scotia, and the question of the St. iCroix does not
reappear until the new Treaty of Peace, in 1783.
The Cartographical History of the Boundaries during the
English Period.
The oartographioal history of the boundaries during this period
is very simple. Up to 1763 all of the English maps which showed the
western boundary of Nova Scotia laid it down as a direct line from tlie
source of the St. Croix due north to the St. Lawrence. On maps after
1763 a boundary is laid down along the highlands just south of the River
St. Lawrence, and the north line from the St. Croix stops there. This
is as far as I know universally the case ; it is certainly so in the many
maps I have examined. In Gallatin's •' Right of the United States,"
page 76, is given a list of English maps published between 1763 and
