240 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
1783, iiineteerL in number, whicli show the boundaries thus drawn ; that
is, the north line from the source of the St. Croix runs north to the
southern boundary of Quebec where the latter runs along the highlands
just south of that river, and there are numerous English maps pub-
lished after the treaty of 1783 which continue to ,show the same bound-
aries. AH of the maps of this period have, however, an error, the
origin of wihich I have earlier traced in the " Cartography," whereby
the Eestigouche heads much too far to the east, thus making the north
line from the source of the St. Croix cross a watershed north of the
St. Jolin, separating its waters from those of the St. Lawrence river.
This error is .shown on Mitchell's map, and, as we shall see, became
immensely important in connection with the subsequent history of
boundary lines in this region.
The cartographical evolution of Passamaquoddy Bay in this period
is important, but we may best consider it in connection with the next
period. As to more local boundaries, there is but a single published
map known to me which marks the old townships, and that is Des-
Barres Chart of 1780 (reproduced in part later in Section V, C). All
copies of this chart do not, however, contain the townships ; the accom-
panying cuts are from the Harvard copy, but that in the Lenox library
lacks them. There are, however, several Ms. maps which show the
townships on the St. John, of which the Morris 1765 map in the Public
Record Office and the Johnson map of the same year in the Library of
Congress are the best.
THE LOYALIST AND THE SUBSEQUENT PEEIODS.
From the opening of the Loyalist period down to the present, the
evolution of the boundaries of New Brunswick has been continuous
and progressive. From the present point of view, therefore, there is
but one period in this space of time, but the subject naturally divides
il self as follows: —
(1) the International boundary.
(2) the Interprovincial boundaries, including the Nova Scotia and
the Quebec lines.
(3) the Intraprovincial boundaries, including the county, parish
and other minor lines.
