[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 241
(1) — The International Boundaey.
The treaty of peace which closed the war of the Eevolution was
signed at Paris, September 3rd, 1783 ; it thus described the boundaries
of the United States, so far as they have any concern with our present
subject : —
Article 2. And that all disputes which might arise in future on the sub-
ject of the boundaries of the said United States may be prevented, it is hereby
agreed and declared, that the following are and shall be their boundaries,
viz. : from the north-west angle of Nova Scotia, viz. : that angle which is
formed by a line drawn due north from the source of the St. Croix River, to
the Highlands; along the said Highlands which divide those rivers that empty
themselves into the River St. Lawrence from those which fall into the Atlan-
tic Ocean, to the north we s tern most head of Connecticut River; thence ....
East, by a line to be drawn along the middle of the River St. Croix, from its
mouth in the Bay of Fundy, to its source, and from its source directly north
to the aforesaid highlands which divide the rivers that fall into the Atlantic
Ocean from those which fall into the River St. Lawrence.
(Statement on the Part of the United States, etc.. Appendix, 12.)
Probably there never was an article of any treaty drawn in better
faith, and with a more earnest desire " that all disputes . . . may
be prevented," nor any article of any treaty which gave rise to more
prolonged and more serious disputes than this. Three principal local-
ities are here mentioned, namely the norih-west angle of Nova Scotia
on certain highlands, the source of the Saint Croix, and a line from
its mouth in the Bay of Pundy to its .source. Yet all these points,
and others too, were soon in dispute and required successive commis-
sions and immense labour and expense to settle them, while in nearly
every case they were settled not by the words of the treaty but by
oompnomises based upon the expediency of the time. Naturally the
first point to arise was as to the identity of the Eiver St. Croix of this
treaty, which carried with it the question as to the position of its
source and its mouth. These points were siettled in 1798, but, owing
to the peculiar geography of the region, the latter question left unde-
termined the ownership of the Paasamaquoddy Islands, which required
yet another commission which completed its labours in 1817. In the
meantime, the question as to the position of the north-west angle of
Nova Sicotia had arisen, but this was not settled, nor without a most
devious histor}^, until 1842. There w^as still left a portion of the water
boundary in Passamaquoddy which remains undetermined to this day.
These various boundary disputes play no small part in the history of
New Bninswick for the first fifty years of her existence, and I shall
try to trace them and their effects in the followdng pages.
