244 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
(a) — The Determination or the Eiver St. Croix — (1783-1798)
We have already traced the history of the efforts made in the
preceding period to locate exactly in the topography of the country
the Eiver St. Croix, which was then the reoogmzed legal and official
boundary between Nova Scotia and Massachusetts. Those efforts were
unsuccessful, ending only in a presumption that the Cobscook was
the boundary, and their only visible result was an effort on the part
of Nova Scotia to have the Cobscook recognized, an effort so far success-
ful that certain printed maps (Nos. 1-1, 18, 27) draw the western bound-
ary of Nova Scotia north from the source of the Cobscook, a proceeding
without any effect whatever upon the subsequent location of this
boundary. In 1783 tlierefore the topographical location of the official
St. Croix was unknown. But the question became important that very
year (1783), for the Nova Scotia authorities assumed the Scoodic to
be the St. Croix, and proceeded to settle large numbers of loyalists
upon the eastern banks. In this assumption the Nova Scotia author-
ities quietly and finally abandoned their old contention for the Cob-
scook, being influenced thereto no doubt not only by its inherent
absurdity but by the fact that the more accurate knowledge of the
country showed that they would lose an immense area of country by
the running of the north line 'from its source instead of from the
source of the Scoodic (see Map No. 30). But the protest of the
Americans, a most natural one in the then uncertain state of the
question, was prompt, and against the settlement of British subjects
west of tlie Magag-uadavic, which tiliey claimed as the St. Croix. Their
protest was initiated by information sent to the Massachusetts Govern-
ment by John Allan, so well known for his active partizanship in the
revolution. In letters of 11th Aug. and 13th Sept., 1783, he calls
attention to the British settlements at St. Andrews, and under date
Dee. 15th, 1783 (Boundary Ms.) he sends a long letter to Governor
Hancock stating tdiat on his arrival at Passamaquoddy on Sept. 23
he found surveyors at work and settlers in possession at St. Andrews
Point, whom he warned not to settle there as they were on United
States territory, warnings which he admits were of no effect. It was
apparently as a result of the earlier letters that the Massachusetts
House of Eepresentatives on Oct. 23, 1783, resolved that the Governor
take steps to obtain information upon the subject of encroachments
and communicate the same to Congress. A committee was appointed,
which on Dec. 2 (1783), reported an interview (given in the Boundary
Ms.) with one Dr. Aaron Dexter who had recently been in Halifax
and had conversed with Governor Parr upon the subject. Governor
