[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 245
Parr's replies were most friendly^ but he stated tlnat in Nova Scotia the
Scoodic was considered as the boundary. John Allan's letters were
apparently transmitted to Oongress, for on Jan. 26, 1784, a letter from
John Allan and other papers were transmitted by that body to the
Grovernor of Massachusetts with a resolution recommending that the
subject be investigated and if found as stated a representart;ion should
be made to Nova Scotia. On July 7 the Massachusetts legislature
resolved to appoint a committee of three to investigate the subject, and,
if they find such encroachments have been made, that " they make
representation^ thereof to the Governor of Nova Scotia and request
him, in a friendly manner, and as a proof of that disposition for peace
and harmony which should subsist between neighbouring States to
recall from ofE the said territory the said subjects of his Britannic
Majesty." Accordingly the Governor appointed Generals Lincoln
and Knox with Mr. George Partridge (the latter prevented by illness
from serving), who proceeded to Passamaquoddy, made inquiries and
returned their report to the Governor of Massachusetts Oct. 19, 1784.
It is printed in full in the State Papers, I., 91. They found consider-
able settlements at St. Andrews as reported ; they tlien proceed as
follows, formulating what afterwards became the American claim to
the Magaguadavic as the boundary.
There are three very considerable rivers which empty themselves into the
bay of Passamaquoddy, which is from five to seven leagues wide. The eastern
river falls into the bay about a league from the head of it, and perpendicular
to the eastern side ; the middle river falls into the bay far on the westerly
side of the head of it, and in a direction parallel therewith ; the western
river falls into the bay about six leagues from the head of it, on the westerly
side, and nearly perpendicular to it ; all of which, in late British maps, are
called St. Croix. The first is, by the Indians, called Maggacadava, the second
Schoodick, and the third Cobbsoook.
By every information the subscribers could obtain, on an inquiry of the
Indians and others, the eastern river was the original St. Croix. This is
about three leagues east of St. Andrews, where the British inhabitants have
made a settlement. Soon after the subscribers had received their commis-
sion, they wrote to Mr. Jay, requesting him to give them information whether
the commissioners for negotiating the peace confined themselves, in tracing
the boundaries of the United States, to any particular map, and if any one
to what ? Since their return, they received his answer, mentioning that
Mitchell's map was the only one that the commissioners used, and on that
they traced the boundaries agreed to. This, in the opinion of the subscribers,
is a fact which must facilitate an equitable decision of the matter; though
Mitchell's map is not accurate, at least in the description of the eastern parts
of the State. He has described but two, instead of three rivers, which empty
themselves into the Bay of Passamaquoddy. The eastern of these he has
placed at the head of the bay, near the center of it, and calls it St. Croix.
The western river he has called by the name of Passamaquoddy. Hence it is
