246 EOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
plain, that though the map is inaccurate, yet the eastern river, which empties
itself into the bay, is, in the opinion of Mr. Mitchell, the St. Croix. This
opinion is further supported by the deposition of Mr. Mitchell accompanying
this report. The subscribers are informed that the Mr. Jones, mentioned in
the deposition, is soon expected in this town, who will depose to the same
facts.
They enclose the deposition of John Mitchel, repeating the facts
already known to us (page 230) that on his survey in 1764 the Indians
called the Magagtiadavic the St. Croix.
Following this document in the State Papers, is the following
extract from a letter of John Adams, one of the negotiators of the
treaty, dated Oct. 25, 1784.
We had before us, through the whole negotiation, a variety of maps, but
it was Mitchell's map upon which was marked out the whole of the boundary
lines of the United States ; and the river St. Croix, which we fixed on, was
upon that map the nearest river to St. Johns ; so that in all equity, good
conscience and honor, the river next the St. Johns should be the boundary.^
Another document of much interest in this connection is the
letter of (General) Eufus Putnam of Dec. 27, 1784, to the Massachu-
setts Legislative Committee (State Papers, 92, and in part in Kilby,
97). This long, but very discriminating and temperate letter combats
the local British claim to a part of the mainland of Maine, later to be
considered, discusses the evidence as to the true St. Croix, showing
correctly the difficulty of a decision and pointing out the propeT branch
of the Scoodic to be chosen in case that river is decided to be the St.
Croix. The author was a surveyor and showis considerable local know-
ledge.
The natural result of this report followed, for on Nov. 12 (1784),
Governor Hancock wrote Governor Parr (State Papers, 92), informing
him of the resolution of Congress, and of the report of this committee,
adding : —
The Government of this State, sir, is no less desirous than the United
States in Congress assembled, of cultivating that peace and harmony which
I hope will ever subsist between the citizens of the States and the subjects of
His Majesty ; wherefore in persuance of the resolution of Congress, I am to
request your Excellency will be pleased to recall from off the said territory
those subjects of His Majesty who have removed themselves from his domin-
ions, and planted themselves within this commonwealth.
^ This argument by Adams is entirely groundless. "With equal logic the
British might have claimed that the St. Croix was in all equity, good con-
science and honour, the second river east of Penobscot, (viz. the Scoodic), for
just as the Americans first claimed the St. John and then retreated to the
St. Croix, so, in a precisely similar way, the British negotiators at first
claimed to the Penobscot or Kennebec, and later retreated to the St. Croix.
The argument works equally well in either direction.
