Lganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 267
on the west side and with the lake from which issues E. ]\Iadocteg,
namely, the present Eel Eiver/ on the other, precisely as Grand Lake
at the head of the Chiputneticook does, and not at all as the lake at
the head of the Magaguadavic does (compare maps Nos. 19 and 1).
The identity of these localities is further beautifully shown by a map
drawn by an Indian for the commissioners in 1798, formerly belonging
to Mr. W. H. Kilby (who allowed me to copy it) and now in the Library
of the Maine Historical Society (Map No. 22), which not only applies
the Indian name Kioxakick (evidently the same word as Ke-oh-qu-sak)
to what is the present Grand Lake, but also proves its location at the
head of the Chiputneticook (compare this map with No. 5 of the pre-
ceding Monograph and with No. 1). Further the name Kawakusahi
is applied unmistakably to Grand Lake at the head of the Chiputneti-
cook on Sotzmann's map of Maine of 1797 and 1798. There seems,
therefore, no escape from the conclusion that the Lake Kousaki of
Mitchell is Grand Lake at the head of the Chiputneticook, and that,
therefore, the St. Croix of Mitchell is certainly the present St. Croix
and not the Magaguadavic, at least in so far as its source and its main
course is concerned.^
But, it may be objected, the mouth of Mitchell's St. Croix is that
of the Magaguadavic, and we consider next this question. A comparison
of Mitchell's map with Bellin's will make it at once plain that Mitch-
ell did not obtain the topography of the Passamaquoddy Bay region
from this source. Happily, however, we do know the source. The very
best map of the Bay of Fundy region then in existence was the Chart
by Captain Cyprian Southack, and this chart, widely accessible in the
^ Why it empties so far down the St. John I have explained in the " Mono-
graph on Place-nomenclature," 250.
^ It is most surprising- that this identification of Lake Kousaki was not
discovered long ago, particularly as one of the investigators of these matters
very nearly did so. Thus General Putnam, who surveyed the eastern parts
of Maine, writing to a Committee of the Massachusetts Legislature, Dec. 27,
1784 (State Papers, I., 93) says in his discussion of the question of the true St.
Croix : — " Mitchell, at the head of his St. Croix, has a lake which he calls
Koneaki (misprint for Kousaki). This is evidently an Indian name, but is not
the name of either of the ponds or lakes on the Schoodick that I have heard
of." If the surveyors of the Chiputneticook in 1797 had taken down the Indian
names with the minuteness with which they were recorded by the surveyors
of the Magaguadavic, the subject would have been made clear. I have
thought it possible, especially in view of the existence of the Indian map
(map No. 22) among the British documents in the Boundary MS. that the
British Agent may have perceived the identity but did not care to adduce it
in his evidence, after once the Scoodic had been chosen, for fear it would pre-
judice his efforts to secure the west branch as the boundary. Sullivan of
course would not have mentioned it if he had known it, since to the very last
he stood for the Magaguadavic as the boundary.
