270 EOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
omitted altogether and the whole bay much distorted in shape, but the
smaller islands made much too numerous and out of place. On the
other hand if we consider it as representing the outer bay (shown by
the continuous lines of Map No. 24), the topography is fairly con-
sistent with the facts. Second, Southack marks a Passamaquoddy
river, which has been assumed to be the Scoodic. But Passamaquoddy
river, as shown by abundant testimony of residents in the Boundary
Ms., applied in the eighteenth century never to the Scoodic, but to
the waters between Deer, Moose and Campobello islands, including
Eastport harbor, and to this day those waters are called Quoddy Eiver
by all of the pilots and fishermen. Southack does not use the word
exactly in this way, but he does apply it to immediately contiguous
waters which might by a stranger be thought to be a continuation or
part of the true Passamaquoddy river. But, third, and most conclu-
sively, the depths given on the map are quite convincing on this point.
When we compare the depths on Southack (which are in fathoms)
with those on the modern charts (compare Maps Nos. 23 and 25),
we find not only that in' general they agree fairly well, but that the
depths on Southack cannot by any possibility be made to fit the inner
bay, where there is no depth in excess of thirty-six' fathoms, while
most of them are very much less. These facts make it clear that
Southack represents only the outer bay. Moreover, we have some
knowledge as to why this was so. Southack was in command of one
of the vessels on Churches expedition to Passamaquoddy in 1704, as
shown by the narrative of that expedition.^ But as the narrative shows,
none of the vessels entered the inner bay, although it is
possible that some of them went as far as Pleasant Point, for the nar-
rative speaks of the vessels arriving when Church was at Gourdan's
which was almost without doubt at Pleasant Point. It is altogether
likely then that this part of Southack's map was made when he was
on this expedition, and that not having viewed the inner bay, at least
not beyond the narrow passage leading up to Pleasant Point, he repre-
sented only the outer bay and this passage. However, this detail may
be, the main question as to the identity of the principal places shown
by Southack seems sufficiently plain. But on the interpretation here
given, as to the identity of these places, there is only one conclusion
possible as to the place named by him the St. Croix Eiver, — it is the
present Letete Passage.- Why this name was so applied by
^ In Drake's " History of Philip's War," 1827, and other editions.
' It seems most surprising that this interpretation of Mitchell's map was
not hit upon by the British Agent, the more especially as he had Southack's
before him (as the Boundary MS. show), and it would have been so effective
in negativing the American claim. But the only evidence I have found in all
