XXIV EOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Island, were transferred by the Militia Department to the Department of the
Interior on the 4th November, 1876.
" 3. The Dominion Government would appear to be in possession of all the
ordnance lands in Nova Scotia and Cape Breton which have been transferred
by the Imperial Authorities.
" 4. The site of the old fortifications at Loui&bourg is not included in the
list attached to the said order-in-council.
" There is nothing to show that the site of these fortifications has ever
been transferred to the Dominion Government. I may mention in connec-
tion with this, that it is the practice of the Militia Department, whenever
lands are not considered necessary for military purposes, to transfer them
to the Department of the Interior, which Department disposes of them some-
times by auction, or uses them for any purposes for which they may be
required."
In view of the doubtful position of the site of the fortress of
Louisbourg, the Council suggest. that it is a subject which will appro-
priately fall within the purview of the Committee for the preservation
of places of scenic and historic interesit, which the Council have recom-
mended to the favourable consideration of the Society.
18. Plains of Abkaham.
The Council are glad to find that the purchase of the disposable
property on the Plains of Abraham will. soon be completed, and that
this historic ground will pass into the permanent possession of its true
owners, the people of all nationalities in Canada.
The Montgomery Memorial.
Some indignation has again been aroused among Canadians by the
report that the friends of Montgomery are still agitating for the erec-
tion of a monument to that general in the Ancient Capital, amid whose
rocks he fell on the first day of 1775. If this report be true, the
Council can only repeat their expression of opposition to such a project,
and their confidence that no such honour can ever be paid by any
section of the Canadian people to the memory of a man who was false
to his allegiance to England at a most critical period in her history,
without the excuse of having been born and educated on American
soil, and consequently influenced by the feelings of the Adamses, Wash-
ington, Patrick Henry or other great native colonists. From infor-
mation so far received, however, it is believed that a monument in the
large sense is not in contemplation, but that permission has been
asked of the Quebec City Council to place only a simple metal tablet
above the place where Montgomery fell. It is regrettable that Mont-
gomery's friends should persist in a request which excites so much
