[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 273
evidently he made no survey in Passamaquoddy. He marks, however,
Passamaqnadi, which he appears to apply to the West Passage (be-
tween Campobello and Maine) and east of this he places simply the
inscription Mouth of St. Croix River. Now the position of this in-
scription, together with the fact that no mouth of a river is shown,
seems to make it clear that it refers simply to the region, — that in
that vicinity lay the mouth of the St. Croix, and no particular river
is intended to be designated. Southack seems to have taken the region
from Point Lepro to St. Croix from this map (compare the two Nos. 23
and 26), and finding a passage resembling as it does the mouth of a
large river, where the name Mouth of the St. Croix River occurs on
Blackmore, he naturally applied the name to the passage as on his
map. Or, it is possible that both he and Blackmore took the St. Croix
from a common source, which may even have been the supposed South-
ack map of earlier date, (given in these Transactions, first series, Vol.
IX, Section ii., 72) in which St. Croix indicates simply a locality, not a
particular river.
However this may be, it seems clear that on Mitchell's map
the source and course of his Eiver St. Croix is that of the present river
of that name, while its mouth is erroneously placed at a spot which
is really the present Letete passage. No part of Mitchell's St. Croix
can represent any part of the Magaguadavic, therefore, while most of
it does represent the Scoodic or present St. Croix. This is a very
satisfactory solution of the problem, for it tends to show that not
cnly did the commissioners of 1798 chose the correct river as the St.
Croix as meant hj the treaty, but that they also chose the St. Croix
represented upon Mitchell's map. This should remove every vestige of
support for the claim still made by writers on the United States side
of these questions,^ that the Magaguadavic should have been chosen,
just as the testimony of comparative cartography and topography re-
moves the support from the writers on the British side, that the west-
ern branch of the Scoodic should have been chosen. As a whole,
therefore, the decision of this commission seems to me to have been
in every particular in accord with the true merits of the case, and each
nation received its precise dues. The St. Croix Commission of 1798
^ Thus "Washburn takes this extreme view in his work in Collections of
the Maine Historical Society, VIII. ; so does Winsor, in America VII., 173,
where he says, " If the testimony of Mitchell's Map was worth anything,
there was no question that the easterly or Magaguadavic river (Mitchell's St.
Croix) was the river intended by the treaty." Kilby in his " Eastport and
Passamaquoddy," takes the same view, and it is re-affirmed in the Collections
of the Maine Historical Society (Series 2, I., 189), and it is repeated by Men-
denhall in his " Twenty Unsettled Miles of the Northeastern Boundary." John
Adams held this view also in 1784 (page 246).
