[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 277
alarm among them, although there was no misapprehension as to its
meaning on the part of the authorities (Winslow Papers, 410).
Another map making the Chiputneticook the boundary is that of
1795, given by Kilby, 132, as from the United States Gazetteer, though
Kilby makes the extraordinary statement just below that map that this
river is the Magaguadavic. Other printed maps of the time, showing
attempts to reconcile the conflicting claims, are mentioned by Winsor,
(America, VII., 174).
An interesting phase of the cartography of this region consists
in the effect of the boundary disputes upon its nomenclature. Up to
1796, although there was known to be a Eiver St. Croix in this region
its location was uncertain, and the rivers all went by their Indian
names. Had no boundary dispute ever arisen they would without
doubt have continued to be known by them, and the St. Croix would
have been known to-day as the Scoodic, as indeed it is among many
old people. It was the boundary dispute, and that only, which result-
ed in the locating of the name St. Croix upon the Scoodic, for it di-
rected public attention to it so strongly as to bring it into use. It is
also, I believe, the prominence given in the boundary records, deci-
sions and maps, to the cumbersome form Magaguadavic which fixed
it upon all maps down to the present, despite the fact that in common
speech the word is invariably pronounced Macadavy. Another name,
important in this connection, is Passamaquoddy. As used by the
Indians (confirmed by testimony taken in 1796 and 1797 and among
the Boundary Ms.), this name properly applied only to the region be-
tween Deer Island, Campobello, Moose Island and Lubec. But it was
earlier given much wider extension. Thus, John Mitchel, in his field
book of 1764 and on his map (see Map No. 17), applies it to the St.
Croix, for the reason that he took the latter for the Passimiquoddy
Eiver of Southack (Map No. 23), by which we know he was guided. It
next appears upon Allan's map of 1786 (Map No. 21), who, however,
applies it only to the western branch of the St. Croix, retaining the
name Scoodic for the northern or Chiputneticook branch. I cannot
imagine the source of this peculiar feature of his map, the more par-
ticularly as he knew the region so well. It is possible, however, that
he foresaw the possibility of this river being chosen as the boundary,
and wished to make out a case for the northern branch. His map,
however, while of much interest from several points of view, produced
little effect upon others later, for it was never published. Two other
maps in the Massachusetts Archives are also of some importance. One
is a map of 1786, by E. Putnam, a "Plan of Townships between Penob-
scot and Scoodic Eivers," on which the name Passamaquoddy is ap-
