278 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
plied to the St. Croix, up the Chiputneticook Branch, perhaps follow-
ing Mitchel's map which was probably known to Putnam, and Scoodic
is applied to the western branch only.^ " A plan of the length of
the Eiver Scoodic " of 1792, by Samuel Titcomb, applies Scoodic to
the Chiputneticook precisely as Allan does, and perhaps under his
influence. On printed maps of the time, Sotzmann follows Putnam,
but the name Passamaquoddy as applied to any part of this river
soon vanished. At present the name Scoodic is sometimes used for
the river, and is applied as it undoubtedly was orginally by the Indians
to the main river below the forks, and thence up the western branch,
the north branch being called the Chiputneticook.^
The boundary disputes originated an interesting generic term
for this region, namely " the lines " (Kilby, 83, Winslow Papers, 542),
but it has long since disappeared.
(b) — The Assignment of the Passamaquoddy Islands.
But the question as to the identity of the Eiver St. Croix Was
not the only one that rose from the Treaty of 1783 to vex the British
and American governments. Almost immediately after the treaty
was signed differences of opinion became manifest as to the course
of the boundary line among the Islands of Passamaquoddy Bay, and
these questions were not settled until 1817 and then by the compro-
mise decision of a special Commission.
The words of the Treaty referring to the islands were as follows:
And that all disputes which might arise in future, on the subject of the
boundaries of the said United States may be prevented, it is hereby agreed
and declared, that tihe following are and shall be their boundaries, viz. . . .
comprehending all islands within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of
the United States, and lying between lines to be drawn due east from the
points where the aforesaid boundaries between Nova Scotia on the one part,
and East Florida on the other, shall respectively touch the Bay of Fundy and
^ Exactly as he stated earlier in his letter already cited (page 246) of 1784.
He says the natives use this name for that branch, but this I believe is an
error in toto, for the name belongs as above explained to the outer bay, and
all usage of Indian names, the significance of this particular name (" the pol-
lock water " without any doubt) and the total absence of any other evidence
for it, are all against the possibility that the name applied also to one of these
branches. I believe he was misled by Allan, and by mistake applied the
name to the wrong branch.
'■' A curious survival of the incorrect usage of Scoodic for the Chiputneti-
cook Lakes is to be found in the Reports of the United States Coast Survey
for 1887-1890, and it reappears in a recent publication of the United States
Geological Survey upon "Water Powers.
