[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 279
the Atlantic Ocean, excepting such islands as now are, or heretofore have
been, within the limits of the said Province of Nova Scotia.
^Statement on the Part of the United States, etc.. Appendix, 12).
If we turn now to Mitchell's Map (Map No. 19), or even to a
modern map (Map No. 28), it is plain that, since every island in Passa-
maquoddy Bay, together with Grand Manan, lies south of a line drawn
due east from the mouth of the St. Croix, they would all, without
any exception, belong to the United States by the treaty, were it not
for the saving clause excepting those which were, or had been,
within the limits of Nova Scotia. None of the negotiators of the
treaty knew this region personally, nor had they any local knowledge
whatever aside from what they gleaned from Mitchell's and other gen-
eral maps, and, as we now know, their supposed information was very
erroneous. It is, moreover, quite unlikely that they had any idea as
to the extent to which Nova Scotia had exercised jurisdiction over
these islands. There can be no doubt, therefore, that the limits of
Nova Scotia meant by them were the true legal limits, whatever they
might be, as determined by charters, etc.
Such was no doubt the legal meaning of the treaty, and it was
on this basis the questions were finally settled. Locally, however, both
in Nova Scotia and in Massachusetts, the words " limits of Nova
Scotia " appear to have been interpreted as referring to actual juris-
diction, which it happened had been extensively exercised in this region
by that province. Indeed, from the earliest times, the Passamaquoddy
region as a whole has been associated, and for obvious geographical
reasons, with Acadia or Nova Scotia. All through the English Period
it naturally fell to Nova Scotia; it was a natural centre of settlement
and separated from any of the Massachusetts settlements by a great
stretch of unpeopled coast. Massachusetts n-ever made any effort
whatsoever to exercise any jurisdiction there until after 1783. On
the other hand Nova Scotia, acting under the rights conferred by the
grant to Alexander of 1621, made grants of Campobello (in 1767), and
of Deer Island (1767, confirmed in 1810). Acting under the claim
that the Cobscook was the St. Croix, she granted in 1764 extensive
tracts between that river and the Scoodic to Governor Francis Ber-
nard and others, which grant specifically included Moose Island. She
had also made a reservation of Grand Manan, preliminary to a grant
to Sir William Campbell, though the grant itself was never made.^
Moreover, she established courts at Campobello and St. Andrews, and
as affidavits in the Boundary Ms. show, these courts exercised jurisdic-
'■ Discussed fully by Howe in Coll. N.B. Hist. Soc, I., 345, 349. An earlier
application to Nova Scotia for Grand Manan is mentioned in Archives, 1894,
253.
