282 KOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
pretation of the treaty as applied to the islands, suggests that the in-
tention was to divide the Bay of Passamaquoddy equally, and claims
that the Island of Grand Manan and prohably some others belong to
the United States. In this year (1784), obeying instructions from the
Massachusetts Committee on Eastern Lands, he surveyed Moose, Dud-
ley and Fredericks Islands, and the Cominittee sold Dudley Island to
John Allan, who settled there, and made improvements. (State Papers,
I., 95.)^ I have nowhere found any statement of the grounds on
which Massachusetts claimed these islands. Presumably it was on the
ground above mentioned, namely that Nova Scotia's legal right to them
on the basis of the Alexander grant of 1621 was unknown, so that the
question was supposed to hinge upon jurisdiction, and the Province
was not known to have exercised jurisdiction over these particular
islands. Moreover, it cannot be doubted that the authorities perceived
the necessity of the possession of these islands in order to give the
United States a right to a navigable channel into the Bay of Passama-
quoddy, for there is no navigable channel between Moose Island and
the United States coast. (See Map No. 25).
In July of the next year (1785), New Brunswick laid formal claim
to these islands in the warrant or charter erecting the county of
Charlotte (later to be described under "County Boundaries"), in which
she made the western boundary of that county " the River Scoodiac or
St. Croix and the Western Shore of the Bay of Passamaquoddy,
including the Island of Grandmanan." This claim was still further
emphasized the next year in the Act of January 3 (1786), dividing the
Province into counties and parishes, in which the Parish of West Isles
in Charlotte County is erected as follows : —
The seventh Town or Parish to be called known and distinguished by the
name of West Isles, to contain Deer Island, Campo Bella Island, Grand Manan
Island, Moose Island, Frederick Island and Dudley Island, with all the lesser
Islands contiguous to them not included in the Towns before-mentioned.^
In the meantime, however, sometime in August, 1785, the High
Sheriff of Charlotte County summoned the inhabitants of Moose
Island to attend the courts of St. Andrews as jurymen, which how-
ever, under a warning from one James Avery, a local Justice of the
Peace, who told them they were subjects of Massachusetts, and doubt-
less also under the influence of John Allan, they refused to do. Avery
was fully aware of the necessity for holding these islands to secure navi-
^ An account of this survey is in Bangor Historical Magazine, III., 72.
'■' Governor Bowdoin in a Mesage to the Massachusetts Senate and House
of Representatives, July 7, 1786, calls this act, — " a most daring insult upon
the dignity of Massachusetts and the United States " (Boundary MS.)
