PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XXVII
Columbia University, New York, formerly of Toronto Universfly, who
spent the season ,of 1899 at the Biological Station, and a short paper on
" The Pectoral Fin of Lamnia Cornubica,' by Dr. A. H. MacKay and
Professor Prince.
All these investigations, it need hardly be pointed out, have not
only a high scientific value, but, in most instances, are of immense
and immediate and practical importance. This combination of practice
with science, of utilitarian and technical progress, has been emphasized
by the Board of Management, when outlining the work of the Station,
and the results of that work, it need hardly be said, amply fulfil the
original intention.
At Canso, where, during the coming season, work will be carried
on, the immediate investigation of tlie more southerly area of the Gulf
of St. Lawrence will be prominent, while the Bras d'Or Lakes and the
adjacent waters of the Gut of Canso will furnish a virgin field for
promising researches. Canso is a great centre of the Gulf and Atlantic
deep-sea fishing industries, and its selection so early in the history of
the Biological Station is a fortunate one for our fisheries.
The equipment of the Station has been rendered more complete by
the addition of new dredges, seines, tow-nets and plankton apparatus
of the most recent forms, while the library is receiving continual addi-
tions in order to increase its usefulness as an aid to original work.
Special mention must be made of the munificent gift by the British
Government of a complete set of the costly scientific reports of the
voyage of H.M.S. '•'Challenger." Through the gracious and willing
efforts of the Right Honourable Lord Strathcona and Mount Royal,
the gift was at once sanctioned by the Right Honourable Joseph Cham-
berlain, His Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies, and the
magnificently illustrated and supremely original and valuable papers
contained in the fifty volumes of the Challenger Reports are now
available for the staff of tbe Station.
During the past year Professor Macallum, Toronto; Professor
A. P. Knight, Kingston; Professor McBride, Montreal; Professor James
Fowler, Kingston; Dr. Joseph Stafford, Toronto; Dr. R. H. Scott,
Toronto; Dr. P. S. Jackson, Montreal; Dr. A. H. MacKay, Halifax;
Mr. Bower, of Kingston, and the Director, Professor E. E. Prince,
resorted to the Station, and conducted marine investigations.
At the meeting of the Board in February, an Assistant Director
for 1901, Professor Ramsay "Wright, was elected^, and has since received
official authority by Order in Council.
It is worthy of special mention that through the Secretary of the
Station, Professor Penhallow, the Board were informed, early last
