[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 287
nor was a second attempt in the same direction, attempted in 1807.
No mention is here made of Grand Manan. (Moore, 46.)
In the meantime, in 1805, an American vessel was seized for
illicit trading in Passamaquoddy Bay, and taken to St.. John, where
litigation followed, in which Chipman was concerned as Solicitor-
General,^ some account of which is to be found in the Winslow papers
(see Index, Falmouth). Of considerable interest is the statement of
Leonard, who writes to Winslow (515), " the opposite party — the
claimants do not yet know the object of our pursuit, the condemnation
of the vessel is a second consideration — the first is to obtain a right by
the Treaty to all the islands in the Bay of Passamaquoddy and waters
which surround them allowing the Americans a fair navigation into
the St. Croix " No effect upon the boundaries, however, fol-
lowed from this seizure, and matters remained in the same state until
the war of 1812, in which year the British seized Moose Island and
garrisoned it, and they held it to the end of the war. By the Treaty
of Ghent in 1814, it was permitted to remain in the possession of
Great Britain until its title could be determined.
To determine the title provision was made by the Fourth Article
of the Treaty of Ghent (given by Moore, 47, in full), which provided
that the question should be referred to a commission. This was to
consist of two commissioners appointed by the two countries who
should be sworn to decide the ownership of the islands according to the
testimony submitted to them on the part of the two countries ; if
they agreed their decision should be binding upon the two countries,
but if they did not the question should be referred to some friendly
sovereign or state. Accordingly Great Britain appointed Thomas Bar-
clay, who had already served upon the St. Croix Commission, and the
United States appointed John Holmes, a prominent citizen of that
part of Massachusetts now forming Maine, and afterwards a member
of Congress and United States Senator. The agent for Great Britain
was, naturally and happily, Ward Chipman, agent under the St. Croix
Commission aided by his son of the same name as joint agent,
and the agent for the United States was James T. Austin, a leading
lawyer, and afterwards Attorney-General of Massachusetts. The
commissioners chose as secretary to the commission, Mr. Anthony
Barclay, son of the British Commissioner. The commission met first
^ Leonard says (Winslow Papers, 544) " The seizure of an American vessel
in the Bay of Passamaquoddy has brought forward a claim from the States
to several of the islands in that bay and the waters which surround them.
An answer to that claim, by Chipman, does him the greatest credit, as it is
thought conclusive and unanswerable."
