288 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
at St. Andrews on Sept. 32, 1816, and ail connected with it were there
sworn to the faithful performance of their duties. Certain routine
business was transacted, it was agreed to accept as evidence the maps
used by the St. Croix Commission, the preliminary claims of the agents
werq received, and the commission adjourned to meet at Boston, May
28, 1817. In their memorials, the British agents claimed all the
islands of Passamaquoddy Bay as included within the limits of the
ISTova Scotia of the Alexander grant of 1621, and as having been under
the actual jurisdiction of Nova Scotia since then, while the American
agent claimed all of these islands of Passamaquoddy Bay together with
Grand Manan on the ground that they were annexed to Massachusetts
with JSTova Scotia in 1691, and never having been expressly relinquished
by or removed from her, they still remained her property.
The commission reassembled at Boston in June (1817), and the
agents presented their memorials. These, with the Journals of the
Commission, are preserved, in eight folio volumes (Moore, 63), of
which several copies exist, distributed as are the Eecords of the St.
Croix Commission. I have had the privilege of the use of the set
formerly belonging to Ward Chipman, and now in possession of Eev.
W. 0. Eaymond. The British agent^s memorial, a document of 135
folio pages, dated Boston, June 11 (1817), claims all of the islands
of Passamaquoddy Bay together with Grand Manan, as being within
the limits of the Nova Scotia created in 1621, which was the same
Neva Scotia as that of the treaty of 1783, and as under the jurisdic-
tion of Nova Scotia as shown by grants of various islands, the exer-
cise of civil authority, etc. The argument is sustained by certified
copies of the various grants (already mentioned earlier, page 279)
and by affidavits showing the exercise of jurisdiction.
The Nova Scotia of 1621 as granted to Alexander was to include
all islands within six leagues of the coast (or bounds) of Nova Scotia,
and an important condition of the grant was that all cases of doubt
were to be interpreted in favour of the grantee. He maintains that
the Americans made no pretensions to a right to Grand Manan untU
1806, in which year Mr. Madison, then Secretary of State, wrote to
the American minister in London claiming it as a part of the United
States. Madison's letter reads thus: —
This island is of considerable extent, is clearly within the g'eneral limits
of the United States, as fixed by the Treaty of Peace and is understood not
to be within the exception made by the Treaty of Islands appurtenant to
Nova Scotia, since all such islands must be either west, east or north of
the coast of that Province and within six leagues thereof ; whereas the Island
of Grand Manan is nearly due south of the nearest part of the coast, and
