[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 289
is either in the whole, or with the exception of a mere point, beyond the
distance of six leagues. (Boundary MS.)
The American agent responded in a memorial of 459 pages. So
voluminous are some of these memorials in proportion to their actual
substance that one sometimes suspects that they were not actually
intended to be read or listened to in detail, but were to create an
impression of bigness and importance, and to secure the benefit of
the doubt which a fair-minded and good-natured auditor nearly
always grants a pleader when his case is not fully understood. At
all events many of these boundary documents are appallingly and
uselessly diffiuse, and it is noticeable that as a rule, the weaker cause
produces the most voluminous arguments, perhaps because language
is only a fairly efficient instrument for concealing facts. The
American agent follows up the argument of his earlier claim, main-
taining at great length that the grant of Alexander was invalid,
that as Nova Scotia was annexed to Massachusetts by the Charter
of 1691, all the Passamaquoddy islands came then into her posses-
sion, that Nova Scotia was not again formally separated from
Massachusetts but was first described as a separate province in the
commission to a governor in 1719, and that in it and subsequent docu-
ments the islands were not formally restored to Nova Scotia and
hence they remained a part of Massachusetts and do not come within
the exception made by the treaty. He denies of course that the
Nova Scotia of 1621 and of 1783 were identical, and maintains that
Nova Scotia after its disappearance as a province in 1691 only
become legally a province again in 1783. He makes also much of
an involved argument as to the relation of the Virginia Charter
to the Alexander Charter, to the effect that all of these
islands were included in the Virginia Charter of 1606, that the
charter of 1621 took away a part of the earlier grant, but
that all not specifically included in that charter remained to New
England, that these islands were not specifically included and hence
remained to New England. These labored and involved discussions,
with their great emphasis upon intentions and the elaborate mean-
ings attributed to omissions, have a familiar ring to one who has
followed the boundary discussions so far — they are the methods of
the special pleader doing his best in the defense of a weak case.^
After hearing these arguments the commission adjourned to
Sept. 25 to allow the agents time to prepare their rejoinders, which
were then presented. That of the British agent, of 260 folio pages
' Yet Austin's arguments strike me as handled with great ability — it was
the weakness of his case which was at fault.
