290 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
dated Sept. 26, 1817, answers the points of the American agent as
it is not difficult to do, but contains nothing new that I can find.
The American agent's rejoinder to the first argument of the British
agent, dated Cet. 1, 1817, of 186 folio pages, responds in detail to
the first memorial of the British agent, but likewise contains nothing
new that I can discover. Both agents desired to be heard further by
the commissioners, but the latter decided that
" After hearing the Memorials presented at the session of this Board
on the 25th May last, and the replies thereto presented at this session, and
the evidence produced by the agents respectively — The said agents have
done honour to themselves and justice to their respective Governments : it
is there inexpedient that they should be further heard."
(Boundary MS. Journal).
On Nov. 24 (1817)^, the commissioners rendered their decision
which was as follows : — (Boundary Ms. Journal, also Moore, 62.)
Decision of the Commissioners under the fourth article of the Treaty of Ghent.
Nov. 24, 1817.
By Thomas Barclay and John Holmes, Esquires, Commissioners appointed
by virtue of the Fourth Article of the Treaty of Peace and Amity between
His Britannic Majesty, and the United States of America, concluded at Ghent
on the twenty-fourth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and four-
teen, to decide to which of the two contracting parties of the said Treaty the
several Islands in the Bay of Passamaquoddy, which is part of the Bay of
Fundy, and the Island of Grand Menan in the said Bay of Fundy do respec-
tively belong in conformity with the true intent of the second Article of the
Treaty of Peace of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three between
His said Britannic Majesty and the aforesaid United States of America.
We the said Thomas Barclay and John Holmes, Commissioners as afore-
said, having been duly sworn impartially to examine and decide upon the
said claims according to such evidence as should be laid before us on the part
of His Britannic Majesty and the United States respectively, have decided
and do decide, that Moose Island, Dudley Island, and Frederick Island, in the
Bay of Passamaquoddy which is part of the Bay of Fundy, do and each of
them does belong to the United States of America, and we have also decided
and do decide that all the other Islands, and each and every of them in the
said Bay of Passamaquoddy which is part of the Bay of Fundy and the
Island of Grand Menan in the said Bay of Fundy, do belong to His said
Britannic Majesty, in conformity with the true intent of the said Second
Article of said Treaty of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.
In faith and testimony whereof we have set our hands and affixed our
seals, at the City of New York, in the State of New York, in the United
States of America this twenty-fourth day of November, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen.
Thos. Barclay.
John Holmes.
^ The Commission was thus in existence only a little over a year, and its
total contingent expenses, to be divided between the two governments, was
less than six thousand dollars (Moore, 61).
