[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 291
In letters to the two governments transmitting the decision,
they say : " In making this decision it became necessary that each
of the commissioners should yield a part of his individual opinion.
Several reasons induced them to adopt this measure ; one of which
was the impression and belief that the navigable waters of the Bay
of Passamaquoddy, which, by the Treaty of Ghent, is said to be part
of the Bay of Fundy, are common to both parties for the purpose of
all lawful and direct communication with their own territories and
foreign ports." (Moore, 61.)
This decision was accepted by both governments,^ closed the
question and established the present boundary. It left, however,
the exact channel in the passages from Passamaquoddy Bay to the
Bay of Fundy unmarked, a question of comparatively slight import-
ance which, as we shall see later, has not yet been settled.
It will be of interest now to consider the grounds on which the
decision of the commissioners was reached, and these are fully given
by Barclay in a letter in his correspondence, cited by Moore (55). I
shall here summarize them in a general form. The commission of
course accepted the contention of the British agent, the only course
in accord with the evidence, and the same as the decision of the St.
Croix Commission, that the Nova Scotia of Alexander's grant of
1621 and the Nova Scotia of the treaty of 1783 were one and the
same. Since the treaty of 1783 granted to the United States all
islands south of a due east line^ from the mouth of the St. Croix,
^ Although the Americans appear to have felt they should have obtained
Grand Manan (Moore, 63).
^ The establishment of this due east line from the mouth of the St. Croix
indicates a remarkable carelessness on the part of the negotiators of the
Treaty of 1783. It not only is a very illogical line geographically, since, even
interpreted on the basis of Mitchel's map, (Map No. 19), it immediately cuts
across the mainland of Nova Scotia and runs far up the Bay of Fundy, giving
the United States an apparent claim to any islands on the coast of the
peninsula of Nova Scotia falling within twenty leagues (sixty miles) of
the coast of the United States, to which Nova Scotia could not prove a
right ; but it also ignores the fact, which other expressions in the Treaty
show was well-known to the Commissioners, that the western boundary of
Nova Scotia was a straight line from St. Marys Bay to the St. Croix, and
that hence this due east line, intended to form a boundary of the island
possessions of the United States, fell wholly within the limits of Nova Scotia.
Cases in which a treaty between two nations adopts as a boundary a line
lying wholly within the limits of the other are probably rare. The circum-
stance is however partially explained though not excused by the fact that
the instructions given the negotiators by Congress (printed in the Secret
Journals in 1821, and cited in the Statement of the Case of the United States,
of 1829), directed them to secure the St. John river from source to mouth as
a boundary ; and the due east line was to be drawn from the mouth of that
