292 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
not included within îsova Scotia (thus comprehending all of the
islands in Passamaquoddy Bay together with Grand Manan as shown
by Map No. 28) the question resolved itself into that of the deter-
mination of what islands were included in the Alexander grant of
1621. The wording of that grant so far as it concerns our present
purpose ascribes to Xova Scotia the following boundaries: —
ad occidentem ad stationem Sanctae Mariae navium vulgo Sanctmarcifi Bay
et deinceps versus septentrionem per directam lineam introitum sive ostium
mag-nae illius stationis navium trajicientes quae excurrit in terrae orientalem
plagam .... ad fluvium vulgo nomine Sanctae Crucis appellatum . . .
includendo et comprehendendo intra dictas maris eras littorales ac earum
circumferentias a mari ad mare omnes terras continentis cum fluminibus
torfentibus sinubus littoribus insulis aut maribus jacentibus prope aut infra
sex leucas ad aliquam earundem partem ex occidentali boreali vel oriental!
partibus orarum littoraliuin et praecinctuum earundem et ab euronoto (ubi
jacet Cap Britton) et ex austral! parte ejusdem (ubi est Cap de Sable) onmia
maria ac insulas versus meridiem intra quadraginta leucas dictarum orarum
littoralium earundem magnam insulam vulgariter appellatam Yle de Sable.
Translation.
"Westward to the roadstead of St.
Mary, commonly called Saint Mary's Bay, and thence northward by a straight
line, crossing the entrance, or mouth, of that great roadstead which runs
towards the eastern part of the land .... to the river generally known
by the name of St. Croix .... including and containing within the said
coasts and their circumference, from sea to sea, all lands of the continent
with the rivers, falls, bays, shores, islands, or seas, lying near or within six
leagues on any side of the same on the west, north or east sides of the same
coasts and bounds and on the south-southeast (where Cape Breton lies) and
on the south side of the same (where Cape Sable is) all seas and islands
river. Here its position was less inconsistent geographically, and also his-
torically since, although some attempt was made by the committee of Con-
gress to show that the St. John was the western boundary of Nova Scotia, it
was nevertheless practically a new boundary. When the American negotiators
could not secure the St. John and accepted the St. Croix on the ground that
it was the ancient boundary of Nova Scotia, they still retained the phrase-
ology of their instructions, only transferring the due east line from the St.
John to the St. Croix, overlooking the fact that while not out of place in the
one position, it was wholly so in the other. Incidentally the incident illus-
trates the preponderating influence of thé American negotiators in the fram-
ing of the treaty. The matter was, however, of no practical importance, for
the Passamaquoddy islands all fell to Nova Scotia by the clause including
within that province all that were within six leagues (eighteen miles) of her
coasts (see Map No. 28). It is interesting to note that had this clause not
been inserted in the grant of 1621, Nova Scotia could have possessed (and
New Brunswick would possess to-day) only those islands east of the line to
St. Marys Bay which would have cut through both Campobello and Deer
Island (Map No. 28). The American Agent denied the validity of the Alex-
ander grant, and hence under the due east line clause was able to claim for
the United States all of the Islands in Passamaquoddy Bay.
