294 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
lier possession and settled by her citizens, while Grand Manan was in a
military sense at least far more important to Great Britain than to the
United States and was settled by her citizens (since 1783 by Loyalists
and others). Moreover, the two conventions of 1803 and 1807, though
both unratified, showed that the British government was willing that
the United States should possess the three islands. A compromise was
according made upon that basis. The American commissioner at first
refused to give up Grand Manan unless in return for Campobello, but
finally he agreed upon condition that the British Commissioner join
him in a recommendation that the navigation of the passage between
Campobello and Deer Island be made common to both nations. This
was agreed to, and upon this basis the decision was rendered as above
given. It is of course a compromise in which Great Britain gave up the
three smaller islands to which her legal right was admitted, in return
for the relinquishment of the rights of the United States to the much
larger and more valuable island of Grand Manan, the right of Great
Britain to which as a whole was extremely problematical if not
wanting.^
Eeviewing now this subject of the ownership of the Passamaquoddy
Islands as a whole, we must admit that the result was extremely favour-
able to New Brunswick from every point of view. It is true her claim
to Moose Dudley and Fredericks Islands was legally sound, and her par-
tizans can claim that she ought to possess them to-day. But her right
to the greater part of Grand Manan was so slight as to be nearly non-
existent, depending upon a special interpretation to l)e given to certain
words of the Charter of 1621, together with a supposition that the omis-
sion of certain words from subsequent official documents was accidental.
The exchange of the three smaller islands for Grand Manan, for such
it amounted to, was a most excellent bargain for her. But when ws
view the subject from another point of view, her good fortune becomes
yet more manifest. If we consider the boundary which would be drawn
between New Brunswick and Maine in this region upon strictly natural
grounds, and therefore that which would unquestionably have been
adopted by the framers of charters and treaty had they had ample
knowledge of the country, we cannot question that the line according to
the usual custom in such cases would have followed the navigable chan-
nels, and would have given not only the three smaller islands to the
^ Before the Commission met, Barclay (quoted in Moore, 50) had expressed
the opinion that while the right of His Majesty to all the Islands in Passa-
maquoddy Bay was clear, it would be " difficult for his Majesty's Agent to
support with equal evidence His Majesty's claim to the Island of Grand
Manan, in the Bay of Fundy, an island of far more national importance than
any of the others." Chipman also once refers to the strength of the Ameri-
can claim to Grand Manan, though I cannot now give a reference to the place.
