[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 297
negotiators/ when asked why the St. Croix was chosen instead of the
Penobscot as a boundary, answered
that Doctor Franklin had so clearly demonstrated that the River St. Croix
was a preferable boundary, being the dividing limit formerly existing between
Nova Scotia and Massachusetts that the plenipotentiaries acceded hereto.
(Correspondence of Barclay, 70.)
Again the testimony of Adams, one of the American negotiators,
states : —
The British Commissioners first claimed to Piscatqua River, then to
Kennebec, then to Penobscot, and at length to St. Croix, as marked on Mit-
chell's map. One of the American Ministers at first proposed the River St.
John's, as marked on Mitchell's map, but his Colleagues, observing, that, as
St. Croix was the River mentioned in the charter of Massachusetts Bay, they
could not justify insisting upon St. John's as an ultimatum — he agreed with
them to adhere to the charter of Massachusetts Bay
Nothing was ultimately relied on, which interfered with the Charter of
Massachusetts Bay
The ultimate agreement was to adhere to the Charter of Massachusetts
Bay and St. Croix River mentioned in it
(Moore, Arbitrations, 19.)
In the same testimony in answer to a question, Adams acquiesced in
the idea that the intention was to let the boundaries of Massachusetts and
Nova Scotia remain as they had been conceived to be.
Again in a letter dated 17 August, 1796, to James Sullivan the
American Agent, Adams writes : —
It was not intended by either party to give any new boundary to the
east side of Massachusetts Bay; but the real eastern boundary of the pro-
vince of Massachusetts Bay, according to the Charter of William and Mary,
was intended to be the eastern boundary of the United States.
(John Adams' Works, Till., 209.)
Again in a letter of Oct. 25, 1784, to Thomas Gushing, he writes: —
The line between Massachusetts and Nova Scotia gave me much uneasiness
at the time of the negotiation of the provisional articles, and still continues
to distress me.
(Works, YIII., 209.)
^ Ward Chlpman, the British Agent before the Boundary Commissions,
fully recognized that the boundary in this region was the old boundary
between Massachusetts and Nova Scotia, for in his argument before the St.
Croix Commission he says : — " In and by the second article hereinbefore recited
of the said Treaty of Peace, it appears to be clearly intended that no part of
the Province of Nova Scotia should be thereby ceded by His said Majesty
to the said United States, but that the said province of Nova Scotia accord-
ing to its ancient and former limits should be and remain a part of the Ter-
ritories and Dominions of his said Majesty " (Boundary MS.)
Sec. XL, 1901. 19.
