XXVIII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
season, of the completion of an arrangement with Dr. C. 0.
Whitman, director of the Wood's Holl Biological Station, U. S.,
whereby an investigator's table in the Canadian JVIarine Station is
placed at the service of a nominee from Wood's Holl, on condition
that a similar privilege is given to a nominee from the Canadian Biolo-
gical Station. Dr. C. 0. Wliitman, the Board were informed, had
reserved a table at Wood's Holl in accordance with this proposition.
Such mutual international courtesies are beneficial in many desirable
ways, in addition to the benefit and advantage accruing scientifically.'
The first two seasons of the Biological Station's work have been in
every sense most successful, and the arduous and self-denying labours
of eminent scientists who have resorted to it for purposes of research
cannot fail to aid in a very practical way the fisheries of the Dominion.
It will be of interest to the Fellows of the Royal Society, which
was largely instrumental in origin,ating the scheme for a Canadian
Marine Biological Station, that the German Government have already
asked for full information respecting the nature of the Station and its
work, while distinguished authorities in Britain, France, the United
States and other countries have taken great interest in this valuable
institution.
The Council are indebted to Professor Prince for the foregoing
interesting summary of the progress of investigations, which must be
of great value to the fisheries of Canada.
21. Survey of Tides and Currents in Canadian Waters.
Substantial progress has been made in the work of this Survey
during the past year. The seven principal tidal stations have
been maintained in continuous operation throughout the year.
During the summer season, a series of tidal stations was established
throughout the Lower St. Lawrence, from Quebec to Cape Chatte.
Some direct observations of the currents were also made in the
Traverse. Two additional years of tidal record from Quebec have also
been submitted to analysis; in order to extend the basis from which the
Quebec tide tables are .calculated, from two years of observation to four
years. This will be of permanent benefit to these tide tables in all
future years. Another noteworthy step in advance, is the calculation
and publication of tide tables for British Columbia.
Progress in these directions has been made possible by the increase
in the amount of the appropriation for this Survey to $7,300.
This survey continues to meet with appreciation, especially in
Germany and the United States. The Consul for Sweden and Norway
