[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 299
divide the rivers that empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence from
those which fall into the sea to a point in forty-five degrees of north
latitude," etc. These words of the two documents obviously apply to the
same highlands but describe them in the reverse direction. Thus was
established the legal southern boundary of Quebec. Taken by them-
selves there cannot be any doubt as to the highlands here referred to,
namely they are those forming the watershed between the rivers falling
into the St. Lawrence river and those falling into the sea as far as such
highlands extend and thence by some line here undefined to the head of ^
Bay Chaleur. We consider next the legal boundary of Nova Scotia.
Since this Province, like Massachusetts, formerly extended to the St.
Lawrence, the Proclamation of 1763 and the Act of 1774 restricted their
limits by carrying their northern boundary from the St. Lawrence river
itself to the highlands south of it, for of course the new southern bound-
ary of Quebec became the northern boundary of Nova Scotia and Massa-
chusetts. Happily this latter point is not left to inference only, for in
the very year of the Proclamation (1763), a commission was issued bv
the British Government to Montague Wilmot as Governor of Nova Scotia
in which the boundaries of that province are given thus : " To the north-
ward our said Province shall be bounded by the southern boundary of
our Province of Quebec as far as the western extremity of the Bay des
Chaleurs," and on the west by a line across the entrance of the Bay of
Fundy to the mouth of the Eiver St. Croix, " by the said Eiver to its
source, and by a line drawn due north from thence to the southern
boundary of our colony of Quel^ec." These boundaries were repeated in
several later commissions, and formed the legal boundaries of Nova
Scotia in 1782, and as such must have been known to the negotiators.^
The northern boundary of Nova Scotia and of Massachusetts, then, was
the line of Highlands separating the rivers flowing into the St. Law-
rence from those flowing into the sea, while the boundary between the
two was the due north line from the source of the St. Croix to those
Highlands. Such then were the legal boundaries in 1782. In order
to ascertain whether the general understanding agreed with the legal
rights of the matter, we turn naturally to the maps of the time, i.e., to
those between 1763 and 1783 ; of these two examples are given herewith
(Maps Nos. 14, 15), and it is a fact that all other known maps show-
ing this region published between 1763 and 1783, and some afterwards,
agree with these, and without exception place the southern boundary of
' The reason for this g-ap I have elsewhere explained (page 220). It was
due In part at least to the fact that the Restigouche was on all of the maps
of the time represented as a very short and insignificant river.
^ These commissions, six in number, are all printed in the " Statement,"
of 1829.
