300
ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Quebec along the highlands not far south of the St. Lawrence and make
the line from the source of the St. Croix run to them.^ jSTo map nor
document official or otherwise is known in all this period which makes
the boundary between Nova Scotia and Massachusetts different from
these other than in those minor particulars in which the maps of the
time differ from one another.' The documents therefore establish, and
the maps actually represent, a north-west angle of Nova Scotia lying on
the highlands just south of the St. Lawrence. From 1763 to 1783,
therefore, both maps and documents agreed in assigning a north-west
angle to Nova Scotia and in placing it on the watershed just south of
the St. Lawrence (compare maps 14, 15 and 30), and there was no in-
consistency between the maps and the documents or between these and
the topographical knowledge of the time.
We come now to consider the description of the boundaries in this
region as given by the treaty of 1783 ; and, fresh from the consideration
of the documents just referred to, we cannot but be struck by the resem-
blance between the wording of the treaty and the wording of them. To
make this plainer, they may be set in parallel columns.
1. The line separating Quebec on the one hand from Nova Scotia and
Massachusetts on the other, i.e., the southern boundary of Quebec
and the northern boundary of Nova Scotia and Massachusetts.
Proclamation, 1763.
(Said line, crossing the
river St. Lawrence and
the Lake Champlain, in
forty-five degrees of
north latitude) passes
along the Highlands lohich
divide the rivers that empty
themselves into the said
river St. Lawrence from
those which fall into the
sea, and also along the
north coast of the Bay
Act, 1774.
On the south, by a line
from the Bay of Cha-
leurs along the Highlands
tchich divide the rivers that
empty themselves into the
river St. Latcrence from
those which fall into the
sea, to a point in forty-
five degrees of northern
latitude, on the eastern
bank of the river Con-
necticut.
Treaty, 1783.
(A line drawn due
north from the source of
the St. Croix river, to
the Highlands), along
the said Highlands ichich
divide those rivers that
empty themselves into 'the
river St. Lawrence from
those which fall into the
Atlantic Ocean to the
northwesternmost head
of Connecticut River.
des Chaleurs
2. The due north line between Massachusetts and Nova Scotia
Commission of 1763 and others Treaty of 1783.
LATER.
(Across the entrance of the Bay of
Fundy to the mouth of the) River
St. Croix, by the said River to its
source, and by a line drawn due
north to the southern boundary of
our Colony of Quebec.
A line drawn due north from the
source of the St. Croix River, to the
Highlands .... east by a line
ito be drawn along the middle of the
River St. Croix, from its mouth in the
Bay of Fundy to its source ; and
from its source directly north, to the
aforesaid Highlands.
^ A list of these maps, 36 in number, is given in the " Statement of 1829."'
" Excepting that erecting Sunbury County (page 226), which however had
no bearing whatever on the boundary controversies.
