[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 303
recognized geographical term, a further characterization of it was
desirable, and this the negotiators immediately proceeded to give in
the words immediately following the phrase nortli-iuest angle of Nova
Scotia. In making this description they had to be guided by the best
information at that time available to them, and this was represented
as we now know by Mitchell's Map of 1755, the one which the negotia-
tors on both sides all stated was the official map used in the negotia-
tions. We turn to MitchelFs map (Map No. 19, and also 29^), and
compare the description of the north-west angle of Nova Scotia given
in the treaty with the topography of that map. We find that a line
drawn due north from the source of the St. Croix does reach High-
lands (that is a watershed, and in the second edition of the map a
range of mountains clearly represented) which divides rivers emptying
themselves into the Eiver St. Lawrence from those which fall into the
Atlantic Ocean, so that according to this map the description of the
north-west angle of Nova Scotia given in the Treaty is perfectly
accurate.
Whence then arose all the doubt and dispute as to the position of
the nor(h-west angle of Nova Scotia, doubts which never were solved
and disputes which brought the two nations concerned well nigh to
war ? The answer will be found by comparing Mitchell's map and the
description based upon it by the treaty, with a correct modern map
when it will be found, that, while the due north line from the source
of the St. Croix meets with Highlands (a watershed) separating rivers
flowing into the River St. Lawrence from those flowing into Bay
Chaleur, and also in another place with highlands separating rivers
flowing into the Bay Chaleur from those flowing into the Atlantic
Ocean, it nowhere meets with highlands separating rivers flowing into
the River St. Lawrence from those flowing into the Atlantic Ocean.
Mitchell's map, and all of the maps of the time, was seriously errone-
ous, and the negotiators who relied upon its correctness were misled
into a description, which, perfectly correct in the light of that map
and therefore of their knowledge, proved erroneous in the later and
more correct knowledge of the country, though the intention of the
negotiators, and the position they meant to assign to the north-west
angle seems unmistakable. The actual words of the description of the
north-west angle of Nova Scotia, therefore, do not describe any place
whatsoever in this region. Hence an opening was allowed for ques-
tion as to the interpretation of the treaty and thence arose all those
^ As explained earlier, with Map No. 19, it was the second edition of the
map (Map No. 29), not, however, differing essentially from the first, which was
used by the neg'otiators.
