304 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
disputes only settled by the compromise treaty of 1843. Had
Mitchell's map proven to be accurate, or had the commissioners had
an accurate modern map before them so they could have made their
description accurate, or had they annexed a marked copy of Mitchell's
map to the treaty, the controversies over the question could not have
arisen, and Maine would, I believe, include the Madawaska
region and would extend to the highlands south of the St. Lawrence.
This could only have been avoided by some distinct and separate
negotiation or bargain whereby an alteration would have been made
in the boundary described by the treaty.
We shall now endeavor to trace synoptically the steps in this
remarkable, and for New Brunswick at least, historically most impor-
tant question. Happily this is rendered the easier because of the
remarkably clear and judicial discussion of the whole subject given
us by Moore in his " Arbitrations." I shall not attempt to cover the
ground from the legal and personal points of view as he has done, but
to treat the subject, as before, fully from the point of view of our
local history and geography.
Hardly had the treaty been signed before the question of the
northwest angle of Nova Scotia began to attract attention, not, how-
ever, from the United States, but from the British side, the reason
therefor, as usually in such cases, being an economic one. Any good
map, either ancient or modern, will show that the British America
left to Great Britain by the treaty of 1783, was partially divided in
two by the part of Massachusetts, now Maine, thrust up between
Nova Scotia (now New Brunswick) and Quebec, and this is more ex-
treme on the contemporary maps than on our present maps (compare
Maps Nos. 14 and 15 with 30). No doubt this unfortunate circumstance
was observed by the British negotiators, indeed it could not but be
evident as the lines were drawn out on the copies of the maps used
by the negotiators, as we know they were. Bull it is understandable
that, in the multiplicity of important matters claiming their atten-
tion, the ownership of a comparatively small area of unsettled wilder-
ness would seem to them of no great moment ; and even if it did,
and if they had appreciated the fact that this angle meant far more
than so much territory to Great Britain, it would appear to them
hopeless if not absurd to ask the now triumphant and free State of
Massachusetts to cede a part of her territory for the benefit of Great
Britain. We must remember that the basis on which the bound-
aries were here agreed upon was that of the separation of Nova
Scotia from Massachusetts, and not that of the establishment of a
new line of boundary ; and, moreover, the American negotiators were
