[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 307
in question, it was almost unknown and no economic interests were
at stake. Indeed, throughout the controversies which followed it
is plain that there was never any comparison as to the relative value
of this region to the two nations, for while the territory in dispute
was of great actual value to Great Britain because including her
invaluable line of communication, it was never of any great positive
value to the United States, its value being mainly potential, as a
possibility of annoyance to her enemy in time of war. It was not
until after the St. Croix question was settled in 171)8 that the subject
began to receive attention in the United States. Indeed, until that
question was settled, discussions as to the position of the north-west
angle of Nova Scotia could not be much more than speculative, since
its position depended upon the position of the source of the Eiver
St. Croix, undetermined until that year. It was, however, in the
course of the arguments made before the St. Croix commission by
the agents that the question was for the first time formally raised.
The British agent in his efforts to secure the Scoodic or West Branch
instead of the Chiputneticook or North Branch of the St. Croix
as the boundary, made it an argument that the treaty of 1783
required the boundary of the United States to begin at the north-
west angle of Nova Scotia ; that this north-west angle must lie where
a due north line from the source of the St. Croix meets with high-
lands separating rivers which flow into the Eiver St. Lawrence from
those flowing into the Atlantic Ocean ; that a line drawn due north
from the source of the Chiputneticook branch would not meet such
highlands and hence would not fulfil the conditions of the treaty, but
that a line drawn due north from the source of the Scoodic would
meet such highlands and fulfil the requirements of the treaty ; and
that hence the western source of the Scoodic must be chosen. As
a matter of fact this argument is invalid, as our present correct know-
ledge shows, for the line from the Scoodic meets with the same high-
lands as does the line from the Chiputneticook, namely, highlands
separating St. Lawrence from Bay Chaleur waters, but the argument
v\-as supposed at the time to be topographically sound and was a very
powerful point in support of the British claim. To meet it the
American agent was obliged to discredit not only the importance
but ilic very possibility of fixing the position of the north-west angle
of Nova Scotia, and this he does in his arguments. In one place he
indulges in the following fiight of eloquence : —
.... the northwest angle of Nova Scotia. That imaginary point, that
area in the clouds, that boundary established on a fog bank. ... It has
already as the agent for the United States believes, been fully shown, that
such an angle has been conceived, but has never yet had birth. That it has
