308 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
been supposed to exist, without the place of its existence having been seen, or
described, that it is a mere mathematical point, supposed to exist, etc."
(Boundary MS.)
How circumstances alter cases! In 1798, because it fitted their
immediate interests, we find the British agent arguing for a perfectly-
definite and determinable north-west angle of Nova Scotia, and the
American agent claiming it as but an undeterminable phantom of the
imagination. Yet, but a few years later, it was the British who were
claiming the north-west angle of Nova Scotia as an unlocalizable
phantom, and the Americans who claimed that it was a perfectly
definite point that could be located with certainty in the topography
of the country, and both parties were much plagued by their opposite
declarations earlier.
This idea of Sullivan that the north-west angle of Nova Scotia
could not be fixed according to the words of the treaty is still further
emphasized in a letter of his to Madison, Secretary of State, of date
May 20, 1808 (State Papers, II, 586), when he says :—
You will see by the maps of that part of the country, that the line which
runs north from the source of the St. Croix, crosses the River St. John at a
great way south of any place which could be supposed to be the highlands;
but where the line will come to the northwest angle of Nova Scotia, and find
its termination, it is not easy to discover .... should this description
[that there are no " highlands " south of the St. Lawrence] be founded in
fact, nothing can be effectively done as to a Canada line without a commis-
sion to ascertain and settle the place of the northwest angle of Nova Scotia,
wherever that may be agreed to be ; if there is no mountain or natural monu-
ment, an artificial one may be raised
Sullivan's difficulty in locating a north-west angle of Nova Scotia
arose in part from reports that there were no highlands i.e., distinct
ranges of hills, just south of the St. Lawrence and thus he takes the
view so vigorously advocated later by the British that the existence
of highlands, viz., distinct ranges of elevations and not simply a water-
shed, is an essential condition for locating the north-west angle of
Nova Scotia. Sullivan^s letter had a great influence upon the subse-
quent controversy and final settlement of the boundary line, for his
view of the case was taken by Madison who instructed the American
minister at London to open negotiations for an adjustment of the
boundaries. He speaks of Sullivan's " information and reasoning,"
as itseful in the discussion. He states that provision should be made
for the running of the line due north from the St. Croix, and adds : —
In fixing the point at which the line is to terminate and which is referred
to as the northwest angle of Nova Scotia, the diflficulty arises from a refer-
ence of the treaty of 1783 " to the highlands," which it is now found have
no definite existence. To remove this difficulty no better expedient occurs
