[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK i309
than to provide for the appointment of a third commissioner [in addition to
the two to control the running of the north line] as in article five of the
Treaty of 1794; and to authorize the three to determine on a point most
proper to be substituted for the description in the second article of the
Treaty of 1783, having due regard to the general idea that the line ought to
terminate on the elevated ground dividing the rivers falling into the Atlantic
from those emptying into the St. Lawrence.
iHtate Papers, II., 585.)
This letter and Sullivan's were made public, and while the former
does not question that the north-west angle of Nova Scotia must lie
on the watershed between St. Lawrence and Atlantic rivers, it never-
theless was an of&cial American statement that the north-west angle
cannot be found according to the words of the treaty of 1783, and
therefore it was of very great advantage to the British when they later
made the came claim. ^
We turn next to examine what opinions were held on the British
side at this time as to the, position of the north-west angle of Nova
Scotia. We have already seen, and the evidence will be set forth in
full in the discussion of the Quebec-New Brunswick boundary later in
this work, that Lord Dorchester as early as 1787 perceived that if the
boundary between Quebec and New Brunswick was fixed upon the
highlands just south of the St. Lawrence, the international boundary
would be on the same highlands, for he recognized that the north-west
angle of Nova Scotia and the north-east angle of Massachusetts must,
legally, lie at the same point. He advocated therefore, partly for this
reason and partly in the interests of Quebec, a more southerly
boundary for the provinces, namely the highlands south of the Grand
Falls, practically the Mars Hill range of Highlands afterwards claimed
by Great Britain. This claim was not, however, put forward as a legal
right, but on the ground of expediency, for the Council of Quebec in
an address to Lord Dorchester in 1787, submits " whether such a line
would not be to the advantage of both governments," but makes no
legal claim to it. Such a boundary was, however, utterly scouted by
New Brunswick, who from the first mention of the subject in 1785
down to the final settlement of that controversy in 1851, contended for
a boundary on the northern highlands, exactly where the Americans
always said it should be. New Brunswick, moreover, went farther
than this and vigorously claimed, though without adducing any
legal evidence therefor, territory west of the due north line. At
the same time, as the following documents will show, opinion in New
Brunswick was apparently unanimous that the due north line, accord-
^ And it was greatly regretted afterwards by the Americans. Compare
Moore, 68.
