PROCEEDINGS FUR lUUl XXIX
has also frequently applied for information on the results arrived at,
for the benefit of JSforwegian steamers.
New Tide Tables for British Columbia. — These are based upon the
record obtained from registering tide gauges erected in 1895 by the
Department of Public Works. One of these as at Sand Heads at the
outlet of the Fraser River, on the coast of the Strait of Georgia.
Another tide gauge, originally placed at Victoria, in 1895, has been
removed to the Dry Dock at Esquimalt, where it has been in continuous
operation to date.
Duplicate copies of these records were furnished to this Survey in
the form of blue prints; but the whole set was lost in the fire in the
departmenta.1 buildings in February, 1897. A second set from the
Department of Public Works was fortunately obtained before the whole
of the original record was destroyed in the extensive fire at New West-
minster, in August, 1898. It is therefore reassuring to note that there
are now three years of this record from which tidal constants have been
determined; which thus places the results from this portion of it, in a
position of equal security with the movements of the sun and moon
themselves.
These tables are of much service to our west coast, because of the
complication of the tides there, which results from the large diurnal
inequality.
Currents in the Gulf of St. Laiorence, including the Anticosti region,
and Belle Isle and Cabot Straits. — A pamphlet with this title was issued
in. June of last year. The information it contains is derived from the
investigations in the Gulf of St. Lawrence made by this Survey during
the summer months of 1894, 1895 and 1896; supplemented by informa-
tion collected by Mr. Dawson from captains of vessels, fishermen and
others, having a long experience in the Gulf.
In condensing this information from the Reports of Progress
already issued by this Survey, a division of the subject into two parts
was made, as follows: — Part I. Description of the currents on the
surface, as a mariner may expect to find them in each locality. Part
II. The causes, as far as ascertained, which influence the currents in
moving as they do ; and the general circulation of the water in the Gulf
of St. Lawrence.
Tides and tidal currents of the Lower St. Lawrence. — Some rela-
tions between the turn of the current and the time of high and low
water, have been ascertained while the surveys for the Admiralty charts
were being made. But unfortunately the time of the tide itself has not
been known with sufficient accuracy to make these relations with the
current practically available to mariners. The tidal observations of
