312 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
evidently essential to the future peace and safety of all the British posses-
sions on this Continent.
(Copy in possession of W. 0. Raymond.)
Although he here speaks of the north line as striking the river,
the context shows he means crossing it, for otherwise the communi-
cation with Canada would not be interrupted, because the river would
be still passable on the north bank.
But in another letter to Portland, Jan. 15, 1795, he says: —
Surveyors on the part of the State of Massachusetts have since my former
letter respecting the Boundary, been again employed on that service, but still
without any communication with this Government. The line which they
have now traced, crosses the River Saint John at a small distance above the
Madawaska settlement, and though it thus avoids encroaching upon any
Lands under actual cultivation it still intercepts our communication through
this province with Canada, and as there is reason to apprehend that this
boundary would on a strict inquiry be justified by the letter of the Treaty
it may become a question for national discussion with the American States
either now or on some future occasion. For it cannot be supposed to have
been intended, either on their part to claim or on ours to yield a boundary
which should in fact cut through the provinces it was designed to limit.
(Copy in possession of W. 0. Raymond.)
The line run by Massachusetts surveyors was not an international
boundary, but was one of those run in this region in connection with
land grants made by Massachusetts,^ but the letter shows that Gov-
ernor Carleton believed the words of the treaty required that the due
north line should cross the St, John and cut off the communication
with Canada.
Further in a letter of Dec. 1, 1798, referring to the decision of the
St. Croix Commission, he says: —
By this decision [viz., tSiat the line should start from the source of the
Chiputnaticook] it is true a considerable tract of land to which I think His
Majesty's claim had been clearly ascertained falls into the Territory of the
United States, and the line if continued due North from the point now
decidedly adopted as the source of the St. Croix will cross the River St.
John but little if at all to the westward of the Great Falls, and will there-
fore intercept our communication with Canada considerably below the
Madawaska Settlement. The obtaining therefore of some such alteration
in the course of this line as I have formerly suggested in my letter to Mr.
Dundas is now an object of immediate importance, and I am happy to ob-
serve that by the present decision respecting the mouth of the River St,
Croix, which is declared to be at Joe's Point a little above the Town of
Saint Andrews, another very important question is in fact decided and the
ground is thereby removed on which alone the American States could have
had a semblance of right to those Islands which they claim and have had
^ In 1794 : described by Gallatin in his Right of the United States, 147,
and in the Blue Book of 1843, 97.
