[ganongJ BOUNDAKIES OF NEW BRUNSWICK S 13
for some years past had [sic] in possession in the Bay of Passamaquoddy ;
and these Islands would certainly be more than an equivalent exchange
if it should be necessary to offer such an equivalent for the wilderness land
which by the alteration proposed would be ceded to His Majesty. .
(Copy in possession of W. 0. Raymond.)
Again, the same opinion was held by Edward Winslow, staunch
Loyalist and one of the best informed men of the time in New Bruns-
wick. He served as Secretary to the St. Croix Commission, and was
hence particularly well informed upon matters pertaining to the con-
sideration of the treaty of 1783. In a letter to his friend Lutwyche,
in 1799, he writes: —
My two last summers have been spent in the American States in the
execution of a very arduous and laborious duty as Secretary of the Com-
missioners appointed ^under the 5th article of the Treaty of Amity, Commerce,
&c., to determine the eastern boundary line. The business closed in October
last and under all the existing circumstances the decision may be considered
as favourahlc to Great Britain. Had the Americans established their claim
to the Magaguadavic, the River St. John would have been intersected within
a few miles of Fredericton. The whole of St. Andrews and other valuable
settlements together with two military posts of some importance [i.e..
Presque Isle & Grand Falls] would have been embraced within their limits.
As it is we lose not a single British settlement. A few miserable French-
men at Madawaska on the route to Canada fall within their territory. I
presume that some future negotiation will remove even that difficulty and
give us a free communication with Canada.
iWinslow Papers, Jf35.)
Again in a letter from Winslow to Sir John Wentworth of June
24, 1800 (Winslow Papers, 450), he speaks of an exchange of property,
Madawaska for Moose Island, implying that the former was American,
for Moose Island was considered unquestionably British.
Still later, in 1808, Winslow wrote to Sir J. Craig, April 4, 1808 :
Above the Grand Falls there is a compact and flourishing settlement
called Madawaska. As the line was settled by Commissioners it appears to
. intersect the St. John between the Grand Falls and Madawaska, and thus
the Village of Madawaska is thrown into the American States. But tho'
the territory may be theirs the jurisdiction remains with us, and these peo-
ple hold their lands by our patents and are governed by our laws.
(Winslow Papers, 617.)
Yet another opinion upon this subject is that of Dugald Campbell,
a prominent surveyor of New Brunswick, who had surveyed most of
the Eiver St. John. In a letter of July 14, 1800, to Winslow, he says:
I am very sorry to have to acquaint you, however, that the idea [i.e.,
a land communication with Canada by Madawaska] seems (I hope only for
the present) to be abandoned, as the beach formed by a projection of a part
Sec. II., 1901. '20.
