[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 317
The Attempt to Settle the North-west Angle of Nova Scotia hy the
Commission of 181 Jf.
The appointment of the commissioners soon followed. Great
Britain appointed Thomas Barclay, who had already served on the St.
Croix Commission, and who was also commissioner on the Passama-
quoddy Island Commission. The United States appointed Cornelius
Van Ness, a prominent citizen, and later Chief Justice and Governor,
of Vermont. As British agent. Ward Chipman, the same who served
on the two other commissions, was appointed, and for the United
States. William C. Bradley, of Vermont, was chosen. The commis-
sion had several secretaries in succession, at first, Henry Orne, a
citizen of Massachusetts, later for a time. Ward Chipman, jr., still
later, Eobert Tillotson, and finally Samuel Hale, all except Chipman,
citizens of the United States. The commissioners met first at St. An-
drews at the same time with the Passamaquoddy Island Commission
in Sept., 1816, and were there sworn in. Little business was, however,
transacted, and the commission adjourned to meet in Boston in the
following June. Accordingly on June 4, (1817), the commission re-
convened at Boston, and after considerable discussion drew up instruc-
tions for the surveyors, who proceeded forthwith in their duties.
We are of course here concerned only with the surveys from the
source of the St. Croix, those about the head of Connecticut Elver
and elsewhere having no connection with our present subject. As
chief surveyors were selected for Great Britain, Colonel Bouchette,
Surveyor-General of Quebec, and for the United States, John Johnson.
As assistant surveyors were appointed, Colin Campbell for Great
Britain, and Col. Turner for the United States. Jos. Bouchette, jr.,
afterwards his father's successor as Surveyor-General of Quebec, was
another British assistant, and Burnham, an additional United States
assistant. The survey had two objects, one to permanently mark the
line of boundary north from the St. Croix, and the other to discover
where the north line would cross the highlands of the treaty of 1783,
and thus fix the north-west angle of Nova Scotia. For the latter pur-
pose a party was to push rapidly ahead on a preliminary exploration,
while the main party was to proceed more slowly, carefully marking
the line. Happily very full records of this survey, together with many
private letters of much local interest relating to it have been preserved
among the Chipman papers, now in possession of Eev. W. 0. Eaymond,
who has with his wonted generosity placed them at my disposal. But
the subject is of sufficient local interest to deserve to be written inde-
