[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 319
season, but chiefly for a reason mentioned by Bouchette in his letter
to Chipman of Jan. 7, 1818, in which he says: —
Did not Mr. Johnson and myself agree in the respective presence of our
surveying parties that the Wagansis being the first waters of the St. Law-
rence, we stopped in consequence thereof having fulfilled so far our instruc-
tions."
In 1818, therefore, Bouchette seems to have thought that the
north-west angle of Nova Scotia was to be found between the Kesti-
gouche and the St. John, an opinion later maintained by others,
notably by Nathan Hale in 18-iO, (as shown by Moore, 143), but the
more remarkable in that in 1815, as we shall see, he suggested the
Mars Hill highlands. The assistant surveyors, however, in charge of
the marking of the permanent line (which they had to cut out six-
teen feet wide), proceeded only twenty miles from the source of the
St. Croix, when they broke their theodolite, and as it was already Octo-
ber, they abandoned the survey for that year. This action, however, must
have been the less trying to Campbell, at least, in as much as he had
instructions that the survey was not to be too rapid, for Chipman had
written him July 26 (1817) :—
It may become necessary if your progress should be at all rapid, to for-
ward instructions for stopping the actual survey before the season is ex-
pired, that is in case you should reach the River Restook or its neighbour-
hood.
The action of Bouchette above mentioned, and especially this
letter of Chipman's, makes it seem plain that the British claim for
a line along the Mars Hill highlands was not yet formulated. This
is, however, made certain by the following letter, one of the most
important yet extant and still unpublished among the Chipman papers
in possession of Mr. Kaymond. Writing Jan. 7, 1818, to G-ouldburn,
he says: —
" It appears to me, that it will be my duty to claim on the part of His
Majesty as the northwest angle of Nova Scotia some point in the due north
line to the southward of the River St. John either on the north or the south
side of the River Restook . . . . It is beyond all doubt that the agents
of the two Governments will never agree upon the point here in question,
and that the Commissioners will not interfere to ascertain and determine
it, till the surveys of the highlands claiined as the boundaries on the part
of the respective Governments shall have been completed .... and there
is as little reason at present to doubt that the American agent will claim
on the part of the United States some point on the due north line as the
northwest angle of Nova Scotia which will effectually interrupt the present
communication between Halifax and Quebec, and give to them a frontier
highly inconvenient to his Majesty's dominions in this quarter."
