320 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
He then gives a brief of his proposed argument, indicating the
points on which he afterwards based the British claim, as we shall
see later. This letter, therefore, is a contemporary record of the
genesis of the British claim to the Mars Hill highlands as a boundary,
showing that it was formulated by Chipman (or rather by Chipman
and his son of the same name, for they were joint agents for Great
Britain in 1817 and 1818). Ward Chipman, sr., died in 1821, and his
son continued as British agent to the end of the controversy.
Bouchette's and Johnson's reports have been published in part in
the " Statement" of 1829, and the former in the Journaux du Conseil
Leg. de Canada, 1844-45.
The next year the exploratory north line was continued from the
watershed between the Eestigouche and the St. John by Mr. Johnson
for the United States, and Mr. Odell, aided by Campbell, for Great
Britain, and in September they reached the waters of Beaver Brook,
a branch of the Metis and thus for the first time located the point at
which the due north line from the source of the St. Croix meets the
watershed south of the St. Lawrence. But this point of course did
not fulfil the description given by the treaty to the north-west angle
of Nova Scotia, for it separates the waters flowing into the River St.
Lawrence from those falling into Bay Chaleur, and not into the At-
lantic Ocean. The journal of this survey is preserved,^ and while of
great local interest, and giving a vivid picture of the great difficulties of
surveying in that wilderness country far from settlements and bases of
supplies, contains nothing essential to our present subject.
This survey had, however, a great influence upon the cartography
of this region, for it gave the original for that section on all of the
maps (for twenty years), down to the new survey made in 1842, as
we shall later trace. OdelFs and Johnson's Reports of this survey
were published in Synopsis in the " Statement '' of 1829, and Odell's
is given fully in the Journaux du Conseil Leg. de Canada, 1844-45.
In the meantime the commissioners had reassembled May 15, 1818,
at Burlington, Vt., and later in the month they met at Montreal and
St. Regis. There was much delay in the completion of surveys, how-
ever, on other parts of the boundary, and the commission did not meet
again until May, 1819, but yet further delay being necessary it
adjourned for a year, and again to November, 1820, when the Board met
in New York, decided that no further surveys were necessary, and
adjourned until May, 1821, to allow the agents time to prepare their
memorials. The full accounts of these meetings are given by Moore.
^ In possession of Capt. Key, of St. Andrews, who has kindly entrusted
it to me for examination.
