[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 321
In the meantime, however, although no further surveys were made
along the north line, some others of interest to New Brunswick were
made. Tn August Dr. Tiarks, the British astronomer, with Mr. Burn-
ham, the American surveyor, were sent to examine the nature of the
country where the principal rivers headed on the watershed. They
ascended Green Kiver, crossed to the Kedgewick, descended that river
to the north line and proceeded along the latter to make sure that it
reached waters of the Metis, returned to Green River and ascended its-
north-western branch and crossed to the lake named on our maps Lake
Tiarks. Returning they ascended the Madawaska and examined the
portages on the Touladi. Their maps are the originals for those
regions for a long time thereafter. Tiarks' report, of great local in-
terest, is published in the " Statement " of 1829 and elsewhere. In
these years many other explorations and surveys of great importance
(of which a list is given by Moore, 77) were made in central Maine,
and on the headwaters of the St. John, which were thus mapped with
approximate correctness for the first time.
At various meetings in May, June, August and September the board
met in New York, and as pointed out by Moore (76), their proceedings
were not marked l3y that harmony which characterized the operations of
the preceding commissions. There was much recrimination as to the
causes of the delays in the completion of the surveys, which also had
proven extremely expensive. The arguments of the commissioners were
heard at these meetings, and were brought to a close on Oct. 4th (1821).
The arguments of the agents are all preserved in the huge folio
manuscript of which, as in the case of the documents of the other com-
missions, several copies exist. They are in the form of opening argu-
ments, second arguments, replies, observations upon replies, etc., etc.
They are not however as voluminous as would naturally be expected in
comparison with the records of the earlier commissions. It is needless
to attempt to summarize the contents of these various documents indi-
vidually, and I shall attempt rather to describe concisely the position
of each of the agents.
The British agent claimed that the north-west angle of Nova Scotia
was at Mars Hill, where the due north line from the source of the St.
Croix meets with a range of highlands running westward south of the
Aroostook river, the continuation of a range which runs north-easterly
to Bay Chaleur (see Map No. 30). This claim was not, however,
entirely original with him, for a boundary on the highlands south of
the St. John had been suggested in 1815 by Bouchette in his topogra-
phical description of the Province of Lower Canada, where he advocates
