322 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
it, however, not on the score of legal right, but of convenience.^ It
remained for Chipman to sustain it on the former basis. He pro-
. ceeded to show that the words of the treaty of 1783, so far as the descrip-
tion of the north-west angle of Nova Scotia is concerned, do not fit
any locality whatsoever, since the due north line from the source of the
St. Croix does nowhere meet with highlands separating rivers flowing
into the Eiver St. Lawrence from those flowing into the Atlantic Ocean,
but only watersheds separating St. Lawrence from Bay Chaleur waters
and Bay Chaleur waters from the St. John, a point in which any map
will show ho is perfectly correct. The words of the treaty cannot there-
fore bo fulfilled literally. He naturally makes much of Sullivan's
scouting of the definite location of the north-west angle in the argu-
ments before the commission in 1798. First as to Highlands of the
treaty ; these he contends, and cites Sullivan and Madison in support,
cannot refer merely to a watershed, which may be flat or low, but must
refer only to distinct elevations recognizable as a ridge or range of hills.
He quotes the reports of the various surveyors to show that the water-
shed south of the St. Lawrence, where it is claimed by the Americans
that the north-west angle lies, by no means can be described as highlands,
being in fact in many places swampy and flat, even though consider-
ably above the sea. Hence these could not be the highlands of the
treaty. On the other hand, he quotes the surveyors to show that south
of the Aroostook and running westward through Maine lies a true range
of highlands of which Mars Hill is a part, which included just such
broken and elevated ridges and ranges as fit the description of " High-
' Speaking of the highlands at the westward he says : — " The main
ridge, continuing its northeasterly direction, is intersected by an irhaginary
line prolonged in a course astronomically due north from the head of the
river St. Croix, and which ridge is supposed to be the boundary between
T.ower Canada and the United States ; at least such appears to be the way
in which the treaty of 1783 is construed by the American government, but
which ought to be more fairly understood, as follows, to wit : the astronom-
ical line running north from the St. Croix should extend only to the first
easterly ridge, and thence run westerly along the crest of the said ridge
to the Connecticut, thereby equitably dividing the waters flowing into the
St. Lawrence from those that empty into the Atlantic within the limits of
the United States, and those which have their streams within the British
Province of New Brunswick." It will be seen that this is merely a sugges-
tion, and without doubt simply follows the proposal of Lord Dorchester in
1787 later to be considered. I think, therefore, it is very misleading, if not
erroneous, to speak of this as the first "distinct foundation of the British
Claim," as Winsor does in America, VIL, 176 ; and it certainly is not, as he
says " authoritative representation of the conclusions which by 1S15 the
British Government had reached " and which " they ever after continued
to press." As we have seen above the claim was not formulated until 1818,
and it was by Ward Chipman.
