[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 32S
able to cite.^ Massachusetts, on the other hand, had made no attempt
to exercise authority there until very recently.
Chipman's argument may thus be summarized in brief : —
(1) The north line crosses no place literally described by the treaty,
hence the latter must be interpreted by its intention.
(2) The intention was to make a boundary on the basis of mutual
convenience and reciprocal advantage, and hence it could not have
been intended to make a line so inconvenient to Great Britain as that
claimed by the United States, cutting off the communication between
Quebec and Nova Scotia.
(3) The plain intention was to give each nation the sources of the
rivers emptying through its territory, and hence the St. John was to
belong wholly to Great Britain and the boundary must lie south of it.
(4) North of the St. John there is no range of highlands suffi-
cient to fulfil the requirement of the treaty as to highlands, but
south of the St. John there are such highlands in the Mars Hill
range.
(o) The territory in dispute had been occupied and governed by
Great Britain, but Massachusetts had never interposed until lately,
while the instructions of Congress to the negotiators in 1782, showed
that Massachusetts was not considered to extend north of the St.
John.
(6) The St. John was not a river falling into the Atlantic ocean
in the sense of the treaty, and hence the dividing highlands
must lie west of its source. Such highlands are actually found there,
and in their eastern extension reach the St. John at Mars Hill.
Hence Mars Hill is on highlands separating rivers which fall into the
St. Lawrence from those falling into the Atlantic ocean within the
intention of the treaty. They are, therefore, the only range of high-
lands fulfilling the requirements of the treaty, and here must lie the
north-west angle of the treaty.
The American agent claimed as the north-west angle of Nova
Scotia, the intersection of the due north line with the highlands south
of the St. Lawrence (Map No. 30), and rested his claim upon the docu-
ments which we have already cited (pages 298-301). These, as we
have seen, showed that the legal southern boundary of Quebec was the
legal northern boundary of Nova Scotia and Massachusetts ; not
only did the official description of this boundary show that it ran
^ Given in Remarks upon Disputed Points of Boundary, 60. It should be
noted here that in making' grants in Madawaska in 1790. New Bruns\^ick
was acting within her supposed rights, for, as will be shown later under
County Boundaries, the western line of the Province was then supposed to
run from the source of the Scoodic.
