326 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
along the highlands just south of the St. Lawrence, but all maps
and records of the time agreed in placing it there, and the
boundary between Nova Scotia and Massachusetts was a line north to
those highlands, as had been admitted by Chipman and others earlier.
He maintained, in opposition to Sullivan and Madison, and to the
British claim, that the highlands of the treaty were not meant to be
elevated and broken ridges, but simply watersheds, and that in any
case the reports of the surveyors in the region in question showed
that the term highlands was applicable. In answer to the claim of
the British agent that the highlands at the point claimed by the
United States did not separate rivers flowing into the St. Lawrence
from those falling into the Atlantic ocean, he replied by a lengthy
argument to show that the treaty intended to recognize in this region
only rivers falling into the Eiver St. Lawrence and those falling into
the Atlantic; there was no third class, and hence within the meaning
of the treaty the Eestigouche, falling into Bay Chaleur, was one of
the rivers falling into the Atlantic ocean. ^ But the point he does
not regard as of vital importance, since it was known that the nego-
tiators used Mitchell^s map in their deliberations, and on that map, the
north-west angle as claimed by the United States does lie on a water-
shed between St. Lawrence and Atlantic waters, and hence the inten-
tion of the negotiators as to the place of the north-west angle is clear.
In answer to Chipman's claim that the Mars Hill highlands are those
of the treaty, he points out that in order to make it good, Chipman
has to reverse the description given of those highlands by the treaty
and begin at the west and proceed east, whereas the descriptions on
which the treaty is founded and the treaty itself proceed from the
east westward. In answer to Chipman's point that Congress in the
' The argument is laboured at this point. This was always the one weak
point in the American claim, and indeed the one flaw which made it possible
for Great Britain to make ont a case for the discussion of the line. It was
the more lamentable from the American point of view since it was such
an adventitious circumstance, and totally dissociated from the true merits
of the case. Had the Restigouche not happened to extend westward in the
totally unexpected way it does, the words of the Treaty could have been
literally fulfilled, and no claim on the part of Great B itain that the St.
John did not flow into the Atlantic would have availed to secure a revision
of the case with the resultant British advantages in this quarter. As it
was, in order to maintain the obvious intention of the treaty, the Americans
had to explain away the unfortunate words in this place, and to do so,
while expressing no patience with the British claim that the St. John did
not flow into the Atlantic, in the sense of the Treaty, had to claim tha;t the
Restigouche does flow into the Atlantic in the sense of the treaty. Yet one
of these views requires no more of a strain on the imagination than the
other.
