[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 327
instructions to the negotiators contemplated the St. John as a
boundary from mouth to source, and that hence no boundary was to
cross it, his answer is somewhat involved.^ In answer to the British
claim that the St. John did not flow into the Atlantic, he pointed out
that the earlier documents from which the words of the treaty are
largely adopted use the word sea, which applies as well to the Bay of
Fundy as to the Atlantic. But other points in Chipman's arguments
are fully considered and answered.
The arguments of the agents were closed on Oct. 24, 1821, and
on that day the commissioners delivered their opinions to one another
in notes. So far as they relate to the New Brunswick boundaries
they were as follows (Boundary MS.; in full in Moore, 81): —
New York, 4th October, 1821.
The arg-uments of the Agents under the 5th Article of the Treaty of
Ghent on the points in controversy having closed, Mr. Barclay, one of the
' Later, in the statement of the case laid before the King of the Nether-
lands, this point was answered in another way, namely that the source of
the St. John here meant is that lying on the due north line as shown on
Mitchell's map, viz., the source of the Madawaska branch. To my surprise
this view seems to be accepted as correct by Moore in his Arbitrations
(pa,ge 96). I think this is a mistake, and that the instructions did
mean the true westerly source of the St. John, though it was not then sup-
posed to be sio far west. This seems to me apparent not only from the whole
tenor of the discussion of the instructions (as given in the Statement of
1829, 251-255), which never mention the documents, (the Proclamation of
1763 and Act of 1774 and the Commissions of Governors of Nova Scotia,
which really determined the northwest angle as adopted by the Treaty, and
of which the Committee seems to have been ignorant,) but also by the argu-
ment in one of the closing paragraphs. Discussing the place called St.
Croix in the Grant of Sagadahock, they say : — " The place, therefore, called
St. Croix, adjoining to New Scotland, was most likely intended to describe
the lands between the rivers St. Croix and St. John's. History does not
inform us that any particular part of them was known as St. Croix. [An
error, but one of no consequence to our present subject]. But as the first
course of the grant to the Duke of York plainly runs from Nova Scotia to
Massachusetts along the sea coast, it is probable that it was to begin at
the first point in the country of St. Croix on the coast. This must have
been on St. John's river. And as the last line of the grant is not closed,
it is more agreeable to the usage of these days to adopt a natural boundary.
For this purpose St. John's River was obvious as far as its head, and after-
wards a line to the great river of Canada." The fact is the framers of the
instructions were not informed as to the true boundaries in this region and
seemed to think them undefined ; hence they suggest the St. John as a good
natural boundary. There is not the least evidence that they had Mitchell's
map before them, as the theory advanced in the statement and approved
by Moore assumes, instead of some one of the many others of the time
which did not show the Madawaska source lying on the north line.
(Comipane note on this subject in footnote page 356).
