328 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Commissioners to whom the decision of the said points is referred, hereby
states to Mr. Van Ness, the other Commissioner, that on the question as to
the Northwest angle of Nova Scotia, he is of opinion that that point ought
to be established at or near the mountain or hill called Mars Hill distant
about forty miles on a due north line from the source of the river St. Croix,
and about thirty-seven miles south of the river St. John
THOS. BARCLAY.
New York, October 4th,1821.
The arguments of the Agents under the 5th Article of the Treaty of
Ghent on the points in controversy having closed, Mr. Van Ness, one of the
Commissioners to whom the decision of the said points is referred, hereby
states to Col. Barclay, the other Commissioner, that on the quesition as to
the northwest angle of Nova Scotia, he is of opinion that that point ought
to be fixed at a place about one hundred and forty-four miles due north
from the source of the river St. Croix, and about sixty-six miles north of
the river St. John
C. P. VAN NESS.
The two commissioners, therefore, came to precisely opposite con-
clusions, the British commissioner, Barclay, taking the extreme British
view, fixing the north-west angle of Nova Scotia at Mars Hill, while
the American commissioner took the extreme American view, fixing
it on the highlands near the St. Lawrence. It was now their duty,
in accordance with the requirements of the article under which the
commission was constituted, for them to make full reports to their
respective governments upon the reasons which led them to their
respective conclusions. These reports were prepared and handed in to
the governments in April, 1822, and exist among the boundary MS. ;
and extracts from them, embracing the essential points, have been
printed in the Case of the United States laid before the King of the
Netherlands. That of Van Ness is a document of 76 pages, but that of
Barclay is very much longer, 324 folio pages. They include, of course,
their opinions upon all of the points in controversy.
Thus closed the attempt to settle the north-west angle question
by the agency of a commission. It resulted in no advance whatever
towards a settlement, but it did define with the greatest clearness the
positions of the two nations, doing this so effectually that, so far as
I can find, nothing substantially new was afterwards added.
Before leaving this part of the subject, however, some comments
shordd be made upon the arguments of the two agents in relation to
the rights of the case as we can view them in the perspective of dis-
tance, in the calm following the passing of the storm, and in the
knowledge that these questions no longer have any other than a purely
academic interest. In the light of the documents of the time, of the
maps, of our knowledge of the negotiations leading up to the treaty.
