£ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 331
who with Addington and Grant in England, prepared a convention
which was completed in 1837, and formally ratified in 1828. It pro-
vided that as the documents in the case were " so voluminous and
complicated as to render it improbable that any sovereign or state
would be willing or able to undertake the office of investigating and
arbitrating upon them,^' it was agreed to substitute for them " new
Stud separate statements of the respective cases, severally drawn up by
€iiach of the contracting parties in such forms and terms as each shall
see fit." The statements so prepared were to be submitted by each
party to the other, and each would have the right to prepare a definitive
reply, thus making two documents for each side. As to maps, it was
provided that the only ones that could be submitted as official were
Mitchell's map of 1755, admitted to have been used by the negotiators,
and Map A, accepted by the commissioners under the Fifth Article
of the Treaty of Ghent and showing the extent of the claim of each
nation, though other maps might be submitted in illustration of par-
ticular points ; and there were other provisions' of minor importance
which the interested reader may trace in the summary of the conven-
tion given by Moore.^ The King of the Netherlands was agreed upon
as arbitrator.
The preparation of the statements to be laid before the King of
the Netherlands, as arbitrator, was at once begun. That of the United
States was prepared by Albert Gallatin, the able jurist and diplomatist,
aided by Wm. P. Preble, a citizen of Maine. There are references to
Gallatin^s labors on this work, to which he devoted two years of close
labor, in Adam's "Writings of Gallatin," cited by Moore. The British
statement was apparently prepared by Henry U. Addington and
William Huskisson, both prominent in the public service in England
at that time,- and of course they had the aid of Ward Chipman, jr.
We obtain a most interesting sidelight upon this question in the fol-
lowing extract from a letter of Addington to Chipman, of Dec. 21,
1828, the original of which is in possession of Kev. W. 0. Raymond: —
I have perused Mr. Straohay's papers, which only g'o to prove extreme
•debility and precipitation on the part of the ministry and idiotic imbecility
on the part of Mr. Oswald. It is rather hard to find oneself called upon to
make good flaws left in the original Treaty by the incapacity or dishonesty
of the Butchers concerned in it and inimitably deteriorated by subsequent
proceedings. However, we must do our best, and it is fortunate we have
at least a basis of truth and justice to work upon.
^ Arbitrations, 88, 89. The convention itself is in State Papers, VI., 700,
and letters and other papers relating thereto are in the same volume.
- Parishes in Kent and Gloucester (now Restigouche) Counties were
named for them in 1826.
