332 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Oswald and Strachey were the British negotiators of the treaty of
1783, and this letter of Addington's, practically granting the technical
correctness of the American claim, lays the blame for the (to Great
Britain) unfortunate boundary upon the negotiators, a judgment
which has been expressed by other students later, but which seems to
me, as elsewhere shown,^ not fully justified, for the boundaries were
really predetermined in this region by the old relations of Massachu-
setts and Nova Scotia.^
The following letter of Addington to Chipman, March 31, 1829,
seems to refer to the argument on whether the Bay of Fundy is part of
the Atlantic Ocean.
" I have decidedly determined on retaining the whole of the argu-
ment on geographical practice, in relation to Bays and Gulphs as believing
it to tend strongly to illustrate the question in a clear and simple manner
and to diminish the apparent severity of what must seem to any man at first
sight a paradox."
As would be expected from the ability of the authors of these state-
ments, and from the thoroughness with which the whole subject had
been investigated and discussed, the statements are remarkably strong
presentations of the respective cases. A summary of their contents is
given by Moore ("Arbitrations," 100-119), and it is needless to attempt
such a summary here, the more especially since, so far as I can find, they
present on neither side anything substantially different from what had
already been adduced by the respective agents under the preceding com-
mission. But it is not to be supposed that they are simply repetitions of
the arguments of the agents ; they are, rather, independent arguments
based upon the same data. These statements were printed in small folio
form, but never published, and, as Moore says,^ but a few copies are
. ^ Earlier, page 304, and later, page 353.
^ With this, as further showing the attitude of the British in private
towards the case they were called upon to defend, the following letter by
Tiarks, the British Astronomer, and one of the surveyors and explorers in
connection with the Commission, written to Chipman, Jan. 25, 1826, is of
interest. It is among the Chipman papers in possession of Mr. Raymond.
" The N.W. angle of N.S. is of the greatest consequence to the Provinces
and I am of opinion that Col. Barclay is right that securing the latter is
worth sacrificing the others [points of boundary in dispute elsewherej.
Much depends of course on the view which one takes of our argument on
that point. I think it strong — and just in its nature, but — by no means
absolutely perfect. It has its defect, but the Treaty contains several geogra-
phical blunders and we may say it contains one at the N.W. angle of N.S."
^ I have the good fortune to possess, bound up in one volume, perfect
copies of both of the American and both of the British statements together
with a copy of the original edition of the award of the King of the Nether-
lands, and I possess also one of the original Ms. maps on which the award
was represented.
