PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XXXI
ences. To check the accuracy of the method, a trial month was calcu-
lated in the year 1900; and on comparison with the observed tides, was
found to be very satisfactory.
With tide tables for Father Point, the tidal differences for the St.
Lawrence can with advantage be divided into two series: — (1) For the
time of the tide from the Traverse to Quebec, and above Quebec to Three
Elvers, corrected tidal differences will be published with the Quebec tide
tables. (2) The tide at places throughout the more open estuary below
the Traverse, will be referred to Father Point; and with these will be
included Anticosti and Chaleurs Bay; as the observations secured there
have made it evident that these regions can also best be referred to
Father Point.
In order to make the information on the currents immediately
available, a table giving the time of the turn of the current was issued
in April as a " Notice to Mariners."
The tide-levels, which have to be worked out in the reduction of the
observations, will also be of practical service. These levels have been
referred to the original Admiralty bench marks; the positions of those
on the Lower St. Lawrence being kindly furnished by the Hydro-
grapher to the Admiralty. The primary importance of these bench
marks is very evident; as the low water datum of the charts is thus per-
manently recorded. The points at which the bench marks have thus
been made use of, are at Quebec, Grosse Isle, L'Islet, Orignaux Point,
and Eivière du Loup ; as well as the Tidal Survey bench mark at Father
Point.
The tide tables now issued are published in three sets as follows : —
1. For Quebec, Halifax, and St. John, N.B., with tidal differences
for the adjoining regions, and also for the Bay of Fundy, based upon
recent observations there. Also for Father Point, accompanied by tidal
differences for the regions that can be referred to it, as explained; and
for Ste. Croix Bar between Quebec and Montreal.
2. For Charlottetown, Pictou and St. Paul Island; with tidal
differences for Northumberland Strait and the south-western shore of
the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
3. For Victoria and the Strait of Georgia, B.C.; with differences in
time for Vancouver, New Westminster, Nanaimo, and Comox.
It is proposed in the coming season to secure additional data in
Northumberland Strait and Cabot Strait. This information will serve
to give a better basis for the calculation of the tide tables.
