336 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
aries of their possessions, from the source of the River St. Croix to the
Northwesternmost head of the Connecticut River; and that the nature of the
difference and the vague and not sufficiently determinate stipulations of
the Treaty of 1783, do not permit to adjudge either of those lines to one
of the said Parties, without wounding the principles of law and equity, with
regard to the other :
That, as has already been said, the question resolves itself into a selection
to be made of ground dividing the rivers that empty themselves into the River
St. Lawrence from those that fall into the Atlantic Ocean ; that the High In-
terested Parties are agreed with regard to the course of the streams delineated
hy common accord on the Map A and affording the only basis for a decision.
And that, therefore, the circumstances upon which such decision depends
could not be further elucidated by means of fresh topographical investigation,
nor by the production of additional documents :
He therefore is of opinion
That it will be suitable to adopt, as the boundary of the two States, a line
drawn due north from the source of the river St. Croix to the point where
it intersects the middle of the channel of the river St. John ; thence, the
middle of the channel of that river, ascending it, to the point where the
river St. Francis empties itself into the river St. John ; thence, the middle
of the channel of the river St. Francis, ascending it, to the source of its
southwesternmost branch, which source we indicate on the Map A, by the
letter X, authenticated by the signature of our Minister of Foreign Affairs;
thence, a line drawn due west, to the point where it unites with the line
claimed by the United States of America, and delineated on the Map A ;
thence, said line to the point at which, according to said map, it coincides
with that claimed by Great Britain ; and thence the line traced on the map
of the two Powers, to the northwesternmost source of Connecticut River.'
(Decision of the Arbiter, 11, 12.)
The decision therefore was not an award to either party ; it was a
compromise splitting the difference between their two extreme claims,
but assigning to the United States considerably the larger part of the
disputed territory. It was, moreover, expressed simply as an opinion,
and not as a final declaration.
Before considering the reception of this award by the two nations,
we may here turn aside to note an interesting side-light upon the decision
which may help to explain its character. While the King had the subject
under consideration, one of the British representatives at the Hague
was Sir Howard Douglas, Governor of New Brunswick from 1824 to
1829, one of the best governors that province has ever had. In Fullom's
"Life of Sir Howard Douglas" (295) is an account of a conversation
with the Kiiig of the Netherlands, in the course of which Sir Howard
said : —
" Great Britain firmly believes the right is on her side, Sire, and your
Majesty has full powers to settle the limits in anyway your Majesty m.ay
' The translation of the award, as usually printed, has thnhccg where I have
here used the word channel.
