[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 337
deem consistent with the objects of an arbitration — even should it be by
splitting- the difference as was proposed by Mr. Gallatin."
" Did Mr. Gallatin propose that?" cried the King, eagerly.
•' Yes, Sire, and gave offence to the State of Maine by the admission thus
implied."
It is quite true that Gallatin had suggested a compromise as to this
boundary. It is first contained in a letter of his of Dec. 25, 1814 (case
of the U.S., 1829, 428), and again in one of Oct. 20, 1826, to Henry
Clay, Secretary of State (in State Papers, VI., 647). The suggestion
is there coupled with an expression of opinion that the title of Maine
to any territory north of the 45 parallel (apparently the limit of the Vir-
ginia charter) was defective, and that the territory in dispute belonged
not to that state but to the United States, and hence could be ceded to
effect a compromise. This position was undoubtedly a mistake, and was
completely repudiated by him in a letter only eight days after the latter
letter, where he admitted his mistake (State Papers, VI., 650). The
British made something of this letter in the statement, and Gallatin was
obliged to repudiate it emphatically in a special section of the Ameri-
can statement.
We return now to the decision of the King. On the 12th of Jan-
uary the American Minister at the Hague filed with the Minister of
foreign affairs a protest, perfectly respectful in tone, against the award
on the ground that the King in recommending a new line departed from
the powers delegated to him l)y the parties, which were to decide upon
one of two lines. The British Government, however, agreed to accept
it ; doubtless it would have been accepted by the United States had it
not been that it was unsatisfactory to both Maine and Massachusetts,
and it was accordingly rejected by the United States Senate. As a mat-
ter of fact, this rejection was unfortunate for all parties, but particularly
for the United States, for not only did it leave the controversy open for
thirteen years longer, engendering great bitterness, trouble and expense,
but in the final settlement in 1842 the United States obtained much less
territor}^, so far at least as this region was concerned, than was
assigned her in this decision.
Thus failed the attempt to settle the northwest angle of Nova Scotia
by arbitration. It was, however, by no means wasted, for on the one
hand it led the people of the United States to see that to a disinterested
arbitrator there was more to be said on behalf of the claim of Great
Britain than they had been inclined to admit, and on the other it intro-
duced into the discussions the idea of a settlement by compromise, l)oth
of which were prerequisite to the possibility of such a settlement as that
effected by the Ashburton Treaty in 1842.
