338 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The Settlement of the North-West Angle Controversy hy Negotiation,
1S31-1843.
The rejection by the United States Senate of the award of the King
of the Netherlands closed the attempt to settle this controversy by arbi-
tration. The same resolve, however, which recorded the decision of the
Senate opened the new, and as it happily proved, the final, stage in
the controversy, for it advised the President
to open a new negotiation with His Britanic Majesty's Government, for the
ascertainment of the boundary between the possessions of the United States
and those of Great Britain, on the northeastern frontier of the United States,
according to the Treaty of Peace of 17S3. (Blue-book, 1S38, 13).
The President accordingly made overtures to Great Britain, which
were received in a very friendly spirit, and the negotiations, which
lasted for nearly ten years, began. The correspondence for this entire
period, together with many correlated -documents of very great interest
and importance are printed in the British blue books of 1838, 1840, and
1843, which are therefore invaluable sources for this period and this
phase of our local history.
From the very start these negotiations were greatly hampered upon
the part of the United States by the necessity of consulting the State of
Maine. That state continued to show the same spirit as during the pre-
ceding decade, a spirit altogether admirable from the extreme partizan
standpoint, but one characterized by unreasoning, almost violent, and
sometimes well nigh hysterical insistence upon her own claims, any sug-
gestion of a possible different view of which she refused to entertain.
As will be apparent to the readers of the earlier pages of this work, and
as will appear more fully later, the present writer is of opinion that
Maine was technically and legally right in her claim, but legal rights are
not the only ones it is the duty of men and of states to stand by in their
dealings with one another, and it is the total refusal of Maine to enter-
tain the suggestion of any other kinds of rights in this controversy which,
at this distance, makes her appear to great disadvantage in the official
documents of the time. This, however, is characteristic of the earlier
and middle part of the controversy; later, as we shall see, her spirit
became more liberal. The Secretary of State in renewing negotiations
in 1832, attempted to obtain a right from Maine to manage the affair
without interference from that State, and as Moore points out (page
138) in 1832 an agreement to that effect was entered into with repre-
sentatives of ]\raine, but was not ratified. During the following ten
years Maine was most impatient of the slowness of the negotiations,
but it was the necessity of consulting her, and her uncompromising atti-
