340 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
boundary according to the treaty, and Great Britain taking the ground
that after the failure of previous attempts thus to settle the line
according to the treaty, it was useless to attempt it again. In 1835,
Great Britain proposed to accept the St. John from the termination
of the due north line to its source, and the United States declined, but
offered to endeavor to obtain the consent of Maine to the St. John
from source to mouth as the boundary, to which Great Britain would
not assent. Thus the discussion dragged on until 1837, in which
year the President of the United States said of the boundary in his
message to Congress: —
The sole result of long pending negotiations, and a perplexing arbitration,
appears to be a conviction, on its [Great Britain's] part, that a conventional
line must be adopted, from the impossibility of ascertaining the true one
according to the description contained in that Treaty. (Blue-book, 29).
Throughout the whole of the correspondence at this time, the
most friendly spirit prevails between the two governments; there is
the most genuine desire shown upon both sides to end the controversy,
and both sides appear equally sincere in their respective positions.
Apparently I matters had now reached a deadlock, and the United
States attempted to secure the consent of Maine to a conventional
boundary. In 1838, however, the Legislature of that State voted that
it was not expedient to assent to a conventional line, but that the
State would insist upon the line established by the treaty of 1783,
and further, that it would not consent even to the appointment of an
arbitrator. The State thus not only refused to consider a conven-
tional line, but it even refused assent to the plan the United States
had been urging since 1832 for a commission with an umpire. Ap-
parently the settlement was thus placed farther away than ever.
At this time, (1838), Maine was endeavoring to induce Congress
to pass a law providing for a survey of the boundaries in dispute, and
the Legislature of Maine declared that if this were not done by Con-
gress, either in conjunction with Great Britain or alone,
it shall then be the imperative duty of the Governor, without further delay,
to appoint forthwith suitable Commissioners and Surveyors, for ascertain-
ing, running, and locating, the north-eastern Boundary of this State, and
to cause the same to be carried into operation. (Blue-book, 1S40, 17).
The boundary here meant was, of course, the one claimed by
Maine, and such a survey would have committed Congress irretrievably
to the Maine claim. Congress, however, refused, and accordingly the
Governor of Maine appointed a commission of survey consisting of
John G. Deane, M. 0. Norton and J. Irish. I have not seen the
original report of this commission, but the extracts given by Feather-
