[gaxong] boundaries OF NEAV BRUNSWICK 341
stonhaugh and Mudge, in their Ecport of 1840, show that the cuni-
missioners did nothing but follow the north line of 1818 to its ter-
mination at Beaver Brook, and then returned along the line to the
monument. No attempt was made by them to carry out the principal
part of the Governor's instructions to trace the line along the high-
lands on the northern boundary of the state. Along with their report
they handed to the Governor a map of the disputed territory compiled
from various sources, showing the eastern and northern boundaries,
of which a copy is in the Crown Land office in Fredericton. It, of
course, locates the north-west angle of Maine on the highlands near
the St. Lawrence, and in all respects reflects the Maine claim. The
results obtained by this commission were singularly disproportionate
to the intentions expressed in the letters and messages of Governor
Kent, and it is rather a striking commentary upon the respective in-
terests of Maine and New Brunswick in the disputed territory that
these commissioners, like other Maine officials who had preceded them,
were obliged to pass through New Brunswick and could only proceed
with their surveys by courtesy of the New Brunswick government,
a courtesy which was invariably accorded. Maine had not, even as
late as 1838, any road from her own settlements into the disputed
territory.
In 1838, the United States renewed the attempts to form a new
commission, and Great Britain, although convinced of the impossi-
bility of reaching an agreement by this method, and still believing
that a compromise line should be drawn dividing equally the claims of
the two parties, professed herself unwilling to neglect the only
method that now seemed practicable and agreed to the commission.
A correspondence followed, fully set forth in the British Blue Book
of 1840, upon the constitution of this commission, and the numerous
proposals and counter proposals as to its constitution occupied two
years longer. In the meantime, however, events were occurring in
the disputed territory leading to what is known in local history
as the "Aroostook War," which only with the greatest difficulty were
kept from plunging the two countries into war. It is not in place here to
review this subject in detail, interesting as it is locally. The fullest
materials for its study exist in the British Blue Books of the time,
and in the Maine official publications, where all the documents and
correspondence are given in full.^ For our present purposes it is
enough to say that an agreement had early been reached that neither
nation would carry on any operations in the disputed territory pending
^ The original Ms. correspondence of the warden of the Disputed Terri-
tory with the New Brunswick authorities is in my possession.
