342 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
the settlement of the controversy, that lumbermen continued to rob
the territory of its timber, that both nations claimed civil authority
over it and sent armed forces to control it, that an armed conflict
was only avoided by the mediation of General Winfield Scott, who
effected a temporary agreement between New Brunswick and Maine
by which New Brunswick was left in control of the Madawaska dis-
trict and i\Iaine of the Aroostook, that the agreement was violated
more or less by both parties, that again and again there was iminent
danger of armed conflict, and that local peace was only restored with
the settlement of the controversy by the treaty of 1843.
During the progress of the new negotiations, the British Govern-
ment became desirous of obtaining further information as to the
character of the country in dispute, and accordingly in 1839 they
sent out two skilled surveyors, Messrs. Featherstonhaugh and Mudge,
with several assistants, under instructions to examine the country in
dispute, and to ascertain which of three lines presents the best con-
tinuity of highlands.
First. The line claimed by the British Commissioners from the source
of the Chaudière to Mars Hill.
Second. The line from the source of the Chaudière to the point at which
a line drawn from that source to the western extremity of the Bay of Cha-
leurs, intercepts the true north line.
Thirdly. The line claimed by the Americans from the source of the
Chaudière to the point at w^hich they make the due north line end (Blue-book,
of 1840, 86).
The first and third of these lines are familiar enough, representing
as they do the extreme claims of the nations, but the second is new in
the controversy. It seems to represent the basis of a new proposition
intended to be made by the British Government, the logical basis of
which is explained in an article in the Westminster Review, in June,
1840,^ supposed to have been prepared with the approval of Lord
Palmerston, in which the north-west angle is found between the St.
John and Restigouche ; ^ it is pointed out that the intention of the
proclamation of 1763 and of the Act of 1774 was, essentially, to con-
nect the head of Bay Chaleurs with the head of Connecticut River,
and that the particular highlands were not important, and hence it
was proposed to draw a straight line as the bou"ndary from the north-
west angle as above located, to the head of Connecticut River.
The commissioners proceeded with great energy to make the sur-
veys required of them, which were less complete than desired because of
^ An extremely fair, clear and excellent article, with a map.
^ At the intersection of the north line with one drawn from Bay Chaleur
to Connecticut River (map No. 30). In the same year, an American, Hale,
found this ang'le on the watershed between the St. John and Restig-ouche.
(Moore, 143), as indeed he had in 1826, on his map of New England.
