[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 365
And we beg leave further, to observe to your Excellency, that from the
foregoing Inconveniences, this Province, (as well as that of New Brunswick)
is deprived of a material part of its Revenue, and no Assessments can be
levied or Collected while it remains in its present Situation, and while the
Laws can be so easily evaded.
From your Excellency's accurate knowledge of the Province in General
as well as the local Situation of the Several Counties, that form it. We are
fully sensible Tou are persuaded of the Necessity of the Alteration, We
now so ardently desire to be made, and We earnestly beg leave to implore
Tour strenuous Endeavours to effect an Object of so much Importance, to
the Ease and Welfare of this Province, and We beg leave to recommend
that the Bounds between Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, may be estab-
lished as follows :
Beginning at the Head of Memramcook River, and from thence to run
North Easterly to the Head of Shediak Harbour, as the Boundary thus
established will not interfere with any Lands heretofore granted, or Settle-
ments on the Boundary Line of the Province, and will prove mutually con-
venient and beneficial to both Provinces, and admit of the Laws in both
Governments, being duly administered with ease and effect."
(Journals of the House of Assembly of Nova Scotia.)
This address aroused spirited opposition in New Brunswick which
manifested itself first of all in a memorial of protest from the people of
the County of Westmoreland (Archives, 1895, N. B., 28), and later in
an address presented by the Legislature of New Brunswick to Gov-
ernor Carleton on March 14, 1793 (printed in the Journals of the
House of Assembly for 1793). Referring to the address of the Nova
Scotia Legislature, the address proceeds : —
We cannot sufficiently express to Your Excellency our surprise at
so unprecedented an application of which this province has received no
notice or communication v/hatever,' and our fears of losing the best settled
and most valuable part of the County of Westmoreland of which that ad-
dress is calculated to deprive us. We are able, after the most diligent
enquiry to assert that there have been no complaints from the inhabitants
of this province respecting any inconvenience sustained by them from the
existence of the present boundary line, nor can we find the least traces
of any of those controversies to which it is supposed to have given rise ;
and as we have good reasons to believe that no attempts have been made
to ascertain with precision the line running east from the Source of the
Missiquash to B. Verte, the apprehended inconveniences of its direction appear
to us merely ideal. We are convinced that the present line was fixed by
His Majesty in the greatest wisdom and that it is the fittest as being the
most natural boundary that could be pointed out between the two provinces,
its whole length being less than, 17 miles and the part where any possible
^ Governor Wentworth had, however, in the preceding December com-
municated the Address of the Nova Scotia Assembly to Governor Carleton
who had replied that " the reasons stated having been founded on misap-
prehension, the only measure beneficial to both provinces is to leave the
boundary unaltered." (Archives, 1895, N.B., 29).
