366 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
uncertainty can exist not exceeding one-fifth of that distance and that
through wilderness land.
"We do, therefore, consider the application of the House of Assembly
of N. S. as tending only to enlarge their jurisdiction and as sensibly affect-
ing the rights of many hundred inhabitants of this province who are exceed-
ingly averse to a measure that must subject them to numerous and heavy
taxes from which thej- are at present happily exempt. We, therefore, humbly
request Tour Excellency will be pleased to take such measures to quiet the
alarms and apprehensions of the inhabitants of this province, and for ascer-
taining and confirming the present boundary line as Tour Excellency, in
your wisdom shall think meet."
In reply to this address, Governor Carleton stated that he would
take the earliest opportunity to transmit if to the Secretary for State.
He had already taken this action with the memorial from Westmor-
land, and it was perhaps in consequence of this that the Secretary for
State, in April 27 of that year (1793), wrote to the Governor of ISTova
Scotia that " The present time is unfavorable for the proposed change
of the boundaries between Nova Scotia and New Brunswick "
(Archives, 1894, 482). The natural consequences of such an answer
ensued; the discussion was dropped for a time only to be renewed
later. In 1801, Nova Scotia still sought a change in the boundary
(Archives, 1894, 573), and in 1802 or early in 1803, the subject was
actively revived, for on March 3, 1803, the Secretary of State, Lord
Hobart, wrote to Lieutenant-Governor Carleton on the subject of the
alteration in the boundary. It appears from Governor Carleton's
reply under date May 6, 1803 (unpublished, MS. copy in possession of
Eev. W. 0. Raymond), that Lord Hobart, without doubt under
promptings from Nova Scotia, proposed three distinct lines as alter-
natives for that already established; one from the head of tide on the
Petitcodiac (which would be at the present village of Salisbury), to
the head of tide on the Restigouche River (at Flatlands), a second
from the head of tide on the Memramcook (wTiich would be at about
the present Calhoun Station), by a certain magnetic line to the salt
water of Cocagne Harbor, and the third by the course of the Aulac
river to its head and thence by a given compass line to the Gulf of
St. Lawrence. The first of these lines was, no doubt, suggested by the
original boundary between Sunbury and Cumberland ; the second was
a not unreasonable boundary intended to include in Nova Scotia the
old settlements of New Englanders at the head of the Bay of Fundy,
whose affiliations were most naturally with Nova Scotia, while the
third was intended to give to Nova Scotia the whole of the old Town-
ship of Cumberland, whose northwestern boundary was in part the
Aulac and which was bisected by the Misseguash. Governor Carleton
discusses the subject in a remarkably vigorous and convincing letter
