368 KOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
than to the new Loyalist government of New Brunswick. It is very-
probable that had this been understood by the authorities in England,
or had the case of Nova Scotia been represented as persistently and
ably as was that of New Brunswick, the boundary would have been
established along the Memramcook to Shediac or Cocagne. That it
runs as it does is another of those pieces of good fortune which New
Brunswick has experienced in the settlement of her boundaries, a
good fortune which is not realized and hence not appreciated by her
people.
But though the main course of this boundary became thus re-
cognized early in the century, the marking of its precise course on
the ground was not attempted until much later. This delay appears
to have been in part at least the result of the difficulty of tracing the
Eiver Misseguash to its source. That river rises in a region of great
floating bogs in which numerous small streams and lakes unite to
form the Misseguash, making it difficult or nearly impossible to de-
termine which is the true source of that river. It was Nova Scotia
which took the first step towards ascertaining and marking the
boundary. On Feb. 6, 1836, it was resolved
That a committee be appointed to wait upon His Excellency the Lieutenant-
Governor and request that he -will be pleased to call the attention of His
Excellency the Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick to the necessity of
selecting commissioners (to be appointed under the authority of acts to be
passed for the purpose by the Leg-islatures of this and the province of New
Brunswick), to run out and establish the line of division between the two
provinces.
(Journals of the House of Assembly of Nova Scotia, 1836.)
This proposal was accepted by New Brunswick, and that province
appointed as commissioners, Messrs. E. Botsford and E. B. Chandler.
The names of the commissioners appointed by Nova Scotia I have
been unable to ascertain, nor can I find any reference to the proceed-
ings of this commission beyond a brief reference in the Journals of
the House of Assembly of New Brunswick for 1837-1838. Appar-
ently the New Brunswick commissioners proposed to those of Nova
Scotia to examine the river together, but the latter declined, proposing
that the matter be left to the surveyors. This the New Brunswick
commissioners declined, and they then examined the river themselves
and fixed upon what seemed to them the boundary and reported to
the Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick (Journal of the Legis-
lative Council of N.B. for 1837-1838, Appendix No. 3, and Journals
of the House of Assembly, 1837-1838, Appendix No. 14). It was ap-
parently in connection with these operations of the New Brunswick
Commissioners that the survey of the region was made by Chas.
