{ganong] BOUNDAEIES OF NEW BRUNSWICK 369
McCurdy in 1837, a copy of whose detailed map is preserved in the
Crown Land office. The Commission, as I am informed by Hon.
Judge Steadman, spent a great deal of time and labor upon the matter
but failed to reach an agreement.
The next steps in the settlement of this boundary I have been unable
to trace. There were of course preliminary negotiations, and in 1857 or
1858 Messrs. James Steadman for New Brunswick, and Joseph Avard
for Nova Scotia, were authorized to define a line, which they did. It
was surveyed by Alex. Munro in 1859, whose map is reproduced here-
with (map No. 31). The line is thus described by the commissioners:
Commencing at the mouth of the Missiguash River in Cumberland Bay,
and thence following the several courses of the said river to a post near
Black Island, thence north fifty-four degrees twenty-five minutes East, cross-
ing the South end of Black Island two hundred and eighty-eight chains
to the South angle of Trenholm Island, thence North thirty-seven degrees
East eighty-five chains and eighty-two links to a post, thence North seventy-
six degrees East, forty-six chains and twenty links to the portage, thence
South sixty-five degrees forty-five minutes East, three hundred and ninety-
four chains and forty links to Tidnish Bridge, thence following the several
courses of said river along its northern upland bank to its mouth, thence
following the northwesterly channel to the deep water of the Bay Verte,
giving to Nova Scotia the control of the navigable waters on Tidnish River.
{Journals of the House of Assembly of New Brunswick, 1859,^ 185.)
These directions are of course magnetic, and corrected to the true
meridian, they bring the line of S. 65° 45' E. to a due east line. Its
course is shown fully on the accompanying map No. 31, which is the
foundation of all later maps of the boundary.-
From this description it is obvious that the commissioners did not
carry out the original line established by the commission to Governor
Carleton in 1784, which was required to follow the Misseguash to its
source, and to run thence due east to Bay Verte. They deviated in
three respects. Above the head of tide on the Misseguash the line does
not attempt to follow the windings of the river, but follows compass
lines along its general direction, though in such a way as to give the
entire river, and considerable land to the north-west of it, to Nova
Scotia. Second, the due east line does not start from the source of the
Misseguash, but from near Portage Bridge some two miles to the south-
^ The Nova Scotia Reports and Correspondence are in Journals of the
House of Assembly of that Province for 1858 (App. 38, 59 ; Journal 457, 504).
^ Wilkinson's Map of 1859 shows this line running a little south of true
Bast and north of true West, which probably represents his belief that
Munro made too great an allowance for magnetic variation. The amount
allowed, twenty-four degrees, fifteen minutes, seems excessively large for
that time. If Wilkinson is correct, the error favoured New Brunswick ;
another example of New Brunswick's luck in such matters.
