[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUÎ5SWICK 371
west of it. Third, the east line does not continue to the sea, but stops
at the Tidnish river, which river is given to ISTova Scotia. Although [
have not been able to trace the reasons for these three peculiarities (for
no publications appear to exist which explain them), there can be little
doubt that they represent a compromise intended to benefit both parties.
The starting of the due east line from as far south as Portage Bridge
leaves all the highway road, together with all the grants along it, to New
Brunswick. Had the line run from the true source of the Misseguash
farther north, it would have given Nova Scotia a fragment of the high-
way and a few grants, widely removed from her other settlements. It
was probably as a compromise for the extra territory thus allotted New
Brunswick, that the due east line stops at the Tidnish instead of con-
tinuing on to the sea coast of Bay Verte, and perhaps for the same
reason that a strip of land along the Misseguash was given to Nova
Scotia.
The decision of the commissioners was accepted by both govern-
ments, and was enacted by both in special laws, in 1858 by Nova Scotia;
and in 1859 by New Brunswick. The former act received the sanction
of the Queen at Windsor Jan. 11, 1859. In the latter year, the bound-
ary was surveyed and marked by Alex. Munro, whose line is the present
boundary.
The Cartogeaphy of the New Brunswick-Nova Scotia Boundary.
The cartography of this boundary appears to he comparatively
simple. All of the early maps that I have seen, however, show one fea-
ture that at first sight appears puzzling, but which is not difficult to
explain, namely, they show the line from the source of the Misseguash
not running due east to Bay Verte, but continuing the course of the
Misseguash north-eastward into the western extremity of that bay. This
is the case with Bonnor of 1820, with Bouchette of 1831, with Baillie
and Kendall of 1832, with Wyld of about 1840. The origin of this
feature is no doubt to be found in this, that they follow the earlier
description of the line as given by Sydney in May, 1781 (see earlier,
page 363), which states that it was to run to the nearest part of the Bay
Verte, instead of the description in the commission of 16 August, 1784,
to Governor Carleton, which states that it is to run due east to Bay
Verte. It is easy to imagine that Sydney's letter was known to some
early Nova Scotia mapmaker, who was ignorant of the contents of
Governor Carleton's commission, that he drew the line accordingly,
and others followed for a long time without re-investigation, as carto-
graphers are prone to do. Wilkinson (1859) is the first to show the
east line, but he does not make it run due east, but somewhat to the
