372 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
south of east. This was probably because the variation of over 35°
allowed by the Surveyor Munro (see earlier, page 369) was thought by
Wilkinson to be excessive. On Arrowsmith of 1838 the boundary is
made to run through the Aulac to the head of tide and thence to the
head of Bay Verte, as Nova Scotia proposed that it should in 1802
(see earlier page 366), but I have seen no other which follows this.
The maps in MS. made by McCurdy in 1837, and by Munro, in 1858
(map jSTo. 31), the latter the original or mother map for this boundary,
have already been referred to.
(h) — The JSTew Bkunswick-Quebec Boundary.
The northern boundary of New Brunswick presents vipon our maps
a somewhat remarkable appearance (maps Nos. 1 and 30). About one-
half of it is natural, formed by the Rcstigouche and Patapcdia Rivers,
but the remainder is of straight lines, the very irregularity of which
suggests that they must be, as in fact they are, the result of a com-
promise into which several factors have entered. This boundary has had
a complicated, interesting and as yet unwritten history. It was for
nearly three-quarters of a century in controversy, and was only finally
settled by the usual resort, — the compromise of a special commission.
While New Brunswick was a part of Nova Scotia, its northern
boundary was, of course, that already described for the latter province.
Prior to 1763, as we have seen. Nova Scotia was considered by the British
to extend to the St. Lawrence, in conformity with Alexander's grant of
1621 ; but the French, while denying to England any of continental
Nova Scotia, particularly claimed to the watershed south of the St.
Lawrence as a part of Quebec.^ In 1763, as already shown (page 220),
a royal proclamation established the southern boundary of Quebec : —
along the hig-hlands which divide the rivers that empty themselves into the
said river St. Lawrence from those which fall into the sea, and also along
the north coast of the Bay des Chaleurs, etc.
In 1774 this southern boundary was reaffirmed, with a slight change
of language, thus : —
a line from the Bay of Chaleurs along the Highlands which divide the rivers
that empty themselves into the River St. Lawrence from those which fall
into the sea, to a point in forty-five degrees of northern latitude.
Thenceforth the northern boundary of Nova Scotia is always des-
cribed as identical with the southern boundary of Quebec, and during
the whole of the remainder of the English Period, there appears never
^ See earlier pages 207, 215.
