Cganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 375
to his brother, Thomas Carleton, Governor of New Brunswick, which
reads : —
I understand the high land, which runs by the great rapids [i.e., the
Grand Falls] on the River St. John, is the boundary, and separates Canada
from New Brunswick and the New England Provinces. iWinslow Papers, 339).
At a first glance it is not easy to understand the basis of Lord Dor-
chester's (and, we may add, of General Haldimand's) understanding on
this question, for both must haye been perfectly familiar with the legal
boundary between the two provinces. It is true, Quebec had exercised a
certain jurisdiction more than once over the Madawaska district ; thus
the Seigniory of Madawaska, granted in 1683, south of the watershed,
naturally appertained to her ; in 1763 she issued a proclamation pro-
hibiting all Canadians from interfering with the Indian hunting grounds
down to the Great Falls of the Eiver St, John, and in 1784 an Indian
was tried in Quebec for a murder committed at Madawaska (Blue Book
of 1851, 11). These acts of jurisdiction, however, did not establish a
claim ; they are simply evidence tthat Quebec considered she had a
claim to the Madawaska region, but as to its legal basis we are entirely
in the dark. But whatever that basis may have been, we at least know
one good reason why it seemed important to Lord Dorchester to advance
and maintain it, namely, as his letter of Aug. 6, 1787, cited below,
shows, he foresaw the intimate connection between the interprovincial
and the international boundaries , and that if the former were fixed at
the northern watershed, so would the latter be, and thus all the Mada-
waska and Temiscouata region would be given to the Americans, inter-
rupting the communication on British territory between the British
provinces of Quebec and New Brunswick. At this time all others inter-
ested in the international boundary seem to have acquiesced in the belief
that fhe north line must run to the northern watershed (see earlier,
pages 310-313). Lord Dorchester appears to have been the very
first not only to see that in order to save to England the Madawaska
region and the invaluable line of communication through it, the north
line must be stopped south of the northern watershed, but he was also
the first to suggest the highlands south of the Grand Falls as the inter-
national and interprovincial boundary. In all this he displayed a won-
derful foresight, and he was the real originator of that claim of Great
Britain for a boundary on the Mars Hill highlands, a claim which
enabled her to save the part of the Madawaska district of the most value
to her.
The first practical step towards the settlement of this l)Oundary
was also taken by Lord Dorchester, who on May 29, 1787 (Winslow
Papers, 342), asked Governor Carleton to direct the Surveyor-General
