[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 377
veyor General ; You are directed to proceed to the Great Falls of the River
St. John in order to meet the Surveyor-General of Quebec at that Place on
the 15th inst., for the purpose of settling the boundary line between the
provinces of Quebec and New Brunswick. In the execution thereof you will
be governed by the Act of Parliament for establishing the Province of Quebec
which determines that boundary to be the Highlands which divide those
waters that empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence from those which
fall into the Atlantic ocean. Given under my hand at Fredericton the 7th
day of July in the year of our Lord 1787. (signed). THOMAS CARLETON.
(MS. in possession of Rev. W. 0. Raymond).
This document gives officially the basis of the New Brunswick claim,
that which she constantly reiterated, but which ignores the fact that she
had no legal claim whatever to any land west of the due north line from
the source of the St. Croix, and under no construction could the high-
lands north of Lake Temiscouata concern her. To Mr. Sproule's con-
tention that the boundary must lie between Lake Temiscouata and the
St. Lawrence, the Quebec representatives could only reply that it was
generally understood in Canada that the line between the provinces
should run from the head of the Bay Chaleur along the highlands in a
westerly direction to the Great Falls of the Eiver St. John, and from
thence west to the west or westernmost or main branch of the Eiver St.
Croix. No reason for the prevalence of this view in Canada is men-
tioned nor any facts in its support.
The commissioners separated without coming to any agreement,
and on August 6 (1787) Lord Dorchester wrote to Governor Carleton
the following important letter, —
Sir, — The opinion of the surveyors sent to mark out part of the Boundary
between the Provinces of Quebec and New Brunswick being so essentially
different that business must now be abandoned till next year when I purpose
that surveyors from both provinces should in the spring meet at the Bay
of Chaleurs and proceed to make a survey or sufficient description of the
whole country, through which the boundary is supposed to run, that in case
of a difference the same may be submitted to his majesty for a decision.
It is very immaterial in itself whether a Tract of Country be called part
of this or the other of the King's Provinces, but when it is considered that
the United States will naturally look upon the termination of our boundary
as the commencement of theirs, this subject becomes important, and the
construction put by Captain Sproule upon the words of the Quebec act ought
by no means to be admitted without the fullest evidence and investigation.
The Act says, " A line from the Bay of Chaleurs along the Highlands which
divide the rivers that empty themselves into the River St. Lawrence from
those which fall into the Atlantic Ocean " shall be the boundary of Quebec.
It is therefore that ridge of hills which extends from Chaleurs Bay, or (if
there are more than one) the highest of them, that forms the boundary.
Rivers may run through the intervals of it in opposite directions, the springs
of rivers falling into the Atlantic ocean may be in this province, as the
Sec. IL, 1901. 24.
