378 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
springs of rivers falling into tlie River St. Lawrence may be in the other
way, but it is not these springs, much less any particular spring by which
the Boundary can be ascertained.
(MS. in 2)oss€ssion of Rev. W. 0. Raymond.)
The importance of Lord Dorchester's statement as to the conec-
îion between the interprovincial and international boundaries has
already been pointed out.^ As to its claim for the southern high-
lands as a boundary for Quebec, we cannot fail to recognize in its
somewhat vague and generalizing tone the familiar sound of special
pleading for a weak cause. We cannot, however, doubt the diplomatic
wisdom of his plea for the southern boundary between the provinces,
and had his influence prevailed, and had Governor Oarleton been
willing to subordinate the particular interests of New Brunswick to
t.Ke larger interests of the Empire as a whole (as Lord Dorchester
evidently wished), the entire St. John Valley and the Aroostook as
well, might to-day be British soil. When New Brunswick is blaming
Lord Ashburton for his course in the treaty of 1842 she might well
recall that it was she who in 1787 placed her own interests in the
way of a plan which promised to give the whole of the disputed terri-
tory to Great Britain. This, however, is the utilitarian view of the
situation. Morally, I do not believe Lord Dorchester's proposition
v/as sound, and hence New Brunswick did right not to fall in with
iu though I fear her reasons for her course were far from purely
moral.
In the meantime New Brunswick had assumed jurisdiction over the
Madawaska district, for on Jan. 7 of that year (1787), she granted
licenses of occupation to a number of Acadians to occupy lands at
Madawaska, and these licenses were made good by grants passed in
1790. At first sight this action of New Brunswick may seem illegal,
but in reality it was not so, for at that time, and until 1798, it was
believed in New Brunswick that the due north line would run from
the source of the Scoodic (not from the source of the Chiputneticook)
^ According to a statement by Baillie, (Supplementary Report of 1844),
this argument was urged by Holland and Finlay at their conference with
Sproule in July ; but no doubt Lord Dorchester was the prompter of the
argument.
Again, in a letter of Ward Chipman to Henry Gouldburn of March 27,
1818, he says, " I think it is extremely to be regretted that the Boundary
between this Province and Lower Canada as claimed on the part of the latter
in 1797 particularly designated in the inclosed paper No. 1, was ever resisted
on the part of the former, but unfortunately all the Territory on the Rivers
St. John and Madawaska then in dispute between the two pro\inces, was after-
wards granted by the Province of New Brunswick and the claim of Lower
Canada has not since been prosecuted. (MS. in the Chipman papers in pos-
session of W. O. Raymond.)
