[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 381
New Brunswick could have no legal claim to any land west of the
due north line, and hence none to the Temiscouata region, and also
for its suggestion of the Restigouche with a compromise line bound-
ary, the first of the very many conventional lines proposed in the
course of the controversy. It seems surprising that Governor Carle-
ton while claiming the northern highlands was willing to accept the
Eestigouche as a boundary, but his apparent inconsistency is perhaps
explained by the state of knowledge of the time. Every published
map prior to 1800 shows the Restigouche very much too far to the
north, and very close to the northern watershed (see Map No. l-t and
Nos. 38 and 40 of the Cartography), whence Governor Carleton's
proposition may have been thought by him to be little different from
the New Brunswick claim. But it is fortunate for New Brunswick
that his proposition was not accepted.
The next step was taken by Quebec who on Aug. 4, 1792, pro-
posed to .call on the Mother Country to settle the dispute (Blue-book,
13). I am uncertain whether or not New Brunswick assented, but
presumably she did. At all events, Governor Carleton, writing Sept.
18, 1792, to Dundas, Secretary of State, remarks : —
I can venture from my own knowledge of the country in question to
assert that the boundary as established by act of Parliament is evidently
the Tract of high land which crosses the great portage between the river
St. Lawrence and the Lake Timisquata
After stating that doubts are entertained in Canada upon this
subject he goes on to say that if the subject is to be settled by the
adoption of a new boundary,
I cannot hesitate to request in behalf of the settlements formed under
the government of New Brunswick that the line of separation proposed by
the Committee of Council of Quebec in their Report to Lord Dorchester may
not be adopted ; and I beg leave to add that I am still on this head of the
opinion expressed in my letter of the 1st October, 1790, to the Secretary of
State.
iMS. in possession of Rev. W. 0. Raymond.)
Both report and letter here mentioned are given in the preceding
pages (379, 380).
In this letter Governor Carleton appears to have expressed the
opinion that an act of Parliament was needful to alter the boundary
between the two provinces, for Dundas in a letter to him of Dec. 10
in the same year, remarks (Archives, 1895, N. B., 29) that no act of
Parliament is necessary to alter the boundary between Quebec and
New Brunswick, the Act of 1774 establishing them only during the
King's pleasure.
