382 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
It is of interest to note that up to this time Quebec had always
been the aggressor in the attempts to settle the boundary. This was
good policy on 'the part of that province, for the close relationship
of the interprovincial to the international boundary (the highlands
of the international forming in their continuation the interprovincial
boundary) now beginning to claim attention, gave her an immense
advantage over New Brunswick, and it was for this reason that she
was active and New Brunswick preferred to let the matter rest. No
doubt Lord Dorchester's appeal to the patriotism of his brother had
its effect, and certainly Governor Carleton was placed in an unenvi-
able position, for his loyalty to the Empire was thus brought into
conflict with his duty to the province of which he was governor.
Under such circumstances there is but one natural course to pursue —
namely, to do nothing; and this New Brunswick found the easier from
the fact that she had other troublesome boundary questions upon her
hands.
At this point the subject appears to have rested for many years.
This was, no doubt, because the international boundary was now be-
coming a subject of controversy, and both its greater importance and
its bearing upon the interprovincial problem combined to postpone
the consideration of the latter. In 1798, the St. Croix ques-
tion was settled, and it was determined that the due north line was
to start from the source of the Chiputnetieook instead of from the
source of the Scoodic. This greatly increased the difficulties of New
Brunswick, for it threw all the Madawaska settlement to the west-
ward of the north line and hence outside of New Brunswick, a fact,
however, which New Brunswick never, under any circumstances, ad-
mitted. It soon became plain to Governor Carleton and others,
as it had been plain to Lord Dorchester a dozen years before, that
Great Britain could only hold the Madawaska region and her invalu-
able line of communication between the provinces by making the north
line stop at highlands south of the St. John, where, happily there was
a range of highlands, the " central highlands," for which a claim could
be made. But making such a claim for Great Britain was equivalent
to admitting the boundary claimed by Quebec, for there could be no
doubt whatever, and no one even seriously questioned, that the high-
lands which formed the boundary between Quebec and New Bruns-
wick by the Proclamation of 1763 and the Act of 1774, were precisely
the same which formed the boundary between Quebec and Massa-
chusetts by the treaty of 1783. This subject must have been per-
fectly clear to Governor Carleton and his successors, and it is greatly
to New Brunswick's credit that, with this possible loss of her own
