[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 388
northern boundary of New Brunswick to-day would have been south
of the Tobique Eiver along the central highlands. It would be well
for New Brunswickers, when they bewail the loss of the' disputed ter-
ritory, and condemn Lord Ashburton for his " surrender " to remem-
ber that had he obtained the boundary at the Mars Hill highlands which
they contend he should, then the| , northern boundary of New Bruns-
wick would in all probability run along those highlands south of the
Tobique Eiver, and certainly it would have been far south of its
present position.
The treaty of 1842, moreover, introduced a new complication
into the boundary dispute. Its compromise line assigned to Great
Britain that piece of territory north of the St. John and St. Francis,
west of the prolongation of the due north line and south of the
northern watershed, and this territory, as later shown by the British
commission in 1848, and by the Arbitrator of 1851, belonged legally
to neither province. Yet it was promptly claimed by each on the
ground that it fell outside the legal limits of the other, which fact in
itself is a striking comment upon the position taken by those provinces
in the international controversy, when it is remembered that all the
territory in that region could only belong to New Brunswick, Quebec,
or the United States.
The treaty of 1842 had hardly been signed, indeed, it had not been
confirmed by Her Majesty in England, before the interprovincial con-
troversy was re-opened, this time by New Brunswick. The reason for
this haste is expressed in a letter of Sir William Colebrooke, Governor
of New Brunswick, to Lord Stanley under date Sept. 30, 1842 : —
The lumberers of this Province, who have been restricted since
1839 from cutting Timber in the Disputed Territory, are anxious, when the
Treaty is ratified, to recommence operations over that part of the country
which is situated within the British Boundary, north of the Saint John.
(Report on the Northern Boundary, Appendix to Journals of the House of Assem-
bly, 1844> ciii.).
Not only, however, were the interests of individual citizens thus
concerned in the early settlement of the dispute, but the revenues of the
province itself, which have always been largely derived from stumpage
on timber cut on the public lands, were involved. So far as the ques-
tion of whether Quebec or New Brunswick was to collect the stumpage
in the disputed territory was concerned, this was settled temporarily,
after considerable discussion, by an arrangement in which such stump-
age was kept by each province as a separate fund with the intention that
it should be paid to that province into which the land where it was col-
lected should be found to fall, but subsequently by a new arrangement
