[ganong] boundaries OF NEAV BRUNSWICK 387
provinces, and throughout the controversy every effort was consistently
made by the home authorities to effect this end.
During the year following this letter there was much correspond-
ence between Canada and New Brunswick as to the question of juris-
diction over the timber lands of the St. Francis ; both provinces claimed
them, thus making it evident that a settlement of the boundary must
not be longer delayed. The next step was taken in August, 1843, when
Sir Charles Metcalfe, the new Governor-General of Canada, wrote Gov-
ernor Colebrooke that he had nominated an agent to meet with one from
New Brunswick to mark out the boundary. Governor Colebrooke
promptly nominated Hon. Thomas Baillie, Surveyor-General of New
Brunswick, and directed him to proceed to the frontier to meet the com-
missioner from Lower Canada. In a letter of Sept. 1, 1843, to Governor
Metcalfe, Governor Colebrooke observes : —
The failure of former attempts to define the boundary, leads me to appre-
hend that the present will be equally unsuccessful, and that it will devolve
upon Her Majesty's Government to establish such a conventional line as
will be best calculated for the interests of the two Provinces. ÇSforthern
Boundary, CXI).
On Oct. 13, 1843, the Surveyor-General of New Brunswick, Hon.
Thomas Baillie, made a report to Governor Colebrooke (Northern
Boundary, CXT.) in which he states that he proceeded to the frontier,
hut the commissioner from Canada did not appear. Accordingly he
went by Grand Eiver and the Eestigouche to the head of Bay Chaleurs,
where he sought the beginning of the line of highlands mentioned in
the documents establishing the boundary. The head of Bay Chaleurs
he found marked out by nature near Mission Point, nearly opposite
Campbellton, whence the line was to run northward around Lake Meta-
pedia and thence westward along the watershed, as shown fully on the
map accompanying his report (map No. 32). Mr. Baillie, like all
other New Brunswickers up to his time, while holding to the old, and
unquestionably valid claim of New Brunswick to a boundary along the
St. Lawrence watershed, assumed the equally invalid right of New
Brunswick to the ownership of the territory west of the north line. The
Quebec view of the boundary shows at this time a modification of her
earlier views. In a report of the committee of the executive council of
Quebec of Oct. 12 (1843), it is thus clearly expressed : —
The boundaries of New Brunswick, both to the North and to the "West
are well defined, being on one side the River Restigouche, and on the other
the line between the British possessions and the United States of America.
It is evident that these limits must be completed at the north west angle,
either by a prolongation of the line due North of the Treaty of Washington,
until it intersects the River Restigouche, as put on Mr. Bouchette's Map,
