388 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
or by a continuation westward of tlie line of the Restigouche River, until it
strikes tlie River Saint John's ; any conventional line under Imperial sanction
to connect the two above points, which are by no means very distant, cannot
be made to widen again into a circle so as to comprehend an immense district
totally disconnected with New Brunswick. (Northern Boundary, CXT).
This statement by Quebec is notable in that it yields her earlier
claim for a boundary on the southern highlands, substituting for it the
Eestigouche and a short nearly direct line to the international boundary.
No doubt she was influenced to this change by the fact that it had pre-
viously been held by her that the continuation of the international
should form the interprovincial boundary, and the removal of the for-
mer from the southern highlands to the St. John Eiver rendered her
claim to the highlands, while theoretically as good as ever, practically
untenable. Naturally, then, she fell back upon the Eestigouche, and a
continuation to the nearest part of the international boundary, being
influenced both by the fact that such a line was nearly a continuation
of the international line and also by the fact that it had become prac-
tically recognized as the boundary, and so appeared on all maps. It
will be noticed, however, that no evidence for such a boundary is here
given by the committee, nor is the boundary spoken of as legal or right-
ful, but only as clearly defined.
The New Brunswick claim is officially expressed in a report of a
committee of the Executive Council of Kew Brunswick on Nov. 11,
1843 (Northern Boundary), when they simply refer to the Quebec act,
but it is again expressed in a letter of Governor Colebrooke to Governor
Metcalfe of Nov. 14, when he says : —
I regret that it is impracticable to reconcile the views of the two Provin-
cial Governments ; but as a decided opinion is here entertained, that Canada
possesses no claim whatever to any Territory South of her Southern Bound-
ary, as defined in the Quebec Act, by the range of Hills extending Westward
from the Head of the Bay of Chaleur ; and there being in fact no other
line of Hills northward of the Saint John, or which could by any possibility
constitute her Southern Boundary, the intermediate Territory in question,
which was claimed by the Americans, necessarily reverted to this Province
when that claim was relinquished by the Treaty of Washington. (Northern
Boundary, CXXI).
Thus stood the claims of the two provinces shortly after the Treaty
of Washington in 1842. New Brunswick still claimed to the northern
watershed on the ground of ancient legal right, but she claimed also the
whole of the disputed territory saved to Great Britain on the score that
it fell to the southward of the southern boundary of Quebec, and hence
belonged to her, completely ignoring the fact that exactly the same
legal argument which denied to Quebec any territory south of the
northern watershed, at the same time denied to New Brunswick any
