[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 393
couata to Canada, and another line proposed by them at the same con-
ference was one from the mouth of the Kedgewick and up to the fifth
fork thereof, thence in a straight line to the termination of the Ameri-
can boundary at the St. Prancis, leaving, however, the entire Mada-
waska seigniory to Canada. At the same conference, Messrs. Draper
and Papineau proposed a line along the Eestigouche to the due north
line, thence to the nearest angle of the Madawaska seigniory and
along it to the Madawaska and down that river to the St. John.^ It
was plain enough that the opinions of the commissioners could not be
reconciled and they separated without coming to any agreement other
than that the Eestigouche should form the boundary in the east. As
a result, on August 19 of that year, 1845, Lord Metcalfe appealed to
the Home government to render 'a decision, and in his letter suggests
yet another boundary, a line drawn from Madawaska to the Eesti-
gouche, without particularizing the precise 'points. The next year
(1846), the legislatures of both New Brunswick and Canada passed
addresses to Her Majesty, each praying to be confirmed in their rights.
At this point, so far as their own efforts to settle the controversy
were concerned, the two provinces had reached a deadlock. Then
was illustrated one of the advantages of a colonial form of government,
the possibility of a decision by a friendly, fully-trusted and imperial
mother country. And in 1846 the controversy entered upon a new
phase through the intervention of the Home government, whose atti-
tude is fully expressed in the despatch from the Eight Hon. W. E.
Gladstone to Earl Cathcart, Governor-General of Canada, dated July
3- 1846.
The long-pending controversy between the provinces of Canada and New
Brunswick respecting the settlement of their boundary line, has been the
subject of a correspondence already much protracted. So far as it is possible
to throw light on such a question by the mere interchange of Despatches
and explanatory reports, nothing remains to be done for the elucidation of
it. But the result of the study of those documents is to show that, the
reconcilement of their seeming contradictions is unattainable at this distance
from the territory to which the discussion refers. In fact, the accumulation
of documents on the subject has been so great, as to perplex, rather than
assist, any inquiries by Her Majesty's Government, into the various topo-
graphical and other details into which they so copiously enter. And yet,
without the intervention of Her Majesty's Government in this country, the
prospect of any adjustment of the dispute seems entirely hopeless ; so opposite
^ In the blue-book, 97, a line proposed by Lieutenant Simmons, of the
Royal Engineers is mentioned, but I do not know in what document it was
contained. It was for a due east line from the outlet of the Pohenegamook
to the Restigouche, i.e., the Kedgewick.
Sec. II., IfiOl. 2.5.
