396 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
lu all of the voluminous literature of our boundary disputes,
there is not, in my opinion, a more diplomatic and effective document
than this. With the greatest possible adroitness Canada takes advan-
tage of the position of the British Government during the dispute
as to the International Boundary, and entrenches herself in a position
logically unassailable. Certainly if Great Britain was right in claim-
ing the Mars Hill highlands as the northern boundary of the United
States, their continuation eastward should have been the boundary
between New Brunswick and Lower Canada, for the southern
boundary of Canada was legally tlie same as the northern bound-
ary of both the United States and of New Brunswick. Prior to 1843
r believe Canada had no legal claim to a boundary south of the nor-
thern watershed ; but the position formally taken by the British Gov-
ernment during the dispute over the north-west angle of Nova Scotia.
did give a certain support to her claim for the central highlands as
her southern boundary, or at least a claim which Great Britain was
morally bound to sustain. It seems to me, further, a perfectly logical
sequence of the position taken by New Brunswick in the international
boundary controversy, that her northern boundary should now run
south of the Tobique river, or, at least, by favour of Quebec, at the
Eestigouche. That it does not is due entirely to the fact that the
Home Government practically repudiated its own position in her
favour, thus virtually admitting its lack of foundation, and it con-
stitutes another of those pieces of good fortune which New Brunswick
has experienced in the settlement of her boundaries.
There was now a pause in the boundary controversy pending the
report by Major Robinson, Captain Henderson and Mr. Johnstone,
and this appeared two years later.
The selection of Captain Pipon and Lieutenant Henderson was
determined in part at least by the fact that they had already been
appointed to explore the region between New Brunswick and Canada
for a line of railway to connect the provinces, and in their instructions
from Mr. Gladstone (Blue-book, 83) they were required to perform
both duties. Captain Pipon^ was unfortunately drowned in the Eesti-
gouche Eiver shortly after his arrival in New Brunswick, and he was
replaced by Major Eobinson. Nearly two years were spent by this
commission in the exploration and other investigations, and on July
20, 1848, the commissioners made a report of great importance to
Earl Gray, successor to Gladstone, as Colonial Secretary. This report
is printed in full in the Blue-book, 86-94,^
^ There is a tablet to his memory, erected by the Legislature of New
Brunswick, in Christ Church Cathedral, Fredericton.
' Also, and with a map, and an introduction by Major Robinson, in the
Papers of the Corps of Royal Engineers, III. and IV., new series, 1854-18C5.
