[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 397
It is one of the most interesting documents in all of our volumin-
ous boundary literature. It is written with remarkable literary skill,
clearness and logic, and is no doubt the work of that accomplished
lawyer, Johnstone. After a general introduction it takes up the first
question before the commission, viz., whether a line can be drawn
for the demarcation of the two provinces which would satisfy the
strict legal claims of each. With the most satisfactory clearness and
fullness the legal foundations for the boundaries are discussed, and
the conclusion is reached that New Brunswick is entirely in the right
in her claim for the St. Lawrence watershed as her northern bound-
ary, but that she had no legal claim whatever to any territory west
of the due north line. On the other hand they conclude that Quebec
had no claim whatever to any territory south of the northern water-
shed, and hence they conclude also that the territory west of the due
north line and south of the highlands, although a possession of Great
Britain by virtue of the treaty of 1842, belongs to neither province,
but formed part of the ancient territory of Sagadahock. It is only
in their treatment of Quebec's claim, — that the British position in the
international controversy sustains her contention for the central high-
lands, that the commissioners' report departs from definiteness and
clearness ; they appear to deny that the two are necessarily connected.
They conclude that a line can be drawn between the provinces which
will satisfy the strict legal requirements of each, namely, the line
following the highlands from the intersection of them with the north
line to their termination at Tracadiegash, as shown on the accom-
panying map (Map ISTo. 30). But this legal line they consider at
variance with both the actual possessions of both provinces and with
mutual convenience. They find that each province has settled for
some distance on its side of the Eestigouche Eiver, and propose that
that river should remain the boundary for some distance above its
mouth. As to the territory west of the north line and south of the
highlands, belonging to neither province, they say: —
A considerable portion of the country that lies to the west of the due
north line, between the north highlands and the newly-settled United States
line, the Commissioners believe would be beneficially and properly assigned
to New Brunswick, whether as regards the comparative benefit to the two
provinces, or their meritorious claims, or the interests and convenience of
the inhabitants.
The inhabitants of this portion of the country have chiefly settled under
the authority of New Brunswick, and are familiar with the administration
of its laws and usages ; and the St. John and its tributaries, the Madawaska,
and the St. Francis, offer to them, through New Brunswick, the most eligible
mode of transport to market for their timber and other products of the
country.
