398 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Over this territory New Brunswick for many years past has claimed
and exercised ownership and jurisdiction ; has assisted its inhabitants in
distress ; and during- the strugg-le with the neig-hbouring State of Maine
on the Boundary question, actively and at much inconvenience and expense
maintained her jurisdiction and possession, and, by her energy, for many
years assisted in frustrating the attempts at actual occupation made by
parties from the State of Maine ; while Canada, removed from the scene
of disquietrude, remained passive. (Blue-book, 93).
The commissioners tlien propose a compromise line between the
provinces, namely, to prolong the straight line of the treaty of 1843
until if strikes the parallel of 47° 50', which it is to follow due east
until it strikes the Kedgewick Eiver, which is to form the boundary with
the Eestigouche to Bay Chaleur. North of the Eestigouche they thus
award to Canada some 3,660 square miles legally belonging to Kew
Brunswick, while of the neutral territory west of the north line 8,300
square miles are given to New Brunswick and 3,100 to Canada. Such
a boundary, they consider, will be easy to mark out on the ground, will
make the provinces of a convenient form, and will assign to each the
parts in their respective possession at present.
The report impresses one as admirable in its tone and intentions,
and it had no small part, as we shall see, in determining the final settle-
ment of the whole subject.
A very valuable topographical appendix to this report was prepared
by Eobinson and Henderson, giving detailed and valuable information
respecting the region of the boundary, and containing the foundation
of our present topographical knowledge of that part of the country. In
this report they discuss the various practical objections to the com-
promise lines earlier proposed.^
This report was transmitted by Earl Gray to the New Brunswick
and the Quebec Governments, and it is of great interest to note their
replies.
New Brunswick's reply, dated Oct. 26 (1848), was as follows: —
The Lieutenant Governor and Executive Council of New Brunswick
having- considered the copy of the Report of the Commissioners on the dis-
puted boundary with Canada, furnished by Her Majesty's Secretary of State,
are of opinion —
That the proposition recommended by the Commissioners should be
assented to by New Brunswick, and received as an equitable settlement of
the question so long pending.
^ On pages 94-98. They object to such lines as require the joining- of
distant points, since in an unknown and unsurveyed country it is very diffi-
cult to run such lines unless the positions of the points are very accurately
known. They prefer such lines as are run in a given compass direction
from a g-iven point. The subject of the respective merits of different kinds of
boundary lines is briefly discussed also by Major Robinson in papers of the
Corps of Royal Engineers; New Series, IV., 2.
