[GANONG] BOUNDARIES OF NEW BRUNSWICK 403
son. Since, however, Canada greatly desired to possess the Fiefs of
Madawaska and Temiscouata, he wished to assign them to her, while
keeping the upper St. John for New Brunswick, and, calling m the aid
of Lieutenant Simmons, a skilled engineer acquainted with the country,
he drew up this new line to award those Fiefs to Canada with as little
disturbance to the general arrangement as possible. It is shown by a
letter of Dr. Lushington to Mr. Falconer (Blue Book, 38) that the
Mistouche was made the boundary instead of the Kedgewick in order to
give the territory between those rivers to New Brunswick in compensa-
• tion for the Madawaska Seigniory restored to Canada.
From this award Mr. Falconer strongly dissented, and his reasons
therefor are given in a letter and a long opinion (published in the Blue-
book, pp. 37-67), which is a recapitulation of the position of Quebec.
It is,' moreover, far and away the most forcible and able presentation of
Quebec's case which appears in the whole course of the literature of this
boundary discussion. He argues that the highlands of the Proclamation
of 1763, of the Quebec Act of 1774, and of the Treaty of 1783, were one
and the same, and that the British Government in maintaining during
the international dispute that the highlands of the treaty of 1783 were
the liars Mill highlands, gave their assent to those highlands as the
southern boundary of Quebec, a conclusion which he is able to find also
other evidence to sustain. This of course was Quebec's strongest argu-
ment, and gave her a claim to the entire disputed territory. With re-
morseless logic he forces this argument home, and puts the government
in the position of seeming to acknowledge bad faith in the international
dispute in case it now rejects this boundary for Quebec. The paper
contains also a very valuable history of the entire dispute, and is
throughout a remarkably valuable document. Having, however, argued
for the right of Quebec to the whole of the disputed territory, he admits
that under the circumstances a conventional boundary is needful. He
examines the various propositions made for such a line both by New
Brunswick and Canada, and concludes by giving his adherence to the
line proposed by Mr. Price, and already considered (page 401), namely,
a line from the mouth of the Madawaska north-east parallel with the
straight line of the international boundary to the Kedgewick, and by
that river and the Restigouche to the sea. He proposes, however, a mod-
ification, in that the north-east corner of the Simon Hébert grant at the
mouth of the Madawaska should be the starting point, and the line
should be a compass line instead of a strictly parallel line. Somewhat
later (April 14, 1851) he proposed a modified line, one from the river
St. John due north to the south-west corner of the Simon Hébert grant
at the mouth of the Madawaska and prolonged to lat. 47° 50', and along
that parallel to the Kedgewick and thence to the sea.
