404 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The New Brunswick arbitrator, l^r. Twiss, also submitted a " Pro-
posal for au arrangement of the boundary," (Blue-book, 71-79), in
which he reviews the evidence to the same conclusion reached by the
commission of 1848, and he closes by proposing a new line, namely, one
from the termination of the international boundary at the St. Francis
to the nearest point of the highlands of the St. Lawrence watershed (the
point specified by reference to the map of the commissioners), thence
along those highlands to the extension of the due north line, thence due
east to the head of the Mistouche, and along that river and the Eesti-
gouche to the sea. Two other lines were also proposed by him (Blue-
book, 80), one from the termination of the international line to the
south-west angle of the Madawaska district (he means Seigniory), and
by the southern and eastern bounds of that seigniory to the river at the
head of Lake Temiscouata, by that river to its source and thence north
to the watershed and along it to the Mistouche and by that river and
the Eestigouche to the sea. The other line, intended to give the upper
St. John to Quebec, was to run along the Madawaska and middle of
Lake Temiscouata, apparently to the watershed, giving all eastward to
New Brunswick. Subsequently, however, he agreed to the line proposed
by Dr. Lushington, and the agreement of the two arbitrators resulted
in its adoption. These lines are shown upon Map No. 33.
The Home Government adopted this award of Lushington and
Twiss, names now forgotten in New Brunswick, but which deserve to
be held there in grateful remembrance, and in August of the same year
(1851), the Imperial Parliament passed " An Act for the Settlement
of the Boundaries between the Provinces of Canada and New Bruns-
wick," which recites at length the steps leading up to the decision of
the arbitrators, and then confirms the decision as above given. This
did not, however, entirely end the subject, for in August, 1857, an Act
was passed to the effect that the Mistouche of the award shall be taken
to be the Patapedia, but with this closed the interprovincial con-
troversy.
In the preceding pages the factors determining the general course
of this northern boundary are fully set forth, but there are some details
on which no information is given in the documents. They may, how-
ever, readily be inferred, and they will now be briefly summarized. For
this purpose the boundary falls naturally into four portions : — (1) that
from the St. Francis to the watershed tangents, (2) the watershed tan-
gents, (3) the parallel of 48°, and (4) the Mistouche (Patapedia) and
Eestigouche.
As to the first part, the documents show that it was the intention
of Dr. Lushington to award the Seigniory of Madawaska to Quebec,
and this at once made the southern limit of that seigniory a part of the
