[ganong] EOUNDAKIES OF NEW BRUNSWICK 405
boundary and the starting point for the remainder. The exact position
of this south-eastern boundary of the seigniory had been determined and
marked by Joseph Bouchette, Jr., in 1836 (Blue Book, 13). It con-
sisted of a line starting at a point nine miles (three leagues) in a
straight line from Lake Temiscouata down the Madawaska, and extend-
ing back at right angles to the river six miles (two leagues) from each
bank, precisely as shown on our modern maps. Having, however,
awarded this seigniory to Canada, it was natural to award to her also
the territory between it and the international boundary on the west, for
such territory was naturally tributary to her, and would be of little use,
and would give very awkward form, to New Brunswick.
Yet Dr. Lushington designed to award the upper St. John to
New Brunswick, and to accomplish this he appears to have intended
to give her a strip along the north bank of the St. John to the St.
Francis about as wide as she possessed at the mouth of the Madawaska.
This implied a line approximately parallel with the St. John from
the south-west corner of the Madawaska Seigniory to the St. Francis,
which would be met at a distance from the St. John approximately
equal to the distance of the Madawaska Seigniory from the St.
John. Actually, as a good modern map shows (and in this point
the arbitrators had good maps before them, those of the Inter-
national Boundary survey, the originals of our present maps and
one of which they reproduce with their report), that distance on the
St. Francis is reached at about the outlet of Lake Beau, and the exact
outlet Avas selected in order to give a definite starting point for the
boundary. The maps of the interior territory, however, between the
St. Francis and the Madawaska showed at that time a number of
lakes, some tributary to the St. John and others to the Lake Temis-
couata, and, considering the importance of the streams in the lumber
trade, it was natural to assign the former lakes to New Brunswick
and the latter to Quebec. According to those maps, this end could
be accomplished by running a line just south of Long Lake (for which
a point one mile south of that lake was selected) and thence to the
seigniory, and it was for this reason no doubt that such a line and
not a straight one was adopted.^ As a matter of fact, however, the
maps of the interior were very erroneous, as shown by a comparison
of the arbitrators map (Map No. 32) with a modern map. The
lower end of Long Lake is there placed much too far north and west
while Baker Lake is placed south instead of east of it. Accordingly
^ According- to the Arbitrators own map it is difficult to see wliy this point
was not put farther south, but according- to Graham's map of 1843 which tliey
used, a point a mile south of Long Lake was about half way between Long
and Baker lakes.
