406 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
when the line from the St. Francis to the one mile point was run out,
it ran more nearly eastward and was much longer than expected by
Dr. Lushington, and it cut the head of Baker Lake instead of running
north of it. New Brunswick thus lost a few acres of land at this
point which it was intended to award to her, a loss, however, com-
pensated many times over by the gain she made between the Mis-
touche and Patapedia. All of the maps published after that of the
arbitrators, 1851, and prior to that of the commissioners for running
out the line, 1855, show the short and north-easterly line between
the St. Francis and the one mile point south of Long Lake.
Having awarded the Madawaska Seigniory to Canada, the arbi-
trators might not unnaturally have made its eastern boundary the
interprovincial boundary, and that they did not was due no doubt
partly to the difficulty of following a line which was to run parallel
with a river and a winding lake, and partly to the awkward re-entrant
angle which would thus be made. Since the next part of the bound-
ary fixed upon by the arbitrators was the ancient northern watershed
always claimed by New Brunswick, they chose the most direct and
easiest marked line from one to the other, namely, a due north line
from the south-east corner of the Madawaska Seigniory to the water-
shed. That they here chose the watershed instead of the parallel
of 47°, 50' recommended by the report of 18-18 on w^hich their recom-
mendations were based, was no doubt primarily due to their wish to
give somewhat more territory to New Brunswick in compensation for
the portions taken from her on both sides of the Madawaska Seig-
niory, and partly, perhaps, to emphasize the opinion of the arbitrators
that New Brunswick's ancient boundary really extended legally to
that watershed. In any case it is an interesting fact that in this
portion of the line a part of New Brunswick's ancient boundary so
long claimed by her is retained. In this respect she is more fortunate
than Quebec whose boundary nowhere extends to her ancient claims.
The boundary along the watershed, however, does not follow
its natural windings, but lines tangent to its windings in this vicinity.
If we look upon a modern map for the reason of this peculiarity, we
shall seek in vain ; but turning as we do to the map before the com-
missioners (Map No. 32) the whole subject becomes plain, for that
map shows such windings to the highlands here that tangent lines
are naturally marked out and suggested and apparently could very
easily be marked out upon the ground. No doubt it was the advice
of Lieutenant Simmons which determined these tangents, and they
were selected entirely for convenience of marking.^
^ As shown by the Cominîssioners Report of 1854 (Journals House of As-
sembly for 1855) considerable difficulty was experienced in tracing out these
tangents upon the ground, as indeed, Major Robinson expected before he
