[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 409
made its report under date, Dec, 1855\ I have not found the instruc-
tions to this commission, but apparently two members had authority
to decide all minor points. This is shown both by certain features of
the report of progress, and also by the map submitted by the commis-
sioners which is signed by but two of them, namely, Messrs. Bots-
ford and Eobinson, Bouchette's name being absent. Copies of the
m.aps submitted by the commission are preserved in the Crown Land
office at Fredericton, and no doubt, also in Quebec. They add greatly
to our knowledge of the topography of that part of the country, and of
course, are the foundation maps upon which all later maps of that
region are based. No diaries or field books of this commission are
known to me, but they would be of great local interest if they could
be discovered. My efforts to trace them have failed.
Thus ended as a practical issue the controversy over the Quebec-
New Brunswick boundary. If New Brunswick did not gain as much
territory as she was legally entitled to south of the northern watershed,
she nevertheless obtained much more than she was entitled to west
of the due north line, and this territory is more extensive and far more
valuable than that she lost. The minor points of the settlement also
were in her favour, and the boundary as a whole has been found con-
venient. We must conclude that New Brunswick is fortunate in her
northern boundary.
The Cartogeaphy of the New Brunswick-Quebec Boundary.
The cartography of this boundary is comparatively simple, and
falls naturally under three headings.
First, there were the maps prepared to illustrate surveys made to
obtain information about the country in dispute. In 1786, Surveyor-
General Sproule made a survey of the route from the St. John to the
St. Lawrence which became the mother map for that region for many
years. In the northwestern part of the territory in dispute many sur-
veys were made in connection with the international dispute, but in
the east none of importance were made until the combined boundary
and railway surveys of Major Eobinson and Captain Henderson in
1846-1847. Their detailed maps were never published (a set of them,
elaborately drawn upon a very large scale, is in the Crown Land office at
Fredericton), but a reduction of them appears on the map accompany-
ing their report of 1848, and this became the mother map of that
^ I have not found the Report of this Commission, though a brief Report
of Progress is in the Journals of the House of Assembly for 1855 (Ap-
pendix CI).
Sec. II., 1901. 2n.
