414 ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
of Nova Scotia" of the same date (1780) reproduced herewith (Map
No. 40, 41), which shows the Passamaquoddy region^ the St. John to
above the present Fredericton, and the region at the head of the Bay
of Fundy with much greater accuracy and on a much larger scale than
his general map; it marks also, and it is the only contemporary map
known to me which does so, the hounds of all the old townships. It
shows, however, nothing above tidal waters. Of course Grovernor
Carleton had various MS. maps also at his disposal, but none of them
could have showed anything of importance not included in these two,
and I have no doubt that these were the ones used in dividing the
province, the larger scale map as far as it extended and the other for
regions beyond that. This is confirmed not only by the general pro-
babilities of the case, but also by the manner in which certain of the
peculiarities of those maps' are reflected in the original county lines,
such for example as the very westerly and soon changed position of
the Kings-Westmorland line later noted, and the change discussed be-
low in the northern boundary of Charlotte between the Warrant or
Charter of 1785 and the Act of 1786. The fact that the larger of
these maps is the only one known on which the old townships are
fully marked, and that five of the townships were adopted in toto as
parishes, and three of them were adopted as county lines, further con-
firms this supposition. I would not be surprised if copies of these two
maps were yet discovered in some archives, with the original county
and parish lines marked by hand upon them.
We naturally inquire next, how much the division as established
in 1786 owes to inheritance from an earlier period. The parishes will
be considered by themselves later, but so far as the county lines are
concerned, they are almost a new creation. In the preceding period,
and down to May, 1785, the province included only two counties. Sun-
bury and Cumberland, separated by a line running magnetic north to
the Canada boundary from a point twenty miles east of St. John (see
map No. 16, and page 226). In establishing the new lines, no atten-
tion was paid to this older division unless the starting point and direc-
tion of the line separating the river counties from Northumberland
and Westmorland, was suggested by the starting point and direction
of the old line; the two were parallel (or nearly), but this may have
been merely a physiographic coincidence with no causal connection.
Three county lines were determined by old township lines, namely,
the original eastern boundary of St. John and both the northwestern
and the south-eastern lines of Sunbury, but otherwise the lines were
all established de novo.
