[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 415
At the first division of the province in 1785, eight counties were
established with the lines shown on Map| No. 35, and to these seven
have since been added. Though at first sight the reason for their
peculiar arrangement may not be obvious, a closer inspection shows
that they are correlated in a general way with the topography of the
province. The county lines are evidently so drawn as to make the navig-
able waters of the province the centres of the counties, for which pur-
pose the lines of separation must follow approximately the watersheds.
This was, of course, by far the best arrangement in a new, rough, and
heavily-forested country like New Brunswick, where at first all travel
was necessarily by water, and all settlements were beside and centered
in navigable waters. The very topography of New Brunswick divided
its population naturally into communities, centering about the prin-
cipal waterways and more or less isolated from one another, and the
county divisions are simply a formal expression of this condition.
That this is the general principle on which the county boundaries were
established is rendered still more plain as we trace the formation of
the later counties down to the present, and especially as we note the
rearrangements of the county lines as the topography of the province
became better known. The fact that the county lines do not corres-
pond exactly with the watersheds (see Map No. 36), is no objection
to this view, for it is obvious that three minor causes have operated
to prevent such a correspondence. First, owing to the fact that most
of the surface of New Brunswick is of the character known to physio-
graphers as peneplained (that is composed of fragments of ancient
plateaus), the watersheds are rarely pronounced ranges of hills easily
seen, but are more frequently in a flat county and are very winding
and difficult to follow or recognize. Hence, boundaries must be
marked by artificial lines, which, for convenience of running and mark-
ing, are best made straight. While following, however, the general
courses of the watersheds, the lines must often deviate, sometimes
considerably, from the details of their wanderings. Second, many of our
rivers head far back into the natural basins of others, even to an
extreme degree, in which cases it is more convenient to include
their heads with the rivers they approach. This has been the case with
the South-West Miramichi, the Eestigouche and some others. Third,
the imperfect topographical knowledge of the time, reflected as it was
in the imperfect maps, led to the establishment of some lines along sup-
posed watersheds, which later were found to lie elsewhere; in some
such cases the lines were afterwards altered, but in others, where the
discrepancy was not serious (or as in the case of the St. Croix, was
actually advantageous), they were allowed to remain. Thus the Kings-
