[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 419
were laid down; they were simply for the better carrying out of those
principles.
Of the eight original counties, none retain exactly their original
boundaries, though Charlotte retains those of the Act of 1786, with
the exception that the St. Croix, and not the Scoodic (with its due north
line), has been the boundary since 1798. The river counties have all
altered their eastern lines, and Westmorland its western.
A very notable fact about the original lines from a surveying
point of view is their practical character. In every case a definite
starting point is given, such a recognizable spot as a cape, the end of
an island or the line of an already-marked land grant, and the lines
are to run thence in a definite compass direction. Such lines are the
easiest of all to ascertain and run, and the fact that such were chosen
in 1785 shows that they were established under expert advice. The
same principles have been followed also in the establishment of the
later lines.
Summarizing then the whole subject of the establishment of our
county lines, we must concede that they were planned with admir-
able foresight, and have proven practically very convenient. It is
true the irregular appearance of the lines upon the ma]i strikes one
at first unfavourably, and much merriment is at times made over this
peculiarit}^ Some thoughtless complaint, too, is occasionally heard,
coupled with suggestions for a change of the system, and one of the
more important of these suggestions is later to be noticed. But, for
the irregularity, the topography of the province, and not the designer
of its county lines, is to blame. Men are more prone to notice the
faults than the merits of a system; let us not forget the merits in this
case. We can hardly doubt that Governor Carleton had much to do
with the establishment of the lines, if indeed, he was not its chief
author, and this is but one of many advantages, as yet unacknow-
ledged, which we owe to his wise, even if not strenuous administration.
The most definite proposition I have been able to find for a change
in the county boundaries of New Brunswick is embodied on a MS. map
in the Crown Land office, entitled " Map Illustrative of a Eeport on
Boundaries in the Province of New Brunswick, submitted to His Exy.
M. General Sir H. Douglas, Bt., by S. P. Hurd, Surveyor-General,
1828.-'^ The report I have been unable to find, but the map shows by
lines and colours a division of IsTew Brunswick into areas, approxi-
mately reproduced (though with some variations due to the imperfect
topography of the original) upon the accompanying modern map (Map
No. 37). It will be noticed that the divisions are made by the rivers,
connections between which are made along the old Indian portage
