422 EOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Crown Land office at Fredericton.^ In the absence of a general topo-
graphical survey of the province they have been invaluable as "tie lines"
for checking and correlating the detached surveys from which our pro-
vincial maps are pieced together. Unhappily, however, in no case
have the county lines been marked by permanent monuments, but only
by blazes on trees and by marked stakes. As a result ^they will in
time become lost either by natural decay or through forest fires, and
once lost they can be recovered only with great difficulty.^ New
Brunswick suffers greatly in many ways from the lack of a proper
topographical survey of the province with permanent boundary marks,
and I believe the province would save money in the end by having such
a survey made.^
Synopsis of the Coir]srTY Lines of New Beunswick.
The development of the county lines may be traced through the
Acts of the 'House of Assembly of New Brunswick. For the first
fifty years (1786-1836), these Acts are collected into a fine quarto
volume, invaluable for New Brunswick history, " The Acts of the
Geîieral Assembly of Her Majesty's Province of New Brunswick," etc.
(Fredericton 1838), but the later 'acts are in separate volumes.
^ It is probable that in running these lines some difficulty was exper-
ienced from the fact that some of them were to be run by the magnetic
meridian of an earlier year, always diffioult to determàne with aoouraoy.
Even where the true meridian or parallel is to be used, the determination
of the magnetic variation (which must be determined to allow such lines
to be run) presents no little difficulty, and is a subject on which surveyors are
apt to differ. I believe it is for such a reason that some of the lines on
Wilkinson's map of 1859, and on others following him, run as they do. Thus
the north line of Westmorland Ls iby law an east and -west line, but it is not
so drawn on Wilkinson, for the reason, as I believe, that Wilkinson considered
the surveyors who ran that line had miscalculated the magnetic variation
and had run the line too much south of west. I have earlier referred (page
369) to his delineation of the true east line between New Brunswick and Nova
Scotia, which runs not true east, but south of east. Several 'other county
lines upon this map, apparently straight, are shown by a ruler not to be so,
no doubt for the reason above given.
- This practical inconvenience has already been manifest in the case of
Charlotte County. The North line was run from Point Lepreau in 1838 and
1845, but in the settled portion between the Point and the Grand Southern
railroad the marks had been lost and it 'recently became necessary to mark
out the line. A surveyor employed for the purpose ran it 'differently from the
position remembered by the old residents, and another 'surveyor ran it in yet
another position. And in this condition the question remains at present.
" Some data upon cost, etc., may be found in the Bulletins of the Natural
History Society of New Brunswick, XVII., 122 and XVIII., 230.
