PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XXXIX
from venturing on the most arduous field work, and his name must be
always associated with a knowledge of the geological structure of the
Canadian Northwest, even as far as that dreary but rich region through
which the golden Yukon and its tributaries flow. It is indeed now sad
to think that all he had done was after all but " an earnest " of all he
might have done had he been spared to the great world of science in
which he had already won so honoured a name. With him work was
almost a religion. Like Euskin he believed that " we are not sent into
this world to do anything into which we cannot put our hearts." We
have certain work to do for our bread and that is to be done strenuously ;
other work to do for our delight, and that is to be done heartily ; neither
is it to be done by halves or shifts, but with a will ; and what is not worth
this effort is not to be done at all." It was in this spirit that George
Dawson laboured until he died in the meridian of his career.
Abbé V err eau.
Then, on the eve of the present meeting, we have been, suddenly
called upon to add another distinguished and revered name to the sad
record of our dead. The Abbé Verreau, so eminent for his services to
education and his knowledge of early French Canadian History, will be
always regretted by those who enjoyed the high privilege of his friend-
ship, and had abundant opportunities of appreciating his graces of
demeanour, and his unvarying amiability. He represented a class of
men who have done great honour to French Canada — men who are both
scholars and gentlemen. His literary work was not large, but such as
it was, it showed him to be always a most conscientious and accurate
scholar, and it is not too much to say that he has not left behind him
anyone more deeply versed in the picturesque story of his country. Bat
above all such accomplishments must we place the fact that he ever
v/ore the white flower of a blameless life.
General Business.
The Honorary Secretary requested permission to absent himself for
the remainder of the session, and Dr. Fletcher consented to act in his
place.
On motion of Sir John Bourinot, seconded by Dr. Stewart, the
minutes of proceedings of the general meeting of 1900, as printed in
the 6th volume, N.S., were confirmed and approved.
On motion of Dr. Bovey, seconded by Colonel Denison, the report
of the Council for 1901 was adopted.
Proc, 1901. 3.
