[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 423
In 1854 was published the " Eevised Statutes " of the Province in
which' the act describing the County and Parish boundaries not only
codified all earlier boundaries but as well made considerable changes in
those boundaries. The edition of the consolidated Statutes of 1877 ap-
pears not to have introduced any material changes^ but in 1896 was
passed a special Act which both codified all earlier boundaries, and con-
siderably changed many of them. The codifications, when made, are
adopted by the Legislature and become law, superseding all earlier
enactments.
These codifications, while valuable historically as showing the
condition of the boundaries at different periods, do not allow the
history of the changes to be followed in detail, since they do not state
in what year or in what order changes in the lines were made, and for
these one must turn to the yearly volumes of Acts of the, Legislature.
The county charters or warrants qf the, original counties are preserved
in the office of the Provincial Secretary at Fredericton, and so far as
I know, only two of them have, been published, that for Sunbury in
the appendix to the volume above mentioned, and that for Charlotte
in the Courier Series of Historical Articles. All of the later counties
were erected by Acts of the Assembly. In the following synopsis I
have adopted the modern spelling for proper names. The older forms,
together with the origin of the county names, may be found discussed
in the earlier monograph on place-nomenclature.
St. John. Erected May 18, 1785, the first county of the province,
to include the Bay of Fundy settlements from Lepreau to near Cape
Enrage, with St. John as shire town in its centre. South, by the Bay
of Fundy, as at present. East, by Hopewell Township, and a line due
north from its north-west corner; the latter line was needless (and I
do not know why it was thought necessary), and the former was aban-
doned for the present line in 1837 (run 1836). ISTorth, by a line, east
north-east and west south-west through the southernmost point of
Kennebecasis Island, the present line (run 1833, 1841); chosen, no
doubt, to run parallel with the Bay of Fundy, and (as shown by Map
No. 34), to interfere as little as possible with lands granted. West,
by a due north line, the present line (run 1838), from Point Lepreau
a very natural starting point for such a boundary.
Westmorland. Erected 1785, the second county, to include the
settlements and rivers at the head of the Bay of Fundy, with Westmor-
land as the shire town, changed to the more central Dorchester in
1801. East, by Gulf of St. Lawrence and ISTova Scotia, as at present.
North, by a due west line from the northernmost end of Shediac
Island, the present line (run 1841), though it has varied in length.
