424 KOYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
West, by a line beginning on the north boundary of St. John due north
from Quaco Head, and running north (magnetic) to the preceding
line ; this was changed in 1787 (see Map No. 39), to a due north and
south line drawn through the north end of the portage between
Petitcodiac and Salmon Brook {i.e., Kennebecasis), no doubt because
the first line, established to fit DesBarres map (Map No. 15), in which
the Petitcodiac runs too far west, cut off the upper Kennebecasis
settlements from Kings to which they naturally belonged, and perhaps
also because it became evident that the parishes erected in Queens
would fall partly in Westmorland; but this was changed to the present
line in 1837 (run 1836), magnetic north.^ South, by St. John County
and' Chignecto Bay, but the part of the former east of the present
line was added to this county in 1837, Included Albert until 1845.
Charlotte, Erected June 4, 1785, the third county, to include the
settlements and rivers centering in Passamaquoddy Bay, and about
St. Andrews as shire town. South, by the Bay of Fundy, as at present.
West, by the Eiver Scudiac or Saint Croix, and the western shore of
Passamaquoddy, including Grand Manan; the Scudiac here meant in-
cluded the western branch of the river, as shown on Maps No. 34, 35,
which was officially replaced by the Chiputneticook, the present
boundary, by the decision of the St. Croix Commission in 1798. East,
by a due north line from Point Lepreaii, a very natural line, the one
still used (run 1838, 1845). North, by a due east line from the source
of the St. Croix or Scoodic in the county warrant of 1785, changed in
the Act of 1786 to a due west line from a point thirty miles north
from Point Lepreau on the eastern boundary; the reason for these
lines and for the change is easy to see, for by the DesBarres map of
1780 (Map No. 15), a line due east from the source of the St. Croix
as there shown would run about as at present; in the spring of 1785,
however, the Scoodic was explored to its source (Archives, 1895, New
Brunswick, 5), but the result was not known until after the issue of
the county warrant (latter is dated June ,4, 1785, and the map of the
Scoodic, preserved in the Public Eecord Office, London, is dated July
16, of the same year), when it would be known that DesBarres map
was here very incorrect, and that a due east line from the source of the
Scoodic would run much further south, apparently near the coast,^
(see Map No. 34) ; there was then substituted for it in the Act a line in
the desired position, viz., thirty miles north of Point Lepreau, which
^ Apparently this line was run magnetic south from the approximate
north end of the portage, and hence the change was from a true north line
of 1787 to a magnetic north line in 1836.
^ In fact this map of 1786 has the Source of the Scoodic too far south, as
may be seen by comparing it with Map No. 1.
