[ganong] boundaries OF NEW BRUNSWICK 429
(2) The Paeish Boundaeies,
The Act of 1786, which confirmed the county boundaries, also
divided those counties into towns or parishes.^ The original parishes
were thirty-fonr in number, distributed as shown on the accompanying
map No. 35. Since 1786 one hundred and ten have been added, mak-
ing at present (1901) one hundred and forty-four, distributed as shown
on the frontispiece map. As in the case of the counties, the parish
boundaries are to be traced through the statutes of the province from
1786 to the present, and like them, they are codified, and as well ex-
tensively altered by the Acts of 1854 and 1896.
In general the same broad principles determining the distribution
of the counties have controlled also that of the parishes, with the
difference that actual settlement has had in proportion to topography
a somewhat larger influence in fixing the limits of the parishes
than of the counties. The effort has been to make a parish include a
settlement, or natural group of settlements, and hence the lines have
been made to run on the least settled ground and to interfere as little
as possible with existent land grants. The latter end has been most
easily and successfully attained by the simple device of using land grant
lines as the parish boundaries, and the great majority of our parish
boundaries are thus formed in whole or in part. Since the grant lines
are determined more or less by topography (as at right angles to the
rivers,, etc.), so indirectly in this way are the parish lines affected by
topography. This has moreover the additional advantage that the
parish lines are thus already run and marked out, at least in their
more important parts in lands already settled, though such lines are
often extended by law far into wilderness lands, (in order to include
all of the province in parishes), in which case they are not run and
marked. In fact, so far as I know, no parish lines have ever been
specially run out and marked as such. From the first the parishes
have always been laid out within certain counties, none of them lying
m two counties except temporarily during changes in county lines,
and hence county lines are also parish boundaries, although originally
^ In actual practice the word parish only is used for these divisions in
New Brunswick, town having in this sense only an official use, and being
restricted in practice to the eight incorporated towns. It is the English custom
to use parish and the American to use town, and the fact that New Brunswick
uses parish while most of the other Canadian provinces use town or township
is due no doubt, as Mr. George Johnson has pointed out (Place-names of
Canada, Ottawa, 1897) to the strong English sympathies of New Brunswick,
resulting from the strong Loyalist element in her population. In many re-
spects New Brunswick is the most English of the Canadian Provinces.
