XL ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
On motion of Dr. Loudon, seconded by Dr. Bethune, it was resolved:
That the President of the Society, Dr. S. E. Dawson, Sir Sandford
Fleming, Dr. Stewart, and Dr. MacKay be a Committee to make nomina-
tions for officers of the Society for the ensuing year, 1901-1903 (May).
Eeports of Associated Societies.
The delegates appointed to represent the various Societies affiliated
with the Royal Society of Canada were then called upon to read their
reports, which appear in full as an appendix to the Proceedings. Other
reports of the same character were read at an afternoon meeting.
A letter from Mr. Brucnach was read, and a picture by that artist
of the hut in which André the aeronaut passed his last winter was
exhibited and received favourable criticism.
The Treasurer made a formal request to the Fellows present to
pay their annual dues, which properly are payable in advance.
The acting Secretary read the following le iter from the Dominion
Statistician : —
Department of Agriculture,
Ottawa, May 21st, 1901.
Dear Sir John: —
I send herewith for the library of the Royal Society of Canada, a copy of
" Canada, its History, Productions and Natural Resources," prepared in a
handbook for the Pan-American Exposition, Buffalo, 1901, being- the fourth
edition.
I also send a copy of the " Wood Pulp of Canada," as prepared for the
Exhibitions in Paris, Glasgow and Buffalo. I believe that some 40,000 of this
pamphlet were needed to meet the demand from all over the world.
I further send some copies of " Chronology of Canada," prepared by me
for the Year Book. I would like to have these copies distributed among the
members of the Royal Society, for them to examine closely, to suggest addi-
tions, emendations, etc. The late Abbé Verreau suggested to me that if
this were done we might have a complete chronology for use in the schools
of the Dominion under the imprimatur of the Royal Society.
It seems to me there is need for this and that by combining our forces
we may give the youth of our country a good and useful chronological sum-
mary that will be of assistance in grounding them in the history of the
Dominion.
Yours sincerely,
George Johnson.
Sir John G. Bourinot, K.C.M.G.,
Hon. Sec'y Roy. Society, Canada,
Ottawa.
p.S. — I am having it translated and will be able in a couple of weeks to
send it in French for distribution among the French members of the Society.
G. J.
