PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XLVIT
the Counties of York, CarJeton, Northumberland and Gloucester. For,
though regarded originally as Cambrian by Gesner, Eobb, Logan, Hind
and others, and subsequently coloured and described, though only pro-
visionally in the maps and reports of the Geological Survey, as Cambro-
Silurian, the only fossils found therein, at widely separated points,
were, with a single exception, where an Ordovician fauna occurs, such
as to indicate a much more recent (Silurian or Devonian) horizon. In
the investigation of the problems arising from tliis fact, and in the
effort to determine, upon behalf of the Geological Survey, more exact
knowledge as to what systems were actually present and their relative
limits, the author of this paper was, during the past summer, fortunate
in being able to obtain evidence in the discovery of certain grapholitic
strata, tending to confirm the original view that large portions of the
belts in question are really of Cambrian age, with a probability that
other large areas are still older, representing either the Etcheminian
formation, so called, of Matthew or the Huronian of other writers.
The facts relating to these observations, which have a bearing upon
questions of a far-reaching character in relation to Acadian geology,
are in this paper briefly summarized and discussed.
9. — " On the Sub-Divisions of the Cambrian System in Canada."
By H. M. Ami, M.A., D.Sc, F.G.S., of the Geological Survey of Canada.
This paper discusses the various geological formations which
naturally fall under the Cambrian System in British North America.
An attempt is made to present a systematic table giving the succession
of the different faunas of this system and the different formations
under which each falls. The main object of this paper is to bring the
nomenclature of this system to date with a view of classifying the
organic remains comprised within its limits. Brief discussion as to
these limits.
10. — ^" Notes on some of the Silurian and Devonian Formations of
Eastern Canada, and their Faunas and Floras." By H. M. Ami, M.A.,
D.Sc, F.G.S.
From recent studies carried on by the author, the succession of
the sedimentary formations of both the Silurian and Devonian Systems
in Eastern Canada needs revision and elucidation. There are several
distinct geological horizons which constitute as many distinct formations
that are as yet unplaced and unnamed in Canadian succession, and the
discussion ,of the relations which exist between the different formations
or members of these systems in different portions of Canada will be
presented.
13. — "Acrothyra and Hyolithes — a comparison. With a description
of a new species of Hyolithes." By G. F. Matthew, LL.D.
