XLVIII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The comparison was made for the purpose of .seeing how far the
muscular s^istem of one genus corresponds to that of the .other. The
ventral value of Acrothyra was compared with the tube of Hyolithes,
and the dorsal valive of the former genus with the operculum of the
latter. The Hyolithes described is a slender species from the base of
the Paradoxides beds at St. John.
13. — "A backward step in Palœobotany." By G. F. Matthew.
LL.D.
This is a review of the attempt made to claim the plant beds of the
Little Eiver Group and their flora, and so the whole terrane, as Carboni-
ferous. This claim is made on palseobotaniical grounds by Messrs. D.
White, E. Kidston and H. M. Ami.
The article recites the stratigraphical and physical objections to
this view, and in this connection two sections near St. John are given,
showing the relation of this terrane to the Lower Carboniferous. The
fauna of the plant beds is reviewed and it is suggested that even from
this point of view there is not sufficient evidence to overthrow the result
arrived at by those wlijo had previously studied the flora and the strati-
graphy.
14. — "The Avi-fauna of the Province of Quebec." By Sir James
I^e Moine.
15. — "The Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain of the Bird, being
a continuation of a former communication." By Wesley Mills, M.A.,
M.D.
The Committee appointed by Section IV. last year to prepare
records of the various papers and publications on Canadian Geology,
Palaeontology, Botany, General Zoology, exclusive of Entomology, and
Entomology, in the terms of the recommendation of the Society re-
ported on the MSS. of the Bibliographies on Geology, Palasontology,
and General Zoology were submitted for publication as were also those
on Botany and Entomology.
The Section has seen fit to re-appoint the same Committee for the
ensuing year: —
Geology and Palaeontology. — Dr. H. M. Ami.
General Zoology — Dr. J. F. Whiteaves.
Botan}^— Dr. A. H. MacKay.
Entomology' — Rev. Dr. Bethune.
As noted above, the Memorial, which the Society requested to be
prepared for publication, of the deceased first President of this Society,
Sir William Dawson, was entrusted to the pen of his successor in the
Logan Chair of Geology at McGill ITniversity, in the person of Dr.
F. D. Adams, and this Memorial forms part of the papers submitted
