PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901 XLIX
and recommended for publication in the Transactions of the Society for
the present year.
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: —
President — Professor F. D. Adams.
Vice-President— Prof. T. Wesley Mills.
Secretary — Mr. G. U. Hay.
Dr. B. J. Harrington, of Montreal, was requested vo prepare a
Memorial of the late Dr. G. M. Dawson, C.M.G., Director of the
Geological Survey of Canada, from 1895 to 1901, and one ;0f the Charter
Fellows of the Koyal Society of Canada, as well as its President in 1894.
Prof. E. Eamsay Wright, Dr. James Fletcher and Dr. A. H. MacKay
were apointed a special committee to make all necessary arrangements
for a Popular Science Lecture at the next meeting of the Royal Society
of Canada. The subject chosen was: "The Flora of Canada," and Dr.
Jaffrey's name was suggested.
The Section also suggests to the Council the advisability of pub-
lishing a resume of the discussions of the papers read before it.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
A. H. MacKat, H. M. Ami,
President. Secretary pro-tem.
GENERAL BUSINESS.
Sir S. Fleming reported the following recommendation from the
Committee appointed by the Council to consider the question of railway
fares of Fellows attending the general meetings of the Society: —
That Fellows attending the annual meetings of the Royal Society
shall be entitled, should they so desire, and if all annual dues have been
paid up to date, to a payment out of the available funds of the Society
of thirty per cent of their railway fares, including sleeping cars when
necessary.
On motion of Sir S. Fleming, seconded by Dr. Parkin, the report
was adopted.
The following resolutions were adopted in due order: —
1. That, in the interest of Science, the Royal Society of Canada
approves of the idea of Captain Bemier to start an expedition from
Canada for the purpose of exploring hyperborean hemispheres, and
discovering. the North Pole, and warmly recommends his project to the
public patronage. (On motion of Senator Poirier, seconded by Dr.
Robert Bell.)
