L ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
2. That the diiDloma of fellowship, recommended by the Council,
be translated into Latin, and duly given to each Fellow. (On motion of
Sir Sandford Fleming, seconded by Dr. George Stewart.)
3. That the election of the Eev. Dr. Bryce, of Winnipeg, as recom-
mended by Section IL, be ratified, and that Eule VI. be suspended in
his case. (On motion of Dr. Stewart, seconded by Mr. W. W. Campbell.)
4. That the Society approves of recommendation of Section II,
that Sir S. Fleming's paper on the Postal Cable Service be forwarded
to the Government of Canada and the Imperial authorities, with the
hope that every effort will be made by them to carry the scheme to a
successful conclusion. (On motion of Dr. Parkin, seconded by Dr.
Stewart.)
5. That the Honorary Secretary be empowered to take steps to
obtain good portraits, of uniform size, of the members of the Society to
the present time, and keep them in a suitable portfolio. (On motion of
Dr. Girdwood, seconded by Dr. E. Bell.)
6. That the Eoyal Society has learned with great satisfaction that
the Government and Parliament of Canada have "at last determined to
proceed with the erection of a National Museum in the city of Ottawa,
and that adequate provision will be made therein for the preservation of
geological and other natural collections, and probably also for a gallery
of Art. As these objects have been steadily urged on the attention of
the Government and .the country by the Eoyal Society ever since its
establishment, its members now deem it expedient to testify their grati-
fication at the realization of their long cherished hopes. (On motion
of Sir S. Fleming, seconded by Dr. Parkin.)
There being no fnrther business before the meeting, the Presi-
dent declared the twentieth general session of the Eoyal Society closed,
and the Society accordingly adjourned sine die.
EVEÎv^ING SESSION (May 23rd).
A public meting was held, in the Assembly Hall, at 8 o'clock p.m.,
when the Vice-President, Sir James Grant, occupied the chair, and Mr.
Duncan Campbell Scott, F.E.S.C, read an interesting paper on "Lieu-
tenant-Governor Simcoe and the Foundation of Ontario," Mr. W.
Wilfrid Campbell and Dr. Drummond read selections from their own
poems at the close of the lecture.
