APPENDIX B. XI
Oncers, 1900-1901:
President — Hon. Justice Baby.
Vice-Presidents — Eouer Eoy, K.C.; Judge Sicotte, Dr. Louis
Laberge, H. J. Tiffin, W. D. Lighthall, Dr. F. W. Campbell.
Treasurer — George Durnford.
Eecording Secretary — C. A. Harwood.
Corresponding Secretary — J. A. U. Beaudry.
Curator of Museum — E. W. McLachlan.
Librarian — G. Desaulniers.
Council — S. M. Baylis, P. 0. Tremblay, H. J. Eoss, Conte de la
Barthe, J. S. Brierly, Ludger Larose, James Eeid, G. Lauglois,
Emmanuel Olilën.
In concluding, the hope is cherished that the aims and objects of
our Society may be more widely known and further advanced. Our
work is neither local, nor provincial, but distinctly national, in seeking
to gather and conserve mementos illustrative of the history of our
country and the life of its people in their religious, political and
commercial development, and our souvenirs cover, if yet sparsely the
broad field beginning with pre-historic Indian remains, and passing
down to the last coin struck for our Canadian coinage.
Eespecting the story of the early .settlement and growth of the
country, Parkman aptly questions: "Is this true liistory, or a romance
of Christian chivalry?" and answers himself, "It is both!'' and we
desire to gather anything and everything illustrative and commemora-
tive of this characterization, in the truth of which we fully concur.
The great historian has for ever linked his name with "A Century of
Conflict," but there is also a century comprised in the latter half of
the eighteenth and first half of the nineteenth, which may, perhaps,
be fitly termed a Century of Eeconciliation and Ee-adjustment, and we
desire that this formative period should be fully and fittingly com-
memorated within our walls.
There are personal relics, arms, and portraits of tlie brave men
who first fought one another for supremacy, and then as bravely stood
shoulder to shoulder to repel the invader of their common country;
there are books and documents relating to the able and far-seeing
statesmen who guided the country's uncertain political fortunes
through early storm and stress to the full and free enjoyiiient of the
equality we enjoy to-day; there are records ajid edicts of the Church
Universal working for the spiritual betterment of a diversified flock,
and looking forward to the day when " all shall be one " ; there are old
landscapes, pictures of buildings now fast disappearing, maps, family
