XIV ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The Saturday afternoon Talks to Children were continued. They
were as follow: —
Saturday, Feb. 9. — "Fruit and Seed Tramps/' by Miss C. M.
Derick, M.A.
Saturday, Feb. 16.— " Instincts," by Prof. T. Wesley MilU, M.A.,
M.D., F.E.S.C.
Saturday, Feb. 23.—" Physiology," by Dr. W. S. Morrow.
Saturday, March 2. — " Some Curious Natural Contrivances," by C. T.
Williams.
Saturday, March 9.—" Hygiene," by Dr. D. J. Evans.
Saturday, March 16.—" The White Butterfly," by A. F. Winn.
Saturday, March 23.—" How Paper is made," by Chas. S. J. Phillips.
Saturday, March 30.—" Ferns," by Eev. Kobt. Campbell, M.A., D.D.
The Saturday afternoon rambles, with a view to field work, were
continued in the early autumn, and at the opening of spring. Mount
Eoyal, the neighbourhood of Cartierville and the Savanne at St.
Michel, were visited, and collections were made of plants, insects and
fossils. The teachers, and some of the older pupils of the schools took
advantage of these local excursions, to make acquaintanceship with the
natural history of the district.
The annual excursion to some point of interest, within easy reach
of the city, which is one of the features of the Society's yearly under-
takings, and which is largely patronized by the Society's friends, took
place to Mount Orford, on June 9th, 1900. It proved exceptionally
profitable from a scientific point of view.
The Society is keeping in mind the importance of having the
special features of the local natural history of the district of Montreal
fully investigated and represented in the Society's museum. Good
progress is making in this direction. The botanical collection, which
was very defective ten years ago, is now fairly complete, except as to
the division of Acrogens; and a commencement has been made in this
department also.
The Society, however, is embarrassed, in extending its work, by
two hindrances: first, the lack of funds; and, secondly, the lack of
space in the library and museum. It cherishes the hope that the
services which it is rendering to the community will be so appreciated
as to move persons of means to contribute liberally to the endowment
fund, which is in process of formation.
The Society continues to piiblish the " Eecord of Science," as a
medium of communicating to the scientific world, not only its own
transactions, but also papers of scientific value, bearing specially on
