XVI ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Dec. 14. — "Windsor Castle and its Memories" (with lime-light views),
by 0. J. Jolifte, M.A.
Jan. 11.—" South African Side-Lights/' by Capt. C. F. Winter, R.C.K.
Jan. 18. — "' The State of Labour, with especial reference to Canadian
Legislation, by H. A. Harper, M.A.
Feb. 8. — " Canadian Novels and Novelists," by Lawrence J. Burpee.
Mar. 8.— "The Feudal System in Canada," bv Benjamin Suite,
F.R.S.C.
Mar. 22. — Short addresses on the following subjects: "Thoughts on
Social Progress," " Metrology," " Heredity in its Scien-
tific and Practical Aspects.'' These addresses were
delivered respectively by W. L. M. King, M.A., LL.B.,
Otto J. Klotz and Professor Prince.
The report of the Librarian for 1900-1901 compared with those of
the past few years shows that the literary property of the Society is
being utilized in a steadily increasing measure by those wdio, ignoring
all the enticements to frivolous living afforded by a political city like
Ottawa prefer to employ their leisure in " feeding of the dainties that
are bred in a book."
Last year the total number of issues of books to members amounted
to 7,932, a slight increase over the output for the previous year. The
Librarian was also able to report a very appreciable increase in the cir-
culation of Ijooks of the more serious and instructive kind. Fiction
was, of course, to the fore ; it is not to be expected that we should escape
the present world-wide avidity for what might be called " the light
opera of letters." But it is a source of satisfaction to us that our
registers demonstrate that the works of Canadian novelists share the
honours of popularity with those of their English and American con-
temporaries During the year, Gilbert Parker's brilliant romances and
Miss A. C. Lout's " Lords of the North " appear to have contended
valorously for first place with Paul Leicester Ford's " Janice Meredith "
and Miss Mary Johnston's " To Have and To Hold." Of this fact let
us say: Transeat in exemplum."
We added 240 volumes to the library during the year, making a
total of 4,413 books in serviceable condition on our shelves. In our
reading-room some forty magazines, reviews and periodicals are to be
found, thoroughly representative of the various intellectual activities
of the English-speaking world of the day. We have also a good selec-
tion of leading newspapers on the files of the reading-room.
T might mention that on the 8th of August, Dr. May, the Super-
intendent of Public Libraries for the Province of Ontario, paid us his
annual visit, and found cause to congratulate the Society upon the
success of its operations.
