APPENDIX B. XVII
The Society has been much encouraged by the kind reception
accorded its published Transactions. These Transactions are wliolly
composed of recensions of lectures delivered before the Society from
time to time and which embody more or less original research. The
first volume was issued in 1899 and established for us at once a very
large exchange-list with kindred institutions throughout the civilized
world. The exchanges so received greatly enhance the value of the
reference sections of our library. The second volume was published
some six months ago, and excels volume one Ijoth in size and the import-
ance of its contents. It comprises the following papers : '' Canada's
Northern Fringe/'' by Geo. Johnson^ F.S.S., Dominion Statistician;
" The Hurons of Lorette/' by Léon Gérin, of the Department of Agri-
culture; "Notes on the Study of Language," by Dr. W. D. LeSueur;
" Earthquakes and the Seismograph," by Professor Stupart ; " Well
Waters," by A. McGill, Assistant Dominion Analyst; "Local Deflection
of the Plumb Line," by Otto J. Klotz, of the Astronomical Staff of the
Department of Interior; "Fish Culture in Canada," by Professor E. E.
Prince. I might mention that the Dominion Government purchased
from us a large number of copies of the papers contributed by Mr.
McGill and Professor Prince for distribution throughout the country.
The United States Government, in addition to the copies exchanged
Ijy us with several of its Departments, has also purchased a number of
copies of Transactions No. 2 ; and we are also receiving orders for it
through the booksellers. This honourable Society is, of course, in receipt
of our Transactions.
I beg further to report that the following otlicers were elected by
the Ottawa Literary and Sciontitic Society at its last annual meeting: —
President — Charles Morse, D.C.L.
First Vice-President— W. D. LeSueur, LL.D.
Second Vice-President — F. G. Jemmett.
Librarian — Otto J. Klotz.
Secretary — S. J. Jenkins.
Treasurer — A. H. Whitcher.
Curator— H. H. Bligh, K.C.
Members of Council — Professor E. E. Prince, 0. J. Joliffe, M.A.,
J. Ballantvne.
VI. — From The Ottawa Field-Naturalists' Chib, through
W. J. Wilson, Ph.B.
I have the honour to submit the following brief account of the
work done by the Ottawa Field-Naturalists' Club during the year ending
