XVIII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
March, 1901, together with a statement of its membership and general
condition.
The membership of the Club is at present 250.
As usual, practical field work formed one of the most important
features of the club's work. On Satm-day afternoons five sub-excursions
were conducted to places adjacent to the city. The first was held on
the 38th of April, and the last on the 9th of June. The attendance at
these outings ranged from fifty to eighty. Three general excursions
were held; the first to Chelsea, the second to Cum-berland, and the
last to Kirk's Ferry. These were attended by one hundred to two hun-
dred and fifty members and friends, and were in every way successful.
The second important branch of the club's work is the course of
soirées presented each winter. The following programme was success-
fully carried out this year: —
The Ottawa Field-Naturalists' Club.
Under the distinguished patronage of the Eight Honourable the
Earl of Minto, Governor-General of Canada."
Programme for Winter Soirées, 1900-1901.
1900.
Dec. 11. — Opening Conversazione. Exhibition of specimens.
President's Inaugural Address, Dr. H. M. Ami, F.R.S.C., etc.
Presentation (by the subscribing members of the Club) of a
portrait in oils of the late E. Billings to the Government
of Canada for the Geological Survey Museum.
" On various phases of the forests of Canada," with lantern
illustrations, by Eobert Bell, F.E.S., etc.
1901.
Jan. 8. — Meeting for conversation, exhibition of specimens and reading
of papers.
" The Eocky Mountains, with special reference to the Crowds
Nest Pass," by Prof. John Macoun, M.A., F.E.S.C.
" Observations on the Crow's ISTest Pass," by Mr. James
McEvoy, B.Sc.
Eeport of the Botanical Branch.
Jan. 23. — Meeting for conversation, exhibition of specimens, and read-
ing of papers.
" Explorations in Baffin Land," with lantern illustrations,
by Dr. Eobert Bell, F.E.S.
" On the Arboretum and Botanic Garden at the Central Ex-
perimental Farm, Ottawa," by Mr. W. T. Macoun.
