APPENDIX B. XXXI
Much valuable field work has been done by members, and the past
year's work in almost every branch has been very satisfactory.
At the thirty-ninth annual meeting of the Society, held January
15th, 1901, the following officers were elected:
President — Honourable John V. Ellis, LL.D.
Vice-Presidents — Samuel W. Kain, Henry George Addy, M.D.
Treasurer — A. Gordon Leavitt.
Secretary — Wm. Mcintosh.
Librarian — Charles P. B. Rowe.
Curators— Geo. P. Matthew, D.Sc, Geo. U. Hay, M.A., Wm. H.
Mowatt.
Additional Members — J. Eoy Campbell, James A. Estey, Geoffrey
Stead, CE.
ASSOCIATE MEMBEBS' BEANCH.
President — Mrs. Geo. P. Matthew.
Vice-Presidents — Mrs. Geo. U. Hay, Mrs. H. G. Addy.
Secretary-Treasurer — Miss Edith McBeath.
XII. — From The Toronto Astronomical Society, through Mr. A. Blue.
The year 1900 was a busy one in the history of this Society, its
work evidiencing considerable activity and showing satisfactory results.
On the 5th of May, 1900, the name of the Society was changed,
by an order of the county judge, from that of '' The Astronomical
and Physical Society of Toronto," to that of " The Toronto Astro-
xoMicAL Society,'' the objects of the Society remaining as before.
In the month of October, a series of by-laws, intended to conduce
to the general welfare of the Society, was enacted and went into force.
Previous by-laws were repealed.
In the month of May, two of the members of the Society, Mr. G. E.
Lumsden, the President, and Mr. Thomas Lindsay, the Recorder, went
to the Southern States for the purpose of observing the total eclipse
of the sun on the 38th of that month, and made observations which
were reported to the Society at its meeting held on the 12th of June.
Mr. Lindsay acted in concert with the official parties from the Yerkes
Observatory, from Princeton Observatory, and from the Royal
Astronomical Society, at Wadesboro', N.C., while Mr. Lumsden took
part in the work of the Lick Observatory Eclipse Expedition at
Thomaston, Ga.
