XXXII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
For the first time in the history of the Society, no regular meetings
for the reading of papers were held during the months of July and
August. Frequent meetings, regular and otlierwise, were, however, held
for the purpose of out-of-door observation when the weather would
permit, and, when the weather was unfavourable, for the indoor discus-
sion of such subjects as presented themselves for consideration. During
the months mentioned and the months of September and October, at
the instance of several societies and boards of schools and colleges,
members of the Society with their telescopes gave practical out-of-door
demonstrations of constellation study and generail observation work,
the object of the Society being to popularize, as far as possible, the
study of astronomy.
Towards the close of the year and during the earlier portions of
1901, the Society has been devoting its energies to the acquirement of
telescopes and other apparatus to be used in its general and special work,
and, to this end, it has acquired a first-class electric lantern for the
purposes of projection and a series of slides adapted for papers on solar,
lunar, stellar and other astronomical and some physical subjects. It has
also just ordered a four-inch Cooke refractor of the finest quality and
made considerable additions to its library.
During the year 1900 and so far during the year 1901, special
efforts have been made to awaken public interest in the general work of
the Society, with, the Society is happy to say, an increasing measure of
success.
During the year, the following papers were read: —
Jan. 23. — " Astronomy, in Infancy, Growth and Maturity," being
the Annual Address of the retiring President, Mr.
Arthur Harvey, F.E.S.C.
Feb. 6. — " Liquid Air,"' a paper read by Mr. J. Edward Mabee, C.E.,
dealing exhaustively with the subject in all its bearings,
past, present and future.
Feb. 20.—" The Approaching Solar Eclipse," by Mr. Thomas Lindsay,
Eecorder.
"The Future of the Society," was the sul^ject of an address
by the President who suggested various means by
which, in his opinion, the usefulness of the Society
could be increased and the value of its work augmented.
March 6. — "Mercury, " by the Reverend Eobert Atkinson; "Venus,"
by Mr. A. F. Miller, and "The Zodiacal Light," by
Mr. A. Elvins.
March 20. — " Solar Observations," by Mr. G. G. Pursey, who explained
in a practical manner how valuable observations of the
