APPENDIX B. XXXIII
Sim may be made by projection with a non-achromatic
telescope costing a few shillings.
A further paper on Solar Observations was given by Mr.
F. L. Blake, Astronomer at the Toronto Observatory,
who described his solar-work with the six-inch
Cooke refractor, making, as he does, every fine day,
drawings of the solar-surface and laying down the
position, size, etc., of spots and faculae.
" The Brilliancy of the planet A'^enus," by Mr. Thomas
Lindsay, was a practical description of the manner in
which are prepared, in the various national observa-
tories, official tables, showing the brilliancy of the
planet from night to night during the year.
April 3. — " The Construction of Planispheres," by Mr. J. Edward
Mabee, CE.
April 17. — On this date was read a series of papers intended to explain
to members and invited friends the probable features
of the total eclipse of the sun on May 28th, as they
would be seen from various points in the solar system.
These papers were popular in character and were illus-
trated by lantern-slides and drawings especially pre-
pared, and were as follow: —
" The Eclipse as seen from the Sun," by Mr. A. El vins.
" The Eclipse as seen from Venus," by the President.
" The Eclipse as seen from the Moon," by the Eeverend
Eobert Atkinson and Dr. J. J. Wadsworth, M.A.
" The New Discoveries Astronomers hope to make," by
Mr. J. R. Collins.
" Intra-Mercurial Planets," by Mr. W. Balfour Musson.
" Spectroscopical Work," by Mr. A. F. Miller.
May 1. — " Standing or Stationary Light Waves," by Mr. C. A. Chant,
B.A., Lecturer in Physics in the University of Toronto.
May 15.—" Periodicity of Sun Spots," by Mr. Arthur Harvey, F.R.S.C.
" Seismology," by Mr. R. F. Stupart, Director of the
Toronto Observatory and Superintendent of the Meteo-
rological Service of Canada.
May 29. — On this evening were reported many observations of the
partial (in Canada) eclipse of the sun of the previous
day. The paper of the evening was entitled " Lunar
Rays," and was read by Mr. A. Elvins.
June 12. — On this evening the President and Recorder, having re-
turned from the Southern States, made their official
