XXXVI ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The committee appointed to carry out arrangements for completing
the Simcoe monument met eight times, and at its last meeting had the
satisfaction of arriving at a decision respecting the model, and the
sculptor, Mr. Walter AUward, in whose hands the work will be placed.
The statue will be of bronze 9 feet high and will be erected in Queen's
Park near the Parliament Buildings.
The Laura Secord monument committee also held several meetings^
resulting in the choice of Miss Mildred Peel to execute a life-size bust
of the heroine of Upper Canada, to be placed on a suitable pedestal with
inscription, over the grave at Lundy's Lane.
The following papers were read at the two general meetings : —
" The Eomance of a Wentworth Pioneer," by Miss Minnie Nisbet,
Hamilton.
A poem, " Raise the Flag," by Ed. G. Nelson, St. John, X.B.
" Our Indian Allies," by Mrs. Munro, St. Catharines,
" How the History of Thorold was written," by J. H. Thompson,
Thorold.
" Winter Sojourn of Galinée and Dollier de Casson," by Dr. J. J.
Wads worth.
" Eecollections of jMary Warren Breckenridge," by Miss Lefroy,
Toronto.
" Glimpses of some Early Settlers," and " A Morning with His-
torians in Boston," by Mrs. C. Fessenden, Hamilton.
" Among Ancient Tombstones around Niagara," by Miss Janet
Carnochan.
" The taking of York in 1813," by Thomas Conant.
" The History of Land Tenure in Canada," by R. H. Browne,
Ontario Archivist.
And the very excellent, exhaustive, and learned address by the
President, Mr. James Coyne, B.A.
During the year the Society has issued two volumes of its Papers
and Records, vol. 2 being on " The United Empire Loyalist Settlement
at Long Point, Lake Erie," Ijy L. H. Tasker, M.A., and vol. 3 contain-
ing " Papers and Early Records of St. Mark's and St. Andrew's,
Niagara," by Miss Carnochan ; " German Folk-lore," by W. J. Wintem-
berg; "The Settlers of March Township," by Mrs. M. H. Ahearn, Ottawa;
" The Settlement of County of Grenville," by Mrs. Burritt, Ottawa ;
"Recollections of Mary Warren Breckenridge," by Miss C. F. Lefroy;
" A Relic of Thayendanegea," by Mrs. Mary E. Rose Holden ; " Some
Presbyterian Loyalists," by D. W. Clendennan ; " The Migration of
Voyageurs from Drummond Island to Penetanguishene in 1828, with a
list of the Voyageurs," by A. C. Osborne, Penetanguishene; " On the
Recently Discovered Portrait of Father Marquette," by David Boyle;
