APPENDIX B. XXXVII
"A Brief History of David Barker, a U.E. Loyalist," by J. S. Barker;
"The Old Bragh or Hand-Mill," by the late Sheriff Arch. McKellar;
and " Ethnographical Elements of Ontario," by A. F. Hunter M.A.,
Barrie.
Both volumes contain illustrations.
In addition to our annual report and the two volumes already men-
tioned, we have been able to procure for distribution to our members
copies of the Eeport of the Commissioner of Crown Lands (Ontario),
containing Provincial Archivist Browne's paper on " Land Tenure in
Canada ;" of the pamphlet by Hon. David Mills on " Alaska Boundary
Question;" of one by Mr. Archil>ald Blue, Census Commissioner, on
" Mahlon Burwell ;" and of the Ontario Arcliœological Eeports for
1898-99 and 1900.
Committees were appointed to carry out the schemes connected with
erection of monuments in memory of Governor Simcoe and Laura
Secord.
Both committees have brought their labours to successful termina-
tion. The latter monument will be unveiled on the anniversary of the
Battle of Queenston Heights, and the former will probably be in position
within a year.
Action was taken by resolution having for its object the placing
of tablets to mark historic places on the Niagara frontier and elsewhere,
and a recommendation was forwarded to Ottawa respecting the use of
the maple leaf on the field of the Dominion flag, in place of the coat of
arms as at present.
The Society took occasion to commend the successful efforts of Mrs.
Fessenden with respect to Empire Day ; the efforts of Dr. J. G. Hodgins
respecting the patriotic decoration of school-rooms; and the work of
Col. E. Cruikshank as a historian.
Communications have passed between the Society and the Post-
master-General with the object of so adjusting postal rates as, if pos-
sible, to encourage the circulation of British, rather than of United
States newspapers and magazines.
Hitherto there has been no annual charge for membership, but at
last meeting of the council it was resolved in accordance with the terms
of the constitution to require a yearly payment of $1.
On two occasions the society forwarded protests to Ottawa with
respect to the proposed erection of a monument to the memory of an
alien who was killed in an attempt to capture the city.
Judge Ardagh, of Barrie, was appointed to represent the society at
the annual meeting of the Koyal Society.
Proc, 1901. 7.
