APPENDIX B. XLI
Mrs. S. E. Dawson, Mme. Rhéaume, Mrs. J. Lorn McDougall, Mrs. Chas.
Goodeve.
Meetings were held from October to May on the second Friday of
the month at four o'clock.
Our membership is now 187. Seven regular and one annual meeting
have been held during the year. The February meeting was throughout
a memorial of her late Majesty, Queen Victoria. It was a most im-
pressive and solemn meeting, crowded to doors, with addresses by
the president and Mrs. W. Wilfrid Campbell, the reading of an unpub-
lished poem of our Canadian poet, Mr. W, Wilfrid Campbell, and
appropriate music. The annual meeting was held on the evening of
March the 39th. After the routine of business the Hon. Mr. Dobell
took the chair. The speakers for the evening were the Hon,. Senator
Bernier and the Hon. Geo. E. Foster. They and the chairman honoured
the Society with addresses of such an historical character as made them
valuable additions to its archives. Her Excellency the Countess of
Minto was present, and it was the largest and most successful meeting
ever held by the Society.
The following papers have been read: —
" Historical sketch of tlie 100th Prince of Wales Eegiment,'" Mrs.
T. Aheam.
" Early Inmiigration into Upper Canada," Miss N"orthwood.
" Municipal Growth in the District of Dalhousie," Miss Kenny.
'•'Historical sketch of the Ottawa General Hospital," Miss A. Scott.
" Historical sketch of the Protestant Hospital," Miss Masson.
" A few notes on the Early Days of Bytown," Mme. L. B. Pigeon.
" Eeminiseences of Bytown," Mr. Geo. E. Blyth.
'• Historical sketch of the Township of Gloucester," Mrs. Kirwan.
" Historical sketch of the County of Carleton," Miss Eead.
" Historical sketch of the Township of Fitzroy," Mrs. 0. J. Jollitf.
" Some notes on the Early Cemeteries," Mr. A. S. Woodbum.
"An Appreciation of Her Majesty, the late Queen Victoria," Mrs. W. W.
Campbell.
" Eeminiseences of the Visit of His Excellency the Gov.-General, Earl
. of Elgin and Kincardine, to Bytown,'' Mrs. H. J. Friel.
The year has been marked by several important undertakings.
The chief of these has probably been the publication of the papers of
the two previous years. This has been a somewhat nervous and anxious
task, but the volume which resulted is no unsatisfactory evidence of
the work the Society has been doing since its organization.
