XLII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
The labours of three committees appointed at the beginning of the
year have also been a new and important feature of our work. These
are: —
(1) The Committee organized to collect memoirs of old inhabitants
in and about the city of Ottawa, Mrs. Eobt. Ells, convener. Many old
residents were interviewed, and much valuable data collected. As an
indication of what this Committee has been accomplishing, two valuable
papers were presented, one embodying an interview with an old French
resident, Mr. François Desloges; the other, the personal recollections
of Mr. Geo. Blyth. Each member has been allotted a particular line of
investigation, as, for instance, early schools, the topography of Bytown,
etc., etc., which she will pursue during the next year, instead of, as
heretofore, seeking miscellaneous information.
(2) The Committee to form scrap-books and to collect old litera-
ture, pamphlets, etc.. Miss Amy Horsey, convener. The work is con-
ducted in three departments, each commanding a large scrap-book.
The development of Ottawa City, local events, and general events, have
proved good working headings. The object is not only to preserve
records of the past, but equally those of the present, which will be
valuable in the future.
(3) The Committee to gather historical sketches of the various
philanthropic and charitable institutions of the city, Mrs. J. Lorn
McDougall, convener. This work will be continued during the coming
year until a comprehensive collection is made.
As to our prospects for the future, let me quote a paragraph from
a report presented by a committee appointed to prepare some suggestions
as to the work of another year. This and a number of other equally
important recommendations will be discussed fully at the opening
meeting after the holidays.
" That occasional papers be read which may be upon subjects of a
general character, not altogether inseparable from the history of our
countr}', but of interest to us as a nation — such as comparative studies
of social conditions, sketches of different phases of life, which need not
necessarily be of remote date, papers upon the international relations
of Canada; in fact, upon any subject which may directly or indirectly
affect Canada, or in which Canadians are or should be interested.''
If we may judge by the interest and enthusiasm manifested, there
is every reason to look forward to the accomplishment of better and
broader work during the coming year.
