XLIV ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
formed for that purpose, and nominated Mrs. John S. Hendrie, wife of
the Mayor, for President. Her motion was carried by acclamation, and
Mrs. Hendrie took the chair, when the Queen Victoria ^Memorial Statue
Committee was organized, with the following officers : —
President — Mrs. John S. Hendrie.
1st Vice-President — Mrs. John Calder.
2nd Vice-President — Mrs. Henry Watson.
3rd Vice-President — Mrs. Geo. Eoach.
Honorary Secretary — IMrs. J. V. Teetzel.
Treasurer — Mrs. Warren F. Burton.
Cor. Secretary — Miss Minnie Jean JSTesbit.
The matter has been taken up enthusiastically, and already about
$5,000 is in sight towards the statue, which will be erected in Gore Park.
The Ontario Historical Society met in Hamilton last June, and on
the afternoon of the 6th, the anniversary of the battle, adjourned to the
battlefield. Historical addresses were made by James Coyne, President,
and ]\Iiss FitzGibbon, and papers were read by Mrs. Munroe, Miss Nisbet,
Frank Yeigh and others.
The anniversary of the opening of the battlefield as a public park,
held last October, was a successful affair. Addresses were given by
Mayor Teetzel, Alexander Muir, author of " The Maple Leaf," H. Cars-
callen, M.L.A., and others. Mr. E. D. Smith, M.P., has taken a warm
interest and donated a large number of trees and shrubs to the battle-
field this spring, which add greatly to its attractions.
The officers for 1901 and 1902 are:—
President — Mrs. John Calder.
1st Vice-President — Mrs. John S. Hendrie.
2nd Vice-President— Mrs. E. E. Waddell.
3rd Vice-President — Mrs. J. M. Gibson.
4th Vice-President — Mrs. John Crerar.
Honorary Secretary — Miss Colquhoun.
Treasurer — Miss iinnie Hendrie.
Corresponding Secretary — Miss Minnie Jean Nisbet.
Before closing we wish to record our thanks to Manager A. J.
Nelles, of the H. G. & B. Ey., for the courtesy and encouragement shown
towards our society and its work.
XVIII. — From The Canadian Institute, through Sir S. Fleming,
K.C.M.G.
During the past year ten ordinary members and five associate were
elected, and twenty-one names removed from the roll by deatb, resig-
nation or removal.
