APPENDIX B. XLVII
monithiy meetings have been held, the chief topic of discussion having
been the advisability of putting markers at points of interest in. the
vicinity. This has long been felt an imperative duty, as the recollec-
tion of theee spots is fast fading from the memory of most of the
inhabitants, and we rejoice to be able to say that this year we have
carried out this intention. Seven spots of historic interest now have
markers of Queenston stone, three feet high, 18 x 18 inches,
appearing above the ground a foot and a half, with sloping
face for the inscription. The points so marked are: Ist. The burial
place of Sir Isaac Brock, at Port George: 2nd. The site of Navy
Hall; 3rd. Military Hospital and Indian Council House; -4th. Gleaner
Printing Office and Masonic Hall; 5th. Government House; 6th. Spot
where bodies of soldiers were found at the scene of battle, 27th May,
1813; 7th. Count de Puisaye's House. There are many other spots of
historic interest, which we hope may yet be marked, in however humble
a manner.
As regards our historical room, many additions have been made,
and our collection grows more valuable. Many visitors have shown
much interest in it, but the chief want is a building for the sole pur-
pose of holding our collection.
We have published since our last report. No. 7, Historicail Build-
ings, with illustrations, containing St. Mark's Centennial, a poem by
Rev. J. C. Garrett; Locust Grove, by C. F. Ball; Frontier Churches
(a reprint), and short accounts of Fort Mississagua, Old Jail and Court
House, Navy Hall, French Count's House, by Janet Carnochan. No.
8 is in the hands of the printers, wliich will be devoted to family history
of early days of Niagara. Two hundred and forty-five copies of our
publications have been distributed during the year; some were sold,
but most were given to members, the press, or others interested in
historical matters. We exchange with fifteen societies.
Delegates attended the annual meeting of the Ontario Historical
Society, and a paper was read by the President of our Society on
" Graves of the Niagara Peninsula." Copies have been made and
framed of over thirty early settlers, including such names as Secord,
Servos, Ball, Clement, Clench, Whitmore Field, Ten Brock, Hamilton,
etc. John Ross Robertson kindly bound for us our old Niagara papers
in three volumes; these include copies of eighteen different Niagara
papers, in some cases only one number, in others many, published since
1793.
Our officers are: —
Patron— AVm. Kirby. F.R.S.C.
President — Miss Carnochan.
