XL VIII ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
Vice-President — Henry I'all'ard.
Secretary — Alfred Ball.
Treasurer — Mrs. A. Servos.
Coimnittee — Rev. J. C. Garrett, Eev. N. Smith, R. Barron, B.A.,
Mrs. T. F. Best, Chas. Hunter.
XX. — From The Entomological Society of Ontario, through the
Rev. 0. J. S. Bethune, D.C.L.
When a society has attained to mature age, like an individual, it
cannot be expected that its thirty-seventh year should be marked by
any great crisis, or any striking event. It is natural, therefore, that
the representative of the Entomological Society of Ontario should be
able to present to the Royal Society of Canada only a report of quiet
work and steady progress since our meeting a year ago.
The thirty-seventh annual meeting was held in November last at
London, the headquarters of the society. The opening proceedings
were rendered notable by the joint meeting which was held with the
recently organized London Horticultural Society. It was held in the
splendid new building of the Normal School, and was attended by a
large and appreciative audience representing both the societies and the
general public as weU. It was presided over by Prof. C. C. James,
Deputy Minister of Agriculture for Ontario, who delivered an address
on the value of horticulture in its various aspects, its intellectual advan-
tages, and its attraction for persons of literary tastes. He was followed
by Mr. W. E. Saunders, of London, who read a paper on " The planting,
care and pruning of the trees in the parks and streets of the city," which
is a matter of much importance in a place whose beauty and attractive-
ness largely depend upon the noble avenues of trees in the streets and
the parks secured to the public by a wise and rare forethought. Dr.
Fletcher, Dominion Entomologist and Botanist, then gave an address,
illustrated with beautiful lantern pictures, and showing how trees should
be grown and treated, and the admirable results that have been attained
at the Experimental Farms at Ottawa and an the Northwest. He
also took up the subject of insects, and described a large number of the
most destructive species and the remedies that may bo most successfully
employed against them.
The afternoon of the following day was chiefly taken up with a
discussion on the San José Scale in Ontario. Mr. G. E. Fisher, Pro-
vincial Inspector, who was present by direction of the Minister of
Agriculture, gave a full account of the prevalence of this most perni-
cious insect in several localities, and of the experiments which had been
