APPENDIX B. LI
The Kev. Dr. Fyles contributed a descriptive paper on " The
Dragon-flies of the Province of Quebec/' and short papers were read by
Mr. J. Dearness on " A parasite of the San José Scale;" Mr. C. W. Nash,
" Notes on Danais archippus" at Toronto; and Mr. P. B. Gregson on
" Curious habits of the larvae of Dermestes talpinus." The last named
gentleman also furnished an account of the proceedings at the annual
meeting of the Northwest (Canada) Entomological Society.
The volume also contains a synopsis of the most important papers
read at the meeting of the Association of Economic Entomologists,
which are of great interest and much practical value.
The funds of the Society are shown by the treasurer's statement to
be in a satisfactory condition. The librarian reports valuable additions
of books and specimens, the number of the former on the shelves being
almost 1,700. The membership of the branches at Montreal, Quebec,
and Toronto, has steadily increased, and that of the whole Society grows
from year to year. All interested in its welfare have much reason to
be pleased with its continued success, and the valuable scientific and
practical work which is being performed by its members.
The annual report, whose contents have just been described, records
the practical observations and work of the society; for the scientific and
systematic department, reference must be made to the monthly magazine,
"The Canadian Entomologist," the thirty-third annual volume of which
is now being published. The volume for 1900 consists of 387 pages, and
is illustrated with seven full-page plates and thirty-three figures from
original drawings. The contril3utors number sixty-four, and represent
Canada, the United States, Mexico, Brazil, Great Britain, Germany,
Switzerland, and South Africa. x\s there are upwards of a hundred
articles, besides short notices and book reviews, it would occupy too
much space to mention the subject of each. They may, however, be
grouped as follows:
Papers on classification : " North American Yponomeutidae and
Tineidae," by Dr. H. G. Dyar; "The Wasps of the super-family Ves-
poidea and Changes in generic names of Hymenoptera," by W. H. Ash-
mead; "The genus Orchelimum," by Jerome McNeill; "The genus
Catocala," by Prof. G. H. French; " Notes on Idiocerus (Jassidae)," by
C. F. Baker; " The North American Species of Choreutis and its allies,"
by Prof. C. H. Fernald; "New Mexico Bees of the genus Coelioxys,"
by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell; "Colorado Bees," by E. S. G. Titus; "Some
Species of Acronycta in the British Museum," by Prof. J. B. Smith;
" The types of Noctuid Genera," and a series of papers on the " Classi-
fication of Butterflies," by Prof. A. E. Grote; " Some Genera of Mites,"
by N. Banks ; and " The Bibliography of Coccidae," by G. B. King.
