LIV ROYAL SOCIETY OF CANADA
April 25. — " Natural History Notes,*' Wm. Yates, Esq.
May 3. — " The X Ray," Dr. Cummings.
May 9.—'' The Eelation of Matter to Spirit," Dr. Baugh.
The Camera Section has beeii very active during the year, com-
mencing with a competitive exhibit of their summer's work given at
the opening meeting in November. Several interesting and useful
demonstrations in photographic art were given. One on the use of
Dekko Paper by the demonstrator of the Canadian Kodak Co.; another
on Carbon Printing, by Mr. F. 0. Eager; others on enlargement,
lantern slide making, artistic mounting, etc. The Section during the
year became a member of the American Lantern Slide Exchange, and
contributed 46 slides, which went the round of the interchange.
Further improvement has also been made in the dark room accommo-
dation. Twenty-nine new members were added to the roll during the
year.
The Geological Section have .maintained their past record in the
enthusiastic work of the present year. Many new specimens have been
added to the museum, some of them new : species. Col. Grant has sent
a large number of fossil specimens to the British Museum of Natural
History, the Dominion Museum at Ottawa, the Washington Museum,
and others. The first named museum has acknowledged the receipt of
thirty interesting specimens of graptolites and fossil sponges from the
Niagara group of rocks at Hamilton, Ont.
Dr. J. F. Whiiteaves, Assistant Director of the Geological Survey
of Canada, aclcaowledged the receipt of 16 parcels, containing 180
specimens; ailso another lot of 30, and another of 48 specimens, in .all
244 specimens.
The Smithsonian Institute of Washington, D.C., credits Col. Grant
with having sent them 53 graptolites from the Niagara formation at
Hamilton.
During the term just closed this section has held five regular
meetings, at Mdiich papers of geological importance were read.
The Biological Section have made further additions to our list of
local flora, particulars of which will appear in our Annual Proceedings.
The Treasurer's statement for the year shows: — -Receipts, $731.30;
disbursements, $543.55; balance on hand, $187.75.
The list of members now numbers 93, and the attendance at most
of the meetings during the year has been large.
The following list of officers has been elected for the ensuing year:
President— S. A. Morgan, B.A., D.Paied.
ist Vice-President — J. M. Dickson, Esq.
2nd Vice-President — Robt. Campbell, Esq.
