422 PHYTOLOGIA volume 69(6):420-423 December 1990
Involucres campanulate, 7-8 mm high, 4-5 seriate, graduate, 3-9 striate, brown
pilose apically, the inner bracts readily deciduous. Receptacles convex, ca. 1.5
mm across, naked. Florets ca. 10 per head, the corollas lavender or purple,
tubular, 5-6 mm long, glabrous, the lobes ca. 0.5 mm long, ca. 0.3 mm wide.
Anthers with coUars ovate having annular thickenings, the apical appendages
about as long as wide. Style with a glabrous bulbous basal node, the epider-
mal cells bulging; style appendages smooth and enlarged apically, ca. 0.35 mm
wide. Achenes 3-4 mm long, 5-7 ribbed, glabrous, the carpopodium a thin,
poorly differentiated rim, the pappus of 40-50 persistent barbeUate tawny bris-
tles 6-7 mm long, their apices somewhat enlarged.
This very distinct species would be difficult to position within Eupato-
rium, sensu lato, mainly because it has features reminiscent of Brickellia and
yet other genera which King k Robinson (1987) position in their subtribe
Alomieae. Among these, it is seemingly closest to their, heretofore, monotypic
genus Crossothamnus King k H. Robins., which is based upon the Peruvian
species, Eupatonum weberbaueri Hieron.
It differs from the latter in many characters, most notably the larger, sessile
heads (indeed, the generic name is derived from the nodding tassel-like heads
found in the generitype), and glabrous achenes. We might also have positioned
Crossothamnus pascoanus in the closely related genus Condylopodium King k
H. Robins., the latter with four species, ail having pubescent basal nodes on
their stylar shafts except for Condylopodium killipii King k H. Robins., from
Peru, having a glabrous basal node. Perhaps the latter species might best
be positioned in Crossothamnus or, better yet, the two genera combined. We
would tend to opt for the latter, but phyletic relationships among the various
genera and subtribes proposed by King k Robinson (1987) are so poorly known
that it would seem best to retain some of those proposed than to combine or
erect yet others. Indeed, Crossothamnus pascoanus might with some validity
be proposed as the type of a new genus, using the criteria of King h Robinson,
and such a fate might await the species as it comes under the scrutiny of yet
finer observers.
The two species now assigned to Crossot/iamnu5 reflect a common allopatric
distributional pattern in Peru, where different taxa are wholly confined to
the drainage patterns of separate river systems. Crossothamnus pascoanus is
only known from the upper tributaries of the Rio Palcazu, that eventually
joins the Rio Pachitea and Rio Ucayali. Whereas, C. weberbaueri is known
from the upper reaches of the Rio Sonche, a tributary of the Ri'o Utcubamba
which eventually joins the Ri'o Maranon. Similar distributional patterns are
displayed in Llersia (Sagastegui-Alva &: Dillon 1988) and Flourensia (Dillon
1986). These disjunctions, coupled with distinctive morphological differences,
suggest long term isolation, probably in response to glacial cycles, rather than
more recent long distance dispersal.
