426 PHYTOLOGIA volume 69(6):424-427 December 1990
glabrous, epaleale. Florets ca. 20 per head, the corollas white, glabrous,
tubular but gradually broadened upwards, 4.5-5.0 mm long, the lobes ca. 0.8
mm long, markedly papillose, especially along the margins. Anthers included
within the corolla at anthesis, the collar markedly swollen and scleroid, the
appendages as long as wide or longer. Style branches narrow, the appendages
nearly fihform, minutely papillose, ca. 0.15 mm wide. Achenes 3.0-3.5 mm
long, glabrous, the ribs 5-7, the carpopodium ill defined, merging somewhat
into the base of the ribs; pappus biseriate, of numerous persistent barbellate
bristles ca. 5 mm long.
The genus Lttothamnus, first described by King & Robinson (1979), was
based upon a single species, L. elhpticus King &: H. Robins. It becomes bitypic
with the description of L. saundersiae. The latter differs in many features
from the former, but is clearly closely related to L. ellipticus in its vegetative
aspect, but also in all of its essential floral features (characters of the corolla,
androecium and gynoecium).
King & Robinson (1987, pp. 110-113) discuss the characters which mark
Litothamnus, noting its superficial resemblance to the shrubby elements of the
genus Mtkania, but correctly surmise that it is a rather isolated member of
their subtribe Gyptidinae, which includes a hodgepodge of genera, thirteen of
these newly erected, twelve of which are monotypic or bitypic. I have opted
to describe the present species under Litothamnus, instead of an expanded
Eupalonum, so as to call attention to its unique combination of characters
and its immediate relationship. That the subtribe Gyptidinae might rep-
resent a monophyletic assemblage is debatable, but it does appear that at
least some of the small genera recognized by King & Robinson might be ef-
fectively combined. Thus, Litothamnus saundersiae approaches the bitypic
genus Moritham,nus King & H. Robins, in some of its characters (e.^., sube-
qual involucral bracts, eglandular achenes, and flattened pappus bristles), and
these two genera (and perhaps others) might be effectively united in future
treatments of this interesting "generic" complex.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I am grateful to Dr. Guy Nesom for the Latin diagnosis and to him and
Dr. Carol Todzia for reviewing the manuscript. Nancy Webber provided the
illustration.
