Phylologia (December 1990) 69(6)436-444.
COSMOS OCELLATUS, A BIDENS {^STER^CE^E, COREOPSIDEAE)
Thomas E. Melchert
Department of Botany, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
Cosmos ocellatus Greenman is transferred to Bidens as Bidens
ocellatus comb. nov. Illustrations and discussions (primarily of ach-
ene morphology and flavonoid chemistry) supporting this change are
presented.
KEYWORDS: Asteraceae, Coreopsideae, Biiens, Cosmos, Mexico,
systematica
Cosmos ocellatus Greenman is endemic to a very small area in north-
ern Morelos, Mexico, most collections coming from the type locale (Sierra
de Tepoxtlan) and the "Pedregal" (lava fields) found ca. 10 miles north of
Cuernavaca. Though initially placed in the wrong genus [Cosmos), specific
identification of this yellow rayed, diploid annual (n = 12 [Melchert 1968])
has never been a problem because it is distinguished at a glance by the sin-
gle, bright, maroon-red anthocyanin spot located at the center of each of its
uniquely notched ligules (Figure 1). No other Mexican Bidens [Cosm,os, Core-
opsis., or Thelesperma) species is so marked!
Both in his original monograph of Cosmos, and later in an updated treat-
ment of the Coreopsidineae for the North American Flora, SherfT (1932; 1955)
included this exceptionally distinctive species in Cosmos section Eucosmos, a
group of annual species including C. bipmnatus Cav., C. sulphureus Cav., C.
caudaius H.B.K., and C. parviflorus (Jacq.) H.B.K. Like these well known, of-
ten cultivated Cosmos species, C. ocellatus has linear-tetragonal achenes which
are prolonged apically into a narrow beak that protrudes well above the seed
bearing portion of the achene. Over emphasis of this particular "key" charac-
ter caused Sherff to misplace C. ocellatus, and a number of other annual species
of Bidens (Melchert 1975), in the genus Cosmos. One effect of these misplace-
ments was to unnecessarily blur the boundaries between the two genera. That
C. ocellatus truly belongs in Bidens is demonstrated by four lines of evidence:
1) stamen morphology; 2) achene morphology; 3) floral pigmentation; and 4)
leaf flavonoid chemistry.
436
