Melchert: Cosmos ocellatus, a Bidens 439
R = OH, Butein Okanin
R = H, Isoliquiritigenin (=3 OH Butein)
Fig. 5, chemical formulae contrasting Butein and IsoliquLritigenin with Okanin;
note, Okanin differs from Butein only by the addition of a 3 OH group (arrow).
1. Stamen Morphology: All "true" Cosmos species have a moderate to
dense tomentum of multicellular hairs on their filaments (Figure 6). The
filaments of Cosmos ocellatus^ by contrast, are glabrous and rather elastic, as
are those of all other Bidens species known to me.
2. Achene Morphology: The achenes of Cosmos are typically fusiform-
tetragonal. Whether beaked or not, each of their four faces exhibit two main
sections separated by a distinct, median, longitudinal sulcus (Figure 7). In
sharp contrast, Mexican Bidens species of section Psilocarpaea (the group to
which all the Mexican annuals belong) typically show three nearly equal ribs
per achene face (e.g., B. sharpii (Sherff) T. Melchert, Figure 8). Additionally,
when observed under high magnification, the surface of most Bidens achenes
show a black stippled texture never seen in Cosmos, ks shown in Figure 9,
the achenes of Cosmos ocellatus are three nerved on each face and stippled in
texture, i.e., are essentially identical to those of B. sharpii (cf. Figures 8 & 9).
Though not noted in either Sherff's or Greenman's descriptions of Cos-
mos ocellatus, the latter has achenes which are decidedly dimorphic; several
short, subclavate, yellow brown to rubrocastaneous achenes occurring at the
peri- phery of each fruiting head, these differing abruptly from the black-
ish, linear-tetragonal achenes found to the interior. Such achene dimorphism,
while common in Bidens section Psilocarpaea (occurring in B. serrulata (Poir.)
Desf., B. sharpii, B. bicolor, B. ferulaefolia (Jacq.) DC, B. pueblensis (Sherff)
T. Melchert, B. triplmervia H.B.K., etc.), is unknown in Cosm.os.
3. Ray Pigmentation: The vast majority of yellow rayed Mexican Bidens
species have two toned yellow ligules. Typically, the proximal 1/2 to 2/3
of each ligule is deep golden yellow and the distal portion pale yellow (the
