442 PHYTOLOGIA volume 69(6):436-444 December 1990
latter often turning whitish with age or when pressed and dried). As shown in
Figures 3 & 4, the boundarj' between these zones is quite abrupt. Furthermore,
several of the annual species (5. sharpii, B. bicolor Greenman, B. pueblensis)
have a red-brown anthocyanin spot at the base of each ligule (Figures 3 & 4), a
condition which Sherfr(1955) described as bicolored. Whether bicolored or not,
both yellow (chalcone/aurone bearing) portions of their ligules include a m.ix of
(1) okanin based and (2) butien-/isoliquiritigenin based chalcone/aurone pairs
(Figure 5); simple 4-0-mono- and di-glycosides of okamn usually being the
dominant compounds in the ray and disc florets of most yellow rayed Bidens
species (Hart 1979; Roseman 1986; Melchert unpublished).
In sharp contrast to Bidens^ yellow rays are rare in Cosmos, occurring in
only two distantly related species, the diploid annual C. sulphureus (n = 12,
section Eucosm.os) and the tetraploid rhizomatous perennial, C. landii SherfF
(n = 22, section Mesenenia). Neither of these taxa has two toned rays, nor are
they, or any other Cosmos species, bicolored. More importantly, the chalcone
portion of their flavonoid complements include only butein and isoliquiritigenin
based compounds (4'-0- mono- and di-glycosides usually being the dominant
compounds [Melchert unpubhshed]). In short, okanin based chalcones are not
known to occur in Cosm.os.
Though not shown in Figures 1 &: 2, the ligules of Cosmos ocellatus are
definitely two toned (the hghter portion being confined to the area of the
notch); and are pigmented with a mix of okamn and butein based chalcone
glycosides; i.e., are unquestionably Bidens-Wke.
4. Leaf flavonoids: The leaves (stems and outer involucral bracts) of Cos-
m.os species contain a series oi flavones and flavonols (various 3-0-glycosides
of quercitin and kaempferol being the dominant compounds). Chalcones and
aurones, however, are not found in the vegetative tissues of any Cosm.os species
(Melchert unpublished). In sharp contrast, leaf chromatograms of Bidens
species typically exhibit a host of chalcone/aurone pairs, with okanin based
compounds usually being the dominant "spots" in the profile. Interestingly,
many of the "okanins" found in the leaves of Bidens species are structurally
complex chalcones that are unknown elsewhere (e.g., methylated okanins, 3-
0-substituted okanin glycosides, acylated okanin aglycones, etc. [Hart 1979;
Ballard 198G; Roseman 1986; Melchert unpublished]).
The leaf profiles of Cosmos ocellatus contain four dominant flavonoids, all
anthochlors, (three chalcones and one aurone), the major spot in the pro-
file being a 3-0-m.onoglucoside of ^-0- Me- okanin (Melchert unpublished), a
chalcone reported previously only from the Bidens pilosa L. species complex
(BaUard 1986).
In view of the above discussion, the following nomenclatural change is
necessary.
