Nesom: Taxonomy of SoHdago petiolans 449
1. Leaves scarcely glutinous, not shiny, the lower surfaces densely spreading
hairy to softly puberulent; involucres puberulent (often viscidulous) to
occasioncdly glabrous var. petiolans
1' Leaves strongly glutinous, shiny, the lower surfaces glabrous or merely
scabrous-hispidulous cJong the midrib and main veins; involucre granular
glandular to glabrous var. angusta
Although the criteria for identifying these taxa have been relatively consis-
tent, there is no agreement concerning the geographic distribution of the plants
concerned. Cronquist (1980) viewed var. angusta a.s "essentiaUy Ozarkian, and
south to Louisiana," with var. petiolans more eastern in distribution, and the
Great Plains treatment (GPFA 1986) essentially followed this view. In Texas,
Taylor &: Taylor (1984) found var. petiolans "more common in prairies and
short grasslands of western regions," with var. angusta in "eastern portions,
occasionally in western portions." Gandhi & Thomas (1989) recognized the
occurrence of both taxa in north Louisiana.
In the present study, Texas specimens have been mapped (Map 1) in an
attempt to sort the plants into two groups corresponding to var. angusta and
var. petiolans (based on leaf vestiture). The distribution of the putative va-
rieties appears to be patternless, and with the acknowledgment that many of
these identifications are more or less arbitrary, it appears that the two pu-
tative morphological "nodes" are artificially defined. Further, since many of
the "hairy" plants (which would be var. petiolans) of Texas are no less hairy
than many from more eastern portions of the range (e.^., in Alabama and
Georgia), var. angusta, if recognized on this basis, would have to be explicitly
acknowledged as largely sympatric with var. petiolaris.
There appear to be two geographic segments of SoHdago petiolans (Map
1), and in contrast to plants from the western portion of its range, those from
Alabama to Florida and North Carolina show a distinct though weak tendency
to produce less glandular phyUaries, achenes commonly short strigose near
the apex, and leaves slightly hairy on the upper surface. If varieties were
recognized, the division would have to be made on this basis, but even these
differences are not consistent and there is no geographic pattern of variation
in the species over its whole range that would allow the clear recognition of
infraspecific taxa.
Diploid plants of SoHdago petiolaris have been reported from nearly the
whole range of the species - in Oklahoma, Kansas, Arkansas, Alabama, South
Carolina, and North Carolina (Beaudry 1963, 1969, 1970; Semple, et al. 1984;
Semple & Chmielewski 1987). A tetraploid was reported from Indian River
Co., Florida (Semple, et al. 1984), apparently far out of the range of the
species, and these plants need to be investigated in more detail. Other plants
of S. petiolaris from Florida appear to be of typical morphology, but most of
