450 P H y T L O G I A volume 69(6):445-456 December 1990
tlie specimens at N"^' are relatively old collections without precise indications
of locality.
Species related to Solidago petiolaris
Sohdago petiolaris is closely related to a group of species centered primarily
in the eastern United States with cylindric capitulescences and glabrous or
very sparsely strigose achenes. Four among these (5. bicolor L., 5. hispida
Muhlenb., S. puberula Nutt., and S. roanensis Porter), as well as several others
from Mexico (see below), are similar to S. petiolans in their hairy stems. The
remainder are immediately distinguished from 5. peiwlaris in their stems that
are glabrous or nearly so below the heads (5. erecta Pursh, S. glomerata Michx.,
S. plumosa Small, S. speciosa Nutt., and S. squarrosa Muhlenb.). Yet other
species with consistently hairy achenes {e.g., S. simplex Kunth) and others
with persistent basal leaves and chiefly with strongly interrupted cyhndric
(axillary) capitulescences are also related, perhaps as closely as those listed
above. Achene vestiture is variable even in species that have normally glabrous
achenes, and although capitulescences normally are cylindrical in 5. petiolaris
and its relatives noted here, part of the less common variability in these species
includes the production of heads in widely interrupted clusters.
The identity of Sohdago buckleyi
Solidago buckleyi Torr. k A. Gray, Fl. N. Amer. 2:198. 1842. TYPE:
UNITED STATES. Alabama: ["interior of Alabama," as cited in the
pubUcation], S.B. Buckley s.n. (NY-fragments!).
The NY sheet includes three leaves, a short length of stem,
and several heads in a small part of the inflorescence. These
apparently are fragments of a more complete specimen, which
was not located in the present study. Nevertheless, the note
below (next paragraph) indicates that the NY specimen may
well prove to be the holotype. The date on the packet is
"1878," but the specimen probably was collected in 1838 from
northern or north central Alabama {fide L.J. Dorr, pers. comm.).
A postcard written in 1879 from T.C. Porter to W.B. Canby
and attached to a herbarium specimen (Monticello, Georgia,
Porter s.n., NY) carries a message regarding the identity of
the plant and the type of Solidago buckleyi. "The solitary frag-
ment of a specimen (found in the Torrey Herb.) upon which
S. Buckleyi [exists], came under his [Dr. Gray's] eye, and he
declared it positively identical with my plant."
