Nesom: Ta.xonoTny of Solidago petiolaris 451
Fernald (1950) treated Solidago buckleyi as a species apart from S. petiolaris
and ascribed to it a range from West Virginia to southern Illinois and Missouri,
and south to Alabama. Radford, et al. (1968) included 5. buckleyi within
5. petiolaris and recognized no varieties within the latter, but S. buckleyi
has been maintained as a distinct species in other relatively recent floristic
treatments (e.^., Gleason k Cronquist 1963; Mohlenbrock 1986). In Missouri,
Steyermark (1963) maintained it as "a species doubtfully distinct from S.
peiiolaris,^^ although he provided many map points for each taxon. In the
most perceptive observation offered to this point, Cronquist (1980, p. 124)
noted that "the name S. buckleyi T. &: G. has been applied to a heterogenous
group of plants from the Ozarkian and southern Appalachian regions" and
that its taxonomic position is uncertain. In these previous studies, the two
taxa have been separated by the contrasts in the following couplet (for the
most part drawn as a composite from several sources).
1. Stems hispid-puberulent with more or less rigid hairs 0.1-0.3(-0.5) mm
long, distinctly upturned at the apices; leaves thick, firm to coriaceous,
glutinous and appearing varnished shiny, the larger 0.5-3.0 cm wide, up-
permost (below inflorescence) 1-6 cm long, the margins entire or occa-
sionally few toothed, scabrous-ciliolate with short incurving hairs; inner
phyllaries lance-attenuate; capitulescence elongate, simple and crowded
S. petiolaris
1' Stems puberulent-pilose with loose hairs 0.3-0.8 mm long, these some-
times apically upturned like S. petiolaris; leaves thin, membranous, not
glutinous and appearing unvarnished duU, the larger 2.5-5.0 cm wide,
uppermost 3-14 cm long, the margins mostly sharply serrate, with long
divergent ciha; inner phyllaries oblong, obtuse to acute; capitulescence
loose and interrupted, leafy bracted S. buckleyi
Among plants examined in the present study, putative differences in stem
vestiture, phyllary morphology, and capitulescence shape have not proved to
be diagnostic or constant, but the two taxa can be distinguished on the basis
of leaf morphology, as in the following couplet.
1. Leaves oblanceolate-obovate, often short acuminate at the apex, the mid-
cauUne 8-14 cm long, 18-40 mm wide at the widest point, margins sharply
serrate on at least the upper 2/3 5. buckleyi
1' Leaves narrowly to broadly elliptic, less commonly slightly oblanceolate,
acute at the apex, 3-8(10) cm long, 8-25 mm wide at the widest point,
margins entire to shallowly serrate on the upper 1/2-2/3 . .5. petiolaris
The characterizations in the second couplet are drawn from plants of Mis-
souri and Arkansas, where it seems more clear that two distinct entities are
