452 PHYTOLOGIA volume 69(6):445-456 December 1990
present, based on leaf shape (Figure 1). As in Solidago petiolaris, plants iden-
tifiable as S. buckleyi are separated in geography into an "Appalachian" and
"Ozarkian" element (Map 1). The relatively few collections identifiable as S.
buckleyi from the southeastern United States, however, are not consistently
distinguished from 5. petiolaris, and intermediates are about as common as
those identified as the former. A significant example of this can be seen in a
set of collections (NY) from the area of Auburn (Lee Co.), Alabama. There,
the leaves of the "S. buckleyi-hke" plants are more similar in shape to those
of S. petiolaris in the same area than to S. buckleyi in the Ozarkian region
(Figure 2).
In the Ozarkian region, Solidago buckleyi occurs in the northeastern quarter
of the range of S. petiolaris, and the two taxa appear to be broadly sympatric
(Map 1). The distribution map provided by Steyermark (1963) gives additional
records for S. buckleyi in Missouri, slightly expanding the range shown in the
present paper. Both tajca are reported to occur sympatrically in southwestern
Illinois (Mohlenbrock & Voigt 1959). The rare plants identified as 5. buckleyi
from Illinois and Indiana are taller than those to the west and mostly have
purple, less hairy stems, larger leaves, and less glandular phyllaries, features
suggesting that they may be infused with genes from some other closely related
species, perhaps 5. speciosa. Deam (1940) noted that S. buckleyi occurs in
West Virginia, but no specimens have been seen from there in the present
study.
Plants of Ozarkian Solidago buckleyi are more similar in their prominently
glandular phyllaries to those of S. petiolaris from the Ozarkian region than
from the Appalachian, and it seems likely that the two geographic segments
referred to S. buckleyi have been independently derived. In order to test this
hypothesis, field studies and analyses of populational variation will be nec-
essary. Although the present research does not provide a resolution to the
difficulty in distinguishing S. buckleyi and 5. petiolaris, at least the problem is
brought into sharper focus. The Ozarkian populations identified as S. buckleyi
may prove to be unnamed.
II. A NEW SPECIES FROM MEXICO RELATED TO SOLIDAGO
PETIOLARIS
In an earlier paper (Nesom 1989) I described a new taxon from the moun-
tains of northeastern Mexico, Solidago wrightit A. Gray var. ortentalis Nesom.
Solidago wrightii is a species of the southwestern United States (Arizona, New
Mexico, and Texas) and the western Sierra Madre of Mexico (Chihuahua and
Durango), and var. ortentalis was considered to be the sole representative of
