Nesom: Taxonomy of Solidago petiolaris 455
the species east of its primary range. While var. orienialis remains a real en-
tity, evidence from additional collections and insights from further perspective
support its recognition at the rank of species.
Solidago orientalis (Nesom) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov. BASIONYM: Sol-
idago wrightii A. Gray var. orientalis Nesom, Phytologia 67:147. 1989.
TYPE: MEXICO. Coahuila: Mpio. Arteaga, Sierra La Marta, pine and
spruce woods, 3100 m, 6 Sep 1981, Hmton, et ai 18333 (HOLOTYPE:
TEX!; Isotypes: MEXU!, NY!).
Additional coDections examined: MEXICO. Coahuila: Mpio. Arteaga,
Sierra La Marta, [probable topotype], E end of range, N slope, in fire-disturbed
Pinus-Pseudotsuga forest, edge of logging road, ca. 3100 m, 24 Aug 1989,
McDonald & Mayfield 2560 (MEXU, NY, TEX). Nuevo Leon: Mpio. Galeana,
Cerro Potosi, 1600 m, 22 Sep 1959, Fuentes C. s.n. (TEX); Mpio. Galeana,
above El Carrizo, oak woods, 1900 m, 16 Oct 1983, Hmton, et al. 18613 (TEX);
Cerro El GaUo, 2000 m, oak and madrono woods, 23 Oct 1988, Hinton, et al.
19257 (TEX).
Solidago orientalis was initially hypothesized to be conspecific with S.
wrightii because of its large, stipitate glands, strigose achenes, and tendency
to produce heads in corymbs. Further collections of this taxon, however, con-
sistently show the heads to be cylindricaUy arranged (with a tendency toward
apical broadening). The development of such glandularity, otherwise unknown
among their relatives, stiU appears to be a specialization supporting the treat-
ment of S. wrightii and 5. orientalis as sister taxa. On the other hand, to re-
gard them as conspecific renders the morphological and geographic distinction
tenuous between 5. wrightii and S. petiolaris., which are allopatric and sep-
arated by consistent difi"erences in vestiture and shape of the capitulescence.
The eastern geographic range and cylindric capitulescences of S. onentalis are
more similar to 5. petiolaris, and if the latter and 5. wrightii are treated as
separate species, S. orientalis is also best regarded at the same rank. Solidago
orientalis is allopatric with 5. petiolaris.
That Solidago wrightii and S. petiolaris are themselves very similar is em-
phasized by observations that plants of S. petiolaris rarely produce an api-
cally broadened capitulescence, approaching a corymboid shape (first noted
by Johnston 1970), and that plants of S. wrightii from trans-Pecos Texas may
produce nearly glabrous achenes. Further, both species, as well as S. orientalis,
have glands at least on the phyllaries, stems with upturned hairs (when eglan-
dular hairs are present), relatively large heads with prominent ray flowers, and
uninerved cauline leaves more or less epetiolate and mostly even sized along
on the stem. Although S. wrightii is unusual in the corymboid arrangement of
heads, it is clearly more closely related to S. orientalis and 5. petiolaris than
to any species of the western United States.
