Phytologio (December 1990) 69(6);459-463.
BIDENS COLIMANA (ASTERACEAE), A NEW WHITE RAYED PERENNIAL
FROM JALISCO MEXICO
Thomas E. Melchert
Department of Botany, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
Two morphologically distinct, geographically isolated populations
of Bidens^ one from Volcan Colima and one from Volcan Tequila, are
recognized as Bidens colimana spec. nov. The species is related to
B. aequisquama (Fern.) Sherff but differs in having sprawling, subterete
lower stems and 3-5 partite leaves or bipinnatisect leaves with narrower
segments.
KEY WORDS: Asteraceae, Coreopsideae, Bidens, Mexico, sys-
tematics
Examination of herbarium specimens from MICH revealed two white rayed,
perennial Bidens specimens from Jalisco (one from Volcan Colima, 2740 m,
Denton 2065, and one from the upper slopes of Volcan Tequila, 2400-2800
m, McVaugh 23910, that do not conform to previously described species of
Bidens. Unlike other white (to rose) rayed, perennial species found in south-
western Mexico, e.g., B. aequisquama (Fern.) Sherff, B. mollifolia Sherff, B.
pringlei E. Greene (all of which have erect, sharply tetragonal, "mint like"
stems that terminate in multiheaded, branched inflorescences), the two plants
concerned have sprawling, subterete to multiangled stems; showy, eight rayed
heads that are borne singly atop elongate peduncles (their large white rays
with ca. twelve purple-brown veins each); and strongly ciliate outer involu-
cral bracts with contrasting glabrous, somewhat rosaceous, inner involucral
bracts. The two specimens differ markedly however, in leaf form. The Volcan
Colima plant having rather small, once pinnate leaves with 3-5 lance linear
segments (Figure 1), and the Cerro Tequila plant having deeply bipinnatisect
leaves (Figure 2). While it is tempting to treat the two specimens as be-
longing to separate species, the fact that many Mexican species of Bidens are
notoriously heterophyllous, cautions against over emphasizing the seemingly
dramatic differences in their leaf morphology {B. triplinervia H.B.K. for exam-
ple, commonly has simple, 3-5 partite, and deeply 2-3 pinnatisect leaf forms,
459
