460 P H Y T L G 1 A volume 69(6):459-463 December 1990
even within the same population, as does B. odorata C&v . [Ballard 1986]). Ac-
cordingly, both specimens are treated here as belonging to B. colimana, with
the recognition that future studies may show them to belong to different taxa.
The Volcan Colima specimen was chosen as the holotype because it has
several fully expanded flowering heads and the most distinctive leaves of the
two (in comparison to other species of Bidens in the area). The description that
follows was derived solely from the holotype, the distinguishing features of the
Cerro Tequila plant being noted separately in the discussion. It is important to
note that both specimens were collected at early anthesis, i.e., neither having
mature or nearly mature achenes, a feature which is often critically important
in distinguishing among species of Bidens (both specimens however, do have
stout, retrorsely barbed, yellow awns on their disc floret ovaries).
Bidens collmana T. Melchert, spec. nov. TYPE: MEXICO. Jalisco: Pass
between Nevado de Colima and Volcan de CoHma, 23.8 mi NW of in-
tersection of road to Nevado and road between Atenquique and Tonila,
mostly ash and lava rocks, some pines and firs, 2740 m, locally abundant,
12 Aug 1972, Mehnda F. Denton 2065 (HOLOTYPE: MICH!).
Bidenli aequisquamae (Fern.) Sherff similis sed caulibus decum-
bentibus subteretibus infra medium vel infirme tetragonis supra
medium, fohis 3-5 partitis segmentis anguste lanceolatis, et capit-
uhs sohtariis in pedunculis elongatis differt.
Sprawling or somewhat ascending, multistemmed, herbaceous perennial.
Stems multiribbed and relatively slender; lower internodes terete or nearly so,
densely short puberulent; upper internodes multiangled to subquadrangular,
the pubescence reduced. Leaves evenly spaced in the lower one half of the
plant, deeply once pinnatifid, mostly with 3 or 5, narrowly lance-linear divi-
sions, 2.3-3.8 cm long, glabrous and seemingly rather stiff; terminal segment
of tripartite leaves 2-3 cm long, 2.0-2.7 mm wide, entire; basal pair of leaf seg-
ments much shorter, narrowly oblanceolate, 7-14 mm long, 2.0-3.0 mm wide,
entire or with a single, toothlike lobe on the leading edge. Heads single atop
elongate peduncles, 8 rayed, mostly 3.5-4.0 cm across the expanded ligules. Pe-
duncles mostly (9-)12-15 cm long, (including the often 1 or 2 bractlike leaves)
the uppermost portion of the peduncle and the base of involucre subtomen-
tose. Involucres strongly dimorphic, the 8-10 outer bracts linear, ca. 5 mm
long, strongly long cihate, but otherwise glabrous, the apices acute, somewhat
indurate; inner involucral bracts slightly longer, the central portion with dark
stripes, mostly somewhat rosaceous, the margins gray scarious and essentially
glabrous, these grading into the chaff. Ligules 15-17 mm long, 6-7 rnm wide,
white with (9)12 purple-brown veins, linear-obovate with truncated, shallowly
3 notched apices. Disc mostly 8-9 mm high, to 15 mm across (when pressed);
disc florets rather numerous, their corollas yellow; anthers black throughout;
