Bartholomew-Began: New subclass Metzgeriidae 465
orders Haplomitriales {— Calobryales), Metzgeriales, and Jungermanniales are
all grouped within the subclass Jungermanniidae, class Hepaticopsida (= Hep-
aticae.
Information gained from a recent comparative morphogenetic re-evaluation
of Haplonnirium (Bartholomew- Began 1990) has demonstrated that although
Haplomitriuni possesses certain unique traits, it shares many others with the
Metzgeriales and is, indeed, very closely related to this order, yet distant from
the Jungermanniales. A classification scheme which best represents the re-
lationships of Haplomiirium among the hepatics and reflects a polyphyletic
concept of the bryophytes, is attained by revising the classification scheme
of Stotler k Crandall-Stotler (1977) by discarding the class Haplomitriopsida
and transferring HaplomitriuTn to the Jungermanniopsida, with the Haplomi-
triales (excluding Takakia) and the Metzgeriales grouped together into a newly
created subclass, the Metzgeriidae, with only the Jungermanniales retained in
the Jungermanniidae. The placement of the Haplomitriales and the Metzgeri-
ales in the same subclass of the Jungermanniopsida emphasizes the close rela-
tionship between these taxa, while simultaneously divorcing Haplomiirium is
classified as follows: division Hepatophyta, class Jungermanniopsida, subclass
Metzgeriidae, order Haplomitriales, (excluding Takakia), family Haplomitri-
aceae.
Metzgeriidae Bartholomew-Began, subclass nov.
Plantae thalloides vel foliatae; folia alaeque thallorum e uno
initio, sine trigonis; rami plerumque exogeni; positiones gametan-
giorum variabiles; sporophyta plerumque non acrogena; perianthia
absentes; elateres longi, attenuati.
Plants thalloid or leafy, leaf or thallus wing development from a single
wedge shaped cell of a three celled apical derivative, trigones absent, conduct-
ing strand of pitted hydroids sometimes present; branches furcate or monopo-
dial, usuaUy of exogenous origin with a dormant, multicellular primordial
stage preceding elongation; gametangia variable in position, rarely acrogy-
nous; sporophyte never enclosed by a leaf derived perianth; spores (15)19-40
/xm, with the spore wall development often involving preprophase, callosic,
exine precursors; elaters long, slender, attenuate.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I wish to thank Dr. Barbara Crandall-Stotler for her guidance, critical
review of this manuscript and for providing the Latin diagnosis. I am also
grateful to Dr. Raymond Stotler for taxonomic advice and for reviewing this
manuscript.
