414 PHYTOLOGIA volume 69(6):413-415 December 1990
ovate-elliptic, distinctly narrowed apically to a slight neck, distally acute, 2.5-
6.0 cm long, 1.0-1.5 cm wide at the widest point, initially nearly white, be-
coming purplish if in full sun, then to lime green, then golden yellow at full
maturity.
The fruits of Datil are most similar in morphology to those of the vari-
ety known as "Habanero," which, to my knowledge, is commercially culti-
vated only in the West Indies and Yucatan, Mexico. Compared to Datil, the
Habanero fruits are shorter (3-4 cm long), differently shaped (widely ovate,
apically truncate and completely without a neck), and differently colored (dis-
tinctly orange to reddish at maturity). Three other varieties of Capsicum
chinense are grown in the area of St. Augustine, but none is commerciaUy
utilized. All of the varieties are said to have originated in the West Indies.
Apart from Datil and the Tabasco pepper, which is C. frutescens L., all other
peppers commerciaUy cultivated in the United States are C. annuum L. var.
annuum,.
Local legend, without factual basis, attributes the origin of the Datil pep-
pers to the Minorcans, who were brought by the British to Florida in 1768 as
indentured workers for indigo plantations. It seems nearly certain, however,
that Datil originated from seed of Habanero-like plants introduced from Cuba,
which was a major center of trade with Florida during its early history. Ac-
cording to his son, Mr. James Odum of St. Augustine, who died more than
10 years ago, grew the peppers for 73 years. Therefore, this variety is known
to have been in constant cultivation for at least nearly a century and perhaps
twice that long if the name originated soon after the arrival of the Minorcans,
since "Datil" = "date" in Minorcan Spanish. The fruit has the wrinkled shape,
and in some cases the color, of a dried date, a food familiar to Mediterranean
people such as the Minorcans.
The Datil peppers are restricted in their cultivation to the area around St.
Augustine, Florida. About a dozen farmers grow and sell the peppers, which
are grown in small plots of about 100-350 plants and picked from June until
frost. AU of the fruits are utilized by local food and sauce producers.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I thank Dr. Guy Nesom and Dr. B.L. Turner for their review and comments
on the manuscript. I am also grateful to Dr. Hardy Eshbaugh, who identified
the plants as Capsicum chinense, and to Dr. Julia Morton, who double checked
the literature.
