472 PHYTOLOGIA volume 69(6):471-476 December 1990
DISCUSSION
In December 1988, Betty Anderson, John Gee, and Margaret Deely dis-
covered some unusual trees growing on Cliff and Betty Anderson's property in
Bandera County, Texas. Mr. Gee, a very capable ornithologist and botanist,
recognized them as Crataegus. Knowing of our interest in this genus, Mr.
Gee arranged for the authors to visit the Anderson property in June 1989.
One of us (Enquist) was able to visit the property and found three species of
hawthorn, the most common by far being the "lost" species Crataegus deser-
torum. Shortly thereafter, on 4 July 1989, one of us (Keeney, with wife Carrie
Keeney) relocated the original type locality of C. desertorum in the city of
Uvalde.
The populations in both counties are in bottomlands near significant wa-
tercourses with a probable high water table. This is not a "desert" habitat,
as implied by Sargent in his original description. It is instead the type of
habitat in which one might expect to find a hawthorn of series Virides. Some
associated woody species are Carya illinoinensis (Wang) K. Koch, Quercus
fustformis Small, Q. stellata Wang, Celtis laevigata WiUd., Diospyros texana
Scheele, Aloysia gratissim,a (Gill. &: Hook.) Troncoso, Juniperus ashei Buchh.,
Ilex decidua Walt., Bumelia lanuginosa (Michx.) Pers., and Rhus lanceolata
(Gray) Britt.
In his original description of Crataegus desertorum, Sargent made the fol-
lowing remarks. "In its unusually zigzag branches, numerous long slender
spines and minute fruit this is perhaps the most distinct species of the Virides
Group. The fact that it inhabits a region of rare rainfall where the soil in which
it grows is only thoroughly wet two or three times in the year would be re-
markable for any species of Crataegus; it is the more remarkable for a species
of this Group, for the Virides, growing usually in low ground, are moisture
loving plants. It is unfortunate that Mr. Palmer has been able to find only a
single plant." (Sargent 1922, p. 188).
Sargent did not hesitate to describe a species from only a single plant, a
practice that has not endeared him to subsequent workers. Many of Sargent's
species are now thought to have been hybrids or locahzed variants of more
common species, and have been downgraded in status to the level of varieties
or forms. Others have simply been synonymized. Sargent's description of
Crataegus desertorum was apparently based on an individual with smaller
leaves and fruit than is typical of the range of variation seen in the two presently
known populations. For example, Sargent described the taxon as a shrub three
meters tall. Several individuals in Bandera County are small trees 6-8 meters
tall. Sargent also described the fruit as 4-5 mm in diameter. We find the fruit
averages 8-10 mm in diameter, much like other members of series Virides. One
individual in the Bandera County population bears fruit averaging 6-7 mm in
