Keener & Enquist: Rediscovery of Crataegus desertorum 473
diameter. This same individual also bears leaves within the size range given
by Sargent.
Like many of Sargent's Crataegus species, C. desertorum has been reduced
in rank by subsequent workers. In this case, however, we feel it has been placed
within the wrong species. In his remarks on the Crataegus problem, Vines
(1960, p. 329) stated that he sought the advice of E.J. Palmer, who "graciously
provided the author with a list of those southwestern species which he considers
to be valid and also has contributed a key to both the series and species." Vines
used these lists as a "basis of approach" supplementing his own investigations
and conclusions after five years of study. It is in this publication that we find C.
desertorum referred to as "C. glabriuscula f. desertorum Sargent." Although
it is possible Sargent himself may have reduced C. desertorum to the rank
of a form, the present authors have not been able to find any publication in
which Sargent did so. If it were Vines' intention to himself adjust the rank
of the taxon, it cannot be considered legitimate, because he did not cite the
basionym or place of publication.
Crataegus glabriuscula (Sargent 1901) was described from the area of Dal-
las, Dallas County, Texas. How was C. desertorum, from southwest Texas,
connected to C. glabriuscula, 320 miles away in northeast Texas? All the
sheets associated with Sargent's original description are cited as being from
Uvalde County, Texas. However, one of these sheets {Palmer 13699) is actu-
ally from Baird in Callahan County, which is about 160 miles west and slightly
south of Dallas County. Close inspection of this sheet reveals that it is misiden-
tified. It is a local variant of C. crus-galli L., which is in series Crus-galh. This
was confirmed by collections made in Callahan County of a very similar plant
(29 April 1990, Enquist 1739 [GH, MO, SMU, UVST, TAES, TEX]) which
had ten pink anthers, not the twenty pale yellow anthers of C. desertorum.
There are numerous sheets in the collection of the Gray Herbarium which
are identified as Crataegus glabriuscula. Some approach the Uvalde area as
closely as San Saba County. They apparently were the basis of the link between
C. desertorum and C. glabriuscula. We believe these specimens are part of a
continuum of variation and see no reason to consider them anything more than
variants of another species, the widespread and highly polymorphic C. viridis
L. Study of the type material of C. glabriuscula indicates that it is not distinct
from C. viridis (Enquist, in prep.).
The only truly distinctive character of Crataegus desertorum, as a member
of series Virides, is its possession of numerous long and slender spines. Its
zigzag branching is common to most hawthorns having a spine at every stem
node. Although members of series Virides normally have few spines or none,
there are scattered individuals found in Texas that are spiny. One such plant
(U.S.A. Texas: Caldwell County, near Lockhart State Park, 19 July 1989,
Enquist 1455 [GH, MO, SMU, UVST, TAES, TEX]) is very similar to C.
desertorum but apparently is moderately introgressed with the surrounding
