Phytologxa (December 1990) 69(6):416-419.
VARIATION IN ERIGERON SOCORRENSIS {^SJER^CE^E■. ASTEREAE)
Guy L. Nesom
Department of Botany, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78713 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
Erigeron socorrensis I.M. Johnston, endenaic to Isla Socorro of Col-
ima, Mexico, apparently comprises two morphological types. They dif-
fer in vestiture of the stems and leaves, cind appear to be segregated
in distribution on the island, but all plants are recognized as a sin-
gle species until field study might provide further insight regarding the
genetic basis for the variation.
KEY WORDS: Engeron, Asteraceae, Astereae, Islas ReviUagige-
dos, Mexico
Each of the two largest islands of the Revillagigedo Islands of Colima,
Mexico, has produced an endemic species of Erigeron, E. socorrensis I.M.
Johnston on Isla Soccoro and E. crenatus Eastwood on Isla San Benedicto.
Both are sufFrutescent perennials with heads in loose corymbs produced above
the leaves, which are clustered on the upper parts of the stems. Erigeron socor-
rensis differs from E. crenatus in its narrower leaves, smaller heads arranged in
more diffuse capitulescences, and fewer ray flowers with longer ligules. John-
ston (1931) positioned these species in Erigeron sect. Coenotus, a group now
recognized as Conyza{see Nesom 1989a). In contrast, Nesom (1989b) hypoth-
esized that both species are members of Erigeron sect. Cincinnactis Nesom,
which is a group primarily of the Mexican mainland. The two species are
certainly related as sister taxa, although it is not clear which other species of
the section they are most closely related to.
Erigeron crenatus is relatively homogeneous, but based on the available
material of Erigeron from Isla Socorro, two groups of plants can be identified
with respect to the amount, length, and orientation of pubescence. Typical
E. socorrensis h&s stems and leaves with thin, closely appressed, short (0.1-0.5
mm long) trichomes, while the stems and leaves of the others are much more
densely pubescent with thicker, erect, and longer (0.4-0.8 mm long) trichomes.
The leaves of the latter plants are pilose, and because of the density of their
pubescence they appear gray-green in contrast to the darker green (of the
416
