84 MIOCENE FAUNA.
feeling their weakness and the impossibility of escape. At first
they attempt to fly ; and it is then that all their imperfections
are visible. Their bodies, too tall and too heavy for their short
and slender thighs, bend forwards, and, with their arms acting
as if they were crutches, the siamangs advance by jerks, re-
sembling a lame old man driven through fear to make a great
effort.
" However numerous the troop may be, a wounded one is
abandoned by the rest, at least if it is not a young individual.
Its mother, who carries it or follows ^it closely, then falls with
it, utters frightful cries, and throws herself upon the enemy
with open mouth and arms extended. One easily sees that
these animals are not adapted for fighting ; for they do not know
how to avoid a blow, and at the same time cannot bear one.
Maternal affection among them is not only manifested in the
time of danger ; and the care which the females take of their
young is so tender aud uncommon that one might be tempted
to ascribe it to a rational sentiment. It is a curious spectacle,
which I have sometimes, with many precautions, been able to
enjoy, to see the females bring their young children to the river,
wash their faces in spite of their grumblings, wipe them, dry
them, and devote to their cleanliness an amount of time and
care which our children might envy in many cases."
The ungko (Hylobates agilis) is much more lively than the
siamang; it climbs about upon the trees with astonishing
activity, whilst upon level ground it has an uncertain and
vacillating gait, although it walks upright. According to Dr.
S. Miiller the gibbons, or long-armed apes, are inhabitants
of the mountains, although rarely passing above the limit of
fig-trees. During the day they reside in the summits of high
trees, and towards evening they descend in troops into the open
country ; but as soon as they are conscious of the presence of
men, they dash up the rocky slopes and disappear into the darker
valleys, They live chiefly upon vegetable food, especially fruits,
#nd they also devour insects and lizards.
Besides the Hylobates aniiquus, two other European Miocene
apes are known, namely Dryopithecus Fontani, Lart., and Sem-
nopit/iecus pentelicus, Wagn., sp. The former has been met with
at Sansan and also on the Swabian Alp, so that it may still be
