VARIETY OF FOOD. 85
found iii Switzerland ; the second species occurs abundantly at
Pikermi in Attica, where a nearly complete skeleton of it has
been discovered. It belongs to the group of the long-tailed
Indian monkeys, and is most nearly allied to the Hoonuman
(Semnopithecus entellus) . The Dryopithecus, which equalled the
orang and the chimpanzee in stature, was placed by Lartet in a
distinct genus ; but, so far as can be judged from its imperfectly
preserved remains, it appears to come very near the gibbons.
In the Miocene period herbs and grassy plants formed a lux-
uriant vegetation, on which the deer, the musk-deer, and the
horses of those times found nourishment in the forest-meadows
and in numerous coppices. Swine no doubt sought the oak-
forests which were spread over the Swiss Miocene country with
such a variety of species, and which were for the most part com-
posed of evergreen trees, so that they furnished fruit throughout
a great part of the year. Many other trees, such as figs, myrtles,
jujubes, whitethorns, walnuts, and numerous Papilionacese, bore
fruit which might serve as food for pigs.
The numerous larvae of insects which lived in the moist soil
of the forest, the grubs of many crawflies and Bibiones (vol. ii.
p. 55), which constitute the principal part of the Miocene
Diptera, also provided a rich nutriment for swine. The
humid, marshy, forest soil which is indicated by the plants must
have been particularly well fitted to enable pigs, tapirs, and
rhinoceroses to thrive, for it is well known that their living
representatives prefer such localities. Thus wild swine are
fond of damp marshy woods of leafy trees, tapirs seek the
banks of rivers and lakes and go readily into the water, and
rhinoceroses prefer marshy low grounds. The fleshy rhizomes
of the Nymphaa and Nelumbia, the irises, and the knotty roots
of the Cyperacese (Cyperus Braunii, Heer) certainly furnished
Miocene tapirs with food of the same nature as that which is
afforded by corresponding living plants to their representatives
of the present day.
The flora of the Swiss Miocene offered an abundant nourish-
ment to the Rodents of that period. Squirrels found an ample
provision of pine- and fir-cones, walnuts, and hazel-nuts; the
calling-hares and chinchillas sought their food in the woods ;
while the beavers most probably established their colonies on the
