SUCCESSION OF MAMMALS. 87
Six species extend from the Aquitanian to the (Eningian stage,
namely : Rhinoceros incisivus, Goldfussi, and minutus, Tapirus
helveticus, Chalicomys minutus, and Cervus medius.
Generally the species of the different stages overlap each other,
especially if we take into consideration their occurrence in other
parts of Europe. Moreover it must not be forgotten, that of
many species only single specimens have hitherto been found ;
and upon these we must not lay too great a stress. The
animals most generally distributed are of far more import-
ance; and these tell us that, in the first period of the Swiss
Miocene formation, great Anthracotheria, rhinoceroses, tapirs,
and deer inhabited Switzerland, but that the Anthracotheria
disappeared at the close of the lower freshwater Miocene ; whilst
the others outlived the period when the low grounds were con-
verted into sea-bottoms, and they reappeared in the valleys during
the formation of the upper freshwater Miocene. The Mastodons
are first found in the third stage, as is proved by the remains
floated out to sea and met with on the Lindenbiihl ; but they only
became generally diffused in the fifth stage, during which the
Dinotheria and the calling-hares are first met with*.
II. MARINE ANIMALS.
In the history of the Miocene period the sea repeatedly occu-
pied the low grounds of Switzerland, and has left behind nume-
rous traces of its presence. Three times the sea covered certain
parts of the country, and formed the marine deposits already
referred to (vol. i. p. 295) : in this way three stages of marine
Molasse have been deposited : the Tongrian, confined to the
Canton of Basle and the Bernese Jura ; a second forming a band
* Lartet (Bull. Soc. Ge"ol. de France, xvi. 1859) and Prof. Suess (Sitz-
ungsber. der Akad. der Wiss. zu TVien, 1863) admit three Miocene mamma-
lian faunas, first, that of the Anthracotheria] second, that of Mastodon an-
gustidem and Mastodon tapiroides ; and, third, that of Mastodon longirostris.
The last does not seem to appear in Switzerland. But when Suess refers to
it Dinotherium giyanteum, Hipparion gracile, and Rhinoceros incisivus, he
forgets that these species occur in Switzerland, and that the rhinoceros already
appeared in the second stage ; so that these animals cannot be selected to cha-
racterize his third mammalian fauna of the Miocene period.
