88 MIOCENE FAUNA.
along the northern boundary of Switzerland, extending from the
Canton of Basle to the Randen ; and a third marine Miocene or
Helvetian stage. They present many peculiarities in their fauna,
and will therefore be described separately.
1 . Marine Fauna of the Lowest Miocene or Tongrian Stage.
The sea which, during the Tongrian epoch, covered the north-
west of Switzerland, formed a southern arm of the Alsatian
gulf, which was connected with the ocean that then spread over
northern Germany, Belgium, and the north of France. Hence
the Swiss fauna of the Tongrian period will be found in close
agreement with the fauna of that sea. In Switzerland, tip to
the present time, there have been collected a few polypes and
Polythalamia, 62 species of Mollusca *, and several Vertebrata.
Elsewhere 47 species of Mollusca have been found in the Ton-
grian stage, 31 species in the Aquitanian stage, 3 in the Shell-
sandstone, and 8 in the uppermost Eocene formation. The
greater part of the species of Mollusca are identical with those
of the Tongrian stage, and especially agree with the species of
the lowest stage of the basin of Mayence and the sands of Fon-
tainebleau ; many of these species also occur in the Aquitanian
stage in France, but very few are common to the Swiss middle
Miocene sea. The Swiss fauna has also only a few species in
common with the Eocene sea.
All the species of Mollusca are distinct from those now exist-
ing ; but all the genera may now be met with in the modern seas.
The Cephalopoda, formerly so numerous, are wanting, and only
two species of Brachiopoda (Terebratula opercularis, Sow., and
Terebratulina polydichotoma, May.) are met with. Among the
univalves, the Cerithia are the most numerous, as nine species
of the genus occur (such as C. Boblayi, Desh., C. Lamarcki, Br.,
C. lima, Br., C. plicatum, Lam., and C. dentatum, Desf.) ; but
* The Mollusca of the Swiss Tertiary sea have been investigated and de-
scribed with great care by M. Carl Mayer. Prof. Heer is indebted to this
thorough student of the Mollusca of the Tertiary period for a catalogue of
the species discovered in the different marine stages of the Swiss Miocene,
which constitutes the foundation of the numerical statements given in the
text.
