90 MIOCENE FAUNA.
(sea-cows), which at present inhabit the shores of America (from
Florida to Brazil), and are found near the Senegal in Africa,
particularly frequenting the mouths of rivers. The bones and
teeth of the Swiss species are not uncommon ; and a nearly com-
plete skeleton (except the head) was found near Radersdorf.
2. Marine animals of the second and third Miocene stages.
We have already seen (vol. i. p. 300) that during the Aquita-
nian period a lagoon with brackish water stretched along the
Alps. It is true that only about ten species of animals have
been found in its deposits ; but these suffice to prove the fact.
Two Cyrence (C. convexa, Br., and C. thunensis, Mayer), two
Cardia (C. Heerii, Mayer, and C. arcula, May.), a Dreissenia
(D. Basteroti, Des.), a Lutraria (L. sanna, Bast.), a Nucula,
and two species of Melanopsis occur near E/alligen. Five of
these species belong to the Aquitanian stage in France, and
their existing relatives for the most part inhabit brackish
water.
A band of marine Miocene belonging to the third stage ap-
pears on the northern frontier of Switzerland, and may be traced
from the Canton of Basle (from Waldenburg, Tenniken, Diegten,
Kanerkinden, and Riineburg) through the Frickthal and Klett-
gau to the Randen, where it is met with near Wiechs, Epfenho-
fen, Thengen, and Lindenbiihl, and, according to J. Schill, up to
2700 feet above the sea near the Klausenhof ; hence it spreads
into southern Swabia as far as Donaueschingen and Nordlingen.
According to M. Carl Mayer, the fauna of this marine deposit
differs equally from those of the Aquitanian and Helvetian
stages; but it exhibits a perfect agreement with that of the
Faluns of Touraine in Central France. It is probable, therefore,
that, at the time of the formation of the Swiss grey Miocene, an
arm of the sea extended from Central France into Switzerland,
stretching along the northern border of the latter country. The
marine deposit of the third stage is characterized chiefly by the
univalve shells, among which the Turritella (T. turns, Bast.),
the Cerithia (C. lignitarum, papaveraceum, and mediterraneum) ,
the Murices (M. turonensis, plicatus, and crinaceus), the Colum-
bella (C. curt a and mioccena), and Neritae (N. Plutonis] may be
