MARINE MOLLUSCA. 91
particularly specified ; but bivalves are by no means deficient,
and some species (such as Venus clathrata and Area Okeni) are
characteristic of this stage.
3. Marine animals of the fourth or Helvetian stage.
During the formation of the three lower stages of the Swiss
Miocene, the sea only touched the frontiers of the country, or
traversed its low lands in separate narrow arms ; in the Helvetian
period, however, it had a wider extension, as has already been
shown (vol. i. p. 293) . The deposits formed at that period occur
in two zones, known as the Shell- sandstone and the subalpine
Molasse. It is a question whether or not the formation of these
two zones took place at the same time. The Shell-sandstone
which occurs along the Jura has been regarded sometimes as
older, sometimes as younger, than the marine Molasse which
follows the chain of the Alps. As the conditions of deposition
furnish no satisfactory data for the solution of this question, the
decision must only rest on the fossils. The Mollusca have
been very carefully investigated for many years by M. Carl
Mayer; and the list prepared by him shows, for the Shell-
sandstone, 218 marine Mollusca, for the subalpine Molasse 360
marine Mollusca, and for both together 421 species ; common
to both deposits are 141 species, so that the Shell-sandstone
shares about two thirds of its species with the subalpine Molasse.
There are 77 species of the Shell-sandstone wanting in the
subalpine Molasse ; but of these only 18 are peculiar to the Shell-
sandstone, 53 of these species being found elsewhere in the Hel-
vetian or in more recent stages, and 6 species being common to
the second or third stage. If the above-mentioned 53 species
are reckoned among the common forms as having been found
elsewhere in formations of the same age, nearly nine tenths of
the species will be found in common ; and there are only 24
which have not yet been observed in the Helvetian stage either
in Switzerland or in other countries. From this agreement of
the species alone, it would appear that the Shell-sandstone and
the subalpine Molasse belong to the same epoch; and this is
equally shown by the relations of the two faunas to the existing
race of animals. Of the 218 species of the Shell-sandstone, 76
