MIDDLE MIOCENE PERIOD. 93
sandstone has preserved to Switzerland the fauna of the shallow
coast-line ; and the varied mixture of the shells which lie to-
gether in all directions and are often broken and rolled/ and the
sharks' teeth and fragments of wood which lie among them, in-
dicate a shore-formation; while the animals of the subalpine
Molasse, which lie together often in great masses, with the valves
of the bivalves not unfrequently united, probably lived in the
sandy locality where they are found and where they had been
covered up. This would sufficiently explain why the species in
the Shell- sandstone and the subalpine Molasse are differently
associated, and would afford a reason for some of the common
species being more abundant in the subalpine Molasse, and for
others prevailing more in the Shell-sandstone.
We therefore unite the animals of the Shell-sandstone and of
the subalpine Molasse into one stage, and compare them with
those of the other Miocene stages.
Of the Mollusca of the Cretaceous sea, no single species re-
mained in the Miocene sea ; and even from the Eocene deposits
only five species (Solecurtus coarctatus, Corbulomya complanata,
Pholadomya arcuata, Tellina crassa, and Area nived) are found
in the Swiss Helvetian stage of the Miocene. Hence a great
change of forms had taken place since the preceding epochs.
With the Tongrian stage of the Miocene the Helvetian marine
Molasse shares only 15 species; whilst it has 118 species in
common with the Aquitanian, and 303 in common with the third
stage. It has almost an equal number of species (namely 299)
in common with the younger stages (the Tortonian, Placencian,
and Astian of Carl Mayer) and with the existing fauna.
In about three fourths of its species the molluscan fauna of
the Swiss Helvetian stage agrees with the molluscan fauna which
inhabited the European seas in the third stage of the Molasse ;
it also agrees in about the same proportion with the molluscan
fauna of the younger Upper Miocene and the Pliocene formations;
and about one third of these species has descended to the present
fauna. A similar proportion may also be observed in other parts
of the sea which at that time covered Central Europe *.
* Prof. Homes has described 476 marine univalves (or 500, including land
and freshwater shells) from the basin of Vienna. Of these, 99 species are cer-
tainly still living; 27 more are doubtful. Thus there are from 21 to 26-5 per
