94 MIOCENE FAUNA.
On examining the extinct species of the fauna of the Swiss
Molassic sea, it is found that among the Mollusca the Mediter-
ranean forms predominate, that exclusively northern forms are
wanting, but that, on the other hand, numerous tropical types
now absent from the Mediterranean occur ; so that on the whole
the Swiss Miocene marine fauna acquires a more southern cha-
racter than that of the existing Mediterranean zone. We find
in it genera which now pertain exclusively to tropical seas, such
as the splendid Volutes, the long turriform Terebra, the Nautili,
and the genera Oniscia, Pyrula, Ficula, Delphinula, and Tugonia,
with others which chiefly inhabit the tropics, and are only re-
presented in the Mediterranean by a few species, such as the
variegated Cones, the brilliant Cyprea, the genera Mitra, Cassis,
Cancellaria, Pleurotoma, Turritella, Turbo, and Tritonium, and
among bivalves Tellina, Psammobia, Cytherea, and Chama.
On recapitulating the forms hitherto collected in Switzerland,
we find among the 431 species of Mollusca, 203 marine univalves
and 228 marine bivalves. The former belong to 15 families.
The Cephalopoda, which were so numerous and varied in prece-
ding periods, are represented by only a single species (Nautilus
Aturi) ; and even this is extremely rare, and has only been found
near Wiirenlos. Of the family Conidse, which principally belongs
cent, of living species. In the Swiss Helvetian stage the living species con-
stitute 25-5 per cent, of tlie marine univalves, in the Shell-sandstone alone
22-6 per cent., and in the subalpine Molasse 25-7 per cent. Of the bivalves
there are in the Vienna basin, as in Switzerland, more living species than of
the univalves, so that higher percentage numbers are obtained for the whole
of the Mollusca. The Swiss Helvetian Molasse represents the middle and
upper marine beds of the Vienna basin. In the lowest bads (called " Hor-
ner " beds) the living species of marine univalves constitute only from 12 to
15 per cent. The marine beds are followed in the Vienna basin by a brackish-
water formation, which coincides with the Swiss CEningian stage j it passes
into a freshwater formation (the Congerian or " Inzerdorfer " beds), in
which Mastodon longirostris has been found ; whilst in the brackish-water
and marine beds the Mastodon tapiroides and angmtidem are met with, which
consequently frequented the shores of the Viennese sea, just as they did those
of the Helvetian sea. The Swiss Molasse has 138 marine univalves, or 68 per
cent., in common with the Vienna basin. Of the bivalves there are no doubt
a still larger number of common species.
