UNIVALVES. 95
to the torrid zone, the Swiss fauna possesses 17 species, remark-
able for their brilliant shells; two of the species (Conm betuloi-
des and Aldrovandi] are most nearly related to an Indian species
(Conus figulinus, Linn.), another (C. antidiluvianus, Brug.) to a
species from the Chinese seas (C. Orbignyi], and only one (C. ven-
tricosm, Bronn) belongs to tropical and Mediterranean forms.
Of the Cyprteidse, besides the small European species (Cypraa
europcea), there is another (C. pyrum, Gmel.) which now in-
habits the North- African coast, the Senegal, and India, and a
third (C. sanguinolenta, Gmel.) which now occurs only in Sene-
gambia. The genus Erato is represented by a widely distributed
species (E. Icevis) which now lives both on the English coast and
in the Mediterranean.
The family Columbellariae presents exotic forms in the beau-
tiful genus Valuta (V. bernensis, May.), which principally belongs
to the southern hemisphere, and the great genus Mitra, of which,
however, only three species (Mitra scrobiculata, striatula, and
fusiformis) are found. There are also four species of Columbella
in Switzerland.
The family Buccinidse offers numerous species of the genus
Buccinum (whelks) ; it played in Miocene times the same part as
at present, for it spread over numerous seas and was abundantly
represented. Of the sixteen known species, four are still living
in the Mediterranean. Of the tropical genera Terebra and
Oniscia three species, and four of Cassis, inhabited the Swiss
Molassic sea. One species of the last-named genus (C. saburon)
was spread over a great part of the Miocene sea, and it occurs
now in the Mediterranean, in the Red Sea, and at the Senegal.
It deserves especial notice that many species which are now
remarkable for a very wide area of distribution, reach back into
Tertiary times, and are therefore of great antiquity. This ap-
plies also to the only wing-shell of the Swiss Molasse (Chenopus
pes-pelecani, Linn.), the present distribution of which is, how-
ever, from the Mediterranean northwards.
The numerous family Canalifera, in which the shell is pro-
duced into an elongated beak, furnishes many species of Murex
and Fusus (spindle -shell) . These, like most of their allies, are
predaceous animals, which bore with their proboscis into other
shells and eat out the soft parts. Of the former genus one of
