96 MIOCENE FAUNA.
the Swiss species (Murex truncutus) still occurs in tlie Mediterra-
nean and at the Senegal, and four others still live in the Medi-
terranean, which is also inhabited by one of the eleven Fusi of
the Molasse (Fusus rostratus, OL). Of the genus Cancellaria
eighty species are known, all being inhabitants of the tropics,
except one which is found in the Mediterranean and at Sene-
gambia. This species (C. cancellatd) lived formerly in the
Molassic sea ; but with it there were nine other species, one of
which (C. piscatoria) now occurs only in India. One of the
largest genera is Pleurotoma, of which 369 living and 305 fossil
species are known. It made its appearance as early as the Trias,
and has taken part in the population of the seas in all geological
ages. At present its chief seat is in the torrid zone, although
many small forms occur in the Mediterranean and even in the
north. These little forms are the last scanty remains of a
genus numerous species of which were formerly spread through
the European sea. The Swiss Molassic sea possessed twenty-two
species, only one of which (P. ramosa. Bast.) is found still living
at Senegambia. This species, like many other species of the
Molasse (such as P. gradata and granulato-cincta) had the shell
elegantly sculptured. Such sculpture is a still more striking
characteristic of the allied genus Cerithium, the turriform shells
of which are most beautifully adorned. Cerithium is a very large
genus ; commencing in the Trias, it attained its highest deve-
lopment in the Eocene period, and then diminished, although it
is still represented by 140 living species. The Cerithia live
chiefly at the mouths of rivers and in brackish water, where they
sometimes occur in immense quantities. They have already
been repeatedly mentioned. Eight species lived in the Molassic
sea; and of these, two (C. mediterraneum and scabrum) still occur
in the Mediterranean, and the latter also inhabits the North
Sea. Pyrula and Ficula are smaller genera of this family, in-
cluding tropical forms, which had a wide distribution in the
Miocene sea (such as Pyrula rusticola and Ficula clava and con-
dita). Two Tritonia also are types of the torrid zone ; whilst
of the two Ranella one (R. marginata, Mart.) inhabits West
Africa, and the other (R. scrobiculata ?) the Mediterranean.
Of the Turbinacese six genera were represented in the Swiss
Molassic sea. Turbo and Trochus had been already met with in
