UNIVALVES. 97
the Swiss Jurassic sea (vol. i. p. 136) ; and seven species of these
genera appear in the Miocene, six of them belonging to the
genus Trochus, which is distributed through all seas, whilst
Turbo chiefly inhabits the torrid zone. A similar remark may
be made of the Turrit elite, thirteen species of which inhabited
the Swiss Molassic sea. These are all extinct species, several
of which (such as T. turns and T. Archimedis) received a screw-
like appearance from the spiral twisting of the angles of their
long turriform shells. The genus Xenophora is remarkable for
the numerous shell-valves which the animal affixes to the whorls
of its shell, which thus acquires a singularly ragged appearance.
Switzerland has two species, one of which (X. turicensis, May.)
is tolerably abundant in the Shell-sandstone, while the other (X.
Deshayesi, Mich.) occurs in the subalpine Molasse. Of Mono-
donta we have a Mediterranean species (M. Aaronis, Desh.) ; of
Adeorbis one, and of Solarium two extinct forms (S. carocolla-
tum and simplex) occur.
The family Scalariidae receives its name from the shells of the
animals composing it being twisted in a long spiral, sometimes
almost tubular, with a round aperture. The genus Delphinula,
which lives in the seas of warm climates, possesses only one
species (D. helvetica, May.) in the Molasse. Scalaria, which is
distributed in all seas, has four species. The worm-shells, which
are furnished with tubular shells like those of the Tubicolar
Annelides, are represented by two species ( Vermetus arenarius
and V. intortus, Lam.) still living in the Mediterranean, and the
very similar Siliquarice by one species (S. anguina, Linn.), which
is now met with both in the Mediterranean and in Indian
seas.
Among the Plicacese, Natica forms a genus already known in
Switzerland since the Jurassic epoch (vol.i. p. 136). It has in-
habited the sea at all times, and extends from the icy sea to the
South Sea, 189 species being known from all parts of the world.
The species are predaceous animals, living at the bottom of the
sea ; they bore into other Mollusca, and bury themselves in the
sea-bottom. Of the nine species of the Molasse, we find four
living in existing seas; and three of these (N. millepunctata,
Linn., N. helvicina and Josephina, Risso) are confined to the
Mediterranean.
VOL. II. H
