98 MIOCENE FAUNA.
The Pyramidellce and Sigareti are less numerous. Of the
latter genus one species, which is very rare in the Molasse (S.
haliotoideus, Linn.), is still living in the Mediterranean, whilst
a second species, which was then plentiful (S. clathratus, Rec.),
is now extinct.
The species of the families Phyllidiacea and Calyptrseacea are
now met with everywhere on the sea-coasts, where they cling to
stones and rocks. The limpets (Patella) occur in the oldest
formations, and also inhabited the Swiss Jurassic sea (vol. i.
p. 136) ; one species (P. helvetica, May.) is tolerably abundant
in the Shell-sandstone. The very similar Fissurella (key-hole
limpets) and the Capuli are represented in the Molasse by two
species; Calyptraa includes four, and Crepidula one species.
The last (C. unguiformis, Lam.) clings to the rocks, with its thin
shell fitting all their irregularities. It is still living not only in
the North Atlantic and Mediterranean, but also in Africa and
India, and is even met with on the coasts of New Zealand,
proving that the magnitude of the area of distribution bears a
relation to the antiquity of the species.
The toothshells (Dentaliidse) are peculiar nearly straight tubes
open at both ends. The genus Dentalium makes its first ap-
pearance as early as the Carboniferous period, and has continued
to the present day. Five species are preserved in the Molasse ;
and two of these (Dentalium incrassatum^ Sow., and D. entalis,
Gm.) are still met with living in European seas, whilst the
other three (D. fossile, Gm., D. mvtabile, Db'd., and D. Miche-
lottii, Horn.) became extinct in Pliocene times.
In the marine bivalves the same conditions are repeated which
have been seen to prevail with the univalves, only the bivalves
have in general a wider distribution both in time and space.
Consequently more bivalves than univalves have come down to
recent times from the Tertiary sea ; and among them species are
found which are at present spread over all European seas, living
on the Norwegian and English coasts as well as on those of the
Mediterranean. The Molasse does not possess a single purely
fossil genus ; and, just as all the genera, without exception, have
continued to the present day, so many of these genera may be
traced back to the most remote antiquity.
bivalves of the Molasse include species of thirty families
