BIVALVES. 99
belonging to two orders the Brachiopoda and the Lamellibran-
chiata. The Brachiopoda took an important place among the
Mollusca of former ages (see vol. i. pp. 75 & 136), and were re-
duced, in the Miocene, to three species of Terebratula, two of
which (T. Buchii, Mich., and T. miocenica, Mich.) have been
found at La Chaux-de-Fonds.
The Lamellibranchiata are divided according to the number
of muscular impressions on the inner surface of the valves, into
Monomyaria, with one muscle, and Dimyaria, with two muscles.
To the former belong the families Ostreacea, Pectinacea, and
Aviculacea, numerous species of which inhabited the Molassic
sea.
Oysters are represented by twelve species. Among them is
the common oyster (Ostrea edulis, Linn.). The shells which
have been found at Miinsingen and St. Gall cannot be distin-
guished from those furnished by the present seas ; and the group
of the American oysters was also represented. One species (O.
virginica, Lam.), which now lives on the coast of Florida, inha-
bited the Shell-sandstone sea, and is abundant near Miinsingen
and in the Siggenthal ; and even the commonest species of the
Molasse, remarkable for its long shells weighing several pounds
(Ostrea crassissima, Lam.), which occurs in great beds near
Hiitlingen on the Belpberg and near Miinsingen, also belongs
to this group, which had made its appearance in the Eocene.
Near Hiitlingen a bed 1 J metre (or 5 feet) thick consists almost
exclusively of such oyster-shells.
Pectinacea constitute a very ancient type, which peopled the
sea through all geological periods, and is manifested within a
limited number of forms in an inexhaustible multiplicity of
species. In the Molasse they are represented by the genera
Lima and Pecten. The former, which were abundant in the
older seas of Switzerland (see vol. i. pp. 44, 75, and 136), are
certainly approaching extinction, since only four species occur
in the Molasse, two of which (Lima inflata, Linn., sp., and L.
squamosa, Lam.) have continued to the present day.
The scallops (Pecten}, on the contrary, although commencing
just as early, have been developed into a great variety of species
in all periods down to the present time. The Molassic sea con-
tained fourteen species, several of which (such as P. bur dig a-
