BIVALVES. 101
ribs, some of them being peculiar extinct forms, whilst others
are either still living or are represented at the present day by
very similar species. Thus the common cockle (Cardium edule,
Linn.) of the Swiss Molassic seas occurs in the sandstones of
St. Gall, Lucerne, and Miinsingen; some Mediterranean species
(C. oblongum, Chemn., C. hians and C. tuberculatum, Linn.) are
met with in the Molasse of the Cantons of Berne and St. Gall.
The Indian cockle (C. indicum) has been found at the Belpberg,
and a Senegambian species (C. costatum, Linn. ?) near Berne.
The genus Cardium, which makes its first appearance in very
early times, was therefore abundantly developed in the Molassic
sea, where it included species the areas of distribution of which
are now widely separated. The fine genus Isocardia, in which
the heart-shaped valves are furnished with spirally twisted beaks,
is much less abundant. One species (/. cor, Linn.), which is
met with in the Mediterranean, and more rarely on the British
coasts, has been discovered near Rorschach.
The Dimyaria with the impression of the sinuated mantle
(Sinupallealia) are represented by numerous families in the Swiss
Miocene sea. The Veneracea, the valves of which have large
beaks projecting over an internal concave lunula, furnish twenty-
seven species. No doubt they lived, like their existing repre-
sentatives, on shallow sandy shores, and buried themselves in the
soil. They are now distributed upon all coasts, but the greatest
number of species is found between the tropics. Several of these
tropical forms (such as Venus plicata, Gmel., V. multilamella,
Lam., and Dosinia Adansoni, Poli) formerly occurred in the
Swiss area; but with these were associated five more species
(Venus ovata, Mont., V. casina, Linn., V. verrucosa, Linn., Cy-
therea minima, Mont., and C. rudis, Poli) which now live in the
Mediterranean or on the European coasts generally. One spe-
cies (Dosinia lincta, Pult.), which has been found at the Belp-
berg, the Weinhalde, and the Rothsee, and near Niederhasli and
St. Gall, is still living on the coasts of England, in the Medi-
terranean, and near Senegambia; and another species (D. exo-
leta, Lam.), which may be obtained in the Molasse of the
Rothsee and at Imi in the Canton of Berne, has at present
the same distribution.
The Psammobia furnish two large extinct species (Psammobia
