102 MIOCENE FAUNA.
Labordii, Bart., and uniradiata, Br.), the nearest allies of which
live in tropical seas ; the Tellinte also occur in the greatest
abundance and variety in the torrid zone, and possess only a few
insignificant species in northern regions. Of the twelve species
found in the Swiss Molasse, three (Tellina senegalensis, Hani.,
T. lacunosa, Chenm., and T. crassa, Gmel.) are West-African
forms, although Tellina crassa occurs in the North Sea and,
with six other species, in the Mediterranean. It is worthy of
notice that the Eocene species are of tropical and Australian
types, but that half of the Miocene species are still continued in
European seas.
The Corbulacea, in Tugonia anatina, afford a West-African
type, and in Corbula they show a genus which previously occurred
as early as the Carboniferous epoch. Of the latter the Molassic
sea was inhabited by three still- existing species, one of which (C.
carinata, Duj.) is now found in tropical Asia, the second (C. re-
voluta, Broc.) occurs in the Mediterranean, and the third (C.
gibba, Ol.) on almost all European coasts.
The Pholadomya were represented in the Jurassic sea (see
vol. i. p. 136) by numerous forms ; at the commencement of the
Tertiary period they had already become rare, and at present
only a single West-Indian species remains of the genus. The
two species of the Molasse ( Pholadomya helvetica, May., and P.
arcuata., Lam., from St. Gall and Lucerne) are extinct. On the
other hand, the Amphidesmq-grou]) is represented by three
European species (A. Syndosmyd) ; and the Pandorida has also
three species in Europe.
The Mactrina have been distributed over all seas from very
ancient times. Twenty-five species are known from the Molasse,
most of them belonging to the genera Mactra and Lutraria,
forms which bore into the sandy bottom of the sea. The Mio-
cene species no doubt had the same mode of life ; and to them is
probably to be ascribed the production of those remarkable spi-
rally twisted structures which have been found in various parts
of the Molasse. These are rod-like bodies, about as thick as
one's finger, on the sides of which are seated spirally twisted
branches of equal thickness. Probably several animals lived
together ; first of all they would dig a hole perpendicularly into
the sand, and then, starting from this aperture, make several
