104 MIOCENE FAUNA.
same habits as at present. The Molassic sea possessed repre-
sentatives of all these families, and some of the species are still
living. Near St. Gall Saxicava arctica, Linn., has formed in
the rocks pear-shaped holes precisely similar to those made by
its descendants, which now live on all northern coasts and also
in the Mediterranean. A large Panopaa (P. Menardi, Desh.)
forms great shell-beds on the Langenberg near Berne, and is
found near Eriz, Lucerne, and St. Gall. It indicates shallow
water, and it probably buried itself in the sand of the shore like
its living relative. Of the Pholadida two species (Pholas cylin-
drica, Sow., and P. rugosa, Broc.) are common in the Molasse ;
the second lived in holes which it bored into the rock.
Ship-worms, which have sometimes caused so much injury by
the destruction of wooden vessels in sea-ports, also inhabited the
Molassic sea ; fragments of wood are frequently met with tra-
versed by tubes perfectly identical with those now formed by
the common ship-worm (Teredo norvegica, Spengl.). As this
species has been found in Italy in more recent deposits, it is
hardly to be doubted that it has continued from the Tertiary
epoch to the present day, and has constantly inhabited this
region.
The Clavagellida are represented by four Clavagella and
Gastrochena, which bored into various substances. The Solen-
acea (or razorshells) , deriving their name (solen, a water-pipe)
from the form of their long narrow shells gaping at the two ends,
are still more numerous. They present several genera (Solen,
Psammosolen, Ensis, and Polio) , including species which are for
the most part still living in Europe ; these animals dig perpen-
dicular holes in the sand to a depth of 2 or 3 feet. The Litho-
phagae bored into stones; and one species (Petricola lithophaga,
Retz.) is not unfrequently met with in rolled fragments of lime-
stone. All these animals are characteristic of the sea-coast ; and
the holes bored by them into the rocks enable us to recognize
the ancient shore and the level of the water upon it, even when
the animals themselves have entirely disappeared.
The Mollusca constitute the principal part of the fossils of the
marine Molasse. The Polythalamia, which occur elsewhere in
great quantities in contemporaneous formations (for example, in
the Vienna basin) , have not as yet been investigated. Of corals
