STARFISHES. 105
only a few species have been found, and they did not form reefs.
Among the Polyzoa are the Cellepora, which constitute bark-like
incrustations on the shells and stones (such as Cellepora pumi-
cosa, Lam., from Corban), and round-celled Milleporce (M. trun-
cata, Lam.).
The sea-urchins, which were numerous in the Nummulitic
ga, are much less frequently met with in the Molasse period.
Only about half a dozen species are known ; all of them are
extinct, but they belong to living genera. Two species (Psam-
mechinus mirabilis, Nic., sp., and Spatangus ocellatus, Desf.) have
been discovered at La Chaux-de-Fonds ; two others (Brissopsis
Nicoleti, Des., and Echinolampus scutiformis, Dum.) have been
found near Verrieres in the Canton of Neuchatel; a Scutetta
occurs near Kilwangen ; and Echinocardium Deikei, Des., near
St. Gall. The existence of starfishes in the Molassic sea is
proved by slabs of sandstone covered with them which have
been found near Reiden.
It is remarkable that few Crustacea remain in the marine
Molassic strata. Only a small number of cirripedes (Balani)
have been discovered, which doubtless had been attached to the
rocks of the shore. One species, identical with the common
European Balanus (B. tintinnabulum, Linn.), is abundant in the
marine Molasse, as in the quarry of Stockeren at the foot of the
Bantigerhubel, near Berne, and near St. Gall ; smaller species
are found at the Belpberg, at Imi, and near Lucerne. When
they are still attached to rocks they enable us to ascertain the
limits of the sea and the height of its surface, as these animals
always live on the border of the sea in the zone of breakers.
Scanty traces remain of worms of the Molassic sea ; but here
and there great quantities of the calcareous tubes of Serpulce are
found adhering to shells ; and in some places the tortuous galle-
ries of the Nemerteans occur, which have produced in the Mo-
lasse worm-stones of the same kind as in the Flysch. At least
it seems very probable that to animals of this kind the fossil
remains on the fragment of Shell-sandstone from Reiden, in the
Canton of Lucerne, are to be ascribed. The specimen was com-
municated to Prof. Heer by M. Bachmann, and is represented
in fig. 327, p. 103.
Of the remains of reptiles in the Molassic sea only a few large
