106 MIOCENE FAUNA.
crocodiles' teetli are found, which were discovered near Corban ;
and there is a singular deficiency of fishes. Hitherto the prin-
cipal remains discovered are those of cartilaginous fish, such as
Chimseroids, rays, and sharks. The last must have been very
abundant, as their teeth occur everywhere in the Shell- sandstone,
and here and there in great quantities. These teeth are smooth,
shining, compressed, flat in front, slightly convex behind, pointed
at the apex, and with both edges sharp; and they have, on
account of their form, received the popular names of " stone-
tongues" and "birds' beaks/' Fourteen species from the
Molasse have been distinguished, two of which have been already
referred to (vol. ii. p. 89), the Cacharodon megalodon and Lamna
cuspidata, the latter having been of most frequent occurrence.
To these genera six more species may be added, such as Carcha-
rodon polygyrus, C. Escheri, and Lamna contortidens and dubia ;
and the Shell-sandstone has furnished the teeth of several species
of Oxyrhina, Notidanus, Hemipristis, and Galeocerdo (Oxyrhina
leptodon, O. hastalis, 0. Desorii, Notidanus primigenius, Hemi-
pristis serra, Galeocerdo aduncus, and G. minor). The family
of the Chimaeroids possesses one species (Ischyodon helveticus,
Eg.), which has been discovered on the Bucheckberg; and of
the rays two forms (Zygobates Studeri, Ag., and Mtobates arcu-
atuSj Ag.) occur in the Shell-sandstone of the Canton of Aar-
govia. The whole of these Molassic fishes are extinct; but,
with the exception of the Hemipristis, they belong to genera
which possess similar species now living in the European and
tropical seas.
The few osseous fishes which have as yet been furnished by
the marine Molasse belong to the Gymnodontes and the Labroi-
dei. A Diodon and a Labrus (L. Ibbetsoni, Ag.) have been found ;
the former probably had the body closely set with spines, and
the latter was probably adorned with varied colours.
Three species of Cetacea visited or inhabited the Swiss Molassic
region. The bones of a manati (Halitherium Studeri, Myr.) have
been discovered on the Lindenbiihl, on the Eanden, and in the
Shell-sandstone of the Canton of Aargovia. It is so nearly allied
to the Tongrian species already mentioned (vol. ii. p. 89) that
the two ought perhaps to be regarded as united. In the Shell -
sandstone of Othmarsingen and Zofingen the long beak-like
