LAUSANNE FOREST. 109
laurel bushes growing at its foot and under its shelter, although
still small, serve to develop a dark green coppice. These are
two representatives of the evergreen trees of the period, which
constituted the greater part of the forests, and were associated
with thick-leaved fig-trees, some peculiar oaks, Proteacese, and
hollies living on the shores of the lake. On the right-hand side
of the Plate an Acacia rises from the herbage, showing its pods
and elegant pinnate leaves, which stand out beautifully from the
smooth mirror of the lake, stretching away towards the right,
and here concealed by long-leaved willows, on which are seen
two twining ferns (Lygodium Gaudini and L. Laharpii). These
ferns constitute a special form of climbing plants, with which
shrubby Berchemia and spinous sarsaparillas were blended.
Only a few branches come into view of a maple rising further
to the right from the dense forest, and exhibiting its indented
foliage. Leaves of a water-lily (Nymphaa Charpentieri] float on
the surface of the lake, associated with a handsome Nelumbium
(N. Buchii), the shield-shaped leaves of which rise into the air;
but the Charas (Ch. Meriani and Ch. Escheri), which filled the
water with green masses and supplied a refuge for Limnece and
Cyclades creeping over their leaves, as well as for water-beetles
(Hydrophilus Gaudini} swimming about among them, are im-
mersed in the water and do not appear in the picture. Large-
leaved sedges and sweetrushes (Cyperi) crowned with long tufts
of leaves rise from the lake close to its shore, which is also here
and there fringed with large reeds.
In the middle distance a group of palms is seen ; the leaves
of young fan- and feather-palms (Sabal, Phoenicites, and Mani-
caria) spread over the soil, and are reflected in the dark waters.
From this luxuriant mass of leaves rises the column-like stem
of the great fan-palm (Flabellaria Ruminiana) waving its proud
leafy crown towards the agure of heaven ; the feathery Phceni-
cites (P. spectabilis] shows its long and finely divided pinnate
leaves at the summit of a tall cylindrical stem ; and the large
flat leaves of the Manicaria (M. formosa) are seen here and
there torn by the wind.
The background of the Plate is occupied by a group of Wey-
mouth pines (Pinus palceostrobus), and to the right of these by a
walnut (Juglans acuminata], as well as by a plant allied to the
