110 MIOCENE LOCALITIES.
pine-apple (Puya Gaudini}, the spiny leaves of which, united into
a crown, spring from a woody stem. A crocodile close by is
about to leap into the water, from which some tapirs are emerg-
ing after their bath. In the distance a herd of rhinoceroses is
approaching the marshy shore, whilst some Anthracotheria ad-
vance from the shadow of the forest towards the cool waters.
At the present day, to see similar forms of vegetation we must
transport ourselves some 15 degrees further south; and even
then we shall nowhere find them assembled together in the same
way as in the Miocene period. The best comparison may be
made by visiting the morasses which in the southern United
States of America spread over an immense district. There the
fan-palm (Sabal Adansoni, the swamp-palmetto) covers wide
regions of marshy land ; many large grasses form lofty reed-
beds, sometimes united into almost impenetrable masses; the
drier spots are covered with the magnificent foliage of Weymouth
pines, evergreen oaks and hollies, lofty walnut- and maple-trees,
and shining magnolias and tulip-trees, often entwined by vines,
sarsaparillas, and shrubby Berchemm.
The swamp-cypress (Taxodium distichum) penetrates into the
most marshy localities, spreading its mighty roots over the soil,
and forming with its branches, covered with elegant feathery
twigs, a wide-spread dome supported on a lofty trunk. Here
and there in these morasses small lakes are formed. Lesquereux
describes one of these in the interior of the Great Dismal Swamp
of Virginia, which vividly resembles the Swiss Miocene marshy
lakes. ' ' It is," says Lesquereux, " only accessible in a boat ;
for when we approach the shore some of the trees descend into
the lake, so that only their summits are visible, whilst others have
their trunks half covered with water. When once we have got
away from the trees and into the true lake, the view is wonderful.
Not that it is exactly picturesque ; but the perfect uniformity of
its surroundings and colours harmonizes admirably with the ab-
solute solitude and death-like stillness of the scene. I saw there
no single creature except the Negro whom I met in the forest
and who guided the canoe, which glided so gently over the black
waters that, although I was entirely occupied with my investi-
gations, a deep melancholy affected my heart, as if I had been
alone upon a desert island or in a new world."
