IIOHE-RHONEN FOREST. Ill
2. The Hohe-Rhonen.
We find a perfectly similar flora to that of the Canton de Vaud
in the lower lignite formation on the shore of the great lake
which took the place of the sea in the alpine zone. The marls
which enclose the lignites of the Hohe-Rhonen contain a rich
herbarium which gives us valuable information with regard to
this flora ; they have preserved to our time a fragment of the
marshy shore of the lake. Several beds of pebbles and sand
were spread over this locality ; and these probably by degrees
filled up the bed of the lake and converted it into a muddy
shore. Gradually a peat-moss was produced ; but its formation
was from time to time interrupted by deposits of mud, which
now lies between the lignites in the form of dark-coloured marl.
Large reeds and reed-maces (Typha latissima), numerous Cyperi r
sedges, and rushes, Spargania, and Irids leave no doubt as to the
nature of the soil ; nay, in Greith, we can even indicate certain
spots at which small brooks traversed the marshy forest ground,
marked by bands of brittle black marl filled with fruits carried
down by water (especially those of the maple), fine confervoid
filaments, and small bivalve shells (Cyclas). A Grewia (G.
crenata), the trilobate maple (Acer trilobatum), and species of
Liquidambar, willows, and Myrica must have grown there in
abundance, as great numbers of their remains are found in
the mud ; the Widdrmgtonice, Glyptostrobi, and Taocodia (swamp-
cypresses) were plentiful; and the last probably pushed for-
ward, like their existing relatives, into the soft ground, form-
ing the extreme oiitpost of the forest. Of palms we meet
with three fine species at Hohe-Hhonen (namely Sabal h<erin~
giana, Phoenicites spectabilis, and Manicaria formosa) , where, in
conjunction with the numerous evergreen oaks and leathery-
leaved Proteaceae, laurels, and fig-trees, they clothed the shore
of the lake with an evergreen fringe. The abundant ferns (Las-
trcece, Aspidia, and species of Pteris with long feathery fronds)
probably grew in the shady forest, and, together with the bil-
berries, hazels, jujubes, sumachs, and buckthorns, formed its
undergrowth.
In this primaeval wooded district dwelt a tapir and two species
of rhinoceros, a deer, and the Chalicotherium. They had, in the
