112 MIOCENE LOCALITIES.
dog-like carnivorous animal Amphicyon intermedius, an associate
whose rapacity probably often disturbed the peaceful silence of
the old forest.
The other parts of the shore of the Alpine lake with which we
are acquainted present us with a very similar flora. They con-
sist of some small patches at Rufii near Schannis, and more to
the north at Waggithal, at Rothenthurm, and the Rosenberg,,
in which are found the same species of plants, intermixed with
some other peculiar forms>
3. St. Gall.
A very different picture is presented by the environs of St.
Gail during the Helvetian stage. To form an idea of this scene
we must imagine all the hills and mountains removed which
now so charmingly environ the town of St. Gall, for the mate-
rial of which these elevations consist was only accumulated in
Miocene times. The country between St. Gall and the Creta-
ceous mountains of Appenzell consists of Lower Freshwater
Molasse, and was clothed with plants, in the remains of which
twenty-two species have been found in the sandstones of Teuffen
and at the Ruppen. With about forty species known from the
Lower Molasse of the neighbourhood of St. Gall, they form a
small flora which gives us some information as to the Miocene
vegetation of the district. It was wooded with evergreen cam-
phor and laurel trees, as well as with walnut-trees, poplars, and
Robinia and fine-leaved Acacia. Several species of Cyperacese
and a reed-mace (Massettd) indicate a marshy soil. This flora
probably maintained itself south of St. Gall during the whole
period of the formation of the Molasse ; but in the vicinity of
St. Gall it was destroyed by the irruption of the sea which took
place during the Helvetian period. At this epoch we find traces
here of a sea-shore. The quarry. in the immediate vicinity of
St. Gall shows the spot where a brook, flowing from the south,
emptied itself into the sea. Its banks were fringed with reeds
and reed-maces, the remains of which we now find in the marls.
Leaves are met with of the trilobate maple, of a species of bil-
berry, a holly, and some dogwoods and buckthorns, probably
growirig upon its banks ; whilst two rigid-leaved Banksia (B.
