ST. GALL. 113
helvetica and Deikii] and two oaks (Quercus sclerophyllina and
cld'ina) flourished upon the drier and more distant land. If we
trace the brook to the place where it falls into the Miocene sea,
we come upon a brackish-water formation, which is recognizable
at once by the softness of the rock and its bluish colour. It is
about 15 feet thick, and must have originated from an extremely
fine mud. Together with the leaves and a few land Mollusca
(Helices and Auricula oblongd), which were swept down to the sea
and buried in its mud, we find thousands of a small brackish-
water animal (Paludina or Bythinia acuta), and in the uppermost
portion numerous cockles (Cardium hispidum], whole families of
clamshells (Chama gryphina, Lam.) and Diplodontae (D. rotun-
data], and here and there a few scattered oysters (Ostrea cras-
sissima). This brackish-water stratum overlies a deposit con-
taining numerous shells of Venus and Lutraria, which no doubt
hollowed out their dwelling-places in the mud ; and still lower
we meet with a layer of Turritella and Pandora. The soft marl
found in the brackish water is covered by a pebble-bed about
14 foot thick, which offers us the traces of a rich marine fauna
that lived among the pebbles. Attached to and among these
rounded stones are tubicolar Annelides, small corals, and nume-
rous Vermeti ( V. intortus)-, and within the fragments of limestone
are many living bivalves (G astro chance, Saxicavce, Sphenia, and
Pholades) which there formed a dwelling, whilst others sheltered
themselves in the tubes and passages formed by the boring
Mollusca, such as the Petricolce, Gastranff, young Lima, and
Mactrce, which we now find in the interior of these stones.
Among the pebbles we see whole colonies of Turbos (T. murica-
tus) and Murices (M. trunculus and vaginatus), and numerous
species of -Pleurotoma, Fusus, and Buccinum. Shining cowries
(Cyprcea sanguinolentu), curious Xenophora (X.Deshayesi), beau-
tiful Ancillarics and Columbella , and species of Mitra, Oniscia,
and Cassis are also discovered if we carefully search this friable
rock. Favourable conditions were here afforded for the deve-
lopment of Veneridse (Venus multilainella, Cytherea crassissima,
and Lucinopsis Lujonkairei) , of Pholadomyce (P. arculata), Do-
sinicE (D. Adansoni), and Diplodontce. For so rich a fauna there
must have been at this spot a sheltered bay, into which at first
a brook discharged itself, the direction of which subsequently
VOL. II. 1
