114 MIOCENE LOCALITIES.
perhaps became diverted by its bed being filled up with pebbles
and rubbish ; for the brook disappears in the pebble-bed of the
brackish-water formation,, which shows us a purely marine fauna
such as lives within the littoral zone.
The brackish-water formation ceases at the distance of six
minutes' walk to the east of the quarry (near the Tivoli) , and it
also disappears at the Steinach, a distance of fifteen minutes'
walk to the west of the town, so that it was not of great extent.
Hence only a small brook here fell into the sea, forming a nar-
row delta which now constitutes the marl of the quarry. In the
sandstone rocks quarried in the deep ravine of the Sitter, near
the Kratzernbriicke, at Stocken, and at Kobelmiihle, as well as
near the Martinsbriicke and in the wild ravine of the Goldach,
we have a thin freshwater layer between the marine beds ; but
the strata enclosing it exhibit conditions varying from those of
the quarry, and prove that even at this small distance the de-
posits were differently formed. On the Sitter we have repeated
alternations of conglomerate, sandstone, and marl-beds, demon-
strating that constant changes took place in the transportation
of the materials of which these rocks consist, and that conse-
quently diverse modifications of the fauna also occurred. We
find, according to Carl Mayer, at the bottom, beds with oysters
and cones, then strata with Vcneridse and species of Tapes, and
still higher blue marls full of Turritella ; but the brackish- water
formation and the overlying pebble-bed (which is so rich in
animal remains characterizing the quarry) are wanting. Every-
where in the environs of St. Gall we meet with a peculiarly
constituted marine fauna, and with traces of the alternate action
of marine and land conditions. This is also the case if we study
the marine Molasse of Lucerne or of Bach. On the great sand-
stone slabs of Bach we not uiifrequently see the most distinct
ripple-marks. We meet with slabs the surface of which looks
as if it had been swept in one direction, and with other slabs
traversed by numerous interlacing undulated lines, in the de-
pressions of which carbonaceous particles and indistinct plant-
remains have accumulated, just as may be seen in the sandy
mud of the sea-shore; sometimes roundish impressions may be
observed which have been ascribed to the action of rain-drops,
