LOCLE. 115
oi' long galleries resembling the tracks of marine animals.
Cylindrical bodies, which in some parts of the sandstones of
Bach occur in great quantities, are probably clue to the filling-
up of the dwellings of bivalve Mollusca and wormstoiics, the
work of marine worms. We have therefore everywhere before
us sea-shore formations into the sand of which animals have
either penetrated or have been driven by the force of the
waves ; and their fossil remains have thus been covered up and
preserved to the present time.
4. Lode.
The white freshwater limestones of Locle offer us a portion of
the later Miocene flora belonging to a period when the sea had
disappeared from these regions. They were deposited during
the (Eningian stage at the bottom of the lake which then spread
over the district. The innumerable carapaces of a small ostracod
crustacean (Cypris faba, fig. 205, p. 6), the pond-mussels (Ano-
donta Heerii, May.), and the remains of water-beetles (Dytiscus
Nicoleti) and of pondweeds and Charas furnish evidence of the
existence of this lake ; and the leaves of reed-maces (Typha] and
reeds inform us that it had a marshy sedgy shore. The fan-
palm (Sabal Ziegleri] and a large Equisetum also probably lived
in the marsh. The flora which surrounded the lake must have
been very rich in species ; for the limestone encloses the remains
of 140 species, 104 of which were trees or shrubs. The most
abundant tree is a laurel (Laurus princeps) ; consequently a
laurel-forest must have adorned the landscape. An Andromeda
(A. protog&a) and a small-leaved maple (Acer decipiens) were also
plentiful. The liquidambars, poplars, and willows, of which ten
species occur, probably spread along the river-banks ; whilst the
small-leaved Proteacese, the evergreen oaks, and numerous
Leguminosse no doubt clothed the drier hills. One of the
peculiarities of this flora is the great prominence of the Prote-
acese (nine species) ; the latter were spiny twining plants which
climbed up the shrubs and trees and garlanded them with their
heart-shaped leaves.
