116 MIOCENE LOCALITIES
5. The Molasse of the Canton of Zurich (Albis, Horgen, Elgg,
Velthelntj Irc/tel) .
In Western Switzerland the only remains of the (Eningian
period are found in the flora of Locle, and in a certain number
of trees (principally poplars and willows) which probably fringed
the brook flowing from the Vosges mountains through the valley
of Delsberg. After the retreat of the sea belonging to the Hel-
vetian stage from Switzerland, the Cantons of Vaud, Friburg,
and Berne were probably dry land ; and they appear to have
possessed no lakes in the muddy deposits of which the fragments
of the flora of the country might have been preserved.
In Eastern Switzerland, however, a large freshwater lake
spread over the Cantons of Zurich and Thurgau, in which were
deposited masses of sand and pebbles, forming the Upper Swiss
freshwater Miocene. This lake has been already noticed in
vol. i. p. 302 of the present work ; and the lignite-beds, and the
remains of plants contained in various portions of them, show
that in several localities the lake had been converted into peat-
bogs and marshes.
From the Albis, from IrcheL, Stettfurt, Berlingen, and Steck-
borii Prof. Heer has obtained a number of leaves belonging to
sixty species of plants. The most abundant trees were the
poplars (Populus latior, P. balsamoides, and P. mutabilis), cam-
phor-trees (Cinnamomum polymorphism) , and the beautiful Podo-
yonicR'y and the forests also contained liquid am bars, laurels,
willows, maples, dogwoods, and buckthorns.
At Kapfnach a peat-moss has been found. The brownish
yellow bituminous marl and marl-shale with compressed shells
which underlie the bed of coal represent the white bottom ; the
black shales which here and there intersect the coal are the
muddy deposits of the water which from time to time inundated
the marshy ground. They only contain scanty remains of reed-
like plants ; and the lignites present here and there compressed
palm-stems, probably belonging to the Sabal (see vol. i. p. 336) .
The complete absence of the leaves of trees would seem to prove
that there were no forest trees in the neighbourhood. The
bones and teeth are preserved of numerous mammals which
strayed into the marsh and perished there.
