118 MIOCENE LOCALITIES.
probably belonged to animals wliicli were carried by water into
the lake. At the Albis, in the south-west of the Canton
of Zurich, numerous leaves make their appearance in the
sandstone ; they furnish indications of twenty-seven species of
plants, among which poplars and camphor-trees once more
predominate. In all these places, however, the leaves are badly
preserved ; they lie in a coarsely granular mass mixed together
in all directions, and are to be regarded as forest leaves dropped
from trees and swept together by the action of water. Fortu-
nately, in (Eningen, on the frontier of Switzerland, we possess a
a locality at which the plants and animals of the surrounding
country accumulated for many years, and were preserved in a
remarkably beautiful manner for the study of a later age.
(Eningen has been celebrated for the last 150 years, and has
become the most important place in the world for the investiga-
tion of the Miocene land-fauna and flora. It merits now a
special description.
6. (Eningen.
"Wangen and (Eningen are situated on the north or Baden side
of a narrow arm of the lake of Constance leading to the Rhine.
These localities stretch along the southern slope of a chain of
hills which projects into the lake of Constance and is partially
surrounded by its arms. If we ascend from either Wangen or
(Eningen, in about half an hour we reach the limestone -quarries
which contain the fossils. The quarries really belong to the
domains of the communes of Wangen and Schienen ; but as
their fossils were first made known through the monks of
(Eningen, the name of that place has been conferred upon them.
Two quarries are worked. The lower one is about 550 feet
above the lake of Constance; the upper quarry is about
150 feet higher. The strata of the two quarries do not corre-
spond with each other, and were probably formed in two sepa-
rate small pools, or perhaps in two separate corners of the same
lake. The bottom of the lake-basin is composed of soft Mo-
lasse -, upon this there was, first of all, deposited a clayey marl
which prevented the water from draining away. Over that bed
succeeded numerous strata of limestones and marls, which ex-
hibit great differences in their constitution in the two quarries.
