(EMNGEX. 119
lu tlie Lower Quurry, immediately upon the yellow marl,
there is an extremely fine-grained limestone, which is only J inch
in thickness, and splits into yellowish or grey layers as thin as
paper. In these layers the plants and insects are imbedded, and
often are so wonderfully well preserved that they look as if
they had been painted. The insect-bed consists of about 250
lamellae, or layers, the formation of which probably occupied a
long series of years, during which plants and animals were de-
posited at all seasons of the year in this book of Nature. The
layers that contain the flowers of the camphor-trees and poplars
were probably produced in the spring, those which furnish
winged ants and the fruits of elms, poplars, and willows in the
summer, and those containing the fruits of the camphor-trees,
the Diospyros, the Clematis, and the Synanthereae in the au-
tumn. The deposits must have been formed in quiet water and
at a distance from the mouth of any river. Probably poisonous
gases or vapours rose from this spot into the air and killed the
insects flying over the water. The prodigious number of species
of insects here met with shows us that not only the animals of
the neighbouring shores, but those of a large area, must in the
lapse of time have here found their graves.
Above the insect-bed, in the lower quarry, are several strata
of a sandy calcareous marl and white, bluish, and reddish-grey
limestones, here and there containing round pebbles, which show
that they were produced under the influence of water flowing
into the lake. But during the whole period of their formation
no aquatic vegetation settled in this spot, perhaps because the
gases emitted were unfavourable to the development of plants;
and only the leafy trees and cypresses (Glyptostrobas] of the
neighbouring forest furnished a certain number of remains of
plants, to which were added small vegetable fragments carried
by the wind from greater distances.
In the Upper Quarry the compact indigo-blue marl which
covered the bottom of the lake is overlaid by a hard bituminous
limestone, which has received the name of Jtettlestone. It is
the chief source of the fossil plants of (Eningen. The leaves,
the organic matter of which is preserved, are generally of a
brown or brownish-yellow colour, and stand out in beautiful
relief on the white stone. True aquatic plants are very rare,
