120 MIOCENE LOCALITIES.
but the stems and rhizomes of reeds and reed-maces are toler-
ably abundant; so that there were evidently reed-beds in the
neighbourhood , in which probably flourished the beautiful iris
(Iris Escherae), the marsh Umbelliferse inhabited by the species
of Liocus, and sedges and CyperL
The greater part of the leaves belong to leafy trees. Among
these the three-lobed maple predominates ; then follow poplars
(Populus latior and mutabilis), soap -trees (Sapindus falcifolius) ,
a walnut (Juglans acuminata] , and a Podogonia ; all these trees
probably lived in the vicinity of the shore. The maple and the
poplars no doubt grew upon swampy ground, as did also the
alder, the Myrica, and the sumachs. It is probable that the
other plants did not grow in the marshes themselves, but in the
more or less humid forest ground which immediately adjoined
the swampy shore. Among the inhabitants of the forest were
Podogonia, soap-trees, and walnuts, with which a number of
other trees and shrubs were associated, including the camphor -
and cinnamon-trees, the lime-leafed fig, the Diospyros, the
oleander-leafed oak, a Robinia (/?. Regeli], the bladder-senna
(Colutea), and the C&salpinia.
Besides these plants, the " Kettlestone " contains many in-
sects belonging to land and water and some crustaceans. There
are but few species ; but the number of individuals is very great,
proving that they lived in the same neighbourhood. The Kettle-
stone has preserved a portion of the marshy shore of the lake.
Plants and insects which lived on the spot are chiefly met with,
and are intermingled with a few which were conveyed from
greater distances by currents either of air or water.
A considerable time probably elapsed in the formation of the
Kettlestone, as the different seasons of the year are represented
in it : layers are found with the flowers of the Podogonia, maples,
and poplars, which indicate the spring ; others with ants^ wings
and summer insects and fruits of poplars and willows, which
ripen in the summer ; and others, again, with fruits of the maple,
camphor -tree, and plane tree, and with twigs of poplar-bearing
flower-buds like those -of the existing species in the autumn.
Higher up the plants become more scarce, and in the thick
white bed which covers the Kettlestone there are only a few
