LAKE OF (EX1XGEX.
isolated leaves of land-plants. But the upper bed contains large
pikes, and has furnished gigantic frogs, a small tortoise, a fine
large salamander, and the bones of calling-hares. In the bed
called the " Dillstecken" the plants have entirely disappeared.
Probably the shore part of the lake gradually became shallower,
the mouth of the river no longer maintained its position, and by
degrees the marshy ground was laid dry. Hence the bed of
calcareous marl hardened, and a number of regular fissures were
formed in it, dividing its entire surface into quadrangular clods.
In this manner the origin of the singular sharp-edged blocks
formed by the deposit may be explained. Volcanic action may
have assisted in the drying-up of the stratum ; and afterwards
the district was again laid under water, probably on account ot
the mouth of the river having been brought into its vicinity.
First of all a number of pond-mussels (Anodonta Lavattri} esta-
blished themselves in the locality; their shells now cover the
rock which overlies the " Dillstecken/' and is coarse and sandy,
showing that at the time of its formation the bottom of the lake
was covered with sand. The ground was well fitted to receive
the sand-loving Isoctcs Braunii, which has been found there in
great abundance and formed a dense green tuft ; it also produced
a pondweed (Potamogeton geniculatus) , which appears in such
quantities that the stone is permeated by it in all directions, and
has received from it a dark colour. On the shore, reeds, willows,
and poplars again appear. The number of species of plants,
however, is small, and there are but few in the strata next
dbove it, which have recaived the names of " cotton-bed/'' " black
bed," " tortoise-bed," and "salamander-bed/' the last two being
the chief sources of large tortoises and salamanders. It would
appear that the bottom of the lake had become deeper, or that
it was removed further from the shore, so that the leaves which
were floated into the lake no longer reached this point. The
black bed alone contains many leaves, but almost exclusively
those of a poplar and a willow (Populus mutabilis and Salix an-
gusto) , which shows that these two species must have grown in
abundance upon the shore.
The sahimander-bcd is overlaid by about 4 feet of a hard
limestone, known as the great and little " Mockeii." The great
