122 MIOCENE LOCALITIES.
quantity of reeds, reed-maces, and poudweeds that are met
with in the "great Mockeii " indicates that the spot was near
the shore. The tenches which characterize this rock also de-
monstrate a shallow muddy bottom. But the plants gradually
disappear, and the " little Mocken/' which may have been in
the middle of the mouth of the river, contains no plants.
A period of perfectly still water succeeded, in which a great
quantity of larvae of dragonflies swam about among Oharas and
Ulveae (Enteromorpha stagnalis). These larvae are found by
hundreds in the dragonfly-bed ; but few of them are well pre-
served. Other insects are very scarce; and of land-plants only
a few small leaves of an elm, a Weinmannia, and an Edwardsia
have been found. Large leaves are entirely wanting, as are also
the shore- plants, such as reeds and reed-maces; the locality
seems to have become a quiet bay, the shore of which was
almost destitute of plants, and small leaves of a few plants
which grew upon the shore were carried into the little bay by
the wind.
From the fact already mentioned (vol. ii. p. 24) that dragonfly-
larvae of all ages lie intermixed in certain slabs, it would appear
that these insects had been suddenly killed, and that they were
subsequently enveloped by snow-white limestone. Had there
been no violent action, it would be difficult to explain how such
quantities of these larvae could have been buried in the rock,
some in a running, others in a resting position, with the mask
extended or retracted. Dragonflies may have lived on the spot
during the formation of both the higher beds and the " Kettle-
stone"; but they were not disturbed in their development; when
completely developed they rose into the air, and no traces re-
main of their larvae. In the next higher bed, dragonflies entirely
disappear ; the pondweed again makes its appearance, and with
it numerous white fish (Leuciscus). One bed higher, and both
plants and fish entirely vanish; but in this bituminous rock,
which is known as " Mollen " -stone, fine teeth of a mastodon
(M. tapiroides) have been found. Sandy calcareous marls which
follow the " Mollen "-stone show a destitution of plants. Both
the Mollen-stone and the calcareous marl exhibit a great varia-
tion in thickness (from ^ foot to 5 feet) within a very small space,
