VOLCANIC AGENCY. 123
showing that the mouth of the river probably opened into this
spot ; whilst the higher calcareous beds, which form rubbish-
beds, must have been deposited in rather quieter water, seeing
that in them some leaves of poplars and camphor-trees again
occur. These leaves show that the youngest and uppermost
beds belong to the same period as those below them.
From this description it appears that in the course of time
great changes took place in precisely the same spot in the lake
of (Eningen, probably occasioned chiefly by the river which
opened into the lake, and aided perhaps by a rising and sinking
of the ground, which might be due to volcanic agency. Prof.
Arnold Escher de la Linth has ascertained that in the bed of the
brook below the lower quarry at (Eningen there occurs a very
peculiar dark-coloured volcanic rock, which, by its pisolitic
grains, its fragments of limestone, and its rounded and angular
fragments of blackish fine-grained granite, often as big as a
man's fist, resembles the phonolitic and basaltic tuffs of the
neighbouring Hohgau. The same rock also occurs on the road
between Solenhof and Langenmoos, above and below the level of
the upper quarry ; and the dark brown arable clay in the imme-
diate vicinity of the upper quarry seems also to indicate a vol-
canic origin, and resembles the soil produced from the decom-
position of the tuffs of Hohgau.
The occurrence of these volcanic rocks in the bowl-like en-
virons of the quarries of (Eningen renders it probable that during
the Upper Miocene period volcanic eruptions here took place,
and that, as in the Hohgau, volcanic rubbish accompanied by
fragments of limestone and granite were brought to the surface.
By the action of these causes the Molassic ground of the region
acquired a bowl-like depression, in which water accumulated and
a lake was formed. It is manifest that the volcanoes of the
Hohgau were in activity at the same time with those of CEnin-
gen, as the plants contained in the tuffs of Hohenkrahen agree
with those of (Eningen. From the district of Ochsenwang
(south of Kirchheim) in northern Wirtemberg Prof. Heer is
acquainted with a dark basaltic tuff which is proved to be con-
temporaneous with the (Eningian formation by the plants and
insects which are contained in it.
