WARM CLIMATE. 127
may with great probability be regarded as the ancestors of the
existing species.
In the Miocene a rich fauna and flora are spread before us,
showing the development of a complete series of phenomena of
plant and animal life both on land and in the water ; and all
agree in telling us that the Miocene country must have had a
warm and, indeed, subtropical climate.
It has been already shown (vol. i. pp. 310, 311) that the flora
of the Miocene was much richer in species than that of the
present day, and that its numerical proportions are such as now
occur in subtropical regions. The insects, reptiles, and Mam-
malia also present a surprising abundance of species, such as
southern lands alone can now show, and such as is possible only
where the earth is clothed by a luxuriant vegetation. That the
flora of the Miocene period must have been greatly in excess of
the existing Swiss flora is proved by the Swiss Miocene trees
and shrubs far exceeding in number of species the united floras
of Germany and Switzerland at the present day. The majority
of the woody Miocene plants (between two thirds and three
fifths of the whole Miocene flora) possessed evergreen foliage, as
may be demonstrated by the leathery consistence of the leaves
and the analogy of nearly connected living species. This state
of vegetation characterizes warm zones (see vol. i. p. 311),
and it could not be maintained in a country subject to cold
snowy winters such as we now have in Central Europe. A
single severe winter would have utterly destroyed evergreen
forests similar to those of the Miocene.
CEningen and the marls of the Schrotzburg have furnished
Prof. Heer with remarkable information as to the course of the
seasons. Plants, as is well know r n, are dependent on the sea-
sons and on climate for the constantly recurring cycle of their
development. This influence, however, affects some plants in a
greater degree, and other plants in a less degree ; and therefore
the intervals of the developmental epochs, such as the period of
flowering of the same plants, are not the same in all latitudes.
Such epochs in northern latitudes are generally more distant
and more distinctly marked, and in the warmer zones they are
brought closer together. Whenever we can ascertain what trees
burst into leaf and flower in the Tertiary period at the same
