128 MIOCENE CLIMATE.
time, we shall acquire important data as to the climate of the
Tertiary district. Upon these points we obtain evidence by
submitting- to a careful examination the plants and insects lying-
together upon the same slab of stone. If these are well pre-
served and lie exactly in the same plane of bedding, they must
have been simultaneously enveloped by the stony mass. We
should, however, take into consideration that only such objects
have come down to us as were enclosed by the stone in a short
time, while those which lay longer in the water became decom-
posed and perished. An exact comparison of many slabs from
(Eningen and the Schrotzburg has proved that in Miocene
times the periodical phenomena of the vegetable world were of
the same nature as those now going on in the subtropical zones.
On a slab of stone from the Schrotzburg the flower of the cam-
phor-tree lies quite close to the male flowers of a willow (Salix
varians] y and very near to leaves of the plane, the liquidambar,
and the maple. The willow and camphor-trees consequently
bloomed at the same time; the planes already unfolded their
leaves, and were likewise in flower; and it appears that at the
same time the poplars flowered, for upon another slab Prof.
Heer has seen associated with the male catkins of the poplar
(Populus latior) the leaves of planes, elms, liquidambars, and
willows. This is a condition of things which no longer occurs
in Switzerland, or indeed anywhere in the temperate zone. The
willow above referred to is most nearly allied to the crack-
willow (Salix fragilis), which flowers in Central Europe at the
end of April and the beginning of May; the development of
the leaves and flowers of the plane takes place later. Until
towards the middle of May the plane remains perfectly bare ;
then the buds begin to open, the leaves break forth very gra-
dually, and simultaneously with them appear the globular cat-
kins ; but it is only towards the end of May that the plane
acquires its green mantle and comes into full bloom, and it is
some time longer before it arrives at its perfect foliage. At the
time when the crack-willow begins to flower, the planes are
therefore quite bare in Switzerland, and three or four weeks
elapse before they bear fully developed leaves. If we assume
that the flowering of the willow lasts fourteen days, there is still
an interval of one or two weeks between the fall of its flowers
