EARLY FOLIAGE. 129
and the leafing of the planes. If we turn to southern latitudes
we find that, in Madeira, the planes are leafless in winter ; from
the middle to the end of March their buds begin to open ; and
at the beginning of April they have flowers and young leaves,
which,, however, are fully developed only at the middle of April.
Thus the development of the leaves and flowers of the plane (at
least in the neighbourhood of Funchal) commences from six
weeks to two months earlier than at Zurich. The Swiss Salix
fragilis does not occur in Madeira ; but its place is taken by a
species (the Canarian willow) which is most nearly related, on
the one hand, to the Swiss crack-willow, and on the other to the
species of the Miocene, both of which it represents in the
Atlantic islands. This Canarian willow certainly begins to
flower about a month earlier than the plane ; but its flowering-
time lasts much longer, and is continued until the end of April,
so that in Madeira the willows and planes are seen at the same
time in flower and with fully developed leaves. Here, therefore,
these phases of development coincide with each other, because
the period of flowering lasts longer, and is not so sharply defined
as in more northern latitudes : many trees put forth flowers
and fruit throughout the year ; and in those which are limited to
particular seasons the transitions are less perceptible and flow
more into each other than in temperate climates. That this
was the case also in the Miocene district is shown by two slabs
w r ith well-preserved willow-flowers and plane-leaves lying side
by side, as also by a slab with a female catkin of a willow (Salix
Lavateri) and the leaves of the liquidambar. If we may further
infer from such facts that these trees bloomed and put forth
their leaves at the same period as their existing near allies in
Madeira, this period would be about the end of March. It is
interesting also to notice the presence of a flower of the camphor-
tree lying side by side with flowers of willow and leaves of the
plane, as in the gardens of Madeira the camphor-tree flowers
exactly at the same time about the end of March.
We arrive at the same results if we extend our investigations
to the flowers of the poplars. The Lombardy poplar begins to
flower at Funchal in Madeira at the end of March, therefore at
the same time as the plane, whilst in Switzerland and Germany
VOL. II. K
