130 MIOCENE CLIMATE.
it precedes that tree by more than a month. But we have
already mentioned that, on a slab from the Schrotzburg, male
flowers of the poplar lie besides plane-leaves, which never appear
before the flowers. We learn also, by the comparison of the
leaves lying on the same slab*, that the hornbeams were already
in leaf at the flowering-time of the willows and poplars, and
therefore at the end of March (whilst at the present day in
Switzerland they only acquire their leaves in the middle of
May) ; and from the evidence of the Miocene slabs the liquid-
ambars, the elms, and the narrow-leaved maple also bore
perfectly developed leaves at the same time with hornbeams
and with the flowers of willows and poplars. Thus trees with
deciduous foliage, in Miocene times, developed their leaves as
they now do in warmer zones, about a month or six weeks earlier
than in the modern Swiss climate. We know already that at
the time of the Upper Miocene the evergreen trees and shrubs
formed nearly half the total number ; but at the same time the
woody plants with deciduous foliage also retained their green
mantle considerably longer than do their allies in the existing
Swiss flora, and a much milder climate was indicated by the
flowering and foliation of the deciduous trees at the same
time.
The warmth of the climate is also proved from the occurrence
of certain fruits. The fleshy fruits of the laurels are soon de-
stroyed when they are exposed to the influence of the weather.
We find, however, the fruit and leaves of a cinnamon-tree close
beside catkins of the poplar ; they were therefore imbedded in
the spring; and the cinnamon consequently probably bore ripe
* These relations are discussed in more detail in Prof. Heer's work 'On the
Flora and Climate of the Tertiary district ' (pp. 59 et seqq.). In these in-
vestigations it must not be forgotten that the autumn-falling leaves of many
trees (such as the beeches) remain well preserved for a long time on the
ground, whilst others (such as those of the maple) soon decay. The former
may consequently be easily swept down by water in the spring ; and then it
is often impossible to distinguish between the spring and autumn leaves.
But if the leaves are still attached to the twigs, if they are not quite mature,
or if, being divided into lobes and teeth, they are spread out and well pre-
served, we may assume that they were imbedded soon after their fall.
