EARLY SUMMER INSECTS. 131
fruit at that time, just in the same way as the Canarian vinhatico
(Persea indica, Linn., sp.). On another slab there is a similar
fruit side by side with leaves and bud-scales of the camphor-
tree ; and such bud-scales are thrown off in the spring. Even
if the Swiss cinnamon (Cinnamomum Scheuchzeri) had borne
fruit during the winter, the climate in that season must have
been very mild.
In the preceding description Prof. Heer has had under con-
sideration plants which are very nearly allied to or homologous
with living species, so that he could compare the phases of their
development with those which are directly accessible to observa-
tion at the present time. But even with regard to the extinct
types of plants some information may be obtained, as the insects
here assist in the research. On a slab from (Eningen side by
side with the ripe delicately formed fruits of the Podogonia,
winged ants are seen. The species (Formica lignitum and pin-
guis) are most nearly allied to the large wood- ant (F. herculeana] .
The winged individuals of the latter swarm between the begin-
ning and the middle of the summer, when they quit their nests
in immense bands and pair in the air. Hence, like all the
winged ants, which often appear in incalculable numbers and
not unfrequently perish by millions in Swiss lakes, this insect
announces summer. The winged ants lying beside the fruits of
the Podogonia therefore supply evidence that those trees ripened
their fruit in the summer. If this be the case, the season of
flowering must have occurred very early in the spring ; and in
favour of this view we have a leafless poplar-twig which lies
beside an equally bare flowering twig of Podogonium. From this
we learn further that in the Podogonia the flowers appeared be-
fore the leaves, in accordance with the well-known rule in very
early-flowering trees and shrubs. At the end of March, however,
they were in leaf; for we find a leaf with some willow-flowers on
the same slab.
These are all inferences founded upon ascertained facts ; and
they form the starting-point from which we may endeavour to
form the following general view of the course of the seasons in
the (Eningian period of the Miocene formation.
The ^Podogonia (fig. 196, vol. i. p. 367) were probably the first
K2
