132 MIOCENE CLIMATE.
trees in flower in the primaeval forest ; in March the willows and
poplars followed, and soon afterwards the planes and camphor-
trees, and undoubtedly also the maples, liquidambars, and walnut-
trees, in which the leaves and flowers were simultaneously deve-
loped. In the same month the leafy trees which shed their
leaves in the late autumn acquired a new green foliage. At
this season storms and heavy rains were doubtless frequent;
leaves, flowers, and twigs were torn away from the trees and
shrubs, swept down into the lakes, and covered by the sinking
mud ; and hence we find many deposits of fossil plants belonging
to the spring season. About the middle of May the poplars and
willows ripened their fruits, which were carried off by the wind
and scattered among the leaves, where they are now frequently
found, especially at CEningen. At this time also the elms cast
off their "winged fruits, which would be carried far away by the
wind, and may thus have been transported into the insect-bed
of the lower quarry at CEningen. About midsummer the long-
stalked fruits of the beautiful Podogonia arrived at maturity, and
also those of the birches and P or ants, which are enclosed in the
same stone with them. Great swarms of winged ants appeared
and performed their lively dances on the fine summer evenings
on the shore of the lake, in company with numerous midges and
large Termites, and while thus engaged were frequently driven
over the water and drowned. Cicada raised their monotonous
sorig on the ash trees ; in the grass below numerous grasshoppers
produced their peculiar chirp ; and near them were many little
froghoppers ; whilst from the neighbouring marshes was heard
the music of large frogs and toads. Beetles were engaged
upon the shore in working up into new forms the excrements of
the mammals which came from the neighbouring forests to
drink in the lake. Many of these dung-beetles rose into the
air and perished in the mud ; they were added to the rich col-
lection of insects which has been preserved for us at CEningen.
A small Hister (H. coprolithorum, Heer) was even inserted with
the fruit of a Podogonium and a winged ant in the same leaf
of this wonderful book of nature ; and the slab tells us that
this insect once lived in the summer season by the Lake of
CEningen.
