WARM ZONE. 133
We now come to the autumn, when the planes and liquid-
ambars were hung with their spherical fruit- catkins, some of
which probably, as in their existing relatives, remained on the
trees until the following spring, and were buried in a soft marl
at the same time with the flowers and other vernal organs.
Most of the trees with deciduous leaves bore their foliage longer
than those now growing in Switzerland ; so that the forests, so
far as they consisted of such trees, probably did not lose their
leaves until quite the end of the year.
Whilst these trees had definite periods of repose in the course
of their life, others retained their leafy covering throughout the
winter ; many of them probably put forth flowers and fruit all
the year round; so that in this primaeval forest life was constantly
renewed in wonderful abundance, reminding us of those fortu-
nate zones where nature never goes to rest.
If we bring together those species of the Miocene flora which
can be compared with living species, we find those of the tempe-
rate zone* represented by 131 species, those of the warm zone
by 266 species, and those of the torrid zone by 85. The majority,
therefore, indicate the warm zone, comprising regions which
have an average annual temperature of between 59 and 77
Fahr. (15 and 25 Centigrade), and are situated between 45 and
24 N. lat. This is a broad zone; but a careful comparison of
the most important forms of plants does not allow us to reduce
it within more restricted limits.
* To the tropics (or torrid zone) Prof. Heer refers the countries lying be-
tween the tropics; to the warm zones the southern part of the United States
of America, the mountain-country of Mexico, the Mediterranean countries,
Asia Minor, Southern Caucasus, Persia, Northern India, Japan, Chili, the
Cape of Good Hope, and extra-tropical Australia ; and to the temperate zone
those countries in the northern hemisphere which lie between 45 and 58 N.
lat. In America Prof. Heer reckons Virginia and Kentucky among the
northern States. According to Asa Gray, the boundary-line thus drawn
separates naturally the warm southern States from the colder northern ones.
"With regard to the numbers given in 1he text, it is to be observed 1hat
they are not obtained by the addition of the numbers given in vol. i. p. 370.
Such an addition would not have led to a correct result, as the same species
appears under several categories whenever its living analogue occurs in diffe->
rent parts of the world or in different zones.
