134
MIOCENE CLIMATE.
If we next consider the tropical forms, we remark first some
ferns (see vol.i. p. 322), the feather-palms, the Parana (fig. 176,
vol. i. p. 354), fig-trees, Brazil-wood trees (Casalpinice) , Cassias,
and true Acacias. These trees could not have supported the
winters of the temperate zone ; but it is very likely that a climate
such as that of Madeira may have sufficed for them; for at
present the caoutchouc-tree (Ficus elastica), the Eugenics, the
Casalpinice , Cassias, and true Acacia (such as A. lophanta and
dealbata) flourish admirably in the gardens of Funchal, where
the pisang, the Indian mango, the guava, and pine-apples also
ripen their splendid fruit. Of the palms those with fan-shaped
leaves extend into the warm zone ; and the dwarf palm (Chama-
rops humilis) grows on the southern coasts of Spain, Sicily, and
Naples, and has its northern limit near Nice (in latitude
43 41' N., with a mean temperature of 60'2 Fahr. or ] 5-6 C.) .
The Chinese dwarf palm (Chamcerops excelsa, Thunb.) is still
hardier, and supports the winter of the south of England. In
America these dwarf palms are represented by the swamp-palm
(Sabal Adansoni, Guerns.), which occurs very plentifully in the
swamps of Florida, Georgia, and Carolina, and extends to
35 N. lat. This palm bears the winter at Montpellier. The
umbrella-palm of the West Indies (Sabal umbraculifera, Jacq.,
sp.) is of larger size ; but its distribution is restricted within nar-
rower limits. The feather-palms of the Miocene differ greatly
from all existing forms. Two of them constitute peculiar ex-
tinct types ; two others may be arranged in existing tropical
genera. But we are acquainted with no existing species homo-
logous with or nearly related to them, and they may have been
organized for a cooler climate than their living but remote con-
geners. Among the existing feather-palms, the American wax-
palm seems to require the least warmth, since it ascends upon
the Cordilleras to considerable elevations, where the summers
are cool and the winters are not cold, the extremes of tempera-
ture being much softened down between the tropics. In the
Old World the date-palm, of all feather-palms, extends furthest
towards the north ; but even in the hottest districts of Europe
(with the sole exception of Elche in Spain) it rarely ripens its
fruit. It requires an annual mean temperature of at least 68 F.
(20 C.) to bring its fruit to perfect maturity.
