136 MIOCENE CLIMATE.
similar climate for the Swiss Tertiary district. A still stronger
proof is furnished by the numerous forms of plants of the warm
zone which constituted the principal portion of the flora of that
epoch. The distribution of their homologous living species is of
so much importance for the settlement of this question that we
shall notice particularly a few of the trees to which we have
already referred (see vol. i. pp. 325-331).
These plants may be divided into two classes namely, those
which can support the winters of the temperate zone,, and those
which cannot bear that climate and consequently cannot be
planted in Switzerland in the open air. Of the first class the
following species are nearly allied to widely distributed Miocene
trees the swamp-cypresses, the Sequoiee and Glyptostrobi, the
liquidambars, the Italian date-plum (Diospyros), and the tulip-
tree. All these trees are natives of the warm zones ; but yet
they thrive in the plantations of Central Europe, although most
of them do not ripen their fruit here, showing that in this region
the extreme limit is attained of their artificial area of distribu-
bution. They do not flourish in a temperature lower than
46-4 Fahr. (or 8 Cent.). Thus we find that the tulip-tree
regularly blooms near Zurich, but rarely forms germinable
seeds ; in North Germany it seldom blooms, and in the north of
Prussia (as near Stettin) it is killed by cold winters ; on the
coast of the Baltic (as near Dantzig) it can no longer bear the
climate, any more than that of Kiev in Russia, where the mean
January temperature is 6'2 Cent, (or 20'8 Fahr.). In Dub-
lin it thrives well and flowers, but without forming seeds ; in
the south of England it sometimes produces ripe seeds; but
north of Edinburgh it no longer blooms, and does not grow to
any size. Hence the temperature of 9 Cent, (or 48 0> 2 Fahr.)
may be regarded as the northern boundary-line of this tree.
It finds its most luxuriant development in the swamps of the
southern United States ; and the gigantic trees which we meet
with in the gardens of Madeira prove that it is well suited to a
subtropical climate.
In the second class, viz. plants which cannot support the win-
ter of the temperate zone, the camphor-trees, the Japanese
cinnamon- tree, the Sapindi, the Proteacese, Celastrea, and jujube-
