CAMPHOR-TREES. 137
trees are all included, and laurels with respect to Switzerland.
The most important are the camphor- and cinnamon-trees, as
the homologous Miocene species are common everywhere, and
furnish us with the best standard for ascertaining the climate.
Both species are inhabitants of Southern Japan ; the camphor-
tree also lives in China. In the gardens of Madeira the cam-
phor-tree grows to a considerable size ; it also thrives in Sicily
(at Palermo) and at Pisa and Florence, where, however, it never
ripens its fruit. At Padua it requires to be protected in winter
by a glass roof. In the Botanic Garden at Montpellier it was
frozen down to the ground in the winter of 1853-54, but threw
up fresh shoots from the bottom. On the Isola Bella of the
Lago Maggiore, which is celebrated for its mild climate, a fine
camphor- tree stands in the open air ; but it is protected from
the north wind by a high wall, and can be partly covered in
winter. In the winter of 1856 the branches were killed by a
frost of 14 Fahr. ; so that they had to be pruned back to the
main stem, which, however, pushed forth again ; and in the
autumn of 1864 Prof. Heer saw the tree in full foliage. It is of
the size of a large plum-tree. In the same neighbourhood, at
Pallanza, there is also a camphor-tree in a sheltered situation in
a garden ; but it has to be wrapped up in straw in the winter ;
and even with this precaution the young shoots are frozen, and
require to be cut back nearly every year. Like the tree of the
Isola Bella, it flowers annually, but without ripening any fruit.
The camphor-tree therefore requires for its development a
warmer climate than that of Provence and North Italy. To
thrive it needs a mean annual temperature of 18-19 Cent.
(or 64 G> 4-66'2 Fahr.) ; and its northern limit cannot pass be-
yond the isotherm of 15 Cent, (or 59 Fahr.). This applies
also to the Canarian laurel and the vinhatico ; and even the
European laurel will not stand the winter of Switzerland.
A careful comparison of the characters of the vegetation of the
different stages of the Miocene shows that during that period
some diminution of temperature took place. We have already
seen (vol. i. pp. 316, 317) that the evergreen trees form about
three fourths of the whole in the Aquitanian stage, and only
about half in the (Eningian stage, and that in the latter the
