MEAN ANNUAL TEMPERATURES. 141
zerland (supposing it brought down to the sea-level, and the
Alps reduced to a low hill- country) a mean annual tempera-
ture of 12'13 Cent, (or 53'83 Fahr.) at the sea-level,, and of
ll-63 Cent, (or 52'93 Fahr.) at an elevation of 230-250 feet
above the sea. Consequently, assuming that the mean annual
temperature of the Swiss Lower Miocene was 20'5 Cent, (or
68-9 Fahr.), that of the Swiss Upper Miocene 18'5 Cent.
(or 65' 3 Fahr.), and the elevation above the sea 250 feet, the
temperature of the Lower Miocene will have been 8'87 Cent,
(or 15'96 Fahr.) higher, and the temperature of the Upper
Miocene 6'87 Cent, (or 12*36 Fahr.) higher than at present.
Thus in the Lower Miocene times the climate of Europe was
probably 9 Cent, (or 16'2 Fahr.) hotter than at present ; and
in the Upper Miocene period the climate had an elevation of
temperature of 7 Cent, (or 12'6 Fahr.) above the European
climate of the present day.
Water exerts great influence upon the life arid development
of plants. The great abundance of woody plants and evergreen
trees, the numerous marsh-plants, and the lignite-deposits, indi-
cating extensive peat-mosses, leave no doubt that the climate was
humid, and the rainy days probably spread over the greater part
of the year. In this respect it will have differed considerably
from that now prevailing in the Canary Islands and Madeira,
and probably approached nearer to that of Louisiana and the
southern United States generally, in which extensive swamps
also occur suck as must have existed in the Miocene district.
Among the animals of the Swiss Miocene the types of the
warm zones predominate ; but with them are mixed others which
belong to temperate and tropical climates. Not only do the
large and striking animals, such as the crocodiles, the great
tortoises and gigantic frogs, the tapirs and rhinoceroses, opos-
sums and apes, give to the Swiss Miocene fauna the character
of the warm subtropical zones, but similar proofs of a warm
climate are furnished by the wonderful multiplicity of forms in
the little population of insects which enlivened the primaeval
forest and the quiet lakes and streams of Miocene land.
Marine animals were also influenced by conditions of tempe-
rature ; and species of the same animals still living depend upon
similar conditions of life to those which characterized them in
