2 MIOCENE FAUNA.
dichiantij Fer.) the shells of which lie by millions buried in the
sands of Caniyal in Madeira and in Porto Santo. On the spit
of Caniyal, Prof. Heer saw a piece of ground completely covered
with the shells of this species (associated with those of several
others), so that numbers of them were crushed at every step.
Here and there, however, they are imbedded in the sand, and
thus protected. They have evidently been brought together
during a long period of time into a small lake-basin, and enve-
loped in sand and mud; but they have perfectly preserved their
form, as they were exposed to no pressure. In the same way
probably have been produced the accumulations of snail-shells
which we not unfrequently meet with in the Swiss Miocene
marls, as at the Paudeze, at Delsberg, near Schwamendingen, at
Frauenfeld, &c. ; but in these places the shells are generally so
crushed by the pressure of the overlying masses of rock that
they can rarely be determined.
Helix inflexa. Mart., which occurs near Delsberg, like H.
Ramondi, is nearly allied to a species inhabiting the Atlantic
islands (H. portosantana, Sow.) ; while Helix sylvestrina, Ziet.
(fig. 202), the commonest species of the Swiss Molasse, and the
allied species H. moguntina, Desh., which is also of frequent oc-
currence, represent European forms (H. sylvatica and splendida,
Drap.). The former is so well preserved at Vermes (in the
Delsberg) that we can still recognize dark bands (three to five
in number) which ornamented the shells. In Helix rugulosa,
Mart., which is very plentiful in the valley of Delsberg, four
coloured bands may still be seen on the shell. This species
finds its nearest allies (H. elevata, Say, and H. pennsylvanica,
Green) in the West Indies and North America. Helix ehingen-
sis, Kl. (from Delsberg), and H. osculum, Th., most nearly ap-
proach a species from Texas (H. Berlanderiana, Mor.), whilst the
great Helix insignis, Schubl., which has also been found abun-
dantly in the valley of Delsberg, must be characterized as a
West- African form (allied to H. rosacea, Mull.) .
The Helices are frequent in the Swiss Miocene, appearing
almost in all places where plants occur. Eleven species are
found in the marine Molasse ; these have been carried by run-
ning water into the sea, and have thus mingled with its inhabi-
tants. The Pupa and Clausilice arc much less common ; but
