142 MIOCENE CLIMATE.
the past. We have already shown (vol. ii. p. 92) that most of
the species of Mollusca of the Helvetian sea belong to the fauna
of the Mediterranean, and that many tropical but no exclusively
northern types occur among them ; and thus the Middle Miocene
fauna acquires a more southern aspect than that of the Medi-
terranean. Thus of the 147 Mollusca of the Helvetian stage
which are still found living, 20 (or about 14 per cent.) are at
present exclusively inhabitants of the tropics ; 38 species (or
26 per cent.) occur on the coasts of England, but almost all of
them are species which also live in the Lusitanian and Medi-
terranean zones, and therefore are not to be regarded as northern
forms; 120 species (or about 82 per cent.) still inhabit the
Mediterranean. Of the extinct species the majority represent
Mediterranean types, but many are connected with tropical
forms. It is consequently not in the latitude of Switzerland,
but in that of the Mediterranean that we meet with most of the
species of Mollusca agreeing with the species of the Swiss
Miocene ; and indeed, owing to the intermixture of tropical
forms, the majority rather belong to the southern than to the
northern coast of the Mediterranean. The same temperature
which now prevails in the North-African or Madeiran sea must
therefore have characterized the fourth stage of the Swiss Mio-
cene, immediately preceding the CEningian stage.
We see, therefore, that the inhabitants of the land and of the
sea concur in giving the Swiss Miocene country a subtropical
character. This is not deduced from a few plants or animals,
but from an abundant fauna and flora, which lays before us an
entire series of the most multifarious phenomena, such as can
only be explained by the occurrence of such a climate.
The same natural character is manifest in the Miocene flora
and fauna, not only of Switzerland, but of the whole of Central
Europe * ; the north of Europe, however, had a colder climate.
There was consequently even then a diminution of temperature
towards the north, but certainly in a much less degree than at
the present day. We see this even in the flora of the most
northern parts of Germany. In Samland (the old amber-
* Prof. Heer has demonstrated this in his l Kecherches sur le Climat et la
V<%e"tation du pays Tertiaire.' 0. Gaudin's translation, pp. 66 et seqq.
