NORTHERN TEMPERATURE. 143
country), as well as on the margins of the great bay of Dantzig,
numerous fossil plants have been collected in the lignites and in
the shales formed of mud and clay *. The palms are entirely
wanting ; so far as we know, they did not pass the latitude of
51'05 N. in Germany. But in the Bay of Dantzig we still
find some fig-trees and laurels, two cinnamons (Cinnamomum
Scheuchzeri and C. lanceolatum), besides evergreen oaks and
species of Andromeda and Myrica. The swamp- cypresses (Tax-
odium distichum) were very abundant, as were also the Sequoia.
In Samland a poplar (Populus Zaddachi) and a Rhamnus (R.
Gaudini) are associated with the fruits and seeds of a Gardenia.
At the present day Dantzig has a mean temperature of 7*6Cent.
(or 45 0> 7 Fahr.). If we assume that in these northern regions,
as in Switzerland, the temperature of the Lower Miocene was
9 Cent, (or 16 0< 2 Fahr.) higher than at the present day, we
shall have for these localities a climate of 17 Cent, (or 62'6
Fahr.), which would be quite suitable to the above-mentioned
Miocene flora. Professor Goppert has discovered at Schossnitz,
near Breslau, a rich flora of the CEningian epoch. In it
tropical and subtropical forms are naturally wanting ; for if we
calculate the temperature of the fifth or highest stage of the
Miocene according to the existing 'temperatures, we obtain a
climate of 15 Cent, (or 59 Fahr.), which explains the presence
in Silesia of the swamp-cypress, of the liquidambars, and of
some evergreen oaks; but, on the other hand, excludes the
palms, cinnamon-trees, and acacias from that part of Germany,
although they adorned the Miocene forests of Switzerland and
Northern Italy.
The hypothesis of a lowering of temperature in the north is
confirmed by the Miocene flora recently discovered in the arctic
zone f. Thus, in the fossil flora of Spitzbergen, between 78 and
79 N. lat., the Swedish naturalists Nordenskjold and Malmgren
have discovered more than 100 species of plants. In this num-
* Prof. Heer has described them in his 'Miocene Flora of the Baltic.'
Konigsberg, 1869.
t Prof. Heer has described these plants in his ' Flora Fossilis Arctica,'
vol. i. 1808, vol. ii. 1871, with 108 plates.
