144 MIOCENE CLIMATE.
ber the conifers predominate. Two species of cypress are among
the commonest plants of Spitsbergen, which is the more remark-
able as one of these species, the swamp-cypress (Taxodium
distichum] still exists in the south of the United States, and
the other (Libocedrus Sabiniand), although extinct, is very
analogous to a species which is also living in America. The
Abietinese furnish two species still living namely, the red fir
(Pinus Abies, Linn.) and the mountain-pine (Pinus montana,
Mill.) : these have not yet been found elsewhere in Miocene de-
posits ; and their remains show us that Spitzbergen is probably
the original country of the swamp-cypress, as well as of the red
fir and the mountain-pine. Other species of pines and firs
are extinct, but have many relations with American forms. A
similar remark applies to two Sequoia, one of which (S. Nor-
denskjoldi, Heer) is peculiar to Spitzbergen and very common
there. Of the leafy trees the poplars are the most abundant.
Two species (Populus arctica and P. Richardsoni, Heer) were
spread over all the country between Bell Sound and King's Bay.
There are hardly any willows in the Spitzbergen Miocene.
Alders and birches are rare ; a hazel is rather more common.
Two oaks with large leaves (Quercus grcenlandica and Q. pla-
tania), a plane tree, a lime (Tilia Malm.greni) , and a walnut
(Juglans albula, Heer) are of great interest. A water-lily
(Nymphaa arctica) and a pondweed (Potamogeton Nordenskjoldi)
indicate a freshwater formation, the neighbourhood of which
was probably occupied by turbaries, on which grew Cyperi,
Carices, Spargania, and irids (Iris latifolia).
Among these Miocene plants of Spitzbergen we do not find
any tree or shrub with evergreen foliage. The local Miocene
flora differs totally from the existing flora of Spitzbergen, and
has the character of that of the temperate zones, such as we
now observe in Northern Germany : it therefore indicates a
mean temperature of 8 Cent, (or 46*4 Fahr.).
The Miocene flora of the western coast of North Greenland
(in 70 N. lat.), which is better known to Prof. Heer, has a
rather more southern character. Among 137 species discovered
there, Prof. Heer finds a Magnolia with persistent leaves (M.
Ingelfieldi), a chestnut (Castanea Ungeri, Heer), a Salisburidj a
