NORTH GREENLAND. 145
Liquidambar, a Diospyros, and a Sassafras. Sequoia Langs-
dor fii is very common, as are also the species of poplar which
were met with in Spitzbergen. The oaks furnish seven species,
the planes two, and the vines two, one of which (Vitis Oriki) is
remarkable for the size of its handsome leaves. This flora
therefore indicates a climate analogous to that now character-
istic of the neighbourhood of the Lake of Geneva. Nor was it
only in Spitzbergen and North Greenland that a warmer climate
formerly prevailed ; the fossil floras of Iceland, of the shores of
the Mackenzie River in North America (65 N. lat.), and of
Alaska exhibit remains of trees and shrubs of which the homo-
logous species no longer occur in those latitudes, and which in-
form us that the arctic zone possessed a much higher tempera-
ture in the Miocene times than it does at present.
For Switzerland the climate of the Miocene fauna and flora
was sufficiently explained by adding 9 Cent, (or 16'2 Fahr.) to
the present temperature ; but this is not the case with the arctic
zone. Spitzbergen, in 78 N. lat., has a mean temperature of
-8-6 Cent, (or 16'7 Fahr.); and Greenland, in 70 N. lat.,
has -7 Cent, (or 19'l Fahr.) : if we add 9 Cent, (or 16'2
Fahr.) we get for the latter country 2 Cent, (or 35'6 Fahr.),
and for Spitzbergen 0*4 Cent, (or 32'72 Fahr.), which would
not be correct as the temperature of the known Miocene flora.
We must estimate for these arctic countries, between the Ter-
tiary epoch and the present day, a difference of temperature of
16-17 Cent, (or 28'8-30-6 Fahr.). The difference of tempe-
rature between the Miocene and the existing floras is therefore
much more considerable in the arctic than in the temperate zone;
and the change has been the greatest in the extreme north.
If we turn from Switzerland towards the south we notice, in
the Lower Miocene flora of Upper Italy, splendid palms which
have been found near Cadibona, at the Monte Vegrone, and at
Chiavon. In Greece, near Pikermi in Attica, a great mass of
bones is accumulated, which show that in Upper Miocene times
giraffes, large gazelles, monkeys, and great mastodons inhabited
the south-east of Europe. The Miocene marine fauna also had
a somewhat different character in the south and in the north of
Europe. In Piedmont (at Sassello) extensive coral-reefs are
found composed of splendid madrepores, and reminding us of
VOL. II. L
