146 MIOCENE CLIMATE.
those in tropical seas ; and the eastern sea which washed Styria
in Lower Miocene times likewise presents extensive reef-forma-
tions, which may be traced up to 47 and 48 N. lat. The
Swiss sea was destitute of these coral-formations, as was also the
ocean which in the Lower Miocene period spread over Germany.
With regard to the marine fauna that lived in the Helvetian pe-
riod on the shores of Madeira and Porto Santo, Prof. Heer has
had interesting information from M. Carl Mayer *. Although
this fauna approaches the organic remains of the Middle Miocene
of Europe, it contains more tropical forms ; and in Porto Santo
large stony corals occur. At present the islands of the Madeiran
and Canarian groups are quite destitute of coral reefs, and the
marine fauna has a less southern character than that of which
the remains are imbedded in the Miocene tuff's. Out of the
169 species of Mollusca that Mayer has determined, 65 are still
living, or 38 per cent. The majority of these species live in the
Lusitanian and Mediterranean zones; but 19 of the species are
now found only between the tropics. The tropical forms there-
fore in this case constitute 29 per cent, [of the living species],
whilst among the Mollusca of the Helvetian stage in Switzerland
the proportion is only 14 per cent., which shows that at that
time the waters of those regions had a higher temperature than
either those of the Swiss Miocene sea or those of the present
seas in the same latitudes.
There is a formation in Java which, according to recent in-
vestigations, is to be regarded as Upper Miocene, but which may
perhaps be younger ; and the fossil plants in these strata approach
nearly to those of the existing flora of Java; also the majority
of the fossil marine animals found therein still possess their
descendants in the Indian seas, or have their nearest relatives
in those waters. Hence these plants and animals lived under
similar climatic conditions, in the Miocene period, to those now
prevalent; and if this formation really belongs to the Upper
Miocene, it would follow that the -temperature in the tropics
was then the same as in our times.
* See M. 0. Mayer's " Systematisches Verzeichniss der fossilen Reste von
Madeira, Porto Santo, und Santa Maria," in Dr. G. Hartung'8 ' Geologische
Beschreibung der Insel Madeira und Porto Santo/ Leipzig, 1864.
