UTZNACH DEPOSIT. 153
Whilst the stratified masses of gravel and sand vary much in
thickness, and thereby cause considerable differences in the
depth of the shafts, the lignite- deposit itself lies almost hori-
zontal, showing that the ancient peat-deposit has preserved its
original position ; while the overlying masses of sand and gravel,
which might have been originally deposited in various thick-
nesses, have subsequently also been here and there removed by
denudation. Hence the surface of the soil is by no means
parallel to the deposit of lignite, but presents small depressions
and undulating elevations.
The precise extent of the lignite formation of Utznach cannot
at present be ascertained. The longest galleries following the
deposit extend into the neighbourhood of Gauen. They have
been worked underground for about forty years, and have cer-
tainly furnished a great quantity of coal. But as there is no
measurement, and the mining is carried on in a very primitive
fashion, the annual product of these pits cannot be accurately
stated. Some years ago it was estimated at 500,000 hundred-
weight ; but only half that quantity is now raised.
Formerly the lignite-deposit of Utznach was in connexion
with that of Durnten, which is shown by a small deposit of
lignite at Eschenbach (between Utznach and Durnten) . It lies
almost exactly at the same height (515 metres, or 563*2 yards)
above the sea-level. Near Wangen, on the Buchberg, opposite
Utznach, and near Kaltbrunnen, traces of lignite are also found
nearly at the same elevation. These render it probable that
formerly the valley was occupied by a lake from 90 to 100 metres
(or about 98 to 109 yards) in depth from the bottom of the val-
ley, the shores of which to a great extent were swampy. As the
Lower Buchberg rises from the bottom of the valley from Wan-
gen to Grinau, another lake would have been produced if the
two narrow gaps between Grinau and Utznach and between
Wangen and Schiibelbach had been filled up, which was probably
the case at the period of the lignite formation. The lignite-
deposits show the old swampy shores of this lake, which over-
flowed its banks at certain periods, and thus deposited mud,
covering the peat, and forming what is now a band of loam, over
which a fresh formation of lignite took place a series of pheno-
mena which may still be observed in many turbaries. Another
