TREES IN THE LIGNITES. 155
The upright trunks of trees always indicate the dying-out of
the lignite-deposit ; in other parts the trunks lie horizontally.
With regard to the plants which produced these lignites some
information is derived from the remains found partly in the
lignite itself and partly in the intercalated clay-beds. They are,
for the most part, badly preserved, and it is difficult to de-
termine them; but twenty-four species may be recognized.
Among these we find eight trees and one shrub. The trees are
as follows :
1. The common fir (Pinus Abies, Linn.). Prof. Heer has
obtained fine fir-cones from Diirnten, Wetzikon, Utznach, and
Morschweil. Most of them are smaller than the full-grown
cones of the living tree ; but there are among them specimens
which attain a length of 120 millimetres (or 4' 7 inches), and
are therefore not inferior in size to the cones of Swiss firs. The
smaller cones are probably not mature, and they have conse-
quently only small seeds. The scales of the ripe cones agree
in form and size with those of the living tree, as do also the
two seeds which lie under each scale, as shown in. fig. 333, a.
The scale is traversed by fine longitudinal striae, and narrowed
above into a short lobe, which is sometimes emarginate (fig.
333, b), sometimes obtusely rounded off (fig. 333, a). The
scales are generally somewhat more rounded at the apex than
in the Swiss firs ; and in this they agree with the firs of Northern
Russia. When fresh and moist the scales usually press against
each other ; but in drying they spring asunder, and thus acquire
a ragged appearance, which is increased by the partial break-
ing of the scales as they become rigid. Besides the cones, Prof.
Heer finds at Diirnten trunks, the wood of which agrees in its
microscopic characters with that of the common fir; he can
therefore hardly doubt that the fir of the lignites belongs to
the same species as the common Swiss fir.
2. Pines, including the common pine (Pinus sylvestris) and
the mountain-pine (Pinus montana, Mill.). At Diirnten and
Utznach the trunks of pines constitute a considerable portion of
the lignites. They must have sunk into the peat-bog ; for they
lie crossing each other in various directions. In the fresh and
moist state the wood is soft, and may be easily cut with a knife ;
