PINES. 157
Fig. 337. Entire cone, from Morschweil.
Fig. 838. A pair of leaves, from Utznach.
Fig. 339. Pinus syhestris t Linn., cone from Morschweil.
Fig. 340. Ditto. Scale, from within, with the seeds, from Morschweil.
Fig. 341. Ditto. Scale, from the outside.
Fig. 342. Taxus baccata, Linn., nut, twice nat. size, from Diirnten.
Fig. 343. Coryhis avellana, Linn., ovata, from Diirnten.
Fig. 344. Coj*ylus avellana, from Morschweil.
Fig. 345. Menyanthes trifoliata, Linn., from Diirnten, three times nat.
size. #, seed, lateral view; b, seed, section.
Fig. 346. Scirpus lacustris, Linn., fruit, from Diirnten, three times nat.
size.
Fig. 347. Vaccinium Vitis idcea, Linn.?, four times nat. size.
Fig. 348. Holopleura Victoria, Gasp., from Diirnten, six times nat. size.
a, side view; b, longitudinal section; c, aperture left by the throw-
ing-off of the operculum ; d, upper surface with the operculum.
Fig. 349. Quercus Robur, Linn., cupule from Morschweil.
in the air it dries and becomes brittle, and as hard as bone *.
The trunks are often still clothed with the rough bark, and
variously branched ; but the branches cannot be followed out to
the finer twigs. The wood has been examined microscopically
by Prof. Heer's friend, Prof, linger of Vienna, and found to be
identical with that of the pine. Fig. 331 represents a longitu-
dinal section cut parallel to the bark, which shows the medullary
rays cut across. The medullary rays are sometimes simple,
consisting only of one row of cells, but are sometimes composed
of several rows, such as the pines possess. Transverse sections
show that the annual rings of growth were of considerable
thickness. In these transverse sections (fig. 330) we see that
the cells are closely pressed together. It is impossible to decide
whether this wood belongs to the common or the mountain-
pine; but fortunately the lignites have also preserved twigs
bearing the leaves and numerous cones, which demonstrate that
both species t at that time inhabited Switzerland.
* It frequently has a dark brown colour, and then is regarded as walnut-
wood by the workmen at the pits.
t The common pine (^Pinus sylvestris, Linn.) forms lofty trees, becoming
umbrella-like when old, with a reddish-yellow bark ; the flat upper surface
of the needles or leaves is powdered with blue, and their apex is pointed.
The female catkins are stalked and bent down ; the ripe cones are pendent,
