158 QUATERNARY PERIOD.
In the lignites two kinds of pine-cones are found : one in
which the scales have flat shields (fig. 339) , and the seed- wings are
about 2J times as long as the nucule, and are narrowed towards
the apex (fig. 340) ; and another in which the shields of the scales
project (fig. 337), being either convex or hooked, and the seed-
wings are not more than twice as long as the nucules. The former
belong to Pinus sylvestris, Linn., the latter to P. montana, Mill.
As the scales of the cone in the mountain-pine never have flat
shields, the former belong to the common pine. In general the
cones are smaller and less acutely conical at the apex [than
the cones of the common Swiss pines] ; but this is chiefly due
to the young condition of the cones, which is also shown by
their seeds being not fully mature. Thus the seeds represented
of an ovo-conical form, and about 50 millimetres (or nearly 2 inches) long.
The wings of the seeds are usually about three times as long as the
nucules.
The mountain-pine (Pinus montana, Mill.) is sometimes an upright tree of
variable height, with a pyramidal conical crown, but sometimes forms de-
cumbent crooked wood with curved ascending branches. The bark is dark
grey ; the needles are green on both sides, and less pointed at the apex ; the
female catkins are at first erect, but afterwards incline a little, although they
never become recurved : the cones are sessile ; the scales have a prominent
shield, frequently hooked ; and the boss is surrounded by a black ring. The
seed- wings are about twice as long as the nucule. According to its mode
of growth and the structure of its cones, this species may be divided into
several races, namely : a, the hooked pine (P. montana uncinata), with a
rather lofty erect trunk, unsymmetrical cones, and usually very strongly de-
veloped hooks ; 6, the bog-pine (P. montana uliginosa), forming small gnarled
trees, the shining brown cones of which are furnished with very prominent
hooks directed downwards; c, the decumbent pine (P. montana humilts),
bushy, with decumbent branches, oval or ovo-conical unsymmetrical cones,
with convex shields, on which, however, the hooks are but slightly deve-
loped ; and, d, the dwarf pine (P. montana pumilio), of the same aspect as
the last, but with nearly spherical or shortly oval, sessile cones, the convex
shields of which are of the same size and structure all round the cone.
The mountain-pine is spread over all the Swiss mountain-country ; and the
forms c and d ascend in some places to 7000 feet above the sea ; in the low
ground it is rare, and appears only as the hooked pine ; thus it is found on
the Uetliberg, where it descends to Maneck. The common pine, as is well
known, is spread through the whole plain, and occurs on the mountains only
in small groups or associated with firs.
