PINES IN THE LIGNITES. 159
in fig. 340 were evidently not quite ripe, and they were enclosed
in an ovo-conical cone 38 millimetres (or about 1J inch) in
length. Most of the cones of the mountain-pine which have
come under Prof. Heer^s inspection are also not quite ripe, the
seeds not being fully developed. But the scales represented in
figs. 334, 335, and 336 were from a perfectly ripe cone. Fig.
335 shows a scale from the outside, with its convex shield and
the boss in the middle of the latter. Fig. 334 shows a scale
from the inside, with its two seeds, the wings of which are not
quite twice as long as the nucule and are bluntly rounded at
the apex. This cone is 40 millimetres (or T57 inch) in length,
oval, somewhat unsymmetrical, the shields on one side being
slightly developed, whilst on the other they project nearly in
the form of hooks. In certain smaller cones the hooks project
still more, are bent downwards, and have an excentric boss.
In their short oval form and convex shields these cones most
nearly resemble those of the decumbent pine (P. montana hu-
milis) of the Swiss mountains, and differ from the hooked pine
(P. montana uncinata) and the bog-pine (P. montana uliginosa)
by the smaller development of their hooks. But as the length
of these hooks is very variable, and it is impossible to ascertain
whether this pine was a tree or a bush, it cannot be referred
with certainty to any of the numerous subordinate forms of the
mountain-pine. It belongs, however, to the Pinus montana,
and under this head agrees most closely with the Pinus montana
humilis. All the carbonized twigs densely covered with leaf-
needles that Prof. Heer has hitherto seen from Utznach belong
to the mountain-pine, as is proved by their stouter needles, less
pointed at the end (fig. 338). The pine-trunks, as thick as the
body of a man, which have been found in the lignites of Utznach
Diirnten, and Wetzikon, on the contrary, belong in all proba-
bility to the common pine.
Hence it is manifest that at this early period the two species
of Swiss pines were already in existence. Even if they do not
perfectly agree with the living types, so that they cannot with
absolute certainty be referred to any of the numerous forms into
which these trees have been developed, yet the two species,
which are so nearlv related to one another, move within the
