4 MIOCENE FAUNA.
atilis, Linn., and Paludina tentaculata, Linn.) still exist in the
Swiss fresh waters ; but the other species are extinct.
Among the bivalves the largest and most abundant species is
the Unio undatus, Humb., which ranges from the Aquitanian
stage up to the CEningian stage, and is most nearly allied to an
American species ( Unio rugosus. Lea) . Of the numerous loca-
lities in which this shell occurs we mention the following parti-
cularly, because they belong to various stages of the Swiss Mio-
cene : Brullee above Lutry, Riidholz near Soleure, Kiittigen
near Aarau, Dettinghofen near Eglisau, Sitterwald in the Can-
ton of St. Gall, Stein, Berlingen, Steckborn, and Wangen near
(Eningen. The freshwater mussels (Unionidce) have hitherto
been found only in the Upper Miocene. One species (Anodonta
Lavateri, Munst., sp.) occurs in great quantities in one of the
beds at (Eningen. It has also been found in the marls of the
Schrotzburg, where a smaller, broader, and more obtusely
rounded species (A. Heerii, May.) is met with. The latter has
been observed near Spreiteiibach. In the same locality of the
Schrotzburg Prof. Heer has found an elegant new Cyclas (C.
Escherij May., fig. 199), which is nearly allied to a living spe-
cies (C. lacmtris).
Of the univalve Mollusca the pond-snails and mud-snails are
most abundant. They are sometimes accumulated in enormous
masses, but are generally crushed quite flat. Of the turreted
mud-snails (Limnaus) the most frequent species \sL.pachygaster,
Thorn, (fig. 198), which occurs in the Lower Miocene, near
Rufi in the Helvetian stage, and in the QEningian stage near
Zurich, Veltheim, Steckborn, and (Eningen. It is most nearly
allied to a species living in the Ganges (Limn&us amygdalwn,
Trosch.).
Of the flat pond-snails about half a dozen species occur, of
which the large Planorbis solidus, Thorn, (fig. 203), is the most
generally distributed ; it is found in the vicinity of Zurich (near
Schwamendingen, at the Ealetschen, and in the Stockentobel),
near Kapfnach, in the Turbenthal, near Steckborn, &c. The
nearest ally of this species is the West-Indian and Mexican
Planorbis tumidus, Linn. Another species, from Delsberg and
Locle (P. declivis, A. Br.), most nearly resembles a South-
American shell (the Planorbis kermatoides, D'Orb.).
