FLORA OF LIGNITES. 161
nearly at right angles, they agree very well with those of the
existing tree.
Of bushes, only a species of hazel has hitherto been dis-
covered. Its fruits are traversed by deeper longitudinal furrows
than the Swiss hazel-nuts ; but this is caused solely by their
having lain long in a damp locality ; for the hazel-nuts of the
pile-dwellings and of the English bone-caves present the same
characters, so that this hazel cannot be separated as a distinct
species. What is very remarkable is that the hazel-nuts of the
lignites occur in precisely the same two forms as those of the
existing species *. The most abundant nut of the lignite epoch
is the short-fruited one (Corylus avellana ovata } W., fig. 343) ;
it is of a short oval form, and but little longer than broad. Its
length is 15 millimetres (or '591 inch), and its breadth is 13
millimetres (or -512 inch). Prof. Heer has obtained it from
Durnten and Morschweil. In form and size it agrees perfectly
with nuts from the pile-dwellings of Robenhausen and with
those of the present day. In the second form (Corylus avellana,
Linn., fig. 344) the nut is elongate-oval and considerably longer
(24 millimetres, or "945 inch) . The length is much greater than
the breadth. Prof. Heer has received two specimens from the
lignitiferous clays of Morschweil through Prof. Deicke ; they
are not distinguishable from those of the pile-dwellings or from
those now growing.
Of herbaceous plants the bog-bean (Menyanthes trifoliata,
Linn.) and the common reed (Phragmitis communis, Tr.) are
most abundant. Of the bog-bean, or marsh-trefoil, Prof. Heer
knows only the seeds small, shining, brownish-yellow, lenti-
cular bodies (fig. 345), which are found here and there in great
abundance in the lignite at Durnten, Utznach, and Morschweil.
* The nuts of the Swiss form are almost globular, scarcely compressed ;
those of the other are elongate-oval and slightly compressed. In the former
the young twigs, the petioles, and the base of the cupule are richly clothed
with glandular hairs (as in the Corylus glandulosa, Schoutlew., Corylus avel-
Inna ovata, W.) ; in the latter these glandular hairs do not occur or are very
scanty, and the cupule is shorter than the fruit. But the short-fruited form
is also found with a short cupule, and the hairs scarcely glandular (as at
Schambelen), so that this character is not constant. The short-fruited form
ripens its nuts earlier, and is therefore known as the (( August nut."
VOL. ii. M
