162 QUATERNARY PERIOD.
They carniot be distinguished from the seeds of the living spe-
cies, which occurs in the pile-dwellings of Robenhausen. The
common reed is most abundant at Utznach and Diirnten in the
earthy dark-coloured intercalated bands (" silver"); these are
in places closely traversed by shining black bands, formed by
the jointed rhizomes and leaves of the reed, the latter marked
with numerous longitudinal lines. Sometimes the branches
and fibrils issuing from the knots of the rhizomes have been
preserved. Frequently these masses of reeds fill whole beds, to
the exclusion of all other plants; hence they probably formed
the whole of the sedgy growths where the peat was covered by
a clayey layer.
Of the bulrush (Scirpus lacustris, Linn.), only the fruits
(fig. 346) have been preserved; but these are not uncommon
in the clay beds at Diirnten, and agree exactly with those of
the living plant, which has also reached Prof. Heer from the
pile-dwellings of Robenhausen. In the same clays at Diirnten
Prof. Heer found a few seeds of the raspberry (Rubus idaus,
Linn.), of the water-pepper (Polygonum hydropiper, Linn.?),
and of the water-chestnut (Trapa natans, Linn.?). The deter-
mination of the two species last mentioned, however, is not
quite certain. Of the Trapa Prof. Heer has found no entire
fruit, but only spiny fragments, which, however, suit this plant
very well.
Of the white bedstraw (Galium palustre, Linn.) the fruits are
tolerably plentiful at Utznach and Diirnten ; they occur as little
spheres of the size of grains of powder, slightly wrinkled exter-
nally, and are scattered through the lignite-beds. A cranberry
( Vacciniwn vitis idaa, Linn.) is known only by a single coria-
ceous leaf (fig. 347) collected at Diirnten. It is well preserved ;
but its determination is still doubtful.
All these plants of the lignite still grow in Switzerland ; those
which occur in the lignites themselves grew on peat-bogs, whilst
the species found in the intercalated clays (namely the yew, the
hazel, the raspberry, and the water-nut) were swept down by
water from the neighbourhood and deposited with the soil carried
down at the same time. The only flowering plant which cannot
be referred to any existing species is a water-lily, which, in the
structure of its seeds, the only remains of it that have come
