FLORA OF LIGNITES. 163
down to the present time, differs so greatly from our water-lilies
that Caspary, of Konigsberg, has formed for it a distinct genus
(Holopleurd)*. These seeds are oval, brown, and 2J to 3 milli-
metres (or -098 to '118 inch) in length; at one end (fig. 348, a, c)
they are furnished with a little circular operculum, which bears
a semilunar umbilicus and a small tubercle (fig. 348, d). The
seed-coat is very thick (fig. 348, b) ; and its superficial layer of
cells have sinuous walls. The seeds are of the size and form of
those of the common white water-lily, but differ from them in the
solidity of the seed-coat and the presence of the operculum ; in
these respects they rather approach the seeds of the Victoria
regia, Lindl., in which, however, the cell-walls are much less
thickened.
The Cryptogamia are chiefly represented in the lignites by the
mossesf, whicli in some places occur in great quantities, and
form dense felted masses. The bog-mosses (species of Sphag-
num) , which are now so plentiful in turbaries, have one spe-
cies (Sphagnum cymbifolium) at Diirnten. Three species of
feather-mosses have been found at Diirnten, the most abundant
of which (Hypnum lignitorum, S chimp.) stands between Hypnum
palustre and H. ochraceum, which grow in mountain-brooks upon
stones and rotten wood. A second and abundant species (H.
priscum, Schimp.) is very like the Hypnum sarmentosum, Wahlb.,
which grows in Lapland and on the loftiest summits of the
Sudettes; and the third species represents H. stramineum and
H. trifarium, which live in peat-bogs and forest-streams. From
Morschweil a species (Thuidium antiquum, Schimp.) has been
obtained, very like one (T. delicatulum] which now lives in
forests.
* Prof. Caspary, of Konigsberg, has founded this genus upon, seeds found
in the lignites of Dornheirn and Wolfersheim, in the Wetterau. Prof. Heer
sent him specimens from Diirnten which he considered to agree with these.
They are identical not only in external form, but also in the structure of their
cells. These, when macerated, acquire a fine blue colour with sulphuric
acid and iodine, showing that the cellulose has been well preserved notwith-
standing the many thousands of years during which the seeds have lain in
the earth.
t Prof. P. Schimper, of Strasburg, whose knowledge of mosses is most
profound, had the kindness to examine and determine these specimens.
M 2
