164 QUATERNARY PERIOD.
Of the Vascular Cryptogamia Prof. Heer only knows the
jointed and striated stems of a species of horsetail (Equisetum
limosum, Linn. ?) .
Although the number of plants hitherto found in the lignites
is not great; it is sufficient to enable us to form an idea of the
appearance of the vegetation of the peat-bogs at the time of
their formation ; and Prof. Heer believes that the flora must
actually have appeared very much as shown in the Plate of
Durnten.
Characteristic forms of animals, the elephant, the rhinoceros,
and the Urus, are seen in the restored landscape ; and they
merit attention.
Of the elephant two very beautifully preserved molars were
found at Durnten, together with fragments of large bones at the
bottom of the lignite. The grinding-surface in the back molar
of the lower jaw (fig. 350) is 67 millim. (or 2*638 inches) in
transverse diameter, and is traversed by twelve transverse
laminae, the enamelled edges of which are undulated, and here
and there form projecting angles. This is the tooth-structure
of Elephas antiquus, Falc., which appears to be most nearly re-
lated to the African elephant, and was very probably of the same
size and form. In the mammoth (Elephas primigenius, Blum.,
fig. 351) the transverse plates run parallel, stand closer together,
are much less crenulated, and have no projecting points.
Of the rhinoceros a nearly complete skeleton was found in
the clay of the lignite -deposit of Durnten ; but, by an unfortu-
nate accident, it was almost all lost. Nevertheless a number of
bones and some of the teeth reached Prof. Heer ; and these enable
him to recognize it as Rhinoceros etruscus, Falc. *. It differs
* Hermann de Meyer regarded it as Rhinoceros Merkii. According to him
(see i Palseontographica/ vol. ix. 1864, p. 242) there were in Germany two qua-
ternary species of Rhinoceros : R. Merkii, in which the nostrils are separated
by a bony septum only in the anterior part of their extent, and of which the
molars are not surrounded by enamel j and R. tichorhinus, Cuv., with a com-
plete nasal septum, and molars furnished with a thick layer of enamel. The
existing and Tertiary species (as also the Pliocene species, R. leptorhimis,
Cuv.) have no long nasal septum; and their incisor teeth are persistent. R.
tichorhinus has been found frozen in the ground in Siberia, still retaining its
skin and hair j and its teeth and bones have been noticed in many parts of
