166 QUATERNARY PERIOD.
considerably from all existing species, but seems, in its size, in
the two horns with which the head was armed, and in the form
of the teeth, to be most nearly related to the two-horned rhino-
ceros of the Cape of Good Hope (R. bicornis, Linn.) .
Of the urus (Bos primigenius, Boj.), Prof. Heer has in his
collection fragments of jaws with teeth from Durnten. At
Utznach, however, a complete skull with two great horns was
discovered some years' ago; but, unfortunately, it has been
lost. According to Prof. Riitimeyer, this is the original stock
of our domestic cattle, and its type has been best preserved in
the Friesland race. It is from one fifth to one fourth larger
than a very large cow. The horns first curve strongly back-
wards and outwards, then suddenly bend forwards and upwards,
so that the points stand very high and perpendicularly above the
forehead, and are bent slightly backwards at the extremity.
The elephant and rhinoceros became extinct during the Quater-
nary period ; but the urus still appears as a wild animal at the
time of the pile-dwellings (as at Robenhausen and Moosseedorf),
and, as the progenitor of the domestic ox, it has become one of
the most important species of animals. It was associated with
the red deer (Cervus elaphus, Linn.), teeth of which found
at Durnten and Utznach are undistinguishable from those of
the living animal. The bear, of which teeth and portions of
the jaw have been met with in the lignite of Utznach, was, on
the contrary, considerably larger than the existing bear of the
Alps, and constitutes a distinct species, which occurred abund-
antly in the Quaternary period, especially in caves. From this
last circumstance it has received the name of the " cave-bear "
(Ursus spelaus, Blum.). Its forehead was more convex than
that of the Swiss bear ; and its teeth were much larger ; there
is a gap between the canine and the first true molars.
The existence of a squirrel in forests is indicated by the fir-
cones, of which the scales are bitten away in exactly the same
way as in cones from which squirrels have extracted the seeds *
(see fig. 332, p. 156).
* Prof. Heer has seen, in the British Museum, cones treated in the same
way from the forest-bed of the Norfolk coast (see Lyell, ( Antiquity of Man,'
p. 215).
