FAUNA OF LIGNITES. 167
Of the lower animals Prof. Heer only knows a few species of
Mollusca and insects. The former occur by thousands in the
clays. Besides fragments of Anodonta, only three species can
be recognized, namely Pisidium obliguum, Lam., Valvata obtusa,
Drap., and a variety of V. depressa, Pfeif. These are animals
that still occur in the same district ; the Valvata live in the
brooks traversing the peat-bogs.
Insects are found partly in the lignite and partly in the clays.
The former are almost exclusively species of Donacia ; but these
occur in such quantities that their elytra lie by hundreds in
some parts of the lignite ; they still retain their metallic blue and
green colours, and form brilliant coloured specks on the black
ground. The elytra are most frequently met with ; the thorax
and legs are less common, and the latter are generally separated
from the body. No doubt these beetles lived on the aquatic
and marsh plants of the turbaries. At their death they fell
into the water and became broken up; and only the harder parts
(especially the elytra) sank to the bottom with other organic
matters, and thus got imbedded in the peat. When fresh from
the pit they are admirably preserved ; but as the lignite shrinks
in drying, they are either destroyed by this process or so twisted
and distorted that they are no longer fit for investigation. By
the form and configuration of the elytra, two species may be
distinguished at Diirnten and Utznach ; these are identical with
species now living about the Swiss lakes and marshes (Donacia
discolor, Gyll., and sericea, Linn.) . The most abundant species
is Donacia. discolor, which was adorned with green and blue
metallic tints, and agreed perfectly with the existing form in the
configuration of the elytra, the fine transverse wrinkling, the
punctate striae and the mode of their union (fig. 353), and the
uniformly and densely punctate prothorax (fig. 355). In the
male (fig. 354) the posterior femora were also much thickened.
The nearly allied Donacia sericea, Linn. (fig. 352) is less abun-
dant ; in this species the punctate striae are less distinctly marked
at the apex of the elytra, where they become confounded with
the other 'punctures of that part. The larvae of these two spe-
cies, and their nourishment, are still unknown; in the adult
state they are found all over Europe, even as far as Lapland, on
reeds and sedges.
