BEETLES. 169
to H. pineti, which lives upon pines. In the light-grey clays,
here and there are seen shining black scales, which on close
examination prove to be the remains of the thorax and elytra of
small beetles. They belong, for the most part, to the Carabidse
or predaceous ground -beetles. One species (fig. 358) agrees
with a black beetle (Pterostichus nigrita, Fab., sp.) which is
abundant all over Switzerland up to the subalpine region ; while
two other species (Carabites diluvianus, Heer, fig. 357, and C.
cordicollis, Heer, fig. 359) cannot be referred to any living
forms *. These predaceous beetles probably dwelt upon the
banks of streams, and were drowned by the inundations which
carried down the clays upon the peat-bogs.
A lignite formation like that of Utznach and Durnten occurs
at Chambery and Sonnaz, in Savoy. Upon a bed of fine sand
of unknown thickness lies a grey clay with a bed of lignite;
this is followed by a layer of rolled pebbles, 8 metres (or 8' 749
yards) thick, united in the upper part into a solid mass by a
calcareous cement. This is covered in its turn by a thickness
of 30 metres (or 32*809 yards) of unstratified but in part striated
pebbles (erratics). This deposit consequently presents nearly
the same conditions as those at Utznach and Diirnten. In the
lignite are found fir-cones and birch wood; in the clay, leaves of
willows (Salix cinerea, Linn., and S. repens, Linn.?), and the
from H. pineti by its smaller size and by having its elytra snorter with the
same breadth, and somewhat different in configuration. In the first two striae
(ijear the suture) H. rugosus has only thirteen punctures, while H. pineti has
from seventeen to twenty-f6ur j the middle striae or rows have the same
number of punctures in both species. The interstices also are more coarsely
wrinkled.
* Carabites diluvianus is distinguished by its broad short prothorax, with
acute posterior angles (fig. 357, 6). It has a smooth middle line, an impres-
sion on each side at the base, and a transverse row of punctures in front.
The striae of the elytra are punctured, and the interstices flat and smooth.
The species is of the size of Harpalus satyrus, Kn., and has the thorax of the
same form; but it is distinguished by the punctured striae. Prof. Heer found
several elytra, prothoraces, and a very well preserved head at Diirnten. It
appears to belong to the genus Harpalus. Carabites cordicollis has a smooth
cordate prothorax with its sides strongly incurved behind, a deep middle
line, and a deep impression on each side at the base. It probably belongs to
the genus Pterostichus (Argutor).
