FRESHWATER SHELLS. O
Besides the Neritina fluviatilis, four species of Neritina now
extinct lived in the fresh waters of Switzerland. These are N.
picta, Fer., N. Grateloupana, Fer., N. Lintha, May., and N.
Heerii, May. One little species of Valvata (V. multiformis)
occurs in the third stage, and a Paludina (P. acuta, Drap.) in
the fourth and fifth stages ; the latter occurs in some places by
thousands. Of Melanopsis there are three species in the Swiss
collections, one of which (M. Kleinii, Kurr.) sometimes occurs
in great quantities ; it is nearly allied to a species of the Medi-
terranean zone (M. pr&rosa, Linn.).
To these genera, which belong to the European fauna, the
Swiss have to add Melania as a striking exotic form. One spe-
cies (M. Escheri, Br., fig. 197) was discovered many years ago
at Kapfnach by Escher de la Linth,; and it has now been dis-
covered in almost all the Miocene formations of Europe. It
appears even as early as the Upper Eocene (in the Bartonian
stage of the Ralligstock), and may be traced thence up to the
CEningian stage. It seems to have had its centre of origin in
Switzerland, and to have first spread towards Eastern Europe
during the Upper Miocene period. Its nearest living allies
(Melania varicosa, Trosch., and M. pulchra, Busch) inhabit the
rivers of tropical Asia.
2. ARTICULATA.
a. Crustacea.
The Crustacea are chiefly inhabitants of the sea ; but a few
representatives of most of the families which live in fresh water
or on land occur in the Swiss Miocene.
Of the Isopods there is at CEningen a species of woodlouse
(Armadillo], one of those which, when in danger, draw in their
legs and roll themselves up like a hedgehog. The CEningian
species (Armadillo molassicus, Heer) retained this spherical form
even in death, as shown by the animal represented in fig. 210,
which closely resembles the common Armadillo.
Of the little Ostracodes the carapaces are very common, of
which we find great masses of a species which was very widely
distributed in Miocene times (Cypris faba, Desm,, fig. 205) in
