170 QUATERNARY PERIOD.
elytra of Donacia (D. discolor, Gyll., and D. menyanthidis, Fab.)
and small Carabidse *. No mammals have as yet been met with
here ; the mammoth and cave-bear are always found, according
to M. Fillet, in a later formation. It is worthy of notice that
this lignite formation has also been discovered in the south-
west of France, near Biarritz, by Dr. C. G-audin, a friend of
Prof. Heer. It contains the seeds of the extinct water-lily
(Holopleura Victoria, Gasp.) and of the bog-bean and a hazel-
nut, and also coloured elytra of Donacia.
On a general review of the plants and animals of the lignites,
it is manifest that they are completely different from those of
the Miocene. GEningen is the youngest member of the Miocene ;
but it has no single species in common with the lignites, and
the general character of its fauna and flora is quite different.
Between the Miocene and the lignite formation there has been
consequently a vast interval, as may be seen by a comparison of
the two landscapes of Lausanne and Diirnten. In the former,
near Lausanne, there is a subtropical group with trees which are
now quite foreign to Switzerland ; and in the Diirnten picture
none but indigenous plants appear. Thus a complete transfor-
mation of organic nature had taken place, and in the lignites the
existing order of things had already commenced. Although
containing some extinct types, their fauna and flora were never-
theless much nearer to those now existing than to the Miocene ;
they announce a new period, and with it the dawn of the present
creation. But it is not only that organic nature appears in a
new dress ; even the form of the ground has become different,
and, on the whole, assumed its present physiognomy. Upon this
point the conditions of deposition of the lignite furnish decisive
data. It has been already noticed (vol. i. pp. 286, 287) that the
Miocene was upheaved along the Alps, whilst in the plain of
Switzerland it retained a horizontal position. At Utznach the
sandstones are thrown into a perpendicular position (see fig. 329,
p. 152) in consequence of this upheaval, as may be seen near the
ruins of the old castle. The lignite-deposit and the masses of
* Prof. Heer is indebted to M. Fillet, of Chambe'ry, for the communication
of these specimens,
