UPHEAVAL OF ALPS. 171
rolled pebbles rest horizontally upon this vertical Miocene. A
traveller visiting the road which is being constructed to Gauen
will see a section in which the horizontal strata of the lignite rest
directly upon the tops of the perpendicular strata of the Mio-
cene. It is therefore clear that the tilting-up of the Miocene
must have taken place before the formation of the lignite. This
upheaval of the Miocene, which may be traced all along the
chain of the Alps, is directly connected with the change of form
of the whole of the Swiss mountain region ; and consequently
the change in the external form of Switzerland occurred in the
interval between the youngest Miocene of (Eningen and the
formation of the lignite, just like the transformation of organic
nature ; and it may be assumed that at the time of the forma-
tion of the lignite the Swiss mountains had essentially their
present form.
Between the deposits of (Eningen and the lignites there is no
Swiss formation containing organic remains. Thus the lignites
would appear to .follow immediately after the uppermost Miocene
beds ; and hence the conclusion might be drawn that the above-
mentioned transformation of inorganic and organic nature had
taken place in a comparatively short time. To form a judg-
ment upon this point, similar formations must be considered ;
and the most important data are to be obtained in England and
Italy.
On the coast of Norfolk, in England, the shore for a great
distance has been worn away by the waves. On that coast for
about forty miles (from Cromer to Kessingland) the remains
appear of an ancient forest. One may still see the erect trunks
of many trees, the roots of which lose themselves in all directions
in the underlying clay. These trees are covered by a clay -bed,
which contains here and there thin layers of lignite. Between
the trunks of the trees and these lignites are found cones of the
fir .and of the common and mountain pine *, the seeds of the
yew, the fruits of the hornwort (Ceratophyllum. demersum), and
* By the kindness of Sir Charles Lyell and Dr. Falconer, Prof. Heer was
enabled, when in London, to make an examination of these remains of
plants.
