PLIOCENE FORMATION. 173
the relation of this Crag formation to the Swiss Miocene by the
examination of the conditions of stratification. But we have
already seen (pp. 91, 92) that, among the marine shells of the
Miocene in the Helvetian stage, the living species constitute
35 per cent, of the sea-shells, and, further, that in the upper-
most or CEningian stage of the Miocene, no true elephants
occur, although it possesses two mastodons, which are entirely
wanting in the Crag. In the Crag there is another species of
mastodon (M. arvernensis) ; and with this true elephants and
Hippopotami occur. The English Crag formations are conse-
quently younger than the CEningian stage, and occupy the in-
terval between it and the lignites. The period of these Crag
formations has been called Pliocene, and it is regarded as the
third great division of the Tertiary epoch. In the Norfolk
forest-bed, and in the Swiss lignites (which maybe denominated
the " Utznach formation ") , an indication is afforded of a new
period, which has been named the Quaternary or Diluvial
period : it is distinguished from the Pliocene by the agree-
ment of its flora and marine fauna with those of the present
day.
' A long interval of time manifestly elapsed between the forma-
tion of CEningen and that of Utznach ; so that we need not be
surprised to meet with a totally different flora in the Quaternary
period. It would be very interesting to learn what was the cha-
racter of the intervening period, and how the transition was
brought about ; and on this subject we may obtain some infor-
mation from the fossil plants of Italy. The Upper Miocene
flora of Northern and Central Italy, as exhibited in the gypsum-
quarries of Stradella and Guarene in Piedmont, in the burnt
and blue clays of the upper valley of the Arno in Tuscany, and
near Senegaglia, presents the same characters as those of the
Swiss Upper Miocene. There are found in the Italian Upper
Miocene flora the same species of liquidambars, evergreen
oaks, camphor-trees and laurels, Taxodia, Glyptostrobi, Planera,
planes, hornbeams, Sapindi, and walnut-trees as in the Swiss
flora.
Above the Upper Miocene formation in the valley of the
Arno, in Tuscany, a yellowish-brown ferruginous sand occurs,
