174 PLIOCENE PERIOD.
which has received the name of " Sansino/' and belongs to the
Pliocene. It contains the same mastodon (M. arvernensis) that
occurs in the Norwich Crag, and also an elephant (E. meridio-
nalis), a hippopotamus (H. major] , and a rhinoceros (R. etruscus,
Falc.), which, in England, extend up into the forest-bed. Only
five species of plants have as yet been observed in the Sansino.
Three of them are peculiar to it;- but two (Glyptostrobus euro-
PCRUS and Cinnamomum Scheuchzeri) are common to it and to
the Miocene.
A greater number of plants have been discovered in Monta-
jone, a lateral valley of the Val d'Arno. The sea formerly ex-
tended into this region; and the soft yellowish-grey sandstone
consequently contains not only leaves but marine animals, of
which about half, as in the Coralline Crag, belong to living
species ; hence this locality must be regarded as Pliocene.
Among the plants many peculiar forms are met with ; but half
of them agree with species of the (Eningian stage. Such are
the planes, the hornbeams, the liquidambar, two or three pop-
lars, the small-leaved elm, the Planera, one or two walnut-trees,
a SapinduSj and the lime-leafed jujube-tree. But there are no
tropical forms ; and, from the analogy of the most nearly allied
living species, nearly all of these plants would support the pre-
sent climate of Tuscany.
Ascending one stage higher, we find in Tuscany compact tuffs
(the travertines of Massa Marittima) which, in many places,
contain impressions of plants. They show a remarkable mixture
of extinct and living species. Among the former may be re-
marked, besides several Miocene trees (such as the liquidambar,
the Planer a, and Betula prised), some peculiar forms, of which
an arbor vitse (Thuja Saviana, Gaud.) and a walnut (Juglans
paviafolia, Gaud.) are especially interesting. Of the existing
species some are now confined to Southern Europe, namely the
fig-tree, the manna-ash, the oriental hornbeam, the Judas tree
(Cercis siliquastrum, Linn.), several South-Italian oaks, and the
sarsaparilla (Smilax aspera, Linn.) ; but a portion of them also
inhabit other regions, such as the beech, elm, white-beam tree
(Pyrus Aria), the grey willow (Salix cinerea, Linn.), the maple
and sycamore, and the ivy.
