PLIOCENE FOEMATION. 175
As yet no animal remains have been discovered in these tuffs,
and there is only one species of plant common to them and the
lignites ; but the mixture of extinct forms of plants with others
still existing renders it probable that the two deposits are of the
same date. In favour of this view it may be noted that in the
tuff of Aygalades, in the neighbourhood of Marseilles, a similar
mixture occurs, comprising both extinct and living species of
plants, among which are found the hazel, Salix viminalis, the
lime-tree, the fig, Cercis, and laurel, and with them the remains
of Elephas antiquus, Falc. Consequently, at the time when
this elephant inhabited Europe, the flora on both sides of the
Alps had the same character as at present, and consisted for the
most part of the same species ; whilst in the intervening Pliocene
period the Italian flora differed materially from that now living
in Switzerland. To this Pliocene period should be referred the
lignites of Gandino, near Bergamo, and those of La Folia d'ln-
dune, on the Lake of Varese, in Lombardy. In both localities
are found a walnut (Juglans tephrodes, Ung.) which is remark-
ably like an American species (J. dnerea], and shows that some
American forms continued into Pliocene times.
The same species of walnut occurs also in the Pliocene lig-
nites of Wetterau, which are united by it and by a species of
pine * (Pinus Cortesii, Brongn.) with the Pliocene formation of
Italy. And, curiously enough, two of the Utznach plants also
occur in it, namely the mountain-pine and the water-lily (Holo-
pleura Victoria, Gasp.) ; so that, owing to the species just men-
tioned, these lignites form the transition between the Pliocene
and the Utznach formations. To the same period probably
belong the lignites of Rippersrode, in Thuringia, from which
Prof. Heer has seen some species known to occur in the
uppermost lignites of Wetterau (Corylus bulbifera, Ludw., C.
ventrosa, Ludw., Magnolia cor, Ludw., and Cytisus reniculus,
Ludw.) .
* Ludwig has described it as Pinus resinosa and Schnittspani (Palseonto-
graphica, Band v. Taf. xviii.) The Pinus represented in Taf. xix. fig. 4 is
probably P. Abies, Linn. That shown in Taf. xix. fig. 1 Prof. Heer at first
regarded as P. sylvestris, but the strongly marked and convex shields are in
favour of its being P. montanct.
