178 GLACIAL HISTORY.
beds are met with of which the materials have come from the
Valais. The same phenomenon is presented by the southern
slope of the Alps, where great beds of sand and gravel extend
down into the plain of Italy,, as, for instance, to the south of the
Lago Maggiore.
These stratified pebble-beds are so like the gravels deposited
by the Swiss mountain-streams, that, without doubt, they were
produced in the same manner.
We must, however, distinguish from them the unstratified
gravels which have been characterized as the Erratic formation,
and which consist of unstratified masses of sand and stones, and
of isolated blocks of all sizes. Where they lie together in great
masses, large and small fragments of rock are heaped together
without any order : some of them are rounded ; others still pos-
sess sharp edges and angles ; and their surfaces are not unfre-
quently traversed by straight striae or scratches, sometimes
parallel to each other, sometimes crossing in various direc-
tions. The stratified drift is uniformly spread over the bot-
toms of the valleys, and is only cut through by brooks and
rivers, which wear it away and form steep cliffs, whilst the un-
stratified drift forms chains of hills standing out more or less
abruptly from the surrounding surface. These chains frequently
follow the slopes of valleys and run parallel with them, or they
cross the valleys in the form of crescent-like ramparts or
moraines.
The most remarkable of these moraines, for the investigation
of which we are chiefly indebted to M. A. Escher de la Linth,
are shown on the geological map at the end of this volume.
Two such moraines occur in the neighbourhood of Berne one
near Muri, a Swiss mile, south of the town, the other in the city
itself. Several moraines in the Cantons of Lucerne and Argovia
are still more distinctly marked : thus a curved chain of hills
from 100 to 200 feet high, and of about the same breadth, sur-
rounds the northern end of the Lake of Sempach, resting at one
end against the boulder-deposits of the hill of Sempach, and
at the other extremity abutting on the masses of rocks of
Wartensee. A second mound, cut through by the Sur, traverses
the same valley lower down near Staffelbach, and runs towards
Mooslerau. The northern extremity of the Lake of Baldegg is
