MORAINES. 179
enclosed by a chain of hills like that of Sempach ; and this is the
case also with the Lake of Wauwyl, which has now been drained.
The peat-bog of this lake, so celebrated for its pile-dwellings, is
surrounded in a bold curve by a chain of mounds composed of
erratic blocks.
In the basin of the Limmat we find five similar moraines.
The first, which indeed is not strongly marked, is situated be-
tween Schiibelbach and Tuggen ; the second runs from Rapper-
schweil towards Hurden, and, by the formation of the peninsula
of Hurden, separates the upper from the lower Lake of Zurich ;
whilst the little islands of Ufnau and Liitzelau are the remains
of an uptilted reef of conglomerate, the peninsula of Hurden
(which is from 50 to 60 feet in height) consists only of sand,
gravel, and erratic blocks of sernifite and limestone, which also
lie in the lake for a distance of 3 kilometres (or nearly two British
miles). These blocks, measuring from 4 to 12 feet long, may
also be traced, in the form of a curved moraine, to the opposite
bank near Rapperschweil. The third moraine, which is much
larger, bounds the northern extremity of the Lake of Zurich.
It commences near the Fliihgasse, and is continued along the
base of the Burgholzli, through the vineyards above Reisbach, as
far as the Kreuzbiihl and the high promenade. The rampart-
like ridge of the Winkelwiese and the Upper Zaune, and the hill
situated between the market-lane and the cattle-market, the
Lindenhof, the mound in the Botanic Garden (known as the
" Cat "), and the Brandschenke above Sellnau, are parts of this
extensive moraine, which forms the subsoil of the city of Zurich,
and probably had originally the shape of a connected rampart
like a crescent. It is continued on the left bank of the Lake of
Zurich over the Freudenberg and the Biirgli to the church of
Wollishofen. The chain of hills which extends from the neigh-
bourhood of Kirchberg towards Horgeregg, and, further, to-
wards Hirzel and Schonenberg, consists also in its upper part
of similar unstratified debris covering up the Miocene that forms
the lower stratum of this district.
In the city of Zurich the boulder formation is found everywhere
in digging cellars, wells, and foundations. It was easily recognized
some years ago in the Canons' Platz near the Cathedral during
the lowering of the street ; and fig. 360 (p. 191) gives a view of
N2
