ENORMOUS BLOCKS. 181
material for building a house, which has obtained from it the
name of " Red Acrestone " ("zum rothen Ackerstein "). In the
Steinhof, near Seeberg (in the Canton of Berne) there lie three
enormous granite-blocks, the largest of which contains about
61,000 cubic feet. In the Canton of Neuchatel a block of fine-
grained granite, 50 feet long, 20 feet broad, and 40 feet high,
has received the name of the " club-footed stone " (" Pierre a
Bot"); another of 12,500 cubic feet, above the village of Mont-
la- Ville at the foot of the Jura, is called the "Pierre de Milliet;"
the block "du Tresor," near Orsiere, has a cubic content of
100,000 feet; and the " Monster Block" on the hill of Montet
near Devent, contains 161,000 cubic feet. These are only a
few examples of such gigantic blocks ; but they are found in
many places over a great part of Switzerland*.
It is remarkable that in some places masses of blocks of the
same kind are to be found lying together. Thus south of Fal-
landen a number of rock-fragments consisting of sernifite (red
acrestone) are piled one upon another, so that the traveller
might suppose himself in the midst of the ruins of a landslip.
A still more remarkable accumulation of similar blocks, in this
case consisting of granite, is to be seen above Monthey, to the
west of the Rhone, in the lower part of the Canton of Valais.
If we go up from Monthey for a walk of about a quarter of an
hour, we see on the side of the mountain innumerable fragments
of rock, the edges and angles of which are well preserved.
Among them are blocks of 8000 or 10,000, and others of from
20,000 to 50,000 cubic feet in size ; and one of them (Pierre des
Marmettes) is estimated at 60,500 cubic feet, and forms a vast
isolated rock. Another (Pierre des Mourguets) consists of two
enormous blocks, the upper one of which in its settlement over
the lower one has been split throughout its entire length, thus
leaving a wide opening.
The mode of distribution of the erratic blocks in Switzerland
is shown by the geological map at the end of this volume. The
Miocene country between the Jura and Alps has been left white ;
* J. de Charpentier has figured several of these erratic blocks in his 'Essai
sur les Glaciers ; ' and Bachmann has represented some of the largest belong-
ing to the Canton of Berne in ' Die erratischen Findlinge im Canton Bern,'
1870.
