ERRATIC BLOCKS. 183
ever, are in the Alps ; and in many cases the path may be traced
that they have followed from there into the low grounds by
the blocks and debris belonging to the same mountains along its
course. Thus near Katzenriitihof, on the Katzensee, a block
is found consisting of a very peculiar variety of granite, such as
occurs nowhere in the whole Alpine region, except at Pontel-
jestobel, above Trons, in the Canton of the Orisons.
Blocks of the same granite are scattered over the range of
hills on the right bank of the Lake of Zurich, and in the district
lying further to the east, as, for instance, in the Gaster, in the
valley of Wallenstadt, and in innumerable quantities from
Sargans to Ragatz, and on the left side of the Rhine up to
Trons. The same granite blocks may be traced from Sargans
and through the lower Rhine valley as far as Rorschach. All
these blocks lie upon the left side of the Rhine ; and it is remark-
able that not a single fragment occurs on the right bank. The
innumerable blocks of sernifite (red acrestone) which are scattered
over the Canton of Zurich no doubt originated in the sernifite
mountains adjacent to the basins of the Linth and of the Wallen-
see. As several varieties of sernifite occur in that region, there
are many cases in which the mountain masses may be ascertained
from which the blocks probably took their origin. Thus the
rock of the enormous " ploughstone/' above the parish of
Erlenbach in the Canton of Zurich, agrees perfectly with the
fine-grained porphyroid sernifite of the Gantstock in the middle
of the Canton of Glaris, and probably came thence ; indeed
this mountain mass is still surrounded by innumerable vast
rocky fragments, and has received its name from this circum-
stance.
In the basin of the Reuss are found immense numbers of
blocks of gneiss and gneissic granites from the St. Gothard.
They may be observed on the west side of the range of the Albis
and Uetliberg ; and near the Schnabelpass, in the gorge of the
Albis ridge, some granites have been transported to the eastern
side, while still more have traversed the hollow ravine of the
Mutschelle between the Uetliberg and Hasenberg, and pene-
trated into the valley of the Limmat. On the other hand a few
blocks of sernifite have been removed from the basin of the
Limmat into that of the Reuss.
