184 GLACIAL HISTORY.
In the river-basin of the Aar the blocks coming from the
Bernese Oberland extend only into the neighbourhood of Berne ;
further to the north the Diluvial debris have had their origin
from the basin of the Rhone. The whole of Western Switzerland
is covered with materials from the mountains near the Rhone,
as has been shown by Prof. Guyot, who has carefully investigated
the kinds of rock and the distribution of erratic blocks all over
this region, and has discovered that they may be traced to the
Alps of the Valais*. He has shown that the mountains covered
with mighty glaciers and immense fields of granular snow which
separate Switzerland from Italy, between the St. Bernard and
the Simplon, were the chief sources of the materials of the innu-
merable erratics of the basin of the Rhone. These Pennine
Alps, and especially the mountain masses at the head of the
valleys of Ering and Bagne (in the Canton of Valais), were the
primaeval home of the blocks of talcose granite (arkesinef) which
are scattered over a great part of the Rhine basin, and have
advanced as far as Seeberg. From Monte Rosa blocks of ser-
pentine and of a peculiar variety of gabbro (euphotide) take their
origin. A white granite comes from the south side of the
Bernese Oberland Alps in the Upper Valais.
From the Val Ferret a fine-grained Alpine granite has been
transported, which forms the vast blocks above Monthey, in the
Valais, and is also met with at the foot of the Jura. A similar
Alpine granite came from the mountain-mass of Mont Blanc,
and reached the lower Valais through the vale of the Trient.
The black-spotted grey sandstones of Val Orcine may have
originated from this valley, or from the slopes of the Dent de
Morcles ; they occupy principally the right side of the basin of
the Rhone, and are especially numerous in the neighbourhood
of Vevey in the Canton of Vaud. They form a broad zone
which bends at the outlet of the valley of the Rhone, and ex-
*' See Prof. Guyot's important memoir " Sur la distribution des especes de
roches dans le bassin erratique du Rhone " (Bull, de la Soc. des Sci. Nat. de
Neuchatel, 1847). The question of the place of origin of the erratic blocks
has been carefully treated by F. Miihlberg in his work on the Erratic forma-
tions of the Canton of Aargau.
t This is a greenish-yellow variety of granite, consisting of a mixture of
quartz, felspar, steatite, amphibole, and chlorite.
