MORAINES. 187
ground; but in the middle and lower Alpine regions, where
water is frequently converted into ice and again melted, there is
is a more active breaking-up of the surface of the mountains.
Hence fragments of surrounding rocks fall frequently upon the
glaciers traversing these regions, and, remaining on the surface
of the glacier, are carried down by it towards the outlet of the
valley.
Regular foci of destruction may be often observed, from which
many blocks of rock fall down every year upon a glacier ; and
as the glacier advances, the disintegrated fragments will not
collect into a heap of rubbish, but those of the previous year
will perhaps have been pushed forward some 300 feet, those of
two years before 600 feet, and so forth. They will consequently
form at the side of the glacier a more or less continuous wall,
which may be traced from their place of origin to its extremity,
and which will be higher in proportion to the number of points
from which it has received accessions. Every one who has
visited Swiss glaciers must have been struck with these walls of
debris, which are often several miles in length. In the Valais
they are called Moraines, in the Bernese Oberland Gandecken
and Guffer, and in the Canton of Glaris Firnstdss. Of these
popular names, the first, which was adopted by Charpentier, has
found general acceptance.
Moraines are first formed at the edges of the glacier, bound-
ing its two sides, and are then called lateral moraines. They
rest upon the glacier, and are pushed forward with it. But if
the glacier melts at the sides and thus diminishes in volume,
the masses of rubbish are left on the slope of the valley-side, and
form walls upon the solid ground more or less distant from the
glacier, according as its melting has taken place to a greater or
less extent. The lateral moraines of the two sides of the glacier
remain quite separate on wide glaciers advancing in broad and
flat valleys ; but when the valleys become narrower, the moraines
approach nearer to each other, the central part of the glacier
moves more rapidly on, and the lateral moraines approach the
middle of the glacier. A similar effect is produced with timber
floating down a river, when the pieces of wood leave the banks
and collect in the central current. In the lower parts of the
glacier the lateral moraines widen and spread over the whole of
