188 GLACIAL HISTORY.
its surface ; and it is not unusual to see a portion of a glacier
quite covered with mud and stories.
Most glaciers also possess in the middle of their surface central
moraines, which sometimes consist only of a single row of blocks,
and at other times form a thick line of debris running down the
whole length of the glacier, and following all its curves and
bendings. Looked at from great elevations the central moraines
appear like regular dark lines, which may often be traced for
miles over the bluish-white ice. The central moraines are pro-
duced by the union of two or more glaciers. When two glaciers
issuing from separate valleys unite, a central moraine, formed
by two of the lateral moraines, is produced ; and therefore, as a
rule, every glacier will have as many central moraines as it has
received tributary glaciers. On the Aar glacier a great central
moraine commences where the Lauteraar glacier and the Fin-
steraar glacier unite ; it attains a height of 42 metres (or nearly
46 yards), and increases in width to 200 metres (or 2187 yards) at
its extremity. To the left of this there are seven other moraines,
and to the right of the central moraine there are eight others,
each of which possesses its peculiar kinds of rock. The Gorner,
the Rosetsch, the lower Bernina, and many other glaciers ex-
hibit very fine central moraines. As the stones of the moraines
protect the ice beneath them from the influence of the sun and
of warm air, the ice under the moraines is not melted to so
great an extent as that which is exposed to the open air. Thus
valleys and ranges of heights are produced on the glacier ; and
as some of the stones lying on the elevated portions slide down
into the hollows between them, the materials of different mo-
raines in very long glaciers become gradually intermingled.
Great heaps of stones accumulate at the termination of the
glacier, the stones having been carried down the valley in the
lateral and central moraines. By the melting-away of the ex-
tremity of the glacier these masses of stones fall to the bottom,
and form the terminal moraine, which usually surrounds the
melting mass of ice in a crescent-shaped curve at the lower part
of the valley. If the glacier remains unchanged for many years,
all the debris that it has picked up in its course are carried to
this point and heaped up into a vast moraine ; if it diminishes, a
second crescent-shaped curve will be formed near the glacier ;
