GROUND-MORAINES. 189
and if the glacier advances it will upset the old moraine and de-
posit another further down the valley. The two last-mentioned
moraines indicate the greatest and the least extension that the
glacier has ever attained.
Most of the rocky materials that fall on the surface of the
glacier remain there ; but wherever the glacier is traversed by
fissures or crevasses the fragments 'of rocks drop down these
openings and fall to the bottom of the glacier. Facilities
for the dropping-down of debris especially occur at the sides of
the glacier, where there is not unfrequently a fissure between
the mass of ice and the adjoining mountain. The stones thus
deposited and carried along under the glacier form ground-
moraines (moraines du fond) . In their onward movement the
fragments of rock become rounded and polished by the friction
to which they are exposed. The bed of the glacier is also
smoothed when the ice is in immediate contact with the
rock ; and where stones and sand are frozen into the ice it is
scratched by them. The same scratching and polishing takes
place on the rocky walls which enclose the sides of the glacier,
especially in places where the bed of the glacier is narrowed,
and where, in consequence of greater inclination, the mass of
ice moves more rapidly downwards. Here the rocks are often
regularly polished, and traversed by sharp straight striae, pro-
duced by the hard sand-grains and splinters of rock which,
being imbedded in the ice, are carried forward with it. In fine-
grained rocks these lines are often as sharp as if they had been
cut with a diamond; and sometimes they may be traced for
several yards. But where the bottom of the glacier is but little
inclined, or the mass of ice can spread itself out, the glacier
does not possess the power of scoring the underlying rock.
Sometimes the glacier is separated from the ground below it,
and the melting of the ice causes the formation of galleries and
deep caverns.
The water flowing from the glacier carries off the mud pro-
duced by friction, and is rendered turbid by it ; and as the
glacier-stream must pierce through the terminal moraine, it will
carry away some of the rocky material composing that mass of
debris. Hence a glacier-stream will disperse the fragments
brought down by the glacier, and in its action will round off
