CRUSTACEA. /
the freshwater limestone of (Eningen and Locle. These arc
small animals with bivalved kidney-shaped shells, very like spe-
cies which still live in the Swiss fresh waters, where they swim
about by the action of their antennse, which are fringed with
long hairs, and of their fore legs, which project beyond the
shells. They serve as the food of a great number of aquatic
insects.
The Gammaridse are represented at (Eningen by a species
(Gammarus oeningensis, Heer, fig. 209) very like the common
Grammarus pulex, Deg., sp., of the Swiss lakes and rivers. The
existence of water-fleas (Daphniae) is shown at least by their
eggs, which have been found at CEningen (fig. 206). The
Daphnia have two kinds of eggs summer eggs, which have no
peculiar envelope, and winter eggs, a pair of which are placed in
a small shallow receptacle called the ephippium (saddle). The
ephippia found at CEningen form small oval scales, in which the
two eggs may be clearly recognized. They are consequently
winter eggs, like those which may be met with in the Swiss
waters from autumn to spring.
The largest and most important animals of this class are the
Decapods, fragments of which are found here and there in the
freshwater Miocene. In most places (as at Schwamendingen),
however, they are so imperfect that we cannot determine them.
CEningen, again, gives us some definite information about them.
The three species occurring there belong, curiously enough, to
the Prawns and Crabs, which, with very few exceptions, are in-
habitants of the sea, whilst the Lake of CEningen undoubtedly
contained fresh water, as is proved by the numerous freshwater
animals of other kinds which have been found in its deposits.
The (Eningian prawns constitute a peculiar and extinct genus
(Homely s, Myr.), the sole species of which (H. major, Myr.) is
distinguished by its extremely delicate long antennae and its
smooth pectoral spine. It is a little smaller than the common
prawn (Palcemon squilla, Linn.), and is very like the freshwater
prawn (P. fluviatilis, Mart.), nearly allied to the common prawn,
and living in the Lago di Garda as well as in the fresh waters
of Parma. Homely s major occurs only in the insect-bed of the
lower quarry at CEningen. The Crabs are found almost exclu-
sively in the ' ' Kesselstein " of the upper quarry. There are
