190 GLACIAL HISTORY.
angular stones, efface their glacial scratches, and redeposit them
at a distance from the glacier proportionate to the volume of
the water and to its motive power.
A stratified form will be characteristic of the beds thus brought
into being ; the stones will be more or less rounded, and often
will appear as if they had been washed, while in the moraines
themselves fragments of rocks of every form and size, scratched
and polished, angular and rounded, will be found lying with no
regularity, and mixed with sand, earth, and mud.
A careful comparison of the phenomena of the Erratic for-
mation of Switzerland with the processes constantly going on
in the Swiss glaciers, shows so perfect an agreement between
them that they must be ascribed to the same causes ; and thus
the occurrence and general diffusion of Alpine rocks in the low
grounds of Switzerland is fully explained.
The ramparts of stones that are found on the slopes of valleys
are the lateral moraines of glaciers ; and the crescent-like walls
have been the terminal moraines, their unstratified masses of
scratched and polished stones, mixed with fine debris and mud,
agreeing exactly with terminal moraines of the present day.
The representation given in fig. 360 of a portion of a moraine
discovered in a public place of Zurich, near the cathedral of that
city, shows the effect produced by existing glaciers. The strati-
fied beds of stones are the debris dispersed by the glacier-
streams, which filled up the depressions and were covered up
by the further advance of the glacier. Over all the hollows of
valleys and lakes the glaciers formed bridges, over which masses
of mud and earth, as well as the largest rocks, were carried for-
ward, and thus gradually reached great distances, and were
borne onwards to the summits and ridges of hills rising high
above the bottoms of the valleys.
In the north of Switzerland there were five great glaciers ; in
Italian Switzerland only two. Their distribution is indicated in
the geological map *.
The largest glacier came from the Canton of Valais, as that
* This is based upon the map published in 1852 by Prof. A. Escher de la
Linth ; and for the southern slope of the Alps Prof. Heer has consulted the
works of M. G. de Mortillet.
