192 GLACIAL HISTORY.
proved by the polishing of the rocky walls and the presence of
accumulations of boulders.
The direction taken by the moraines over this enormous sea
of ice has been ascertained by Prof. Guyot, who distinguishes
two periods in the history of the glacier. In the first of these
its area had its greatest extension, and its subordinate glaciers
spread into the high valleys of the Jura belonging to the Can-
tons of Vaud and Neuchatel. At this time the terminal
moraine was pushed forward as far as Aarwangen and Zofingen.
The right lateral moraine stretched along the mountains of
Friburg, and was composed chiefly of grey sandstones derived
from the sides of the Dent de Morcles (conglomerates of the
Val Orcine) ; the left lateral moraine issued from the mountain-
mass of Mont Blanc, and conveyed the Alpine granites through
the valley of the Trient into the basin of the Rhone ; it may be
traced on the side of Savoy as far as Geneva. The central
moraines came, in the first place, from the Upper Valais, from
which they brought white granites ; secondly, from the masses
of Monte Rosa, which furnished the serpentines and eupho-
tides ; thirdly, from the head of the valleys of Erinz and Bagne,
which sent down enormous masses of talcose granite (arkesine} ;
and, fourthly, from the Val Ferret, from which the immense
erratics of Monthey are derived. Following the widening of the
glacier at its issue from the valley of the Rhone, the interme-
diate moraines spread out in a radiating manner, and their
materials were conveyed to the slopes of the Jura. In the ter-
minal moraines , which extend from Aarwangen to Guggisberg,
the rocks are seen in the same sequence : near Guggisberg there
are the grey sandstones from the Dent de Morcles, between
Schwarzenberg and Konitz the granites of the upper Valais, in
the district west of Berne and Burgdorf the rocks of Monte
Rosa, near Seebach the talcose granite of the Ering valley, and
near Aarwangen the alpine granites of Mont Blanc. .
In the second period the glacier had become smaller. It filled
the basin of the Lake of Geneva, but did not extend so far
towards the north-east as in the first period. The left lateral
moraine had the blocks from Mont Blanc which had passed
through Martigny ; and the right lateral moraine was formed of
the grey sandstones and the rock from the upper Valais. The
