TWO GLACIAL PERIODS. 193
latter moraine spread over the Jorat, and also deposited great
masses of rock at Lausanne (on Montbenon), at Morges,
at Aubonne, &c., and consequently had a different direc-
tion from that of the first period. The same deviation may
be noticed in the central moraines, which extended over the
present position of the lake of Geneva, and probably deposited
great masses of debris and rocks in the bottom of the lake during
the subsequent retreat of the glacier. The intermediate moraines
running near the sides became afterwards lateral moraines.
Thus at the time of the first glacial dispersion the blocks of the
Val Ferret undoubtedly formed a central moraine which extended
as far as the Jura. But as the glacier subsequently became
smaller, and at the same time its level was lowered, this moraine
came nearer to the edges, and was deposited at 400 feet above
the bottom of the valley of Monthey for a distance of five
miles in the form of a rampart from 500 to 800 feet thick, in
which many blocks lay one upon the other in the most singular
positions, such as are only seen among rocky debris at the
lateral moraines of Swiss glaciers.
It is further worthy of notice that the moraines of the first
period chiefly contain rocks from the highest mountain-masses,
and that the moraines of the second period comprise fragments
from lower regions from which it has been inferred that in the
former period the fields of granular snow reached higher up the
mountains, and that only the topmost peaks projected above
them. This circumstance, as well as the direction which the
moraines follow, show that in the first period there was a greater
extension of the glaciers.
The glacier of the Aar filled up the valleys of the Bernese
Oberland, and smoothed the walls of rock up to a height of
2000 feet above the present valley-bottom. It covered the
basins of the lakes of Brienz and Thun, and stretched over the
ground to the north of Thun. Its northern boundary was near
Berthoud, where its further advance was prevented by the glacier
of the Rhone.
The glacier of the Reuss united with glaciers from the valleys
of the Canton of Uri, the Engelberg, and the Muottathal. The
main glacier came from Uri;* at the Righi -and the Hochfluh it
must have been divided into two branches, of which the left made
VOL. n. o
