194 GLACIAL HISTORY.
an inroad into the basin of the Lake of the Four Cantons,, and
thence gradually covered the Canton of Lucerne with a bed of
ice, whilst the right branch, after uniting with the glacier of the
Muottathal, advanced between the Righi and the Rossberg to the
Canton of Zug, and thence spread over the districts of Freiamt
and Aifoltern. The two branches probably united again to the
north of the Righi. A great central moraine brought down in-
numerable blocks of the St.-Gothard (Geissberg) granite, which
cover the mountain-terraces above the lake of Uri (as, for in-
stance, near Seelisberg and Morschach), and are scattered over
the Cantons of Lucerne and Argovia and the district of Affol-
tern. A lateral moraine carried down immense masses of lime-
stone, which extend high up on Mont Pilate, and which form
near Hergottswald an enormous rampart cut through by moun-
tain-streams. At the time of its greatest extension the glacier
of the Reuss reached to the chain of the Albis, and stretched its
branches through the Schnabel pass and the Mutschelle into the
region of the Limmat, carrying over the same St.-Gothard gra-
nite. The fine terminal moraines of the Cantons of Argovia
and Lucerne, which have already been mentioned (p. 178), indi-
cate a time when the glacier terminated in that region.
Between the glaciers of the Reuss and the Aar, and the ter-
minal moraine of the Rhone basin, there was, at the period of
the greatest extension *of the glaciers, a small island stretching
from the district of the Napf to the Aar, which remained un-
covered by ice, and possesses no trace of erratic boulders in any
part of its formation.
The glacier of the Linth received its principal supply from
the Canton of Glaris, although a vast glacier must have come
through the valley of the Wallensee to unite with the Linth
glacier near Wesen. The whole then advanced through the
Gaster and March, towards the basin of the Lake of Zurich. It
covered a great part of the Canton of Zurich with a thick icy
mantle, which, at the time of its greatest extension, reached the
Bachtel, and on the other side extended to the ridge of the
Uetlibcrg. At that time its surface was loaded with several
moraines, one of which started from the Glamisch, the Rauti,
and the mountains bordering the Linth valley, and brought the
limestones of those high regions to the Canton of Zurich, where
