196 GLACIAL HISTORY.
were carried down to the lower regions both upon the glacier
of the Lake of Wallenstadt and on that of the Rhine. The
moraines coming from the Prattigau and Montafun remained
upon the right side of the Rhine, where they formed a long
lateral moraine. The other valleys of the Orisons also furnished
abundant materials, which now form an important part of the
soil in the Cantons of Thurgovia and St. Gall, and furnish nu-
merous round and flat pebbles below Constance.
On the southern slope of the Alps all the phenomena of gla-
ciers observed on the northern side recur. A great glacier
descended from the Canton of Tessin into the plain of Lombardy,
and filled the basin of the Lago Maggiore. A second glacier
came from the Spliigen and the valley of Bergell, and, uniting
with the glacier of the Valteline, formed a bridge over the lake
of Como, and pushed forward its terminal moraine into the
neighbourhood of Monza. The beautiful peninsula of Bellaggio
enclosed on both sides by the Lake of Como, is dotted over with
rocks which can only have been derived from the Alps. Even
the Lago di Garda, on the smiling shores of which now bloom
the orange and the citron, was once covered with an icy glacier,
upon which were borne along great masses of Alpine debris,
covering the country to beyond Peschiera. The glacier of
Monte Rosa advanced the farthest towards the south ; breaking
forth from the narrow valley of Aosta, it spread over the plain
near Ivrea, and as far as Caluso covered the ground with Alpine
debris, which now form the chain of hills rising from the plain
to an elevation of as much as 1500 feet, and resting on the
marine Pliocene formation.
In the glacial period of the development of the earth a thick
icy crust spread over not only the Swiss mountain- country of
Central Europe, but extended itself to the northern part of the
continent, and advanced to the sea, where it pushed out and
formed innumerable floating icebergs. By these glaciers and
icebergs immense masses of rock were brought from Scandinavia
and the north of Russia into Northern Germany, where they
now rise here and there in the form of low ranges of hills above
the vast sandy plains of that empire. Scotland and a part of
England were likewise covered with glaciers, upon the extension
