NORFOLK-CLIFFS FOREST-BED. 197
of which the English geologists have given important informa-
tion. We have already (pp. 171, 172) mentioned the ibrest-bed
of Cromer on the Norfolk coast, and shown that it probably be-
longs to the same period as the Swiss lignites. This forest was
situated on the sea-coast ; for the masses of fine sand and clay
which cover it contain animals of both fresh and brackish water
(Cyclas, Valvata, and Mytilus) ; above these strata is a deposit
consisting of unstratified masses, and containing angular polished
and scratched stones. Among the latter are found granite,
syenite, and porphyry, which, according to Lyell, have come on
icebergs from Scandinavia, and have been deposited there. It
is covered with masses of sand and rolled pebbles. They are
submarine glacial deposits, which here and there attain a thick-
ness of 400 feet, thus giving a depth to which, at the least,
the land must have sunk : afterwards it was upheaved. At one
place (near Mundesley) there is a valley formed by denudation,
the bottom of which consists of a bed of rolled pebbles ; and
upon this is a bed of peat overlain by a bed of yellow sand,
which has been deposited since the Glacial period. Hence it is
manifest that on the Norfolk coast, just as at Utznach and
Diiriiten, there had been a formation produced by glaciers above
the deposit with Elephas primigenius and the Rhinoceros, but
that in England this glacial formation had been connected with
great changes in the level of the land.
Similar phenomena occurred in Scotland. According to
Lyell (Antiquity of Man, p. 241), three phases of development
may be distinguished. At the time of the formation of the
forest-bed of Cromer (contemporaneous with the Swiss lignite-
formation) a gradual elevation of the land took place, to the
height of 500 feet above the level of the sea. In Scotland large
glaciers were produced which have left records of their presence
in the polishing and scratching of the rocks, and in their mo-
raines still to be found in the valleys ; subsequently the land
sank, so that by degrees a great part of it became submerged,
and the only remains of Scotland, England, and Ireland con-
sisted of several small islands, represented at the present day by
the mountains. Great quantities of ice came down from the
north, bringing with them large masses of rocks and debris,
