198 GLACIAL HISTORY.
which fell to the bottom of the sea, and in some portions of
their accumulations buried marine animals which had been living
there,, and which belonged to a northern race. At a later period
there occurred another elevation of the land, upheaving from
the depths of the ocean the glacial debris which are now met
with in some places at a height of 1400 feet above the sea. To
this extent, at least, the land must have been elevated ; and pro-
bably the upheaval was still more considerable. If the soil of
Great Britain were to be now elevated about 600 feet, it would
join the European continent, and become connected with Den-
mark, Holland, and France. And this result appears to have
taken place at that time.
During the second continental ice-period the mountains of
Scotland and Wales were covered with glaciers, which have left
behind them traces of their action. But a gradual depression
of the land again occurred ; and this by degrees produced the
present configuration of land and sea. On the Norwegian coast
at the present time the land is observed to be gradually rising ;
its upheaval is estimated at the rate of 2| feet in a century. If
this standard be assumed as a basis for the calculation of move-
ments of the land, its depression to the extent of 1400 feet would
require 50,000 years, and its re-elevation to the same height
would occupy the same amount of time. Such numbers are
arbitrary, yet they suffice to demonstrate that the Glacial epoch
must have lasted very long, and that a continued succession of
ages allowed sufficient time for the slow dispersion of the erratic
blocks.
Scandinavia, like England and Scotland, affords evidence of
two glacial epochs. Lofty stratified masses of debris (Osars)
lie, in Northern Europe, on the smoothed surfaces of rocks ;
these had very probably been produced under the sea ; and upon
them are found erratic blocks which, like the smoothed rocks,
indicate a time when glaciers spread over all the country.
Local causes do not explain glacial phenomena, as the traces
of glaciers are seen in North America in the same way as in
Europe. After the close of the Tertiary epoch such a diminu-
tion of temperature must have occurred over the whole of the
Northern hemisphere that the glaciers of the Alps descended
