MIOCENE FAUNA.
two species of crabs, belonging to two genera. One of them is
probably to be referred to Telphusa, the other to Gecarcinus.
In the former (fig. 207) the carapace is but slightly rounded at
the sides, and its back is covered with small tubercles arranged
in rows; whilst in the latter (fig. 208) the carapace is heart-
shaped and very much narrowed behind. Its upper surface is
closely punctate. In both the (Eningian species the two chelse
are of equal strength, and the legs are furnished with a knife -
like pointed terminal joint ; the third pair of legs are somewhat
longer than the rest. The (Eningian river- crab (Telphusa
speciosa, Myr.)* resembles the southern European species, the
only crab which inhabits rivers and lakes in Europe, and which
appears to be distributed in all Mediterranean countries. It is
captured in great numbers in the Lake of Albano, and eaten in
Rome during Lent by all classes of people. Even in ancient
times it must have been of importance, since it appears on old
coins of Agrigentum in Sicily. There is nothing remarkable
therefore in the occurrence of this genus at GEningen, as it is
one of those Mediterranean types which were at that time nume-
rously represented in Switzerland, and lived in freshwater.
The Land-Crabs (Gecarcinus) are quite foreign to the European
fauna. They occur at present only in tropical America, especi-
ally in the West Indies, where they are known under the name
of " Tulurlu.-" They live in the forests in the interior of the
country, and form burrows in the ground, which they quit only
at night in order to seek for prey. Once in the year they unite
* M. de Meyer described this species as Grapsus speniosus (Palaeontogra-
phica, x. p. 168, 1863); and it certainly belongs to the group of the "Brachy-
ures quadrilate rales " of Latreille, which includes the Grapsi and the Land-
and River-Crabs. But of these it seems to Professor Heer that Telphusa is
the genus in which it must be ranged. The form of the carapace, which
is more narrowed behind and not toothed at the margin, and the com-
parative lengths and form of the legs, seem to contradict its reference to
Grapsus. In that genus the second pair of legs (the first from the chelae) are
much shorter than all the rest, which also have broader and stronger femora.
In all these characters the (Eningian crab agrees with Telphusa, as well as in
the form of the outer inaxillipeds. That the chelae are unarmed, and the
legs not set with stiff bristles, are important specific characters. Fig. 207
represents a small specimen ; the species occurs twice of this size. The tail
in the female is much broader than in the male.
