200 GLACIAL HISTORY.
.
drift, and in its subsequent retreat deposited erratic blocks on
the surface. In the same manner were effected the dispersion
of the stratified masses of rolled gravel in the Sihlfeld near
Zurich, in the lower parts of the basin of the Lake of Constance,
and in the basins of the Lago Maggiore and the Lake of Como
south of the Alps. Glaciers must have passed over the lakes
upon bridges formed by ice, and have been dispersed by the
streams flowing from the glaciers. The conglomerate forma-
tion of the Schienerberg near (Eningen, the Uetliberg, and the
Au, already mentioned (vol. i. p. 289), probably dates from this
epoch. As it was deposited on the Uetliberg, the glacier must
have extended as far as the ridge of the Albis.
It is manifest that the lignites of Diirnten and Utznach were
formed before the stratified drift, as they lie below it. To
judge from the plants that they contain, the climate was like
that of the present day. At any rate it was not warmer, as is
shown by the occurrence of the mountain-pine, which now only
descends at a few places into the temperate zone of the Swiss
hill-region (as on the Maneck) . The climate may, however,
have been rather colder, as the known species still thrive in the
mountain region at a mean annual temperature of from 6 to
7 C. (42 0t 8-44 Q 6 F.), as well as in corresponding northern
latitudes. Most of the mountain-pines extend up to the limit
of trees ; but the occurrence of the ash and yew, and of the
thick trunks of the pines with broad annual rings, show that at
the time when these trees grew in the lignite district no Alpine
or Arctic climate can have prevailed. The known facts lead to
the assumption of an annual temperature of 6-9 C. (42'8-
48*2 F.) . This condition of things must have lasted some
thousands of years, in order to produce the thick deposit of
peat from which the lignite originated. But gradually the cli-
mate became colder, the glaciers advanced from the Alps and
changed the whole aspect of the country. Again the tempera-
ture became warmer ; the glaciers slowly melted, and retreated,
after many oscillations, to their present limits.
The transition from the warmth of the Miocene epoch to the
temperate climate of the lignite formation and the cold of the
Glacial epoch was probably effected very slowly, and with nu-
