TWO GLACIAL EPOCHS. 201
mcrous alternations of temperature. No "regularly continued
transition appears to have occurred ; but a cold period separated
the lignite formation from the Miocene.
Two glacial epochs arc indicated by the mode of dispersion of
the boulders in the basin of the Rhone. The second of these
epochs corresponds with the later condition of the Ehone glacier,
when, it had been melted back as far as the basin of the lake of
Geneva. Prof. Morlot * has shown it to be very probable that
formerly the Rhone glacier retreated not only into the region of
the Lake of Geneva, but also to the main valley of the Canton
of the Valais (he supposes, to an elevation of from 30004000
feet above the sea), and that again the glacier advanced, but in
the second period merely spread itself over the basin of the
Lake of Geneva. According to this view there were two glacial
epochs, separated by a period during which the glaciers dis-
appeared from all the plains of Switzerland. In the second
Glacial epoch the streams flowing from the hills near the Lake
of Geneva mingled their debris with those of the lateral mo-
raines ; and thus the deposits were formed which produce a line
of terraces along the lake, and which here and there show strati-
fication and contain numerous scratched and angular erratics,
thus resembling the deposits sometimes found on the existing
glaciers at points where lateral brooks flow towards them and
form small lakes and pools, which are gradually filled up by
the moraines.
Prof. Morlot found the principal evidence in favour of these
two glacial periods in the ravine of the Dranse, near Thonon.
At the bottom of the gorge there is (1) a deposit of debris
12 feet thick with striated fragments of Alpine limestone ; and
above this is (2) a bed of rolled and stratified pebbles (drift),
150 feet thick; and, again, above this bed are (3) striated
erratic blocks. Between the formation of the first and third of
these deposits, which were produced by a moraine, intervened
* "Note sur la subdivision du Terrain Quaternaire en Suisse," par A.
Morlot (Bibl. Univ. 1855). According to Scipio Gras, two glacial deposits
are to be distinguished in the Lower-Rhone basin. See his memoir " Sur la
periode Quateriinirc dans la vallee du Rhone, et sa division en cinq epoques
distinctes" (Hull. Soc. Geol. France, xix., Nov., Dec.).
