202 GLACIAL HISTORY.
the deposition of the stratified mass which shows by its great
thickness that the glacier had disappeared from this spot for a
long time. In Eastern Switzerland, until recently, the upper
erratic formation only was known, which overlies the stratified
pebble-beds. At Utznach, in a section on the road to Gauen,
now again covered up, Prof. A. Escher de la Linth saw quite
distinctly the direct superposition of the lignite formation upon
the Miocene ; so that, at least at this point, there was no trace
of erratic blocks to be seen between the Miocene and the lig-
nites (see fig. 329, p. 152). At Durnten, also, the clays under
the lignite deposit only contain such stones as may have been
derived from the conglomerate of the surrounding hills. The
hypothesis of two glacial periods does not, therefore, seem to be
supported by the facts observed in Eastern Switzerland. Never-
theless, at Wetzikon, Alpine rocks showing all the signs of gla-
cial transport (see p. 151) are found under the lignites. This
deposit of lignite, however, is only of small extent ; but it lies
horizontally, and presents the same sequence of clay and coal
as at Durnten ; so that it cannot be supposed that these erratics
have got under the lignite deposit by displacement of the soil.
In Morschweil also, according to the investigations of Prof.
Deicke (p. 154), erratics are overlain by the lignites.
Fortified by these facts, the conclusion may be adopted that
at two different periods glaciers invaded Switzerland, and that
the lignite formation occurred in the interval between them,
thus representing an episode of several thousand years in the
long Glacial epoch, the intercalated period having been sufficiently
long to diffuse over the low country a new vegetable covering.
The stratified deposits of rolled pebbles must have taken place
at the following periods : 1 . After the epoch of the lignites,
which may be called interglacial. 2. During the great exten-
sion of the glaciers, glacial drift. 3. After the second glacial
epoch, postglacial drift.
For the Quaternary period the chronological order shown in
the following Table may be regarded as established :
