204 GLACIAL HISTORY.
Organic nature will be found to confirm the inferences de-
rived from the rocks as to the aspect of Switzerland during the
drift period. If the same phenomena which are now witnessed
in high northern latitudes, as well as in the Alps, formerly oc-
curred in Switzerland, the traces of them will remain in the
flora and fauna of that country.
At the time of the greatest extension of the glaciers, when an
icy mantle some thousands of feet in thickness was spread over
the low Swiss grounds, organic life must have been almost
entirely banished. Yet even then some islets stood out of the
sea of ice, such as the land between the Napf and the Aar ; and
in the highest regions rocky peaks projected above the ice which
is proved by the numerous erratic blocks which constituted a
part of the moraine.
Organic life in plants * and insects is met with at the present
day on the highest summits of the Alps, and on the remotest
islets and moraines of the granular snow, to an elevation of
11,000 feet; and, in like manner, during the Glacial epoch some
life was preserved. In connexion with this question it must be
remembered that Prof. Heer is acquainted with 111 species of
Phanerogamous plants from Spitzbergen, and with more than
320 from Greenland, although boundless glaciers cover these
countries and descend even to the sea. When, in Switzerland,
the glaciers melted and left the plains no longer covered with
ice, vegetation pushed its way over the low grounds and clothed
afresh the desert country. The plants of the lignite beds in-
form us that the flora which then penetrated into Switzerland
was the same as the vegetable kingdom now flourishing there, as
well as in other parts of Central Europe and of the temperate
portions of Asia, but that to the modern flora one or two
mountain-plants (Pinusmontana and Acer pseudoplatanus) should
be added.
When the glaciers again advanced from the Alps and extended
into the plain, the change of climate essentially altered the flora.
At the time when the numerous terminal moraines were depo-
sited, Alpine plants were no doubt conveyed by them, and by
* In the Grisons Prof. Heer has collected 106 species of flowering plants
in the highest region, between 8500 and 11,000 feet above the sea-level.
