ALPINE VEGETATION. 205
the streams flowing from the glaciers, into the low country,
where they established themselves in the vicinity of the glaciers
and moraines. The Albis, the Uetliberg, the Zurichberg, and
indeed all the chains of hills lying above the glaciers were pro-
bably covered with forests, as are now the slopes surrounding
the Bernina glacier, and many other districts into which great
glaciers descend.
From the time of the greatest extension of the glacier in the
Canton of Zurich to the epoch of its retreat from the district, all
degrees of transition occurred ; and, on the hypothesis of two
glacial periods, these intermediate stages were repeated more
than once. A similar alternation is implied in the conditions
of temperature. At the time of the greatest extension of the
glaciers the temperature must have been at its lowest point ; it
must then have risen again ; and the vegetation must have fol-
lowed these changes. It is to be supposed that in the coldest
period of glacial action the spots free from ice and snow were
covered with a vegetation like that which is now seen on the
Swiss Alps ; and as the glaciers afterwards retreated these plants
also retired up into the mountains, and other vegetable forms
occupied the vacant places in the plain. Just as the Swiss
Alpine plants now fringe the fields of granular snow, and live
on moraines and glacier-islets, adorning them with the most
charming colours, so they formerly accompanied the glaciers
down into the lower country, presenting the same phenomenon
that may still be witnessed in Iceland and Greenland, where the
Alpine flora descends with the glaciers even to the sea-coast.
Unfortunately organic remains of the Glacial period have
reached modern times in very scanty measure, which is probably
due chiefly to the unfavourable nature of the deposits of this
epoch for their preservation.
Of plants, only a few fir-cones (Pinus Abies, Linn.) are known,
which Prof. Morlot has found in the glacial debris of Thonon
and in a lignite-like formation near the Signal of Bougy, with a
species of moss (Hypnum diluvii, Schimp.) . The fir-cones teach
us that at the time when the glacier extended down as far as
the Lake of Geneva there must have been forests of firs in that
vicinity ; and the moss is most nearly allied to a species from
Lapland and of the Sudetes (H. sarmentosum} .
