206 GLACIAL HISTORY.
Very scanty information is given in other countries foreign
to Switzerland respecting the flora of the drift period. The
tuffs of Cannstatt, near Stuttgart, constitute the most impor-
tant locality for such remains. They have as yet furnished
twenty-nine species, three of which are extinct, namely : the
mammoth oak, with its obtusely and widely lobate leaves,
6 inches broad, and oval acorns nearly twice as large as those
of the Quercus pedunculata ; a poplar (Populus Fraasii, Heer)
with large cordate leaves, the edges of which are only faintly
undulated; and a walnut-tree which resembles the American
species Juglans nigra and cinerea in the toothed pinnae of its
leaves.
Among the species which still inhabit the same region as the
lignites Prof. Heer remarks the red fir, the white birch, the
hazel, and the sycamore ; and the formation of the forest was
also assisted by the white fir, the aspen, and the silver poplar,
the pedunculated oak, the hornbeam, the elm, the lime-tree, and
the spindle-tree; whilst the undergrowth consisted of several
willows (Salix monandra, fragilis, aurita, viminalis, and especi-
ally Salix cinerea) , the cornel (Cornus sanguinea), two dogwoods
(Rhamnus frangula and catharticus, Linn.) , the box, and the black
whortleberry (Vaccinium uliginosum, Linn.), which have left
their impressions in the tuffs. The herbaceous plants are very
scarce; they are the great manna-grass (Glyceria spectabilis,
M. & K.), the reed, and the hart's-tongue fern (Scolopendrium
officinale). With the exception of extinct species and of the
box, these are all plants which now occur in Wirtemberg. Yet
the sycamore and the whortleberry are not found in the neigh-
bourhood of Cannstatt ; the sycamore grows on the mountains,
and the whortleberry in peat-bogs. On the whole, climatal
conditions are implied in the flora of Cannstatt similar to those
now prevalent in the same locality. Probably the tuffs of the
Cannstatt basin which there covered the Loess, were deposited
in the latter part of the Quaternary epoch at a time (after the
retreat of the glacier) when the climate again approximated to
that which is now existing.
Of plants indicating a colder climate than we have at pre-
sent, only two have been discovered. In old turbaries of Ivrea,
and in drift debris near Mur in Styria, trunks of the Siberian
