ALI'IXK FLORA. 209
through the air*. Besides, there is a relation between the dis-
tribution of these Alpine plants and the dispersion of the Alpine
erratic rocks. On the Uetliberg the Alpine toad-flax (Linaria
afyina) and the willow herb (Epilobium Fleischeri) are found
associated exactly as on the terminal moraines and in the loca-
lities deserted by Alpine glaciers. These arctic plants occur on
the Albis, the Bachtel, and the Lagern, at the same elevation
with rock-masses coming from high mountains. In this respect
the localization of the two Swiss Alpine roses (Rhododendron) is
very instructive. The species with fringed leaves (R. hirsutum,
Linn.) keeps chiefly to the limestone mountains, and occupies
a lower zone than the rusty-leaved species (R. ferrugineum,
Linn.). We should therefore expect to find the former and not
the latter in the Juraf. Yet it is only the rusty-leaved Alpine
rose that occurs in the Jura, and this is precisely the species
that grows everywhere in the mountains between the Simplon
and St. Bernard (which, as has been already seen, furnished the
erratic blocks on the Jura), whilst the fringe-leaved species is
wanting there J. As the rusty-leaved Alpine rose has the same
* On the erratic blocks of the plain a good many Alpine Cryptogamia are
found, and especially Lichens (for instance, according to Dr. Hepp, Lecidia
badio-atrdj spuria, discolor, micropsis, dispora, atro-alba, saxatilisj and Lecanora
badia). It may be remarked that on the plough-stone (Pflugstein) of Erlen-
bach an Alpine and northern fern (Asplenium septentrionale] is found which
occurs nowhere else in the whole Canton of Zurich.
t In the Bernese Alps opposite the Jura (the Stockhorn chain) Rhodo-
dendron hirsninm is abundant.
\ The fringe-leaved Alpine rose occurs in the mountains of Savoy, for ex-
ample at the Mole, and the Brezon, near Bonneville ; but as it is wanting in
the intermediate localities (between Bonneville and the Jura), for instance at
the Saleve, it is probable that it reached the Jura with the erratics of the
glaciers coming from the Alps. Of the 198 species of Alpine plants diffused
over the Jura, 179 also occur in the Alps of the Canton of Valais, so that the
great majority of these plants might come from that Canton. It is, however,
very probable that the Alpine plants have reached the Jura by another course,
since a certain number of Arcto-Alpine plants are found in the Jura. There
has also evidently been an immigration coming from the south-west, by
which the flora of the Jura has been enriched with Mediterranean elements.
But as the Jura sinks to the south of the Cluses de Nantua, and nearly all
the Alpine plants there disappear to flourish again near the Grande-Char-
treuse, where the mountains rise again to the Alpine region, we must not
seek in that district for the origin of the Alpine flora of the Jura. In this
VOL. II. F
