CJIABS AND SPIDERS. 9
in great bodies, and make their way by the shortest course to
the sea in order to deposit their eggs in its waters. When this
object is accomplished, they return in a weakened condition to
their burrows. Whether the CEningian species had similar
habits it is hard to say. At the CEningian epoch the sea had
disappeared from these regions ; but perhaps salt marshes and
small basins of salt water may have remained here and there,
which these crabs may have taken advantage of for the deposi-
tion of their eggs. The Swiss land-crab (Gecarcinus punctatus,
Heer) is rare at CEningen; the river-crab is more common.
Of the latter Prof. Heer has obtained twenty-eight, and of the
former only eleven specimens.
b. Arachnida.
CEningen alone furnishes information with respect to the
Spiders of the Swiss Miocene, these soft animals being preserved
only in the fine calcareous marl of the lower CEningian quarry.
From the upper quarry only two much- mutilated specimens have
been received.
The Spiders hitherto found at CEningen belong to twenty-
eight species ; but their generic determination is very difficult,
as the principal characters, which depend upon the position of
the eyes, are not recognizable. Prof. Heer has endeavoured to
determine them by the general form of the body and the com-
parative length of the legs; and in accordance with these
characters they may be referred to ten genera. Figs. 211-221
represent the principal forms of the CEningian spiders. We
observe among them a cross-spider (Epe'ira molassica, Heer,
fig. 221) of the size of the Swiss common species; several crab
spiders (Thomisus ceninyensis*, T. Iwidus, and T. Sulzeri, figs.
215-217), which run sideways like crabs, and are distinguished
by the shortness of the two hinder pair of legs ; some weaving
spiders (Theridion annulipcs, fig. 212, and T. globulus, fig. 220),
* Thorell refers this Thomisus to Xysticus and TJieridion maetdipes to Asa-
yena. But, according to Koch, Xysticus must not be separated from Thomi-
sus ; and, according to Walckenaer, Asagena is to be united with Theridion.
Considering the bad state of preservation of the fossil Arachnida, they can
only be referred to the most important genera.
