210 GLACIAL HISTORY.
home with the erratic blocks and masses of debris which have
been dispersed from the Valais over the Jura, it has probably
issued originally from the same region, and was transported at
the same time *.
These phenomena lead Prof. Heer to believe that the date of
these colonies of Alpine plants belongs to the Glacial epoch.
At that time probably an Alpine flora was spread over the
plain, clothing the moraines and those spots that were not
covered by ice with the same flowers which now so charmingly
adorn the solitudes of the great Swiss glaciers. When after-
wards the glaciers retreated and the formation of the lignites
began, the flora of the plain advanced into this region, while the
Alpine flora took refuge in the mountains. When the country
was again covered with glaciers, the Alpine flora descended to
the plain, and a second time abandoned the low country as the
glaciers retreated to a higher region. Hence in the existing
vegetation the Alpine flora forms the most ancient element,
and it was probably dispersed at two different periods over the
whole country wherever the land was free from snow and ice.
With a change of climate the flora of the plain gradually ad-
vanced, and became so completely dominant that at last only a
flora are found Campanula pusilla, Saxifraga aizoides, Linaria alpina, Gypso-
phila repenSj and Polygonum viviparum, which are met with everywhere in
the glacial soils and on the ancient Alpine moraines. Besides these species,
Prof. Heer also met with Saxifraga opposite/alia, S. muscoides, Ranunculus
alpestris, Asplenium septentrionale, Silene rupestris (at the Passwang), Heli-
anthemum alpestre, Primula auricula, Erigcron alpinus, and Aster alpinus,
which grow in the fissures of Alpine rocks. Hence these plants of Alpine
origin may have reached the Jura by the immense moraines and monstrous
blocks which no doubt formed real islands on the sea of ice.
* The rusty-leaved Alpine rose (Rhododendron ferruaineum') also occurs on
a great block of St.-Gothard granite at the Axenstein, above Brunnen. It is
probable that it descended from the St. Gothard with the immense blocks of
granite which are dispersed over the whole terrace of Morschach. In the
Canton of Aargau erratic plants are also met with on ancient moraines;
thus Alnus viridis grows upon a thick bed of loess, which rests upon the
White Jura of Waltersburg. In the same way, near Schonenwerth, in the
valley of Jonen, Prof. Heer has seen Viola liflora upon an Alpine block j and
Asplenium septentrionale occurs upon a block of granite near Kiiuten. (See
Miihlberg, die erratischen Bildungen im Aargau, p. 184.)
