ALPINE FLORA. 211
few vestiges of the Alpine flora remained in mountain-ravines,
on hill-ranges, and in cold damp moory grounds. Of these re-
mains of the former Alpine flora of the plain, individual species
have disappeared century by century, as is proved by the fact
that in the pile-dwellings of Robenhausen are found the cones
of Pinus montana and the seeds of a small mountain water-lily
(Nuphar pumilum] . It may also be observed that the sycamore
(Acer pseudoplatanus) was, in remote times, spread everywhere
over the plains, as appears from its frequent occurrence in all
the ancient tufts.
The dispersion of the Alpine flora in the plain took place at
the period of the greatest extension of glaciers, which comes
between the Pliocene period and the time of the formation of
the lignites. At that period Alpine plants were probably diffused
not only over the plain of Switzerland, but also over Germany.
This is indicated by the remarkable fact that nearly half of the
Swiss Alpine flora reappears in Scandinavia, and generally in
high northern latitudes. The northern flora shows a great uni-
formity, consisting principally of the same species, forming, as it
were, a girdle round the earth. Of these northern species many
appear on the North- German mountains, on the Hartz and the
Sudetes (in Silesia,), where they constitute the Alpine flora.
The Sudetes possess no peculiar plants ; all the species which do
not occur in the plain have been obtained from Scandinavia.
Some few species stop there (Rubus chamcemorus, Saxifraga
nivalis, and Pedicularis sudetica*) ; but most of them are met
with further south, and reappear upon the high mountains of
Switzerland. The same facts are observed in America and Asia.
On the Rocky Mountains, and even on the mountains of North
Carolina, plants are found which are identical with those of the
northern flora. Similarly on the Altai f, and even on the Hima-
* In the Snow-cavity of the Giant Mountains (north-west of the Sudetes)
Pupa arctica, Wahlbg., has been found. This is a native of Lapland, and of
the localities Where Saxifrcuja niralis is met with.
t In Ledebour's ' Flora Altaica ' there are 80 Phanerogamous plants of the
Swiss Alps, 54 of which belong to the Arctic and Laplandic flora. The
flora of Ajan, in the north-east of Siberia, on the sea of Ochotsk, includes 62
plants of the Swiss Alps, among which 45 are Arctic-Laplandic species.
Lapland possess 115 flowering plants in common with the Swiss mountain-
flora.
p 2
