212 GLACIAL HISTORY.
lay as (although these are situated so far south), plants are found
belonging to the northern flora. These are, for the most part,
species which also occur in the Alps ; so that the Swiss mountains
have a number of plants in common with American and Asiatic
ranges, and these plants have issued from the north as from a
common source. It is therefore very probable that, during the
Glacial epoch, the Scandinavian flora was spread over a great
part of Germany and also dispersed in Switzerland. As only
the principal glacier of Eastern Switzerland (the Rhine glacier)
extended as far as Germany, while the other Swiss glaciers
were bounded by the chain of the Jura, greater opportunities
for the immigration of the northern flora were presented at
the eastern side, which may explain the remarkable fact that
Eastern Switzerland, and especially the Canton of the Orisons,
has a number of rare plants and animals* in common with high
northern latitudes, which are wanting to the rest of Switzerland.
Hence a considerable portion of the Swiss Alpine flora probably
came from the north, and reached Switzerland during the Gla-
cial epoch. Afterwards, as the climate became warmer and
drier, they found in the Alps suitable places for their develop-
ment, where they have maintained their position, as in- the
north, down to the present day, whilst they have disappeared
from the plain, except in the colonies of northern plants, and
are now almost entirely wanting in the whole of that wide region
that lies between the Alps and Scandinavia.
[Sir Charles Lyell mentions, in his ' Student's Elements of
Geology/ p. 144, that the boulder formation had been termed
({ Diluvium," but that geologists observed it to be characteristic
of high latitudes, and that the great development of the boulder
formation with large erratics so far south as the Alps, favoured
the hypothesis that there was some intimate connexion between
it and accumulations of snow and icefj
Remains of Mollusca and Mammalia have been found in the
deposits of the drift. It has been noticed (p. 189) that
the glacier- streams contain much mud and sand produced
* Carex Vahlii, Juncus castaneus, J. styyius, Trientalis europcea, Thalictrum
alpinum ; Leiochiton arcticum, Cymindis angularis, Attains Cardiacce, Linn.,
sp., Biston lapponarius, Boisd., Chelonia Quc.melii.
t Editor.
