SNAIL-SHELLS. 213
by the friction of stones and rocks ; this drift is carried away by
the streams, and often deposited at a considerable distance from
the glaciers. Masses of yellowish sand and mud produced in
this way are to be found in the whole basin of the Rhine, from
the Schollberg (Canton of St. Gall) to Hesse and Nassau. In
the neighbourhood of Mayence they occur of great thickness.
This formation [is termed " fluviatile loam " by Sir Charles
Lyell, and] is known under the name of Loess. Here and there
it contains great quantities of snail-shells, almost all belonging
to living species. In Switzerland such shells were found by
Professor A. Escher de la Linth in a Loess formation at the
Schollberg (between the Hochwand and Triibbach) and in the
bay of Murris, which opens towards the south (below the ruins
of the Wartau) in the St. -Gall portion of the Rhine valley.
The 21 species * determined by Professor Mousson still, without
exception, occur in Eastern Switzerland, most of them in the
valley of the Rhine or at the foot of the nearest mountain- slopes.
One of the most abundant species (Helix ruderata, Stud.), how-
ever, is now wanting in the plain, and is a characteristic form
of the high mountain -region, occurring in the mountains of
Glaris, the Prattigau, and the Sentis chain. Helix sericea gla-
bella, Stud., and H. arbustorum subalpina also belong to the
mountain-regions. All the other species are either forest-snails
from the region of leafy trees, or species which prefer shady
moist places. Inhabitants of dry sunny localities are wanting.
These shells probably remain from a time when the glacier
had retreated into the neighbourhood of Sargans or Ragatz, and
the fine sand and mud were deposited upon the old bed of the
glacier. The intermixture of some mountain forms which are
no longer to be found in the low country, shows that the glacier
* See Mousson, " Ueber den Loess des St.-Gallischen Rheinthales ' ' (in
Mittheil. der Ziircher naturf. Gesellsch.1856. The species found are : Succinea
oblonaa, Drap. ; Helix nitidula, Drap., var. vitrina, Hoch.; H. nitidosa, Fr.;
H, nitens, Mich. ; H. crystallina, Mull. ; H. fulva, Drap. j H. ruderata, Stad. ;
//. rotundata, Mull. ; //. sericea, Mull., 'glabella and hijbrida ; H. villosa, Drap. ;
H. striaella late umbilicata ; //. pulchella costata, obvoluta, Mull. ; //. arbusto-
rum subalpina; H. hortensis; BuUmns montanus, Drap.; Achatina lubrica,
Miill., with var. pulchella ; Pupa dolium,P. biyranata, P. secale, Clamilia dubia,
Drap. It is very remarkable that the variety of Helix striyella \vith a wide
umbilicus still occurs near Sargaus, and is peculiar to that district.
