214 GLACIAL HISTORY.
was still in the vicinity. Whilst this deposit belongs to the
period of the retreat of the glacier, the loess of the lower part of
the Rhine valley probably originated at an earlier period, when
it had a greater extension. Of the numerous snails which have
been collected in it, the species of shady moist localities certainly
predominate ; and with them are mixed several forms (such as
Helix hispida, Miill., H. ruderata, and H. arbustorum subalpina),
which at present are met with only in high mountains, whilst no
species occur which belong to warm sunny localities.
The Mollusca of the drift agree with those now living
in Switzerland; but the Mammalia present six peculiar ex-
tinct types. Seventeen species of mammals have at present
been discovered in Switzerland. Three of these have been
already noticed in the lignite formation, namely : the cave-bear,
the teeth of which have been found in the Wildkirchli cavern,
under a bed of calcareous tufa ; the red deer, which is widely
spread in the Quaternary formation ; and the urus (Bos primi-
genius), remains of which have been collected in the drift -
formation of the Isteinerklotz. Besides the urus, a second spe-
cies, the aurochs (Bos bison prisons), has been found in Swit-
zerland. Its great horn-cores and a portion of the skull were
found in a railway-cutting at Bollingen, near Rapperschwyl.
Hence the two wild oxen mentioned by Seneca and Pliny were
in existence in the period of the drift -formation. The aurochs
or bison is a large fierce animal, with a long mane like the
American buffalo. Both the urus and the aurochs are found in
the Swiss pile-dwellings ; and even in the middle ages the aurochs
was widely spread in the European forests, but is now preserved
only in the great forest of Bialowicza. The giant stag (or Irish
elk, Cervus eurycerus, Aid.), of which remains have been found
at the Isteinerklotz, was an animal of nearly equal size. Of the
elk (Cervus alces, Linn.) an entire skeleton was brought to
light in the Val Tr avers.
In the Wildkirchli the bones of the foot of a chamois (Antilope
rupicapra, Linn'.) were found in the same place as the teeth of
the cave-bear, so that this animal was already in existence in the
Quaternary period. This is confirmed by remains found in the
valley of the Rhine, which demonstrate that at that time the
chamois, as well as the ibex and the marmot, inhabited the low
