MAMMALS. 215
country. Of the former the horn-cores have been found in a
gravel -bed of the Rhine valley ; of the marmot the cranium and
bones occur near Zimmerwald and in the drift -formation of Nie-
derwangen near Berne, as well as in the moraine which stretches
from the Bois de Vaux to the Perandette, and forms the pro-
menade of the Moiitbenon near Lausanne, celebrated for the
splendid view which is enjoyed from it. Near Benken, in the
Canton of Zurich, antlers have been obtained so like those of the
reindeer that they probably belonged to this northern animal,
some traces of which are also preserved in the deposits of the
drift formation of the valley of the Rhine.
The badger and wild cat have left their remains in the
drift formation near Zimmerwald in the Canton of Berne,
and the cave-hysena (Hyaena spelcea, Goldf.) near the Isteiner-
klotz. The hyaena is most nearly allied to the spotted hyaena
(H. crocuta, Linn.) of the Cape of Good Hope ; it was, however,
larger and stronger, and is now extinct. Teeth of horses have
been collected here and there in gravel-pits. According to Pro-
fessor Riitimeyer most of them belong to the common horse
(Equus caballus, Linn.), such as the teeth from the gravel-pit of
Bulach and from the Rhine valley ; hence this animal inhabited
Switzerland at a very early period. But with it occurs a second
extinct species (Equus fossilis, Cuv., Owen), which differs in
some peculiarities of the structure of the teeth from the existing
horse, and approaches the Miocene Hipparion. According to
Riitimeyer, this species has hitherto been found in the western
parts of Switzerland only (in a gravel-pit of Riez at Cully).
Most of these animals still inhabit the European continent ;
and the extinct species are nearly allied to existing ones ; but
two pachyderms constitute quite peculiar types now strange to
the Swiss fauna, namely the woolly rhinoceros and the mammoth
elephant. Each of them was covered with a thick hairy coat,
and therefore adapted to a more rigorous climate.
The rhinoceros (R. tichorhinus, Cuv.) was most nearly related
to the South- African Rhinoceros bicornis, but had a longer and
narrower head, a stouter body, and shorter and thicker legs. It
bore two strong horns on its nose. Its remains have been found
in the gravel of the Rhine A' alley, and near the Isteinerklotz.
The mammoth (Elephas primif/enius, Blum., fig. 351) was much
