216 GLACIAL HISTORY.
more abundant. It was rather larger than the Indian elephant,
to which it is more nearly related than to the African. Its
tusks were from 8 to 15 feet long, and more strongly curved
than those of the Indian elephant ; and the molars have more
numerous and narrower transverse plates with parallel margins,
by which they are also distinguished from those of Elephas an-
tiquus (compare figs. 350 & 351). If we imagine a very large
Indian elephant, clothe it with long blackish-brown hairs form-
ing a mane on the neck, give it large ears fringed with hairs,
long strongly curved tusks, and thick massive legs, we obtain a
picture of this remarkable animal. It has been found in many
Swiss localities ; but it is unfortunately difficult to say at what
period in the Quaternary epoch it first made its appearance in
Switzerland. Its remains are generally discovered in gravel-
pits ; but as masses of sand and pebbles were deposited during
the whole of the Quaternary period, we cannot in most cases
decide to what section of that period they are to be referred.
In the beds of rolled pebbles which immediately cover the lig-
nites at Durnten, Wetzikon, and Utznach (see section, p. 150,
fig. 328, c- g, and p. 152) no remains of animals have as yet
been found; but they occur in the gravel- pit of Irgenhausen,
near Wetzikon, which very probably belongs to the same divi-
sion. Here M. Messikomer discovered large bones no doubt
belonging to an elephant ; but it is still doubtful whether this
was the mammoth or the Elephas antiquus. Undoubted molars
of the mammoth, however, have been found in the gravel-pit of
the Holzerweid (near Bussenhausen, above Pfaffikon) and in
those of Huntwangen and Maschwanden, as also in those of the
Cantons of Berne, Basle, and Neuchatel, and near Merges.
Near Neuchatel a tooth was found in stratified gravel, resting
upon polished rocks. But this smoothing of the rocks, was
probably effected during the first Glacial period, as it was
only at that time that the great Rhone glacier reached so far ;
hence this fact only proves that the mammoth came into the
. Neuchatel district after the first Glacial period. The locality
near Merges is more important. Here, in a section formed by
the Boiron rivulet, half a mile west of the town, a fine molar
and a tusk were found lying at a depth of about 12 feet in strati-
fied gravel. The gravel belongs to a terrace situated about
