MAMMOTH. 217
80 feet above the lake, and consisting entirely of Alpine mate-
rial,, which Avas probably deposited there during the second
Glacial period. As the teeth lay in its upper stratified portion,
they probably arrived there at a time when a rivulet flowed
towards the basin of the lake then occupied by the glacier, and
formed the gravel-bed probably after the ice-masses had disap-
peared from the district. In the Canton of Berne teeth and
fragments of bones have been found at Neubruck and Rapper-
schwyl (near Atibltern), and in the city of Berne, not far from
the Federal Palace. In the latter locality a tooth was obtained
in a deposit of glacial gravel derived from the great terminal
moraine, the formation of which probably dates from the close
of the Glacial epoch *. In the Canton of Basle, where the
gravel-beds have furnished remains of the mammoth at various
places (as . near Liestal, Diegten, Dornach, Grollingen, and
Munchenstein), they may have been deposited in the intergla-
cial or the postglacial period ; and a similar observation applies
to the remains of animals collected at the Isteinerklotz below
Basle. At this point the rock of the Jura projects into the
Rhine, and objects floating down the Rhine are frequently cast
upon the bank. This was the case even in the drift epoch ; for
remains of the mammoth, urus, horse, giant stag, hyaena, and
cave-bear have been found here; so that the river must then
have had its present course. But whether these animals were
stranded during or after tHe Glacial period cannot now be ascer-
tained. The mammoth-remains discovered in the Canton of
Soleure (near the city and near Trimbach),the great tusk found
in the bed of the Aar near Aarau, and the fine molars exhumed
near Luttingen in the neighbourhood of Hauenstein, throw no
light upon the matter. The teeth of the mammoth at Luttingen
(p. 165, fig. 351) lay among remains of bones of the urus (Bos
primigenius) in a marshy soil which was covered with a bed of
loam, and occupied a basin enclosed by primitive rocks of the
locality. From the facts hitherto ascertained we learn that the
mammoth appeared in Switzerland at the end of the second
Glacial epoch.
* See Isidor Bachmann, * Ueber die iu Bern vorkomniendeii versteinerten
Thieneste : ' Bern, 1807.
