218 t GLACIAL HISTORY.
During the interglacial period,, at the time of the formation
of the lignites, the Elephas antiquus probably came into Swit-
zerland in the summer time from Italy, where it was abundant,
and the mammoth (Elephas primigenius) immigrated into the
Swiss region from more northern localities. The remains of the
mammoth are everywhere found in Central and Northern
Europe, in Northern Asia *, and in North America ; its area of
distribution was more extended than is usual for animals of such
vast size. In Germany the valley of Cannstatt and Stuttgard
was an especially favourite resort of the mammoth and woolly
rhinoceros ; and in that basin great quantities of the bones and
teeth of these animals have been found in a sandy loam (the
Loess), which in many places is covered with tuifs. In the
plain of the Rhine the Loess contains bones of the same two
pachyderms.
Small as is the number of animals found in the Swiss drift
(Diluvium), the remains are very remarkable on account of the
singular mixture of species. Side by side with forms which may
be regarded as belonging to the temperate zone, such as the
horse, the urus (Bos primigenius), the stag, the badger, the bear,
and the wild cat, there are true Alpine animals, such as the
chamois, the ibex, and the marmot, and inhabitants of the
northern regions, such as the elk and the reindeer; and with
these are associated a rhinoceros arid an elephant, the nearest
relatives of wliich now live only in the torrid and warm zones ;
but, at the same time, they differ from their living representa-
tives by their hairy covering, and thus demonstrate that they
were organized for a cold climate.
The drift-fauna presents the same character in all parts of
* It is probable that the mammoth was originally a native of Eastern
Siberia, and that it lived there as early as the epoch of the Swiss lignites ; it
is also likely that, the temperature decreasing more and more during the
second Glacial period, it emigrated and arrived in Central Europe. This
hypothesis is supported by the fact that in Siberia the mammoth passed the
Arctic circle and reached even the 80th degree, while in Europe it has never
attained the Arctic circle (see Prof. Heer's ' Flora Fossilis Arctica,' i. p. 43).
In Siberia several perfect specimens of this animal with the skin and hair
have been found buried in the frozen soil ; and the teeth are there so abun-
dant that fossil ivory constitutes in that country an important article of
commerce.
