DRIFT LAND-FAUNA. 219
Europe : chamois and marmots have been found even in the
plain of the Rhine ; and there the elk and the reindeer were
associated with the musk-ox, which is now met with only in the
extreme north of America and in Eastern Greenland, and with
two species of lemming, one of which (Myodes lemmus, Linn.)
now inhabits Sweden and Norway, whilst the other (M. torqua-
tus, Pall., sp.) lives in still higher latitudes. This occurrence of
Arctic and Alpine anin|als in the plains of Switzerland and
Europe in 'general very probably coincides in point of time with
the diffusion of an Alpine flora over the low country, and con-
stitutes an important confirmation of the hypothesis of a glacial
epoch.
At a later period none of the higher animals of the Alps and
of Northern Europe could maintain their position on the nume-
rous hills in the low country, as they had not sufficient ground
in those localities ; and as the human race advanced into that
region, large animals would be obliged to give up to man their
share of the land; but the smaller animals, such as the
insects, and the plants remained. In the upper part of the
valley of the Toss are seen on the same mountain-plants the
Petasites, the Adenostyla, and the blue and golden Chrysomelae
(C. gloriosa and tristis), as in Central Switzerland. In the
brooks are found small water-beetles (Hydroporus septentrionalis ,
Gyll., and H. griseo-striatus, Deg.) pertaining to the north and
to the Alps ; and on the Tosstock a beetle (Nebia Gyllenhalii}
has settled which is wanting in the northern mountains, but is
found everywhere in the Alps of the Orisons and of Uri, and
involuntarily reminded Prof. Heer of the Ponteljes granite which
had been formerly carried into this locality. On the Ziirichberg,
the Uetliberg, and the Randen, also, some vestiges are met with
of the distant Glacial epoch *.
In another characteristic the Swiss insect-fauna shows an
analogy with the flora of the drift-period. Switzerland in its
drift possesses a considerable number of entomological species
which are also common to high northern latitudes, although
they are absent from all the intervening countries. Prof. Heer
* As such souvenirs may be indicated Carabus auromtens, Fab., C. irregu-
lari* Fab., Cyehnts rostratus, Ptcrostichus ovalis and metallicus, Leplura virens,
CaUickrotna a/jnna, Pachyta quatttormetmfafa, and Lathrobiuin afjwstre.
