220 GLACIAL HISTORY.
was most agreeably surprised when,, for the first time, he found
on the Bernina a minute insect (Leiochiton arcticum) which is
widely diffused in Finland and Lapland ; and at Fetau he met
with an elegant beetle (Cymindis angularis) which at the present
time is only known in Lapland. Lastly, in 1849, near Samaden
and Bevers, Prof. Heer discovered a splendid moth (Euprepia
flava, Amstein) which also occurs in Siberia. Such instances
form a few novel links in a complete chain of phenomena, the
explanation of which is to be sought in the Glacial epoch.
All these facts leave no room to doubt that a great diminution
of temperature occurred in the drift-period, and consequently
that the glaciers moved from the Alpine zone, and invaded the
plain. At present only a few Alpine and northern animals and
plants have been found fossil in the drift ; but the constitution
of the flora and fauna of Switzerland, and of the northern zone,
confirm the conclusions founded upon the dispersion of the
Alpine rocks. In connexion with the facts already noticed,
they furnish the means of forming a distinct conception of the
landscape of the period. The plate at the commencement of the
present volume, " Zurich in the Glacial Epoch/' is intended to
show the appearance of the immediate vicinity of Zurich at the
close of the second Glacial period. The glacier is in retreat.
The chains of hills formerly covered with ice are once more free
and 'clothed with forests of conifers : the surface of the lake is
still occupied by the glacier, upon which run two long lateral
moraines. The northern end of the glacier is torn and split by
crevasses ; and numerous fragments of ice have broken loose and
float towards the land. The foreground is formed by the ter-
minal moraine, vast blocks of which have been brought by the
glacier to their present position. They are scantily clothed
with dwarf pines and Alpine alders. A family of marmots is
sporting about among the blocks ; on the right appear some
mammoths, and further on- a troop of reindeer are going to
drink. In the background the snow-white Alps are visible,
from the Glarnisch to the Windgelle ; these mountains supply
the sources of the glacier which moves down from them into the
plain.
If a Glacial epoch of this kind passed over the hemisphere in
which Europe is situated, it must have left traces of its occur-
