DRIFT MARINE: FA UNA. 221
rence in the inhabitants of the sea; and accordingly a more
northern character has been observed in the marine fauna of
the drift-deposits of Sweden, Scotland, and England. A northern
character has also been manifested in the drift-fauna of the
Mediterranean as far as Sicily. Forms of animal life belonging
to the extreme north descended towards the south, and were
afterwards driven back to the north. Hence most of them are
only found in the fossil state in the drift -deposits of the above-
mentioned countries, although some still exist at great oceanic
depths, or at places where cold springs burst through the sea-
bottom ; and thus the same phenomenon is reproduced by the sea
with which we have become acquainted in the case of land plants
and animals. Thus colonies of Norwegian Crustacea occur in
the gulf of Quarnero, in the Adriatic, and also colonies of
Arctic animals in the lakes of the Norwegian coast, which were
formerly united with the sea, and have been separated from it
by the upheaval of the land.
On glancing over the numerous facts furnished by both
organic and inorganic nature. Prof. Heer is compelled to con-
clude that the warm Tertiary epoch was followed by a period in
which the climate was much colder than at present. Even
during the Tertiary epoch a gradual diminution of temperature
took place, as is proved by a comparison of the (Eningian flora
with that of the Lower Miocene ; and in Pliocene times the cli-
mate approximated to that of the present day (see p. 174). In
the subsequent drift-period the temperature fell at the time of
the greatest development of the glaciers several degrees below
the present mean. If the temperature were now to fall about
4 or 5 C. (or 7'2 or 9 Fahr.), the glaciers would again make
their way irresistibly down into the low country and spread over
the plains, and this would take place the more rapidly in propor-
tion to the moisture of the climate and the amount of aqueous
precipitation. Only a slight diminution of temperature, there-
fore, is requisite in order to explain the phenomena of the Gla-
cial epoch ; at the same time it is certainly remarkable that at
the very commencement of the Glacial-drift period the glaciers
spread over the plain of Switzerland and then again retreated,
and during thousands of years a quiet formation of peat took
place in the same country where the glaciers had formerly been,
