222 GLACIAL HISTORY.
the lignite district being in its turn invaded by a fresh advance
of the masses of ice. This solves the apparent contradictions
presented by the animals and plants of the drift deposits, species
both of the temperate and cold zones which they have preserved
for us being explained by the changes of climate which took
place during this long period. The remarkable fact that the
Swiss flora has retained so few Miocene types of plants is also
thus accounted for. It may easily be understood that all the
forms of the torrid and warm zones could not be introduced
into the present flora of Switzerland, as these- would have dis-
appeared even in Pliocene times ; but the Swiss Miocene flora
contained a number of species representing those of a temperate
climate, which would very probably have remained under altered
circumstances in the existing flora if a great interval had not
separated the flora of our time from the Miocene. This interval
was caused by the Glacial epoch, to which it is owing that the
planes, the red maple, the balsam-poplar, the walnut, the tulip-
trees, the liquidambars, &c. have so little part in the constitu-
tion of the existing Swiss flora, whilst they reappear in America
in very nearly allied forms. These species support the Swiss
climate admirably, and are seen here as foreign cultivated trees,
while their ancestors in Miocene times were among the most
abundant Swiss plants. In the uppermost Pliocene deposits
some Miocene types are still met with which are now exclusively
American, and which were exterminated in Switzerland during
the first Glacial period ; so that even at the time of the formation
of the lignites all traces of them had disappeared, and the flora
had acquired its present Asiatico-European character.
Prof. Heer is of opinion that with the drift or diluvium a
period was reached when man appeared on the stage of life.
Only some obscure traces of human beings have been hitherto
found in the Swiss drift-deposits.
The lake-dwellings of Switzerland belong to a much later
time, as is shown rh the section of the Wetzikon district near
the Lake of Zurich (vol. i. p. 27), where the remains of lacustrine
habitations are found over a* series of lake-chalk, drift-debris,
lignites or paper-coals, and gravel-beds.
Facts have been ascertained in France, Belgium, and England
which give great probability to the existence of Man contempo-
