224 GLACIAL HISTORY.
discovered in the deposits immediately following those of the
Glacial epoch, forming the fifth stage of Prof. Heei^s Table
(p. 203) . At this period the mammoth and the woolly rhino-
ceros were still living, and were widely distributed. Most of
the localities where these animals were found seem to belong to
the Postglacial period, which long preceded the age of the pile-
dwellings.
In the period of the Swiss lake- dwellings the urus and the
elk are met with, but there are no traces of the mammoth and
rhinoceros, and the stone implements differ in form from the
most ancient examples. The remains found by Lartet in the
caverns of Perigord and of the Pyrenees probably belong to the
intermediate epoch, as well as the instruments in bone which have
been collected near Schussenried and at the Saleve. Remains
of reindeer are seen, with sculptures on the palmate portions of
the antlers, which must have been worked by human agency.
During the drift-period Europe w r as perhaps united by conti-
nental land with the Atlantic islands, as the Azores, Madeira,
and the Canaries have a great number of plants and of lower
animals in common with Europe, thus demonstrating that these
islands are more connected with Europe than with Africa. In
more northern latitudes the European continent seems to have
been united with America; for the mammoth, as well as the
horse and the musk-sheep (Ovibos moschatus) lived in North
America as well as in Europe. Subsequently the musk-sheep
became extinct in Europe, the horse disappeared in America,
and the mammoth no longer lived in either country. An ex-
planation of many remarkable phenomena will be afforded if we
has proved (Les Phases de la Periode Diluvienne) that this assimilation is
inadmissible. He regards the Drift of the Somme as Postglacial ; and the
researches of Lyell (Antiquity of Man, p. 228) are in agreement with this
determination. Lyell has shown that all the occurrences of human remains
in England are in deposits which date from the Postglacial period, and that
the gravel-beds of the Somme probably belong to the same time. D'Archiac
also adopts this latter opinion (Du Terrain quaternaire et de 1'anciennete de
1'homme dans le nord de France, 1863, p. 47) ; only he erroneously places the
English localities which have furnished the clue to the determination of the
horizon of the French deposits in the middle of the Quaternary epoch and
before the second Glacial period.
