ATLANTIC COXTIXKXT. 225
suppose that during the Miocene epoch there was an extension
of an Atlantic continent from the Arctic zone far towards the
south, so as to unite America and Europe, from Iceland to the
United States of North America *. Such an Atlantic continent
would account for the fact that, of 56 species of Miocene plants
that Prof. Heer knows from Alaska f, 17 occur in the Swiss
Miocene flora. In this number there are 3 species of poplar,
3 willows, the liquidambar, a walnut, &c. Under these circum-
stances it may be understood how the planes and the sabal
palm established themselves everywhere in Europe, how the
tulip-tree migrated into Iceland and Switzerland, and how Swiss
fossil remains comprise gigantic frogs, long-necked tortoises,
Belastomata, and Gyrlm, such as are now only to be met wfth
in American waters.
The hypothesis of an Atlantic continent would explain in a
* The objection urged, that this Atlantic continent would have occupied
nxactly the deepest parts of the ocean, is not well founded ; for the greatest
depth of the ocean occurs much further south, namely between Southern
Africa and South America. The greatest breadth of this continent would
correspond to the line of the- transatlantic telegraph, which lies at a mean
depth of 0-439 of a geographical mile. The identity of the Miocene corals of
the south-west of Europe with those of the Antilles is a proof of the exist-
r-nce of shallow shores running from one continent to the other, as the corals
will not build in a deep sea. If the southern shores of the supposed Atlantis
were fringed with coral-reefs, such as are now met with in the Miocene
rif Porto-Santo, the identity between the coral fauna of Miocene Europe and
that of America is easily explained, whilst if the two continents were sepa-
rated by a vast and deep sea this explanation would be very difficult (see
the 'Flore Fossile des pays arctiques,' by Prof. Heer, i. p. 52).
f Dr. Newberry has just discovered several species which belong in com^
mon to the Miocene of Fort Union, Dacotah, and to that of Europe, e. g,
Onoclea semibilis, Linn. (Filirites hebridicus, Forbes, from the island of Mull),
Olyptostrobus enropceus, and a fan-palm very nearly allied to the Sabal major.
The Arctic zone having been, in Miocene times, a very important vegetable
focus from which plants could spread in all directions, many species probably
had from thence their origin, such as the Taxodium, Sequoia Lanysdorfii,
Glyptostrobus, and others. It is not unimportant to observe that the species
common to the Swiss Miocene flora and to that of North America are especi-
ally species of the temperate zone j these species probably originated in the
North. Nevertheless tropical forms are not wanting ; but such plants as the
sabal palm could not come from Arctic countries.
VOL. IT. Q
