226 GLACIAL HISTORY.
general way how it happened that Europe, in the Miocene
epoch, possessed a whole series of plants and animals the
nearest allies * of which now belong exclusively to North
America, and that some types of animals and plants of the
Tertiary epoch (vol. i. pp. 348 & 370), as well as some American
types, have maintained themselves to the present day in the
Atlantic islands. Probably the depression of the great Miocene
continent, which has here been designated under the name of
Atlantis, was contemporaneous with the elevation of the Alps,
and the sinking of the land continued until the close of the drift
epoch. By this depression the continuity of Europe and Ame-
rica became broken ; and whilst during the Miocene period
the organic world of Europe possessed numerous American
types, these disappeared during the drift period. Their place
was taken by species of plants and animals coming from the
east, which constitute the greater part of the flora and fauna of
the Swiss plains ; and the Alps received numerous immigrants
of Scandinavian origin, which now form an integral part of the
Swiss Alpine flora.
Organic nature does not seem to have undergone in America
so strongly marked a change as in Europe. The existing
American flora much more closely resembles the Miocene flora
both of America and of Europe. Tertiary types may be more
easily preserved, owing to the form of the American continent,
which stretches through both hemispheres, and consists of im-
mense territories not for a long period invaded by the sea ; whilst
the contour of Europe is indented, and its area is of smaller ex-
tent, so that the Tertiary types have been in great measure
destroyed. A certain number of these types, however, have
maintained their ground in the Mediterranean zone, and have
become the parent plants which bind the flora of that zone to
the Tertiary flora.
Is the Atlantic continent, the existence of which we have just
assumed in accordance with the facts stated, the same as the
* In this question, the analogy of the species has quite a different bearing
from that of the genera ; which Prof. Oliver seems to have forgotten in his
treatise,. " The Atlantis hypothesis in its Botanical aspect," Nat.-Hist. Rev.
1862.
