ATLANTIS. 227
legendary Atlantis of the Greeks ? It may have happened that
man inhabited the Atlantis as well as France and England;
and in that case the remarkable statement of Plato in the
'Timseus' and 'Critias' acquires a new interest. History
related, according to the tradition of the Egyptian priests,
that in ancient times there existed, beyond the Pillars of
Heracles (the Straits of Gibraltar), an island larger than Asia
and Libya united, clothed with a rich vegetation, and inhabited
by a very powerful people ; but, subsequently, earthquakes and
enormous waves swallowed up the island. Plato has poetically
embellished this obscure and ancient legend, for which probably
there was a foundation in great geological events* terminating
at the close of the drift epoch.
The present boundaries of the Mediterranean sea were only
settled during the drift-epoch. All the borders of the northern
coast of Africa have a Southern-European character, which in-
dicates that the separation of Europe from Africa did not take
place until the same types of organic nature had been established
in the borders of both countries.
During the Miocene epoch Greece was united on the east
with Asia Minor (vol. i. p. 297). Then occurred a considerable
depression which separated Europe from Asia : the numerous
Greek islands are only the remains of this vast intermediate
country. Probably this depression took place at a period when
Man was in existence, and afterwards gave rise among ancient
nations to legends respecting the deluge.
The preceding statements lead us to regard the drift-period
as stormy and changeful. During its course many modifica-
tions of climate occurred, and exercised a great influence on
the constitution of the flora and fauna. Although the prin-
cipal mountain-heights of Switzerland were fixed, and the sea
* [The poet Beattie adopts the Platonic tradition in the following line :
<l Where the Atlantic rolls, wide continents have bloomed."
Plato described the island of Atlantis as " the way to other islands, and
from the islands you might pass to the whole of the opposite continent "
(see Dr. Jowett's translation of Plato's Dialogues, vol. iii. p. 609). EDITOR.]
Q2
