2.28 GLACIAL HISTORY.
no longer invaded the heart of Europe, a peculiar character be-
longed to the epoch from the enormous masses of water which
were produced by active condensation, originating mighty gla-
ciers, and from the elevations and depressions still frequently
modifying the- limits of this part of the world. It has been well
defined as " the period of inundations."
If traces of Man belong to the drift-period of the earth's
history, human beings were contemporaneous with those troubled
times, and would be affected by them. Hence narratives
of the Deluge would be current among all ancient peoples
among the savages of America as well as among the civilized
nations of antiquity. These are obscure memories of ancient
races relating to magnificent and real events, but poetically em-
bellished and adapted to certain definite localities. Phenomena
which may have lasted thousands of years are summed up in a
short space of time ; in fact, when the poet wishes to call up a
general image before our minds, it is his custom to bring distant
events together and combine them within a narrow frame. It
is when he succeeds in melting these grains of gold into an
harmonious stream that he contributes to the well-being of
humanity.
With the presence of man commences a new world, the world
of the intellect, which does not lie within the domain of this
work, the scope of which is limited to primaeval formations an-
terior to man.
Homage is here due to the memory of those distinguished
persons who, by raising the veil that concealed the Glacial epoch,
laid open to the world one of the most wonderful episodes in
geological history.
J. Venetz was the first to demonstrate the analogy of erratic
blocks scattered over the plain with the debris on the moraines
of glaciers. He first put forward this idea in a treatise dated
1821, and afterwards addressed the Swiss Society of Natural
History on the subject when it met at St. -Bernard in 1829. A
scientific basis was given to the theory by John de Charpentier,
in a series of conscientious researches, and by a careful combi-
nation of known facts. His views formed the starting-point of
researches subsequently carried on by Agassiz, Desor, Escher,
