DRIFT-BEDS. 231
gravel-beds and moraiues put back again on the mountains from
which they were removed, there were would be a great increase
of height to the Alpine range.
Traces of Man and of his works are found in Switzerland in
the higher stratum of the country, in peat-bogs and tufas which
are continually increasing. Prof. Heer does not consider that
there are any such traces in the drift gravel-beds lying beneath
the soil which contains the remains of the inhabitants of pile-
dwellings. The plants of this epoch almost exactly resemble
those of the present day, and the fauna only offers us a few ex-
otic types ; if, however, the Miocene rocks are examined which
lie immediately below these drift gravel-beds in Switzerland,
another world of life meets the view. As the glaciers and gra-
nulated-snow fields which encircle the Alpine chain with a white
girdle constitute a boundary-line for animal and vegetable life,
the glaciers of the first drift-period form a far more important
barrier between the drift and the Tertiary fauna and flora.
Even the rocks which contain their remains are very different.
The drift deposits consist chiefly of pebbles and sand, here and
there, indeed, united into solid masses, but not forming true
rocks ; whilst the Tertiary deposits have largely assisted in the
formation of mountains. Descending still lower, we meet with
a long series not only of different rock-formations, but also of
different animals and plants, succeeding one another step by
step ; so that when a general survey is made, a world is revealed
to us rich in organized beings which formerly lived upon the
earth, and we ascertain that Switzerland contains memorials of
all periods from the drift to the coal-formation. Below the
anthracite rocks which represent the Carboniferous period,
crystalline rock-masses are found, which have been essential to
the construction of the Alps, and which consist of numerous
varieties of granite and gneiss, micaceous, chloritic, and talcose
schists, and amphibole"*. Quartz, felspar, and mica are the
constituents of granite and gneiss, the latter being distinguished
from granite by its stratification. In the mica-schist mica pre-
* [Amphibole comprises hornblende, actinolite, treinolite, &c. (Lyell's
' Elements of Geology,' chapter 28). EDITOR.]
