232 RETROSPECT.
dominates, and felspar is entirely or almost entirely absent ; the
allied chloritic and talcose schists are characterized by a general
green colour and a softer consistency. In some places the tal-
cose schists are worked for making pots and stoves. The am-
phibolic masses, which occur chiefly on the southern slope of the
Alps, are distinguished by the presence of the black variety of
amphibole. In some places serpentine and gabbro* also occur,
which have formed a part of the mountains of the Valais, of Uri,
and of the Grisons. These rocks contain no traces of fossils;
so that they are destitute of any indications of organic life ; and
hence they have not improperly been denominated Primary
Rocks. They have prepared the ground on which living crea-
tures were in after times to appear.
Crystalline rocks form the highest Swiss mountains, and con-
stitute the nucleus of the central Alps, on which are grouped to
the north and south the deposits of the Jurassic, Cretaceous,
Eocene, and Miocene periods. Even in the Miocene basin of
Switzerland, if we could penetrate to great depths, these older
rocks would be reached. In northern Switzerland they reappear
near Laufenbourg. The gneiss of Laufenbourg is connected
with the crystalline rock -masses of the Black Forest, which are
surrounded by a zone of Triassic and Jurassic rocks, consisting
in some places on their edges of a conglomerate manifestly pro-
duced by the weathering of gneiss.
In Switzerland the anthracite-shales are found lying over the
crystalline rocks, and must therefore be regarded as the most
ancient fossiliferous formations which have yet been discovered
in that country. But from the geological constitution of other
countries it is known that a long period elapsed before the for-
mation of the Carboniferous rocks ; and the earlier strata have
been principally observed in Germany, Bohemia, Russia, Sweden,
England, and North America ; and they are divided into four
sections, namely the Laurentian f, Cambrian, Silurian, and De-
* [Saussurite (tough Jade) constitutes gabbro rocks (Greg and Lettsom's
Mineralogy, p. 114). EDITOR.]
f [An account of the Laureutian system is given in Sir Willian Logan's
1 Report of the Canadian Geological survey,' 1863 (chapter iii.), in which the
Laurentian strata are described as " altered to a highly crystalline condition,
