EAHLY PALAEOZOIC STRATA. 233
vonian formations. In some places these formations are of
great thickness; and they consist chiefly of clay-slate, of breccia
(Grauwacke), and limestone. The Cambrian and Silnrian for-
mations contain only marine organisms. About twenty species
of plants are known, all of which seem to belong to the Algae.
The precise nature of Oldhamia and Murchisonites cannot yet
be regarded as settled. Of animals, small Brachiopods and
Trilobites appear in the upper strata of the Cambrian series. In
the Silurian they are developed in a multiplicity of forms ; but
the same species in part occur in high northern and more
southern latitudes in North America and Europe, and even in
China. The Trilobites, which are the earliest known Articulate
animals, and belong to the Crustacea, disappear entirely in the
mountain-limestone of the Carboniferous formation, whilst the
Brachiopods have continued in existence to the present day;
indeed one genus (Lingula), a species of which now burrows
into the sand of tropical coasts, was represented even in the
seas of the Cambrian epoch, showing us that certain types of
animals are continued through all the ages of the world's his-
tory. Most of the Brachiopods of the early Palaeozoic rocks
belong to genera which do not now exist. Besides the Brachi-
opods, the Cephalopods are the Mollusca that occur most fre-
quently in these ancient seas. We find them with straight and
twisted shells, the septa of which are simple like those of the
Nautilus. In the Silurian strata they offer a wonderful multi-
plicity of species. In these deposits corals also make their
appearance, even at such an early period taking part in the
formation of the crust of the earth, and forming reefs in which
numerous crinoids, very simply constructed Sea-urchins, and
Sponges found a dwelling-place. Fishes first appear in the
uppermost Silurian stratum; in the upper Devonian deposits
their species are tolerably numerous. All the forms, however,
differ greatly from those now existing, and they in part form
and as composed of felspathic rocks inferstratified with important masses of
limestone and quartzite." The area in Canada occupied by the Laurentian
eerie.? is supposed to be about 200,000 square miles. EDITOR.]
