238 GENERALIZATIONS.
ther, that we do not know whence the enormous mass of water
which it requires could have come. It is far more likely that
the level of the sea was never much further from the centre of
the earth than it is at present, and that thus it represents a sur-
face stretched over the globe, to which the risings and sinkings
of the terrestrial crust can be referred. That such risings and
sinkings are constantly taking place is a fact ascertained by ob-
servation, and justifying the deduction of inferences as to former
conditions. In the present volume (p. 198) Prof. Heer has
noticed the rising of the Norwegian coast. The shores of
Devonshire have been upheaved in comparatively recent times ;
for near Torbay, considerably above the sea-level, a zone may
be seen containing animals all of which still live in the sea at
that place. A similar upheaval, but on a much greater scale, is
taking place on the coasts of Chili in South America, where
marine animals of the present epoch are found several hundred
feet above the level of the sea.
These upheavals may extend uniformly over whole continents,
and are then called continental ; or they may affect only parti-
cular regions, or exert themselves only in particular directions,
when they are denominated partial. A close relation has ex-
isted between the upheavals and the depressions of the surface ;
and the lowering of the ground forms part of a general system,
as when whole continents sank down and sometimes were again
covered by the sea, or they are only partial, when limited to
particular regions of the land and inducing wide-spread sinkings
by falls in the interior of the earth.
As to the causes of these upheavals and depressions, which have
been the chief agents in giving the crust of the earth its present
form, science has hitherto come to no conclusion. The hypo-
theses which have been invented to explain this grand natural
phenomenon are connected with opinions as to the formation
and earliest states of the earth; and the dispute is not yet
settled, which has been carried on for the last 2000 years, as to
whether fire or water has had most to do with the formation of
our planet.
As the spherical form of the earth, its flattening at the poles,
and its bulging-out in the equatorial regions compel us to
assume that during its formation it has been in a fluid, or at
