TEMPERATURE. 239
least in a soft state, these circumstances also lead us to conclude
that at one time the earth was in an igneous and fluid state. This
hypothesis has been more readily admitted, as the temperature
of the earth increases below the surface. At a depth of from
60-80 feet the sun's heat has no influence, the same tempera-
ture prevails throughout the year, and it corresponds to the
mean annual temperature of the place. But if we go down still
deeper into the earth, the temperature increases about 1 Cent,
(or l-8 Fahr.) for every 100 feet. The observations of this
increase have hitherto been made only to a depth of about 2000
feet, so that we have only suppositions as to the conditions of
temperature at greater depths ; but springs of water are known
whose temperature reaches the boiling-point, and volcanoes cast
forth masses of burning lava; so that the subterranean locality
from which they proceed must have an extremely high tempera-
ture. If the heat increases in the same proportion below 2000
feet, we should find at 9000 feet the temperature of boiling
water; at 100,000 feet a heat of 1000 Cent, (or 1800 Fahr.),
which would melt many rocks ; and at 200,000 feet every thing
would be in fusion. Hence the Plutonists, or adherents of the
igneous theory, consider the interior of the earth to be a mass
of fluid lava, and regard hot springs and volcanic phenomena as
connected with that state of internal heat. Thus it was easy to
suppose that the whole earth was originally in a state of igneous
fusion, and that a firm crust had gradually been formed by its
cooling down in space, during which process the minerals be-
came solidified in a definite sequence, according to the degree of
heat required for the fusion of each kind.
When the temperature had become so far lowered that water
could rest on the globe, thus producing the primaeval ocean,
stratified rocks began to be formed, a mass of materials being
accumulated at the bottom, and deposited in beds and strata.
From time to time fissures occurred in the crust of the earth,
from which issued the fused siliceous rocks, breaking through,
compressing, and even overturning the stratified masses, and so
forming the immense mountains which traverse the centre of
Switzerland. By the action of these protruded rock-masses the
surrounding strata were materially altered, and became meta-
morphic. Here and there those rocks which had been originally
