12 MIOCENE FAUNA.
If the CEningian spiders are compared with those which have
been discovered in amber, no exactly accordant species are found ;
but there are some nearly allied species*. Most of the amber-
spiders may be referred to existing genera ; but some of them are
of extinct types, one of which (Archaea) forms a distinct and very
remarkable family. Amber encloses a great number of species
of spiders, the resin flowing from the amber-bearing trees having
enveloped the animals dwelling under the bark, or sitting on its
surface, and embalmed them for ever.
Of the great section of the Mites (Acarina) a single species has
been found at (Eningen. It is a little oval animal, 1 millimetre
(039 inch) in length and | millimetre in breadth, with eight
delicate legs of nearly equal length.
c. Insects.
Notwithstanding their small size and their delicate fragile
structure, so many species of insects have been preserved that
the class of insects must have included the great mass of species
of animals. Only 33 species of insects have remained in the
Swiss Miocene ; but from (Eningen we have 844, only one of
which occurs in the Swiss Miocene, so that at present we know
876 species belonging to the Swiss environs. Of these, 543 species
are Beetles, 20 Orthoptera, 29 Neuroptera, 81 Hymenoptera,
3 Lepidoptera, 64 two-winged flies, and 136 Hemiptera or
Bhynchota. The beetles are consequently the most numerous ;
and they are followed in order by the Rhynchota, the flies, and
the Neuroptera. The Lepidoptera "(butterflies and moths) are
most feebly represented both in species and individuals ; for Prof.
Heer has hitherto seen only 5 specimens of Lepidoptera (perfect
insects and larvse) from (Eningen, whilst he has examined 2456
specimens of beetles, 882 Neuroptera, 699 Hymenoptera, 310 flies,
598 Hhynchota, and 131 Orthoptera. Of the Neuroptera only
about 80 specimens are in the adult state, all the rest being larvse
of dragonflies, which lie in a particular bed at (Eningen, and were
probably killed by some sudden catastrophe, so that a great part
of the insects contained in the pit have been preserved. Hence
* Clubiona JEseri is very like C. lanata ; and Macaria tenella resembles
Macaria procera, B. & K.
