240 GENERALIZATIONS.
deposited in water might sink to great depths, and, having been
altered by the high temperatures, might be again thrown out in
a metamorphic form. Most geologists of our time are of opinion
that in this manner the mountains have been formed.
But the Neptunists advance a different theory. They deny
the existence of the fiery fluid nucleus, and derive the higher
temperature of the interior of the earth from chemical processes
which there take place and produce heat. They assert that
changes are constantly going on in the rocks, and that the
materials never rest, entering into one combination and modi-
fying it, so that other forms are produced. The rocks may
lose substances (as by erosion), and will then crumble and
become fissured; or they may become associated with new sub-
stances conveyed to them by water ; or they may pass into the
crystalline state and thus enlarge considerably in volume ; and
when this takes place the masses will increase in magnitude,
burst out of the depths, a#d break through the crust above
them. The cause of upheaval must therefore be sought in slow
and gradual changes of the rock-masses, which in augmenting
their volume produce mountains.
Such processes do take place in nature, and may therefore
have had a share in the formation of the Swiss mountains ; but
these changes do not suffice to explain a whole series of pheno-
mena, such as the spherical form of the earth, the increase of
heat towards its centre, the eruption of volcanoes, or the higher
and more uniform temperature of the early periods of the earth/ s
history.
Changes have been wrought in the configuration of the ground
by upheavals, which have given a great variety to the forms- of
mountains and valleys, and which merit consideration.
When pressure is exerted from beneath upon a horizontal
stratum, the latter will arch upwards so long as such a move-
ment is permitted by the flexibility of the bed. The effect of
this pressure will be manifested at the surface by an undulating
line, that is to say by arched portions alternating with depres-
sions, the slopes of which are more or less gentle. An idea of
the pressure may be given by a piece of paper or cloth submitted
to a similar movement. If the pressure be exerted upon several
superimposed beds of rocks, and the strata submit to elevation
