242 GENERALIZATIONS.
rises (as at the Weissenstein and the Blauenberg) into a lofty
dome, it is surrounded by a valley, in the same manner as a
fortress is girt round with a ditch and a wall.
Mountain-chains may thus be classified into different orders.
Those chains formed by saddle-shaped mountains (with the arch
complete) were called by Thurmann chains of the first order ;
those produced by the ridges on the opened arch were named
chains of the second order] and those originating from the diffe-
rent rock -formations of the denuded arch were styled chains of
the third and fourth orders, according as two or more of these
formations surrounding the arch appeared as distinct chains*
(fig. 362) . In all these cases there is a regular sequence of all
the higher strata on both sides of the upheaved mountain ; those
of the same age correspond to one another, and in the interior
of the chain are directly connected.
In a second class of the phenomena of elevation an interrup-
tion is produced throughout the whole thickness of the stratified
rocks, and the correspondence of the beds of the same age in
the two chains is entirely destroyed. This mode of upheaval
has been subject also to numerous modifications. Sometimes
only one margin of the stratified mass is upheaved, and projects
often several thousand feet above the other edge, which retains
its original position or nearly so (fig. 363), so that its oldest bed
comes into contact with the newest ; sometimes both edges are
thrown up, but very unequally (fig. 364), so that the strata in
the two no longer coincide; or the edges are upraised (fig. 365),
or inverted, and turned one over the other, so that newer rock-
beds come to lie beneath the older ones.
The fissures running deep into the earth which are produced
by these fractures of the rocks allow water to come to the sur-
face, here and there, from great depths, and in these cases afford
evidence of internal high temperature. Prof. Moussori has as-
* Thurmann subdivided the Jura into 162 chains. Of these he referred
30 to the first order (such as the Saleve and Dole), 80 to the second order
(Chasseron, Blauenberg), 40 to the third order (Geissfluh, Lagern), and 12
to the fourth order (Passwang, Geissfluh). He reckons 100 basin-valleys,
and 90 transverse clefts through mountain-chains. (See his " Resume des
lois orographiques generates du systeme des Monts Jura," in the ( Memoires
de la Socie'te' Helve tique des Sciences ' for 1863.)
