SWISS VALLEYS. 243
certained that the hot springs of Baden and Schinznach are
situated upon the line of such a rocky fissure ; and this is also
the case with the baths of Aix in Savoy *.
With the stratified structure of the Swiss mountains the for-
mation of the valleys stands in the closest connexion. The un-
dulations of the mountains produced by upheaval are termed
longitudinal valleys; they are described as basin-valleys (fig.
361, B) when they spread between the saddle-mountains, as
fissure-valleys (fig. 361, D) when they are formed by the bursting
of the arch, and as combes (fig. 362, II, IV) when they lie be-
tween ridges running in the same direction. They also have
the form of clefts passing transversely through the mountain-
chains.
When the outlet of a valley is closed by a transverse bar
formed either by a rock in position or by masses of debris, water
collects in it and a lake is produced. These accumulations of
water may be formed in basin-valleys, combes, and clefts; and.
to this is owing the varied character of the Swiss lakes f. Thus
the Lac de Joux is a basin-valley lake, whilst the lakes of Wal-
lenstadt and Brienz are regarded by Prof. Desor as combe-lakes,
and those of Thun and Lowerz as cleft-lakes. Others are of a
mixed nature : thus the arm of the Lake of the Four Cantons
which runs towards Fluelen, is a cleft-lake, and that extending
towards Unterwalden a combe-lake ; and the Italian lakes pre-
sent similar peculiarities. As in the cleft-lakes the rocky walls
ascend steeply, often nearly perpendicularly from the water, and
in many cases approach each other very closely (as on the Lac
de BrenSts), they have a remarkably picturesque character ; the
combe-lakes are sometimes surrounded by boldly rising rocky
masses ; and on the basin-lakes the slopes rise in gentle undu-
lations.
As these lakes belong to a period of upheaval, and owe their
origin to fissures determined by the stratification of the moun-
* Mousson, " Ueber die natiirlichen Verhaltnisse der Thermen von Aix "
(Denkschriften, 1847), and ' Geologische Skizze der Umgebungen von Ba-
den,' 1840.
t This is demonstrated by Prof. Desor in his memoir u De la Physiognomie
des Lacs Suisses" (Revue Suisse, 1860), and "Quelques Considerations sur
la Classification des Lacs" (Atti Soc. di Lugano, 1861).
R2
