246 GENERALIZATIONS.
Here, in the valley of the Sernf, are seen the Flysch rocks,
which have been already described (vol. i. p. 255), rising from
the bottom of the valley to a height of several thousand feet.
Upon these rocks there lies (as at Gantstock and Karpf ) a band
of limestome belonging to the Jurassic series; and over the
limestone are vast masses of sernifite, which forms nearly all the
summits of the Freiberg. At the Lake ofWallenstadt, and also
on the Glarnisch, the sernifite lies below the oldest limestone
strata. Although it may be imagined that the sernifite had
forced its way up from below, had penetrated the covering formed
by the Flysch and calcareous deposits, and had pushed them aside
and covered them up, still the occurrence of Jurassic limestone
beds above the Flysch remains .unexplained, and can only be
accounted for by assuming that a large portion of the older
masses slid over the newer rocks. A similar explanation is
needed for the stratification of the Glarnisch, the foot of which
consists of Nummulite limestone, over which are Jurassic and
Cretaceous formations in a regular and partly in a horizontal
position.
These upheavals and depressions have exerted the greatest
influence not only upon the prominent features of Switzerland,
but also upon the distribution of the Swiss waters. This is so
much the case that even the direction of the flow of water and
its collection in lakes is due to upheavals and depressions ; and
on these causes depends the distribution of Swiss land and
water. As soon as the land becomes raised above the level of
the sea, the water must run off; and it returns again when the
land has sunk below its level. Prof. Heer has already repeatedly
discussed this distribution of sea and land in various geological
periods, and has endeavoured to illustrate it pictorially for the
Middle Jurassic period (vol. i. p. 168, fig. 97), for the Cretaceous
period (vol. i. p. 175, fig. 98), and for the middle stage of the
Miocene period (vol. i. p. 296, fig. 154). A comparison of what
has been said will give us an idea how these changes have gra-
dually been brought about, and how Switzerland has slowly
risen from the sea. In connexion with this subject Prof. Heer
mentions that, probably at a very early period, a decided de-
pression of the country took place between the island of the
