CHANGES OF LEVEL. 247
Black Forest and that of the anthracite schists (the Carbonife-
rous island), and that the lowering of the ground increased in
the direction from the Jura towards the existing Alps, so that it
attained its maximum on the southern side. Hence, when the
land was upheaved, shallow water and firm land were produced
along the Jura earlier than along the Alps. A marine lagoon
remained along the Alps during the period of transition from
the Jurassic to the Cretaceous epoch, and even to the Eocene
period, the Jura being all the while dry. It is very remarkable
that the Helvetic Miocene sea never invaded the region of the
Alps, although it left deposits in the district of the Jura, as for
instance at La Chaux de Fonds and at Locle. Therefore the
land in the Alps must have been more elevated than in the Jura
after the formation of the Flysch, and this upheaval continued
to the time when the Helvetic sea covered the low grounds, and
the Eocene Alpine formations rose above the sea, and the Jurassic
Eocene was under water ; and yet the Alpine Eocene strata had
been produced in the sea and the Jurassic Eocene owed its origin
to fresh water. These circumstances show us at the same time
that as the Jura and the Alps present such different character-
istics, the upheaval of the land mest furnish the best explanation
of the phenomena under consideration.
To ascertain the periods during which upheavals or depressions
took place in Swiss mountain-masses, we must consult the rela-
tive positions of the strata. Near Utznach the lignites, or
paper-coals, lie horizontally upon the perpendicularly raised
sandstone rocks (see p. 152, fig. 329) ; so that it is clear that the
upheaval of the Miocene took place before the deposition of the
lignites. Where we meet with a deposit of this kind uncon-
formable with the strata below it, we may always conclude that
in the interval between the two formations a- great change had
taken place. When strata of different ages follow one another
uniformly no partial or local upheaval can have occurred, al-
though there may have been a general upheaval. When of two
superimposed strata, the lower contains freshwater animals, and
the upper marine animals, we may conclude that at the time ot
the formation of the freshwater bed the land stood above the
level of the sea, and that during the formation of the marine
