248 GENERALIZATIONS.
stratum the land had sunk down beneath the sea, even though
a uniform and regular appearance may be presented by the
rocks.
The alternation of freshwater and marine deposits, like un-
conformity of stratification, shows us that changes of level took
place at various times, and must have exerted the greatest in-
fluence upon the configuration of the land.
The anthracite-schists with their land plants are covered in
many cases (as near Petitcceur) by marine Liassic strata, and
must therefore have been under the sea during the Lias period.
Hence in the Liassic district a depression took place after the
Carboniferous period. From the period of the Trias, however, a
rising of the land is to be recognized in Northern Switzerland,
since the Keuper follows upon the marine Mussel- Limestone
(vol. i. p. 47) . This rising continued up to the middle Scham-
belen beds of the Lower Lias, which represent the maximum of
elevation (vol. i. p. 67) ; and then commenced a sinking of the
land, which must have taken place pretty rapidly, seeing that
the land formation of Schambelen is overlain by marine strata,
which contain the same species of animals as the lower marine
deposits.
This sinking of the land continued till the time of the
Brown Jura. During the deposition of the White Jura a
gradual upheaval again took place, and this attained its maxi-
mum at the close of the Jurassic period. The whole chain of
the Swiss Jura rose from east to west out of the sea, and
became dry land. We have, however, already shown (vol. i.
pp. 171, 172) that during this long period many oscillations
occurred, so that within its limits secondary upheavals and
depressions may be recognized. The final result was an up-
heaval, the effects of which are displayed in France, Germany,
and England, and must therefore be described as a continental
movement. It attained its maximum at the time of the forma-
tion of the Wealden. Then a depression of the ground again
occurred ; as early as the Valangian stage the sea penetrated
once more into the south-west of Switzerland, and, gradually
spreading further and further, no doubt in consequence of a
continued sinking of the ground, attained its maximum in the
