CHANGES OF LEVEL. 249
middle of the Cretaceous period. At the period of the Upper
Cretaceous formation the land again began to rise ; the sea dis-
appeared from the region of the Jura, which, during the whole
Eocene period was converted into dry land (see vol. i. p. 271 et
seqq.) ; and this upheaval was continued until the end of the
Aquitanian stage of the Miocene period, the sea disappearing
also from the region of the Alps, and leaving only a few lagoons,
which then became converted into freshwater lakes, so that when
the upheaval had attained its maximum the sea for the first time
retired from Switzerland. During this long period of elevation
a partial upheaval must also have taken place in the direction
of the Alps after the deposition of the Nummulitic Limestone
and the Flysch, by which the whole region of the Alps was
finally removed from the influence of the sea. On the other
hand, during the Tongrian period, a depression must have
occurred in the north-west of Switzerland, permitting the
Tongrian sea to penetrate as far as Basle, Porrentruy, and
Delsberg.
A continental depression commenced, however, at the time of
the formation of the Grey Miocene, and attained its maximum
during the Helvetian stage, by which the Swiss low grounds
were once more covered by the sea. This was followed again by
a continental upheaval, so that at the time of the Upper Brown-
coal formation (in the CEningian stage) all the land was above
the level of the sea, and even the masses of sand and stone which
had been washed into the sea were elevated. The last upheaval
took place at a later period, after the whole of the stages of the
Swiss Miocene had been deposited ; and this upheaval is the most
important of all, as it caused the present configuration of Swit-
zerland. The Miocene is deposited horizontally in the Swiss
low grounds, and is upraised in the vicinity of the Alps, and
along the whole Alpine chain is not only thrown up in the shape
of a roof * (vol. i. p. 287), but is for a great extent even covered
* On the geological map the direction of this anticlinal line is indicated,
which may be traced from the valley of the Rhine to Geneva. In Eastern
Switzerland two folds may be recognized in it ; so that two arches have been
formed, which, however, have been pressed close to one another.
