INSECTS. 13
the order Neuroptera, as regards the number of individuals, is
much more predominant at (Eningen than in the existing fauna
of any part of Europe. The most abundant insects, as regards
the number of both species and individuals, are the beetles ; and
we may say that, on the average, out of two specimens found at
(Eningeii one belongs to this order. Among the Hymenoptera
the ants occur most abundantly, and among the Diptera the
gnats and midges.
Of land-insects, only those have remained which were carried
down into the lake by running water and driven from the shore
over the lake, and which there perished. The winged insects
were more exposed to this danger than the wingless ones ; the
latter, consequently, occur but rarely. Thus, of the ants we
find the winged males and females, but seldom the wingless
workers. Of the beetles we find many lying with outspread
wings, exactly in the position which they assume when they have
fallen into the water and are endeavouring to save themselves by
extending their wings (fig. 255). Nevertheless the wingless
land-insects are not entirely deficient. Prof. Heer has obtained
from QEningen a caterpillar, larvae of grasshoppers, and two or
three worker ants ; and indeed the spiders and the woodlouse,
already referred to, prove that the (Eningian collection of annu-
lose animals is by no means limited to winged insects acciden-
tally carried by the wind over the lake. The wingless forms
probably fell from the bank into the water, perhaps from trees
which overshadowed the lake ; but they were also swept into the
lake by the brooks. Of the insects which fell into the water,
only those have been preserved which were quickly covered by
the mud and thus saved from destruction. Aquatic insects be-
longing to the Lake of (Eningen are very numerous, and are
found in all stages as larvae, pupae, and adult animals. Most of
the aquatic insects have no doubt been destroyed without leaving
any traces ; but many were so rapidly enveloped by the fine cal-
careous deposit that they have not merely produced an impres-
sion in it, but even the organic substance has been preserved.
By this rapid covering, the softest midges are so admirably pre-
served that, under the microscope, the hairs on their legs and
wings can be recognized, and the colours of the land- bugs can
still be ascertained.
