250 GENERALIZATIONS.
by older strata which have been pushed over it, so that without
doubt the upheaval of the chain of the Alps did not occur until
after the deposition of the Miocene ; and, as the Alpine upheaval
was completed at the time of the formation of the paper-coal or
lignite, it must belong to the intermediate or Pliocene period.
During the Pliocene, therefore, the grandest changes in the
orographic formation of Switzerland took place. At this time
the crystalline rocks, which probably formed an island even in
the Carboniferous period (vol. i. p. 3), were thrown up into
stupendous mountains by an enormous pressure acting upon
them from the interior of the earth. By them the stratified
rocks, which in the lapse of ages had surrounded them like a
mantle, were broken through and driven up by lateral pressure
into lofty saddles, or cleft into ridges, or even tilted over, and
their fragments, like the slabs of ice produced on the breaking-
up of the ice in a river, were pushed one over the other ; and in
this way have been produced the infinitely varied mountain-
forms which lend such a charm to Swiss scenery. " Just as a
crater with an abrupt inner precipice surrounds a central volcanic
focus," says Studer, in his ' Geology of Switzerland ' (vol. i.
p. 165), "so may one, two, or three limestone ranges lean to-
wards the steep rocky walls of the granite mountains, often
reaching up into the region of perpetual snow, and their strata
may dip away from the central range." The origin of the most
magnificent landscapes of Switzerland is therefore to be traced
to the crystalline rocks traversing the centre of the country and
forming its highest mountains. The central Alps follow gene-
rally a direction from west-south-west to east-north-east, by
no means forming a connected mass, but capable of division
into a number of sections, the massive rocks of which are
separated by stratified (Neptunian) strata. Studer distin-
guishes eleven such central masses, apparently due to distinct
foci of elevation, which, however, were probably all at the same
time in activity.
The mass of which these central rocks consists belongs to the
primseval formation of the earth ; but it is only in comparatively
late times that these ancient rocks have risen into vast moun-
tains. No doubt the region of the Swiss Alps was a mountain-
