UPHEAVALS IN PLIOCENE TIMES. " 251
ous country in the Tertiary period (vol. i. p. 284) ; but the
mountains probably were not high ; for at the time of the form-
ation of the Nummulitic limestone of the Flysch the sea ex-
tended into the middle of the region now occupied by the Alps.
The Flysch, formed in the sea, was already elevated at the close
of the Eocene period ; but it was not until the Pliocene that
it was thrown up to a height of 8000 feet above the sea ; and the
Tertiary shell-beds of the Dent du Midi occur at an elevation of
10,940 feet. This upheaval must consequently have been on a
remarkably magnificent scale.
Contemporaneously with the upheaval of the Alps, the Jura
mountains were elevated. A great part of the Jura had been
raised above the sea-level in the Upper Cretaceous period ; and
a great alteration took place in Pliocene times, as in many
places the margin of the Jurassic system has been thrown over
the Miocene. The freshwater limestones of Locle, which belong
to the CEningian stage, demonstrate that this Jurassic upheaval
took place after the CEningian epoch. These limestones have
not only been elevated, but thrown over, and they fall towards
the north-west; and thus the newer formations have the ap-
pearance of being more deeply seated than the older ones.
Hence, like the last upheaval of the Alps, the final elevation of
the Jura belongs to the Pliocene period, and the movement of
the two mountain-ranges was connected. But it is not ascer-
tained whether a lateral pressure took place from the Alps, as
supposed by Studer, and more recently by Thurmann, or whether
the focus of the movement is to be sought in the Jura itself.
A lateral pressure of such power from the Alps would have
affected the horizontal stratification of the Miocene beds which
spread between the Jura and the Alps ; and their level position
renders this theory doubtful. Under any circumstances the up-
heaval of the Jura will have been influenced by the crystalline
rock-mass of the Black Forest * ; and therefore, as regards the
phenomena of elevation, the Jura near the Black Forest, and in
the Cantons of Basle, Argovia, and Schaffhausen, differs much
from the western Jura.
* See vol. i. pp. 48 & 168.
