MEASURE OF TIME. 255
rapid. Sucli a man would, in the whole course of his life, only
witness one revolution of the moon ; the change of the seasons he
would be acquainted with only by tradition ; and many genera-
tions might have passed away since that period of great cold
which we call winter. Reduced once more to one thousandth
part, that is to say to a lifetime of forty to forty-two minutes
(such as that of many Ephemerae), to such a being the alter-
nation of day and night would be unknown; and if he were
sufficiently intelligent to notice that during his life the sun had
approached a little towards the western horizon, he would have
no ground for supposing that that luminary would ever again
rise in the east. If we follow the line of argument as to in-
creased duration, we may imagine the life of man a thousand
times as long, and his sensorial power of receiving impressions
a thousand times as slow as it actually is, in fact so slow that
day and night would disappear for him, and the sun would no
longer appear as a ball, but as a fiery ring; for it is well known
that a ball when swung round on a string appears like a ring as
soon as it attains such a velocity as to exceed our perceptive
faculty."
A rational creature whose lifetime should embrace merely a
period of a single day, would therefore acquire quite a different
conception of the world from one who might live for a hundred
or a thousand years, and by this means the measure which the
long-lived individual would apply to the universe must become
quite different from that of the ephemeral creature. But the life-
time of Man, the innate human measure of time, is excessively
minute when compared with the duration of the universe. We
" How fleet is a glance of the mind !
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind
And the swift-winged arrows of light.
When I think of my own native land
In a moment I seem to be there."
It is difficult to set bounds to the development of the human mind, even
under imaginary cases of a great reduction or an extraordinary extension of
the term of human life. EDITOR.]
