256 GENERALIZATIONS.
become aware of this immediately when we compare the relations
of time and those of space, and when we examine the means
which Man is obliged to employ in order to obtain an idea, or
at least a presentiment, of their overpowering grandeur.
We should remember that, although the earth, when compared
and measured with our bodies, is certainly very large, it is almost
infinitely small in comparison with the universe. The distance of
China from Switzerland seems to us to be very great ; but what
are several thousand miles to the 91,430,000 English miles
which separate the earth from the sun, or the twenty billions *
of miles between the solar system and the nearest fixed star ?
We know of stars which are distant from us from three to six
of such star-distances, and innumerable stars which the instru-
ments of astronomers are not able to reach, and for some of
which we may assume distances of 10,000 star-distances. A
glance at the starry heavens therefore shows us stars beyond stars
to infinite and inconceivable distances. And our solar system
comprises the planet which is assigned to us as a habitation. Its
developmental periods must be measured by a similar standard
to the conditions of space in the universe ; and whilst mathe-
matical astronomy has found the means of expressing these by
numbers, at least for the stars nearest to the earth, these powers
of numerical expression are still wanting to geology ; and easy
as it is now to determine the sequence of the formations, and to
say what is newer or what is older, it is just as difficult or, rather,
impossible, to express the measure of time even approximately
in absolute numbers. All attempts that have hitherto been
made to obtain absolute numbers from aqueous deposits and
erosions, from the formation of coral-reefs, and from the oscilla-
tions of the ground have led to no satisfactory results, because
in early times the conditions which now exist may not have pre-
vailed, and thus the standard which we bring with us may be
erroneous. Nevertheless there can be no doubt that in this in-
quiry we have to deal with very high numbers. Even if the
grounds should be uncertain on which the supposition of Morlot
* [Of this distance some idea may be obtained by remembering that light
could not travel so far in less than three years (Ferguson's ' Astronomy,'
edited by Sir David Brewster, vol. ii. chap. xl). EDITOR.]
