VAST INTERVALS OF TIME. 257
is based, that since the deposition of the rubbish-cones of Clarens,
near the Lake of Geneva, which belong to the end of the drift
period, at least 100,000 years have elapsed, yet numerous phe-
nomena indicate the lapse of many thousands of years.
It has been already noticed (p. 199) that the drift period
must have continued for an enormous time, which is shown
by the increase and retirement of the glaciers, the disper-
sion of erratic blocks over the lowlands, the formation of beds
of rivers, and the distribution of plants and animals. These
varied and remarkable phenomena certainly required an ex-
cessively long lapse of time ; and going back to their com-
mencement we arrive at the Tertiary period. Through the
stormy epoch which gave to the Swiss Alps their present ex-
ternal configuration, we reach the Miocene period. Let us
consider all that took place during the Middle Tertiary epoch,
from the marine Miocene of Basle to the (Eningian formation
all the oscillations in the level of the ground, and all the changes
in the nature of the land and we shall be obliged to admit
that such transformations could be effected only in the course
of many thousands of years. And yet we are still upon soil on
which the world of waters in general had nearly the same cha-
racter as at present. But if we look further back to the Flysch
and Nummulitic formations, to the Cretaceous period and the
Jurassic sea, to the Trias and the Carboniferous deposits, and
the older Palaeozoic rocks, and to those primaeval periods when
the earth was still desert and void, one strange picture succeeds
another, somewhat as in the heavens star starts forth beyond
star in immeasurable distances, until we give up the task of
calculating the number of years which may express those periods
of time. But although time and space may be compared to a
shoreless ocean, the spheres of the universe which move in that
ethereal sea are nevertheless finite magnitudes ; and as the dis-
tances of the nearest stars can be measured, the human intellect
will perhaps some day discover the means of determining the
distances of time which separate the different phases of the de-
velopment of our planet. At present, however, the duration of
these vast periods is not known ; and when we speak of a thou-
sand millions and of ten thousand millions of years as required
for one among many geological formations, we do not consider
VOL. II. s
