258 GENERALIZATIONS.
that these numbers, by their immensity, are just as little com-
prehended by the human mind as are the natural phenomena
which they should lay open before us.
Section 2. Action of Water.
Movements proceeding from the interior of the earth, and
modified by the character of the terrestrial crust, have produced
those wrinkles of the surface which we call mountains and val-
leys. But in their further development water has been a very
important agent. When, in summer, we walk over a large
glacier, we see not unfrequently on the surface a regular system
of little hills and valleys formed by the water flowing over the
ice. This gives us a good idea of the process that must take
place when a river makes its way down an inclined plane. Its
action is denned by the degree of inclination of the surface and
the mass of the water. Wherever firm land exists, this action
of water will commence, and during all geological periods
water has assisted in determining the configuration of Swit-
zerland. In the earlier ages of the world, when the sea
threw its waves upon the shore, this action influenced the
formation of the coast; but the present form of Switzerland is
especially due to the waters of the Pliocene and Quaternary
periods.
A glance at the Swiss map shows that the mountain- chains
and longitudinal valleys produced by the upheaval of the Alps
follow a direction from south-west to north-east. The flow of
the waters in this region was determined by the valleys which
owe their origin to the upheaval ; and the main rivers, the Rhone
and Rhine, have the same direction from Coire to Martigny.
From Martigny to the Lake of Geneva transverse valleys cut
through the mountains ; and the Rhone, following these gorges,
bends nearly at a right angle and flows towards the north-west.
The same direction is taken by the Rhine from Coire to Sargans;
but there, instead of passing through the great valley-lake
of Wallenstadt, the river follows the fissure (cluse) of the
Schollberg and flows into the Lake of Constance. Although the
direction of these rivers and brooks of the Alpine region is de-
termined bv the stratification of the Swiss mountains, the
