EROSION. 259
streams themselves have for thousands of years been at work to
deepen their own beds. It could occur only to the boldest
Neptunist that the Rhine may have hollowed out the deep
ravines of the Roflen and the Via Mala, or that the Linth alone
formed the rocky cleft running from the Pantenbriick to the
Thierwehd, the depth of which may render a person giddy who
looks down it; but undoubtedly these mountain -streams, fol-
lowing natural fissures and gorges, have gradually widened and
deepened them.
A different result of aqueous action is seen in the region of
the Miocene. In Central and Eastern Switzerland the Miocene
formation is traversed by numerous brooks and rivers, the beds
of which have a direction nearly at right angles with the line of
the Alpine chain. Here we may observe that the Miocene lies
horizontally, and is only upraised at its edges, so that, at least
in the horizontal portion, neither hills nor valleys have been
produced by foldings. In this district hills and valleys could
only originate by erosions, which may have commenced in the
period of the Miocene, although their chief activity belongs to
the Pliocene period ; for we see in many places that the strata
of the newest Miocene rocks on the two sides of a valley exactly
correspond, and therefore, no doubt, were once connected, whilst
they are now separated by a deep valley. We have already
(vol. i. pp. 301, 302, and vol. ii. p. 116) attempted to describe
the appearance of the land in the later period of the Miocene ;
and the localities there described should be considered with
reference to the subsequent changes of the Pliocene epoch. It
would appear that these changes were connected with the large
freshwater lake spreading over the Cantons of Zurich and Thur-
govia in Eastern Switzerland, along the Alps (p. 116). Pre-
cisely in this region the Miocene was much upheaved, and in
the place of the bed of the lake high mountains (such as the
Speer and the Righi) rose aloft. Great masses of water were
poured over the horizontal Miocene, and flowed off in a direction
almost perpendicular to the line of upheaval, causing, with the
waters coming from the ascending region of the Alps, those
enormous erosions which so greatly exceed any thing that we
now witness. All the gorges and valleys which traverse the
region of the Miocene have been eroded by rivers and brooks ;
s2
