260 GENERALIZATIONS.
the chains of hills are merely the remains of the former surface
of the Miocene ; and in a similar manner the smaller lake-basins
of that district may have originated *.
In the north of Switzerland the waters met the hard and
lofty masses of the Jura, and flowed on at their feet until they
arrived at places where transverse valleys had cut through
chain of the Jura; through these openings the streams rolled
from the country. That this grand furrowing was, for the most
part, effected at the Drift epoch is shown by the fact that the
distribution of the glaciers and of their moraines and boulders is
governed by the present formation of the valleys, so that these
must have been at that time in existence, as has been already
shown (p. 184). The Rhine, also, then flowed in its present
bed (pp. 217, 218) ; whilst during the Miocene period the waters
took a different direction (vol. i. pp. 303, 304), and the outflow
through Alsace was closed. Consequently the erosions of the
Miocene coincide in time with the upheaval of the Alps, which
took place gradually ; and the rivers must have by degrees ac-
quired a greater fall, and their erosive power must have increased.
A new system of water-movement then prevailed, deriving its
impulse and character from the upheaval of the Alps and the
waters flowing down from them. The valleys produced by the
upheaval of the mountain district were continued into the re-
gion of the Miocene ; and even the river-valleys and lake-basins
* Professor Desor regards erosion as- the cause of the formation of all lakes
of the Miocene district, not merely the small ones (such as the lakes of Greifen
and of Pfaffikon), but also the Lakes of Zurich, Constance, and Geneva. He
therefore calls them u erosion-lakes." Such erosion, however, could take
place only when the water had a fall ; and it must therefore be assumed in the
case of these lakes that the bed of their outflow was formerly much deeper,
and has been filled up. But this is by no means the case to such a degree as
the depth of these lakes would require. Thus the lake of Zurich is in one
place 266 metres (or 291 yards) in depth, and its bottom is therefore only
142 metres (or 155 yards) above the sea-level, and 123 metres (or 134-5
yards) below the level of the Rhine at Basle. Between Zurich and Basle the
river passes in many places over rocks in position, as at the Betznau, 323
metres (or 353-2 yards) above the sea-level ; and therefore the bed cannot
then have been deeper. This renders it improbable that the Lake of Zurich
originated only by erosion, and leads rather to the assumption of a local
sinking. This applies also to the lakes of Constance and Geneva. (See
Studer, " De TOrigine des Lacs Suisses," Bibl. Univ. 1864.)
