GLACIER ACTION. 261
belonging to the plains and produced by erosion are connected
with the depressions in the Alps.
After the hills and valleys were formed, the lowlands of
Switzerland were strewed over with pebbles. This work was
performed by the glaciers, as has been already shown in detail
(pp. 177, 178). When the glaciers descended from the region
of the Alps into the low grounds at the commencement of the
drift-period, they first filled up the valleys and lake-basins. Thus
they formed a bridge, over which the masses of stone which they
brought from the mountains could be carried forward to great
distances. If the lake-basins had not been covered by glaciers,
the masses of rubbish must undoubtedly have filled them up,
and we should therefore now find them, not in the neighbourhood
of the lakes, but in their beds. When the glaciers afterwards
retired, the waters of the lakes again became limpid. Obliga-
tion is therefore due to the glaciers for the preservation of the
lakes, which are among the chief ornaments of Switzerland *.
In those mountain-regions which are not covered by glaciers,
lakes are consequently wanting, as in the Himalayas, because, as
Falconer has shown, no glaciers have protected the clefts of the
mountains from being filled up with rubbish.
Moraines have here and there been left by Swiss glaciers at
the outlets of lakes, so as to impede the outflow of water, and to
cause an elevation of the surface of the lakes. Thus, near Zu-
* Professor Escher de la Linth has demonstrated this fact in his memoir
' Ueber die Gegend von Zurich in der letzten Periode der Vorwelt,' 1852.
The occurrence of stratified drift under erratic blocks has led M. G. de Mor-
tillet to the opinion that the lake-basins were filled up with rubbish, but
afterwards hollowed out by the glaciers (see his l Carte des anciens Glaciers
du versant Italien des Alps/ and Gastaldi and Mortillet ' Sur la Theorie de
1'Affouillement Glaciaire '), so that the present lake-basins were produced by
the glaciers deepening and eroding their beds. Professors Ramsay and Tyndall
have gone still further, and suppose even the valleys of the Alps to have been
furrowed out by glaciers. These hypotheses are contradicted by the fact
that a glacier does not attack the ground beneath it very deeply (see p. 189),
as is shown by the termination of the Rosenlaui glacier, where the water
flowing off has hollowed out a deeper bed than the glacier above it. And
what powerful action must we assume for glaciers, as the depth of the Lago
Maggiore is 400 metres (or 437 yards), and the depth of the Lake of Como
is 409 metres (or 447 yards) ! Professors Studer and Desor have, with great
justice, stated their opinion against any such view of the case.
