262 GENERALIZATIONS.
rich the Limmat breaks through a moraine, and the lakes of
Iseo and Garda are kept up by a barrier of ancient glacier-
rubbish. Examples of moraine-lakes are shown at Sempach
and Baldegg, as well as in the small lakes of Pusiano, Annone,
and Alserio in the Brianza, since their outflow. is hemmed in by
great masses of glacier-rubbish, which probably reach down to
the old river-bed and have stopped it up.
Drift-glaciers have aided in the preservation of Swiss lakes ;
and they have also materially assisted in doing away with the
inequalities of the land, since innumerable depressions have
been filled up by the enormous masses of rubbish which they
carried with them. By the melting-away of the glaciers vast
quantities of water must have been produced, which have borne
down sand and stones to a distance and have deepened the beds
of rivers and brooks, and thus have taken an important part in
changing the configuration of the land. During the drift-period
a much greater amount of aqueous precipitation probably took
place, and the climate was not only colder, but also more moist
than at present ; and thus an explanation may be given of the
immense accumulation of ice at that epoch. Swiss mountains
in those ages must have been worn and weathered on a grand
scale, the evidence of which remains in the enormous mass of
stones which have fallen down from them and been distributed
all over the lowlands.
During the drift-period, as in our own days, the congelation
of water was one of the principal agents in the disintegration of
rocks. Water being absorbed by all the fissures of the rocks,
and expanding by frost, the rocks split up or the fissures become
enlarged ; and the effect will be the greater the more frequently
this succession of freezing and thawing takes place. Prof. Heer
is convinced that in the High Alps of Switzerland, as well as in
the extreme north, this phenomenon has a much more decided
action than erosion.
Section 3. The Climates of the various Geological periods .
The plants and animals have shown us that the climate of the
primaeval world was very different from that in which we live,
and that it was subjected to numerous changes. Thus, with re-
