CLIMATES. 263
gard to all the older geological periods from the Carboniferous
to the Tertiary, their plants and animals, so far as they can be
compared with those now living, approach nearest to those of
warm and torrid zones \ and Prof. Heer cannot conclude with
any certainty as to there having been any rising or falling
of the temperature during this immensely long time. In the
Tertiary period, and especially during the Miocene epoch,
abundant materials illustrative of temperature are found; and
Prof. Heer has therefore entered into detail on this subject
(p. 126 &c.). He has found that, in the time of the Lower
Miocene, the climate of Europe was about 9 C. (or 16'2 P.)
warmer than at present, and in that of the Upper Miocene the
European climate was about 7 C (or 12'6 P.) warmer than in
our time, and that even then a distribution occurred of heat in
zones, of which no traces are found in the most ancient periods.
This higher temperature of Swiss Miocene land may be in part
explained by the form of Europe at that time. A different dis-
tribution of land and water is seen in the map of Central Europe
(fig. 154, vol. i. p. 296) at the Middle Miocene period. The
eastern sea, which extended into S witzerlaiid, must have exerted
a warming influence, as it was connected with the Indian Ocean
through the Red Sea, and perhaps also through the Persian
Gulf. From this tropical sea a current of warm water, like the
existing Gulf-stream in the Atlantic Ocean, must have flowed
towards the northern seas and warmed their waters, exerting a
powerful influence upon the conditions of temperature of the
surrounding lands by means of the broad arms of the sea which
penetrated into the heart of Europe. The winter temperature
must have been elevated, and the climate must have been more
insular and uniform. The sea surrounding the land must have
produced a moist climate ; and the mountains, which, although
low, were nevertheless in existence, must have contributed to
the condensation of vapours lising from the sea, and to their
conversion into rain. The Gulf-stream, after being warmed in
Central America, moves across the Atlantic to Western Europe,
and raises the mean annual temperature of Western France (in
the latitude of Rochelle) by about 4 C. (or 7'2 P.). If a
similar influence be assumed for Central Europe from the Mio-
cene Indian Gulf-stream, we obtain the same elevation of 4 C.,
