264 GENERALIZATIONS.
and there still remains a temperature of 5 C. (or 9 F.) to
be accounted for.
As the action of an Asiatic gulf-stream could not extend to
Iceland, Greenland, and North America, the high temperature
of those regions in Miocene times requires explanation. It ap-
pears probable that a general source of heat existed in the Mio-
cene period, influencing the whole northern hemisphere. In an
earlier part of this volume the opinion has been expressed (p. 225)
that, in the Tertiary epoch, a great continent united Europe
with North America ; and if this was the case, that extent of
land must be taken into account.
A considerable influence must have been exerted by such an
Atlantic continent on the climate of Europe, but not sufficient
to explain the difference of 5 C. (or 9 F.), already men-
tioned. If the continent of Atlantis had extended across from
Europe to America, the refrigerating influence of an icy sea
could not have sent its icebergs into the Atlantic Ocean ; and if
the Atlantis had extended southwards to the tropical zone, the
warm Gulf-stream would only have reached the south-west coast
of France. The Atlantic continent should have raised the sum-
mer temperature of the northern hemisphere, and especially that
of Iceland, comprised within its limits ; and it ought to have low-
ered the temperature of the winter ; but the hypothesis of this
Atlantic continent leaves unexplained the elevated temperature
of Greenland, Spitzbergen, and the north of America.
It is impossible, in the present state of science, to determine
satisfactorily the circumstances from which the increase of heat
in the Arctic zone at the Miocene period was derived, especially
with reference to the Miocene flora. Nothing but hypotheses
can be presented on this subject, among the most plausible of
which are the following : 1 . Change of climate arising from the
diminution of heat belonging to the earth ; 2. Modification of
the sun itself; 3. Change of position of the earth with regard to
to the sun; and, 4. Irregularity of temperature in ethereal
space.
Before entering upon an examination of these different hypo-
theses, Prof. Heer reminds the reader that, from the Palaeozoic
period to that of the Cretaceous formation, the organic world of
the different geological ages, so far as it is at present known,
