CLIMATES. 205
does not afford any evidence of changes of climate, and that the
climate of the Arctic zone, at least during the Carboniferous and
Lower Cretaceous periods, did not differ from that prevailing in
the latitudes of Switzerland. In the Tertiary epoch a distribu-
tion of heat is observable in zones ; but the decrease of tempera-
ture towards the poles was much less marked than at present.
Whilst the tropical zone was probably scarcely warmer than in
our time, Central Europe, during the Lower Miocene period,
had a climate nearly equivalent to that of the southern United
States (p. 140) and to the climate of the north of Africa. Un-
der the Arctic zone in 78 N. lat., the island of Spitzbergen was
covered with forests of swamp-cypress (Taxodium distichum),
Sequoia, numerous species of pines, plane-trees, walnuts, oaks,
and lime-trees a fact which justifies the belief that forest vege-
tation extended to the pole itself, if this central locality was
surrounded by solid ground. The difference between the fauna
and flora of the Miocene epoch and that of the present day
must have increased in passing from the equator towards the
poles.
A decrease of temperature took place during the Miocene
period (pp. 137, 138) ; and the diminution of heat continued
during the Pliocene epoch, as appears incontestably from the
change brought about in the marine fauna (p. 172). At the
close of the Pliocene epoch the temperature may have been
similar to that of the present day. During the drift-period it
sank several degrees below the present mean temperature, and
remained at this low point for thousands of years, thus consti-
tuting the first Glacial period. The formation of the Lignites,
which followed this period, indicates a reelevation of temperature
in Switzerland; and thus the temperature reached the point at
which it now stands. In the south of France and in England
the temperature seems to have been a little higher; in the
forest-bed of the Norfolk coast the same species of plants have
been found as in the Swiss lignite-beds, as well as the same
species of rhinoceros (R. etruscus) and the same elephant (E.
antiquus) ; to these animals must be added Elephas meridionalis
and Hippopotamus. Together with these Pachyderms, there
have been discovered at Grays Thurrock, in the county of Essex,
a bivalve shell (Cyrena fluminalis) which no longer exists in
