INTERNAL HEAT OF THE EARTH. 267
The first attempt at explaining these striking changes of cli-
mate was by the hypothesis of a decrease in the heat belonging
to the earth. It was supposed that at its origin the earth had
been a fused mass, which gradually became refrigerated in the
cold medium that surrounded it. It is very probable that during
the early Palaeozoic and Carboniferous epochs the heat appertain-
ing to the earth exerted a great influence upon climate. From
the Carboniferous period down to the present day a slow and
uniform decrease of temperature ought to have taken place :
there are, however, no facts in confirmation of this hypothesis ;
for the flora and fauna of the Jurassic period and of the Creta-
ceous period bear no traces of any such diminution of tempera-
ture. It is only in the Miocene epoch that the modification
became strongly marked ; and at that geological period the
temperate zone, and still more the Arctic zone, required so great
an amount of heat that it was impossible to borrow it from the
internal heat of the earth, seeing that the Miocene epoch, in
point of time, is much nearer to the present time than to the
Jurassic period, and it is still more distant from the Carbonifer-
ous epoch. Between the Miocene epoch and the present time
a Glacial period occurred, indicating that during this interme-
diate epoch the temperature was considerably lower than that of
the present day, at least in the northern hemisphere. If this
phenomenon had been restricted to certain countries, it mij>ht
have been in some degree explained by a different distribution
of land and sea, and by changes of level. Very probably during
the drift-epoch the land in the north of Russia was lower by
some hundreds of feet, and, in consequence of this, the Arctic
haye disappeared ; and their disappearance cannot be attributed to man, as
the game which then inhabited the virgin forests of Switzerland is still
abundant. The temperature of Switzerland was probably not higher than
at the present day, as is shown by the presence of the mountain-pine (Pinus
montana), the lowest region of which now in Switzerland is near the town of
Zurich. Since the period of the lake-dwellings, the climate seems in general
to have remained the same until the present time. Colder years alternate
with warmer years ; and this alternation is observable for a series of years, so
as to produce an advance or retreat of the glaciers in the Alps ; but these are
merely inconstant variations, which do not enable us to infer profound and
secular modifications of the climate of Europe.
