268 GENERALIZATIONS.
sea was in connexion with the Baltic a circumstance which must
have lowered the temperature of the Baltic as well as of sur-
rounding countries.
Professor Escher de la Linth first called attention to a second
cause. Every inhabitant of the Swiss mountain-regions is aware
that the warm south wind (known under the name of the "Fohn")
exerts a great influence on the melting of the snow. It probably
owes its existence, at least in part, to currents of hot air pro-
duced by the sands of the African deserts, and directed towards
the north. But at the drift-epoch part of the desert of Sahara
was submerged by the sea, as is proved by the marine animals
that it contains ; and this circumstance must have had an influ-
ence on the climate of Europe.
Charpentier and Lyell have expressed the opinion that the
invasion of Switzerland by the glaciers might have been due to
the greater altitude of the mountains, and to the general level
of the country having been some thousands of feet higher than
at present. If the whole mass of the Alpine rocks which now
cover the plains of Switzerland could be replaced upon the moun-
tains, the sides of the peaks and ridges would be considerably
enlarged, and ravines and valleys would be filled up, but the
absolute heights of the mountains would not be much increased.
No evidence exists of a sinking of the whole of Switzerland since
the Glacial epoch. At the level of the sea the temperature was
lower in the drift-period than at the present day. This is proved
by the discovery of species belonging to the Arctic fauna in the
marine deposits of the drift-epoch in England, in Scandinavia,
and even in Sicily. In whatever manner we regard the pheno-
mena connected with glaciers, we find their traces not only in
Europe, but also in the Caucasus, the Himalayas, in the Leba-
non, the north of America, and even in New Zealand.
Dr. Blandet has maintained the hypothesis of a change pro-
duced in the sun itself to account for the changes of temperature
in geological formations. He bases his theory on the ground
advanced by Kant and Laplace > that at its origin the system
consisted of an immense gaseous [revolving] mass, in which the
planets were successively detached by the movement which had
been impressed upon it. According to this hypothesis, the sun
had at first a much greater volume, and by degrees became
