NEBULAR THEORY. 2G9
condensed in course of time to a smaller size. At the epoch when
Mercury, the planet nearest to the sun, had not yet separated
from the solar mass, and when the sun extended as far as the
orbit of Mercury, the gigantic central luminary must have ex-
erted upon the earth a very different influence from that of the
present day, as the solar mass occupied about one fourth of
the horizon. As the central body was then much less con-
densed than it is at present, a certain part of the sun would
emit fewer rays, whether luminous or calorific, than it now does,
and these rays would be more uniformly distributed over the
earth.
The torrid zone, all the parts of which, at a given season, re-
ceive the solar rays perpendicularly, must have had a wider ex-
tent than at present. From this circumstance it follows that
light and heat were more uniformly diffused over the earth, and
that there could not be a night of six months about the poles.
By degrees the mass of the sun, being more and more contracted
by a continuous condensation, would be reduced gradually to its
present volume. This hypothesis would explain more than one
phenomenon of early geological ages, and especially the existence
in high northern latitudes of arborescent evergreen plants ; but,
in order to admit it, we must believe that a slow and uniformly
continuous contraction took place in the mass of the sun, and
that in consequence there was a slow and corresponding change
in. all the phenomena connected with the solar orb. It is very
possible that during the earliest geological phases the sun was
larger, and composed of a less dense mass than at present ; but
we must not lose sight of the fact that the Miocene epoch was
comparatively near to our own time, at least if we appreciate
the interval since the Miocene formation by a geological standard.
At so late a period as the Miocene epoch it is improbable that
the sun had remained in so imperfect a phase, while the crust of
the earth and the plants and animals inhabiting it had attained
to such a high degree of development. Besides, it has been
already noticed that from the Carboniferous to the Cretaceous
period no climatal changes can be proved to have taken place,
whilst from the Miocene to the beginning of the Quaternary
period, during a comparatively short time, a complete alteration
took place, and the temperature of the Glacial epoch sank below
