INSECTS. 15
trees ; and great Cicada hid themselves iii the dense canopy of
leaves and filled the air with their monotonous chirping. Thus
the insects which fell by mere chance into the lake reveal to us
a rich and multifarious forest life at (Eningen.
If we could visit the former meadow-ground, we should find
upon its herbs and flowers exactly the same kinds of insects that
we now meet with in Swiss forest-pastures. We should see
numerous Chrysomelina and Rhynchophora, spotted and golden
Lamellicorns (Trichius), metallic shield-bugs, flies of various
colours (Syrphus) , bees and humble-bees sucking the honey of
the flowers ; but there were also predaceous beetles near (espe-
cially the species of Telephorus and Malachius), watching the
peaceful nectar-drinkers and seeking to overpower them.
Passing to the Lake of (Eningen we should find among its
reeds and rushes the same forms of insects which we now observe
on the banks of the Swiss lakes golden Chrysomelas (C. calami)
sunning themselves on the leaves of the reeds, green Donacice
sitting in the flowers of the rushes, active species of Lixus
climbing about on the aquatic Umbelliferse, and numerous
dragonflies, often adorned with varied colours, hovering over the
vegetation. The water-beetles, especially the Dytisci and Hy-
drophili, are exceedingly numerous, and they are also remarkable
for their large size. The thirty species from (Eningen with
which Prof. Heer is acquainted no doubt committed great devas-
tation among the spawn of fishes. The Dytiscidse especially are
very voracious creatures ; and of these there are found two large
species (Dytiscus Lavateri and Cy bister Agassizi, Heer) . If we
add to these the shining whirligig-beetles (Dineutus), which,
no doubt, like their living relatives, collected in joyous com-
panies and performed circular evolutions on the surface of the
water), the numerous larvae of dragonflies and midges, the
water-scorpions, and gigantic water-bugs, we must admit that
in the Lake of (Eningen life was exhibited under multifarious
forms.
Most of the aquatic insects were predaceous animals feeding
on young fishes, Mollusca, and other Annulosa. The land-fauna
comprises many species which lived by preying upon other in-
sects; but in general the carnivorous species were less mime-
