270 GENERALIZATIONS.
the present level. The hypothesis of Dr. Blandet does not ex-
plain these circumstances.
A change in the relative position of the earth and the sun has
been suggested by Mr. James Croll in a series of memoirs,
dwelling principally on the periodic changes in the excentricity
of the earth's orbit. This orbit, as is well known, is an ellipse,
produced by the attractive influence of the great planets upon
the movement of the earth ; and this ellipse moves within deter-
minate limits in a cycle embracing thousands of years. At
present the orbit is constantly approaching the circular form, and
in 23,900 years its excentricity will attain its minimum, and the
orbit its maximum tendency towards a circle. From that time
it will gradually depart from the circular form. The mean dis-
tance of the earth from the sun is 91,430,000 English miles.
The greatest excentricity amounts to ^ of this distance ; its
smallest excentricity is only -g-J-o-. At the period of the greatest
excentricity the earth would be distant from the sun about
14,500,000 English miles more than at the period when the
orbit most nearly approaches to the circular form ; this difference
is at present 3,000,000 miles.
It must be borne in mind that in our time the earth is in
perihelion during the winter of the northern hemisphere, and
that in summer it is in aphelion. This condition is also subject
to a periodical change the cycle of which embraces about 21,000
years. In about 10,000 years the summer of the northern
hemisphere will coincide with the time when the earth is in
perihelion, and the winter when it is in aphelion, whilst in the
southern hemisphere these conditions will of course be reversed.
It has, accordingly, been assumed that at periods when the orbit
of the earth attained the maximum of its excentricity, and was
at the same time in perihelion, one of the hemispheres had a
shorter and warmer winter, and on the other hand a longer and
cooler summer, whilst the reverse was the case in the other
hemisphere namely, a long and cold winter and a short and hot
summer, because the greatest distance from the sun would then
coincide with the winter. From this Mr. Croll concludes that,
during this long and cold winter there was formed so large a
quantity of ice that the short summer, although hot, did not
suffice to melt it entirely, that this ice, increasing and extending
