CHANGES IN THE EARTIl's ORBIT. 271
by degrees, would produce a decrease of temperature, and that
the glacial epoch would be the result. Thus, while one hemi-
sphere would pass through a glacial period, the other, on the
contrary, would enjoy a warmer and more uniform climate,
more especially as the marine currents which convey to high
latitudes much heat proceeding from the torrid zone would
take a different direction in consequence of the change of ex-
centricity. Mr. Croll has determined the excentricity of the
orbit for the last 3,000,000 years, and has thus found three
periods of greatest excentricity. The first of these commenced
2,630,000 years ago, and terminated 2,460,000 years ago ; the
second commenced 980,000 years ago, and lasted 260,000 years ;
the third dates back 240,000 years, and would close 80,000 years
ago. During these three periods of greatest excentricity the
northern hemisphere would always be in one of its glacial
periods when it had the longest winters (in its aphelion).
During these periods the southern hemisphere would enjoy a
milder climate. This state of things would change every 10,000
years. At each of these changes a warm period would suc-
ceed a colder one. According to this hypothesis, we should
have not only a whole series of glacial periods interrupted
by warmer periods, but also long periods in the most distant
ages during which the climate would have been nearly like that
of the present day. We might even say that these periods,
taken on the whole, ought to be regarded as normal, whilst the
others, corresponding to the great excentricities, would form the
exceptions.
It may be objected to all these speculations that we do not
sufficiently know the influence exerted upon the intensity 01
efficacy of the solar rays by the length of the course these rays
have to traverse in order to arrive at the earth. Lyell has justly
called attention to the fact that, according to Dove's calculations,
the earth is warmer in the month of June (that is to say, in the
season during which it is most distant from the sun) than in the
month of December (when it approaches the sun most closely) .
This phenomenon is due to the distribution of land and sea,
which is not the same in the northern and southern hemispheres,
and hence the northern half of the globe has warmer summers
than the southern hemisphere. This proves that the distribu-
