272 GENERALIZATIONS.
tion of land and water is far more important in reference to
climate than the greater or less excentricity of the earth's orbit,
and that so predominant an influence ought not to be attributed
to the variations of the orbit.
The plants and animals that the rocks have preserved for us by
no means confirm Mr. CrolPs theory. It is only for the Quater-
nary period that the Swiss can admit a glacial epoch, interrupted
by the lignite formation of Utznach. As regards the geological
ages anterior to the Quaternary period, no facts sufficiently
well ascertained exist to enable Prof. Heer to draw the same
conclusions as Mr. Croll*.
* Mr. Croll places the Quaternary (drift) glacial epoch between the years
240,000 and 80,000 before A.D. 1800 ; and lie supposes that the period of the
greatest excentricity of the earth's orbit which falls between the years 980,000
and 720,000 would correspond to a Miocene glacial epoch. But there is
nothing to support this hypothesis, unless, indeed, it be the remarkable ex-
istence of blocks foreign to the locality which occur in the Miocene deposits
of Superga, near Turin. Sir Charles Lyell is inclined to believe that these
blocks were transported by glaciers (see ' Principles of Geology, vol. i. p. 207).
These foreign blocks would have some analogy with the movement of the
immense icebergs which still advance southwards as far as Newfoundland.
But the presence of the blocks in the deposits of Superga is so isolated a fact
that it is hazardous to base upon these blocks the theory of a Miocene glacial
epoch, especially as the rocks which enclose them contain marine animals
and land plants possessing the same subtropical character as those of other
Miocene deposits. If at the Miocene epoch the country near Superga had had
a colder climate, its effects would have made themselves felt by the flora and
fauna, as is the case in the Quaternary glacial epoch. Mr. Croll places the
third period of great excentricity between the years 2,630,000 and 2,460,000,
which would correspond to the upper part of the Eocene. He supposes that
this epoch had a glacial period.
In the Flysch rocks of this epoch large granite blocks occur in several parts
of Switzerland, belonging to a granite foreign to the Swiss Alps. They have
been considered in vol. i. pp. 256-270. The presence in the Flysch, at nume-
rous localities, of foreign blocks combined with great poverty in organic
remains is favourable to the hypothesis of Mr. Croll ; but his theory does not
rest upon data which have been scientifically investigated, and the facts are
capable of other explanations. Mr. Croll accounts for the absence of traces
of glacial periods in the older formations by modifications of the glacial soil
due to erosions, which destroyed the ancient soil of the continents, carrying
away with it all the debris of the glacial periods. Denudation has doubt-
less produced considerable modifications ; but their importance is not so great
as Mr. Croll imagines. Land deposits retain the masses of plants and animals
