TEMPERATURE OF SPACE. 273
Perhaps the position of our planetary system in the heavens
merits regard in the question under consideration. Besides the
sun, there are in the heavens millions of starry bodies which
transmit their luminous and calorific rays to the earth *. It is
therefore possible that different regions of infinite space may
possess different temperatures. This has been demonstrated by
the celebrated mathematician Poisson, who noticed that the
number of stars is so great that they form, as it were, a dome
around us. We know also that the sun and the planets are con-
stantly changing their position in space, and that probably the
sun with the planets revolves round a centre of a higher order
that is to say, round a fixed star of much larger size, and vastly
more distant. If, therefore, we may assume that the same
temperature does not prevail throughout all space in the heavens,
we shall obtain a simple explanation of the above-mentioned
phenomena. Suppose the sun with its planets, during the Mio-
cene epoch, to have traversed a portion of space warmer than
that in which it now moves, all the regions of the earth must
have participated equally in this increase of heat ; the temperate,
as well as the arctic zone, must have felt its influence. Hence
at that time the distribution of heat on the surface of the globe
would be more equable. In the epoch which may be termed
a year of the planetary system, colder periods alternated with
warmer ones : thus the Miocene period may be compared to the
summer, the Glacial period to the winter, and the existing geo-
logical age to the spring, of the planetary system.
A good selection was made in the choice of the name Eocene
to indicate the commencement of the Tertiary period : it may
of all geological ages, which formerly lived there. The soil of the ancient land
is preserved in vast deposits of coal, as well as in those of lignite, which abound
in so many localities, and also in the original sites of innumerable lacustrine
formations of Europe filled with organic remains. For example, in the case
of the Swiss Miocene, Prof. Heer finds in them the uninterrupted history of
the flora and fauna of Switzerland without the intercalation of any glacial
period.
* According to the investigations of Mr. Huggins, the heat produced by
the radiation of the fixed stars is not unfelt on the earth, and may even be
measured. With a calorimeter constructed by himself he has obtained mani-
fest proofs of the heat furnished by Sirius, Pollux, and Arcturus.
VOL. II. T
