274 GENERALIZATIONS.
be regarded as the dawn of the existing creation. It is an-
nounced by an abundant development of leafy trees (generally
Dicotyledons) and of Mammalia. With the Eocene formation
also began the distribution in zones of heat and life. The earth,
and probably the whole solar system, in that epoch passed
through a higher phase of their development. The conditions
of terrestrial temperature were determined by the position of
'the globe with regard to the sun, and by the state of temperature
in the regions of space. During earlier geological periods influ-
ences acted which had been connected either with the wide ex-
pansion of the solar mass or with the heat belonging to the earth
itself. Temperature was, at all times, modified on the globe
partly by the distribution of land and sea, and partly by the
powerful agency of marine currents, which depended on the
relative position of sea and land.
Part II. ORGANIC NATURE.
Looking back at the succession both of plants and animals in
the various ages of the earth's history, we learn from numerous
recent investigations that, at the limits of the geological periods,
the species of animals and plants are as it were interlaced ; and
there is an analogy between these periods and the zones into
which mountains are divided, to represent their characteristics
at different elevations. Thus the higher boundary of the zone of
trees indicates the spots where the forest ceases ; but in favour-
able positions some trees may still be met with at a greater
height. The zone of snow is at first represented by a few specks,
and on going up the mountain we arrive at the fields of granular
snow spreading far and wide. In like manner, geological periods
have no sharp line of demarcation ; they indicate the principal
divisions of a continuous development, the limits of which are
placed at those periods in which the greatest transformations
were effected.
Organisms of different epochs are intimately connected.
Species are found common to two consecutive periods ; and the
whole of organic nature, from its primaeval commencement to
the present day, has been altogether in perfect harmony.
A gradual approximation is manifest, in the organized world,
