ORGANIC NATURE. 275
of different geological periods towards the plants and animals
which are living at the present day. On examining organisms
belonging to the earlier ages of the earth's history, forms are
found peculiar to those times, and foreign to the existing crea-
tion. But peculiar and strange as many of the ancient types
appear to us, they all possess manifold relations to existing
forms. They are constructed upon the same general plan.
Hence the circle of living nature embraces the plants and ani-
mals of former ages. Even the most ancient plants and animals
may find their place in systems of Natural History which are
founded upon existing forms ; nay, some genera of the present
time actually range back to the earliest geological periods. We
have already mentioned a genus of bivalves (Lingula, p. 233),
which makes its appearance as early as the Cambrian stage of
the Palaeozoic strata ; and in the Carboniferous formation and
the Lias Prof. Heer is acquainted with a whole series of genera
which agree with genera of the present day. As meteorites are
in a manner messengers from distant spheres, which tell us that
bodies moving in space consist of the same materials as the
earth, so these genera of fossil animals are messengers from the
most ancient times, declaring that from remote antiquity the
same laws have prevailed, and the same types have been mani-
fested down to our own time.
The number of genera common to recent and to preceding
periods diminishes the higher we go in the series of animated
nature : common species first make their appearance in the
Cretaceous and Eocene periods. They are then few in number,
and confined to the lowest forms ; but they become more nu-
merous in the Middle Tertiary period, in which the genera were
already for the most part identical with those now in existence.
This approximation to living nature at the present day by no
means occurs equally in all classes. It is manifested earlier in
the simpler and older types of animals than in more recent and
more highly organized forms. In the very ancient class of the
Rhizopods some species identical with recent ones occur in the
Cretaceous strata, according to Ehrenberg ; but this does not
happen with the greater number of the species. Recent Mollusca
cannot be traced beyond the Tertiary epoch ; and Mammalia are
not only represented by different species in Tertiary times, but
T2
