276 GENERALIZATIONS.
some of their genera in Tertiary strata are now extinct. With
reference to another class of animals, the insect fauna of the
Tertiary epoch differs more than the molluscan fauna from
the living races of the present day ; but among Miocene insects
the cockroaches, grasshoppers, and Termites, which must be re-
garded as most ancient types, in some cases approach very nearly
to existing forms.
The flora and fauna of the present day represent the most
highly organized forms. Consequently in approaching a more
perfect state of the vegetable and animal kingdoms, an advance
in the organization of living creatures took place, and a definite
progress may be traced in their development. In the most
ancient periods we know only cellular Cryptogams (p. 233) ; in
the Carboniferous epoch the vascular Cryptogams predominate,
and from the Trias to the Chalk the Gymnosperms * ( Conifers
and Cycads) . The Dicotyledonous flowering plants (leafy trees
and shrubs) make their first appearance in the Cretaceous epoch,
and only acquire their full development in the Tertiary period ;
and from that time they constitute the great mass of the flora.
But in Tertiary periods the apetalous and lowest forms take the
first rank, and the monopetalous types, which occupy the highest
grades in the vegetable kingdom, only attain their fullest deve-
lopment in the existing creation. There is therefore unmis-
takably, on the whole, a progressive development from the more
simply constructed towards the more complicated and conse-
quently more highly organized types. And the same pheno-
menon is met with in the animal world. Palaeozoic rocks offer
us Zoophytes, Mollusca, Annulosa, and Vertebrata, or represen-
tatives of the four great main divisions of animals; but of the
last there is only the lowest class, Fishes, and these are repre-
sented by peculiar forms indicative of a very inferior grade of
* Formerly Conifers and Cycads were united with Dicotyledons, but they
are most nearly related to the vascular Cryptogams, and form the transition
from the flowerless to the flowering plants, as is proved by the admirable in-
vestigations of Hoffmeister on the structure of their flowers and ovules.
Their woody structure, also, is simpler than that of the Dicotyledons, as it
consists of uniform cellls ; and their pits, which were formerly regarded by
some as of a glandular nature, cannot be taken as indications of higher
organization.
