DEVELOPMENT. 277
organization. Reptiles first appear in the Carboniferous strata,
and arrive at their full development in the Triassic and Jurassic
formations. The Mammalia announce themselves, as it were,
by a few prophetic species in the Upper Trias and the Jura ; but
these species belong to the Marsupials, which present the lowest
grade of organization in the class, and the Mammalia only attain
their great importance in Tertiary times (see vol. i. p. 275) .
The Palaeozoic period may therefore be characterized as that of
Cryptogams and Fishes, the Secondary as that of Gymnosperms
and Reptiles, and the Tertiary as that of Dicotyledons and Mam-
mals. Lastly, as the crowning achievement of the whole crea-
tion, appears Man, who, by his intellectual faculties, raises him-
self above all other animals, and is enabled not only to understand
the laws of nature, and in some degree to subjugate Nature to
his will, but also to find his God in the works of nature, and to
become himself conscious of his own eternal destiny.
In the appearance of plants and animals in different geological
ages a progressive development according to natural laws is
manifested, beginning with the lower and more simply con-
structed forms and continued on to more highly organized crea-
tures ; and since this course of development has found its term
in Man, no new species has been produced.
It must not, however, be imagined that in this gradual. ad-
vance of organic nature link has followed link in a consecutive
series ; for instead of the highest plants approaching the lowest
animals, it is found that the simplest unicellular animals are so
nearly allied to the simplest plants that between them a line of
demarkation can hardly be drawn. Consequently there is a
common starting-point for the two kingdoms of nature as re-
gards their simplest organisms ; but on quitting this point each
kingdom takes a special direction in its development, and their
respective advances might very well be compared to a tree, which,
branching in all directions, puts forth innumerable leaves and
flowers, representing the existing fauna and flora.
The fundamdntal cause of this progressive development of the
organic world in accordance with a definite plan must be innate ;
for the material elements were always the same, whilst the living
creatures into which they enter are in a state of continual change,
and present an infinite variety of forms and modes of organiza-
