278 GENERALIZATIONS.
tion. Although, therefore,, the typical distinctions of plants and
animals are not produced by external conditions, such as climate
and food, yet these two elements are of great importance both to
animals and vegetables, which must adapt themselves to the
world surrounding them in order that they may live in it. In
the most distant ages, when the sea still covered the whole earth,
only aquatic plants and marine animals could have lived. But
aquatic life is less perfect than terrestrial life. Aquatic plants
and animals now generally possess a lower grade of organization
than those of the land ; and, indeed, both the vegetable and the
animal kingdoms have their lowest and most primitive forms in
the water. That the inferior aquatic forms first appear upon the
globe is therefore in accordance with the state of the surface of
the earth. As dry land was produced, new conditions of exist-
ence were offered ; and these must have prevailed more and more
as the dry land increased in extent and in variety of structure,
the climatic conditions being at the same time altered by the
gradual cooling of the earth's crust and the frequent changes
in the distribution of sea and land. Hence, as the development
of the solid crust of the earth advanced, its physical constitution
became more and more complicated, and the fundamental condi-
tions of the development of living organisms became more mul-
tifarious. But although, in consequence of these modifications
of the crust of the earth a suitable place was furnished for the
development of more and more highly organized creatures, the
lower ones did not therefore disappear. They are still repre-
sented in the existing creation, and have still, as in the earliest
periods of the earth's history, a definite purpose to fulfil. The
notion that the earlier creations were only the first essays, and
1 ' have served merely as preliminary studies for the highest pro-
duction, namely Man/' is consequently childish ; for they also
were perfect in their kind, inasmuch as they suited the conditions
then prevailing on the earth. But why our earth should have
had to pass through such a course of development, and could not
have come from the hands of the Creator fitted for the reception
of the highest and noblest forms of life, is a question that could
only be answered if we knew why we do not find here below any
stability either for an isolated individual or for the ever moving
and advancing intellectual and physical world.
