CHANGES OF SPECIES. 279
There can be no doubt that in the course of ages the species
of animals and plants have changed ; but how this alteration has
been effected, and why the older species have died out, and how
the new ones have been produced, is still a mystery. Nothing
but hypotheses are presented to elucidate the problem.
A withdrawal of the conditions of life brings about the ex-
tinction of ancient species. For instance, when there has been
an upheaval of a district above the sea-level, the whole animal
population of the water in the localities so raised up must have
died off; and in like manner land animals must have perished in
places which had sunk beneath the water. Species with a small
area of distribution have thus, without doubt, become extinct,
and, under similar circumstances, may still die out *. But these
changes apparently have never affected the whole earth, and
never thus produced a complete destruction of all living crea-
tures. If we picture to ourselves the multifarious transforma-
tions which Switzerland has experienced in the lapse of ages,
we shall always find, from the Trias to the Drift-period, firm
land upon which terrestrial life could thrive, and also, up to the
beginning of the Miocene period, sea in which marine animals
could live. It may therefore be imagined that there has been
no external cause for the important changes which have taken
place in the organized world of Swiss regions.
We may conceive that to every species, as to every individual,
a determinate age is assigned, and that a species must disappear
* Thus at the present day a beautiful large snail {Helix sulplicata, Sow.)
occurs only upon a small rock in the sea near Porto Santo. Formerly it was
abundant upon that island, and occurs in its drift sand. If this rock should
fall into the sea, this species would be extinct. The Seychelles palm (Lado-
icea sechcllaruni) now only occurs rarely on the Seychelles Islands; and merely
a few examples of the dragon-tree live in Madeira and the Canary islands :
these remarkable trees are therefore approaching extinction.
[Dr. Le Maout and M. Decaisne, in their ' General system of Botany,' trans-
lated by Mrs. Hooker (p. 851), remark of the Dracesna draco that " the
dragon-tree of Orotava is visited by all travellers in the Canary Islands. Its
trunk below the lowest branches is 80 feet in height ; and ten men holding
hands can scarcely encircle it. When Teneriffe was discovered, in 1402,
tradition affirms that it was already as large as it is now, a tradition con-
firmed by the slow growth of the young dragon-tree of the Canaries, of which
the age is exactly known ; whence it has been calculated that the dragon-tree
of Orotava is the oldest plant now existing on the globe." EDITOR.]
