280
GENERALIZATIONS.
when its time has elapsed ; but so long as we are unable to
indicate a cause in the nature of the species for the limitation
of time, there must be uncertainty in forming such limits of
duration.
Darwin, in his celebrated book ' On the Origin of Species by
Means of Natural Selection/ has endeavoured, in a most inge-
nious manner, to explain and combine the extinction of species
and the origin of new ones. He starts from the ascertained fact
that the number of individuals of plants and animals increases
in geometrical ratio, which is not the case with their nutritive
materials. A great number of plants and animals are therefore
deprived of the space and nutriment which they require for life,
and many must annually be destroyed. Thus a constant struggle
for existence takes place, and is even produced between indivi-
duals of the same species, of which only a few attain maturity.
If one of these individuals possesses any advantage over the
others, it will more easily survive, whilst the weaker ones will
languish and die. The former can bequeath its advantages to
its posterity, and, when they increase in a definite direction, in-
dividuals may gradually be produced differing considerably from
the first, and forming a new race.
This new race Darwin regards as a young species in course of
formation ; for if the development continues in the same direc-
tion, the difference by the continual accumulation during thou-
sands of generations of deviations so small as to be scarcely per-
ceptible, may become so great as to form what we call a species.
The old species, however, would have disappeared because it
could not sustain the competition with its younger and stronger
descendants. Consequently old species would have been extin-
guished, and new ones produced in all cases where some of the
younger individuals had acquired properties specially favourable
to their continued development, and had transmitted these pro-
perties to their progeny, and, in consequence, displaced their
unchanged relations. But the individuals of a species may also
in course of time become developed in various directions, so
that a whole group of species may originate from the divergent
forms, and this is regarded as a genus. All the species of a
genus would therefore have a species as their starting-point.
But if we go still further back, the genera also coalesce ; and
