ORIGIN OF SPECIES. 281
then the species of an existing family wonld have had at their
commencement a parent species from which they proceeded.
In this way, Darwin arrives at the first beginnings of things,
and assumes that there were only a few primitive fundamental
types, from which all the species now living have been developed
during an immeasurably long period of time.
To carry out this hypothesis consistently, we should have to
admit that all species had a common origin, and that, becoming
modified in the course of ages, they were developed in all direc-
tions. They would melt imperceptibly one into the other, so that
if we could look over all that had ever been produced, no limit
between one species and the species which follows would any-
where be found. "What we call a species would be only the
form manifested at a certain time, which can be distinguished
from the allied species only because all intermediate forms have
been lost, and have remained unknown to us j and if we could
discover these intermediate forms which once existed, all dis-
tinction of species would disappear. But everywhere in nature
we see well-defined species, so that Darwin had to assume that
we know only a very small portion of the plants and animals
that have existed, and as it would be very remarkable if, in so
extremely incomplete a series, any harmonious gradation had
been displayed, the adherents of Darwin as much as possible
explain away this gradation or deny it altogether.
A.S the Darwinian hypothesis seems to solve the great enigma
of the origin and extinction of species in the simplest manner,
Prof. Heer now inquires whether the natural phenomena of
Switzerland admit of such an interpretation.
It has been observed that certain species pass from one geo-
logical period into the following one, and that of the Swiss
Miocene marine Mollusca, even thirty-five per cent, are still
in existence (pp. 91, 92). The descent of living individuals
from those of the Tertiary period cannot be regarded as doubt-
ful. Other species certainly differ in more or less essential
points from those of the preceding period, but yet approach them
so closely that we must assume the ancient species to have co-
operated in their production ; and we cannot well imagine this
cooperation to have taken place otherwise than by descent from
the older species, the existing differences having been produced
