282 GENERALIZATIONS.
in the course of time. Many other plants and animals, however,
completely differ from the earlier ones ; they represent sharply
defined types standing far away from all species known to Prof.
Heer ; and the bridge of transition is even wanting in the case of
whole classes (e. g. the birds) . Difficult as it may be to account
for the origin of those types in which entirely new plans of
structure are expressed, it seems more natural to derive them
from the organic than from the inorganic world. Prof. Heer
would have to assume that the great gaps have been produced
by the extinction of species which have been lost. Prof. Heer
therefore maintains that a genetic connexion exists through
the whole organic world, because it is only by this supposition
that he can form an idea of the origin of species, which can be
brought into accordance with known and intelligible natural
processes.
Here, however, arises the second important question -namely,
whether a perfectly gradual and imperceptible transformation of
species, always going on without cessation, really takes place, as
Darwin and his adherents suppose, and which, of course, implies
the constant production of new forms, even at the present time.
This view is most decidedly contradicted by the facts which Prof.
Heer has already communicated ; for not only has no new species
originated, so far as he knows, during the period of human
history, but even the paper coals, which go back to a much
earlier time, exhibit the existing flora.
Prof. Heer even meets with the same two varieties of the
hazel which now clothe the Swiss hills, and a species of snail
(p. 213, note) presents the same slight abnormal characteristic
in the structure of its shell as its descendants now living near
Sargans. Plants of the Swiss Alps also agree in part with those
of the high northern latitudes ; and these have probably issued
from the same centre of origin. Even in the drift period such
plants were moulded in exactly the same forms which they now
exhibit in the high mountains of Switzerland as well as in the
distant polar zone.
It has been already noticed that Mr. Darwin regards the
mutual influence and selection of individuals as the principal
agents in the variations of organic nature and in the origin of
species ; but it is manifest that the Swiss species on the Alps live
