SWISS ALPINE PLANTS. 283
under very different conditions from the Alpine species here and
there found in the lowlands of Switzerland,, and that these
Alpine inhabitants of the plain exist under different conditions
from their fellows of the same species in the polar zone.
The Swiss alpine species may be surrounded by species widely
different from those of the original mountain-abode of the plants.
They may be living under different physical conditions ; yet they
preserve their specific characteristics for thousands of years and
during a succession of innumerable generations ; and it is im-
possible to distinguish the descendants of the Alpine drift-flora
now living in the Swiss Alps from plants of the drift-flora in
Iceland and Greenland.
Marine animals justify similar observations. The " struggle
for existence " was carried on under different conditions by the
Norwegian lobsters inhabiting the depths of the Gulf of Quar-
nero, in the Adriatic, near Dalmatia, and by their fellows of the
north of Europe ; and yet they have preserved their forms and
specific characters. Hence, it may be affirmed that no new
species has had its origin since the drift-period. A certain
number of species have disappeared, and great changes have
taken place in the intermixture of forms. Under the influence
of climate and of diverse localities, innumerable varieties have
produced among themselves* fertile individuals ; but so far as
Prof. Heer knows, no new type has appeared.
A great geological division ended with the Tertiary period,
which generally had its own species of plants and animals. The
transformation of these organisms of nature occurred either at
the end of the Pliocene epoch, or at the beginning of the drift-
period ; and there was no slow transition from the ancient to the
modern species, but a transformation.
In the flora and fauna of preceding periods the same facts are
observed. The same species maintain their existence through
long periods of time, and often in all parts of the globe present
* Professor Heer agrees with Professor A. De Candolle and Dr. J. D. Hooker
that a great number of the so-called species in our recent " Floras " are only
varieties, which owe the specific ranks assigned to them only to the constantly
increasing tendency to unnecessary subdivision. These varieties and races
preserve their characters and prosper, especially where they are distant from
their original stocks.
