284 GENERALIZATIONS.
characteristics which are precisely the same*. If we examine
the formation immediately following any early period which
belongs to a new epoch, that formation may contain some spe-
cies inherited from the preceding period, but the greater part
of the species show us a new type, and present distinct charac-
teristics.
Some common species may be found in the beds which sepa-
rate two geological periods ; but Prof. Heer has not noticed any
form which would indicate a fusion of the species. The new
forms contrast with the old ones as new money looks different
from worn coins. Under the influence of altered climate and a
change of locality, the new species may present numerous modi-
fications, called "varieties/'' or they may have more decided
variations, and give rise to " races \' 3 but in their intermixture
the species always produce fertile individuals, while the true
hybrids are generally barren. Although a species may deviate
into various forms, it nevertheless moves within a definitely ap-
pointed circle, and preserves its character with wonderful tena-
city during thousands of years and innumerable generations, and
under the most varied external conditions.
Prof. Heer maintains that in nature there is exhibited much
less of a tendency towards the fusion of species than of a force
manifested to preserve specific characteristics. Hence cultivated
plants and domesticated animals show an inclination to return
to their original wild forms, and between species there is usually
* The ' Bear-Island Flora ' (French edition, p. 20) is instructive on this
point. Almost all its species are identical with those of the lower formations
of the Carboniferous period in Europe. The most important species occur
also in the Greywackes of the Hartz and of Silesia, although these Gray-
wackes "belong to the upper stage of the Lower Carboniferous, whilst the
strata of Bear Island form part of the lowest stage, and the whole formation
of the Carboniferous limestone lies between them. Here, therefore, we have
species which have remained the same during an immense lapse of time, and
under very different external conditions. The Miocene flora of Spitzbergen
presents analogous facts. Its bald cypress is identical with the species
which now inhabits the Southern United States (Taxodium distichuni), al-
though it must have lived at Spitzbergen among quite different associates,
and under different external conditions. Professor Heer has made the same
observations with regard to the mountain-pine and the common fir (Pinus
Abies, Linn.).
