STABILITY OF INSTINCTS. 285
an infertility of hybrids*. Animals manifest a stability not only
in their physical constitution, but also in their instincts, which
Prof. Heer regards as decisive with reference to the continuance
of specific characteristics.
Prof. Heer considers that this immutability demonstrates that
the instincts of animals are not the result of imitation, but are
innate, and have been given to them by the Creator f.
* Professor M. Wagner, in combating Darwin's theory, has, with j ustice,
insisted that in the wild state of plants and animals the continual crossing of
varieties which the species may present must always tend to efface deviations.
Untrammelled mixture of the sexes of all the individuals of the same species
will always produce uniformity, and bring back the type from those varieties
whose characters have not become fixed during a whole series of generations ;
this is proved by wild horses, oxen, and dogs (Wagner, * Die Darwiuische
Theorie und das Migrationsgesetz der Organismen,' p. 26). Under domesti-
cation or artificial cultivation the tendency to return to the original state is
prevented by the influence of man ; but in the natural state, natural selection
cannot by any means replace that influence, the selection being purely acci-
dental, and rendered ineffective by continual crossing. (Prof. Heer would
also refer to the conscientious work of Prof. J. Huber, ' La Theorie de Dar-
win.') Professor Wagner ascribes great importance to the separation of
individuals from the place of origin of their parent species ; and consequently
to the formation of isolated colonies. He regards such a formation of colo-
nies as the principal cause of the creation of new species ; and thus he op-
poses his theory of separation to Darwin's theory of selection. It is very
probable that various modifications of the type forms have become constant
in this manner, and that what are called local forms have been produced ;
but modifications so deep-seated as to explain all the richness of created
forms cannot be attributed merely to changes of locality. The colonies of
Alpine plants and animals upon the heights of the Swiss plateaux, the pre-
sence of the same species under Arctic latitudes and in the Alps, the immense
areas occupied by the Miocene plants and those of the Carboniferous period,
and the progress in the constitution of organic nature, are, in the opinion of
Prof. Heer, opposed to the application of the Darwinian theory.
t The instincts of animals, as Prof. Heer terms the uniform innate animal
impulses, are incomprehensible, and therefore marvellous. The Professor
cannot explain how gnats and mayflies come to lay their eggs in water, an
element which would quickly kill the mature animals if they were to fall
into it, whilst their progeny are developed in it, and only quit it after their
metamorphosis how every butterfly finds the kind of plant on which its
caterpillar should live, and on this lays its eggs, seeing that the butterfly
draws its nourishment from quite a different source, the honey of flowers, and
that since it lived upon the plant in its larval form, it has undergone a
complete metamorphosis or why land-crabs should suddenly quit the
