PROGRESS IN ORGANIZATION. 287
most wonderful instinct, changes might be expected more rapid
in consequence of the very limited period of individual exist-
ence of each insect, and of the recurrence of animal trans-
formations.
In the historical development both of the animal and vegetable
kingdoms in the present work an onward march is evident,
setting off with simple living organisms and moving on to highly
organized forms. This progressive advance does not agree with
the theory of selection ; for, according to that hypothesis, cha-
racters most favourable to existence would prevail in the struggle
for life. Professor Nsegeli has convincingly shown that the
principles of utility which form the living centre of the Darwinian
theory are not connected with progress in organization. It would
be difficult to understand how in this manner, and without any
determinate direction in the way of progress, the unicellular
plants and animals which are regarded as the parent stocks,
could have developed into highly organized forms. The same
difficulties arise in connexion with the question why, both in
the vegetable and animal kingdoms, Nature has not been con-
tented merely to endow these beings with what is strictly neces-
sary for the preservation of life, instead of ornamenting them
in such a varied manner *.
able that the species in England should exhibit the same mode of lifo as in
Switzerland, and that the species in both places should have been developed
in precisely the same manner during so long a period of time, when we see
that a few centuries have sufficed to convert Englishmen into a people pecu-
liar in speech, manners, domestic architecture, &c., notwithstanding their
uninterrupted intercourse with other populations. What a gap separates
the Englishman of the present day from the first inhabitants of that island
with their stone implements ; whilst the ants, which immigrated even at an
earlier period, still move in the same groove ! This applies also to the insects
of Sweden. All that the admirable De Geer tells us of the economy of the
Swedish insects applies also to Swiss insects.
* A simple uniform and green calyx would have been a sufficient protec-
tion for the fecundation and formation of the seeds of plants; but instead of
this, Prof. Heer observes in flowers a marvellous diversity in the corolla, in
form, colour, and size. Darwin has endeavoured to explain this fact by the
supposition that the colour and size of flowers attract insects which favour
fertilization by the transportation of pollen. Plants with brilliant colours
would thus produce more seed, and would, consequently, by degrees supplant
