288 GENERALIZATIONS.
All these facts afford arguments against a slow and uniformly
progressive transformation of species, and lead to the conclusion
that the transformation of organic nature took place in a period
of comparatively limited duration. For thousands of years the
the others. A botanist whose sagacity in other respects is generally admitted^
having adopted these notions, has even maintained that all the beautiful
ornaments of flowers would gradually disappear, and that all plants would
have none but small green flowers, if the class of insects should be lost. The
erroneous nature of any such proposition is demonstrated by what takes place
in the Arctic zone, and in the high chains of the Swiss Alps ; flower-loving
insects are altogether wanting (as at Spitzbergen), or occur in such small
numbers that their influence upon flowers must be very restricted. The
flowers there ought consequently to have no colours ; for there is no doubt
that in Spitzbergen, where there are no insects frequenting the flowers, the
present state of things has existed since the drift-epoch. Facts prove,
with respect to colour and size, that the plants of the high Alps are
distinguished from those of the plain by the brighter colours and larger
dimensions of their flowers. Spitzbergen also possesses a considerable
number of plants with fine flowers ; and the same remark applies to Nova
Zembla. Insects are not much attracted by the form, colour, and size of
flowers, but almost entirely by the honey that they contain ; for it is
principally the sense of smell, and not the eyes, that guides them towards
flowers. The plants with the smallest and least-striking flowers, such as the
willow, the maple, and the lime-tree, are those most sought by bees, whilst
plants with brilliant flowers, such as the tulip, are not visited by them.
There are a great number of species of willows ; but, notwithstanding the
assiduity with which they are visited by insects, not one of these species has
succeeded in surrounding its flowers even with a green calyx. The limes
also are obliged to content themselves with a small whitish corolla. Every
bee-keeper knows that it is the sweet odour of honey alone that attracts
these insects ; and hence they make their way in masses towards sugar-refine-
ries, even at great distances, and often perish there in great numbers. They
scent the honey even where they cannot see it, and seek by every means to
get at it. Within the last few years a new species of larkspur (Delphinium
macranthum) has been introduced into the Swiss gardens. The spur of this
plant is so long that the proboscis of the humble-bees cannot reach the honey
at the bottom of it. The humble-bees merely cut a hole in the spur, and
pass the proboscis through it; by this means they attain their object. For
the last two years Prof. Heer has observed, in the Zurich Botanic Garden,
that all the humble-bees procure the honey of this species of larkspur by
holes made as he has just described, whilst other insects with a longer trunk^
such as the Macroglossa stellatarum, push their proboscis in by the ordinary
course from the corolla.
