REMOULDING OF SPECIES. 289
new species preserved their characteristics unchanged. Hence
the period during which the species persistently maintained
their determinate forms has been longer than the time of their
transformation.
Professor Heer employs for this occurrence the expression of
remoulding of species*, which does not imply an insensible
fusion of species (for that would be opposed to the results of
scientific research) , nor does it trench on the privilege of geolo-
gists, who claim to have at their disposal tens of thousands of
millions of years.
Professor Heer considers that we are still in the dark with
regard to the fundamental conditions of this transformation of
types ; and yet the transformations through which many species
of animals pass may give us some indications as to how we must
conceive of this process. It is well known that most . insects
only attain their perfect form after they have undergone a
metamorphosis. From the egg comes the caterpillar, from this
the pupa, and it is from the latter that the butterfly rises. The
caterpillar is quite different from the butterfly in the form and
structure of its body, as is the maggot from the fly and the
grub from the beetle ; and if we did not know that these earlier
forms of life are only young stages, we should undoubtedly
place them in a different class of animals. Now these earlier
forms of life are in many cases like the lower animals, of which
the young, corresponding to the larva or caterpillar, propagate
by division, so that a number of individuals proceed from a
single larva ; and these earlier animals differ from the individuals
which occur at the final stage of the development nearly as the
caterpillar differs from the butterfly; the species is therefore
split up into several forms, which have been produced, not by a
gradual transition, but by a sudden transformation.
This process, which has been termed f( alternation of genera-
tions," resembles, at least in the subdivision of a species into
* See ' La Flore Tertiaire de la Suisse,' vol. iii. p. 256, and ' Recherches
sur le Clirnat et la Vegetation du Pays Tertiaire,' p. 56. Professor Suess
(" Sur la difference et la succession de la faune Tertiaire dans les environs de
Vienne," Sitzungs. der Akad. in Wien, May 1863; and Professor Kolliker
(' Ueber die Darwin'sche Schopfungs-Theorie/ Leipzig, 18C4) have expressed
themselves in the same way.
VOL. II. U
