INSECTS. 17
also two species of Aphides, among which the ladybirds and
wasp-flies may have taken up their abode. Aphides furnished
honey-dew for ants, which no doubt obtained it from them in
the same way as their relatives of the present time. The large
species of Cercopis found at (Eningen probably also supplied
saccharine juices for ants like their existing representatives in
warm climates.
One gadfly has been found of the family of Tabanidse. Prof.
Heer has obtained from (Eningen thirty-three species of dung-
beetles, of which nineteen belong to the LamellicornSj which live
not only in but upon the excrements of Mammalia, and fourteen
to families (Histeridse, Oxytelidae, and Staphylinida3) similar
species of which dwell in excrements and carrion, for the purpose
of chasing and feeding on the larvse of the true coprophagous
insects. From the analogy of existing species we may indicate
even the genera of mammalia, the existence of which is betrayed
by these insects. Most of the species of the genera Copris,
Onthophagus , and Gymnopleurus that we know from CEningen
represent living species which live chiefly or exclusively in the
fresh excrements of horned cattle, and therefore presuppose the
existence of such animals, although the remains of cattle have
not yet been discovered. The genera Oniticellus and Geotrupes
(allied to the Scarabaus) lead to the supposition that animals of
the horse race lived in the forests of CEningen. A quadruped
of this kind (Hipparion gracile) is known in Switzerland.
If we compare the (Eningian insect-fauna with that now
existing we find in it numerous peculiar types. Prof. Heer is
acquainted with 44 peculiar genera, 21 of them belonging to the
Coleoptera, 6 to the Neuroptera, 6 to the Diptera, 11 to the
Khynchota, and 1 to the Orthoptera. They include 140 jspecies,
many of which were among the most abundant and widely dis-
tributed of the insects. But by far the greater part of the
fauna must be ranged under existing genera ; and many of the
species are so nearly allied to living forms that they are probably
to be regarded as the ancestors of the latter. Prof. Heer calls
them homologous species. Most of these species belong to
genera at present distributed over both the Old and the New
World. There are in the CEningian fauna 180 of such genera,
of which 114 belong to the Coleoptera, Of the latter, two
VOL. II. C
