290 GENERALIZATIONS.
several forms, that change which Prof. Heer has termed " the
remoulding of species." It may be admitted that several spe-
cies of our epoch were invested, in earlier periods, with forms
which bore a somewhat similar relation to the present form
which the larva bears to the fully developed animal. Indeed
many species of ancient periods may be compared to the larvae
or embryos * of those now living.
Under another point of view the remoulding of species differs
materially from the alternation of generations (of the metamor-
phosis) ; for in that regenerative change all the individuals at
their last stage of development acquire the form belonging to
the mature insect, and only in the last form f attain to sexual
maturity. The whole series of forms in this metamorphosis
finally returns to the same point ; and consequently the species
always moves in the same circle, whilst the creation of new spe-
cies advances in a spiral to reach new points of development.
Even when these new species owe their origin to species re-
sembling them, they will not resume the characters of the spe-
cies from which they proceeded, but for thousands and hundreds
of thousands of years they will preserve their determinate typical
characteristics which they obtained by their regeneration. To
Prof. Heer the origin of forms is a secret, an enigma, in the ex-
planation of which may be exercised the talents of divination,
but which has not been fully and entirely solved either in the
known phenomena of nature, or by the application of established
physical laws.
* The featherstars (Comatulce) are mounted on stalks when young, and
resemble in that state the Encrinites of ancient epochs. Many fishes of those
early periods agree in some characteristics with the embryos of existing
fishes. Riitimeyer has recently shown that some Tertiary mammals exhibit
a great resemblance in their dental system to the arrangement of the milk-
teeth of several living species.
t [Sir John Lubbock, F.R.S., mentions that recently Prof. Wagner (Zeit.
fiir Wiss. Zool. 1863) has discovered that "among certain small gnats the larvae
do not directly produce in all cases perfect insects, but give birth to other
larvae, which undergo metamorphoses of the usual character, and eventually
become gnats. His observations have been confirmed, as regards this main
fact, by other naturalists j and Grimm has met with a species of Chironomus
in which the pupse (or chrysalises) lay eggs (Mem. de 1'Acad. Imp. de St.
Petersbourg, vol. xv. 1870). * On the Origin and Metamorphoses of Insects/
by Sir John Lubbock, p. 76. EDITOB.]
