GEOLOGICAL SPRING-TIME. 291
Already, in the work, it has been seen that the transformation
of the crust of the earth did not proceed in a uniform manner,
but that long periods of comparative repose were followed by
great revolutions (supra, p. 250). In the process of develop-
ment of organic nature the same phenomenon is met with, so
that there is a correlation between the transformation of the
crust of the earth and the evolution of organic nature.
Switzerland in the Pliocene epoch obtained its present con-
figuration, and in the same period the chain of the Caucasus
and the range of the Himalayas were upheaved. A large por-
tion of the globe must, consequently, have been affected by this
revolution immediately after the Pliocene in the Quaternary
period, and the transformation also occurred of organic nature
which has ever since retained the same characteristics.
Phenomena of the same kind are recognized in the Flysch
formation, which is almost destitute of animals, in the upheaval
of land at the close of the Jurassic period increasing the size of
continents (vol. i. p. 174), and in the stormy Permian period
which terminated the Carboniferous epoch. Hence there were
times during which these transformations took place over vast
districts ; they were carried on with sufficient rapidity, and they
gave rise to more general and more decided changes.
Times of creation occurred during which was accomplished a
remoulding of organic types, and there was a primaeval epoch
during which the first species were brought into being. Even
if the first species were extremely simple, for them an act of
creation must be admitted, an act without example in modern
times; for in our days plants and animals of decidedly low
forms proceed from species already in existence.
Such periods of creation may be termed a geological spring-
time, thus alluding to the succession of the seasons and recall-
ing the law of periodicity, which may have been exerted in the
renewal of organic nature. But the circle influenced by this
law is so vast that human intellect cannot appreciate either its
height or its extent. No means are afforded to determine with
certainty these epochs of creation.
Great creative renewals are indicated within the limits of
the principal geological periods ; and during those periods im-
portant transformations also took place, the significance of
u2
