292 GENERALIZATIONS.
which cannot at present be satisfactorily estimated. For in-
stance, did new creations occasion the changes undergone by
the faunas in the different stages of the Jurassic and Cretaceous
epochs ? or were those changes the results of immigration from
different centres of life? As the knowledge of fossil organic
nature increases, we shall be better able to appreciate how much
of the influence of organic transformation is to be attributed to
local and how much to periodical causes.
A magnificent series of phenomena opens out in the -vista of
the floras and faunas of different ages of the world. Progressive
steps have been taken towards the existing creation, there has
been a gradual advance in the organization of living creatures,
and a wonderful correlation between the transformations of the
earth's crust and the development of organic nature, as well as
a succession at long intervals of the birth and extinction of
species.
A.S yet we only know the rows of the building-stones of the
im mense edifice of creation ; but as the wonders of the primaeval
world are revealed, the grander and richer will the edifice be-
come, the gaps of the existing creation will be filled up, and
the different parts will be grouped together in a harmonious
whole.
Those intelligent beings who are ready to comprehend the
subject, can alone appreciate the splendour of the edifice of
creation. Let us take an example from the science of music.
A musician alone will understand the meaning of one of
Beethoven's symphonies : for him each note will have its signi-
ficance, and from the different notes taken together an incom-
parable harmony will be produced.
Nature occupies a similar position. Individual phenomena,
like separate notes, can only be understood when a person knows
how to combine them and to appreciate the whole of them to-
gether. An idea of the grandeur of creation can only be formed
by the collection of isolated facts.
Nature's harmony is felt in the soul by this grouping of known
phenomena, a harmony resembling that of its sister in the
domain of music, which raises us above the physical world, and
produces in the mind a presentiment of a Divine intelligence,
