296 APPENDIX I.
and that the bed underlying the lignites in some places (Wet-
zikon and Diirnten) also partook of an erratic nature and there-
fore owed its origin to glacial action.
Two glacial periods in Switzerland, according to the hypothesis
of Morlot, are considered to have been proved ; aixd between the
two glacial deposits lignite-coal beds are found with abundant
remains of plants and animals, the existence of which appears to
prove that at that time a warmer climate had prevailed.
This fact acquired additional interest when Falconer and H.
de Meyer recognized, among the animal remains contained in
this lignite, an elephant (Elephas antiquus) and a species of
rhinoceros (R. Merkii), which were elsewhere referred to the
lowest strata of the Quaternary formation. With these were
associated animals of later type, such as the cave-bear and urns
(Bos primigenius}) and of existing species, such as the common
stag. Prof. Heer has shown that the plants of the lignites in
that locality, as well as two insects found with them, belonged
to species now indigenous to Switzerland. For all details, both
as regards the deposition and the contents of these lignites, the
admirable descriptions may be consulted which Prof. Heer has.
given of them in the 12th chapter of his ' Primaeval World of
Switzerland' (vol. ii. p. 148 of the present work).
In the section of the strata in the pits at Wetzikon the pre-
sence of an erratic deposit under the lignite has lately been con-
firmed by Prof. Renevier of Lausanne and A. Heim of Zurich.
Prof. Riitimeyer has repeatedly examined the animal remains
from these lignites, and he has arrived at the same results as
before. Only the remains of elephant and rhinoceros (of which
the latter have unfortunately for the most part been lost) were
not included in his investigation, as Falconer and H. de Meyer
offered him a better security for their correct determination than
his own examination. To the previously known remains of
Ursus spelaeus (a single impression of a series of mandibular teeth
at Utznach), Bos primigenius (a few mandibular teeth at Utz-
nach), and Cervus elephas (abundant at Wetzikon and Diirnten)
there was added unmistakable evidence of the presence of the
elk in the lignite at Diirnten.
Recently in the Diirnten lignite proofs have been furnished
that, contemporaneously with the flora and fauna of which it
