LIGNITE POINTED RODS. 297
represents the remains, Man also inhabited these regions.
These proofs are derived from the locality of Wetzikon, where
the deposition of the lignite between two glacial deposits is most
completely ascertained.
The lignite coals from Wetzikon are much employed as fuel
in Basle, where the discovery was accidentally made. A legal
gentleman, Dr. Scheuermann, had taken an interest in the
multifarious impressions of plants contained in the lignite, and
had therefore prepared with his own hands the pieces of that coal
for his stoves, when he noticed (while he was thus employed) a
number of pointed rods, which, although not differing from the
surrounding coal, lay imbedded side by side in a large block of
the coal ; and he had the kindness to forward the block to Prof.
Rutimeyer. He further assisted the Professor in proving with
legal certainty, from the books of the commercial house from
which he obtained the coals, that the coals were obtained from
the " Schoneich " pit, near Wetzikon.
Four of the rods were taken out, which had been firmly im-
bedded side by side in the black lignite, and to a certain extent
had amalgamated with it. The best-preserved rod is represented
of the natural size in fig. 1 (p. 298) , the broken end ; a" , the
artificially cut point ; a f , a part where the rod is disintegrated,
so that the interior is seen, which differs from the surrounding
coal, c, only by the preserved woody texture, but not in colour.
Except for its artificial preparation, the rod does not differ from
the remains of wood composing the principal mass of this lignite,
which are beautifully preserved. As in these and other [fossil]
contents (e.g. the jaws of deer, already mentioned) , the original
cylindrical form of the rod has been flattened by pressure, thus
affording a sufficient proof that the rod had undergone carboni-
zation along with the other constituents of the lignite.
For a short space, b b f , the rod shows traces of having been
tied, such as might have been produced by cords; and these marks
have affected both the coal-black bark, which is still preserved
(b) , and the somewhat lighter-coloured wood (b r b f ) . ^
There is a very similar second piece (fig. 2), which, like the
preceding, lies imbedded in the surrounding crumbly coal (c),
and to a certain extent forms one mass with it. At a the Ion-
