FIR-WOOD STRUCTURE. 299
gitudinally fibrous woody body appears ; at b it is transversely
bound with a different bark.
The manner in which this rod has been pointed is shown
in fig. 3, in which, by a section at the point of the rod,
the annual rings are displayed. The interior of the wood in
this, as in other hard woody fragments of which the coal to a
great extent consists, appears light in colour and solid, so that
a clear sharp section could be effected, showing that the annual
rings one after another were removed. Consequently the section
was easily prepared for microscopic examination, which confirms
with all requisite exactness the employment of art in the point-
ing of the rod.
Prof. Schwendauer, the respected colleague of Prof. Riitimeyer,
had the kindness to undertake the microscopic examination,
which is thus described :
" The fragments of wood from the Brown Coal or Lignite of
Wetzikon handed to Prof. Schwendauer for examination are
really more or less sharply pointed, and in such a manner as
evidently to indicate the action of Man. From the microscopic
examination the Professor concludes : 1. That the structure of
the wood undoubtedly corresponds with the Coniferous type ; 2.
That the occurrence of resin-ducts in the wood, and the absence
of the large oval pores and of the tooth-like thickening in the
cells of the medullary rays, not only excludes the white fir (Abies
pectinata), but also the species of the genus Pinus which occur
in Switzerland (Pinus sylvestris, montana, Mill., and cembra).
The spiral thickenings of the woody cells of the yew (Taxus),
and the absence of resin-ducts in cypresses (Cupressineca) , ex-
clude these trees from consideration ; and there remains only,
of the indigenous Coniferse, the larch and the red fir (Abies
excelsa), which cannot be distinguished from each other by
Fig. 3. Section at the point of rod, fig. 2, showing the annual rings in the
wood.
Fig. 4. Microscopic section of the surface represented in fig. 3 : c, point-
ing of the rod ; a b } boundary of an annual ring.
The transverse spots and streaks indicate medullary rays which have been
cut obliquely, as the section of the surface was not exactly radial. The
shading is parallel to the direction of the fibres.
