18 MIOCENE FAUNA,
(Dineutus and Caryoborus} are now wanting in Europe, but all
the rest are represented both in Europe and America. As the
whole number of genera of beetles from (Eningen now known
to Prof. Heer is 156,, those common both to Europe and America
constitute two thirds of that number, the proportion in the pre-
sent beetle-fauna of Europe (according to Lacordaire) being only
one third. Hence the genera spread over both hemispheres were
more numerous in Tertiary times than at present. Of exclusively
European genera we find only 5 ; but there are 18 which now
occur in Europe and Asia or Africa, but not in America. These
are chiefly genera belonging to the fauna of the Mediterranean
region (such as Pentodon, Glaphyrus, Capnodis, Brachycerus,
Zonitis, Mlid], which reinforce the CEningian fauna with Medi-
terranean forms and the genera common to both hemispheres
are in part represented by species most nearly allied to those of
the Mediterranean region. There are two exclusively African
types (Lepitrix and Gymnochila) , and also two which are now
confined to America (Anoplites and Naupactus) . But there are
several genera now absent from Europe which are chiefly Ame-
rican, although not exclusively so (as they occur also in Asia or
in Africa) : such are Belostoma, Hypselonotus, Diplonychus,
Evagoras, Stenopoda, Plecia, Caryoborus, and Dineutus. In all,
(Eningen furnishes 29 species which have their nearest living
allies in America, and 102 which most closely approach Euro-
pean forms. Of the latter, the majority belong to the south of
Europe.
On the whole the insect-fauna of CEningen has more of a
Mediterranean character, and less of a more southern and Ame-
rican stamp, than the flora. This applies particularly to the
insects with a complete metamorphosis, and less to those in
which the metamorphosis is incomplete, especially the Rhyn-
chota. By the great prominence of the Reduviidse, Scutata, and
Coreodea, by the large Cicadidse, the fine species of Cercopidse,
and the gigantic Water-bugs, the Rhynchota furnish evidence
of a warmer climate, and especially a milder winter, than are
now known in Central Europe. The cause of this may probably
be as follows : The insects with an incomplete metamorphosis
(the Rhynchota, Orthoptera, and a part of the Neuroptera) have
no quiescent pupa state, and the majority of them live as larvae
