300 APPENDIX I.
the character of the wood alone. The bark might be subject
to investigation ; but unfortunately on the specimens placed at
the disposal of Prof. Schwendauer the bark is only here and
there preserved, and generally in such an imperfect condition
that it is difficult to distinguish foreign constituents from the
layers of tissue genetically related. However, the Professor
gives his opinion with tolerable certainty that the fragments
of wood under consideration are derived from the red fir (Abies
excelsa}. In this conclusion Professor Schwendauer depends,
in the first place, upon the fact that such cells as are porously
thick-walled and peridermic, characterizing the red fir, often
occur in the peripheral parts of the carbonized crusts, and that
in those crusts he has not observed the interlocking, undulating
and peridermic elements of the bark of the larch, with its elon-
gated prosenchy ma-cells'*, although even these latter might
have been expected to occur in stem-organs of corresponding
age. Moreover no difference is perceptible between the brown
cellular tissue which follows immediately on the above-mentioned
porously thick-walled cells and zones of bark, as to the genetic
connexion of which with the wood there is no doubt. With this
evidence an error in the determination seems to the Professor
to be scarcely possible.
" Judging from the dimensions, and the repeated occurrence
of the rods, branches and not stems furnished the materials of
these pointed pieces of wood. The number of annual rings
varies between five and seven, and their average thickness often
does not reach even half a millimetre ('019 inch). At the same
time they consist almost entirely of thick- walled cells, or what
may be termed autumn wood ; the thin- walled elements are re-
duced to about from one to three rows of cells. How far these
peculiarities are connected with the climate of the locality, Prof.
Schwendauer does not venture to decide, as the extant observa-
tions upon the changes of the annual rings in higher latitudes
* [" The tissue is termed 'prosenchyma ' if the cells are pointed at the
ends and much longer than they are broad, and if at the same time their
ends penetrate between one another so that no intercellular spaces occur."
(< Textbook of Botany,' p. 78, by Prof. Sachs, of the University of Wiirzburg ;
translated by A. W. Bennett, M.A., B.Sc., F.L.S., assisted by W. T. Thisel-
ton Dyer, M.A., B.Sc., F.L.S. Oxford, 1875.) EDITOR.]
