REMAINS OF A ROUGH BASKET. 301
only relate to stems, and their application to the case of branches
is not directly admissible.
"The large scales of bark with a lighter- coloured surface
which occur, especially upon one of the specimens examined, do
not belong anatomically to the Coniferous wood of Switzerland,
although externally they appear to have grown over with it.
These scales are the remains of some bast-bearing dicotyledon-
ous bark which was perhaps employed for uniting the individual
rods ; at least the scales in question lie in such a manner upon
the wood that their longitudinal direction stands at right angles
to the direction of the woody cells."
Prof. Rutimeyer regards speculation as superfluous relating
to the mode of employment of these rods. It seems most pro-
bable that the remains of some rough basket -like structures are
here preserved.
A past period of time is geologically exactly defined by the
interglacial coal-bed, which contains the remains of the species
of animals, chiefly extinct, already mentioned; and from the
manner in which the wooden rods have been imbedded in the
surrounding material, from the nature of the mechanical and
chemical alterations which have taken place since the imbedding,
and from the still perceptible mode of the rods having been pre-
pared, certain proofs of human action are exhibited belonging to
an immensely remote epoch.
The Professor does not discuss the epoch, to be estimated by
geological time, in which these manufactured articles became
associated with the process of the metamorphosis of their sur-
roundings. For Switzerland, and probably also for a wider
region, the rods may for the present be regarded as the oldest
trace of Man. If, indeed, it is probable that discoveries such
as those in the pits of Veyrier and Thayingen and at Schussen-
ried demonstrate the existence of Man in close relation to the
glacial period, even in the neighbourhood of so vast a source of
glaciers as the Alps, we have here not only the evidence of the
covering of a human dwelling-place by a deposit which was
formerly considered to have been the work of the whole glacial
period, but two additional new standards are offered for the
calculation of the indigenous presence of Man the transfor-
mation of human workmanship into lignite, and the contempo-
