MILD WINTER. 19
not in the earth but upon plants, and arc therefore much less
protected from the inclemencies of the weather during their
development than the insects with a complete metamorphosis.
The chief habitation of these insects is therefore between the
tropics, in the lands which know no winter, where their deve-
lopment can go on uninterruptedly. This applies particularly
to the Reduviidse, Scutata, and Coreodea, which are found in
astonishing abundance and variety in warm countries. Only
a comparatively small number of these insects can .exist in
countries where their development is interrupted by a long cold
winter.
Insects with a complete metamorphosis, on the other hand,
pass the winter in the egg, larva, or pupa state, dormant in the
interior of plants or deep down in the earth, and are thus almost
entirely out of reach of the action of cold. Thus the cold of
winter has little influence upon them ; but the summer tempe-
rature has a great effect. A country with a cold winter and a
hot summer has therefore more southern insects with a com-
plete metamorphosis than a region of similar mean annual
temperature more uniformly distributed, because in the case of
insects with a complete metamorphosis, as in that of annual
plants, the summer temperature is really the sole considera-
tion of importance; while for perennial and especially woody
plants, and for many insects with an incomplete metamorphosis,
the winter temperature is also of great consequence. This
explains why, in America, tropical forms of insects and cul-
tivated annual plants (such as maize), but not tropical forms
of trees, advance further towards the north than in Europe,
because under the same latitudes (at least on the east side of
the American continent) the summer is hotter and the winter
much colder than in Europe. And inversely, from the circum-
stance that in (Eningen the insects with incomplete metamor-
phosis exhibit more tropical forms than those in which the
metamorphosis is complete, we may infer that in CEningian
times the winters must have been very mild, the temperature of
the winter rather than of the summer having been higher in
the Swiss Miocene country than that now prevailing in Central
Europe.
Insects in general, being of a small size, do not attract much
c2
