20 MIOCENE FAUNA.
attention ; and it will therefore be sufficient here to give merely
a short survey of the principal forms* met with in the Swiss
Miocene country.
A. Orthoptera.
Cockroaches, to which we have already referred in the descrip-
tion of Liassic insects (vol. i.p. 83) reappear at CEningen (fig. 229),
and prove, by two species of Blatta, that this most ancient type
of insects existed in the Tertiary period. But the most abun-
dant Orthoptera at CEningen are the Grasshoppers, Locusts,
Crickets, and Mantidse, which four groups include thirteen
species.
Of the Locustina, one species (Decticus speciosus, Heer, fig.
222) is distinguished by its beautifully white-spotted fore
wings i it is very nearly allied to a Southern European species
(D. albifrons, Fab.). This was the most abundant grasshopper
of CEningen. No perfect specimens of it have yet been found,
but plenty of wings and hind legs.
The Acridiina are represented, as in the existing Swiss fauna,
by three genera ((Edipoda, Gomphocerus, and Tetrix]^ and are
met with beautifully preserved both in the adult state and as
wingless larvae. One species ((Edipoda Germari, Heer) is of
the size and form of the migratory locust ((Edipoda migratoria],
and its fore wings have dark spots : the specimen is much
crushed ; and Prof. Heer has therefore figured instead of it a
nearly allied species from Radoboj ((Edipoda Haidingeri, Heer,
fig. 223), which is the best-preserved of ancient grasshoppers.
(Edipoda Fischeri (fig. 224), from (Eningen, is a much smaller
species.
Among the Crickets (Gryllina) are seen a long narrow mole
* Prof. Heer has described and figured the insects of CEningen in his
works <( On the Insect-fauna of the Tertiary formations of CEningen and of
Radoboj in Croatia" (Denkschr. der schweiz. naturf. Gesellsch. for 1847,
1850, and 1853), " Contributions to the Insect-fauna of (Eningen " (Harlem,
1862), and Hyme'nopteres fossiles" (Denkschr. &c. 1867). The figures
which the Professor has selected for the present work mostly represent new
species not described in his earlier works. In all cases where no locality is
given the insects are from (Eningen.
