22 MIOCENE FAUNA.
are preserved, resembles the common earwig (F. auricularia,
Linn.), which is as abundant in Madeira as in Switzerland; and
a third (F. minuta, Heer) comes nearest to the little earwig (F.
minor, Linn.) which in summer evenings is often seen flying in
the air.
Some of the Physopoda live in great numbers in flowers, and
assist in their fertilization by transferring the pollen to the
stigma; whilst others collect in millions upon the leaves of
plants, and by sucking their juices destroy them. The latter,
although extremely small animals, are greatly dreaded by gar-
deners under the name of the "red spider." Delicate as is
their structure, two species of these little insects (Thrips cenin-
gensis and T. annosa, Heer, flg. 233) have been beautifully pre-
served at CEningen, proving that even at that time plants were
attacked by these little Physopoda.
B. Neuroptera.
Neuroptera are divided into two sections those with an in-
complete and those with a complete metamorphosis. The latter,
with a quiescent pupa- stage, constitute the Neuroptera in the
narrower sense of the word; the former, with pupae which
continue to run about arid feed, approach very closely to the
Orthoptera, and form the transition to that order. They include
the greater part of the fossil Neuroptera. The twenty-five
known species belonging to the Swiss Miocene fauna are sub-
divided among the families of the Termitidse, Libellulidse, and
Ephemeridse.
Of the four white ants (Termites) two species (Termes specta-
bilis and T. insignis, Heer) represent peculiar extinct species,
exceeding in size even the white ant ( T. fatalis, Linn.), so much
dreaded in the torrid zone. Two others (Termes Hartungi, Heer,
fig. 230, and T. Buchii, Heer) represent a species (T. lucifugus,
Lat.) inhabiting the subtropical zone (as in Madeira) , but which
has also taken up its abode in the seaport towns of Southern
Europe. In Madeira Prof. Heer found large numbers of this
species in old fir- stumps, which the insects perforated in all
directions and thus made dwelling-places for themselves.
From these chambers run covered galleries, through which the
