WHITE ANTS AND DRAGONFLIES. 23
larvae pass to seek for food. Their soft bodies are so ill-defended
that they cannot escape the numerous predacious insects if they
venture outside their covered passages*. The winged males
and females issue at certain seasons in enormous swarms into
the open air ; and these for the most part become the prey of
their numerous enemies. In the neighbourhood of rivers and
lakes many of them get drowned ; and that this was the case in
CEningian times is proved by the winged Termites which the
rocks at OEningen enclose. No doubt their mode of life was
similar to that of their existing relatives. The two small species
probably established their dwellings in the trunks of the Conifers
which were so abundant in the CEningian forest ; whilst the two
larger ones no doubt built conical edifices, like those inhabited
by the tropical species.
The dragonflies (Libellulina) of CEningen consist of three
genera and twenty species. Their larvse no doubt lived in the
water, and the adult animals in the air. Of all the three genera
both larvse and perfect insects remain ; of the genus Agrion
only one species has come down to us in the young state, and
of this merely a single specimen, whilst the adults are found of
six species. Only three species of Libellula are known from
winged specimens, whilst eight are found as larvse. The largest
species (Libellula Calypso, Heer) is represented in fig. 232 ; but
two other species (L. Doris, Heer, fig. 231, and L. Eurynome,
Heer) are much more plentiful, and are the commonest insects
at CEningen. They so closely resemble the larvse of an existing
species (L. depressa, Linn.) that the adult must also correspond
to this, and therefore might easily be referred to the larva in
case of its being found at CEningen. Its absence is the more
remarkable as the female must have come upon the water for
the purpose of depositing her eggs, and must consequently have
been in danger of drowning. It must, however, be taken into
consideration that the larvse of Agrion live chiefly in running
* Iii Madeira Prof. Heer shut up a great number of larvse and soldiers in a
tin box, in order to observe their development and mode of life. But the
little house-ants speedily smelt them out, made their way through the nar-
row crevice round the lid into the box, and attacked the Termites. Although
the latter were much the larger, they were easily overcome and devoured by
the house-ants.
