24 MIOCENE FAUNA.
water, in small brooks and springs,, and that the perfect insects
nutter about lazily over lakes, rivers, and ponds, so that they
may easily be caught and drowned in the water ; but the Libel-
lulce have a much more powerful flight, and are fond of fre-
quenting woods and coppices, whilst their larvae live in stagnant
muddy water.
The two common Libellulas of CEningen are met with in whole
families together in the dragonfly-bed of the upper quarry, where
small specimens are found, as well as half-grown and full-grown
dragonflies and pupse with wing-sheaths. Some of them have
the labium pressed close to the lower surface of the head ; others
have it extended as if in the act of seizing a prey (fig. 231).
This labium (lower lip) in the larvae of the dragonflies is of
very peculiar construction, and can be extended and drawn
back like a hand. Gently the creatures glide towards their
victim and seize it by the sudden extension of the labium, which
is furnished with a pair of strong jaws at its anterior margin.
The state of preservation of the larvae renders it probable that
they were killed by some sudden catastrophe. Perhaps the
water was heated to boiling by volcanic eruptions, or was im-
pregnated with gases : either supposition would account for the
congregation of masses of larvse of all ages lying together.
The rock enclosing these insects is distinguished by its remark-
able hardness and brittleness.
Libellula depressa, Linn., to which the two commonest Mio-
cene dragonflies of CEningen are most nearly allied, is now
distributed all over Europe. Two species of JEschna also re-
semble a European form (&. mixta, Lat.), and one species of
Agrion (A. Aglaope, like A. elegans, Lind.) ; whilst two other
Agriones (A. Parthenope and Leucosia) represent South- African
types (A. fasciatum and longicaudum) . These are large species.
A. Parthenope has a dark transverse band on the wing, which
was probably black or metallic during life.
The Ephemeridse (May -flies or day-flies), which are easily re-
cognizable by their long caudal bristles, rise in spring and early
summer from the Swiss lakes in immense numbers, and not
unfrequently make their way into the houses in the evening.
They appear to have been rare in Tertiary times ; at least hitherto
