BEETLES. 25
Prof. Heer has only obtained one small species (Ephemera cenin-
gensis, Heer) from (Eniiigen.
Of the Phryganidse (caddice-flies) , which appear in great quan-
tities about the rivers and lakes of Switzerland, and which are
mentioned by Conrad Gessner as "Baden flies/' Prof. Heer
only knows two species from CEningen, and one from Locle.
Their larvae, like those now existing, constructed their dwellings
of small stones and fragments of plants ; one of these dwellings
has been found at (Eningen.
C. Beetles (Coleopterd) .
Of the Coleoptera all the higher groups and most of the
families are represented at CEningen, from which locality Prof.
Heer is acquainted with 518 species. From the rest of the
Swiss Miocene 26 species have been obtained. The average
number of species to each family is 10, and to each genus 3 spe-
cies ; in the existing beetle-fauna of Switzerland there are 45
species to the family and 5 to the genus ; in Europe generally
the genus possesses 7*9 species, it has 4*4 species in North
America, and 6'7 species in South America.
Most of the species at CEningen are comprised in the tribe of
the Rhynchophora (weevils &c.) with 107 species ; then follow
the Sternoxi (66 species), Clavicornes (55), Carabidse (52),
Chrysomelina (50), Lamellicornes (50), Longicornes (28), and
Palpicornes (21). In the present Swiss fauna the order of the
tribes according to number of species is as follows Rhyncho-
phora, Brachelytra, Carabidse, Clavicornes, Chrysomelina, Ster-
noxi, Lamellicornes, and Longicornes; and the same order is
found with respect to the general fauna of Europe.
Thus not only in the fauna of the Tertiary district of Swit-
zerland, but in that of Europe at the present day, the Rhyncho-
phora take the first place ; but while in the latter the Brache-
lytra hold the second or third place, in the Miocene fauna, as in
that of South America or Asia, these insects fall into the back-
ground, and do not appear among the dominant tribes. On the
other hand, the Sternoxi (gold-beetles and skipjacks) come up
into the second rank, and even the Palpicornes take their place
