26 MIOCENE FAUNA.
among the more important groups. The remarkable predo-
minance of the Sternoxi is chiefly produced by the Buprestidse
(gold-beetles), a family which attained a far more important
development in the Tertiary fauna than it does at present, and
which is now most numerous in warmer zones. Many species
of Buprestidas are found in the Lias, including the great majority
of the wood-beetles of that early period (see vol. i. p. 87) . The
predominance of the Buprestidse, the abundance of Palpicornes,
and the rare occurrence of Brachelytra are the most character-
istic features of the Tertiary beetle-fauna.
Ladybirds (Coccinellida3) are everywhere well-known insects,
characterized by the convex form of their body, and generally by
their elegantly spotted elytra. From QEningen nineteen species
have been received ; and of most of these the original colouring
is still to be recognized. It was as lively and varied as in living
species. In one species (Coccinella color at a, fig. 234) four black
spots may be observed on the thorax, and ten upon each elytron.
One species (C. Andromeda, Heer) resembles the common Swiss
seven-spotted ladybird; another (C. Hesione, Heer) represents
the two-spotted species (C. dispar, 111.) ; and a third (C. ama-
biliSj Heer) is like C. ocellata. Linn. ; whilst a fourth, large spe-
cies (C. spectabilis, Heer, fig. 235) agrees in size and form with
the Brazilian C. marginata.
Of the Chrysomelinas (Phytophaga) fifty species are known
from CEningen ; and to these must be added three more from the
Swiss Miocene. The most numerously represented families are
the Chrysomelidae (with fifteen species), the Gallerucida3 (with
nine), and the Cassididse (with eight species). Among the
Chrysomelidse one species (Lina populeti, Heer, fig. 237) is very
like the Swiss common poplar-beetle (Lina populi, Linn., sp.),
and probably had also blood-red elytra; another (Gonioctena
Clymene, Heer) resembles G. pallida, Fab., which lives on the
black alder and hazel; and a third (Chrysomela calami, Heer,
fig. 238) is allied to Chrysomela graminis, Linn., which is met
with on reeds.
Among the Gallerucidse three species had the head and thorax
light-coloured (probably red or yellow during life), and the an-
tennae and elytra black (probably metallic during life). The
largest of these (Galleruca Buchi, Heer, fig. 236) is most nearly
