28 MIOCENE FAUNA.
Of the Crioceridse only one species (Lema vetusta, Heer,
fig. 240) appears ; but this is of great interest, as it is allied to
the red lily-beetle (L. merdigera, Linn.), and its existence gives
a probability to the (Eningian flora having been adorned with
liliaceous plants.
Four species of Hispidae occur at CEningen, whilst Switzerland
now possesses only one. The fossil species differ entirely from
the modern species, and belong to an American genus (Anoplites) .
One of them (Anoplites Bremii, Heer, fig. 241) is very abundant
at (Eningen, more than 100 specimens of that beetle having
been already obtained. It is very nearly related to a North-
American species (A. quadrata, Fab.), which appears in May
and June, and deposits its eggs upon the leaves of various Po-
macese (the apple-tree, Pyrus arbutifolia and Amelanchier ovalis) .
The larvae mine the leaves, and feed upon their cellular tissue.
An allied species (A. suturalis, Fab.) lives on the American
acacia (Robinia pseudacacia) . At CEningen the genera Pyrus
and Amelanchier have not yet been detected; but the genus
Robinia occurs there, and the Anoplites, which is so abundant
an insect at CEningen, probably lived upon it.
The Donacidse are much less common ; only a few specimens
of two species have been found. This is very remarkable, as
at present these insects are met with in great quantities on
marsh- and water-plants, and they occur by hundreds in the
lignites of Utznach and Diirnten.
Rhynchophora, which are characterized by having the head
prolonged into a beak, constitute the most numerous tribe both
in the CEningian and in the present European fauna. One
hundred and eight species are already known from CEningen,
24 of which belong to the Attelabidse (with straight anten-
nae), and 84 to the Curculionidse (with geniculated antennae).
There are therefore between one fourth and one fifth of Attela-
bidse in the whole number, whilst they are about one third in
the existing Swiss fauna. The Attelabidse at the present day
are relatively less numerous in the warm and torrid zones than
in temperate regions.
The Rhynchophora live exclusively upon vegetable food ; and
indeed many of them confine themselves either to particular
species or genera of plants, and feed upon special vegetable
