BEETLES. " 29
organs some upon the leaves, others upon the flowers, fruits,
or seeds, and others again upon the wood or bark. The study
of the natural history of these animals and the determination
of the homologous fossil species will afford many interesting
hints as to the relations of the animal and vegetable worlds at
this early period.
The most numerous group in the family Attelabidse is that of
the Attelabinse, represented at (Eningen by thirteen species be-
longing to the genera Attelabus, Rhynchites, and Apion. Figs.
242-244 show the representatives of these genera from (Eningen.
The little Apion has exactly the appearance of the living species.
These are all minute elegant creatures, which live chiefly upon
the seeds of the trefoils (Robinia;) and other papilionaceous
plants. The Rhynchites attack the buds and young leaves of the
vine; and some of them also feed on the young fruits of pomaceous
and stone-fruited trees. This insect has sometimes the names
of "the spade " ("laBeche") and of "Lisette." The species
represented in fig. 243 resembles the common vine-beetle (Li-
sette) ; and probably, with a second allied species (R. silenus,
Heer), it lived upon the vines of CEningen. These are European
forms; but the Attelabus durus, Heer (fig. 244), reminds Prof.
Heer of an American type.
Six species of the Anthribidae probably lived in the forest, upon
fungi and rotten wood. The Bruchidae, with their three species,
fed on seeds. One of them (Bruchus striolatus, Heer) most re-
sembles in size and form the species living in the palm-nuts of
tropical America. In the Bruchidse the rostrum is short and
broad, while in the Antliarhinidae it is extraordinarily long and
thin. To this subfamily, which is now met with only on the
cycads of the Cape of Good Hope, Prof. Heer refers a very small
insect from CEningen (Antliarhinus gracilis, Heer, fig. 246),
characterized by its long rostrum of a hair-like fineness, at the
base of which the antennae are inserted.
Of the family Curculionidae nine subfamilies are represented
at CEningen ; among these the Cleonidae, Molytidae, Erirhinidae,
and Cryptorhynchidse include the largest number of species.
The genus Cleonus is found in great numbers, and comprises
fourteen species. The corresponding existing species are found
in fissures and under stones in the moist ground of the waterside,
