30 MIOCENE FAUNA.
where they obtain their nourishment from herbaceous plants.
The fossil species no doubt had a similar mode of life ; and most
of them are analogous to European forms : thus Cleonus specio-
sus, Heer (fig. 249) , resembles a Siberian species (C. pruinosus,
Schonh.), and probably found its habitation in the mud and
sedges of the Lake of (Eningeu. The numerous species of
Phytonomus found at (Eningen probably lived on the Polygona
and Rumices of the marshes, attaching their cocoons to the
lower surface of the leaves in the same way as their relatives of
the present day. The species of Lixus presuppose the existence
of marsh Umbelliferae ; L. rugicollis, Heer, is very nearly allied
to a species (L. gemellatus, Schonh.) living on the water-hemlock
(Cicuta virosa), the stems of which are perforated by larvae,
whilst the perfect insect suns itself on the flowers, but sometimes
descends into the water, where it can exist for a considerable
time. A second species (Lixus wningensis, Heer) visited the
thistles, at least if it adopted the diet of the nearest allied living
species (the widely distributed L. angustatus, Fab.) .
The Brachyceri (fig. 247) very probably lived on the shore of
the lake ; and their existence betokens the blooming of liliaceous
plants. The three species of Clonus remind Prof. Heer of the
small globular weevils which occur on the mulleins ( Verbascum)
and figworts (Scrophularia) , and the Larinus of the yellow-scaled
species of the Swiss thistles and centauries. The genera Cryp-
tarhinus and Balaninus must be ascribed to the alders and
hazels, and the five Sitonce to the conifers. One of the latter
(Sitona atavina, Heer, fig. 248) is a very common insect at
(Eningen, and is very nearly allied to a species the larvae of
which take up their abode in fir-cones. The genus Naupactus
is quite foreign to Switzerland, being represented in tropical
America by species of numerous and beautiful colours ; a species
of considerable size (N. crassirostris, Heer, fig. 245) has been
discovered at (Eningen.
Longicornes, recognizable by their long antennae, with thirty
species, take the seventh place among the eight most numerous
tribes of beetles in tlje Miocene fauna; in the present fauna
of Switzerland and of Europe they occupy the eighth rank, in
North America the fifth, in tropical America the third, and in
the Indian archipelago the fourth place. They are consequently
