BEETLES. 31
more abundant in America than in Europe, and much more
numerous in the torrid than in the temperate and cold zones.
In the Swiss Tertiary country they are on the whole rare. It
is remarkable that the Lepturidse, which belong to the temperate
zone, are absent, and that all the species are to be referred to
the genera of Cerambycidae, Lamiariae, and Prionidae ; they un-
doubtedly all inhabited the forest, and lived upon wood in their
larval state.
The genus Prionus includes types of large size. All the
CEningian forms are distinguished by having the margins of the
thorax destitute of teeth or serrations ; they form a peculiar
and apparently extinct group. In size and general aspect the
largest species (P. Polyphemus, Heer, fig. 250) is very like
Prionus faber, Linn., the larvae of which live in firs ; a second
species (Prionus spectabilis, Heer, fig. 251) attains nearly the
size of P. coriarius, Linn.
Cerambycidae are represented by the genera Clytus and Calli-
dium, including nine species. The variegated colours which
distinguish the former may still be recognized in four CEningian
species ; and the specimen figured (fig. 252) shows distinctly that
the elytra were traversed by three transverse light-coloured
bands, which were probably of a sulphur-yellow during life.
These insects differ considerably from the European species , but
two of the Callidia (C. Escheri } Heer, fig. 253, and C. procerum,
Heer) are nearly allied to C. strepens, Fab., a species which is
very widely distributed in the Mediterranean region, and also
occurs in Madeira and North Africa, and even in Georgia and
Brazil.
Of the Lamiariae, a Saperda (S. Nephele, Heer) probably lived
on the poplars of CEningen; an Acanthoderus (A. sepultus,
Heer) and a Mesosa (M. Jasonis, Heer) upon the wood of coni-
fers. The elytron of a small Saperda (fig. 254) has also been
found in the Miocene of Rovereaz.
Of the tribe Stenelytra five families are represented at CEnin-
gen ; the Cistelidae and Helopidse include the greatest number
(fifteen) of species. The former probably frequented flowers,
while the Helopidse lived on forest-trees ; but their larvae in all
likelihood resided in old stumps of oaks and firs. Two species
