BEETLES. 33
trees of (Eningen. A species of Zonites (Z. vetusta, Heer) is
of the same size and colouring as the Z. prausta of Southern
Europe, and like that species probably inhabited the nests of
bees.
The Melanosomata are very uncommon in the Miocene beetle-
fauna, whilst at the present day Mediterranean countries possess
a great abundance of insects belonging to this tribe.
In the Miocene fauna a few species of Upis are found, resem-
bling South- American forms, and there is a species of an extinct
genus (Tagenopsis brevicornis, Heer, fig. 257) which agrees in
general habit with the existing genus Tayenia, but is distinguished
by having the last three joints of the antennae thickened. The
species of Tagenia live under the bark of trees.
The Teredyles also are very sparingly represented. A Clerus
(C. Adonis , Heer) is intermediate between Clerus mutillarius and
formicarius, Linn., beautifully coloured carnivorous beetles,
which pursue the larvae of the wood-eating insects, seeking them
in their galleries. Hyleccetus cylmdricus, Heer, resembles H.
dermestoides , Linn., which lives in the wood of coniferous and
leafy trees.
The Malacodermata are much more abundant. A glow-worm
(Lampyris orciluca, Heer) exactly resembles the common Swiss
glow-worm, and no doubt displayed its mild light in the summer
nights of Miocene times, just as its relative does at present;
the species of Telephorus and Malachius present numerous and
very elegant forms, which, notwithstanding their soft texture,
have been beautifully preserved, actually as if painted on the
stone. This is shown in fig. 256 : the whole of the delicate
creature has been preserved ; and in the legs we can still recog-
nize the light colour of the tibiae and the form and articulation
of the tarsi (fig. 256, b,c,cT). These insects doubtless frequented
flowers, and there, like the analogous living forms, pursued
still smaller insects.
Of the 67 species of Sternoxi from (Eningen, 40 belong to the
Buprestidae, and 27 to the Elateridse ; and to these must be added
5 more species from the Swiss Miocene. They are divided into
13 genera, two of which (Fusslinia and Protogenia) are extinct.
The genera Capnodis, Chalcophora, and Ancylochira are abun-
dantly represented. Two species of Capnodis (C. antiqua, Heer,
VOL. II. D
