BEETLES. 35
found upon the flowers of the sumach, whilst its larvae live in
the trunk of the mastic tree (Lentiscus) . The most abundant
Chalcophora (C. lavigata, Heer, fig. 259) is represented by an
Italian species (C. Fabricii, Rossi), which lives on peach- and
pear-trees.
Seven species of Ancylochira have been detected at (Eningen ;
and, from the analogy of existing species, three of them lived
upon Conifers. One of these (A. tincta, Heer, fig. 258) still
beautifully shows its varied colours, agreeing in this respect with
A. octoguttata, Fab. The species of the genera Perotis, Eury-
thyrea, Dicerca, Agrilus, Anthaxia, and Sphenoptera were pro-
bably adorned with metallic colours.
The great family of the Elateridae includes smaller insects.
The species from CEningen exhibit no remarkable forms ; among
them are Ampedi, the pale elytra of which were probably during
life of a bright red colour as in the living species, which feed
on the wood of Conifers and other leafy trees. There are also
several species of Corymbitis, very like the metallic C. ceneus,
Linn., and numerous species of E later, some with the elytra of
a uniform dark colour, others with those organs spotted and
edged with a pale border. The largest and most striking species
of Elater is represented in fig. 262. It is a very peculiar form,
most nearly resembling West-Indian species.
The Lamellicornia are numerously represented in the torrid
zone. As regards the number of species, they occupy the
fourth place in tropical America, the third in the Indian archi-
pelago, and the second in Asia. In Switzerland they rank only
in the seventh place. Moreover, in the tropics the species are
much larger ; they are the giants of the insect world. In the
Swiss Tertiary land they take the sixth place, with forty-three
species, most of which are represented by European species,
although among them are a few exotic forms. Of the eight
families from (Eningen, three (the Geotrupidse, Copridee, and
Aphodiidse) include dung-beetles ; two (the Dynastidse and Me-
littophilidse) are formed by beetles which live, in the larval state,
in rotten wood, and, when adult, upon flowers ; and one (the
Melolonthidae) comprises insects of which the larvae feed on the
roots of plants, while the perfect insects devour the leaves of
trees.
D2
