36 MIOCENE FAUNA.
Of the dung-beetles (Coprophaga) the Geotrupidse and Apho-
diidse are rare, and represented by but few species; of the
Copridse, on the contrary, we have thirteen species, belonging to
four genera. The genus Onthophagus , with its grotesquely
horned forms, called among the people " little bull " and " little
ox/' includes seven species, five of which are exactly represented
by those now found in the droppings of cattle : that is to say,
Onthophagus Urus, Heer, is represented by O. nuchicornis,
Linn.; O. prodromus, Heer (fig. 268), and O. crassus, Heer,
by O. vacca, Linn. ; 0. bisontinus, Heer, by O. affinis, St. ; and
O. ovatulus, Heer, by O. ovatus, Linn. The genus Copris also
includes one species (C. subterranea, Heer), which is represented
by one living Swiss species (C. lunaris], found in cattle-manure;
another (C. Druidum, Heer, fig. 267) is most nearly allied to a
Brazilian species (C. ciliata). The genus Gymnopleurus , besides
a species of Indian type (G. rotundatus, Heer, fig. 270), presents
two or three peculiar forms ; whilst an Qmticellus(Q.amplicollis y
fig. 269) finds its nearest ally in the Swiss O. flavipes, Fab.,
which lives in horse-manure. Among the Geotrupidse there
is a species (Geotrupes German, Heer) which, like the Swiss
Scarabaeus and Geotrupes, lived on horse- manure; another
(Coprologus gracilis, Heer) constitutes a peculiar and extinct
genus.
The Dynastidse are represented by the genus Pentodon (P.
Proserpina, Heer), which is now confined to the Mediterranean
region, and passes its larval stage in rotten wood.
The Melittophilidse are known to every one by the rose-
beetles (Cetonice), so frequent on the spring flowers in the|Swiss
gardens. No fossil Cetoniae are known ; but we find the nearly
allied genus Trichius, the species of which frequent flowers,
whilst their larvse dwell in old trunks of trees. One species (T.
cedilis, Heer, fig. 266) is probably the ancestor of the golden
Trichius nobilis, Linn., which particularly lives on the flowers
of the elder, but deposits its eggs in old plum-trees ; another
species (T. lugubris, Heer) was the ancestor of the Trichius
variabilis, Linn., a black beetle spotted with white, which passes
its young state in deciduous trees; and a third (T. amoenus,
Heer) may be the progenitor of T. fasciatus, Fab., with which
it agrees in the black bands on its elytra. Valgus ceningensis,
