BEETLES. 37
Heer (fig. 265), is the precursor of V. hemipterus, Linn., the larvae
of which live in the wood of deciduous trees.
The family Glaphyridse presents us with an exotic type (Gla-
phyrus antiquus, Heer), now found in the East living on the
flowers of thistles.
Of the Melolonthidae (cockchafers) ten species are found at
(Eningen ; but none of them seems to have been there as nume-
rous as are the living species. In the older Miocene one species
must have been abundant. Of the five specimens of insects
which have as yet been found at Hohe-Rhonen, two belong to
Melolontha Greithiana, Heer (fig. 263) ; and these have been met
with there in different parts of the Carbonaceous deposits. This
species was as large as the common Swiss cockchafer, but it had
much narrower elytra, and probably belonged to the same group
(Catalasis, Dej.) as the Melolontha australis, Schonh., of the
south of France.
At CEningen all the Melolonthidse are rare. One species
(Rhizotrogus longimanus, Heer) has its nearest ally in Southern
Europe (R. paganus, Ol.) ; another (Anomala fugax, Heer) is
most closely related to the common July chafer (A. Julii, Fab.),
which ranges all over Europe; and a third (Serica minutula,
Heer) resembles the little Serica strigosa, Dej. But the most
interesting insect of this family is Lepitrix germanica, Heer
(fig. 264), as it belongs to a genus which is now confined to the
Cape of Good Hope, where a very similar species (L. lineata,
Fab.) is found.
The Lamellicorns are represented in the water by the Palpi-
corns, twenty-two species of which, belonging to the family
Hydrophilidae, inhabited the waters of CEningen. To these must
be added four more species found at Locle and Monod in the
Canton of Vaud. Of the eight genera to which these species
are referred, two (namely Escheria and Hydrophilopsis, Heer)
are extinct, but five are still found in Switzerland. While only
three species of the genera Hydrophilus and Hydrous, which in-
clude the largest species, now inhabit Switzerland, (Eningen
possessed ten species, several of which must have been abundant.
Hydrophilus spectabilis, Heer, is the nearest relative of the great
pitchy water-beetle (H. piceus, Linn.), which is distributed
through all the fresh waters of Europe, whilst several others
