BEETLES. 39
species spin a soft nest out of a gummy material which they
secrete, and in this nest they deposit their eggs ; their Miocene
progenitors probably protected their offspring in a similar
fashion. The larvae of recent species live upon small aquatic
Mollusca, whilst the adults prefer a vegetable diet.
The Clavicornia form a very numerous tribe. At (Eningeii
they possess fifty-five species, and occupy the third place. In
the present fauna of Switzerland Clavicornia take the third
place, the sixth in that of Europe, and the eighth in that of
Tropical America. Eight families of them are found at (Enin-
gen ; and of these the Nitidulidae, Peltidse, and Histeridse include
the greatest number of species. Of the last family, twelve spe-
cies lived in manure, and also partly in carrion, feeding on the
larvae of other insects which frequent those substances. One
species (Hister Mastodontis, Heer, fig. 276) closely resembles a
Southern-European species (H. major, Linn.), whilst several
others (such as H. antiquus, Heer, H. cumulus, Heer, and H.
maculigerus, Heer) represent forms distributed throughout
Europe. Their elytra were either entirely black or presented
light-coloured spots, which were probably red during life.
Of the numerous Nitidulidae (nineteen species) several have
their nearest allies in America, others in Europe. These insects
live sometimes upon the juices flowing from the stems of trees,
and sometimes upon flowers, but also occasionally on carrion.
The true carrion-beetles (Silphidae) are rare, and only one spe-
cies of this family (Silpha tricostata, Heer, fig. 275) has been
found. This is nearly related to Silpha carinata, Heer, and no
doubt obtained its nourishment from the bodies of the Mammals
which died in the forest of CEningen.
Of Peltidae ten species are found at (Eningen, affording a
proof of the abundance of wood at that period. Whilst the
genus Trogosita is now represented in Switzerland only by two
rare species, CEningen possessed eight species, which no doubt
lived under the bark of trees. They are chiefly peculiar forms
(such as Trogosita sculpturata, Heer, fig. 277), which may be
best compared with those of southern countries; but one of
them (T. assimilis, Heer) is nearly allied to a species now spread
over nearly all parts of the world (T. mauritanica, Linn.). A
