40 MIOCENE FAUNA.
very remarkable species clothed with rounded scales (Gymnochila
obesa, Heer) belongs to a South- African genus.
The Cryptophagidae are very minute beetles, five species of
which dwelt in fungi and under the bark of trees. The Scaphi-
didae, of which two species have been preserved at (Eningen, are
also minute fungus-eating beetles ; while the pill-beetles (Byr-
rhidae), five species of which occur, no doubt fed upon the soft
mossy cushions of the forests, in the same way as their living
congeners.
Of the numerous tribe of Brachelytra, the members of which
are so easily recognized by their elongated abdomen, only ten
species, belonging to four families, have been preserved at
GEningen ; and even these are rarely met with. The extremely
numerous and difficult family of the Aleocharidse is represented
only by two exceedingly minute Homalotte ; that of the Oxyte-
lidse by an Oocytelus (0. procevus, Heer), which probably lived in
manure, and a Bledius (B. speciosw, Heer, fig. 278), which is
much larger than any existing species, and differs remarkably
from them in form. The Staphylinidse furnish a Staphylinus , a
Lathrobium, and two Owypori.
Some of the Gyrinidse (whirligigs) inhabited Switzerland as
early as the Liassic epoch (see vol. i. p. 90). Of these water-beetles
two (Eningian species (fig. 281) are very different from those of
the Lias. They belong to a genus (Dineutus) which no longer
occurs in Europe, but is represented in America by similar
forms.
The Dytiscidse are the most voracious insects of prey of
the Miocene fresh waters. Twelve species have been preserved
at GEningen ; and these differ but little from existing species.
One of them, Dytiscus Lavateri, Heer (fig. 279), very closely re-
sembles the bordered water-beetle (D. marginalis, Linn.), the
commonest species of the Swiss waters. The males of the latter
have smooth elytra, and the females deeply furrowed elytra,
which difference also occurred in Tertiary times (fig. 279, , b) ;
and even the yellow border which occupies the margins of the
elytra is still retained. The species of Cy bister differ from those
now inhabiting Europe ; one of them (C.Agassizi, Heer, fig. 280)
has its nearest allies in Indian and Mexican species (C. limbatus,
Fab., and foveatus) ; a second (C.Nicoleti, [Heer), which has been
