BEETLES. 41
discovered at Locle and (Eningen, is most closely related to a
South- African form (C. costalis, Oliv.), and a third (C. atavus,
Heer) to a species which is distributed from Sicily to the Cape
of Good Hope (C. africanus, Lap.). The genera Hydaticus,
Acilius, Colymbetes, and Hydroporus (fig. 282) include smaller
insects, chiefly representing European forms.
The Carabidae (Geodephaga) are carnivorous beetles., and are
very active predaceous creatures, living in constant warfare with
other insects, as well as with Mollusca and worms. At (Eningen
they occupy the fourth place with fifty-four species, in the exist-
ing Swiss fauna the third place, in Europe generally the second,
and in North America even the first place, whilst in South
America and in India they only come fifth in order. Of the
true Carabi none have been found fossil ; but these insects are
now very abundant in the cold and temperate zones, and are
among the commonest predaceous beetles of Switzerland. Their
representatives in the warm and torrid zones are the nearly allied
Calosomata. At (Eningen five species of Calosoma have been
found, and two have been obtained from Locle, making in all
seven Miocene species.
The Calosomata probably took the place of the Carabi in
Miocene times, as their relatives now do in southern countries.
They often live together in troops, and pursue caterpillars on
trees, whence they have received the name of caterpillar-hunters.
The most abundant species (Calosoma Nauckianum, Heer, fig.
283) , which also occurs in the lignites of Bonn, is very nearly
related to a species distributed over Southern Europe and the
Atlantic islands (C. Maderce, Fab.) : this is the case also with a
second species, whilst two others (C. catenulatum, Heer, and C.
caraboides, Heer) have as their nearest allies North -American
species (C. Sayi and longipenne, Dej.), and two others, again,
are related to South- American forms, and only one (C. Jaccardi,
Heer, from Locle) can be assimilated to a species of the existing
Swiss fauna (C. inquisitor, Fab.). Thus during the Miocene
epoch Switzerland possessed a number of Calosomata, the de-
scendants of which are now scattered over both hemispheres.
The genus was already developed into its extreme forms, as one
species (C. Jaccardi) with its broad and short elytra constitutes
a transition towards the Asiatic Callisthenes, whilst another (C.
