WASPS AND BEES. 43
Many Hymeiioptera live upon plants. Of -these some saw
holes in the leaves and deposit their eggs in them ; the eggs
produce larvae resembling caterpillars, which feed upon the
leaves; and the insects are consequently called "leaf-wasps"
and " saw-flies/'' Others, called "wood-wasps" and "tailed
wasps," bore into trees and provide for their tender offspring in
the interior of the stems ; whilst others, with proverbial industry,
collect the nectar and pollen of flowers, and with these substances
nourish their young, often living together in great societies in
most ingeniously constructed dwellings.
But all are not contented thus to seek their food. Many of
them live by rapine and murder. Sand- wasps (Sphegidae) dig
holes in the earth, and into these drag their victims to serve as
food for their young ; others, such as the Ichneumonidse, too
lazy to make such a provision for their progeny, attack other
insects, especially caterpillars and larvae, pierce them and deposit
eggs in their bodies ; and the larvae developed from these eggs
devour their victim whilst still living. The last may be called
Entomophaga. All these conditions were realized in Miocene
times ; for among the eighty species of Hymenoptera found at
(Eningen we may recognize Tenthredinidae, Entomophaga,
Sand-wasps, Ants, and Bees, all of which doubtless followed the
same modes of life as their existing descendants.
The Bees furnish fourteen species. A wood-bee (Xylocopa
senilis, fig. 295) is found which was probably of a fine blue colour,
and constructed perpendicular canals in old trunks of trees, in
which to provide for its young. Three Osmice, three species of
humble-bees, and five Anthopharites probably made their nests
on sunny banks, where they fed their young with honey and
pollen. A large humble-bee (Bombus Jurinei, Heer) is repre-
sented in fig. 296. A honey-bee (Apis adamitica, Heer, fig. 287)
also, even at that early period, hummed about the flowers, and
no doubt lived in large societies, built waxen combs, and col-
lected honey ; for it is so like the living species (Apis mellifica,
Linn.) that it must probably be regarded as the ancestor of that
species.
Of the Wasp family (Vesparia) one species (Polistes primitiva,
Heer) belongs to a genus the species of which only construct
small nests suspended from plants or attached to rocks and
