ANTS. 45
the common sand-wasp (A. sabulosa, Linn.), which supplies its
young with caterpillars ; another (A. inferna, Heer, fig. 290, a
& b] is much larger, and reminds us of tropical forms. An ele-
gant species of the Scoliidae (fig. 297) has been preserved at
(Eningen : these insects now belong to southern regions.
Ants constitute by far the most numerous family of the Hy-
menoptera at (Eningen, where forty-four species have already
been discovered. That they lived there, as now, in great socie-
ties is shown by the fact that the males and females of certain
species are found lying together in great quantities, especially
at Radoboj. Evidently the winged insects issued from their
nests in great crowds and swarmed into the air, where, being
carried over the water, they got drowned, and then became
buried in great masses in the mud. Similar swarms of ants may
be observed almost every year towards the end of summer ; but
they are particularly numerous in Switzerland in dry warm sea-
sons ; and not unfrequently they fall into a lake in such masses
as to cover a great extent of its surface. This sufficiently ex-
plains why, both at CEningen and Radoboj, we find almost ex-
clusively winged ants, and that the wingless workers are so ex-
tremely rare. Of the species found at (Eningen, twenty- one
belong to Formica, ten to Ponera, nine to Myrmica, and four to
the extinct genus Imlioffia. Some of the Formica are very large
insects, considerably larger than the Swiss wood-ant (Formica
herculeana, Linn.), which lives in old trunks of pines and firs,
and in other respects closely resembles a very widely distributed
fossil species (F. lignitum, Germ., fig. 292). Of this insect the
female (fig. 292, a) is frequently found ; but males (fig. 292, b)
and workers (fig. 292, c), most probably belonging to this species,
have also been detected at (Eningen. Most of the other ants
are small insects, which differ considerably from European forms ;
and this is still more strikingly the case with the Ponerce, which
are much larger than the two or three minute European species,
but yet cannot be compared with the tropical forms. They pro-
bably constitute a peculiar extinct genus. Three species (Po-
nera fuliginosa, affinis, and elongatula, Heer) are common to
(Eningen and Radoboj ; so that they must have had a wide area
of distribution. A beautifully preserved pair of an elegant spe-
cies (Ponera veneraria, Heer) is represented in fig. 288.
