46 MIOCENE FAUNA.
The genus Myrmica is represented partly by small species, all
of which differ from those now living in Switzerland, and partly
by larger forms, resembling those which occur in the south of
France and in North Africa. They are characterized by their
large wrinkled heads (fig. 293).
The Imhoffia differ from the other ants in the large size of
the thorax and in the structure of the antennae ; in habit they
most resemble the Myrmica and Attce. They constitute a
peculiar extinct genus which lived at CEningen (fig. 291) and
Radoboj .
Most of these numerous species of ants probably resided in
the forests, and constructed their nests in the earth or in the
decaying but dry wood of old trunks of trees. They join
with the Termites and the numerous wood-eating insects to
testify to the existence, at this epoch, of a luxuriant vegeta-
tion and abundance of trees, producing an immense quantity
of organic material, the transformation of which was their
business.
Bees form one tribe of the Hymenoptera ; the "Wasps, Sand-
wasps, Scoliidse, and Ants a second, that of the Prsedonia ; and
the Entomophaga, which pierce caterpillars aud larvae, constitute
a third. To this last tribe twelve species from CEningen are to
be referred, among which there is an Anomalon, which probably
attacked the larvae of the nocturnal Lepidoptera, a Cryptus, and
several true Ichneumons (fig. 294) , which most likely laid their
eggs in caterpillars.
Of the family Chalcididae, represented in the present day by
an immense multitude of minute species, some of which pass
their young existence in the eggs of butterflies, one species
(Pteromalinites ceningensis, Heer) is known from CEningen.
The tribe Phytophaga, to which the saw-flies (Teiithredinidae)
belong, is poorly represented, the extant remains of its three
species being very incomplete and scarce.
E. The Rhynchota (Hemiptera).
Next to the Beetles this order is the richest in species in the
Miocene of Switzerland. From CEningen 132 species have been
