LICE AND BUGS. 47
procured. The late M. Bremi during many years collected the
living insects about Dubendorf (a village of the Canton of
Zurich) and obtained 389 species of Rhynchota, while in the
whole of Europe about 1100 species are known; consequently
(Eningen possesses one third of the number of species of Duben-
dorf, and about one eighth of those of the whole of Europe,
although the insects at QEningen have been congregated together
in a fortuitous manner. Except the lice and cochineal-insects,
all the tribes of the recent Rhynchota are represented among the
fossils. No doubt lice were not wanting; for the calling-hares,
civets, deer, and elephants which lived about the Lake of QEnin-
gen cannot have been free from such parasites. Nevertheless
they have not yet been detected, and probably will hardly be
found in a fossil state.
Of the plant-lice there are three species. Two of these most
likely lived upon leaves, as they are true Aphides, whilst the third
(Pemphigus bursifex, Heer) produced round galls on the petioles
of the poplars. The animal itself has not yet been obtained ;
but a dozen leaves have been found with galls exactly like those
produced by the poplar-aphis (Pemphigus bursarius, Linn.) on
the petioles of the Swiss poplars.
The great majority of the fossil Rhynchota are land-bugs
(Geocores) , as is the case also at the present day. They are, in
general, very well preserved ; and it is remarkable that in many
specimens the colours may still be recognized. In numerous
species the segments of the abdomen are adorned with elegant
black spots and other markings ; and similar ornaments are re-
tained in some cases even on the elytra.
Of the eight families into which the Geocores are divided,
six are represented at (Eningen : the Scutati have 45 species,
the Coreodes 18, the Lygseodes 23, the Membranacei 2, the
Reduviini 17, the Capsini 2, and the Hydrodromici 1 species.
Any one acquainted with the Hemiptera will perceive that in
these numerical proportions the Hemipterous fauna of (Enin-
gen differs greatly from that now existing in Switzerland,
and approaches rather that of subtropical countries. At the
present day the Capsini (with 131 species) constitute by far the
most numerous family both in Switzerland and in Europe gene-
