48 MIOCENE FAUNA.
rally ; and even in America they occur in a great variety of forms
as far south as the southern United States, beyond which, how-
ever, they entirely disappear towards the tropics. The Riparii
belong exclusively to the temperate and cold zones, and it is
noteworthy that at (Eningen they are entirely deficient ; and of
the Capsini only two rare species (Phytocoris ?) have been dis-
covered. On the other hand, the nocturnal Reduviini are repre-
sented by numerous species between the tropics, whilst they be-
come rare even in the temperate zones. Bremi collected eight
species at Diibendorf; and the whole of Switzerland only fur-
nishes fourteen species, whereas seventeen species have been
obtained from (Eningen.
(Eningen possesses more species of Scutati than can now be
shown by any single locality in Switzerland (Diibendorf has only
twenty-three) . The Coreodes are also very rich in species. All
these are families the species of which abound in warm countries,
and they give the Swiss Miocene fauna a southern or subtropical
character.
Among the Scutati there are four handsome species of Pachy-
coris (fig. 298), which have the thorax and the large scutellum
marked with light-coloured spots (probably red during life).
These are nearly allied to West-Indian species, which are adorned
with brilliant green, blue, and red colours.
The group Pentatomidse includes a number of European forms.
Two species of Eusarcoris can be recognized, resembling a spe-
cies which occurs under stones and on low bushes, especially
about the borders of woods; also several small species of Eury-
dema are found, like the beautifully spotted forms (E. picta and
f estiva] which are often met with on flowers (especially of Um-
belliferse) in Central and Southern Europe. A Cydnus has been
discovered which comes very near the widely distributed black
C. tristis ; and an Acanthosoma allied to that remarkable tree-
bug which leads its young about as a hen does her chickens.
Of the genus Pentatomus there are thirteen species found at
(Eningen, some of them of considerable size (fig. 309) ; and they
differ greatly from the European species. Two species also occur
at Locle. The genus Halys (fig. 299) exhibits American forms ;
and the genus Cydnopsis is an extinct type, represented at
(Eningen by eleven species, three of which have been detected at
