50 MIOCENE FAUNA.
and one species of Syromastes (S. Seyfriedi, Heer) represents an
exotic form, while the others correspond to European species.
Syromastes coloratus, Heer (fig. 302), is not uncommon at
(Eningen, and all specimens of it show the black-spotted abdo-
men, like that of S. scapha, Fab., a species which is common in
thickets, and especially upon brambles. Berytopsis and Harmo-
stites are extinct genera.
The family Lygseodes has its centre of distribution in the
temperate zones ; but many species are also found in hot coun-
tries. It is largely represented at (Eningen. Lygceus tinctuSj
Heer (fig. 301), was, no doubt, when alive, of a red colour, and
adorned with black spots ; it closely resembles a species (L. ve-
nustus, Bceb.) which occurs in Central and Southern Europe upon
the swallowwort (Vincetoxicum) . Besides this species, (Eningen
possessed four Lygm ; but the Pachymeri are still more nume-
rous. Of these, Prof. Heer has met with six species, small, dark-
coloured insects, one of which (P. cruciatus, Heer), however,
was spotted with white, and is very like a species found in
Madeira and the Canary Islands (P. luscus, H.-Sch.). Of the
nearly allied genus Heter off aster Prof. Heer has one species (H.
tristis, Heer), which resembles the common H. wrticte, Fab., and,
like it, probably lived upon nettles.
The Membranacise (Tingidae) have an evil reputation, from
their including the common bed-bug ; but the family possesses
many elegant little insects, two species of which occur at (Enin-
gen. One of them (Monanthia Wollastoni, Heer, fig. 307) is
beautifully preserved ; even the colour of the antennae and the
fine network of the wings are recognizable. Its nearest living
relative is a species (M. convergens, Klug) which lives on the
forget-me-not.
The Reduviini constitute a remarkable family. They are
long-legged and exceedingly active predaceous insects, which
chase other insects at night, and pierce them with their sharp
beaks. (Eningen has furnished more species than are now
known in the whole of Switzerland ; and among the fossil forms
Prof. Heer has found the exotic genera Evagoras and Stenopoda.
The richest genus is Harpactor, which includes seven species,
some of them with very finely annulated tibise (fig. 306) . The
species of Pirates and Prostemma are elegant insects, which can-
