WATER-BUGS. 51
not be compared with any belonging to the existing fauna. The
genus NabiSj however, presents an indigenous form (fig. 308),
several species of which were distributed over the Miocene land.
The Hydrometrae (Hydrodromici) form a small family of thin-
1 egged insects, which live on the banks of ponds and lakes in the
reeds and sedges, and run with great agility upon the surface of
the water. From (Eningen Prof. Heer has a species (Limnobates
prodromus, Heer) which may be regarded as the precursor of L.
stagnorum, Linn., a species which is often seen in Switzerland.
The tribe Hydrocorae (water-bugs) is represented at (Eningen
by the families of the Nepinae (water-scorpions) and Notonectae
(boat-flies). The former includes five, and the latter a single
species. The latter is &Corisa resembling an American species.
Of the Nepinae there are forms of Nepa and Naucoris such as
occur in the Swiss fresh waters ; but side by side with these are
found the tropical and subtropical genera Belostoma and Diplo-
nychus. The latter is represented only by one species (Diplo-
nychus rotundatus, Heer) , which has its nearest relative in India ;
the former by a truly gigantic insect (Belostoma speciosum, Heer,
fig. 303), rivalling in size the largest of the tropical Rhynchota,
the great Belostoma of Brazil, and so closely approaching it even
in appearance that the Miocene species may be regarded as pro-
bably the ancestor of the Brazilian insect. A similar species
has also been discovered in the lignite of Bonn, so that the type
now found in America was formerly in all probability diffused
over the whole of Europe. The Belostoma are rapacious animals,
the females of which carry their eggs about with them. (Enin-
gen has become remarkable for producing gigantic forms, not
only among the water-beetles, but also among the water-bugs.
The Cicadinae have quite a different appearance both from the
land and the aquatic bugs; they are harmless and generally
small insects, which are distributed in great numbers over all
countries, and live exclusively upon the juices of plants. They
are divided into four families, all of which existed in Tertiary
times. Of the singing Cicadas a large species (Cicada Emathion,
Heer, fig. 304) occurs at (Eningen. It closely resembles the
Cicada of the ash (Cicada Orni, Linn.), which is common all
over the south of Europe, occurring even in the Valteline, on the
lake of Corno, in Ticino, and in the Valais, and found upon the
