52 MIOCENE FAUNA.
trees, where it fills the air with its monotonous chirping. Re-
garded from ancient times as the heralds of summer, and as
symbols of the peacefulness of nature, the Cicada are among the
best-known insects of southern countries. In Tertiary times
the Cicadas enlivened Swiss forests with their joyous choral
chants ; afterwards they departed for a warmer region.
Of the Fulgorinae (lantern-flies and allied forms) one species
(Pseudophana amatoria, Heer) dwelt in the forests of QEningen,
and lived most probably upon oak trees ; at least, its nearest
living relative (P. europaea, Fab.) is met with upon oaks. Of
the Membracinae only one species is known at OEningen.
Cicadellinae form the most numerous family, thirteen species
of which occur at (Eningen. Some of them are very small in-
sects, resembling the green, yellow, and brown froghoppers
which are so abundant in the grass, and which, as larvae, produce
what is called "cuckoo-spit^ on herbaceous plants and shrubs.
Others are larger party-coloured creatures, the representatives
of which live sometimes in warm countries (as in. the case of
Cercopis Germari, Heer, fig. 305), and are also found in Swit-
zerland (as Cere. Herrichi and Hageni, Heer). An extinct
genus (Ledophora) most resembles a Ledra from Madagascar.
F. Diptera.
As regards number of species, the Diptera are now the fourth
order of insects ; and they occupy the same position in the Mio-
cene fauna. They are divided into two great suborders the
Nemocera, or those with antennae composed of numerous joints,
and the Brachycera, which have very short antennae, containing
from* one to three joints. At the present day the Nemocera
constitute about one seventh, and the Brachycera six sevenths,
of the whole ; but formerly the proportion was very different.
The Nemocera, or midge-like flies, first made their appearance ;
and the Brachycera followed them. In GEningen the latter,
with twelve species, form about one fifth, and the Nemocera,
with fifty-one species, form about four fifths of the species ; and
the proportions are similar in other countries where fossil dip-
terous insects have been found. Of these two suborders of in-
sects the Brachycera live principally upon flowers, especially
