MIDGES. 53
those of herbaceous plants, and whole swarms of them may be
seen sunning themselves upon the flowers of Umbelliferous and
Composite plants; whilst the Nemocera frequent woods and
copses, and particularly favour damp watery regions. Their
larvae live sometimes in water, sometimes in the humid soil of
woods and forests, or in rotten wood ; and a great number of
them live in fleshy fungi. Widely spread damp forest-land,
traversed by small streams and interspersed with morasses,
furnishes the chief conditions for the luxuriant development of
the Nemocera ; and these favourable conditions existed in abun-
dance during the Miocene epoch. Of the species obtained from
GEningen, from the analogy of allied living insects, the larvae of
five lived in water, of fifteen in fungi, and of thirty in moist
ground and rotten wood.
The feather-midges (Chironomi) appear in spring in countless
swarms on the shores of the Swiss lakes, and are distinguished
by their elegantly feathered antennas ; they lay their eggs in
the water, in which they pass the whole of their young states.
Of these insects there are preserved at GEningenboth the aquatic
pupae and the active aerial forms. Of one species (Chironomus
Gaudini, Heer, fig. 316) the pupae are abundant, and several of
them are generally found near each other. These pupae occur
on two slabs from (Eningen, side by side with the winter eggs
of the Daphnics.
The Mycetophilidae (fungus-midges) are very delicate little
creatures, the white maggots of which are often met with in
great numbers in fleshy fungi. At (Eningen there are two
genera, Mycetophila (with nine species) and Sciara (with six
species) ; and the specimens (small and extremely tender) are, for
the most part, beautifully preserved, as may be seen from figs.
317, 318, and 319.
Of the little gall-midges (Cecidomyidae) , which cause gall-like
swellings on leaves, no perfect insects have come to the know-
ledge of Prof. Heer. On poplar-leaves from CEningen there is
a formation of galls (fig. 322) exactly agreeing with that pro-
duced by the Cecidomyia salicis of the willow, and thus leaving
no doubt that in Miocene times such flies were already in ex-
istence.
