FLIES. 55
Dipterous fauna. The twenty-eight species from (Eniiigen be-
long to five genera, three of which (Bibiopsis, Protomyia, and
Myidium) are extinct'. Protomyia speciosa, Heer, represented
in fig. 312, is one of the largest species of the genus, which is
represented in (Eningen by nine species. Three of them have
been collected in Croatia, indicating the wide distribution of the
genus in Tertiary times. Still more abundant were the true
Bibiones, sixteen species of which occur at (Eningen, some of
them being black, others of a light colour with dark spots.
Their larvae probably lived in rotten wood and in the rich vege-
table mould of the forests. They are flies of considerable size,
distinguished by their generally broad wings, their short an-
tennae (which consist of from eight to twelve joints), and their
thickened fore legs. Some species resemble European and
North-American forms (thus B. mcestus, Heer, is like B. po-
mona, Linn.), whilst others represent peculiar and apparently
extinct types (such as B. elongatus, Heer, fig. 311). Whilst the
genus Bibio is at present widely distributed, having eighteen
species in Europe and eleven in America, Plecia is confined to
South America and the Cape of Good Hope. (Eningen possesses
a very fine species of this genus (Plecia hilaris, Heer, fig. 313)
with a light-brown body.
Brachycera are very scantily represented in the Miocene fossil
fauna. Nevertheless they form four tribes and five families, but
in each case have only a few species. The Xylophagidae furnish
two uncertain species. Of the Asilidae there are three spe-
cies. Two of these belong to the genus Asilus, flies which lie in
wait for other insects, spring upon them after the manner of a
cat, and, embracing them with their hairy legs, pierce them
with their proboscis. The Tabanidae (breeze-flies) are represented
by a single species (Hexatoma ceningensis, Heer, fig. 321), and
the Syrphidae (drone-flies) by two, which, like the living forms,
are distinguished by their elegantly banded abdomen (figs. 314
and 315).
The true flies furnish an Echinomyia (E.antiqua, Heer), the
larvae of which probably lived (like those of E. echinata, Meig.)
as parasites upon caterpillars. There are also a small Antho-
myia, and two flies with spotted wings allied to Psila.
The larva represented in fig. 323 probably belonged to some
