56 MIOCENE FAUNA.
remarkably large fly. It is destitute of feet, and has a very
small head, three distinct thoracic, and nine abdominal segments,
on the dorsal surface of which are fine undulating striae.
G. Lepidoptera.
The Lepidoptera are seldom met with at CEningen ; and as all
the other localities for fossil insects have furnished very few
species, the Lepidopterous order of insects must have been very
scarce in the primaeval world. It is probably the youngest order
of insects j but in the present fauna it has been so largely de-
veloped that it has become one of the richest in species. From
CEningen there are traces of only three species, belonging to the
Nocturna. Of one species (Psyche pineella, Heer) the larva-sac
has been found, which was made of the leaves of pines ; of a
second (Bombycites ccningensis, Heer) only fragments of the
wings and body have remained to the present time ; and of the
third (Bombycites Buchii, Heer, fig. 310) there is a pretty well-
preserved caterpillar*.
3. VEETEBRATA.
a. Fishes.
Important information may be derived from the distribution
of fossil fishes with reference to the communications of ancient
basins of water, as the investigation of the fish-fauna of the dif-
ferent river-regions of the present day shows that each course
of water possesses a number of peculiar species. Thus the
salmon and the eel are found in all rivers which are connected
with the North Sea, the Baltic, the Atlantic, and the Mediter-
ranean, whilst they do not occur in the rivers and lakes which
flow into the Black Sea. The salmon- trout, the shad, the
* As yet, only one specimen has been found. It is preserved in the col-
lection at Zurich, and the counterpart in that at Winterthur. It is much
crushed, and the boundaries of the segments are difficult to distinguish. The
head is small ; the thorax enlarges rapidly ; the thoracic feet are not pre-
served ; the abdominal feet are in part indicated as black tubercles. Of the
stigmata four may be recognized. Similar caterpillars occur among the
Bombycidse and Pseudo-Bombyces (Arctiidse).
