FRESHWATER FISHES. 57
houting (Coregonus oxyrhynchus, Linn.), belonging to the Sal-
monidae, and the sea-Jamprey exist in the vine-region of the
Rhine, but are wanting in that of the Danube ; while the latter
possesses here and there the zingel (Aspro zingel), the streber
(Aspro vulgaris), and several species of sturgeon, which are
wanting in the Rhine.
It is not possible, at present, to ascertain the Miocene river-
regions of Switzerland. In many places a few remains (chiefly
scales and ribs) have been found ; but (Eningen alone has fur-
nished numerous specimens capable of determination. These
are frequently still furnished with their scaly covering, and are
sometimes wonderfully well preserved. They occur both in the
upper and the lower quarry of (Eningen, but are restricted to
particular beds. Up to the present time thirty-two species have
been described*, belonging to fifteen genera. Of these genera
only one, allied to the Carps, but distinguished by its rounded
caudal fin (Cyclurus), is extinct; all the others are still met with
living in fresh waters. The fish-fauna of (Eningen therefore
differs entirely from that of Matt. Not only are the fishes of
Matt of marine origin, whilst those of (Eningen belong to fresh
water, but the (Eningen fishes approximate more closely to those
now living. While only half of the Eocene fishes of Matt be-
long to genera of the present, |1 of the (Eningian species can
be referred to existing genera.
Of the fifteen genera at (Eningen, twelve (with twenty-five
species) are still to be found in the fresh waters of Switzerland.
In the Miocene age a great pike was the king of freshwater
fishes, large-scaled roaches (Leucisci), like L. argenteus and L.
nasus, and perches sported in the tranquil Lake of (Eningen ;
loaches and tenches in great numbers buried themselves in the
mud, and bull-heads (Cottus) and eels were not wanting.
Several of these species are very nearly allied to existing Swiss
species (such as the pike, and some of the loaches, andZ/ewmci),
whilst others are related to species of distant countries. Thus
the Miocene perch (Perca lepidota, Ag.) differs considerably
from the common Swiss perch, and most nearly resembles, ac-
cording to Agassiz, the species of India and New Zealand. It
* See Agassiz, ' Recherches sur les Poissons fossiles,' v. p. 78 ; and Wink-
ler, ' Description des Poissons fossiles d'CEningen ' (Harlem, 1861).
