58 MIOCENE FAUNA.
must be remarked, in general, that of the twelve genera which
CEningen has in common with the existing fauna, only one, the
Coitus, belongs exclusively to the temperate and cold regions,
all the rest occurring also in Mediterranean countries or even
in tropical and subtropical zones. The genera Perca, Acan-
thopsis, Cobitis, Gobio, Leuciscus, and Aspius are also represented
in Indian rivers ; and eels are found in Madeira and Teneriffe.
To this must be added that the fish-fauna of CEningen contains
a number of species usually belonging to genera in warmer lands.
The genus Lebias, represented by four small species, now in-
habits Italy, the East, and America ; Pcecilia occurs only in the
swamps of Carolina and South America ; and Cyclurus is extinct.
Thus side by side with those genera which still occur in Swit-
zerland, but the greater part of which extend their range into
warm and even torrid zones, other fishes are found which now
exclusively belong to hot countries.
CEningen does not possess many of the commonest Swiss
forms of fishes. Although the fishes of CEningen have been
collected most carefully for the last hundred years, no species
have been found there which can be regarded as nearly allied to
the trout, salmon, eel, barbot, carp*, barbel, grayling, and
bream of the present day. Some of these forms are deficient in
more southern countries, or they prefer clear fresh water, like
the trout, grayling, and barbot (Lota). The Lake of CEningen
probably had turbid water and a muddy bottom. This is proved
by the occurrence of tenches and loaches, and of species of
Poscilia and Lebias, the relatives of which now live in muddy
waters.
A large-headed loach (Cobitis cephalotes, Ag.) is very like
Cobitis fossilis, Linn., which often buries itself deeply in the
mud; and tenches, of which CEningen possessed three species,
have a similar habit ; the species of Lebias live in shoals in the
* In the older collections, fishes from CEningen have been often labelled
as " carp " or " trout j " but these are all artificially constructed animals to
which the form of those fishes has been given. The monks of the old Con-
vent at CEningen appear to have been very clever in the fabrication of such
fishes, and they have since had their imitators. The plants and insects of
the older collections are also frequently fabricated, and consequently worth-
less. They are usually coated with a brown colour prepared from unripe
walnut-shells.
