FISHES OF (ENINGEN. 59
waters of swamps, in which the P&cilia also dwell. It is said
that the latter, when food is scarce, throw themselves out of the
water and leap along the grass to reach another marshy locality.
As all the specimens of the (Eningian Poecilia (P. ceningensis,
Wklr.) have the head strongly bent back, in the manner of fishes
when about to spring, Dr. Winkler believes that we may ascribe
to them the same propensity to leaping. They may therefore
probably have made a final effort to leap out of the marsh as it
was drying up, when they were overtaken by death and enve-
loped in the mud.
The muddy nature of the Lake of (Eningen is proved by its
large frogs and salamanders, as well as by the numerous aquatic
insects and the pondweeds. On the other hand,, the gudgeons
(Gobio) and minnows (Rhodeus), which spawn in clear river-
water, show that CEningen must have had a clear stream.
Their spawn may have been deposited either in the river which
flowed into the lake, or in that which carried off its waters to-
wards the sea. Eels and salmon are not uncommon in Switzer-
land ; but they do not occur in the lake of Constance, as these
fishes mount from the sea up the inland waters, and cannot
ascend beyond the falls of the Rhine. In (Eningian times there
cannot have been any such obstacle between the Lake of CEnin-
gen and the sea, as two species of eels have been found at
CEningen.
The fishes of CEningen belong to six families. The richest in
species is that of the carps (Cyprinoidei) , which includes twenty-
one species. Five of these belong' to the genus Leuciscus, which
is composed of middle-sized fishes with a spindle-shaped body
clothed with large scales and terminating in a forked caudal
fin. Three of the species (Leuciscus ceningensis, Ag., L. helve-
ticus, Wink)., and L. latiusculus, Ag.) are the commonest fishes
at (Eningen, but they are confined to the upper quarry. This
genus was already widely diffused in Miocene times, and it is at
present to be met with in the rivers and lakes of all parts of the
world.
The Loaches (Cobitis) are small cylindrical fishes, of which
(Eningen possessed four species ; the stone-loaches (Acanthopsis)
are very similar to them, being remarkably long and narrow
fishes with small fins (A. angustus, Ag.). Of the minnows only
