60 MIOCENE FAUNA.
one species (Rhodeus amarus) occurs in Central Europe, whilst
CEningen had four species. They are small fishes with large
heads and short broad caudal fins.
Next to the pikes, the tenches are the largest fishes of CEnin-
gen. They are characterized by their stout form of body, small
scales, and short broad fins. Only one living species is known,
and this belongs exclusively to Europe ; CEningen, however,
possessed three species, one of which (Tinea magna, Winkl.) at-
tained a length of more than a foot.
The family of the Cyprinodontes is not represented on the
northern side of the Alps. It consists of small fishes belonging
to the warm and torrid zones, five species of which inhabited
the Lake of CEningen. The principal genus is Lebias, the four
species of which are, next to the Leucisci, most frequently met
with at CEningen. They occur, however, only in the insect-bed
in the lower quarry, where several specimens often lie close
together ; these fishes therefore, like their congeners, probably
lived together in shoals. The little Pcecilia, distinguished by
having a rounded caudal fin and the dorsal and ventral fins
placed very far back, are much less common.
The two species of pike found at CEningen are very like the
common pike, which is distributed all over Europe, Asia, and
North America ; but they have much larger scales. The most
abundant species (Esox lepidotuSj Ag.) has a somewhat broader
body and longer head, but it attained the same size. Specimens
of all sizes, from 6 inches to 3 feet long, have been found. The
second species (E. robustus, Winkl.) is shorter and thicker, and
had smaller fins; it would therefore be a more clumsy fish.
That these pikes followed the same predaceous mode of life as
the existing species, is proved by some of the specimens, in the
abdominal region of which there lie the skeletons of smaller
fishes which they had swallowed. In the case of an eel (An-
guilla elegans, Winkl.), which had swallowed a small Leuciscus
(L. ceningensis) , the skeleton remained within the eel. The
heads of these swallowed fishes are always directed backward,
proving that they were seized in front. Eels were common in
the Tertiary period ; six species are known from Monte Bolca,
one from Aix, and two from CEningen, all of which differ con-
siderably from the single European species.
