SALAMANDERS. 63
armed with one row of small teeth. The orbits are large, and
extend far forwards. The vertebral column is composed of bicon-
cave vertebrae, each of which possesses a lateral process. The
ribs, which are separated from the vertebrae, are short, and be-
come thinner towards the extremities. Near the fifth vertebra
are the fore limbs, in which are recognized the hatchet-shaped
shoulder-blade, the rather stout humerus,0'032 metre (or 1J inch)
in length, the two parallel bones of the forearm, somewhat un-
equal in length, and the expanded hand, consisting of four digits
which are rather longer than the forearm. Three of these
digits are two-jointed (deducting the carpal bones) ; but one has
three joints, which, however, are not equally well preserved in
both limbs. The hind limbs are probably attached to the twenty-
first vertebra ; but this cannot be ascertained with certainty, as
the pelvic bones are, for the most part, destroyed. These mem-
bers show the same structure as the fore limbs; but the toes
have been displaced. From other specimens it is known that
the hind feet had five toes, three of which were two-jointed, and
two three-jointed. The tail is remarkable for its length and
strength ; nineteen vertebrae may be counted in it; and to these
must be added a partially destroyed vertebra which was close to
the pelvis, and two small bones at the extremity of the tail, so
that the whole number is probably twenty-two, or nearly as many
as in the living species, which is said to have twenty-four. The
first caudal vertebrae are remarkably stout ; and all are furnished
with lateral processes.
A second very fine specimen, in the collection at Zurich, is
twice as large in all its parts. The head is O175 metre (or nearly
7 inches) broad at the base, the first vertebra is 0-018 metre (or
0-701 inch) long, the fourth to the sixth 0'022 metre (or 0-866
inch) long, and the seventh to the twelfth 0'027 metre (or 1'063
inch) in length. The vertebrae are attenuated in the middle,
and have a rather sharp median ridge. This animal must have
been 1-260 metre in length (or 4 feet 1-607 inch). The Mu-
seum at Winterthur has received a still larger specimen ; and
the Cabinet of Natural History at Carlsruhe possesses one
4 feet long. These are the largest salamandroid animals which
ever inhabited the earth. The nearest living species occur in
Japan and in North America. The Japanese species (Andrias
