64 MIOCENE FAUNA.
japonicus, Temm., sp., PI. XI. fig. 2) agrees almost completely
in the structure of the skeleton with that from CEningen, and
must therefore be regarded as its homologous species. The only
characters by which the CEningian species can be distinguished
are that the head of the fossil is comparatively rather shorter
and broader, whilst in the living species the head is a little
longer than broad, and the toes of the Miocene reptile are com-
paratively somewhat longer. The American species are also
very nearly allied to the CEningian reptile, and they agree with
it in the broader and shorter form of the head ; but, according
to Hermann von Meyer, the fossil agrees better in size, and in
the different parts of the skull, with the Japanese species. The
latter attains a length of 3 feet, and lives in the brooks and lakes
of Southern Japan (between 34 and 36 N. lat.), at an elevation
of from 4000 to 5000 feet above the sea-level. It is an ugly
creature, with small eyes and a blackish brown folded and warty
skin. In the Zoological Gardens of London and of Amsterdam,
where Prof. Heer has seen this animal, it lies almost immovable
throughout the day ; but during the night it is said sometimes to
quit the water and to go in search of its food, which consists of
small fishes, frogs, and worms. Of the two American species,
one (Menopoma giganteum, Bart., sp.), which attains a length
of 2 feet, is principally an inhabitant of the northern United
States, whilst the other (M. fuscum, Holb., sp.) is found in
South Carolina.
This type of animals is now altogether wanting in Europe ;
but in Miocene^ times it was represented by two species, one of
which has just been described ; and the other (Andrias Tschudii,
Von Meyer) is nearly allied to the CEningian animal, but
smaller, being only about 1 ^ foot in length ; it was discovered in
the lignite deposits of Bonn. By its longer, narrower head and
rather shorter limbs, this species approaches more closely than
the CEningian to the Japanese form ; and its skeleton is scarcely
distinguishable *.
* According to H. von Meyer (Palseontographica, vii. p. 53) the hind limbs
are appended to the 22nd vertebra, whilst in the Japanese species they are
attached to the 21st j but this is not of much importance. In the specimen
examined by Dr. Schmidt, Goddart, and J. van der Hoeven the pelvic bones
are united on the right side to the 21st, and on the left side to the 22nd ver-
tebra (see ' Natuurkundige Verhandelingen, Harlem/ 1862, p. 59).
