66 MIOCENE FAUNA.
snout, obtusely rounded at the end; and its jaws are armed with
sharp teeth. The total length of the animal when perfect was
about 3 feet, at least if the head and body were in the same
proportion as in the living crocodile of the Nile. It was there-
fore much smaller than the Egyptian reptile, and so far resembled
rather the alligators of America, in which the broad upper jaw
projects beyond the teeth of the lower jaw, and the lower canine
teeth can penetrate into hollow pits of the upper jaw, whilst in
the crocodiles the canine teeth of the lower jaw are applied
against the outside of the upper jaw. This appears to have been
the case also in the Swiss species from Butikon (Crocodilus bu-
ticonensis, Meyer) ; so that that specimen approaches nearest to
the true crocodiles.
A crocodile's tooth found in the Miocene of Stein, on the
Rhine, is about seven times as large as those of the preceding
species, and probably belonged to an animal of the size of the
Nilotic crocodile. The same size was attained by a crocodile
of which numerous remains have been discovered in the lignites
of the Paudeze (at Rochette). Dr. P. de la Harpe found a lower
jaw *40 metre (or 1 foot 3' 7 inches) in length, and a thigh-bone
16 metre (or 6*299 inches) long. Smaller species also occur
at the same place, but they have not yet been accurately deter-
mined. A crocodile has also been recently discovered in the
lignites of Kapfnach.
The most numerously represented family of reptiles is that
of the tortoises, which must have contributed not a little to the
animation of the Miocene rivers and lakes. Eleven species have
been discovered in the Lower Miocene, and six in the Upper
(freshwater) Miocene; and to these must be added about a
dozen doubtful species, which cannot yet be satisfactorily cha-
racterized.
The Swiss species belong to six genera, namely Testudo,
Emys, Chelydra, Cistudo, Trachyaspis, and Trionyx. One of
these (Chelydra) now pertains exclusively to America, whilst the
others live both in the Old and New Worlds, but here keep
almost entirely to the warm and torrid zones. The genus Cis-
tudo alone is represented on this side of the Alps, by a small
species (C. europcea, Linn.) . The Miocene of Lausanne possesses
two species (C. Razoumoivskyi, Pict., and C. Marloti, Pict.)
