68 MIOCENE FAUNA.
rather strongly convex carapace. At the present day they in-
habit North America and India, and no species occurs in Europe,
whilst in Miocene times eight species inhabited the Swiss rivers
and lakes. Of two large species (Emys Laharpii, Pict., and E.
Charpentieri, Pict.) numerous fragments have been obtained from
the lignite-pits of the Paudeze; a third species (E. Gaudini,
Pict.), distinguished by the narrow and nearly parallel- sided
plates of the carapace, has been furnished by the sandstone of
the Solitude (near Lausanne) ; a fourth (E. Nicoleti, Pict.) by
the freshwater limestone of La Chaux-de-Fonds ; and a fifth
(E. Wyttenbachi, Bourd.) by the freshwater limestone of the
Rappenfluh near Aarberg. To these must be added two species
discovered in the Aargau, and three near Rochette, besides a
small species from (Eningen (E. scutella, Meyer). None of
these river-tortoises have yet been found so perfectly preserved
as to enable Professor Heer to ascertain the analogous living
species.
In all the above-mentioned tortoises are found a hard solid
carapace, with the plates closely fitted together ; but in the soft
tortoises (Trionyx) the flattened body is covered with a smooth
leathery skin. The head, which is borne upon a long neck, is
produced into a short beak the tail is very short, and the feet
have only three toes. These animals, which differ very much
in appearance from the other tortoises, inhabit the Nile and the
rivers of Mesopotamia and India ; one species, also, is found in
the southern United States. Formerly three species lived in
the Swiss region; one (Trionyx Teyleri, Winkl.) was discovered
at (Eningen, a second at Yverdon, and a third large species,
measuring G'30-0'35 metre (or 1 1*8-13* 7 inches) in diameter,
on the Paudeze. Their remains, however, are imperfect, suffi-
cient only to characterize the genus, but furnishing no satisfac-
tory information as to their analogies with living species.
Trachyaspis is a peculiar extinct genus, one species of which
(T. Lardyi, Meyer) has been discovered in the Miocene of the
Tour de la Moliere. It is, however, too imperfectly preserved
to allow its relationships to be ascertained. In the markings on
the rib-plates it resembles the soft tortoises ; but it was clothed
with scales.
