MAMMALS. 71
majority of the species. The Pachydermata are represented
only by the wild boar, and the Ruminants by the stag, the roe,
and the chamois. At the same time it must be remembered
that several species which formerly dwelt in Switzerland have
been exterminated by the hand of man. The bones from the
pile-dwellings of Swiss lakes inform us that in their times two
large species of oxen (the urus and the bison) lived in Swiss
forests, and that, besides the common stag, the great elk and
the fallow deer were to be met with. From much later days we
have accounts of the wild horse, the wild goat, and the beaver,
which have ceased for a century to form part of the Swiss fauna.
But even if we add these animals which have been removed by
man's agency, we obtain only eight species of ruminants and two
pachyderms ; so that undoubtedly, at the time of the formation
of the Miocene, Switzerland possessed a much greater num-
ber of such animals. To these we must add Marsupials and
Quadrumana (monkeys), which are now entirely wanting in
Europe.
Of the thirty-eight genera to which the Swiss Miocene Mam-
malia belong, twenty-nine are extinct ; and of the nine which
are still remaining, only three (Cervus, Sus, and Sciurus) still
occur in Switzerland. Of the others, one (Lagomys) inhabits
the temperate zone in Asia and North America, while five are
denizens of the warm and torrid zones the gibbons in India,
the opossums (Didelphys) in South America, the rhinoceros and
musk-deer in India and Africa, and the tapirs in India and
South America.
The Miocene mammalian fauna of Switzerland approaches
more closely to the Eocene fauna than to that of the present
day. If compared with the Eocene fauna of the Jura, six genera
are found in common, although none of the species perfectly
agree. The Palaotheria (or tapir-like animals), which were so
abundant in theEocene period, are still represented by one species;
the horse-like Anchitherium and the Amphicyon (which was re-
lated to the dogs and the river-hog (Hyopotamus) are also continued
into the Miocene period ; and the squirrels extend down to the
existing fauna. The opossums (Didelphys} also have been found
elsewhere in Eocene deposits. Other Eocene genera approach
the Miocene ones very closely ; thus the Hyracotheria represent
