72 MIOCENE FAUNA.
the Anthracotheria. The proportions of the families are there-
fore very similar. In the Swiss Eocene, and likewise in the
Miocene fauna, the Pachyderms form nearly one half of the
Mammalia ; the Ruminants in the Eocene constitute one fourth,
and in the Miocene between one fifth and one sixth. The her-
bivorous animals consequently form by far the most important
part of the fauna, and the Garni vora are much fewer than at the
present clay; they constitute, in the Miocene period, only one
ninth or one tenth, whilst they are about one fifth of the existing
fauna.
The Mammalia are primarily divided into two great sub-
classes the Didelphya, which place their very imperfectly deve-
loped young in a ventral pouch, and carry them about with
them ; and the Monodelphya, which are destitute of this appa-
ratus. The former are further distinguished by important ana-
tomical characters, which show that they occupy the lowest
grade in the history of the development of the Mammalia. At
present they are, with the exception of a few species, confined
to the southern hemisphere, and, by means of the kangaroos
and opossums, they give a peculiar character to its fauna. An
opossum (Didelphys Blainvillei, Gerv.) has been discovered in
the Swiss Miocene near Vermes in the valley of Delsberg. The
opossums are small rat-like animals, with long, scaly, prehensile
tails, and pointed heads with wider mouths. They live on in-
sects, birds, and reptiles. The young of many species, when
they have quitted the ventral pouch, creep on to the back of
their mother and hold fast by twisting their tails round hers.
The species of the genus, which are numerous, occur in Peru and
Brazil, and one or two of them in tjie south of the United States.
All the other Mammalia of the Swiss Miocene belong to the
Monodelphya, the most important Miocene family of which is
that of the Pachydermata. It includes not only the greatest
number of species, but also the largest ones, equalling in size
the largest of the land mammals of the present day. The Swiss
fauna possessed fifteen genera, and at the same time a variety of
forms such as no part of the earth of such small dimensions can
now present. The group of the tapirs is represented by the
genera Pal&otherium and Tapirus. Of Palceotherium (P.
Schinzii, Meyer) a fine lower jaw with teeth has been found in
