MASTODONS. 73
the sandstone of Bolligen. A species of Tapirus (T. helveticus,
Meyer) lived at Hohe-Rhonen ; and this animal has also been
met with at Aarwangen and Kapfnach ; so that it is distributed
through all the stages of the Swiss Miocene. To these must
be added the genus Listriodon (L. splendens, Meyer, from La
( 1 haux-de-Fonds), which closely approaches the tapirs; but its
head was probably not furnished with a trunk.
The largest animals of the Swiss Miocene are the Mastodons
and the Dinotheria. Of the former whole skeletons have been
dug out of the ground in some countries ; so that a complete
knowledge has been obtained of the structure of these colossal
animals. They were the precursors of the elephants, and very
nearly allied to them ; they were of the same size, had the same
formation of skull and great projecting tusks ; but they differ in
the dentition, as follows: The young animals were provided
with tusk-like incisors in the lower as well as in the upper jaw;
and the grinding-surface of the molar teeth had numerous
strongly projecting conical tubercles (mamillce} arranged in
rows, whence, indeed, is derived the name Mastodon (' ( mamil-
lated tooth ") . These teeth were thus fitted for crushing the
hard and woody parts of plants. Switzerland possessed two
species of this genus, which is now extinct. In one of them
(Mastodon tapiroides, Cuv., M. turicensis, Schinz) the tubercles
of the molar teeth stand in regular transverse rows, and form
very prominent transverse ridges separated by deep furrows in
which there are no tubercles; in the other (M. angustidens,
Cuv., Falc.) the conical tubercles are narrower, and there are
tubercles in the transverse furrows. The latter is the most
abundant species. It begins to appear as early as the third
stage of the Miocene, having been found, according to J. Schill,
in the marine " Calcaire grossier " of the Lindenbiihl on the
Randen. In the Miocene of the Helvetian stage it has been
observed at many places (on the Buchberg and the Tour de la
Moliere) ; but it appears more frequently in the most recent
Miocene deposits of Switzerland. The finest specimens have
been collected in these beds, as well as in the lignites of Kapf-
nach and the sandstone of Veltheim. Besides five molar teeth,
the Zurich Museum has received from Kapfnach the tusks of
this species ; they are 1 T \ foot in length, and but slightly curved
