74 MIOCENE FAUNA.
at the extremity. At Veltheim two splendid skulls have been
discovered ; these constitute real ornaments of the collection at
Winterthur. One of them belonged to a young male animal ;
and this has furnished important information as to the change
of teeth in the mastodons. Elgg is the chief locality for the
first-mentioned species (M. tapiroides, Cuv.) ; but it has also
been discovered at Kapfnach and GEningen*.
The Dinotheria were larger than the mastodons, and they had
similar molar teeth or grinders ; the lower jaw was armed with
two strong tusks bent downwards, which must have given these
animals a remarkable appearance. The very prominent nasal
bone leads one to suppose that the Dinotherium had a long
proboscis, which, considering the remarkable conformation of
the teeth in the lower jaw, was requisite to enable it to take
its food. The skull, being flat above, formerly led to the
belief that this enormous animal belonged to the family of the
sea-cows (Sirenia), and that it lived in the water; but a skele-
ton discovered about fifteen years ago near Abtsdorf in Bohemia
proved it to belong to the Pachydermata, and to be most nearly
allied to the mastodons, in accordance with the views of Cuvier
and Owen. Dinotherium giganteum, Kaup, the largest species
of the genus, was distributed all over Europe in the Upper Mio-
cene times ; and that it then inhabited Switzerland is proved by
the fine teeth which have been discovered at Delsberg and La
Chaux-de-Fonds.
The richest genus of Pachyderms in the Swiss Miocene is the
Rhinoceros, five species of which have been found. The most
abundant are Rhinoceros incisivus and R. minutus, Cuv., which
have been discovered in several localities from the lower lignite
formation (Hohe-E/honen and Rufi) to the upper freshwater
Miocene (Elgg and La Chaux-de-Fonds) . The first-named spe-
cies was of the size of the Indian rhinoceros, but is distinguished
by its large incisor teeth, its small narrow nasal bone without
any horn, and its contracted orbits. The small rhinoceros (R.
minutus) also probably possessed no horn ; but it was much less
* From a figure communicated to Mm, Kaup referred the molars found here
to M. angustidens (see his 'Beitrage zur Kenntniss der urweltlichen Sa'uge-
thiere,' iii. p. 11) ; but Prof. Suess, who has lately examined them at Harlem,
where they are preserved, declares them to be M. tapiroides, Cuv. ( = turicensis,
Sch.).
