PRECURSORS OF HORSES. 75
in size; whilst Goldfuss's rhinoceros (R. Goldfussi, Kaup), which
is to be numbered among the hornless species, was larger than
the Indian rhinoceros. Of this species the teeth have been
found in the lignites of Hohe-Rhonen, and a fine lower jaw has
been discovered on the footpath between the Rothel and the
Weid (near Wipkingen). The skulls of two other large species
(R. gannatensis, Duv., and R. sansaniensis, Lart.) are preserved
in the Museum at Berne. They were found in the sandstone
of the Engehalde near Berne, and, curiously enough, were lying
close together in the same block.
The genus Anchitherium, which is met with in the Eocene
fauna (see vol. i. p. 276), constitutes a sort of transition towards
the horse of more recent times. One species (A. aurelianense,
Cuv., sp.) occurs in the Swiss Miocene, but it has only been seen
in the uppermost stages (at Elgg and Vermes). ' With it is
associated a second genus (Hippariori), which very closely ap-
proaches the horse of the present day, but is more slender and
more elegantly formed, and is distinguished by the more finely
undulated folds of enamel in the teeth, as well as by the posses-
sion of two rudimentary lateral toes. Besides the great middle
toe, which forms the hoof, the foot had on each side a small toe
which did not touch the ground in walking. Our species (Hip-
parion gracile, Kaup, sp.) is intermediate in size between the
horse and the ass ; it has been found in the marine Miocene of
the Tour de la Moliere, of Schnottwyl (Canton of Soleure), and
near Sainte-Croix and La Chaux-de-Fonds. In Upper Miocene
times these animals were spread over Central Europe, and pro-
bably lived in large herds, as in various places the bones have
been met with together in large quantities.
An abundance of swine-like animals at the same time inha-
bited Switzerland. No fewer than eleven species, belonging to
six different genera, have been discovered in that country.
They prove that the forests and marshes must have produced a
great quantity of nutritive material to cause the development of
so rich a fauna. Two species are referred to the existing genus
Sus. Of one of these (Sus wylensis, Meyer) a fine specimen of
the jaws and teeth was discovered in the lignite of Nieder-
utzweil in the Toggenburg; the second species (Sus abnor-
mis, Kaup) is furnished by the lignites of Elgg. The other
species belong to extinct genera, some of which, however,
