76 MIOCENE FAUNA.
are nearly allied to those now living : thus Hyopotamus, one
species of which (H. borbonicus, Gerv.) has been discovered in
the sandstone of Aarwangen, is very like the common pig ; the
head is produced into a long and slender snout, and has a long
toothless space in the upper jaw; Palaochcerus (P. typus, Pom.,
from Aarwangen) is comparable to the American peccary (Dicoty-
les) , and iheHyotherium to the East-Indian Babirussa, which is re-
markable for its very long canine teeth, strongly curved back wards.
One species (Hyothermm Sommeringi, Meyer), about the size of
the Swiss wild boar, has been found in the Upper Miocene at
Elgg and La Chaux-de-Fonds ; a second, more abundant, spe-
cies (H. Meissneri, Meyer) appears in the lower freshwater
Miocene (at Aarwangen and Aarberg) , and it still lived in the
country at the time of the formation of the Upper Miocene
(Kapfnach) ; whilst the third (H. medium, Meyer) is known
only in the upper Miocene (Kapfnach and Niederutzweil). But
the most important genus of this group is Anthracotherium, so
called because its remains were formerly found only in the lig-
nites. It includes the largest animals of this group. One spe-
cies (A. magnum, Cuv.) was as large as an ox, and it had also the
appearance of a pig ; it had an elongated head, attenuated in
front, and produced into a sort of trunk, with large incisots,
which are directed forwards as in the pig ; strong canine teeth,
standing upon large roots, recurved and projecting, as in
the wild boar, like powerful tusks; and in each jaw seven
tubercular molars separated only by a short space from the
canines. The chief locality for this remarkable animal in Swit-
zerland is in the lignites of Rochette and of the Conversion
above Paudeze, where Dr. P. Delaharpe and Dr. C. Gaudin have
discovered the remains of about ten individuals. In this place
a nearly complete skeleton was found. The Anthracotherium
must therefore have been abundant in the marshes of the Pau-
deze. It is not, however, restricted to this stage of the Miocene,
as its teeth have been found in the Miocene of Schangnau in
the Canton of Berne, which belongs to the third Miodene stage.
A second species (A. hippoideum, Riitim.) has been obtained by
Prof. Morlot in the sandstone of Aarwangen. It is rather
smaller than the preceding, and is distinguished by the sharper
and more trenchant ridges and points of its molar teeth, and its
