RUMINANTS. 77
incisors, which resemble the teeth of a horse. A considerably
smaller species (A. minimum, Cuv.) has hitherto been found only
in the lignites of Rochette and of the Paudeze.
These Anthracotheria show an approximation to the Carnivora
in the structure of their anterior molars, which are pointed in
the same way as in the carnivorous animals, whilst the posterior
molars have the character of those of herb-eating Mammalia.
The animals therefore probably lived in part upon animal and
in part upon vegetable food ; they were Omnivora, like pigs.
The order Ruminantia was only announced by a few spe-
cies in the Eocene period ; and their full development occurs in
Miocene times. The group of the Anoplotheria, which consti-
tutes the transition to the Pachydermata, is continued, but under
different forms. In place of the Anoplotherium the great C/iali-
cotherium (C. antiquum, Kaup) is found, an animal which pos-
sessed the same dentition, except that it had only six molars in
each upper jaw. It was as large as the Indian Rhinoceros, and
lived in the morasses of the Lower Miocene period ; its remains
are preserved in the lignites of the Hohe-Rhonen. The elegant
Dichobunes of Eocene times (vol. i. p. 279) are also extinct ;
but their place is taken by the Microtheria, small animals, less
than the rabbit, with the head round at the back and extended
in front into a short pointed snout, and possessing teeth similar
in their conformation to those of the musk-deer : these little
animals resemble the Pachydermata in the number of their teeth
and in the bones of the feet. Two species have been observed
in Switzerland (M. Renggeri, Meyer, at Aarau, and M. Cartieri,
Meyer, at Aarwangen) .
Two species of the Cervidse, in Miocene times, inhabited Swit-
zerland. Among them was a musk-deer (Moschus aurelianensis,
Lart.) which has been found near La Chaux-de-Fonds, and is
most nearly related to an African species (M. aquations, Ow.) .
The genus Dorcatherium agrees with it in the long projecting
canine teeth of the upper jaw; but it has seven molars in the
lower jaw, whilst the Moschus has only six in each jaw. Dorca-
therium Naui was as large as a roe-deer, but was more slenderly
formed, and had the appearance of the. musk-deer. Its teeth
have been found on the Bucheggberg and near Elgg.
The principal genus of the Cervidse is that of the true Deer
