78 MIOCENE FAUNA.
(Cervus). This makes its appearance with one species (C. me-
dius, Meyer, sp.) in the lignite formation at the Hohe-Rhonen ;
but it only arrives at its full development in the youngest Mio-
cene, which furnishes seven species. The most abundant spe-
cies is Cervus Scheuchzeri*, Meyer, sp., which has been brought
to light at numerous points in the three upper stages of the
Swiss Miocene, and was distributed all over Europe at that
period. It occurs in Germany, France, and Spain ; so that it
occupied the place of the red deer of the present day. It was
smaller, however, and probably scarcely exceeded the roe in size.
A second species (C. eminens, Meyer, sp.), discovered in the
lower quarry at QEningen, if we may judge from the molars
which have alone been found, was as large as the red deer; and
a third species (C. Nicoleti, Meyer, sp.), from La Chaux-de-
Fonds, was still larger. Of the other three species (C. medius,
Meyer, sp., minor, Meyer, sp., and lunatus, Meyer) only separate
teeth have hitherto occurred, so that their relations to the living
deer cannot be ascertained f. This applies also to some teeth
from Kapfnach which are very like those of deer, and are di-
stinguished by their elegant structure, and have therefore been
referred to a distinct genus ( Orygotherium Escheri, Meyer) .
The family of hollow-horned Ruminants, to which belong the
gazelles, antelopes, goats, sheep, and oxen, has not yet been met
with in the Swiss Miocene ; and in the rest of Europe only an-
telopes are known in Tertiary deposits. But that such animals
then inhabited Switzerland is rendered probable by the numerous
beetles living on the excrements of horned cattle already referred
to in the present volume (p. 17).
The Rodentia, which principally feed upon vegetable food, are
for the most part small, have incisor teeth without roots, no
* It has been quite recently carefully described and figured by Prof. Oscar
Fraas (Fauna von Steinheim, p. 34). Prof. Fraas has shown that this deer
bore short branched antlers, whence the name of Cervus furcatus.
t H. von Meyer has separated from Cervus all the species cited, with the
exception of C. hmatus, and united them in a distinct genus, Paleeomeryx,
because the posterior molars are furnished with a peculiar process which is
wanting in Cervus. Whether or not they possessed antlers has not yet been
ascertained with certainty j and hence their relation to the deer and musk-deer
remains doubtful.
