RODENTS. 79
canine teeth, and only a few molars, separated from the incisors
by a wide space. The species of the Swiss Tertiary land are
distinguished neither in size nor by possessing a form different
from that of the present day. Species representing Swiss mice
and rats have not been found ; and the family of the true mice
(Muridae), which is now distributed over the whole world, is
wanting in the Swiss Miocene fauna.
The families of the squirrels, hares, chinchillas, and beavers
are found in Miocene strata. A squirrel (Sciurus Bredai,
Meyer) which has been preserved at QEningen seems to have
resembled the species now living in Swiss woods. The genus
Brachymys, one species of which (B. ornatus, Meyer) has been
discovered near Vermes, appears also to belong to this family.
The hare-like rodents (Leporida) are represented by the call-
ing hares (Lagomys), which differ from the true hares by their
shorter ears and the want of a tail. At present these animals
live in Southern Siberia, in Mongolia, and in North America,
and, like rabbits, construct their dwellings in the earth. They
collect great stores of dried plants, which they preserve in their
habitations. The Miocene species differ from the living ones in
some essential points, and form a peculiar group (Myolayus,
Hens.) which approaches the true hares. Two species are not
uncommon in the uppermost stage of the Miocene. One of
them (L. ceningensis, Meyer), which was a little smaller than a
rabbit, is found not only at CEningen, but also at Elgg, where it
was the most abundant mammal. The second species (L. Meyeri,
Tsch.) was only half as large as a rabbit, and possessed more
delicately formed feet and slenderer claw-joints than the former,
with which it agreed in other respects. It is found at CEningen
and Vermes.
The family of the chinchillas (Lagostomida) is at present con-
fined to South America. They are animals of considerable size,
with large ears, small fore feet, powerful hind feet, and tails
furnished with long hairs. Their fur is very soft and silky. It is
remarkable that Switzerland possessed about four species of these
animals. Two of them (Archceomys chinchilloides and A. Lau-
rillardi, Gerv., from Aarwangen) are so nearly allied to the
Peruvian chinchilla (Lagotis chinchilla), which furnishes a highly
prized fur, that it is probably not correct to form a distinct
