80 MIOCENE FAUNA.
genus for them. The fossil family of chinchillas includes the genus
Issiodoromys, of which one species (/. pseudoncema, Croiz.) has
been discovered at Aarwangen, and the genus Theridomys, one
species of which (T. Blainvillei, Gerv.) comes from the same
locality and a second from Roehette. The Theridomys have
smooth incisors, and the molars of the lower jaw have a fold on
each side which divides them into two lobes.
The beaver-like rodents (Castoridse) are represented in Swit-
zerland by two species of Chalicomys, a genus which is distin-
guished from the Castor by the form of the roots of the teeth
and the folding of their enamel. The larger species (C. Jageri,
Kaup) must have been very like the common beaver. It was,
however, a little smaller (about i\r to |), and had narrower
molars. This is the commonest mammal of Kapfnach near
Horgen ; so that numerous families of it must have lived in the
Miocene peat-mosses of that district. The second species (C.
minutus, Meyer), which is scarcely distinct from C.Eseri, Meyer,
is only about half the size of the living beaver. It is much less
common than the preceding species, but is not confined to the
Upper Miocene, making its appearance in the lignites of the
Hohe-Rhonen and Rochette. As it also occurs in the lignites
of Elgg, it probably inhabited Switzerland during the whole
period of the Miocene.
Only six species of carnivorous Mammals have been found in
the Swiss Miocene, among which there are some which represent
the hysenas, otters, and civets. The largest and most remark-
able animal of this order (Hycencelurus Sulzeri } Bied.) was dis-
covered by Dr. Biedermann in the Miocene of Veltheim.
Judging from the size of the jaw and teeth, it was considerably
larger than the Bengal tiger, and was characterized especially by
the wide gap between the great canine tooth and the first molar.
In the dentition of the lower jaw it agrees with the tiger, but in
that of the upper jaw rather with the hyaena*.
* In the Carnivora one molar tooth is furnished with a sharp cutting-edge,
and is usually larger than the rest ; it is known as the (( flesh-tooth." The
teeth in front of this are the premolars or false molars, whilst the posterior
teeth are called tubercular molars. Hycencdwrus has, in the upper jaw, five
molars, like the hysenas, and in the lower jaw only three, like the tiger (the
hysenas having four).
