APE.
81
The genus Hyanodon also combines the characters of the
Hyaenas and the Cats, and besides approximates in some degree
to the Marsupials. The sandstones of Aarwangen contain the
remains of one species. An animal related to the dog (Amphi-
cyon intermedius, Meyer) has been found in the lignites of the
Hohe-Rhonen; and an aquatic animal,, nearly agreeing with
the otter in size and form (Pot another ium Valetoni, Geoffr.),
has been found at Elgg. The Swiss weasel is represented by
Trochictis carbonaria, Meyer, from Kapfnach and Elgg, which,
however, in many respects approaches the badger. The genus
Galecynus forms a similar bond of union between two existing
genera, namely, the dog and the civet. A nearly complete
skeleton of one species (Galecynus palustris, Meyer, sp.) was
discovered at (Eningen. The animal was as large as a fox. It
agrees with the dog in its dentition, but had the thick tail, the
feet and toes, and the tubercular molars of the civet.
The order Quadrumana, which has been already met with
among the animals of the Pea-ore formation in the Eocene
period, was not wanting in the Swiss Miocene series. A very
fine upper jaw of an ape (Hylobates antiquus), furnished with the
teeth, has been found in the lignites of Elgg, and is now in the
Museum at Winterthur. It is represented in Plate XI. fig. 4,
from a drawing prepared by Prof. Riitimeyer and kindly com-
municated to Prof. Heer. In it the four incisors (a) are seen,
of which the two middle ones (a 1 ) are rather larger than the
two lateral ones (a 2 ) . The canines (b) project only a little be-
yond the others; their outer surface is of a rounded conical
form, gently bent inwards towards the apex ; the inner surface is
slightly hollowed, so as to produce a posterior sharp longitudinal
edge. Of the five three-rooted molars which the animal probably
possessed, only three are preserved on one side, and three and a
half on the other. The first two (the premolars, or false molars,
c l , c 2 ) are furnished at the apex with two tubercles, and the third
(c 3 ) has four tubercles, the middle part being depressed. This
dentition leaves no doubt that the jaw belonged to an ape of the
Catarrhine or narrow-nosed family. According to a recent exa-
mination by Prof. Riitimeyer, it agrees so well with a lower jaw
discovered by Lartet at Sansan near Auch (Department of
Gers), that it may be referred without hesitation to the same
VOL. II. G
