THE AMERICAN CRANBERRY
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
William Lord
^^^9 \ accinium macrocarpum is the name science
fc X f gave to one of the more colorful ber-
fl / ries indigenous to New Hampshire, the
^^^ American cranberry. As kids, we would
tag along with my father as he visited small wild
plantings tucked in small pockets among the many gravel
deposits along the Cocheco River in Farmington These
early fall trips generally yielded jars and jars of cran-
berry sauce tucked away in the cellar for winter use
Commercial attempts to cultivate the wild cranberry
got started on Cape Cod in Massachusetts in the early
1800s Cape Cod offered an ideal setting for the cran-
berry — a layer of glacial deposit sand over clay provid-
ing the high water table and coarse-textured sand soils
in which cranberries thrive. The industry today is alive
and growing with major production in Massachusetts,
New jersey, Wisconsin, and Washington and, yes, one
small commercial bog in New Hampshire.
David Eldredge grew up in cranberries on the Cape
and has been unable to get them out of his blood. To
satisfy that interest, David developed a couple-acre
cranberry bog in North Hampton, just outside of Exeter.
Bog development is not an easy chore. Soils that con-
sist of an underlying layer of clay or hardpan impervi-
ous to water covered by a surface layer of acid peat or
sandy loam are generally found in wetland sites, and,
while upland sites with these conditions can be cre-
ated, the cost is high. The first step after finding a suit-
able wetland site is a tedious 'permitting' process
which can take many months.
Water is the crucial ingredient in a successful cran-
berry operation and its level in the bog is carefully
controlled by the use of dikes, ditches, and tile drain-
age. Cranberry roots, like those of the blueberry are
fine and fibrous, shallow (generally occupying only the
top two or three inches of soil) and have no root hairs.
Mycorrhizal fungi live in close association with the
roots, suggesting an interdependent relationship. Meet-
ing the water needs of the plant requires that the root
zone be moist, yet not saturated.
Water is used for much more than supplying the
moisture needs of the plant. Frost damage to blossoms
in the spring, heat stress management during hot peri-
ods, water harvest of fruits, even winter protection —
abundant clean water is essential While meeting the
water needs of the plants and protecting them from
frost and heat is generally accomplished using over-
head irrigation, flooding of bogs is used for wet harvest
and winter protection. In wet harvest, bogs are flooded
and fruits are removed from plants by gently beating
them with reel agitators. Ripe fruit are buoyant and can
be easily herded to the edge of the bog where they
are sucked up for transport to the processor. Of course,
dry harvest is also done using a machine that separates
fruit from the plant by 'combing', but dry harvest can
be tough on young plantings.
The cranberry plant is evergreen Winter dessication
due to transpiration from leaf surfaces during cold, dry
periods, especially if there is scant snow cover, can be
lethal. To protect plants, David applies a winter flood.
A two- or three-inch layer of water is put on the bog
and allowed to freeze solid. Successive layers of ice are
added until the plants are completely covered. Any
free water that develops as ice melts must be drained
away to prevent oxygen starvation of the cranberry
plants. Flooding the bog requires a lot of water, a good
dike and ditch system to regulate water levels, and a
bog that is perfectly level.
Another key resource needed in the cranberry busi-
ness is clean, coarse sand. Cranberry plants produce
lateral stems called runners that are non-productive.
Some of the axillary buds on these runners produce up-
right shoots. Floral initiation and subsequent fruiting
occurs in the apical region of these upright shoots. Over
time, these uprights will grow, but only the terminal six
inches or so will remain upright as the base sags. Prun-
ing to eliminate these long lateral shoots is not practi-
cal, so sand is used to do the job. A layer of sand up
to an inch thick is applied every three or four years to
the bog. This sand covers the laterals and runners and
the bases of upright shoots which then root. This re-
news the planting by creating roots closer to the fruit-
ing zone of the plant and encouraging production of
more uprights.
The application of sand offers some other interesting
side benefits. It gradually builds up a firm surface that
supports equipment, helps improve soil drainage, and
gives the grower a chance to re-level bogs that aren't
quite right.
^ y\//ost cranberry cultivars grown commercially
\^ _^ Y JL are selections from the wild, chosen for
high yields, good fruit size and color, and harvest sea-
son. The names often reflect the origin of the cultivar. A
good example is the Hoives cultivar. It was selected from
the wilds in East Dennis, Massachusetts, in the mid-
OCTOBER 8. NOVEMBER 1997
