Sustainability: A Contemporary Approach
\ohn Hart
Sustainability is one of the mushier words to ap
pear in the lexicon. There is no single defini
tion of the term, but there is a shared vision:
the earth's resources must be used only at a
rate at which they can be replenished; waste must be
disposed of at the rate at which it can be assimilated
and recycled into the earth's systems. And this holds at
all levels — from your customer's backyard to Spaceship
Earth.
Over the past year, several informal and voluntary
working groups have formed at the University of New
Hampshire to tackle a number of "sustainability" con-
cerns. An education and curriculum group has been
working to foster interdisciplinary courses and integrate
sustainability concepts into others. Another group is in
the conceptual design phase of a sustainable living and
learning center which would house demonstration
projects, research and education components, and resi-
dential units. An outreach group is looking at how to
take these ideas into the state.
A multimillion-dollar endowment for sustainable liv-
ing education has been received and the first two
rounds of seed grants have been awarded A "UNH
Sustainability Strategy Paper," a set of specific sugges-
tions regarding university systems, has been produced
(Published in the Campus ]ournal last spring, it is acces-
sible online at <http://www.unh edu/natural resources/
index. html>.) A director of sustainable programs, Dr
Tom Kelly, has been hired The Class of 2001 is already
on a path called "Sustainable 2001," in which their
progress and attitudes will be polled and evaluated
from freshman graduation through graduation and two
years beyond
A very visible part of the sustainability work at UNH
is its landscape
Arboreta and botanical gardens are tree and plant
"museums" focused on education, research and the
artful demonstration of the materials of horticulture and
the interaction of humans with gardens A number of
colleges and universities make a point of unifying their
landscapes under the umbrella of a botanical garden or
arboretum — Smith College Arboretum, Scott Arboretum
(Swarthmore College), Connecticut College Arboretum,
Cornell Plantations.
Now the UNH campus is in the process of assuming the
title of "Botanical Garden" — but one for the 21st century: a
sustainable, systems-based, bioregional New England eco-
logical garden. The vision includes the following:
artful integration of regional plant and animal com-
munities into the campus landscape, with connec-
tions to the larger watershed ecosystem;
conversion of the campus landscape to more
sustainable management practices (less turfgrass;
more meadow, native plants, community gardens;
increase in organic matter mulched at site of origin;
conversion of impervious to pervious paving; reduc-
tion in use of rocksalt; provision of new educational
resources for students;
education of the campus, state, and Green Industry
in the structure and function of the local watershed
ecosystem and in sustainable landscape practices;
research (including research by students) on
sustainable landscape management practices and
other relevant issues;
extension of this research and these practices
beyond the campus into the landscape and mindset
of New England;
lowering landscape maintenance costs at the
university while increasing funding for campus
improvements by providing an attractive and timely
target for federal, state, and private agencies
interested in furthering this emerging example of
sustainable living.
In February, The Garden Project was awarded an
$8,000 grant from the Sustainable Living Education En-
dowment; in August, the UNH Parents' Association
awarded this project over $20,000. These grants will sup-
port the garden establishment into the summer of 1998.
A steering committee is setting goals and moving
projects forward. This group includes UNH students,
faculty, and staff; Anne Moore, chairperson of the NH
chapter of the New England Wild Flower Society; Amy
Craig of Bestmann Green Systems, wetlands specialists
from Salem, MA; and Lionel Chute, Society for the Pro-
tection of New Hampshire Forests.
There is significant advisory and psychological sup-
port and an abundance of ideas and enthusiasm. By
this time next year, demonstration plots should be up
and running. In the meantime, check out The Garden's
preliminary website: <http://pubpages.unh.edu/~lchute/
neeg.html>. For more information on sustainability at
UNH, contact Tom Kelly at 603-862-2640 or
<thkelly@hopper unh.edu> or |ohn Hart at 603 862-1091
or jlhart@christa.unh.edu>.
\okn Hart is associate professor in tfie horticulture curriculum
at the Thompson School of Applied Sciences, University of New
Hampshire. Durham
THE PLANTSMAN
