Resistance Is becoming a common concern. We're
finding insects and disease are becoming more
resistant to many of the products — fungicides, in-
secticides, or herbicides — we use today. Far fewer of
these products have been registered In the horticul-
tural industry than previously, leaving us with fewer
choices or, in many cases, the same or similar com-
pounds with new names. Using these same com-
pounds over and over can cause the development of
resistance.
We've seen resistance to systemic pesticides
(pythium to Subdue, botrytis to thiophanate-methyl)
develop most quicidy. Systemic products normally
have only one or two methods for controlling the
pathogen; contact pesticides, usually more than one.
Which leads to the idea of rotation. This helps
slow down the development of resistance Im-
mensely. If only one half of one percent of a certain
pest develops resistance to a certain pesticide,
within a very short period of time, this percentage
can grow to 10%. ..and so on.
By rotating different classes of pesticides, the
chances of the original population surviving is
much more limited. Another way to approach this
problem Is to use premixes or tank mixes of pesti-
cides on many of your applications. This is espe-
cially true with crops that we may spray once or
twice during Its cycle, if we use only one compound
to spray for a pest once a year, we allow that poten-
tially resistant population to survive for another.
Studies on anthracnose control are talcing place
at Connecticut's research stations. These are show-
ing that anthacnose Is resistant to most of the pes-
ticides labelled for use against It; only mixes of
compounds are showing any control.
Growers, using one compound applied many times,
expect herbicides to control a whole range of weeds.
Rarely will this work well. Premixes and tank mixes
are the only ways to achieve reliable control.
\im Zablocki is Technical Manager, Northern Horlicultural
Croup, Scolls Company He can be reached at 603-224-5583.
^Wa
NURSERY;
1028 Horseneck Road, Westport, MA 02790
508-636-4573 508-636-5615
508-636-3397 FAX
Specializing In
Heath... Heather... Bearberry...
Perennials... Seashore Plants...
also, a full line of quality nursery stock
"Our Scnicc I\p('f)s Grouiug and Grouiiig."
^HOLESAL
Price List Available
Route loi
PO Box 266, Dublin, NH
603-563-8180
Perennials ♦ Herbs ♦ Wildflowers
110 Varieties in 6-cell Packs
UPS shipping Available
Annual Bedding Plants (6-cell packs)
Zonal Geraniums (4 1/2" pot)
Hardy Mums in Season
Perennials (available in 2, 3, 4 and 6 qt. pots)
OCTOBER & NOVEMBER 1997
