THE GREEN SPOT
Cookbook Methodology
Blo-control certainly Isn't a no-bralner. Your crop
scouting must continue on a weekly basis, as
you should be doing with your chemical regimen al-
ready. A lot of thought must be put Into a properly
initiated and executed program. And If you need help
with this, every reputable bto-control supplier can give
you their recommended rates for the use of their
products.
The Green Spot uses a very well-defined set of
steps to make a recommendation. Keeping these pro-
tocols In mind, you'll need to be able to answer the
following questions If you should call us with a pest
problem.
1. What crops are you growing? An answer could
be, "Impatlens."
2. How and where Is It being grown? Again, a
possible answer: "In soilless media-filled pots In
a poly tunnel."
3. What Is the size of the growing area? "3,000
square feet."
4. What pests are you dealing with? "Western
flower thrlps and fungus gnats."
5. Are these present in an area more than or less
than 70% of the total growing areas described In
question three? "Less than."
6. If less than 70%, what percentage is affected?
"About 40%."
7. If over three feet tall, what Is the height of the
actual foliage portion of your plants? "They're
under three feet tall." (If they were over three
feet In foliage height, the number of levels — ^three
feet per level — would be used later In the math
calculations. See below.)
8. How heavy is the Infestation? "Four thrips and 12
fungus gnats per one trap In a 250-square foot
area per week" (which most suppliers would
consider a medium/light to medium/medium
Infestation).
At this point, we'll do some simple math, using our
current predetermined formulas. Multiply three thou-
sand square feet times 40% (1200 square feet) times
the number of three-foot levels (one) divided by nine
to come up with the number of yards (this would be
square or cubic, depending on the number of levels).
The answer Is 133 yards. We would recommend the
use of two organisms: Orlus Insldlosus (OI\, a thrlps-
predatory true bug, and Hypoaspls miles (Hm), a
thrips/fungus gnat-predatory, soil-dwelling mite. For
the Infestation levels identified, we would suggest a
rate of three Ol and 130 Hm per yard — 399 and
17,290 respectively. (These rates are due for revision
In 1998.) Hm should be doubled If the floor under
the benches Is porous enough (I.e., Is of gravel, is
covered with weed cloth, etc.) to harbor thrlps and
fungus gnats. Both Ol and Hm should be released ev-
ery other week, two to four times. This should allow
the predators to quasl-establish and gain the upper
hand.
Despite definite rates and regardless of your ap-
proach, formal scouting Is extremely Important. Even
with the cookbook methodology available for all pest
control products (Including blo-controls), awareness,
flexibility, and reactive-ness are fundamental to ail
pest control forms.
Mike Cherim, president of The Creen Spot, P3 Priest Road,
Nottingham, New Hampshire 03290-6204, can be reached at
603-942-8925
Laughton's Garden Center Inc.
Cal Laughton, Florist
Distributors of Nursery Overwintering Blankets
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL NURSERY
NURSERY STOCK • ANNUALS • PERENNIALS • FERTILIZERS • INSECTTICIDES
1-800-692-7752
155-165 Princeton Blvd., No. Chelmsford, MA 01863
CHARLES LAUGHTON. PRESIDENT • DAVE POLGREEN, NURSERY SALES
THE PLANTSMAN
