GRAPHICAL TRACKING
A useful tool for New Hampshire growers
Paul R. Fisher
^ ^M Mith increasing competition from other
% J» ^ Northeastern states and Canada in the pro-
^m^w duction of flowering potted plants — for ex-
ample: poinsettias, chrysanthemums, and lilies — it is
especially important that our local growers can consis-
tently produce crops of a high quality and value.
Growers of potted flowering crops know the costs of
having a crop finish at an unacceptable height: higher ship-
ping charges, downgrading of product, and lost sales.
Graphical tracking is a grower-management tool that
helps you clearly see whether your plants are too tall
or short at any time in the season and make timely cor-
rections. The technique is to plot plant height onto a
graph once or twice each week and make height-control
decisions by comparing actual and target heights (Fig-
ure I) The small monitoring cost (about 15 minutes in
labor per crop each week) for graphically tracking a
crop rapidly pays for itself in improved quality.
This tool has been used successfully for the last ten
years by hundreds of growers, regardless of whether
their greenhouse business is large or small, located in
the North or South, or low-tech or sophisticated.
Here at UNH, in collaboration with Dr. Royal Heins
at Michigan State University (MSU), we are developing
new graphical tracking tools to help growers avoid short
or tall crops. Previous work by Dr Heins developed
graphical tracking target curves for poinsettia, chrysan-
themum, and Easter lily.
New research has developed target curves for Orien-
tal and Asiflorum (hybrid) lilies, a simple tool called a
Height Meter, and a new computer program called UNH
FloraTrack which is now being used by over 40 growers
in the U.S. and overseas. UNH FloraTrack is available to
NH grower members of the New Hampshire Plant Grow-
ers Association at only $30 00, which is 25% of the nor-
mal retail price. (You can phone me at 603-862-4525 to
obtain a copy )
Graphical tracking consists of the
following steps:
1. creating the graph;
2. monitoring the crop;
3. plotting heights on the graph;
4. making height-control decisions.
Step 1. Creating the graph
Several pieces of information are necessary to create a
graphical tracking graph:
1 the crop species and cultivar (there are curves for
pinched and single-stem poinsettia, chrysanthemum,
Easter lily. Oriental lilies, and Asi-florum lilies);
2. the start date for the graph, which depends on the
crop (Table 1);
3 a middle date for the graph, needed for several
crops (Table 1 );
4. the finish date when the crop is in flower and ready
to ship;
5 the starting height for the crop;
6. the range in target final heights for aesthetic and
shipping purposes.
If you have the UNH FloraTrack program, the above
six pieces of information are entered into the com-
puter, which will automatically make the graph to
your specifications (Figure 2). If you would like to
provide the above information to me at UNH for one
or two crops, I will send you a paper copy of the
graph to try out Several educators in UNH Coopera-
tive Extension are also starting to work with graphical
tracking.
Figure I shows a graphical tracking chart for
pinched poinsettia (solid lines), along with measured
heights (rectangles) and growth retardant applications
(G symbols). On the time (horizontal) axis in Figure
I, the start date for the curve represents the time
plants are pinched and the end date represents the
flowering time
On the height (vertical) axis, the start and end
heights represent the height at pinch and the final
target heights, respectively. The curve follows the
pattern of stem elongation of poinsettia; the shape of
the target growth curve depends on the crop species.
Growth is initially slow as apical dominance is bro-
ken. Rate of elongation then increases to a maximum,
decreases as the flower develops, and eventually
stops when the flower matures
This s-shaped growth curve is used to generate a
22
THE PLANTSMAN
