made from cardboard, wood, or metal and will have a
slot to slide over the yardstick at a 90° angle (i.e.,
the crossbar is horizontal to the bench). A carpenter's
level attached to the crossbar will further improve ac-
curacy. With the yardstick placed on the bench, the
crossbar can be slid gently down to just touch the
top of the plant without disturbing leaves.
Step 3. Plot heights on the graph.
Calculate the average height of the five sample
plants and enter it onto the graph, in the example
{Figure 1), the grower measured plant height twice a
week and plotted them on the curve (shown as rect-
angles), and also recorded growth retardant applica-
tions ('G' symbols).
4. Make height-control decisions.
Graphical tracking will show you whether your crop is
too tall or short, but it does not tell you what the best
management decision is The biggest advantage is that
the method gives you a consistent basis for deciding
whether to apply a growth retardant or change your DIF
temperatures.
The aim is to keep plant height between the maxi-
mum and minimum target heights throughout the crop.
If plant height is above the maximum target curve, ap-
ply a growth retardant if plants do not show bract color
and/or run negative DIF temperatures (warmer night
temperature than day temperature). Use positive DIF
temperature (cool night, warm day) if plant height is
below the minimum target curve
In the example crop (Figure 1), the grower applied
Cycocel 1500 ppm growth retardants when the crop was
near or above the upper target curve, until the crop
showed first bract color
For those interested in more details about graphical
tracking and height control, Dr. Heins and I are writing
an in-depth series on graphical tracking in Greenhouse
Grower, which started in the |une 1997 issue.
Paul fisher is assistant professor in the Department of Plant
Biology, University of New Hampshre, Durham. He can be
reached by phone at 603-862-4525 or fax at 603-862-4757;
his e-mail address is <prf@hopperMnh.edu>.
Figure 2. A screen from UNH FloraTrack showing a poinsettia graphical tracking chart.
UNH FloraTrack: Graphical Tracking for Poinsettia. Version 1.0 for Excel 7
Copyright University of New Hampshire 1997 Developed by Paul Fisher, Dept of Plant Biology, UNH, Durham. NH 03824
Crop name:
V17Crop 1
Cultlvar:
Anqelika Red
Start date: ^^^^M
09/09/97
Flower initiation date:
09.'23/g7
Market date:
11/25/97
Response time (weeks):
9
Pot size:
6
Start height:
6 5
Final desired minimum ht:
14
Final desired maximum ht:
16
Height units:
Inches
Date Units (D = date, W = weeks)
d
V17 Crop 1 (Angellka Red, Pot size 6 Inches)
9 ° s z z z
