A G N O S T
UPDATE
The "strange" weather patterns
have continued for much of the
growing season (or is it that we're just
getting back to "normal" weather?)
The following is a sample of some of
the problems seen from early )uly
through early September .
Woody Ornamentals
The immediate and long-term ef-
fects of drought continue to be
seen not only in New Hampshire
but throughout much of the north-
east. Fungal cankers and tip blights
were the most common visible
symptoms Canker diseases diag-
nosed during the last two months
included cytospora on willow, flow-
ering almond and maple; botryo-
SPHAERIA on elm, red oak, rhodo-
dendron, honey locust, viburnum
and Piehs, phomopsis on juniper and
holly; and sphaeropsis (diplo-dia)
Scots and Austrian pines. The
botryosphaeria on red oak is evi-
dent as clusters of dead leaves at
the tips of branches The dead
leaves remain on the twigs through-
out the winter. Atropellis canker
also seems to be increasing on
hard pines, particularly Austrian
pines The disease is usually evident
as one or more dead branches, often
with a slight canker near the trunk.
The bark beneath the canker is
usually stained a dark greenish-
brown. American elms are showing
an increase in the incidence of Dutch
ELM DISEASE due to the effects of
drought. Delphinella tip blight is
relatively wide-spread in Christmas
tree plantations in NH and VT.
Once again, kabatina appears to
be the most prevalent tip blight
problem on junipers. Kabatina,
phomopsis, and winter damage all
produce similar symptoms, thus
identification of the causal agent by
symptoms alone is nearly impos-
sible. Samples should be sent to a
lab for positive identification since
the timing of chemical controls for
phomopsis and kabatina differ (spring
for PHOMOPSIS and late summer for
kabatinai. Lophodermium needle-
cast has also been a common prob-
lem on prostrate juniper cultivars.
Look for football-shaped, black
fruiting bodies on the needles. Sev-
eral other needlecasts have also
been common problems due to the
wet spring (and fall in IQOti);
plioderma on Austrian and pitch
pines; RHABDOCLINE on Douglas fir;
lirula on firs; and lots of rhizo-
sphaera on spruce. Rhizosphaera
needle blight on firs (balsam and
Fraser) seems to be increasing in
northern New England. Anthra-
CNOSE diseases were widespread
this year. Sycamore and ash were
particularly hard-hit. Monilinia
SHOOT blight was widespread on
ornamental Prunus species and was
confirmed on flowering quince.
Herbaceous Ornamentals
One of the most prevalent diseases
on herbaceous ornamentals this sum-
mer was PSEUDOMONMAS LEAF SPOT on
impatiens. This disease is character-
ized by red-bordered spots with a
light tan-to-white center. Since the
disease is caused by a bacterium,
rain splash and overhead watering,
and poor drying conditions favor the
spread and development of the dis-
ease. Be sure to remove all crop de-
bris from the planting sites and con-
tainers, and sterilize all containers
before using next season.
Botrytis was widespread on an-
nuals and perennials thanks to the
cool, moist start to the growing sea-
son and rainy, overcast weather late
in the season. An interesting case
of CALCIUM DEFICIENCY was identified
on oriental lily The outer third of
several of the youngest leaves were
distorted and began to turn black
Botrytis was initially identified as
the causal agent, but turned out to
be a secondary problem following a
calcium deficiency.
Turf
FuNGAL LEAF SPOTS and red thread
were fairly common during the
eady- and mid- summer period, but
were not a severe problem due to
the relative lack of moisture The
typical summer diseases such as
BROWN patch, pythium, and summer
PATCH occurred sporadically, but dis-
ease pressure was generally light be-
cause of the cooler, drier conditions.
The only real 'spurt' of these typical
summer diseases was during early- to
mid-luly, when we had an outbreak of
PYTHIUM BLIGHT and a couple of cases
of SUMMER PATCH On home lawns
As the summer progressed, it
seemed that anthracnose foliar
BLIGHT and BASAL ROT (ABR) were the
most common problems on blue-
grass, particularly in golf course set-
tings. Most of the ABR infections first
appear as small, slightly chlorotic
spots one inch or less in diameter
The turf eventually turns to orange-
brown then becomes bleached-out.
Unlike foliar anthracnose, basal an-
thracnose is difficult to identify with a
hand lens and usually requires labo-
ratory confirmation.
During the next couple of months
we can expect to see the typical
problems in greenhouse crops (root
ROTS, Botrytis blight and canker,
and INSV) Remember that sanitation
and good air circulation are the best
measures for preventing diseases in
greenhouse crops. Also remember
that late autumn is the key time for
fungicide control of SNOW mold on
turf. And, the turf should continue to
be mown until growth ceases.
If you wish to submit plant material to
the UNH-PDL for diagnosis, send
samples [with a check for $12.00) to-. The
UNH Plant Diagnostic Lab, C/O Dr.
Cheryl Smith, Plant Biology Department,
241 Spaulding Hall - UNH, Durham,
NH 03824. Samples should be accompa-
nied by an identification form {available
from your county Cooperative Extension
office or by calling 862-3200). Cheryl
Smith is the UNH Cooperative Extension
Specialist in Plant Health, and can be
reached at 603-862-3841, e-mail.
cheryl.smith@unh.edu.
OCTOBER «. NOVEMBER 1997
27
