Phytologia (November 1997) 83(5):345-365.
ELYMUS STEBBINSII: TAXONOMY, NOMENCLATURE, AND DISTRIBUTION
Mary E. Barkworth
Intermountain Herbarium, Department of Biology, Utah State University, Logan
Utah, 84322-5305 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
Elymus stebbinsii was originally named Agropyron parishii by Scribner &
Smith, who recognized two varieties in it, A. parishii var. parishii and A.
parishii var. laeve. Discovery that the holotype of var. laeve belongs in E.
trachycaulus raised the question of whether there is a valid taxon
corresponding to the description, but not the type, of var. laeve. Examination
of specimens from several Califomian herbaria, combined with phenetic
analyses of morphological data, supports Scribner & Smith's recognition of a
long-awned taxon within E. stebbinsii for which the name E. stebbinsii
subsp. septentrionalis is proposed. This subspecies grows in the western
Sierra Nevada and southern Cascade Mountains, whereas subsp. stebbinsii
grows near the coast of northern California and in the Transverse Ranges.
Herbarium records indicate that subsp. septentrionalis is the more abundant of
the two taxa. The study also revealed that plants of E. glaucus may have
anthers as long as 4.6 mm, a considerable increase over the previously
reported upper limit of 3 mm. A key to the Califomian species of Elymus is
presented.
KEY WORDS: Agropyron parishii, Agropyron parishii var. laeve, Elymus
stebbinsii, California, North America, taxonomy, nomenclature, Hordeeae,
Triticeae, Poaceae
NOMENCLATURAL HISTORY
The basionym of Elymus stebbinsii Gould is Agropyron parishii Scribner & J.G.
Sm., a species the authors (Scribner & Smith 1897) described as differing from other
species then included in Agropyron by its pubescent culm nodes and widely spaced,
long-glumed spikelets. The species description was followed by the description of
var. laeve: "[having] the habit of the species, but the culm nodes and leaf sheaths
glabrous; awns as long or longer than the flowering glumes. Type in the Gray
Herbarium No. 414, Dr. Edward Palmer, collected at Talleys [misread as Fowleys by
345
