346 PHYTOLOGIA November 1997 volume 83(5):345-365
Scribner & Smith], Cuiamaca [= Cuyamaca] Mountains, in the southern part of San
Diego County, Cal., 1875". Table 1 summarizes the subsequent nomenclatural
history of the two taxa.
Hitchcock (1912) raised var. laeve to a species as Agropyron laeve, but
subsequently accepted Scribner & Smith's treatment of the two taxa (Hitchcock 1935,
1951), as did Munz (1959). Abrams (1940) treated both taxa as species. Gould
(1947) was the first taxonomist to place the two varieties in Elymus L., but he also
placed them in different species. He named transferred Agropyron parishii as Elymus
stebbinsii, the combination Elymus parishii having been used earher for another taxon
(Hall 1902), but placed A. parishii var. laeve in E. pauciflorus (Schwein.) Gould as
subsp. laevis (Scribner & J.G. Sm.) Gould. At the time, Gould thought that Elymus
pauciflorus was the correct name for what had, until then, been known as Agropyron
trachycaulum (Link) Malte, but Lamarck (1791) had already used it for another
species. Shinners (1954) corrected Gould's oversight, publishing the combination E.
trachycaulus (Link) Gould ex Shinners for A. trachycaulum, but did not publish a
combination for A. parishii var. laeve. Thus, A. parishii vdii. laeve was left with no
vaUd name in Elymus.
Gould gave no reason for changing the species to which var. laeve belonged, but it
may have been as a result of examining the holotype. As Michael Curto pointed out
(pers. comm., 1992), the holotype undoubtedly belongs in Elymus trachycaulus,
having anthers about 2 mm long, whereas Agropyron parishii has anthers 3-6 mm
long in addition to distant spikelets. The long awns of the holotype of var. laeve place
it in E. trachycaulus subsp. subsecundus (Link) A. Love & D. Love.
Hoover (1966) agreed with Scribner & Smith that their Agropyron parishii
included both unawned and awned plants, but did not consider that they merited
separate recognition. He agreed with Gould, however, in placing the species in
Elymus. Because Hoover combined A. parishii var. laeve with A. laeve var. laeve in a
single species, he had to use E. laevis Hoover as its name, Hitchcock's (1912)
pubUcation of A. laeve giving that epithet priority over stebbinsii at the species level.
THE PROBLEM
The discovery that the holotype of Agropyron parishii var. laeve belongs in
Elymus trachycaulus raised the question as to whether there is a long-awned variant of
A. parishii that merits taxonomic recognition or whether all such plants belong to other
taxa, the most likely candidates being E. glaucus or E. trachycaulus subsp.
subsecundus.
Because UTC [herbarium codes from Holmgren et al. (1990)] has no specimens of
Agropyron parishii, I borrowed specimens identified as A. parishii, A. parishii var.
laeve, Elymus stebbinsii, or E. laevis from AHUC, CAS, CHSC, DAV, DS, JEPS,
POM, RSA, and UC. I already had the holotype of A. parishii var. parishii on loan
from US. Initial review of the specimens indicated that the problem was not simple.
Many of the specimens borrowed belonged to E. glaucus or E. trachycaulus, but
