350 PHYTOLOGIA November 1997 volume 83(5):345-365
There were several sets of duplicate specimens among those scored. These were
deliberately kept in the analyses so as to provide a biological basis for evaluating the
results of the numerical analyses.
The 19 characters scored included those mentioned by previous taxonomists as
distinguishing the two taxa, plus some that ray initial studies suggested might be of
taxonomic vSue. Characters not available on a specimen were scored as missing.
Only the continuous characters and floret number were used in the numerical analyses.
The other characters were used to evaluate the groups suggested by these analyses and
to assist in identifying specimens not included in the numerical analyses. Of the 148
specimens scored, 126 had data for aU characters except floret number; 122 could be
scored for all characters.
Four numerical procedures were used to explore the variation present: sequential
agglomerative hierarchical nested cluster analysis (SAHN), principal component
analysis (PCOMP), minimum spaiming tree (MST), and discriminant analysis (DA).
Principal component analysis was conducted on the correlation matrix. For MST and
SAHN, the data were standardized by subtracting the mean and dividing by the
standard deviation. Taxonomic distance (Sneath & Sokal 1973) was used as the
distance measure.
Cluster analysis forces the OTUs into clusters. The taxonomic merit of these
clusters can then be evaluated by examining whether they are supported by variation in
characters not included in the analysis. Whenever feasible, different kinds of
characters {e.g., cytological, molecular) should be used in evaluating the predictive
power of the clusters. Time and financial constraints limited me to characters evident
on herbarium specimens.
Three clustering algorithms were employed: single linkage, complete linkage, and
unweighted pair group mathematical average (UPGMA) (Sneath & Sokal 1973). Only
UPGMA consistently placed members of duplicate OTU sets within the same major
cluster; consequently only UPGMA results are presented.
Principal component analysis does not require the a priori assignment of OTUs to
groups, but seeks to minimize the number of axes needed to portray the variation
within a data set. It accompUshes this by constructing axes for a hyperdimensional
space from linear combinations of the original data. The distribution of the OTUs
along the first principal component (axis) accounts for as much of the variation in the
original data set as possible, their distribution along the second principal component
accounts for as much of the remaining variation as possible, with subsequent
components doing the same for the ever-decreasing amount of variation left. The
number of principal components needed to account for all the variation depends on the
amount of correlation in the original data, fewer components being required if the data
are highly correlated.
Although principal component analysis does not identify groups among the data,
OTUs with different character correlations will be concentrated in different portions of
the principal component space. A set of OTUs with similar character correlations will
form a "cloud" in the character space. The taxonomic merit of such a set can then be
evaluated by determining whether it is supported by the pattern of variation in
