Barkworth: Elymus stebbinsii 351
characters not used in the analysis (Davis & Heywood 1963). Because only the
projection of the OTUs onto the first three principal components was examined, MST
was used to determine the closest neighbor of each OTU and these connections were
superimposed on the PCOMP projection.
Discriminant analysis seeks to maximize the separation among pre-defined groups
of OTUs based on linear combinations of the original data. These Imear combinations,
or functions, are then applied to each OTU and its group membership assessed. If the
functions place the OTU closer to the centroid of a group other than its own group,
that OTU is flagged as misclassified and the group with the closest centroid identified.
Because 1 had no independent criteria for assigning the OTUs to groups, 1 used the
major clusters obtained from UPGMA cluster analysis as the initial groups. The
membership of these groups was then modified to reflect the classification suggested
by the first DA. This procedure was repeated until the discriminant functions placed all
the OTUs in the group to which they had been assigned.
I then reevaluated the resulting groups of OTUs in terms of characters not used in
the analyses. This resulted in the reclassification of a few OTUs. The data from these
groups were then used to evaluate the specimens not included in the numerical
analyses and a preliminary taxonomic treatment developed. After further review of the
specimens, I examined die geographic and ecological distribution of the taxa that
seemed to merit recognition, and summarized the morphological data for the three that
were well represented in the study.
EXCEL (Microsoft 1997) was used to record the data and calculate univariate
statistics. NTSYS (Rohlf 1993) was used for PCOMP, SAHN, and MST, and
SYSTAT (SPSS 1997) for the discriminant analyses. To plot distributions, the
latitude and longitude for each collection site represented was estimated using
StreetAtlas (DeLorme 1997), Geographic Names Information System (U.S.
Geological Survey 1993), or Wefald's (1995) program for converting township,
range, and section data to latitude and longitude. Distribution maps were produced
using Atlas Graphics version 2.1 (Strategic Mapping 1993).
RESULTS
CLUSTER ANALYSIS. Cluster analysis, using UPGMA, resulted in the
formation of four major clusters (Figure 1) among the OTUs. The cluster containing
the holotype of Elymus stebbinsii is labeled Sb, that containing what is designated
below as the holotype of E. stebbinsii subsp. septentrionalis is labeled Sp. The other
two clusters, A and B, consisted primarily of OTUs that belonged to the single spikelet
variant of E. glaucus.
Groups A, B, and Sp were somewhat unstable. Measuring a different spikelet on
a specimen sometimes moved a specimen from one cluster to another and the addition
of a few specimens with missing anthers also altered the order in which the clusters
linked together. Most of the movement involved groups A and B.
