Barkworth: Elymus stebbinsii 355
Both series of DA disagreed with the cluster analysis in the placement of a few
OTUs, but neither series considered any of the Sb group OTUs misclassified. In the
4-group analysis, 2 OTUs had to be reassigned before discriminant functions were
generated that considered all OTUs correctly assigned, one from group Sp to group A,
3ie other from cluster A to cluster B. Even then, jackknife analysis suggested that
eight OTUs (9% of those in the analysis) were misclassified. With thx^ groups,
seven specimens had to be reassigned before the classification matrix showed no
misclassifications, six from group A+B to group Sp, and one from group Sp to group
A+B, the same OTU as was moved from group Sp to group A in the four-group
analysis. Jackknife analysis resulted in a 5% misclassification rate.
Both series of discriminant analyses placed group Sp closer to the groups A and B
(4-group series) or group A+B (3 group series) than to group Sb. Thinking that might
be a reflection of awn length, I ran a 3-group analysis excluding the awn length
character. This moved group Sp closer to group Sb, but it remained closest to the
A+B group.
GROUP EVALUATION. To further evaluate the groups suggested by the
numerical analyses, I obtained simimary statistics for the four major groups, after
modifying them to reflect the results of the discriminant analyses. The OTU that both
series of discriminant analyses suggested should be reassigned was placed in the
suggested group. The other supposedly misclassified OTUs were left in the group
suggested by the cluster analyses.
Group Sb had more florets per spikelet, and longer ligules, rachis intemodes, and
spikelets, but shorter awns, than the other three groups. It resembled group Sp, and
differed from groups A and B, in having longer anthers and somewhat longer florets.
Group Sp differed from all other groups in having, on average, longer awns and
thicker culms, but it overlapped the other groups in its extreme values. It differed
from group Sb and resembled groups A and B in having relatively few florets per
spikelet.
Group A differed from group B primarily in the longer length of its awns, glumes,
and lemmas. The greatest difference between the two was in awn length, group A
having longer awns. Group B also contained a number of OTUs with glumes that
were unusually short relative to the first lemma.
QUALITATIVE CHARACTERS. Qualitative characters and the maximum
number of spikelets per node were not included in the numerical analyses. Most were
of little or no taxonomic value. Pubescent culm nodes were found on 50% of the
OTUs in group Sb, but occurred, albeit less frequently, in the other three groups.
F*ubescent sheaths and ciliate sheath margins were uncommon in all groups. Adaxial
blade vestiture varied from glabrous and smooth, through scabridulous to scabrous, to
scabrous with some short pilose hairs, to densely pilose, but I could find no
relationship between the vestiture and other characters.
Two characters, maximum number of spikelets per node and glume apex shape,
were more interesting. Two spikelets per node were more common in groups A and B
than groups Sb and Sp, although they were not common in any group. This last was
partly an artifact of the loan request which specified taxa specimens identified as
