356 PHYTOLOGIA November 1997 volume 83(5):345-365
belonging to taxa that customarily have soUtary spikelets. Glume apex sh^)e was the
most promising taxonomic character. All OTUs in group A had tapering or acuminate
glume apices, as did 40% of those in group B and 21% of those in group Sb, but
none of those in group Sp. In looking more closely at the variation in this character, I
noted that the glumes of OTUs in groups Sp and Sb were often completely smooth or
scabridulous only on the distal portion of the midvein. Glumes of groups A and B
specimens were often scabridulous over more of the midvein as well as over other
veins. In addition, the base of the glumes in groups Sp and Sb were more ^t to have
evident ridges over the veins whereas specimens in groups A and B usually had
smooth glume bases. There were, however, exceptions in both directions.
Another character that tended to distinguish groups Sb and Sp ft-om groups A and
B, the shape of the palea apex, became apparent during the course of this study. In
OTUs of groups Sb and Sp, the palea veins scarcely converged and the end of the
intercostal tissue was truncate. In most OTUs of groups A and B the veins converged
more strongly and the intercostal tissue had a V-shaped notch, making the palea apices
look acute and bifid. Examination of specimens of Elymus glaucus and E.
trachycaulus in UTC from Utah and Idaho suggested that converging paleal keels and
a slightly notched palea apex are common in these two species. According to this
criterion, most specimens referable to groups A and B belonged to E. glaucus or E.
trachycaulus, but some belonged to group Sb or Sp. Unfortunately, there is some
variation in the palea character within a plant. Moreover, Connor (1994) found that, in
New Zealand species of Elymus, the blunt and truncate to slightly retuse palea apex
appears to be a dominant single gene character, suggesting &at this palea character
should be used with caution.
I used the results of the various analyses to develop tentative descriptions and
diagnoses for four taxa, corresponding to the four groups, and then reviewed all the
specimens available to me to determine in which group I would place them. In doing
so, I was aware that the characters analyzed had been selected for their abihty to
distinguish specimens of Elymus stebbinsii from other taxa with which it had been
confused. There was no a priori reason why groups A and B should be taxonomically
significant or homogeneous.
The review showed that all the specimens in group Sb were referable to Scribner &
Smith's Agropyron parishii var. parishii, but it did not include some of the less robust
specimens that I would have included in that taxon. The specimens occur primarily in
the Coast Ranges, the Tehachapi Mountains, and the Transverse Ranges.
Group Sp consisted of plants that differed from group Sb plants primarily in
having longer awns and fewer florets (on average). They also had a somewhat
different geographic distribution, occurring primarily on the west slopes of the Sierra
Nevada and in the southern Cascade Mountains (Hunt 1974), often in yellow pine
forests. As with group Sb, some less robust specimens that I would have assigned to
group Sp were placed in groups A and B by the numerical analyses. I concluded that
3ie specimens in group Sp should be regarded as part of Elymus stebbinsii but that
they should be recognized as representing a distinct subspecies because of their
morphological and distributional differences from specimens in the group that included
the holotype of E. stebbinsii.
