Barkworth: Elymus stebbinsii 359
Most group A and B OTUs belonged to Elymus glaucus, but both groups included
some depauperate specimens of the two E. stebbinsii subspecies. These depauperate
specimens had the long anthers and acute, relatively smooth flumes characteristic ofE.
stebbinsii, but had thinner culms, shorter spikelets and spikelet parts, and
proportionately shorter glumes, than typical members of the species. Most were
relatively long-awned, but a few had short awns. Their geographic distribution
mimicked that of the two subspecies of E. stebbinsii.
I re-analyzed the data after removing the specimens that I was confident did not
correspond to either variety oi Agropyron parishii. The results were not encouraging.
Cluster analysis identified three major clusters. Two of these corresponded in general
to groups Sb and Sp, but the third cluster contained some of the OTUs that had
previously been placed in group Sb or Sp. Because there was no hint that further
analyses of the same sf»ecimens would clarify the taxonomy of the specimens
involved, I halted the smdy at this stage.
CONCLUSIONS
Completing a taxonomic study of morphologically similar taxa solely on the basis
of herbarium specimens is frustrating. One cannot assess populational variation, nor
the extent to which a taxon's morphology may be modified by various kinds of stress.
My original goal was simply to determine whether there was a taxon corresponding to
Scribner & Smith's description of Agropyron parishii var. laeve but, to address it, it
became necessary to re-evaluate the morphological limits of Elymus glaucus and E.
trachycaulus.
The results obtained in this study support recognition of two taxa within Elymus
stebbinsii. One, corresponding to group Sb, consists of shortly awned plants with
large spikelets having 6-9 florets per spikelet and occurs in the Coast and Transverse
Ranges. The other, corresponding to group Sp, is a longer-awned taxon with
somewhat fewer florets per spikelet that occurs to the north and east of the Great
Central Valley. It is possible that the long-awned taxon corresponds to Scribner &
Smith's var. laeve taxon and that the choice of a type was simply unfortunate, but this
cannot be determined with certainty. They (Scribner & Smith 1897) did not include
anther length, the most consistent rehable character for distinguishing between E.
trachycaulus and E. stebbinsii, in their description oi Agropyron parishii, nor did they
provide distributional information for the taxon. Nevertheless, Gould having
recognized that the holotype of A. parishii var. laeve belongs in E. trachycaulus, a new
epithet must be found for the long-awned taxon in E. stebbinsii.
Although the numerical analyses place the long-awned taxon closer to Elymus
glaucus and E. trachycaulus than Agropyron parishii var. parishii, the shape of its
glumes and palea suggest that it is genetically closer to var. parishii than either of the
other two taxa. This is confirmed by its similarity to var. parishii in the distinctive
characters of typical members of that taxon, i.e., the robust, somewhat decumbent
culms, the widely spaced spikelets, and long anthers. Because the long-awned taxon
tends to be geographically distinct from var. parishii (Figure 3), I propose that it be
