362 PHYTOLOGIA November 1997 volume 83(5):345-365
I am acquainted, it is closest to E. stebbinsii subsp. septentrionalis, but it is an unusual
representative of that taxon. Another interesting specimen was Monterey County, Pico
Blanco, May- June 1901, J. Bum Davy 7364 (UC 607791). It belongs in E. stebbinsii
subsp. stebbinsii, but it has narrow, convolute leaves that distinguished it from all
other specimens of the taxon.
Table 2 summarizes data obtained for Elymus stebbinsii and E. glaucus obtained in
this study. The data for E. glaucus came from a very biased sample. All the
specimens involved came from California although the species extends north to Alaska
and east to the Central Plains. In addition, they were included in the study because
they had been identified as E. stebbinsii. This criterion biased the sample towards
plants with large, soUtary spikelets and longer anthers than is typical for the species.
No data are presented for E. trachycaulus because very few were included in the
numerical portion of the study. The key to Califomian species of Elymus that follows
reflects the results of this study and the decision to include quackgrass in Elymus as E.
repens.
KEY TO THE CALIFORNIAN SPECIES OF ELYMUS
Glumes absent; spikelets usually 3-4 per node E. califomicus
Glumes present, lanceolate to setaceous; spikelets usually 1-3(4) per node.
2. Rachis disarticulating at maturity; glumes narrow to setaceous,
terminating in an awn 25-100 mm long.
3 . Glumes 3-many cleft; auricles conspicuous, usually
around 1 mm long • E. multisetus
3 ' Glumes entire or 2-cleft, rarely 3-cleft with 2 short lateral
awns; auricles less than 1 mm or wanting E. elymoides
4 . Spikelets 3 at each node, only the central spikelet
with fertile florets E. elymoides subsp. hordeoides
4 ' Spikelets 2 at each node or, if more, the lateral
spikelets with one or more fertile florets.
5 . AH florets in the spikelet similar. . . E. elymoides subsp. longifolius
5 ' First floret of some lower spikelets glume-like, the
spikelets consequently appearing to have 3 glumes.
6 . At least one glume at the lower nodes
2-cleft E. elymoides subsp. elymoides
6 ' AH glumes entire E. elymoides subsp. califomicus
2 ' Rachis not disarticulating at maturity except in E. scribneri; glumes
lanceolate, sometimes narrowly so, unawned or the awn less than
10 nmi long.
7 . Spikelets 2 or more at most nodes.
8 . Inflorescence nodding; glumes curving at the base,
exposing the base of ttie first floret; lemma awns
arcuately diverging E. canadensis
8 ' Inflorescence erect; glumes straight at the base, concealing
the base of the first floret E. glaucus
9 . Lemma awns less than 9 mm long E. glaucus subsp. virescens
9 ' Lemma awns 10-30 mm long.
