Phytologia (November 1997) 83(5):366-370.
CHROMOSOME STUDIES AND TAXONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS IN
ACILEPIDOPSIS (VERNONIEAE, ASTERACEAE)
Massimiliano Dematteis' & Harold Robinson^
'Institute de Bot^ca del Nordeste, Casilla de Correo 209, 3400 Corrientes,
ARGENTINA
^Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C. 20560 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
Chromosome nimiber and karyotype are reported for the first time in
Acilepidopsis echitifolia (Mart, ex DC.) H. Rob. The species presents a
somatic chromosome number of 2n=Sx=12, with the karyotype composed of
46 metacentric, 16 submetacentric and 10 subtelocentric-acrocentric
chromosomes. At meiosis, A. echitifolia always shows 36 bivalents,
interpreted here as an allopolyploid based on x=9. The basic number found in
Acilepidopsis supports its generic status and suggests a clear relationship with
members of Vemonieae from the Eastern Hemisphere.
KEY WORDS: Asteraceae, Vemonieae, Acilepidopsis, pollen, chromosomes,
relationships
Acilepidopsis H. Rob. has been recently removed from the American Vemonia on
the basis of the pollen, glands, stem base, and style type (Robinson 1989, 1990). The
genus contains a single species, A. echitifolia (Mart, ex DC.) H. Rob., which lives in
moist soils from northern Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, and southern Brazil.
The pollen of Acilepidopsis is triporate, lophate, entirely covered of similar sized
areoles, with smooth crests of the muri lacking a perforated tectum (Figure 1). Such
pollen has been called type "E" by Jones (1981) and is present in many species of the
Eastern Hemisphere. On the other hand, most American taxa have tricolporate pollen,
with several different types named A, B, C, and D (Jones 1979a).
The pollen morphology of Acilepidopsis echitifolia has suggested that it would be
more closely related to Old World members placed in Vemonia Schreb. than to other
American taxa. Robinson (1989), in the original description of the genus, considered
that cytological and chemical data could confirm the relationship of A. echitifolia to
African members of Vemonieae. From the cytological viewpoint, the species of both
366
