372 PHYTOLOGIA November 1997 volume 83(5):371-383
Program 1988; Weakley et al. 1998) and Texas (Diamond et al. 1987; Texas Natural
Heritage Program 1993; Weakley et al. 1998) and have been described for various
localities in the West Gulf Coastal Plain (Watson 1979; Ajilvsgi 1979; Nixon et al.
1980; Marks & Harcombe 1981; Nixon et al. 1983; Matos & Rudolph 1985; Nixon &
Ward 1988; Oizell 1990; Martin & Smith 1991; Brooks et al. 1993; Grace & Smith
1995; Van Kley in press).
Interest in an area on the north side of Huntsville State Park (Walker County,
Texas), connecting the park to Sam Houston National Forest, alerted us to the
presence of a plant community with characteristics similar to a baygall. This
community, which occurs along Prairie Branch, is described and discussed in the
present paper.
SITE DESCRIPTION
Prairie Branch is fed from the spillway of the lower lake of the man-made Elkins
Lake complex and flows directly south on private property through a broad but
relatively steep-sided channel for slightly more than 1 .4 kilometers before entering the
northwest side of Huntsville State Park. The stream is the main source of water for
Lake Raven in the park. The flow from Elkins Lake is variable, but a large amount of
seepage feeds the stream intermittently along its length on the west side and in
scattered areas on the east side.
There are three communities paralleling the stream: bottomland, upland, and "bog"
(Figure 1).
Bottomland . Along the creek, mostly about 15 to 50 meters but up to 100 m to
either side of it, the alluvium is relatively firm and flat, and the area has physical and
vegetative characteristics intermediate between riparian and bottomland communities.
The canopy is essentially closed and includes Nyssa sylvatica, Ulmus americana, Acer
rubrum, Liquidambar styraciflua, Quercus phellos, Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Betula
nigra, Platanus occidentalis, Populus deltoides, Acer negundo, and Salix nigra.
Carpinus caroliniana is abundant in the midstory. Characteristic tree species associated
with east Texas bottomlands of larger river systems (e.g., Quercus pagoda, Quercus
lyrata, Carya aquatica, Celtis laevigata, and Ulmus crassifolia) are absent along Prairie
Branch. The understory is open and few shrubs are present. Ilex vomitoria is
relatively common but scattered. Characteristic herbaceous species are Saururus
cemuus, Hydrocotyle verticillata, Poa autumnalis, Triadenum walteri, Callitriche
heterophylla, Gratiola virginiana. Polygonum hydropiperoides, Tovara virginiana,
Duchesnea indica, Chasmanthium latifolium, Carex flaccosperma, Carex retroflexa,
and Carex blanda, and species of Juncus and Rhynchospora. The ferns Thelypteris
kunthii and Onoclea sensibilis are common near the stream. Two uncommon species
are Hottonia inflata and Listera australis.
Upland . Ridges paralleling Prairie Branch on both its east and west sides rise to
about 23 meters above the stream channel. Slopes toward the stream range about 3-8
percent. The ridges and upland margins on both sides of the creek are Alfisols ~
sandy above with increasing clay below (McClintock 1979). The slopes bordering
