Nesom era/.: New plant community in Texas 373
and above the bog's edge where the seeps begin are vegetated by a mixed pine-
hardwood community typical of the area. The largest and most numerous trees are
Quercus nigra, with other species mixed in various proportions: Quercus falcata,
Nyssa sylvatica, Liquidambar styraciflua, Ulmus alata, Carya texana, and various
individuals apparently intermediate between Quercus stellata and Q. margarettiae.
Most of the larger pines have been removed for timber, but both Pinus taeda (more
common) and P. echinata are found throughout. The most common smaller trees and
shrubs are Comusflorida and Sassafras albidum, mixed with Morus rubra. Viburnum
rufidulum. Ilex vomitoria, Rhamnus caroliniana. Ilex opaca, and Ilex longipes.
Carpinus caroliniana is common along the lower parts of die slope. Chasmanthium
sessiliflorum is the most common and abundant herbaceous species. Smilax
rotundifolia is a common vine.
Bog (seepage areas). At the lower slopes of the upland before it flattens out into
the stream bottom are a series of linear seepages that parallel the stream. Their slope is
1-3 percent, varying in width from a few dozen meters to perhaps 50 m and extending
in places to within 20 m of the stream. On the west side of Prairie Branch they
apparendy are continuous but are sporadic and reduced in size on the east side. The
seeps were flowing and the soil saturated on 18 June 1998, after more than two
months of severe ckought in the area. The presence of obUgate hydrophytes further
suggests that seepage occurs all year. The soils are described as Depcor-Huntsburg-
Gunter association, which is a combination of Alfisols and Ultisols (McClintock
1979). These wet areas support a dense thicket of low shrubs, bamboo vine (Smilax
laurifolia), and taller canopy trees, similar in appearance to tall pocosins (Richardson
& Gibbons 1993). Much of the midstory and understory shrubs barely reach a height
of 3-5 meters. Nyssa sylvatica and Liquidambar overtop the shrub layer but do not
form a continuous canopy. Nyssa is the most common tree species along the upper
margins of the seepage areas. Timber has been periodically removed from the uplands
and bottomland in the immediate area, but the bog otherwise apparently exists under
relatively natviral conditions.
Many of the taller trees in the bog are scattered "snags" of individuals (apparently
Nyssa) that died relatively recently, the cause of death not known but perhaps
connected with effects of timber removal along adjacent slopes. Large loblolly pines
were recently removed (ca. 1993-1994) from the uplands as well as from along the
immediate bog and seep margins, as evidenced by scattered stumps, and this may have
affected water flow, increasing seepage and resulting in stress to larger trees.
It is likely that this bog once extended from what is now upper Elkins Lake
downstream through Prairie Branch into the bottoms now inundated by Lake Raven in
Huntsville State Park. A small remnant of the same bog community exists within the
state park at the upper reach of the eastern arm of the lake, near the entrance of Litde
Chinquapin Creek. The remaining portion of this habitat, along Prairie Branch, is
about 25% of what probably was the original bog. The Prairie Branch site is the only
known habitat in Walker County similar to a baygall in topography and hydrology.
Parts of the next drainage system to the west, which roughly parallels Prairie Branch,
are about 15 m higher than Prairie Branch and may significandy contribute to the
seepage water. Drainage east of Prairie Branch is lower in elevation.
