Nesom et ai: New plant community in Texas 375
METHODS
We made several trips to Prairie Branch for observations and collections. On 18
June, 1998, we analyzed five 5x5 meter quadrats within the bog. Sites were selected
according to accessibility and soil moisture, and ranged from permanently saturated
sands to slurry-muck, apparently representing the whole range of moisture conditions.
Frequency and diameter of all woody species with a dbh of 2 cm or greater were
recorded. Herbaceous species presence was described by identifying all species in the
plots; herbaceous cover was measured and percent cover estimated for major species.
Percent canopy cover also was estimated. Voucher collections for species are
deposited at SHST and TEX. Plant nomenclature follows Jones et al. (1997) and
Kartesz (1994); scientific authorities for all names used in this paper can be read from
these references. A soil sample was collected from the upper 15 cm of each of the five
plots and analyzed by A & L Laboratories, Memphis, Tennessee. Organic matter was
determined by the combustion method.
RESULTS
Table 1 summarizes the larger woody vegetation in the five plots. Viburnum
nudum dominated in number of individuals, followed by Nyssa sylvatica, Myrica
cerifera, and Liquidambar styraciflua. However, since it never exceeded 3.5 cm dbh.
Viburnum nudum contributed relatively less to the total basal area than did Nyssa or
Liquidambar. Smilax laurifolia was present in large numbers but since the stems were
always less than 2 cm diameter, this species is not listed among those in Table 1.
Table 2 summarizes the relative frequency of herbaceous species in the plots. Ten
vascular species occurred in all the plots, 6 species in four plots, 8 in three, 9 in two,
and 17 in one. A species of liverwort was present in all plots. Fifty vascular and
one non- vascular species were identified for the plots during the 18 June survey.
About half of these are monocots, with Cyperaceae especially well-represented.
Table 3 gives the percent of herbaceous cover by dominant species in each plot.
Only species accounting for 1% or more are included. Cover ranged from 40% to
100%. Monocots and ferns clearly dominated. Canopy cover for the five plots ranged
from 20% to 95% but was not correlated with ground cover percentages.
Table 4 gives information on soil samples from the five sample sites. The soils are
acidic and low in nutrients and organic matter, falling within the normal range of soil
chemistry of baygalls of east Texas and west Louisiana (Hartman 1974; Nixon et al.
1980; Nixon & Ward 1988; MacRoberts unpubl.).
DISCUSSION
The seepage areas along Prairie Branch have the physical features and some of the
vegetative appearance of baygalls, but most of the typical woody species of baygalls
