380 PHYTOLOGIA November 1997 volume 83(5):371-383
County baygalls than to the Prairie Branch bog. Viburnum nudum was only a minor
component at their 20 sites. Clearly, a study similar to that of Brooks et al. made
along an east-west axis, including western Louisiana, would be valuable.
The possum haw bog and the Big Thicket
The relationship of the floristically depauperate Prairie Branch bog to typical
baygaUs apparently is analogous to the relationship between the flora of Walker
County and that of the southeast Texas Big Thicket. "[The] Baygall-Palmetto Flat
complex is considered the heart of the Traditional Thicket and gave tihis area the name
'Big Thicket' ... Of all the plant communities of the Big Thicket area, the Acid Bog-
Baygall best represents the Traditional Thicket" (Watson 1979). Various authors have
included Walker County within the Big Thicket (e.g.. Parks & Cory 1936), but using
a set of indicator species to define its boundary, McLeod (1971) excluded Walker
County from the area. Indeed, a sharp and easily perceptible change occurs near the
boundary between San Jacinto County, which has Big ITiicket species and vegetation
by any definition, and the southeastem comer of Walker County.
Many woody species characteristic of the Big Thicket and the eastern United States
drop completely out of the flora in the westward transition into Walker County
(Simpson 1988; Bums & Honkala 1990; Nesom 1998; Nesom & Brown in prep.):
Fagus grandifolia, Quercus laurifolia, Pinus palustris, Myrica heterophylla. Magnolia
virginiana. Ilex coriacea, Persea palustris. Viburnum acerifolium, Asimina parvifolia,
Sebastianiafruticosa, Symplocos tinctoria, Aronia arbutifolia, Clethra alnifolia, Cyrilla
racemiflora, and Itea virginica. Among the most characteristic species of moist upland
forests in the Big Thicket area of San Jacinto County are the shrubs Viburnum
acerifolium, Asimina parvifolia, and Persea borbonia. and the herbaceous Smilax
pumila. Neither the Viburnum nor Asimina is known from Walker County, and the
latter two species are rare there.
Additionally, a number of other native tree species reach the westem boundary of
their geographic range within Walker County, where some of them are common before
disappearing entirely only a few more miles to the west: Liquidambar styraciflua, Acer
rubrum, Quercus velutina, Quercus alba, Carpinus caroliniana, Ostrya virginiana.
Sassafras albidum, and Chionanthus virginicus. Magnolia grandiflora, Carya
myristiciformis, Quercus michauxii, Hamamelis virginiana, Castanea pumila, Styrax
americana, Halesia diptera, and Rhododendron canescens are rare in Walker County,
their last outpost westward. Other tree species are very near their westem distributional
boundary in Walker County (for example): Pinus echinata, Pinus taeda, Comus florida,
Nyssa sylvatica, Diospyros virginiana, Carya cordiformis, Carya aquatica, Betula nigra,
Quercus falcata, Quercus pheUos, and Quercus lyrata.
The predominance of clay soils in westem Walker County and further west is surely
connected with this abmpt limitation of species distributions, but other limiting
environmental factors are not so clear or sharply defined. Braun (1950), however,
noted that "decreasing precipitation and longer and more frequent droughts" were the
primary Umitations to westward spread of the deciduous forest, and it seems likely that
the prolonged, high seasonal temperatures in southeast Texas have a strong effect in
limiting the water available to plants. The annual average 1 12 cm/44 in of precipitation
in HuntsvilleAValker County (Larkin & Bomar 1983), rapidly depleted by the prolonged
