Nesom et al.: New plant community in Texas 381
heat, probably approaches the minimal amount required by many woody species of this
area. Rainfall increases quickly eastward from Huntsville (ca. 117 cm/46 in —
Coldspring/San Jacinto County [40 km eastward]; 122 cm/48 in ~ Livingston/Polk
County [60 km eastward]; 132 cm/52 in — Jasper/Jasper County [150 km eastward) and
decreases to the west (99 cm/39 in — College Station^razos County [80 km westward];
91 cm/36 in — Bastrop/ Bastrop County [160 km westward]; 81 cm/32 in —
Austin/Travis County [210 km westward]).
Along Prairie Branch, why should only Viburnum nudum occur, one of many
shrubby, characteristic baygall species that appear to be strictly true to this constantly
wet stream bottom habitat? Perhaps plants of possum haw are more tolerant to
occasional drought, but then the species might be expected to occur in a broader range
of habitats, which it does not. Possum haw and bamboo vine have reached Prairie
Branch relatively recently through dispersal from baygalls in more eastern sites, or the
Prairie Branch site may be floristically depleted from earlier, more typical, western
baygalls.
A possum haw bog in Anderson County
We report here another east Texas bog that is floristically and physically similar to
the Prairie Branch site. On July 30, 1998, the two MacRoberts examined a "baygall"
at the western end of Andrew's Bog in the Engeling Wildlife Management Area,
Anderson County, about 150 kilometers north of Prairie Branch in the Post Oak
Savanna region of Texas. Like the Prairie Branch site, Andrew's Bog is at the edge of
the Eastern Deciduous Forest.
The midstory and overstory were dominated by Viburnum nudum, Nyssa
sylvatica, Myrica cerifera, and Uquidambar styraciflua, with scattered individuals of
Acer rubrum. As at Prairie Branch, the Andrew's Bog site had no Magnolia, Persea,
or Ilex coriacea; neither was there any Smilax laurifolia, although there was a smaU
amount of Smilax bona-nox. The ground cover was somewhat different from that at
Prairie Branch. Ferns dominated, notably Woodwardia areolata and Osmimda
cinnamomea, with some Osmunda regalis. Sphagnum and Uverworts were conamon.
Other species present were Chasmanthium laxum, Saururus cemuus, Athyrium felix-
femina, Eleocharis spp., Rhynchospora spp., and Carex spp., the latter two genera in
fewer species and in fewer numbers than at Prairie Branch. As at Prairie Branch, none
of the rare, small baygall herbs mentioned above were present.
The Andrew's Bog site is at the lower slope of a deep sand hUl, topographically
similar to Prairie Branch. The Andrew's Bog soils also were similar to those at Prairie
Branch - deep wet muck - even though the area was in severe drought.
The environmental variables of biological importance in this region at the very edge
of the Eastern Forest have not been fuJJy explored (Owen & Schmidly 1986), and
many interesting possibilities exist for studying the plant ecology in this area of sharp
transition. Bog sites are scattered westward in Texas as far as the eastern edge of the
Edwards Plateau, and characterization of these may provide insight into the nature and
origin of the communities in Walker County and Andrews County. We hope that at
least representative natural communities will remain intact enough to allow this.
