Information for Authors
Articles from botanical systemaiics and ecolog>', including
biographical sketches, critical reviews, and summaries of literature
will be considered for publication in PHYTOLOGIA. Manuscripts ma>'
be submitted either on computer diskene, or as clean typescript.
Diskettes will be returned to authors after action has been taken on
the manuscript. Diskettes may be 5.25" or 3.5" and may be written in
any IBM or Macintosh compatible format. Typescript manuscripts
should be single spaced and will be read into the computer using a
scanner. The scanner will read standard type fonts but will not read
dot matrix print. Manuscripts submitted in dot matrix print cannot
be accepted. Use underscore (not italics) for scientific names.
Language of manuscripts may be either English or Spanish. Figures
will be reduced to fit within limits of text pages. Therefore, figures
should be submitted with internal scales. Legends for figures should
be included in figures whenever possible. Each manuscript should
have an abstract and key word list. Specimen citations should be
consistent throughout the manuscript. Serial titles should be cited
with standard abbreviations. References cited onl\ as part of
nomenclatural summaries should not appear in Literature Cited.
Nomenclatural work should include one paragraph per basionym
and must provide proper (as defined by the current Jniernational
Code of Botanical Nomenclature) citation of sources of epithets and
combinations.
Authors should arrange for two workers in the appropriate field to
review the manuscript before submission. Copies of reviews should
be forwarded to the editor with the manuscript. Manuscripts will not
be published without review.
Cost of pubhcation is currently S13.00 US per page for publication
without reprints. Publication with 100 reprints is provided for
S18.00 US per page, 200 reprints for $21.50 US per page. Page
charges are due with manuscript and no paper will be published
before payment is received in full. Reprints must be ordered and
paid for in advance. Page charges will be determined on the basis of
a typeset page. Title page should include title, authors(s) name(s),
and address(es). No extra charge is made for line drawings provided
they conform to limitations of size and proportion for normal text.
Halftones require an extra charge of S14.00 US per page at 100%.
Enlargement or reductions cost an additional S6.00 per page.
