Keating: Pdramo in Podocaipus National Park 335
Cat61ica del Ecuador (Quito), and duplicates were sent to the Herbario Nacional del
Ecuador (Quito) and the Universidad Nacional de Loja.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
A total of 50 families, 81 genera, and 130 plant species were collected in the
P^amo of Cajanuma (Appendix 1). Sixty-six species (51%) are woody, whereas 64
(49%) are herbaceous. Taxonomically, 3 (2.3%) species are bryophytes, 13 (10%)
are pteridophytes, and 1 14 (88%) are angiospenns. In terms of species richness, the
most important famihes are Asteraceae (18), Ericaceae (14), and Melastomataceae
(10). These three famihes tend to be among the most species-rich families in many
Andean sites above 3000 m (see Gentry 1995). In contrast, 27 famihes are
represented at Cajanuma by only one species.
In part because Cajanuma is located at a relatively low elevation, the grass pdramo
differs substantially from others sampled in northern South America (e.g., Cleef 1981;
Miller & Silander 1991; Hofstede 1995). Although grasses dominate most of the area
above 3335 m elevation, only three members of Poaceae were collected, none of
which are bunch grasses. Chusquea loxensis L.G. Clark is abundant throughout the
site, although Calamagrostis macrophylla (PUger) Pilger appears to be the most
abundant grass species. Since many other grass taxa are known from adjacent areas
(L. Clark & S. Laegaard, pers. comm.), it is very likely that some taxa were
inadvertently missed.
Secondly, unlike pdramos sampled at higher elevations, the Cajanuma paramo
contains relatively few species of either the rosette or cushion life forms. Although
four members of the BromeUaceae, as well as Valeriana convallarioides (Schmale)
B.B. Larsen, are found here, other rosette species found frequently at higher
elevations in Colombia {e.g., Cleef 1981) and Venezuela {e.g., Perez 1987) are absent
at Cajanuma. Many species exhibiting this life form are adapted to sub-freezing soil
temperatures (Perez 1987), which do not characterize Uie Cordillera Oriental.
Moreover, of the cushion plant taxa known to occur in the paramos north of Loja
Province, only Eriocaulon spp. were collected at this site.
Finally, the Cajanuma grass pdramo is atypical due to the richness of woody
species (n=36), as well as the abundance of woody individuals. Not only are patches
of tall (1-2 m) shrubs found in the upper paramo, but nearly all of the grass-dominated
sites contain some woody individuals. Arcytophyllum setosum (R. & P.) Schlecht.,
Disterigma empetrifolium (H.B.K.) Drude, Gynoxys miniphylla Cuatrec, Miconia
latifolia (D. Don) Naud., and Valeriana microphylla H.B.K. are most abundant
(Keating 1995), and at least ten other shrub species are common. Most woody species
in the grass paramo were also seen in the shrub paramo, but the following woody
species were restricted to the grass paramo: Disterigma codonanthum H.B.K.,
Gaultheria amoena A.C. Smith, Miconia bullata (Turcz.) Triana, Miconia rotundifolia
(D. Don) Naud., and Pentacalia myrsinites (Turcz.) Cuatrec. Given that many
relatively undisturbed sections of the Cordillera Oriental are covered with tall shrubs,
fire may play an important role in maintaining this community {e.g., Keating 1997).
