BY HON. F. W. TAYLOR, M.I)., M.I-.C, D.P.H. 105
stored in the cool chamber at the abattoir until required, and
the meat would be much more tender and palatable from being
kept a day or two, instead of being consumed a few hours after
killing, as must be done under the system of private imperfectly
equipped slaughter-houses.
On hygienic reason abattoirs are to be commended, for their
erection would remove nuisances from the neighbourhood of
dwellings. I have not visited any of the slaughter-yards about
Brisbane for some years, but on one occasion, when a member
of the Central Board of Health, I was induced to inspect and
report on two yards about five miles each from here. One 1
found tolerably clean, the owner having done all that was
possible in the absence of eflticient drainage and a sufficient
supply of pure water to prevent his place becoming a nuisance
to the dwellers in the vicinity, but the fact that a slaughter-yard
being in existence was amply demonstrated nasally for a mile or
more to leeward of it. The condition I found the other yard in
defied any powers of description, but I have no hesitation in
saying that it could not possibly have been filthier, and more
loathsome than it was in all its details, and the smell was some-
thing to be remembered. It was situated on the bank of a
creek, which at the time of my visit was not running, conse-
quently all the drainage collected in a stagnant water-hole a few
yards away from the killing shed, the floor of which was of
round logs, defying all attempts at efficient flushing or scouring,
had any ever been made. The people living in the neighbour-
hood tried year after year to stop the issuing of a slaughtering
license to the owner of this yard, but without success. I do not
know whether it is still in existence, but if so sincerely hope
that it is in a decidedly better condition now than it was
formerly.
Abattoirs would protect meat from exposure to the foul
emanations, which are so often an accompaniment of the private
slaughter-yard, would ensure the thorough examination of all meat
for disease, and would materially tend to limit the traffic in diseased
meat. On economic grounds abattoirs are desirable, for the
meat would be less liable to spoil, being slaughtered under better
conditions. Much blood and oft'al now lost would be saved and
utilised, and there would be a saving from order, the proper
division of labour, avoidance of driving animals along the roads.
