100 PUBLIC ABATTOIRS AND THE PR?:VENTION, ETC.
and the doing of business on a large scale. Abattoirs properly
managed yield a profit.
On humanitarian grounds abattoirs are to be preferred,
because they would entail less cruelty to animals, owing to the
use of improved appliances for slaughtering, and the cattle, being
brought by rail to the abattoirs, would avoid becoming weary
and exhausted from being driven along hot, dusty roads.
Sir Kichard Thorne, in one of his Harben lectures, says : —
" How is the very proper demand of the butchers for uniformity
in the condition regulating the seizure of carcases on account of
tuberculosis to be met ? How is such skilful handling of slightly
tuberculous carcases to be attained as will secure the removal of
the diseased portions in such a way that no risk will attach to
the remainder ? I know only one answer, namely, by the
abolition, as far as practicable, of private slaughter-houses, by
the provision in all large centres of population, whether
technically styled urban or rural, of public slaughter-houses,
under the direct control of the sanitary authorities and their
officers, and by the adoption of measures which will, as soon as
practicable, provide a class of skilled meat inspectors.
" The properly administered public slaughter-house is
demanded as an act of justice to those trading in meat ; it is
demanded in the interests of public health and decency ; it is
demanded for the prevention of cruelty to the lower animals ;
and it is demanded to bring England, if not the United Kingdom,
somewhat nearer to the level of other civilised nations in this
matter. Public slaughter-houses, officered by skilled inspectors,
and supervised by medical officers of health, are urgently
required, amongst other reasons, for the prevention of tuber-
culosis in man."
The main difficulty in dealing with the erection of public
abattoirs in this colony would no doubt be the cry of injury to
vested interests ; but no man has a right to injure his fellowman
by the sale to him, for purposes of food, of diseased moat, or
meat which has been exposed to foul emanations ; and unless
private slaughter-houses are managed according to prescribed
sanitary methods, and every facility given for the efficient
inspection of the animals killed therein, they should be abolished.
The health of the community as a whole, and of every individual
member of it, is of paramount importance, and no cry of this
