BY HON. W. F. TAYLOR, M-D., M.L.C., D.P.H. 107
sort should be allowed to stay for one moment the enforcement
of strict sanitary regulations respecting private slaughter-houses,
or their prompt abolition on failure to comply with such
regulations.
It is admitted that in sanitary matters generally, Great
Britain is far ahead of any Continental nation, but in the matter
of public abattoirs the reverse holds good. Germany appears to
have led the van in this particular, and the number of public
slaughter-houses is constantly on the increase, and there is a
perfect army of meat inspectors, something like 35,000, I
believe. But Germany is a populous country, and due regard is
paid to the health of its inhabitants by the governing powers,
and no doubt this large army of inspectors give good value for
the money they cost, and many valuable lives are saved through
their watchfulness and skill. However, where public abattoirs
have been erected in Great Britain they have, to a greater
or less extent, superseded the private slaughter - house.
In Glasgow private slaughter-houses have been abolished, and
the butchers now express a strong preference for the public
slaughter-houses over the old system. And no doubt if we had
public slaughter-houses here conducted on the same system as
the one in Manchester where the butcher can enter and
use the public slaughter-house as his own private slaughter-
house, paying rent for it, our butchers would soon become
alive to the advantages of an abattoir, and willingly
give up their private slaughter-houses with all the trouble and
annoyance connected with them. Let us hope that the Minister
charged with the administration of the Slaughtering Act of
1898, will see his way to construct a public slaughter-house for
this community in the near future.
In looking through the Journal of the " Sanitary Institute"
for 1898, I came across a plan and description of the Munich
slaughter-house which I cannot do better than read to you. The
communication was made by C. Childs, M.D., (Oxon), D.P.H.,
and is as follows : — ■
The buildings of the Munich Slaughter-house and Cattle
Market, itc, &c.
The plan I have had copied and enlarged.
