lOH PUBLIC AKATTOIRS AND THE PREVENTION, ETC.
The buildings of the Munich Slaughter-house and Cattle
Market commenced in March, 1H7G, were formally opened in
August, 1H7H.
The site occupied by these buildings is practically well out-
side the city, at its south-western angle, in direct communication
with the Southern Railway, and, through that railway, with the
chief central station.
The buildings, with their enclosing wall (a little over 8 feet
high), cover about 25 acres; provision being made for future
extension.
The Cattle Market is in direct contact with the Southern
Railway Station, and is separated from the Slaughter-house by
a road of about 82 yards width.
(A) — The Slaughter-house.
For the slaughtering of difierent animals, six halls (//, //, //,
A, /i, and./) were provided in parallel lines, separated from one
another by roadways about 50 feet w'ide.
Three of these halls ('/, //, //) are for the slaughter of large
cattle. Each consists of two parts about 46 yards long and
16 yards broad, separated from one another by gangways about
20 feet wide.
Each hall contains 80 slaughter places, and is fitted with
appliances convenient for slaughtering, dressing, cleansing,
flushing, i*cc. Air is freely admitted by numerous openings.
Direct sunlight is excluded by jalousies made of upright iron
plates, fixed outside the windows in such a way that they can be
adjusted for this purpose according to the position of the sun.
The two halls (A, li) for slaughter of small cattle are similar
in size and construction. That for swine (./) differs by being
about 20 feet wider, and has special appliances, on a large scale,
for scalding and scraping the carcases.
Smaller buildings are provided —
(A) For the slaughter and examination of diseased animals,
also for the slaughter of horses (in a separate hall).
(/) For the collection and removal of dung.
(ill) For quarantine stalls.
{)i) For skin and suet chambers.
((I & ji) For the collection of blood.
