112 OBSERVATIONS ON THE LIFE HISTORY, ETC.
When the female is about to increase her family she goes
about the business in a very methodical way, displaying skill
and forethought that wjuld do no discrelit to any Australian
couples about to marry. It is essential that she should have
water whereon to lay her eggs. Running water is avoided ; it
would carry her eggs she does not know where. So she searches
out for a still and quiet pool, as dark and as much hidden from
observation as possible. If dirty and filled with rotten leaves
and branches, so much the better. The youngsters will then
have cover from their enemies, and find food for nourishment.
Having satisfied herself as to the bsst place, she alights on the
water, the dirty scum or air film adhering to the water surface
being quite sufficient to support her slender form. Resting on
the front and middle pair of legs, the binder pair (which are often
seen projecting upwards into the air) are then crossed in the
shape of the letter X, and in the angle thus formed she places
an egg, holding it upright with the capped end down ; another
is then glued to it by some cement, of which she is the original
manufacturer, and so she goes on laying one row of eggs against
another. She still keeps the mass between her hind legs,
pushing it further out as it grows bigger to make room for
another row of eggs, and so she industriously pursues the work
until it is finished. Occasionally she is disturbed, and I have
seen many of these little rafts half completed. This work
occupies a considerable time. Recently I had one in captivity,
and as I went to bed at 10 o'clock I noticed her standing on the
water ; so suspecting that she was growing broody, I carefully
examined the place ; she, not liking my appearance at such a
time, flew away, and there was certainly no trace of eggs then.
About 12 I awoke, and, lightmg my lamp, I examined the place
and there, in exactly the spot from which I had disturbed her,
lay the egg-raft complete. So that the work was done in less
than two hours ; and it is always done during the night. When
complete, the raft is exactly the shape of a boat, three or four
times as long as it is broad. At the bottom of fig. 1 you have a side
view just as it appears when floating on the water. It forms a
complete segment of a circle, and might have been plotted out
by a Govermnent surveyor with a pair of compasses. Looking
closely at the upper edge, you see it has a saw-like aspect.
What looks like the teeth of a saw^ is really the small ends of the
eggs set together in regular rows, all pointing upward. A
