BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 118
mistake is never made in putting an egg wrong end downwards.
All are placed with the thick end on the water. The consequence
is that, being conical, when they are all massed closely together,
each egq slopes to the centre, producing that curbed boat-like
shape you see in the lower part of the picture.
The upper figure represents an egg-boat turned up on end.
You are looking at it inside. The eggs are placed so closely
together that it looks like one dark mass. Counting the rows in
the first boat they will be found to be about twenty-five. And
if you take an average of ten eggs in the breadth, these numbers
if multiplied will give you 250 in the boat. That is a fair
average. Some contain 800, others less. It forms a thoroughly
good and perfectly unsinkable lifo raft. Push it down into the
water ; it springs up again lighter than cork. The mosquito-
boat is so perfectly built that it is impossible for it not to right
itself when it has been submerged. If you try the experiment
of pouring water from a jug down on it from a height you will
find, though it may be driven down into the water and whirled
about in all directions, you cannot break it up, and as soon as it
is free it will rise to the surface and right itself perfectly. I
have seen a dozen of these little vessels lying side by side just
like a little fleet of boats.
The mother has now done her work and she leaves it, like
Moses in the ark of bulrushes, to the tender mercies of the
elements. The warm, moist air assumes the functions of the
mother, and in from 1^ to 3 days the young are hatched.
In the first picture I mentioned that there was a little
projection in the centre of the large round end of the eo-o-.
This is a detachable cap which, apparently, has not been hitherto
remarked by observers, so that our society has the honour of
adding this interesting fact to the world's book of science. It
is very minute, almost transparent, and in that state difficult to
photograph. Some little time ago, however, I managed to fix
these caps on a slide and strain them. One specimen I sent to
Dr. John Thompson, and he gave me a surprise by returnino' in
a couple of days a most admirable lantern slide enlargement of
it. It is one of the most perfect micro-photographs that I have
ever seen. A copy of it is seen in figure 2. It bears a
resemblance to one of those pretty little table mats, with a deep
fringe with which young housewives so often decorate their
H
