114 OBSERVATIONS ON THE LIFE HISTORY, ETC.
tables. It seems large here but it is only the three-
thousandth part of an inch in diameter, and this is magnified
460 times.
It reveals very strikingly the beauty and complexity of some
of the things that are ordinarily hidden from our- eyes. What a
task a young mother would have if she had to crochet 2oO of
these little caps to put on the heads of as many babies. But
Mrs. Mosquito never troubles her head about it. She simply
does her work gracefully, easily, and perfectly. I cannot say
what is the use of these pretty caps. The baby mosquito does
not emerge from the egg through them. They are much too
small for that process. One thing I notice that if you remove
them from the egg-boat and return the boat to the water it
cannot maintain its upright position. It will fall on its side or
turn bottom up in the water. It hopelessly loses its balance if
the caps are removed, probably by reason of the admission of
air. My impression is that there is a slight circulation of water
through it to aid in developing the contents of the egg. The
circular fringe is attached to a thick cushion, and in the centre
of the cushion is a hole ; a corresponding aperture is found in
the end of the egg, whereon the cap lies, and as circulating
movements are easily discernible in the living insect in the
inside of the shell, it seems probable that this little cap with the
apertures is a provision necessary for the development of the
creature within.
When the little babies inside of the eggs are hatched, which
takes place in favourable weather in from 36 to 72 hours, they
find the small world within the shell too confined for
their aspirations. They get too big for their cloches. So they
stir, kick and struggle inside, and in consequence the shell splits
at the thickest part of the round end, so that it either falls oH"
entirely, or else it opens like a lid to allow the baby to crawl out.
Now you see the utility of the eggs being placed with the capped
end down on the water. The head of the youngster is always
at that end. These little caps are kept moist as well as the
round part, and when it splits, the baby has nothing to do but to
crawl out into the water. And he does not get drowned. Put
a mature mosquito into the water and it may be drowned, but
whep it comes from the egg at first it is much more like a fish.
It takes to the water and swims about just as naturally as a
child breathes air.
