U. RKPORT OF THE COUNCII..
In July last, instead of the Ordinary Meeting, a Scientific
Conversazione was held, to which one thousand invitations were
issued, resulting in an attendance of between 700 and 800
persons. The whole of the rooms of the College were occupied
for lectures and displays of scientific apparatus. It proved a
complete success, and reflected great credit on all those who
assisted and on the Committee of Management.
In March last. Vol. XIV. of the Proceedings, containing
the papers read during the 1898 session, was published and
distributed.
A list of the new members (33) will be found in Appendix
C. This number has not been reached for many years past.
The Council regret that since the last Annual Meeting death has
deprived the Society of two members, viz. : Mr. Othman Blakey,
who died about a month after his election as a member ; and
Mr. James Thorpe, a very old member, who did valuable work
as Hon. Secretary of the Philosophical Society of Queensland,
with which this Society was incorporated in 1884.
The Queensland Volume of the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature which was in course of preparation when the
last report was submitted, has been completed ; and, through the
courtesy of the Hon. the Chief Secretary of Queensland (Hon.
J. R. Dickson), copies were distributed in July last to those who
were members of the Society at that time, as well as to a number
of Institutions with which the Society exchanges publications.
The Council wish to record their appreciation of the manner in
which the compiler, Mr. J. Shirley, B.Sc, performed this work.
The copy of a letter to the Agent General for Queensland, given in
appendix D., shows that Professor Armstrong, F.R.S., the Chair-
man of the International Catalogue Committee, was pleased
with the publication.
A large number of donations to the Library have been re-
ceived during the year from kindred societies, &c., in various
parts of the world. It is to be hoped that the funds this year
will permit the setting apart of a sum for binding the many papers
thus received.
The Hon. Treasurer's statement is given in appendix E.
It will be seen that the balance in the Bank is £6 19s. 3d., while the
outstanding accounts amount to £19 4s. Bd. These, however,
will be easily met, as the sum of about £88 in subsidy is due
this month.
