BY W. R, COLLEDGE. 115
You have in fig. 3 one of these young gentlemen, so that
you may admire his person and the peculiarities of his structure.
Not much of tlie mosquito about him yet, but a good deal like a
caterpillar. He has a round head, two rudimentary eyes like
little dots of ink, and from each cheek projects a fleshy arm
jointed at the base and ending in a fan of long hairs. These
two fans he holds out in front of his face as though he were too
modest to show himself without some covering.
His body is built up of thirteen segments or flat rings.
The engagement ring a young man gives to his intended bride is
a good type of the sort with which the body of the larva is
built. Nine form the abdomen, attached by a flexible skin,
permitting niovement in any direction. Three are fused
together in the chest, and one, more modified, forms the head.
Tafts of long hairs spring from the body segments, and many
of these are tactile or endowed with the sense of touch. The
short thick section near the head contains the circulatory organs,
and their movements may be very clearly seen under the
microscope. That long black tube in the centre of the body is
not his backbone, for you know insects have no vertebrji^, but it
is really his stomach. It is of extraordinary length, for it
stretches from his neck right down to his tail. And I can
assure you that his appetite is quite on a par with the length of
his stomach. He is always eating and never seems to be
satisfied. And I am sorry to give him a bad character too, for
I caught one actually eating his brother. The unfortunate
brother was nearly as long as himself, but of slenderer build.
His head was within the other's jaws, but, notwithstanding that
he kicked and struggled with all his might, he gradually
disappeared down the bigger cannibal's throat, being swallowed
whole.
They generally swim tail first, a peculiar mode of progres-
sion, but one which seems to suit their larval dignity best. If
you notice the tail, you will see that it is divided into two
branches. The lower fork is bluntly rounded, and the other
seems like the four fingers of a hand. This is his swimming
apparatus. Really a splendid four-bladed propeller. He moves
as a canoe is propelled, by its occupant thrusting the paddle on
one side and then on the other. Even so, this four-bladed
propeller is thrust on either side and pulled ; and as his body is
