IK) OBSERVATIONS ON THK LIFE HISTORY, ETC.
flexible at the end of the pull, he is bent like a bow ; then the
propeller is thrust on the opposite side, and so he advances by a
series of zigzag movements. He can move head first, and in a
straight line when he likes, but he prefers the jerky method of
progression.
Another proof of the peculiarity of his lordship is that he
breathes through his tail. Notwithstanding that he possesses a
head, and a large mouth, he actually breathes through his latter
end. If you examine his tail, you will find that the lower
conical-shaped fork is the end of his breathing tubes. They run
one on each side of his body to the head. When he requires to
breath, which is every few minutes, he twitches himself up to
the top of the water, and shoves the conical end of his tail
above the surface. Its end is closed by five triangular flaps
which seal it from the water. These neat little valves open out
like a star, and the bubble of air enclosed in, or attached to
them, keeps the little fellow suspended. His specific gravity is
greater than the li(|uid, and he would sink were it not for the
pull of the air bubble. So effectual is it, that occasionally I
have seen them revolving with great rapidity, the air bubble
acting as a pivot, and maintaining them while they spun
round and round. Their usual position, however, is hanging
head down from the surface while they suck in the air by the
tracheal end of the tail. They remain so for several minutes at
a time, twirling their head brushes in evident enjoyment. When
satisfied, the little flaps fold themselves together, releasing the
pull of the air bubble, and he slowly sinks to go off on another
marine excursion. A tooth brush is said to be a sign of
civilization. If so, then the larva is highly civilized, for he
possesses several of these signs, and uses them well too. You
cannot see them in the last picture for they lie there in the
inside of his mouth. These tooth brushes are thrust in and
out of the mouth with such rapidity that they resemble the
action of those circular brushes used by hairdressers, which
make your hair fly as though a ghost had appeared before you.
One ettect is to cause a current of water to rush into the mouth,
and food borne along with it is entangled in the hairs of these
brushes and swallowed. I have now to show you one of the
most interesting slides of the series, that is, the larva in a
living state. I have been breeding some of them lately for your
special benefit, so that you can be assured of the fact that they
