BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 119
where the proboscis and attentife lie, and the lighter curvature
behind indicates the outline of the end of the wings, also of ths
legs, which pass into the lower part of the case. Before
dismissing his lordship, I must point out his swimming ap-
paratus. Instead of the four-bladed propeller, formerly possessed,
he has a new one on his latter end. In fact, by taking a couple
of palm-leaf fans and laying them side by side, one overlapping
a little the edge of the other, then you would get an accurate
representation of the double paddle of the pupa of the mosquito.
In swimming, these flippers are contracted towards the head and
thrust violently backwards, the force of the stroke driving the
body forward a considerable distance. Sometimes, if alarmed,
he gets into such a dreadful hurry, and lets out so suddenly,
that he turns a series of somersaults, going over and over, head
over heels, until he reaches a safe place. I have now another
slide of living things to show on the screen (which, unfortun-
ately, cannot be reproduced to the readers of this paper). Here
is a faaiily of pupi disporting themselves in the water. Their
m)tions a;nply prove all that I have been speaking to you of
them. Froin their sudden outshoots you might imagine they
were nitercolonial footballers, and that those chaps sucking air
at the top through their breathing horns were just taking a spell
after a supreme kick.
Now comes the final change. I watched, often and long,
before I found one in the actual process of emerging into
mosquito life. One morning I had this pleasure. On the top
of some water lay a dark-coloured pupa, looking big about the
shoulders. Suspecting what was going on, I lifted him out on
to a glass side. Then I saw he had burst his coat between the
shoulders, and in another minute he was clear out. The old
papa-skin lay empty on the slide, and he stood beside it a
fully-fledged mosquito, perfect in every part. The whole process
did not take more than two minutes. I daresay I helped him
to get free by lifting him out and setting him on solid ground.
Since then I have often watched the process, and have noticed
that, when a little way out, he frees himself by bending forwards ;
this releases a little of the back and wings ; then bending
backwards a little, more of the legs are freed, and so he indulges
in a slow rocking motion. When the front pair of legs get out,
his progress is accelerated ; for these are set down, and the
leverage they give soon clears the rest of his body. Sometimes
