120 OBSERVATIONS OS THE LIFE HISTORY, ETC.
you will find him standing on the empty skin, using it as a
float, until his wings are dry and unfolded and capable of flight.
Often, at this critical moment, a puff of wind may co ne and
upset him, and, in his helpless, entangled state, he drowns.
I have a view in fig. O that shows the process almost
completed. I say almost, for this one had the misfortune for
himself to get the end of his long legs entangled in the upper
part of the pupa case ; you see them as two rings through the
clear cast-ofi' case. It was a bad job for him, but a proof of the
old saying that " it's an ill -wind that blows noboly any good."
It was the means of adding him to my collection, and of
demonstrating to you this interesting change in insect life.
The succeeding picture, not reproduced here, shows one
of the completed forms a little larger than life, but quite
as natural. This lady had the audacity to pay me —
a batchelor — a midnight visit. Managing to creep through
a hole in the curtains, she succeeded in her desire to
have a private interview. She may have been of an
ambitious nature, desiring fame. At all event , she got one
thing she wanted — a good draught of my blood. You see how
fat and buxom she has grown in consequence. I am sure she
had to let out her waistband a good bit before her meal was
finished. However, she got more than she expected. She was
captured, imprisoned, and then, as is the custom with notorious
criminals, she was photographed, and there is her portrait for
your inspection. The wings lie folded along the back. There
are only two in the mosquito, as it belongs to the Diptera or
class of insects possessing two wings, but behind, and hidden by
them, are two little club-like organs called /yf^/^c/v.s, or balancers.
They are jointed at the base, and special luuscles raise and
lower them. They are plentifully supplied with nerves, and
believed, by some scientists, to be organs of hearing. If one is
cut oft", the insect is unable to fly straight. So that they are
called balancers, in that they aid them to fly steadily, just as the
pole helps a tight-rope dancer to maintain his balance. The
insect has six legs of extraordinary length and so elastic that
you often cannot feel them touching your skin. Each leg
terminates in two hooks like grappling irons. By this means
they can cling to anything they please ; climb up a perpendicular
wall, or hold on to a ceiling.
