BY W. R. COLLKD(tE. 121
The wing is a clear strong transparent organ traversed by
hollow ribs, which render it very light and strong. These ribs
too, serve a double purpose, they not only strengthen the wing,
but carry air, so that they are really an extension of the tracheal
system. They are in the ordinary species even down to their
minute branches covered with beautiful scales. The edge is
fringed with various-sized scale?, the deepest being found on the
lower parts. We have (in tig. 6) a little morsel of the edge ; of
course it is very highly magnified. You see the terminal rib at
the top, like a beam of wood. The stems of the scales are
inserted at regular intervals, and hang down like a deep fringe.
They are not unlike the short broadsword used by some eastern
nations in warfare. For purposes of strength, the scales are
also ribbed longitudinally from base to point. The whole of the
body, legs, and proboscis are likewise covered with scales, and
these are of various shapes. Some are curved like a canoe,
others like battledores, some like cricket bats ; all have the
pecularity of being strengthened by ribs, just as the plumber
ribs sheets of iron to make them more rigid for the walls of
tanks, or roofs of houses. Likewise they are arranged in regular
order, just as tiles or shingles are placed on the roof of a house,
the base of one overlapping the top of the next, and so on in
regular succession. An exception to this order is found in the
head. At the back of the heal are scales, in shape like an
American broom, and composed of a long slender shank, and a
fan-like head. These are set upright, the fan pointing into the
air. So they reseaible a Reil Indiau dressed in his war-paint
and feathers.
The mosquitoe's chest is remarkably deep and broad, being
built to accoaiodate the powerful muscles connected with the
wings and legs. So powerful are these that the wings have been
calculated to move 50 times a second, or 3000 times in a minute.
Any athlete or footballer might be proud if he possessed muscles
built on a corresponding scale. Each single muscle would
probably bs as thick as a person's arm, and the combination so
irresistable that he might almost kick the football into the
adjoining colony.
Now I suppose you are wishfal for me to say something
about the apparatus used by this insect when sucking the blood
of his victims. I must tell you that it is believed, in scientific
