122
OBSEItVATIONS ON THK Ml-K HISTORY, ETC.
cii'cIc'R, that the male mosquito does not stoop to do such blood-
thirsty work. He is too much of a gentleman, using that word
in its original sense, to do such crimson deeds. Therefore all
that deadly work is done by the females. With velvet wings,
neatlj-boddiced figure, a soothing song in her mouth, but an
armoury of swords in her nose, she penetrates everywhere in
search of blood. Of course, men have not always been correct
in their opinions, and in the future, when we may have female
biologists and microscopists as eminent as Lubbock and
Dallinger are now, their more piercing vision may find some
flaw ill this opinion and r^U away from the female mosquito the
stigma now attached to her name. However, that is the verdict
at present, and I must say it is confirmed by my own experience.
Every time I have killed the insect that has bitten me, on
examination the culprit has always been a female.
But you may ask how I can tell the sex. Well, by simply
examining their heads, nature has made a difference between
male and female heads. In the human race the new woman
has of late years been trying to abolish the distinction. They
have succeeded to a large extent, in fashion and costume. To
see only the busts of a lot of fashionably-dressed men and women
it is not always an easy matter to tell their sex. This was not
the case in my boyish days, but now the ladies have adopted so
many articles of attire formerly used only by gentlemen, that it
puzzles one sometimes to know which is w^hich. The hair is
often cut and parted in the same way. Hats, caps, fronts,
collars, and jackets are often precisely the same. The sexes of
the mosquito have not so distinguished themselves. They wear
the same kind of garments, and trim their heads in the same way
as did their grandfathers and grandmothers. I have here in fig. 7
a representation of a female head. It is incomplete, for to take in
the full length of the organs I had to leave out part of the head.
You only see the upper rounded part, from which the various
organs spring. The straight, thick, central projection is the
proboscis. This is a flexible tube enclosing the sharp lancets.
At the base lie two little organs, one on each side, these are the
juillii. Usually very short in the female, but long in the male.
Two slender organs, called the antenn*, stretch out to each side.
These possess 14 joints, and from each of these joints a little
circlet of hair springs. These whorls of hair are almost of equal
length in any joint from base to tip. Remembering these points
