BY W. R. COLLEDCtE.
123
you will be able to distinguish the difference between the head of
a ii^entlenian and that of a lady. Here you have a male head
in fig. 8 ; the cent'-al organ, the proboscis, is all there, but quite
as long as the females ; but look at the palpi how they
pise alongside and curve out even further than the
proboscis. That alone is a marked difference. In the female
they were short not more than one fifth of the length of the
organ depicted, although there are exceptions to this rule in
some varieties, and then the antennie of this gent has quite a
fringe of long hairs which may very fitly be called whiskers.
So that there is a decided difference between the sexes.
When once you ratch these points, by merely glancing at one on
the window or resting anywhere, you can say whether it is male
or female. I have in fig. 9 one of these antennte from a gentleman's
head, which shows the difierence more strikingly ; it looks like a
plume. The hairs are longest at the base, gradually shortening
as they approach the tip. The root of these organs is rounded
like a ball, and it rests in a cup on the side of the head close to
the base of the proboscis. It forms a ball and socket joint and
is freely movable.
It has been discovered that these hairs are musical chords,
and the antennae is really the male mosquito's harp. When a
tuning-fork giving 512 vibrations per second is sounded, these
long hairs are thrown into vigorous motion. The shorter ones
respond to other tones. The range of sensitiveness to sounds
extends from the middle through to the next higher octave of a
pianoforte. That note of 512 vibrations per second is the dom-
inant note of the female mosquito when she sings. The harp on
the male head is built to respond to the female voice. Whatever
other purposes it serves, it is at the same time a delicate musical
instrument.
In the darkness, when the female sings, supposing the male
is flying across her position, the sound will be most felt on the
branch of the harp nearest to her, for the off-side harp will be
partially shielded by his head. Therefore, two series of notes
will be conveyed to his brain, stronger on one side, weaker on
the other. If he wishes to meet her he has only to wheel round
and adjust his position until the sound vibrates on the both
harps with equal force. Then, no matter how dense the dark-
ness, flying straight forward he will reach her side. Thus her
