124
OBSERVATIONS ON THE LIFE HISTORY, ETC.
song is not intended to annoy you when she lifts her voice around
your head and bed. It is the mosquitoes love song. It may be
a serenade to her lover, or a prolonged cooey to her husband, to
come, after her drinking bout, and help her to fly steadily home,
or it may be an invitation to her daughter's and neighbour's
wives to join her in the picnic, and they are not long in coming
to her side.
The eye is a wonderful organ, occupying the largest part of
the head. I have never been able to secure a good photograph,
but here in fig. 10 is a Vvtle bit as a sample of the whole. That
is about the r)Oth part of his lordship's eye. Each of these round
dots is a perfect eye in itself, and is furnished with a crystalline
lens and a slender branch of the optic nerve. They are planted as
close together as they can be, and are set all over his cheeks,
forehead, and right round the back of his head. I have at-
tempted to count them, and the nearest estimate is that the
mosquito has a thousand eyes. The eye forms a very beautiful
object under the microscope, especially when seen by reflected
light on a dark ground.
The (iittriuitt and jut/f-ii appear not only to be organs of touch,
but of hearing too.
Now about the piercing apparatus. On the upper side of
the proboscis lies a deep groove, or channel, and in the female
there are packed into it, no less than six sharp-pointed lancets.
They are named after similar parts on other insects' heads. A
pair are called mandibles or upper jaws. Another pair maxillce
or lower jaws. One is called the labrum or upper lip. The
thickest lancet is the lingua, and represents the tongue, while
the thick sheath covering the whole, is the labium, or lower lip.
On account of their extreme fineness and transparency, and
their resistance to most' stains, I have not yet been able to get a
slide that will show them satisfactory, although — like the King
of Dahomey — I have sacrificed hundreds of heads in the
attempt. If a hundred of these lancets were tied into a bundle,
it would not then be so thick as the smallest sewing-needle used
by a lady. The other lancets are very much finer : in fact, it
takes some practice with the microscope to be able to discern the
whole six, and it is most readily etiected by dark-ground illumi-
nation. In many illustrations, the mistake is made of
