BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 127
sections a librous structure, transversely striated, uniting them
together ; I have also found muscle attached to the walls. This
gives some colour to the notion that the sections of the pump,
united by elastic ligament, may be pulled apart by these side
muscles, and contract by the connective elastic tissue, and so
set the pump in operation. But this is only conjecture. This
shows that though many of these fields have been trodden by
microscopic walkers, there are still numerous by-paths where
research can be pleasureably and profitably pursued.
The mosquito has actually been used in Havana
by ])rs. Finlay and Delgado as the means of inoculating
new-chums with a mild form of yellow fever. The insects
were kept in a ward in which lay a yellow fever patient,
and afterwards introduced to the person they were intended
to inoculate. A number of these patients took the fever
in a mild form, the deaths only reaching two per cent.
A very decided contrast to the number of deaths usually
resulting from " yellow Jack." These experiments almost decide
the (juestion as to whether the mosquito is capable of carrying
infectious diseases. Some time ago the Indian Government
deputed Surgeon -Major Ross to investigate the action of mos-
quitoes in conveying malaria. He showed a series of slides re-
cently, before the Eoyal Society in London, which exhibited
successive stages in the process of infection, and he claiuis to
have proved that the malarial parasite is absorbed from a diseased
subject and itself becomes attacked. The parasites fertilise and
multiply in its body, finding their way ultimately into the
salivary and poison glands, and thence are injected into the next
subject they sting. He believes that only one species of mos-
quito, "the t( )i< I j tildes,'' are concerned in this business, and it may
be possible to stamp them out.
There is a curious disease named " FiJtnia Stnu/uijii.^ " in
which small worms are found in the blood during the night.
Every year a few cases are treated in the Brisbane Hospital.
The late Dr. Joseph Bancroft, of Brisbane, was the first to dis-
cover the parent worms in this disease, and in recognition of his
valuable work, one of the names of this disease has been christ-
ened after him Filnrui Bdncmfti. Dr. Manson caused a China-
man, suffering from this disease, to sleep in an outhouse infested
by a certain kind of mosquito. Afterwards he killed some of
them, which had been feeding on the man, and found
