12iS OBSERVATIONS ON THE 1AVK HI8TOKY, ETC.
numbers of filaria embryo in the stomachs of the
mos(iuitoes, and by a series of observations showed that,
thouf^^h many of them were digested, others pierced the stomach
and lodged in the muscles of the mosquitoes. The embryo go
through the changes that fit them for an independent existence,
and the mosquito dying, the filaria escapes into the water, which
may be drunk by human beings and so propagate the disease.
Dr. Thos. Bancroft, who has recently devoted a good deal of at-
tention to this subject, has, apparently, shown that the disease is
not propagated in this way, as the young filaria are killed by a
few hours immersion in water.
One peculiarity of the mosquito is its music, if we are dis-
posed to dignify such a sound by that name. These sounds are
caused by the rapid vibration of parts of the body. The wings
help to make it by their rapid motion. But the main cause is
the breathing apparatus. You remember the breathing tubes of
the larvce. A similar arrangement of tubes exists in the adult
mosquito. These tubes terminate in round holes on the sides of
the body. Air is admitted and expelled through these openings
or stii/vKitd. Just below their margins are two folded leaflets
which vibrate beneath two external valves by the movement of
the air. They resemble two reeds in a pipe. The air passing
rapidly through these openings during flight, they, being capable
of contraction or expansion at the will of the insect, is the main
cause of the sound.
The next time you entertain a mosquito listen to the song.
As she slows her movement over your head the note will grow
deeper on account of the slow movement she is executing. The
male mosquito has a voice, and sings too. But his voice is just
the opposite of that which exists in the human family. The
female has the deep booming voice, while the gentleman's is
pitched on a much higher key. It is weaker and much more
shrill than that of the female, and the tones likewise differ in
different species of mosquito.
Now the question arises — "What is the use of the mosquito ?
Does it exist only for torment ? "Well, I do not think we
understand all the uses of the insect world sufficient to give a
decided answer to that question. Our knowledge must be much
more extensive and complete before we conclude that they are
merely nuisances.
