BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 129
One useful work they fulfil in their larval stage is that of
scavengers. I kept a numerous family in a large glass jar. To
keep them from drowning after they assumed the flying stage, I
put the branch of a tree in so that they might have something
to rest upon. By-and-bye, some of the leaves decayed and
dropped into the water. Very soon the pulp of the leaves
disappeared, and there were only left the ribs looking like a
network of lace. The fact was that the young skeeters,
skirmishing around, found them to be good eating. And I
often saw them engaged in sucking the decaying leaves. They
are not strict vegetarians either. One night, a big black beetle,
who was out on a marauding expedition, had the misfortune to
tumble into my mosquito-tank and was drowned. I allowed
him to remain, te see if they would tackle him too, and I found
they did. As he decayed, and smelt high, they gathered round
him with gusto. He served large families with tit-bits for
days, and they left him when only the shell and hard wing
cases were to be seen. By thus disposing of a large portion of
decomposing animal and vegetable matter in swamps and pools,
they help to purify the water, and do the world service in that
way.
Likewise they serve as food for fish. I put both larra and
jnipa into a tank beside a small fish. As soon as they were
perceived, he went for them at once, and whenever the fancy
took him he bolted a few more, so that soon there was not one
left in the tank. Serving as food for fish, we in our turn catch
them, and find that mosquitoes, transformed into the flesh of
fish, are not bad for humankind.
It has been asserted that mosquitoes only live one day.
That is not correct, for I have kept them much longer. The
full-grown female that you saw was confined in a cell not much
larger than sixpence. And she lived there for a week. And on
one occasion, when I awoke in the morning, I saw a lady in
the curtains of my bed. She was very stout, having filled
herself with as much of my blood as she could stow away
during the night. I put her into a good-sized vase, with a iittle
water to slake her thirst. It was quite a week before she
digested the good meal she had had, and resumed her natural
shape. To test this point of age I kept her in prison for 21
days. How much longer she might have remained alive I
I
