130 OBSERVATIONS ON THK LIFE HISTORY, ETC.
cannot say, for in trying to move her from the vessel into a
larger one, she managed to escape. Thus she was my guest for
three weeks, and that disposes of the idea that they only live
one day. I have often kept them for a month, and I under-
stand that Dr. J. Bancroft has succeeded in keeping some
species alive for MO and even 90 days. Mv impression is that
their natural term of life is about three months. A good many
born in the autunm live right through the winter until the next
spring. They remain in a dormant state under houses, and
the rafters of houses, in dark places, and, as a proof that they
are not all dead, if an unusually warm and close day comes in
winter, they soon come out to give you very practical evidence
of their vitality.
In conclusion, I may say a word as to the best means of
getting rid of them. They cannot be propagated unless water
is to be had whereon to deposit their eggs and breed their
young. You ought not to allow any water to lie around
your houses. Unused tubs and buckets should be turned
upside down. Two inches of water is all that Mrs. Mosquito
requires for family purposes. Then your tanks should be well
covered and the outlet-pipes covered with caps of perforated
zinc. If this is not done, and the lady can find no other
place, she will pass up the outlet-pipes, and deposit her eggs
in the tank, and as she lays from two to three hundred, in a
short time you will be surrounded with a respectable family.
In a pond where they breed a few minnows will annihilate
them, or the application of a little kerosene will also work
wonders.
Finding a pool containing large quantities of both In mi and
I'liiKi, I poured a little oil on the surface and it spread in a thin
film all over. When the young gents arose to breathe, a dose of
oil went down both breathing tubes and trumpets, and in an
hour, when I visited it, not a living one was to be seen.
As a last injunction : avoid living on low ground, and in
the neighbourhood of swamps. If possible, pitch your house
on high ground, facing the prevailing winds of the colony.
Mosquitoes are so light, that they cannot face a strong breeze.
They must go with the current and will be born past you to find
shelter in the bush, or on lower ground.
