184 MISCELLANEA ENTOMOLOGICA, ETC.
The species of pyrale moths of the genus Glyphodes, which
have been noted as attached to these trees, are four in number,
each having somewhat different habits. The largest of them is
Glyphodes cosmarcha, and its caterpillar attacks the young
terminal shoots, binding them firmly together with silken
threads ; feeding under cover of the external leaves, it devours
the interior developing leaves and does not even take the trouble
to cast out its own droppings. When about to pupate it deserts
its fouled nest, selects a couple of suitable leaves and binds them
together, leaving an opening for the escape of the moth, it
securely fixes itself with head towards this opening amongst a
skilful network of silken suspending threads. Glyphodes
luciferalis differs from the above, in that it selects two leaves for
its habitat and binds them together, feeding on the parenchyma
within ; this accounts for the ugly brownish patches so frequently
seen on the leaves of these trees. In pupating it differs
somewhat from G. cosmarcha, as it joins the leaves along the
margins, but also suspends itself in the same manner. Glyphodes
excelsalis is more fre(]uently to be found on the *black fig of the
creek sides, though it also occasionally attacks Ficus Australis ; it
usually lives in a web spun on the surface of the leaves, but in
pupating generally spins up between them for greater safety and
secures itself much as do the others. Both this species and the
following will largely attack the introduced edible fig. Finally,
Glyphodes tolumnialis attacks the ends of young leaves, curls
them over and binds them down with its silk threads and lives
within the shelter so formed ; it is a common, but very beautiful
species, and I have only found it on Ficus Australis and the
introduced edible fig; curiously, however, wheu attacking the
latter, it has much the same habits as G. excelsalis. As these
pyrale larvae are all of solitary habits, no particular damage is
done to the trees, whereas the caterpillar of another pyrale of
gregarious habits, Margarodes vertumnalis, attacks Alstonia
constricta and Ochroscia moorei, and sometimes completely
denudes them of leaves, to such an extent also have I seen them
upon the Alstonia that the grubs could not get enough food to
attain their full size, and the imagines have emerged not much
more than half the normal dimensions.
In April last, my attention was drawn to certain wood-
boring larvae in the stems of Ficus Australis. The webs
covering up the openings were to be seen generally at the axils of
* Ficus aspera
