BY THOS. P. LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 157
bordered by a transverse row of black dots ; a white diffused
patch covers two-fifths of wing with an arched diffusion of dots
and splashes longitudinally through centre to inner margin at
\; a line of six spots from costa at ^ to apex, becoming
diffused into a fascia over posterior 4 of wing, ir-
regularly marked with fuscous black spots, and splashed with
metallic copper ; a white spur runs into this dark fascia half way
across wing, immediately before anal angle ; a subterminal grey
white line. Cilia white with a central grey fuscous band. Hind-
wings ochreous white, with veins grey, shaded with fuscous
along hindmargin. Cilia as forewings. May Orchard, Bris-
bane, at light.
LICHENAULA PETULANS, NOV. SP.
$ J 13 — 18 viv{. Head, antennae, and palpi slaty grey.
Thorax slaty grey, fuscous grey posteriorly. Abdomen light
silvery grey. Forewings with costa rounded, hindmargin gently
rounded, inner margin bowed before anal angle, slaty grey with
silver specks and black dots, only discernible in special lights;
subhindmarginal and hindmarginal black lines faintly defined.
Cilia slaty grey barred with black. Hindwings silvery grey,
darker diffused toward hindmargin. Cilia grey, with lighter
line at base. May Orchard, Brisbane. Three specimens ; at
light.
LICHENAULA UMBROSA NOV. SP.
5 2 26 — 28 ))i]){. Head black, face grey. Palpi and
antennae black, inclining in strong light, to iron grey. Thorax
black or iron grey. Abdomen fuscous drab, with faint ferrous
lines across base of anterior segments. Forewings elongate,
costa rounded, hindmargin gently rounded, iron grey, with
diffusion of whitish grey toward costa, and diffusion of
black and iron grey toward inner margin, freely dusted all over
with minute black scales. Forewings with costal edge bordered
with fine black line from base to i, thence with white changing
to grey towards apex. Cilia fuscous drab. Hindwings light
fuscous drab. Cilia as forewings. One pair May Orchard,
Brisbane. Allied to L, haplochroa. Turner, but a much darker
insect, and the black head, &c., readily distinguish it.
The shading from grey to whitish grey and white toward costa
and to black and iron grey toward inner margin is most perfect.
