158 NEW SPECIES OF QUEENSLAND LEPIDOPTERA.
IJCHENAULA TORTRICIFORMIS, NOV, HP.
$ 17 npiv Head fuscous drab. Palpi and antennae fuscous.
Thorax grey, Abdomen fuscous with grey band at base of seg-
ments. Forewings costa arched, apex acute, hindmargin
rounded, silvery grey, freely irrorated with fuscous and marked
with red fuscous and black. Forewings with a costal row of
blackish fuscous spots, or breaking into scattered dots from base
to I costa, but not touching costal edge ; a transverse ferrous
fuscous fascia from .1 costa diffused across wing, and shaded with
scattered black dots and fuscous scales ; this fascia is diffused
broadly and irregularly to apex, and more or less continuously
over costal half of hindmargin ; numerous black dots and short
fuscous lines on veins toward hindmargin. Cilia fuscous, pale
grey at base. Hindwings light fuscous grey. Cilia as fore-
wings. May Orchard, Brisbane.
CLEXARCHA DRYINOPA. JIEYR.
May Orchard, Brisbane.
XYLORIC'TA LYCHNOBII. SP. NOV.
$ 21 iiU'l- Head, palpi, and antennae white. Legs white,
tarsi annulated with fuscous bands, posterior tibiae densely
hairy. Thorax white, suffused with very light lilac posteriorly.
Abdomen metallic grey with a r/ifonlclienil design of ferrous dots
and spots posteriorly across the middle segments. Forewings
moderately dilate, costa rounded, apex obtusely rounded, hind-
margin obliquely rounded, white, suffused with a beautiful light
lilac, and freely speckled with grey, the grey ceasing towards
base, markings metallic drab. Forewings with a narrow costal
line, creamy white, thinning out to apex, and finely bounded
towards base by a black margin ; a curved circular metallic drab
line of dots, interrupted in fold, from beyond ^ costa to just
before | inner margin, thence anteriorly along inner margin, where
it joins the angle of a triangular blotch and suffusion of the same
colour, this triangle reaches to within ^ of base, separating from .
the inner margin towards centre of wing, where it forms a darker
apex to before middle of wing, posteriorly the base of the
triangle becomes lighter tinted with ochreous. Cilia metallic
drab with a whiiish band through the middle. Hindwings ashy
»rey, tinted with ochreous, with the veins outlined with fuscous.
Cilia ashy grey. The transverse circular line which runs to join
the broken triangle of same colour on inner margin specially
characterises this species. Brisbane, bred.
