BY THOS. P. LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 159
XYLORICTA AUSTERA. LUCAS.
(Tr. Roy. Soc. Dec. 11, 1898.)
^ '^ 24-35 1^1. 1)^. As I have this year obtained better
specimens of this moth, I here append a fuller description. The
thorax is creamy white, with three arrow triangles of ochreous
fuscous ; the dorsal one is narrow, the lateral ones broader at
base and bordered outwardly with fine blackish chocolate line.
The segments of abdomen are creamy, shaded with ochreous
along base, and a broad blotch of coppery ochreous on second
segment. The forewings are cream colour, with chocolate
fuscous longitudinal bifurcating bands, 1st along costa, 2nd from
centre of base of wing, bifurcating at ]., the inner branch to
anal angle of hindmargin, the other toward costa ; this again
bifurcates beyond middle of wing, the one branch to costa before
and along apex, the other to hindmargin before middle ; 3rd, a
border band from near base along inner margin, thinning out to
anal angle ; a discoidal spot at jf and touching band to hind-
margin ; a row of fine lines beyond and below this to hind-
margin. May Orchard, Brisbane, at light, and bred.
TELECRATES TESSELATA, NOV. SP.
20 nun- Head black, forehead and face creamy white.
Palpi ochreous fuscous. Antennae fuscous. Thorax deep black,
with a round white dot on either side and a larger one poster-
iorly. Abdomen ochreous yellow, faintly dusted with fuscous.
Forewings elongate, costa gently rounded, hindmargin almost
straight, black, with creamy white markings. Forewings with
a large pear shape blotch of white from costa at base widening
to inner margin ; a second cream white blotch from ^ to :[ costa
obliquely outward to middle of wing ; a third blotch from before
middle to ^ costa as a band across wing, widening out beyond
middle, and filling inner margin from h to ^, inner margin, edge
rounded and finely dentate ; a fourth blotch to if costa
reaches half across the wing, posterior border twice dentate ; a
hindmarginal narrow band drawn to a line to anal angle.
Cilia cream colour, base shaded with fuscous. Hindwings
ochreous yellow diffused with fuscous along hindmargin chiefly
over apex. Cilia ochreous diffused with fuscous. Brisbane,
one specimen at light.
PHYLOMICTIS AKCTAHS NOV. SP.
J $ 14-1611^1)]. Head, palpi, and antennte blackish fuscous.
Abdomen grey, with fuscous bands at base of segments. Fore-
