160 NEW SPECIKS OK QUEENSLAND LKPIDOl'TERA.
wings ovate oblong, costa rounded, hindmargin straight, grey
freely sprinkled with iron grey, and dark black lines along veins.
Forewings with a black spot at base, thence a diffused black
band of lines more or less welded longitudinally through centre
of wing, diverting and spreading beyond cell to margin, also a
large dark suffusion along costa, and a third along innermargin ;
a black spot in disc, which is the centre, whence radiate black lines
and dashes toward margins ; a sub-hindmarginal band of short
black lines in interneural spaces. Cilia grey shaded with
fuscous. Hindwings uniform light grey. Cilia as forewings.
The suffused black forewings readily distinguish this species.
May Orchard, Brisbane.
PHVLOMICTIS DECRETORIA. NOV. SH.
$ 16 iiU'l- Head pinky cream colour. Palpi pinky cream
bordered with fuscous, terminal joint fuscous. Antennae reddish
fuscous. Forewings elongate obvate, costa rounded at base and
apex, hindmargin rounded, creamy ochreous with reddish fuscous
markings, and white between veins. Forewings with pink
border along middle third of costa ; a median longitudinal band
of deep red fuscous along wing to end of cell, where it bifurcates,
and along its whole course gives off' linear branches to costa and
hindmargin, and is thickened toward inner margin by two longi-
tudinal short bands which give off" branches to inner margin ;
the branches are given off" as fine lines, and thicken proportion-
ately as they approach either border ; between the radiated lines,
the spaces are white ; the inner border is suffused with fuscous,
and the whole wing more or less tinted with pink. Cilia grey
fuscous, Hindwings light ochreous grey. Cilia same colour
with a dark line at base. Brisbane. Allied to P. maligna, Meyr,
but very distinct in median longitudinal band.
PHVLOMICTIS OBLIQUATA. NOV. SP.
^ :^ 18—22 ]){V\. Head, palpi, and antennae grey.
Thorax grey, sparingly and finely dusted with black, and with a
dorsal black line and a shorter lateral black line, with a light
ferrous spot posteriorly, on either side. Abdomen grey with
ferrous fuscous patch on segments, but diffused in anterior
segments. Forewings ovoid oblong, costa gently rounded at
base and apex, hindmargin gently rounded, light grey, densely
irrorated with fine black, and with longitudinal velvety black
lines along veins, and outlining cell. Forewings with decided
