2 PREVENTIVE MEASUKKS AGAINST THE SPREAD OF TT'BERCULOHIS
footsteps of European hygienists, as the vastly different climatic
conditions of a sub-tropical and tropical country demand that
the subject be dealt with, if I may express myself so, from a
local standpoint, based upon our practical experience of the
effects of the climate, social conditions, alteration of the qualities
of the race, ttc. I therefore propose not to enter into an
exhaustive discussion of the prevention of pulmonary consump-
tion, and retail to you the stock of knowledge contained in the
most recent handbooks of preventive hygiene, but limit myself
to those aspects of the question which have presented themselves
most strongly to my mind during a ten years' experience of the
disease in Queensland.
Is Compulsory Notification Necessary ?
The trend of public opinion of medical men in Great
Britain, and especially in the United States, has been towards
some form of compulsory notification of every case of pulmonary
consumption. The opinion expressed by German authors at the
last Tuberculosis Congress at Berlin, eight months ago, was less
decisive in the matter. If carried out in its entirety, it would
mean that the medical man who was called to see a consumptive
patient would have to report the case to the authorities, as we do at
present with scarlet fever. They (the authorities) would then take
the proper measures believed to be required against the spread of
the disease. At the first view the suggestion seems to commend
itself. The duties are delegated to a central authority equipped
perhaps with the most modern knowledge and the most modern
means of aealing with the spread of infectious diseases. But as
far as pulmonary consumption in Queensland it concerned, I see
most serious obstacles in the way of carrying out such a measure
of compulsary notification. In the first instance we must
remember that we have to deal not with an acute disease like
scarlet fever, which is over in a few weeks, but with an illness
that lasts for many years. To place all the patients so afl'ected
under constant supervision for a number of years would entail
an enormous expense ; besides it would be absolutely contrary
to the instincts of every free man. Moreover, Queensland is so
large, the population so scattered, that an eflScient supervision
could not be carried out. Notification would interfere with the
consumptive earning his living. During the greater part of his
illness he is able to follow^ his occupation. Eeportinghim to the
authorities would brand him as dangerous, and he would most
likely lose his employment.
