BY K. HIRSCHFELD, M.D. B
Apart, however, from the injustice inflicted upon the con-
sumptive compulsary legislation would defeat its own object,
and I think considerable stress must be laid upon this point.
For the proper disposal of the expectoration, the chief carrier of
the infective agent, the turbercle bacillus, we must rely upon the
willing co-operation of the consumptive patient. No amount of
supervision could look after this as effectually as the properly
educated phthisical patient. If we harass him by unnecessary
restrictions, is it likely that he would take much trouble to pro-
tect the community against the danger emanating from him
when the community protects itself by persecuting the consump-
tive on account of his affliction.
The Disposal of the Spt'tum.
The consumptive patient himself is in nowise dangerous,
the real danger lies in the sputum which he expectorates, which
carries millions of tubercle bacilli. Researches published in the
last year have shown that the bacilhis does not thrive outside
the body ; even when cultivated on special nutrient soils it
loses its virulence to a certain extent. Still the dried sputum
retains its infectious qualities for a considerable time. The
dust of our streets is, however, hardly ever dangerous since
•exposure to direct sunlight kills the bacillus within very short time.
The best way of fighting against the spread of tuberculosis
is to render the expectoration innocuous as soon as it leaves the
patient. It should be deposited in a spittoon which can be
easily cleaned and contains some antiseptic solution, or into a
portable bottle, or lastly into the handkerchief. I should like
to suggest, that our authorities set a good example in public
hygiene by providing suitably appointed spittoons in all public
buildings. Even our splendid Treasury building would not be
■disgraced by a liberal number of these vessels. Schools,
churches, theatres, waiting rooms, and all public rooms,
and conveyances should be similarly fitted up. I am sure
business people of their own accord Avould readily follow such a
good example for the benefit of their employees. The habit of
spitting upon the floor is not only disgusting but dangerous, and
should be put a stop to whether the man is suffering from
tuberculosis, or any other disease, or from none at all. I fancy
many an office will find it to its advantage to supply spittoons
for their employees as suggested, more particularly during an
influenza epidemic.
