4 preventn-e measures against the spread of tuberculosis
Education.
Knowing tho danger of infection and how it is carried
about almost amounts to being able to avoid it. But how is
the great mass of people to know V We cannot put a policeman
behind everybody to see that he does not expectorate on the
floor. The best means of spreading information to the masses
is provided by our educational system. Why should not every
boy be taught in the public school the salient features of this
part of hygiene, how far it is in the power of everybody to
prevent the spread of infectious diseases generally. Above all
let him be taught that it is criminal to endanger the life of his
fellowmen by careless expectoration. A habit thus early-
acquired is likely to persist in after life.
Houses.
It is not likely that hygienic principles will be exclusively
followed in the building of houses. On the whole we are rather
fortunate, as far as the spread of tuberculosis is concerned, that
most of our private residences are wooden buildings. A brick
house, the walls of which are papered, is more difficult to
disinfect after having once been inhabited by a consumptive
than a wooden building. It is also a consideration, that the
latter has a far shorter life than the former, especially when we
remember the experience reported by certain authors, who found
that certain houses formerly inhabited by consumptives were
regular death traps for subsequent lodgers. Having regard to
the great disinfecting power of direct sunlight, it is of importance
that the sun should have access to the bedrooms during some
part of the day. As wood does not retain the heat so much as
bricks, the temperature of the bedroom will not be unduly
increased in consequence. The difficulty of disinfecting the-
papered walls of a room could only be done away with by
varnishing the paper. A very important research has been
published a few months ago by Heimes, from Loffier's laboratory.
It is of great interest for us. He investigated the disinfecting
power of different kinds of paints, viz., oilpaint, enamel,
distemper and limewash, with the result that bacteria were
most quickly killed by oilpaint, while distemper proved least
efficient. He found ' the antiseptic power of oilpaint = 100 ;
enamel^=40 ; limewash=20 ; distemper=10. Oilpaints should
therefore be chosen, where ready disinfection is an object, as in
hospitals, schools, public buildings, etc. The antiseptic qualities
of the oilpaint are both mechanical and chemical, the latter
