BY E. HIBSCHFELD, M.D.
probably due to the turpentine and the action of the atmospheric
air upon it leading to the formation of ozone and peroxide of
hydrogen.
Bedding.
Infected bedclothes form one of the readiest mean? for the
spread of pulmonary consumption. Time after time I have had
occasion to draw the attention of patients and their relatives
to the seriousness of the matter, especially since in the last few
years so many consumptives have gone up to Roma, and other
places in the West. The whole matter has become a source of
grave public danger. A tubercular patient will occasionly
expectorate during sleep, without being quite conscious of it.
It is therefore almost impossible to prevent that pillows slips
rshould become saturated at places with tubercle bacilli. Pillow
slips, of course, are changed, and the ordinary boiling they
(Undergo in the wash is a fairly sufficient protection. The
|)illow covers, however, are not changed, and if a consumptive
^ith profuse expectoration has slept several nights the cover
-always contains bacilli. Now anybody else, say in a hotel,
•sleeping on the same pillow, the nioiscure of his breath will
^gaiii moisten the dried sputum of the cover and the fresh
pillowslip becomes resaturated from it. The man sleeping upon
it will be in the most suitable position for inhaling tubercle bacilli,
=or for the matter of that any other infectious germs which
might have been deposited. A more ready way of contracting
^consumption it is difficult to imagine. This also applies to a
.certain extent to the blankets which can only be washed with
lukewarm water. Without in any way desiring to impugn the
cleanliness of their proprietors, I feel convinced that any man
•sleeping in a hotel or boarding house at Roma runs a very
appreciable risk of infection. What can be done to guard against
this source of infection *? Steps must be taken against such a
serious public danger. A rather primitive but fairly efficient
way of killing the bacillus is to expose pillows and blankets every
morning to the sun. The strong insolation in our western
plains can be relied upon to destroy all the tubercle bacilli
which are on the surface. On the other hand the antiseptic
power of the sun does not reach below the surface into the
kapock. My suggestion is that the ticking used for pillow-
covers be treated in such a way that it becomes non-absorbent
and impermeable for liquids, and that only such materials be
used in hotels, boarding-houses, sleeping-cars, and similar places
