6 PREVENTIVK MEASURES ACiAI.NST THE SPREAI) 01' TVBERCULO.SIS-
for pillow covers. Especially with reference to influenza, even
more so than tuberculosis, the adoption of such a method wOuld
tend to prevent the rapid spread of the disease. The covers
thus impregnated could readily be disinfected either by exposing
them to the sun or washing,' them with some antiseptic
sohition.
Disinfection.
An absolutely necessary condition for an effective contest
against the spread of tuberculosis is the facility for disinfection.
Effective disinfection of infected furniture, clothes, bedding, etc.,
can only be successfully carried out by trained men in public
disinfecting chambers. These disinfecting chambers ought to
be established in every municipality of a certain size. They are
as much a necessity as a hospital, to which they might be con-
veniently attached. The increased cost would be made up by
the lessened number of patients suffering from infectious
diseases. We have in our Amljulance Brigade a good nucleus
of men who could be trained in the methods by which proper
disinfection of the different articles is carried out. The dis-
infecting chambers must be of the most modern description, so
that the articles to be disinfected be not damaged, neither should
they be handled by untrained men. A moderate fee charged for
the disinfection would very soon recoup for the outlay. As
things stand at present infected furniture, bedding, clothes or
other articles are either burned, if they are of low value, by
conscientious people, or they are more or less successfully dis-
infected, or what is most frequently the case, they are sent to the
auction room spreading the infection to whosoever has not got the
money to buy new things. Second-hand books are a frequent
source of infection. Wetting the leaves in turning them over
impregnates the book with the bacillus, which remains there for
the purchaser. As we ought to look to our public bodies for a
good example, may I suggest to the railway authorities that the
cushions on the seats of the carriages, especially the sleeping
cars, should be made removable, so that they may be readily dis-
infected it the necessity for doing so arises. The substitution
of linoler.i.i for the footmats formerly in use has already been a
step in the right direction.
The space at my disposal does not allow n^e to deal
exhaustively with the whole subject in one paper. I could only
touch upon a few points. I do not wish to raise any unnecesary
alarm, but really people ought to be made to think. It is
