BY FRANK HANN. 11
20ft. dfebp. The water is fair in many of fcheni, but for want of
consfcanij use hav: become stagnant in a few. However, we got
along very well in spite of the eternal red sand and, having
passed the 90 mile beach, arrived at Condon, eighteen miles
froiu De Grey's station, on the De Grey River, named by the
latt F. T. Gregory. Then passed several stations before reaching
Rofbourne. All the settlers get water out of wells, all worked
by blacks. At Roebourne I only remained long enough to
replenish the ration bags, and then followed the Fortescue River
up to the head, whence I struck north-east to the Narradine
gold diggings. Now came another dry trip out into the desert
country to the head of the Oakover, after crossing which I met
Mr. Rudali, who was out looking for some members of Wells'
expedition who were lost. Before I met Rudali, I had named a
river, which I had struck about 100 miles north-east of the
Oakover, the Rudali. Certainly, I was not the first to see it, but
as I knew it had not been named, thought myself entitled to
give it a name by which it might be known on the map, and it
has since been charted on the official maps under that name.
It is a peculiar stream, rising inland towards the west and
losing itself in the desert towards the east. It is remarkable
that there are no fish to be found in it. This little deviation
completed I returned with my party to the Narradine, crossed
the Oakover and went out to Mount McPherson, which was
named by the late Mr. F. T. Gregory, who nearly perished in
his expedition of 1S61, having lost all his horses, had to
walk back to their main camp, where he had only three horses
left, I then set about erecting a trigonometrical cairn on
Mount McPherson.
I had already lost several horses. Some died from poison bush
and from other causes, three had their thighs broken owing to being
kicked by other horses, one broke its shoulder by a fall, another
broke its leg, two got their feet entangled with the spare hobbles
round their necks and had killed themselves in their struggles.
These were the saddest cases I have ever witnessed. Unable to
extricate their feet they had evidently thrown themselves
vi-olently about during the night. One oi them had torn hii eye
out and was fearfully lacerated about the head. To make the
loss still greater, after leaving IMount McPherson, I came across
a small water hole at the head of the Oakover. Thinking to
refresh the^ animals I put them in for a swim, and six were
drowned. This event disgusted me with the trip, and I was
about to return to Queensland, when at Derby I met Inspector
