12 EXPLORATION IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Ord of the police. He advised me to go out to Mount Broome,
at the foot of the Leopold Range, and prospect for gold, where
diggers were getting very fair returns.
I left Derby with six Queensland blacks, thirty-one horses,
and two dogs, and arrived without any misadventure worth
mentioning at Mt. Broome. 1 crossed the Leopold Range at the
west side of the mountain, which 1 and my party ascended with
great difficulty, owing to its steepness and roughness. During
the ascent, two of my pack-horses fell and smashed the pack-
saddles badly. Whilst we were repairing damages, we suddenly
were surprised by hearing cooees from the wild blacks above us.
Not wishing them to beeoiue acquainted with the smallness of
my party, I directed a few riHe shots towards the voices, which
had the effect of stopping the approach of the enemy. Arrived
at the summit, I found, by my aneroid, that the height was
1,800 feet above the level of my camp at the foot of the
mountain, whilst the range is but 1,000 feet above it. As may
be seen by the map, the Lennard River or Creek lies at the liack
of Mt, Broome to the west. It is a splendidly watered creek,
and there are a few patches of really good cattle country,
averaging about three miles in width, bordering it. In ."^ome
places, the range comes right down to the Lennard. On the
north side of this creek, there is another big range, not quite so
high as the Leopold, but nearly as rough. We managed, ,
however, to negotiate it, but our greatest trouble was getting
down again on the other side. It was a pretty break-neck
descent, but we reached the bottom without casualties.
Here I found another splendid running creek, and the
surrounding country much resembled that of the Lennard,
but it occupied a greater breadth. On the north -ide of the
creek there is a range so precipitous as to be absolutely impass-
able. Finding I could not cross it on the east, I skirted it for
about five miles in a north-west direction, until I found I was
approaching the end of it. Here I was able with -lifficulty to
make the ascent, but I was well repaid for the arduous task of
climbing its rocky sides. In the distance, about five miles
away 1 observed a range, not very high, but what inight be
called a regular " terror." Its sides were entirely composed of
large, flat, slippery rocks, on Avhich no horse could have found a
footing.
I forgot to say that I named the aforesaid creek the " Bell,"
after Mr. Bell, of Derby. I could not then ascertain what
