BY FRANK HANN. IB
river it flowed into. It is certainly not into the Lennavd. This
point, however, I afterwards cleared up.
From my position on the range, I could see that the
country was open to the east. I therefore travelled in that
direction, and in six miles came to a fine running stream emerg-
ing from the big, rough range. There was some really first-
class cattle country here. Two miles further saw us at the end
of the first range, but the precipitous one before mentioned, wa&
still on my right and stretching away east-south-east. The
spring-like creek where I crossed it, flowed towards the south,
and after a meandering course of three miles made a sudden
bend, returning again towards the north.
Near the place where I crossed it for the second time was
another running spring. The two creeks are not more than twO'
miles apart, and there is no range whatever. I observed that
the country opened out and dipped towards the south-east, so I
ran the creek towards the north for about ten miles and then
camped. All the country round these streams is excellent
cattle country, consisting of small plains and open forest. The
formation is basaltic, but the country is not stony. The water
on which we camped was evidently not permanent.
Looking out towards the east-south-east of my camp, I
noticed a high, precipitous, table-topped mountain. On break-
ing up camp, I travelled towards it for four miles, and then
came to a divide. (There is no range whatever on the north-
west fall). Riding down the gully, I came upon a fine running
spring, with stony basalt hills on each side, splendidly grassed^
and no spinifex. Continuing the same course for about two
miles, I traversed some rather rough country, after which it
opened out again into plains. Seven miles further on I dis-
covered a magnificent running spring, flowing south-soiith-east,
containing a large quantity of fish. The big mountain was
still about two miles ahead of me. Being in a favourable
position for grass and water, I decided to camp. I
then went off to climb the mountain. From the summit I
could descry another high, precipitous, table-topped mountain,
bearing south -south-east fifteen miles on the left bank of the
creek. The creek I named the " Adcock," in compliment tO'
Messrs. Adcock Bros., of Derby, who were very kind to me and
proved exceedingly reasonable in the important matter of a
supply of rations.
The big isolated mountain I have named " House," after
Dr. House, of Derby, to whom I was indebted for much kind-
