14 EXPLORATION IN WKSTEHN AUSTRALIA
ness and assistance before I started on my trip. Viewed from
any point, it stands out as a prominent mountain.
On the following day, I went in the opposite direction to
the creek three miles below my camp. The creek, the head of
which I had seen before, I now found to flow into the Adcock,
near a range on the west side. This range, although not the
actual main precipitous range I have mentioned, forms a spur of
it. The surrounding country is very good, being well-grassed
and watered. The country along the creek for about a mile, is
very rough, but it soon opens out into beautiful small plains,
dotted with pink lily lagoons on the western side. The main
range lies about two miles to the back.
I now came upon the big mountain I had seen from Mt.
House. It descended right into the Adcock on the left bank,
and trended thence east by south. It much resembles Mt.
House, but is not so isolated. I have named it " Clifton,"
after the Under Secretary for Lands at Perth. It appears to
come very close to the creek on the east side for some distance,
and the main range lies four or five miles back from the stream
on the west. All between is splendid cattle country. About
ten miles from Mt. Clifton, the creek appeared to vanish in a
a gorge. Crossing the creek above Mt. Clifton, I went back,
then crossed again to the west side, where I found a large
creek coming in from the north-north-east. It has no
running water, but there are some splendid water-holes in the
reaches, whilst all the country is magnificent from a squatter's
point of view. The main range is distant fifteen miles from
this spot.
The creek I have named the Edkins, in remembrance of my
excellent good friend Mr. Edkins, of Mount Cornish, North
Queensland. Here, and on the Adcock, I met with large
numbers of blacks, but they were as wild a lot as I ever saw
and were quite unapproachable.
I now travelled to the N.N. West, crossing the Adcock, and
after proceeding some 10 miles struck another splendid running
creek going south Avest. It appeared to take its rise in the
ranges 10 miles above us. There is magniiicent land on either
bank. The banks are low, yet the country has no appearance of
being subject to floods. The land, grass and timber are good,
and in the creek there is an abundance of fine fish. Forming a
camp, I went to the top of a hill close by, and obtained a good
view of the surrounding country. I saw that the range inter-
cepted the Adcock, and the creek last discovered. I therefore
