BY FRANK HANN. 15
went back to my previous camp, and next day crossed the creek,
tracing it to my present camp. I noted that for the whole
distance, the country is of excellent description for stock raising,
as indeed is the whole country about here. It was long after
dark when I got back to camp. I was quite alone, and must
say that it is not quite the safest thing to go out by
oneself in blacks' country, even although well armed. Still
next day I again set out alone to run the creek down, and
sent my party along the north bank whilst I traversed the
southern one.
Aftet travelling about eight miles, I found that it ran into
the one at the head of which I had camped on a previous
occasion. I have named this creek the McLarty, after Mr.
McLarty, of Nullagine, in recognition of his many good offices
towards me. The big creek I have named the "Isdell," after
Mr, Isdell, of the Nullagine, for the same reason. For ten
miles the Isdell runs through ideal cattle country, with a few
basalt hills. Then it flows into a terrible gorge, which is
naturally impassable. Finding a splendid camping ground, I
determined to remain here for one day to look round me. The
blacks were exceedingly numerous, but whenever one of our
party came into view they fled. On the very next night, they
came up and made a fire on the slope of Mt. Isdell. My boys
declared they saw tAvo blacks walk between us and the fire, but
this I doubted for the blacks' camp was too far away for exact
observation of their doings. Still I thought it well to be on the
safe side, so I had the lire put out and extinguished my lamp,
for we formed too good a target for stray spears with these both
alight. Having had a good look at the country for several miles
round my camp I came to the conclusion that such country was
much too good to lie idle as a mere hunting ground for wild
blacks, so I packed up and set off for Derby with the intention
of taking it up.
I took a S.S. East course and travelled along, skirting the
high, rough range on our right, which I have called the Isdell
Range. After 10 miles of pretty smart travelling I struck the
McLarty at a splendid spring, then ran the creek up 3 miles
and came across my outward tracks. Seeing no other or better
way of return, and not wishing to lose time in finding another
pass, I retraced my old tracks, intent only on getting to Derby
as fast as I could that I might not be forestalled in taking up
the grand country by anyone else who might perchance have got
wind of it.
