IG EXPLORATION IN WESTKRN AUSTRALIA
I think the Isdell is the head of the CHenelg, and the
Adcock either the head of the Fitzroy or a branch of it. We had
found the second range so rough on our return journey that I
thought I could not go wrong in trying for a better track. A3
it turned out the old proverb " The longest way round is the
shortest way home " once more proved its truth. Here a basalt
dyke cuts through the range, so I ran the gully into a fearful
looking gorge. I think this is about the strangest part of
Australia. On one side, only a few hundred yards back, there
is a range over 1000 feet high and as rough as possible, with the
creek running through the aforesaid ugly gorge. Then appear
rippling streams, lagoons, and small grassy plains as good as
any in Australia, and in contrast with these charming spots the
rough, wretched ranges surrounding them.
I decided to camp in a pretty spot on the creek, and as
soon as all was settled my boys amused themselves by rolling
big stones into the gorge, down whose precipitous sides the
boulders rushed, bounding into the air, crashing through the
brushwood and finally crashing in a thousand pieces on the
rocks below. It was great fun for them, but I had to find a way
out somewhere. Fortunately there was no sign of any blacks
being about, although I saw plenty of their tracks. Perhaps
the roar of the rocks rolling into the gorge made them believe
that "debbil debbil " was about and they had better keep close.
Striking camp early next morning we passed along a stretch of
country only a few hundred yards wide, having on one side a
range 500 feet high and on the other one of over 1000 feet.
I named the camp we had just left " Eva Camp," after
Mrs. J^iroadhurst, of the Pyramid, Roebourne, and the pass we
were then in the " Broadhurst Pass," in recognition of the
family's courtesy to me. After we had negotiated some 3
miles of the pass we reached a large running creek coming out
of one of the gorges and entering another. Whilst I was
examining this I heard a black cooee in the range to our left, a
couple of hundred yards oft". About a minute afterwards a great
number showed themselves, all armed with spears and making
a tremendous row, at the same time running towards us. As
they looked dangerous, and outnumbered us probably by fifty to
one, I let go a few shots to try and stop them, and told the boys
to be "quick about getting out a supply of cartridges, which were
in the pack bags. I could see that the blacks were deter-
mined to take advantage of what Julius Ciesar called,
" the inferior position." It was certainly a very dangerous
