BY FRANK HANN. 17
position, for the blacks were high above us, and we were utterly
ignorant of the way out of the gorge. The shots I fired had the
effect of blocking them for a time, so I went alone down the
creek below the second gorge, thmking we could get through
there. As it looked feasible, I shouted to the boys to bring on
the horses as quickly as possible. We passed under a wall of
rocks, where the blacks had all got above us. Had they chosen,
they could have either speared or stoned us all to death without
our seeing them or being able to retaliate. However, we
managed to pass the horses- into a clear spot, where they were
safe from missiles. All this time the blacks were yelling, and
evidently drawing nearer to us. I fired a few more shots on
chance, and then went to look for a place where the creek was
crossable. Seeing that it entered a third gorge, I tried to cross,
and at once got my mare bogged in the mud, amidst reeds which
rose high over my head. Dismounting, I siicceeded in getting
her out. Then I tried another place, with the same result,
except that this time I was compelled to leave my mare and
struggle out as best I could through the reeds between the rocks.
The mare extricated herself at the same time. I saw there was
not a moment to lose, as the blacks were closing on us in great
numbers, so I shouted to the boys to bring along the horses and
put them across the boggy creek as best they could. We got
them through all right, but my mare on again trying to carry
me over fell, and I got a thorough ducking. At last, however,
we were all over in the open country. I did not seem to care
much about our danger at the time, but had the blacks got on
the rocks above us whilst we were floundering in the creek, some
of us or our horses would undoubtedly have been speared.
Our next proceeding was to roll some stones away to enable
us to get to the Lennard from the Leopold Range. We had a
deal of trouble here, as the horses would not follow, and were
continually getting into trouble. However, all things come to
an end, and at last we pitched camp on the river, and finally
arrived safely at Derby. I then wired to Sir John Forrest,
asking that Inspector Ord might accoinpany me to report on the
country I had found. Sir John handed my telegram to the
Commissioner of Police, who at once instructed Mr. Ord to
accompany me.
There is a very high, bold bluft" on the McPherson Range
which I have named the " Bold Bluff." It lies seven miles from
the west end of Mt. Broome. After passing Bold Bluff, Mt.
Broome cannot be seen from any position east of north, for Bold
