Is EXPLORATION IX WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Bluff shuts it out, and a north-east line from Mt. Broome will
pass right through the middle of the good country. My next
business, on leaving Derby, was to see if I could find a dray track
to a port, and to see if there was any more good country, but
found I should not be successful by taking the Leopold Rang&
en route, so I determined to try to find one to Secure Bay. I
now returned to the west end of Mt. Clifton. For ten miles
down the creek the mountain reaches to within one mile of the
creek (Adcock) on the north-east side, and the main range to
within three miles on the south-west side. All between is good
cattle country. There is a most singular mountain commencing
here (where Mr. Ord, who had accompanied me from Derby, left
me). I have named it Mt. Hamilton, after Mr. Hamilton, who
was with Mr. Ord. I also named a big mountain after the latter
gentleman.
Looking at Mt. Hamilton one would almost take it ta
consist of a single mountain. At each end there is an isolated
bluff about 600ft. high, precipitous on all sides, and between
these lies the main mountain, also very precipitous, about four
miles long, but only a quarter mile wide. At the upper end of
the range, the Adcock takes sharp turns to the south-west, so-
that the Hamilton is between the Adcock and Mt. Clifton. I
left it on my right. In four miles I came to the south-east end
of Mt. Clifton. Here there are two peculiar peaks, which I have
named the Estaughs, after Mr. Estaugh, of Derby. The
Adcock now runs south-east. The main range, about a mile oft'^
is here quite impassable. Some six miles from Mt. Hamilton I
crossed a large creek, one might really term it a small river,
flowing from the north-east. This I have named the Throssel,.
in honor of the Commissioner for Lands, who has written a very-
sensible, useful little book on " Advice to Selectors."
Going forward another four miles I reached another very
fine creek, running strongly, which, in honour of Mrs.
Cunningham, relict of the late Mr. E. Cunningham, of Wood-
house, Queensland. I named the " Annie." Another four miles-
brought me to the junction of the Adcock and the Fitzroy.
Half-a-mile below the junction the river enters a gorge, which
appears to be fairly open, but terribly stony, with very high
ranges on either side. At the head of the gorge there is a
splendid water-hole. There is a little very good country between
the rivers, but it is very little. A high and impassable
range runs north-east and south-west on the south-east side of
the Fitzroy. The river looks at this place as large as where I
