BY FRANK HANN. 21
large water- holes, all of which are full of crocodiles, a harmless
species, about 6 to 8 feet long, which live principally on fish.
Travelling about twenty miles up this beautiful stream I saw»
about half-a-mile from it, on the left bank, a splendid small
lake, about three miles in circumference, nearly round, and very
deep. This I have christened the Gladstone Lake, after the late
Mr. W. E. Gladstone, Premier of England. On the lake, and on
the river, I found geese, ducks, water hen, and many other kinds
of game in abundance.
The country about the river is rather sandy, but back from
the river, towards the south-west, there are splendidly grassed
open plains.
The remarkable thing about Gladstone Lake is that no river
runs into it, nor has it any visible outlet. In all probability it
is fed from underground sources, and supply and evaporation
are probably equal.
This is the most astonishing country for rivers, creeks, and
lagoons. They intersect the whole country, and would be an
immense boon to the more arid and rainless tracts eastward
towards South Australia and Queensland, but it is difficult
country to get at, at any event, over the Leopold Range. The
Warton Range breaks away a little here, and I think a pass
could be found through it by which Hall's Creek could be
reached.
We now came to the commencement of another mighty
range, running east and west. This I have named the Phillips
Range. To a large creek coming out of the Warton and Phillips
Ranges I have given the name of M'Namara, after Mr. M'Namara,
of Wallal (Ninety Mile Beach). So far the river runs from
north-west by north.
By aneroid I found Lake Gladstone to be 750 feet above
Derby, the Fitzroy 700 feet, and Phillips Gorge 800 feet.
There is very fine timber on the river for station work. It
consists mainly of coolibah, box, plum, gum, and magnificent
bloodwood, bauhinia, currajong, and baobabs, which are really
splendid. I measured a solid one, which rose perpendicularly to
about 3 00 feet. I found it to be nearly 15 feet in diameter and
45 feet in circumference. On the plains mimosa predominates.
Forty-three miles from its junction with the Fitzroy, the
M'Namara River comes out of one of the usual impenetrtible
gorges in the Phillips Range, which is very high, very rugged,
and I think impassable. There is a splendid water-hole at this
