22 KXPLORATION I\ WKSTKRN AUSTRALIA
gorge, and eight miles below it I found a large creek coming in
from the north-east, which I have called the Urquhart, after Mr.
Ui'quhart, of Lagrange ]>ay.
I took a ninnber of bearings from the top of a pretty little
mountain situated two miles below the gorge. This I named
]\It. Caroline, after my late sister. Here a most s;plendid creek
comes in from the west at the south side of the Phillips Range,
with clear, permanent, running water. The country on its south
sidti is by far the best I have yet seen in Western Australia.
Below Mt. Caroline a creek, which, it will be remembered,
I called the Edkins on my last trip, rises in the Phillips Range,
and flows into the Adcock above Mt. Clifton, a mo-t remarkable
circumstance in such high country as this.
I camped on the west branch of the Kdkin>, eight miles
west of the Phillips Gorge, about north-east by east from Mt.
Broome. A fine running stream Hoavs out of the Phillips
Range, with stony basalt hills all round, which, however, are
well-grassed. There nmst be a great number of blacks about
here, for wo could see their tracks and camps in every direction,
and they were then camped a short way from us up the gorge.
A few hundred yards below us was a blacks' graveyard, in which
I then counted eight graves, each covered with stones. On two of
them there must have been some tons of stones. Wood is placed on
top of the stone, I have, in all my travels in unexplored
Australia, never seen anything like this before. I must say I
think the wild blacks of this; country are a far better class than
those we have in Queensland.
On the following morning I went down to the graves, and
counted thirteen of them. Saddling up, we travelled west along
the foot of the Phillips Range, skirting the banks of a tine
running creek, bordered by stony, basalt hills, splendidly grassed.
I thing I saw here struck me as very strange. In a certain
locality on the side of the Phillips Range, there are some
thousands of tons of basalt overlying the sandstone, looking,
exactly as if it had been violently thrown there. No other basalt
is nearer to it than 100 yards, on the other side of the creek.
That day one of my boys picked up a black's skull in the
grass, a strange object to find in such a position. On my return
to camp I found they had stuck it on a tree and made a target
of it. At night I campel on the Isdell, a splendid running creek
which I named on my last trip, when I crossed it thirty miles
lower down. It comes out of a gorge two miles above this camp.
Mt. Broome from this camp bears 250deg. 50 miles. Of course.
