BY FRANK HANN. 28
it is a blank on the map, but the bearing fixes its position. The
Phillips Range now goes back about six miles south-west from
the Isdell, and there joins the Isdell Range, which is a spur of
the Leopol'l. Thus it will be seen that all this country is, so to
speak, fenced in by ranges, and there is actually only one pass
by which stock may be brought into it from Hall's Creek, and
that is down the M'Naniara. I never saw better watered country
in my life, and such splendid water — better could not be found
anywhere. The Isdell flows west from here, and I intended to
find out where it went to. At the Divide, which is really a
splendid plain, I found the elevation by my aneriod to be 1200
feet above Derby. Mt. Ord, which is one of the Leopold group, is
by far the highest mountain about. Mt. House is the most remark-
able, as it stands out conspicuously alone in its glory. Mt.
■Clifton is the largest in extent, having a length of some seventeen
miles by a breadth of ten miles, yet, as far as I could see, there
is not one single track by which a horse could be taken to the
summit. Here I saw more blacks' tracks than I have ever seen
in Western Australia before. These tracks were as broad as if
made by a mob of cattle. All the country along the range at
the head of the Adcock was on Are, set alight no doubt by the
blacks for hunting purposes. I could easily have found their
camp, but did not wish to attempt it, as I thought they, being
so numerous, would show fight, and in that case I should have
been compelled to drop some of them, a thing I particularly
wished to avoid, so we passed peacefully on our way. It is very
cold here now, the thermometer in the morning registering
.36deg. Fahr. That night we camped on the Isdell again,
having got over the Phillips Range. It was very rough work
reaching the top, which the barometer showed to be 1600 feet
above Derby. Our camp was situated 1200 feet above that town.
In one of the gorges on this side of the range, we got two of
our horses bogged, but we took their packs off and they quickly
struggled on to dry land. This creek now came from the
west, whilst forty miles below us it flowed towards the west,
when the country opens out once more. I went by myself
■down the creek to see what became of it, and after riding
for eight miles, I found it entering another gorge, where
I saw a number of blacks' fires. As darkness was
rapidly coming on, I decided to give them a wide berth,
and it was pitch dark as I rode campwards. Riding
slowly along, I saw a small fire which I took to be our camp
fire, and thought it strange I could hear no horse bells, All at
