24
EXPLORATION IN WKSTERN AUSTRALIA
once I saw the fire disappear, and I became aware that what I
had taken for my camp fire, was a black's firestick. I fired a
shot, when the blacks shouted and cleared. They must
have seen me going down the creek, and went travelling oif.
I confess this gave me a start, for, as I had seen their fires in the
gorge, I certainly never suspected they would be so close to our
camp. My boys hearing my shot fired a shot or two in reply.
I was glad to get in with a whole skin, and decided that it
would not do to go travelling about alone in the dark, with
such numbers of apparently noctivagous blacks in the
neighbourhood.
This is such a very interesting country that I could write a
book on it. It was a perfect revelation to me, and certainly will
be to others, especially in the eastern colonies, who believe West
Australia to consist mainly of sandy deserts, tireless spinifex
plains and salt" swamps and lakes. I much regret that Inspector
Ord was not with me to see this magnificent country and report on
it. I think when it is surveyed, ray descriptions and bearings
will be found fairly correct, as I have a good idea of surveying
and of the country I write about.
On both sides of the Phillips Range there are some very
fine pine trees, as well as other useful timber.
I now travelled south-east by south, and after covering ten
miles, I struck a splendid running creek or river (I am inclined
to call it a river). The divide between the two rivers is quite
unnoticeable and consists of open forest country, and small
plains splendidly grassed ; there I saw the first iron-bark trees I
had seen in West Australia.
The river (which I have called the Barnett, after Mr.
Barnett, of the Lennard) runs along the base of a huge
mountain which I have also named Mt. Barnett, a branch of the
Phillips Range. It runs north and south, and I ran it down for
eight miles south-east, and then camped. Leaving the camp in
charge of the boys, I went on four miles along the mountain,
following the Barnett till it joined the Phillips, which forms here
a fine river, running very strong. It appears to come out of a
gorge between Mt. Barnett and another big mountain I have
called Mt. Harris, after Mr. Harris, of Broome.
One mile below the junction, there is a large creek, coming
from the south-east, with clear running water. This I have also
named the Harris. A mile further down, the Phillips seeks the
inevitable gorge, which appears to have been cut through the
solid rock. I think this is the strangest country in Australia for
