BY FRANK HANN.
25
gorges. I intend, if all goes well, to have the finest of them
photographed. No one, without seeing them, would believe that
such places exist in the country.
Between the two gorges there are 4 miles of excellent cattle
country. Having travelled 10 miles up the Harris T returned
to camp, which was then situated at 1150 feet above the level
of Derby. Next day I went back under Movint Barnett. This
is a most picturesque mountain. All over the summit is a
forest of grand pine trees. The red precipitous sides also have
all kinds of trees growing on them. For 14 miles I travelled
along its base, and the same vegetation was everywhere apparent.
The Barnett River I now found left the mountain and crossed to
the big range that runs N.E. and S.W. This is a terribly rough
range, and I have named it the Caroline after my late sister.
Never did I see such country for grass and water as between
these ranges. It would need a hand that can wield a pen better
than I can to adequately describe it. Right opposite my camp
was a magnificent clump of immense pine trees, and behind the
pines a beautiful little plain — an ideal place for a home-
stead. Two miles below this beautiful camp there is a
fine, large, running creek coming in from the Caroline
Range. This I have dubbed the Manning, in honour of Mr.
Manning, of che Lennard. As usual it comes out of another
impassable gorge, where the ranges are only 4 miles apart.
Getting to camp early I saddled a fresh horse and had a ride
round, taking bearings. Thus I saw a good deal of the country.
I always do this. I make a point of getting early into camp if
possible and then ride out into the surrounding country, getting
back at dark. At this camp my boys caught a large quantity of
fish. We were then 1200 feet above Derby.
Leaving the Barnett River I travelled along the foot of
Mount Barnett on a generally N.E. course for the first 10 miles.
The country is everywhere good, and the river runs along the
foot of the Caroline Range all the way, coming out of a gorge
there. Mount Barnett did not seem so high, but still had the
same grand appearance. I travelled on for 12 miles more and
then struck a nice looking creek opening into Phillips River.
It was not running, but held permanent water. Above us all
the country was on tire, but in our fine open camp we were quite
safe. For the last 12 miles the country is not so good, stunted
tea-trees predominating ; but at the divide the timber is grand,
consisting of forests of pine, messmate, woolly butt, and grand
ironbark. I had now followed round Mount Barnett for 40
