26 EXPLORATION IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
miles and had found only one place where a horse could
possibly be taken up. The mountain still continues, and not a
single creek, not even a sprin;^-, comes from it, which is a most
strange thing in this land of springs, creeks and rivers. When
the country is taken up and stocked the blacks are sure to be
troublesome, speaking from my experience of taking up new
land in Queensland.
While I was at work plotting my map that day, I had my
boots and socks off, with my feet against a tree. Suddenly a
long kind of snake, new to me, came crawling over my bare
feet. He was a wonderfully quick fellow, and the boys had a
job to kill him. According to Dr. Krefft, of Sydney, it was a
most deadly one. I counted its labial scales, and found only
five, which showed it to be one of a venoiiious species. It was
a kind of slate colour, and about •"> feet long. There was one
peculiar circumstance about this adventure. I did not feel the
reptile bite me, in fact, it could not have done so, yet on my leg
were two small spots of blood, looking exactly as if they had
oozed from the punctures made by the venom fangs, but no
puncture could I find. At all events, I suffered no inconvenience
from his snakeship's visit.
This camp lay about SO miles north-east by north from
Mt. Broome.
I followed the creek above mentioned towards the east for
iive miles, to where it entered the Phillips River above the
Barnett and Hai'ris Gorges. All the way was good cattle
country, although somewhat sandy. The river I found to be
running stronger than ever. I decided to run it up. For one
mile above the gorge it is bordered by ]\It. Harris on the left
bank, then it takes up the running of Mt. I»arnett and trends
away to the east. A fine creek comes to it from the north-east,
which I have called the Bella. The river flows from the
north. The country is sandy, but for six miles is still good
cattle country. The river now emerges from a gorge, a low one
this time, and by keeping back from the water I managed to get
above it, and continued to run the river up. The ranges on
both sides were fearfully stony, but by crossing and re-crossing
I succeeded in getting along. I pitched my camp nine miles
from the gorge. The river was running still stronger, and I
wondered where all the water came from. I found this a very
bad camp for the horses, but they had to make the best of it.
Taking a boy with me, I got to the top of a big mountain
close by. It was terribly rough scrambling, but we got up.
