BY FRANK HANN. 27
Arrived at the top I found I would have to climb a tree to enable
me to take bearings. The most suitable tree had a straight,
smooth trunk, and I had a tough job to climb It, as my climbing
days were over long ago. But I sent the boy vtp first, then, with
my saddle surcingle, I managed to get up. Well was I repaid
for my trouble, as I got a splendid sight. This is by far the
biggest mountain in the neighbourhood, as it rises from such
high ground, the camp being 1500 feet above Derby and the
mountain 600 feet above the camp. I have given it the name
■of Mount Elizabeth, in memory of my late mother. It will
form a most important trigonometrical station when the
country comes to be surveyed. I could get no bearing from
■south-east almost to north, as h happened to be a long, low
range all the way ; but I got the bearings of five other big
mountains, one of which appeared to be about fifty miles away
■on a bearing of 322 deg. From south-east to north the couutry
<lid not appear to be very rough.
Next day I shod seven horses and made a start at 8 a.m.,
and ran the river for 10 miles on a N.W. course. Along the bed of
the stream the travelling was fair, but very rough on the land.
I foimd myself confronted here by my old enemy — an impassable
gorge, so as the river was coming from N.W. and I wanted
to get West I did not attempt to get round the gorge, but turned
back for three miles and camped, so as to get time to finish up
my plotting. I made this camp to be about 80 miles S.E. from
the mouth of Prince Regent River. I had no idea the river
would come round as it did, to the West. It looked as if it were
going 100 miles more in the same direction. I feel sure there
is no other river so good as this in Australia to water stock at*
It has high banks, no bogs, is always running, and can be
<;rossed at every few hundred yards. Here there are most
splendid cajuput trees.
Three blacks showed up to-day with spears, but a few
harmless shots soon sent them to the right-about. I regretted
that I had not time to follow this grand river to the head ;
but I had to get away to the coast for I feared to run short
of horseshoe nails. I had only 101b. weight at starting and
2cwt. of horseshoes. What with shoeing horses every day,
owing to rough country, my supplies in this line had dwindled
alarmingly.
I went up the range on the W.S.W. side and found the
climbing rough ; still, it was better than I expected. I travelled
5 miles before reaching the top, which is 1750 feet above Derby.
