28 EXPLORATION IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Then I fci-avelled N.W., 2 miles through very level pine forest,
the pines being very high, and struck a gully going in the same
direction in open country, where it turned into a fine running
creek. Five uiiles further on a creek came in from N.W. As
the country was so level I ran it up for a mile and then
concluded I was on the same creek as before, but they junctioned
and then ran South. One mile further on it entered a gorge.
I climbed a pine tree, and following it as far as I could with my
eye it appeared to continue to flow tiouth through the gorge.
I believe it to be the head of the Barnett. Here I found a kind
of stone char<jred with mineral. As I was smashing it with a
piece of rock one of the stone.^ hit me on the knee and caused
me most agonising pain for a time. I had to camp very early
and doctor the limb. 1 considered that I was then 1700 feet
above Derby, and that I should soon commence a big descent.
We crossed the Caroline Range at 2,000 feet above
Derby. The travelling was very rough, but still it
might easily have been worse. We then camped on a creek
runninir west, surrounded by mountains. One of my blacks
shot a kind of parrot that I had never seen before. I had it
skinned for the purpose of future identification. I then reckoned
that I was about 60 miles from the mouth of the Prince Regent
River. Although we were still in a wonderful country for water,
the creeks contain no black bream, such as we caught in
abundance on the other side of the range. We crossed several
running creeks, and I found that the creek we had
caujped on the previous night was the head of the Isdell.
Climbing a rocky mountain, I got a number of sights,
getting even ]\It. Ord and Mt. Bold Bluff. The former must be
a very high mountain, as it showed up splendidly. The latter
I could make out with my glass. It is on a bearing of 4:5 from
I\It. Broome, Mt. Ord bearing 85, Mt. Ord from Mt. Bold Bluff
111^, Mt. Ord from Rocky Mountain 196, Bold Bluff 205, .so if
so Avished the position may be fixed. The creek runs north-
west, and the country it passes through is fearfully rough. The
■water, on the other hand, is splendid.
Owing to the interposition of gorges, I was unable to
run the creek down, so I travelled north-west, and striking a
gully running- in that direction, I followed it for five miles. On
this creek I saw the finest Leichhardt tree I have ever seen.
I followed the creek till it entered a larger one coming from the
east. I ran it to the west for two miles and then found that it
junctioned with the creek we had camped on. I ran it down
