BY J. W. SUTTON. IX.
Workers, in all branches of science, labour under great
disadvantages when they are located at great distances from
the centres of sciyntific research and thought, and out of reach
of seeing experiments and hearing discussions of the various
learned societies, or of even getting access to what has been
published in the various journals. Scientific books on all
subjects of course reach us in due time, but books in these times
are out of date almost as soon as they leave the publishers'
hands, therefore, for one to be up to date in the march of
progress, it is absolutely necessary to have access to all scientific
publications which are published, both in our own and all
foreign languages. No doubt the question will at once suggest
itself to you, why does not this society supply that want ? The
answer is, we have not sufficient funds ; and unfortunately our
Society does not include in its membership workers in all
branches. Therefore I think this is a matter well worth the
consideration of those entrusted with the management of our
Public Library, and let us hope that therein will be found all
monthly publications of scientific interest, both of pure and
applied science, no matter in what language they appear. A
long felt want has lately been put forth, under the joint direction
of the Physical Society and the Institution of Electrical
Engineers of London, in the form of science abstracts, the
abstractors being men of well known scientific ability. It
contains short extracts from all recognised scientific journals and
publications, with a concise reference and index, which at once
points out to the reader where he can see the full detailed
article or paper. But as I have already inferred, they are at
present entirely beyond our reach. Of course, there are societies
here, devoted to special subjects, that no doubt are able to place
before their members up to date literature in their own particular
branch, but this, for the Royal Society, embracing as it does all
sciences, is simply out of the question. In fact there are too
many societies for such a small community as Brisbane,
and I think much better and more work would result if a number
of these would throw in their lot with us and work with one
common end — the general advancement of science. Each could
have its own section, its special meetings if necessary, also, as
now, its own president and secretary. Such an arrangement would
go a long way towards securing a good financial position, better
attendance at meetings, and above all, tend to bring about a
