32 EXPLORATION I.N WESTERN AIISTBAI.IA
covering of any kind ; they had ji piece of a horseshoe rasp
and some iron they had made into tomahawks, and I fancy they
had half a horseshoe made into the same weapon.
Next day I went to the blacks' camp and lefi some knives
there, but the people had not returned. Then, with a boy, I
followed the Artesian Range, and finding a creek coming out of
it, ran it up and pitched on a spot for a camp. I sent the boy
tack to bring the camp on, and I went on up the creek.
Getting into a spur of the Edkin Range, I saw a place where I
thought I could get through on to the river. I determined that
on the following day I would leave the camp where it was, take
one boy and try to get over. Finding next day that I could not
take horses up the Edkin Range, I walked four miles to the top
before coming to the gorge. The range I found to be 1000 feet
above Derby, and it was 400 feet to the bottom of the gorge.
The river appeared to run through a continuous gorge and to
turn afterwards towards the north. A high table-land mountain
loomed up some ten miles away, which appeared to run north
and south. There was evidently no possible way of getting to
the sea in this direction at least, so I had to get back and try to
the southward.
Nature has been a wonderful engineer here. She has made
the ranges terribly rough, and forgot to leave any room for the
rivers to pass, so she set to w-ork to cut a passage for thera
through the ranges.
Having struck my old tracks on a south-west course, I
followed them for eight miles, then changed the course to south-
south-west for two miles and camped, having crossed two
funning creeks. This country I have already described. I now
went ahead and got on to a divide, and then saw that the
country beyond was terribly rough. One big mountain I saw, I
named Mt. Philp, after the Hon. R. Philp, Premier of Queens-
land, who has proved a true friend to me at all times. It is a
very remarkable and prominent object. Another big mountain
which I have had in sight for several day^, I called Mt. Smith
in honour of the Governor of West Australia.
The horses were now" in a dreadful state for want of shoes ;
however, I had to go on at all hazards. I ran the creek up to the
southward, leaving the big table-topped range close on my left.
For ten days this range has been on my left hand with no
apparent break in it. This is the Synott Range I mentioned
previously. To the right were very high stony basalt cliffs. I
now struck the head of a creek going south and ran it down for
