BY FRANK HANN. 33
six miles, where a large creek came out of the Synotfc Ran,t,'e.
Here I camped and went on to a hill, whence I saw the creek
cut through the range and running north-north-west. After
dinner I tried for a way out to the south-oast, and in four miles
struck a nice river, which I have called the Sprigg, coming out
of the same range. It does not appear to be a long one, but
evidently by the flood marks, it brings down a vast quantity of
water. I now made a grand discovery, for I found 1 had 501bs.
of flour in one of the packs that I knew nothing of, so I was well
off for rations of that description for a week or more. On the
whole of this trip I saw no auriferous country.
My pack horses had so far travelled 679 miles since leaving
Derby, but I think I must have actually travelled over 1000
miles, taking deviations and side journeys into consideration.
Sending my horses over my previous day's track to camp on
the river, I took one boy with me, and went up the range to Mt.
Phillip. It was a very tough job to get up. On reaching the
top, where I went over five miles of basalt country, with a creek
running through it, I then went on to Mt. Philp, 1600 feet
above Derby. On the way back, I ran down a creek, over rough
country. Here I think a dray track could be made for a few
hundred pounds. The road would pass under a high bluflt" about
400ft. in heiy^ht, with two miles of very rough range to cross.
On reaching my camp, I found that my party had killed a
kangaroo and five wild ducks. They also had caught a lot of
fish and one craw fish, and had gathered a quantity of lilies.
Five pups had been presented to the party by our remaining dog
■ — these, however, were not eatable.
There is here a fine patch of good country, but only about
twenty four square miles in extent. The ranges close in, and
the water is excellent. Since leaving Mt. Broome I had
travelled over 590 miles of country, and in no place was water
more than ten miles apart.
Having burnt the grass, I then found an easier track up the
range, and also saw that a dray track could be made. Followed
willingly by the poor horses, I succeeded in getting a good camp
at the foot of Mt. Philp, which bears 146 deg. from Mt. Broome
and 120 deg. from Mt. Ord.
I now tried to find a track through the other part of the
range, and discovered a most wonderful pass, where the creek
goes through a deep gorge. Away back from this gorge there is
a pass going up one gully and down another. As I was alone,
and it was getting late, I deferred trying to go through till next
