86 THE BURBUno OK THK WIRADTHURI TRIBES
The if'xmilm, or huildha-ijtxinatKi, was formed in Home thickly
wooded country 425 yards distant, in a northerly direction, and
the four earthen heaps composing it were about thirty feet apart,
and from fifteen to twenty inches in height. Thero were two
inverted stumps of saplings, about two feet out of the ground,
erected in a corresponding position to those shown in " Diagram
3," Plate XXV., accompanying my first paper on the Burbung.*
Beyond the goombo was the usual screen of boughs, known
as tfftrecl. The stumps were about the same height and other-
wise similar to those formerly described, and were stained with
human blood in the same way.
On proceeding 241 paces along the pathway, tharamhal,
from the hoorbnnij towards the ijoinnho, it was found to pass
through a rustic archway, formed by pulling together and
fastening the tops of a number of saplings naturally growing
at that spot, with boughs piled up thickly at each side, leaving
a clear passage about three or four feet wide. P>om this point
onward to the goombo the surface of the ground on either side
of the path was ornamented with the usual youan patterns,
interspersed among which were human figures, representations of
animals, native weapons, and other objects, which I shall briefly
describe presently. Around the outside boundary of the area
containing these mystic drawings, a fence of saplings and bushes
had been erected to add to the exclusiveness of the place, and
also to keep the white man's stock from trampling upon and
defacing the artistic labours of the natives.
Three yards beyond the archway referred to there were cut
into the turf the figure of a man and a woman, a little less than
life-size, lying side by side, with their genital organs con-
spicuously displayed. Not far from this pair was the efiigy of a
man formed by stuffing a suit of European attire with grass
and leaves. This was propped up to keep it in an erect posture,
giving it the appearance of a sentry on the watch. A little
further on the outline of an immense snake, called the Wahwee,
was cut in the ground.
At the distance of 130 paces from the archway (or 871 paces
from the boorbung), still going towards the goombo, a colossal
horizontal representation of Baiaiuai, eight feet six inches long,
and five feet ten inches across the chest, was formed by heaping
up the loose earth into human shape. The chest, which was
• Jouin. Anthrop. Inst., London, xxv., 295-318.
