by j. shirley, b.sc. 41
Devonian Period.
The oldest Queensland plant fossil appears in Devonian rocks
at the Fanning River, Burdekin Downs, in shales and sand-
stones. Strange to say it is not a member of any lowly group of
plants, but belongs to the family of pines and firs.
Dicranophyllum, the plant in question, is an ally of the Chinese
gingko, that mysterious tree, which though found in a fossil
state is still cultivated around temples in Japan and Northern
China. The remains consist of portions of branches, with
spirally arranged leaves, and short internodes, and with their
surfaces marked out into rhombic meshes, closely crowded
together.
It is not to be conceived that this plant came into existence
without ancestors or contemporaries. It belongs to a fairly high
type of plant life, and its solitary position in the Devonian rocks
of Queensland may at any moment be altered by fresh
discoveries.
Permo-Carboniferous Period.
With the next geological epoch— the Permo-Carboniferous
period — represented by the whole series of beds belonging to the
coal measures, we come upon a great wealth of plant material,
in strong contrast to strata beneath them. In the Gympie,
Star, and Uowen beds are found the remains of plants —
enormous in their growth, but lowly in type, and in our days
represented merely by small and delicate plants, pendant from
our trees, or growing sparsely in marshes or on sandy soils.
These plants of the coal measures, known as Calamites,
Lepidodendrons, Sigillarias, Stigmarias, Sec, are nearly allied to
the lowly yet beautiful lycopods, selaginellas, mat-estails, and
nardoo. In our Permo-Carboniferous rocks there are also found
many ferns, the most common forms having large ovate pinnae ;
some few cycads, relations of our Zamias ; and trunks of fossil
conifers.
In other parts of the world Lepidodendron, Sigillaria, and
their allies first appear ia the Devonian formations ; and,
although they have not been found in Queensland rocks of that
age, we know from the testimony of the rocks elsewhere that
they were contemporaries and predecessors of our single
Devonian fossil already referred to.
It has been advanced as a reason for the enormous develop-
ment of the lowly, possibly succulent, plants of the coal-
measures, that the climate then was much hotter and moister
