42
AUSTRALIAN VEGETATION AND ITS OEOLOOICAL DKVELOPMENT
than at present, that the greater internal heat of the earth uiade
climate far more equable than in our era, and that with this
equable climate there was far less liability lo winds and storms
than that now prevailing. Under these conditions, plants of
delicate texture could grow to a considerable height, and had
not the necessity to strengthen their stems to resist wind pressure,
as our modern plants have.
The fern remains of the period belong mainly t(^ a family
possessing enormous fronds, with ovate or lanceolate pinnji'.
This is the typical fern of the coal-measures, the Glossopteris
family. The modern ferns of Queensland which resemble them
in outer aspect are the genera Marattia and Angiopteris ; but
it is not intended to infer that these are in any sense allied.
Some very doubtful remains referred to Cycfidew, and
believed to be alli( s of our Cycads and Macro/.amias, were found
by the Rev. J. E. Tenison Woods in the Star beds of the
Drummond Eange ; but, until a much greater qviantity of
material has been collected, determination must be reserved.
Specimens of a fossil wood, found by Mr. R. L. (now ])r.)
Jack at the Bowen River coal field, were examined by Mr.
Carruthers, and its internal structure, as revealed by the micro-
scope, proved it to belong to an ally of our biinyas and hoop-
pines.
Trias-Jura Period.
After the Permo-Carboniferous period the luxuriance of
vegetation, geologically considered, began to diminish. In the
Burrum beds which form the lower half of the Trias- Jura
system, no further advance in type is made, but the most
complex in structure, the cycads and conifers, are r.ow richly
represented.
. The Ipswich beds, the upper portion of the Trias- Jura, form
a mine of botanical wealth. They have been most carefully
examined, near Ipswich and Brisbane, by Mr. J. H. Simmonds,
who possesses a private collection of fossil plants from this for-
mation of the very greatest value. No true flowering plants have
been found in these beds, but the advance in type is most marked.
Equisetums and Calamites are few in number, but there is an
enormous wealth of ferns, cycads and conifex's. Among ferns
Glossopteris has disappeared, the most common forms are
Alethopteris and Thinnfeldia. Cycads of the Zauiia family are
also richly represented ; and cone-bearing trees akin to the
