X. PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
closer intercourse of followers of various scientific works and
thought, which is the object and aim of this society.
Various attempts have been made from time to time
to classify the sciences ; but, without success. Herbert
Spencer classifies them thus — Abstract Science, Logic and
Mathematics, Abstract Concrete Sciences, Mechanics, Chemistry,
Physics and Concrete Science, Astronomy, Biology, Geology,
Sociology, etc, It was Sir J. Herschell who said in con-
nection with this subject, " Science is a whole, whose
source is lost in infinity, and which nothing but the imperfectness
of our nature obliges us to divide. We feel our nothingness in
our attempts to grasp it, and bow with humility and adoration
before the Supreme Intelligence, who alone can comprehend it."
No science rests on a firmer basis than mathematics, which,
being founded on demonstrative evidence, may be accepted as
absolutely true. The results in logic, which, like mathematics,
being a deductive science, are much less certain ; still logic is
essentially the science of the art of proof. All other sciences are
to a large extent inductive, these resting on probable evidence,
and continually approaching nearer and nearer to it, as scientific
methods improve. Thus, sciences vary in the distance they
have moved towards perfection ; in mental and physical ^^cience,
the former can largely be studied by reflection in our own mental
operations, the latter requires observation, experiment and
comparison of facts obtained, inductive and deductive reasoning,
all ending in as wide a generalisation as the obtained
facts will admit. No one can be a truly scientific
student unless he places truth as a prima importance, and
is prepared to sacrifice all preconceived ideas and elaborate
opinions, whenever he finds them to be in error. No expenditure
of time, money, or even life, is considered extravagant, if the
sacrifice be made for the discovery of new truths. The early
stages in the evolution of science go back to remote perioJs of
antiquity. Moral science, a department of mental science, reached
some degree of maturity first in primitive man, in a desire to
ascertain what his conduct should be to his fellows and God or
Gods. Mental science or the investigation of the thinking and
feeling mind came next, but even up to the present time has made
but slow progress. Physical science had really commenced,
although in its infancy, when ancient myths of observation were
formed, many of which were hypothesis to account for natural
