BY J. SHIRLEY, ii.HC. . 43
bunya, the yeAV, and the giant trees of California, have left
numerous remains.
The flora of New Zealand with its tree-ferns and its coni-
fers, which seem to be survivals from old-world types, is said to
approach most nearly to the Trias-.Tura flora.
Cretaceous Period.
The Lower Cretaceous beds, known in Queensland as the
Rolling Downs formation, have as yet yielded no plant fossils.
The facts connected with the Upper Cretaceous j eriod have to
be stated with some diffidence. Mr. Henry G. Stokes some
time prior to 1892 collected from beds of clay, shale and sand-
stone, lying between Sherwood and Wolston stations on the
Ipswich Railway Line ; on the 17-Mile Rocks road ; and in
paddocks lying S.S.E of Sherwood, a number of beautifully
preserved plant remains, belonging to the most highly developed
forms of vegetable life. The same beds are reported by Mr.
Stokes as extending from Corinda to Runcorn on the Southport
line. These fossiliferous beds were regarded by Mr. Stokes as
belonging to some period of the Tertiary epoch. Mr. Jack, on
the other hand, says in his " Geology and Paleontology of
Queensland and New Guinea," p. 597, " I have gone over the
section carefully, and can see no marked lithological distinction
between the strata from which Mr. Stokes obtained his fossils,
and many other well known beds which unquestionably form
part of the Ipswich Coal Measures." These plant fossils from
Mr. Stokes' collection, were sent to Baron von Ettingshausen
for determination, and are said by him to include palms, tigs,
banksias, cinnamons, oaks, aralias, eucalypts and cassias, &c.
The whole facies of this fossil flora agrees exactly with that of
Upper Cretaceous floras from Aix-la-Chapelle in Europe, and
from the Cretaceous strata of New Jersey, Alabama, Nebraska,
and Kansas, etc., in North America. It seems impossible to
deny that the beds extending from Oxley to Wolston, and from
17-Mile Rocks to Runcorn, belong to the Upper Cretaceous
epoch.
About one-twentieth of the area of this colony, from
Windorah to the divide between the Gulf and the Northern
Pacific waters, is covered by the Desert Sandstone formation,
also a part of the Upper Cretaceaus system. These rocks yield
very few fossil plants. A fern — Didymosorus — is the most
common form ; and, strange to say, undoubled leaves of Glossop-
teris, the typical fern of the coal measures, have been discovered
