4(> NOTES ON A MALAKIA-CAKRYING MOSQUITO
are fournl around ]>risbane, but in small numbers. Out of a
thousand collected under ordinary circumstances, probably only
one would belong to this particular variety. As you travel
north I think the proportion increases. Some came to me from
Cairns, and the batch contained twenty per cent, of the
Anopheles. It must be understood that the Anopheles are naturally
free from malarial germs. It is only where they can suck the
blood of malarial patients and so receive the germs that they
become propagators of the disease. The eggs are difficult to
find. They are too small to be seen by the naked eye, being
only the tiftieth of an inch in length and two hundredth in
breadth. They aie not massed together into a raft like the
ordinary culex eggs, but are laid separately on the water. In
Fig. 1 a number are seen. They are shapen like a beautiful
little boat with curved ends. The boat used by the ancient
Britons called a coracle bears a strong resemblance to them.
On looking at the upper edge, or gunwale, a slender line is
traceable. This consists of a thin loose membrane falling over
the inside of the vessel in transverse folds. Turning a boat
bottom up this silken canopy may be seen projecting on both
sides. This no doubt helps the boat to preserve an even keel,
and probably acts as an attachment to anchor it to a twig or
stone, and when the egg is hatched its thin skin can easily be
ruptured by the young larva in its effort to crawl into the water.
In the next stage the larva are easily distinguished by
certain peculiarities of structure and habit. They can be found
in our district at all times of the year in suitable places. The
most likely ai'e low-lying grass fields, which are often submerged
and form shallow pools not sufHciently deep or permanent for
the existence of tish. I have never but once found the larva
separate from those of the ordinary mosquito. In Queensland
the two varieties are generally together, and I have found them
so at Southport and the Tweed Heads in old barrels containing
water in the open air. The most distinguishing feature is that
while the culex larva hang with the tip of the tail above the
water, and the body hanging down in an almost perpendicular
direction, the Anopheles stretches himself out on the surface
like a bit of stick. It may be vanity that induces him to assume
this position, for he is certainly more handsome than the
common variety. The body is usually of a mottled brown
colour, occasionally they are black, with a white collar and one
white abdominal segment. On the back of the thorax is often
seen a shield, in shape like a diamond, a heart, or the letter U.
