BV \V. R. COLLEDUE. 49
beautiful epaulettes miiy be counted. The ladder-like structure
consists of the two tracheal or air tubes, which traverse the sides
of the body, while the cross bars are the dorsal plates. These
two air tubes terminate in the tail segment. In the culex they
project beyond the body. Here they are cut off flush with the
skin of the back, forming two circular apertures. These are
closed by valves when they descend so as to shut out the water.
Occasionally some obstruction gets into them and they bend like
a ring, and sweep the maxillary brushes across until the
obstruction is removed.
The larva feed on organic forms attached to the stems and
leaves of aquatic plants. They can be seen industriously
sweeping their head brushes along and swallowing the product.
And I should think the hunter after diatoms might be rewarded
by finding some of these beautiful forms in the stomach and
intestines.
They remain in the larval state much longer than the
ordinary variety, and likewise show the remarkable effect of cold
in retarding their development. During mid summer, the cycle
oi change from the deposition of the egg to the fledging of the
matured insect may occupy a month, but in cold ^veather double
that period is required. This is about three or four times longer
than the time occupied by the ordinary variety. This is
a great check upon the production of the insect in Queensland.
It so often chooses shallow pools for the reception of its eggs,
and these pools, under the dry winds and porous soils of our
colony, dry up long before the period of incubation is ended, so
that a very large portion of the insects die in the immature
state. The next slide represents a composite creature. I had
the good fortune to secure one of the larva passing into the pupa
stage (see Fig. 5). It has burst through the larval skin, and the
round projection on the shoulder is the head of the old larva,
whose skin partially invests the pupa. The tail, with its pro-
pelling setoe, and a number of those beautiful epaulettes, are
seen at the side. The next view (Fig. 6j is one of the pupa
entirely free. This is a lateral view of his lordsh.p. Attached
to the last segment of the abdomen are two broad flappers, which
are used to propel him through the water. From the sides of
the head arise two breathing tubes, or thoracic spiracles. They
project, and are thrust through the surface of the water for the
purpose of inhaling air, which is distributed by various tubes
through the body, and helps to develop the future mosquito.
Through the partially transparent case of the pupa may be
D
