50 NOTES ON A MALARIA -CARKYING MOSQUITO
traced parts of the insect. The head, with its orj^an-, wings and
long legs are very neatly packed up inside. To .show how these
spiracles are situated, I have a view of the gentleman's back,
taken as he floats on the water. He was alive, and had the good
manners to remain still on the stage of the microscope while he
was having his portrait taken. In the succeeding view (Fig. 7),
is one of the spiracles detached. It differs in shape from the
organ of the ordinary Culex, so that the pupa may be dis-
tinguished by this feature alone. In the Culex it has a
resemblance to the leg of a Wellington boot with the top cut off
transversely. In the Anopheles it is shorter and open for the
most part of its length. It is not unlike the coal scoop seen in
the parlour coal boxes in the old country. Before leaving I will
show you the powerful swimming apparatus attached to his
latter end. Being almost transparent, it does not photograph
well, so this is taken on a dark ground, and brings the outlines
very distinctly before you. The next object is a live cell with a
number of the pupa disporting themselves in the water. You
see the way in which the tail fans strike the water backwards,
the rebound projecting the insect through the water as though it
were a football driven by a powerful kick.
The succeeding picture (Fig. 8) shows the final stage being
completed. Here the insect has been matured in the pupa case.
This may occupy three days in summer or a fortnight in winter.
It has been preparing for a change of life, and has seemed
conscious of some impending change, for it manifests a general
uneasiness, darting through the water with quick, jerky move-
ments. Then, if carefully watched, the skin at the back of the
head is seen to split ; then the mosquito's head appears. Slowly
the slit enlarges, and the shoulders and chest appear. No
decided motion is traceable for a while, but still there is progress.
Now the insect bends forwards, releasing a little of the wings
and body ; then bending backwards a little more of the legs is
freed. So this alternate movement continues until the forelegs
are free. These are then placed on anything near, and by the
leverage they give the rest of the body is soon cleared. "When
the wings have been outstretched a few times they are put to
their intended use, and bear the insect away to new fields and
pastures green. In this figure the insect has succeeded in dis-
engaging itself with the exception of the tips of its long legs,
which are entangled in the pupa case. When once free the
Anopheles are easily distinguished from the common variety.
Here is one of the common kind (Fig. 10). It was photographed
