BY ,1. W. SUTTON. XI.
phenomena, its progress being slow until the eighteenth century^
since which time its progress has been rapidly increasing. Prior to
this, the greatest advances were in astronomy and physics, then in
chemistry, botany, etc., geology not attracting much attention
until the beginning of the present century. The nineteenth
century has been so prolific in scientific and mechanical invent-
ions that doubts may be expressed as to whether the rate at
which discoveries and inventions are now introduced will
continue, or whether we are becoming too clever and are likely
to come to a full stop. But as science knows no finality, so also
will invention know no finality, as circumstances increase, and
mankind's dominion over tha earth, sea, and air, becomes more
pronounced, new wants will arise and new means of supplying
old ones will be devised. The time was when science was
cultivated only by the few, who looked upon its application to
the arts and manufactures as almost beneath their consideration.
This they were content to leave in the hands of others who,
with only commercial ends in view, did not aspire to further the
objects of science for its own sake, but thought only of benefitting
by its teachings. Progress could not be rapid under these con-
ditions, because the investigator into pure science, rarely pursues
his investigations beyond the physical and chemical principle,
while the simple practitioner is at a loss to know how to
harmonise new knowledge with the stock of information which
forms his mental capital in trade. The world owes much to
those ardent students of nature, who in their devotion to
scientific research, do not allow their aims to travel into the
region of utilitarianism and self interest : but it is not to them
that we can look for present progress in practical or applied
science, it is to the man of science who also gives his attention
to practical questions, and to the practitioner who devotes part
of his time to the prosecution of strictly scientific investigation,
that we owe the rapid progress of the day, the advancement of
which has rendered theory and practice, or science and art, so
interdependent that an intimate union between them is a matter
of absolute necessity for future progress. Theory and practice
must go hand in hand. x\lthough it may be somewhat heretical
to say, in these days of division of labour, I see no reason why a
Bachelor of Arts should not be able to make a door, or a B.Sc.
work and attend a lathe. Science and art naturally stand to
each other, as cause and effect. Professor Abbe of the U.S.
