BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 51
alive, so it is in a perfectly natural position. Its body hangs
nearly parallel to the surface upon which it rests. It is supported
by the fore and middle pair of legs. The hind pair curl back-
wards and project into the air. If ever you see a mosquito with
its hind legs in that position, you may be sure it does not belong
to the Anopheles variety. The latter uses the whole of his six
legs to support itself. They are very long, the hinder ones much
more so than the front. When they are planted firmly down
the body projects at an angle varying from 80 to 45 degrees.
The next slide (Fig. 9) is a natural photo, of one of these gentle-
men. He was good enough to allow me to operate upon him,
and the position shows very distinctly the difference between
them and the ordinary mosquito when at rest. They can be
picked out by any ordinary observer.
Another distinguishing feature is their spotted wings. One
variety of the ordinary kind, usually called the Scots grey, have
faintly spotted wings, but the marks are not nearly so distinct
as in the Anopheles. In the figure (No. 3 2) the dark spots and
light spaces are clearly manifest. In the light portions the
scales appear to be absent, but a careful search shows them to be
still there, but almost devoid of colour. This peculiarity of the
wings is most beautifully seen when the microf:Cope is arranged
for dark ground illumination. The nervures of the wings are
traversed by a double row of scales, set at an angle to each other,
and a deep fringe of long sword-shapen ones hang from the
lower border of the wing. The next slide (Fig. 11) shows this
beautiful fringe. Here is one with scales taken from various
parts of the body. They differ a good deal in shape, and are
inserted like shingles on the roof of a house, the tip of one being
overlapped by the base of the next. An exception to this is
found on the back of the head ; here the scales are wedge-shaped
and set upright like plumes.
Certain appendages of the head differ from the ordinary
mosquito. One of these is the length of the palpi in the female.
On the screen is the head of a female of the common kind. The
palpi are short, not more than one-fifth of the length of the
proboscis. In the next view (Fig. 13) is seen the head of the
female Anopheles. The antennae stretch out on each side, but
the palpi are prolonged until they nearly equal the proboscis in
length. That is a characteristic feature of this family.
The male organs of the head also have their peculiarities.
The succeeding slide (Fig. 14) shows the proboscis in the centre.
The palpi are longer, and near their tips expand into a club-like
