52 NOTES ON A MALARIA CARRYINO MOSQrilTO
form. Below are seen the beautiful feathery antenn* so
characteristic of the male sex. Many of you are aware that
these are musical insl;ruments, made and pitched to receivo the
notes of the female's song. She is the player, he the instrument
upon which she plays, a relation not exclusively confined to the
mosquito family.
The palpi are supposed to be organs of touch, but the insect
does not appear to use them for that purpose. The organ of
touch is the proboscis, the fleshy tube in which the lancets lie.
The tip of this organ is deeply cleft, so as to form two fleshy
lobes bearing hairs which are probably tactile. I have seen it
pass over fruit, and up and down the ridges on the skin
of my hand apparently seeking for a suitable place wherein to
bore.
Very exaggerated statements are heard about the piercing
capabilities of the lancets. My own experience goes as far as
this : I have gone into their haunts with soft chamois leather
gloves, such as housemaids use, on my hands, and they have
pierced through these into my hands. The female possesses six
lancets, these are so constructed that they all fit together like
one weapon. The lingua or tongue is the largest and takes the
form of a long hollow tube, the end sloping down to a sharp
point. Around this the other lancets are grouped, these are too
slender and delicate to be used separately, and fit closely around
the stronger barrel of the tongue. Two of these lancets, the
maxilla', however, are barbed for a short distance from the tips
on their exposed sides. Here is a highly magnified representa-
tion of one : a dozen teeth fine at the tip and then gradually
enlarging are clearly visible. This constitutes a neat double
surgical saw, not meant for cutting bone but flesh. These two
barbed lancets are longer than the rest and project backwards
into the bead where they terminate in a sort of hammer head.
In this photo, Fig. 16, you see how they project backwards
beyond the rest. To the ends of this cross hammer, strong
muscles are attached, and by them these two special lancets
can be pulled up and down, sliding over the tongue which acts
as a guide. So they are used to enlarge the original puncture and
cause a freer flow of blood for the tubular tongue to suck. It is
a peculiar and interesting provision for the insect's welfare. If
the hypodermic needle of the principal lancet were simply thrust
into the skin, unless it pierced a blood-vessel, little blood would
flow, for the flesh would close round the sloping aperture and
choke it up. But by the action of these little perpendicular saws
