BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 55
muscular rings, and gradually expands as it enters the stomach.
This is a very expaasible muscular bag, swelling out to a con-
siderable size after a good meal of blood. It may be dissected
into five coats. The outer consists of a network of trackeal or air
tubes, below this are two coats of muscular fibres crossing each
other at right angles. Then comes a thin structureless mem-
brane, and lastly the lining membrane of the organ. From the
lower portion of the stomach five blind tubes arise, they look
as if they had been grafted on the organ ; they rise parallel to
the sides, then bending backwards, curl about the lower part of
the abdomen, the outer end of each tube lying free in the cavity
of the body. They are called the malpighian tubes, and are
supposed to exercise functions similar to the liver. They appear
to be divided into angular partitions, and large circular cells of a
glandular nature dot their walls at regular intervals. A little
lower on the screen lies the intestine. It is attached to the last
segment of the body, showing the two terminal hooks. The
whole of the organs of the abdomen are subject to a perisaltic
motion ; they are drawn upwards towards the chest, and then
thrust downwards with a regular rhythmic movement every few
S3Conds. In the downward act, the muscular walls of the large
intestine roll in concentric waves and force the contents
onwards, and in the upward act the contents return to the end of
the section in which they lie. There is thus a continual move-
ment of the contents of the intestines, exposing them thoroughly
to the digestive fluids.
This is the interior of a female, and these two large pro-
jections on each side are the egg sacs. In the unimpregnated
state they are made up of clear globular cells, each with a
nucleus not unlike two masses of colourless grapes. A big air-
tubi passes over the upper portion, giving off branches, which
ramify not only over, but right through the egg mass. From
one end of each sac, a tube leads to the lower orifice of the body,
and when the eggs are ripe they pass down singly and are con-
veyed to the outside, being placed into position by the terminal
hooks on the body. At the lowest point of the slide is seen
what appears to be one of the renal capsules. It is an oval
brown vesicle.
The parasites of Malarial fever have received a large amount
of attention. Successive observers in various countries have
been gathering up facts, and their life history is being steadily
unravelled. Drs. Manson and Ross state that blood drawn from
a malarial patient has a peculiar character. A large number of
