56
NOTES ON A MALARIA-rARKYING MOSQUITO
the red corpuscles are filled with pale protoplasm. In it are a
nnuiber of black specks or rods. These concentrate in the
cf^ntre, the, protoplasm arranf^inf,' itself around forminf,' a little
rosette. The walls of the blood vessels collapsing, the rosette
floats into the liquor sanguinis. Afterwards the rosette splits,
the black clump remaining and spores are set free. Some of
these penetrate red blood corpuscles, as pale specks. These
soon begin to throw out feelers in various directions, at the same
time wandering round the limits of the cell wall. They increase
in size by assimilating the ha-moglobin. P>y-and-bye appear
the characteristic specks of black pigment again. These little
detached feelers which wander about the blood fluid, and
penetrate corpuscles, appear to be of the nature of spermatozoa,
and propagate the disease. And the problem that struck
Manson was, how do they first find their way into the malarial
patient. In studying the matter, he concluded that the
mosquito was the most likely source. Not having the oppor-
tunity of working out the subject thorougly, he enunciated his
views and consulted with Dr. Ronald Ross, then about to proceed
to India. By a series of most patient and careful experiments,
he demonstrated some of the leading links in the process.
Other experimentors look up the subject and none more
enthusiastically than the Italian doctors, who have completed
the subject. On Manson's recent visit to Rome, Professor
Grassi showed bin) the pigmented vermicule in the inside of the
mosquito's stomach. It had got there by being fed on the blood
of a fever patient. Another specimen showed it penetrating the
stomach wall between two epithelial cells. In another it rested
in the interspace formed by the crossing of the muscular fibres.
Then it was shown as a warr. on the outer stomach wall. In the
inside of this were seen the little black rods having gone through
their cycle of development in the mosquito's body. ^Vhen the
walls of the capsule gave way these rods passed into the
mosquito's body. Endowed with ujoving and penetrating
powers, they travel along and easily penetrate the delicate skin
of the poison and salivary glands. Sections of these glands
were also shown him, actually containing large numbers of the
little germinal rods, this clearly tiacking step by step the whole
process from the blood of the patient up to the gland connected
with the proboscis of the mosquito. Numerous experiments
have been made on healthy Italian peasants, and recently Dr.
Manson's son offered himself as a subject. Pure Anopheles bred
from larva were sent to Rome and allowed to bite fever patients.
I
