BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 67
Carefully protected from other contaminating influences, they
were sent to London, and there permitted to bite young ]\Ianson.
There in the English climate malarial fever was developed, and
in his blood was seen the black pigmented and crescentic forms
so characteristic of the disease. Italian doctors who have
studied the subject, and whose opinion must carry weight, give
their deliberate conviction that the mosquito is the only source
of human infection. They believe that it does not originate
from residence in a malarial district. It cannot be received
from drinking impure water, neither is it spread from personal
contact with a malarial patient, but solely by the bite of this
peculiar species of mosquito. r)eing a blood disease, it requires
a blood channel for its propagation, and this is found in this
little insect. Break down the bridge of the mosquito and
malaria will be stamped out. " A consummation devoutly to
be wished." The scientists may be too sweeping in the asser-
tion that the disease only originates in this way from a fever
patient. I do not thiak it has been proved that malaria does
not exist in any other living creature ; if it does, that might be
the original source. The question of it is only derived from a
diseased patient, Where did the first mosquito receive it ? This
opens up a wide speculative field, but as the first mosquitoes
are found in the Tertiary rocks of the Lower White River,
Colorado, long before the beginning of human history, it is
evident that the answer would be difficult to find. The practical
fact that this is the main source of contagion now is too clear to
admit of doubt.
Another fact of great value to the world has recently come
to light in these researches. Medical men in tropical countries
have a great many patients who are seriously ill, but yet there
are either few peculiar symptoms, or they are of such a general
character that the doctor cannot put them down to any special
disease. A large number of these cases are of malarial origin,
which can be determined by a simple examination of the blood.
A few minutes with a good microscope now settles the question,
which formerly worried for months earnest medical practitioners.
I have another slide, Fig. 22, which I am sure will interest
Mr. Pound. He knows a good deal about cattle ticks, and our
pastoralists have been sore sufferers from their ravages, I do
not know whether they will derive any consolation from the
fact that they are not the only sufferers, but that mosquitoes
likewise suffer from ticks. And the cattle tick to them is but a
pigmy. Comparatively speaking, these ticks would be about the
