XII, PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS,
Weather lUireau, gives the following very pretty illustration, of
how a simple mechanical act has its relation to physical
science : — " Everywhere one is confronted with the laws offeree.
If you strike a smart blow upon the head of a cold chisel, and
make a cut into a piece of soft iron, you are doing one of the
simplest mechanical operations, and yet you are awakening a
long series of reactions that invade nearly every branch of
physical science. First, the muscles respond to the eye and the
will, the hammer moves with great acceleration, and strikes
straight and hard, the energy of the blow comes from the
chemical transformation going on within the workman's body,
suggesting problems that belong to the profoundest depths of
Biology. Secondly, the stroke of the hammer calls forth a clear
and cheerful sound from the head of the chisel, a musical ring,
with all its problems in acoustics. Thirdly, the hammer, the
sieel chisel, the soft iron and the chips, become warm and hot,
under repeated blows, suggesting problems in Thermo Dynamics,
radiation and conduction of heat. Fourthly, the edge of the
hard chisel becomes dull, but a deep gash is cut in the soft iron,
eventually the edge of the chisel breaks, all of w'hich results are
explained by the study of the science of elasticity, as applied to
the flow of solids and the exhaustion of metals. Fifthly,
a better chisel is picked out and the hammering goes
on all day without harm to the tool, proving that its
chemical and physical properties differ from the one that is
easily broken. If the anvil be of stone, and both it and hammer
be insulated and connected with an electrometer, every stroke
would be seen to produce electricity." Thus we see in such a
simple operation the manifold and intricate connection between
the sciences and arts, so we see how all practice has its theory,
and the better man is he who takes, as it were, both into his
confidence, and runs them harmoniously together. It has been
said, and it i> ii truth incapable of being gainsaid, that science
must be joiiit-d t.. practice in the advancing competition of the
world, in order that a nation may retain the strength and energy
of manhood. It is certain that the prosperity of a country de-
pends mainly on the extent and variety of its natural products,
and the manner in which they are utilised : Such being the
case, what a great future awaits this colony of Queensland, a
country which contains, one might say, the whole list of elements
known to science, awaiting development by enterprise and capital,
