74
QUEENSLAND liEPIDOPTERA
gently rounded, hindmargin very obli(iuely rounded, black, with
ochreous spots, more or less suffused with orange red. Fore-
wings with first two spots across middle of wing, subcostal one
small, broader posteriorly, inner one elongated toward but not
as far as anal angle ; the second row of three dots are small, the
subcostal one linear, and alone, the inner two contiguous divided
only by vein four. Cilia black. Hind wings orange red, with a
fine black line dividing oft" one fourth costal portion, and bor-
dered by deep black, narrow on inner margin and inner half of
hind margin, and thence covering anal half of wing. Cilia as
forewings. Bellenden Ker Lucas-Eye Expedition.
BOMBYCID^.
KOMB\'X FRUGALIS, NOV. SP.
^ 35 VI )){. Head, palpi, thorax, and abdomen sepia fuscous,
or smoky brown. Antennae, stalk ochreous white, pectinations
ochreous yellow, 1 — 4, narrowing rapidly before apex. Fore-
wings costa straight, apex rounded, hindmargin gently rounded;
sepia fuscous or smoky brown. Forewings costa darker
fuscous, veins reddish fuscous, a small diffused discal sj ot black,
a few scattered irrorated white scales on borders, and a darker
suti'usion on inner margin. Cilia darker than ground colour of
wing. Hindwings as forewings. Cilia whitish grey with
fuscous line at base, and sending transverse bars across.
Brisbane at lisrht.
o
BOMBYX FIGURATA, NOV. SP.
^ 32 Dpi^. $ 45 v\Vi. Head rich chocolate fuscous, face
reddish ochreous. Palpi reddish ochreous, fringed with cho-
colate fuscous. AntennfP, stalk chocolate fuscous, pectinations
reddish ochreous. Thorax fuscous drab, with a white and
fuscous irrorated band or collar, a whitish line continuous with
costa of forewings, and posteriorly a conspicuous broad white
patch on either side. Abdomen grey white, with anal segment
fringed with fuscous hairs. Forewings, costa gently arched,
hindmargin rounded, woolly white, with fuscous and chocolate
bauds and lines ; fine costal chocolate line thinning at apex, a
broad transverse wavy chocolate band near base from costa to
opposite i inner margin ; a second curved band from -} inner
margm, with three waves to median vein, thence bent at right-
angles along median to ^ ; the transverse half is lighter fuscous
between boundary lines, and the median vein half contains three
conspicuous white dots ; a third band curves round from f
costa, and parallel with hind margin, to -i, inner margin,
