BY THOMAS P. LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 75
anterior border toothed, centre of band light grey, the costal
space divided by portion of second band on median line, and
bounded by first band and by a third band, is sufi'used with light
fuscous ; a rich chocolate line extends from before apex of costa
in short waves to before anal angle ; a submarginal lighter line
is connected with a finer marginal line by short bars. Cilia,
light fuscous. Hindwings woolly white, with a few light
fuscous hairs on costal margin, and a pale fuscous suffused spot
near anal angle. The ^ is larger, is similarly marked, but
has a smudged appearance, as the ground colour is ashy
grey, and the marks, both the darker boundary lines and the
enclosed spaces are of a much less definite tint, and appear as if
smudged with ashy grey. One pair taken by Mr. Illidge,
Brisbane.
BOMBYX EFFUSA, NOV. SP.
^ 34-38 iiU'b Head, palpi and antennae ferrous fuscous.
Thorax black, almost hidden by long hairs of deep ferrous fuscous,
inclining to purple. Thorax fuscous with more or less scattered
black hairs. Forewings, costa gently rounded toward apex,
hind margin rounded, fuscous, with diffusions of deep black,
markings of ferrous or chocolate, and ochreous white lines.
Forewings, costa edged with deep fuscous inclining in some
specimens to black ; base of wing ferrous black extending as
a black line one-fourth along inner border ; a rich bar of
black from ,1 inner margin to median vein, nearing base of
wing ; this is bordered posteriorly by two circular star-rayed
ferrous figures, resembling sea anemones, the encircling rays
annulated with white, a third like figure extends to subcostal
area, and a fourth runs along subcostal area, but darker and
without the ferrous ; the four form a chain concave posteriorly,
bordered by a rich chocolate discal spot, edged on both borders
with white ; a wavy dentate band from f of costa to f of
inner border, variously coloured black and white lines, and
more or less tinted Avith ferrcms red ; from this band whitish
ochreous lines run along the veins to a sub hindmarginal
line of black, forming cells more or less tinted with red ferrous ;;
all borders white ; a rich black line in middle of inner mar-
gin forms the base of a ground colour area, and continues as a.
black line, bordering the star figures anteriorly, and united with.
the second fascia posteriorly ; a hind marginal band of white-
spots bordered with ferrous, or black. Cilia grey based witb
fuscous. Hindwings, fuscous grey to smoky grey. Cilia as
