76 QUEENSLAND LEPIDOPTERA
forewings. Lucas-Rye Expedition, Bellenden Ker. The variety
•of colour is very remarkable, being scarcely the same in two
•specimens.
PINARA PERVICAX, NOV. SP.
J $ 30-36 111^ 111^. Head, thorax, and abdomen chocolate
fuscous. Abdomen in $ lighter fuscous. Palpi chocolate
fuscous, terminal joint in J tipped with fuscous black. Antennae,
rstalk chocolate fuscous, pectinations lighter in J 1-1, in 5 1-4,
rapidly narrowing to base and apex. Forewings rich chocolate
fuscous, veins darker brown, costa gently rounded toward apex,
apex angled, hindmargin gently rounded, discal dot before half
very small, black or fuscous, brokenly bordered with white, a
line of not very distinct fuscous dots from ^ inner margin to
apex of costa. Cilia brownish fuscous. Hindwings chocolate
fuscous, lighter and redder tOAvard base, veins darker. Cilia as
forewings. Brisbane, a pair at light.
LIPARID^.
ARTAXA USTA, NOV. SP.
5 18 VI VI. Head ochreous orange. Palpi reddish fuscous
Antennae, stalk reddish fuscous, pectinatious ochreous. Thorax
ochreous fuscous. Abdomen reddish fuscous. Forewings costa
arched, hind margin oblique, almost straight, ochreous, with
ferrous and red dots and markings. Forewings, costa with
scattered minute ferrous red dots ; a faint reddish ochreous line
from H inner margin to costa at apex ; a discal ferrous dot with
suffusion, and enclosing yellow dots in middle of wing, near end
of cell, gives a scorched or burned appearance, a line of small
dots from this discal spot to inner margin ; two small black
blotches and a small dot on hind margin nearest to inner margin
with burnt appearance suffusion ; veins prominent ; a hind-
marginal reddish or ferrous suffusion. Cilia reddish ochreous
with darker basal line. Hindwings ochreous. Cilia as fore-
wings. Lucas-Rye Bellenden Ker Expedition. One specimen.
LIMACODID.E.
DORATIPHORA COLLIGANS, NOV. SP.
^ 28 111 VI. Head and thorax light ochreous. Palpi fuscous,
terminal joint tipped with ochreous. Antennae, stalk light
ochreous, pectinations ochreous fuscous. Forewings costa
straight, apex rounded, hindmargin strongly rounded, ochreous
white or wool colour. Forewings with costa and hindmargin
finely edged with a light fuscous line ; light fuscous tufts at
base, and lines of same indistinctly parallel to costa in costal
