IJY THOMAS P. LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 77
half to middle of wings ; a li^ht fuscous band from costa
parallel to hind border to before J, inner margin, costal half
paler ; a second ill defined, paler line beyond ; a patch of
minute black specks on costal third of wing from ^ to -^ costa ;
a rich band of chocolate colour bars from i costa to inner
margin before anal angle. Cilia whitish grey. Hindwings
light reddish ochreous. Cilia as forewings. One specimen^
Brisbane.
DORATIPHORA QUADRIDENS, NOV. SP.
^ $ 30-34 V{])\. Head ochreous white. Palpi reddish
fuscous. Antennae, stalk ochreous white, pectinations fuscous.^
Thorax reddish fuscous. Abdomen reddish fuscous, rather
lighter than thorax. Forewings costa gently wavy, apex
rounded, hindmargin bowed, reddish fuscous diffused with tints-
of ochreous and shades of red. Forewings costa finely edged
with fuscous, broken up into fine dots and freely irrorated in
costal area with fuscous and white scales ; at ;.; a band of four
conspicuous white spots in disc, the third often divided into two,
bordered and banded by rich fuscous shading suffusion toward
costa and extending as a line to centre of wing, with a small
fuscous dot half way to inn^r margin ; a sufl'used shading of
fuscous along hindmargin. Cilia fuscous tinted with pink, and
banded with a line of darker fuscous. Hindwings, colour of fore-
wings, but shading ochreous white to basal half. Cilia as fore-
wings, inner margin ochreous white. Found feeding on the
Pteris, or common bracken fern. It is a finely coloured cater-
pillar, with stinging spines, which discharge an irritant poison
into the hand which carelessly seizes it. Mr. Tyron first reared
this species. r)risbane, rare.
GEOMETRINA.
GeOMETRIDjE.
HYPOCHROMA PURPURISSATA, NOV. SP.
2 ii ]]{ ]]{. Head ochreous fulvous. -Palpi black. Antennae-
purplish fuscous. Thorax fuscous, freely irrorated with grey and
black. Abdomen ochreous fuscous, with bands of irrorated
black scales across the segments, and laterally diffused with
golden yellow. Forewings costa, nearly straight, hindmargin
gently crenulate, apical half straight, anal half sharply bowed,
fuscous grey, freely dift'used with purple, and dotted with silver
specks, and red and grey scales, with fuscous and blackjmarkings.
Forewings costa finely edged with black ; basal fascia bowed out-
ward, darkest along the veins ; a second broad fascia from ^
costa to ^ inner margin, costal third narrowed to a line, and
