'7H QUEENSLAND LEPIDOPTERA
more or less coiniiiunicatinf,' with basal fascia by diffused inter-
rupted black lines, the whole space between the lines .freely
tinted with reddish yellow ; an elongated discal spot obliquely from
near costa at ^, not touching costal area ; a deep broad fascia
beyond, anterior border from -f costa, straight and denticulatei
a deep black line for one-third across wing, then deeply bowed
outwardly, and bent at a right angle over vein 2, straight to
f inner margin, posterior border rich black line from ^ costa to .
anal angle inner margin, costal half finely denticulate, thtnce
deeply dentate and again finely denticulate to inner margin ; this
line is bordered anteriorly with a conspicuous white line, ihe
enclosed fascia is suffused posteriorly with purplish ground
colour, but anteriorly and middle is freely covered with fuscous
and black dentate bars and lines ; beyond this fascia the wing is
suffused with fuscous in middle and before hind thirds, and some
of the dentations of the posterior line are prolonged to hind
margin ; a hindmarginal fuscous very fine crenulate line, the
wave crests dotted with rich black. Costa grey, du«ted with
darker grey and white. Hindwings as forewings, with, first
transverse fascia circularly expanded and spread to h inner
margin ; the anterior border line of second fascia is black wavy
denticulate, and doiibled, the posterior border line is spread out
8S a sub-hindmarginal band, and is more or less suffused with
red and ground colour ; the inner half of wing is clouded with
black and fuscous, interspersed towards borders with red and
ground colour ; hindmarginal line as forewings. Cilia as fore-
wings. Under surface of forewings rich black, shading to grey
toward base, and wnth conspicuous triangle of white in disc, and
a large rich black discal spot, a row of small white dots parallel
with hindmargin at ^ ; costal area, and base of wings orange,
with i*ed area along middle third. Hindwings, inner half rich
orange with a small black discal spot subtending a white line
extending to black border ; outer half deep black. Costa of all
wino^s whitish grey, sparingly irrorated with fuscous. One
specimen from Herberton, Queensland.
HYPOCHROMA MINITA, X. SP.
^ 38 ])i lib Head green, face greenish buff, with a rich
chocolate band between the eyes. Palpi fuscous. Antennae
greenish ochreous, stalk ochreous. Thorax green, patagia
lighter green. Abdomen greenish ochreous, with bluish white
grey bands fringing each segment, and with chocolate lined
figure on dorsum of each, the three posterior ones suffused with
fuscous, no mark on two last segments. Forewings, costa nearly
i
