BY J. W. SUTTON. XIII.
where both can be employed in peace and security, while at the
same time it is being so lavishly expended in foreign lands where
the danger of losing both is a factor always to be reckoned with.
Our pastoral, agricultural, and mining capabilities know no
bounds, and yet so little has been done to give our rising genera-
tions that rightful and necessary amount of scientific education,
to enable them to utilize and make the best uses of that which
nature has so abundantly bestowed upon them and placed at their
disposal. It is true a small beginning has been made in the
Agricultural College, where the farming youth can leavn the
science of his own industry, and it is gratifying to learn that at
last we are to have a University and School of Mines, and let us
hope that, when these are an established fact, no niggardly
hand will guide them in the selection of management, and that
we shall be in a position to impart to the students
learning at least equal to those of older colonies. While re-
marking on this subject, it may not be out of place to state that
the thanks of the Queensland public are due to those gentlemen
who formed the committee of the Brisbane School of Arts in
former years, who undertook and successfully supplied a want of
secondary education, by the nursing under very great ditticulties
to maturity the Brisbane Technical College, which is now
rendering such good service in the cause of technical education.
But the limited means at their disposal, and want of adequate
accommodation and apparatus, is very discouraging to those
who give their time and labour in carrying on the work, a work
which deserves, and is entitled to, as much sympathy and support,
as either the Agricultural College, University, or a School of
Mines.
The rapid progress of applied Chemistry in recent years has
so combined itself with every industry that no prosperous, well-
regulated manufactory is now without its chemical or physical
laboratory, according to the arts or occupation for which it is
designed to benefit. Chemistry is concerned with the most
common acts of our ordinary life, and it is literally true that
there is not a moment in which we do not hold the infinite in
our hands. Of chemists themselves, the men who have studied
the various forms of matter, and have gradually and surely
brought it to the point and perfection it has reached at the
present time, belonged to various nations. In our own country
we had Professor Black, the most methodical of men ; Priestly,
