1!Y THOMAS P. LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 81
right angle round vein 3, with a prominent dot of black in
angle, and a small line of black on hindmargin across vein 4.
Cilia as forewings. 1 Specimen, Lucas-Rye Bellenden Ker
Expedition.
NOCTUINA.
Caradrinid.e.
teingilburra, nov, gen.
Head clothed with short hairs. Tongue well developed.
Palpi moderate, clothed with short hairs, second joint longer
than third, terminal joint porrected. x\ntennae filiform, ciliated.
Thorax without distinct crest, densely hairy beneath. Abdomen
moderate. Femora densely hairy. Spurs of middle and posterior
tibiae well developed. Forewings vein 2 from angle of cell, 4
and from a point, 7 and 8 out of 9, 10 united to 9. Hind-
wings, with 3 and 4 short-stalked, 5 obsolete, 6 and 7 closely
approximate, 8 anastonasing with cell half way to base, a strip
of hyaline texture in hindwings from base in place of vein 5.
Allied to Stilbia. Tringilburra is native name for a small stream
at foot of Bellenden Ker.
tringilburra LUGENS, NOV. SP.
S 40 VI ^^{. Head, thorax and abdomen rich fuscous,
Palpi dark fuscous, terminal joint lighter fuscous. Antennae
fuscous. Forewings elongate dilate, costa wavy, apical portion
rounded, apex acute, hindmargin obliquely rounded, rich fuscous,
with ochreous tesselations, and blackish fuscous markings and
suffusions. Forewings with a pencilled circular dark fuscous
transverse line near base, an irregular ziczac fascial line with
dots at angles from |- costa to ^ inner margin ; a second like
line more definitely marked, with longer ziczacs from t costa,
outwardly bowed and inwardly to h inner margin, between these
two lines the ground colour is definite, with a small subcostal
black dot near first line, and a small black discal spot splashed
across centre with purple iridescence, and two small difused
blotches of black on inner border; an oblique double line, ochreous
and dark fuscous from f inner margin to beyond f costa running
along and submerged into costa towards apex ; the ground
colour posterior to the line is suftused with darker fuscous, inter-
mingled with blotches of ochreous fuscous ; a submarginal fuscous
line of crescentic lunules, with black dot on each bow. Cilia
fuscous with lighter basal line. Hindwings coloured as forewings
with base lighter fuscous and oblique line well marked from
apex to anal angle ; a hyaline band in middle third from base
