82 QUEENSLANP I.EPIDOPTERA
to one-third of wing. Under-surface of forewings with black dot
close to median, and discal spot well defined ; two chain lines dark
fuscous clearly defined, circular and more or less parallel to hind-
margin ; a number of like lines faint and indistinct between darker
lines. Under-surface of hindwings with five transverse circular
chain lines as forewings, first basal suffused into several broken
lines and a small dot, only on costal half of wing, others very
definite, fourth containing orchreous fuscous dots iu lunular
waves, ground colour, darker over hindraargin. Lucas-Rye
Bellenden Ker Expedition.
HRYOPHILA VEOETATA, NOV. SP.
J 22 1)1^ ^\{. Head grey, forehead with a black dot. Palpi
short, smoky grey. Antennae smoky fuscous. Thorax grey
with scales of black and black spots on dorsum. Abdomen
ochreous fuscous. Forewings costa straight, apex rounded,
hindmargin rounded, creamy grey, dotted with Hack, and
strongly marked with black and grey markings. Forewings
with costal band freely speckled with grey to beyond h ; a wavy
transverse chain line near to base ; a second and darker fascia
shouldered from basal line along costa and transve:'-ely to ^
inner margin, contracted in middle ; a wavy ziczac fascia from
J costa to ^ inner margin, angled outwardly before inner
margin,. suft'used outwardly chiefly along inner margin to a wavy
line from ;.? costa to ^ inner margin, concave below middle and
with discal ring nearer costa towards apex ; beyond this are
four transverse chain wavy, denticulate lines, the angles of
lines joining and suffused before apex, the third is an accumu-
lation of suffused dots, and the fourth or hind iiiarginal is
a row of strong spots. Cilia creamy grey. Hindwings golden
ochreous with dark fuscous border, gradually shading off in-
wardly. Cilia golden ochreous with a dividing fuscous bar.
Brisbane.
PLUSIAD.E.
YEROXGPONGA, NOV. GtN.
Head thickly clothed with short hairs. Tongue well deve-
loped. Antennae in J filiform, very short, single cilia. Palpi
long, subascending, second joint long, covered with dense brush
of hair, third joint nearly as long as second, clothed with very
short hairs, cylindrical, semi-club shaped. Femora densely
hairy. Posterior tibiae spurs very long and developed. Fore-
wings 2 from before f^, 3, 4 and 5 approximate, 6 froiu near 9,
7 and 8 from 9. Hindwings 3, 4 and 5 approximate at base, 6
and 7 approximate, 8 approaches cell close to base.
