BY THOMAS P. LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 83
YERONGPONGA EXEQUIALIS, NOV. SP.
5 70 111^ v\. Head rich rich fuscous black, sparingly
irrorated with light blue scale-";. Palpi rich fuscous black with
light blae scales, terminal joint tipped with orange ochreous.
Antennae dark fuscous. Thorax and and abdomen rich fuscous
black, irrorated with light blue scales, central abdominal segments
ferrous on dorsum. Fore wings broadly dilate, costa nearly
straight, apex rounded, hindmargin gently rounded, rich fuscou?
black, shot with a shiny purple iridescence and freely irrorated
with light blue scales and dots, and marked with ferrou- patches
and ferrous ochreous spots. Forewings with four transverse
lines of dots, basal three indistinct and broken, fourth only plain
and definite, first line marked by two dots, ^ from base and at
■equal distance from costa and hindmargin ; second line circular
marked by four dots, the one beyond i inner margin, the three
at equal distance between this and I costa ; the third line from
a large subcostal spot beyond ^ costa to a circle of dots on
anterior borde.i of a large ferrous blotch opposite f inner margin,
and one-third breadth of wing from inner margin; the fourth
line curves from a chain line at | costa posteriorly in a chain
of dots, and turns round to posterior border of the large ferrous
blotch ; a submarginal row of dots on veins. Cilia indigo fuscous.
Hindwings ferrous fuscous, brown towards base, shading to
purple and iridescent towards hindmargin, where are scattered
blue white scales ; a line of ferrous ochreous dots parallel to
hindmargin from anal angle of innermargin across two-thirds
breadth of wing ; faint indications of other dots nearer hindmargin,
hindmarginal dots faint. Cilia as forewings. One specimen.
Bellenden Ker, Lucas Rye Expedition.
IMLEANGA, NOV. GEN.
Head with two brush fans resting back from crown. Tongue
well developed. Palpi long, recurved, second joint thickly clothed
with short hairs, third joint cylindrical, about as long as second.
Antennae biciliate, cilia in fascicles 1-2. Thorax den^^^ely hairy
beneath. Abdomen moderate. Posterior tibial spurs well deve-
loped. Forewings vein 2 from ^, 8 and -i from a point, 5
approximate, 7 and 8 out of 9, 10 approximate to 9. Hindwings
2 from :■!, 8 and 4 stalked, 6 and 7 stalked, 8 amalgamated with
cell near base, 5 irregular nearer to 6 than 4.
IMLEANGA FLUVIATILIS, NOV. SP.
i 40 iT\iil. Head chocolate fuscous, with two fans
spread back from crown, fringed with light ochreous. Palpi
