84 QUEENSLAND I.El'IDOPTERA
ochreous fuscous. Antennae fuscous. Thorax and abdomen
ochreous fuscous. Forewings costa gently rounded, hind-
margin rounded, ochreous fuscous with transverse wavy
lines of darker fuscous, scales of fuscous, and markings black.
Forewings with scattered black dots near base ; a large D-shaped
discal spot black with a projection from middle posteriorly ; a
wavy dark line before this from i costa obliquely to >; inner
margin ; a like line not so well defined near base, but interrupted
and not so well seen in all specimens , a broad blackish diffused
square on costa before apex, subtending numbers of river-like
winding channels parellel with hindmargin to inner margin ; a
dark dot close to median before middle, and difitused dots along
median fold ; short striguhe in hindmarginal portion of wing ; a
hindmarginal dark fuscous line. Cilia ochreous fuscous. Hind-
wings as forewings, without blotches, and with lines sufiufed as
darker shade towards borders. Cilia as forewings. Two specimens,
Brisbane, at light. Mr. lUidge has also taken it near Brisbane.
XYLORICTID.E.
PILOSTFHES SERPTA, NOV. SP.
5 27 111. 1)^. Head palpi, and thorax snow white. Antennja
white, shading to fuscous beyond base. Abdomen ochreous
grey, with a band of orange red near edge of each segment.
Forewing gently dilate, costa rounded, hind margin obliquely
rounded, light ochreous fuscous, with central and marginal
diffusions of darker fuscous, markings black or white and dark
fuscous. Forewings with a subcostal black line from near base
to beyond h costa, interrupted near base and dotted with
white dots throughout ; a band of ground colour suffused with
bluish white separates this costal line from a median fuscous
diffusion ; in this darker area are two circuitous white lined
rounded tigures answering to discal and orbital, outline gently
undulating in and out and containing darker fuscous toward
costa ; and with white dots scattered between figures, and a
winding white line anterior to second figure, which turning
sharply, circles obliquely to just before anal angle of inner
margin ; central fascia attenuated to a spear-like prominence
beyond the second figure. Cilia light fuscous with an inner
darker band. Hindwings light fuscous, lighter toward inner
margin. Cilia dark fuscous. One specimen bred from a
scrub tree. May Orchard, Brisbane.
CRYPTOPHAGA PHYCIDOIDES, NOV, SP.
5 30 ni j)[. Head white. Palpi ochreous fuscous. Anten-
