BY THOMAS P. LUCAS, JI.R.C.S. 85
Dae fuscous, pectinatious in $ 1-3. Thorax white. Abdomen
white with light smoky segmental bands. Forewings costa
gently rounded, hind margin nearly straight, oblique to broad
anal angle, silvery white, freely covered with grey scales, diffu-
sion of fuscous along veins, and markings darker fuscous. Fore-
wings, costa very finely edged with silver ; patch over costal half
of base snow white, bordered by tine black costal line, and one
or more short black lines posteriorly; diffusion from veins spread
to costa, darker toward apex ; an indistinct diffusion of fuscous
in disc, subtended from a dark spot in costa at Ji ; beyond
this a circular zone of fuscous at equal distance from all the
borders, marked with darker spots on the veins, three or four
dark fuscous spots beyond 1 of inner margin ; hindmarginal
fuscous line, with darker spots between veins. Cilia white
with a fuscous band dividing. Hindwings silvery white, with
smoky scales towards costa and hindmargin. Cilia as forewings.
May Orchard, Brisbane.
CRYPTOPHAGA CANNEA, NOV. SP.
5 2 18-24 ])i Ml- Head, palpi, and thorax rich ochreous
red. Antennae ochreous at base, shading to fuscous. Abdomen
ochreous, with broad ochreous fuscous bands on segments.
Forewings gently rounded, apical half straight, hind margin
obliquely rounded, ochreous red. Cilia lighter ochreous. Hind
wings smoky grey, with veins distinctly outlined. Cilia light
ochreous. One pair at Sunny Bank, Brisbane, feeding in a
species of Banksia.
CLEEARCHA PROCELLOSA, NOV. SP.
2 6 20-28 111^ in^. Head, ferruginous ochreous, in $ whitish
ochreous. Palpi, ferruginous, terminal joint long, ochreous
fuscous. Antennae, fuscous, finely annulated with ochreous.
Thorax, deep ferrous, in some specimens almost white, and with
every variation between ferrous and white, as either colour
spreads. Abdomen, ochreoue fuscous, with fuscous fringe to
segments. Forewings, costa rounded, hindmargin gently rounded,
light ochreous freely dusted and marked with ferrous diffusions,
and ferruginous scales deeper ferrous at their apex, and becoming
almost black on hindmargin. Forewings, costa, with fine
ferruginous line ; a subcostal band of ground colour divides this
from a band of ferruginous which runs parallel from base to
f of wing, and then turns inward to form a suffused cloud,
with a like modian band, originating from itself near the base
and enclosing an area of ground colour ; at ;^ of costa a
