86 QUEENSLAND LEProOPTERA
cloudy fascia of ferruginous extends more or less diftusedly round
the margin of wing to anal angle ; a more diffused cloud of same
colour runs along whole length of inner margin, but shows more
of ground colour, and with median band encloses a strip of
gronnd colour ; a dark ferruginous spot in disc, and second
smaller just beyond ; a costal, apical and hindmarginal inter-
rupted line of dark spots and lines bound a patch of ground
colour continuous with subcostal, and enclosing a short trans-
verse ferruginous fascia which commingles with median fascia.
Cilia ochreous, barred irregularly with fuscous. Hindwings,
smoky fuscous, shaded to ochreous toward base. Cilia as fore-
wings. This is a most variable species, according to the depth
or sparsity of ground colour. In some specimens the thorax is
deep ferrous, in others pure white. In some the ground colour
of the wings is white over large patches, and the ferrous colour-
ing in snch specimens is more limited. It is only by comparing
my full series of eight specimens that the species can be described
with anything like accuracy. I'nfortunately, Meyrick described
C. dryionopa from a single female, and my specimens, named by
himself, do not tally at all well with his description. The species
here described is narrower in the forewings than dryionopa and
all the markings aro more definite and distinct in pattern. At
first I believed there must be two or three species or varieties,
but as in any others of this family the variation is extreme with
intermediate forms, because of droughts, winds and other causes
which interfere with the perfect development of the colouration.
May Orchard, Brisbane.
XYLORICTA CORTICANA NOV. SP.
S 5 24-28 111^ 111^. Head, light grey. Palpi, fuscous.
Antennae light fuscous. Thorax and abdomen, light grey.
Forewings elongate, costa rounded, hindmargin very obliquely
rounded, silvery white, ground colour almost lost in covering of
grey scales ; veins shaded fuscous grey ; a white discal spot at
-J, followed posteriorly by a small fuscous ring ; a diffusion
of scattered light fuscous scales through centre of wing and
along fold, most freely toward apex. Cilia grey, with bars of
fuscuous opposite veins. Hindwings as forewings. Cilia as
forewings, with a dividing fuscous line near base — one pair.
Bellenden-Ker, Lucas-Rye Expedition.
LICHENAULA STERNOIBES, XOV. SP.
$ 20111^ TTI^. Head white. Palpi white, fuscous at the tip.
Antennae very fine fuscous and white annulated. Thorax
