BY THOMAS P. LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 87
white with cuprous fuscous narrowly on either side. Abdomen
white. Forewings gently dilate, costa rounded, hindmargin
obliquely rounded, snow white, with cuprous fuscous markings ;
a clubbed fascia from base to ^ inner margin, includes a thin strip
of ground-colour along inner margin, and terminates in a clubed
head on inner margin ; a broad fascia from base, on costal side
of first fascia ; costa, runs along centre of wing, becoming dilate
but not touching, and abruptly truncate posteriorly, a suffusion
unites this with a broad oblique fascia from posterior third of
its cortal border extending to between i; and ;r costa, thence
difi'used outwardly to middle of hindmargin ; there is a small
black discal spot in this diffusion ; this spot subtends a small
blotch which suffuses towards inner margin with surrounding
fascia ; a broad apical blotch, also diffused. Cilia white, tinged
opposite marks with coppery fuscous. Hindwings light smoky
fuscous. Cilia smoky fuscous. One specimen at light, May
Orchard, Brisbane. A very strongly-marked species.
LICHENAULA APPROPINQUANS NOV. SP.
J 2 17-28 ]]i ]]i. Head white, with black spot on crown.
Palpi white, black at junction of segments. Antennffi white,
with black annulations. Thorax grey, freely sprinkled with
black hairs, epaulettes white. Abdomen grey, with narrow light
fuscous bands on segments. Forewings costa gently rounded,
hind margin gently rounded, white suffused with grey, and
densely irrorated with blackish fuscous scales, with blackish
fuscous markings. Forewings costa narrowly edged with white ;
a circular dentate black band crosses wing close to base, and is
diffused into a broader band along inner margin, ending in a
prominent circular spot at ^ inner margin ; a broken band
of four diffused spots from ^ costa to i inner margin ; spot on
costa most prominent ; a diffused spot between inner marginal
spot ai ^ and the costa ; spot at A ; beyond row of four
spots, are two different dots, one over median vein, and the
other close to inner margin at ;'-; ; a costal row of diffused
spots subtends a suffusion of grey and fuscous over centre
of wing, extending to a large pronounced blotch which
runs toward inner margin near anal angle ; a submarginal
band does not touch margins ; a hind marginal band of minute
diffused dots. Cilia grey, irrorated with black lines. Hindwings
smokey grey, lighter towards base. Cilia grey, banded with
smoky fuscous. Near to L. Lichenaea, Mey, but many well
established characters seem to divide it from that variable
species. May Orchard, Brisbane.
