H8 QUEEN SLVND LEPIDOPTERA
I'LECTOPHILA SARCULATA NOV. SP.
5 5 14-lK v\ ]){. Head, palpi and thorax white. Antennae
fuscous, faintly annnlated with white. .\bdomen, ochreous
fuscous. Forewings narrow, costa gently rounded, hindmargin
obliquely rounded, white with fuscous markings wh'ch are
diffused with ochreous, and irrorated with black scales ; a broad
fascia from fold opposite 7, inner margin, anterior border in
two waves to ^ costa, and continued as a fine line toward
base, but not as far as base, posterior border irregularly curved
and toothed, nearly parallel to anterior border, thence curves
along costa, and gradually narrows to a thinned out line at
f costa ; this subtends a second fascia, sometimes is com-
mingled with it from a point opposite f costa and which
gradually widens to inner margin, the anterior border twice
waved and finely denticulate to beyond ^ inner margin, the
posterior border with a sinuate outward curve to anal angle
of inner margin ; from its centre a bar connects with a broad
difiused apical fascia. Cilia white, ochreous at base, and ochreous
tinged with fuscous at anal angle. Hindwings, light fuscous.
Cilia, whitish ochreous, in some specimens indistinctly banded
Avith a tuscous line. May 0A2hard, Brisbane.
PLECTOPHILA ASCRIPTA NOV. SP.
J 15 ii\^ ]){. Head and palpi, white. Antennae, white and
fuscous finely annulated. Thorax, white, posteriorly shaded with
fuscous. Abdomen, light fuscous. Forewings, costa gently
rounded, hindmargin obliquely rounded, white with ferruginous
markings. Forewings, with a narrow fuscous line on costa
at base, which gradually becomes obscured along costa : an
oblique line from f costa to below apical angle on hindmargin,
the hindmarginal half is darkened deep black, and the whole line
is suffused with ferruginous on costal side and with two or three
small dashes on costa ; a black margin line surrounds this round
apex ; from a point at ^^ of costa a bread ferruginous fascia
commences, having its base separated from half of apical
fascia by a line of ground colour, thence runs to inner margin to
just before anal angle ; both borders are jagged and throw out
tooth-like longer or shorter lines ; a conspicuous spot opposite
anal angle ; a diffusion of light ferruginous along inner margin
sends a quadrate spot of ferruginous to middle of wing before
the half ; a smaller spot on inner margin, nearer base. Cilia,
white, with an apical ferrous bar, and becoming ochreous at anal
angle and along inner margin. Hindwings, light fuscous. Cilia,
ochreous fuscous. May Orchard, Brisbane.
