V,Y TH0MA8 P' LUCAS, M.R.C.S. 91
inner margin ; a minute indistinct dot at ^ costa ; a small ronnd
dot at -! inner margin ; an oblique line at j, costa, extends toward
the spot on inner margin to half across wing. Cilia black.
Hindwings smoky fuscous. Cilia lighter fuscous. One speci-
men, Brisbane.
EULECHRIA MITESCENS NOV. SP.
2 5 16-18 ]){ vi- Head, ochreous white. Palpi, ochreous
white, terminal segment black on upper surface and tip*
Antennae, black and ochreous annulated. Thorax, black, with
tufts of white ochreous on either side. Abdomen, light golden
yellow. Forewings, costa, gently rounded, hindmargin obliquely
rounded, whitish grey, with irrorated smoky diffusions and
blackish fuscous markings ; a basal band of spots from base of
costa runs along wing to opposite 1 inner margin, and connected
with second dot to costa ; a broad band of dots, lines and scales
from i to before i costa and extending to from i to beyond f
inner margin, the anterior border bounding a lunule of ground
colour, extending to i inner margin, the posterior border contain-
ing spots and a broad suffusion in some specimens obscuring dots
to inner margin ; a line or dili'usion of ground colour divides
costal half of band ; an oblique fascia of three or four lines or
dots from f costa to half way across wing to opposite f inner
margin ; a row of four dots along apex of costa and continuous
with four along hindmargin ; these subtend a diffused fascia of
dashes or lines opposite costa and a broad blotch to anal angle of
hindmargin ; spots and lines bordered by definite ground colour.
Cilia, whitish ochreous. Hindwings, fuscous, shading to light
golden yellow at the base, and along the whole inner margin.
Brisbane.
JOOXtrGOORA NOV. GEN.
Head rough scaled, sidetufts well developed as spreading
fans, tongue moderately developed. Palpi recurved, long, 2nd
joint covered by loose rough scales, terminal joint nearly as
long as the 2nd, smooth cylindrical. Antennae long, filiform,,
finely serrulate, ciliate, basal joint elongate truncate. Thorax
moderately hairy. Abdomen moderate. Posteroir tibiae hairy,
with spurs moderately developed. Forewings elongate ovate.
narrow, veins 2 and 3 stalked, 7 and H stalked, 8 to costa before
apex. Hindwings 1 a furcate at base, 3 and 4 stalked, 8-
separate from 7, not touching cell.
Joonggoora is the native Australian name for a leguminous
tree, in the foliage of which these moths find shelter.
