XIV. PKESIDKNTIAL AJ)I)RES8.
erratic, but original and full of new discoveries ; Dalton,
essentially a thinker, rather than experimenter ; Davy, the most
brilliant and enthusiastic of English workers ; Cavendish, the
careful worker and founder of many branches of experimental
chemistry ; Graham, the atomist and forerunner of the physical
chemist of to-day ; and Faraday, the perfect type of scientific
student of nature. France produced such men as Lavoisier,
the founder of scientific chemistry, one of the greatest names in
the history of science, and who, by his own countrymen, was
sacrificed to the guillotine ; Dumas, also a Frenchman, a
most enthusiastic chemist and brilliant writer, who lived at the
time when organic chemistry began. Germany, also claims a
fair share, Liebig, a monument of honour to his nation ; Humboldt,
a worker in all science ; Wtihler, one of the greatest workers in
organic chemistry ; and Hoft'man, the greatest organic chemist ;
not forgetting Professor I>unsen, who has so recently passed
away. Sweden alsp stands in the front rank of chemistry, by
the labours of Scheie and Berzelius. Italy can justly be proud
of Avogadro and Cannizzaro, and their works. Russia can also
put forward its claim to representation, and among chemists
none more distinguished for accurate imagination than
Mendeleeft". Of course there are very great numbers of other
distinszuished names, but the few will suffice to show that science
knows no nationality. Research of late has chiefly been
confined to investigations in organic compounds and in high
and low temperatures. Six new elements have been discovered
and isolated, viz. : — Argon, Helium, Crypton, Neon, Metargon,
and Victorium, the former five being gases from the atmosphere
and mineral sources, the latter an earthy mineral found associated
with the Yttrium Groups. Thus, the list of elements is
gradually increasing, notwithstanding the ideas held by most
leading scientists a few years back, that as time would enable
us to obtain more perfect appliances and analysis, they would most
likely disclose that some of the so-called elements would be found
to be compounds, and hydrogen was looked upon to play an
important part in their composition ; but, up to the present the
stablity of the elements has not been shaken, although
hydrogen has been liquefied and solidfied, and found
to be similar in appearance to frozen water ; and
in it we have, owing to the enormously low temperature
of solid hydrogen, a new weapon for further investigation.
