BY THOMAS P. LUCAS, M.R C.S. 9S
TEERAHNA, NOV. GEN.
Head smooth, scaled. Tongue well developed. Palpi
recurved, second joint surrounded by a brush or plume fan
hiding stalk, terminal joint longer than second, cylindrical.
Thorax very hairy underneath. Abdomen moderate. Posterior
tibiiB densely clothed with long hairs, spurs well developed.
Forewings narrow, elongate, 3 and 4 connate, 5 absorbed, 6 and
7 stalked, 8 to costa. Hindwings very narrow, 8 anastoming
with cell, wing elided before middle contracted ^ and gradually
narrowing to apex, 5 wanting. Cilia very long. Antennae
liliform long finely serrulate, basal joint elongate truncate.
Teerahna is the native name for a corrobboree or tribal social
meeting.
TEERAHNA REGIFICA NOV. SP.
$ 24 v{ ]}{. Head iron grey, marked with metallic.
Palpi whitish ochreous, first segment barred with black ; second
segment with fringe or brush of scales, black and white annu-
lated ; third segment as long as second, barred with black on
under surface and faintly on upper side. Thorax rich chocolate
fuscous, bordered posteriorly on either side with long fuscous
hairs. Abdomen fuscous, with a dorsal chocolate line, and
laterally a line of interrupted chocolate dots. Forewings narrow,
elongate, costa gently wavy, apical fourth rounded, apex acute,
hindmargin obliquely rounded, inner margin with very long
cilia, rich chocolate fuscous, with veins deep black. Forewings,
with a well defined fuscous line on edge of costa to f costa ; a
subcostal band of deep black from base to h costa and with costal
line encloses a bluish white band freely irrorated with fine black
specks ; streaks of this bluish white similar to costal band
between veins which end in costa and hindmargin ; a rich
chocolate band from base for half breadth of wing extends along
inner margin to ^, it is bordered and blotched with deep black,
and divides to median and inner marginal difi:'usions, which
surround the black veins as they branch from cell ; this black
basal patch is bordered toward costa by an indistinct band of
bluish white, irrorated with black, but a like band is very
distinct on middle third of inner margin. Cilia deep fuscous,
darker in middle. Hindwings attenuate, elongate, deep fuscous,
with a bronzy tinge. Cilia as forewings. One specimen at
light, May Orchard, Brisbane.
WOORDA, NOV. GEN.
Head smooth. Tongue well developed. Palpi ascending,
second joint with short adpressed hairs, third joint as long as
