91 QUEENSLAND I.KPIDOPTERA
second, cylindrical. Antennae filiform, ciliate. Thorax with
tufts of hair laterally and posteriorly. Abdomen moderate.
Forewings elongate lanceolate, veins 2 and H stalked, .5 wanting,
S to apex. Hindwingh' M and 4 stalked, ;; wantintj, 6
closely parallel with 4 near margin, 8 approaching 7 beyond
middle. Woorda is the native name for a kangaroo, from Kan-
garoo land.
WOORDA AQUOSA, NOV. SP-
^ IG T^\- Head ochreous. Palpi and antennae fuscous.
Thorax fuscous irrorated with smoky black, and shading
to ochreous posteriorly. Abdomen ochreous fuscous, grey
laterally underneath. Forewings narrow, costa nearly straight,
hind margin obliquely rounded, blackish fuscous, splashed
with grey and creamy brown dashes and markings. Forewings
with a narrow median ochreous white or creamy band, from base
to just before the half of wing, nearer to costa, thence diffused
and mixed with grey, gives off spurs to costa, irrorated with
bluish specks ; a submedian line of grey and blue specks from
base, and suffused with bluish to ^ inner margin ; a small
white discal dot in middle subtended from median band, a
suffused area of light fuscous brown from three-fourths, passing
in streaks to anal angle, and again more or less sparingly to
hind margin, and a wider belt to ^ costa; costal area more
or less irrorated with lines or spots of fuscous ; a discal
dot near middle in black band. Cilia fuscous with black diffu-
sions. Hindwings smoky grey, becoming lighter toward base
and inner margin, darker on veins ; a hind margiuskl dark
fuscous fine line. Cilia light fuscous. May Orchard, Brisbane.
WULLABURRA, NOV. OEN.
Head loosely scaled. Tongue not well developed. Palpi
short subascending, cylindrical. Antennae filiform, long, basal
joint elongate, tufted. Thorax smoth scaled, hairy beneath.
Abdomen moderate. Posterior tibife clothed with very long
hairs, spurs moderately developed. Forewings narrow elongate,
5 wanting, 7 from 8, 8 to costa. Hindwings narrow, 8 connateor
anastoming with celle obliquely elongate before half wing, thence
narrowing to apex, 5 wanting. Cilia long. Wullaburra is a
native name for the '\Voomera.
WULL.VBURRA NIGROMEDIA, NOV. SP.
^ 20 i)\.R' Head ochreous grey, face ochreous. Palpi
ochreous on under side, fuscous above. Antennae fuscous, with
rosette of fuscous grey hairs at base. Thorax grey, dorsum
