11 REPORT OF THE COUNCIL.
Thirteen new members were elected during the year, A
list of these is given in Appendix C.
It is with deep regret the Council has to record the loss
by death of two members, viz., Dr. J. N. Waugh and Mr. A. -J.
Norton. The former did some excellent work while connected
with the Philosophical Society, which was incorporated with this
Society in 1884. Mr. Norton was for many years one cf our
most zealous members, and acted as Hon. Librarian during the
years 1895, 1896, and part of 1897, when he resigned office on
account of his removal to Childers.
The Council desires to express its thanks to the Govern-
ment, through the Hon. the Chief Secretary, for again placing
at the disposal of the Society a similar endowment to that
granted the previous year.
During the current year the Library has been enriched by
numerous and valuable donations. The Societies and Institutions
on our exchange list now number 170. It will be noticed that the
wish expressed in former reports, that a sum should be placed aside
eiach year for binding books, has this year been realised. About
350 volumes have been bound, and it is intended that this good
work shall be continued. It has also been arranged to have
glass doors fixed to the book-shelves as a protection against dust.
The Coimcil, having found that the want of a good lantern
was a drawback to the success of the meetings, purchased iin
instrument from Messrs. Ross it Co., Ltd., one of the leading
makers of Great Britain, which has given highly satisfactory
results. To further increase the usefulness of the lantern a
projective microscopic attachment has been ordered. Thanks
are due to Mr. A. G. Jackson for having so ably performed the
duties of Honorary Lanternist.
By reference to Appendix D it will be seen that the finances
of the Society are in a healthy state. The Council regrets that
certain subscriptions for 1900 have not been paid, and hopes that
the current year will prove an exception in this particular, as
neglect of these debts of honour means a loss of Government
subsidy, which is paid at the rate of £1 for every £1 received in
subscriptions.
The scheme for the publication of an International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, which originated with the
Royal Society of London, has recently made great progress,
and it has been arranged that the issue of the Catalogue will
begin this year. The Government has on several occasions
