PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS, Vll
.The adoption of the Report was moved by the Hon.
A. Norton, seconded by Mr. F. Whitteron, and carried.
The President then delivered the following address : —
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Life, Chiefly Bacterial.
Life! — What is it? and Whence came it? These questions
have pazzled the philosophers of the mental and natural schools,
and the answers are not yet.
We see life ; we may think we know it ; but we fail to
define it.
Lite has been described as a condition of matter — " If
one substance exhibits the property of combustibility, it burns ;,
if another, on being stretched, returns to its original size, it is
elastic ; and if a third presents dififerentiated growth, involving
assimilation and excretion, or exhibits contractility and
sensibility, it lives."
Spencer's definition is well known, but is cumbersome,
unsatisfactory, and not likely to be popular : — " the definite
combination of heterogeneous changes, both simultaneous and
successive, in correspondence with external co-existences and
sequences."
Beclard's " Organisation in Action" is short and crisp and
as explicit as present knowledge warrants.
What of the seed that has for centuries, or tens of them,
lain hid in the mummy sarcophagus and has then fallen " into
good ground and brought forth fruit ? " Was it alive all the
years or had it only the power of living?
And the replies to the second question are as vague. If our
earth was formed, as astronomers declare, from the molecular
Fnttiflc, whirled oft" as a ringed and molten mass from the'
System's centre ; and if, from the testimony of the rocks,
geologists agree with the theory of a molten birth ; and that,
with due regard to the eft'ects of a glacial period, the cooling
now is only of the crust and the internal fires are still raging,
the Earth uiast have passed through eons of time and cooled
down to something like its present temperature, before it was
fitted to support life, or at least such life as we now know, for
this yields readily to heat ; the boiling point upheld for a few
minutes is destructive of most organisms, while the most
resistantt endospores cannot withstand a temperature of 800" F.
