V311 BY .1.
The Earth then was sterile, and sterile it must have remained,
until by its physical conditions it could sustain life, and then
life came, but how ?
Of the theories presented to us, four may be referred to.
1st. " Life originated under conditions beyond the sphere
of scientific inquiry — A spiritual influx."
2nd. "Organisms or germs of organisms were brought to
the earth by meteorites from elsewhere." And, as " it has been
estimated that as much as a hundred tons weight of .then)
(meteorites) are encountered by the earth every day and fall
upon its surface," Lord Kelvin, who supported this theory,
certainly had something to go upon.
8rd. '• Life, like matter and energy, had no origin but is
eternal, else it and they must have arisen out of nothing." If
this be true, the life referred to must have been utterly different
from any we now know or can possibly imagine.
4th. " Living matter evolved itself from matter which was
not living as the outcome of unexplained processes of up-
building or synthesis." This somewhat harmonises with ihe
theory of evolution.
But of a surety, knowledge lingers. An unknown but very
matter of fact writer declares, " Definitions of Life are useless
from our utter ignorance of the nature and the conditions we
attempt to define."
Assuming that the Earth was inoculated with life, was that
primeval, primordial, pat of protoplasm responsible for all life as
we know it? Through the countless ages, and by processes of
selection, survival, and evolution, have the animal and vegetable
kingdoms and the dry land, the sea and the air, found their
denizens '? Or do fresh inoculations occur '? Do new forms of
life spring into existence ? Is there such a thing as spontaneous
generation '?
" For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog," so said
Hamlet, and this expressed the theory of his day. Bacon
believed that mites in cheese and maggots in flesh were the
results of putrefaction ; in fact, that the lower forms of animal
life were due to putridity — a mors janua vitse — a life for a death
— a phoenix arising from tbe ashes of its past.
In 1660 Francesco Redi published his " Experiences," and
demonstrated that maggots were the larvae of the common blow-
fly. He practically taught what is now called Biogenesis, and
came under the bann of the Church for so doing, for it was held
