PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS IX
that the story of Samson, the young lion and the swarm of bees
and honey found in the lion's carcase, were divine proofs of
spontaneous generation. You remember Samson's riddle, " Out
of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth
sweetness."
For long, aye, until quite recently, scientists were divided.
There were the Biogenetics, or those who asserted that all life
was due to pre-existing life,
" Omne vivum e vivo " ;
and the Abiogenetics, who believed that under certain conditions
life could arise dc uoru — in other words, spontaneously.
This controversy waged from the days of Leeuwenhoeck,
and although the ])S held the poAver, for they had the heavier
'battalions, yet the As managed to successfully carry on a guerilla
war until about 1875, when various workers, chief amongst
whom was Tyndall, settled the matter definitely to the complete
overthrow of the theory of spontaneous generation. A full
account of his experiments — having reference to putrefaction and
infection — with some twentv-six different kinds of animal and
vegetable infusions, and the appliances '^' he made use of, will be
found in his " Floating Matter in the Air," a book I can
confidently recommend to your notice, for it is clearly, cleverly,
and popularly written.
We may fairly assume then, that life, as it is at present
known — from the hugest of beasts to the tiniest of cocci — runs
far back into prehistoric ages.
But these cocci and other micro-organisms were first viewed
by man some 225 years ago, when, in 1675, Anton Leeuwenhoeck,
a Dutch philosopher, not only made his own microscope — a
simple one — grinding and polishing its lenses, but used it to
such good purpose that he discovered and described certain
minute living entities, which are now known as bacteria,
bacilli, spirilla, and micro-cocci. He classified these as animal-
culae, but he formulated no theory as to the part they played
in the vast orchestra of Nature. Other observers followed, but
it was not until 1837, the year of our late beloved Queen's acces-
sion, that Schwann, the author of the cell theory, asserted that
fermentative processes were dependent upon the proliferation of
certain yeast plants, and that putrefaction was due " to some-
thing suspended in the air which heat was able to destroy." In
1863, Davaine demonstrated that anthrax, malignant pustule or
woolsorter's disease, was due to the presence in the blood of the
sufferer of a specific infective organism, the now well-known
