PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS Xt
III. Spirilla.- — (is-ic-i7) Include all the curved and spiral
fotnis— -Vibrios, &c.
Bacteria have also been grouped, *'^^' it can scarcely be called
classified, according to the changes they effect in the media in
which thej grow.
1. Zymogenetic, or ferment producing.
2. Pathogenetic, or disease ,,
3. Saprogenetic, or putrefaction ,,
4. Chromogenetic, or colour ,,
5. Photogenetic, or phosphorescence ,,
Zymogknetic. — To understand the conduct of some of the
ferment producing growths it is well to refer to the behaviour of
the yeast plant (of which, by the way, there are many), in the
well-known domestic processes of baking and brewing. These
processes have perhaps been known during all human time —
leaven is referred to in the Oldest of Books, and fermented
drinks of one kind or another have been quaffed by the most
savage races — and yet the scientific causes, the chemical and
vital influences at work have only recently been established.
The Yeasts (19-20-21-22) .^re half-brothers of the Moulds, the
thread-like hairy patches which grow on paste, bread, potatoes,
&c., and first cousins of the Bacteria. They, under certain
restricted conditions, sporulate, but generally they multiply by
budding, hence the name " sprouting fungi,' the daughter cell
springing from the protoplasm of the parent and then separating
and enjoying an independent life. The cells are oval, about .:i,r„,T
of an inch in length, and they proliferate so readily, it has been
calculated that one solitary cell in 48 hours will be responsible
for something over 35,000— -(35,378 Engel). And an important
change — fermentation — is taking place in the medium in which
this enonjjous growth occurs. Let it be a saccharine one ; the
complex substance — sugar — is broken up ; alcohol is produced ;.
car])(inic acid gas given ofi' and heat generated. One molecule
of grape sugar may be resolved, theoretically, during the act of
fermentation into two molecules of alcohol and two molecules of
carbon dioxide. '^3'
Grape Sn^-ar (IHO) Alcohol (2 x 46) Carbon Dioxide (2 x 44)
^rH,,0^ = 2~{C^,R^) X ^(CO^
or roughly, two parts by weight of sugar yield one of alcohol.
In Baking, something analogous to this — panary ferment-
ation — takes place. Given flour or meal ; leaven or yeast ; water
containing salt ; with a sul^cient temperature and a sufficient time
