PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS XV
bodies, Avoultl soon cut oft" the food supply of new plants and
animals ; life would be impossible, because the work of death
would be incomplete ; or, as Pasteur puts it, because thfe return
to the atmosphere and to the mineral kingdom, of all that which
has ceased to live, would be totally suspended."
While the poisonous products of bacterial action on living
material are, as already stated, termed t(i.n>is .- similar products,
due to micro-organic decomposition of dead material, are known
as ptonitiiiies or cadaveric alkaloids, and many of these have
been separated and experimented with, and putrid infection, or
better, iitoxiainea poisoning, is by no means uncommon, and is,
in general, due to the consumption of tainted meats, tinned
foods, &c.
Chromogenetic, or Colour-forming bacteria, are organisms
which during their growth, elaborate or secrete colour stuff. Expose
a boiled potato, or some bread, or other farinaceous article, to the
air of any ordinary room for a few days, and colonies— as they
are termed — of various moulds, yeasts, and bacteria will develop,
and the colours of these may be very various. A bright blood
red patch may be seen, this is a growth of the JJacillns pnxli-
f^iosm, a micro-organism having remarkable characteristics : some-
times its appearance is prevalent ; in Paris, in 1848, it attacked
the bread in the military bakehouses. It has not infrequently
been found on the sacred wafer, and by its sanguine colour has
given rise to the appearance known as the " bleeding host," a
phenomenon taken advantage of by the m iracle monger to appall
the ignorant and superstitious crowd. As Fraenkel says, "All
the cases of miraculous blood-covered bread, weeping hosts, &c.,
which are reported, may be safely referred to this bacterium, as
may also those in. which the reddening of bread was supposed to
result from diseased corn, and the reddening of milk from a
special^ disease of the cows."
Colours, other than red, maybe produced: — Yellow, by various
kinds of Sarcincp. '*'') Yellowish green to blue by the Jiacillus
Pyoeyaneiis, which discolours the pus and bandages of a wound,
making them blue; and the BociUus of blue milk, the
B. ('[janoiimm. Purple to violet by the Hacillus Violaccus,
or lanthinus. '48) Red by the Hocillns Indicus. <«) This
is historic. — It derives its name from its having been
found by Koch in the intestines of an Indian monkey when
he was in India, seeking the cause of cholera. It has the
faculty of resisting for a long time various deleterious in-
fluences. For instance, a small quantity of potato culture
