XVI HY .1. THOMSON, M.B.
grown in India, was laid between blotting paper, and 'in
this state sent to Germany in a letter. This letter on its way
was subjected to all the measures employed by the sanitary
police of the different countries through which it passed for
disinfecting the mails coming from cholera districts. It was
perforated and fumigated with chlorine and sulphur according
to the postal regulations, but the first experiments made at the
Imperial Health Office in Berlin, at once showed that the vitality
of the bacteria had suffered no harm whatever from all these
operations. — Fraknkel.
A somewhat remarkable organism is the Bacillmt Fiifuruns, ^^
so named from the extraordinary twists and convolutions, which,
on plate cultivations, give rise to fantastic ffgures and patterns;
these shapes <5^' are all built up of definitely arranged parallel
rods with all the regularity of bonded brickwork, in which, how-
ever, all the bricks are stii'trhfis.
Pigment formation seems to depend —
1. On the nature and consistence of the medium — preferably
a solid one.
2. On the presence of air and oxygen — preferably both,
8. On the temperature — warmth dispels colour.
4, On the activity of light. Sunlight may prevent or
bleach.
PhOTOGENETIC, or the OR(iAXISMS WHICH GH'E RISE TO PHOS-
PHORESCENCE. — On a dark night it is possible to read one's watch
by the light of the waters as the boat and her impelling oars stir
them up to glint and glow with phosphorescent pallor. This
luminosity is produced by some half-dozen light producing
bacteria. Lite PJidto-Jincteriuxi PhosphoresifHK — Flu)j<ieri —
Fischeii — Bidticnui — buUvuin — (luit Luinvioxiim. But not
alone water, meat and fish, while decomposing, may also phos-
phoresce, and the effect is said to be due to active oxidation.
Benign, Useful or Friendly Bacteria. — It is rather
unfortunate that the public should associate bacteria with
disease — in fact, view them as synonymous terms. There
may be some reason, for undoubtedly the practitioner with
his everlasting quest for the germ-proof of his patient's indis-
position is largely responsible for this limited and partially
erroneous belief.
That we have foes — foes treacherous and implacable —
amongst these tiny organisms is certain ; but we have also friends,
trusty and reliable, humble, perhaps, and unobstrusive, but per-
severingly working together for our general welfare. To the
