XVm BY J. THOMSON, M.n.
inevitable that the different kinds of bacteria will produce
different results as to flavour and grade in the fermenting
processes."
The effects of other friendly bacteria are seen in the
*' retting " of the linen and the jute trades ; the preparation of
indigo and the curing of opium.
But another, a more recent, and, if successful, perhaps the
most important of all the friendly aids which man receives from
lowly life, is the bacterial treatment of sewage. '•''■•^' The disposal
of the sewage of cities has been one of the conundrums the
sanitary engineer or expert has had to wrestle with since cities
first began. It is unnecessary to enumerate the various schemes,
more or less successful which have been adopted for all the
various conditions of differently situated towns. In most or all
of these there has been some one weak or defective spot (even if
only an economic one) apparent to and claiming the attention of
the authorities, and they, calling in the aid of the scientist
have been informed of " the utilisation of bacteria in the treat-
ment of sewage," as proposed by Scott Moncrieft" in 1892. The
scheme, in fair detail, but somewhat too lengthy to quote in full
to-night, appears in an able paper on " Sewerage and Health,"
read by Dr. Mailler Kendall, JNledical Adviser to the Sydney
lioard of Waterworks, at the Brisbane Session of the Inter-
colonial Medical Congress of Australasia, in September, 1899.
And this bacterial treatment of sewage or as it is referred to as
" simply allowing Nature to fulfil her function by means of
bacteria," is also described in " Bacteria," one of the volumes of
The Progressive Science Series, 1899, and the works at Exeter are
explained and plans shown.
If the proinise of the present be supported by the experience
of the future, Science, for the problem has been carefully worked
out on Chemico-Vital lines, will have scored one of its very
biggest successes.
I have said nothing of the numbers in all the classes of
, bacterial varieties — it is impossible — they are " As the sand
which is by the sea shore, innumerable ; " and it is almost
equally impossible to refer to tli u- r.ipi lity of multiplication,
but as I quoted Engel on yeast, 1 may be excused for mentioning
Cobn on bacteria.
He calculated that a single germ could produce by simple
fission two of its kind in one hour, in the second hour these
would be multiplied to four ; and in three days they would, if
their surroundings were ideally favourable, form a mass which
