PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS XIX
can scarcely be reckoned in numbers ; or if reckoned, could
scarcely be imagined — 4,772 billions, — and these would weigh no
less than 7,500 tons. Fortunately for us, long before the oft'-
spring reach even into the millions, their rate of multiplication
is checked either by lack of food or by the accumulation of their
own secreted products which are injurious to them.
Nor have I referred to the life history of these organisms nor
the artificial methods of cultivating them and keeping their
strain pure. That can be seen daily — and it is well worth
seeing — in the Bacteriological Laboratory, an Institution of
which we in Queensland may very well be proud.
I know I undertook a very large order when I christened
my address ; and now, too late, I am aware I have not been
able to complete my contract, but at least I have submitted
some scattered specimens of what ought to be, and if from
these you can realise the dynamics of a microscopic world and
appreciate the obligations we are under to lowly life in its most
elementary form, the past hour has not been spent in vain.
I cannot help thinking that bacterial reductions and
decompositions are the real mills of God, referred to by
Longfellow : —
Though the mills of God grind slowly,
Yet they grind exceeding small ;
Though with patience He stands waiting,
With exactness grinds He all.
REFERENCES.
1, Angell: Wine ; 2, Bennett: Physiolor/y ; 3, Chamber's Encyclopcedia:
articles, Life, and Spontaneous Generation : 4, Conn : The Story of Germ
Life; 5, Crookshank : Bacteriology; G, Drinkwater : Bread; 7, Durie :
Beer and Brewing ; 8, Fraenkel : Bacteriology ; 9, Frankland : 0)ir Secret
Friendx and Foea ; 10, Green : Birtli and Growth of WorUU ; 11, Griffiths :
Micro-Organ is nifi ; 12, v. Jaksch : Clinical Diagnosis ,- 13, Kendall : Seicerage
and Health ; 14, Kanthack : The General Pathology of Infection, Allbutt\-^
System of Medicine, Vol. 1 ; 15, Muir and Kitchie : Bacteriology; 16, New-
man: Bacteria, Progressire Science Series ; 17, Sims Woodhead : /jflc/crfffl
and their Products; 18, Tyndall: Floating Matter in tite Air.
