XVI. PRKSIDKXTIAL ADDRESS.
to fraud. It is now about twenty years past, in 1H7H, when
scientitic interest was awakened by the experiments, then beinj,'
carried out by Cailletet of Paris and Pictet of (reneva, in
the liquefaction of the gaseous elements. Very little havinj^
been done since the time of Faraday. Up to that date, although
a number of the more dense gases were liquefied by him,
some five or six resisted all atteiupts and ingenuity of the time,
and some of these were looked upon as being beyond the pos-
sibility of liquefaction, so were thought to be permanent gases,
until Pictet demonstrated the fact by liquefying oxygen and so
upsettingthetheory of permanency. He reasoned that if permanent
gases are not capable of liquefying, we must conclude that their
atoms do not attract each other, and this does not conform to
the law of cohesion. Since the time of these researches and ex-
periments, gas compression and liquefaction has become a large
industry. It has completely revolutionised the aerated water
manufacturing, and a large business is done in compressed
ammonia for the frozen meat trade, compressed oxygen and
hydrogen, both for lighting and inflating military balloons, and
nitrous oxide so familiar to those who have occasion to visit the
dentist. Hydrogen, as was to be expected, being the lightest
element, was the last of the gases to yield, and it is to Professors
Dewar and Ramsay that we owe much for their labors in that
direction. Hydrogen has not only been liquefied but frozen
solid. Much speculation was indulged in as to what solid
hydrogen would be like, it was expected by some to be metallic
in appearance, something like mercury, but it turns out to be
very much like ordinary ice, its temperature being 247° below
zero Centigrade, or 26' above absolute zero, it boils at 238" below
zero, or 35^ above absolute zero. Air at once liquefies and
freezes on the outside of a tube containing boiling hydrogon, the
exact temperature not yet being definitely settled^ owing to the
difficulty of constructing a reliable thermometer, but these figures
are very nearly true. Absolute zero being 273° Cent, below zero,
the certainty of there being a real zero was deduced from the
fact that a regular rise or fall in the temperature of a gas, pro-
duces a corresponding increase or decrease in the volume, and
when it was noted' that a gas could be doubled in volume by
raising the temperature from the artificial zero, of the Centigrade
scale, to 273° Cent, the converse result was apparent. Hence, it
was pointed out that if a rise in temperature of 273'' Cent., would.
