PBESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
The adoption of the Report was moved by the Hon. A.
Norton, M.L.C., seconded by Mr. A. J. Turner, and carried.
The Election of Officers for the year 1902 then took place,
with the following result : — President, Dr. John Thomson ;
Vice-Presylent,!)!-. W. V^\ R. Love; Hon. Treasure/, Hon. A.
Norton, M.L.C. ; Hon. Secretar;/, J. F. Bailey; Hon. Librarian,
R. Illidge ; MemherK of Council, A. G. Jackson, C. J. Pound, J.
Shirley, B.Sc. ; J. W. Sutton, and F. Whitteron ; Hon. Auditor^
A. J. Turner.
The retiring President (Mr. W. J. Byram) then delivered
an address, entitled ♦' Recent Aspect of the Cell Theory."
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Recent Aspect of the Cell Theory.
The history of science presents numerous instances of
theories which have, for the time being, appeared to receive
confirmation from observed facts, and to afford a satisfactory
explanation of the phenomena involved, and which yet, on
further research and fuller scrutiny, are found to be but half-
truths, or generalisations based upon data too restricted in their
scope. This resting for the time being upon defective induc-
tions in order to obtain a working hypothesis, and by recourse
to repeated experiment and observation, to draw ever nearer the
truth, is indeed the essence of the scientific method. A discip-
lined imagination has been as large a factor in the progress of
science as the most laborious research, or the most persistent
and patient observation, but the mind which has become imbued
with the scientific method is scientific even in its imaginings,
and holds all its inferences tentatively, and ready on every oppor-
tunity to subject them to the most rigorous criticism and to the
test of actual experience. This is the method which is the gate-
way to truth, and some of its most beautiful applications are
found in the phases through which the cell theory has passed
since it was first vaguely foreshadowed at the close of the seven-
teenth century, and was definitely promulgated in 1838, by the
German biologist Schleiden. The conception of this theory^
and of evolution, has created the science of biology in its modern
sense, and has changed the whole attitude of thought. It can-
not, therefore, be otherwise than of the deepest moment ta
realise what this conception was, how it has been modified by
the results of subsequent research, and to what conclusion the
most recent views are tending. The cell theory is simply the
