Vl PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
generalisation that all animals and plants consist of a cell or
cells — the lowest bein^' constituted by a single cell, and the more
complex being built up of a number of cells, either all alike and
without differentiation, or in the higher organisms modified and
adapted to subserve a variety of functions. What the cell is,
what are its contents, what is their relative importance, and
why it is the seat of life, are questions which have passed
through such changing phases that now the very word " cell " is
seen to be a misnomer based upon a half-truth, and although
the word is retained it is only because it has taken its place in
scientific nomenclature, and is now used as a term whereby to
designate the biological unit. In the latter part of the seven-
teenth century the study of plant structure led to the observation
of minute S[;aces or compartments, provided with firm walls in
some cases, empty in others, filled or partly filled with fluid
contents. These little compartments, which are so minute that
they can only be seen under the microscope, received the name
of cells, and the term cell had every appearance of appropriate-
ness, for in plants these units appear to be minute vesicles, each
surrounded by its own wall. This was the view promulgated by
Schleiden in 18B8, and he declared that plants are made up of
cells, and that their vessels are modifications of cells. ^V'hy
Schleiden reached such a conclusion will be obvious if we
examine some examples of cells. If we take, for instance, a
small portion of a seaweed and examine it microscopically under
& magnification of about 100 diameters, it will be observed that
it is built up of minute compartments, each surrounded with a
■comparatively thick wall. A similar structure is characteristic
of plants generally. The thickened cell walls are well seen if we
examine a piece of the substance known as rice paper, which is
obtained by sections of the herbaceous stem of the Chinese plant
Aralia. The cuticle of a leaf also affords a typical illustration.
Stripped off and examined under a power of about 150 diameters,
not only the cells of the epiderm are seen, but the peculiar modi-
fied cells known as guard cells, which flank the pores or stomata
of the plant. These cells, though altered in shape by their
adaptation as supports, nevertheless present the same appearance
of minute vesicles. If we make a transverse section of the leaf,
froin surface to surface, and magnify it to about the same extent,
we see the same cellular structure varying from the more com.
pact cells of the epiderm to the more expanded cells of the
interior, and a transverse section of a stem or twig presents the
same cellular formation. In the pith of a rush the cell walls
