BY J. W, SUTTON. XIX.
appreciate for the first time the comforts of a white light ;
and thus the oil lamps replaced in a great measure the
candle. But it was not until LS48, when Dr. Lyon
Playfair called attention to the oozing of petroleum from
the coal seams, then with the discovery of mineral oils
in America and Russia, which brought forth the birth of present
kerosene oil lamps, which has steadily improved until it
has now about reached the climax of perfection. Prior to the
introduction of electric lighting, improvements in gas and gas-
burning were few and far between, and it was only by Act of
Parliament that gas companies were compelled to supply
consumers with an article of standard light and quality, in fact,
gas companies the world over did just what they pleased ; but
within the past sixteen years a great change has come over the
scene, electric light companies having given them a shock that
has awakened them into a new life and activity, meaning better
quality of gas, new and improved burners, and cheaper rates;
and one of the chief factors in enabling them to hold their own
is that beautiful invention now so familiar to us all, the Welsbach
incandescent mantle. This has been greatly improved since its
introduction about eight years ago, thorium being the metal
now ussd in its construction. Still, for a perfect light both for
health and comfort, the electric incandescent light stands alone ;
it takes nothing from the air and gives nothing to it, excepting
a small quantity of heat — less than any other known illuminant ;
it costs less to install, and if properly done is the safest. If the
cost could b9 brought down to that of gas, as burnt in the
Welsbach burners, it would be universally used. This brings us
now to the last and latest rival in artificial lighting, viz.,
Acetylene. It is now some seventy years past since Edmond
Davey, a relation of the great Sir Humphv'v, while ex-
perimenting in the process of the manufacture cf sodium and
potassium, noticed that a black residuum was at times formed
in the retort, which, practically had the same power of
decomposing water as potassium, only that the gas evolved by
the decomposition was, instead of being hydrogen, a compound
of that element with carbon. The proportion in which these
two elements united diftered from the composition of any
hydrocarbon then known. The material so formed in the retort
being a compound of carbon and potassium, which we know
now as potassic carbide, while the new hydrocarbon then given
