BY W. J. BYRAM. IX
is SO plastic that it undergoes many Protean changes as it
slowly creeps across the glass, beneath which it is placed for
examination. It is a remarkable fact, however, that the amagba
sometimes passes into what is known as the encysted state :
that is, it draws in all its processes, assumes an oval shape, and
secretes a cell wall. In this condition it greatly resembles a
plant cell. From such observations as these it became evident
that an error had been made in the generalisation that the cell
is an enclosed vesicle, for here we meet with the unit existing
in its ordinary state without any limiting membrane, and the
study of animal histology has disclosed the fact that, just as
vegetable cells usually possess well marked cell walls, the reverse
is the rule with animal cells, which commonly lack the cell wall
altogether. When the theory was revised in the light of these
revelations it was, of course, at once apparent, that not only
was the term "cell" a misnomer, as applied to the biological
unit generally ; but, as a large number of cells are entirely
■destitute of the cell wall, that part of the cell could not
only no longer be looked upon as the most important, but
where it exists, must be regarded as quite subsidiary.
These discoveries and consequent change of aspect in the theory
gave rise to developments which have been of the utmost
significance in the progress of biology. Biologists fixed their
attention on the cell contents, and the result was that the cell
theory entered upon a new phase, which so changed its whole
aspect, that it might almost be enunciated afresh and termed
the protoplasmic theory. In his researches Schleiden, while
assigning the primary importance to the cell wall, had not
overlooked the fact that many of the cells which he examined
contained a semi-flaid substance interspersed with granules.
To this he gave the name of plant slime. Later on this
substance was designated protoplasm, or primary formative
substance ; and it was found to possess characteristic movements,
and to be most abundant in very young cells and more scanty in
older ones. A similar glairy, contractile substance had been
observed in animal cells, and called sarcode or elementary flesh.
This substance was readily studied in the microscopic marine
animals known as radiolara and foraminifera ; for these forms
consist of single units enclosed in minute tests or shells of
carbonate of lime, and when in a state of activity they put out
their substance in the form of lengthened processes from the
numerous little pores which exist in their shells. Indeed they
seem almost to imitate the magic of Ariel, and to be able to
c
