X PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
divide themselves and act dispersedly, for in some of them
almost the whole cell substance may be withdrawn from the
shell and spread abroad in the form of minute rays, which,
nevertheless, unite in different places or inosculate, as it is termed,
and form irregular patches or reticulations. After extensive
research, two German biologists — Max Schultze and de Bary —
in 1859 demonstrated that the so called sarcode or elementary
flesh was identical with protoplasm, and although the term cell
was retained, all reference to an enclosed vesicle was discarded,
and it was simply defined as a minute portion of this substance,
protoplasm, endowed with the attributes of life. Here again,
however, biologists suffered themselves to be dominated by a
particular idea, and it led to conceptions which are now seen
to be erroneous. Protoplasm was said to be akin to the group
of complex compounds known as proteids, of which albumen,
or white of egg, is an example, and was thought by many to be
one of these compounds, and by others to be a mixture of two
or more or them. Although, therefore, observers had noticed
the minute oval or elongated body in the cell, known as the
nucleus, and had not overlooked the appearance of minute
granules interspersed through the protoplasm of the cell, these
phenomena were not supposed to possess any special significance.
The protoplasm itself was conceived to be the life substance, or,
as Professor Huxley defined it, " the physical basis of life."
It was said that pure protoplasm would not show either nucleus
or granular structure, but would be perfectly homogeneous and
undifferentiated, and would have as its salient property — life or
vitality. This conception was borne out by the great strides
which were being made in chemistry. The synthetic powers of
the chemist were no longer confined to the production of the
simple inorganic compounds, but extended to the far
more complex substances which are the result of animal
and vegetable life. It was found that just as the chemist could
combine artificially two volumes of hydrogen gas with one of
oxygen, and produce by their combination the liquid — water with
all its essential characteristics just as it exists in nature, so he
could combine, for instance, hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen in
just such proportions as to produce that acrid, pungent, liquid
found naturally in the bodies of ants, and known as formic acid.
Considering protoplasm to be a very complex chemical compound,
or even a mixture of chemical compounds, it was a very natural
inference for the chemist that only its great complexity
prevented him from making it artificially, just as he had made
