BY W. J. BYRAM. XI
formic acid ; and that, just as when he succeeded in making
formic acid, it had that distinctive pungency and acidity which
characterise it in the bodies of ants, so if he succeeded in
making protoplasm it would ipso facto possess its salient
property — life. These views led to a persistent research on the
part of biologists for that perfectly homogeneous protoplasm in
which they believed, and in repeated attempts to discover the
composition of the molecule of protoplasm as an initial step
towards its artificial production, and the consequent solution of
the sublime problem of life. Such attempts resulted in some
strange misconceptions and too hasty conclusions, of which,
perhaps, the most remarkable was Professor Huxley's belief that
he had discovered the perfectly homogeneous protoplasm, for
which all were seeking, in a collection obtained by deep sea
soundings during the cruise of the exploring ship Challenger.
As the result of these observations, Huxley stated that the
bottom of the ocean was covered with a diffused mass of
protoplasm, so homogeneous that it did not display any cell
structure, and showed no trace of a nucleus or granulation.
Huxley called this supposed diffused protoplasm Bathybias, or
" deep-sea life substance." Coming from so acute an observer
and so high an authority, this announcement was received with
the keenest interest, and it was believed that the chemical
protoplasmic theory had won the day. But the subsequent
analysis of this deep-sea deposit showed it to have no connection
with life or protoplasm, but to be simply a mineral precipitate,
and Huxley, true to his principles of sincerity and candour, was
the first to proclaim his error. The history of science is full of
similar misconceptions, and, far from being a theme for regret,
we must recognise that they are but the result of the imagina-
tion, which is a salient element in the scientific method,
outstripping that unwearied observation and research which
alone can act as its corrective, and restrain it within serviceable
limits. But the demonstration of the error of Bathybias led
biologists to revise the theory and to examine the cell or
elementary unit with increased care and caution. There is in
the cell a minute oval or elongated body, which has received the
name of the nucleus. While the early observers looked upon
this body as a mere insignificant adjunct — a little piece of
protoplasm somewhat denser than the rest — biologists now
began to pay increased attention to it, and the result was that
nucleii were discovered in cells which had previously been
deemed to be devoid of them. The nucleus was then discovered
