Xll
PRESIDIiNTIAL ADDRESS
to be directly concerned in the vital activity of the cell. Proofs
of this were abundantly forthcoming. For instance, on many
ponds you will observe tangled masses of green slimy substance
known as spirogyra. When some of this is removed and
examine-J microscopically, it is found to consist of long filaments
consisting of cells united end to end, and through each cell mns
a beautiful spiral green band. If the contents of the cell are
examined through the opening of this spiral, the nucleus will be
observed, and passing to it from the walls of the cell are strands
of protoplasm. The nucleus gradually shifts its position and
traverses the cell, carrying with it the protoplasmic strands
Moreover, if the filaments are kept .inder observation for
some time, it will be found that at times two of them approach
each other and lie side by side. Then canals are put out by
the cells on one side and unite with those on the other, and the
contents of the cells on one side are poured through these into
the cells on the other. Then comes the significant fact • the
two nucleii approach each other and finally coalesce. A spore is
formed by the union of the contents of the two cells, and by the
coalescence of the two nucleii is formed the germinal nucleus of the
spore. Again, if we study -for an hour or two such an animalcule as
the vorticella-a minute infusor, just visible in the colonies of the
larger species to the naked eye, and freq.iently occurring in
ponds we find that each unit consists of a single cell, placed on a
corkscrew-hke stalk, which expands and contracts. Its structure
can be readily studied under the microscope, and the nucleus
will be at once detected. If one of the cells is kept under
examination for a sufficient time, the phenomenon of division
can be watched. After a period of active feeding and rapid
movement of its circlet of hair-like processes, or cilia, the latter
are drawn in, a cleft or groove appears at the top, the nucleus
elongates, and the cell gradually divides through the nucleus
into two complete cells, one-half of the nucleus remainina in
each. It is common, therefore, to find two cells on the same
stalk, the process not having progressed to the extent of a
separate stalk for each. But the essential point here is the
partition of the nucleus between the cells, which are formed as
the result of subdivision, and the inference which arises that the
nucleus is the centre of vital activity. That this inference is
correct has been demonstrated in a remarkable manner. A
lowly animalcule is cut in pieces under a dissecting microscope.
Some of the pieces are severed so as to include no part of the
nucleus, and others so as to contain portions of that singular
