BY W. J. BYRAM. XIU
body. The result is very striking. The pieces which include
no portion of the nucleus continue to exhibit vital activities for
a time, but these soon come to an end, and death is the result.
On the other hand, the pieces which have retained portions of
the nucleus actually continue to carry on the vital activities and
to assimilate food and grow, as if no such partition had been
made. Here then, at once, we have a new restatement of the
cell theory. It is not the cell wall which is the essential
element, as Schleiden and Schwann thought, the protoplasmic
contents are not the all-in-all, as the observers which followed
them stated ; but, as far, at any rate, as the powers of food
assimilation, growth, and reproduction are concerned, the
nucleus is an all -important factor. But this discovery was
attended by another. The improvement in microscopes and
microscopical methods enabled observers to see that proto-
plasm is not by any means homogeneous or structureless,
and the former idea, that it is a chemical compound or
mixture of such, having life as its attribute, is aban-
doned, for protoplasm is found to consist of an infinitely
delicate network of slender fibres, forming a reticulated
material, which is interspersed with very minute granules known
as microsomes, and this network is filled with a transparent
fluid. It is therefore apparent that, as in the term " cell," the
essential idea to which the name " protoplasm " was given, has
actually vanished, and the name is only retained to designate
this conjunction of a filamentous network, and clear liquid,
which constitute part of the constituents of the biological unit.
Another complete change of conception has resulted from recent
research, for the nucleus itself instead of being, as was formerly
thought, a minute speck of protoplasm rather more dense than
that which surrounds it, is found to be a distinct element, itself
an intricate complex different in composition and with activities
peculiar to it, but co-operating with the reticulated mass and
fluid constituents. Within late years the structure of the nucleus
has been studied with great care. It is found to consist of a
membrane, which separates it from the surrounding cell sub-
stance, but this membrane is a variable characteristic, for it is
sometimes absent, and usually disappears as a preliminary to
subdivision. The nucleus, too, has been shown to contain dis-
tinct substances. There is a network, or framework, of the most
delicate nature in the nuclear cavity, to which the name " linin ''
has been given ; there is a nuclear sap, and a distinct proteid
substance which is the preponderating material both in quantity
