XIV
PRESIDKNTIAI. AOIJRES.S
and importance. This constituent is known as "nuclein"or
-chromatin," the lattername being given to it on acco.mt of
Its takmg a very deep stain when subjected to staining reagents-
The nuucleus not only plays a most important part in the life o^
the cell, but it is that portion of the cell which passes from one
generation to another, and in ihis process the chromatin is an
active agent. In cell subdivision one-half of it becomes appor-
tioned to each of the resulting cells, and it is the medium of
the momentous phenomenon of heredity. Besides, the nucleus
microscopists have within late years detected in the cell and
lying near the nucleus, another small body so minute that ii was
overlooked until the efficiency of modern instruments disclosed
It. This body, which has been called the - centrosone," apoears
to exercise a controlling influence upon the vital phenomena
for around it the protoplasmic granules are found to be arranged
in rays, as if the lines of force radiated from it. This centro-
some generally soon divides into two, and is found reduplicated
thus presenting the appearance of two minute stars. The precise
function of this body and the nature of its action are at present
not understood, but in cell division it appears to be the mechan-
ism which controls the process and regulates the apportionment
of the chromatin between the resulting new cells. It will now
be at once realised how completely the cell theory has been
modified since the days when it was usual to talk about proto-
plasm as a homogeneous chemical compound, bavin- for its
attribute that property of being alive. To look at the" delicate
framework of fibres, studded with granules and filled with clear
liquid, the complicated nucleus, with its network, and chromatin
threads, and nucleolus, and the strange rayed body known as the
centrosome lying near it, is to prepare the mind for th5
recent enunciation of the cell theory, which is so unlike the old
doctrine that nothing but the words remain, and they remain
only because without creating any particular confusion they have
acquired a new signification. The cell theory may now be con-
cisely stated thus : Just as the steam engine is a machine for
the production of motion, or the dynamo is a machine for the
production of electricity, so the cell is an infinitely subtle and
delicate machine, the resultant of whose working is life. This
IS a novel and startling deduction, but so consonant with all the
observed phenomena and with the structure of the cell that it '
becomes a far more efficient hypothesis than any which have
preceded it. So completely have the old views under-one
modification, that it has even been questioned lately that" the
