BY W. J. BYRAM. XV
higher organisms are aggregates of independent units, for in
many cases protoplasmic strands have been detected passing
from cell to cell. It has, therefore, been suggested that the
so-called multicellular animals and plants are complexes of a
multitude of nucleated centres all in vital inter-connection — the
one with the other. These inferences are not established, and,
if they were, they do not affect the hypothesis that the cell units
are delicate life machines. It is apparent that in unicellular
animals and plants the unit exists j)t'r se, and in many instances
cells detached from multicellular animals and plants can con-
tinue their life either indefinitely or for a time. The ciliated
epithelial cells, which may be obtained by scraping a frog's
throat, have all the appearance of infusorial animalcubf. They
are nucleated cells, and, when detached, they can swim about for
a time by means of their processes, and lead an independent life.
Again, in the zoophytes, — those minute organisms which are
found in rock pools left by the receding tide — each unit, or
" zooid," as it is called, although in organic connection with the
stalk, which is the common base of all, and thus united with the
others in a colony, is a distinct animalcule, and may be detached
and live a separate life. The volvox globator affords another
example of the inter-connection of the cell units. It is a minute
colony of plant cells, united so as to form a bright green globule,
just visible to the naked eye, moving through the water in which
it lives by means of the combined ciliary action of the cells. If
while under examination, the cells are carefully focussed with
the fine adjustment of the microscope, they are found to be
united, giving rise to a delicate hexagonal appearance over the
surface of the sphere. But it will be found that certain of the
cells enlarge and subdivide, and finally detach from the mother
sphere internally, and by repeated subdivisions develop into new
spheres. Thus, while there is an inter-connection of cells
in the multicellular plants and animals, and it is probably a
misconception to regard such organisms as mere cell aggregates
or complex groups of independent units, it would be no less a
misconception to consider that the significance of the unit had
disappeared. We might as well declare that because we have a
centre of social activity in Sydney and another in Brisbane, the
connection of the two by a line of railway obliterates the
position of both as independent communities. In accordance,
therefore, with the hypothesis which now prevails, the cell is a
very delicate piece of mechanism of vast complexity. It is
supplied with fuel in the shape of nutrient material, and by the
