XVI PRESIDENTIAL ADDKESS
action of the oxygen of the air this fuel is oxidised or burnt up ;
the mechanism consequently does work ; complex chemical
changes take place ; and the ultimate resultant is life, manifested
by the essentially vital phenomena of movement, irritability)
metabolism, or the power of converting the altered nutrient
material into its own likeness and reproduction. The pheno-
mena of movemement and irritability can be exhibited by that
part of the mechani.^m which we still called protoplasm, even if
it is deprived of the nucleus, but metabolism and reproduction
are essentially functions of the nucleus — that wonderful machine
within a machine — which not only insures the continuance of
life in the unit itself by enabling it to assimilate and grow, but'
which, by the agency of its marvellous constituent, chromatin,
is the source of the bewildering problems of heredity. Besides
its momentous and, at present, inscrutable resultant — life or
vitality — the working of the cell creates a laboratory of the most
intricate chemical changes, and gives rise to by-products of such
vast importance that without them the whole range of plant life,
and consequently of animal life, would be at an end. For
instance, in the filaments of spirogyra we saw a spiral band,
which is made up of beautiful light green granules, and each
cell in the volvox displays the same green substance. This
product of cell activity, known as chlorophyll, is the source of
green colouring of plants, and is the agent by which, under the
influence of sunlight, they are enabled to assimilate carbon
direct from the air by decomposing the carbonic acid gas present
in it. Without chlorophyll plant life could not exist, and
without plant life animal life would cease. There is another
product of cell action which is scarcely less important. If we
cut a thin section of potato and examine it under the microscope,
we find the cells of which it is composed filled with minute
grains, which, if carefully focussed, exhibit a fine, scarcely
perceptible lamination. If we have a polarizing apparatus on
our instrument, and observe these granules under polarised
light, each becomes marked with a dark cross. Thi? phenomenon
tells us that we are looking at the starch granules which
give the potato its flowery quality and nutrient properties.
The cell, then, according to the most recent theory, is an intri-
cate piece of mechanism — a life-engine — whose parts are admi-
rably adapted to the production of vitality. If it is asked
whether this theory brings us any nearer to answering the
question, " What is life ? " the answer must not only be in the
negative, but it must be at once admitted that we are further
