XX. PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
to the world, was a compound of 24 parts by weight of carbon,
with 2 of hydrogen, which we now call Acetylene. Twenty
years later the French chemist, lierthelot, made a series of
researches on this gas and proved that as the electric arc passed
between carbon electrodes in an atmosphere of hydrogen, direct
combination took place between small particles of both elements
and thus Acetylene was synthetically produced, and so it was
Berthelot who gave it its name, and as such it remained until
1862, when the (ierman chemist, Wrihler, discovered that on
fusing an alloy of zinc and calcium at a high temperature with
carbon, a compound of carbon and calcium was formed, now
known as calcium carbide, and showed that this body in
contact with water, gave I'ise to Acetylene gas, so it may
be said that with this year 1K62, through thelabours of Berthelot
and Wohler, it was understood and placed in the list of rat©
chemicals, and as such it remained for thirty years until 1H92.
Then commenced the present era of activity in the history of
Acteylene, which brings it forth from a condition of a rare
chemical to that of a commercial article, destined to play no
small part in the world of commerce. About this period Wilson
of Canada, experimenting with the electric furnace, noticed the
formation of calcic carbide under certain conditions, and he
prepared a large quantity, by direct fusing of lime and carbon.
The process being simple when the desired heat can be obtained,
and the introduction of the electric furnace gives us a mean to
that end, lime being a most refractory substance is mixed with
coke in a suitable crucible, and a powerful arc set up therein^
metallic calcium isr formed which innuediately unites with the
surplus carbon, and produces carbide of calcium, it being very
much like in appearance to greyish crystalline lime stone, lib.
of which should produce five cubic feet of gas, giving a light for
five hours equal to 240 candles. Calcium carbide on being
brought in contact with water, a change of elemerts takes place,
the carbon unites with the hydrogen of the water, and escapes
as acetylene, the oxygen of the water uniting with the calcium,
remains as oxide of calcium or slacked lime. The simplicity of
decomposition has brought forth hundreds of inventions of
machinery for generating the gas, of which very few are reliable
in their action, chiefly owing to the want of technical knowledge
of their designers. As to the ultimate position of acetylene in
competing with coal gas as an illuminant, there can be no
