BY W. R. COLLEDGE. 21
hairs, seemingly connected with some special sense. Most
likely they are olfactory cones, or organs of smell. Insects often
have sense organs in what are to us unlikely places. For
instance, the locust has an ear on the leg. And it is not
improbable that they have senses differing from any that we
possess.
The abdomen is composed of the. usual chitinovis segments
found in insects. The dorsal aspect is of a dark brown colour,
with a narrow grey bar separating the segments, which also
extends like a stripe along the sides. This lighter portion is
capable of considerable expansion, when the eggs are enlarged
in the ovaries. Long curved hairs, black in colour, are scattered
over ihe parts, being longer in the male body. In his case the
last segment terminates in a pair of hooks called claspers, while
in the female a pair of fleshy lobes are found, which are used in
placing the eggs in position outside of the body.
Passing now into the interior of the body the most inter-
esting to us are the salivary and poison glands. These are the
organs which render the insect so noticeable and mischevious.
The mere prick of its tiny lancets would never be noticed but
for the injection of the fluid from these glands into the wound.
Two of these are found lying in the prothorax. You see one in
one of the photographs attached to the head by the poison tube,
and appearing like a tiny balloon. It only measures the four-
hundredth part of an inch in length, and takes the form of a
roundish pear. Interiorly, it is filled with granular matter
which stains readily, more especially on the circumference.
The long tube by which they are attached to the neck is ringe i
internally and expands in width as it approaches the gland. In
the mosquito the veneno salivary gland divides into three distinct
lobes, each having its own separate tubule ; but here each gland
consists of but one lobe. At its base, two tiny buds are seen,
which may possibly be the analogues of the others found in the
mosquito.
At the base of the central lancet lies the aesophagus, or
gullet, a stout muscular tube, in which, coupled with capillary
attraction, the blood-sucking power rests. Towards the lower
part it widens to unite with the stomach. This organ, when
empty, is usually found thrown into longitudinal folds, and the large
epitheiral cells with which it is lined are easily traceable through
its walls. At its lower end it slightly thickens encircling the
base by a rim, and from this spring two very long Malpighian
tubes. They lie upon the outside of the stomach, folded three
