22 NOTES ON A SPECIES OF SANDFLY
or four times up and down on account of their length. On
these, at regular intervals, large glandular cells are placed. It
is thought that these tubes fulfil functions similar to the liver
in animals.
The nervous system consist of the brain and six ganglia
united by a double cord of nerves. From each side of these
nerve reservoirs branches proceed, which ramify to different
parts of the body. The last ganglionic mass in the abdomen is
double the size of those preceeding it, as it has to supply the
organs of reproduction, as well as the neighbouring structures,
with nervous force.
With regard to the function of respiration a peculiar pro-
vision for the reception of air is found in the possession of three
air sacs. Two lie in the thorax, and the third extends like a
bag to the lower part of thf^ abdomen. They are attached to the
aesophagus near the neck. The two smaller sacs are probably
coiupensatory additions, which come into play when the
abdomen of the female is distended with eggs. Then the
pressure of its contents prevent the expansion of the main air
sac, so that it is comparatively useless for the time, (as a mitter
of fact I have generally found it almost empty) ; then the two
thoracic sacs come into play and retain air for the purposes of
lightening the specific gravity, and the respiration of the insect*
As in the case of the mosquito the air in the sacs is in the form
of minute bubbles, separated from each other by an oily film.
The sac walls are very transparent, resist most stains, and con-
tain longitudinal and transverse fibres, so that they seem
capable of contraction and expansion. The whole of the
abdominal organs are subject to a perisaltic movement. They
are slowly drawn forward and then thrust backward every few
seconds. Thus the process of digestion is aided by the food
being moved about in the intestines, and the function of respir-
ation is likewise accelerated by the air being forced through the
tracheal tubes.
In the last segment of the female are found two brown oval
organs like beans ; these are the spermathfeca, which secrete
the gum by which the eggs are united together. The mosquito
possesses three, but only two are found in the sandfly. A
slender tube passes from each into the lower bowel, so that their
contents can be brought into contact with the eggs as they pass
from the ovarian duct to be placed on the outside of the body.
The egg sacs occupy in the female a large space in the abdomen.
One is placed to the left and the other on the right. A large
