BY .T, W. SUTTON. XXI.
question that in large towns, coal gas can and Avill hold its own,
but for places beyond the limit of supply, a large field is open
to acetylene, but at present, owing to the prejudice against a
new and untried article, high rates of carriage, heavy royalties,
insufficient and intermittent supply, mitigate much against
its adoption. Still, at the present time there are about fifty
odd works running and in course of construction, with a
production of about 80,000 tons per annum, yet the demand
is far above the supply, and now as I write these notes, I
learn that a method has been devised whereby the mixing of
the gas with some inert matter, it can be sent out from the gas
holder through mains and burnt in the ordinary gas fittings.
Electro Metallurgy. — The progress of electrolysis and
electro metallurgy, has within the past few years been
very rapid and great. Electrolysis and electrolitic methods,
being now largely used in chemical analysis, in preference
to older chemical practice, it being much quicker and very
accurate, and now that we are able to transform the energy
stored in coal, into electric energy with a minimum
of loss, and also to transmit that power from sources of
cheap production, such as water power, the electrolitic
production of materials has extended enormously, in fact, it
has entirely revolutionised the chemical industry. In metallurgy
the most extensive application of electrolysis have been in con-
nection with the refining of copper from the impure matte
produced by the smelting furnace. There was in operation in
1897 five electrolitic refiners in Germany, four in France, five in
England, two in Russia, and eleven in the United States. I
have only been able to obtain the output of the American eleven
works for 1896, but it will be sufficient to show, and also what
the future will be of this comparatively new and rising industry,
made possible only by the late developments of modern dynamo
machinery. Thus from eleven works out of twenty-seven no less
than 124,000 tons of copper, 14,000,000oz?. of silver, and
70,000ozs. of gold was produced. As the process is now em-
ployed, the anode consists of the impure copper, and the cathode
of pure copper, the bath being an acid solution of sulphate of
copper. Electrolysis is also employed for the separation of nickel
from copper, and from gold, silver, and platinum. In these
cases the anodes are the matte containing the various metals,
and the cathodes are sheets of pure copper, the bath being dilute
