XXII. PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
sulphuric acid, the copper going to the cathode, the nicKel dis-
solving in the bath, while the gold, silver, and platinum, fall in
the form of sludge, the nickel being subsequently separated
electrolitically, using insoluble anodes of lead or carbon, and
cathodes of nickel. A large amount of attention has been given
to the electrolitic production of zinc. There are many difficul-
ties, however, in connection with the practical commercial ap-
plication of electricity to this metal. Its solutions are poor con-
ductors, the metal is frequently deposited in a spongy state, and
above all, the low market price of zinc renders an electrical pro-
cess almost too expensive. The process of Seimens and Halske,
and Hoepfner, have both met with some success, but the best
results so far have been obtained by the Ashcroft method, in
which a solution is obtained bv treating oxide of zinc with ferric
chloride, and electrolysed. This process has been used on a large
scale at Broken Hill, but it is not yet altogether demonstrated
that the commercial economy of any of the processes is satisfac-
tory unless the recovery of the more valuable associated metals
are included. At the present time the various processes of electro
metallurgy may fairly be considered to have passed the
experimental stage, and A'hile there are doubtless many improve-
ments to b": made, there is every possibility that in the near
future, the electrolitic tank will in very many instances
replace altogether the more primitive furnace.
Wireless Telegraphy. — Professor Oliver Lodge has said,
that at the end of the eighteenth century, the wonder was that
you should be able to signal with wires ; now at the end of this
nineteenth century, the wonder is that you should be able to
signal without wires. Telegraphing without wires has been the
dreani and aim of electricians for the past thirty years or more,
and if anyone were to ask me who discovered wireless telegraphy,
I should unhesitatingly say Professor Hughes, not that I desire
in the slightest degree to detract one iota of merit from Marconi,
whose research and ingenuity has made it a practical success,
and who deserves all the honour and merit attached thereto ;
but at the same time one cannot help sympathising with
Professor Hughes, after having' spent years of labour and
research, and actually demonstrating the fact, to be deprived of
the honour appertaining thereto. In 1879 Hughes found that
electric sparks from an induction coil or frictional machine,
acted on the surrounding medium in form of waves, the laws of
