BY PROFESSOR CROOKSHANK. 27
work of two of my former pupils. I refer to Mr. Quinnell,
who both as an instructor and an inspector has proved his ex-
ceptional ability and fitness for the post he occupies, and to
Mr. Pound, whose studies of cattle tick and other diseases of
stock have been of great value to the State. I can only regret
that in some of the scientific departments the work should be
hampered by very necessary retrenchment on the part of the
Government. Reverting for one moment to the work of the
Government Entomologist, I observe with great satisfaction
that attention is being given to the insectivorous birds of
Queensland. A few years ago I visited Jamaica and found it
suffering greatly from the destruction of birds. I was informed
that the sugar-cane plantations had been over-run with rats,
and the mongoose was imported to destroy them. The mon-
goose spread over the island like the rabbit in New South
Wales. The rats being exterminated, the poultry yards were at-
tacked and jBnally the wild birds. Small black ticks now literally
cover the vegetation in most parts of the island, and residents
and visitors suffer from their attacks. It is now almost im-
possible to walk where there is pasture or vegetation of any
kind without being infested with ticks. An attempt is being
made to restore the balance of nature, by first destroying the
mongoose and then reintroducing birds to destroy the ticks.
To avoid similar troubles, and in the interest of agriculturists
and horticulturists, it is very desirable to put a stop to the
continuous destruction of birds in Queeensland. In addition
to existing legislation something, perhaps, might be done to
prevent indiscriminate slaughter of wild birds by imposing a
gun tax. A license to carry a gun and a license to kill game
would meet with the approval of all true sportsmen and pro-
duce a substantial revenue, a part of which might be allocated
to supporting and extending the scientific departments of the
Board of Agriculture. The too sweeping destruction of trees
in clearing the scrub for cultivation of the soil, is also a matter
which I think deserves attention.
• THE TRAINING OF MEAT INSPECTORS.
I shall have occasion later on to refer to the subject of meat
inspection ; but with regard to the work of this department
of the Board, I trust that in more prosperous times the Go-
vernment will be induced to place the system of meat inspec-
tion on a more scientific footing. On studying the statistics
given by meat inspectors in the annual reports, I regret to
say, I have found them of very little scientific value. Thus
