28 SCIENCE AND THE STATE, ETC.
in one report of the carcasses of cattle inspdcted the returns
were as follows : —
" Out of 8,517 bullocks there were condemned for tuber-
culosis 62, actinomycosis, 26, cancer 4. Out of 2,573 cows the
rejections for tuberculosis were 39, actinomycosis 11, cancer 2.
Out of 11,030 tongues, the returns were tuberculosis 220,
unfit 127, actinomycosis 33, pleurisy 19, cancer Q."
In another case the following statistics are given for
tongues. Of 11,703 bullocks there were condemned for tuber-
culosis 63, actinomycosis 185, ca?icercd J air 83. Out of 5,717
cows the figures were tuberculosis 36, actinomycosis 27,
cancered jaw 6. In another series of tongues and pharyngeal
glands condemned by the inspector the results were given as
follows : — 30 per cent, tuberculosis, 60 per cent, actinomycosis,
10 per cent, ordinary abscess. You will observe that there
is no record of cancer at all in the last series, and Inspector
Quinnell states in his report that since taking charge there
had not been a single instance in his experience of an animal
being affected with cancer. I shall return to this matter
again, but is quite obvious from these reports that there is
great need for uniformity and scientific knowledge.
Complete and thoroughly scientific reports of meat in-
spection are of the highest importance to the State of Queens-
land which has to compete with the Argentine Republic and
other countries. In England and on the Continent of Europe
great importance is now attached to meat inspection, and the
country which can supply meat and meat products obtained
from carcases which have been rigidly inspected in a thoroughly
scientific manner will capture the markets. A reconstruction
of the Board of Agriculture has been suggested in the Press,
and, if this is carried out, I trust that a distinct Veterinary
Department of the Board will be created. This department
should be controlled by a scientific and practical veterinarian,
who would be responsible to the Minister of Agriculture for
all matters relating to the diseases of stock, meat inspection,
the control of public abattoirs, and the registration and inspec-
tion of dairies. Meat inspectors should be appointed, who
have undergone a special course of training. They should
hold a certificate as a guarantee to the public that they are
fully qualified for the work they undertake. To obtain this
certificate they ought to pass through a course of instruction
in anatomy, pathology, and veterinary State medicine.
Anatomy is of great value in training the mind and the eye.
