BY PROFESSOK CEOOKSHANK. 29
It is an exact science, and the mind is not disturbed by new
theories and a variety of opinions. It encourages close obser-
vation, requires an accurate memory, and trains the hands in
delicate manipulations. In pathology special attention must
be g ven to practical training in the use of the microscope for
the detection of micro-parasitic diseases. The inspector must
also have a thorough practical knowledge of sanitation ap-
plied to abattoirs, stock management, and the preparation of
meat foods ; and a sound knowledge of the legislation affect-
ing meat and dairy inspection, which will enable him to use
the powers he possseses under various Acts of Parliament.
Legislation must not, however, be regarded as the only means
of protection in all matters relating to the public health. The
public must be educated and encouraged to volunt irily carry
out sanitary measures. I have the greatest confidence in the
substratum of common-sense characteristic of the British race.
I do not believe in encouraging too much dependence upon
State regulations and State control. If I might venture to
say so, I think in Queensland too much is expected from the
Government. State control can be carried a great deal too
far. Legislation may often prove harassing and vexatious,
and the very object we have in view may be strangled in a
tangled web of red tape. Too much dependence upon State
and municipal regulations is not healthy ; it tends to destroy
individual enterprise and initiative, and may, in times of em-
ergency, produce a panic, by exposing the public to conflicting
interests and divided control, and involve a great waste of
public money.
THE SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
CONSUMPTION.
Attempts are, however, being made to deal with sanitary
reforms by voluntary effort. I refer to the formation of the
Queensland Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis. Its
main object is to educate the general public concerning the
origin and spread of tuberculosis, and to obtain co-operation
with the medical and veterinary professions. I trust that the
very influental committee will meet with the support it de-
serves, and that this society, which my friend, Mr. Thynne,
has so much at heart, will prove a success. Though there may
be points of detail in the programme with which all may not
agree, yet all should combine to help on a work, which has for
its object the cure and prevention of such a terrible disease as
consumption. I should like to see the work carried on entirely
