80 SCIENCE AND THE STATK, KTC.
by the aid of subscriptions from the public. The Government
have made a grant of £50, but is it not a mistake to apply to
the Government for help ? I would rather base the appea'
to the public for subscriptions upon the fact that it is entirely
dependent upon them, and I am sure the appeal will not be
in vain. There are only a hundred members at present, and
this is not at all an indication of the interest taken in fighting
a disease which not only involves so much suffering and dis-
tress, but perhaps more than any other appeals to human
sympathy.
BRISBANE UNIVERSITY.
There is another movement on foot in which the public
should assist in order to promote and extend scientific know-
ledge in Queensland. We have to acknowledge the necessity
for Government retrenchment, and it results in hampering
and even stopping scientific work. If farther retrenchment is
necessary, and science continues to be entirely dependent upon
the Treasury, it may be starved to death. Is there no means
of averting such a calamity "? I understand that there has been
for some time an idea of creating a University in Brisbane, and
that the scheme hangs fire, owing to the financial position of
the Government. Is this not again an instance of too much
dependence upon the State ? Let the Government by all
means be asked to give a large grant of freehold land in trust
for the University, and in more prosperous times, to give a
subsidy towards its support ; but will not private munificence
endow professorships and scientific laboratories, the expense^
of which cannot possibly be defrayed by the students' fees ?
In England, in America, and in Canada how much has been
done by private effort. Surely a commencement might be
made by an influential committee to organise the University
and to raise a sum which will enable the building to be com-
menced. A University for Birmingham, largely owing to the
influence of Mr. Chamberlain, has been commenced in this
way. It is a matter in which everyone in Queensland will
take an interest, for no country or State can hold its own, and
much less advance, unless education takes a foremost place.
In England we feel severely the competition of America and
Germany, and we are fully conscious of the fact that the
progress made by our competitors has been the outcome of
their complete system of education. We are now endeavour-
ing to meet that competition by extending scientific and tech-
nical education and by founding new universities in London
