BY PROFESSOR CROOKSHANK. 31
and the provinces. We hope to establish a system similar to
that existing in Canada, which makes it possible for a really
clever lad, whatever his posi';ion may be, to pass from an
elementary school step by step to a university career, and thus
attain the highest possible training in any branch of learning,
for which he may have shown a special aptitude. 1 feel con-
vinced that Queensland will not be behind other States of the
Commonwealth and other colonies of the Empire, and that if
the university building is commenced, those who have made
fortunes in mining and commerce, will follow the example of
patriotic Canadians and Americans. With the aid of private
munificence and the support of tbe State the Brisbane Uni-
versity would become a seat of learning worthy not only of
Queensland but of the whole Commonwealth.
RESEARCH MUST J3E CONTINUOUS.
With such a University we need no longer fear the
fluctuations in the finances of the State. Scientific researches
would continue to be prosecuted within the walls of the Uni-
versity, and continuity in research is essential. Science is
always extending her frontiers, and scientific work which is
stopped in any one direction, is like a mine which is tem-
porarily closed down, except that a vein which was being fol-
lowed by the prospector in science, may be altogether missed
by others and his work be lost to the world. As an instance of
the necessity for continuous work and the intricacy of scientific
problems, and the need for modifying accepted opinions in the
light of new discoveries, I propose to draw your attention to
the subject of tuberculosis in relation to the public health.
HUMAN AND BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS.
I was asked to address you to-night more particularly upon
some subject attracting attention in England. When I left
there was no topic of conversation which was more fully dis-
cussed in scientific circles that the relation between human and
bovine tuberculosis, and the origin of human consumption.
This subject was brought to the front last summer, at the
International Congress of Tuberculosis, by the well-known dis-
coverer of the tubercle bacillus. Dr. Robert Koch ; and it is
of so much importance that the Government has appointed
another Royal Commission to re-investigate it. Up to the
time of Dr. Koch's discovery of the tubercle bacillus, in 1882,
it was a difficult matter to give an exact and comprehensive
definition of tuberculosis. Dr. Koch's discovery simplified the
teaching of pathology. He pointed out that whatever might
