32 SCIENCE AND THE STATE, ETC.
be the clinical manifestations, or the appearance of a particular
morbid growth, if the tubercle bacillus was present, the dis-
ease was tuberculosis. The further discovery of bacilli with
similar morphological, tinctorial, and cultural characters in
tuberculosis of the lower animals, and the fact that human and
bovine tuberculosis could both be readily inoculated in certain
animals led to the acceptance of the doctrine that tuberculosis
was a disease common to man and the lower animals and
readily inter-communicable. Koch, in the first publication of
his discovery, announced that tuberculosis of the domesticated
animals, and especially bovine tuberculosis, was undoubtedly
a source of human infection. This fact, he added, indicated
the position, which in the future, hygiene must take in con-
nection with the danger of the milk of tubercular animals.
Bovine tuberculosis was identical with human tuberculosis, and
was a disease transmissible to men. It was therefore to be
treated like other infectious diseases transmissable from animals
to human beings.
Though proofs of the absolute identity of the two diseases
were undiscoverable, nevertheless Koch's statements were ac-
cepted and acted upon. The danger of consuming the flesh and
milk of tubercular animals was insisted upon in England, pro-
secutions and heavy penalties followed for allowing meat to b&
sold when there was even only a trifling indication of the
disease, and the flesh, to all appearance, perfectly healthy.
Magistrates were very severe in carrying out what they believed
to be measures for the protection of the public from a terrible
disease, and honest and well-intentioned tradesmen who had
erred from ignorance rather than intention were practically
ruined. There was not only a crusade against the sale of flesh
and milk from tubercular animals, but it was openly demanded
that all animals suffering from tuberculosis should be com-
pulsorily slaughtered, without even any attempt being made to
face the question of compensation. There is no doubt that
the result of this crusade was to inflict great hardships upon
farmers and the meat trade, and in a great many cases
grave injustice was committed. The discovery of tuberculin
made the position still more impossible, for, by its aid, facts
were brought to light, which proved that tuberculosis existed in
cattle to an extent which exceeded the wildest statements of
the most ardent believer in the danger of infection of mankind
from cattle. Lord Spencer's celebrated .Jersey cattle were
to all appearance in perfectly healthy condition, with the
