BY PROFESSOR CROOKSHANK. 33^
exception of two, in which there were suspicious symptoms.
All reacted to the test of tuberculin, and were killed for
examination. In every animal there were indications of
tuberculosis ; a still greater excitement was caused by the
testing of Qaeen Victoria's cows at Windsor. Thirty-two
gave a reaction, three were doubtful, and five were apparently
healthy. When the animals were killed and examined, thirty-
six were found to be tubercular. Equally startling statistics
were collected from other quarters. Of cattle tested in
various parts of England and Scotland, as many as 31 per cent,
reacted. In London, 25 per cent, of cattle slaughtered under
the Pleuro-pneumonia compulsory slaughter order, were found
to be tubercular, and in some herds as many as 30 per cent,
to 40 per cent. It was estimated that about 20 per cent, of
milch cows in towns in England were tubercular. In Germany,
the returns from the abattoirs were in many cases even higher.
You are now in a position to realise the sensation caused by
Dr. Koch, when he announced at the last Congress of Tuber-
culosis in London, that human and bovine tuberculosis were,
after all, not inter-communicable. This statement upset the
policy of the medical department of the Local Government
Board. It paralysed the law, for it was quite impossible in
the face of such a statement, to obtain a conviction before
magistrates ; and it destroyed many arguments upon which
the crusade was being instituted for the eradication of human
tuberculosis. Many, however, hailed the announcement with
unqualified satisfaction ; for if Dr. Koch's views were correct,
then one of the channels of infection which was supposed to
exist was eliminated, and an imaginary danger removed from
our midst. In order to follow the controversy which ensued,
I must refer to Dr. Koch's researches in some detail, so that I
may be able to make clear the points at issue, and compare
his work and conclusions with the experiments and opinions
of others who have investigated the subject. Dr. Koch's ex-
periments were carried on for about two years with the co-
operation of a very distinguished veterinarian. Professor
Schutz, of Berlin. In various ways they inoculated 19 cattle
with tubercular virus from a human source, and none of the
cattle developed any symptoms of disease. On the other hand,
cattle inoculated with virus from a bovine source, suffered
without a single exception from the severest tubercular dis-
orders of the internal organs. Dr Koch was forced to the
conclusion that human tuberculosis differed essentially from
