84 SCIENCE AND THE STATE, ETC.
bovine, and he expressed the opinion that it could not be
transmitted to cattle ; and further, that if man is susceptible
to bovine tuberculosis, infection from this source must be
extremely rare. He believed that the extent of infection by
milk and meat of tubercular cattle (if it existed at all) was so
trifling that he did not deem it advisable to take any measures
against it. I entirely agree with Dr. Koch, that if infection
of mankind occurs from cattle, it is extremely rare, but the
statefnent that human tuberculosis cannot under any circum-
stances be transuiitted to cattle, is erroneous ; and I feel very
strongly that his statement with regard to the inadvisability of
taking any preventive measures is calculated to do a great deal
of harm. It creates the impression that dairymen and milk
sellers are justified in selling tubercular milk.
CALVES ARE SUSCEPTIBLE TO HUMAN TUBER-
CULOSIS.
I feel justified in so far disagreeing with Dr. Koch, be-
cause in an inquiry undertaken for the Board of Agriculture,
I had the occasion to make the following experiment : — A
perfectly healthy calf was inoculated intra-peritoneally with
virulent human tubercular sputum. So far from the result
being negative, there was extensive deposit at the seat of inocu-
lation with numerous tubercles extending from it. The in-
oculation produced concurrently blood poisoning, and death
occurred forty-two days afterwards. On microscopical ex-
amination minute tubercles were found throughout the lungs
and liver, containing long and beaded bacilli of the human
type. I did not extend the experiment in this direction, as
I was deputed at once to make an exhaustive inquiry into
another disease, which is sometimes mistaken for tuberculosis.
However, other investigators m England and America have
since confirmed ray results. Dr. Sydney Martin, on behalf of
the Royal Commissioi on tuberculosis, also experimented on
calves with tubercular sputum. Four calves were given sputum
with food. One calf, killed in four weeks, had developed 53
nodules ; the second, killed in eight weeks, showed 63 ; the
third, killed in twelve weeks, showed 13 ; and in the fourth,
there wire no nodules at all. The results, however,
were somewhat puzziing. In calf three, the nodules in the
intestine contained tubercle bacilli, but they were totally
absent in the microscopical specimens of the nodules produced
in calves one and two. In another experiment, two calves
