BY J. W. SUTTON. XXIII.
which at that time he could not understand. The following is
his own description of experiments in December, 1B79 : " I
invited several persons to see the result then obtained, and
amongst others who called and saw my results were W. H.
Preece, Sir W. Crookes, Sir W. R. Austin, Professor G. Adams,
M. W. Grove, M. Spottswoode, Professor Huxley, Sir G. G.
Stokes, and Professor Devvar. They all saw the experiments
in aerial transmission by means of the extra current produced
from a small coil, and received upon a semi-metallic microphone ;
the transmitter and receiver were in different rooms, about 60
feet apart. After trying all distances allowed in my residence,
my usual method was to put the transmitter in operation and
walk up and down Great Portland-street with the receiver in my
hands and the telephone to the ear. The sounds seemed to
slightly increase for a distance of 60 yards and gradually
diminish, until at 500 yards I could hear no longer with a certainty
the transmitted signals. The experiments shown were most
successful, and at first they seemed astonished at the results,
but towards the close of three hours' experiments Professor
Stokes said that all the results could be explained by known
electro-magnetic induction eiifects, and therefore he could not
accept my views of actual aerial electric waves, unknown up to
that time. I was so discouraged at being unable to convince
them of the truth of these aerial electric waves, that I actually
refused to write a paper on the subject, until I was better
prepared to demonstrate the existence of these waves, and I con-
tinued my experiments for some years, in hopes of arriving at a
perfect scientific demonstration of the existence of aerial
electric waves produced by a spark, from the extra current
in induction coils, or from frictional electricity. " But
the triumphant demonstration of these waves, was reserved to
Professor Hertz, who by his masterly researches upon the subject
in 1887 and 1889, completely proved not only their existence,
but their identity with ordinary light, in having the power of
being reflected and refracted, by means of which the length of
the waves could be measured. Hertz's experiments were far more
conclusive than Hughes, although he used a much less effective
receiver than the microphone or coherer, and now as we all
know, Marconi has lately demonstrated that by the use of the
Hertzian waves, and Branley's coherer he has been able to
transmit and receive aerial electric waves, to greater distances
