BY PROFESSOR CROOKSHANK. 37
I consider, nevertheless, that milk from cows suffering
from any diseased condition of the udder or teats is unwhole-
some, and I maintain that when we pay for pure milk, we
are entitled to have it. We want the doctrine of absolute
cleanliness to reach our dairies, both public and pi-ivate On
no account should any "waster" or "piner," or cow suffer
ing from any disease affecting the milk, be admitted into the
herd. Registration and inspection of dairies are of great im-
portance, but with or without Government Inspectors, I think
the public might to a great extent protect themselves. It
would be a distinct advantage to adopt the Danish system of
co-operation. In towns like Brisbane, small dairymen should
combine to form large model dairies. They should invite
inspection of their premises and farms. They would find it
to their own advantage to employ a veterinary inspector. The
public would be willing to pay a higher price if they had a
guarantee that the cows were healthy, and that every pre-
caution had been taken in the collection, in the transit, and
in the delivery of the milk. A great deal has been said upon
the necessity of boiling milk. Except in time of epidemics, it
is not a practice likely to be generally adopted. Pure fresh
milk is an ideal food, and the boiling of milk alters its com-
position, it is then very unpalatable to many people ; and is
not only unsuitable, but in many cases dangerous for infants.
Neither Dr. Powell or Dr. Goodhart were prepared to recom-
mend the boiling of all milk. From their evidence, we may
gather that they had other causes of consumption in their
minds. They insisted upon the fact that tuberculosis of the
bowels is almost unknown in very young children, and it is not
very common even in children from five to ten years old.
Dr. Goodhart laid great stress upon the fact that tuberculosis
in children was very common when there wasa distinct family
history of tubercle, and it was quite common also to find
children becoming tubercular after measles, bronchial-pneu-
monia, whooping cough, and intestinal catarrh.
I would draw attention to the fact that negro children
in the West Indies suffer from tubercle, and they have very
little milk, and this, owing to the tropical climate, is almost
always boiled. Tuberculosis in children in England is largely
a disease of the poor. Though it attacks all classes, it is
extremely common among the London poor, and in all our
over-crowded towns. The disease among the poor is attribut-
able more to the want of milk, than to the possible occurrence
