38 SCIENCE AND THE STATE, ETC.
of a few stray bacilli. Plenty of milk, good nourishing food,
better hygienic surroundings, will, with certainty, diminish
the number of tubercular children in England. As the slums
are removed from our over-crowded cities, and when the problem
of the better housing of the poor has been solved, we may
confidently expect to see a steady diminution of consumption.
In Brisbane, and other growing towns in Queensland, it
should be the care of the Government, of Municipal Authorities,
and the public that the insanitary conditions which we have
inherited in the old country, should never be allowed to
arise.
FLESH OF TUBERCULAR ANIMALS.
As regards any danger from consuming the flesh of
animals with tuberculosis, I believe it is practically nil. There
has not been a single case recorded of tuberculosis contracted
by eating tuberculous meat. Jews have a very thorough system
of meat inspection, and yet they are by no means free from
tuberculosis. In the course of my travels in the West
Indies I found that the negroes were very liable to consump-
tion, and Dr. Williams, of Demerara, pointed out to the Royal
Commission that the Hindoo Coolies also suffered very
severely. Yet Hindoos eat very little meat of any kind, and
the negroes eat meat in very small quantities, and then it is
beef or salt pork imported from America, and well cooked
before it is eaten. They, however, take very little care to
protect themselves from chills, and they live for the most part
in small and badly ventilated buildings. We are justified in
concluding that if the carcase is well-nourished, the meat is
perfectly wholesome, in spite of the existence of local deposits
of turbercle in the viscera and glands, which should, of course,,
be condemned. The views of extremists cannot be carried into
eft'ect. It is sometimes argued that though an animal
may be in prime condition, if there is a single tuberculous
nodule, the carcase ought to be destroyed. In my opinion,
there would be no justification for the wholesale destruction of
such valuable food. Compulsory destruction of every
animal with the slightest indication of tuberculosis would
ruin the farming industry. No Government would face the
question of compensation for every case of tuberculosis, however
slight the lesion. Such a course would mvolve the destruction
of an enormous proportion of the cattle of the United
Kino-dom, and create a meat and milk famine. To secure
perfectly healthy cows, thus saving much loss, and ensuring the
