BY PKOFESSOR CROOKSHANK. 89
supply of pure and wholesome milk, will be a splendid work
for veterinary surgeons and breeders of stock to undertake, and
one to which they should direct all their energy. It can be
confidently asserted that, there can be no better recommendation
of Queensland meat than a very high standard of health in
Queensland cattle, and the percentage of tuberculosis in cattle
in Queensland would appear to be extremely low. I find in the
reports of the Board of Agriculture, out of 21,768 cattle
slaughtered, the proportion of tubercle was 1.1 per cent.
In another report of 27,905 slaughtered, the percentage of
tubercle was .9 per cent. But as I have already pointed out^
it is difficult to arrive at a correct estimate from the published
returns.
SO-CALLED "CANCER" IN CATTLE.
It is absolutely necessary to differentiate in every instance
the disease known as Actinomycosis. I have already referred
to the use of the word "cancer'" in the reports of the meat
inspectors. I regret to find that this popular term is still made
use of. Probably those who use it little realise how damaging
it is to the meat industry of the State. Last year, there was a
correspondence in the Times, in which it was suggested that
the increase of cancer in England was due to eating the flesh of
cancerous animals imported from the colonies. I took an
early opportunity of pointing out the absurdity of suggesting
any connection between so-called cancer in cattle, and cancer
in the human subject. Many years ago I published an ex-
haustive report upon Actinomycosis which is prevalent in
England. I pointed out that various manifestations of this
disease were known to farmers and breeders as "cancer of the
tongue," "cancer of the jaw," "cancerous polypus," "osteo-
sarcoma," and various other misleading names. Every one of
the cases which came under my observation was shown to be a
manifestation of Actinomycosis, a local inflammatory affection,
associated with the presence of a characteristic fungus known
as the streptothrix actinomtjces. The disease has no relation
whatever to cancer in the human subject. It is this disease
which is met with in Queensland, and it is most unfortunate
that the public should be alarmed by any reference to cancer.
I trust that in all future reports of the meat inspectors, that
the popular term "cancer" will be left out altogether, and
that the scientific name for every disease will be given. Ac-
tinomycosis, though common in cattle, occurs also, though
rarely, in man, and as in the case of tuberculosis, it has been
