40 SCIENCE AND THE STATE, ETC.
suggested that the disease is derived from cattle. It is, in lay
opinion, a distinct variety. I do not accept the theory that
man and animals infect each other witb actinomycosis, but 1
believe that they contract the disease quite independently, and
that the micro-organism is derived from some source in com-
mon. And, farther, the flesh in th'^se cases is perfectly whole-
some, and only the tongue or other part affected need be de-
stroyed.
PSEUDO-TUBERCLE BACILLI.
We have not only to distinguish Actinomycosis from tuber-
culosis, but we must in future pay close attention to dis-
tinguish the tubercle bacillus from some recently discovered
and closely allied bacilli. There is no doubt that the reports
of the discovery of tubercle bacilli to an alarming extent in
milk and milk products, and in the dust of rooms inhabited by
consumptive patients, will have to be modified. After ihe first
discovery of the tubercle bacillus, all rod-like organisms, with
the same tinctorial characters, were pronounced to be tubercle
bacilli, with the exception of the leprosy bacillus, and a
bacillus found in certain secretions. Further investigations of
some of these bacilli ha 'e given very striking results. The first
discoveries in this ilirection were by Petri and Rabinowitch,
who succeeded in showing that there was a bacillus in batter,
with all the general characteristics of the tubercle bacillus ;
and further, the inoculation of this bacillus in guinea pigs
produced lesions, which to the naked eye, and under the
microscope, were very easily mistaken for tuberculosis. Korn
and others have described other forms in butter and milk, not
materially differing from one another, and Moeller regards them
as varieties of the so-called grass bacillus, obtained from
grasses and dust. The latter was first obtained from Timothy
grass, and is known as the Timothy bacillus. It cannot pos-
sibly be distinguished microscopically from the tubercle bacil-
lus. It is granular, and exhibits branching and club-like
swellings; it stains exactly like the tubercle bacillus; and the
cultures, though differing at first, after passage through
animals, strongly resemble those of tubercle. In guinea-pigs
the lesions are similar to those set up by the butter bacillus,
and in rabbits they are very difficult to distinguish from true
tubercle, owing to the formation of giant cells and epitheloid
cells and caseation. Anotiier grass bacillus is similar in stain-
ing reactions to the tubercle bacillus, but it is rather thicker,
and has a special tendency to form threads. It produces in
