BY PROFESSOR CROOKSHANK. 41
guinea-pigs lesions similar to those caused by the butter
bacillus. Another pseudo-turbecle bacillus has been isolated
from manure and from the excrement of cows -and other
herbivora. Other bacilli of this class have been found by
Fraenkel and Pappenheini in pulminary gangrene and other
morbid conditions of the lungs, and by Moeller in nasal and
pharyngeal mucus.
PKEVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
With regard to the prevention of consumption, this must
be left principally to the sanitary inspector and the medical
officer of health. We must not concentrate all our energies
upon the destruction of tubercular sputum, but give much
more attention to those insanitary conditions which are respon-
sible for the causation of tuberculosis. This is a matter which,
in Brisbane, can be safely left in the hands of the energetic
Commissioner of Health. Dr. Ham has before him a career
of great usefulness in this city, but if he were to do nothing
more than what he has already achieved, he would deserve to
be remembered with gratitude by the public of Brisbane. I
refer more particularly to the institution of a Queensland
branch of the London Sanitary Institution, the recognised
authority for granting certificates qualifying persons as Sanitary
Inspectors. This will have a far-reaching effect in obtaining
and maintaining a high state of sanitation in this town.
I regard the trained Sanitary Inspector as the most formidable
opponent of diseases such as diphtheria, typhoid, cholera,
plague, and yellow fever, which flourish wherever insanitary
<!onditions prevail. If only Sanitary Inspectors could, without
let or hindrance, carry out their duties under the direction of
one central authority, we should soon hear of a reduced death
rate and far greater immunity from epidemic diseases. The
work of Sanitary Inspectors is one which ought to be more fully
appreciated by the public, and instead of hindrances, facilities
shoald be put in their way when carrying oat duties which
involve the general health of the community and the saving of
many human lives.
As regards the relation between tuberculosis and in-
sanitary conditions, we have some evidence forthcoming from
the study of the disease in animals. Tuberculosis, for in-
stance, is peculiarly liable to occur among birds and animals
kept in captivity ; poultry and guinea-fowls, and ostriches, and
