42 SCIENCE AND THE STATE, ETC.
emus, and other birds in zoological gardens, develop' tuber-
culosis ; monkeys in captivity, pheasants in preserves, and
rabbits in /overcrowded warrens, sometimes die iii great num-
bers. These examples point to the conclusion that confine-
ment, over-crowding, defective ventilation, heredity and breed-
ing in and in, are powerful factors in rendering the tissues
prone to tubercle, and a fitting soil for the invasion of the
bacilli. We must also remember the danger of damp houses,
and the efiect of a cold and a foggy climate. In addition to
general insanitary conditions, I desire to draw particular atten-
tion to the influence of alcoholism. This was brought most
forcibly before the London Congress in an exhaustive paper
by Dr. Brouardel. The influence of previous diseases ha.*? been
urged by Dr. Goodhart ; and special trade occupations which
involve inhalation of dust of various kinds, must not be over-
looked. I trust that much weight will be given to these
matters by the Queensland Society for the Prevention of
Consumption.
HEREDITY.
I should like to say a few words on the subject of heredity.
Heredity is of two kinds. There is hereditary pre-disposition,
and hereditary transmission. Inherited susceptibility renders
many liable to the development of tubercular disease. Family
history plays a very important part in tuberculosis. Sir
Richard Powell stated to the Commission that in his experience,
48 per cent, of the cases in the hospitals suff'ering from
tuberculosis had a previous history of hereditary tuberculosis.
Dr. Klein and Mr. Victor Horsley are convinced that there
is direct transmission of the virus of tubercle in some
cases, and that it may exist for many years in a latent
form. In connection with the question of heredity, some
interesting observations have been recorded upon tuberculosis
in birds. According to Dr. Baumgarten, a male bird on a
poultry farm developed tuberculosis. All the chickens reared
from this parent were tubercular. There was no evidence
of infection with either human or bovine tubercle. An
identical case occurred on another farm, and these instances
have been quoted in support of the theory of direct transmis-
sion of the virus from the parent. Tuberculosis is not a com-
mon disease in calves, and it seems probable that these cases
which do occur are mostly, if not entirely, the result of
hereditary transmission.
