BY PROFESSOR CROOKSHANK. . 43
CONSUMPTION NOT INFECTIOUS, BUT
INOCULABLE.
In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the
theory upon which so much stress has of late been laid, viz.,
that consumption is infectious. I feel very strongly that this
is most misleading, and I think we ought to do all we can to
allay the public anxiety which has arisen from the belief that
consumption can be caught like scarlet fever. To compare it
also to typhoid fever is a great mistake. In typhoid epidemics
at home, in India, and recently in South Africa, we know that
those in health and out of health fell victims to the disease
when they took the poison in food or water. Tuberculosis is
not infectious, but it is an inoculable disease. In the Brompton
Hospital in London, it has been found that among nurses,
porters, physicians, surgeons, in fact among all those who have
been in connection with it, the mortality from consumption is
within the average of ordinary mortality. If tuberculosis were
an infectious disease, and readily conveyed from person to
person, the marriage of individuals who become, or are con-
sumptive, would be a fruitful source of direct infection. We
should hear constantly of instances in which married people
had infected each other with tuberculosis. There is a great
difference between natural infection and experimental in-
oculation, and to this we should attach the greatest importance.
It cannot be too widely known how virulent is the sputum
of consumptive patients when inoculated in susceptible animals,
and the habit of spitting in public places and railway carriages,
and other conveyances should be prohibited. It is a dis-
gusting habit, but there is no need to create a panic or
raise an outcry for legislation, making spitting in public places
a matter to be dealt with in the Police Court. The sputum
of consumptive persons should be disinfected. A good deal of
attention has been drawn to the danger of sputum when dried
and raised in dust. The virulence is greater when the sputum
is moist, and when it has not been exposed to sunlight. That
the virus of tubercle is scattered far and wide, and is a dansrer
to all is not a theory which is supported by experiment or ex-
perience. For example, sputum dried and disinfected by the
powerful action of the Australian sun will be rendered inert.
Dr. Ransom maintains that in a well ventilated room sputum
is harmless. Tubercular sputum kept in the ventilating shaft
of a hospital proved virulent to rodents, but similar sputum in
a well ventilated and well lighted room became absolutely
