48 NOTES ON SAVAGE LIFE, ETC.
there, he attracted his prey by means of a tuft of cockatoo fea-
thers stuck on to the top of his spear ; this special weapon being
of a comparatively heavy type, quite 12 feet long, and a portion
of it quite as thick as an ordinary broomstick. In open country
the native would stealthily sneak up to the unsuspecting bird
under cover of some bushes held in front of him. Emus were
never trapped in pitfalls or nets. Cockatoos, parrots, and other
winged creatures, especially those flying in flocks, were often
brought down with sticks or boomerangs ; the younger men
especially would employ the latter weapons, as they never set
much store upon the time and labour expended in manufactur-
ing new ones when the old ones were broken. Crayfish were
caught with the hands. Grubs were obtained from out of grass-
trees and black wattles ; the natives could apparently tell from
the general aspect of the tree, from the various progressive signs
of decay, whether the timber was much infested with them or
not. Many kinds of roots and yams were eaten ; among the
latter, the wor-rain, showing thick yellow blossoms, was very
common, growing down to a depth of quite 3 feet, and running
from the thickness of the finger to that of the wrist. An island
(? Leschenhault Island) in Shark's Bay, used literally to be
covered with it. All meats, and the majority of the vegetables,
were eaten roasted, some of the latter being prepared with great
care, the bulrush roots in particular, a very nourishing dietary,
being most methodically slowly cooked in the ashes. So far as
meals were concerned, the chief one was principally in the even-
ing, what was left over being partaken of in the morning. The
natives might pick up during the day anything they could get
as they passed along. A man would always share with his
neighbour. In the family circle the men, women, and children
dined together, but the younger single males at a certain age
(puberty and onwards) always had a fire to themselves. When
a stranger came to camp, he sat down outside at a distance of
some seventy or eighty yards away, and did not come up to the
fires until invited, when he had food given him ; he remained
comparatively silent except when specially addressed.
Though cannibalism was not actually witnessed, it had
been heard of in the neighbourhood. Furthermore, when the
human entrails, on being thrown into the fire, began to curl up,
if the ends pointed in the direction of any particular individual
around, this circumstance boded him ill-luck in the future.
