XXIV. I'KESIDENTIAL AEDRESS.
than previously ever dreamed of by the numerous discoverors
and inventors, who have laboured silently in this field, and his
efforts at demonstrating, merit the success he has received, and
the world be right in placing his name on the highest pinnacle
in relation to Aerial Telegraphy, but there is no doubt that had
Professor Hughes, received the encouragement due to hiiu from
eminent scientists, the discovery of Aerial Telegraphy would have
dated back 20 years ago.
Aerial navigation has been the dream of speculative minds
ever since Rozier made the first ascent ever attempted, some 200
years ago. Volumes could be written of the various contrivances,
mishaps and misfortunes, that have attended aerial experiments,
but of late, since the introduction of aluminium owing to its
lightness, a fresh impetus has been given to this subject, and
there seems to be some hope that at no distant date, aerial
navigation will at least meet with some measure of success, not-
withstanding all the disasters and failures of the past. Confidence
in a successful issue still prevails in the minds of many practical
men. The importance of such an innovation must be patent to
all. At the present time there is being constructed in Germany
such an aerial ship, which is expected to plough its way through
the regions of the air, as the Atlantic liner glides over the ocean.
This vessel is being built on a floating pontoon, and has the out-
ward appearance of an iron-clad war vessel, but as delicate in
structure as a gigantic bird-cage. The framing is entirely of
aluminium, together with all the fittings and utensils. The pro-
pelling machine is of the lightest description, internally she is
floated by balloons, her speed is to be 22 miles per hour and a
total lifting capacity of 10 tons. Her cost is something ov^r
i'70,000, and we may hear very soon of the first trial of this
novel and expensive venture, as much is expected from this event,
since such an amount of money and skill has never before been
expended on such an enterprise. All calculations have been so
accurately made, every contingency so carefully considex*ed. each
possibility of failure so cautiously guarded against, that we can-
not but hope that success will follow.
So while we have in Germany experiments going on in
Aerial Navigation, we have at the same time, both in France and
America, submarine navagation receiving a large amount of
attention and experiment, especially in France quite a flotilla
of these vessels of various designs have been built, from the
