BY WALTER E. ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON.
49
Narcotics were unknown. Upon this sandy tract of coun-
try, extending back as it did to some considerable distance from
the coast, two species of Banksia grew abundantly, one con-
spicuous by its broad leaf, the other by its narrow leaf. Each
species bore cones with pitcher-shaped flowers, which, containing
a quantity of honey, were especially visited by the black cocka-
toos. The natives appreciated the honey also, and, pulling
down the cones by means of a long sapling (close to the ex-
tremity of which was tied a cross-piece about 9 inches or 10
inches long, somewhat after the shape of a sheep crook), would
bite into them and suck the saccharine matter out. At other
times they utilised the honey by making a fermented drink of
it, somewhat on the following lines : — Large quantities of the
flower-bearing cones were taken to the side of some swamp, in
the close proximity of which several holes were dug into the
ground, each in the form of a trough about a yard long and 18
inches deep. Particularly sound sheets of tea-tree bark were
next stripped from the trees, eac h piece of bark being tied up
at the ends with fibre into a sort of boat-shaped vat, the sides
of which were kept apart by sticks stretched across ; the shape
of the vat lent itself to that of the trough, and there was one vat
for each trough. The vat was next filled with these cones and
water, in which they were left to soak. The cones were subse-
quently removed and replaced by others until such time as the
iquid was strongly impregnated with the honey, when it was
allowed to ferment for several days. The effect of drinking this
" mead" in quantity was exhilaratiug, producing excessive volu-
bility. The aboriginals called the cones and the fermented
liquour produced therefrom both by the same name — the man-
gaitch.
Though not of a common occurrence, a man was considered
mad when he committed suicide. Homicide, usually a form of
reprisal, was not justifiable, the culprit having to answer for it
and to fight his victim's friend at the next gathering ; should
he not put in an appearance the tribe as a whole would take
care that a corresponding life were forfeited. " An eye for an
eye, a tooth for a tooth " was the golden rule here as well as else-
where ; an individual speared in the thigh could not wound his
adversary in the stomach. Abduction, the taking away of a
man's wife without his permission, was most unpardonable. The
greatest offence of all, however, and one the vindication of
which was taken up by the whole tribe, was that of incest, the
