60 NOTES ON SAVAGE LIFE, ETC.
crime of sexual connexion with one of the prohibited classes.
For adultery, the husband could spear his wife in the leg, etc.,
but not kill her, or otherwise her friends and relations would
interfere. At other times, should a man prove particularly
brutal to his better half, the other women would " egg" their
male relatives on to him.
Each family of the tribe had a more or less defined area of
country belonging to it — a kind of heritage : its rights over such
track were respected, and any infringements regarded in the
light of trespass. Even if an individual of the same tribe, yet
of a different family, had occasion to traverse it, he would only,
if obliged at all, take just enough to appease his hunger — t-jj.,
one bird, or one egg, from a nest, leaving the remainder for its
rightful owners. And it was wonderful to note how these
owners knew exactly what was on their piece of land ; they
were never selfish about its products, but during the superabun-
dance of any food plants, game, fish, etc., at any particular sea-
son, would send round for neighbouring families to come and
make common property of what Nature had so plentifully sup-
plied them with. Thus nlso, when the swans were nesting,
or when a whale was cast ashore, other tribes would come along
by invitation.
At puberty, when, as a part of the first initiation ceremony,
the young men's noses were bored, certain precepts of wrong
and right were inculcated ; they subsequently became respon-
sible for their actions, and other people would no longer fight on
their behalf. Win-dang expressed the idea of badness, as want-
ing in common sense, no good, a saucy fellow, one who was re-
garded rather in the light of a fool for noi; conforming to the
general usages of the tribe. As a sobriquet, or as a matter of
chafl', in drawing attention to any pet weakness, an individual
was sometimes spoken of as being stone-, or wooden- headed.
Kwob-ba was the opposite extreme, signifying goodness and
kindness. It was considered wrong to interfere with a non-
tribesman unless a fued were on, the stranger being always
welcome so long as he were well-behaved and courteous. Indeed,
hospitality was always very marked, but the recipient never
claimed it ; he would neither come up to the camp, nor even
light a fire in the close neighbourhood to cook his own raw
game at, unless invited so to do. A good deal of lying went
on, but then it must be remembered that they were not expected
to tell the truth, especially when against their own interests.
