BY WALTER E. ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON. 51
Bon-du signified the truth, ku-thum a lie, and ku-lin a liar. On
the other hand, there was hardly any cheating ; these blacks
would give to one another practically anything that might be
envied. Gluttony was regarded as very unpardonable, and in
this way they were very self-sacrificing ; it was well that such
was the case indeed, because an individual might be lucky in
hunting on the one day, and yet be unsuccessful on the morrow.
Only occasionally, and in secret, would the native be gluttonous ;
thus, an aboriginal contaminated by whites would ask yon not
to give him so-and-so before another, as he would probably have
to part with it — but such conduct was always considered most
reprehensible and mean. On the whole, they were a chivalrous
people, and cowardice brought the delinquent into supreme
conlempt. They were very good to their aged and weak, would
tend their sicl\, and carry them about from place to place ; if
circumstances prevented this, some one would be left behind to
give them every attention.
A father could do what he pleased with his own children,
but neither parent would ever strike a boy ; if beaten, the latter
was supposed to lose courage. The mother taught her girls,
looked after their chastity, and, when considered necessary,
beat them.. The grown-up lads slept together, separate from
the others.
Among the party of men who landed with R. Austin on
that coast was a young architect, one Greensfll, who was sup-
posed to resemble one of their tribe lately deceased : the blacks
immediately gave him the name of wor-kap, that of the deceased
individual in question. As a rule, they never mentioned the
names of their deceased, but in this case they believed that this
young gentleman in question was their own mate returned to
them in the guise of a white man. Austin subsequently found
it to be a general impression among them that deceased blacks
were wont to return to their own habitats in the form and shape
of whites, and that this was how they accounted for the Euro-
peans coming to visit their country. As already mentioned,
this district had been settled only a few years previously. In
several places, a similar form of nomenclature in vogue, was
met with, and Austin invariably did his best to destroy this
belief of theirs. They also had an idea that the spirit of the
departed hovered round about the grave, and, though their
feelings could not be thoroughly analysed, they certainly had a
fear of approaching it for some time subsequently to burial. At
