52 NOTES ON SAVAGE LIFE, ETC.
burial, some offerings were left generally in the shape of dam-
aged weapons, etc (but no food) on the grave itself, while upon
the bark of neighbouring trees was smeared some red paint,
(wil-gi), either in complete rings, or horizontally zigzag lines.
For some few days onwards they would sweep with bushes the
surrounding ground, so as to track anything in the shape of 3.
visitor, human or animal, and very gratified would they be if
no tracks were discovered. This brushed part of the grave,
when once finally completed, was never by any chance subse-
quently traversed.
Any doctrine of the transmigration of souls was only
hinted at in the fact recorded of blacks returning to their homes
after death in the shape of whites.
They believed that diseases, of which they could recognise
no physically pathological origin, were caused by the charms
of their enemies, or persons whom they had in some way or
another offended. Such complaints the doctors or medicine men
professed to cure by various manipulations, massage, etc.
Thus, if called in attendance, the doctor would leave the camp
at night with a lighted fire-stick, go away to some considerable
distance, and extinguish it, and then return sufficiently near
to be heard. By stretching his cloak over his thighs and fixing
over his buttocks the ends upon which he sat, he clapped
upon it with his hands, by this means making no inconsiderable
noise, which was supposed to either drive away or to appease
the alleged enemy. Upon returning to his patient he would
remove a stone or stick by massage, etc., from the part most
affected. No special huts were constructed by, or for the use of
the medicine men, whom the tribes, believing them to be
equally capable of killing or curing, were careful never to ofiend.
Ventriloquism was never brought into requisition.
The natives here were certainly under the firm conviction
that at night time the earth was permeated with evil spirits,
whom they feared. Such spirits could be checked or repelled
by means of fire, and this was one of the chief reasons why,
in the dark, they would never leave their camps without taking
a lighted fire-stick with them. In addition, the light precluded
the possibility of treading upon snakes, etc., unawares.
Another very common idea amongst these people was that
there was always something supernatural lying in ambush in
everp deep water, or in any fairly-sized permanent water-hole —
some unwritten record of an extraordinarily big crocodile.
