BY WALTER E, ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON. 58
snake, or iguana inhabiting it. They would naturally be averse
to bathing in such localities, or if they did, would never ven-
ture far from shore. From cross-examination on different
occasions, Austin was led to the conclusion that individuals
having been now and again drowned at these places accounted
for the superstition — a phenomenon that he could not otherwise
explain,
Tribes were not named after any animal, but children at
the time of birth would be named after a particular animal,
some circumstance in connection with which may have im-
pressed the mind of the mother, either during pregnancy or
about confinement. This was the name by which the child as
he grew up was referred to in ordinary general conversation.
Anyone so named would not, at certain seasons of the year,
partake of his patron-animal, and this quite independently of,
and additional to, the special dietaries otherwise prescribed for
him by tribal usage.
There was no worship of gods of any description, and the
idea of a Creator of all things was conspicuously absent ;
similarly there was no sign of any diety connected with the sun,
moon, stars, or with war.
Whenever the results of previous experience taught them
that game and food were sufficiently plentiful, they sent round
word to tbeir neighbours to come help partake of it. Such an
occurrence would be the occasion of what might be called a
festival, when songs would be sung, friendships made and
cemented, and corrobborees performed. So also when the
nose-borijg of the males took place — the actual operation being
performed secretly in the daytime — the opportunity was made
a festive occasion of so many people being present. Otherwise,
even at the birth of a child, or at marriage, no festivities helped
to mark the event. There was never any festival of a religious
character, and nothing in the shape of prayer or sacrifice.
On the death of a friend, the women (especially the wife
and family of the deceased) would, with their finger nails, cut
deep gashes in their foreheads and cheeks, pipe-claying in
addition the former portion of the face. The men used to
whiten the forehead simply.
Women were considered impure and unclean during the
menstrual period, when they sat apart at a separate fire.
The position of the corpse, when doubled up before covering
over with earth, was invariably towards the east.
