64 NOTES ON SAVAGE LIFE, ETC.
Nothing in the way of special superstitions, other than
those recorded in these notes, was noticed. That they were
extremely fond of their dogs goes without saying ; so much so
that women were often observed suckling young puppies. They
rightly believed that it was the one and the same moon which
regularly put in an appearance each month.
Disease and death charms in the hands of doctors and
alleged enemies have already been drawn attention to. The
medicine men mixed up with other individuals like ordinary
mortals, but were dreaded; as a correlative, they were aware of
it, and consequently traded upon the credulity of their less-
witted mates. There were no such things as love charms,
while the cries of birds and animals (each separately noticeable)
were taken not so much as omens but as indications of the
approach of strangers, were they friends or enemies.
The aboriginals here had no mythic legends or fairy tales,
but could tell many a witty story relative to incidents that
had occurred, and principally about individuals. Nothing
escaped their observation. When crossing a flat one day along
the bank of a river, where a European was building a hut,
Austin's black boy pointed to an ants' nest, and spoke to the
following effect : " My word ! that feljow ant knows more than
that white fellow man." On being asked what he meant, the
boy explained the dictum on the lines of the settler building his
h'lmpy below flood- water mark, while the ant constructed its
nest far above it.
Children invariably respected their parents as well as their
wishes. At the ceremony of the nose -boring, the individual
pledged himself to conform to the general rules of propriety in
force, certain rules benefiting the whole community — e.;/., the
respect for each other's property, and the prior right to certain
portions of the land which the tribe in general acknowledged
to be theirs. There was a uniform attention to decency, peace,
and quietness. They were all brought up to supply their own
wants, manufacture their own weapons, were almost all equally
proficient in their general ideas, in the pursuit of game, in fight-
ing, etc. They recognised a head man, on whom a special term
was conferred, but the office was apparently not necessarily here-
ditary, and if a "strong" man, he might nominate his successor ;
he was not always the oldest man in the tribe, but general fitness
and ability were his characteristics ; he never put on any " side,"
and he exercised the prerogative upon the death of a tribes-
