BY WALTER E. ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON. 57
the buttock (Plate V., fi;/. a). The poor wretch clenched his
teeth in agony, but stood it firmly, and did not break down until
all the men around began to sob and cry, when they all in a body
rushed up to kiss and slobber over him.
With regard to the general custom of salutation, men used
to kiss one another on the cheek, and hug one another. There
was no osculation among the women. After long absences,
they would rejoice over the return of the wanderer, who re-
counted to them the numerous adventures he had had, whom he
had seen, how successful he had been in hunting, and anything
curious that had come under his observation. In addition, he
would illustrate in propria persona all that he thought might
prove of interest — in one case, under Austin's observation, go-
ing so far as to imitate the waltzing of the whites. As a rule,
these blacks used to get up comparatively late of a morning,
unless compelled by want of food, or for any special purpose; e.g.
to collect the mangaitch before the ants got at the honey. The
young were always reproved and kept in order, but the boys
were never beaten. Their sense of decency was parallel with
our own ; they never spoke with strangers concerning their
sexual relationships, and it was only the younger males who
talked filth. Their moral deportment was creditable to them
in every way, with the exception that if a bachelor friend
asked his married friend for the temporary loan of his wife as a
great favour (especially as the lady was usually agreeable), the
husband's consent was generally given.
The old men taught the young ones at initiation which diets
to avoid ; they reserved to themselves as elders, and as heads
of families, such diet scales which were only rarely met with,
or were considered special delicacies. In addition, for each
individual, food was always refrained from when it happened
to be anything in connection with that according to which his
birth name had been given. There was no particular food
tabu to any of the four special divisions of the tribe. The
names of people deceased were avoided, and as a rule any re-
ference (except by the younger males) to sexual matters dis-
couraged. Certain water-holes and graves were also tabu.
In trading with other tribes, all that they could barter in
exchange were their spears, made from the local " spear-wood,"
which grew plentifully in the close neighbourhood of the coastal
G
