58 NOTES ON SAVAGE LIFE, ETC.,
swamps. What they received in return included the follow-
ing :—
(a) A sort of red oshre, wil-gi, which was used with fat
{or smearing over the body.
{!>) Fragments of crystalline quartz, bwor-ral, for sticking
into their spears, which, with the advent of the whites, was
subsequently replaced by glass. This quartz came from the
Darling Ranges.
(c) Stone-tomahawks (kod-ja) ; also from the ranges.
{(I) Wommeras (mi-ra) ; manufactured of the " raspberry
jam " Acacia,* from beyond the ranges, in the Avon district.
(f) Throwing-sticks (dau-ak) ; made of similar wood, and
from the same district.
(r) Cork-wood shields (hi-la-man) ; also from the Avon.
There were no special individuals or actual traders for
carrying on the exchanges, but they would proceed to their par-
ticular market whenever they considered the amount of food
available there would be sutticient for the wants of all who
might be present. There was never among particular tribes-
men any principle of association, special sharing, or distinctive
trademarks. Letter sticks were in vogue, but the messenger
himself took the message verbally. These sticks, about two
inches long, were pointed at each end, and squared in their
length, very much after the style of an English boy's tip-cat.
They were carried in the hair just over the ear. Made of some
light coloured wood, which did not ordinarily change colour,
they bore incised upou them certain marks which might have
been aids to memory, but they were absolutely nothing more.
When the messenger happened to be charged with messages
from difterent peoplee, the marks would he cut by the various
individuals interested.
Distance traversed during the day was measured by the
elevation of the sun. Measures and weights were only hinted
at by speaking of anything as being large or small, long or
short, light or heavy, no fixed standards being recognised.
When on the track of an adversary, a black would not
challenge his enemy, unless observed ; he rather preferred to
steal upon him asleep or awake, though they would both prove
very bold and determined if it so chanced that they met in
the open. In the case of inter-tribal warfare, each party came
• A. acuminata, henth.
