HY J. W. SUTTON. XXV.
" Gustave Zede" to the present latest, the " Narval." This boat is
propelled by oil engines for surface work, and electric accumul-
ators for submerged propelling, which are sufficient to propel
her, at surface, 250 miles at 8 knots per hour ; her displacement
being 160 tons. The "Argonaut" and "Holland" of the
Americans are both said to have done marvellous work on their
trials, but at the present their scope does not appear to be
beyond a usefulness for harbour defence ; however they seen; to
bid fair to compete with the " Nautilus " of extravagant fiction.
When Jules Verne wrote his description of this boat, every one
was taken with the strangeness of the idea. The author had
merely collected together a number of old and new theories and
clothed his conception in seemingly practical garb. Swift's
account of the Island of Laputa, was based upon a curiously
distorted theory of magnetism, sufficiently possible to make it
interesting; and Duller Lytton's " Coming Race," in so far as
Vril is concerned, turns upon a little more than the successful
storage of electricity of high potential.
And now in conclusion let me add just a few words of tribute
to our parent, the Royal Society of London, which has for the
past 250 years, been an eye witness of the birth, rise, and pro-
gress of science ; one which has at all times embraced within its
membership the brightest scientific intellects of all nations, and
one which recognises that " honour and fame from no condition
rise. " A society from which all other societies, special in their
character have sprung, and it may well say unto itself, in the
words of Tennyson, " For men may come, and men my go, but
I go on for ever."
A vote of thanks to the retiring President for his address
was moved by the Hon. A. Norton, M.L.C., seconded by the
Hon. Dr. Taylor, M.L.C., and carried.
The Election of Officers for the year 1900, then took place
with the following result: — Vi-csiilmit, John Thomson. M.B. ;
yiri'-FitNident, W. J. Byram ; Htm. 'iifiisnrcr, Hon. A. Norton,
M.L.C. ; Hnn. Scnrtdnj, J. F. Bailey ; Hnu. fjlmiricoi, R.
Illidge; Mnnhns of CoKiu-il, F. M. Bailey, F.L.S., A. G.
Jackson, C. J. Pound, F.R.M.S., J. Shirley, B.Sc, and J. W.
Sutton ; Hou. Auditor, A. J. Turner.
A vote of thanks was accorded to the retiring officers, after
which the proceedings terminated.
