BY WALTER E, ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON. 59
to the attack in open rank, the tribesmen standing side by side ;
prisoners were not taken captive, but all killed.
Hunting parties, when game was plentiful, were often
formed, and all the spoil invariably divided impartially and
fairly.
Their migrations were certainly dependent upon the scarcity
or plenty of the animals they hunted, their nomadic habits
being thus easily accounted for.
As a general rule, a wife was very happy and obedient ;
indeed, she had to be civil to her husband, as otherwise
she might expect a crack on the head or a spear thrust through
her calf.
There was no special marriage ceremony, beyond the
betrothal of a girl by her parents, and in this matter the mother
would appear to have always had an important say. Of course
there were certain group divisions of the tribe into which
marriage could or could not take place. At any rate the
betrothal often gave rise to many troubles. Faith might be
broken by the parents, the girl herself might like somebody
better, and ask him to steal her, or the man might not care to
tarry awhile, and consequently set about stealing someone else —
and thus a row would commence. This stealing of a wife
constituted a very primitive measure. The bridegroom, in posse,
would just knock her on the head, or spear her in the leg, if she
refused to join him, though, in addition, he might have to fight
for her with some individual who considered he had a prior
claim. Punishment for this course of conduct, if the lady were
a tribeswoman, was spearing in the thigh. Should it, however,
prove to be a case of incest {i.e., either too close consanguinity,.
or an infringement of the tribal regulations re marriageable
groups), the gay Lothario would be put to death. A man could
hava up to as many as four wives, with usually a hut for each ;
but in such cases it must be borne in mind that some of these
women might very probably have been his brothers' widows,
to whom he had a legal right. A wife entered the tribe of
her husband, if of foreign origin. Divorce was not recognised
as an institution, but if a woman could not hit it off
amicably, she would tempt some other fellow to steal her
from her husband. Men were invariably kind to their mothers-
in-law.
A widow was taken to wife by the elder brother of her
deceased husband ; if this arrangement were inconvenient, or
