60
she happened to be too old a body, her own blood-sons would
look after her, or failing them, her daughters ; the sons, how-
ever, were always first in their attentions.
Infanticide was not practised, nor was anything specially
done with twins when they put in an appearance.
The conditions of marriage might be shortly expressed as
suitable group relationship, stealth, or betrothal, and the attain-
ing of the nose-boring initiation ceremony, which took place
sometime subsequent to puberty. They had a very general idea
that a man was always more courageous before matrimony than
after ; and, as owing to the comparative paucity of eligible
women, the getting of a wife very often proved a constant source
of feud, the older men were always discouraging the younger
ones from entering the married state. On an average, there
were about six men required to provide by hunting, for the wants
of every two women (with children). Of the latter, the majority
would appear to have died before reaching middle age ; the pro-
portion of two or three young women to every old one, being
pretty constant. Three or four children would not uncommonly
be noticed as belonging to one mother, who might be seen
suckling more than one of her infants at a time.
Children were taught how to climb trees as well as the
use and exercise of arms ; they learnt to throw spears by prac-
tising on small reeds, etc., to commence with. They were cer-
tainly not instructed in the manufacture of the different weapons,
but apparently did this by imitation, though they might
occasionally get instruction and assistance from their fathers.
The mother would look after the education of her girls, teach-
ing them how, when, and where to dig for roots, yams, etc., and
also how to prepare the different foods. Tracking was never
actunlly taught ; the aboriginals apparently picked it up as time
went on.
A very common game played by both little girls and
boys, up to 8 or 10 years of age, consisted in throwing along
the ground, with a peculiar turn of the wrist, a more or less
ovate-shaped piece of bark, and throwing a 6ft. reed at it as it
spun.
Among the elders and at the camp-fires a man would often
stand forward with his wommera and recite some adventure of
his, telling all about what he had done, and often what he
hadn't done, what prowess he showed under the circumstances,
