BY WALTER E. ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON. 61
and what a brave man he was. This form of self-adulation was
very common, and after his hearers had applauded another man
would take his place, and give a similar recitation culled
from his autobiographical memoirs. Even when starting out
from camp of a morning, surrounded only by his own immediate
family, a black, after shaking his spears, would very generally
tell his wife and children what he intended doing during the
day; bow many kangaroos, etc., he proposed bringing home;
how he would fight any one who dared oppose him, and vaunted
himself upon his pluck, courage and endurance. Indeed, judg-
ing from what these aboriginals said of themselves, their lives
must have been quite Homeric. In the ordinary corrobborees,
which always took place in the neighbourhood of the camp
about a couple of hours after sundown, the men only took
part, while the dancing was of a stamping movement ; the
reverberation of the sandy ground was once indicated by the
mercury in Austin's artificial horizon when at a distance of fully
over a hundred yards. As decoration, feather down was stuck
over their faces and bodies upon the stripes of red ochre grease,
and pipe-clay. The plays usually performed represented emu
and kangaroo-hunting, etc., though various other personal
adventures, with embellishments, were depicted. The audience
at these entertainments consisted in the main of women,
children and old men. Some of the women in the squatting
position beat time with the flats of their hands, or with sticks,
upon the cloaks stretched tightly across their knees. Others
again would stand up and beat their yam-sticks, etc., held
crosswise over their heads.
They never employed roads or bridges, though, for instance,
a log lying (not placed designedly) across a creek might be
utilised for the purpose. They were expert swimmers, hand-
over-hand fashion, like a dog. When on land their ordinary
property did not consist of anything more than what they
could carry. On the walk-about, halts were made generally
at some very dry stage, the nature of the timber giving them
some good idea of the substratum. When " at home," the
increasing remnants of old refuse, the superfluity of- ants, or
scarcity of food in general, were causes operating to compel
them to shift the sites of their camps. The general arrange-
ment of the camp itself was crescentic, with the "horns"
towards the fires ; each hut, from a few to a score of yards apart
