62 NOTES ON SAVAGE LIFE, ETC.,
had its own fire burning at about a yard to a yard and a-half in
front of the entrance. Permission had to be asked and obtained
before travellers were allowed within the precincts. In travel-
ling, the men went in front, generally in single file, the women
bringing up the rear some sixty or seventy yards behind. The
former carried the weapons, and any game that might have
been caught during the day, while the latter burdened them-
selves with all the remaining property. Some of the particularly
old men — this was certainly never ol)-;erved among the younger
ones — used to carry a small dilly-bag over ttie left shoulder,
hanging in the armpit; this contained red ochre, pieces of
crystalline quartz (for the spears, etc.), gum, and hair. Their
powers of rendering the voice distinct and intelligible over
comparatively great distances were remarkable. They could
both speak and reply. In one case that came particularly
under Austin's observation, over an estuary quite one and a-half
miles wide, where they would ascend a tree to a height of about
20 feet, the better so to do, the voice of conversation in
that particular instance was carefully modulated rather
than high-pitched, though the initial sound to attract attention
was a sharp shout.
The red ochre, wil-gi, was rubbed up in the hand dry,
or pounded with a stone to a fine powder. It was also
subsequently mixed with snake's entrail or iguana fat held at
the end of a stick over a fire. Supposing now that our
individual in question was about to take his departure on a visit
elsewhere, etc., he would arrange his toilet somewhat after the
following fashion : — -After seeing that his weapons and accoutre-
ments were all in good condition, and removing his head and
belly strings, he would put the wil-gi powder into his left hand,
and then with the right thumb dab it in rings round his chest,
arms, thighs and legs. Admiring himself, he would take up a
spear and wommera, shake them in defiance at an imaginary
foe, and probably sing a song concerning his own prowess, his
wife, of course, telling him all the time what a line, noble
fellow he looked, and how that be was by far the better of the
two. In this mood of supreme self-satisfaction he would squat
down, and with some fat smear the whole of his body and limbs
until the skin showed a uniform appearance of a greasy vermil-
lion colour. Singing all the time, he would finally red-ochre
grease the head and belly strings before putting them on again.
