BY WALTER E. ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON. 65
skewer, was usually tucked ; otherwise this bunch was fastened
under the waist-belt at the loins.
((') The belly-string or waist-band, nul-ban, or nul-band,
was formed similarly of a great length of red opossum twine,
coiled around so as to form a solid mass, quite 2h to 3 inches
wide, and ^ inch thick ; in this they carried their tomahawk
(kod-ja) behind, and their boomerang (kai-li) on the left side.
Besides the nasal and cicatricial mutilations already re-
ferred to there was nothing worthy of note, no circumcision was
practised, though the latter rite was prevalent at the time up at
Champion Bay, some 300 miles to the northward. On the
other hand, the prepuce was always well forward with marked
crinkles at the extremity. Children up to five or six years of
age were often noticed to have what was apparently umbilical
hernia, but this deformity was never observed among the
adults.
The striking of the skins or cloaks stretched across their
knees, either with sticks or with the hands, as well as the tin-
tinabulation of the yam-sticks hit crosswise over their heads^
was the only primitive form of music noticeable.
There were no canoes, or any signs of them.
As a rule, these people lived in the open in this temperate^
beautiful climate, though in wet, wintry weather they used
huts, and occasionally protected themselves from the violence of
blowing winds by means of " break winds." The huts were of
two varieties, according as they were built of grass-tree leaves,
or with bark, the choice of " timber " depending upon its tempo-
rary abundance or scarcity. When made of grass-tree — and
these were from five to six feet high, about four or five feet in
diameter, with a floor-level unaltered from the surrounding
ground-surface — some fourteen or fifteen peduncles were stuck
into the sand, at pretty well equal distances apart (except
where the entrance was subsequently to be), and fixed together
at their apices, so as to form a kind of cone-shaped scaffolding.
The grass-tree leaves — about eighteen inches long, and one six-
teenth of an inch thick — having been collected from the trees,,
and carried in the bend of the left elbow, were then dropped in
handfuls with the right hand into the sand, points downwards ;
each handful, it must be borne in mind, was not thrown verti-
cally, but at an angle. The whole row round having been com-
pleted, a second layer was commenced, but this time the
