66 NOTES ON SAVAGE I.IFE, ETC.,
bundles were fixed at an angle with those of the first, the leaves
interlacing with one another as in a cheval-de-fiise ; the third
layer would have its constituent leaves of course placed in the
same direction as the first {Phitc VL, Jiij. f), and so on alternately,
until getting higher and higher, they became wedged in between
the gradually narrowing interspaces left by the peduncles. As the
structure proceeded, the builder himself would occasionally from
the inner side look out for any v/eak spots which were located by
the light coming through ; he would then start again from the
bottom so as to act as a foundation for what was necessary to
put in to fill up the gap.
When the grass-tree leaves were at all scarce, these abori-
ginals built themselves bark huts, their primary scaffolding of
which consisted of two forked sticks, and a backstay ; if the
latter were forked, so much the better. The secondary scaffold-
ing was formed of two thick pieces attached each from about
the middle of the back-stay to the lower end of the main-stay,
while cross-wise were placed (not tied) several additional sticks,
which together supported the fina'l covering of bark-sheets. The
bark was put on from below up, the pieces above overlapping
the ones underneath ; on top of all, along the line of the back-
stay, was fixed a projecting bark ridgecap {Piute VI., fiij. n).
The break-wind was a semi-circular ring of bushes inter-
twined with a few additional ones hanging overhead at the
centre.
Fire was produced by twirling a stick, held vertically, on
to another stick fixed horizontally, the wood so employed being
the grass-tree peduncle. The flat surface on the horizontal
piece was bitten out with the teeth, upon it the vertical piece
was twirled, and as soon as the " pit " was produced a nick was
cut, so as to connect it with the surface edge. Within this
same nick was next placed some of the powdered " fluff" (from
the dried-up flowers on the peduncle-top), which acted as a sorb
of train to the fine dry shreds of fibre (scraped from the inside
of a dead log) lying close below. As soon as the smoke ap-
peared, this *' sawdust " or " tinder " was fanned into flame by a
gentle breath. If the necessary timber for manufacturing these
firesticks ever proved at all unsuitable through wet, or scarce,
the lighted sticks would be carried along under the men's or
women's cloaks.
