BY WALTER E. ROTH, M.R.C.S., B.A., OXON. 67
Opossum string was manufactured as follows, and by the
males only: From a heap of opossum hair well rubbed together,
at his left side, the operator would pick up a piece, roll it up
and down his left outer thigh, in squatting position, with corre-
sponding hand, and, fixing it length to length, roll the string so
formed on to a distaff with his right hand. This distaff was
formed of two round pieces of stick, each about 3 inches long,
tied crosswise, the shape of a cross. The string itself was of
single strand, and not in any sense too strong. They further
used for sewing purposes, when sinews, etc., were not available,
a piece of jointless rush, a very tough kind of wire-grass without
any blades on it. Austin never saw any human hair per se used
as string, but often observed them employing longish strands
of it, mixed with grass-tree gum, for fixing the sharpened shell
into their wommeras, the barbs on to their spears, etc.. The
fixing process in these cases consisted in tying first of all with
hair, then covering with a coating of gum, and heating ; again
more hair, more gum, heat, and so on.
Up to the time of the advent of the Europeans they never
manufactured nets. The nearest approach to anything of this
sort was the basket-work arrangement at the end of a wallaby
drive, formed of thin sticks stuck into the ground, and then
wattled horizontally in and out with rushes.
The dilly-bag (go-ta) was used by the women only, slung
up by a piece of string, and carried round the neck, so as to
hang down over the back. It was formed of a long piece of
dressed kangaroo skin, folded over, and sewn at the sides, leav-
ing just a slight cover.
Omitting for the present the specially-constructed weapon
for catching emu, these people had three varieties of spear —
ked-ji, all made from a very hard and straight wattle, the tim-
ber of which gave the name to the instrument ; the process of
manufacture was simple, the sapling being just stripped of its
bark, which left it a bit " ribby," then scraped where necessary,
and subsequently straightened by holding it over some heated
ashes, and bending it with the teeth and hands into the required
shape. They were all about 10 feet long, and from ^ inch to
-| inch in diameter, with a rounded point about 6 inches long,
and invariably thrown with the wommera. Such a one consti-
tuted a fish-spear. The quartz-spear bore along a vertical
length of the tip numerous pieces of quartz crystal, subsequently
