BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 73
alluvial flat almost filling up the intervening space. At all
times the view of the hills, but especially at sunset, by moon-
light, and in the early morning, is very beautiful from the
front veranda. At the period I write of, the population of
Gloucester was extremely limited, for it, too, belonged to the
A. A. Company, and the directors did not part with their land
for a trifle.
The next day's journey was more interesting in many re-
spects. Shortly after starting we crossed the Gloucester River,
a small stream except in time of flood. About 12 miles further
on we crossed the Barrington, which runs swiftly, and in flood
is a source of great danger. After crossing it we followed the
road through the paddocks, in which were then pastured the
pure-bred Durham cows, for the increase from which the
Company obtained very substantial prices. These were in
charge of Mr. Clarke, and his house was the only dwelling-
place between Gloucester and Giro, our next halting place.
Soon after leaving the pure-bred s' paddocks we crossed the
Manning River. From this point onwards high ranges closed
in upon the road, and these added largely to the beauty of
the otherwise picturesque scenery. In the 82 miles traversed
that day we had twenty-eight river crossings, and were not
sorry when, about sunset, we sighted the Giro accommodation
house — a lonely dwelling beside the Barnard River. The road
we had travelled was, comparatively speaking, a new one. A
few years later I had occasion to travel by the same route
from the Tableland to the coast. This was in 1857, the year
that was for a long time known as the "big flood" year
in the Hunter River ; the year in which the Dunbar was
wrecked on the rocks under the Gap, near the South Head
of Port Jackson. In the shady spots in the high land of New
England, patches of snow were still unmelted a fortnight after
the storm, this at an altitude of about 3,500 feet. Branches
of trets littered the roads everywhere ; branches broken oft"
by the weight of snow which had hung upon them. On that
occasion I found two friends at Giro who had been detained
by the floods. We waited another day there, and then took
the Company's old mule track along the sides and over the
spurs of the mountain ranges, thus avoiding the worst of the
river crossings. This track was exceedingly rough and stony,
but we were assured that it was smooth compared with the
track which was first in use. Along the streams there were
H
