74 NEW ENGLAND (n.S.W.), ETC.
great numbers of river oaks. Hundreds of these had been laid
flat by the flood waters, and in places the crossings were so
blocked by them that we had to cut our way through them
with an axe which we carried with us for that purpose. We
reached Gloucester that evening, long after dark, but without
mishap.
Little had been done to improve the grazing capabilities
of the country in those days. In 1876 I travelled from New
England and back by the same route. It was known as the
Port Stephens' road, and up to that year, on Giro alone, 94,000
acres, I was told, had been ringbarked !
Early in the morning, on my first trip, we went out after
our horses, which, as there was no paddock, we had hobbled.
We got away in good time, however, and in a couple of hours
were at the foot of Hungry Hill, the rough place of the jour-
ney. I had been told that Hungry Hill was very steep and
very rough, but was not prepared for the reality. We rode up
the lower part of the hill ; then we dismounted, and led our
horses, which, like ourselves, were not reluctant to have a few
minutes' breathing time at frequent intervals. The road was
a mere bush track, covered with loose stones, and the ascent
occupied nearly two hours. Some money was spent upon it
by the Government a few years later, and the first to drive
down in a dogcart and back again was " Tom " Rusden, who,
for many years was in charge of Frederick Huth's station,
Europambela. Some others afterwards risked martyrdom by
driving over this villainous road, which was not much better
when I last travelled over it in 1876 than when I became
acquainted with it in 1852.
My friend and I were not sorry to rest awhile after our
long scramble. We were now more that 3,000 feet above the
sea, and the air was clear and bracing. The spot we rested at
was remarkable because of two tall gum trees into the butts of
which hollows had been worn by fire and decay. These formed
basin-like aquariums, each containing two or three quarts of
cool water. This was quite clear, and moss-grown round the
sides, and in all directions the footpads of marsupials and other
animals radiated from the water-trees. After a time we moved
on through large gum trees and stringy-barks, with more or less
underbush. Where the outlook was sufficiently clear, we looked
across immense mountain spurs thickly clothed with ordinary
forest timber, and down into the valley of the Manning, Soon
