BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 75
we came to " Hell-gate," the fancy name of a deeply-channelled
creek, in the bed of which there is a stream of water as cool as
its title is hot. It was past noon when we arrived at Nowendoc
(18 miles), another of the A. A. Company's stations, the
stockman in charge of which slightly augmented his ordinary
allowance by keeping a bouse of accommodation ; and here we
made a modest lunch of salt beef and bread, with the addition
. of some very good vegetables grown on the place. As we
rode onwards in the afternoon, it was not hard to realise
that we were on the Tableland of New England. Beside
Nowendoc's boggy creek was a narrow flat, while a little to
the left was a spur of the range covered with immense stringy-
barks ; and between us and them were hundreds of well-grown
tree-ferns, standing so closely together that the ends of their
fronds, in many cases, met. For some miles we rode through
the stringy-barks, under tall trees which deserve to be called
" giants of the forest," through a tangle of undergrowth and
fallen logs which skirted the road on either side. Here it
was sheltered and warm, but no sooner had we made our
way to the open country, than the chillness made itself
perceptible.
That night we put up at Murphy's accommodation house
and enjoyed a good fire and an abundance of plain food. Mur-
phy, however, was not a careless, go-as-you-please man. He
was very well known throughout the district, for nobody could
produce better potatoes than old Murphy, who claimed that he
had raised them from seed, and thus obtained a special potato.
Be that as it may, the fame of those potatoes spread, and the
sale of seed potatoes became to him a source of considerable
income. I shall never forget the pride with which he pointed
to the slabs which formed the walls and floor of his dwelling,
the whole of them from a couple of trees, he assured us. At
any rate, they indicated the size of those trees on the stringy-
bark ranges, for many of them were over twenty inches in
breadth. Rough in his ways was Murphy, but he always gave
good value for the money paid him by travellers, and however
cold the night, there was always a warm corner by the fireside,
and a snug bed for his visitors.
Our journey next day was an easy one, some twenty miles
or thereabouts, to Tia station, the hospitable abode of William
Denne, one of the early settlers in that part of the district. Two
brothers, William and Richard Denne, were men of Kent. They
