76 NEW ENGLAND (n.S.W.), ETC.
came to Australia when young fellows, bringing with them what
money they had, and hoping to secure more. At first they tried
farming at Campbelltown, about 30 miles from Sydney; but
there was not much money to be made at that business, and
the accounts that reached them of New England attracted and
settled them there. They owned, besides the Tia station,
Trinchy, on Liverpool Plains, and Coopracurrapa, below the
range on a tributary of the Manning River. Eminently prac-
tical both of them, and especially kind and helpful to young
fellows like myself. About fourteen miles eastward from Tia,
on the load to Port Macquarie, was the Yarrowich station ; this
was then owned by Todd and Fenwick, who, however, divided
it about that time, each taking one side of the Yarrowich Creek,
which ran through the run. I believe Arthur Hodgson first
owned it. Beyond this point came the rapid fall by an extremely
rough road to the aforenamed port. Our road, however, turned
in the opposite direction, and after spending a very pleasant
night with William Denne. and making the acquaintance of
Dr. Adams, an old identity who occupied a cottage close by,
we moved onwards. A visit to \Yilliara Denne's garden was
really refreshing. No fruit were ripe at the time, September.
Indeed, a very heavy fall of snow had melted only a short time
before, but there was promise of a rich harvest in another two or
three months. Apples, pears, peaches, plums, cherries, goose-
berries, raspberries, currants, were all well represented, and there
was a thriving young walnut tree, nuts from which I gathered
more than thirty yeais afterwards.
Three miles from Tia station we came to Tiara, a wretchedly
tumble-down and neglected place owned by Patrick and Sandy
McNab. Within a year it was in the market, and my partners
and 1 secured it. We then owned Waterloo, the next adjoining
station, having purchased it from Captain Thornton. And at
Waterloo, twelve miles distant, we arrived in time for lunch.
Here I had my home for five years, and during that time
I made the acquaintance of the squatters and others in the
neighbourhood. The Waterloo station-house, a small shingled
building, containing four rooms, with a narrow passage through
the centre, and having an aspiring porch in front, was
placed on a rather steep hillside, overlooking the Apsley River.
The floor at the back entrance was only a few inches
from the ground, while at the front it was raised about
four feet. A number of logs had been rolled into the space
