BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 77
beneath, and these formed a snug retreat for snakes and native
cats, and not infrequently a death took place in the happy family.
We always knew when a misfortune of this kind had befallen us.
The first owner, who 'designed and built the house, regarded it
as an architectural triumph !
Five miles west of Waterloo was the Europeambela
station, owned by Frederick Huth, and managed by " Tom "
Rusden. Three miles on, in the same direction, Abraham Nivi-
sou lived, at Ohio ; and two miles further on was the small
township of Walcha. Caldwell kept the only inn there ;
Daniels, I think, the only store. There was also a blacksmith's
shop, and a few cottages were scattered round. Walcha was at
that time what is commonly described as a one-horse place. A
little later on Livingstone moved his store from the Europam-
bela road into the little town, and other stores and hotels were
opened ; also, a Hour mill beside a large, dark, bunyip-inhabited
waterhole in the Apsley. A mile from the township Mr. and
Mrs. Jamieson lived, at " Walcha Villa," and with them Mrs.
Smith, a widowed sister of Mr. Jamieson. This gentleman's
name calls to mind an incident which created a large amount
of interest throughout the pastoral districts. The she«p he
owned suffered more or less from scab —generally more — and
his neighbours, Rusden in particular, complained greatly of
the disease being communicated to their flocks, through inter-
mixing on the run boundaries. At the time to which I refer,
I think early in 1853, Europambela was " clean," all scabby
sheep having been boiled down not many months earlier. One
morning at Waterloo, my friend Morton and I had gone, after
breakfast, to the folding-ground at the back of the house. Sheep
then were kept in hurdle-yards at night. The flock had been
taken out about an hour earlier, but jus.tthen the shepherd came
back in a breathless condition, exclaiming in gasps, " Here's
scab — in all its purity ! " Then we had a consultation. One
of Jamieson's shepherds hal been lost two days before ; but he
stuck to his scabby flock, and followed them without knowing
where he was going. Our shepherd met him near our boundary
with Europambela, but the scabby sheep had not crossed it.
When he heard the lost man's tale, our shepherd turned both
flocks back, our own homewards, Jamieson's along the road to
Walcha. I, fortunately, was out of what followed. " I want
you to go to a sheep-station up the river, and then on to Walcha
with letters; but say nothing about these sheep to anyone."
So said Morton to me. He hastily put up some food, and we
