BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 79
this time. The payment of £600 compensation did not put
an end to the proceedings in the Criminal Court ; but Judge
and jury were considerate, and as Jamieson had been paid full
value for his flock, and no malicious motives could be attributed
to the breakers of the law, they were acquitted. It was this
incident which soon afterwards led to the passing of laws
which specially dealt with the disease in sheep commonly called
"scab." But Morton and his companions always declared
they would, in future, leave experiments of that sort to any
other fellows who liked to break the monotony of bush life
by administering the law according to their own ideas of right
and wrong.
A number of pastoralists were settled within a few miles
of each other in this part of the New England district. South-
wards from Walcha, Herbert Salwey occupied St. Leonards.
He was the first to lay down clover in paddocks in that district.
Near him was John Fletcher, at Branga. Then Morrison,
the Mclvors, Wilson, and Girard. A little more westerly and
northerly, old John Scott and his hospitable helpmate, at
Surveyor's Creek, not far from Bendemeer, on the Macdonald
River. Bendemeer station was occupied by Perry. Buchanan
was settled a few miles up stream. At Carlile's Gully there
was a roadside hotel, on the main road to Armidale. The Bells
lived at Bergen -op- Zoom, close to Walcha. Not far from them,
the Eliotts, at Emu Creek ; the Crawfords, at Moona Plain ; Mrs.
Richards (afterward Wenner), at Winterbourne ; Star, at Mihi
Creek, near Armidale. Then there were, not far from Armidale,
Gostwych, owned by the Dangars (Arthur Hunter Palmer,
manager) ; Salisbury Court, owned by Matthew Henry Marsh ;
Terrible Vale, by Taylor. The roid from Armidale to Salisbury
struck the Great Northern Road from Maitland at Uralla town-
ship. So gradual was the decline from tho summit of the
Dividing Range just here, that by a drain a few feet deep, the
water of a swamp on the eastern side was led through into the
Rocky River, on the western side. This was cut through by the
goldminers at a later date than 1858.
I do not propose to describe the stations and their occu-
pants with whom I came less in contact. Of thosa I have
named, my friend Morton came to Queensland, and settled the
Prairie run, west of Gladstone. In 1853, William Miles, who
had been overseer at Bergen-op-Zoom, for Boulton and Bell,
moved north, and settled at Dulacca. He afterwards became a
