80 NEW ENGLAND (n.S.W.), ETC.
member of Parliament, and served as a Minister more than
once. Gilbert Eliott, who owned Emu Creek, took up or
bought Yenda, near Gayndah. He was the first speaker of the
Queensland Legislative Assembly. A grandson of his is a
highly respected officer in the Harbours Department at the
present time. Palmer became the owner of stations north of
Rockhampton. He entered Parliament, and, by force of char-
acter, made a prominent place for himself. He was for some
years Premier, was a member of more than one Ministry, and
ended his days as Sir A. H. Palmer, President of the Legislative
Council. Many of my contemporaries on New P]ngland puslied
north, preferring the heat of Queensland to the frost and snow
of what has often been describeil as the " Garden of New
Sov;th Wales." One to whom I have made no reference was
the once owner of a station not many miles distant from Armi-
dale, and afterwards came to Queensland. Captain O'Connell
for a time, resided at Gayndah. Thence lie moved to Glad-
stone, where he held the appointment of Government Resident,
until the northern districts of New South Wales were excised,
and the new Colony of Queensland was established. He was
then summoned to the Legislative Council, and succeeded Sir
Charles Nicholson as President, which office he held, under his
new title of Sir Charles Maurice O'Connell, until his death. His
honoured widow still lives amongst us. As for myself, when
I was seized by the roving spirit, as so many of my friends
had been, I wandered through many parts of the parent colony,
gravitating finally towards what is now the State of Queensland.
And even now the association with my first bush home is
maintained by the many names with which I was familiar
there as I now am here.
Space does not permit of further reference to the New
England district and its many points of interest. I will only
now briefly allude to the extraordinary formation on its eastern
side. Along this, by some extraordinary convulsion which I am
unable to explain, there are immense fissures, several hundred
feet in depth. One of these terminated abruptly about three
miles from Waterloo, where I lived for five years. The Apsley
River is one of the heads of the Macleay, which finds itb way
to the sea at Trial Bay. Until, and for a few miles after it
passes Waterloo, it runs through pleasant undulating country^
and a stranger following its course would never suspect the
surprise which was in store for him. Suddeny it drops into
