BY P. OLSSON-SEFFER, PH. D. 103
to go through the atmosphere, which contains besides the prin-
cipal ingredients of air, aqueous vapour, carbonic acid, small
quantities of ozone, nitric oxides, ammonia and water in solid
and liquid form, and particles of dust of various kinds.
The gaseous matter round the earth hinders the radiation
of heat, as it returns theheat to the earth more or less, and thus
compensates for the loss.
The degree of the fall of temperature caused by radiation
depends on the following circumstances : —
I. — The Aqueous Vapour of the Air.
The heat which radiates into space ccmes in most cases
from plants on the surface of the earth. The plants receive
heat from below by radiation from the bare earth, and by
conduction through the plants themselves, and the heat escapes
first to the atmosphere, on the state of which depends the
degree of the fall of temperature, and secondly into space.
From the latest researches on the powers of emission and
absorption of gases we learn that while the pure and clear air
is nearly diathermous for heat, even the small quantities of
carbonic acid which are present in the atmosphere exercise a
perceptible absorption, which yet is not determined with
sufficient exactitude.
It is probable that other gaseous matters in the air have
very little influence, which also seems to be the case with the
nitric oxides and the ammonia though they are the most
absorbent gases.
Aqueous Vapour and Water.
Thinly scattered as the molecules of aqueous vapour are
in the atmosphere, we might be inclined to disregard them as
carriers to the waves of heat, and imagine that these undulations
must be intercepted by the gases which form the great bulk of
the atmosphere, and not by the aqueous vapour which is
sparingly diffused among them.
According to Tyndall, the action of a single atom of aqueous
vapour is 10,000 times than that of a single atom of oxygen or
nitrogen. According to others, the absorbing power of vapour
of water on the dark rays of heat is hardly greater than that of
air. Concerning the power of liquid water, that is to say in
this case condensed vapour, all agree that it is great and
attains nearly 90 per cent, of the radiated heat.
Although dust or the solid particles of different kinds in
the air exists only to a small extent, its influence is still very
