104 ON THE POSSIBILITY OF PREVENTING DAMAGES BY FROST.
great. Acknowledging the fact that clear air and transparent
vapour do not radiate or absorb in a marked degree, the principal
radiation from the atmosphere itself falls in the very beginning
on these solid particles, and their action becomes that of leading
into comlensation of vapour, being first cooled down under the
temperature of their surroundings and then attaining the dew
point. When condensation has once begun radiation hastens
towards the earth as well as into space, because the radiant
power of the atmosphere is increased by the condensed vapour,
and it is sooj formed into a cloudy veil.
This veil partly hinders the continued radiation from the
earth, and lessens the loss of heat and thereby the fall of tem-
perature, which stops at a point or continues to fall, though
very slowly.
The degree of humidity thus determines the fall of temper-
ature ; the clearer and drier the air, the more intense the radia-
tion and cooling. It is on account of the absence of this
qualifying agent that the thermometric range is so enormous in
Australia. A clear day and a dry day, however, are very differ-
ent things. The atmosphere may possess great visual clearness
while it is charged with aqueous vapour, or even water in
condensed form, and on such occasions great chilling cannot
occur by terrestrial radiation.
During the first half-hour after sunset the fall of tempera-
ture is rapid, but afterwards it becomes slower, for by degrees a
cloudy veil, more or less transparent, arises through condensation,,
and gives back the greater part of the heat. This veil is such
a serious hindrance to the radiation that, when appearing
distinctly, the temperature on the surface of the earth will not
sink under zero even in places sensitive to the frost. The
warmer the summer day the more intense is the evaporation,
the greater the amount of vapour in the air, and the thicker
the veil of clouds. Considering that vapour in its turning from
a gaseous into a liquid state gives out a great quantity of heat,
the cause of this great effect will be easily understood. By
preventing nocturnal radiation into space the clouds of vapour
preserve many a tender plant from being nipped by the frosts.
II. — The dust particles and the condensed vapour radiate
heat, but the air itself only does so very slightly, and thus the
cooliiuf of the air rcsxdu principallii from its touching the ground
and the plcmts on it. Hence the remarkable fact, that the air is
coolest near the surface of the earth, and that its temperature
