106 ON THE POSSIBILITY OF PREVENTING DAMAGES BY FROST.
The influence of this radiated heat is diminished by the
circumstance that it meets the short grass which generally
covers the ground in places where preventives against the
damage of frost might be used. This source of heat is without
any influence and may therefore be neglected.
IV. — Evaporation.
Every hour of the day water evaporates from the ground
and the vegetation with more or less intensity, and thereby heat
is consumed in considerable quantities. The degree of
evaporation determines the degree of humidity in the atmosphere.
The aqueous vapour thus formed is mixed mechanically
with the surrounding atmosphere, exercising a pressure which
may be measured by the weight of a column of mercury of a
certain height in the same way as the pressure of the atmosphere
is measured. The evaporation only continues until the
surrounding air is saturated with vapour.
Experiments show that the pressure of the aqueous vapour
in case of saturation depends solely on temperature.
The degree of evaporation again, and hence the quantity
of vapour formed, depends on the followiug circumstances : —
(a) It is proportional to the evaporating surface.
(b) It is proportional to the difference between the highest
pressure and the pressure ruling at the moment.
(c) It is also inversely proportional to the pressure of air.
(d) The quantity of moisture depends finally on the
pureness and temperature of the evaporating fluid, as well as
upon the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere and its
pureness.
The vapour can sometimes remain in this form even if the
temperature has fallen beneath the dew point, just as a fluid is
heated above the boiling point without turning into steam.
These phenomena have their origin in the play of the forces of
molecules, which play remains without influence if the air con-
tains particles of dust, as is usually the case.
If we follow the changes in the moisture of the atmosphere
during a clear day we find the amount of vapour rising and
falling with the temperature. The changes vary greatly in dif-
ferent regions of the earth. We must make a distinction between
a place on the sea coast and a place in a country without lakes.
The smallest quantity of moisture is found in the atmos-
phere about sunrise, increasing until 9 a.m., then falling till
