107
about 2 p.m. ; rising again till 8 p.m. and falling by slow degrees
until morning.
The degree of humidity determines the dew-point. When
the temperature has fallen so low that the air is saturated, it
cannot remain in form of vapour if the temperature is still
falling, but turns into water.
The evaporation ceases as soon as the dew-point is reached,
as it probably does long before the temperature attains 32 deg.,
F., and instead of an absorption of heat by producing vapour,
heat is now created by condensation.
When summing up all the acting and counteracting causes
of lowering of temperature on a clear night, we get among the
former in the first place, radiation of heat ; in the second place,
movtvients in the air, caused by the cooling of air through its
touching the plants and its running down into the lowest places.
As counteracting causes we have in the first place rondensa-
tion of aqueous vapour in the atmosphere in general, by which the
radiation is lessened ; in the second place condensation of aqueous
vapour near the surface of the earth by which first dew and then
hoar-frost is produced ; and in the third place movements in the
air in the form of sliiiht breezes or faint draiu/hts which mix the
different strata of the air.
All the other causes of the fall of temperature during a
clear night may be regarded as of so small influence that they
scarcely need to be taken into consideration.
All these causes prevent the loss of heat from vegetation by
radiation, making the fall of temperature produced by it
slower and slower. At last it reaches a limit which cannot be
exceeded, i.e., the heat euiitted by the plants is then restored to
very nearly the same amount.
The causes of night-frosts have been the subject of special
study not only by Lemstrom and Homen in Finland, but also by
Hamberg and Juhlin in Sweden.
We have now to consider the questioa — To what temperature
can plants be exposed witlioat dainaf/e .■ In this matter the
experience is still very limited, especially as the general climatic
conditions of a country influence the vegetation, and consequently
the question has to be made a separate study for each country.
■ Some important conclusions might still be derived from what is
known at the present time.
Numerous but by no means final researches have shown
that temperatures between the freezmg point of water on the
