108 ON THE POSSIBILIXY OF PREVENTINft DAMAGES BY FROST.
one hand and about 112" F. on the other indicate those
intensities of heat motion at which plant-life generally is still
possible. It happens, however, occasionally, that certain pheno-
mena of vegetation may still occur even below the freezing point
of water, because from various causes the water contained in the
cells only begins to crystallize at a few degrees below zero.
However these are isolated cases ; in the great majority the
vital movements- in general only begin at a few degrees above
the freezing point.
When the temperature of any portion of a plant sinks below
the minimum necessary for the production and continuance of
the chemical processes of metabolism — that is to say, for the
calling into action of the vital forces — a period of rest ensues
which continues until the necessary thermal conditions are again
restored in the tissues. Should the temperature sink considerably
below 82" F., the plant is frosted. In other words, a portion of
the water of imbibition in the cell-walls, and a portion of the
water of the cell-sap separate in the form of ice-crystals, while
a more concentrated solution with a lower freezing point remains
behind in the liquid form.
When the tissues of the leaves and in fact when any paren-
chymatous tissues are frosted, pure water is withdrawn into the
adjoining intercellular spaces, but the cells themselves do not
generally freeze. The result is that the cells lose their turgidity
and at the same time begin to droop. This explains the familiar
phenomenon of lilies, hyacinths, &c., which have been caught
by frost, being prostrated on the ground until the ice melts and
the cells reabsorb the water into their interior and again become
turgid, when the plants resume an erect position.
As a rule when living plant tissues that contain much
water are frosted — and this applies especially to young leaves
and shoots that are affected by frost — large masses of ice are
formed in certain regions, and notably underneath the epidermis
of leaves and shoots and in the medulla. The tissues, however,
remain entirely free of ice, merely shrinking in proportion to
the quantity of water that is lost. These masses of ice consist
of parallel prismatic crystals, which are arranged at right angles
to the tissues from which the water has been abstracted.
The cortical parenchyma of the shoot usually contains
numerous intercellular spaces, especially along the line that
marks the limits of the collenchymatous tissues of the outer
cortex. Owing to the formation of a sheet of ice in this region.
