BY P. OLSSON-SEFFER, PH. D. 109
a separation of the cortical tissues may take place which, how-
ever, may occasion but little damage to the plant.
It is of importance to notice the resulting circumstances at
the forming of ice. They are principally the releasing of the melting
heat (according to Lemstrom 80 Cal. for every kilogram watery
and the increase of volume. The heat released by the freezing is
partly utilized by the plant, and the ice formed by the dew is a
good coverlet which hinders further loss of heat. Thereby the
freezing of the celhvater is for a short time prevented. If the
loss of heat still continues the cellwater freezes and causes the
death of the plant.
When a thaw occurs in the frosted parts of a plant the
tissues usually regain the conditions which characterized them
before the frost appeared. As the water is set free by the
melting of the ice it is slowly absorbed by the cell walls and the
cell contents, so that when the cells have attained the temper-
ature at which chemical processes are possible the normal
conditions of imbibition have also been again restored, and the
metabolic processes which were temporarily suspended are
resumed under the influence of the higher temperature. The
case is different, however, when the frosted parts of plants are
rapidly thawed, as occurs for instance when they are suddenly
warmed by the sun. The rapid accession of heat induces the
ice in the intercellular spaces to thaw rapidly, and the ice water
being but slowly absorbed by the cellwalls and protoplasm
flows into the intercellular spaces and drives out the air, with
the result that leaves which are suddenly thawed become trans-
lucent. The normal conditions of imbibition have not been
restored when the chemical processes start afresh under the
influence of the rise in temperature. Instead of these processes
assuming the normal features of metabolism, they lead to
chemical decomposition in the comparatively dry and withered
tissues. In other words the plant is dying. It is therefore
emphatically to be recommended that plants affected by night-
frost should be protected against a too rapid thaw.
Views have been divided as to the manner in which death
of the plants is caused by frost. It was at one time admitted
that destruction took place by the bursting of the walls of the
vessels caused by the augmentation of volume which took place
at the freezing. Hoffman attributes a part of the mechanical
injury from freezing to the separation from the cell-sap of the
air previously contained therein. Later researches have shown
