110 ON THE POSSIBILITY OF PREVENTING DAMAGES BY FROST.
that the destruction is caused by the diminution of water which
the protoplasm undergoes at freezing, as mentioned above.
There has also been a controversy with regard to the time
when frost proves fatal. While Goppert concludes that death
occurs during the continuance of the frost, Sachs is of the
opinion that the tissues die only after they have thawed, and
that a fatal issue depends very much on the manner and rate of
thawing. The two views may to a certain extent be reconciled,
for it is possible that during winter death occurs during the con-
tinuance of the frost, whereas in the case of a summer night-
frost it appears at the moment of thawing.
All plants are not equally effected by a low temperature.
Among our common European vegetables the potato is one of
the most sensitive. P^ar less susceptible are the cereals, as oats,
barley, rye, wheat; more sensitive pea, &c., at least during the
first stages of growth.
Certain plants are seriously injured by low temperatures
which are considerably above the freezing point of water, but
these are exceptional cases. In some of our familiar spring
plants of Europe the leaves may be frozen and thawed without
apparent mischief, but in general the thawing must take place
slowly ; if it proceeds rapidly the plant may be irreparably
injured. There are however also well known cases in which
plants may be thawed quickly without serious injury. Sachs has
showii that the leaves of the cabbage, turnip, and certain beans,
frozen at a temperature of from — 5" C. to — 7" C. and placed
in water at 0° C. are immediately covered with a crust of ice,
upon the slow disappearance of which they resume their former
turgidity. If such frozen leaves are placed in water of -\- 75" C.
they at once become flaccid.
The behaviour of certain plants during exposure to low
temperatures affords some of the best illustrations of the adap-
tability of vegetation to its surroundings ; and the question as
to increasing the tolerance of a given species or variety to the
adverse influence of cold by careful selection of seeds for a series
of years has been successfully answered by cultivators in some
northern countries of Europe.
Apart from specific peculiarities we also find individual
differences, and it is this fact which makes it possible for us to
acclimatize plants. As the ability to resist frost varies amongst
