BY P. OLSSON-SEFFER, PH. D. 113
Avoiding frost by means of smoke is since olden times well
known to the peasantry in Sweden and Finland, and during the
winter on many a frosty night well-applied smoke-producing
fires have saved valuable crops.
The formation of artificial clouds consisting of smoke and
vapour must however be effected by fuel possessing the following
qualities : —
It must be handy and cheap ;
It must be easily transportable ;
It must be easily kindled ;
It must burn slowly ;
It must produce much smoke, vapour and heat ;
It must not be so inflammable that danger of spreading the
fire arises.
It is of course very difficult to combine all these qualities in
one combustible. Professor Lemstrom has constructed a kind
of frost-torch for which he claims the said properties.
These frost-torches consist of tubes of well-dried mud, and
of kindling cylinders which can be inserted into the tubes.
The torches may be placed in the field which is to be protected
and remain there all the time frost may be expected or until
they are used, for the rain affects only their surface and they
dry very soon. Frost-torches of this kind can be manufactured
at a price of less than ^d. apiece.
For a description of these frost-torches and their use we
can refer to a leaflet by the inventor " On the method of pro-
viding against summer night frosts by the use of torches."
The writer has had experience of these frost-torches and
found them to answer the purpose of producing a thick smoke.
They do not however burn long, and it is necessary to
determine the exact time when they are to be kindled, so as to
be sure that they are still producing smoke at sunrise, when the
danger is greatest.
The inventor claims also for his frost-torches the property
of producing heat to such an extent as to affect a movement in
the air strata, thus bringing warmer air down for the benefit of
the vegetation. This effect is however still an open question,
and Homen among others is of a different opinion.
Whatever kind of smoke producing fuel is used, it is how-
ever necessary to be careful when placing the fires so as to get
the use of all the natural conditions that will benefit, and to
