114 ON THE POSSIBILITY OF PBE VENTING DAMAGES BY FROST.
counteract those which are of an injurious character. Care
must thus be taken that strong currents of cooled air are kept
oat from the lower parts of the field, etc. Local circumstances
have to guide all the measures taken, and a careful study and
thorough knowledge of the phenomenon is necessary for the
successful use of this remedy.
We have already hinted at the fact that a misapplied remedy
often may be more injurious than the frost itself. We have
witnessed several instances when big fires kindled after the
freezing of the plants had taken place caused a too rapid thawing
and subsequently death. The samefires kindled half-an-hour earlier
would have saved the crop.
We have full faith in the effectiveness of smoke as a frost-
preventive, but the methods have to be developed, and for that
purpose a co-operation of science and practice is wanted.
On the principle of movements in the air as preventing
injurious effects of frost, several methods have been tried. The
Finns used to pass to and fro dragging a rope over the field,
thereby causing a wave-like movement of the straw which results
in a success, but this method is of course only possible on a
small patch.
We have not been able to ascertain from the records whether
the Stiger Vortex gun has been used in connection with frost
experiments, but it seems to me that shooting over a field during
a night-frost would be successful through causing the air strata
to be mixed, and thereby efi'ecting a restoration to the field of
heat lost by nocturnal radiation.
ON FORECASTING OF NIGHT-FROSTS.
For the practical agriculturist who wishes to avert from his
crop the evil eftects of frost, it is of the greatest importance to
be able to interpret correctly the warning signs given by Nature
herself before a frosty nighc, so that the protective measures be
not needlessly precipitated. A night-frost never coines unawares,
and its forewarnings are fortunately sure and easily interpreted.
Every meteorological handbook contains information on
this head, so we need not go into that question. As we said
before the occurrence of frost and the phenomena connected
therewith are however dependent on not only the climatic
conditions in general, but also on local circumstances. A
careful investigation of the frost question is necessary in every
country where frost occurs, and the scientists, both the
