BY P. OLSSON-SEFFER, PH. D. 115
meteorologist and the bioloorist, as well as the agriculturists
have to work hand in hand with their colleagues in other parts
of the world.
We need scarcely say that, by reason of it.s geographical
position, Australia is especially a good place for meteorological
researches. The well established system of meteorological
stations distributed all over the country and the high-level
mountain observatories already in work — -an undertaking
showing great foresight on the part of its initiator — -make it
possible to forecast the weather conditions with an accuracy
which cannot be surpassed in any other country. The rapid
development of communication, railways, telegraphs, telephones,
etc., will make it possible to spread intelligence of a threatening
frost into naarly every cottage, so that the farmer need not even
in this instance rely upon his own judgment, but can throw
his responsibility on more experienced shoulders.
THE FROST INVESTIGATIONS IN SWEDEN AND
FINLAND.
The first scientific inquiry re the frost phenomenon in
those countries was made by a Professor Hiillstroni, in Finland,.
1804. He published a prize essay, for a long time considered
and used as a standard-work on this question. In Sweden
Hamberg took up the question in the seventies, and Lenistroni
started at the same time his investigations in Finland. The
interesting results obtained by these scientific inquiries caused.
a general interest in the question. Homen made some valuable
experiments during 1880 and has since devoted himself to the
study of the frost phenomenon.
In 1892 the Geographical Society of Finland com-
menced investigations about night frosts and their dis-
tribution in the country. Circulars containing questions
relative to the night frost and its effects on the vegetation were
distributed to all parts of the country, and detailed reports were
voluntarily sent to the Society. The information thus collected
has been compiled and published from year to year in the
Society's bulletins by a prominent biologist. Professor Kihlman,
and many a doubtful question has thus been settled.
Meanwhile the Government has interested itself in the
matter. Besides giving the above mentioned Society all
assistance in form of free postage, etc., a frost commission
consisting of scientists and practical farmers was appointed
for establishing an official scientific inquiry.
