116 ON THE POSSIBILITY OF PREVENTING DAMAGES BY FROST.
Recognizing the importance of drainage as diminishing the
danger of frost, the Government has set apart funds from
which cheap loans are given for the special purpose of giving
the farmers an opportunity of getting their fields properly
drained.
In Sweden the Government has taken similar steps. Last
year for instance a sum of £23,000 was voted by the Riksdag
for the current year for loans to be used for draining purposes,
and for diminishing the frost danger, and every year a sum of
£56,000 is placed to a fund from which small farmers get
loans at 3 per cent, interest, and to the amount of 70 per cent.
of the value of the proposed improvements.
For nearly a century the Finnish Society of Science has
through interested persons in every part of the country been
making phenological observations which are of great impoTtance
in connection with the frost question, as showing the season of
growth and the effects of the climate not only on the indigenous
vegetation but also on the cultivated plants. In Sweden too
similar phenological data have for a long time been available.
A co-operative company was established a few years ago in
Stockholm insuring against damages by frost, and this has
proved ta be a thorough success.
SUGGESTIONS.
As far as is known to the writer very little has been done in
Australia in connection with the study of frost phenomena or
with regard to practical attempts to prevent damages by night-
frosts. Last year the late manager of the Biggenden State
Farm, Mr. H. A. Tardent, strongly advocated in the papers the
use of smoke as a frost preventive, and experiments were subse-
quently made on the sugar fields of the Isis district. However
lack of confidence in the method and insufficient co-operation
between the neighbours seemed to have caused, if not a failure,
at least not a satisfactory result.
Co-operation is the great word in all matters connected
with modern agriculture. If all the farmers in a neighbourhood
combine, and after getting sufficient information from a meteor-
ologist make up their minds to fight their common enemy, the
frost, there is no doubt they could with a very small outlay save
a considerable sum. But without co-operation, no success.
In the future we shall have legislation to the effect that
nobody must neglect his duty if he thereby injures his neighbour,
