BY WILTON W. R. LOVE, M.B. 125
virulence, and that when subcultures were made the diminished
virulence persisted. Such cultures can be used for protective
inoculation, and are generally known as vaccines, from their
analogy to the action on the human organism of the material
derived from cow-pox. Again, an organism may be "attenuated,"
that is, reduced in virulence by passing through another animal,
e.g. Burdon Sanderson and Greenfield shewed that anthrax
bacilli when inoculated into guinea pigs became attenuated, and
could then be used for protective inoculation of sheep and cattle ;
c.p., also Pasteur's experiments with swine-plague, where rab-
bits were used to attenuate the bacilli. Similarly some organ-
isms become diminished in virulence if grown at an abnormally
high temperature, or in the presence of weak antiseptics.
Exaltation of the virulence on the other hand, may be brought
about chiefly by the method of cultivating the organism from
animal to animal — the method of " passage" discovered by Pasteur
— the animals used are mostly rabbits or guinea-pigs. This
method can be applied to the organisms of typhoid, cholera,
pneumonia, to streptococci, and staphylococci. Similarly the
above methods may be combined, e.g., by injections of cultures at
first attenuated and afterwards more virulent, and by increasing
the doses a high degree of immunity may be gained. Haflfkine's
anti-choleraic injection dependsuponthiscombination— the virus
{i.e., the cholera organisms) is first attenuated by passing a
current of sterile air over the organisms, which are then passed
through guinea pigs by injection into the peritoneum. The
virulence is thus increased 20-fold, i.e., ^V}th of the ordinary
lethal dose of the culture is sufficient to kill. Animals are first
treated with the attenuated virus, and then gradually with the
*' exalted " virus. This process has been tried by Haffkine on
the human subject with marked success. Three injections of
attenuated virus are first given, and then virus e.valte is used.
(b) Inoculation with small and repexted doses of fully
virulent organisms. The animal tissues can deal with a small
dose of virulent organisms ; this produces a small amount of
immvxnity in the animal, which is taken advantage of to intro-
duce a larger dose, and so on, but up to a certain point only —
for any animal, however highly immunised, can be killed by a
sufficiently large dose ; in other words, any individual, provided
the species is susceptible to a given disease, may succumb to an
attack of that disease if the dose be sufficiently large and
virulent.
