126 IMMUNITY, NATURAL AND ACQUIRED
(c ) By inoculation with toxins or bacterial products. This
is a most important advance, and has done much to disprove
Metschnikoff's doctrine of phagocytosis as being the means by
which natural protection was acquired by the animal.
Virulent organisms are grown in a culture medium for a certain
time and then filtered off through a Pasteur-Cham berland filter ;
the filtrate then contains the toxins elaborated by the bacilli.
This can be standardised and used with the same exactitude in
dose as an a.lkaloid. The toxin is administered to the animal at
first in small doses, and gradually increased — for example,
Calmette and Fraser's experiments with snake poison to produce
anti-venene. Inmost casfs the toxins are in solution, but a
similar result may be obtained by sterilising the cultures, and
not filtering, but injecting the dead bacilli with the culture
medium, as in Haft'kine's plague prophylactic. — (The method
of preparation of Haft'kine's plague prophylactic was here
explained.) — Albumoses in the beef-tea perhaps cause fever ; an
improved method by two Italian scientists has led to the
production of a crystalline substance which causes no
fever. By this method a high degree of immunity can be pro-
duced, but as before, only up to a certain point. This is
practically a chemical process, and is comparable to the toleration
of laudanum in the devotees of the opium habit or of arsenic in
the Styrian peasants. Similar results, but on a more restricted
scale, have been obtained by feeding animals on toxins or dead
bacterial cultures. The important axiom to be drawn from this
method is, to quote Kanthack, " immunity therefore implies
resistance both to bacteria and their products."
((/) Immunity may be procured by inoculating an animal
with serum derived from animals protected by a previous attack
or immunised by the above methods. Practically, this is the
method which has found most general use in the prevention and
treatment of certain infectious diseases. Take, as example,
protective inoculation agahist diphtheria by the injection of
serum from horses highly immunised by injections of cultures of
diphtheria bacilli. This must not be confused with the curative or
antitoxic effect of anti-diphtheria serum, as that belongs to a
dift'erent category, though it may be well now to refer to this part
of theisubject. The chief of these methods are treatment of diphthe-
ria by antitoxic serum, of tetanus by anti-tetanic serum, immun-
isation of cattle against tick fever by the injection of serum ob-
tained from cattle which have survived an attack. The draw-
