BY WILTON W. R. LOVE, M.B. 127
back to this method of protection lies in the fact that the pro-
tection is usually short-lived, conferring immunity only for
a few weeks. This can be overcome by repeated injections,
which however interferes with its usefulness on account
of the inconvenience and expense of repeated injections.
At the Plague Hospital here some of the resident
medical officers were in the habit of keeping themselves
immunised by taking fortnightly injections of the plague
curative serum. Some of the sera may have both an immunis-
ing effect and a curative effect, although not having bactericidal
properties. The introduction of serum from immunised
animals as a method of treatment marks one of the most
important strides in preventive medicine, and we have good
reason to hope that as yet the method is only in its infancy.
The most efficacious of these antitoxins has been the anti-
diphtheritic serum derived from horses highly immunised with
cultures of living diphtheria bacilli, with which the name of
Behring must ever be conspicuously connected. The death-rate in
the Children's Hospital in Brisbane for example has been brought
down from 45 per cent, to 9 per cent., and it is belived that
every case may be saved if the treatment can be given sufficiently
early. After the disease has existed for several days or more,
in addition to the poisonous effect of the diphtheria toxin,
there is often the result of a mixed infection super-added, e.g.,
broncho-pneumonia, septic sloughing of the throat, etc., due to
the presence of organisms other than the diphtheria bacilli which
may cause a fatal issue in spite of the diphtheritic toxin having
been neutralised by the serum.
Another but less effectual anti-toxin is the anti-tetanic
serum — from the use of which undoubted recoveries have taken
place, both in human beings and horses — but as cases are not
usually recognised until the toxin has already attacked the
central nervous system, and as the ratio of anti-toxin necessary
to counteract the effect of the toxin increases enormously with
every few hours, the curative effect is far below that of
diphtheritic anti-toxin. Greater success would be expected
from immunising doses of tetanic anti-toxin in lacerated wounds
where the development of tetanus might bs expected.
Anti-streptococcic serum has been used with success against
erysipelas, post-mortem wounds, puerperal fever, and in general
septic infection due to streptococci — but is powerless against
