128 IMMUNITY, NATURAL AND ACQUIRED
septic conditions due solely to staphylococci or to mixed in-
fections of streptococci and staphylococci.
Anti-typhoid, anti-cholera, anti-pneumonic, anti-plague,
and other sera are all prepared in an a.nalogous manner, and
have given in some instances valuable results. The only one
of which we have any experience is the anti-plague serum, and
we have had ample opportunities of witnessing its effects,
sometimes; magical, in cases of bubonic plague.
Another example is the anti-rabic serum introduced by
Tizzoni and Pasteur, where conspicuous success has followed
the use of this serum in persons bitten by rabid animals in whom
hydrophobia would otherwise have developed.
To quote Kanthack : " There is a striking difference, how-
ever, between immunity produced by inoculation of the bacteria
themselves and their toxins, whether attenuated or not, and
immunity produced by serum injections. In the former case the
animal gains its immunity after an active struggle with the
disease or 1( sions following the injection or intoxication ; in the
latter case there is no struggle with disease and no reaction ; the
animal remains passive while the immunity-conferring substance
is applied to its tissues. On account of this essential difference,
Ehrlich distinguishes active from passive immunity. Passive
immunity is effected quickly, is less persistent, and varies with
the amount of the serum used and with the degree of the
immunity of the animal which supplies the serum. Active
immunity, on the other hand, does not appear for days, not
until the animal has passed through the reactive stage ; then it
becomes permanent, and is proportional to the intensity of the
reaction rather than to the amount of vaccine used."
Lastly we come to the subject of Natural Immunity, which
I will treat very briefly. I would call your attention tc two
facts — (1) that there are a large number of bacteria — the so-
called non-pathogenic bacteria, which, when introduced into an
animal, cause no symptoms, unites- perhaps in very large doses,
showing that the tissues and fluids of the animal body possess
a bactericidal action against germs of low virulence ; (2) that
there are other bacteria, which are very virulent to some species
of animals and harmless against others — anthrax, for example,
fowls immune to tetanus, goats to tubercle, c.p., natural resis-
tance to morphia in birds. This immunity must be due to a
special power on the part of that animal of destroying the germ
