129
or neutralising its toxins, or an insusceptibility to the action of
the toxine.
Different animals have different degrees of resistance or
non-susceptibility to toxic bodies — a fact so far incapable of
explanation. We must take this natural resistance for granted,
and there is no evidence that for each case there is an anti-toxic
body present which protects ; the serum of a fowl, for instance,
does not protect another animal from tetanus, though the serum
of a less susceptible animal in which a resistance equal to that
of the towl has been artifically developed does possess anti-toxic
powers. The resistance evidently lies in the tissues.
With regard to the natural bactericidal powers, the
powers seem to reside in phagocytosis and in the action of the
serum, the latter deriving its virtue from substances derived
from various glands, spleen, lymphatic glands, the gums, etc.,
and termed alexines.
Having now discussed the various methods of conferring
acquired immunity, there remain to be considered the hypo-
theses which have been built up to explain the processes in the
animal body by which the immunity is gradually developed.
None of them, however, are capable of satisfying every aspect
of the case.
(1.) Pasteur's theory of exhaustion — in other words, it is
assumed that there are certain substances in the body of a living
animal necessary for the existence of a particular germ, and
that this is used up by the germs which then die out. This is
of course easily disproved by the discovery of passive immunity
conferred by the injection of the serum of an immunised animal,
i.e., a small quantity of serum in which the pabulum has been
exhausted cannot lead to its exhaustion in the serum of another
animal into which it is introduced.
(2.) Theory of retention which supposes that the toxins
elaborated by the bacilli gradually kill them — as happens in cul-
tures in test tubes : this does not explain how it is that acquired
immunity may last for years, as it is unreasonable to suppose
that these toxins are retained in the system during that time.
(3.) Phagocytosis — Metchnikoff's wonderful theory, which
credits the lencocytes with bactericidal powers. This theory has
demonstrated one of the chief methods possessed by the body in
dealing with invading organisms, but does not explain the con-
ferring of immunity by means of serum injections or chemical
vaccines.
