BY J. BROWNDE HENDERSON, F.I.C., F.O.S. 133
when applied to this water, as they nhoke up almost at once
and after a short time hecoiue permanently choked. TheEnog-
gera water then, although not liable to be contaminated with
typhoid, cholera, or other pathogenic germs, may be classed as
unsuitable for drinking. If the water is allowed to run until
clear, the sample then collected, boiled, filtered, and allowed
to stand for twenty-four hours, it is generally palatable, though
even after this treatment it may have an objectionable odour.
With Enoggera and Gold Creek waters nearly always, and
Mt. Crosby sometimes unsuitable for drinking, the rain water
collected from galvanised iron roofs in galvanised iron tanks
is the principal source of drinking water in Brisbane, even
where the other supplies are available.
Organically tank water is nearly always very pure ; in fact,
I have never yet found a tank water as bad organically as the
ordinary Enoggera or Mt. Crosby. The only objectionable ingredi-
ent I have found in tank water is zinc. This metal is always
present, generally in the form of carbonate, and varies in amount
from about 03 to 2 grains per gallon in ordinary waters, though
water collected from new tanks or from new roofs, often contains
much more, and deposits a thick white sediment of hydrated
zinc carbonate in the bottom of the tank. My main object in
reading this paper to-night is to call the attention of our
medical members to the presence of this zinc. I have at
various times spoken to several medical gentlemen on the
subject, but no one seems to have given it any attention.
Now I do not in any way want to raise a scare, as that
generally does more harm than good, but from my investi-
gations on the matter I think it is well worthy of serious
study, particularly in the case of medical men dealing with
children.
When I first realised that all the tank waters contained so-
much zinc I naturally felt alarmed, but concluded that as no
one had ever noted poisonous effects from the use of such
waters in Brisbane, there were no poisonous effects. When
the Lead Poisoning Commission was appointed some years ago,
as a member of the Commission I gave the matter a good
deal of attention, and smce then I have gradually been forced
to the conclusion that the zinc may not be so harmless as ia
generally believed.
