BY J. BBOWNLIE HENDERSON, F.I.C., F.C.S. 135
re-absorb air, tank water gives the safest and most palatable
water that it is possible to have.
Now with regard to the possibility of harmful results aris-
ing out of the continued use of tank water containing zinc in
solution I of course cannot speak with authority, but I will
give the chief references that I have been able to find after a
rather extended search, though unfortunately owing to the
absence of any good library in Brisbane I have not been able to
make the search as complete as I would have liked it to be. As
it would be exceedingly inconvenient for any one in Brisbane to
get the following books or journals for reference, I give the
contents of each reference as fully as possible.
Text Books.
Most text books vaguely condemn the presence of zinc in
■drinking water. The following two may be taken as fair
examples : —
Mason's " Examination of Water,'' 1899 edition, j). 80. —
" Zinc is not a cumulative poison, but its presence in water
is nevertheless distinctly objectionable."
Davis's ^^ Potable Water," 1891 eiL, p. 21. — "Galvanised
iron pipes are also liable to render dangerous the water that passes
through them ; such waters contain zinc, but the amount is
generally very small."
The following references are much more informative : —
Professor Dixon Manns " Forensic Medicine and Toxicology,"
1898 ed., p. 469, states :—
" Chronic poisoning by zinc has been observed, chiefly in
smelters of the metal. The symptoms to some extent resemble
those produced by lead ; derangement of the digestive organs,
colic with constipation or more frequently diarrhoea ; indications
of peripheral neuritis have been observed. Gastric symptoms
have resulted from drinking water or milk stored in zinc lined
vessels."
Dr. Thresh's " Water Supphj," 1896 ed., p.p. 10, 209,
210, 211, and 418:—
" Waters which act on lead appear also to have the power
of acting upon zinc, and of forming poisonous compounds
which dissolve freely in the water. As the physical characters
of the water are not altered, the presence of the metal may
remain unsuspected, unless some obscure form of illness leads
the medical attendant to have it examined. When water which
•contains an appreciable amount of zinc is heated in an open
