136 DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY OF BRISBANE, ETC.
vessel, before it commences to boil an iridescent film is observed
upon the surface, sometimes giving rise to the impression that
the water is 'greasy.' Such water should not be stored in
zinc or galvanised iron vessels, or passed through galvanised
iron pipes."
" The River Pollution Commissioners mention that some
polluted shallow well waters not only act upon lead violently,
but continuously, and that several instances of poisoning from
the use of leaden pump pipes h«d come to their knowledge.
The one analysis given of such a water shows that it was far
purer than the average of shallow-well waters, but that the
temporary hardness was under 1". When a galvanised iron
pipe was substituted for the leaden one, the water, as might
have been expected from its composition, became charged with
zinc, and zinc poisoning followed the lead poisoning. The so-
called tin-lined lead pipes also yield lead to the water, inasmuch
as the tin in the process of lining becomes alloyed with the
lead.
" As previously stated, water which acts upon lead will also-
attack the zinc coating of galvanised iron. A case of poisoning^
from this cause recently came under my notice. The water
supply to a newly-erected country house was derived from a
spring aj?ising at the edge of a patch of Bagshot sand. The
water was piped from this spring to the house, a distance of
half a mile, through galvanised iron pipes. The only child^
who, prior to the removal into the new house, had been perfectly
healthy, became a sufferer from obstinate constipation. At
length suspicion rested upon the water supply, probably because
an iridescent film always formed on its surface when exposed in
open vessels, or when heated in an open pan. (This film is-
very characteristic of the presence of zinc, and is often put down
to a trace of oil or grease.) Upon analysis I found that thfr
water contained about 8 grains of carbonate of zinc per gallon^
When the water supply was changed, the constipation ceased.
Many months after I again examined the water, which had beea
allowed to flow freely through the pipe, in the hope that it would
speedily dissolve oft" the whole of the zinc ; but it still contained
too large a quantity to be considered safe for domestic use. Dr.
Heaton, in the Chemical Xfivs (22ud Feb., 188-4), gives an
analysis of a water from near Llanelly, which is carried for half
a mile through galvanised iron pipe. It was found to contain
over 6 grains of carbonate of zinc to the gallon. Unfortunately"
