BY J. BROWNLIE HENDERSON, F.I.C., F.C.S. 137
the degree of temporary hardness is not stated, nor the reason
why the Medical Officer sent it for analysis. Dr. Venables, in
the Journal of the American Chemical Society, gives the analysis
of a spring water, which, after passing through 200 yards of
galvanised iron pipe, and after being in use a year, contained
over 4 grains of zinc carbonate per gallon. The temporary
hardness in this case was under l'-^. He concludes that, ' when
the dangerous nature of zinc as a poison is taken into consi-
deration, the use of zinc-coated vessels in' connection with water
or any food liquid, should be avoided.' "
" Zinc poisoning from the use of water which has been
stored in galvanised iron receptacles is of comparatively rare
occurrence. Obstinate constipation is, so far as experience
extends, the one noticeable effect produced, and possibly zinc-
contaminated water may be a more frequent cause of this condi-
tion than has hitherto been suspected ; but Myelins states that
the water of the parish well at Tutendorf, contains half a grain
of zinc per gallon, and has been used for about a century
without any perceptible effect."
Hammnrstens " Physiological Chemistry," 1900 ed., p. 211 : —
" Zinc ... is easily taken up by the liver and retained
for a long time," and ibid., p. 404, " Zinc .... passe?
into the milk."
Journals.
The Analyst, since the first number in 1875, contains n-
reference to deleterious effects of zinc in drinking water. Vol.
XXII., p. 187, records the use of ZnSO^ as cheese spice
to prevent heaving and cracking in cheese-making (A. H. Allen),
while A. Bodmer found 3-7 and 2*5 grains ZnSO^ per
lb. of cheese in two different samples. In Vol. 24, p. 8, dried
apples are recorded as containing -031 per cent., -021 per cent.,
•023 per cent., and -027 per cent, and dried pears -020 pe
cent, and "026 per cent, of zinc. These are interesting as othei.
possible sources of zinc poisoning.
The Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry since the
first number in 1882, gives the following information : —
Vol. II., p. 413, records acetic acid as containing zinc,
derived from grey rubber tubing.
Vol. IV., p. 408, records experiments to show that zinc ia
inimical to plant life. In some " water culture " experiments
1 part per million killed radish, 5 per million killed oats, barley.
