188 DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY OF BRISBANE, ETC.
clover, vetch, and buck-wheat. In soils, those rich in humus
render the zinc insoluble so that it has little harmful effect,
but in ordinary sandy soils, watering with water containing 20
parts of zinc per million after six weeks gradually killed off
cabbages, peas, and even grasses. The action seems to arise
through destruction of the chlorophyll, as zinc has no deleterious
effect on the development of vegetation in the dark or on plants
containing no chlorophyll.
Vol. IV., p. 461, gives a record by three other investigators,
who confirm the above results.
Vol. v., p. 498, records the presence of zinc in dried apples.
No proportions given.
Vol. VI., p. 557. — Bunte says the use of galvanised iron
pipes for household water did not give enough zinc to be in
any way harmful, but gives no figures.
Vol. VII., p. 689. — Max Muller found water from a copper
roof to corrode zinc quickly, while water from a slate roof
did not.
Vol. XI., p. 363. — \. H. Allen found "a large proportion
of zinc in peas, which he found free from copper."
Vol. XVIII., p. 102. — H. E. Davies, after a long investiga-
tion established the following facts : —
(1) All kinds of water attack zinc in presence of air,
(2) Rain water appears to have the least action.
(3) A moderate degree of hardness favours the action,
and extreme hardness does not prevent it.
(4) Coating the zinc with deposit does not altogether
stop the action.
(5) When water containing zinc is drunk, zinc is found
in all the viscera.
The article also proves that the action of water on zinc is
much accelerated by the presence of nitrates.
The Chemical News contains very little information up
to Vol. 49. On page 85 of this volume the following article appears
by Dr. Heaton. This article is quoted in most of the text books
when referring to zinc in tank water: —
" The water supplied to Cwmfelin, near Llanelly, is drawn
from a spring at Penderry, and carried for about half a mile
through a galvanised iron pipe. Mr. J. Raglan Thomas, the
Medical Officer of Health for the district, detected zinc in the
water of this pipe, and sent me samples from the spring and
