6 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
the truth. But though we know that in all probability the
problem is insoluble to our finite faculties, though we know that
we must fail under all existing conditions to reach the life source,
there is a wonderful fascination in even approaching it, and in
scrutinizing in its beginnings the mystery which afterwards
passes through such infinitely varied phases, and culminates at
last in that transcendent marvel conscious intelligence. There
is a little poem of Tennyson's which you will at once re-
member : —
Flower in the crannied wall
I pluck you out of the crannies ;
Hold you here, root and all, in my hand
Little flower — but if I could understand
What you are, root and all, and all in all
I should know what God and man is.
We have been apt to smile at that, and treat it as so much
poetical hyperbole. But it is true notwithstanding. We cannot
understand what the little fiower is, for it involves the mystery
of life ; and though modern science is unlocking " door by door
of mystery," we are nevertheless convinced that each unlocking
will but reveal a vista of vaster mysteries beyond.
You will remember that so profound a philosopher as
Herbert Spencer has reminded us in his " First Principles "
that of necessity explanation must eventually bring us down to
the inexplicable, the deepest truth we can get at must be
unaccountable ; comprehension must be something other than
comprehension before the ultimate fact can be comprehended.
Yet, even while the recognition of these limitations fills us
with humility, we cannot resist the overmastering temptation of
getting as near as we may to the threshold of the unknowable.
We know that our quest is a struggle against the infinite, but
the very attempt is an elevating eftbrt, which leaves him who
makes it with broader views and higher thoughts and nobler
aims.
You sit down to your microscope some evening and place on
its stage a drop of water from some favourable locality. You
see disclosed to your scrutiny a new world of life and beauty
before undreamed of ; but you must be blind for awhile to all
the seemingly more striking objects in the field of view and con-
centrate your attention upon a certain insignificant jelly-like
patch (Atmcha), which is attached to the cover-glass; which
