Spring.
Pipe.
10.8
18-9
1-47
1-45
none
0-008
0-056
none
none
6-41
BY J. BKOWNLIE HENDEKSON, F.I.C., F.C.S. 139
from the pipe for further examination. I obtained the following
results : —
Grains per Gallon.
Total solids . .
Chlorine
Ammonia
Nitrogen as nitrate . .
Zinc carbonate in solution in carbonic acid
" The solvent action upon zinc of water containing dis-
solved oxygen and free carbonic acid is, as the above figures
show, considerable. As far as I know it has not been observed
before.
" I confirmed the analysis by a simple experiment. Dis-
tilled water containing some fragments of pure zinc was exposed
for about half an hour to a stream of oxygen and carbonic
anhydride. The filtered liquid was found to contain much zinc
in solution, this zinc being readily precipitated as carbonate on
boiling.
" It will be seen that the Peuderry water is very pure
The reduction of the nitrate to ammonia by the action of the
zinc is a noteworthy feature in the case."
On page 107 of same volume is a reprint of Dr. Stevenson's
well-known article which seems to give a resume of what was
known of the subject up to that date and which is here rf pro-
duced : —
" The experiments of Boutigny, Schaueffele, and Langonn6
have long since shown us that zinc dissolves in potable waters
at ordinary temperatures ; that distilled water and rain
water dissolve zinc more readily than hard waters, especially
those that are rich in chalk. They have shown, however, that
hard potable waters do not take up zinc to an appreciable extent,
for the zinc speedily becomes coated with an insoluble layer of
zinc hydrate (hydrated oxide), or, more commonly, of hydro-
carbonate (hydrated oxide and carbonate) ; but still a portion of
the metal remains suspended, whilst a smaller portion, perhaps,
passes into a state of true solution. Thus, all kinds of vessels
in domestic use, whether made of zinc or ' galvanised,' impart
to waters kept in, or allowed to pass through them, a certain
quantity of zinc. The quantity of zinc thus taken up may even
be sufficient to render the water opalescent, and unfit for drink-
ing purposes.
