140 DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY OF BRISBANE, ETC.
" Fonspagrives, taking up the question of the nocuity or
innocuity of waters kept in zinc vessels, or in those which are
galvanised {i.e., coated with zinc), investigated it by the data
furnished by records of the public health, by the experience of
naval hygiene, and by experiments on man and upon animals.
He does not, however, adduce any experiments of his own. A
French Government Commission had previously, on what
appeared to Fonssagrives insuflficient grounds, decided that water
kept in vessels of zinc is injurious to health. Boutigny had
likewise attributed very grave e£fects to the use of waters thus
stored, and even imagined that epilepsy might be produced by
the ingestion of zinc oxide. Fonssagrives concluded, as the
result of his investigations, that the insoluble preparations of
zinc produce no digestive disturbances except when taken in large
doses, and that they do not accumulate in the economy. He
admits that water in contact with metallic zinc becomes coated
with zinc compounds, but that these — zinc hydrate, hydrocar-
bonate, and ulmate — are almost insoluble. Rain water passing
over the metal may, nevertheless, remove some zinc in solution,
as zincate of ammonia. These compounds, he states, exist in
waters in such small quantities that no injurious effects can, in
his opinion, result from their use. He adds that the facts drawn
from toxicology, naval hygiene, public hygiene, and therapeutics,
all attest the innocuity of water that has rested upon zinc. In
consequence, the use of zinc and galvanised iron cisterns, of zinc
pipes, and of galvanised iron pipes, for the conveyance of water,
cannot be considered dangerous to health.
"Others, nevertheless, hold a different opinion. Pappen-
heim states that, though the amount of zinc present in such
waters as have been spoken of, is not always sufficient to produce
poisonous effects, since it is indubitable that they have frequently
been employed for considerable lengths of time with impunity,
yet the amount of metal taken up by large quantities of water
may be sufficient to produce deleterious results. He states,
moreover, that in France, spite of Fonssagrives's assertions, the
water tanks of ships have had to be re-galvanised and tinned,
and that zinc vessels have to be especially avoided. Dr. Parkes
likewise states that Dr. Osborne, of Bitterne, has frequently
observed injurious effects from the use of waters impregnated
with zinc.
" Of the fact that water does, under certain conditions, act
energetically upon zinc and upon galvanised iron, I have had
