BY J. BROWNLIE HENDERSON, F.I.C., F.C.S. 143
state of growth and decay owing to the peculiarly hot and moist
character of the climate.
" In October I suspected that the cause acting so injuriously
on the health of the Guides was due to the irritant action of
some metallic poison, and surmised that it was some salt of
zinc in combination with an organic acid or acids. By a rough
application of the usual chemical tests I found in December
that the water from each tank, as well as that caught directly
from the roof, contained the metal zinc in poisonous quantities,
and my deductions were subsequently confirmed by special
analysis.
" Mr. P. J. Burgess, M.A., Government Analyst, Straits
Settlements, whose report on this water is attached, reports that
the water taken directly from the roof is organically a dirty
water and unfit for domestic purposes, while water taken from
the tanks is as far as organic impurities go, unfit for drinking.
And that the tank water held zinc in solution as the acid car-
•^onate, 4-82 parts per million (-34 grains per gallon) in quantity
as compared to that taken directly from the roof which held
11-15 parts per million in solution.
"It is thus proved that zinc existed in the water in
sufficient amount to cause poisoning, and the medical history of
the health of the detachment will prove that to this alone was
their illness due. Similar detachments from the Malay States
Guides who occupied these barracks used water from other
sources. They were under my care in 1898 and 1899. The
numbers under treatment for gastro-intestinal complaints were
not very large during these two years for this class of native.
" The present detachment used the zinc-contaminated water
from their first arrival in March, 1900, until the end of the year,
when its use was forbidden and prevented. After its use was
stopped, the number of patients steadily decreased. There have
been no new cases of this kind, and the general health has much
improved.
"In 1900, colic, diarrhoea, and a spurious form of dysentery
were persistently complained of. The health had never been
affected in this way before, as the following records of attendance
for this class of case, taken before, during, and after using this
water supply will prove :
" f'rom March to October, 1898, 80 men were under treat-
ment for this class of case ; in 1899, for the same months, 58
patients. In 1900, during the same period, 219 men, and, at
