144 DOMESTIC WATEB SUPPLY OF BRISBANE, ETC.
at the close of the year, it was found that 43 different individuals
out of the 56 had been on the sick list on account of gastro-
intestinal disorders. Nine men and 1 woman had been
transferred on medical certificate. One patient was recom-
mended for four months' sick leave to India ; 5 others, who had
constantly been on the sick list, took all the leave which was
due to them. Seven voluntarily left the service on the termina-
tion of their agreements on account of ill-health, and one of
them subsequently died in Selangor. Another died at Kuala
Lipis. The spirit of the remaining 81 men of the original
Perak detachment was broken, and the general loss of tone was
very noticeable.
Special points of interest in the clinical histories are :
"1. The fact that gastric symptoms predominated over
nervous symptoms. It is difficult to offer any satisfactory
reason as to why this should have occurred, except that it is a
common experience in the East that Sikhs suffer greatly from
irritative dyspepsia even under ordinary circumstances, and are
not often attacked with neuritis. As far as my experience in
Pahang goes, they have been notably exempt from the prevalent
form of peripheral neuritis which is very commonly met with in
beri-beri.
" 2. The fact that all the Sikh patients had had their
diets prepared at the barracks, and had their drinking water
supplied from the contaminated tank all the time they had
been in the wards. This was on account of their religious
custom, which forbids them to use food prepared by others than
their own nationality, or to drink water unless it has been
carried by a Sikh. The Pathans, on the other hand, being
Mussulmans, were supplied with the ward diets and water by the
hospital cook, who is a Mohammedan. They were also accus-
tomed to eat and drink with their Mahommedan friends in the
town, but the Sikh soldiers had few opportunities of feeding
outside barracks. The hospital returns show that the Sikh
soldiers suffer in a proportion of almost 2 to 1 as compared to
the Pathans.
" 3. The slow and deadly action of zinc poisoning by
administration in small but continuous doses was well exempli-
fied. In some cases it seems to suggest the possibility of zinc
being an accumulative poison. Emaciation was, generally
speaking, an evident symptom, and was so marked in the case of
