BY J, BROWNLIE HENDERSON, F.I.C., F.C.S. 145
V. S. as to suggest malignant disease of the stomach at the time
of his death,
" With regard to the chemical analysis of the water, it is
necessary to say that the samples A and B, mentioned in the
analyst's report, were taken from the Pathan's tank. It was
not possible at the time, owing to a short drought, to send Mr«
Burgess samples from the Sikhs' tank. An excess of zinc was
found in this water by me as compared to the other. For the
same reason it took some days to collect the sample C, which
was taken directly from the roof. The surfaces of the corru-
gated iron were not flushed with rain as is usually the case.
This, no doubt, accounts for the large amount of organic matter
which was found in this particular sample, and may explain the
excess of zinc in it through non-dilution of the water. The
roofs at Kuala Lipis are covered with patches of oxide of zinc.
" The amount of carbonate in solution in the tank water
which caused so much sickness at Kuala Lipis, is comparatively
small in quantity. It is less than one-fifteenth of that found in
the contaminated water supplied to Cwmfelin, near Llanelly, a
few years ago.
" It is interesting to note in connection with the latter
instance, which is reported in the Lancet of July 29th, 1893,
that the Pahang water was also essentially a soft water. The
occurrence of this rather rare instance of poisoning suggests the
advisability of a special inquiry with regard to a possible conta-
mination of water in the towns of Australia and South Africa
where galvanised iron roofs and tanks are used for the purpose
of collecting and storing rain water; and although soil and
circumstances undoubtedly play a chief part in the causation of
typhoid fever in these countries, it is not unreasonable to suppose
that zinc poisoning might be a factor in the causation of some
of the gastro-intestinal symptoms. It appears that only after
prolonged boiling and subsequent filtration water containing the
acid carbonate of zinc might be harmless. It must be borne in
mind, however, that the climates are essentially different, and
perhaps in this may be found the determining cause of the
Pahang epidemic. The mean annual temperature at Kuala
Lipis in 1900 was 82-7'^ F., the minimum temperature 71° F.,
the rainfall 96-69 inches, with an average number of thirteen
rainy days per month."
These then are the facts, so far as I have been able to
ascertain them, with regard to what is known of the presence of
