148 SETTLING IN QUEENSLAND, ETC.
at the unpretensious houses of accommodation and living on
the simple fare they provided, and at night sleeping as only the
joung can sleep.
For some time I remained in Sydney, making inquiries and
thinking thoughts which seemed to lead to nothing definite
until, sauntering along George Street one morning, I met an old
schoolmate who told me he was going to the Clarence River for
some cattle which he had undertaken to drive across to Victoria.
Would I join my lot with his ? 1 must settle the matter at
once, as he had to give an answer within half-an-hour to another
young fellow who wanted to go with him, Half-a-minute was
enough for me. I heard the terms, and there and then agreed
to go. So I was to see the Clarence River country, of which I
had heard a great deal, and something of all the districts lying
between it and the golden city of Melbourne. I had heard of
the droughts which had prevailed in the earlier days.
I had read of the devastation caused by want of rain, even in the
neighbourhood of Sydney, and I was not quite uninformed as to
the terribly dry state which some explorers had gained experience
of in their travels into the interior. Perhaps I should gain some
personal experience in this direction, but in any case what
knowledge I might pick up of the southern districts would help
me to decide later on about those which lay near or in the
tropics.
In due course I made my way by steamer to Grafton, on
the Clarence River. During the weeks I remained there I made
the acquaintance of a number of good fellows who were trying
to hit upon the fortune which they had been promising them-
selves when they went there ; and I renewed my friendship
with some who I had known before ; amongst the latter I
specially mention the name of Thomas Hawkins Smith, who
died last July from pneumonia ; a good man and true was " Tom "
Smith,, and ever rtady to do a kindly act. We got away with
the cattle in what is sometimes spoken of as " the fall" of the
year. At Tabulam station, then owned by Mrs. Chauvel, we
came in for a "fall" of rain which lasted for several days —
indeed until we all became bluemouldy. Going through the big
New England district we had biting frosts and plenty of them,
but happily no snow. Through Liverpool Plains we experienced
dry weather and a general shortness of water. Before we
reached Coolah we became acquainted with anthrax, commonly
called " Cumberland" disease, after the county of Cumberland,
