BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 149'
where it was wont to kill many cattle and sheep as they were
being taken to the Sydney market. When I took sheep through
the Coolah country in 1854 it killed some of them also. By
the time we reached Dubbo, on the Macquarie, we were well
into a drought, and until we drew near the Lachlan River at
Cummin's Crossing we had more and more drought. Cattle
and horses had been dying by thousands, and the water we were
compelled to drink told its own never-to-be-forgotten tale of
thirst and starvation. Before we reached the Lachlan River the
rain came. It filled the water channels and holes ; as for the
remains of the dead — let us hope they were drifted to some spot
where there was no water to pollute ! We had several days of
rain, and it made things as damp and uncomfortable as usual.
But it brought up the grass and herbage, and the wide plains of
the Lachlan became emerald ; trefoil sprang up abundantly, and
the cattle ate it greedily, with hoven as the result ; and on the
lower flats beside the river there grew an interminable field of
wild oats which were full of seed before we reached Walgiers.
I would have liked to forget in this land of abundant pastures
the drought we had gone through, but the remembrance of the
cattle dying of starvation, the flash of the tomahawk with
which I ended the agony of scores of starving animals that
could not rise and were being picked cruelly to pieces by hawks
and crows — these things would not allow one to forget. Besides,
the grass was all green ; not a single dry blade could be found,
It had all grown after the rain, before which there was nothing
but dry, bare, dusty soil. How could one forget ?
As we slowly shaped our course along the lazy Lachlan —
there were no fences in those days, and what cattle there were on
the runs did not need much of the almost too abundant green
pasture— I often turned my thoughts northwards, where it was
all green and beautiful all the year round, just as we saw it here
now — at least so I had been told. There was a suggestiveness
about this country, too, which it was not easy to overlook. The
river oaks had all been cut down for the horses of travellers, and
the bleaching bones told a silent tale of starvation, ending at
last in — oh ! such a cruel death ! These things the green grass
could not hide, nor could the murky water of the river cover all
the carcasses which lined its banks. Then I asked some of the
residents about the road across to the Darling River, and they
told me how one might travel through nuiv, but soon the rain
water which had filled up the small hollows would have disap-
