150 SETTLING IN QUEENSLAND, ETC.
peared ; then one must keep in touch with the larger water
channels. Lake Walgiers was a small inland sea now, so were
others of the depressions hereabouts. It was not necessary to
ask what happened to them in time of drought; it was enough
to know that at one time Lake George, near Goulburn, had been
a grazing ground for the squatters' flocks. Besides, who that
had read anything of Captain Sturt's travels and those of many
other explorers need ask if the country, over which we travelled
in abundance, had ever before been drought-stricken ? At the
Walgiers Crossing the river was a banker, and we had to force
cattle and horses to swim to the other side. We crossed during
the night the wide plain which intervenes between Walgiers on
the Lachlan and the Murrumbidgee, which we struck at Hay.
Captain Sturt had gone down the river in his boat in 1830 ; the
country on either side, right away down to Lake Alexandrina,
was until then unknown. It was beautiful now with its luxuri-
ant pastures, its small and its giant salt bushes ; and in spite of
dry seasons men prospered, for they had no paddocks and not
too many stock. Across the sixty-mile plain, past the Black
Swamp — haunted, so 'twas said, by a headless human skeleton
riding a skeleton horse with hobbles on his feet — through more
dry plains and deceptive mirage, until we reached the backwater
from the flooded Edward River ; then past Deniliquin and
along the road, where the first telegraph line, a private venture,
was being constructe.l tetween it and Moama. Here there was
a pontoon bridge across the Murray, but the cattle and horses
we had to force, as W3 had done at the Murrumbidgee and
Edward, to swim the swift stream fed by the melting snow
from the Snowy Mountains. Then we travelled along the
Campaspie not knowing whither, for we were trying to hang on
until we had letters to say whether or not the cattle were sold
and what we must do with them. At last the news was received
and we had to turn back to the Murray, cross it once more and
hand over our charge to jhe purchaser at a station not far from
Swan Hill. All along this part of the country, from the Billa-
boug in fact, and for the rest of our journey, the pastoralists and
their men hunted " the overlanders " and their stock and made
their lives a burden to them. So far as I could form an opinion,
the chances open for a young fellow who wanted to engage in
pastoral pursuits were not tempting in these districts to one
whose capital was limited. A friend and I drove to Melbourne in
the light spring cart we had used on the overland route. During
