BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM.
displays a very slow, gradual, diffluent movement, and keeps
putting forth parts of its substance in the form of protuberances
or processes. There you have the whole life-problem before you,
ere you have fairly realised that you are looking at anything at
all. That greyish-white, glairy, albuminous-looking patch is an
amoeba, a term which means " formless " ; and, as the name
implies, the amoeba is a shapeless speck quite invisible to the
naked eye. An insignificant speck truly, but a speck of a most
marvellous substance, protoplasm, which differs from all other
substances in having as one of its attributes life or rihiUtij.
Well has protoplasm been designated by the late Professor Huxley
" the physical basis of life," for whether in the protozoon, or
lowliest animal, in the protophyte or simplest plant, in a mush-
room, in a tree, in a worm, or in a man it is the seat of the
wonderful vital phenomena, and is the source and fount alike of
all the bewildering complexity of the organic world. We now
see that the understanding of Tennyson's little flower involves
the understanding of protoplasm ; and you might substitute for
the complex flowering plant our amojba and apply the poet's
apostrophe to it equally well. The amoeba, therefore, is of pro-
found interest to us as the type of the biological unit — the single
cell. Here, on using the term cell for the first time, we must get
a clear conception of what we mean. The term was brought
into prominence in the first half of the present century by two
German biologists (Schleiden and Schwann), and they both
defined the cell as a minute vesicle enclosing fluid contents, that
is to say, a small chamber or cellula, in the true sense of the
word. This conception is a good example of one of those half
truths which are often the first fruits of the scientific method.
The definition exactly describes the usual form of the plant cell,
and certain forms of animal cell ; but we now know many forms
of both the plant and animal cell in which the cell wall is
entirely wanting. The research of the past fifty years has
resulted in the modification of the idea of an enclosed vesicle ;
and although we still retain the term " cell " as a convenient
mode of referring to the biological unit, we associate with it the
modern definition, which simply declares that the cell is a
minute mass of protoplasm endowed with the attribute of life.
Looking at our amoeba again we see that the idea of a vesicle
cannot be applied to it, for it has no investing membrane. All
