BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.O. 153
Lying on a sofa in the inn at Drayton was a Mr. Perston, who
I had known a few months before as the managing partner at
Tooralle on the Darling River. Then the poor fellow was
suffering from lung disease ; now he was resting for a brief
space at Drayton, sent there by his medical adviser in the hope
that the fresh dry air would effect an improvement. A few
weeks later he rested from his labours for ever !
At this time I thought seriously of trying for country on
the Maranoa, and from Toowoomba I turned westwards, passing
Gowrie, then owned by Mr. Isaac; Jondaryan, which was under
the managementof Mr. J. C. White ; andDalby,thena very primi-
tive township. Information obtained " by the wayside " dis-
pelled the idea that I should find the class of country I wanted
on the Maranoa, and at Condamine township I again turned
northward, passing a station owned by Mr. John Ferrett and
managed by Mr. Lethbridge. Before I reached Juandah, where
resided Mr. Golden, the manager for the Brothers Royds, patches
of green feed here and there gave hope of a general improve-
ment in the state of the country, and the night after we
passed Juandah rain set in heavily and continued for some
days. The Juandah Station, by the way, was originally held
by Herbert Salway, of St. Leonards on New England, and
Percy Stephen, a nephew of the late Sir Alfred Stephen.
Until the rain had ceased I did not shift camp, and during that
little holiday heard many details of the Hornet Bank massacre
and the retributive massacres which followed. Mr. Royd's name
ought to be recorded amongst the chief of those who did their
utmost to protect blacks who had not participated in this
slaughter. By the time the rain ceased the country had become
terribly boggy ; but Mr. Golden enlightened me somewhat when
I referred to this by explaining the difference between it and the
country on the Dawson. " ^e /•«?," he said, " a horse will sink
to his hocks ; tliere he will sink below his hocks ! " I followed
the road towards Taroom as far as Hawkwood, a station owned
by Mr. Hook, who also had property near Dungog in New South
Wales. I am told the brigalow has spread very largely on
Juandah and Hawkwood since then. At that time it was com-
paratively open and much of the scenery was very beautiful,
numbers of bottle trees of great size standing out on the open
patches or growing along the edge of the brigalow. From
Hawkwood I turned in again towards the coast, passed Mr.
Long's Bungaban station, and then crossed the range on to
N
