154 SETTLING IN QUEENSLAND, ETC.
Burnett waters. The next station we passed was Mr. Pigott's
Auburn, but I need not here name the stations and occupants
between this point and Gayndah. What impressed me more, I
think, than anything else was the fact that, for the present at
any rate, I was right away from the terribly dry country of
which I had seen so much during the last two years. We had
heavy rain somewhere before we reached Gayndah, and the
granity country became about as boggy as rain could make it.
The roadway had been hardened by continual traffic, but when-
ever a horse took a step away from the beaten track down he
went to his knees in the yielding soil, and gladly enough he
made the solid road again. I remember that one night, after a
soaking day's rain, I sat in the tent before the fire trying to dry
my blankets and clothing. It was an all-night business, but I
made it a practice never to lie down for the night in wet clothes,
for this I had always been taught would certainly develop
rheumatism, or lumbago, or sciatica. My man slept in his wet
clothes as comfortably as though he occupied a feather bed, and
I honestly believe that fellow has never had a rheumatic twinge ;
I, notwithstanding all my efforts to stave off these things, have
had all of them ! The Boyne River — The Boyne it was called by
explorers who, when they came upon it, thought it was the
river near Gladstone, so named years before by Oxley,
and it is still The Boyne, the river properly so called
being allowed a secondary position as Oxley's Boyne.
The Boyne River, which is merely a tributary of the
Burnett and flows into it from the south, was running
pretty high when we came to it, but we crossed without
difficulty. The Burnett was more self-assertive, and not
caring to run risks that were unnecessary, from Gayndah, where
I had intended to cross, I followed the Maryborough road,
crossed Baramba Creek, with its almost upright basaltic columns,
passed Wetherton, then owned by the Moretons, and found old
friends in Mr. and Mrs. Walsh at Degilbo. While here I deter-
mined to further reduce the number of my horses, of which I
had sold a few along the road ; so I took them to Maryborough
and got rid of them there by auction sale. When I started
Northward again, Mr. Arthur Brown, of Gin Gin, was my com-
panion, and as the Burnett was still high, we made for Walla
where was a boat in which we crossed. Our horses we had to
swim one by one behind the boat, for the stream was swift and
the landing place narrow. Old .John Barker and his wife were
