BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 155
hospitable, as good bush people always were. Two things I took
particular note of here. Mr. Barlcer had the best collection of
books I had yet seen at any Queensland station. He had also a
splendid lot of orange trees, which thrived greatly in the drift
soil on the river bank. A great deal of the lower Burnett
country is of volcanic origin, basaltic columnar formation showing
freely in Baramba Creek and in the river bed in front of Walla
house. Indeed, the country around Bundaberg, as we now
know, is largely of volcanic formation ; and at Ban Ban, near
Gayndah, Mr. Nugent Wade Broun, a few years ago discovered
two old craters, which are now partly filled with fresh water, on
the summit of a high mountain.
Twelve miles north of Walla was the Gin Gin station, then
owned by the brothers Brown, and with them I stayed a couple
of days. Frank Jardine was there waiting for his father, then
Land Commissioner at; Rockhampton, and with him young
Salmon, who afterwards formed a home in South America.
Old Mr. Jardine was prevented by illness from leaving
home, so we three young fellows rode on together and
stopped the next night at Kolongo. My old friend Holt was
absent, but in charge of the station was a young fellow whose
self-importance was enough to suggest that he owned Kolongo
and several other stations as well. He passed out of view many
years ago. He accompanied us on the following day, and at
luncheon time I made the acquaintance of my friends, Mr. and
Mrs. F. A. Blackman, who now live at "Boreela," near the
Hamilton. I sat at their table and eat salt with them, and we
have been friends ever since. That evening we found a welcome
at Miriam Vale, where lived Edwin Blomfield, the manas-iner
partner, as good a neighbour as anyone could wish to have. At
this time I was making for Barmundoo, a station then owned by
the Browns of Gin Gin. The elder Brown, who was commonly
known as " the British Lion" or the " Britisher," was staying
there at the time, and I wanted first to visit him and then to go on
to the Callide, where my old friend and partner, Morton,
reigned supreme. From Miriam Vale we took a bush track
through to Iveragh and Riverstone, stations owned by Captain
O'Connell — he then was, afterwards Sir Maurice O'Connell.
To the right of the road after we passed Carlo's lagoon were
beautiful masses of golden flowers beside some patches of vine
scrub. Such profusion and such colour I could not pass without
closer examination. My companions knew nothing about it,
