156 SETTLING IN QUEENSLAND, ETC.
but Carlo O'Connell, at Iveragh, was the botanist of the district,
and knew the names of all the flowers in the bush. He could
tell me all about it, they felt sure ; but Carlo was no more of
a botanist than some I could name who profess to be, and he
was not one of those who make false pretences. He had never
known the tree to flower before, he said, and could not tell me
anything about it. I afterwards found it was Barklya synnfjifolia,
and it seldom missed flowering in succeeding years. That
night we slept at Riverstone, where Pocklington was in charge.
At one time he was employed by the Australian Agricultural
Company, and on two or three occasions, when I lived on New
England, he paid us a passing visit at Waterloo. Here I parted
with my companions, and next day I had lunch with " The
Britisher " at Barmundoo.
By this time I had come to the conclusion that if I was
going to bring sheep to Queensland I must look for country
further back from the coast, and by going further west it seemed
probable that I should strike country which was subject to such
droughts as they had in the western part of New South Wales.
Since I had left Juandah and Hawkwood I had seen no country
on which I would have cared to put sheep. There was plenty
of grass everywhere after the rain, but it was unlike any grass
on which I had known sheep to thrive. Most of the runs had
been stocked with sheep, but at this time the owners were
realising the necessity for substituting cattle. Even where I
was then, it seemed certain that the seasons were sometimes
very dry indeed, and a place in Fuller's Creek was pointed out
to me where there was a splendid waterhole and plenty of water in
the creek above it to its very head. From this point upwards,
at the time when I was droving cattle to Victoria in 1858 and
leaving numbers of dead ones by the roadside, this hole was
dry, and there was not a drop of water in any part of that
creek above the crossing at Barmundoo. The fact was un-
pleasently suggestive, but there were reasonable grounds for
believing that when the country had been stocked for two or
three years it might improve by reason of the surface soil
hardening. After a time I went on to the Callide where, and at
the Prairie adjoining it, there was a patch of very pretty
country, and I offered to inspect the Kroombit, which I had
heard was for sale. John Landsborough, to whom it belonged,
changed his mind about selling when he met a possible pur-
chaser. After this I quite determined to give up the search for
