BY THE HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 157
sheep country, and entered into negotiations for the purchase of
various properties without result. At last I bought the Rodd's
Bay run, unstocked and unimproved, from Mr. Walsh, of
Degilbo, and sold my interest in the New England stations.
During the years I lived in the Port Curtis district I made
myself acquainted with a great deal of the surrounding country,
and, notwithstanding many drawbacks, I never regretted my
determination to settle near the coast. The work connected
with the formation of a new station is more or less expen-
sive and troublesome, but it helps to enlarge the interest
in life and breaks a monotony that sometimes becomes too
dull. I soon learnt, however, that close proximity to the
sea— the beach formed one boundary of my run — affords
no protection against drought. On many occasions in more
than ordinarily dry summers I have watched the heavy clouds
rolling across the sky without letting any of their moisture fall
until they hung over the ever restless sea. There the rain would
come down in torrents, and on the land the dust would rise with
every breeze. Still, we managed to pull along without any
excessive loss ; the surface of the soil had so far hardened that
the water, when it rained, more readily flowed into the water-
courses and filled up the creeks, upon which we relied for a
constant supply. About 1867 an experience which was as bad
as a drought overtook us. All the pastoralists were, of course,
aware that pleuro-pneumonia was drawing ever nearer. I had
sent for the newest publication on diseases in cattle, and when
it arrived I turned anxiously to the treatment of this fell
disease. Unfortunately, Professor Simonds had made his report
upon the treatment of pleuro-pneumonia by inoculation, and
here I found his words quot* d in condemnation of the practice.
Such an authority could not be treated with disrespect and I left
it to Providence to see us through our trouble. We had been
experiencing an exceptionally dry spell and were drawing water
for domestic purposes from a hole about a mile from the station,
when one day Page Kennedy made his appearance with a large
mob of store cattle which he had brought from the Lower
Burnett. He camped that night by the station and next morning
his cattle trampled up the mud in our only clean waterhole ;
it mattered little though for rain set in and washed every water-
course from end to end. It also flooded the Boyne River, and
Kennedy and his cattle were blocked for several days. Very
soon afterwards the cattle on the runs began to sicken ; the fat
