158 SETTLING IN QUEENSLAND, ETC.
bullocks which were expected to give a return that would keep
bank accounts in an easy condition were the readiest to drop off ;
breeding cows, heifers, calves, steers, and bulls, all were affected,
and, without having made any sales in two years time, my herd
was reduced in number by one-third ; some of my neighbours
lost half. It was a hard time, but most of us recovered our
position in a few years through the increase of prices that took
place after the depletion of the herds.
In the last month of 1875, having taken a partner in the
station, I left him in charge and moved off to Sydney. lie was
an excellent young man, but after a time his health became im-
paired ; how much so I did not know until the beginning of
1883. Unfortunately for myself, I bought hini out, but I had
no suspicion of a big drought having begun. The recollection
of that time is by no means agreeable. All of us had very heavy
losses — in some cases quite 50 per cent. — ^and there were very
few, I think, who would have believed that a greater evil in the
form of drought could overtake them. The drought which has
been devastating the country for so long, is probably worse than
that of 1883-4-5. Undoubtedly it has been more universal ; but
in a new country the severity of droughts cannot be satisfactorily
compared. In 1858, when the losses were so heavy in a large
part of what is now called Riverina, they occurred for the most
part amongst travelling cittle. The runs were unfenced and the
local cattle found abundant pasture in the back county, coming
to the frontages to water about every secou.l day. Many an
evening I watched them coming in from across the plains to
drink from the Lachlan. In long strings they would approach,
as it were, from behind the horizon — a game of follow my leader.
As they drew near the stream they would run and caper
about like so many calves. Then, when their thirst was
assuaged, and they had had a good corroboree, they would
march back in line as they had come ; they needed no grass,
and they were strong and in good condition, proving
the sufficiency of the feed in the waterless back country.
Fencing has changed all that ; the rents have been raised,
the number of stock largely increased, and the losses are
very much more heavy. It is impossible to compare the severity
of droughts where the conditions have been so materially
altered. So in Queensland in the districts with which I am
best acquainted it is impossible to compare the 1858 drought
with that which commenced in 1883, and the latter with that
