159
which continues to devastate so large a part of this State.
Daring the later period the finding of artesian water in so many
wells is a new and disturbing factor, so far as comparisons with
the past are concerned. Without, however, going into figures
relating to rainfall, which are in themselves imperfect and un-
satisfactory, it will, I think, be generally admitted that the
existing drought is the worst which p;istoralists have so fur
experienced, as well aloag the coast as in the Western district?.
My own observation, after an experience extending over many
years, has led me to the conclusion that the Western districts
of New South Wales and the South-western part of Qneenshnid
suffer more severely from drought than the Central- Western
districts of this State, while portions of our coast country may
properly be described as dry belts, a term that can scarcely
apply to any part of the coast of New South Wales.
How to remedy the evil eft'ects of drought — for this we
must suffer from in the future as we have done in the past — is
a difficult problem to solve. The finding of artesian water has
not so far helped in this direction ; nor is it likely to do so as
long as by continually raising rents pastoralists are tempted to
crowd too many stock on their holdings. This has up to the
present accentuated the distress and augmented the common
loss. Something may be done by storing fodder in good
seasons to help the stock through those that are dry ; but when
consideration is given to the enormous supplies that must be
kept on hand for this purpose and the risk of losing much of it
by fire, it is evident that this cannot be relied upon to cure the
evil. By irrigating as large an area as practicable on each of
the Western stations, relief may be to some extent secured ;
but even so, how far can the artesian supply, if it should per-
manently answer for irrigating purposes, be relied upon ? Our
late Government Geologist, Mr. Jack, has warned us that the
supply is by no means inexhaustible. May it not be possible,
by cultivating indigenous as well as imported grasses, to provide
a more reliable supply both of green and dry fodder for use in
droughty seasons ? The cultivation of Paspalnm dilatatum has
shown what may be done in the coastal districts. Are we to
regard it as an impossibility that suitable grasses and shrubs
may be successfully grown in the arid parts of the country ?
Here undoubtedly is an experiment worth trying ; but it must
be conducted by an expert, and, unfortunately, the authorities
have not yet discovered that we have such an one in our
