160 SETTLING IN QUEENSLAND, ETC.
much-respected Colonial Botanist, Mr. Frederick Manson Bailey.
The services of the only man in the State who I believe
has a thorough knowledge of the subject, are to be dispensed
with because it has not yet been realized that the store of knoA'-
ledge which his age has enabled him to accumulate, may be used
for one of the most practical purposes which the pastoral
interest stands so much in need of. I do not contend that new
grasses and new herbage may be easily found which will resist
drought in the West ; but why should we assume that they can-
not be found? Should efforts in this direction prove
unsuccessful, we surely may hope that drought-resisting shrubs
can be found. The long-despised prickly pea»", Opicntia vulyaiis
of the botanists, has saved many hundreds, if not thousands of
stock. We have also amongst our indigenous plants the mulga,
appletree, oak, bottletree, and others which have kept
anim Is alive, if not healthy, for many months in
succession, a fact which oughL to encourage pastoralists
to persevere. At least they might cultivate patches
of these. And why should not the Government assist
in a work which aims at so much good to the State by
adding to the value of Crown lands ? We have agricultural
experts, tobacco experts, fruit experts, dairy experts, and
others whose special business it is to assist agriculture in its
various forms. Would it be too much to ask that experiments
in the direction I have indicated be initiated for the benefit of
the pastoral industry, under the direction of our exceptionally
well-informed Government Botanist, Mr. Bailey ? Surely this
would be wiser than sleeping on until another drought overtakes
us ; and the cost need not be large. The trees which have been
keeping thousands of stock alive for so long are being extermi-
nated. Have those persons, who have derived so great benefit
from them, even begun to consider what substitute may be
provided in place of them if they should not be quickly replaced ?
