BY B. ILI.IDGE AND AMBROSE QUAIL, F.E.S. 163
until the pupa forces its anterior segments out of the burrow
for the imago to emerge. Young Cossus larvae feed at first
beneath the bark of the tree, then burrow into the wood, there
to spend, as do Hepialidae and Zeuzerinae a lengthy existence
often of three or four years. The habits of Cossinae are not so
exclusive as those of Hepialidae and Zeuzerinae, the external cover
is often absent (Culama), indeed we have frequently observed
the larva of Cossus cossus when full fed, expose its whole length
to warm sunshine, moreover it will commonly leave its larval
burrow to pupate elsewhere, even in the earth away from its
ligneous habitat. May it be that a too numerous colony
(Cossus and Culama are gregarious) in the same tree, by
breaking in up^n each others barrows, always strictly avoided
by Hepialidae, become a source of irritation, or even danger at
the critical time of changes to the pupal condition, and the
larva is compelled to pupate elsewhere. The normal habit
appears to be that the larva tunnels to the bark which it eats
away, leaving however a very thin surface, and it may be noted
these larvae frequently fill their burrows with a kind of solidified
sawdust (Hepialidae scrupulously eject all frass). fA cocoon of
silk and chips is constructed within which it pupates, in the
immediate vicinity of the exit ; finally the pupa forces its
anterior segments through the thin outer cover of the burrow
and the imago emerges.
Always remembering the limited material at our command,
so far as it goes our observations show that Zeuzerinae and
Cossinae may be associated by some identical larval structures.
The number of scutellar setae of prothorax, the tubercle
arrangement (and spiracle scars) of meso and post thoracic
segments, the lateral thoracic intersegmental tubercle ; the
duplicate remote supraspiracular seta, the position of the basal
setae, and the hooks of the abdominal feet. These structures
are not peculiar to Cossidae, being also observed in other groups
(composing Dyer's superfamily Cossina), but they sharply and
distinctly separate Cossidae from Hepialidae, which cannot be
associated .
Some larval features appear to afford good characters upon
which we may separate Zeuzerinae from Cossinae. The Zeuzerin
prothoracic scutellum, viewed laterally, slopes upward and
backward in dorsal outline, so that the length from front to back
t Proc. Eoy. Soc. Queensland Vol. XIV. (Illidge).
