164 AUSTRALIAN WOODBORING COSSIDAE
is considerably more than the length of the ventral surface of
the prothorax ; the produced posterior area of the scutellum is
provided with numerous spicules (Zeuzera, Endoxyla). The
prothoracic scutellum of Cossinae is smooth, not produced
posteriorly, being confined to normal and proper limits, the
posterior margin parallel to the anterior margin (Cossus,
Culama).
An important feature in Zeuzerinae is the presence on the
dorsum of the abdominal segments of minute tubercles (one
•each side) with seta, in front of the typical anterior trapezoidal
tubercles (Zeuzera, Endoxyla), but which are not observable in
Cossinae. These tubercles are probably homologous with the
thoracic intersegmental tubercles, observed also in Cossinae, and
in other groups of Lepidoptera. Mr, A. Bacot, in a letter some
years ago, drew our attention to these (abdominal) tubercles on
the larva of Zeu era pyrini (Europe), he having also observed
those of the thorax in several isolated groups of Lepidoptera
e.g. Lyctenidae, Psychidae. We have noted such thoracic
intersegmental tubercles with setae in newly-hatched and adult
Hepialidae*, in Lysiphragma (Tineina) without setaf ; they are
also present in Tortricina (Cacaecia) and others. Bacot believes
this to be a once common character, now generally lost in
Lepidoptera, and had not then detected the setae which are
present on the thoracic and abdominal tubercles in question of
Endoxyla. We have been unable to find whether Dr. Dyer is
aware of these extra abdominal tubercles.
We are no"; inclined to insist upon minor differences ; that
Zeuzerin larvae are circular or nearly so in transverse section ;
Cossinae, being flatter, are barely more than semi-circular ; that
Zeuzerinae have middorsal spiculate abdominal humps, and
some other features, as young larvae in either group may be
more alike.
A consideration of the papal structure affords additional
support to the conclusions arrived at from larval characters as to
the separation of Hepialidae from Cossidae,:^ and the subdivision
of Cossidae. The pupae bear a superficial resemblance to each
* Trans. Ento. Soc, Lon., 1900 (Quail).
t Trans. New Zealand Institute, 1900 (Quail).
I We wish to emphasize that these groups cannot be associated, which,
of course, is generally admitted, but ai'e sometimes treated of or referred to
as if they were. Their primitive ancestors were probably neither Hepialid
nor Cossid, but had some of the characters now found in each group.
