8 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
we can notice is that the outer portion of its protoplasm is
rather denser than the inner, and is free from granules. In the
interior the protoplasm is much more fluid and is filled with
streaming granules. In this inner portion we observe a small
round or oval body called the nucleus, which is of diflferent
chemical composition to the surrounding plasm and in which the
vital activity seems to be centred, for it has been shown that if
the nucleus be removed the cell may still exhibit movement and
irritability, but can neither grow nor persist. In the diagram
also you will observe a space marked P.V., which stands for pul-
sating vacuole. Kindly remember that space for I shall refer to
it again presently. We see, too, that the creature slowly, almost
imperceptibly, puts out finger-like processes, which are techni-
cally called pseudopodia, or false feet. They may well be styled
fahc feet, for they are not feet at all ; they are simply prolon-
gations of the protoplasm, and they are drawn in in one place
and put out in another indiscriminately. By means of these
pseudopodia the ama^ba creeps in a sluggish diffluent way across
the glass, and it also uses them as tentacles to enable it to
capture food particles. This brings us to another interesting
phase of amoeba life — the way it takes its food. It is a way that
I have often wished that I could imitate myself when I have had
the toothache. A food particle comes in contact with the surface
of the cell, a process is put forth on each side of it, the processes
close round it and it is drawn into the centre of the cell, where
the nutrient matter is absorbed. You know the Yankee slang
phrase which represents a man as "getting outside of" his
victuals. The ama?ba realises that to perfection, and I have seen
it in its sluggish way " get outside of " an immense meal of
small things. Such aldermanic feeding powers cause the
creature to increase in bulk, and when such increase has pro-
ceeded far enough it sets to work to reproduce its species. This
is an equally simple process. A constriction appears in its
nucleus and gradually the cell divides into two cells, each of them
the counterpart of the original, though of course smaller in size.
It is on this account that Professor \Veismann has declared that
under favourable conditions the amoeba is immortal, that is, that
it would go on subdividing in this way indefinitely. But we now
know that this is not the case. After a certain number of
subdivisions the momentum seems to be lost ; and it appears to
