BY K. ILLIDGE AND AMBROSE QUAIL, F.E.S. 165
other, but, when examined closely, we find sufficient points of
distinction between the groups.
The Hepialid pupa is remarkably cylindrical, Cossidae are
not so. Hepialidae have dorsal and ventral segmental spines,
Cossidae have the dorsal spines only. The Hepialid antenna is
diminutive, reaching only to the " knee " of 2n i leg, in fact
that portion of the antenna which extends beyond the pro-meso-
thoracic suture is half its entire length. The Cossid antenna
reaches to fully half the wing margin being some four times the
length of the basal portion. The ancestors of these groups had
comparatively short pupal antennae, and if Cossidae are derived
from progenitors with antennae like those of typical existing
Hepialidae, then the latter are lower in the evolutionary scale
than Cossidae, which will have specialized in having developed
antennae of greater length.
The Lepidopterous pupa has its appendages — legs, wing-
cases, etc., extending beyond the thoracic segments downwards,
adherent to certain abdominal segments which become incor-
porated with more or less fixity, so as to lose their individual
movement ; the terminal (anal) segments likewise become one
coherent mass, in varying number, and movement of the pupa
is thus confined to the intermediate segments, of which the
incisions remain free and functional. Dr. Chapman has pointed
out the importance of this structural character, in classification.!
The wing cases of Hepialidae adhere to the abdominal
segments 1 and 2, that they have become integral parts of the
anterior mass is shown in that the spiracle of 2 is subdorsal,
and on dehiscence they (the wing cases) still adhere to those
abdominal segments. In Hepialidae the free segments are
5 8, 4, 5, 6, 7 ; $ 3, 4, 5, 6.
The Cossid spiracles are normal in position, and on dehis-
cence the appendages lose their apparent fixity to the abdominal
segments, remaining attached only by the inner membrane of
3rd legs and hindwings, the disseverance exposing to view the
abdominal spiracles (1 and 2) in normal position, until then
covered by the wing cases. In Zeuzerinae the free segments are
J 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 ; ? 3, 4, 5, 6. In Cossidae the free segments
are J 4, 5, 6, 7, 2 4, 5, 6. In respect of incorporation of the
numbers of abdominal segments into the anterior mass Hepia-
lidae are the lowest, there being a tendency in Zeuzerinae to
t Trans. Ento. Soc. Lond., 1892.
