166 AUSTRALIAN WOODBORING COSSIDAE
incorporate segment 3 also, and in C )3sinae 3 is so incorporated,
but Cossidae — both Zeuzerinae and Cossinae — retain a character
relatively more ancient than that of Hepialidae, that is, the
freeing by disseverance of the appendages from the abdominal
segnients on dehiscence.
Zeuzerinae — Endoxyla.*
Description of larvae. — The dorsal horns of anal segment
may prove a good (fencric character. The arrangement of scutel-
lar spicules is probably a good apecific character.
E. bomlm-nlii—'' Roths." (Plate VII., Fig. 6.)
t The larva at an early age feeds beneath a light-coloured
silken web, which falls off subsequently when the larva has
burrowed into the wood of the tree ; our description is made
from a larva 35mm. in length, it has at this stage a very pleas-
ing plumage, being ringed alternately red and yellow, it is in
appearance quite an elegant aristocratic larva, but with approach-
ing maturity loses its remarkable coloration.
* Derived from endo and xulon.
t The first intimation of the presence of the larva is readily noted by this
freshly-formed web of loose silk arid gnawed pieces of the bark of the tree,
upon raising which the caterpillar may be seen, either partly buried in the
bark and young wood or quite entered within the small tunnel it has bored.
Later on the bark begins to grow over the opening made into the tree, the
web falls off or is blown away by the wind, and a small circular scar is the
only indication then left of the insect inside the tree. The larva continues
tunnelling towards the centre of the tree, increasing in size, and the boie
becoming larger. Having gone as far as the heart of the tree, or nearly so,
it cu ves upwards at right angles to its former course for from 6 to 8 inches,
and completes the remainder of its existence by feeding upon the constantly
forming young wood and sappy matter, sometimes making two or tlu-ee
short pseudo-bores at the foot of the perpendicular tunnel, which together
form a large chamber within the stem of the tree. Having attained full
growth within it prepares for its change and exit as an imago or winged
insect by gnawing outwardly with its powerful cutting mandibles, and forms
a clean cut round hole often nearly an inch and a-half in diameter upon
the outside of the tree. This opening is frequently blocked up by triturated
fragments of wood loosely spun together with silk. The next process is the
retreat of the insect to the perpendicular tunnel, where it first forms a most
singular network of a very viscous substance from 1^ inch to 2 inches in
depth, which when first formed is a pure glistening white, but becomes
yellow with age. On this it forms its operculum of finely triturated wood
closely felted together with silk and saliva. Having completed all its
arrangements the larva, now head downwards, and quite filling up the
chamber-room left, turns to a pupa (chrysalis), and in the course of a month
or six weeks, occasionally longer, the imago emerges in the manner usual to
insects of this group.
