BY E. ILLIDGE AND AMBROSE QUAIL, F.E.S. 167
Head is yellowish brown ; scutellum has the anterior half
blackish, except at margin which is yellowish, as is the posterior
area ; segmental area of prothorax is yellow ; mesothorax thinly
bright red doi'sally and subdorsally, yellow below ; postthorax
and 1 to 9 abdominal segments are divided transversely, anterior
red, posterior yellow, sections, above the spiracles the band is
dull red, at and below the spiracles and ventrally it is bright
red ; the posterior dorsal humps are brighter red than are the
anterior humps ; the anal segment is wholly yellowish brown.
Shape : Viewed dorsally, is uniform, robust ; viewed late-
rally, the meso and post-thoracic segments are " weaker " than
others. Head: Finely striate. Prothorax: Scutellum finely
striate anteiior, and finely spiculate on posterior area, four larger
spicules are arranged in a trapezoidal position, i.e., two in front
approximate (with some minute spicules between them) and two
posterior remote. On either 'lide of the median line of scutellum
are one anterior, two posterior dorsal setae on the unspiculate
area of scutellum ; two anterior and one central setae are on a
lateral subdivision of the scutellum ; a prespiracular tubercle
bears two long setae with a small inner seta near the spiracle.
Spiracle is very large, above the legs a tubercle bears two setae.
Meso and post thorax : the dorsal and subdorsal setae are dupli-
cate pairs ; lower a more central lateral tubercle bears a single
seta, and an anterior tubercle bears also a single seta, between
these tubercles a rudimentary spiracle or scar may be detected ;
a lower anterior tubercle bears a single seta, and tubercle above
legs bears one seta.
Abdominal segments : the dorsal humps are divided trans-
versely, not longitudinally, and are covered with minute spicules,
the anterior hump is largest. The trapezoidal tubercles are
normal with a single seta each, placed on the segmental area,
not on the humps. The siipraspiracular tubercle has a single
long seta above the large oval spiracle, and there is a remote
anterior supra spiracular tubercle with a minute seta. The sub-
spiracular tubercles each have a single seta, the anterior highest
in position ; above the legs a tubercle bears one central seta ;
the basal setae are three in number, one being abjve the others,
not in line with them. Segment 9 has the anterior trapezoidals
remote, posterior trapezoidals inner ; 10 has two small blunt
protuberances of red colour representing what in other species
are a pair of anal horns, the setae are one anterior, one level
with horn, one posterior, one more lateral, three lateral setae
