168 AUSTRALIAN WOODBORING COSSIDAE
are below the anal flap, and basal setae are on the anal claspers.
The abdoiTiinal feet have a single row of hooks, the interspace
being pear-shape. In addition to the typical tubercles described,
the intersegmental area of pro-meso-post- thorax carries two
minute setae one below the other, a little below the subdorsal
pair of thoracic setae in position. On the abdominal segments
a minute seta is placed on the anterior margin longitudinally
in line with the posterior trapezoidal tubercle ; it appears to be
frequently turned under out of sight by contraction of the
segments,
E. wacleai/i—" Scott." (Plate VII, figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.)
Larvae varying in length from 47 mm. to 67 mm. have
been examined, and are identical as regards structure, and we
especially noted the scutellar spicules were so. Head brown,
scutellum anterior area brown, with middorsal and lateral areas
black, general colour of body dirty pale brown, with pinkish
lateral flanges, blackish spiracles, brown legs, and abdominal
feet.
Shape : Viewed dorsally is robust, uniform except that the
subdorsal tubercles of mesothorax protrude conspicuously ;
viewed laterally meso and post thorax are smaller than abdominal
segments, which latter are produced to prominent humps on the
middorsal outline (as the preceding species) ; 8 and 9 are without
humps ; 10 has a pair of postero dorsal horns — distinct chitinous
(not fleshy) processes curved backwards.
Structure : Head freely striate, clypeus with straight sutures
having two setae one before other at lower corners ; ocelli four,
in fairly close crescent, one lower, another near and below
antenna ; jaws dentate ; maxillae short and stout with one
palpus developed.
Prothorax : scutellum slopes (as in preceding species)
upward and backward from the small caput, the anterior half
striate transversely, posterior area covered with chitinous
spicules of which three of the largest are in line, considerably in
front of the others ; these spicules are hollow protuberances
(shown by dissection of the thorax) as much so as cow's
horn, they are somewhat irregular in size, more numerous
and more minute towards the outer and posterior edges of
scutellum. The larger spicules are invariably blunt at the
top, the smaller ones intermixed are sharp pointed. The
function of the scutellar spicules is evidently to act as a saw or
rasp upon the wood of the tree, thereby assisting the work of
