B^ R. ILLIDGE AND AMBROSE QUAIL, F.E.S. 169
the jaws, suoh action causing the larger spicules to become
blunter, the spicules are directed backwards {i.e., upward).
The tubercles and setae of thoracic and abdominal segments
are as described of the preceding species. The prothoracic
spiracle is extremely large, earshaped with convex curve posterior.
Owing to innumerable number of brown spicules which cover
the thoracie and abdominal segments on dorsum, laterally, and
ventrally, intersegmental tubercles cannot be detected, nor can
the extra abdominal setae, except the small remote supra-
spiracular.
These larvae grow to a very large size, we have a specimen
which is, we believe, this species in its ultimate instar, in
length 16-4 cm. ; in width, 19 mm. ; being so large it offers a
good subject to examine for different structures. The colour is
dirty whitish yellow, jaws brown, head dark brown shading to
yellow at suture of clypeus, scutellum yellow anterior margin
with dark brown shading to reddish either side of a V shape
median mark yellow in colour which spreads over the whole
posterior area of scutellum on which the spicules show distinctly
as little brown dots ; the abdominal humps are slightly brownish
from the numerous brown spicules ; the tubercles are little
brown areas on the skin, but the spiracles are very dark brown,
almost black, raised oval rims, the dorsum of the anal segment
is brown with posterior horns of darker brown colour.
In most respects it agrees with the above description as
regards structure, but the frontal spicules are foicr in number,
the largest of the hinder flanking spicules marking the
trapezoid similar to Boisduvali. The skin of the thoracic
segments has numerous brown spicules, but the abdominal
segments are practically free from spicules except on the humps.
The pro-meso-thoracic intersegment carries a dorsal seta
(almost hidden by posterior edge of scutellum) just below the
dorsal pair of setae in position, and two lateral setae below the
subdorsal pair of setae. The meso-post thoracic intersegmental
area carries two lateral setae, but cannot detect dorsal setae.
The extra dorsal anterior setae of abdominal segments are just
below the posterior trapezoidal tubercles in longitudinal position ;,
it seems probable that the minute anterior supraspiracular
tubercle is homologous with the lower thoracic intersegmental
seta, which it resembles in size, and approximates in position.
The extra tubercle of 9th abdominal segment are a little more
o
