170 AUSTRALIAN WOODBORING C0S8IDAE
dorsal in position than the second (inner) tubercle. Abdominal
feet have a single row of hooks.
Pupa of ]'J. macleayi, J length 10'4 cm. (Plate VII.,
Figs. 13, 14, 15, 16).
Almost unicolorous dark brown in colour, with darker
polished areas on pro-meso-thorax, wing and leg cases. The
wing cases extend partly over the third abdominal segment, but
are not adherent at any rate on dehiscence, they are then
detached and connected only by the inner membrane of legs and
bind wings to the second abdominal segment, the spiracles of
1st and 2nd abdominal segments may be seen, normal in
structure and in position uncovered by the semi-detached wing-
cases.
The head on dehiscence carries antennae, eyecovers, etc., as
one piece, terminating with an anterior apparatus with a chisel-
like organ ; between the eyes another, and still lower a pair of
similar chisel-like organs.
The abdominal segments have the anterior row of dorsal
spines best developed, the posterior row being merely a thin line
of spicules, the anterior spines are curious as regards shape,
each having at its tip a cuplike hollow ; there are no ventral
spines, the scars of abdominal feet are very distinct, but are not
spinous. Segment 8 has no dorsal spines, but transverse
lateral series more strongly developed than are the dorsal spinas
of other segments — this is so with pupae of F.. affinis-
Segments 9 and 10 are smooth, except for a few spicules which
may be related to hooks of anal claspers, the scar of the
cloacal aperture is distinctly marked. The sexua' organ extends
from 9-10 suture forward to about middle of 8th, being a
slightly raised polished surface, where it meets a V and again
continues as a thin straight line. The free segments are
3, 4, 5, 6, 7 ; in $ the free segments are 3, 4, 5, 6.
COSSINAE CULAMA.
C. expressa — " Lucas."* (Plate VII. Figs. 7, 7a, 7b, 7c,
7d, 8, 9, 10.)
Of all the internal wood-feeding larvae we have known
this is the most gregarious, one piece of branch less than a foot
in length containing ten larvae. The burrows may be distinct
and run parallel with each other, or may coalesce and in one and
the sam6 burrow quite young and older larvae are found. As may
• Trans. Linn, Soc. N.S.W., 1902.
