BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM.
be restored by a remarkable reversal of the process. Occasionally
two amceba are seen to approach each other, to meet, and
gradually fuse into one. There is an interchange of nuclear
material, and the result of the fusion is renovated powers of
reproduction by subdivision. If you ask me why this union and
interchange should effect this result, I can only answer " behind
the veil." But while you have been looking at your amoeba in a
spirit of lofty criticism, you have been forgetting one little fact.
If the amceba was not a remote ancestor of your own, something
very like it was. It is a striking confirmation of this fact that
the ova or egg cells from which the higher organisms are
developed are in their earlier stages indistinguishable from
amoebae.
The diagram shows the young stages of the ova or egg-cells.
They are minute nucleated masses of protoplasm, from l/200th
to l/220th of an inch in diameter, which put out processes or
pseudopodia, perform the amoeboid movements, and correspond
very closely with the ordinary form of the amoeba. The mature
ovum, of which a diagram is now projected, has secreted a thin
translucent cell wall, and neither puts out processes nor exhibits
amoebiform motions. If you did not remember its earlier phases
you might not consider that there was any analogy whatever
between it and the amoeba. But the correspondence is very
strikingly shown by the fact that the amoeba itself at certain
times assumes what is known as the encysted condition, when it
draws in all its processes, develops a cell-wall, and no longer
shows the streauiing and difHuent movements characteristic of
the ordinary form. We thus see that the usual phase of the
amoeba corresponds to the young stage of the egg-cell, and the
encysted amoeba to the mature ovum. The amoeba, therefore,
begins to assume an interest and importance for us that we had
not thought. That in the ontogeny of each one of us there was
a time, when we were what it is, is an incontestable fact, and,
knowing this, we have no difficulty in realising what the law of
evolution declares, that in our phylogeny or race-history the
amoeba represents one of our earliest ancestors. The ancient
Egyptians used to have a skeleton at their feasts, with a
memento, " Such as he is you soon will be "; but the memento
before me lately has related to the beginning, for I never look at
an amceba without thinking, " Such as it is so once were you."
If you still think that you have no connection with such a
