176 ON THE COMMON WHITING OF MORETON BAY
The S. lie Bass, figured by Qiioy and Gaymard, differs from
the Moreton Bay fish in several particulars. The teeth are too
large. The first ray of the ventral fin is not prolonged into two
feeler-like filaments. The denticulations of the operculum are
too prominent and do not extend forward from the angle. The
first dorsal fin has 12 spines instead of 11. The markings on
the dorsal fins are spots. In Queensland specimens they are on
the first dorsal irregular blotches, and on the second blotchings
fairly regular in shape and arranged in rows. The anal fin
shows 2/19.
The formula is D. 11—1/17 ; A. 2/16 ; V. 1/5 ; P. 15 ; L.
lat. 63 ; L. trans. 5/12. The back is coloured to resemble the
sandy ground over which the fish moves. When freshly taken
it varies from a yellowy green in fair sized fish to a greeny grey
in old specimens — parts of the scales showing silvery in some
lights, with here and there a fleck of gold. After being out of
the water some time the back is silvery blue or golden green,
according to how the light falls. The head is of the same
colour as the back but becoming dark in old fish. There is much
variation in the colour of the under side of the head — usually
white but often with much dark colouring. The colour of the
back shades down into a silvery grey on the lower parts of the
sides and an enamel white on the belly. The broad median
band is of a silvery yellow becoming indistinct with age. The
band often disappears in preserved specimens.
The first dorsal fin has brown blotches on the membrane
between the rays. In the second dorsal the blotches are small
and in rows — from 3 to 5 blotches between every two rays. The
anal is yellow. The ventrals are orange yellow. The pectoral
is transparent with a blue black spot at the base. The under
lobe of the tail is usually much worn.
The opercle is finely denticulated on the angle and vertical
margin, bmall teeth are in both jaws on the vomer and pala-
tines. The anterior nostril has a small pointed flap on its back
edge. The pupil of the eye is not round but drawn to a corner
in front and on the under side — the corner in front is the more
conspicuous. The scales are ctenoid.
The whiting is one the most valuable of the food fishes in
Queensland. A good-sized fish attains a length of 17 inches
and weighs a pound and a-half. The name whiting was given
because the flavour of the flesh was considered to resemble that
