BY JAS. R. TOSH, M.A., B. SC. 177
of the whiting of British waters. The latter species is one of
the haddock family. The species under discussion at present
belongs to the Trackinidae.
Spawning Season.
The spawning time of the whiting may be stated to last from
September to February. The first ripe fish taken were large
males in June. Ripe females occured in fair quantity in
September. In a female specimen just over 16 inches long and
weighing lib. 8f ozs. the weight of the ovaries was 3|^ ozs., or
about 14 per cent, of the total body weight. The fish were
observed to have been feeding at intervals during the process of
spawning.
Development.
The egg of the whiting is small, measuring from '68 to
•69 mm in diameter, and contains one oil globule, measuring
about -18 mm in diameter (PI. VIII. fig. 1.) It is a transparent
sphere, and is pelagic. On the perivitelline membrane are a
number of faint lines, wrinklings or thickenings of the
membrane. The pores in the outer capsule are visible for only
a very short time after extrusion. The oil globule is not
altogether transparent, but shows a black edging.
After about 15 minutes in the water, the segmental disc
(d. fig 2), shows on the under side of the egg. Fig. 3 is a side
view of the disc just before segmentation begins. After fertilisa-
tion, cell division begins — the 2-cell stage being reached when
the egg has been half-an-hour in the water. Thereafter
the disc divides rapidly into 4, 8, 16, 32 cells — the last-
mentioned stage being reached at Ihr. 35mins. No horizontal
divisions could be seen at the 16-cell stage. Figs. 8 and 9 are the
large- and small-cell morula stages — the latter occuring at 2hrs.
40mins. Thereafter the cells become smaller rapidly, and
proliferating at the edge of the disc begin to envelop the yolk
mass. Fig. 10 at 8|hrs. shows the blastoderm almost covering
the yolk. (The oil globule has been omitted in figs. 3 to 10).
When the enveloping process is all but completed, the
embryonic streak (em. fig. 11), is visible. At the same time,
9fhrs., pigment cells appear on the blastoderm especially over
the oil globule. They are of a light grey colour, and irregularly
stellate in shape. By 10 hrs. 40mins., the embryo is clearly
outlined — the tail being twice as broad as the head. Pigment
cells of a thin grey show on the body, the oil globule and on the
