178 ON THE COMMON WHITING OF MOKETON BAY
membrane near the tail. Yellow cells show along the sides of
the body. The wrinklings are now much diminished. At
12|hrs. (fig. 12), the embryo shows the optic lobes, notochord
and Kuppfer's vesicle. At 14^hrs., Kuppfer's vesicle begins to
be narrowed, and distinctly pointed towards the capsule as the
tail elongates. Then it gets ainaller, and appears to retreat from
its position at the tip of the tail, and ultimately disappears after
having existed for about 3 hours. Fig. 13 shows the optic lobes
cut off, and the appearance of the muscle flakes on the body.
At this stage, the rounded ends of the myomeres give a crenated
appearance to the sides of the body. At 17^ hours, the heart
shows as an aggregation of cells on the breast, and an hour
later is beating faintly. In fig. 14 at 19 hours, the optic
vesicles have been invaginated, and the tail is slewed to one
side of the oil drop. Fig. 15 is a side view of the stage shown
in fig. 14. The heart (ht.) in a capsule under the chin, is a tube
extending from the median line to the left and forward. The
choroidal fissure of the eye is seen. Fig. 16, 22 hours, shows
the otocyst and a membrane enveloping the oil globule. Just
before hatching, a part of the continuous fin shows on the tail.
The eggs from which the series of drawings so far were taken
hatched at 23^ hours from time of extrusion. The temperature
of the water ranged from 25-6" to 27" C.
The larvae figured on Plates X. and XL, were hatched in
colder weather — temperature 22° to 23*^ C. The stage shown in
fig. 17, occurred at 38 hours after extrusion. The continuous
fin (c.f.) is well developed, and the vent and the urinary vesicle
behind it are seen. The yellow pigment has taken its character-
istic early larval arrangement. In figs. 18 and 19 the gut is
shown forming and stretching forward to the yolk, while a few
finely branching pigment cells show on the membrane enclosing
the yolk. At 70 hours the pectoral fins make their appearance
(fig. 20). The membrane enclosing the yolk, which has up to
this stage maintained its position, as the yolk and oil globule
diminished in size, now suddenly collapses, and the yolk moves
forward. While the membrane remain d turgid it interfered
with the locomotion of the larva, which was forced to swim in
circles, but from this onward the young fish swims actively.
Soon after hatching when the larva is floating passively, the
position is horizontal and supine. From the stage shown at
fig. 19, the position is vertical with the tail upmost.
