10 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
diffluent jelly speck as the amceba, just run a penknife blade into
the back of your wrist, put a drop of your blood on a slide,
dilute it slightly, put a cover glass on it, and examine it with a
high power. You will see what is now thrown on the screen.
Amongst the red blood globules, or corpuscles, you will notice, if
you observe patiently, something which will make you exclaim,
" That is very like an amceba ; are there amoebae in my blood ?"
Yes, the leucocytes or white corpuscles of the blood are the
analogues of amcebae, they perform the amoeboid movements,
put out processes, multiply by subdivision, and ingest solid
particles, chiefly the bacteria which gain entrance to the system.
This is beautifully shown in the two very remarkable and typical
preparations made by Mr. Pound, the slides of which he has been
so kind as to lend me. In the first you will see that the leucocyte
is winning the day ; it keeps intact, and is demolishing the
invading bacilli. In the next the invaders are victorious, and
the leucocyte is undergoing disruption, with the result that the
death of the animal would ensue.
What then is protoplasm ? That question brings us to the
threshold of the unknowable. Protoplasm is not a single
chemical substance. It is a vast complex of a large number of
chemical substances known as proteids. These proteids are
themselves, even looked at singly, the most complex of all known
organic substances. To take an instance, certain ambitious
chemists have endeavoured to express the molecule of one of
them, egg albumen, by the formula C72, H106, NlS, S022,
meaning that in its composition 72 parts of carbon, 106 parts of
hydrogen, 18 parts of nitrogen, 1 part of sulphur, and 22 parts
of oxygen are united in chemical combination. Considering that
this is an approximation to the composition of one of the
proteids, and that protoplasm is a complex of proteids influencing
and reacting on each other in ways we cannot at present even
dream of, you will realise with what a baffling mystery we are
confronted. The scientific writers of a few decades back were
accustomed to speak of the homogeneity of protoplasm and of
the structureless character of the cell, and the poets still glibly
affirm, like Sir Lewis Morris, that science has
Thrust life to its utmost home,
A speck of grey, no more nor higher.
