BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM. 13
These filame:ats are technically called flagella. They act as
propellers and their motion is so rapid that it is difficult to see
them. After swimming about actively for a time the cells come
to rest, draw in their flagella, develop a thick cell wall, and pass
into the resting stage, to recommence another life-cycle of the
same kind. I have called the protococcus a plant because it is
filled with the green colouring matter of plants, chlorophyll, and
because it obtains its nutriment as plants do by decomposing
carbonic acid gas, appropriating the carbon, which is one of the
elements of which that gas is composed, and giving off oxygen,
the other constituent. Animals, on the other hand, cannot feed
in this way, but derive their nourishment from already formed
organic matter, which they submit to a process of digestion.
Notwithstanding this distinction, we are now in the borderland
between animal and plant, and we find that there is no line of
demarcation between them. The* protoplasm of the amoeba, of
the sun-animalcule, of the human leucocytes is the protoplasm of
the yeast plant, of the protococcus, and of Tennyson's " flower in
the crannied wall." It is all very well to compare a wallaby
with a gum tree, and ask incredulously whether there is not a
very decided line of demarcation between animal and plant.
Look into your microscope again. Amongst the protococcus
cells ycu see a spindle-shaped body as brilliantly green as them-
selves. One end is blunt, or snout-like, and is furnished with a
long translucent filament or flagellum, just hke the flagella of
the motile stage of protococcus. It swims rapidly, and performs
peculiar contracting, expanding, and twisting movements as if it
were elastic. This strange body is a lowly animalcule, the
Euglena. It is a mere point of protoplasm — a single cell — and
we notice in its protoplasm the nucleus and the same remarkable
pulsating vacuole which interested us in the sun-animalcule. At
the snout-like end is a bright red pigment spot, which the
discoverer of the creature took for an eye, and from it chose the
Greek name Euglena, or bright-eyed. It is not even a
rudimentary eye, however, for though the Euglena is sensitive to
light, the greatest sensitiveness is in the other end of the cell,
away from the pigment spot. The Euglena has, however, really
the rudiment of a mouth, though it consists of but a simple
depression or groove into the soft interior protoplasm. Through
this depression minute nutrient particles are carried into the
interior. But the remarkable fact is, that while the Euglena
