BY F. HANSON BAILEY, F.L.S. 6
Nucleus brown, pyriform 8 lines long, surrounded by a
border of same colour and consistence, 2 lines broad, which is
also surrounded by broad transparent wings, the whole giving a
horizontal di^tmeter of from 5 to 6 ins.
Hab. None given. Capt. F. R. Barton.
Order Euphorbiace^.
tribe phyllantheie,
Baccaurea, Lour. Flora. Cochinch. ii.661. Pierardia, Roxb.
B. papuana, Bail.
A tree bearing its flowers and fruit upon the trunk and thick
branches ; branchlets, leaves, and inflorescences all when young
more or less puberulent. Branchlets terete, striate. Leaves
rather rough, clustered at the ends of the branchlets, broadly
ovate and bluntly acuminate, 4 to 7in. long, 2^ to 3|^in. broad,
tapering towards the base ; margins slightly wavy and minutely
glandularly toothed. Petioles slender, 1 to l^in. long, and more
or less thickened at each end. Male flowers not seen. Female
flowers in racemes on the trunks of trees, 6 to 8 in. long on
peduncles from 1 to 2 in. long. Bracts sharply lanceolate, about
1 line. Flowers crowded, pedicellate, yellow, the segments or
sepals coriaceous, about 3 lines long, imbricate. Ovary silky-hairy,
hairs nearly silvery, stigmas 3, sessile, 2-lobed, lobes broad and
fimbriate. Fruit (not seen quite ripe) slightly exceeding 1 in.
in diameter, 3-celled, 2 seeds in each cell, the seeds covered by
a thick, fleshy, acid arillode.
Hab, Mekeo District, British New Guinea. Capt. F. R.
Barton, who states that both the flowers and fruit are eaten
and much appreciated by the natives, and that the flowers
which resemble in colour the Laburnum, have a fine fragrance
and nut-like flavour ; and that the fruit resembles the English
gooseberry with a squeeze of lime added.
Dr. Hollrung records B. dnsi/stachya Muell. Arg. for German
New Guinea, but that Javanese-species, judging from Miguel's
description in the Batavia Flora, differs in my opinion considera-
ably from B. pupuana. Our knowledge of this genus is even at
the present very limited on account of the imperfect material
botanists have had to work upon. Sir J. D. Hooker found this
to be the case when working up the genus for the Flora of
British India. It does seem remarkable that a genus named and
described about 112 years ago by J. de Loureiro in his Flora of
Cochin China ii. 661, and of which several of the species are
known to furnish the aborigines of the various countries in
