4 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE NEW GUINEA FLORA
which they are found with some of the necessaries of life, should
not be better known. One of the great stumbling blocks in the
botanists' way has been, and even is now, the natural arrange-
ment of the inflorescence ; some species being known to bear
separate male and female inflorescences on different parts of
the same plants, while in other species they are borne on separate
plants, and collectors it would seem have not in all cases attached
this very necessary information to their specimens. With regard
to the economic features of the genus, some writers state that
the leaves are used in dyeing. Of several species the fruit
is known to be eaten ; the part used being the fleshy arillode,
which differs from the true arillus in being a fleshy coating of
the seed, not a separate body arising from the placenta, as in
the true arillus. It will thus be understood that while the
fleshy substance on the seed of Baccaurea is refreshing and
agreeable to the palate, it cannot in point of usefulness rank
with the true arillus, which can be readily removed and brought
into domestic use, like the mace, litchi, and the arils of several
of our indigenous trees which are at times collected and utilised
for making conserves.
Order ORCHiDEiE.
Denclrohium, Sw. in Nov. Act. Soc. sc Upsal vi. 82.
Sect. Distichophylla.
D. Montedeakinense, Bail.
Stems flattened, scarcely exceeding 1 line broad ; the
specimen received was a terminal end about 10 ins. long, bearing
a few leaves and 2 flowers. Leaves distichous, erecto-patent,
1 to 2 ins. long, almost linear, slightly over 2 lines broad, the
apex shortly and unequally 2-lobed, midrib and longitudinal
nerves prominent. Flowers solitary, leaf-opposed, distant from
the apex of the stem. Pedicel stout and somewhat curved,
about 2 lines long. Bracts one large and almost hyaline, the
others minute. Dorsal-sepal narrow-ovate, about ^h lines long,
the lateral ones about as long, from a very broad base, all
prominently veined. Petals long as sepals, but much narrower.
Labellum articulated to the lower elongation of the column,
rather thick and longer than the sepals, the middle lobe with
a rounded blunt end, the lateral lobes very small. Column
short, disk with prominent parallel nerves. Anther-lid muricate
outside, pollen-masses only one seen, probably two closely
adhering together, the other two being abortive in the flower
examined.
Hab. IVIount Deakin. Captain F. R. Barton.
