8 STUDIES IN THE ICHTHYOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND
very readily employed as a weapon of ofifence. Some of th&
species are also credited with the possession of toxic qualities,
and there can be no question as to the acuteness of the pain
caused by a stab from either the Bullrout or the Fortescue,
which belong to this group.
In 1860 four species were referred to his genus Centropogon
by Giinther. These four species may for convenience be tabulated
as follows : —
Second anal spine longer than the third — Species, australis.
Second and third anal spines subequal — Species, robustus.
Second anal spine appreciably shorter than the third —
Species, fnncomrens, leucoprosopon.
To the first of these three sections the generic name
Centropoijon rightfully belongs, the type being Cottus australis,
White. Centropogon robustus, Giinther, the sole representative
of the second section, is generically separable, and it is here pro-
posed to establish a genus, Notesthes, for its accommodation.
The third section will be dealt with farther on in connection
with an undescribed Queensland fish, which is perhaps allied to
its representatives though widely separated from the typical
(1entropo<ion.
Subsequent to the publication of the second volume of the
British Museum Catalogue of Fishes, four more species were
added to Centropogon, namely : —
C. marmoratus, Giinther, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., (3) xi. 1863,
p. 136, Moreton Bay.
C. indicus. Day, Fish. India, p. 155, pi. xxxviii. fig. 2, 1875,
Madras.
C. ediinatus, Macleay, Proc. Linn. Soc. N.S. Wales, v. 1881,
p. 436, Endeavour River.
C. nitens, De Vis, Proc. Linn. Soc. N.S. Wales, ix. 1884, p.
459, Coast of Queensland.
According to ray views only the first of these is a true
Centropogon, while of the three remaining species no two are
congeneric. To add to these complications Castelnau in
1872 confused Centropogon australis, White, with the fish
described by Guichenot (Mem. Soc. Imp. Sc. Nat. Cherbourg,
xiii. 1868, p. 89) as Neosebastes scorpienoides, and in the
following year, when seeking to correct his mistake, made
matters worse by rejecting the genus Xeosebastes and relegating
Guichenot's fish to the genus Centropogon, with which it has not
the slightest affinity, {v. Proc. Zool. & Accl. Soc. Vict., ii»
