BY J. DOUGLAS OGILBY. 9
1873, p. 40). In this he was unfortunately followed by Macleay,
who, however, it is but just to say, expressed his doubt as to the
propriety of the course followed by Castelnau. Here, so far as
this fish is concerned, the matter might have been left for the
present, but that Jordan and Everinann (Pish. N. & Mid.
Amer., p. 1889) place Neoschastes among the synonyms of
Scorpcena. The type of Neosebaste-f is the South Australian
Scorp(Pna panda, a species which, like N, scorpienoides, I have
never seen. Judging, however, from McCoy's fine figure and
description of the latter species (Prodr. Zool. Vict., dec. xx, pi.
193) I am inclined to recognise Guichenot's genus, the com-
plete lepidosis of the upper surface of the head and the absence
of simple pectoral rays being inimical to its inclusion in
Scofpana .
Reverting to the list given above it will readily be seen that
the fish described by Day as Centropogon imiicus differs greatly
from that genus as here restricted. Among the characters
which separate it may be noted — the difference in the contour
of the head and nape, the longer lower jaw, the absence of an
enlarged outer series of teeth in the premaxillaries, the decreased
number of dorsal spines, the elongation of the third anal spine
beyond the second, the pauciradiate pectorals, and the obso-
lescence of one of the ventral rays.
As I cannot find any other genus in which this combination
of characters exists I propose to separate the Indian fish from
Centropoyon under the name Data, in honor of Surgeon-General
Francis Day, author of the Fishes of India and other works.*
As to the species to which Macleay gave the name Cen-
tropoyon echinatus, the author's description is of little value in
assisting us to determine its affinities. We learn, however, that
the lateral line is provided with filaments, and that the second
anal spine is greatly enlarged, while the neglect to mention a
preorbltal spine suggests the absence of that character. Taken
together these point to a scorprenine rather than an apistine fish,
and I am inclined to believe that Macleay 's species will event-
ually prove to belong to that group.
Finally, with regard to the remaining species, Centropoyon
nitens, the generic identification is greatly hampered by the
omission on the author's part of any reference as to the extent
of the dorsal lepidosis, and to the comparative length of the
*Tetraroge rubripinnis (Schlegel, Faun. Japon., Poiss, p. 49, pi. xxii.
fig. 2) may be a Daia.
