10 STUDIES IN THE ICHTHYOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND
anal spines. Insufficient though the description of this fine
species is, two characters nevertheless are noteworthy as serving
to separate it from the genus to which it has been referred,
namely, the remarkable sculpture of the scales, each of which
is said to be traversed by three strife, which converge from the
base towards the margin, thus directly reversing the ordinary
procedure ; and, secondly, the small size of the eye, which is at
variance with the normal character of these fishes.
In addition to the eight species enumerated above as having
been referred by various authors to Centroporfon, Giinther in-
cludes as doubtful (Catal. Fish., ii. p. 128, note) Apistm hi/psel-
opterus, Bleeker (Banda, i. 1851, p. 238). No species is figured
under this specific name in the Atlas Ichthyologique.
With these general remarks I will now proceed to give
detailed generic and specific descriptions of three of our Queens-
land dagger-cheeked scorpaenids, together with such data as to
their habits, food, etc., as I have been able to gather. I have
failed to obtain any information respecting their breeding
habits.
Centropogon.
Centropogon, Giinther, Catal. Fish, ii. p. 128, 1860 (amtralis) .
Body elliptical, compressed. Scales small, adherent, ctenoid,
smooth, arranged in regular series. Lateral line complete, not
extending on the caudal fin ; the tubes simple, slightly bent
upwards posteriorly, separated from one another by a single
scale ; each tube corresponding in length to about two body
scales and raised conspicuously above them. Head rather large,
entirely naked, without dermal appendages, its upper profile
paiabolic ; snout short and broad, with slightly convex profile ;
preorbital pore inconspicuous ; a series of large open pores along
each side of the lower jaw inside the dentary bone, thence
bending upwards along the border of the preopercle. Nape not
continuous with the upper profile of the head, rising abruptly
above the posterior border of the orbit, naked, as al^o is a
cuneiform band, widest anteriorly, on each side of the spinous
dorsal fin, a narrow band behind the head, and the pectoral,
thoracic, and ventral areas. Mouth with rather small, slightly
oblique cleft ; jaws equal ; premaxillaries protractile, pro-
duced in a skinny lobe which conceals the lower border of the
maxillary, the upper and hinder borders of which are exposed.
Upper jaw with a continuous band of villiform teeth and an
