BY J. DOUGLAS OGILBY. 13
Centropogon AUSTRALIS.
■Cottus austral is, White, Voy. N. S. Wales, p. 266, c. fig., 17U0,
Port Jackson.
Apistus nustralis, Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss,, iv. p.
398, 1829.
■Centropnf/un australis, Giintber, Catal. Fish., ii. p. 128, 1860,'//;'/
Zool. Challenger, i. Shore Fishes p. 28, 1880 ; Macleay,
Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, v. 1881, p. 436; Ogilby,
Catal. Fish. N. S. Wales, p. 22, 1886.
The Fortescue* Woods, Fish, and Fisher. N. S. Wales, p. 49, 1882.
Neosebastes australis, Waite, Thetis, p. 103, pi. xxi, 1899.
FORTESCUE.
D. xvi 9. A. iii 5. Sc. 7/80/41. L. 1 28.
Depth of body greatest below the fifth dorsal spine, where
it is 2f to 3 in the total length ; length of head 2| to 3!- in
the same. Snout as long as or a little shorter than the diameter
of the eye, which is 2i to 3 in the length of the head. Nasal
tentacle fan-shaped and fimbriated. Width of interorbital
region 5|- to 5f in the head. Maxillary extending to or a little
beyond the vertical from the anterior border of the pupil, its
length 3 in the head, the width of its distal extremity about one
third of the diameter of the eye. Preocular, supraocular, postoc-
ular, tympanic, parietal, and nuchal spines well developed. Inter-
orbital ridgeswell developed, smooth ; temporal region with three
short spinose ridges. Posterior preorbital spine extending back-
wards to or slightly beyond the vertical from the hinder margin of
the eye, its length from the base of the anterior spine 2 to 2^ in
* Both Tenison Woods and Macleay have erroneously applied this
name to Pentaroge marmorata. This is obviously wrong, that species being
so rare in Port Jackson that during a residence there of fifteen years I have
not seen a single local example. Apistux marmorntus, Cuv. & Val. (Hist.
Nat. Poiss., iv. p. 416) was founded on a fish said to have been obtained by
Peron at Timor. Since that time it has not been found there, nor was it
known to Bleeker from any of the islands of the Indo-Malayan Archipelago ;
but it, or an allied species, is commonly found on the Tasmanian and Vic-
torian coasts. If the fact be taken into consideration that the members of
the Cuvierian genus Apistus are, as a rule, greatly restricted in their distri-
bution, it will at once appear to be unlikely that the same species should
inhabit the warm waters of tropical Timor and the cold seas of temperate
Tasmania. Perhaps two distinct species are confonnded under the one
name. Peron was fortunate in his Timor collections ; he got Cnidoglanis
macrocephalus (= niegastoma) there, but no one has found it since !
