14 STUDIES IN THE ICHTHYOLOGY OB' QUEENSLAND
that of the head. Upper preopercular spine not so long as the
second preorbital spine. Gill-rakers 4-4-9, all tubercular.
Third dorsal spine the highest, conspicuously higher than the
second or fourth, 11 to 1^ in the length of the head, and thrice
the height of the first spine : last spine higher than tlie penulti-
mate ; outer border of soft dorsal rounded, the highest ray about
equaling the fifth spine. Anal fin originating below the four-
teenth or fifteenth dorsal spine, its second spine as high as the
seventh or eighth dorsal spine, half or a little more than half
the length of the head, and as high as or a little lower than the
soft portion of the iin, the outer border of which is subtruncate.
Caudal fin with 10 branched rays, the middle pair the longest,
3j} to 3^ in the total length. Pectoral fin not reaching beyond
the ventral,* its length thrice the width of its base and equal to
the length of the head. Ventral fin rounded, 11 to IJ in the
head, extending to or slightly beyond the vent, its spine as long
as the second anal spine. Pale yellowish or ochraceous brown,
with six irregular tranverse dark chestnut-brown or black bands ;
the first through the eyes ; the second below the anterior dorsal
spines and often reduced to an oblong blotch ; the third below the
sixth to ninth spines and ceasing beneath the appressed pectoral
fin ; the fourth below the anterior soft rays, sometimes ceasing
at or near the lateral line, sometimes extending to or even upon
the anal fin ; both this and the preceding band may extend well
on the dorsal fin, and both have a tendency to lateral expansion
about the middle of the side ; the fifth across the base, the sixth
across the middle of the caudal fin ; a dusky spot is also usually
present below the eleventh to thirteenth dorsal spines ; outer
border of spinous dorsal usually more or less dusky ; soft portion
with an oblique dark med'an bar, which is often reduced to a
spot near its anterior border ; pectoral fins with or without a
dark median transverse hand and sometimes with narrow
parallel bars also ; a dark blotch absent or present at the base
of the ventral fins. Examples obtained from muddy ground
have the body more or less clouded so that the ground color
scarcely appears, and in these the basal half of the pectorals and
the ventrals are dark. (Lat. australisi, southern. )
* In no case, out of scores of examples which have passed through my
hands, have I found the pectoral fins to reach back to the "origin of
the anal," as stated by Giinthev and Macleay.
fThe specific name " australis." is frequently but erroneously used to
signify "Australian"; it is almost needless to say that it does nothing
of the kind, its sole meaning being neither more nor less than " southern " :
