14 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
feeds in this way — the strictly animal way — it also obtains
nutriment like a plant. It is filled with chlorophyll, the green
colouring matter of plants, and under the influence of sunlight it
can decompose carbonic acid gas, taking to itself the carbon and
giving ofit' the oxygen. Like protococcus, too, it passes into the
resting condition, in which it loses it fiagellum, secretes a cell
wall, and undergoes the same phases of subdivision within the
envelope, rupture of the envelope, and escape of the daughter cells.
We thus see that in the Euglena there is a blending of the
essential plant and animal characteristics ; it is the one or the
other as we list. The same doubtful position is occupied by a
remarkable group of organisms known as Myxomycetes, or slime-
fungi, which are found on bark, stones, or decaying vegetable
matter. They are extended expansions of protoplasm, so
ramified and interlaced as to form a network. The illustration
shows one of them. Strange £o say, these so-called fungi are
constituted by the fusion of a number of organisms indistinguish-
able from amoebae, as becomes evident if we keep them under
observation for a time. The protoplasm of the network, or
Plasmodium, as it is called, breaks up after arranging itself into a
number of spherical spores, each surrounded by a cell wall of
cellulose — a starch-like substance of which the wall of the typical
plant cells is composed. These spores burst their enclosing
cysts and assume the form of small amoebae, which, after
remaining free for a time, coalesce to form the expansion or
Plasmodium with which we started. As if the more conclusively
to show that nature abhors a line of demarcation even more than
a vacuum came the discovery of Professor Haeckel, in the Canary
Islands, of a minute orange-red marine organism of the lowest
type of animal life, which he called protomyxa. It bears a
striking resemblance to the slime-fungi just referred to. Like
them, it is a network of protoplasm, which interlace and exhibit
a constantly flowing and changing movement. In this phase it
feeds like an amceba, by the ingestion of small creatures. But
after a time the tree-like extensions are all drawn in. Then the
interior protoplasm divides into a number of bodies, first
spherical, but afterwards pear-shaped, and furnished with
processes. The sphere bursts, and these bodies being set free
swim actively about by means of their fiagella. Soon they
become transformed into amoebffi, which coalesce to form
the extended network or plasmodium. Another lowly animal of
