BY J. DOUGLAS OGILBY. 15
Occasionally, but very rarely, one of the dorsal spines is
absent, in which case an additional soft ray will almost inva-
riably be found ; while it also happens that not unfrequently
the short first spine appears to be wanting, having been acciden-
tally broken off and the scar healed over. A specimen in the
collection of the Australian Museum, Sydney, has a pungent
spine growing outwards and rather downwards from the base of
the eighth dorsal spine, of which it is fully half the length ; it
protrudes well beyond the skin, and was probably caused by an
injury when the fish was young.
Length to 135 millimeters. (Head and body 106, caudal
fin 29.)
East coast of Australia. I have taken specimens at various
points of the coast between Port Hacking to the south and
Moreton Bay to the north ; it frequents sandy bays in preference
to muddy estuaries, and, unlike its relative, the " Bullrout,"
never ascends rivers into fresh water. It is very common in
Port Jackson, every haul of the trawl net bringing up several ;
it is, therefore, not out of place to warn the inexperienced
against rashly plunging the hand into the gatherings of the net
from that port, since, between stingarees (Lrolophus), numb-
fishes (Hypnos), and fortescues, he would probably receive an
unpleasant reminder of the evils of curiosity. In the
autumn of 1886, I had the pleasure of accompanying Mr. Tryon
and the late Captain Fison, on a three days' trip down Moreton
Bay, during which we did some dredging and caught several
specimens, which differed in no particular from the common
Port Jackson species. It appears, therefore, to be tolerably
plentiful in suitable localities along our foreshore, and possibly
extends its range considerably further northwards. The same
may be confidently asserted as to the extension of its range in
a south-easterly direction ; but it has not as yet been recognised
by the naturalists of Tasmania or Victoria.
" australis " can only, therefore, be correctly employed when the species so
designated is an inhabitant of a more southerly district than any of itss
congeners at that time known. By this rule White was correct in so naming
his fish, no Cottiis from further south being known. (The Cottidu- proper,
as now limited, are inhabitants of j)eriarctic regions only). If an author
intends to convey the meaning that the product which he is describing is an
autochthon of the Australian Region he should employ such a word as
" australice" or " australianua " and the like ; but the vagueness, of even
these terms, owing to the size of the territory comprehended, suggests the
advisability of omitting their employment altogether.
