BY J. DOUGLAS OGILBY. 17
detail, that I cannot help suspecting that the fish there figured
differs specifically from the common " fortescue " of our litoral
fauna. This would account for its capture in what Waite rightly
regards as the " unusual depth of 16-19 fathoms."
The following are the more prominent variant characters
between the specimen (from Port Jackson) now before me, and
Waite's figure : —
In the typical Centropogon austraiis (White) t the body is
less robust, the greatest depth in numerous examples being 2f
in length against 2f in the figure ; the jaws are equal ; the nasal
tentacle is larger, and fimbriated, the opercular ridges are more
conspicuous and widely divergent ; the third dorsal spine is
much higher, never less than f of the head and thrice the height
of the first spine ; the soft part of the dorsal fin has nine rays,
and the last is almost wholly united by membrane to the back ;
the second anal spine is much longer and stronger than the
third, as high as the 7th or 8th dorsal spine, and half the
length of the head ; the pectorals are rounded and symmetrical,
the middle (7th and 8th) rays the longest, not reaching beyond
the ventral and not surpassing the head in length; the ventral
is much larger, rounded, reaching beyond the vent, ^ of the
length of the head, its spine as long as the second anal spine.
NoTESTHEs, gen. nov.
Body elliptical, compressed. Scales small, adherent,
ctenoid, concentrically striated, arranged in regular series.
Lateral line complete, not extending on the caudal fin ; the
tubes simple and straight, forming together a continuous band,
each tube corresponding in length to from two to three body
scales, and raised conspicuously above them. Head large,
entirely naked, without dermal appendages, its upper profile
obliquely linear ; snout short and broad, with somewhat
declivous profile ; preorbital pore large ; a series of similar pores
along each half of the lower jaw inside the dentary bone ; a pore
at the root of each preopercular spine. Nape slightly rounded,
nearly continuous with the head, naked, as also is the thorax.
Mouth with rather large oblique cleft ; lower jaw the longer ;
premaxillaries protractile, produced in a skinny lobe, which
t White's specimens would certainly belong to the form "better known
in shallow water cruising around the piles of piers and jetties " (Waite),
rather than to a deeper sea form which he had no means of capturing in its
natural haunts.
B
