18 STUDIES IN THE ICHTHYOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND
conceals the lower bordei' of the rather large maxillary, the
upper and hinder borders of which are exposed. Jaws with
interrupted bands of villiform teeth ; no outer series of enlarged
teeth ; villiform teeth on the vomer and palatines. Nostrils
large, patent, well separated, tubular, without tentacles. Eye
rather large, anterior, sublateral, high ; interorbital region
concave, without tentacles. Cranial ridges rather feeble, with
or without a small terminal spine ; coracoid process with a
strong spine ; no suprascapular spine. Preorbital with three
spines, the tips of which are exposed ; the anterior short, stout,
somewhat curved, directed downwards and backwards ; the
posterior longer, strong, acute, and thorn-like, not nearly
reaching to the end of the maxillary, and but moderately
erectile, the membranous attachment to the base of the
suborbital stay being wide ; the median spine when present rises
above the base of the last and is directed upwards. Preopercle
with five spines, the upper the longest, with exposed tip ;
interopercles in contact ; subopercle with a small spine ; opercles
with a well developed lobe and two divergent ridges, each of
which terminates in a strong spine, the surface conspicuously
carinated above the lower ridge. Gills four, a cleft behind the
fourth ; seven branchiostegals ; gill-rakers short and stout,
mostly tubercular. Upper pharyngeal bones elongate-pyriform,
separate, forming a continuous patch ; lower approximate, each
patch split up into four distinct sections, which are as distant
from one another as they are from those of the opposite side ;
all are armed with short stout conical teeth. Soft dorsal and
anal fins with a partially scaly base, the last ray in each divided
to the base. Dorsal fin originating above the upper preopercular
spine, evenly rounded in front, emarginate behind, with xv 9 or
10 rays, the spines of moderate strength and pungent ; spinous
portion of fin more than thrice as long as the soft ; interspinous
membrane moderately cleft anteriorly ; last ray partially attached
to the peduncle. Anal fin with iii 5 rays ; spines strong, the
third as long as or a little longer than the second ; last ray
nearly free. Caudal fin rounded. Pectoral fins well developed,
rounded, symmetrical, undivided ; each with 12 rays, the middle
the longest ; none of the lower rays simple. Ventral fins moder-
ate, approximate, inserted behind the base of the pectorals ; each
with i 5 rays, the spine strong and rather long ; second soft ray
longest, the last narrowly attached to the wall of the abdomen.
Air bladder large and simple, with thick walls. Pyloric Cfeca in
