20 STUDIES IN THE ICHTHYOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND
1^ to 14 in the diameter of the eye. Nasal, preocular, supra-
ocular, postocular, parietal, and nuchal ridges each terminating
in a spine; an exoccipital spine; interorbital ridges moderately
developed, smooth ; temporal region with three short spinose
ridges. Posterior preorbital spine not extending beyond the
vertical from the front margin of the pupil, its length from the
base of the anterior spine 6^ to 6f in that of the head. Upper
preopercular spine as long as or longer than the last preorbital
spine. Gill-rakers 4 + 12, a few near the hinge claviform, the
rest tubercular. Length of soft portion of dorsal fin 3| to
3^ in that of the spinous ; fourth spine the highest, not much
higher than the third or fifth, 2 to 2^ in the length of the head,
and 2f to 2| times the height of the first spine; last spine as
high as or a little higher than the penultimate ; outer border of
soft dorsal rounded, the highest rays equal to or rather less than
the fourth spine. Anal fin originating below the thirteenth or
fourteenth dorsal spine, its third spine as high as the seventh or
eighth dorsal spine, 2^ to 3 in the length of the head, and con-
siderably lower than the soft portion of the fin, the outer border
of which is angularly rounded. Caudal fin with 10 branched
rays, the middle pair the longest, 3f to 4 in the total length.
Pectoral fin not reaching to the vent, its length thrice or a little
more than thrice the width of its base, and li to 1^ in the
length of the head. Ventral fin pointed, a little shorter than
the pectoral, extending to or nearly to the anal, its spine as long
as the third anal spine. Pyloric coeca 4. Brown, irregularly
marbled with black, which sometimes takes the form of broad
transverse bands, and frequently with bright yellow spots and
blotches ; a chestnut spot often present on the occiput ; fins
mottled with blue-gray or yellow and black ; a large black blotch
usually present in front of the middle of the spinous dorsal.
{rohustn, stout.)
Length to 280 millimeters. (Head and body 222, caudal
fin 58.)
East coast of Australia. Its presence has been recorded
throughout the district lying between Shoalhaven to the south
and the Mary River to the north, but as it is everywhere com-
mon within those limits a more perfect acquaintance with our
estuarine fauna will probably extend its range considerably.
It has not, however, been included in either the Victorian or the
Tasmanian lists.
Type in the South Kensington Museum.
