BY J. DOUGLAS OGILBY. 23
Centropofjon fuscovirens, Giinther, Catal. Fish., ii. p. 130, 1860.
Tetrarof/e longispinis, Giinther, I.e., p. 134.
Paracentropogon lomjispinis, Bleeker, Atl. Ichth., ix, pi. ccccxii.
fig. 4, 1877.
Paracentropogon leucoprosopon.
Apistui^ leitcoprosnpos, Bleeker, Act. Soc. Sc. Ind. Neerl., i.p.
35, Amboina.
Centropogon leucoprosopon, Giinther, Catal. Fish., ii. p. 130,
1860.
Paracentropogon leucoprosopon, Bleeker, Atlas Ichth., ix, pi.
ccccxiii. fig. 2, 1877.
A third species of Paracentropogon was described by Dr.
Gunther and will stand as follows : —
Paracentropogon nudus.
Tetraroge longispinis, var. nxula, Gunther, Zool. Challenger, i.
Shore Fishes p. 66, 1880.
It was necessary for me to refer at some length to my
knowledge of these species, because the Queenslanl fish of which
I give a detailed description below has some outward resemblance
to Bleeker's figure, but as neither Cuvier and Valenciennes,
Bleeker, nor Gunther refer to the presence of simple pectoral
rays and the reduced number of ventral rays they cannot be
congeneric with our Queensland fish.
LiocRANiuM, gen. nov.
Body ovate, strongly compressed, the back elevated in
front. Scales minute, adherent, cycloid, smooth, arranged in
regular series. Lateral line complete, not extending on the
caudal fin ; the tubes simple, bent upwards posteriorly, forming
together a continuous band, each tube corresponding in length
to from three to five body scales and raised but slightly above
them. Head large, entirely naked, without dermal appendages,
its profile declivous and concave in front, parabolic above ;
snout short and broad, with convex profile ; preorbital pore
inconspicuous ; a large open pore below the chin, behind which
a series of similar but smaller pores extends backwards along
each half of the lower jaw inside the dentary bone, thence
bending upwards along the border of the preopercle. Nape
arched, continuous with the upper profile of the head, naked, as
also is the dorsal area above the opercles, a narrow band along
