24 STUDIES IN THE ICHTHYOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND
the base of the dorsal jSn, another behind the head, and the
pectoral and pelvic areas ; thoracic region entirely covered with
scales, which are rather smaller than those of the body. Mouth
with rather large, oblique cleft ; lower jaw a little the longer;
premaxillaries protractile, produced in a skinny lobe, which
conceals the lower border of the maxillaries, the upper and
hinder borders of which are exposed. Jaws with interrupted
bands of minute, conical teeth ; similar teeth on the vomer ;
palatine bones edentulous. Nostrils large, patent, well separated,
feebly tubular, without tentacles. Eye very large, anterior,
sublateral ; interorbital region without tentacles. Crauial ridges
feeble, smooth ; coracoid process and suprascapular bone without
spines. Preorbital with two spines, which are concealed in life
beneath a thick loose skin ; the anterior of moderate length, strong,
directed downwards and backwards ; the posterior longer, strong,
acute, and thorn-like, not reaching to the end of the maxillary,
and but moderately erectile, having a wide membranous attach-
ment to the suborbital stay. Preopercle with three to five points,
the upper of which is produced to form a stout sharp spine, the
others being reduced to blunt tubercles ; interopercles in contact ;
subopercle with a spinate point ; opercle with a large triangular
lobe, and two smooth, feeble, divergent ridges, which do not
end in spines ; the surface smooth. Gills four ; no cleft behind
the fourth ; six branchiostegals ; gill-rakers short and stout,
with densely spinulose tips. Upper pharyngeal bones oval and
remote; lower subpyriform and contiguous; both armed with
short, stout, crowded, conical teeth. Soft dorsal and anal fins
without basal scaly sheath ; last ray in each divided to the base.
Dorsal fin originating above anterior border of eye, evenly
rounded in front, slightly emarginate behind, with xiii 7 rays,
the spines flexible but acute ; spinous portion of fin more than
thrice as long as the soft portion ; interspinous membrane
moderately cleft throughout ; last ray partially attached to the
peduncle. Anal fin with iii 5 rays ; spines moderate, the third
much longer than the second ; last ray almost wholly attached
to the peduncle. Caudal fin large, slightly rounded. Pectoral
fins large, cuneate, symmetrical, undivided ; each with 14 rays,
the middle the longest ; some of the lower rays simple. Ventral
fins small, approximate, inserted behind the base of the pectorals,
each with i 4 rays ; the spine moderately strong and elongate ;
first soft ray longest, last widely attached to the wall of the
abdomen. Air-bladder large, strong, and simple. Intestines
