BY J. DOUGLAS OGILBY. 25
folded. Stomach simple, its posterior half with coarse,
gizzard-like longitudinal ridges within. Posterior processes of
premaxillaries not extending to the frontal bone ; frontal bone
with a pair of conspicuous ridges which are divergent in front,
mesially united by a bony bridge, and abruptly bent outwards so
as to form a deep loop with the tympanic ridge ; coronal ridges
well developed, continuous with the interfrontal bridge, and
united posteriorly to form a strong median crest for the first
dorsal spine, which is deeply grooved anteriorly ; suborbital
stay with two smooth parallel ridges, which are branched
posteriorly. Vertebrae 8 + 16 == 24. (Aeios, smooth ; Kpaviov,
skull).
Coast of Queensland. Monotypic.
In the obsolescence of the first soft ray of the ventral fins
this genus agrees with Daia.
LlOCEANIUM PR^POSITUM, Sp. nOV.
D. xiii 7. A. iii 5.
Depth of body greatest below the fourth dorsal spine,
where it is 2^ to 2|- in the total length ; length of head 2|- to 2f
in the same. Length of snout 1^ to If in the diameter of
the eye, which is 2f to 2^ in the length of the head. Width of
interorbital region 5i to 6 in the head. Maxillary extending to
the vertical from the posterior border of the orbit, its length
about 2 in the head, the width of its distal extremity about half
the diameter of the eye. Posterior preopercular spine extending
backwards to or a little beyond the vertical from the hinder
margin of the pupil, its length from the base of the anterior spine
4f to 5 in that of the head. Upper preopercular spine not quite
so long as the second preorbital spine. Gill-rakers 3 -f 9, a few
near the hinge claviform, the rest tubercular. Length of soft
portion of dorsal fin 3^ to 3^ in that of the spinous, the outer
border of which is sinuous ; third spine the highest,
twice as high as the first and conspicuously higher than
the second. If in the length of the head ; behind the third
the spines decrease in height to the sixth or seventh, and
then rise to the last, which is but little less than the third
and inappreciably more than those immediately preceding it,*
*The tips of the spines are very fragile and easily broken off, but from
a comparison of three specimens the above appears to be the normal
sequence in height. In all the fourth spine is apparently lower than the
third or fifth, but this may not be the case with perfect examples.
