■26 STUDIES IN THE ICHTHYOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND
soft dorsal rays as high as the spinous ; outer border angularly
rounded ; last ray almost wholly attached to the peduncle.
Anal fin originating below the twelfth dorsal spine ; the spines
evenly graduated, the second intermediate in height between the
first and the third, which is 1? to If times the height of the
first, and subequal to the highest dorsal spine and to the rays.
Caudal fin with 10 branched rays, the middle pair the longest,
3 to d^ in the total length. Pectoral fin extending backwards
to the vertical from the anterior third of the anal, the upper and
eight lower rays simple ; the lowest branched ray subequal to the
adjoining simple ray, its length thrice or more than thrice the
width of its base and a little more than the length of the head.
Ventral fin pointed, 1| in the head, extending to the origin of the
anal ; its spine stronger and longer than or as long as the third
anal spine. Pale reddish brown, the head, thorax, and abdomen
lighter with a yellowish tinge ; a dusky band below the second
and third dorsal spines, passing downwards through
the eye, where it forks, the anterior moiety extending to the base
of the preorbital spine, the posterior to that of the upper
preopercular spine ; a broad black band from the sixth and
seventh spines to the middle of the appressed pectoral fin ; an
oval, or oblong black spot below and upon the basal half of the
last two spinous and first two soft rays, not reaching to
the lateral line ; behind this spot, and occasionally in contact
with it is a much less conspicuous spot, which crosses the
lateral line, but does not reach to the dorsal fin. Dorsal,
caudal, anal, and pectoral fins with numerous small brown spots
or dark edged ocelli ; ventral fins uniform gray. (propositus,
an officer : in allusion to the black shoulder bands).
Length to 120 millimeters. (Head and body 90, caudal
fin 30). Coast of Queensland.
Type in the Queensland Museum, Brisbane.
Note : — In the " Records of the Australian Museum " (vol.
iv., pp. 181-184, 1902) Waite describes as Hypoplectrodes
armatus and gives an outline drawing of a fish which he
identifies with Serranus arwahis, Castelnau. He has, however,
somehow neglected to notice that it is the same fish that I had
previously described (Proc. Linn. Soc. N.S. Wales, xxiv.
1899, p. 169 et seq.) as EpinrphelUh's leai. The characters
which he notices as separating his fish from Gilhertia and
Hijpoplectrodes, and which induced him to propose the subgenus
