BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM. 15
a kindred nature, known as labyrinthula, forms a ramified
expansion of protoplasm upon submerged objects, and another
form, known as Vampyrella, attaches itself to microscopic plants
and sucks out their protoplasm. You see it in the illustration
attached to a stalked diatom. These strange organisms with
their alternation of generations bring home to us the conviction
that we are in the debatable land between the animal and
vegetable kingdoms, and show us that the distinction between
them diminishes until it is finally lost. Turning back to our
microscope we observe in the field of view a number of fairy
mats of a beautiful light green colour, with indented edges. In
these we have an instance of a very large family of microscopic
plants, the desmids, a word which means ribbon or chain-like,
because they grow in ponds attached to water weeds in chain-like
tufts. They are single cells — minute points of protoplasm —
surrounded by an investing membrane, and they are remarkable
for the beauty and variety of their forms — crosses, triangles,
crescents, hour-glasses, spindles, circles, stars, cylinders, purses,
hearts, ribbons, bands, necklaces, fairy mats. The photomicro-
graph is of the latter form, known as Micrasterias, or little star.
If you keep one of these little plants under patient observation
you will see that the notch in the centre, or suture, as it is called,
gradually widens, a hyaline protuberance is put forth on each
side ; each protuberance becomes lobed, and gradually grows into
anew half-cell. Two cells thus result from the one, and separate
to lead an independent life. But here again we find that the
process of subdivision cannot go on indefinitely, but has
to be recovered by the reverse process of union. At times two of
the little plants meet, and their contents blend together. The
result is the formation of a body so difterent in colour and
appearance from either of them that if you had not actually
witnessed the process you would not connect it with the desmid.
This body is circular, its colour is hght red, and it has long
pellucid arms, indented at the extremities. It is known
technically as a zygospore, that is a spore resulting from the
process of conjugation. These zygospores sink into the mud,
and will bear being dried up in the worst drought. At the first
shower of rain they burst, and the contents develop into the
ordinary fairy mats. The formation of zygospores is well seen
in another little plant, the spirogyra. You cannot fail to have
noticed the green slime which floats in tangled masses on
