30 colour-sight and colour-blindness
Light and its Composition.
Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727) said " White light is com-
posed of rays differently refrangible."
If a beam of sunlight be admitted to a dark room
through a very narrow slit in a shutter and received on the
edge of a triangular prism — the drop of a chandelier will do —
it will be bent from its straight course and may be projected on
a screen as a brilliant rainbow-like band of many coloured
lights — the spectrum. The beam has been decomposed or dis-
persed by refraction and the seven so-called primary colours
result — red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet ; red
being the colour of least refraction, violet of most. This
division into seven is purely arbitrary, and Professor Leslie
suggests that Newton " in the choice of that number was
apparently influenced by some lurking disposition towards
mysticism."
If the solar beam be examined through a spectroscope, the
spectrum obtained is broken up by numerous fine transverse
lines, named after their discoverer Frauenhofer's (1787-1826)
lines. The more prominent of these are lettered, A being at
the extreme end of the red and H of the violet, and, as their
positions are fixed, they are the standards by which places in
the spectrum are located and referred to. In the spectrum
mentioned, the red, orange, yellow and green are crowded up,
making together half the luminous band, while the blue, indigo
and violet are extended, and make the other half.
Spectra are produced by other means than prismatic refrac-
tions ; by a diffraction grating, the polariscope, phosphorescent and
fluorescent bodies, thin films and the action of coloured bodies.
The diffraction spectrum is not so brilliant nor so pure as
the refraction one ; but the distances between the colours are in
proportion to their wave lengths, hence it is called the normal
spectrum and yellow is in the middle of it.
The spectrum has been divided into a thousand (1000)
parts ; the positions of the colours and the spaces occupied by
them have been defined and the fixed lines of Frauenhofer have
their allotted places, even to decimal points. Then as difference
of wave length gives rise to difference of colour, these waves
have been calculated to the ten-millionths of a millimetre and
so also with the fixed lines.
Sir David Brewster (1781-1868) reduced Newton's pri-
maries to three : — red, yellow, and blue, and this seemed
