BY JOHN THOMSON, M.B. 31
practically to solve the colour problem, for it suited every kind of
worker in every kind of pigment. The secondaries were easily
obtainec. Red and yellow gave orange ; yellow and blue
produced green, while blue and red made the violets ; the
tertiaries — russet, buff, citron, sage, slate, and plum were
readily accounted for, even if it has to be admitted that they
were but primaries or secondaries dulled with grey.
Scientific enquiry demonstrated that pigments, the finest
and the best of them in their perfection did not compare in
purity with the simple colours of the spectrum, and that a
blending of any of these gave different results from the mixing
of similarly named paints or dyes.
Every one knows that in painting yellow and blue make
green, but what every one does not know is that the pure yellow
and blue of the spectrum when blended, instead of green, give
a pure white, and that green cannot be formed by a mixture
of any two colours, and that yellow can, for a mixture of red
and green gives yellow, therefore yellow is not a primary while
green is.
Dr. Thomas Young (1773-1829), nearly a century ago,
founded his theory " that white light is composed of a mix-
ture of three colours only — red, green, and violet." Von Helm-
holtz (1821-1894) more fully developed this theory, which is
now known as the " Young-Helmholtz," and is generally accepted
by physicists as satisfactory.
Professor Clark-Maxwell (1831-1879) modified Young's by
difi'ering as to the hues of the primaries. His colours
were — pure red or scarlet, pure green, and pure blue.
A solution of sulphocyanide of iron fairly well matches the first ;
chloride of copper, the second ; and ammoniacal sulphate of
copper, the third ; and with troughs of these and three lanterns,
satisfactory experiments with this theory may be made.
Hering of Vienna, in 1878, investigated the subject and
proposed a theory of six primaries : — White, black, red, yellow,
green and blue ; these were arranged in complementary pairs —
white and black, red and green, yellow and blue. This theory
was founded on "fundamental or native sensations," on a purely
physiological — not physical— basis, and was supposed to repre-
sent common experience.
The Eye.
The photographic camera and the human eye are both
optical picture producers and have many things in common ;
