82 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
and as the construction of the former and the uses of its
various parts and attachments are fairly well understood,
it shall be taken as the standard of comparison. The pro-
tective wood and leather of the camera have their homo-
logue (structure) and analogue (function) in the selerotic, the
tough, fibrous outer coat of the eye ; the optical part is
represented by the crystalline lens and other refractive media ;
the focussing gear by the ciliary muscles ; the iris-diaphragm by
the iris and pupil ; ihe time and instantaneous shutter by the
eyelids; the blackening (to prevent refections, etc.) by the
choroid, the pigmentary or middle coat of the eye ; and the
sensitive gelatine bromide of silver plate by the sensory retina,
the inner lining of the globe.
The retina is exceedingly complex and although less than
j-^ inch in thickness is described as composed of ten layers,
the outer of which, Jacob's membrane, the bacillary or layer of
rods and cones, is the most important and is looked upon as
'' undoubtedly the true perceptive layer," for where rods and
cones are absent as at the entrance of the optic nerve, there
is the blind spot, and where the cones are thickest, as at the
yellow spot, there vision is most acute.
The resemblance to photography goes still further, and
assumes a photo-chemical or photo-chemico- vital aspect ; for
just as the sensitive plate undergoes photo-chemical changes on
exposure to light, so in the eye is a substance which is
similarly affected. This is a colouring matter or pigment
which coats the tips of the rods — the visual purple or rhodopsin,
and is quickly bleached by light to be restored by rest and
darkness. And the photographic comparison is completed — for
as the exposed plate can be developed to yield a picture and then
fixed, so permanent optograms can be obtained from the retina.
" That images of objects can be formed on the retina owing to
the bleaching of the visual purple has been proved by experiment.
The purple is first changed to a yellow colour and then passes
into white. These optograms, as they are called, can be fixed
in an excised eye if the retina be detached and then treated
with a weak solution of alum."
The particular function of this purple has not been
determined ; it is confined to the outer segments of the rods ;
the cones are devoid of it and as there are but cones in the
area of most acute vision, it is difficult to understand how
sight can be dependent upon this retinal purple.
