M.B. 88
In fact the mechanism by which light is transformed into
nervous action has not been satisfactorily explained.
Unlike the photographic plate the retina is not uniformly
sensitive. Omitting the blind spot (the entrance of the optic
nerve) the sensitiveness of the retina diminishes as the yellow
spot or macula is departed from ; but even this is not constant,
it varies for light, form and colour. A white object is seen at
a greater distance from the centre than a blue, a blue than a
red, and a red than a green, and these distances again vary with
the amount of illumination. They can be recorded by an
instrument called a perimeter on diagrams showing concentric
circles, which correspond to parallels of latitude on a globe, with
radiating lines for longitude, but it must be remembered these
circles and lines are in the concavity of the globe not on its
convexity — " on the inner surface of a hemisphere whose pole
is the point of fixation." The mapped out area is the field of
vision for the particular light, form or colour.
Vision.
This includes —
1. The form sense — visual acuity or the power of dis-
tinguishing objects. This is roughly and somewhat
arbitrarily estimated as the ability to define sharply
under good illumination objects at from about ten
(10) inches to infinite distance from the eye, seen
under an angle of five (5) minutes.
2. The light sense — or the faculty of recognising different
luminous intensities.
3. The colour sense — or the appreciation of the smallest
differences of perceptible contrast of colours or of
tones.
The Colour Sense.
Theories of the mechanism of colour vision are chiefly based
on the theories of light, and attempts are made to blend the
physical and the physiological — colour mixtures and colour
sensations.
The "Young-Helmholtz" and the "Maxwell" are trichromic
theories and assume three sets of nerve filaments in the retina •
these filaments correspond to and are excited by the three
spectral primaries — red, green and violet, or blue according to
Maxwell — but each colour besides acting upon its own particular
nerves influences to a certain extent the others. If the three
c
