34 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
are equally excited at once, white is the result ; if there is no
excitation the sensation is one of blackness or rather absence of
white and according to the nerves irritated and the degrees of
irritation so are all the colours produced.
And colour-blindness is supposed to be due to the depravity
or absence of one or more of the nerve elements.
Bering's theory of six fundamental sensations in pairs,
though claimed to be trichroinic is surely tetrachromic for ifc
supposes four principal and pure colours, red and green, yellow
and blue, besides white and black. The pairs are at once
complementary and antagonistic and are presumed to act upon
three substances which are somewhat similar to, or are constitu-
ents of, the visual purple. Rays of light affect metabolic changes
— perhaps photo-chemico-vital^on these visual substances in
different ways — some promoting constructive changes (changes
of assimilation or anabolic) others promoting destructive changes
(changes of dissimilation or katabolic) and when these changes
are in equilibrium no sensation is experienced. Red is a
dissimilative change, green an assimilative ; yellow dissimila-
tive, blue assimilative. All the colours act upon the white-
black substance, but the red-green does not effect the yellow-
blue nor vice versa.
And colour-blindness is the absence of one or more of these
fundamental sensations.
There are other theories: — Ebbenhaus, based upon the
supposed decomposition of the visual purple and Parinaud, upon
the action of the rods and cones — stimulation of the former
causing a sensation of non-coloured light and of the latter all
possible sensations of colour.
But " no theory is satisfactory in character and no facts up
to the present seem sufficient to explain the mechanism of
colour vision." As one author says, "this subject has not yet
found its Newton." As another says, " no colour-blind retina
has been secured for microscopical examination."
Dr. Hugo Magnus, of Breslau, in 1877, advanced a some-
what curious theory : — That primitive man was colour-blind ;
starting life with one positive perception, namely, light ; and
one negative, namely, not-light, or darkness ; in fact that
he saw nothing except light and dark and had no sense of
colour. And Magnus recognised four stages in the march of
