16 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
standing water. If you examine some of this slime under the
microscope you will see that it consists of beautiful green
filaments, made up of cells placed end to end. The cells
reproduce by subdivision, but here again at times two filaments
(as far as we can see, in all respects identical) approach each
other. Canals are thrown across to opposite cells, and through
these canals the cells on one side pour their contents into the cells
on the other. The contents fuse together, and form a reddish
brown oval spore in each of the latter cells. Then the membrane
bursts and the spores are set free. These spores may be dried
up and carried by the wind to vast distances. At the return of
favourable conditions they acquire flagella, swim about actively
for a time, and then gradually develop into the usual filamentous
form.
The next illustration shows another form of flagellate
animalcule, which is so large as to be just visible to the naked
eye. It is remarkable as being the cause of the phosphorescent
light which you often notice in the sea ; and it is therefore aptly
named noctiluca, or the night-light. It is a peach-shaped body,
and grooved something like a peach. From the groove proceeds
the whip-like filament or flagellum. In the interior of the cell
is seen the protoplasm, branching in all directions so as to form
a reticulated mass. The light has a beautiful greenish tinge,
and appears to originate from the marginal portion of the
protoplasm, and to be due to electric action.' When the noctilucae
are very numerous they give rise to streams or tracks of light
after any object moving through the water, a phenomenon which
suggested the fantastic imagery of Coleridge in the " Ancient
Mariner" —
Beyond the shadow of the ship
I watched the water-snakes.
They moved in tracks of shining white,
And when they reared the eltish Hght
Fell off in hoary flakes.
The diagram now shown illustrates the beautiful slipper
animalcule, or paramoecium, as it is called scientifically, an
animakule common in ponds and standing water. As it darts
into the field of view we notice that it is surrounded with minute
quivering hair-like processes, known as cilia, which glisten like
spun glass. These cilia are the same thing as fiagella ; they are
prolongations of the protoplasm, but they are far more numerous
and delicate. We observe, too, in the protoplasm a groove or
