BY JOHN THOMSON, M.B. 36
educational developinent which has given us our present perfect
colour perceptions : —
1st stage. — The ability to distinguish red from black.
2nd stage. — The recognition of the sense of colour apart
from the sense of light ; the reds, oranges, and
yellows being apparent.
3rd stage. — The perception of green, with its varieties.
4th stage. — The detection of blue.
In connection with red, its recognition in the first stage
may be due to its being the most brilliant of the colours. It is
certainly the colour manufacturers recognise as preferred by
uncivilised races in their desire for something pronounced. It is
the colour early acquired by the primitive painter in his art, and
in the costume of potentates it survives as the choice for spec-
tacular effects of their long departed predecessors.
To the second stage are referred the Homeric poems and
the earlier books of the Old Testament. [See Appendix I.]
The third stage is not further referred to ; but it is stated
of the fourth " that it is not even now reached universally, for
in Burmah a striking confusion between green and blue is a
perfectly common phenomenon, and a like confusion is some-
times observable among ourselves as to these two colours when
seen by candle-light."
Dr. Edridge Green has recently introduced another theory
of the evolution of the colour sense. He starts like Magnus
believing in the colour-blindness of the primeval man, but he
takes a different view of the order in which the perception of
colour is acquired. According to Magnus the evolution was in
the order of refrangibility ; according to Edridge Green the
extremes of the spectrum are first perceived. He quotes very
largely from Gladstone's article f See Appendix I.J and seems
to build hi3 fancy on Gladstone's finding that Homer was
possibly a dichromic, seeing red and violet, and on a patient
who colour-blind in one eye saw with it " the two ends of the
spectrum tinged with colour and the remainder grey." He
believes in a hexachromic theory apparently, because in the
normal colour-sighted " six definite points of difference (colour)
are distinguished in the spectrum." He expresses his disbelief
in the trichromic theory " in the sense that there are three
fundamental sensations which are capable of acting indepen-
dently of each other." Those who see seven or six colours in the
spectrum he calls hexachromic ; five, pentachromic ; four,
