86 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
tetrachromic ; three, trichromic ; two, dichromic, and the totally
colour-blind monochromic. The order on which, according to
him the colours are evolved, may be seen in this table :
Position of colour in spectrum 12 3 4 5 6
Name of colour Red : Orange : Yellow : Green : Blue : Violet :
Order of evolution 16 4 3 5 2
And when there is a paucity of colours recognised, the missing
one is the latest in development, thus — a pentachromic would
not recognise orange ; a tetrachromic, blue ; a trichromic would
mix up the yellows and greens ; and " a dichromic confuse
red, orange, yellow and yellow-green on the one hand and
blue-green, blue and violet on the other."
In illustration of this. Green has published some ten (10)
coloured spectra, which he supposes represent seven (7) different
types of colour perception — from the achromic or monochromic
to those who can see seven or six colours in the solar spectrum,
the hexachromic or perfect colour-sighted.
Abney also issued coloured charts to represent a normal
spectrum, and one each as seen by the green-, the red-, and the
violet-blind. *
But it does not strike me that the authors agree or that
their charts are a true solution of the colour difficulty.
Colour Blindness,
Or Daltonism, as it was for a long time called, because John
Dalton (1766-1844), an English chemist and physicist, himself
colour blind, described his defects of vision (1794).
A capital article on the Life and Work of John Dalton
appears in the " British Medical Journal " of the 16th of May,
this year, and an extensive excerpt from his papers on Colour
Blindness is given in Dalton's own words.
When a person can see seven or six colours in the spectrum
he is admittedly colour perfect ; when he can see five he might
be classed as fairly normal sighted ; but when he perceives only
four or fewer or none there is a marked defect in his colour
perception and he may be partially or completely colour-blind.
The usual classification is —
I. — Total Colour-Blindness. Achromatopsia.
When all intensities of lightness and darkness may
be thoroughly recognised, but no colour per-
ceived.
