BY JOHN THOMSON, M.B. 89
One (1) bright red, skein 33 ; one (1) red orange, skein 37 ;
three (3) rich orange, skein 39 ; and one (1) yellow, skein 40,
were selected by examinees in quest of green. The same ex-
aminee 18, selected skeins 37, 39, and 40. Some in quest of
red, made selections from among the greens ; one (1) chose
skein 3, a blue-green ; three (3) chose skein 5, a medium olive
green ; one (1) chose skein 7, a blue-green ; the same examinee,
13, choosing skeins 3, 5, and 7 ; that is to say, four (4) green-
blind included reds in their choice, and three (3) red-blind,
included greens.
No pink or group 2 selection was made among the reds,
and no red or group 3 selection from among the pinks.
There is no difficulty in detecting a colour-blind individual ;
he usually betrays himself before he even makes a selection,
by taking the test skein in his hand turning it over and over
and examining it as if he hoped to obtain some inspiration
through another faculty than that of sight. This is often very
marked. But I find a very great difficulty in classifying the
colour-blind, and I ought not to, seeing how definite (?) are the
directions and exact (?) the colour cards indicating different types
of colour blindness.
It is quite in doubt what a colour-blind man sees, for he
cannot communicate his perceptions otherwise than by sugges-
tion and when he uses certain terms, say rea or green, there is no
evidence that his impressions are similar to ours with reference
to these particular colours for he confounds them.
Two notable cases are recorded by Hippel and Edridge
Green of patients who had normal colour perception in one eye
and were colour blind in the other. In both instances they
recognised the extremes of the spectrum ; Hippel's case saw
yellow and blue, Green's saw red and violet but confounded
yellow and blue.
None of my cases confounded the ends of the spectrum,
reds with violets, and this is in support of Gladstone's finding
with reference to Homer's colour perception and in keeping
with Edridge Green's theory of the evolution of the colour
sense.
With the colour-blind a great deal of guessing goes on
when selections are being made, and although the defect will
invariably assert itself, for one or more of the confusion
colours will always be chosen, there will certainly be a variety
in the skeins selected and no two examinations will give the
same result.
