40 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
It frequently appears that not hue nor colour bufc
intensity — brightness or shade — influences the choice ; that
skeins totally different in colour, but somewhat the same in
depth are chosen.
Remembering the photo-chemico-vital action of light on
the visual purple or rhodopsin and the photo-chemical action
of light on the photographic gelatine plate, I experimented with
the railway red and green flags. I got some official bunting,
samples of both colours and photographed them first on a
white background and then on a black. The results are thrown
on the screen direct from the negative, for some of the contrast
might have been exaggerated if a lantern slide positive had been
used. With an Ilford's ordinary plate the actinic exertion of
neither red nor green is much ; what there is, is distinctly in
favour of green, but considering the intense differences
suggested by the two flags photographic results show no great
contrast. With Ilford's chromatic plates the difference is
much more apparent. These, the chromatic or correct-colour-
value plates might be likened to the normal sighted, while the
ordinary plates would represent the partially colour-blind.
By throwing a red light on the screen from a red glass
which cuts off the green rays of the spectrum the audience
becomes temporarily green-blind and is supposed to see things
as the green-blind are suspected to see them ; while by using a
blue-green light which absorbs all the red rays the audience,
deprived of red, is temporarily red-blind and sees as it is fan-
cied the red blind should see.
Abney is responsible for this experiment but I doubt its
truth. With the red light the green flag certainly reflects
no colour and looks black, but the red is depraved ; and with the
green light the red flag is black and the green is hardly recog
nisable. The experiment proves too much ; in each instance it
destroys one colour and materially disturbs the other.
Some time ago I thought I was in the fair way of solving
the colour-blind problem. Those of you who photograph must
remember an old recommendation, namely, to view your intended
landscape picture throi "h deep blue glass so as to get your
colour values. Doing this it struck me how very identical in
colour was a red brick wall with the green leaves of the creeper
that clung to it, and working the experiment out I found that a
blue vision would fairly account for such of the colour-blind
blunders as I was acquainted with. I turned to all the available
