BY JOHN THOMSON, M.B.
41
authorities on the subject and finding no reference whatever to
a blue theory was beginning to congratulate myself, when
opening an old tome " that had long lain hid " I discovered that
Dalton had suggested that the red rays in his case were absorbed
by the vitreous humour which might have a blue colour or by
the retina itself having a blue tint. An examination of Dalton's
eyes was made after death, "but no blue vitreous humour, nor
blue retina was there, thus affording a refutation of both these
conjectures."
I think the blue theory might be revived ; it is about aa
good as any at present ; and it might be worked in, in connec-
tion with a cyanic depravity of the visual purple.
Cases of colour-blindness are also classified as Congenital
and Acquired.
Congenital. — I believe those in my table are all congenital
and were in no way induced or aggravated by habit or disease.
Whether they were hereditary it ia impossible to say. Eighteen
(18) of the men were certainly unaware of any defect until after
examination and all declared they never heard of colour-
blindness among their relatives. The other two (2) knew of
their abnormality, but did not regard this as hereditary, Yet in'
the case of examinee 20, a solicitor, it is very distinctly so. A
nephew of his, a bright lad of 11, is colom -blind and in an
astonishing way followed the mistakes of the maternal uncle ;
and further enquiry elicited the fact that defective colour per-
ception is very distinctly hereditary in this well-known Brisbane
family, for of thirteen (13) males appearing in five (5) branches
during three (8) generations, six (6) are known to be colour-
blind, with in every instance the transmission, as to be expected,,
through the mothers, all of whom are said to enjoy normal
colour sight.
HEREDITY OF COLOUE-BLINDNESS.
1
1
/I
[
/I K
n ^
1 IV
1
- F
- F
=
- F
Youngest
of 13
■F M
F M M M M F F
fMffMf ffM
(The black letters M indicate the colour-blind.)
