42 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
Congenital cases are permanent, are not amenable to any
treatment, and educational training has no efifect.
Acquired. — I have not detected a case of acquired colour-
blindness. It is stated " to commence as a rule in the centre of
the field and is an almost pathognomonic sign of what is com-
monly called ' tdxic amhlt/opia,' that is to say, of a neuritis which
is limited (at the beginning) to the macular fasciculus of retinal
fibres, and caused by the excessive use (excess either absolute or
relative to the idiosyncrasy of the patient) of tobacco,
of alcohol and possibly of other agents, either singly or in
combination." Mr. Priestly Smith has pointed out " that as a
rule the disease is not produced by tobacco alone but by some
cause of depression acting upon a large consumer, such as
shipwreck and its attendant hardships upon a sailor, or financial
anxieties upon a great smoker who is engaged in trade."
As the disturbed retinal area may be limited, the colour of
a large object may be easily perceived by the unaffected areas,
while that of a small one, falling within the diseased limits,
cannot be seen.
Dangers from Colour-Blindness.
That there are colour-blind people, people who cannot see
red or green or confuse the two is undoubted ; and it would be
a grave danger to travellers by sea or land if these defective-
sighted individuals were in charge of our ships or our trains.
The side lights of all vessels of all countries are green
(blue-green) and red (rich ruby). Green for the starboard, or
right side of the ship ; red for the port, or left.
On land, on the railways, green is the safety light ; red,
the danger signal.
In the Report of the Committee on Colour Vision, presented
to both Houses of the Imperial Parliament in June, 1892, it is
said " The direct evidence before them (the Committee) is not
sufficient to cause them to say that accidents, either by sea or
land, have conclusively been traced to defective colour vision ; yet
this by no means disproves the high probability that accidents
have really occurred from such defects." And the safe<;y cf the
travelling public is made secure so far as defective colour per-
ception is concerned by insisting upon the employment of those
only who possess a normal colour sense. And this of course
necessitates careful and scientific examination and selection.
