BY JOHN THOMSON, M.B. 43
Dr. Jay Jeffries, of Boston, U.S.A., in his work on Colour-
Blindness is more assertive and declares that railway and
marine accidents have occurred from it and cites instances.
Someone has suggested the impossibility of getting at the
truth, of subsequently proving or disproving colour-blindness,
owing to the individual responsible for the catastrophe being
lost with his ship or wrecked with his train.
It has been proposed to alter the lights and employ those
not likely to be mistaken by partially or completely colour-blind
people; colours from the extremes of the spectrum, red, orange
or yellow, and blue, blue-violet, and violet.
Orange and yellow are out of the question, for they would
readily be confounded with other lights which are not signals
chiefly in the vicinity of towns, just as white was— and it has
been discarded as the "clear" or safety signal on the railways.
Red alone remains ; it is a saturated and brilliant colour ; a red
glass transmits about 10 per cent, of the luminosity of the lamp
behind it; in red theory and practice agree; experiment and
experience force its use.
Blue, blue-violet and violet are impracticable owing
to lack of brilliancy and indistinctness when viewed from a
distance ; glasses of these hues only transmit from 2 to 4 per
cent, of the light behind.
The red and green must remair ; they cannot be altered to
suit the individual ; he must be selected to recognise them, and
in the selection " the greatest severity should be observed, or,
in other words, the least defect in the sense of colour should be
a sufficient ground for rejection." (Regulations for the
management of State railways in Sweden).
Testing for Oolour-Blindness.
The test adopted is the one recommended in the report of
the committee on colour vision, i.e., Holmgren's, introduced in
1878, the well known coloured wool-matching test. A complete
set of Holmgren's wools runs into many dozens of skeins, and
many of these are diificult to procure, and are unnecessary.
Professor Thomson, of Philadelphia, suggested a modification of
Holmgren's methods, and this was adopted and successfully by
the Pennsylvania and other American railways. I have used it
for some twelve years ; it is the scheme I have already referred
to and on which my table is based, and I have confidence in it.
But practically it still remains Holmgren's, and Holmgren's has
been adopted by almost every country — European and American
