44 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
— as the standard for the determination of colour vision. " The
great point in a test is to cause the candidate to do somethiny to
show that he appreciates colour. It is this domy something and
saying nothing which is the important feature of the Holmgren
test. A man may be ignorant of the names of colours — colour
ignorant, it is called — but he cannot be ignorant of the colours
themselves if he has normal colour vision."
So when a candidate is handed a single skein and asked to
match it or pick out from the many skeins before him all he
thinks like it he is subjected to a very practical test. He may
— he very often does — say when handed the test skein " Oh,
that is a green." The answer is, " Then pick out all the
greens you see." But he is not requested or even encouraged to
name colours.
Quite recently, 1902, at a meeting of ophthalmologists in
England an attempt was made to throw discredit upon the wool
test and a resolution was proposed that " the employment of the
Holmgren test for colour-blindness by the Board of Trade is
most unsatisfactory, as the inefficiency of this test is now well-
known." Twenty-four members were present but only seven
voted and the motion was lost by one vote.
There are other wool arrangements, Jeafifreson's frame,
Roberts table and Dorffel's sets. Then there are the War Office
cards, Rumble's gelatine discs and the double lamps. Each lamp
is like a signal one, but instead of only white, red and green lights
it has about a dozen. The examiner takes one lamp ; the candi-
date is given the other ; the former turns on a coloured sector,
the latter has to shew a similar one. No questions are asked and
no colours are mentioned.
Stilling used coloured cards, the colours dark and light
green alternately being in numerous (357) small squares each
bounded by black lines, a checker pattern. On the card was a
letter in red squares, the red being equal in intensity to the
light green. The different shades of green with the black
edging were said to baffle the colour-blind who failed to see the
red letter.
Edridge Green uses a lantern with seven coloured glasses
and atmospheric effects can be produced by the ingenious
addition of six modifying glasses, four neutral to suggest
varying degrees of fog, one ground to represent mist and a
ribbed one pretending rain.
