BY JOHN THOMSON, M.B. 45
Abney employs what he calls a colour-patch-apparatus, a
contrivance by which rays from sun- or arc-light are first
parallelised and then partially refracted and partially reflected ;
the former, the refracted, pass through two prisms and are
focussed on a screen to form a spectrum, or by using a slit, any
ray of a spectrum, or by employing a collective lens, a white
image ; the latter, the reflected, fall on a mirror and by means
of a lens can be thrown on the same screen and alongside the
colour patch.*
In cases of acquired colour-blindness, a condition I have
already said I have no experience of, with the affected retinal
area or areas small, the wool test would fail, for the skeins being
large their images would be received on parts of the retina not
diseased and colours would be correctly matched.
To provide for this Sir Wm. Abney says: "I have had a
set of brick-clay pellets some f^j^ inch in diameter, painted with
water colours mixed with soluble glass solution of the same
colours as the wools. These are placed in a shallow tray and
presented to patients affected with this central blindness to pick
■out all the pellets which match reds and greens. They will tell
you they see neither the one nor the other, though they will pick
out the blue pellets unerringly. A red pellet they will match
with a red, green, grey or a brown one, and a green one with
the same. If, however, you instruct them to direct their eyes
a few degrees away from the tray, they will tell you they see all
the colours, and as they endeavour to pick thorn out, they, with
a natural instinct, direct their eyes again to the collection when
once more the colours vanish. It is almost piteous sometimes
to see the distress which this simple test occasions."
Watching a colour-blind individual stumbling over his mis-
taken skeins is a rather painful sight, but there are occasionally
some amusing incidents.
Examinee 4 was a fine strapping fellow, and I was anxious
to get him for the Railways, and I was also anxious to experi-
ment with him to discover if possible any method which might
be adopted to correct his defective colour sense. Time and again
* Note. — I referred to a leading, perhaps the leading, firm of opticians
in London, and received answer : — " 7/9/03. The only coloured tests that
seem to be in demand are the ordinary sets of wools. Nearly all the tests
you mention in your letter have not been manufactured for many years ;
•we could let you have them if you wish, but it is doubtful whether you
would consider that they would be worth the carriage to send."
