46 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
I tested him and each time he was worse than before. One
day in the most delicate role I could assume I questioned him
as to the existence of —
" A dearer one still, and a nearer one yet, than all other ? "
He blushingly answered — there was ; and I bade him brin^ her
on her Sunday out. She had never heard of colour-blindness
and being particularly sharp herself was astonished, aye, vexed
at her lover's mistakes. I told her to get a lot of skeins of
colou'-ed worsted similar to those I had and to coach her friend
for a future examination. She did so and the couple returned
to me two or three weeks later jubilant with the certainty of the
youth's success — and in a fashion he was successful. Try him
as I pleased and shuffle his wools as I might he never faltered,
he never failed ; then I bethought me to test him with my wools.
He was hopelessly colour-blind.
Examinee 14 was a sturdy married man who had the
chance of employment on our railways. Finding he was colour-
blind I said nothing but told him to present himself for re-
examination and to bring his wife with him. When ?he arrived
I told her I had sent for her to see fair play. I warned her to-
say nothing no matter what she saw else I would send her from
the room. Poor woman ! She knew nothing of colour-blindness.
For a time she watched the blunders of her better half, but when
he selected a coflfee-brown skein for a bright green she could
contain herself no longer but whacked her hubby on his head
with her "brolly," called him a fool and bounced from
my office.
Examinee 16 was a fireman, who, through colour-blindness,
had lost his place on the " foot-plate." Some considerable time
after he came to me with a certificate from an ophthalmic
surgeon wherein it was stated the late fireman had normal
colour perception. After showing me this he threatened me
with the vengeance of some association to which he belonged.
I retested him then and said nothing to him beyond advising
him to go about his business. From me he went to the office
of the Chief Mechanical Engineer and showing his document
declared he was an ill-used man, having lost his billet through
my mistake. I was asked to re-examine him and consented to
do so if a responsible officer of the department was present.
The candidate and the witness arrived together ; I showed the
former the green test skein and asked him to pick out from the
lot anything like it carefully avoiding the mention of any
