BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM. 17
primitive gullet, and two pulsating vacuoles, one at each end.
These vacuoles, shown separately in the diagram, are more
complicated than in the amoeba or sun-animalcule, for as they
pulsate we notice from six to ten delicate spindle-shaped spaces
forming star-like vacuoles. The paramoecium reproduces by
subdivision, and in it also, as the researches of Hertwig and
others have shown, we have the same phenomenon of the union
of two individuals as a momentum to renewed powers of feeding
and subdividing. Hertwig says that the union brings about a
complete reorganisation of the nuclear apparatus and at the same
time of the infasorian. The individuals which have thus become
rejuvenated have regained the capacity of multiplying enormously
by means of division, until again the necessity for a new
conjugation arises. During a period of six and a-half days a
single individual, when provided with sufficient nourishment,
divides thirteen times, that is to say, produces about 8,000
descendants.
If we have water weeds under examination, we often
see pendent from them a number of beautiful little
crystal bells on flexile stalks, which expand to a straight line and
suddenly contract in corkscrew fashion as the bell darts
downwards. These are the vorticellae, or bell flower animalcules,
another example of the ciliated infusoria. We notice that each
bell is crowned with a circlet of cilia in rapid vibration, and as
they vibrate little whirlpools or vortices are produced in the
surrounding water. Like all the other lowly forms that we have
reviewed, the vorticella reproduces by subdivision, and when a
colony gets too large some of the members of it detach them-
selves from their stalks and swim away to find fresh pastures
elsewhere. This is a mere method of dispersion, but at times, if
we watch the bells closely, we observe a cluster of buds at the
base of certain of them, which looks something like a minute
crystal bunch of grapes. These buds develop cilia, detach
themselves, and after swimming about for a time approach the
bells and gradually fuse into them. This is another phase of
conjugation, and after it the vorticella acquires quickened powers
of feeding and subdividing. As instances of other infusors we
may notice the opalina and gregarina, which are curious as
showing how species of infusoria can become parasitic. The
opalina is found in the large intestine of the common frog, where
it is nourished by the partially digested food of its host. The
