BY JOHN THOMSON, M.B. 49
APPENDIX I.
That extraordinary man, the late Mr. W. E. Gladstone, in
an article in Vol. 2 of the " Nineteenth Century " for 1877 dealt
with the colour sense of
" The Blind Old Man of Scio's Rocky Isle."
and his conclusions were, " that Homer's system of colour or
rather his system in lieu of colour was founded upon light and
upon darkness, its opposite or negative : and that the organ of
colour was but partially developed among the Greeks of his age."
And " that although Homer has used light in its various forms
for his purposes with perhaps greater splendour and effect than
any other poet, yet the colour adjectives and colour descriptions
of the poems were not only imperfect but highly ambiguous and
confused." In a learned, classical, and logical fashion he criti-
cally analyses the various uses of the words — eruthros, xanthos,
chloros, kuaneos, porphureos and others, and suggests that
Homer had a partial recognition of the extremes of the spectrum
in that he had discovered an affinity between what lies next to
light, viz., red and orange — eruthros and xanthos — and what
lies next at the other end of the scale to not-light, viz., violet,
porphureos : recognising red and orange at the one end and
violet at the other, but failing in the yellows, greens and blues.
In a very interesting letter I received from Mr. R. H. Roe,
head master of our Grammar School, he says " There can be
no certainty that Homer was blind, because the best modern
critics are about equally divided whether there was a single poet
Homer at all ; but there is no doubt that the ancient sculptors
represented their Homer as blind, and that ancient historians
and poets spoke of him as blind. In the Homeric hymn quoted
by Thucydides (Bk. iii., cap. 104) appears —
TVfjjXos oivrjp, oIk€l Se Xt'o) 'eVi 7ranra\oe(T(rrj
(" A blind man, he dwells in rocky Chios,")
which line Thucydides considers evidently to be written by
Homer himself ; and upon it is based the popular belief of
antiquity about the poet's blindness. Still I presume that even
the ancients only considered him blind in mature or late life, for
otherwise he could not have described the scenes of nature with
such an artist's eye as he has done. The words which in my
reading of Homer I have always found used in the most in-
definite way are kuaneos, xanthos and glaukos, though eruthros
and porphureos are very loosely used also. You will find in a
