50 COLOUR-SIGHT AND COLOUR-BLINDNESS
large Liddell and Scott that kuaneos is applied to the deep sea,
to the blue corn-flower, blue steel, to lapis lazuli, to the hair of
Ulysses, to the swallow and to the clouds — evidently covering a
wide range between dark blue and black,
"Xanthos again is used of ripe corn, chestnut horses, lions,
gold, golden hair, blushing, wine— ranging thus from yellow to
red.
"Glaukos, gray, again 's used of the eyes, the olive, the sea,
the vine, the beryl and the topaz — ranging from gray to light
blue and green.
"Eruthros, red, ranges from vermilion and scarlet to copper
and blood.
" Porphureos, violet, is used of the sea, wine, rainbow,
hair and cheeks, the two latter being post-Homeric.
" Still I do not think too much should be made of this vague
use of epithets by the ancients, or that we should infer they could
not distinguish between the difierent colours. The right
inference would rather be that they had very few words
to express finer shades of colour, and few pigments to act
as standard names ; hence their few epithets had to do
duty for a variety of things. We, in our day, have seen a
variety of new names for colours added to our language, i.e.,
mauve, magenta, cerise — but I think we should be wrong in
saying that our fathers were unable to distinguish these shades
from others because they had no name for them.
" A black fellow would probably be able to see a difference
between them all though his vocabulary would not enable him
to discrimate between them in speech.
" These were the feelings which Gladstone's book raised in
me on the question. The subject, however, is very interesting
and the old man may claim the merit of having started it."
In the life of Homer, attributed to the Greek historian
Herodotus of Halicarnassus (484 b.c), the poet's real name
is given as Melesigenes, and it is stated that during his travels
he became blind and that the Cumoeans nick-named him
"Homeros" — the blind man — literally "one who follows a
guide."
Gladstone, in the magazine article referred to, further
says : — " I understand from an able Hebraist that the Old Tes-
tament offers much evidence of the imperfect conception of
colour in early times."
