56 NATURALISED AND ACCLIMATISED PLANTS, ETC.
human foot, plants which were familiar to his eye in the old
country. The water-plantain [Alisma plantarfo), the water
pepper [Polygonum hydropiper), the blinks (Montia rividaris),
the clubrush (Scirpus lacxistris and vxaritimus — Heleocharis
acicularis), the twig-rush {Cladium Marisais), the reed mace
{I'ypha auyustifolia), the sedge {(7arex Buxbaitwi, acuta, panicu-
lata), and the galingale (Cypenis Jlavescens), all of them, at least
72 species, have been gathered by me twenty years ago on the
Upper Macquarie, together with European aquatic grasses, like
the reeds Arundo phraamites, Glyceria fluitans, and Leersia liex-
andra. And on my last journey I fell in with the same plants,
on still waters, in many parts of the globe.
The flora of high mountains is equally uniform, derived,
according to Sir .Joseph Hooker, from the glacial period of
post-tertiary age, when Arctic plants migrated to the Southern
Hemisphere. Horned trefoil (Lotu.s corniculatus), winter cress
(Bnrbarea vulyaris), hairy bitter cress (Canhimine hirsuta),
speedwell (Verojiica), eye-bright (Euphrasia), sun dew (Drosera),
crow-foot [Ranunculus), and many other genera are found on
the mountains of Norway and Switzerland, as well a? on the
South American Andes and the eastern ranges of Australia.
Graminitis rutcefolia, a small fern growing on our Queensland
rocks, was gathered by me also in New Zealand, Spain, Italy,
Mexico, Peru and Chili.
A large percentage of East Australian plants came down
from India in post-tertiary times, when our Continent was still
connected with Asia.
There exist exceptional spots in manycountries where soil and
climate are relished so much by certain plants, that many rare
and pretty herbs, shrubs and trees seem to flock to such secret
places. When I wrote my little "Flora of Freiburg " more than
thirty years ago, I noticed such a spot on the Kaiserstuhl. Mr.
F. xM. Bailey, the first botanical authority in the southern
hemisphere, discovered a small area on palaeozoic soil between
Yandina and Eumundi, on our North Coast line, where in a
tropical-like scrub he found a world of ferns, mosses, trees and
climbers occuring nowhere else round Brisbane, many of them
not previously described or named. The spot, recog-
nisable from the train by the high and smooth stems of
the Australian feather palm [Ptychosperma Cumiinyltami) ought
to be protected by Government, otherwise it will soon be taken
up by settlers and transformed into cornfields and pasture
paddocks.
