18 THE BEOINNINOS OF LIFE.
gregarina is found chiefly in the intestinal canal of the earth-
worm. The ordinary adult form is shown in the diagram a.
Instead of cilia it has at the distal end a small circlet of hooklets.
Diagrams b and c show two individuals uniting. They fuse and
pass into the encysted condition as at d ; then the protoplasm
breaks up into an immense number of spores, as at f, the
investment bursts, and each spore develops into a new gregarina.
Those earth-worms have my profound sympathy. But while
you have been considering these infusors, and perhaps feeling
some disgust at the parasitic forms, you may not have realised
that here again you are in contact with creatures which have an
intimate connection with yourself. The human body furnishes
examples of a multitude of infusors, which are part and parcel of
us, just as the blood globules and leucocytes are part and parcel
of us. The whole of the respiratory tract, the lower parts of the
nasal passages, the central canal of the spinal cord, and other
parts of the body are lined with cells, which are furnished with
cilia, and if detached will swim about by means of their cilia
and maintain for a time an independent life, like true infusors.
These ciliated epithelial cells are shown in the photomicrograph
now on the screen.
In all the instances which we have considered we have had
cells either consisting of naked protoplasm or surrounded by a
cell wall of cellulose, the starch-like substance already mentioned ;
but in a very large family of microscopic plants, or animals, as
some still insist, the diatomaceae, the protoplasm is enclosed in a
minute silicious test or shell. These casings consist of double
valves of pure silex or flint, and are objects of exquisite beauty,
not only from the variety of their forms, but from the mathe-
matical accuracy of their shapes and the marvellously minute
markings upon them. In the living state they are filled with a
yellow or yellowish green colouring matter, and they are endowed
with the power of spontaneous movement, the cause of which is
obscure, for they are not furnished with flagella or cilia or any
other apparent means of locomotion. The variety and beauty of
their forms is shown in the photomicrograph, which is a portion
of a strewn slide of 150. [Dk. ground.] That is a smaller
portion of the same slide which I have taken with dark ground.
[Dk. ground triceratium.] That is a triceratium, or triangular
diatom, also on a dark ground. [Group.] This photomicrograph
is a grouped slide, from which you will see the mathematical
