82 NOTES OF TRAVEL — 1859-60
Clarence River, except when he was travelling with me on two
trips from Grafton to Victoria with store cattle, and on 12th Sep-
tember, 1859, we started on our long journey. The three horses
which I had selected specially for the trip were fine animals in
splendid condition, and proved to be well fitted for the work
they had before them. On the first evening we put up at the
Red Cow Hotel, at Parramatta, v>^here I had engaged to meet a
few friends. A brother of my own wab one of them ; the others
were Dr. and Mrs. Walter Brown, who at that time were settled
in Parramatta, and Mr. and Mrs, William Henry Walsh, the
latter a sister of Mrs. Brown, but at that time resident at
Degilbo, on the Burnett River. The Walshes afterwards settled
in Brisbane, Mr. Walsh having honorably acquitted himself, not
only as a Member of Parliament, but also as Speaker and as a
Minister of the Crown.
On 13th September we passed through Penrith, made the
ascent of Lapstone Hill, and pulled up for the night at Wascoe's.
There, Nelson Lawson, an old schoolfellow, overtook me, and on
the following day we travelled together over the old Blue Moun-
tain road. From Blackheath, on the following morning, we
started in snow and sleet, and had similar weather on the two
next days. Lawson took the Mudgee road from Wallerawang,
land my man keeping along the mountainous track to the Fry-
ingpan, and thence across the plains to Bathurst, on the head
of the iMacquarie ; after passing Wallerawang the country was
all new to me, but in many rospects it resembled New England,
where I had resided for five years. The town of Bathurst at
this time was not very large ; it is prettily situated on the left
bank of the Macquarie River. Most of the buildings were of
brick, with shingled roofs, which were green-tinted by the moss
that grew on them as they became old. From Bathurst we
journeyed on to Orange, a country town situated under the
Canoblas, near the summit of which, at that time, were large
patches of snow. Between Bathurst and Orange we passed
through Gulgong. From Orange we made a short day to
Molong, as one of my horses was lame. The following day,
however, we had lunch at the Black Rock, and then passed on
to Wellington, in all 39 miles, and on 21st September we
reached Dubbo, having had a wet ride during the afternoon.
Here the country was almost level ; the resemblance to New
England had disappeared ; other trees became plentiful in the
forest ; other flowers showed themselves in the grass ; other birds
