BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM. 19
precision of the shapes. [Arachnoidiscus.] That is the beautiful
arachnoidiscus, or spider-web disc, the reason for the name being
obvious, [Pleurosigma.] That photomicrograph is the beautiful
pleurosigma under a high power. And I should like to direct
your attention to the small portion at the side turned back so as
to show the two sets of markings. It is a pretty feat of mounting
that, when we consider that the whole object is a minute point
invisible to the naked eye. The diatomaceae occur in every part
of the world in countless myriads, and how numerous these
minute organisms have been in the geological past you will
realise when you learn that they occur fossil to such an extent
that whole strata consist of little else, and whole mountains are
composed of them. The slide now projected shows some of this
diatomaceous earth.
The enclosure of the protoplasm in a test or shell occurs in
a variety of other forms. In the animalcule called Gromia, the
shell or carapace is of chitin, a peculiar horny nitrogenous
substance, of which the wing cases of certain insects are also
composed. In the shell there is only a single small orifice at one
end, and through this the protoplasm streams forth abundantly,
completely investing the shell externally, and branching and
re-branching and interlacing so as to form a delicately
complicated network. The carapace is the home-centre, and in
states of quiescence the whole of the protoplasm is withdrawn
into it. The creature is like an amoeba that has acquired a shell.
Another example of the enclosure of the protoplasm in a test
or shell is seen in the beautiful little creature, Clathrulina
elegans. That name sounds formidable, but the word Clath-
rulina simply means little trellis or grating, and you will at once
see that the name has been given to it on account of the
perforations in its shell. The shell is placed upon a stalk, which,
like the shell itself, is composed of silex or flint. The creature
is a speck of protoplasm, and through the apertures of the shell
it puts forth rays like the sun-animalcule. This comparison with
the sun -animalcule is no fancied resemblance, as the method of
reproduction shows. At times numerous small oval masses of
protoplasm are formed within the shell. They escape, acquire
flagella and swim about actively. Then they assume the form
of free sun-animalculae, and ultimately gradually acquire the
silicious shell and stalk. From these forms the transition is
