BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 83
flitted amongst the branches ; human habitations beside the bush
roads were less frequent. We were still on the Macquarie River,
but the country west of Dubbo was of a quite different character
to that near the coast. Twice before the time I write about
I had passed through Dubbo, and had found kind friends there ;
they knew my father, they told me, and they gave a hearty
welcome to the son for his father's sake. After leaving Sydney,
tales of treacherous blacks became frequent, and took a
more or less definite shape ; two Commissioners for Crown
Lands had charge of districts in the " wild west," but
these they visited only when compelled to do so ; they
lived — one at Molong, the other at some other pleasant
spot, but, having at this time to visit their respective districts,
they had combined their forces and so formed a strong party as
a protection against aboriginal aggression. I had brought no
firearms with me ; I had still to travel about 350 miles, and the
hotel at which I had put up in Dubbo was the last I should see
on the route I had to follow. Nearly every night in future we
must camp out ; the horses must be hobbled and forage for
themselves. Under the circumstances it would have been folly
to continue our journey without carrying protective weapons of
some kind. I therefore visited the stores kept by Mr. Serissier,
whom I regarded as quite an old friend. He had no personal
knowledge of the blacks, but the tales he had heard suggested
that persons who went any distance west were exposed to
exceptional danger. I did not place absolute faith in these
reports, but a gun of some description might prove useful, at
any rate it would help to supply our limited larder, so I
purchased a fowling-piece and powder and shot. We left
Dubbo on 22nd September, and went about 25 miles to a
station occupied by Mr. Christie ; he too was a friend of my
father and made me welcome ; he was, or had been a partner
with Wentworth in the station he managed. On the following
day we rode through country which was remarkubly level, the
timber a kind of box, which, on account of its pipiness, was
described as rotten box. In the morning, however, we passed
through a belt of trees which, when I came to Queensland, the
broad-leaved ironbark reminded me of. That afternoon we
reached a station belonging to W. Lawson, who was away from
home ; young Morrisett, was, I think, in charge. After this, we
camped every night until I found myself amongst friends on
theBarwon. The Macquarie River, which has a wide channel
