84 NOTES OF TRAVEL 1859-60
at Dubbo, became very narrow as we followed it westwards. We
found plenty of good grass near its banks, but the country was
dry in most places and grass was scanty ; there was abundance
of stunted saltbush, but this the horses would not touch. About
90 miles from Dubbo, at Youngenbill, we left the river and
crossed in 12 miles to Gunendaddy on Dack Creek. The
country became more and more bare of grass as we travelled
down the creek. At Brown's Station, where was a large dam,
they gave me as much salt beef as I cared to take, and the
people who lived at the stations we passed were most hospitable
and considerate. At Brown's I learnt that the Commissioners,
having completed their work of inspection, had returned. I had
missed them, but was informed that they had not been molested
by the blacks ; they had seen a camping place, however, which
the blacks had deserted shortly before they reached it. I was
glad of my gun, though, for although no blacks attempted any
tricks upon my party of two, it helped to supply us with very
iine game, and this was infinitely more to our taste than the
everlasting salt junk that the occupants of stations so readily
supplied us with. From Duck Creek we crossed in about 20
miles on to the Marra. There was no road here, but we kept a
pretty good course and struck a track near Marra Creek which
took us on in the right direction. The country we passed over
between the creeks was partly scrubby and partly plain, and we
saw here large numbers of emus and red kangaroos as well as the
ordinary gray ones. Owing to the dryness of the country small
birds, budgerygars and galas excepted, and quadrupeds were scarce
and I observed very few insects. That night we camped on the
Marra, but our slumbers were disturbed by a heavy fall of rain
accompanied by lightning which was very vivid, and as we had
no tent our dunnage suffered. The heat next day soon dried
our belongings and we continued our journey through country
which, owing to an insufficient rainfall, looked very desolate.
It seemed, indeed, that the horses would starve ; they would not
touch the small saltbush, but what grass they found must have
been exceptionally nutritious, for hungry as they undoubtedly
were, they did not suffer seriously in condition. It is easy, hav-
ing seen the country as it then was, to realize the dismay of
early explorers who regarded such extensive areas as little
better than a desert. I had to think of my horses, which, up
to the time we left Dubbo, had been stabled and cornfed. With
the thought in my mind of what they might soon be reduced
