BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 85
to, I expreaaecl my feelings curtly enough in the rough diary I
kept — " Came 20 miles to-day without seeing enough grass to
feed a bandicoot," and again — " 25 miles along the creek to-day.
It is most desolate and wretched looking country." There were
few human habitations along the route I had chosen, and these
were of the most primitive character — small huts constructed of
rough split slabs with shingled roofs. The floor, if it could be
so called, was the natural formation trampled by rough boots
into a dusty smoothness ; the openings, which were by courtesy
called windows, in some cases were supplied with wooden
shutters, others were open to such breezes as chose to enter.
The furniture consisted of a table of split slabs nailed together,
two or more three-legged wooden stools, and one or two wooden
bunks formed of ill-fitting split battens. These huts were occupied
by stockmen who had learnt in this droughty country to use
water sparingly. A tin dish held the salt junk, and a butcher's
knife to cut it, a tin billy the tea, and tin pints to drink from,
the bread was damper. These places they spoke of as their
"home." On a previous occasion, when I rode up to a blacks'
camp in more civilized country, a blackboy, with extremely
scant clothing was playing " Home, sweet home," on a jewsbarp
as he squatted on the ground under the shelter of a bark humpy
— I should have felt more at home where he sat, than in those
stockmens' huts on the Marra Creek. George Davis, like
myself, was born in New South Wales, and an open camp suited
us admirably ; the brilliancy of the stars never interrupted our
slumbers, and we received no attention from those treacherous
blacks against whom we had been so particularly warned.
On the evening of October 1st, twenty days after we had
left Sydney, we selected our camp on the left bank of the
Barwon River. The channel of the Macquarie continues to
contract after leaving Dubbo, until at last it becomes lost in
the reedbeds which give shelter to innumerable wild fowl. Below
these, a narrow channel conducts the overflow water, when
there is any, to the Barwon, a river worthy of the name.
From our camp that evening we looked down into a
magnificent sheet of water of considerable width and depth.
Giant gumtrees grew beside and overhung the banks ; the river
flats were covered with abundant grass and herbage in fairly
good condition, and the horses showed unmistakably their
appreciation of it. On the clear water hundreds of ducks and
other aquatic birds floated lazily, having no thought of a possible
