86 NOTES OF TRAVEL 1859-60
fowlingpiece ; numbers of white cockatoos screamed discordantly
at us from the branches above our heads, and some of the bud-
gerygars and galas, which were so numerous along our track
through the dry country, were there to give us a welcome. Of
crows and hawks we saw but few, but pretty crested pigeons
were not uncommon, especially in close proximity to the poly-
gonum country ; the little shepherd's companions, called jerica-
jerica by the blacks, were with us always. To lie down
by the camp fire amidst such surroundings was joy indeed, espe-
cially as each of up, according to an honoured custom which was
never omitted when we had a sufficiency, had just comforted
the inner man with a p'ump Barwon River duck; and such
ducks they were, too ! Ci.'orge, I knew, was very contented that
evening. I knew it was so because he gave us the song which
he reserved for his most blissful moments. It began about
carelessly straying into " yon blue meadow " and beholding a
" maiden fair and a young sailor gay " who was going to cross
the sea to fight " the proud Chinee." This, of course, " lovely
Soo-oo-?an " strongly objected to, but the hero must go at any
price. A musical critic might have condemned the song. I had
heard it many times during the last eighteen months, and on
such occasions the camp was always in a happy mood. I liked
it therefore, and best of all when it had come to an end ; nobody
ever asked George to sing it a second time. Cockatoos have no
appreciation of music. On this particular evening they seemed
to become uneasy, and as the song proceeded they gave vent to
their feelings in loud screams. When George had finished he
remarked wonderingly : " What the jakers is they birds squalling
at? I could hardly keep in tune for them." I suggested it
might be their way of applauding. " By jakers, I never thought
of that. I'll give 'em a hencore ! " The birds had not had
eighteen months' training, however, and after some farther
protest they left their perches and flew wildly into the darkness.
They would not allow us to approach them closely on the follow-
ing day !
Travelling down the Barwon next morning I was very much
struck by the appearance of a station called Nulcumbiddy. The
gentleman manager, or perhaps proprietor, was Mr. Burton
Gaden. " Tom " Gaden, cf the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney, " Harry," "Bob," "Ted" Gaden— these are brothers
of his ; David Abercrombie, of Commercial Bank, Brisbane, a
half-brother. Burton Gaden was an exceptional man. In this
I
