BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 89^
height ; and, in addition to all this, millions of small black flies
pestered one's life from the early dawn until night closed in. My
labours, however, had by no means come to an end, even tempo-
rarily. I was disappointed at finding no letters and had therefore
to go to the nearest postoffice, which was at Walgett, according to
instructions. Walgett, which was then a ''paper" township,
is situated on the Namoi, at its junction with the Barwon, about
200 miles from Tooralle. I rode back to Prinibougyra with
Dowling on the day after my arrival at Tooralle, and on the follow-
ing day, he having found me a fresh horse, I retraced xny steps up
the Biirwoti. That night I camped above the Gidya, and next
day reached Shannon's, having pulled up just long enough for a
snack of the usual dainty bush fare at Bunnawarnah.
Shannon found me another horse, and next day I pushed on to
Nulcumbiddy, where I spent the night. My horse was of course,,
hobbled, there being no paddocks at any of the stations. Next
morning I had to walk five miles back along the road I had
come before I overtook him. That night I stopped at Bree.
It was an exceedingly rough shop. The hut was dirty in the
extreme, the two men who occupied it were equally so, and,
horrible thought ! How could the food which they handled and
cooked be cleaner than themselves ? As for sleeping, one might
as well have tried to sleep on an antbed, and there the company
would have been less objectionable. I was glad enough
about mid-day on the following day to accept the more cleanly
hospitality of Breewun, also a stockman's hut, and after a thirty-
five miles ride came to Mooraby in the evening. Here was a
store, and a respectable white woman presided over the establish-
ment and kept everything clean. That morning I had crossed a
narrow, dry watercourse, a mere channel for the flow of water
when there was any to flow. This was the Macquarie River,
the strength of which had become exhausted as it passed through
the level country west of Dubbo. Next day, after riding thirty
miles, I struck the township in time for dinner. The Namoi,.
like the Macquarie, was quite a narrow watercourse, very
different from the fine river which bears that name where the
Peel River unites with it below Tamworth ; however, it had
plenty of water in it, more than enough for the inhabitants of
the one broken -backed hut which was used as a store, a post
office, and a dwelling combined, and constituted the township.
As I had come so I returned, except that as I rode carelessly
away amongst the ill-defined roads after starting from Walgett,
