90 NOTES OF TRAVEL 1859-60
I (lid not for a time notice that my horse had taken a track
which brought me on to the Castlereagh River, in consequence
of which I had to ride five miles across the country to reach the
road I ought to have followed. Bree I carefully avoided, and
camped, without food, at a spot where once there had been a
hut, rather than face the army of fleas which had tortured me a
few nights before. I took a day's rest at Shannon's, and com-
pleted in fourteen days the four hundred miles I had travelled
for one letter, an average of nearly twenty-nine miles daily.
Shortly after my return from Walgett there arrived at
Prinibougyra, where I was for a time time staying, George
Perry, well known as the " Overlander," because of the large
numbers of stock he bought in the Northern districts of New
South Wales and sold in Riverina and Victoria. This over-
landing business had been overdone and Perry had purchased
the Tooralle Station and also an unstocked run adjoining it on
the river. By these purchases he became the owner of 60
miles frontage to the Darling in addition to the half
interest he held with Dowliug in Prinibougyra. He
therefore controlled 90 miles frontage in one long stretch on the
right or western side of the river. The letter Perry brought me
from my principal in Melbourne asked me to help to take
delivery for Perry, a request which he repeated, and also to
inspect and report on the unoccupied country below Tooralle.
I was glad to consent to this, nothwithstanding the trying
conditions of the climate and the flies and other abominations
which it seemed to suit so remarkably well. William Sly, who
afterwards came to Queensland, was employed as overseer at
Tooralle at that time, and he and I rode over the whole of the
run and counted over the sheep. As for the unoccupied run
lower down the river, I had to inspect it all by myself.
The inspection of country which consists almost wholly
of plains with a river frontage is a comparatively easy
matter where the character of the whole is similar. The
scorching heat, the myriads of extremely familiar flies, the
whirlwinds with their accompanying dust, and the general dry-
ness of the country--these never failed, and they combined to
make life less agreeable than it might, under other circumstances,
have been. The Warrego River empties into the Darling below
Tooralle, and as I proceeded with my work of inspection I
crossed a dry, narrow water-channel about nine miles from
that station ; this was the Warrego. Tooralle head station I
believe was afterwards removed from its original site on to the
