BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 91
Warrego. No roads were needed here, for on my left the
tortuous course of the Darling could be traced by the river
gums which grew on its banks, and on my right the distant
Berkeley Range was always visible ; as I rode on I could
see Mount McPherson in the far distance. I made a
fairly long day, and at night found shelter and tucker
at the last shepherd's hut below Tooralle. The poor fellow,
who lived there by himself, made much of me ; the man
who brought his rations, and now and then counted his flock,
was almost the the only fellow-being he saw for months. He
had not been troubled by blacks, he told me, but it was evident
that some visited the country occasionally, for, beside the
depressions which filled with the backwater from the river in
flood time there were many old humpies at their camping
places. These depressions were, to a considerable extent,
covered with polygonum, beside which there were bare patches
on which pigweed grew in abundance. This the blacks
collected for food, and on almost every old humpy some that
had been gathered for that purpose still lived, though in a
somewhat withered condition. My horse, like myself, had felt
the heat very much as we travelled over the plains, but a night's
rest and plenty of surprisingly good grass had revived him by
morning ; so I had some of the shepherd's homely damper and
mutton, and started once more on my journey. The
weather was again furiously hot (it was the twenty-eighth of
December, and I think hot for that time of year) ; right away
down river I travelled through mile after mile of plain, until
about midday I halted for a while beside a patch of polygonum
and took some light refreshment in the form of pigweed, which
helps to cool one's mouth and quench one's thirst. After an
hour or so I turned ixiy horse's head up the river again, and
before night set in had hobbled my weary nag beside the hut of
the friendly shepherd. I had had a long ride and my face was
terribly scorched by the pitiless sun ; almost the only living
objects I had seen were some white hawks, which had a dark
patch on each wing ; these busied themselves all day in their
search for marsupial mice, which seem to be their principal
food. The plains were too hot during the day for other native
animals. Even the heat did not disturb my rest that
night.
When I got back to Prinibougyro, Dowling was arranging
for a trip down the river to take horses to Percy Simpson,
