92 NOTES OF TRAVEL — 1859-60
who was bringing a mob of bullocks up the river to the
unoccupied country which Perry had recently bought. On the
lower Darling there was no grass near the frontage, but plenty
of the small saltbush and also plenty Darling pea. The latter
Simpson's horses ate greedily and they became mad. Poo'^
Avretches, they deliberately walked into the river and were
drowned. Having collected about a dozen suitable animals, we
started down the river on the left bank where there were larger
patches of box forest and mulga than on the western side. Not
very far down we passed Hamilton's station. Here was a hut of
the usual kind in which two or three men lived. When about a
year back Captain Cadell brought the first boat up the river from
the Murray, these men were greatly surprised one evening by the
unusual sounds which reached them. They had no thought of a
steamboat and the only way they could account for the strange
noises was by attributing them to blacks ; so they barred their
door, loaded their guns, and sat up all night expecting an attack
which did not come off. Soon after sunrise, however, to their
great delight the boat steamed round the point which had
previously concealed it. Our business did not admit of delay
and we pushed on, camping always at night, until we met
Simpson close to a station opposite Mount Murchison. We
were comfortably quartered that night by the hospitable owner,
whose name I am unable to recall.
My business in this part of the world was now drawing to a
close. George Davis entered Dowling's service, and I presented
him with the fowling-piece which had helped us to many a
good meal on our outward journey. My horses I sold to Dow-,
ling, making the condition, however, that I should have one to
ride as far as Molong, where I was to leave him with the Lands
Conimissioner.
Near Prinibougyra some posts of Mitchell's Fort Bourke,
erected in 1836, were still standing. The town of Bourke had
not an existence at that time. Many persons were hurrying out to
secure runs in the country that I was only too willing to hurry
away from. One station only on the lower Warrego was
occupied ; the owner was a Scotchman, and I think his name
was Mackenzie. Of llowering plants there were few when I was
there ; the rain had been insufficient, and the only specially rare
bird I remember to have seen was a black and white wren.
Time does not permit of further reference to the objects of
interest with which I became acquainted, nor can I say anything
