20 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
obvious to the two extensive and beautiful marine groups of the
radiolaria and foraminifera. The radiolaria are so called from
the raylike arrangement of their processes or pseudopodia. Like
the last form, they are sun-animalcules, enclosed in silicious tests
or shells. These shells are of remarkable beauty and variety, as
you will see from the photomicrograph of some of them, taken
with dark ground illumination. In the next two illustrations the
radiolaria are represented in their living state, with the rays
protruding from the numerous orifices. No less striking from
the variety and graceful sculpture of their forms are the
foraminifera. In their case, however, the tests or shells are not
composed of flint, but of carbonate of lime. The animal itself
is simply a point of protoplasm resembling the ama-ba, and, like
it, putting out processes or pseudopodia. These are often so
numerous that they interlace and form a protoplasmic network,
as you will observe from the diagram of a very graceful form, the
rotalia, in which the shell is many-chambered, and is covered
with minute pores, through which the processes are put forth.
Another elegant form is the miliolina, in which the shell is a
spiral, whose convolutions are folded over each other. In
another form, called by the fantastic Greek name Haliphysema,
or bubble of the sea, there is an approximation to the sponges»
for the protoplasm is enclosed in a cell built up of a mass of
spicules or needle-like rods, which are characteristic of the
skeleton of sponges, but also occur upon the integument of the
echinodermata, sea eggs, sea slugs, &c. In one of the latter, the
synapta, these calcareous spicules assume the form of beautifully
symetrical anchors and plates. They are shown in the photo-
micrograph arranged in a group. So vast has been the number
of the foraminifera in the geological past that whole strata are
composed of their fossil tests. The chalk beds are almost entirely
made up of them, and one species, the nummulites, occurred in
such vast quantities that they form a band of limestone stretching
from the Atlantic shores of Europe and Africa through "Western
Asia to Northern India and China. The photomicrograph
represents a section of chalk rock, with partly decomposed tests,
and the diagram illustrates the various forms of foraminifera
from the chalk. The next diagram shows several forms of
foraminifera, but I wish particularly to direct your attention to
the section of nummulitic limestone with the organisms in situ.
This limestone is of great interest to us as being the material of
