96 FROM SYDNEY TO BATHURST IN 1822
soldiers, and convicts whose dress proclaimed their unhappy con-
dition. With hiui, be has his wife, seven children, and his wife's
aged mother ; he had left the country which Britishprs never cease
to speak of as " Home," with the expectation of forming a new
home in the new southern continent; but how little he can see to
remind him of the country and the people amongst whom he
had spent the earlier part of his life. After due enquiry, it is
decided that Bathurst shall be the land of promise, and the
■Government of the day find him employment. So far good ;
but how to get there, that is the then momentous question. He is
told of the attempts which had been made from time to time to
cross the Blue Mountains — that formidable barrier which he
has to cross — and failed. Then he learns that in lylB, only
nine years ago, Lawson, Wentworth, and Blaxland had
penetrated the hitherto unknown sterile land, and from ?\Iount
York had seen open valleys in the distance. He learns, too,
that towards the close of the same year. Deputy Surveyor-
General Evans, taking advantage of this discovery, had crossed
the range and followed the Macquarie River downwards to a
point 100 miles due west of the Nepean River; that two years
later a road had been formed, and Bathurst laid out at its
terminus. The little bush town of Bathurst had only been
founded seven years when this new-comer was called upon to
convey, as best he could, his somewhat large family from Sydney
over the ranges to the place where they were to be permanently
located ; he had also to take such furniture as they needed,
their cooking utensils, their food, their bedding, and sufficient
clothing to last until that quite indefinite time when they could
obtain more. And the conveyances by which they and their
lares and penates were to be transported to Bathurst were
rough drays drawn by bullocks and horses ; their servants were
all convicts and their escort consisted of soldiers, none of whom
could have had much experience of travelling over the rough
roads they had to use. And, in addition to all the difficulties
here indicated, came tales of hostile natives and still more
hostile runaway convicts who claimed for themselves whatever
they could lay their hands upon, and sometimes brutally treated
those unfortunates who fell into their power. Mr. Hawkins
must at the very outset have realised that the success of his ard-
uous undertaking rested almost wholly upon himself. The result
proved that he was not only a brave man animated by noble
aspirations, but that he possessed abundant commonsense, a high
