COMMUNICATED BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 99
kind and grown at all seasons of the year, which shows how fine
the climate is.
" The next morning, Friday, 12th April, we reloaded. Sir
John came to see us off and presented us with a quarter of mut-
ton, a couple of fowls, and some butter. I had now before me
this most tremendous journey. I was told I deserved to be im-
mortalised for the attempt, and the Government could not do too
much for us for taking a family to a settlement where no family
had gone before. 1 mean no family of free settlers, and very
few others. Everything that could be done for us was done by
the officers to make it as comfortable as possible.
" In addition to our luggage we had to take corn for the
cattle, as in the mountains there is not sufficient grass for them,
and provisions necessary for ourselves and the nine men who
accompanied us ; in consequence of this we were obliged to leave
many things behind.
" We now commenced with two drays with five bullocks,
and one dray with four horses, and our own cart with two ;
they had no more carts to give us. Amidst the good
wishes of all, not excepting a party of natives who had come to
bid us farewell, we commenced our journey. We had not pro-
ceeded more than a quarter of a mile before we came to a small
stream of water, with sandy bottom and banks. Here the
second dray with the bullocks sank. The storekeeper, superin-
tendent, and overseer from Emu Plains, witnessing our stoppage,
came to our assistance. The two latter did not leave us until
night. It employed us an hour to extricate the dray, and this
was not accomplished without the horses of the other being-
added to it. We now proceeded about a quarter of a mile further ;
and now imagine me at the foot of the tremendous mountains,
the difficulty of passing which is, I suppose, as great as or greater
than any known road in the world, not from the badness of the
road, which has been entirely made and which is hard all the
way, so much as from the extreme steepness of the ascent and
descent. For forty miles the hills are barren of herbage for
cattle, but as far as the eye can reach, even to the summit of the
highest, every hill and dale is covered with wood, lofty trees and
small shrubs, many of them blooming with delicate flowers, the
colours so beautiful that even the highest circles of England
would prize them. These mountains appear to be solid rock,
with hardly any earth upon the surface. This land seems as if
it was never intended for human beings to inhabit. There are
