100 FROM SYDNEY TO BATHURST JN 1822
no roots as a substitute for bread, no fruit or vegetables on
which man could subsist ; but almost anything will grow which
is brought to it. We now began our ascent up the first Lapstone
Hill (so called from all the stones being like a cobbler's
lapstone) ; the horses got on very well, but the bullocks could
not. We were obliged to unload, have a cart from Emu Plains,
and send back some of our luggage ; even then the horses were
obliged when they reached the top to return and assist them.
We could proceed no further that night, having performed a
distance of only one mile and a-half that day. Our tent was
pitched for the first time. The fatigue to my mother and
myself was very great every night after the journey in preparing
the beds and giving the children their food, and the little ones
were generally very tired and cross. It was a lovely moonlight
night, and all was novelty and delight to the children ; immense
fires were made in all directions ; we gave them their supper,
and after putting the younger ones to bed, I came from the tent
in front of which was a large fire, our drays and carts close in
view. The men, nine in number, were busily employed in cook-
ing their supper at one place, our own man roasting a couple of
fowls for our next day's journey at another. The men, all
convicts, not the most prepossessing in their appearance, with
the glare of the fires and the reflection of the moon shining on
them in the midst of the trees, formed altogether such a scene as
I cannot describe ; it resembled more a horde of banditti such as
I have read of than anything else. I hurried from the view,
took the arm of my husband, who was seated at the
table with the storekeeper, and went to the back of
the tent. Here we saw Tom and the three eldest
girls trying who could make the largest fire, and as happy
as it was possible to be. Here I seemed to pause ; It was a
moment I shall never forget ; for the first time for many a long
month I seemed capable of enjoying and feeling the present
moment without a dread of the future. 'Tis true we had in a
manner bade adieu to the world, to our country and to our
friends, but in one country we could no longer provide for our
family, and the world from that cause had lost all its charms ;
you and all my friends and acquaintances I thought of with
regret ; but the dawn of independence was opening upon us,
my husband was once again an officer under Government, we
had a home to receive us, and the certainty, under any
circumstances, of never wanting the common necessaries of
life.
