COMMUNICATED BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L C 101
" After a little while we returned to the table ; these were
moments of such inward rest that my husband took up a flute
belonging to one of the party, and one of our daughters who we
called to us, danced in a place where perhaps no one of her age
ever trod before. The next morning we took our breakfast and
packed up our beds and provisions to depart ; but during the
night our team of bullocks and my husband's horse had returned
to Emu. It was thought desirable that we with two
drays, with Tom for our guard, should proceed to Springwood,
as there was a house there to go into. From the difficulty they
had had the preceding day with the bullocks, they took from
our cart our two horses, and gave us two bullocks. After a most
fatiguing journey of nine miles we arrived ; the house was
inhabited by a corporal and two soldiers, kept there I
believe to superintend the Government stock. Formerly a greater
number of men had lived there, and there was a large
room or store where provisions had been kept. A great barn in
England would have been a palace to this place ; there was a
large kitchen with an immense fireplace, and two small rooms
behind. With the exception of a green in front, the house was
completely in a wood. The corporal's wife, an old woman who
had been transported about twenty years, with frowning man-
ners, came forward to show us in. We entered the kitchen,
which contained a long table and form, and some stumps of trees
to answer the purpose of chairs, of which there was not one in
the house ; several people were here to rest for the night, jour-
neying from Bathurst to Sydney. We were next shown the
small back room, which had nothing in it but a sofa
with slips of bark on it for the seat. Here I felt
desolate and lonely ; it was nearly dark, and still my
husband did not arrive, we got quite miserable. At length
the storekeeper from Emu came to us to say he could
not get in without horses being sent to his assistance. It was
nearly 9 o'clock before he arrived. I went out. It was dark,
but such confusion as there appeared from the glare of the fires,
the carts and drays, men, tired with their days Avork, swearing
as they were extricating the bullocks and horses. It was long
before I could distinguish my husband, but I felt comparatively
safe when I did. The old woman, a most depraved old character
and a well-known thief, with a candle held high above her head,
screamed out, " Welcome to Springwood, sir ! " He said when
he looked round he was assured his welcome would be the loss
