102 FROM SYDNEY TO BATHURST IN 1822
of whatever she could steal from us. He was much fatigued,
not having had any refreshment all day. It was my intention
on my first arrival to have pitched the tent on the green, but it
was unfortunately on the top of the dray left with my husbanP.
Having my mattresses I spread them in the storeroom. The
earth was dirty, cold and damp. We could not think of
undressing the children and when in bed it looked most
miserable. I lay down with my baby and a very few minutes
convinced me I should get no rest. The bugs were crawling by
hundreds and the children were restless with them and the
confinement of their clothes. The old woman had contrived to
steal some spirits from our provision basket which, with what
had been given her, made the soldiers tipsy. All was
noise and confusion within doors, swearing and wrangling
with the men without. Never did I pass a night equal
to it. My husband remained all night on the green or
in the cart watching. In addition to the other noises,
a flock of sheep had been driven round the yard, and to avoid
the men they came close to the house and kept up a continual
pat-pat with their feet. You may be certain we were happy when
the morning came ; we got our breakfast, packed up our beds,
and bade adieu to the house at Springwood. Mother, myself,
and the three girls, as the morning was fine, walked on before.
It was such a relief to get away from that place that I never
enjoyed a walk more ; we gathered most delicate nosegays from
the shrubs that grew amongst the trees. You must understand
that the whole of the road from the beginning to the end of the
mountains is cut entirely through a forest, nor can you go in a
direct line to Bathurst from one mountain to another, but are
obliged often to wend along the edges of them, and often look down
on such precipices as would make you shudder. We ascended
our carts, and we had now three bullocks as we had so much
trouble to get on with two; but we were worse off than ever, as
the ascent became worse. They refornieil the dray, but every
few minutes first one would lie down and then another. The
dogs were summoned to bark at them and bite their noses to
make them get up. The barking of the dogs, the bellowing of
the bullocks, and the swearing of the men made our heads ache
and kept us in continual terror. This was exactly the case every
day of the journey with the bullocks. Frequently we all had to
get out, and more frequently our fears made us scream out. At
length we got to a hill so bad it seemed we never could get up
