COMMUNICATED BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 103
it. We alighted and seated ourselves on a fallen tree, and
waited the event. We were on the side of the hill ; in front it
rose almost perpendicularly ; behind was a valley so deep that
the eye could hardly distinguish the trees at the bottom. To gain
the top of this mountain the road wound round along the side.
The first day the horses got up. They were then brought back
to assist the rest with the bullocks, but they could not succeed in
rising from one piece of rock to another. With great whipping
a sudden efl'ort was made, and one shaft was broken. This had
to be repaired as well as we could manage it. Some of the
baggage was taken off, and with the assistance of the other
horses, &c., &c., it was got up ; the rest was got up in like
manner. When at the top the men, who were much fatigued,
sought for a spring of water, and with the addition of a bottle
of rum were refreshed. We again set off, and for the next
two miles it was perfectly dark, attended with heavy rain.
You can imagine the danger and the misery we rode in not
being able to see where we went, but we were obliged to go on
till we were near to water. Our tent was pitched in the road
and we were obliged to remain in our cart until the bedding was
got into the tent ; of course we again lay down in our clothes.
During this very fatiguing day's journey we had only accom-
plished six miles. For fear I should tire you with a repetition
of the same scenes, I will tell you that every day of our journey
from Emu to Bathurst we were subject to the same things, such
as our bullocks constantly lying down, while others not being
able to draw their loads compelled us to have the assistance of
the horses, which caused us great delay. Our provisions con-
sisted of half a pig, which was salted for us at Emu Plains, and
Bome beef ; we had flour to make bread with, tea, sugar, butter,
«tc., etc., and when we stopped at night we made some tea and
had some cold meat. It was our man's duty every night to boil
a piece of meat for the next day, and bake a cake under the iron
pot ; breakfast and supper were the only meals we had. I used
to take in the cart with me a little just to keep us from
starving, and some drink for the baby, and during eleven
nights that we remained in the woods my husband never lay
down until about three in the morning, when the overseer
would get up and watch ; never but twice did he take
■off his clothes ; as we occupied the tent, his only resting place
was the cart. It rained the next morning and everything was
very uncomfortable ; the men sent in search of the cattle, which
