104 FROM SYDNEY TO BATHURST IN 1822
had to be turned loose at night to get \yater and grass, could
not find all of them. After waiting some time we thought it
best to proceed, excepting one dray which the overseer was to
watch whilst the men sought for the bullocks. As the road this
day was something better, we got nine miles to two bark huts
that had been erected by the men em];loyed in mending the
road, but were never empty. We were very glad to' take
possession of one of them, and our men of the other, as it had
ra,ined all night and all day.
" As in England you never saw anything like these huts, j
fear from my description you will not understand them. Some
stumps of trees were stuck in the ground, the outside bark from
the trees was tied to them with narrow slips of what is called
" stringy bark " ; being tough it answers the purpose of cord ;
the roof is done in the same manner. They had a kind of
chimney, but neither windows nor doors — only a space left to
enter. As many men were obliged to sleep here, all round
inside the hut stakes were placed, and across and on the top
were laid pieces of bark so as to form berths to sleep on."
At this point there is a break in the story. The account
of the rest of the journey and the reception of the party by
residents in Bathurst, for reasons therein given, is completed in
a letter addressed by Mrs. Hawkins to her grandchildren nearly
fifty years after the event. The second letter is dated Sydney,
19th October, 1871, and is as follows : —
" That it may be understood why I write what I am about
to do, after nearly fifty years since the foregoing was written,
I must explain that I arrived in this colony in January, 1822,
and in April, with my mother, my husband and family, we left
Sydney to go to Bathurst, a place then but little known. It
was a tedious journey, and everything was so new and strange
to me, that on my arrival I wrote an account of it to my sister
in England. At that time any information of the colonies was
interesting, and my letter was sent to the Times office for
publication, but before it went one of my nieces copied the first
part of it, and as they never received back the original from the
office, the account the family now have is unfinished ; and,
feeling a wish for the conclusion, I am asked if I can write it,
which to the best of my recollection, I will.
" I will now describe my journey from the Bark Huts where
we had to remain until the bullocks were found, as they had again
strayed away. At this distance of time, I cannot enter into all the
