COMMUNICATED BY HON. A. NORTON, M.L.C. 106
details of each days' journey. At length we reached Cox's River.
Here we remained two days ; the children had the benefit of bath-
ing, and their clothes were washed, oar tent was pitched, some
fowls cooked, and we all were much refreshed. Nothing but the
usual difficulties occured until we reached Mount York. It was
awful to look on the road we had to descend, and as it was
thought the drays would be long in getting down, it was thought
advisable that the cart with the family should proceed ; the
children that could walk did so, and we all reached the bottom
at two o'clock, a most wild and desolate place. Here, seated oa
fallen trees, we remained hour after hour ; one of the children
had a small pannikin, and we found water to drink. In this
state we remained until seven o'clock and the children got very
tired ; at that time some of the men came froui tlie drays bring-
ing such things and refreshments as we required. I then put
the children to bed, some in the cart and some on the ground in
the open ir. The reason we had been so long left to ourselves
was that one of the drays had nearly gone over the precipice*
and every man was required to help to save it. It was ten
o'clock before all got safely down, and our tent was put up.
The next morning my spirits gave way. I suppose it was from
the fatigue and fright of the day before that had overcome me.
I sat in the tent and cried and sobbed like a child. They all left
me to myself for a little time and I recovered. I went
outside the tent ; it was a most lovely morning ; everything
looked bright, and the children all cheerful and happy. At a
little distance seated on a hill were two gentlemen, and my hus-
band went to them; one was Mr. Marsden, the chaplain of the
colony, returning from his first visit to Bathurst. "Oh," he
said, " I congratulate you ; you are all giong to the land of
Goshen." Again we started, and at length arrived at O'Con-
nell's Plains ; a woman who was there very kindly gave the
children milk and such food as they wanted. It was such a
comfort to see a house and a woman in it. We next reached
Bathurst Plains, and what joy we felt, what spirits it put us all
in to see an open country and home in view! It was nearly
dark when we arrived at the River Macquarie, which we had to
cross ^, this was rather a serious undertaking, the banks on each
side being steep and the water rather deep. I believe everyon®^
In the settlement came to witness the sight ; we crossed in safety
and got to our " Home " ; and such a home after a six months'
voyage and eighteen days' travelling over the mountains ! It
