106 FROM SYDNEY TO BATHURST IN 1822
consisted of three rooms —brick floors— two rooms in front, a
skillion room behind one and a pantry behind the other ; the
front door opened into the sittingroom, the back door directly
opposite with a h^dder between that led up to a loft. It was the
former storekeeper's residence, and my husband had come to
take charge of the Government stores.
" Our family consisted of my mother, 70 years of age, and
eight children — the eldest 12^ years, the youngest one year — my
husband and myself, and a woman servant. How we all that
night got supper, or how we all slept, I really cannot tell. Mr.
Lawson was at that time the Commandant ; he came to see us
the next morning, and promised to do all he could to make us
more comfortable, and this he did by adding two rooms, one in
front and the other at the back, but it took seven months to
finish them. In the meantime we gave my mother the front
room and pat two beds in it, and as many of the elder children
as possible. I had the skillion, and when the winter came wo
suffered much from cold, as it was not ceiled but open to the
shingles. Little Ann had a cot in the loft, and the woman took
charge of her ; Tom and George had the sitting room. When
the new ones were finished we gave up ours to the boys, but we
had to pass through that and the one for the girls to get to our
own. I mention all these trifles, my dear children, that should
you ever in your journey through life have similar hardships to
encounter you may bear them as well as T did. I never 1 joked
on these things as a trouble. In England I had always had a
comfortable home, and I came here to seek one for my children.
I made the best I could of it, and was contented.
" The settlement, as it was then called, at Bathurst,
consisted of Government House of four rooms, our own of
three, a courthouse, barracks for a few soldiers. Government
stores, and a good garden from which we were well supplied,
huts for some prisoners who were employed by Government
about their land and stock, and a good barn. Here it was Sir
Thomas Brisbane, the Governor, Major Goulburn, Mr. Oxley?
Dr. Douglas, and the principal people in the colony came to see
us in our humble home. We had a grant of 2,000 acres of land
on the other side of the river, about two miles from the settle-
ment, which we named Bhickdown, and after two years we
went to live on it. There I lived for nearly 18 years, contented
and happy, and brought up eleven children.
