BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM. 23
filaments, instead of radiating from the main axis, grow down-
wards upon it and form an envelope, closely investing it. Here
-we have a step towards differentiation, or division of labour, for
these investing cells are no longer independent, but constitute a
membrane foreshadowing the cuticle or cortex of the higher
plants. Another illustration is afforded by the higher forms of
sea weeds, where we meet with a faint hint of the distinction
between leaf stem and root. The photomicrograph shows the
cells of the frond of the beautiful Polysiphonia. These are
vegetable types, but differentiation in the animal follows a similar
course. From single cells like the sun-animalcule we pass to
groups like the vorticella, and thence to colonies of animals. But
still each cell lives for itself alone ; there is no division of labour.
Go a step forward, however. There is a little creature known as
the hydra, often found in ponds amongst duckweed and
utricularia, which shows in a most decided manner the early
advance in differentiation. I have often met with it in the ponds
in Bowen Park. It consists of a cylindrical body, ending in a
small orifice, and crowned with from six to eight tentacles, with
which it captures minute creatures for its food. As we watch the
hydra we observe that it assumes so many different shapes that
if you did not see it passing from one to the other you would not
connect them with the same animal. Sometimes it is an almost-
spherical mass, and the tentacles are reduced to small rounded
excrescences ; sometimes it is fully expanded and the tentacles
are thin, delicate processes. Between these extremes every
gradation occurs. The photomicrograph on the screen shows it
about half expanded. The diagram presents it in its fully
expanded condition. In structure the body of the hydra consists
of but two layers of cells, an outer and an inner, but the inner
cells have taken upon themselves the function of nutrition, and
the outer cells are both irritable and contractile, forming a kind
of rudimentary nervous and muscular system. In certain of the
outer cells there is a strange and deadly weapon. If we tear a
hydra to pieces with very fine needles and examine the pieces
carefully with sufficient magnification, we see that certain of the
outer cells possess peculiarities. They exhibit a clear elliptical
cavity. Coiled up within this cavity, like a spring, is a delicate
thread, furnished at the basal end with three projecting barbs.
The cavity is filled with a poisonous fluid, though what its
chemical nature may be I have never been able to determine.
