110 AUSTRALIAN THYRIDIDAE AND PYBALIDAE
The localities are accurate so far as I know, but are of
course very incomplete. I have transcribed localities given by
other writers, mostly by Mr. Meyrick, whenever there seemed no
reason to regard th^m as doubtful ; and have added many of my
own. It has been unfortunately necessary to omit or query
many of Mr. Lower's localities. This author appears to have
sometimes attached to specimens received by him locality labels,
which do not correspond to the places where the specimens
were captured. This has certainly been done in the case of
some of his types which I have had an opportunity of ex-
amining. That it has been done in other instances appears a
very reasonable conjecture, which explains some apparent
anomalies in distribution.
I give here a list of a few species described by Dr. Lucas.
Unless the types are forthcoming I fear these names will have
to be dropped as unidentifiable*
Epicrocis seniinvjra, P.R.S.Q., 1891, p. 93.
Homoeosoma delineata, P.L.S.N.S.W., 1892, p. 265.
Aphomia erumpens, P.R.S.Q., 1898, p. 79.
DiptycJiophoia torva, P.R.S.Q., 1898, p. 79.
Dipti/chophora (?) kitphitincta , P.R.S.Q., 1898, p. 80.
Fam. THYRIDIDAE.
Palpi slender ; maxillary palpi absent ; proboscis present.
Forewing with vein 1a forming a fork with 1b ; 5 from, or from
near lower angle of cell; 6 to 11 usually from the cell. Hind-
wing with vein Ic absent ; 5 usually from near lower angle of
cell ; 8 approximated to 7 at upper angle of cell, or approxim-
ated to or anastomosing with it after the angle. (Hampson.)
A small family allied to the Pi/ndidae and mostly confined
to the tropics. Some of the species are very variable.
A. Hindwings with vein 5 from near lower angle of cell.
B. Forewings with 8 and 9 stalked ... 1. Hypolamprus,
B.B. Forewings with all veins separate 2. Rhodonexira.
AA. Hindwings with 5 from middle of cell 3. Addaea.
Gen. 1. Hypolamprus, Hnips.
Hypolamprus, Hmps., Moths Ind. I p. 864. P.Z.S., 1897,
p. 614.
HYPOLAMPRUS MARGINEPUNCTALIS.
niaiyinepuuctalis, Leech.
Hypolamprus pallescem, Hmps., P.Z.S., 1897, p. 614.
N.Q., Cooktown, Cardwell. N.W.A. ( Hampson). Also
from Louisiades, Borneo, Japan and India.
