BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER, M.D., F.E.S. Ill
Ihypolamprus COSTISCRIPTUS.
Plun-iuiihdni costiscripta, Warr., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6),
xvii. p. 209.
Queensland (Warren). Also from Louisiades and New
Guinea.
HYPOLAMPRUS HEMICYCLUS.
SiciUoiles hemici/chi, Meyr., Tr. E.S. 1886, p. 216.
Q., Brisbane. Also from Fiji.
Gen 2. Rhodoneura.
Rhodoneura, Gn. Hmps., P.Z.S. 1897, p, 615.
I do not think the distinction given by Hampson between
this genus and Strii/lina, Gu., which he bases on the origin of
veins 9 and 10 of the forewings to be satisfactory in practice.
In his definition of llhodoneura be describes the tibiae as smooth-
scaled, but I find them to be hairy in several of the species-
included by him in the genus. The genus is a very large one
and may prove to be divisible by trustworthy characters, but it
would be premature to make the attempt in this paper,
RHODONEURA PYRRHATA.
Arhodia pyrr/iata, Wlk., Brit. Mus. Cat. xxxv., p. 1575.
Strifflina pyrrluita, Meyr., Tr. E.S., 1887, p. 199.
Q., Brisbane; N.S.W., Sydney ; V., Warragul, Gisborne.
RHODONEURA CENTIGINOSA.
Htriylina centiyinusa, Luc, P.R.S^Q., 1898, p. 81.
(? $ 21-28 IIUH.. Head, palpi, antennae, thorax and
abdomen, pale ochreous-reddish. Legs, ochreousreddish, tarsi
annulated with ochreous-whitish. Forewings triangular, costa
straight, apex tolerably acute, termen slightly sinuate beneath
apex, strongly bowed on vein 4, excavated above tornus ; pale
ochreous-reddish, or rarely grey, with ochreous-reddish strigulae,
or rarely with fuscous striguhie ; costa narrowly whitish-ochreous
more or less strigulated with dull reddish ; sometimes a reddish,
more rarely a fuscous terminal line ; cilia whitish more or less^
mixed with fuscous. Hindwiugs with termen rounded towards
apex, nearly straight towards tornus ; colour, strigulation,.
and cilia as forewings. Underside as upper, but fore-
wings with a large dark fuscous tornal blotch, strigulated
with reddish, and hindwings with a dark fuscous spot beneath
mid-costa.
Var. An interrupted more or less developed median fuscous-
band in both wings, in forewings angulated.
Type in Coll. Lucas.
