114 AUSTRALIAN THYRIDIDAE AND PYRALIDAE
A variable species in colour and details of marking. Walker
has used the same specific name in the genus Pyralis twice
within a few pages.
N.Q., Geraldton (Johnstone River), Townsville. Walker
has made the same error in the locality of this species as with
regard to the preceding and many others collected by the late Mr.
Diggles.
Also from Solomons and Borneo.
Faji. PYRALIDAE.
Proboscis and maxillary palpi usually well developed ;
frenulum present. Forewing with vein 1a usually free, some-
times forming a fork with In ; Ic absent ; 5 from near lower
angle of cell ; 8, 9 almost always stalked. Hindwing with veins
1a, b, c present ; 5 almost always from near lower angle of cell ;
8 approximated to 7 or anastomosing with it beyond the cell
(Hampson).
An immense family especially well represented in warm
regions, where it rivals in number the Nortuidae and Geometridae.
The tabulation of the sub-families will be given with the con-
cluding instalment of this revision.
SuBFAM. PHYCITINAE.
A very large group, the species being most numerous within
or near the tropics. They are for the most part of small size
and obscure in colour and marking. Species structurally
different are often superficially very similar. It should be
recognised that descriptions of species in this group are quite
useless unless accompanied by accurate structural determination.
The classification of the sub-family by neural characters is for
the 'most part easy ami natural, but the group containiug the
large genera PhijciUi, Xcjiliopteri/.r, and Kpicrocis forms an
exception. The definitions I have adopted of these genera I
regaad as merely provisional.
I have unfortunately not been able to consult Ragonot's
great work on the Fhi/ritinae and GoJlcrianae, and I have
probably committed many omissions and not a few errors in
consequence. The deficiency has been partly supplied by the
tabulation in Hampson's Moths of India, and by much generous
assistance received from this author in the determination of
species.
For the convenience of study I have divided the tabulation
of the genera into three section. The first of these corresponds
to the Aneraatianae of Hampson, which I am not inclined to
regard as a distinct subfamily.
