24 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
Certain it is that this weapon is of great use to the hydra, as you
will realise if you watch one of them feeding. A water flea or
other small creature comes in contact with one of these machine
guns. The spring uncoils with such force that the cavity and
the thread are turned inside out. Then you see that the water
flea, before so alert and lively, is completely paralysed, and if the
hydra is feeling in need of a meal the captured prey is brought
within reach of the tentacles and gradually transferred to the
digestive cavity. The interior layer of cells comprises cells of
two different varieties. Like the outer cells they are nucleated,
but, unlike them, some of them are seen to possess one or more
filaments or fiagella, and others are constantly varying their free
ends by the protrusion and drawing in of pseudopodia or
processes ; they are, as it were, a series of amoebae fixed in their
places. The inner cells are a rank of flagellate monads and of
amoebae marshalled into line and working for a common end —
the nutrition of the cell aggregate.
Ordinarily the hydra reproduces by budding ; a small
excresence makes its appearance on the exterior. It is formed by
a pushing out of the two layers of cells. It becomes lobed at the
outer end, and gradually develops into a young hydra. This
capacity for reproducing by budding brings about a curious result
in the hydra. You remember in the Greek mythology which
you studied at school reading the myth of the hydra or many-
headed serpent which Hercules destroyed. It was a nasty
customer to deal with, because when Hercules cut off any one of
its heads two new ones grew in their place. Our hydra realises
something akin to that, for you may make mincemeat of it, and
each piece will develop into a perfect hydra. I have referred to
the volvox and hydra only so far as to show the advance in
differentiation, or division of labour. A lecture of many hours
duration might be devoted to the life histories of either of them.
The hydra is of the greatest interest to us, for it represents the
permanent form of what is known in embryology as the gastrula
stage in development — a stage through which the majority of the
higher organisms pass early in their prenatal history, a stage in
which they consist of a purse-like form composed of but two
layers of cells, the inner performing nutritive functions, and the
outer the functions of sensation and protection, just as in the
hydra. From the hydra we proceed to the hydroid polypes, or
