126 AUSTRALIAN THYRIDIDAE AND PYRALIDAE
Abdomen, ochreous-whitisb. Legs grey, irrorated with whitish.
Forewings elongate-oblong, scarcely dilated, costa gently
arched, apex rounded, termen obliquely rounded ; white towards
dorsum and termen ochreous-tinged ; markings fuscous ; a
minute linear dot in disc at ^, and two transversely placed
rounded dots in disc at |, of these the upper is frequently obso-
lete ; a dot on fold beneath first dot and a second on fold at f ,
the two sometimes connected by a fine line ; costal edge towards
base dark fuscous ; a fine streak on costa from middle nearly to
apex ; a straight row of five or six dots from f costa to second
dot on fold ; a series of terminal dots ; cilia, whitish. Hind-
wings with termen rounded ; pale-grey ; cilia whitish, with a
fine grey line near base.
Q., Brisbane and Mount Tambourine, in November, March,
and April ; six specimens, N.S. W., Sydney (Lyell). Mr. Lower's
locality man ^6 correct, but a specimen of his labelled " Derby,"
undoubtedly hails from a well-known Queensland source.
HOMOEOSOMA STENOPIS, 11. sp.
o-TertoTTis, narrow looking.
2 21 ^){))\_. Head, thorax, and palpi grey with fine
whitish irroration. Antennae grey. Abdomen and legs grey.
Forewings elongate, costa strongly arched, apex round-pointed ;
termen straight, oblique ; grey irrorated with whitish and
fuscous ; without any distinct markings ; cilia grey irrorated
with whitish. Hindwings with termen rounded ; thinly scaled ;,
whitish, veins and termen grey ; cilia whitish with a pale grey
basal line.
This obscure species may be distinguished from ff. mgeVa
by the much more strongly arched costa of forewings. The
frons is also more prominent.
Type in Coll. Turner.
v., Birchip, in March ; one specimen received from Mr.
D. Goudie.
HOMOEOSOMA FARINARIA, 11. Sp.
Farinarius, floury.
5 27 v\^)\. Head and thorax whitish irrorated with grey.
Palpi grey. Abdomen ochreous-whitisb. Legs whitish irrorated
with grey. Forewings elongate, costa nearly straight, apex
rounded, termen obliquely rounded ; grey irrorated with white ;
a strong white suffusion in costal portion of disc from ^ to i ; a
white line strongly angulated outwards from J costa to ^dorsum,
a dark grey dot in disc at ^, and a second transversely elongate
