BY WILLIAM J. BYRAM. 25
zoophytes. Some representatives of them are to be found on all
coasts in rocl\ pools left by the tide or attached to sea weed, and
to the unaided eye resemble small pieces of cotton thread. I
have photographed a portion of one of them. They are like
colonies of hydrae, for the bells, or hydranths, as they are called,
are each of them a zooid or living being, though they are attached
to a common stalk.
I cannot pursue this subject further, it is too extensive, and
I must be content with very few concluding remarks. As I have
said, we cannot answer the question, " What is life?" but if we
are even to approximate to a solution of the problem we must
divest our minds of the idea that it is something apart from other
phenomena, something unique and supernatural. It is a mystery
in the same sense that electricity is a mystery, or that gravitation
is a mystery ; its causes are so recondite that they elude our
limited powers of comprehension. We must hold, provisionally,
that it is the attribute of protoplasm, the resultant of the
interaction — the intricate chemical change and interchange of
the porteids of which that most instable complex consists. We
have no knowledge of life apart from protoplasm ; such a thing
is inconceivable. Yet we must frankly admit that we do not
know what life is or what its origin has been. As far as the
precise experiments of the late Professors Tyndall and Huxley,
and of the eminent biologist. Dr. Dallinger, extend, spontaneous
generation or abiogenesis has been negatived. As far as we can
see under existing conditions all life comes from previous life.
But it must be remembered that precise as they were, these
experiments are essentially imperfect. They only prove that at
the present time, in a small confined space, and under existing
conditions, all life is the derivative of existing life. When we
take all the analogies into consideration, there is a strong
probability that there is no line of demarcation between the
living and the inorganic ; but that, if not now, at anyrate under
different conditions in the geological past, protoplasm, with its
attribute life, originated from the non-living. This is, indeed,
an irresistible corollary from the law of evolution, otherwise we
must ascribe the first appearance of life to a special fiat of the
Creative Power, a theory which is not only unthinkable, but
which has been beaten all along the line. More and more, too,
the mechanical theory of life is winning its way, despite old
