136 AUSTRAXIAN THYRIDIDAE AND PYRALIDAE
terminal joints obliquely ascending, not recurved, much dilated
with long scales which conceal the apex. Antennae in <? with
basal joint enlarged, somewhat thickened beyond, simple, very
minutely ciliated (^). Forewings with veins 4 and 5 closely
approximated for a short distance near base, 8 and 9 stalked.
Hindwings with vein 8 diverging from angle, 4 and 5 long-
stalked, 7 anastomosing strongly from 8.
Distinguished from Phtjcita by the peculiar palpi of both
sexes. Sir Geo. Hampson, who however has only seen the <? ,
regards it as a new section of that genus.
STHENOBELA NIPHOSTIBES, 11. sp.
vicfioa-Ti/Sr]';, snow-beaten ; in allusion to the forewings.
g 2 22-24 11UH.. Head and palpi whitish-grey. Antennae
grey. Thorax whitish-grey. Abdomen whitish -grey, apices of
segments whitish-ochreous ; terminal segments pale ochreous.
Legs white irrorated with fuscous ; tarsi dark-fuscous. Fore-
wings elongate, posteriorly slightly dilated, costa gently arched
near base thence straight, apex rounded, termen slightly rounded,
slightly oblique ; pale fuscous irrorated with darker fuscous ;
costal half of disc from near base to apex white with a few
scattered fuscous scales ; costal edge fuscous at base and again
from ^ to f ; a small dark-fuscous discal dot at ^, and a larger
dot at :; ; a fine slightly dentate fuscous line from apex to ^
dorsum; a fuscous terminal line; cilia pale-fuscous at apex
mixed with white. Hindwings with termen rounded; fuscous
whitish, darker towards termen ; cilia whitish with a fuscous
line near base.
Type in Coll. Turner.
Q., Brisbane ; two specimens received from Mr. F. P. Dodd*
Gen. 31. Phycita.
PJu/cita, Curt., Brit. Ent. vi, p. 233. Hmps., Moths Ind.
iv, p. 90.
I have had considerable difficulty in separating this genus
from Neplioptertjx by the neuration. The character given by
Hampson — the approximation of vein 3 of hindwings to base of
4 and 5 -is liable to insensible gradation, and I have not found
it possible by its means to draw a satisfactory line. Meyrick
relies on the length of cell of hindwings being less than ^ and
nearly h respectively. If this were adopted nearly all the species
here ascribed to both genera would fall in the former category.
The character I have used — the origin of vein 2 from the angle
of cell in Nephoptery.v — seems to me to give a better criterion
than either of these.
