BY A. FEFFERIS TURNER, M.D,, F.E.S. 139
fuscous. Abdomen leaden-fuscous, apices of segments and lower
surface pale ochreous. Legs fuscous mixed with whitish. Fore-
wings elongate, posteriorly dilated, costa nearly straight, apex
rounded, termen scarcely oblique, scarcely rounded ; an out-
wardly curved fuscous or reddish fuscous line from mid-costa to
beyond mid-dorsum, prolonged along dorsum towards base ;
beyond this the whole of disc is suffused with leaden fuscous
•except a whitish spot resting on median line above middle, and
a pale-ochreous blotch opposite mid-tennen ; termen narrowly
leaden-fuscous ; cilia ochreous-whitish, at apex and tornus
fuscous-tinged. Hindwings with termen rounded ; grey ; cilia
ochreous-whitish with a grey basal line.
A very distinct and unmistakable species.
N.Q., Geraldton, in May. Q., Brisbane, in January.
PHYCITA DELTOPHORA.
Phycita deltophom, Low., Tr. R.S.S.A. 1903, p. 53.
^ $ 27-28 111.111. Head and palpi whitish mixed with
grey ; palpi in ^ with second joint strongly dilated, barely
reaching vertex, terminal joint very short ; in $ second joint
exceeding vertex, terminal joint moderate. Antennae whitish
mixed with grey ; in <? with basal joint enlarged and bent,
strongly ciliated in tufts (H). Thorax grey. Abdomen whitish,
grey. Legs whitish mixed with fuscous. Forewings elongate,
strongly dilated posteriorly, apex rounded, termen moderately
oblique, slightly rounded ; grey mixed with whitish except in
basal third, which is darker and contains some brownish scales ;
a blackish slightly dentate line of raised scales from ^ costa to
\ dorsum ; a narrow whitish fascia limiting basal area from ^
costa to f dorsum, posteriorly ill-defined towards costa, but
limited by a fine grey line towards dorsum ; a very faint grey
linear discal mark ; a fine whitish postmedian line from costa at
f , acutely angled inwards, thence finely dentate to f dorsum,
preceded by minute grey dots on veins ; an interrupted blackish
terminal line ; cilia grey mixed with whitish, apices whitish,
sometimes with a subapical pinkish line. Hindwings with
termen rounded ; vein 3 diverging from a igle of cell ; trans-
lucent, fuscous-whitish, darker towards termen ; cilia fuscous-
whitish with a fuscous line at ^.
N.Q., Townsville, one $ in October (Dodd) ; Q., Brisbane
■one $ in May.
PHYCITA THERMOLOPHA.
Xephopterijx thermalopha (misprint), Low., Tr. R.S.S.A.
1903, p. 55.
