140 AUSTRALIAN THYRIDIDAE AND PYRALIDAE
^ $. 20-21 v\]]i. Head fuscous mixed with reddish ; in 2
whitish. Palpi fuscous mixed with whitish ; in <? with second
joint greatly dilated, terminal joint short, naked, with two
minute terminal bristles. Antennae grey ; in g much swollen
beyond basal joint, thence slightly serrate, moderately ciliated (f).
Thorax grey mixed with whitish. Abdomen grey mixed with
whitish, apices of segments whitish ; in ^ first three segments
except a melian strip reddish above. Legs whitish mixed with
fuscous ; middle tibiae in ^ with a large tuft of reddish haira
on internal surface. Forewing elongate, posteriorly dilated,
costa moderately arched, apex rounded, termen slightly oblique,
slightly rounded ; whitish mixed with grey and fuscous ; a trans-
verse ridge of raised blackish scales in disc at ^ not reaching
either margin ; an obscure fuscous dentate line from ^ costa to
mid-dorsum ; a fuscous dot beneath costa at f , and a second in
disc obliquely below and beyond first ; a whitish line preceded
by a broken fuscous line from | costa, angulated first inwards,
then outwards, to before tornus ; a blackish terminal line inter-
rupted by whitish on veins ; cilia grey, two fine lines and apices
whitish, sometimes with a subapical pinkish line. Hindwings
with termen slightly rounded ; vein 3 diverging from angle ;
fuscous-whitish, thinly scaled ; cilia whitish with a fuscous line
near base. Under side of wings in ^ streaked with reddish
towards base.
Allied to P. ceniprepiella, Hmps., from which the 5 may be
distinguished by the discal dots, and by the ridge of raised scales
not reaching dorsum. The sexual differences in the abdominal
colouring are curious.
N.Q., Tovvnsville, in February; two specimens received
from Mr. F. P. Dodd.
PHYCITA ADIACRITIS, 11. Sp.
a8ta/</3tT09, of ordinary or undistinguished appearance.
3 $ 21-22 111^ in. • Head whitish-grey. Palpi whitish
irrorated with fuscous ; in J with second joint much dilated,
terminal joint minute. Antennae grey, in J much swollen
beyond basal joint, thence simple, very minutely ciliated {^).
Thorax grey. Abdomen whitish-ochreous, bases of segments
grey. Legs whitish mixed with fuscous. Forewings elongate,
posteriorly dilated, costa moderately arched, apex rounded,
termen slightly oblique, slightly rounded ; whitish mixed with
grey and fuscous ; a whitish median line edged on both sides
with dark fuscous, sometimes obsolete ; a dark fuscous dot
