142 AUSTRALIAN THYRIDIDAE AND PYRALIDAE
whitish-ochreous. Legs ochreous-whitish mixed with fuscous.
Forewings strongly dilated posteriorly, costa moderately arched,
apex round-pointed, termen rounded, slightly oblique ; ochreous-
whitish densely suffused with dull purple-fuscous, towards bas&
and margins irrorated with dark-fuscous ; a transverse ridge of
elongate raised scales across disc from J costa to ^ dorsum ;.
cilia whitish mixed with fuscous. Hindwings with termen
rounded ; pale-grey, thinly scaled ; vein 3 only approximated to
4 -f- 5 close to origin ; a narrow suffused fuscous terminal line ;.
cilia pale-grey.
Q., Brisbane, in April ; one specimen.
PHYCITA TRACHYSTOLA, 11. Sp.
Tpaxva-ToXo^, rough cloaked.
$ 20 1)1 li\.. Head ochreous-whitish. Palpi fuscous
(partly broken). Antennae fuscous. Thorax pale fuscous.
Abdomen pale fuscous ; apices of segments pale-ochreous. Legs,
whitish mixed with dark fuscous. Forewings elongate-triangu-
lar, costa nearly straight, apex rounded, termen nearly straight,
slightly oblique ; pale-fuscous irrorated with white ; a rounded
tuft of raised scales in mid-disc near base ; a transverse
ridge of raised scales from dorsum at ^ to fold ; a series of dark
fuscous terminal dots ; cilia pale fuscous with a fine whitish line
at ^. Hindwings with termen rounded ; vein 3 only approx-
imated to 4 -h 5 close to base ; pale grey, veins and termen
darker ; cilia pale-grey with a darker line near base.
Allied to the preceding, but the transverse ridge of raised
scales is less developed, and there is an additional raised tuft
near base.
Type in Coll. Turner.
Q., Brisbane, in January ; one specimen.
PHYCITA MIXOLEUCA, H. .Ij).
fxiioX€VKo<;, partly white.
2 22 iitli\.. Head white with a few grey scales. Palpi
white ; external surface of apical part of second joint, and
terminal joint exeept base, dark-fuscous. Antennae ochreous-
whitish. Thorax white with fuscous irroration and a central
dark-fuscous spot. Abdomen pale-ochreous, bases of segments
irrorated with dark-fuscous. Legs white banded with dark-
fuscous, tarsi dark-fuscous; anterior pair dark-fuscous anteriorly
except base of coxae. Forewings elongate, posteriorly dilated,
costa nearly straight, apex rounded, termen rounded, slightly
oblique ; clear-white, towards dorsum suffused with pale-fuscous ;.
