BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER, M.D., F.E.S. 143
markings dark-fuscous ; a dot on base of costa, another on mid-
base, and a third in disc near second ; a small triangular blotch
on dorsum at ^, its apical portion composed by a strong tuft oC
raised scales ; an oblique fascia from ^ costa to mid-dorsum,
attenuated towards dorsum ; a few dark fuscous scales on mid-
costa ; a discal dot beneath costa beyond middle, and another in
mid-disc rather posterior to first ; a broad inwardly oblique
wedge-shaped streak from apex, continued as a fine dentate line
to before tornus ; a series of terminal dots ; cilia white partly
suffused with pale-fuscous. Hindwings with termen rounded ;
vein 3 approximated to 4 -f 5 near base ; grey ; cilia pale-grey
with a darker line near base.
Type in Coll. Turner.
Q., Brisbane, in November; one specimen.
PHYCITA RECONDITA, 11. Sp.
Recondltiis, concealed, inconspicuous.
<J 2 16 W- Head grey. Palpi ascending, recurved,
exceeding vertex, second joint not dilated in <? , terminal joint
moderate, acute ; fuscous mixed with whitish. Antennae grey ;
in ^ with a wide sinus containing a large tuft of scales immed-
iately succeeding basal joint, thence thickened, simple, minutely
ciliated (i). Thorax grey, with a double posterior reddish-purple
spot. Abdomen pale-grey with a small reddish-purple spot on
base of dorsum. Legs fuscous mixed with whitish. Forewings
moderate, posteriorly somewhat dilated, costa and veins on
posterior part of disc irrorated with reddish-purple ; an obscure
whitish grey-margined fascia from ^ costa to ? dorsum ; a dark-
grey longitudinally elongate discal dot at f ; an obscure
whitish subterminal line ; a series of dark-grey terminal dots ;
cilia grey finely irrorated with whitish, and with a subapical
purplish tinge. Hindwing with termen rounded ; vein 3 closely
applied to 4 + 5 for a short distance ; grey, towards base whitish ;
cilia whitish-grey with a rather darker line near base.
Type in Coll. Turner.
N.Q.,*Townsville, in January; two specimens received
from Mr. F. P. Dodd.
PHYCITA ATIMETA V. Sp.
aTifxrjTo^, unesteemed.
? 18 v\]]{. Head whitish-grey. Palpi and antennae
fuscous. Thorax whitish-grey irrorated with fuscous. Abdomen
ochreous-whitish, mid-dorsum near base grey. Legs whitish-
grey irrorated with dark-fuscous. Forewings narrow-elongate,
