26 THE BEGINNINGS OF LIFE.
school treatises like Dr. Lionel Beale's book on Protoplasm. We
find life constantly standing in relation to the physical forces.
It does work, and in doing it uses up the protoplasmic material,
which has to be renewed by the assimilation of other protoplasm,
as in animals, or the metabolism of inorganic matter, as in
plants. It is manifested in conjunction with other forms of
energy, heat, light, and electricity, and seems to stand in the
same category as they. Indeed, as the suggestive experiments of
a German biologist, Professor Biitschli, have shown, the work
which the protoplasm does in the movements of the amoeba may
be imitated mechanically. He prepared frothy mixtures of oil
with certain chemical substances, chiefly olive oil and finely
powdered potassic carbonate, which makes a soapy foam. Tiny
drops of this emulsion introduced into water, and viewed under
the microscope, are found to be filled with vacuoles, and to
exhibit, for as long a period as six days after their preparation,
the streaming, diffluent movements of the amoeba, and, like the
amoeba, put out and draw in processes, or pseudopodia, and creep
across the glass. But remembering the vast complexity of
protoplasm, and the comparative simplicity of the oil-foam, we
must suspend our judgment as to whether the movements of the
amoeba are purely mechanical. The striking correspondence
shown by Professor Biitschli may be more apparent than real.
Still, the whole tendency of scientific thought favours the
mechanical theory of life, and if anyone should collate these
considerations with the further one that the soul of man is but a
name we have given to the sum total of his consciousness, and
should feel pain or alarm in consequence, we can only remind
him for his comfort that what we know is but an insignificant
fraction of the vast unknown and unknowable. In that dark
region there is room for boundless possibilities, boundless hope.
[The diagrams and photomicrographs with which this
lecture was illustrated will be reproduced in a future Volume of
the Proceedings.]
