146 AUSTRALIAN THYRIDIDAE AND PYRALIDAE
dilated posteriorly, costa moderately arched, more strongly
towards apex, apex rounded, termen obliquely rounded ; grey
mixed with whitish ; base of dorsum and raid-disc more or less
suffused with brownish ; in ^ a blackish suffusion on base of
dorsum ; a whitish line from ^ costa to | dorsum, edged pos-
teriorly by a variably developed fuscous line ; a discal dot
beneath f costa, and a second in mid-disc posterior to first, the
two sometimes connected ; a whitish line from '^ costa angled
acutely inwards, then outwards, and slightly dentate to before
tornus, this line is more or less distinctly edged with grey or
fuscous on both sides ; a series of dark-fuscous terminal dots ;
cilia whitish. Hindwings with termen rounded, slightly wavy ;
whitish towards termen suffused with pale grey ; cilia whitish.
Type in Coll. Turner.
Q., Bundaberg ; Brisbane, in November, December, March,
and April. N.S.W., Sydney. Seven specimens, of which six
are females.
NEPHOPTERYX METASARCA.
Nephopteryx metasarca, Low., Tr. R.S.S.A. 1903, p. 56.
^ 15-20 vxv\. Head whitish. Palpi grey; in J with
second joint dilated and upper half of inner surface excavated,
leaving a wide cup-like space between the palpi, terminal joint
moderate. Antennae ochreous-whitish ; in <? with basal joint
enlarged, and succeeded by a groove containing a large tuft of
scales, thence thickened, simple, minutely ciliated (|-). Thorax
grey. Abdomen ochreous-whitish, somewhat pinkish-tinged.
Legs whitish, irrorated and annulated with dark-fuscous.
Forewings elongate, posteriorly dilated, costa strongly arched
before apex, apex rounded, termen obliquely rounded ; grey
finely irrorated with whitish ; a small patch of blackish scales
on base of dorsum ; a suffused line more or less blackish from
^ costa to ^ dorsum ; a blackish dot beneath costa beyond
middle, connected with a second dot below and posterior ; a short
whitish erect streak from dorsum at f , sometimes preceded by a
quadrate whitish blotch on mid-dorsum ; a fine dentate whitish
line from f costa bent first inwardly, then outwardly, not
reaching dorsum ; a series of dark-fuscous terminal dots; cilia
grey, apices and a fine median line whitish. Hindwings with
termen somewhat sigmoid ; ochreous-whitish, pinkish-tinged ;
towards termen irrorated with dark-fuscous ; cilia pinkish-
whitish.
