28 THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF LH'ING MATTER.
difference merely one of degree, or is there a deep and unfathom-
able gulf between them ? Finally, how did living matter first
arise and come to exist ?
You will not, I hope, suspect me of thinking I have any new
solution to offer of these well-discussed problems. Scientifically
they are insoluble. They take us into regions where observation
and experiment, the methods of science, are unavailing, and
where the human mind is ever in danger of mistaking its self-
evolved imaginations as equivalent to demonstrated truths, or
worse still, of mistaking merely verbal solutions for real. For
the latter error there is one sufficient remedy, and that is to
substitute mentally the meaning of the word, or, in logical terms,
the definition, for the word itself, and unless one is continually
prepared to do this the discussion of any philosophical problem
becomes futile.
When, for instance, we are told that all matter is living,
that there is no such thing as dead inorganic matter, we are, I
submit, in danger of deriving comfort from a mere verbal
assertion. For if we apply the term living to all matter, what
meaning do we attach to it ? That there are great and real
diffei-ences between living and non-living matter is a fact of
science, which we cannot explain by denying it to be. If, how-
ever, the assertion be explained to mean, in more accurate
language, that the protentiality of life exists in all matter, that
the properties of living matter exist in an attenuated degree, or
in a dormant condition, in simpler chemical combinations, we
have an admissible hypothesis, which deserves discussion. But
the facts must be recognised in the first place.
Let us for a moment contemplate the amoeba, and consider
the properties of its living substance. I cannot do better than
quote one of the earliest observers, who sixty years ago described
this substance, not by the term protoplasm, by which we know
it, but by the term sarcode. "I propose," said Dujardin, "to
name sarcode that which other observers have termed a living
jelly, a substance glutinous, diaphanous, homogeneous, refracting
light a little more than water, but much less than oil, extensible
and ropy like mucus, elastic and contractile, susceptible of
spontaneously forming within itself spherical cavities or vacuoles
which become occupied by the surrounding liquid. The most
simple animals, such as amcebae and monads, are entirely
