BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER, M.D. 29
composed, at least to all appearances, of this living jelly. Sarcode
is without visible organs, and has no appearance of cellularity ;
but it is nevertheless organised, for it emits various prolongations
along which granules pass, and which are alternately extended
and retracted ; in one word, it possesses life." In this old
description, to which the most recent science has but little to
add, you will note the stress laid upon the movements of
protoplasm as indicative of life. And, indeed, these movements are
sufficiently remarkable. It is true that of recent years Biitschli has
shown that if oil be rubbed up with certain alkaline salts in a moist
condition, and a minute fragment of the paste be examined in
water, the latter diffuses into the paste and converts it into a
froth, in which streaming movements occur and changes of
external form not unlike those shown by living protoplasm.
These movements are due to diffusion currents set up by the
chemical changes taking place between the water and the soapy
oil. How far they can be regarded as explaining the movements
of protoplasm is, I think, very doubtful. Similarity may be
apparent as well as real, and it is very doubtful whether
protoplasm really consists of a vacuolated mass as Biitschli
contends, and further, even more doubtful whether these simple
diffusion currents, which cease after a time, really explain in any
way true amoeboid movements.
But there are other and more subtle differences between
living and non-living matter. A proper mental grasp of these
is essential to the understanding of our problem. They consist
in chemical changes which are characteristic. All living matter
has this in common, that it continually absorbs oxygen and gives
oft" carbonic acid. If you will consider this for a moment, you
will see that it involves the recognition of the fact that living
protoplasm is always in a state of wasting or decomposition. Its
constituent molecules, which consist partly of carbon, are con-
tinually becoming oxidised and breaking up into much simpler
non-living chemical compounds. As a necessary condition to
its existence, it possesses the opposite power of taking up non-
living matter and transforming it into protoplasm. Its chemical
equilibrium can only be maintained by a continual succession of
chemical changes, opposite in character, for its substance is in a
continual state of flux. On the one hand is an in-stream of
molecules containing carbon, nitrogen, &c. ; on the other, an
outflow of the same elements in other, usually much simpler,
