80 THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF LIVING MATTER.
combinations. By these chemical changes a continuous formation
of energy takes place, which energy is given off as heat, or
sometimes also partly as mechanical motion, or in other ways.
Living matter is continually in a state of unstable chemical
equilibrium.
By a preponderance of assimilation over waste the living
cell grows in size. A consideration of the statements just
enunciated will convince you how fundamentally different such
growth is from that, for example, of a crystal. The latter growth
is wonderful to contemplate, but it is a growth by accretion ;
each increment once formed is stable. The growth of the cell
usually ends in division, which, in the case of the amoeba, leads
to the formation of two individuals each resembling the parent
cell. But in the higher animals, the process of cell division
leads to more complex developments. A brief glance at these is
necessary for our purpose.
The human ovum, not very different in structure from an
amoeba in the encysted stage, consists of a nucleated cell about
fifteen of a millimetere in diameter, forming a speck just visible
to the naked eye. The first stages of development consist, as in
much humbler forms of life, in the division of this cell into two,
four, sixteen, and more cells, forming a cluster, somewhat
resembling the form of a mulberry. As the cells multiply fluid
accumulates between them, and they form a minute vesicle,
round which the cells are grouped at first in two, then in three
layers. From these three layers of cells are developed by
successive steps all the marvellous complexity of the adult human
frame. The process by which this change occurs has to a great
extent been observed and mapped out. It is a wonderful history,
and the process by which each cell assumes its right place, and
each group of cells differentiates itself into the right tissue in
exactly the right situation, is entirely baffling to the imagination.
Let me very briefly glance at the developmental history of one
portion of the human frame. It is at first surprising to learn
that the whole nervous system is developed from ancestral cells,
which formed part of the external surface, or skin, of the
embryo. As the development of the individual is but a
recapitulation, with some modifications, of the development of
the race, this fact seems to take us back into a very remote past,
when the cells specially devoted to sense-perception, which would
naturally be situated near the surface, were not yet difl'eren-
