BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER, M.D. 33
Spittle, or by pricking it gently with a Pin or Needle. I answer,
it may be in these Instances, the scattering Spirits remaining in
the Heart, may for a time, being agitated by Heat, cause these
faint pulsations, tho' I should rather attribute them to a plastick
Nature or Vital Principle." This "plastick Nature" was a great
comfort to John Ray, by its means he releases himself from every
difficulty. It answers, I apprehend, exactly to the term
" vitality " or " vital force," which, till quite recent years, could
always be invoked to cut the knots of physiological puzzles. But
on the very next page to the quotation given is an extract from
a contemjDorary work by Mr. Boyle (whether the same as the
physicist who enunciated Boyle's law of the volume of gases I
have not ascertained), in which a very different order of ideas is
introduced. " I think it probable," writes Boyle, " that the
great and wise Author of Things did, when he first formed the
Universe and undistinguished Matter into the World, put its
Parts into various Motions, whereby they were necessarily
divided into numberless Portions of differing Bulks, Figures and
Situations in Respect of each other ; and that by his infinite
Wisdom and Power he did so guide and overule the Motions of
these Parts at the Beginning of Things, as that (whether in a
shorter or longer Time Reason cannot determine) they were
finally disposed into that beautiful and orderly Frame that we
call the World ; among whose Parts some were so curiously
contrived as to be fit to become the Seeds or seminal Principles
of Plants and Animals. And I further conceive that he settled
such Laws or Rules of local Motion among the Parts of the
Universal Matter, that by his ordinary and preserving Concourse
the several Parts of the Universe thus once completed, should be
able to maintain the great Construction or System and Economy
of the Mundane Bodies and propagate the Species of living
Creatures." Ray's reply to this hypothesis is so curious that I
must quote it: — " This Hypothesis, I say, I cannot fully acquisce
in, because an intelligent Being seems to me requisite to execute
the Laws of Motion ; for first Motion being a fluent Thing, and
one Part of its Duration being absolutely independent upon
another, it doth not follow that because anything moves this
Moment it must necessarily continue to do so for the next, unless
it were actually possessed of its future Motion, which is a
contradiction ; but it stands in as much Need of an Efficient to
preserve and continue its Motion as it did at first to produce it.
