34 THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF LIVING MATTER.
Secondly, let Matter be divided into the subtilest Parts imagin-
able, and these be moved as swiftly as you will, it is but a
senseless and stupid being still, and makes no nearer Approach
to Sense, Perception, or vital Energy than it had before. . .
And as for any external Laws or establish'd Rules of Motion, the
stupid Matter is not capable of observing or taking any Notice of
them, but it would be as sullen as the Mountain was that
Mahomet commanded to come down to him ; neither can those
Laws execute themselves. Therefore there must, besides Matter
and Law, be some Efficient, and that either a Quality or Power
inherent in the Matter itself, which is hard to conceive, or some
external intelligent Agent, either God himself immediately or
some Plastic Nature."
It is my opinion that, judged even by the standard of his
own day, Ray was a better naturalist than philosopher. My
object in reading these extracts is to point out some errors that
may not yet be entirely dead. Firstly, we have the highly
figurative and wholly false conception of the " laws " of nature
as something which poor, stupid matter has to understand and
obey. Secondly, we have assertions regarding motion which
are purely verbal, and embody no real conception of what
actually occcurs. Here, of course, science has advanced greatly
since Ray's time, and we know motion to be both universal and
indestructible, and to exist in forms which were then unsuspected.
Thirdly, I would ask is there not something purely subjective
also in Ray's ideas of matter ? Have we any right to speak of
" stupid and senseless matter "? Are not these question-begging
epithets ?
Whatever view we may take of the nature of protoplasm,
there is no doubt it is composed of the same elements as the rest
of the universe. As long as life continues there is a continual
procession of atoms of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen and
other elements, variously combined, into the living substance,
and an equally unbroken procession of carbon, nitrogen,
hydrogen, and oxygen out of the living substance. It is not
only after death that the animal body is resolved into inorganic
combinations of these elements. We may compare a living
organism to the little columns of dust which are sometimes seen
spinning down the streets of our western townships. The
sleeping dust is for one instant aroused, whirled round in complex
