BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER, M.D. 35
and unaccustomed motions, and then returns to rest again, to be
ever replaced with fresh particles as long as the air-vortex
continues its brief career. So during life dissolution is an
unceasing process, and the living organism is but a temporary
resting place of migratory atoms from the non-living world.
Furthermore, it is also certain that there is no creation or
destruction of force in the living organism. Here, as elsewhere,
the rule of the conservation of energy holds good. The greater
part of the vegetable world derives its energy direct from the
sun's rays, and stores it up in the form of chemical combina-
tions. The animal world, destitute of this power, appropriates
the energy stored up by plant life by devouring these complex
chemical substances, albumen, fat, starch, sugar, &c. Its energy
is derived from the chemical changes which result iu the
combination of the contained carbon, hydrogen, &c., with the
oxygen of the air. This energy is given off mostly in the form
of heat, a smaller fraction in the form of mechanical work,
which for the most part is also soon converted into heat. So
that all life derives its energy from the sun, and sooner or later
gives it back in the form of heat. In the process there is
change, transmutation of force, but neither loss nor gain ; one
form of vibration is replaced by another, but the chain is never
broken. As a late distinguished physicist wrote, in lines which,
though half jocular in form, contain serious thought : —
" When earth and sun are frozen clods,
" And, all its energy degraded,
" Matter to Ether shall have faced,
" We, that is all the work we've done,
" As waves in ether shall for even run
" In swift expanding spheres through heavens beyond the sun."
Having grasped this conception of the living organism as a
temporary halting place of atoms derived from the inorganic
world as a temporary focus of energy derived from without and
passing without again, must we add to matter and force a
hypothetical something called " vitality ? " Admitting to the
full the vast difference between the phenomena of living and
non-living matter, and the impossibility of picturing to oneself
any mechanical arrangement of atoms and molecules, which
will explain the former, I ask do we make the problem any
clearer by such an assumption ? Indeed has the word vitality
any meaning that we can figure before our minds. Is it any
more than a verbal expression, a word that merely covers
