36 THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF LIVING MATTER.
ignorance, the negation of knowledge ? I cannot see that it is.
Even if we call it vital force I cannot see that we gain any-
thing. For force is some form of movement, of molecular or
atomic vibration. It is conceivable that molecular vibrations
may occur in protoplasm which have no analogies elsewhere, but
if so we know nothing of them. Further, they are derived if
present from forms of vibration, chemical or heat vibrations,
which exist without the living cell, and are speedily resolved into
these again. Once more I think we gain nothing by the
assumption. I may be pardoned for using an illustration which
has done good service in much abler hands than mine. In this
glass you have the familiar substance water, of well known and
comparatively simple chemical constitution. You might not
suspect it of being the seat of molecular forces of most intricate
and mysterious complexity. Yet, if guided by scientific know-
ledge, you follow it with the imagination, you will see that it is
so endowed. Let this glass stand on the table sufficiently long
and its contents will disappear ; they have become converted
into aqueous vapour diffused in the atmosphere. Let the air
containing this vapour be transported by a favourable atmos-
pheric disturbance to the Alps of New Zealand. The gaseous
particles will become transformed into solid crystals of snow,
and on microscopical examination the constituent molecules of
our humble fluid will be seen to have arranged themselves in
wonderful and intricate patterns of geometrical regularity,
which for marvellous beauty cannot be surpassed even by the
organic world. Do we render this mysterious power of water to
assume intricate geometrical forms any easier to understand by
attributing it to a hypothetical something called aqiiositrf. You
will reply doubtless that to do so is merely to invent a word, not
to explain a phenomenon. And granting that the phenomena
of life are much more complex than those of crystallisation,
does this invalidate our applying the same reasoning to the word
vitality.
To this reasoning it may be objected that our protoplasm, a
mere speck of structureless jelly, exhibits none of the machinery
which might be reasonably expected in a substance capable of
such complex evolutions as I have endeavoured to briefly
indicate in the early part of this discourse. But this objection
can be hardly pressed, unless we are prepared to limit the
possibilities of organisation by what we can actually see.
