BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER, M.D. 87
Protoplasm may well be, and no doubt is of infinite
molecular complexity. Recent research has revealed a very
complicated structure in one portion of the. cell, the nucleus,
which by the extraordinary changes which it undergoes during
cell-division, must be regarded as playing an important if not
the chief part in this process. It would be interesting to
describe these changes at length, but would not advance us in
our argument. For these nuclear changes explain nothing of
the process in which they occur, they merely indicate what we
might have otherwise inferred that the process is a very
complex one.
If we contemplate living matter from the point of view of
chemistry, we have sufficient evidence that it must be exceed-
ingly complex. At no very distant date it was believed to be a
peculiarity of all chemical substances derived from the products
of vital activity (always excepting the ultimate products of its
oxidation, such as water, carbonic acid, &c.), that they were
incapable of formation by artificial synthesis from inorganic
materials. The rapid progress of organic chemistry has since
then resulted in the synthesis of great numbers of these
substances, and has at the same time thrown much light on
their molecular constitution. Compared with that of the sub-
stances treated of in inorganic chemistry this constitution is
much more complex. But chemistry falls very far short of
revealing the constitution of even dead protoplasm, far less of
living. It has indeed been said that chemical analysis can
never give us any idea of the structure of living matter, because
in the act of analysis it has become no longer living. If life
be regarded as a metaphysical principle resident in protoplasm,
of course it cannot be considered susceptible of analysis. But
if not so regarded there is nothing in this objection, for all
analysis necessarily involves destruction, the resolution of one
form of matter into others which do not possess the same
properties. We cannot even analyse water without resolving it
into oxygen and hydrogen. A more serious if not fatal obstacle
to chemical analysis lies in the impossibility of obtaining living
matter in a pure condition. Leaving the nucleus out of con-
sideration we are in the habit of speaking of protoplasm as
something homogeneous. But if we consider, it cannot be so.
As living substance is continually undergoing decomposition, it
may be inferred that the products of this decomposition are
