88 THE NATURK AND ORIGIN OK LIVING MATTER.
constantly to be found in what we call protoplasm. We have
reason to believe that the ultimate products formed arise not
suddenly, but by. gradual stages of chemical degradation from
the living matter. These transitional products will naturally be
present to a variable extent in conjunction with the actually
living substance itself. Again, the cell-protoplasm contains
nutrient material, and probably (though here we have no clear
knowledge) intermediate products between this nutrient material
and living matter. How much of this apparent homogeneous
protoplasm actually possesses the properties of living matter we
do not know, and have no present methods of ascertaining. If,
however, we take masses of what is usually termed protoplasm
and subject it to chemical examination we can always obtain
from it three kinds of matter, fats, carbohydrates, and proteids.
Of these the proteids (of which albumin is one) have a mole-
cular constitution of peculiar complexity. A chemical formula,
which can only be regarded as a rough approximation, C,^
Hn2 SNjH 0.J2 has been assigned to them as the result of
analysis. Even if approximately correct, this formula only
indicates their minimal complexity. Their real structure might
be more correctly indicated by any multiple of this. But the
composition of proteids has no relation to that of cell-
protoplasm except this, that the latter must be more complex,
and may be exceedingly more complex. Furthermore, living
protoplasm differs fundamentally from dead proteid in one
respect, that it must be regarded as in a peculiar state of
unstable chemical equilibrium, while the latter is a comparatively
stable substance. To this point I shall return presently.
Although we are unable to follow the complex physico-
chemical changes which we believe to occur in living cells, we
are able in one special instance to obtain indirect evidence that
such changes do occur. The association of chemical and
electrical changes are very obscurely understood in the inorganic
world. But it is well known that such an association is real.
We have no means of detecting any electric phenomena in the
amoeba, but in two highly specialised living tissues, muscle and
nerve, of the higher animals we can detect them. If a muscle
removed from the body be stimulated by an electric shock (which
for present purposes riiay be regarded as instantaneous) the
contraction which follows does not occur instantaneously. There
is an appreciable interval, calltd the latent period, which
