BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER, M.D. 39
intervenes between the stimulus and the contraction. Accurately
measured, this interval occupies about 1/lOOth of a second.
During this brief interval the electrical reaction of different parts
of the muscle undergoes a change. This change arises at the
point of stimulus, and travels as a wave along the whole length
of muscle, which, be it remembered, is still in an apparently
quiescent condition. Immediately or very soon after this
electrical wave has exhausted itself, the muscular contraction
begins. The conclusion can hardly be resisted that muscular
contraction is preceded as well as accompanied by physico-
chemical changes. The rate at which the electrical wave travels
has been measured ; in the frog it is about three metres ^lOft.)
per second. In warm-blooded animals it is probably somewhat
faster. Its wave-length in the frog is about 3 millimetres (one-
eighth of an inch). Surely these results point to the existence of
some very complex mechanism. But muscular contraction is a
vital act, performed by a living tissue. When we find that
similar electrical changes have been observed to accompany the
contractions of the leaves of the plant called Venus' Fly-trap,
the structure of which is as far removed as possible from
muscular tissue, we are, I think, justified in generalising, to the
effect that all movements of living matter, including those of the
amoeba, are due to physico-chemical changes, and depend on an
exceedingly complex mechanism.
If we apply our electric shock, not to a muscle, but to a
nerve, no obvious result ensues, unless the nerve is attached to a
muscle. In that case the muscle contracts, showing that a
stimulus has been propagated along the nerve fibres. But
whethor a muscle be attached to the nerve or not, examination
by suitable apparatus will show that this propagation has been
accompanied by an electrical change precisely similar to that
which occurs in a muscle during the latent period, with the
exception that it has a greater wave-length, 18 millimetres
(three-quarters of an inch), and a considerably greater velocity.
This velocity in the frog is about 28 metres (92 feet) per
second, in man about 33 metres (107 feet) per second
(compared to the velocity of light, or electricity, or even of sound,
this is extremely slow). It can hardly be doubted that these
electrical changes in nerve fibres are due to some physico-
chemical mechanism, and that their velocity is fixed by this
