40 THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OK LIVING MATTER.
mechanism. Yet it will hardly be denied that nerve fibres are
living tissue, and that the conduction of impulses is a vital act.
Some light seems to be thrown on the unstable chemical
equilibrium of living matter by its great susceptibility to the
action of a large number of substances, which we call poisons.
Many of these are fatal to protoplasm, converting it into dead
matter, even when they come into contact with it in infinitesimal
dilution. On the physico-chemical theory of living matter this
action presents no special difficulty to the understanding. The
molecule of strychnine for example can be regarded as a com-
plicated piece of mechanism, which when brought into contact
with the still more complex mechanism of the cells of the
spinal cord at first excites its molecular or other vibrations and
disturbances to greater activity, but carrying its action further
it deranges this mechanism altogether, in other words the cells
are killed. Another poison will diminish the activity of the
cells of the spinal cord from the first, and then kill them. On
the physico-chemical theory the conflict is not wholly unin-
telligible. We can to a certain extent picture to ourselves two
mechanisms which interfere with one another. But if we
suppose living matter to be inhabited by a metaphysical
something, "vitality," how can we imagine the struggle between
it and our strychnine molecule ? The vitalists may, to borrow
an old witticism, conjure up their " metaphysical grenadier,"
but how will they make him fight?
To all this reasoning 1 can imagine the objection raised :
" You may, perhaps, in a few instances, and to a small extent,
discover physico-chemical analogies in the behaviour of living
matter. All this is beside the point. No mechanism, however
complicated, no possible combination of atoms and molecules
can be conceived to explain all the activities of protoplasm."
Here, I think, we come upon the " stupid, senseless matter " of
our old author. If we arbitrarily conceive of our atoms and
molecules as so many hard, round particles, like small shot, only
much smaller, such an objection is natural. But this conception
is a purely arbitrary one. We cannot at present form any clear
idea of the structure of non-living matter which will explain all
the phenomena which it presents. For instance, who of us has
any clear conception of what takes place in and around a metallic
wire when a current of electricity is passed through it "? Or, to
ask another question, how can we explain the attraction that
