BY JOHN SHIRLEY, B.SC. 73
some types of malaria from the so called " Crescent Body," in
others from large extra-corpuscular plasmodia. They are only
seen after blood has been drawn and oxygenated.
CRESCENT BODIES.
These are shaped something like caraway seeds, are trans-
parent, with melanin bodies about their central zone, and are
partly clothed with the remains of the blood corpuscles in which
they developed. The crescents are usually uniform in appear-
ance, twin crescents rarely occur. Mannaberg's suggestion that
the crescents are formed bythe conjugation of two ordinary
Plasmodia is the most likely one.
The crescent body is the parent of the flagellated body,
and the gradual change from one to the other may be readily
followed. The crescent becomes an oval, then a sphere, the
pigment bodies form a sphere within a sphere, then they begin
to dance about, finally the flagella shoot out from the periphery
and the flagellated body is complete.
Ross has shown that when blood drawn from the human
subject is kept from the air no flagellated bodies are formed.
On the other hand exposure to the air, or the addition of water
to the slide favours flagellation.
FUNCTION OF FLAGELLATED BODY.
From the fact that the flagellated body does not enter into
existence until the blood has left the vessels, it is evident that
the function of the flagellum must lie outside the human body —
in fact, that the flagellated body constitutes the first phase of
the extra-corporeal life of the plasmodium.
THE MOSQUITO.
As the Plasmodium while in the circulation is always
enclosed in a blood corpuscle, and is therefore incapable of leaving
the body by its own efforts, it must be removed by some suctorial
insect common in the haunts of malaria.
Surgeon-Major Ross has shown that the crescents ingested
by mosquitoes, fed on malarial blood, become transformed into
spheres, and then into flagellated bodies. It is now known that
these flagella detach themselves and coalesce with other non-
flagellated bodies, which then become endowed with locomotive
powers, and penetrate through the wall of the stomach of the
mosquito, embedding themselves among the muscular fibres
