76 A REPLY TO " SOME CRITICAL NOTES, ETC."
In his criticisin of the Catalogue Mr. Thomson's statements
prove :
1. That he failed to ascertain beforehand what reasons led
to the compilation of the Catalogue ; and
2. That he is wholly unacquainted with the printed direc-
tions issued by the International Conference, by which
the arrangement and classification of the work criti-
cised were determined.
Mr. Thomson's principal charges are printed in italics, and
following each will be found my reply.
/. /'. :?, Utu'.s 0-15 <nnl 27.
" / ]iai\ to ciilli'ct, (irmmie, nml clttssifi/ the tmtti'rial iiithnut a
colU'fa/ue." Thh not ((Itot/i'ther uniDnhitioun stuteuieiit is,
hou-eirr, set i reel i/ anmxtent irith a nuhxetjiu^nt remark, in
wliicli our liihlioifra/iher (ichnoirli'dtfes the serrices of three
in-ll knnirn authoritiex, alio rerisi'tl, nrniiii/ed and
cluasifieii the cheuiistri/ .sections, the rertebnitcs, mid the
Lej)ido])ter((. The- prefdce discloses an error.
As a matter of fact the whole of the subject matter of the
Catalogue was collected, arranged, and classified before any por-
tion was submitted to the three gentlemen, whose assistance is
gratefully acknowledged in the preface. Professor Liversidge
read and corrected the final proof of the Chemistry section form-
ing pp. 48-51. Mr. De Vis supplied the class names given in
brackets after each new species named by Mr. Saville Kent or
by himself. Mr. Tryon read the two last proofs in pages of
Section 2435, Lepidoptera, and suggested several valuable
improvements afi'ecting the classification of species adopted
by the authors themselves. There is therefore no error to
disclose.
II. r. :2, lines '27-29.
The second entnj on the first jxKje oj' the Catalof/tw of Authors
reveals a stupid oinission 'of the title of n u-ork.
It may be some satisfaction to Mr. Thomson to know that,
notwithstanding his evident animus, this is the only error in the
Cataloarue which he is able to substantiate in his criticism of
twelve printed pages.
