77
III. P. 3, lines 13-14.
Tilt' prefnce of the irork is in itself iiiiideqwiti'.
The catalogue was compiled for the use of the International
Conference at London, for whom no explanation was necessary ;
from this body came the first application, through the Agent-
General, to the Premier for assistance in the matter ; but a short
preface was written to advise members of the Royal Society and
others of the causes which led to its production.
IV. P. 3, tines 33-35.
Only two (of the resolutions) have been puhlished in full in the
Queensland volume, by Mr. Shirley, and these, stranye to
say, have really no material beariny on the cltaracter of
the cataloyue.
As the material for the Queensland Catalogue was collected
by request of the International Conference, and for their use, it
was hardly necessary to quote to them their rules in full, but
those rules were quoted which showed that there was a discre-
tionary power to be exercised in the selection of material.
V. P. 3, lines 35-37 : p. 4, lines 1-16, 25-28.
Three of the most important ones of all have not been yiven.
They are as follows : —
" That the Cataloyue shall comprise all published oriyinal
contributions to the branches of science hereafter mentioned,
whether appeariny in periodicals, or in pxihlications of
Societies, or ((s indeyendent pamphlets, memoirs, or
books.''
** That in judyiny whether a jniblication is to be considered as
a contribution to science suitable for entry in the cataloyue,
reyard shall be had as to its contents, irrespective of the
channel thro7iyh which it is published.''
*' That a contribution to science for the purpose of tlir cataloyue
be considered to mean a contribution to the Matlieviaticalf
Physical or Xatural Scie7ices, just as, for e.vample,
Mathematics, Astronomy, Physics, Chemistry, Mineraloyy,
Geoloyy, Botany, Matltemutical and Physical (reoyraphy^
Zoology, Anatomy, Psycholoyy and Anthrojioloyy, to the
euclusion of ivhat are sometimes called the ajijdied
sciences — the limits of the several sciences to be determined,
hereafter."
