78 A REPLY TO " SOME CRITICAL NOTES, ETC."
As K iiKittcr of fart, tln're is not <i irord ahmit " rt'm'dirh irork "
in this rrsolution at nil, the ironls hcin;/ simpli/ unnereH-
sinilij Hsrd III/ Mr. Shiilcji for reasons htfst knoini to
/lilllSI'If.
In the rule first quoted by Mr. Thomson, the words
*' original contribution " form a term well understood in scientific
societies as meaning a distinct discovery, adding some item or
items to the sum total of scientific knowledge ; and the words
" research work " merely paraphrase this term. Mr. Thomson
has wholly misunderstood this first rule, which plainly debars all
extracts, summaries, and popular lectures from a place in the
catalogue.
The second rule quoted by him clearly proves that a selec-
tion as to quality must be made.
17. /'. 4, linrs 37-39.
" All jiroiluetions tlmt ilo not contain uriifinal or rrsinrcli
/re//," Jiiirr )iot Ix'fn rnlcti out lii/ n Ion;/ irai/.
I a. I " ('ontril)Uti(ins to tlic liiblioiirafihif of (rold."
This was written by Professor Liversidge as an appendix to
the " Bibliography of Gold," published in Locke's Gold (London,
18H2), a standard work ; it had been accepted and printed by the
Australasian Association.
til.) Xarratirc of an K.iphiration of the L'oen.
I am still of opinion that Captain Pennefather's notes as
supplied by him to Major Boyd are worthy of an entry.
! c. I T)i the Earlj/ Vaijs.
This is really a history of the colony as rescued from con-
temporary records, and the valuable information supplied was
judged to deserve mention.
( d. ) f^ite aniomi the Afijiians.
Mr. Thomson conceals the facts that on p. 22 there is
printed in brackets (Communicated by), and on p. 62 it is dis-
tinctly shown to be Dr. Gray's.
le.i Queensland Past and Present.
A statistical record of the material position and progress of
the colony, with the Government impress, stands on a different
level to a private production. As the work is published annually,
the last volume is the only one that needs mention. On receipt
of a copy of this work from Mr. Weedon, Mr. Thomson wrote
