72 MOSQUITOES AND MALARIA.
4. The blood corpuscle breaks up and the spores enter
the liquor sanguinis ;
5. Such spores as escape the phagocytes attq,ch themselves
to red corpuscles and enter thein ;
G. In the interior of the corpuscle the plasmodium exhibits
Amoeboid movements, and grows at the expense of the
hfpmoglobin ;
7. By assimilation they convert the haemoglobin into the
pale substance of the plasmodium and into melanin ;
8. Finally, just before sporulation all motion ceases.
STRUCTURE.
On staining, the plasmodial spore is found to consist of a
minute, deeply tinted nucleolus, surrounded by an unstained
vesicular nucleus,' and this again by a covering of protoplasm.
As the parasite grows and approaches maturity the nucleolus
disperses, and the vesicular nucleus becomes less distinct, finally
just before sporulation both nucleus and nucleolus cease to be
distinguishable.
MELANIN'.
The melanin particles occur either in dust-like specks, in
coarse grains, in short rods, or aggregated into dense clumps.
LATENT PHASE.
Concurrently with the subsidence of acute clinical symptoms,
the Plasmodium may disappear from the general circulation and
pass into a latent stage. This it does either spontaneously
or as the result of the action of quinine. The exact conditions
which cause latency are not known.
EXTRA CORPOREAL CYCLE FLAGELLATED BODIES.
When fresh malarial blood is examined under the micro-
scope, strange octopus-like creatures, the flagellated bodies
appear ; like the ordinary parasite they are of colourless proto-
plasm, with melanin granules, but they are furnished with one
to six whip-like arms, termed flagella. These arms, three or
four times as long as a blood corpuscle is broad, move with the
greatest rapidity, and they double up and distort the blood
corpuscles by their blows. Occasionally the flagella break away
and swim about freely.
Careful observation shows that the flagellated bodies are
developed from two forms of the extra-corpuscular parasite — in
