84 METHOD BY WHICH A PURK WATER SUPPLY, ETC.
I understand that some experiments have been made by the
Board of Water-works to filter the Enoggera water, but without
satisfactory results, owing to the excessive amount of organic
matter quickly choking the filters.
How does the Enoggera water become contaminated by
organic matter ? It is from the decomposition of Water-lilies
tXiiiniihdd <ii<iantea, Hook), Pond-weed {I/i/ihilln), microscopic
algse, protozoa, excrement of birds, and from leaves washed by
rains into the reservoir. The Enoggera water is rich in
microscopic life, it is this that gives the water a bad odour on
reaching Brisbane ; at the reservior it is free from bad smell ;
whilst in the pipes, in darkness and under pressure, the living
bodies die, and by the time they reach town are in a state of
decomposition.
Water-plants and fish have unfortunately been introduced
into the Enoggera reservoir ; the plants serve as food for various
insects *.//., the lavje of dragon -flies, and also for snails, and
these again serve as food for ducks and other aquatic birds, also
for fish ; the fish entice cormorants and water-rats, so that the
reservoir terms with life. Considerable areas are very shallow
and in these parts, not only do the water-weeds grow luxuri-
antly, but the water being comparatively still, and much warmer
than in the deeper portions, microscopic alga? grow to profusion.
The excrement of birds is not to be ignored as a factor
in contamination although, in the case of Enoggera, owing to
the great bulk of water, it is a minor one.
Recently in this district [Deception Bay] after a drought, a
fresh-water lagoon of about twenty acres in extent, two-thirds
of which is covered with the large Blue Water-lily, became the
resort of thousands of water-birds, the excrement of which,
together with the decomposition of water-lilies, increased the
impurity from Chlorine 6-0 grains per gallon.
Free Ammonia '00 | _ .,,.
.„ ••-1 A • of\ i Farts per million.
Albuminoid Ammonia -30 ) ^
to Chlorine 148-0 grains per gallon.
Free Ammonia "08 i ^ .„.
.,, • -1 A -I AA r Parts per million.
Albuminoid Ammonia 1*00 ) '^
The water in this lagoon generally is drinkable, although it
possesses a very distinct w^eedy taste ; recently it has become so
foul as to be little better than sewage.
