85
In another lagoon, near by, of great depth of water (8 to
BO feet), no water- weeds grew and no birds congregated, the
impurity was :—
Chlorine 2-0 grains per gallon.
Free Ammonia -00 ]
.,, • -n A • o< I Parts per million.
Albuminoid Ammonia •24 I ^
This water gets its organic impurity from the leaves of over-
hanging trees.
Now I have observed over and over again, not in Queens-
land alone, but in various other countries, that water-weeds,
rooting at the bottom, will not grow in fresh water rivers and
lakes provided there be no shallow parts, no parts less than six
ieet deep, and I have observed that where there are no water-
weeds there are no free alga-, neither will Duck-weed (Leunui)
and Azolla grow ; the waves soon cast on shore these floating
plants ; whether the same would apply to the Water Hyacinth is
doubtful.
On Stradbrook Island there are several large fresh-water
lakes with deep water (20 feet) free from water- weeds, fash and
birds ; the water is practically pure ; by preventing the leaves
from over-hanging trees entering the lakes, the water would
remain as pure as rain water in an ordinary galvanised iron
tank.
It is true that the large Water-lilies, particularly the yellow
one {Xui>har lutca H.K.), can grow in water up to ten feet, but
in order for them to do so, they must be well established in
shallow water and gradually creep into the deep water ; ten feet
seems to be about the limit at which they will grow.
When growing in water ten feet deep the slightest increase
in depth by rain causes them to die. If well rooted specimens
Tae sunk into water over six feet deep they will die, at any rate,
that is my experience.
It is manifest the-n that were a water reservoir constructed
so that no parts would be less than six feet deep, water-weeds
would not grow in it.
The Enoggera reservoir could be made to contain twice the
quantity of water it now does and the water would be pure.
Sooner or later the water-supply for Brisbane will have to be
augmented ; I believe the cheapest and best way to do this would
be by deepening the Enoggera reservoir. I suggest that the
