BY AMBROSE QUAIL, F.E.S. (lONDOn). 91
a slightly upward inclination. About half an inch from the
entrance was another bore, downwards, and again at the end of
the entrance burrow was another bore, downwards. These two
bores were 2^ inches long, and from the entrance to extremity of
the upward burrow Ih inches, altogether 6 inches of boring ^
inch in diameter. The larva was situated in the second bore at the
extremity of the entrance burrow, and fitted tightly into the
caviiy.
Turning now to the subject matter of this paper, the larval
structure. Larva half-grown length IJ inches, shape, tolerably
uniform, slightly tapering at anus, and two preceeding segments.
Colour, very like a strip of raw meat ; head very dark brown,
roughly striated ; pro-thorax dark red ; meso-thorax, red ; seg-
mental swollen areas pale flesh colour ; segmental incisions
deeply incised, composed of several small sub-segments, pinkish
red in colour ; tubercles pale brown, scarcely distinguishable
from the fleshy swellings apon which they are situated ;
spiracles, black rimmed ; hairs, dark brown ; legs, brown ;.
prolegs, pinkish.
The head is flatter in front than the Porinas, more striated,
and has several fine hairs, the segments much more swollen
areas, especially dorsally. The positions of the spiracles, of the
tubercles, and the number of hairs upon them are the important
features in the larval structure for the purpose of classification.
Number of segments, 14, including the head. Lateral aspect
under 1 inch objective.
Pro-thorax, dorsal plate {scutellum) scarcely distinguishable
from the fleshy segment. It has three single hairs on the anterior
edge, and in the middle of the lateral area of the plate is a
black concavity from within which rises a single hair. Below this
concavity is a single hair. The lateral edge curves upwards at the
posterior corner, and the spiracle is situate on the posterior area
of the segment within the curve of the dorsal plate. A large
anterior swelling above the leg has two hairs. The legs have
five hairs at, or above, the joints.
Meso-thorax consists mainly of two large sub-segments
(and several small situate in the incision), each bearing one hair
on the dorso-anterior edge. On the posterior sub-segment is
another hair below, the middle of the ventral area is swollen
and has two remote hairs. Below is a large fleshy swellings
