92 A FRAGMENTARY PAPER ON THE LARVA!., ETC.
bearing 1 hair, below which is a large tubercle, slightly posterior,
with one hair. Post thorax corresponds with meso-thorax, and
the legs on each with pro-thorax, no spiracles. Abdominal
segments : 1st situate on the large dorsal swollen areas of the
principal sub-segment are the two dorsal tubercles (anterior
trapezoidals) one on each side, separated by a thin median line
along the back. These have one hair. The posterior trapezoidals
are remote, smaller (more lateral) with one hair on the posterior
edge of the next sub-segment. Spiracle large, situate about f
down the anterior sub-segment (from the median line) on the
anterior edge if not actually on the intersegmental membrane ;
above the spiracle slightly posterior is a swollen area with a
tubercle bearing, one long, one short, hairs (supra spiracular
tubercle) ; immediately posterior to the spiracle is a large
swelling bearing two remote hairs ; below the spiracle is a large
swelling bearing one hair, and below this a sub-ventral swelling
bearing two hairs ; 2nd abdominal segment, corresponds with
1st except that on the large sub-spiracular swelling are two
scarcely distinguishable remote tubercles, each with one hair
(posterior and anterior sub-spiracular tubercles) ; 8rd abdominal
.segments, corresponds with 2nd except there is no sub-ventral
swelling, the pro-legs having instead four single hairs at the
base, the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, abdominal segments having pro-legs,
and correspond in other respects. 7th corresponds with 2nd ;
8th correspond with 7th ; 9th has the anterior trapezoidals small
and more remote than are the posterior trapezoidals, the supra-
spiracular tubercle is small and has only one hair, the latter and
three other tubercles (one hair each) are situate one below the
other on the posterior edge of the segment. 10th has three
single hairs above the anal fold and the leg has two single hairs
at base. Ventral aspect under one inch objective.
Immediately at the base of each leg of the thoracic
segments on the posterior ridge is a single hair ; 1st and 2nd
abdominal segments have four tubercles each, with one hair
each, arranged transversely (from side to side of segment) 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th, have one hair at the base of each pro-leg on inner
side. 7th has two tubercles at either side with one hair each,
arranged longitudinally. 8th has only the outer most tubercles,
and an inner hair marking the transverse position (as on 2nd)
of the tubercles. 9th has two single hairs only. 10th has
several hairs on inner side of claspers.
