BY HON. W. F. TAYLOR, M.D., M.L.C., D.P.H. 97
This Act is a most useful one, and while giving power on
the one hand for full inspection of meat and slaughter houses,
prevents on the other hand any harsh or arbitrary action on the
part of the inspector, and provides the means whereby butchers
and others may carry on slaughtering in premises peculiarly
adapted for the purpose. So far as I am aware, however, the
provisions of this Act have not yet come into operation ; at all
events no public abattoirs have been erected, so that Ave are, so
far as the slaughtering and inspection of meat for home con-
sumption are concerned, very much in the same position as
before the passing of this Act. There is one obstacle which no
doubt has influenced or prevented the Minister charged with the
administration of this Act from putting its provisions into
operation, and that is the difficulty in obtaining the services of
a staft" of qualified inspectors. When this Bill was before the
Legislative Council it was insisted on by some Honourable
Menjbers that the inspectors, having such extensive powers
conferred upon them, should be Veterinary Surgeons. This no
doubt would be very desirable if a sufficient number of duly
qualified Veterinary Surgeons could be obtained at a reasonable
salary ; but here was an obvious difficulty which could not be
very easily overcome— for granting that a sufficient number of
duly qualified Veterinary Surgeons could be obtained — the salary
required by each would render their employment prohibitive.
However, the assurance! was given that a number of intellicrent
fairly qualified inspectors were being educated locally, and that
in process of time a sufficient number of individuals would be
available as inspectors at a reasonable salary, and the difficulty
foreshadowed at the discussion on the Bill in the Legislative
Council would rapidly be removed and a staff of qualilied
inspectors soon be obtainable. I have thought it advisable to
go into this matter of the " Slaughtering Act of 1898 " to show
that ample power exists in this colony to carry out the erection
of public abattoirs, and to insure the efficient inspection of
meat ; it now remains to show in what way, if any, the
erection of public abattoirs would prevent the spread of
tubercular diseases. The effects of the tubercle bacillus may
become manifest in different parts of the human body, the
lungs, glands, brain, serous membranes, and bones being all
liable to its ravages, the part afiected depending to a great
extent on the mode of entrance of the bacillus. The larynx
