9K publk; abattoirs and the prevention, etc,
and lungs will be infected by inlialation of the bacillus, and
tuberculous material being swallowed will infect the intestines,
causing ulceration, and affecting subsequently the mesenteric and
other abdominal glands, and possibly the entire organism. Of
infection by food, such as milk, ample evidence is forthcoming,
and there can be no doubt from experiments carried out on the
lower animals that meat may be also a fertile source of danger.
In the report of the Royal Commission on Tuberculous of 1895
the following appears : — " We have obtained ample evidence
that food derived from tuberculous animals can produce tuber-
culosis in healthy animals. The proportion of animals con-
tracting tuberculosis after experimental use of such food is
different in one and another class of animals ; both carnivora
and herbivora are susceptible, and the proportion is high in pigs-
In the absence of direct experiments on human subjects, we
infer that man also can acquire tuberculosis by feeding upon
materials derived from tuberculous animals."
78. The actual amount of tuberculous disease among certain
classes of food-animals is so large as to afford to man frequent
occasions for contracting tuberculous disease through his food.
As to the proportion of tuberculosis acquired by man through
his food, or through other means, we can form no definite
opinion ; but we think it probable that a considerable part of
the tuberculosis that effects man is obtained through his food.
79. The circumstances and conditions with regard to the
tuberculosis in the food-animal which lead to the production of
tuberculosis in man are ultimately the presence of active tuber-
culous matter in the food taken from the animal and consumed
by man in a raw or insufficiently cooked state.
80. " Tuberculous disease is observed most frequently in
cattle and swine. . . . Tuberculous matter is but seldom
found in the meat substance of the carcase, it is principally
found in the organs, membranes, and glands. There is reason
to believe that tuberculous matter, when present in meat sold to
the public, is more commonly due to contamination of the
surface of the meat with material derived from other diseased
parts, than to disease of the meat itself. The same matter is
found in the milk of cows when the udder has become invaded
by tuberculous disease, and seldom or never when the udder is
not diseased. Tuberculous matter in milk is exceptionally active
