BY HON. W. F. TAYLOR, M.D., M.L.C., D.P.H. 101
meningitis, bone and joint disease — there is found an old lesion,
may be not larger than a pea, at the apex of one lung, in a
mesenteric gland — the glands below the jaw, or in the bronchial
glands — and there may be no lesion, old or recent, in the
mucous membrane of the alimentary tract to show the point of
absorption. These are cases in which the primary local lesion
has retrograded, but still remained infective, the infective
material being absorbed into the circulation, and conveyed to
the meninges, or to the joints and bones. In the other cases
careful research has not revealed any local lesion in the body,
and these must be cases in which the tubercle bacillus is
absorbed accidentally directly into the circulation."
Tuberculosis is very common among cattle, and swine, in
this and other countries, are very liable to it. Sheep and calves,
however, do not appear to be easily affected by it. The udders
of tuberculous cows are liable to become infected, and the milk
from these is a fertile source of infection to those who consume
it. Boiling the milk is the only safeguard ; but so many
persons, both children and adults, object to drinking boiled
milk, that the practice of boiling all milk before using it is by no
means an universal one. Neglect of this practice in the case of
the milk consumed by infants and young children is a common
cause of intestinal tuberculosis, usually called tabes mesenterica,
or abdominal phthisis. Cattle and swine being so liable to con-
tract tuberculosis, it is very necessary that all such killed for human
consumption should be properly inspected, and the only efficient
way to do this is to carefully examine the thoracix and abdominal
organs of the animals when killed — for although it may be, and
probably is true, that the flesh of tuberculous animals is in
most cases free from contamination, and may be safely eaten
when properly cooked, still cases do occur where the flesh
becomes contaminated by contact with diseased lungs or other
organs, and would therefore be a source of danger unless
properly cooked. In any case it is highly desirable that the
purchaser should know that he is buying the flesh of an animal
who may have had tuberculosis of the lungs or udder, so that he
may take such precautions respecting efficient cooking as will
minimise any risk of infection to those eating it. The carcase,
therefore, of an animal that has given evidence of tubercular
infection of any of the organs or glands should be duly labelled
and only sold as that of a tuberculous animal. I am decidedly
