102 PUBLIC ABATTOIRS AND THE PREVENTION, ETC.
of opinion, however, that in no case should the flesh of a
tuberculous animal be used for human food. We have seen
from the Report of the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis that
*' There is always a difficulty in making sure of the absence of
tuberculous matter from any part of the carcase that shows
evidence of tuberculosis," and we know that the system may
become generally infected from a tuberculous deposit, however
minute, which may have existed for months in a quiescent state
in any of the organs of the body. Is it right, therefore, to
assume that the flesh of such an animal is safe to use for
human food, no matter how well cooked? Again, the deeper
parts of meat are not, as a rule, thoroughly cooked — many
people like their meat underdone, and such underdone meat can
hardly be said to be quite safe and free from the risk of
infection. One argument in favour of the use of the flesh of
tuberculous animals is that it could be sold cheaper to the poorer
classes than the flesh of healthy animals. I am of opinion,
however, that if the flesh of tuberculous animals is to be used
at all for human food, it should only be used by those who are
in a position to have it well and thoroughly cooked, and who are
not living in crowded, ill-ventilated, and insanitary tenements,
as the poorer classes generally are, especially in our cities. In
other words, it is less risky, personally, for the better well-to-do
classes to consume meat of doubtful character than it is for
the poorer classes, and the danger to the community as a whole
trom one of the well-to-do classes becoming infected would be
less than it would be from one of the poorer classes, by reason
of the evironments of the one being so much better than that
of the other, the risk of contagion from an infected individual
being less in proportion to the degree of isolation, purity of
air, and sanitary condition of his surroundings, anl his
intelligent understanding of the various means by which the
infection may be propagated. Every individual infected with
tuberculosis is a source of contagion, and many become a centre
for the spread of the disease. It is necessary, therefore, if the
disease is to be controlled, if not stamped out, that every
probable or possible source of infection should be eliminated.
As the flesh of tuberculous animals may, and sometimes
admittedly does, become infected, it appears to me to be obvious,
that if tuberculosis is to be combatted suceessfully no loophole
of escape should be permitted it ; therefore, as the use of the flesh
