BY HON. W, F. TAYLOR, M.D., M.L.C., D.P.H. 103
of tuberculous animals is attended with some danger of infection
it should not be admitted as an article of human food. A rigid
inspection of every animal killed for human consumption should
be instituted, and on the discovery of tuberculous deposit in
any of the organs the carcase should be condemned. To permit
the whole or portions of the carcase to be used for human food
is, in my opinion, playing with the question of prevention of
tuberculosis, and the statement of the Royal Commission, which
I have quoted, goes far to prove this contention. If, therefore,
the flesh of tuberculous animals should under no circumstances
be used for human food, it follows that the inspection of the
animal to be thorough must be made under suitable conditions,
and every facility offered to the inspector for performing his
work properly and efficiently. It will be necessary, therefore, to
have the slaughtering done in as few places as possible, and at
certain fixed times, so that an inspector may be always present,
and have every facility for examining the internal organs for any
obvious disease, and when doubt may arise, the opportunity for
a microscopical examination of the tissues should be afforded.
The slaughter-house should be well lighted and ventilated, there
should be a plentiful supply of pure water, and the drainage
should be perfect. The addition of a cooling chamber is not
only very desirable, but a necessity, in order to preserve the
carcases during hot weather, pending a thorough microscopical
examination in suspected cases. The slaughter-house should be
divided into compartments, in order that each butchers' stock
may be kept separated, and there should be suitable conveyances
for the removal of the carcases to the different butchers' shops.
The modern abattoir fulfils all the necessary requirements
recommended, and is replete with conveniences which cannot
possibly exist in every small slaughter-house. The following is
a description of an abattoir which may be regarded as tolerably
up-to-date : — A square piece of ground, open on one side to the
public road and on the other side to a railway siding, so that
animals coming by road or rail could be readily admitted. The
chief entrance on the street would be for persons coming on
business. Cattle arriving by rail would be received into a number
of pens in the first instance, and be examined by a vetermary
inspector. If any were found to be diseased, they would be taken
to a place set apart for diseased animals. Pigs, if possible,
should have a bath, being made to walk through a cement tank
