104 PUBLIC ABATTOIRS AND THE PREVENTION, ETC.
containing water, so that they arrived clean at the lairs in which
they were to be kept. There should be separate lairs for the
sheep, swine, horned cattle, and calves, there being a little space
between the lairs and the abattoirs. The animals should be kept
in the lairs for a few days until wanted, and all properly marked,
so that each butcher would know his own cattle. In the abattoirs
every part should be kept perfectly clean, as well as everything
in the vicinity. The buildings could be made as ornamental as
desired, so that they would be an improvement to a locality, and
there should be nothing objectionable in or about them. The cattle
should be taken into the slaughter-hall with a mask over their
faces (blindfolded), and a spike fixed in the mask ready to be
driven with a mallet into their skulls. The slaughter-hall should
be a spacious building, open from end to end, a passage running
down the centre. On one side all animals could be slaughtered,
and the carcases hung up on the other side. When slaughtering
was in process the inspectors could walk up and down the central
passage, and special hooks should be provided on which to hang
the different viscera directly the animal was killed.
If the inspector was not satisfied, specimens of the meat
would be taken and examined microscopically ; if satisfied,
however, the meat would be stamped in every part. If the
butcher did not want the meat at once it could be run into the
cooling chamber and kept at a temperature of two or three
degrees above freezing point. There would be every convenience
of dealing with the meat without handling it. The adminis-
tration of the abattoir should be under a Veterinary Surgeon or
medical man.
Abattoirs, leading as they would to a more efficient
inspection of anmials than could possible be made in the case
of a number of private slaughter-houses, would benefit the
stock-owner by inducing him to try to eliminate tuberculosis and
other diseases from his stock, and thus improve the value of his
herd.
There would be an increased demand for meat from abattoirs
on account of the guarantee afforded of its freedom from disease.
This would benefit the butcher by increasing the sale of his
meat.
The losses of the butcher in close, hot weather would be
very much reduced, owing to his being able to keep his meat
