55^ PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
CORIARIA RUSCIFOLIA Feuill.
Sarmentose shrub, with flexible, pendent branches. Leaves sessile
or nearly so, ovate-lanceolate, punctate-acute, 5-7 cm. long, opposite,
sometimes in whorls of 3-4. Flowers racemed. Fleshy petals about the
fruit are azure. Height 1-3 meters; a poisonous plant.
(New Zealand, Kermadec, and Chatham I.; Chili) ; Chubut, rare in shrub-
beries near Carren-leofu and Bolson. The fleshy petals yield a wine to
the natives of New Zealand ; whilst the fruit is poisonous.
Family 62. ANACARDIACE^E. Sumach Family.
Trees or shrubs, with acrid sap, and mostly alternate, exstipulate, simple
or compound leaves, without pellucid dots, the petioles often winged ; and
regular, sometimes diclinous flowers. Calyx 3-7-cleft. Petals 3-7, hy-
pogynous, or none. Stamens as many as the petals, or differing, inserted
on a hypogynous disk. Ovary in staminate flowers i-celled; in the pis-
tillate flowers 4-5-celled, Styles 1-3. Ovtt/es i in each cell. Fruit a
small drupe. Rndosperm scanty or none.
Species 400, most in warm regions.
SCHINUS Linn.
Leaves simple or odd-pinnate. Flowers small, white, dioecious, in pan-
icles. Stamens 10. Female flower with fine staminodes, i-celled; style
3-branched or i ; ovule pendulous. Drupe globular, chartaceous.
Species 12, in warm parts of S. Amer.
i. S. CRENATUS (Phil.) Engl.
Branches short, cinereous. Leaves elliptic, varying, mostly acute both
ways, crenate upwards, with prominent midrib and immersed lateral
nerves. Racemes shorter than the leaves ; bracteoles semiovate, margi-
nally ciliate ; pedicels slender. Calyx-lobes ovate ; petals thrice as long,
oblong. Ovary subglobose ; styles distinct, with 3-lobed capitate stigma.
(Chilian Cordilleras); Patagon., Chubut, in mountain woods.
2. S. DEPENDENS Orteg. (Duvatta prcecox Gris.) Incense-bush.
Leaves simple. Flowers 4~5-merous ; styles united. Stamens unequal.
Many varieties with the leaves differing, from broad to narrow, or reduced
to the sagittate petiole. (Fig. 104 in Eng. & Prantl, iii, 5, p. 163.)
