566 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS : BOTANY.
9. DISCARIA MAGELLANICA (Miers sub Notoph<zna\
Unarmed, finely pubescent ; with short internodes. Young leaves ovate-
oblong, obtuse at both ends, entire, or obscurely dentate, 5-6 mm. long.
Flowers 4-merous ; the young 2 mm. long, on peduncles as long.
W. Magellan, on Cordilleras.
10. D. SERRATIFOLIA (Vent).
Armed with coarse spines ; leaves few, about as long as the internodes
(2 cm.), oblong to linear-oblong; apically emarginate and mucronulate ;
attenuate downwards, shortly serrate-toothed, the teeth glandular ; blade
thickish and nerveless. Intrapetiolar stipules confluent into a ring.
Flowers 1-2, axillary, crowded, 5-merous, shorter than the peduncles.
(Chili, cultivated) Patagon., to the Antarctic region.
4. COLLETIA Comm.
Branches decussating, spinescent. Calyx-tube much produced above
the disk ; petals and stamens inserted in its throat. Ovary immersed in
the disk, becoming a dry coriaceous tricoccous drupe ; drupelets dehiscing.
Leafless or with minute, opposite, deciduotts leaves, and stiptdes not trans-
versely joined. Flowers 4-6-merous, below the spines on nodding,
i -flowered peduncles.
Species 13, chiefly in extratropical S. Amer. (Fig. in Eng. & Prantl,
iii, 5, 422, A. B.) C. spinosa Lam. of S. Brazil, has wood with purgative
sap, from which an alcohol is prepared as a medicine for intermittent
fevers.
i. C. DONIANA Gay. (Ochetophila trinervis Poepp.)
A tree with rather dense crown. Glabrous, branching, with long, leafy,
horizontal branchlets. Leaves opposite, ovate-elliptical, erect, attenuate
to the petiole, apically obtuse, or mucronate, entire, pale underneath,
3-nerved. Stipules small, lanceolate. Flowers solitary in the axils, or
fascicled, on short peduncles. Cocci smooth, cleft by a median slit.
N. Patagon., by Rio Negro, and near Rio Colorado. "One of our ex-
amples had spines i cm. long in the axils of the decussate leaves ; the
others had none." (Nied. & Lor.) In mountain shrubberies by Lago
Nahuel-huapi.
