MACLOSKIE I FRANKENIACE/E. 579
appendage to the claws. Stamens mostly in 2 series of 3 each ; anthers
versatile. Ovary i -celled ; 2-4 parietal or basal placenta:. Style branched.
Seeds numerous, with endosperm.
Species 34, on dry or saline wastes of warm climates.
KEY TO THE GENERA.
1. Hermaphrodite. Anthers versatile extrorse, didymous. Petals broad with a ligular appen-
dage inside. Placentae all ovuliferous. Leaves fleshy. i. Frankenia.
2. Polygamo-moncecious. Anthers introrse. Petals spatulate, with no ligula. Placenta: 3,
only i ovuliferous. Leaves ericoid. 2. Niederleinia.
1. FRANKENIA Linn.
Flowers hermaphrodite and 5-merous. Petals with an extra tongue-
formed lamina. Stamens usually in two series of 3, the outer smaller;
anthers versatile-extrorse. Fruit trigonal, ovate-pyramidal, long, all its
3 placenta; with seeds.
Subgenus Afra is in Africa, Spain and Canaries ; subgenus Oceania in
Australasia and S. W. America, and northward to California.
I. F. CHUBUTENSIS Speg.
Glabrous perennial, prostrate, from a woody caudex. Old branches
naked, thickish, subtetragonal, decussately nodulose. Innovations sub-
herbaceous, tetragonal ochraceous-green ; internodes long, branching
dichotomously or unilaterally. Branchlets densely leafy ; leaves decus-
sate, connately sheathing, small, elliptic-ovate, obtusish, rather fleshy, punc-
tate, revolute. Flowers at the forks or bases of branches, sessile and
solitary. Calyx pentagonal-subtubular, 5-toothed ; petals white, spatulate,
twice as long. Stamens 6, exsert. Style long, trifid. Stigmas clavulate.
Capsule ovate, 3-valved, about 9-seeded.
S. Patagon., at Kuan-aike near Rio Chico.
2. F. PATAGONICA Speg.
A prostrate shrub, with nude, ascending branches, and decussate, dis-
tant branchlets. Leaves on the branchlets quadrifariously irpbricate, very
minute, fleshy, obovate, glabrous. Flowers subspicate-capitulate, rather
large. Petals white, long-exsert.
Patagon., rare near the sea in gravel by Golfo de San Jorge. (Genus
Frankenia is chiefly Australian ; but it is represented in all the Conti-
