588 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
Flowers solitary, apical ; petals in the lower part broad-unguiculate. Scales
dorsally ecarinate, anteriorly deeply excised; the lobes resulting thick-
edged, making smaller lobes. Ovary inferior.
S. Patagon., by Lago Argentine, at Karr-aike, etc.
6. LOASA PROSTRATA Gill.
Covered by long, stinging hairs. Stem prostrate, flexuose. Leaves
opposite, sessile, cordate-ovate, deeply angular. Pedttnc/es axillary, i-
flowered, twice as long as the leaves. Calyx-lobes lanceolate, as long as
the petals, longer than the fruit. Capsule with long, rigid hairs. Seeds
ovoid, large, smooth.
Chili and N. Patagon. "I am somewhat doubtful as to this being in
N. Patagon. The species of Loasa are variable, with their limits ill-
defined." (J. Ball.)
7. L. SPEGAZZINII. (L. patagonica Speg., non U. & G.)
Annual ? Stem short, thick, attenuate both ways, subsimple, with lax
epidermis, leafy below, naked upwards. Leaves with long or short
petioles, subcordate-ovate, deeply 3-partite, the segments mostly 3-lobed.
Lobes of the lower leaves short, broad, obtuse ; of the upper leaves nar-
row, rather long, acute. Flowers few at the apex of the stem, nodding,
short-pediceled, whitish-yellow. Scales of corolla obovate-cochleate, en-
tire, bearing dorsally 3 linear, acute, entire appendages, arising from near
the base. Staminodes 2, spatulate-linear, laterally compressed, enclosed
by the appendages and each with a shorter, subapical appendage.
Patagon., in shrubberies by Rio Sta. Cruz, and near Golfo de San
Jorge. 3-30-40 cm. tall.
8. L. TRICOLOR Lam. ?
Very hispid annual. Stem erect. Uppermost leaves sessile. Leaves
opposite, basicordate, many-lobed ; the lobes acute-dentate, the lower lobes
often pinnatifid. Pedicels axillary. Calyx-lobes oblong, acuminate, as
long as the petals, which are reflexed, yellow, their base with the scales red.
(Chili) ; N. Patagon., near Lago Nahuel-huapi.
9. L. VOLUBILIS Juss.
Stem twining. Leaves alternate or opposite, bipinnatifid ; the ultimate
lobes linear, obtuse. Flowers on terminal and axillary peduncles. Calyx-
