MACLOSKIE CACTACEyE. 595
5. OPUNTIA SULFUREA Gill.
Joints erect, subglobose, bright green. Cushions crowded. Spines of 2
forms, from a pallid tomentum ; the upper setaceous, black-purple, minute,
the lower 6-12, long, acicular, white, with purplish apex; the central one
longest.
(Central provinces of Chili); N. Patagon., common by Rio Negro.
(Spegazzini refers to 2 other undescribed species, one by Rio Sta.
Cruz, the other by Lago Argentine.)
5. MAIHUENIA Phil.
Low, almost shrubs, of habit of Opuntia, branched, forming large
masses, with arrow-shaped, caducous or subpersisting leaves, and areoles
having wool, but no glochidia. Spines sagittate, round. Flowers short-
stalked, from a subterminal areole; regular, not large. Ovary pitted,
leafy, and woolly, the wool from the axils of the leaves. Ovules
numerous. Perianth radiate, without a tube ; stamens shorter ; and style
still shorter. Berry soft. Seeds nearly lens-shaped, shining, black.
Species 6, Chili and Argentina. Allied to Pereskia by its seeds and
absence of glochidia ; to Opuntia by its habit.
1. M. PHILIPPI Web.
Root thick, sending from its crown many branches which make a pul-
viniform mass, 10-20 cm. diam. Branchlets green, subglobose. Older
areoles foveoliform, emitting 3 spines, a central flat spine 10-15 mm -
long and smaller laterals, all white, paler apically. Leaves numerous at
end of branches, subpersistent, cylindraceous, green. Flowers sessile on
the extremity of the branch, 30 mm. long, green to white-rose, with scales
and often setulae upwards ; inner petals white.
N. Patagon., in mountains at Neuquen ; native name Espina blanca.
2. M. POEPPIGII Web.
Shrub-like ; profusely branching, prostrate, forming cespitose masses,
pale green. Spines solitary, subulate, about 2 cm. long, yellowish.
Leaves cylindraceous, i cm. long, often persisting. Areoles circular,
1-1.5 mm - diam. Flowers sulphur-yellow. Berry subovoid, 4 by 2 cm.
Patagon., Chubut on dry rocks near Trelew.
