602 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
C2. Sepals reflexed in the bud. Filaments flat, insensibly passing to the connective which
exceeds the anthers. Peduncles i -flowered. Flower often 4-merous.
I. Ugni, p. 602.
b2. Embryo with very short radicle and large, thick cotyledons. 4. Eugenia, p. 604.
A2. Fruit a dry, loculicidal capsule. Placentae basal. Solitary flowers, with protruding, versatile
anthers. 6. Tepualia, p. 605.
1. UGNI Turcz.
Shrubs like Myrtle, with solitary, axillary flowers. Sepals linear,
reflexed even in the bud. Petals 5, subglobular. Filaments short, flat,
insensibly passing into the connective which bears the anther on its inner
face. Style i, exceeding the stamens; stigma capitellate. Bracts 2,
linear, close to the flowers, like extra sepals.
Species n, Andine.
U. UGNI (Mol). (Myrtus ugni Molina, 1828; Ugni molince Turcz;
Eugenia ugni Hook. & Arn.)
Low, -red, musky shrub, with warty branches because of leaf-scars. Leaves
petiolate, coriaceous, ovate-oblong, acute, apiculate, revolute, not dotted,
white underneath, veins obscure. Peduncles glabrous, recurved-patent,
as long as the leaf.
(Chili and Bolivia; "uni" is the Indian name); W. Patagon. and
Chonos Archipelago. (Fig. in Eng. & Prantl, iii, 7, p. 65, C-F.)
The name Ugni tnolince cannot stand, as it violates the law of specific
priority. It is under protest that we amend it into the duplex form given
above. In all such cases we suggest that priorities and decency may both
be conserved by simply inverting the name first given ; calling it Ugni
myrtus (Mol.). But we do not venture on such an innovation here.
2. MYRTEOLA Berg.
Dwarf shrubs, with axillary flowers and partially i -celled ovary, and 2-4
parietal, intruding placenta, and broad-capitate stigma; otherwise as
Myrtus.
Species 8, chiefly Andine.
M. NUMMULARIA (Poir.) Berg.
Low, spreading, glabrous, with wiry stem and branches. Peduncle i-
flowered, shorter than the leaf, 2-bracted under the flower. Flower 4-fid
