MACLOSKIE I HALORAGIDACE/E. 617
4. MYRIOPHYLLUM TERNATUM Gaudich. (Var. of M. elatinoides?}
Monoecious. Leaves ternate, the lower deeply pinnatifid, with capillary
lacinice, the upper undivided, oblong, entire. Upper flowers male ; lower
pistillate.
(Chili); S. Patagon.; RioChico; Fuegia; Falklands.
5. M. VERTICILLATUM Linn.
Monoecious. Submersed leaves in whorls of 3 and 4 ; dissected into
very fine capillary divisions. Floral leaves pectinately divided, much ex-
ceeding the flowers. Petals of the male flowers purplish.
(Eurasia and N. Amer.); Fuegia.
2. GUNNERA Linn.
Scapigerous perennials, with creeping rhizome and mostly radical, alter-
nate, petiolate, broad leaves, and spiked to panicled, hermaphrodite or
unisexual flowers. Calyx-tube ovoid or compressed, its lobes 2-3, or
often in the male flowers none. Petals none or 2, cucullate. Stamens
1-2. Ovary i -celled, with i pendulous ovule. Fruit a coriaceous or
fleshy drupe. Embryo minute, remote from the hilum, and inverted.
Species 17, characteristic of the regions from Chili to Tasmania and
New Zeal.; also in Fernandez, New Granada, Brazil, Hawaii, S. Africa
and Java. (Not reported from Australia.)
i. G. CHILENSIS Lam.
Leaves orbicular-reniform, 5-i3-lobed, lobes ovate-acute, irregularly
toothed, petioles scabrous, hairy above, pilose on the nerves underneath.
Stipules numerous in the leaf-axils. Scape usually shorter than the
leaves. Spikelets approximate. Calyx 2-toothed.
Perennial in humid places from Caraccas (Lat. i o N. ) by the Andes to Chili
and Magellan. Sometimes to 2 meters high, and cultivated ; " amongst
the largest of Dicotyledonous vegetables." (J. D. Hooker.) Often with
colonies of Nostoc within its stem. "The Panke somewhat resembks
rhubarb on a gigantic scale. The inhabitants cut the stalks, which are
subacid, tan leather from the roots, and procure a black dye from it.'
(C. Darwin.)
N. Patagon., mountain streams near Lago Nahuel-huapi. (Fig. in Eng.
& Prantl, iii, 7, p. 235, f. 106; p. 228); W. Patagon. in valley of Rio
Aysen; to Ultima Esperanza. (Dusen.)
