628 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
Patagon.; Puerto Deseado, Magellan, Falklands. N. and E. Fuegia.
(Dusen, "a characteristic steppe-plant")
7. AZORELLA FILAMENTOSA Lam.
Lax cespitose. Stems branching, the branches crowded, occasionally
elongate. Leaves linear-lanceolate, subspatulate, subcymbiform, their
margins reflexed, entire, ending in an equi-long petiole which is sheath-
ing and ciliate at base. Umbels short-pedunculate, 6-8-flowered. Fruit
ovate, subterete ; mericarps dorsally convex, 5~ridged.
Magellan, S. Patagon., at mouth of Rio Gallegos (Dusen) ; through
Fuegia to Cape Horn; Falklands. "A steppe-plant; not very common
throughout Fuegia and the Falkland Is. Gaertner saw specimens in the
Banksian Herbarium with 3 carpels."
8. A. FUEGIANA Speg.
Lax, cespitose, green. Petioles crowded, long-slender, arcuately spread-
ing, glabrous, basi-amplexicaul, long-pectinate-laciniate, ciliate ; their limbs
flat, triangular-cuneate, entire, truncate, 3-lobed or 3-toothed, the lobes
ending in a cilium. Umbels long-peduncled.
Magellan, S. Patagon., Rio Gallegos ; Lago Argentine ; Fuegia, Greg-
ory Bay and S. Fuegia.
9. A. GLEBARIA (Comm. sub Bolax] A. Gray. (A. gummifera Franch.
non Poir, A. ccespitosa Vahl). Bolax.
Perennial, cespitose herb. Leaves imbricate, trifid, glabrous, coriaceous,
the lobes ovate, obtuse ; petioles suberose-membranaceous, not marginally
ciliate. Umbel simple, subsessile, 4-flowered. Involucral leaves 4, equal-
ling the pedicels. Calyx-teeth obscure. Young fruit stellately pubescent.
Patagon., from 41 S. southwards to Cape Horn. W. Patagon., Falk-
lands. "Not common in the steppes, save southwards; but near the for-
ests. It forms bolax or balsam-bogs inland, hemispherical hillocks of
pale yellowish-green, so hard that one may break his knuckles on them.
If the day be warm they emit a faint aromatic smell, and drops of a viscid
white gum flow from them. They grow from the outward shoots, the
very old ones decaying near the ground. One mass is the product of a
single seed, and the result of many, perhaps hundreds of years' growth.
In growing, branches radiate regularly outwards from the rooting center ;
