MACLOSKIE: PRIMULACEVE. 651
Magellan ; Fuegia to Cape Horn, Falklands, by Hatcher in S. Patagon.,
near Rio Sta. Cruz.
Not found in the Rain-forest zone, nor in the Andes. " The Falkland
Is. specimens are more normal than those at Magellan or in Fuegia. The
species is not found elsewhere in S. America, nor in N. America save
in the Arctic regions and in the Mountains of Colorado. Thus it has
passed a gap of many thousands of miles to reach the two stations of
Magellan and the Falklands."
2. ANDROSACE Linn.
Low herbs, with tufted, basal leaves, and terminal, involucratc, simple
umbels of small, white or yellow flowers. Calyx 5-lobed ; stamens in-
serted in the very short corolla-tube; filaments and anthers short.
Stigma capitellate. Capsiile 5-valved.
Species 50, chiefly European. (Figs. E, F, in Eng. & Prantl, iv, i, p.
109.)
i. A. OCCIDENTALIS Pursh.
Minutely pubescent, 20 mm. high, with root 25 mm. long. Acaules-
cent, with slender root, and open rosulate circle of oblong-ovate or spatu-
late, sessile leaves; and naked scapes bearing each an involucrate umbel
of small, white or pink flowers. Calyx persistent, obpyramidal, 5-cari-
nate, its 5 lobes twice as long as the ripe capsule. Corolla small, hya-
line, its lobes truncate, notched. Involucral bracts resembling the basal
leaves.
(Mountains of Colorado to New Mexico); S. Patagon., at Coy Inlet, by
J. B. Hatcher. There is a characteristic yellow band crossing the flowers
on the dark-green involucre-leaves and the similarly colored calyx-seg-
ments. (G. M.)
2. A. SEPTENTRIONALIS Linn.
Stemless. Leaves rosulate, lance-ovate, denticulate, subciliate, vari-
ously entire or toothed or pinnatifid, sometimes narrowing to a winged
petiole. Scapes numerous, each many-flowered, the young pilose, after-
wards glabrous. Involucre minute, its bracts lanceolate, acute. Pedicels
long, filiform. Calyx campanulate, scarcely 5-cleft, with acuminate seg-
ments. Corolla limb small, just exceeding the calyx, its lobes obtuse.
(Eurasia, mountains and Arctic; N. Amer., Arctic and North-west); S.
Patagon., by Golfo de San Jorge.
