652 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
3. SAMOLUS Linn. Brook-weed.
Glabrous perennials, with entire, alternate or rosulate leaves, and small
white or purplish, perigynous /lowers, mostly racemed. Stamens nearly
always with 5 intermediate rudiments.
Species 10, widely distributed, especially in S. Africa and Australia;
few in N. Amer., W. Indies, S. Amer. and N. Zeal. S. valerandi Linn.,
is almost cosmopolitan in temperate climates.
i. S. LITTORALIS Brown.
Stem branching, the branches procumbent, leafy. Leaves spatulate-
ovate to lance-linear, decreasing upwards, submucronate, entire, the lower
slightly petioled. Flowers axillary at the ends of the branches ; pedicels
bractless, inflexed, twice as long as the leaf. Calyx half as long as the
corolla, its segments narrow, acuminate.
(Austral., New Zeal.; Chili; Chonos Archip.); Patagon., Cape Tres
Montes.
2. S. SPATHULATUS (Cav.) Duby. (Plate XXI.)
Leaves radical, rosulate, spatulate, terminally very broad and obtuse,
or nearly obcordate. Flowers racemose, with a linear, acute bractlet close
to each flower. Corolla twice as long as the calyx. Staminal rudiments
subulate, shorter than the included stamens.
S. Patagon., by Puerto Deseado, in moist localities; at Gregory Bay;
by Hatcher in Valley of Rio Sta. Cruz, flowering Jan. 10. Fuegia.
4. LYSIMACHIA Linn. Loosestrife.
Erect or creeping herbs, with opposite or alternate or whorled leaves,
and axillary or terminal inflorescences. Calyx and corolla 5-6-partite,
hypogynous. Stamens 5-6, on base of corolla-tube, the filaments bearded
and often uniting below, and anthers obtuse ; sometimes with staminodes.
Capsule subglobular, not circumscissile. Style filiform, with obtuse stigma.
Seeds few or many, half-anatropous.
Species 60, chiefly in temperate regions ; some in Australia, S. Amer.,
and Polynesia.
I. L. MARGINATA n. S. (Fig. 84.)
Dwarf annual, with long, filiform roots and short stems, bearing alter-
nate subsessile, entire, elliptical, glabrous leaves, 5 by 4 mm., subcus-
