654 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS! BOTANY.
ANAGALLIS ALTERNIFOLIA DENSIFOLIA.
Leaves and stem smaller and more crowded than in the species. More
succulent. Capsule larger.
Magellan, Staaten Is. ; Falklands.
Family 86. PLUMBAGINACE^;. Leadwort Family.
Herbs, with regular 5-merous, sympetalous or choripetalous flowers;
stamens equal and opposite to the lobes of the corolla ; ovary superior,
i -celled, 5~3-styled. Fruit with one pendulous seed on a long funicle
arising from the base. Seed endospermous.
The priorities compel us, following Britton & Brown, to include under
the genus Statice forms with unbranched scapes, hairy styles and narrow
leaves, reducing Armeria to its original status as a specific name ; and
Limonium as a genus will include the forms with branched scape, smooth
styles, and broad leaves.
i. STATICE Linn., 1753. (Armeria W., 1809, in Gray's Manual, in
Benth. & Hook, and in Eng. & Prantl.) Seapink, Thrift.
Tufted, fleshy herbs, with slender, mostly naked, simple scapes, with
narrow, basal, rosulate leaves, and dense, terminal heads of small, subses-
sile flowers, having scarious bracts and bractlets ; the lower bracts form-
ing an involucre, 2 of them reflexed and partly united. Calyx funnelform,
lo-ribbed, 5-toothed. Petals 5, separate or connate. Stamens on the
base of the petals. Styles filiform, hairy, united below. Utricle 5-pointed.
Species 20, Europe, and around the Mediterr. and N. and S. Amer.
i. S. ARMERIA Linn. (Armeria vulgaris^N., A. andina Poepp.)
Glabrous. The root sending up few, very turgid, leafy-sheathed rosules ;
leaves fleshy, linear, as broad as the scape, or broader, plane, obtuse,
i -nerved. Scapes tall, thick. Involucral leaves broad, black, the lowest
triangular-lanceolate, acute often equalling the inner, which are obtuse
and broadly margined.
(Calif, and higher Chilian Andes) ; Magellan., Port Famine ; S. Patagon.
by J. B. Hatcher at Rio Sta. Cruz, Dec. 30, 1896 (the involucral leaves
light brown) ; by O. A. Peterson at Rio Coy, Dec. 13.
