684 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS : BOTANY.
5. VERBENA BONARIENSIS Linn.
Stem strict, tetragonal, scabrid to subvillous, naked upwards. Leaves
lanceolate, acutely subauriculate, adnate-amplexicaul, the upper part
incised-serrate, revolute, the veins and rugae hirsute. Panicle terminal,
fastigiate, consisting of long-stalked cymes, these consisting of dense cylin-
drical spikes. Bracts lanceolate-acuminate, at least equalling the calyx,
which is hispidulous on the angles. Flowers rose or violet.
(Amer. tropics ; and grassy plains of Bonaria ; in damp ground ; also in
S. Africa) ; N. Patagon., in Valleys of Rio Colorado and Rio Negro.
6. V. CARROO Speg. (Plate XXIII.)
Virgate shrub, 12 meters high, blackish, gloomy, with thick, erect
branches, everywhere quadrifariously branching, the branchlets small abor-
tive, glomeruliform, tetragonally stellate, densely leafy-imbricate ; this year" s,
branches, simple, patent, erect, leafy, with branchlets. Leaves glabrous,
dimorphous, all minute ; this year's sessile, opposite, amplexicaul, tripar-
tite, the lobes divaricate, pungent, segments entire, margin revolute, cari-
nate at the nerve, being black-purplish or castaneous ; last year's breaking
up and bearing glomeruliform branchlets. Leaves of abortive branchlets
quadrifariously and densely imbricated, simple, ovate-linear, obtuse, shin-
ing ; their margin entire revolute.
Spikes, terminal on this year's branches, black-castaneous, i or few,
sessile, cylindraceo-capitate, compact. Bracts opposite, leaf-like, trifid, i-
flowered. Flowers sessile, fragrant. Calyx campanulate, obliquely trun-
cate, 5-toothed, the 2 front teeth evolute. Corolla white or pink, pubes-
cent outside and in the throat; limb spreading, 5-lobed. Stamens 4,
inserted at upper third of tube. Style simple. Ovary glabrous or puber-
ulous.
S. Patagon., by Rio Sta. Cruz and R. Gallegos. " Carroo of the Tehuel-
che natives ; of extraordinary habit. Referred by Philippi to V. tridens
Lag." (Speg.). By Peterson at Rio Sta. Cruz. " Mate negra," abundant
and used for fuel. (J. B. Hatcher.)
7- V. CHAM/EDRIFOLIA JuSS.
Stems filiform, dichotomously branching, creeping, hirt, the apex and
branches ascending. Leaves oblong or ovate, broadly basi-cuneate, con-
tracted to a short petiole, crenate or incised-serrate, strigose above, hirt
