692 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
4. LIPPIA NODIFLORA (L.) Michx.
Creeping, short, appressed, dense hairs. Leaves thickish, spatulate to
obovate, serrate toward their apex, entire and cuneate toward their base.
Peduncles slender, many times exceeding the leaves, arising from the
nodes. Heads ovoid. Calyx flat, 2-cleft. Corolla purple to white.
(In warm parts of United States and W. Indies; and in all tropical
sandy sea-coasts.) N. Patagon., by Roca Exped.
5. L. SERIPHIOIDES A. Gray.
Intricately branching, scabrid shrub. Leaves minute (2-5 mm. long),
fasciculate, linear-spatulate or cuneate, usually 3-lobed, revolute. Heads
globose, at length elongating, solitary or racemed from short axillary
peduncles. Bracts ovate, shorter than the bifid calyx. Anthers often
with glandular appendages.
N. Patagon., by Rio Negro ; S. Patagon., at Puerto Madryn. (Dusen).
The characteristic species of Patagonia, not extending far beyond its
boundaries; "Tomillodel campos" (Span.), "Loom" (Araucan.). Used
as Thyme for flavoring, and its infusion as medicine.
(L. citnodora (Lam.) Kunth., also known as Aloysia, and as Verbena
triphylla, a stiff, branching shrub, with whorls of 3-4 leaves, and panicled
spikes of flowers, is a garden favorite on account of its fragrance. Being
a native of Chili, it may occur in North Patagonia.)
4. MONOPYRENA Speg.
Calyx tubular, 5-costate, 5-dentate, in fruit changing or scarcely accres-
cent ; corolla-tube straight, little enlarged upwards, limb patent, obscurely
2-labiate ; lobes 5, obtuse or retuse, the posterior external, the anterior
internal. Stamens 4, didynamous, inserted above the middle of the
retrorsely hispid tube ; anthers ovate, the upper pair produced to a cla-
vate appendage ; the lower pair not appendaged ; the cells subparallel.
Ovary superior, entire, even in anthesis perfectly 4-celled ; cells i-ovulate.
Style short, subtruncate, emarginate ; ovules fixed laterally near the base.
Fruit enclosed in the calyx, dry, quite glabrous, not separating (2 of its
pyrenes usually abortive), with an interrupted lacunula. Seeds linear,
erect, with thin testa.
Distinguished from Lippia by the cells of the pyrene being 2 ; from
Verbena by the pyrenes not separating.
