694 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
2. RHAPHITHAMNUS PARVIFOLIUS Miers.
Lower (4 m.) than last, with smaller leaves and shorter branches.
Leaves mostly ternate, ovate-oblong, gradually acute from their middle,
much dotted, not revolute. Spines few, exceeding the leaves. Axillary
racemes, about 3-flowered. Flowers pale blue. Drupe smaller than a
pea.
(Chili & Is.) ; Valdivia, by Rio Negro.
Family 98. LABIATE. Mint Family.
Herbs or shrubs (or rarely tropical trees), with quadrangular stems and
opposite leaves, mostly aromatic. Flowers axillary in the upper leaves ;
usually in cymes or verticillasters, often forming a terminal spike or
thyrse. Perianth zygomorphous, sympetalous, bilabiate. Stamens 4,
didynamous, or only 2 ; epipetalous. Ovary superior, deeply 4-lobed ;
the style arising from its central depression, simple, apically bifid. Fruit
enclosed in the persistent calyx, separating into 4 small, i -seeded achenes.
Seeds with scanty or no endosperm.
Species 3,000, widely distributed in temperate and warm climates.
KEY TO THE GENERA.
(The Patagonian genera have the style completely gynobasic ; dry nutlets with thin pericarp,
basilar, or rarely basi-dorsal, attachment, and usually small stigma.)
A. Seed more or less transversal. Embyro with curved radicle lying on one of the cotyledons.
Mature calyx not urceolate, bipartite and a deciduous protuberance on its dorsal surface.
Its anterior segment persists. I. Scutcllaria, p. 695.
A2. Seed erect. Embryo with straight, short, superior radicle. Disk -lobes when present alter-
nating with fruit-lobes. Nutlets with small, basilar attachment.
b. Filaments ascending, or diverging and straight.
c. Corolla-tube usually included by the calyx ; stamens and style included ; nutlets ovoid,
rounded above. Dorsal lip of corolla specialized. Calyx 5-io-toothed. Anthers
diverging ; the pollen sacs ultimately fusing by their apex. Cymes axillary.
2. Marrubium, p. 695.
c2. Corolla-tube usually not included ; and stamens not included in the corolla-tube.
Calyx 5 -toothed, or 2 -lipped with the lower lip at least toothed. Anther-lobes
parallel or diverging, long or ovoid, but not fusing apically, and not spreading wide
after shedding their pollen.
d. Corolla strongly 2-lipped ; the upper lip concave, partly sickle or helmet-shaped
Anthers ovoid. Stamens 4, the dorsal pair shorter.
c. Calyx short-tubular, obscurely ribbed, 2-lipped, the lips short, entire. Corolla
exsert, with broad tube ; its upper lip broad-ovate, retuse ; its under lip 3-
lobed, the mid lobe twice as large as the side lobes, hairy inside. Stamens
