MACLOSKIE : SOLANACEyE.
701
Shrub, with densely intricate branches, more or less thick and densely
nodulose ; the nodules tuberculiform, elliptical. Leaves fasciculate, linear-
spatulate, obtuse, their base long-cuneate, sessile. Flowers few-gregarious
or solitary in the leaf-fascicles. Pedicel glabrous, just exceeding the small
calyx. Corolla lilac, broad funnelform, at least four times as long as the
calyx. Style long, exsert.
S. Patagon., by Lago Argentine.
2. LYCIUM AMEGHINOI Speg.
Brachycope, perennial spinose shrub, with the nodes of the branches
scarcely prominent. Leaves fasciculate, oblanceolate, attenuate both ways,
thickish, glabrous. Flowers few gregarious, shortly pediceled. Corolla
white, twice as long as the calyx, glabrous.
Patagon., by Golfo de San Jorge.
3. L. CAPILLARE Miers.
Shrubby, unarmed; branches virgate, very slender, horizontally divari-
cate, white-pubescent, with pale yellow lines decurrent from the nodes on
both sides. Leaves fascicled (5 to 8), capillary-linear, finely pubescent,
fleshy (8 by % mm.). Flowers solitary, small, on slender peduncles. Calyx
small, cup-like, 5-striate and 5-toothed, the teeth glabrous, acute. Corolla-
tube 5-sulcate, the limb with 5 oblong segments, ciliolate. Stamens equal,
exserted, glabrous. Berry the size of a
small pea, red, supported by the cleft calyx.
(Argentina) ; N. Patagon.
FIG. 90.
4. L. CHUBUTENSE Dusen.
Armed. Shrub, i m. high, much branch-
ing; the cortex pale gray, subrimose-glan-
dular on young branchlets, which become
Spines. Leaves Small, Solitary On the Spines, Lyrium chubutense, flowering branch,
Or fasciculate, attenuate, sessile below, natural size; also magnified flower (on
,, , . , .., ,-,, right). Also L. durispina, flower (on
mostly clavate, entire, glanduhferous. Flow- left) and calyx (be i w). (After Dusen.)
ers solitary in the leaf-fascicles, short-pedi-
celed, with glandular hairs. Calyx subcylindrical, 5-lobed to the middle ;
its lobes narrow and slightly reflexed. Corolla funnelform, with cylin-
