MACLOSKIE : SOLANACE/e. 703
8. LYCIUM INFAUSTUM Miers.
Spinose. Glabrous shrub, intricately branching; the branchlets pale
and angulate-ribbed. Leaves few, minute, obovate, fleshy, pale. Flowers
solitary, long pediceled. Calyx small, urceolate, with 5 triangular teeth.
Corolla funnelform, its segments ovate, shorter than its tube. Stamens
long-exserted ; 5 tufts of hair alternating with 5 staminal ciliated glands
in the corolla-tube. Berry red, smaller than a pea.
(Argentina) ; N. Patagon.
9- L. LONGIFLORUM Phil.
Spinose and glabrous ; the virgate branches emitting frequent spines
25-50 mm. long. Leaves fascicled, oblong-linear, basally attenuate, sub-
spatulate. Flowers generally in pairs from the leaf-fascicles, with short,
filiform peduncle. Calyx short, 5-toothed. Corolla tubular-funnelform,
thrice as long as the calyx. Stamens 5, exsert, and longer than the style.
(Argentina) ; N. Patagon.
IO. L. MELANOPOTAMICUM Nied.
Unarmed shrub, with virgate, costate branches. Leaves glabrous, cil-
iate-edged, 4-7 in a fascicle, from cup-like nodes ; small, linear-spatulate,
or linear, basi-attenuate, subsessile, 2-7 mm. long, their apex callous-
mucronate. Flowers solitary on pedicels of 3 mm.
N. Patagon.
ii. L. PATAGONICUM Miers. (L. salsum patagonicum O. Ktze.)
Nearly imarrned, glabrous, branching; the branchlets angulate, with
tawny ribs. Leaves small, spatulate, or long and narrow, fleshy, thick-
edged, short-petioled. Flowers solitary, the 5-toothed calyx and pedicel
hairy. Corolla-tube funnelform, twice as long as the calyx ; with a fleshy
pilose ring outside below, and alternating hair-tufts and ciliated staminal
glands inside. Corolla-lobes 5, oblong, ciliate, exceeding the tube.
Stamens exsert. Berry ovate, scarlet.
Patagon., by Rivers Chico and Sta. Cruz.
12. L. PUBESCENS Miers. (L. salsum pubescens O. Ktze.)
Armed. Pubescent, branching ; the branches horizontal, spinose, leafy.
Leaves very small, fascicled, narrow-linear to spatulate, nearly glutinous-
tomentose. Flowers few, from solitary, short peduncles. Calyx urceo-
