716 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
neath, subglabrous above, rhomboid-lanceolate, subobtuse, entire or ob-
scurely crenulate. Peduncles 10 cm. high, minutely glandular, 2-4-flow-
ered, peduncles to 12 mm. long, bracts very small, oblong, i mm. long,
minutely glandular. Flowers in anthesis suberect. Calyx 6 mm. long,
4-parted to middle or deeper, minutely glandular, lobes ovate, subobtuse.
Corolla yellow. Upper lip as long as the calyx, lower 15 mm. long, de-
pendent, obovate, contracted at base, open above the middle, internally
on the sides and externally on the back, having small, purple spots.
Anther cells ovate.
Differs from C.polyrrhiza, darwt'm'i and /anceo/afaby g\a.i\du\\ferous /eaves
&&& peduncles ; from C. nana and fothergilli\yy its many-flowered scapes.
S. Patagon., common by Rio Sta. Cruz, October.
3. CALCEOLARIA BIFLORA 'Lam. (1783; C. plantaginea Smith, 1789).
Herbs, with 4-5 rather large, radical leaves, which are ovate-rhomboid
or spatulate, dentate or incised, many-nerved, villous to glabrate. Pe-
duncles long, leafless, laxly 2-4-flowered, the pedicels 5 cm. long. Calyx
viscid, its segments ovate, obtuse. Corolla yellow, with its upper lip
shorter than the calyx, its lower lip dependent, long-obovate, spreading,
contracted towards its base.
S. and W. Patagon. ; Chili to Fuegia ; by Hatcher at head of Rio Chico
de la Sta. Cruz, in fruit Feb. 9, 1897; by Dusen in N. and E. Fuegia.
"Abundant from Valparaiso to Magellan, but confined to a narrow
oblique belt. In the Northern part of its range it is chiefly west of the
Andes ; in the Southern part it is Eastward, thus avoiding equally the
wet, cold, stormy latitudes of Southwest Chili and Fuegia, and the arid
plains of Patagonia." (J. D. Hooker.)
"Belongs to the steppe-flora; and usually grows in thickets formed by
Chiliotrichum difftisum and Baccharis patagonica ; but it avoids parts of
the steppes which are free of shrubs." (Dusen.)
C. BIFLORA MAGELLANICA (Clo.).
Stems few, simple, 2-3-flowered. Leaves rhombic-cuneate, denticulate.
Magellan ; S. Fuegia, Valley of Olivaia.
4. C. DARWINII Benth.
Glabrous. Stem short. Leaves broad-oblong, entire, or remotely few-
toothed. Peduncles to 7 cm., scapiform, i-3-flowered. Calyx-segments
