MACLOSKIE : SCROPHULARIACE^E.
717
minutely puberulous, broad-ovate, obtuse. Corolla yellow, with upper
lip equalling the calyx ; lower lip dependent, very large, broad-ovate, red-
spotted ; the base contracted. Anther-lobes ovate.
S. Patagon., at Coy Inlet (Peterson), "on pampas everywhere," Nov.
16, at mouth of Rio Sta. Cruz (Dusen). Scapes usually with one terminal
flower, and a pair of younger lateral flowers about 20 mm. below.
5. CALCEOLARIA FILICAULIS Gay.
Stems 1-2, erect, long, slender, naked. Leaves radical, ovate, petiolate,
or attenuate to a short petiole, obsoletely toothed, hispid underneath,
subciliate. Corymb terminal, simple or geminate, few- FIG. 92.
flowered. Corolla puberulous ; its upper lip shorter
than the hispid calyx ; its lower larger, obovate, erect,
scarcely contracted at the base, shortly open.
(Chili) ; Patagon.
6. C. FOTHERGILLI Sol.
Glandular-pubescent herb, with very short stem.
Leaves petiolate, ovate-spatulate, entire or obsoletely
crenate, villous. Peduncles scape-like, i -flowered.
Calyx-segments broad-ovate to orbiculate, obtuse.
Corolla with upper lip shorter than the calyx ; lower
lip dependent, long-obovate, red-spotted, its base long-
contracted, and open to beyond the middle. (Fig. 92.)
Magellan, Falklands, "abundant and pretty."
7. C. LANCEOLATA Cav.
Subvillous herbs, with very short stem. Leaves Ian-
ceolate, long-attenuate at base, subentire. Peduncles Plant > n fl wer ' slightly r
3 reduced; also section of
scapiform, i -flowered. Calyx-segments ovate, acute, capsu i e) magnified, and
subvillous. C0n?//# with short upper lip; lower lip long, magnified seed. (From
its base long-contracted, open to above the middle.
Patagon., at Golfo de San Jorge ; Puerto Deseado (also cited in the
Falklands along with C. polyrrhiza, but quaere).
8. C. NUDICAULIS Benth.
Herbaceous, with petiolate, radical leaves, ovate or rhombic, 2-toothed
or partly incised, villous on both sides. Stem scape-like, erect, to 60 cm.
