746 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
Phyllactis Pers. as a genus is polymorphous, with or without stems,
leaves entire or variously dissected, and with dense or lax cymes with
spreading corolla-limb; stamens 3, and fruit without pappns, but crowned
by the non-accrescent crown. Benth. & Hook, assign to it 30 Andine-
Mexican species. Eng. & Prantl place it as a section of Valeriana, with
10 species, mostly stemless, leaves entire and bracts connate, no pappus,
corolla 3-5-lobed, with long tube. (Fig. of V. (Phyllactis] rigida R. &
P. of great altitudes in Peru; in Eng. & Prantl, iv, 4, p. 180, B.)
i. VALERIANA CARNOSA Smith. (V. magellanica Lam.)
Glabrous. Stem erect, 60 cm., rather rigid, simple. Leaves mostly
radical, long-petiolate, obovate to obovate-lanceolate, fleshy, sinuate, ser-
rate, or incised-pinnatifid, lobes and sinuses obtuse, the uppermost leaves
oblong, sessile. Panicle terminal, elongate ; its branches suberect. Bracts
acuminate, basally connate. Lateral peduncles dichotomizing, 6-8-flow-
ered. Fruits oblong, glabrous, retrorsely denticulate.
Patagon., by Lago Nahuel-huapi ; mts. of Chubut ; Rio Sta. Cruz ; Cabo
Negro; Magellan; N. and E. Fuegia (Dusen, "a steppe-plant, every-
where over the steppes ").
2. V. CHUBUTENSIS SpCg.
Simple, glabrous, perennial herb, with slender root and fistulous, terete
to tetragonal stems, 40-80 cm. high. Leaves thin, membranaceous ; the
radical entire, oblanceolate, rather obtuse, long-attenuate-petiolate ; the
cauline acute, few, remote, lanceolate, basally auricled-connate and there
subpuberulous ; the lower toothed, the upper pinnatifid, and the upper-
most linear. Panicle not much branching, contracted, with linear brac-
teoles, white flowers, glabrous achenes, and a crown of 12 plumose
setulae.
Chubut, in wet places along Carren-leofu.
3- V. CLARION^EFOLIA Phil.
Glabrous herb. Stem terete, 15 cm. high. Leaves coriaceous, nearly
all radical, rosulate, oblong-linear, lobate-pinnatifid ; lobes 8 pairs, subor-
bicular, usually imbricating, decurrent. Cauline leaves 3 pairs, attenuate-
petiolate, small, deeply pinnatifid, segments linear. Panicle short, com-
pact, few-flowered. Corollas rather large. Anthers and stigma included.
Fruit glabrous, crowned by the short calyx ; no pappus.
