762 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS '. BOTANY.
eluded, wingless, tailless, the filaments apically distinct. Style long, ex-
sert, slender, scarcely capitate. Achene angulate.
Chilian herbs.
i. GAMOCARPHA AMEGHINOI Speg. (olim sub Boopis}.
Glabrous, fleshy ; the branches prostrate, short, rosulate-leafy. Leaves
suborbicular, incised-toothed, long and broad-petiolate. Scapes thick,
short-bracteate, with apical flower-head, but no involucre. Flowers rather
long, greenish, glomerate at the axils of the upper bracts.
S. Patagon., mountains at Karr Aike near Lago Argentine.
2. G. CALEOFUENSIS Speg.
Low, erect, simple or few-branched, glabrous, green. Leaves crowded,
erect, appressed, thickish, spatulate, apically trifid, with short obtuse lobes ;
margin thick, subrevolute ; basally attenuate to a flat petiole 3-4 times
as long as the limb. Scapes sparsely leafy, i -headed. Involucre formed
of short-stalked leaves ; pales like the leaves, but shorter, concrescent at
their base. Flowers numerous, crowded ; ovary turbinate, glabrous ;
corolla subcylindrical, 5-toothed, whitish. Stamens inserted at base of
tube ; style long, exsert.
Chubut, in rocks at base of Carren-leofu springs.
3. G. PATAGONICA Speg.
Stoloniferous perennial. Leaves oblanceolate-linear, long-attenuate-
petiolate, coarsely and obtusely toothed, teeth i-3-jugous, rather fleshy,
green. Scapes erect, having 2 opposite branches of their own length, all
i-3-leaved, i-headed. //zw/wc/^-io-partite ; the segments broad-linear,
obtuse, entire, scarcely equalling the funnelform flowers. Corollas white-
greenish, 5-parted to the staminal insertion.
Chubut, mountains near Bolson.
4. G. SUBANDINA Speg.
Cespitose-pulvinate perennial, glabrous, green. Leaves crowded at the
top of branches of the rhizome, subrosulately imbricated, thick, coriaceous,
shining; their limbs obovate, involutely complicate, pinnatifid, the lobes
2-3 pairs, short, obtuse, subimbricate-connivent, cuneate-attenuate down-
wards to a trigonal petiole, 3-8 times longer. Scapes none. Heads
hemispherical, compound, many-flowered, sessile in the center of the
