MACLOSKIE I CALYCERACE/E. 763
rosules. Bracts 3-5-cleft, concrescent. Flowers greenish. Ovaries angu-
late, subconcrescent, apically truncate, 5-toothed, the teeth lanceolate.
Corollas obconical-cylindraceous, shortly 5-toothed. Stamens inserted at
base of the tube. Style filiform, exsert.
Chubut, in mountains by Carren-leofu. Allied to G. caleofuensis.
' 3. NASTANTHUS Miers. (In Eng. & Prantl, sub Boopis.)
Stemless herb, with short, thick, i -headed scape. Leaves rosulate,
thickish, dentate or pinnatifid. Pales of receptacle few, slender. Corollas
slender at base. Achenes angulate-subulate, as in Boopis anthemoides,
but crowned by the very obtuse calyx-lobes.
i
1. N. CHUBUTENSIS Speg.
Green, glabrous, fleshy perennial. Leaves subfasciculate at the crown
of the root; erect, with oblanceolate or obovate limb, crenate, dentate,
produced to a petiole 2-4 times as long. Scapes numerous, terete, slen-
der, the marginal free and scarcely exceeding the leaves ; the central often
shorter than the concrescent leaves. Heads globose, almost without
pales, with a 5-y-leaved involucre ; lobes narrowly ovate or sublanceolate,
acute, entire. Flowers numerous ; corollas funnel-filiform, 5-cleft ; stamens
inserted at the throat of the corolla-tube. Achenes broadly pentagonal-
winged ; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse.
Chubut, in dry, rocky places near Carren-leofu.
2. N. PATAGONICUS Speg.
Glabrous, rather small perennial. Leaves densely and imbricately
rosulate at the crown of the root ; limbs broad-obovate, incised-dentate,
teeth acute, often callously mucronate, attenuate to a longer petiole.
Heads mostly dimorphous, a very large central head on a thick, naked
scape, and nearly always several lateral, smaller, subsessile heads, with
involucres 8 2o-lobed ; the lobes ovate, acute, entire. Receptacle naked
or scarcely fimbrilliferous. Flowers numerous, narrowly obconoid-cylin-
draceous, greenish, 5-merous ; corolla-lobes long-acute ; stamina I insertion
in the mouth. Style exsert, slender.
Chubut, rarely in dry, stony places near Teka-choique.
