MACLOSKIE : COMPOSITE. 785
remotely serrulate, the upper entire. Racemes secund in an oblong
panicle ; pedicels bracteolate. Involucral scales linear, glabrous. Flowers
20-25 ; ligules 7-15, equal to the disk. Achenes slender, glabrous, or hairy.
Variable from dwarf to giant.
(Brazil, Argent; about Bahia Blanca; "Felel," used by the Indians
for giving a yellow dye to wool) ; common over all N. and Central
Patagon. Var. brachypoda has leaves, branchlets and involucral scales
densely pubescent, and compact panicle.
3. SOLIDAGO PATAGONICA Phil.
Glabrous. Panicle pyramidate, leafy, the floral leaves large, sessile,
lance-linear, entire. Branches of the panicle erect, curving at top, 10-
headed ; pedicels bracteolate, the lower surpassing the head. Involucral
scales 5 mm. long, broad-linear. Heads with 20 flowers.
W. Patagon.
n. HAPLOPAPPUS Cass. (Aplopappus.]
Perennial herbs or undershrubs, with alternate, basally crowded or
sparse leaves, and large to mediocre heads, radiate and heterogamous,
with yellow ligules, and i-3-seriate reddish or whitish, unequal pappus.
Involucre broad, its scales many-seriate, the outer smaller. Receptacle
naked. Anthers basiobtuse. Style-branches flat, appendaged. Achenes
obtuse, 8-io-nerved.
Species 60, W. United States, and southwards by the Andes.
(Section Leiachcenium includes heterogamous species, mostly with
smooth achenes.)
i. H. AMEGHINOI Speg.
Glabrous, cespitose perennials, with short, crowded branches, rosulate-
leafy at the top. Leaves oblanceolate to spatulate, the limb as long as
the petiole, toothed-pinnatifid, the lobes also toothed. Heads acrogenous,
solitary, sessile, hemispherical. Involucral scales 4-5-seriate, as long
as the many flowers which are concealed amidst the pappus bristles.
Achenes narrow, obovate, curved, smooth, not costate.
S. Patagon., by Rio Chico de la Sta. Cruz.
2. H. ILLINI Speg.
Glabrous, cespitose perennials, with short, rosulate-leafy branches.
Leaves obovate-spatulate, crenate-toothed, the limbs shorter than the
