798 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
row appendages. Papptis-bristles 2-3-seriate, unequal. Achenes sub-
cylindrical, 5-ribbed.
Species 3, Peraustral Amer.
Here, as in Senecio, J. D. Hooker notes that radiate flowers affect a
damp, and discoid flowers a dry climate. (C. darwinii, humile and kingii
are now placed in the genus Nardophyllum.}
i. CHILIOTRICHIUM DIFFUSUM (Forst, sub Amellus 1787) O. Ktze. (C.
amelloideum Cass., 1817).
Shrub, 2-3-meters high. Leaves oblong, obovate, narrow at the base,
plane, margin revolute ; tomentose underneath.
Heads with large, yellow disk and white ray.
" Habit of Rosemary, allied to Olearia of Australia and New Zealand."
(J. Ball.)
Patagon., Magellan and Fuegia, a common bush ; by Hatcher at Cordil-
leras of S. Patagon., and at Cabo Negro; by Dusen in W. Patagon.
Also found at Lago Argentine and Chubut R., "a steppe plant." Falk-
lands, "nearest approach to a tree of the Falkland Is." "in moist places."
"Is 8 feet high with large, white-rayed head," R. O. Cunningham; got by
B. Brown in Spaniard Harbor, Fuegia, March 22, 1900. "Three forms
according to the breadth of the leaves, a typical, a medium and a nar-
row-leaved form : leaves obovate to oblanceolate, thence to linear-ob-
lanceolate and acute" (Speg.).
2. C. ROSMARINIFOLIUM LeSS.
Branching shrub, obsoletely tomentose and densely leafy upwards, but
not near the top of the flowering branches. Leaves coriaceous, shining
above, tomentose underneath, linear, acute, i -nerved, the nerve prominent
below and glabrous ; margin revolute, entire. Heads terminal, solitary,
erect, disk 8 mm. long. Ray white? Involucre shorter than the disk,
campanulate, its scales many-seriate, dry, lanceolate, with a green nerve,
entire, the outer more obtuse. Bracteoles scarious, conduplicate. Pappus
setaceous, shorter than the disk.
(Chili); Patagon., in Cordilleras of Chubut.
1 8. CONYZA Less.
Herbs, rarely shrubs, with alternate leaves and small to midsized, disci-
form, heterogamous heads. Invohicre campanulate, its scales 2-many-
