MACLOSKIE: COMPOSITE. 807
above. Peduncles shorter than the leaves, axillary, solitary or in pairs,
bracteate, i-headed. Involucre of both sexes campanulate, its outer scales
oval, nerveless ; the inner oblong, green-nerved ; all obscurely fimbriate.
Patagon., most characteristic; Fuegia passim; E. and W. Magellan;
in shubberies of N. Patagon. ; southward chiefly as a steppe-plant.
"Plant much larger than B. magellanica Pers., not viscid. Leaves
sinuate-lobate towards the summit, opaque, and often turning black in
drying; otherwise very near B. magellanica." (J. D. Hooker.) Alboff
states that the characters of B, magellanica at Ushuaia and Navarin are so
intermediate between those of these two species as to suggest that they
are all only one species. In this and in B. magellanica the stomata are
functionless because of the thickening of their enclosing cells. (Dusen.)
19. BACCHARIS PINGR/EA DC.
Stem suffruticose, branching, laxly leafy. Leaves linear to linear-lance-
olate, entire or serrate, acuminate, punctulate, as are the branches.
Corymbs lax, many-headed. Involucre ovate-subglobose ; its scales in
the males oblong-lanceolate, mucronate ; in the females the innner acumi-
nate. Achenes glabrous.
(California to Chili and Argentina) ; N. Patagon., by Rio Negro and
Rio Chubut.
B. PINGR^EA ANGUSTISSIMA DC.
Leaves very narrow-linear, entire or rarely denticulate.
N. Patagon., by Rio Negro.
20. B. PINNATIFIDA Klatt.
Stem branching freely from the base ; branches erect, striate, very leafy,
glabrous. Leaves sessile, decurrent, pinnatifid, their segments narrow-
linear, mucronulate. Heads terminal, subcorymbose. Involucre cam-
panulate, its scales lanceolate, acute, subreflexed, membranaceous-mar-
gined, nerve green.
Patagon.
21. B. PLATENSIS Spreng.
Glabrous, viscous shrub. Branches opposite, the younger striate-
angulate. Leaves opposite, oblong-cuneate, apically dentate, coriaceous ;
the inferior obovate-oblong, mid-ones oblong, upper linear, subentire.
Heads sessile, glomerate, interruptedly spicate on the branches and
