MACLOSKIE I COMPOSITE. 833
MELALEMA HUMIFUSUM Hook. f.
Prostrate, emitting long fibers; with leafy branches.
Fuegia, on mountain top near Blossom Bay.
54. CULCITIUM Humb. & Bonp.
Perennial herbs, with radical or alternate, usually entire leaves; and
mediocre or large, yellow, monogamous, discoid heads. Involucre broad,
its scales many-seriate, smaller outwards. Receptacle naked. Anthers
basally entire or subentire. Style-branches truncate, pencilled. Ac hems
oblong-linear, many-striate, glabrous. Pappus-setce copious.
Species 14, Andine. (Fig. in Eng. & Prantl, iv, p. 292.)
i. C. MAGELLANICUM Homb. & Jacq.
Entirely silky-tomentose. Leaves radical, linear-lanceolate or narrower,
long, acute, appressed-hairy, the margins revolute. Scapes with i head :
the involucre woolly.
S. Patagon., Gregory Bay, Magellan ; by Hatcher at Cabo Negro, Jan.
13; chiefly in the steppes; Fuegia, Ushuaia, Navarin I.
2. C. SESSILE Speg.
Pulvinate-cespitose, 5-10 cm. high, 20 cm. broad, appressed-sil very-
silky. Leaves crowded, linear, entire, revolute-margined ; their apex
attenuate, acute, with a setula ; their base subattenuate and spreading to
a villous periclad. Heads solitary on the branches, sessile amid the leaves,
campanulate, erect. Involucral scales woolly, shorter than the disk.
Corolla ochroleucous. Stigmas ferruginous.
Patagon., by Golfo de San Jorge.
55. SENECIO Linn. Groundsel.
Plants of varying habit, usually herbs, in temperate climates. Heads
radiate (or sometimes rayless). Involucral scales i-2-seriate, erect, sub-
equal, or with small, outer bracteoles. Receptacle naked. Anthers basi-
obtuse, or nearly so. Style-branches often spreading, truncate, pencilled.
AcJienes 5-iocostate. Pappus-setce copious, fine, entire to barbellate.
Species 1,200, cosmopolitan; with great variety as to size of heads, etc.
(S. jacobcea L. is the troublesome ragweed of Britain, not the American
ragweed ; S. vulgaris L. is the British groundsel, the favorite of the
