848 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
obtuse, marginally revolute, entire or nearly so, covered on both surfaces
with dense, sessile glands. Heads mediocre, with about 60 hermaphrodite
flowers. Involucre sparsely calyculate, broad, the scales 15, glandular,
linear, shortly acuminate, apically sphacelate. Corollas yellow, gradually
enlarging, 5-toothed. Style-branches truncate ; ovary glabrous ; pappus
whitish.
Cordilleras of Patagon., J. B. Hatcher, 1897.
Shrub of 25 cm., somewhat rough below, from the scars of the fallen
leaves. Leaves ranging up to 2 cm. by 2 mm. Upper leafless part of
the branches 4 cm. long, with a few narrow bracts of 3 mm. passing into
the bracts of the calyculus. Involucre 8 mm. high, 12 mm. broad. Co-
rolla 6 mm.
Similar to S. gilvus Phil, and 5. trifidus H. A., but distinguished by the
glandular pubescence and the form of the involucral bracts.
Type specimens, with Prof. O. Hoffmann, and no. 145 of Plantce
Hatcheriance in Princeton University, U. S. A.
38. SENECIO HAUTHALII O. Ktze.
Heads discoid, 1-3, subsessile. Low shrub, with its lower branches
covered by persisting petioles, otherwise glabrous. Leaves fleshy, pecti-
nate, petiolate, the petiole-base amplexicaul, 3 cm. long, the basal lobes
spinose. Involucral scales i-seriate, subequal, 15-20, oblong, acuminate,
fimbriate, with small, calyculate bracts, as long as the disk. Ac hems
short, pappillose. Papptis white.
Patagon.
39. S. HIRTHI Phil.
Heads few, on virgate branches, naked above. Glabrous undershrubs,
with oblong-cuneate leaves, 3-5-toothed near top, crowded at base, shorter
upwards. Involucral scales not apically sphacelate. Achenes glabrous.
At Rio Palena, west of the Cordilleras; S. .Patagon., on the Cordil-
leras, Hatcher.
40. S. HUALTATA Bert.
Crowded corymbs ; heads radiate. Herbaceous, glabrous ; apically
webby in parts when young. Stem terete, striatulous, leafy. Lower
leaves petiolate, rhombo-hastate, acuminate both ways, unequally dentate,
upper leaves semiamplexicaul, lanceolate, dentate. Pedicels mostly shorter
