MACLOSKIE : COMPOSITE. 855
cent ; leaf-scars on base of branches. Leaves sessile in outline, narrowly
linear to oblanceolate, acute, entire, or mostly 3-(5~) pinnately parted
next their apex. Peduncles with several short, acute bracts. Involucre
campanulate, its scales 20, linear-oblong, acute, white margined, with an
oily vitta. Flowers perfect, their tubular corollas yellow, enlarged up-
wards. Style-branches truncate. Achenes glabrous. Pappus white.
(S. Patagon., by O. Nordenskjold in valley of Rio Gallegos) ; E. Fue-
gia (Dusen). "Yellow in bloom, all along the Andes, abundant"
(Hatcher).
SENECIO NORDENSKJOLDII SIMPLICIOR O. Hoffm.
Lower than the type, with some leaves 3-toothed, but most entire.
E. Fuegia, by the sea-coast (Dusen).
67. S. OTITES G. Kuntze.
Corymb large, compound. Heads nearly discoid. Glabrous herbs,
with terete, striate, branching stem. Leaves with a broad, rounded, toothed
auricle at base of the petiole, lamina broad-lanceolate, dentate, basally
cordate or truncate. Pedicels sparsely bracteolate upwards. Involucre
with 8-9 scales, not ustulate. Ligules 5, oval-oblong. Disk-flowers 15-
20. Achenes glabrous.
(S. Chili); W. Patagon.
68. S. PACHYPHYLLUS Remy (non Cheesem.).
Heads i-few on branches nearly naked above. Glabrous shrubs, with
stem branching and rooting, branches leafy at the middle. Leaves sessile,
oblong-linear, coarsely subcylindrical, entire, acute. Peduncles few-bracted.
Involucre subcalyculate, ovoid-campanulate, its scales oblong-linear, sca-
rious-margined, shorter than the disk. Achenes glabrous, costate.
(Talcaragua) ; S. Patagon., in Cordilleras, by Hatcher. A specimen in
the Gray Herbarium, bears a note "Leaves slightly broader and heads
larger"; the same is true of the Hatcher specimen. Professor O. Hoff-
mann confirms this identification, having compared Hatcher's plant with
the description and with a specimen in 'the Berlin Museum, which was
collected by Philippi.
69. S. PALEN^E Phil.
Corymb with about 5 heads. White, silky herb. Leaves narrow-linear,
