MACLOSKIE I COMPOSITE. 857
Involucre broad, shorter than the disk, with 10-12 scales; the outer scales
appressed, all sphacelate-obtuse at the apex. Achenes puberulous.
(Catamarca.)
SENECIO PSAMMOPHILUS DUSENII.
Branches more elongate than the type, virgate, flexuose. Leaves most
entire, some pinnately 3-(or more) partite.
Patagon., at Puerto Madryn, by Dusen.
75. S. PULCHER Hook. & Arn.
Corymb of large heads, each 5 cm. broad. Handsome, simple or
branching plant, sometimes a meter high, webby-tomentose, with decidu-
ous wool. Leaves oblong-lanceolate, crenate-dentate, the radical as long
as the petioles ; cauline leaves remote, sessile, upwards semi-amplexicaul
and subdecurrent. Involucre campanulate-hemispherical, calyculate, its
scales not sphacelate, woolly, obtuse. Ligules 20, purple.
(S. Brazil); N. Patagon., by Rio Negro.
76. S. SERICEO-NITENS (Phil.) Speg. (S. patagonicus Phil, non H. & A.)
Radiate heads solitary, ending the branches. Silky-tomentose under-
shrubs, with long branches, naked upwards. Leaves narrow-linear,
crowded, acute. Involucre without calyculus, its scales about 15, acute,
tomentose, not sphacelate, scarcely shorter than the disk. Ligules to 12.
Achenes glabrous.
Patagon. ; by O. Nordenskjold, in valley of Rio Gallegos.
77. S. SERICEUS (G. Ktze., 1831, sub Cacalia] O. Ktze.
This is made by O. Kuntze to include several species which have been
separated chiefly by geographical marks ; low, shrubby, with at least in
youth a silky-tomentose indumentum ; also as identical with S. albicanlis,
candolleanus, gilliesii and incisus, H. & A. (1841) ; and neeei (with leaves
entire, subglabrescent).
"Among these the size of the heads, the number of flowers in each, and
the size of the leaves vary, the leaves being smaller in dry places. Entire
and pinnatifid leaves may occur on the same shrub." (O. Ktze.)
78. S. SMITHII DC.
Terminal corymb of 6 or more broad, radiate heads. Erect, tall shrub,
with hollow, simple stem, and leaves underneath or on both surfaces, lax-
