864 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS! BOTANY.
ceous ; its scales ciliate-villous ; the outer reflexed-spinescent. These and
the receptacle scarcely puberulous.
S. Patagon., by Rio Gallegos, and Rio Sta. Cruz.
2. CHUQUIRAGA AVELLANID^E Lor.
Woody; ramified from the base, with terete, sulcate stem and flexuose
branches. Leaves sessile, broad-ovate, pungent-mucronate, generally
concave, entire, mostly alternate, 17 by 9 mm.; spines paired in the
axils, 3 mm. long, rather stout. Heads solitary, sessile in the axils, to
2 cm. long, cylindrical. Involucral scales many-seriate, the outer herba-
ceous, acuminate, the inner longer and narrower, the innermost long-
linear, yellow above like an outer corolla, exceeding the flowers. Recep-
tacle concave with white hairs. Flowers in the head not many. Achenes
silky. Pappus-seta i -seriate, plumose, yellowish.
N. Patagon., by Rio Colorado, etc.; Chubut; S. Patagon., by Rio Chico.
" Distinguished from C. spinosa by much larger leaves, broader and alter-
nate ; by much shorter, thick, brown spines ; and involucral scales more
numerous, with longer heads."
3. C. DUSENII O. Hoffmann.
Shrub, with erect branches, 16 cm., tomentose, with brown cortex when
FIG. 104. young. Leaves coriaceous, subconcave, lanceolate
from a broad base, sessile, prolonged to a brown spine,
entire, appressed-silky, at length glabrate, 3-nerved,
the midnerve prominent; their margin thickened.
Pairs of short axillary spines. Heads short, solitary
on ends of branches, and sessile amid the shorter leaves.
Chuquiraga duscnii. , , ...... , . ...
-Flower-head and invo- Involucre cylindrical; its scales many-senate, imbn-
lucrai scales, natural size, cate, puberulous when young, the innermost exceed-
(AfterO. Hoffmann.) j n g the fl owerS; an( j w j t h stellately recurved tips, the
recurved part petaloid, linear, acute. Achenes silky. (Fig. 104.)
N. Patagon., by Puerto Madryn (Dusen). " Near C. avellanida but
distinguished by having longer leaves with thickened margins."
4. C. ERINACEA D. Don.
Branches and leaves pubescent. Leaves subulate, concave above,
spinescent tipped, without other spines. Heads 6-flowered.
(Fig. in Eng. & Prantl, iv, 5, p. 335, J.)
