MACLOSKIE : COMPOSITE. 875
cate. Receptacle naked. Anthers long-tailed. Style-branches truncate.
Achenes linear, striate. Pappus long-plumose.
Species 2. S. Patagon. and Fuegia.
i. MACRACHAENIUM FOLIOSUM Alboff.
Stem to 50 cm. tall, erect, weak, nodding under the head, sparsely
woolly above ; 3-y-foliate, rarely leafless. Radical leaves large, broad-
oblong, deeply runcinate-pinnatifid ; the lobes on each side 2-4, broad-
oblong, few-lobulate, their lobules ending in a point; white-tomentose
underneath. Petioles long, narrowly winged, floccose. Cauline leaves
smaller, on shorter petioles. Involucre ovate-cylindric, woolly. Pappus
white, yellowish at base.
Fuegia, by Beagle Channel ; at Ushuaia, Valley of Rio Olivaia ;
Navarin I.
2. M. GRACILE Hook. f.
Scape 60 cm. high. Head 25 mm. long. Flowers white. A fine plant.
Magellan ; by Hatcher, in Cordilleras of S. Patagon.
74. NASSAUVIA Juss.
Cespitose or diffuse undershrubs or herbs, glabrous or villous, with leafy,
flowering branches. Leaves alternate, imbricate, often patent or recurved,
rigid and ciliolate. Heads sessile, in glomerules, or few, or solitary ;
homogamous, few-flowered (3-5, or fewer), with oblong involucre, the
few-seriate scales rigid, acute or subspinescent. Receptacle naked. An-
thers long-tailed. Style-branches truncate. Achenes glabrous or villous.
Pappiis of pales or setae, i-2-seriate, often flat, rarely only 5-6.
(Fig. in Eng. & Prantl, iv, 5, p. 348, A, B.)
Species 25, extratropical. S. Amer and Andes. " The woody group
of this genus is nearly peculiar to continental S. Amer., and to its drier
parts ; not crossing the Strait of Magellan on its western side ; but on
the east a few stretch down to Port Gregory, Staaten I., and the Falklands."
SECTIONS OF THE GENUS:
1. Nasscea. Heads in terminal, globular or ovoid glomerules. Pappus-
scales 3-5, i -seriate, not plumose, easily deciduous.
2. Strongyloma. Heads in axillary glomerules, and these in a long, leafy
spike.
