884 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
28. NASSAUVIA SERPENS d'Urv.
Stem suffruticose, 30-60 cm. high, creeping, sparingly branching. Leaves
along its whole length imbricate, amplexicaul, broad-ovate, serrate, acute,
suberect or recurved, coriaceous, parallel-striate, more or less silky. Heads
4-5-flowered, sessile at the leaf-like bracts, in a large, dense, ovate glome-
rule. Achenes glabrous. Pappus-setce 4-5.
Falklands; "abundant in the streams of stones; sending its brittle
stems, several fathoms long, down through the rocks to the underlying
soil." S. and W. Patagon., in upper valley of Rio Aysen (Dusen).
29. N. SPINOSA Don.
(Panargyrus.} Stem fruticulose, ascending. Branches velvety. Leaves
crowded at the base, distant upwards, oblong-lanceolate, pinnatifid, den-
tate, spinose, hoary-villous, becoming smooth. Heads racemed at the
end of the branches, the lower a little distant and axillary, above crowded
and shortly pedicelled. Pappus i -seriate.
(Chili) ; Patagon., common by Rio Gallegos and Rio Sta. Cruz.
30. N. STRUTHIONUM (Phil, sub Strongylomd].
Low, cespitose shrub. Leaves of fertile branches sessile, imbricate,
ovate-triangular, acute, coriaceous, apically recurved ; those of the sterile
branches form a cucullate base ending in a long spine. Heads terminal,
solitary. Pales linear.
S. Patagon., by Lago Pinto ; Fuegia, Punta Anegada. Favorite food
of rhea.
31. N. SUAVEOLENS Willd.
Stem herbaceous, erect, simple. Leaves cuneate, ovate, coarsely and
acutely incised, subspinescent at the apex, villous beneath. Heads in a
terminal, ovate glomerulus ; bracts villous, exceeding the heads.
S. Patagon. ; Magellan ; S. Fuegia to near Cape Horn.
32. N. SUBSPINOSA (Phil, sub Panargyrus].
Low, subcespitose herb, glabrous or arachnoid-silky. Leaves sessile,
linear-lanceolate, pungent, armed at both margins with a spiny tooth.
Floral leaves similar, but often entire. Heads crowned at tops of the
branches. Pappus not plumose.
(Chili) ; Fuegia; S. Patagon., by Hatcher at head of Rio Chico.
