886 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
Allied to Tr. euphrasiodes Bert., a species doubtfully pronounced peren-
nial by De Candolle, and enumerated among the perennial forms by
Philippi; but, according to the specimens in the Berlin Herbarium, annual.
Its leaves, however, are petiolate, and more pinnately parted, and its lobes
may be 12, as against 2 in our plant. Tr. andinum Phil., very similar in
habit, is distinguished by the spinose bracts and leaf-segments.
76. STRONGYLOMOPSIS Speg.
Habit, head and flowers as Nassauvia, Sec. Strongyloma; but pappus
none.
S. FUEGIANA Speg.
Perennial, loosely cespitose, the branches suberect, short. Leaves
nearly isomorphous, elongate, linear-subulate, trigonous, acute. Pleads
sessile at ends of the branches, mostly solitary. Involucral scales usually
6-seriate, glabrous, the three outer small. Flowers 5, corollas bilabiate,
white ; achenes silky-pubescent.
Golfo de S. Sebastian, E. Fuegia. Stems woody, tortuose. Habit of
N. (Strong.} patagonica Speg.
77. AMEGHINOA Speg.
(Allied to Nassauvia.'] Head discoid, equal-flowered ; flowers numer-
ous, hermaphrodite, fertile. Invohicre campanulate ; its scales about i-
seriate, with a few outer and shorter additional. Receptacle naked, alveo-
late. Corolla bilabiate, the outer lip 3-toothed ; the inner narrowly
2-toothed. Anthers with a scarious, lanceolate, inferior appendage, atten-
uate-petiolate, as long as itself, basi-sagittate, and produced in bar-
bellate tails nearly as long. Style-branches short, terete, truncate.
Achenes subturbinate, costate, truncate above. Pappus-seta i -seriate,
denticulate.
A small shrub, with subcoriaceous, dentate or lobed, spinulose leaves.
Heads partly corymbed at the tops of the branches, briefly peduncled or
sessile. Corollas ochroleucous. Achenes puberulo-hispid.
Only one species, viz. :
A. PATAGONICA Speg.
Branching shrub, nearly i meter high. Leaves subsessile, broad-ovate,
pinnately lobed ; the lobes entire, spinulose-mucronate, more or less laxly
