892
PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
cral scales sublinear, immersed in wool, which
abounds at top of the thickened scape. (Fig.
1 06.)
Falklands ; ornamental on grassy hills, and
fragrant.
79. PEREZIA Lag.
Acaulescent, cespitose, or caulescent, rarely
shrubby ; with entire or pinnatifid leaves, their
margins often ciliate-spinose. Heads homoga-
motis, mostly many-flowered, moderate-sized,
sometimes rather large and solitary on a leafless,
bracteolate, scape-like peduncle, or panicled,
(Chabrad) suaveo- rarely clustered on axillary branches. Involucre
. Flower-head, and one of the 2 -many-seriate, its scales imbricating. Flowers
flowers. (From Flora antarctica.')
pink to purple, white or blue (not yellow), the
outer lip longer both in the head and in the homochromous ray. Style-
branches truncate, with terminal hairs. Receptacle plane, naked or pilose.
Fruit not beaked, papillose or hairy. Pappus setose, several-seriate.
(Section Clarioncea, with glabrous receptacle ; and section Homoianthns,
with hairy-fimbrilliferous receptacle.)
Species 75, from Arizona and Texas to Patagon.; most in the Andes,
a few in S. Brazil.
KEY TO THE SPECIES.
A, Erect. Stem or its branches i -headed.
b. Glabrous.
c. Leaves lanceolate, entire, petiolate. The cauline sessile, cordate-sagittate.
lactucoides.
c2. Leaves linear, with marginal spines ; the upper sparse, erect. linearis,
^3. Leaves pinnatisect, lobes spiny-tipped. Cauline linear, and spiny. lecJilcri.
l>2. Pubescent upwards. Leaves chiefly basal, pinnatisect, the segments mucronate. Head
nodding, blue. pcdiculariafolia.
A2. Erect ; heads few. Leaves pinnatipartite ; lobes ovate. Involucre scales short.
brachylepis.
A$. Ascending. Leaves sessile. Flowers blue.
b. Leaves linear, entire, apically white-mucronate. Scapes with broad leaves.
patagonica.
62. Leaves broad-linear, recurved, with marginal spines. Peduncle nearly naked.
recurvata.
A^. Cespitose perennial, glabrous, with wool on the petioles. Leaves narrow-linear, entire.
Heads sessile amid the upper leaves, white. sessiliflora.
