900 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
ments. Scape little exceeding the subulate leaves, webby above, \-headed.
Involucral scales moderately large, numerous, oblong-linear, obtuse,
basally floccose, truncate, without setae. Ligules twice as long. Fruit?
(Argentina.)
HYPOCHCERIS PHILIPPII GLABRESCENS O. Ktze.
Involucral scales broader, glabrescent, the lower ovate.
Patagon (M. & T.).
13. H. TENERIFOLIA. (Remy, sub Achyrophorus.}
Stem nearly simple, over 30 cm., glabrous, except at the apex. Rad-
ical leaves of lance-linear outline, attenuate to a long petiole, weak, pin-
natifid, with narrow, oblique lobes ; cauline subentire. Invohtcral outer
scales obtuse, pilose with reddish exterior; inner membranaceous-
margined. Valdivia; Chiloe; S. Fuegia (Dusen).
14. H. TENUIFOLIA (DC. Prodr. sub Achyrophorus, 1838) Gris.
Glabrous or subarachnoid. Stem simple. Leaves grass-like, radical,
filiform to linear-lanceolate, entire or sinuate, or pinnatifid, segments
linear. Scape i -headed. Involucre ovate-campanulate ; its scales linear
to linear-lanceolate, acuminate, webby and basally hispid. Variable.
S. Patagon., Magellan ; Elizabeth I. (See note under H. coronopifolia.
Accepting Spegazzini's view, we have H. temnfolia DC. as the species,
with varieties coronopifolia and variegata.]
81. TARAXACUM Hall. (1768. Linn, sub Leontodon 1753.)
Herbs, with milky juice and radical, toothed to runcinate-pinnatifid
leaves. Scapes leafless, with i, rarely 2-3 heads, which are midsize to
large, yellow. Involucre campanulate to oblong, with i -seriate, erect
scales (changing in fruit), and several-seriate, shorter outer scales, usually
recurved. Achenes oblong, 4-5-angled, apically muricate and rostrate,
supporting the copious, slender, capillary pappus.
Species 40, in north-temperate and cold climate ; few in south-temper-
ate, rarely in the tropics. (Fig. of fruit in Eng. & Prantl, iv, 5, p. 367, D.)
i. T. IBARI Phil.
Glabrous, with runcinate leaves (narrower than of T. taraxacum]. Scape
scarcely exceeding the leaves. Scales of involucre imbricate, all appressed,
