902 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS! BOTANY.
panulate, its scales many-seriate, imbricated, smaller outwards. Recep-
tacle naked. Anthers basisagittate. Achenes flattish, io-2O-costate,
truncate. Pappus copious, white, capillary, usually deciduous together.
Species 5, of Old World.
i. SONCHUS ASPER (L.) Allioni.
Annual. Stem leafy below. Leaves undivided or pinnatifid, spinu-
lose-toothed ; the lower petiolate, the upper clasping, with rounded auri-
tles ; obovate to oblong or lanceolate. Achenes ribbed, but not trans-
versely wrinkled.
Cosmopolitan. N. and S. Patagon. ; "naturalized and spread over
tropical and temperate South America ; probably to a great extent with-
out the agency of man." (J. Ball.)
2. S. OLERACEUS Linn. Sow-thistle.
Basal and lower leaves petioled, lyrate-pinnatifid, 10-25 cm. long, the
terminal segments usually large and triangular. Upper leaves pinnatifid,
with acute, clasping auricles. Achenes ribbed, and transversely wrinkled.
Patagon. (M. & T.; by Hatcher on edge of a marsh, nearly a meter high,
in fruit March). A weed in cultivated lands of the Old World and N.
Amer. ; also naturalized in Patagon. and the Chonos Archip.
83. AGOSERIS Raf. (Troximon Nutt, 1813, non Gaertn., 1791.
Including Macrorhynchus Less.)
Nearly stemless herbs, glabrous to sparsely pilose. Scapes erect, leaf-
less, i -headed. Heads midsize to large, liguliferous, mostly yellow-
Involucre campanulate, its scales many-seriate, the outer smaller. Recep-
tacle rarely with some chaff. Anthers basally acute or setaceous. Achenes
glabrous, lo-costate, contracted below, apically rostrate. Pappus setose,
copious.
Species 25, in W. and S., of N. Amer., and Peraustral Amer.
i. A. AUSTRALIS (Phil, sub Macrorhynchus}.
Cespitose. Leaves arachnoid-hirsute, linear, usually pectinately pin-
natifid ; with linear segments and linear rachis. Scapes scarcely exceed-
ing the leaves, very densely woolly. Outer involucral scales hirsute,
triangular-lanceolate ; inner glabrous and longer, equalling the flowers.
Magellan strait, near Punta Arenas ; Falklands.
