PART VI.
ANALYSIS OF THE ORDERS AND FAMILIES OF
THE FLOWERING PLANTS OF
PATAGONIA.
The Flowering Plants differ from the Pteridophytes by an advanced
development of the microsporangia into stamens bearing pollen, and of
the megasporangia into ovules which become embryo-bearing seeds. They
contain two chief classes, the antique one called the Gymnospermia, hav-
ing pteridophytic affinities ; and the modern class, known as the Angio-
spermia, because of their seed being in true seed-vessels, with stigmas.
The superclass of Angiosperms is itself composed of two classes the
Monoctyledones, and the Dicotyledones, the latter being the larger. And
each of these classes contains a considerable number of Plant families ; of
which according to Engler and Prantl, there are 280, namely 4 families
in the Gymnosperms, 43 families in the Monocotyledones, and 233 families
in the Dicotyledones. When a family is named from one of its leading
genera, which is usually the case, its name has -acece for termination ; as
from Lilium, the family Liliacece. Alliances of natural families are known
by the terminal -ales as Liliales. These are becoming known as Orders.
It is found convenient to break up the large Class of Dicotyledones
into a few subclasses, each of them containing many orders and families.
The character of the perianth, whether absent or, if present, whether its
petals are distinct from each other or coalesce, and whether the perianth
is superior, or inferior, or perigynous, relatively to the inner organs of the
flower, are of chief importance here. But we may expect exceptional
cases, which render the classification necessarily artificial. It must also
be remembered that a natural system is not serial ; that even if we knew
all the interrelations of the families it should be necessary to arrange them
not in line but in space, like the ramifications of a tree. In the system
here adopted we begin a large group with the simplest forms among its
907
