MACLOSKIE : COLLECTORS AND BIBLIOGRAPHY. 923
In his introduction to Vol. II of Flora Antarctica Dr. Hooker says,
'The successive labors of Commerson, Banks and Solander, and of
Menzies, early called the attention of Botanists to the singular aspect of
the Fuegian Flora, apparently incompatible in its luxuriance with the
rigor of the climate. The subsequent exertions of Captain King and Mr.
Anderson, and of Darwin, during the voyages of Captain Fitzroy, of
d'Urville, and the officers of our own late Antarctic Expedition, have
nearly exhausted the phanerogamic productions." Dusen's remark on
this statement is that "it may have been justified regarding the Western
and Southern Vegetation of Fuegia, but not at all in regard to the
steppes." As to other parts of the Patagonian Region, a great many new
species have been described since Hooker's work appeared ; and we con-
fess to our surprise in reaching a total of more than 2,100 species of
Phanerogams as already described from the mainland and adjoining
islands, south of the 39th parallel.
Since and partly concurrently with the work of Hooker, the Chilian
botanists have extended their view to Patagonia, most of which is under
ChiHan government. Carl Gay's large work on Chili devotes eight volumes
to its Botany (1845-53), with many descriptions of the Magellan plants.
The Philippi's, father and son, are the great authorities on the Chilian
plants since Gay's time ; and Carl Reiche is ably carrying on the succes-
sion in that part. In 1866-69, Robert O. Cunningham afterwards of
Belfast College, Ireland, went as naturalist on board a small English
Steamer, the Nassau, which was sent to survey the Strait of Magellan ;
the fruit of his work was a large collection of plants as well as animals'
and a book on the Natural History of the Strait of Magellan, which is
full of life-sketches of the inhabitants, animal and vegetable, of those parts
and of their habits. The Argentine Government having control of North
Patagonia, on its eastern slope, sent an Exploring Expedition to Rio
Negro, under Captain Roca, the Botany of which was prepared for the
Report by Lorentz and Niederlein (1881). W. Lechler and the French-
men, Savatier, Hariot, and Hyades, the last in the Scientific Mission to
Cape Horn (1882-1883), made large contributions. Collections have
been made and a great many new forms described and published by C.
Spegazzini from different parts of the Region, including Fuegia. In 1896
N. Alboff visited the parts about Ushuaia, on the Beagle Channel, and
Staaten Island, and published his observations on the vegetation. The
