924 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
Swedish expedition (1895-97) under O. Nordenskqjld, though chiefly
geological, had Mr. Per Dusen as its botanist, who made independent
excursions to Patagonia, Chili and Fuegia, and whose publications on
the Bryophytes and Flowering Plants have done much to extend our
knowledge of the general character of the flora.
Dusen had been previously employed by the Chilian Government as a
member of an exploring party along the River Aysen, and on the Guai-
tecas Islands, and thereby had an opportunity to study the forest-vegeta-
tion, and particularly the rich undergrowth of mosses and ferns which are
characteristic of the rainy western coast. His later collections were made
first about Puerto Madryn (43 20' S. Lat. on the east shore), from the
xerophil coast and the drifting sand ; next along the Rio Chubut, near its
mouth ; and by the mouths of Rio Sta. Cruz and Rio Gallegos ; and about
Punta Arenas and Porvenir across the Strait from Punta Arenas, and at
Paramo, Rio Grande and neighbouring parts of Fuegia ; next at Admiralty
Sound, and at Rio Azopardo, and in West Magellan, in Desolation Island,
particularly near Puerto Angosto just east of that island, on the narrowest
part of the strait. Late in the season, and at a very unfavorable time in that
climate for collecting (May i), he reached Ushuaia on the Beagle Channel,
whence he returned to Punta Arenas. His collections, and those made by
Nordenskjold along the Gallegos, and at Ultima Esperanza and Lago
Sarmiento, have been already worked and partially reported on, as to the
Phanerogams and Bryophytes. The same report also includes a collec-
tion by Bruno Ansorge who had been engaged at Goldmines of Paramo
on the Atlantic coast of Fuegia.
The Princeton University Expeditions (Dr. J. B. Hatcher and O. A.
Peterson, 1895-96) were almost simultaneous with the Swedish, and in
large measure over part of the same ground, penetrating farther up the
Eastern Cordilleras, with the natural result that the collections are not
very dissimilar, and that most of the new species have been described in
the Swedish reports. As Professor Evans and Mr. Dusen have shown
above, the Hepaticae and Musci contain interesting novelties. As to the
phanerogams the most interesting novelties have been described in their
place in Part V of this volume.
In the season 1899-1900 Mr. Barnum Brown collected chiefly Flower-
ing Plants along Rio Gallegos, and Cryptogams in Fuegia, near the
Beagle Channel and on western coast and islands of Fuegia. This col-
