MACLOSKIE I LEGUMINOS^E. 505
lobes linear-subulate, longer than the tube. Corolla bluish, a third ex-
ceeding the calyx ; standard and wings clearly exceeding the keel. Ovary
appressed, pubescent-hoary.
Patagonia, in dry places by Rio Chubut, near Lago Musters and Car-
ren-leofu. Root 15-25 cm. long. Its acute, elliptical or lanceolate leaves
distinguish it from A. meyenianus Speg. and A. philippii Speg.
6. ASTRAGALUS CRUCKSHANKSII (Hook. & Arn. sub Phaca).
Somewhat robttst, decumbent, hoary or glabrous. Leaflets, 7-9 pairs,
oblong-cuneate, obtuse or emarginate ; stipules ovate, acuminate, the
lower concrete. Racemes capitate, lax, longer than the leaf. Flowers
rather large, yellow-violaceous, spreading. Bracts small. Calyx and
pedicels black, appressed-pilose. Vexillum large ; legume oblong, corneo-
coriaceous, thick, compressed, transversely striate-reticulate, subpilose,
with marginal sutures.
(Chilian Cordilleras) ; Patagon., Golfo de San Jorge, Rio Sta. Cruz,
Killik Aike (by Barnum Brown).
The pubescence of the calyx may be either white or black. Speci-
mens from South Patagonia have the leaflets smaller and broader than
the type (3.9 by 2.3 mm.), and more obtuse or nearly 2-lobed ; calyx with
white silky pubescence. Legume subacute both ways, glabrous, with the
upper suture introflexed. (Speg.) Large handsome flowers and hard fruit.
7. A. DISTINENS Macl. (Phaca distans A. Gray, 1854, non
A. distans Fischer, 1853.)
Slender, finely pubescent annual. Stipules ovate-subulate, partly
united. Leaflets 9-13, narrow-linear, obtuse, involute when young.
Racemes axillary, spike-like, many-flowered. Pedicels short, recurved.
Calyx white-brown, hairy. Corolla yellow-white. Legume ovoid, sessile,
i cm. long ; the sutures slightly intruding.
N. Patagon., by Rio Negro.
8. A. DOMEYKOANUS (Ph.) Reiche. ( Tragacantha proc umbcns
glabrescens O. Ktze.)
Low, branching, suffrutescent, stems green. Leaves glabrescent,
longer than the internodes, 3 cm., of which the petiole is one third. Leaf-
lets 7_ IO pairs, obcordate, plicate, notched at apex, sometimes with
