PART IX.
CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF THE
PATAGONIAN FLORA.
We include the mainland, and also the adjoining islands of Peraustral
America, as all constituting one botanical region. This is the meaning
of the term "Patagonian" which DeCandolle adopts in his Prodromus,
where he explains Patagonian Plants, "nempe in Patagonia, insulis maclo-
vianis, et terris magellanicis crescentes." It is incorrect to speak of this
as an antarctic region ; it is cold-temperate, Cape Horn being in the
same southern latitude as Edinburgh is northern ; and the mouth of the
Strait of Magellan corresponding to central England ; the Rio Sta. Cruz
to Land's End ; and the Rio Negro of Northern Patagonia agrees in lati-
tude with Madrid in Spain. Whilst southern latitudes have a more
rigorous climate than corresponding northern, we think that the case has
been greatly exaggerated by representing the Patagonian region as in any
way a counterpart of an Arctic climate. Botanically considered, the
Arctic regions can scarcely be said to possess an indigenous flora ; they
have struggling stragglers from lower latitudes. But in some parts of
the Patagonian area the indigenous flora is surprisingly rich.
We must be satisfied by referring to Dusen's observations on the west-
Patagonian flora as given in this volume; and to his papers on the
vegetation of western Fuegia and of the Magellan's-lands named in the
Bibliography at p. 928. Alboff is enthusiastic in describing the splendid
forests of Fuegia, especially of the southern and western parts of the
archipelago. The scenery is shown by him to be all the more impressive
because it is unexpected. After coasting along the eastern seaboard of
the Patagonian mainland, with its gloomy, treeless barren surface of sand
and shingle, which extends for about a thousand kilometers along the
coast, and penetrating the equally uninviting parts of eastern Magellania
the scene changes all at once. The northern and eastern parts of Tierra
945
