MACLOSKIE: CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF THE PATAGONIAN FLORA. 947
they mostly prefer the Magellan channel, with all its windings, its fogs
and its rocks. To go eastwards by Cape Horn, even onwards to Aus-
tralia, is only to "run the easting down" where the chief risk is that the
waves may rush the ship too fast for safety.
Proceeding northward from Cape Horn, along the eastern coast of
Fuegia, one comes to two groups of islands, Staaten Island, separated
from the main land by the Strait of Lemaire, 25 kilometers wide, and
richly wooded ; the other islands are the Falklands (known to the French
as the Malouines), directly east of the entrance to Magellan Strait, at a
distance of 500 kilometers. These islands have rocky heights, extensive
moorlands, and peat bogs, large freshwater pools and rivulets, and the
extraordinary phenomenon of "streams of stones" slowly descending
from the hills, like petrified glaciers from their elevated breeding-place.
The absence of trees from the Falklands and the presence of some pecu-
liar plants, most famous being the "tussock-grass" (Poa flabellatd}, and
the "wiry-grass" (Deschampsiaantarctica andflexuosa) are characteristic;
also the Nassauvia serpens, which sends leagues of its root down among
the rocks. The islands are also the home of forms which prove that they
have been the landing place, or the point of departure, for plants which
are common to peraustral America and the Australasian lands.
Niederlein refers to the arid and stern, often very bleak aspect of the
vegetation of the eastern Patagonian plains ; for thousands of square leagues
there being nothing but dry grass, and loose sand mingled with salt ; and
the fierce storms come from the southern icy sea across the steppes. Rain
seldom falls, and the water is received into salty morasses. No brook
enters the few rivers which cross from the mountains in deep channels.
The vegetation consists of few stiff grasses, woody, and mostly glutinous
or thorny hairy bushes, and shrubs of 1-3 meters height, bare, stump-like,
apparently dead after losing their few leaves. Even during the growing
period the older branches are often leafless, and apparently lifeless. The
leaves may be small and caducous, or fleshy, or leathery, hard, or prickly,
or transformed into spines, and sometimes stripped off. Only a few of
the flowers are remarkable for beauty, or fragrance or size.
On account of these vegetal affinities of distant lands, all the southern
hemisphere has been included by some authors in a single "Antarctic"
botanical region. Karl Reiche makes this one of the fifteen great floral
regions of the world, being characterized by forests of evergreen beeches,
