MACLOSKIE: LEGUMINOS/E. 507
Patagon., on pampas by Coy Inlet (Peterson) ; Rio Sta. Cruz and
Gallegos. Magellan, by valley of Lago Blanco, and Rio Chubut.
12. ASTRAGALUS PEHUENCHES Ndrln.
Phaca. Herb, from thick root, 15 cm. high, glabrous, leafy. Leaflets 5-1 1
pairs, rusty, petiolulate, oblong-obovate, obtuse, glandular, the young
hairy. Stipules slender, free, acuminate, ciliate. Peduncles axillary, 3
cm. long, 4-5-flowered. Bracts small ; bractlets smaller. Calyx-teeth
acuminate, upper pair more remote. Petals white, twice as long ; stan-
dard obovate. Stamens diadelphous, I free and 9 united halfway.
Stigma capitate, style smooth. Legitme oblong, glabrous, stipitate.
Seeds 5.
N. Patagon., by Rio Negro.
13. A. PROCUMBENS Hook. & Arn.
Stem slender, procumbent, 30 cm. long, white-woolly especially upwards.
Stipules large, oval, amplexicaul, scarious-yellow. Petioles long, weak,
setaceous, villous. Leaflets 10-14 pairs, elliptical, obtuse, entire, villous
below. Peduncles long, woolly, floriferous at apex. Bracts long, lance-
olate, scarious. Pedicels black. Calyx hairy ; its teeth long. Corolla
ruddy-yellow. Legume triquetrous, pubescent. Seeds several.
N. Patagon., by Lago Nahuel-huapi.
14. A. RENGIFOI Phil.
Ashy, with sessile and appressed hairs. Stems various from the same
root. Leaves 8 cm. long, the petiole being one fourth of this. Leaflets
10 pairs, linear, sometimes emarginate. Stipules free, long-triangular,
with white hairs and a green midrib, a row of black hairs below them.
Inflorescence exceeding the leaves, flowers 10-15, short-pediceled. Bracts
very short. Calyx short tubular, with very short teeth, having black and
white hairs. Standard twice as long as the calyx, bluish. Wings exceed-
ing the keel. Legume nearly 2 cm. long, cylindrical, coriaceous, slightly
curved, appressed-pubescent.
(Atacama.)
A. RENGIFOI LEIOCARPUS Speg.
(A young specimen.) Differing from the type by absence of the sub-
stipular ring of hairs, and by the ovaries being glabrous, and the (imma-
ture) ovary being narrower and longer.
