948 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
Myrtacex, and certain Coniferae ; and he would include in it with per-
austral America, southern parts of Australia, also Tasmania, New Zealand
and the sporadic islands of the southern ocean (none of those with living
vegetation being within the antarctic circle).
The Patagonian part of this larger complex, has been compared to an
ovate leaf, its base about Sierra Ventana, in Southern Argentina, 38 S.
Lat, and extending across to Valdivia on the Chilian coast about 39.
The distance from this base to Cape Horn is nearly 1,000 miles (1,600 kil-
ometers). The leaf-pattern is unequal, having a broad eastern half, nearly
entire at its margin, and a narrow western half, jagged and torn up into
bits; and the midrib, represented by the Cordillera, is itself double or
triple in its northward division, and is frequently cut across by rents, which
continue outwards to the margins as long, very meandering rivers. The
southern part, or leaf-point, is prolonged, and bent towards the east, and
greatly frayed and divided, longitudinally and transversely, as if breaking
to fragments. To drop the comparison with a leaf, we may merely indi-
cate the geological bearings of its structure, as being what remains of a
larger mainland which has been partly submerged, like what Scotland and
Scandinavia should be if certain changes which have befallen them had
been more intense. Viewed in this way, the islands and submarine banks
that remain southwards, as the South Shetland Isles, may be regarded as
the surviving rudiments of a drowned continent. These facts cannot here
be dwelt on, but must be kept in memory when considering questions of
distribution. In Vol. IV of this series of Reports Professor Ortman dis-
cusses the theory of Antarctica, or of former land-connections in tertiary
times, across the South-polar regions between Fuegia and Tasmania, pos-
sibly extending to South Australia, and approaching, though perhaps not
actually reaching New Zealand. Our knowledge of the southward islands
has been recently enlarged by the antarctic exploring expeditions. The
most interesting discovery has been of fossil pteridophytes and conifers of
palaeozoic age in the South Shetlands.
The correlative exposures of the land east and west of the Andean
range, which is determining the political relations, as between Argentina
and Chili, seem largely to have determined the botany, and first of all
the climatic differences. And as the good climate, excessively moist, and
very rich for its vegetation, lies away from the foci of modern civilization,
and the eastern plains, very dry, and rocky, and treeless, are uninvit-
