MACLOSKIE: CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF THE PATAGONIAN FLORA. 949
ing, the country is still unimproved as compared with other sections of
Neogaea. If the mountain range and the moisture had been on the
eastern side perhaps the present conditions should have been better. And
men may nevertheless discover, as they are already realizing, that round
by the western shore good lands remain, inviting colonization and agri-
cultural development.
It must be conceded that in its present condition the vast eastern plain
is not attractive. The special adaptations to a xerophil life are not things
of beauty. Dense, woolly hair, secretions of resin and wax, reduction in
size of leaves, involution of leaf-margins, closely apposed leaf-surfaces,
pulvinate habit, the ramifications being very intricate and packed together
into moss-like masses which you can hardly cut with a knife ; thick epi-
dermis, often backed beneath by thick hypodermis, andbften strengthened
by scleroderm as buttresses ; deeply immersed stomata ; in grasses con-
volute leaves and development of nodal cushions, and the brownish or
lurid shading of leaves and flowers characterize that vegetation. The
steppes are a low plateau, devoid of trees, but with herbs, shrubs and
thorny bushes, the herbs being largely gramineous, and synantherous (of
Calyceraceae and Composite). In winter the bare interspaces between
the shrubs become filled, after rain, by Alfilerillo (Erodium) which is
valuable for sheep, and may yet become a leading factor for civilization.
In the alluvial ground, and low parts, wheat and grape vines, and apple
trees, when introduced flourish very well. The marine algae, and the
fisheries, give promise of future productiveness.
Some of the rivers which flow into the Pacific Ocean have their sources
in the tertiary plateau which extends east of the main Cordilleras, and
penetrate the mountain axis, cutting their way westward, a feature which
is very frequent along the whole Andean Chain. In Patagonia a long
line of cliffs borders the Atlantic coast, being interrupted at intervals,
where broad valleys open into the sea, and carry rivers from more ele-
vated parts and the mountain lakes. This general plain rises towards the
Cordilleras, with depressions which contain the straggling streams and
the salinas, or saltish lakes ; whilst occasionally, especially in the southern
parts, immense sheets of basaltic lava cover the surface. "The aspect
rapidly changes along the approaches of the Cordillera. It is a broken
region, often mountainous, rich in prairies, rich above all in sheets of
water, the smallest of which equals the area of the great European lakes ;
