950 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
a privileged country, where the climate is free from extremes, where the
moisture is sufficient, where forests, easily penetrated, adorn the mountain
sides" (Gallois, Les Andes de Patagonie}.
The striking phenomenon of the existence of plants of the same or of
closely allied species in unconnected localities, attracted the attention of
the older botanists and became a subject of speculation. The doctrine
of Schouw, reinforced by Louis Agassiz, that these cases were to be
explained by the creation of the original members of a species in dupli-
cate, or in multiple, was promptly opposed by Joseph D. Hooker, whose
researches into the Antarctic flora made it clear that there must be means
of distribution whereby the plants of some of the regions could reach
other regions. He argued (Flora of New Zealand, 1853), that the indi-
viduals of every species have been distributed from one center, and that
species must have originated in particular centers, whence they were
spread, as opportunities occurred ; also that their scattering was by natural
causes, but not necessarily in all cases by the same causes to which they
are now exposed. Asa Gray subsequently endorsed and illustrated these
views (Flora of Japan, 1859, reprinted in Gray's Scientific Papers, II,
126 sqq.) insisting on the local origin of species, and on their migrations
from one place to another, often under the pressure of climatal changes.
The writings of Charles Darwin and Alfred Russell Wallace, substantially
settled this controversy, by showing that in order to explain the present
distribution we must consider the opportunities or difficulties of access of
plants from other regions. Thus Darwin, and afterwards Ball, observed
that the absence of trees in the Patagonian plains was due to the land
having been recently submerged, and that there was no neighbouring
country from which after emergence it could be stocked with suitable trees.
These considerations taken along with the xerophytic climate of the
eastern plains led us to expect a very poor flora. But on including the
western slope, and the islands on the west and south, the number of species
of flowering plants in the Patagonian-Fuegian Region turns out to be
about 2,100, with about 350 good varieties in addition. This is the same
total as that made out for Victoria in Baron Mueller's analytic summary,
and we regard it as a favorable showing for Patagonia. The number of
genera is 522, belonging to 113 families. Of these the Gymnosperms
have 12 species in 7 genera. The Monocotyledones have 481 species and
85 varieties; 106 genera, and 17 families. Gramineae alone number so
