MACLOSKIE: CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF THE PATAGONIAN FLORA. 951
many as 276 species and 50 varieties. The Dicotyledones have about
i, 600 species, and 240 varieties, in 410 genera, and 92 families.
An examination of the affinities of species and of their geographical dis-
tribution leads to the conclusion that the Patagonian lands constitute a
true botanical region, well characterized yet not sharply limited by nat-
ural boundaries. Thus we find the native species settling into diverse
groups, each presenting its own distributional problem, and bearing testi-
mony which has not yet been fully interpreted.
1. We have a large number, about 120 species, of plants which are
somewhat isolated, and characteristic of the region. A number of these
have become famous, and many more are deserving of attention. Some
of the remarkable genera are almost confined to the region, and of the
other genera several species are confined to it.
2. On the other hand we note about 150 genera of plants character-
istic of Temperate and Warm-temperate climates elsewhere, and most of
them widespread, yet not known in Patagonia. Some of these are here
represented by allied, often peculiar, forms. These facts taken together
favor a theory of long-continued geographical demarcation, or partial
isolation, between this and other lands of similar latitudes.
3. We also observe a large number of examples of the discontinuous
distribution of identical or closely allied species ; several of them remark-
able ; but most surprising is their large number. By the help of Engler
and Prantl's Pflanzenfamilien we have noted as many as 106 instances
of these (including a few cases of plants recently introduced). A well-
known case of this discontinuity is allied species of Araucaria found here
and on Norfolk Id. : others are the beautiful Veronica elliptica in Fuegia,
West Falkland and New Zealand ; allied species of Gaimardia, Rost-
kovia, Laitrelia, the Uncinia sinclairii, Ourisia species, Gunnera, and
Carex darwinii var. urolepis (see page 961), unite Patagonia with New
Zealand ; whilst some others inhabit Tasmania, and some (as species of
Pernettyd] are also in South Australia. Again some peculiar sections of
large genera, as of Myosotis and of Plantago, and Fagus, link together
the widely separated southern lands. Kcenigia (Macounastnim] has one
species found both in Arctic islands, and in Himalaya, and another species
in Fuegia. Bryodes has a species in Mauritius, and another in Magellan.
Eriogonum, so characteristic of the Western United States, is represented
by a species in Patagonia, and the common European Geum urbanum
