952 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
seems to be at home in South Patagonia and Fuegia. The European Ulex
(furze) has been introduced, but it has a native congener in U. nanus.
Abrotanella unites, by closely allied species, New Zealand, Auckland and
Campbell's islands, South Australia and Magellan-Fuegia ; and Arte-
misia, a northern genus, has an outlying species in Chili-Fuegia. Several
northern forms are represented in the Patagonian region, yet remarkable
for their absence from Australasia.
4. Instances of northward, or meridional, continuity are most numerous
and dominant ; not largely with Argentina, but chiefly with the Andine
region. Owing to the trend of the country and to the rivers flowing east-
wards to the Atlantic, there is a continual system of clearing out and re-
plenishing of plants. Floods exterminate the plants along the streams,
carrying them to the ocean ; and the vacated localities are soon populated
by new immigrants from the mountains. This system renders Patagonia
in large measure a botanical dependency on Chili ; and also a landing
place for immigrants from the far north, even from Mexico, California,
Alaska, and by the Bering route from Asia ; apparently receiving from,
rather than contributing towards, the northern Floras. We find in our
list about 140 genera of flowering plants which have thus immigrated
southwards. It is about Magellan and Fuegia that there is least of this
change seen ; hence with these parts there is most permanency and most
characteristic peculiarity of forms.
5. The eastward or latitudinal continuity is very limited, by reason of
the broad ocean ; and yet it is not inconsiderable. Patagonia, the Falk-
land Ids., Kerguelen, Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand, and the smaller
sporadic islands of the south, are correlated both botanically and zoo-
logically. It is a difficult question to find the conditions, and the lines
of movement of the colonization of each ; but that there has been an in-
terchange by land or winds or sea cannot be questioned. We find about
fifty genera represented in this transverse colonization. In some cases
the movement has been probably circuitous ; from an Asiatic center forms
migrated in opposite directions, some northward, and by trans-arctic land
or ice bridges to America, whence by the meridian route of the Western
Hemisphere they reached their goal in Patagonia; whilst others went
from their Asiatic source southwards by an Oriental meridian-line to
Eastern Australia, and so on. But a number of the forms that are com-
mon to Chili-Patagonia on one side, and to Australia-New Zealand on
