MACLOSKIE: CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF PATAGONIAN FLORA. 953
the other side, are not of the Asiatic or Northern facies ; and seem to be
essentially and primitively Austral ; such are some of the Coniferce, the
Chilian- Australian beeches (Nothofagus], peculiar Liliacece, Centrolepidacece,
Proteacea* (of this family, however, the Patagonian forms make a special
section, reminding one of the case of the Marsupials) ; Calandrinia, Colo-
banthus, Weinmannia (its woolly seeds are supposed to indicate aeronautic
propensities), Discaria, Plagianthus, Drapetes, Nertera, Plantaginella, Vit-
tadinia, Chiliotrichium, and species of the Mutisiece.
One difficulty as to these is to explain how they could reach Patagonia
from Australasian sources; the winds and waves could "run the easting
down" as seamen say, so as to carry Patagonian forms eastwards; " sed
revocare gradum " is still an open problem. Whether the fragments of a
lost continent in the Antarctic banks and islets are to be a leading factor
in explicating this problem we cannot presently say. It is, of course, for
many reasons probable, that the migration of some of the special forms
of plants as well as of the diprotodont marsupial animals must have been
westward toward America from their place of origin somewhere in Aus-
tralasia; the share of New Zealand in helping migration may be con-
siderable and all the more because the scattered Polynesian islands of lower
latitudes seem to have little in common with Patagonian vegetation.
Ever since Commerson's time the Magellan coast and the Falklands have
been recognized as a sort of dumping ground for odds and ends of vege-
tation from all parts, much of it imported in straw and barrels from north-
ern sources. Yet even prior to the advent of man it seems to have been
subject to much accession of an extraordinary kind from other quarters ;
and the facts are there still ready to tell their history if we can only read
them aright. The most important of these facts seem to belong to the
geological history and palaeontology of the Southern Hemisphere. In
numerous cases, as was shown by J. D. Hooker before the British Asso-
ciation in 1866, the colonization was probably eastwards, from Fuegia to
Kerguelen and directly to Australia. The large majority of Kerguelen
Phanerogams were stated by him to have been immigrants from Southern
America.
A slight acquaintance with the vegetation of the region suffices to show
that it is derived mainly from the Chilian Flora, and in a less degree from
that of Argentina, and that it also has very interesting though vastly
fewer relations with the insular vegetation of the southern hemisphere, as
