954 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
Kerguelen, Australasia, New Zealand and southern Africa. It is mainly
through the Andine connection that it is remotely but very decidedly
related to the Vegetation of Western North America and of Siberia and
Central Asia.
The transverse course of the Patagonian river-valleys from the Cor-
dilleras to the Atlantic Ocean, taken along with the fact that the xerophil
climate and shingly plains practically confine the vegetation to these river-
valleys, renders the flora of the northern and central parts of the region
almost absolutely dependent on the constant replenishing from the
Andine chain and elevated valleys. When the occupants of the trans-
verse valleys become extinct, either being buried under the mountain
debris in consequence of floods, or being carried out to sea, they are
dependent on the arrival of a new stock of similar or diverse species to
fill the vacancy.
Professor Neger summarizes the relations by stating that the Andine
shingle-flora sends down many species to the Patagonian steppes, and in
the valleys protected from the winds Central Chilian forms determine the
character of the vegetation. Thus the Patagonian flora stands to the
Central Chilian Flora in closer relations than one would expect, consider-
ing the intervening mountain chain. This chain causes great difference
between the Chilian and the Argentine Flora ; and yet Patagonia remains
in close touch with the Chilian.
In illustration of this, Neger estimates that Southern Patagonia has 57
per cent, of its Dicotyledones in common with Chili ; only 28 per cent,
endemic, and even these allied to Chilian forms ; whilst only 15 per cent,
are of North Argentine or Brazilian affinity. He also remarks that the
comparison of genera is more significant, of which 88 per cent, are
Chilian ; a few genera endemic, and less than 9 per cent, unknown in
Chili, but found in Argentina or Brazil. We think that these percentages
would still be near the truth although the figures in the present list are
at least twice the number known to Neger.
Neger adds that Geology will aid in explaining why the colonizing was
not chiefly from Argentina, though no high mountain barrier intervenes in
that direction. This depends on the fact that Patagonia was recently
under the sea, and after emerging, its river valleys running from west to
east carried the immigrant plants across from the Chilian Andes. He
notes that the flourishing European apple-trees of Patagonia prove that
