MACLOSKIE: CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF PATAGONIAN FLORA. 955
many other plants would thrive there, if only they could find an entrance.
This consideration also helps to account for the absence of trees, inasmuch
as after the extinction of large Patagonian glaciers, from none of the
adjoining lands have trees been able to invade the vacant territory. The
chain of the Andes from which alone they could come has few large trees
southwards, and none suitable for the soil and climate of the plains or the
intersecting valleys. That trees have no objection to Western Patagonia,
or to the Magellan and West Fuegian districts is evident from Professor
Dusen's summary. It is within the possibilities that the Patagonian region
may yet be improved by the judicious introduction of trees and shrubs.
In extending our view further northwards we are struck by the fact that
the famous papers by Asa Gray and Joseph D. Hooker on the Origin of
the North American Flora, admit of extension in two directions, both
as to the terminus a quo and to the terminus ad quern. Instead of
starting from the Arctic regions or from Scandinavia our present knowl-
edge of plant-distribution points very strongly and directly to Central
Asia as the home or distributing center of the plants of all the temper-
ate and colder parts of the world. The Arctic regions are rather remark-
able for the absence of endemic species, but have formed a convenient
bridge for the passage to and fro of forms belonging to the less rigorous
parts of both hemispheres. Their Old World connection is shown by the
examination of the Index Kewensis to be chiefly with the northern and
central parts of Asia. The Himalaya region is unique for the diversity of
its climate at its different elevations ; and sends colonies of its plants
westward, by Asia Minor to the Mediterranean region, and as far as the
Canary Ids. ; southwestward to Arabia and Africa ; across the Orient
to Australia ; eastward to China and Japan ; and northwestward to
Europe. 1 The course of distribution of animals has been similar ;
the Elephants migrated from the foot of the Himalayas to western
Europe as far as Great Britain, and even to the cold parts of northern
Asia, and over into Alaska, whence they spread over parts of America,
.reaching as far as Patagonia. The distribution of the Mosquitoes ex-
hibits the same tendency. 2 And in a recent paper in Nature upon
1 See A. F. W. Schimper (Pflanzengeograpluc, 786 sqq.) on the diversity of climate and richness
of vegetation of the Himalayan Region.
"Monograph of Culicidae, F. V. Theobald, British Museum, 1901. Observe especially the
distribution of Culex nigripes, the Scourge of Alaska, from Kashmir.
