956 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS I BOTANY.
the butterflies on the borderland of North and South America, a writer
with the familiar initials E. B. P. supplies us with very pregnant sugges-
tions in the same directions. 1 It is there shown that the U-like shape of
the borderland about the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea has had
a special influence on distribution. Not only have many southern forms
come northwards ; but in turn northern forms have migrated southwards ;
oscillations of the backbone of the New World, accompanied by changes
of climate also serve as determinants of the direction and result of the
migrations from colder climates. Gray and Hooker gave special empha-
sis to the return northward of plants that had previously moved south-
ward ; but it would appear that some individuals had in Glacial times
gone so far south as to leave themselves no room for repentance on the
return of warmer times. They went further south, hugging the Andes,
and finally a selection of them reached Patagonia. 2
It is to be remembered that in such cases the immigrants frequently
change by way of adaptation to the new homes ; their resemblance to the
old ancestral forms will be generic rather than specific. Such a form as
Braya presents a series of specific forms, reaching from the Alps of
Europe by the Caucasian range, with a couple of species in the Himalaya
region ; so on through Siberia and across Bering Strait to Alaska and
the mountains of Western America, down to southern Chili and Patagonia ;
reappearing again in New Zealand ; almost belting the world.
We have been anticipated to some extent on this subject by Professor
N. L. Britton, who addressed a meeting of botanists at Buffalo on the
influence of the mountains of Asia in plant-distribution. Mrs. Britton
informs us that a large number of our American Mosses occur as well in
Cashmere Valley. 3 Wallace had something of the kind in view when in
his work on Island Life he referred to the mountains of the Oriental
islands as receiving contributions carried by the winds from the Him-
alayas. Asa Gray in his paper on the Flora of Japan (Scientific Papers,
ii, p. 125), finds many species common to Japan, the Himalayan region,
1 Nature, Nov. 13, 1902. (Presumably E. B. Poulton.)
2 See Schimper (Pere), Paleontologie Vegetale on the Glacial and Post-glacial Flora of Europe.
s Mrs. Britton refers to a statement by V. F. Brotherus in the Contribution on the Bryological
Flora of the northwestern Himalaya, Helsingfors, 1898. The list includes 49 genera and 96
species, all mosses which are also found in North America ; the altitudes vary from 6,000 feet in
the valleys to from 20,000-26,000 feet on the highest mountains, and the flora is similar to that
of the mountains of Europe and temperate North America.
