MACLOSKIE: CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF PATAGONIAN FLORA. 957
and Eastern North America, and that characteristic North American
genera have one or more closely representative species in the Himalayan
region ; and he quotes an unpublished opinion of Bentham, as the natural
conclusion from all these data, that the interchange between the temper-
ate floras even of the western part of the Old World and the New World
took place mainly via Asia. Mr. Bentham also refers (Journ. Linn. Soc.,
ii, p. 34), to how frequently large American genera are represented in
Eastern Asia by a small number of species, which gradually diminish or
disappear westwards towards the Atlantic limits of Europe. There are
few distinctively European forms in the eastern part of America, thus tes-
tifying that the European region was not directly in the line of passage
between the Old and New Worlds.
The distribution of animals reinforces this doctrine: Dr. C. W. An-
drews has proved that the proboscidians have originated in Africa, and
the presence of remains of more than a score of species of elephants and
allied forms near the Himalayas points out the probable route by which
they travelled from Africa to Northeastern Asia and to America. Whilst
it is as a center of distribution rather than of origin, that we are speak-
ing, probably every region which is favored with suitable climate and
soil is in some degree a center of origin. Mountain chains have char-
acteristic advantages and limitations in both ways. How much have
the Andes of America and the Blue Mountains of Australia done for
distribution at least in the countries beyond them, as high roads for
species which could not have travelled by valleys or plains ! Shelter-
ing from excessive heat and from drought, and intercepting winds which
convey seeds from afar, they afford friendly resting-places, with variety of
soil and exposure so as to suit every comer ; and improving the stock, by
new variations, they send them out again by various channels into the
general circulation. This has been the function of the American chain, as
Patagonian plants abundantly testify ; and the evidence points to it unmis-
takably as the function of the great tablelands and complex mountain
system which surround the "roof of the world" in central Asia.
Most significant in this respect are those species and genera which are
in large measure peculiar to and characteristic of the Region of Patagonia
and Southern Chili, and which secure to the area the rank of a proper
botanical region. Some of those are related to forms existing in Brazil
and Texas; some allied to Australian or even South African forms;
