958 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
but they have their own fades; and the presence of any of them at
once identifies the source of a collection. Of these the most noteworthy
are the species of Ephedm, Chusquea (Gramineae), the Tussock-grass,
and Carex patagonica, and species of Uncinia, Philesia and Lapa-
geria (shrubs both of Liliaceae), Chlorcea (Orchidaceae), Myzodendron,
lodina and Arjona (both of Santalaceae), Hamadryas (Ranunculaceae),
Drimys (the celebrated Winter' s-green, of Magnoliaceae), Anarthrophyl-
lum and Patagonium (both of Leguminosae, the Patagonium having many
species), Accena (Rosaceae, many species), Azorella (Umbelliferae, many
species), Schinus (Anacardiaceae, the Incense-bush), Pernettya (Ericaceae),
some peculiar species of Verbena, and of Berberis, Benthamiella (Solana-
ceae), Boopis and Acicarpha (both of Calyceraceae), Lepidophyllum,
Nardophyllum, and many other forms of fruticose Compositae ; many
species of Nassauvia and also of Perezia, representing the Mutisieae, a tribe
of Compositae. This is a long list of very peculiar and interesting species
or genera ; most of which seem to be in or near their primeval homes,
and are like the survivors of the inhabitants of a more extensive land.
The general outcome of the data favors the theory of an incomplete
continuity of the southern lands in former times, so as to secure oppor-
tunities of transit, and also a measure of relative isolation. The landward
side secures some isolation at one part by difference of climate and by
impassable plains ; at another by the mountain chain which makes simul-
taneously a highway and a barrier. The geological data, as given else-
where in these reports, indicate the curious and significant structure of the
southern mountains, dividing into parallel ridges, and cross-hatched by
deep valleys, and rivers, and gradually sinking southward as well as
spreading out like a fan, until they are ultimately lost in the deep ocean,
here and there a "rudiment " of former land emerging to betray their secret.
A recent writer in Nature summarizes Sir Martin Conway's description of
Tierra del Fuego, showing how the deeper hollows between the cordil-
leras have been invaded by the sea, so that there is a long trough parallel
to the coast-line, and many a transverse channel. And he specially notes
the rapid change of sea-level now going on. In Darwin's time the
glaciers of Mount Sarmiento reached the sea; now they are separated
from the sea by woody belts ; and raised beaches and boulders give evi-
dence of frequent oscillating of sea-level.
Southwards of this system of long fiords and cross-channels, the land
