512 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS: BOTANY.
tary or 3-6-racemed; the peduncle exceeding the leaves, pubescent.
Calyx hairy, green, with red ; its teeth linear, obtuse, long. Corolla
orange, little-exserted ; vexillum dorsally pubescent.
S. Patagon., by Rio Sta. Cruz, and Gulf of San Jorge ; dry hills near
Nafofo-cahuellu.
3. PATAGONIUM APHANANTHUM Speg.
Dasycarpum. Low, unarmed perennial, all hoary-hispidulous. Stems
many, laxly hemispherical, subcespitose. Leaves small, crowded towards
the ends of the branches, the base of the petiole connate with the stipules.
and folioliferous above the middle. Leaflets imparipinnate, 4 pairs and
an odd one, obovate or oblanceolate, spreading, pilose-hispidulous.
Flowers very small and difficult to see, solitary in the axils and cernu-
ous on moderate pedicels. Calyx 5-cleft beyond the middle.lobes acute,
hoary-rough. Corolla lutescent, vexillum excepted, glabrous. Legumes
very small, 2-3-jointed, basal joint glabrous, others rough.
Height 3-5 cm.
Chubut, at Teka-choique.
4. P. BORONIOIDES (Hook. f.).
Leiocarpum. Unarmed; racemed; suffruticose, glabrous, but with
viscid, wart-like glands. Stem 45 cm. high ; branches ascending, terete,
articulate. Leaves long on thick petioles, ending in a cirrhus, and with
inconspicuous stiptdes. Leaflets 10-15 pairs, small, sessile, broad-ovate,
toothed, coriaceous. Racemes lateral and terminal, obtuse, the bracteoles
short. Calyx broad-ovate, shortly 5-cleft, one third as long as the gla-
brous standard. Flowers 8 mm. long, yellow, streaked brown. Legume
3-jointed, glandulous.
Patagon., Rio Chubut; Puerto Deseado; Cape Fairweather; Upper
Valley of Rio Gallegos (Nordenskj.); W. Patagon., by Lago Toro
(Dusen); E. Fuegia (Ansorge). Not in S. Fuegia.
5- P. CANDIDUM (Hook. f.).
Unarmed; racemed, frutescent ; white, with fine, appressed tomentum.
Paniculately branched upwards, the branches terete. Leaves sparse, pin-
nate, on thickish, canaliculate petioles ; with small, deciduous stipules.
Leaflets 3-5 pairs, oval-oblong, rounded at both ends, coriaceous, entire,
nerveless. Racemes lax, terminal, pendulous on short pedicels, bracteo-
