MACLOSKIE: LEGUMINOS/G. 519
overlapping the other parts. Legumes linear, 9-i2-jointed, bristly glan-
dular. A bush with viscid leaves. (Perhaps P. muricatum.]
By Rio Gallegos (Barnum Brown). Patagon., along the coast south of
Rio Sta. Cruz.
30. PATAGONIUM RETUSUM (Griseb.) Reiche.
Unarmed; not racemed. Diffuse undershrubs, 10 cm. high, green,
sparsely pilose, with ascending, leafy branches. Leaves pinnate, with
ovate, acutish stipules, as long as the short petiole. Leaflets 7-5 (-3)
pairs, very small, cuneate-obovate, retuse, plicate with midnerve, gla-
brous. Ped^incle i -flowered from the upper axils. Calyx campanulate,
its teeth unequal, pubescent. Standard twice as long, puberulous out-
side towards base. Ovary tomentose ; ovules several.
(Chili.) S. Patagon. (Hatcher. The peduncles are longer than the
flower, and bear 14 flowers ; the calyx and tomentose legumes are cov-
ered with black hairs ; the legumes at length urceolate.)
31. P. SALICORNIOIDES Speg.
Unarmed. Cespitose, perennial, very fleshy and glabrous, with crowded
leaves. Stipules subconnately sheathing, with ovate lobes ; petiole short ;
leaflets 3, subterete, obovate. Apical branchlets, with solitary, sessile
flowers. Calyx-teeth linear, obtuse, as long as the tube ; corolla golden,
twice as long as the calyx. Pod i-3-jointed, naked, glabrous. Habit
nearly of Salicornia.
S. Patagon., in rocky fissures near Lago Argentine ; in rocks at Sierra
de los Baguales.
32. P. SUBTERRANEUM (CloS.) O. KtZC.
Armed shrub, dwarf, with thick, tubercled, blackish, subterranean stems.
Branches subterranean and subcorymbose. Leaves cespitose, crowded,
scarcely emerging from the ground, appressed, hoary-pubescent; leaflets
2-3 pairs and a terminal, small, obovate-oblong, mucronate. Flowers
few, very short, peduncled, immersed in the leaves. Calyx 3-cleft, the 2
lateral broad segments each 2-toothed. Corolla twice as long as the calyx.
Pod exceeding the calyx, 4-jointed, silky.
(Chili) ; Patagon.
33. P. SUFFOCATUM (Hook. fil.).
Unarmed, low, cespitose shrub, silvery-silky. Leaves 2-3-foliolate, the
leaflets obovate, conduplicate, enclosing the solitary, subsessile flowers.
