MACLOSKIE: LEGUMINOS/E. 521
37. PATAGONIUM TRIJUGUM (Gill.) Reiche.
Armed ; racemed. Shrub, pubescent, or tomentose, or glabrous.
Branches short, stout, intricate, their apex naked, repeatedly forking and
spinescent ; spines simple or strong and forking. Leaves fasciculate from
tubercles, pinnate. Leaflets 3-5 pairs, small, ovate-cuneate, retuse or
mucronate, entire or toothed, sessile. Pedicels racemosely crowded at the
ends of the branches, rather long. Calyx long, its teeth narrow-lanceo-
late. Legume 3-5-jointed, covered with long, feathery bristles.
Patagon., mountains of Chubut ; Puerto Deseado, Rio Sta. Cruz.
38. P. VILLOSUM (Hook, f.) Reiche.
Unarmed ; not racemed. Soft-silky herb, 5-7 cm. high, with pros-
trate, ascending stem and pinnate leaves. Stipules rather large, produced
upward into auricles. Leaflets 5-7 pairs, obovate-cuneate. Pedicels
shorter than the petioles, axillary, i -flowered. Flowers large. Calyx-
teeth long, linear-subulate. Standard slightly exceeding the calyx.
Style long. Legume 2-3 jointed, hairy.
S. Patagon., Puerto Deseado ; Rio Chico. By Rio Chubut and Lago
Musters.
P. villosum typictim Speg. All rufescent-villous. Leaflets obtuse or
emarginate.
P. villosum acutifolium Speg. All ashy-villous. Leaflets oblanceo-
late, acute, entire.
P. villosiim glabratum Speg. Branches, petioles and leaflets glabrous ;
pedicels and calyx ashy-villous. Killik Aike (by Barnum Brown).
21. VICIA Linn. Vetch.
Climbing or trailing herbs, with tendril-bearing, pinnate leaves (the
terminal tendril sometimes represented by a small setula), semisagittate
or entire stipules, and axillary, sessile or racemed, blue, violet, or yellow
flowers. Calyx-tube slightly oblique, the teeth equal, or the posterior pair
longer. Standard obovate or oblong, emarginate, clawed. Wings ad-
hering to the shorter keel. Stamens diadelphous, i and 9, or all united
below. Style tufted near the tip. Ovules several. Legume flat, dehiscent.
Species 120, widespread in Temperate regions. "Their Southern limit
is in the Strait of Magellan ; and they are more on the West than on
