MACLOSKIE : LEGUMINOS/E.
523
2. VlCIA DARAPSKYANA Phil.
Pubescent. Stem angulate, flexuose, internodes short. Leaflets about
5 pairs, elliptical, obtuse, alternate; cirrhi simple and bifid. Stipules
semisagittate, angulate-dentate. Peduncles thick, twice as long as the
leaf, many-flowered, in a long, dense raceme. Upper and lateral teeth of
the calyx narrow, subreflexed, lowest subulate, not as long as the tube.
Corolla thrice as long as calyx, dry, violet.
Leaves 5 cm. long; stem I mm. thick.
(Mountains near Parret) ; Patagon.
3. V. ECIRRATA Phil.
Annual ; appressed-puberulous. Leaves with a moderate mucro in
place of cirrhus ; leaflets 5 pairs, oblong, basi-cuneate, obtuse or mu-
cronate. Stipules ovate-lanceolate, acuminate. Peduncles as long as the
leaf, 3-5-flowered. Calyx-tube turbinate, its 5 teeth subulate filiform,
twice as long as the tube. Corolla equal to calyx.
(At Rio .de las Nalcas " of some southern province.") Reiche refers this
to the Lentil, Lens esctilenta Mnch., which differs from Vicia by its long
calyx-teeth, small blue-white petals, and oval, i-2-seeded pod. Presum-
ably introduced.
4. V. GRAMINEA Smith, (y. Kingii Hook, f.)
Sparsely pilose. Stem subsimple, angulate, 60 cm. high. Stipules
semisagittate, the lobules deflexed, the apex acuminate. Petioles long,
compressed, ending in a branching tendril. Leaflets 3-5 pairs, linear-
obovate-oblong, entire, apiculate, the apex obtuse or 2-toothed. Pedun-
cles silky, i-2-flowered, much shorter than the petioles. Calyx short, silky,
its teeth acute. Immature legumes pendulous, glabrous.
(Montevideo, Commerson, 1767.) Patagon., by Rio Negro; near Raw-
son (Dusen); Magellan, Fuegia, at Ushuaia on the Beagle Channel. " V.
kingii Hook. f. is a depauperate V. graminea Smith." A. Franchet in
Miss. Sci. du Cap Horn, Bot, p. 330.
(Hook. f. observes of V. bidentata Hook, of Chili, V. gramiuca, and
V. patagonica, that V. bidentata is entirely smooth, with leaflets broader
and shorter, stipules twice as broad as in V. graminea, and tendrils simple ;
V. patagonica agrees with V. bidentata in these points except the simple
