548 PATAGONIAN EXPEDITIONS! BOTANY.
cous bracts. Flowers mediocre, outer sepals whitish, wings rhomboid-ellip-
tical, 5-nerved, thrice as long as the upper sepal. Superior petals, linear,
adnate to the staminal tube, with a multifid, cuneate crest. Anthers pedi-
celed. Ovary bilocular, glabrous, style twice as long, z-form ; stigma
cochleate, crestless. Capsule broad-elliptical, with persistent wings, 2-
seeded. Seeds black, glabrous, except on the ventral suture, with no
caruncle, but a ring-like umbonule.
Patagon., in rocky plain between San Julian and Rio Deseado.
3. POLYGALA GNIDIOIDES Willd. " Quelen-quclen."
Root thick, tortuose. Stems woody at base, erect, branching, subvillous
upwards. Leaves numerous, sessile, linear, subobtuse, crispy. Racemes
terminal, many-flowered, showy. The 3 smaller sepals lanceolate, the
2 larger obovate, obtuse, y-nerved. Capsule apical ly attenuate, basally
rounded. Height 10-20 cm.
(Chili) ; Chubut, at Teka-choique, and Bolson. Allied to P. moyanoi,
but more leafy, flowers brighter and larger.
4. P. MOYANOI Speg. (Acanthocladus moyanoi Speg., Poly gala
mayausi Speg.)
Fruticose, unarmed, intricately- and long-branched, puberulent in youth,
at length glabrate. Leaves elliptical, obtuse, thickish, sessile or subsessile,
small. Flowers few, subspicate on the ends of the branchlets. Upper
Petals free, scarcely subadnate at the base, with fimbriate carina. Capsule
small, orbicular, glabrous, not or scarcely emarginate.
Patagon., in dry meadows by Rio Chubut ; near Cabo Raso.
5. P. CEDIPUS Speg.
(Orthopolygala, pterocarpa, aspalatoidea.} Perennial, with vertical
straight root, and vermicular-flexuose apex, subterraneously branching
with dense fascicles ; the branches terete, the underground part with white,
spongiose cortex, and leafless ; the exposed part densely leafy, glabrescent
to subpuberulous. Leaves alternate, oblanceolate or obovate, anteriorly
round-cuneate to acute, posteriorly long-attenuate, hoary, with straight
hairs on the upper surface, glabrous below. Flowers few, subcapitulate
on ends of the branches, short-pediceled, mediocre. External sepals about
