MACLOSKIE : EUPHORBIACE/E. 555
Leaves broad-ovate to orbicular, basi-truncate to cordate, crenate, or
lobed. Flowers subsessile or long pediceled.
(Andes, Fernandez); Magellan, by mountains and woods; Fuegia.
DVSOPSIS GLECHOMOIDES HIRSUTA.
In Fernandez, and at Punta Arenas.
4. AONIKENA Speg. (Nova Addenda ad Fl. Patagon.,
p. 162, 1902.)
Rupkorbiacea, crotonea, chrozophorea, eleiitheropetala.
Male flowers: calyx in the bud ovoid, acute, closed, in anthesis valvately
5-partite ; petals 5, shorter than the calyx, denticulate ; disc inconspicuous ;
stamens 5, filaments united at base into a column, alternating with the
petals ; anthers ovate, always erect, dorsifixed, the locules parallel, laterally
dehiscing ; no rudiment of an ovary. Female flowers : calyx as in males, the
sepals scarcely larger ; petals and disc-glands none ; ovary 3-locillar ; styles
spreading, free from the base, slightly bifid below the middle ; the branches
slender apically, obtuse, entire ; omtle in the locules solitary. Capsule when
dry tridymous, separating into 2-valved cocci. Seeds non-carunculate,
testa subpapillose-porous ; endosperm fleshy, greenish ; embryo straight ;
radicle cylindrical ; cotyledons plane, very short, and very broad. Tender,
glabrous annual ; leaves alternate, plane, entire, petiolate ; spikes axillary,
slender, floriferous above the middle, the flowers somewhat remote, sessile,
the lower female, the upper male. Caps^lles glabrous, smooth.
Named from Aoniken, the savages of southern Patagonia, also called
the Tehuelches.
A. PATAGONICA Speg.
Small, effuse, stems green or purple, obsoletely and obtusely sub-
angulate, rather fleshy. Leaves orbicular to ovate, long-petiolate. Spikes
twice as long as the subtending leaf, 5-y-flowered. Flowers small, the
lower 3-4 female. Sepals acute, reflexed after dehiscence of the capsules,
adorned with the columella persisting in the center. Seeds cinereous,
subglobose.
S. Patagon., in sandy elevated places by Rio Chico, near Chonkenk-
aike.
