132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
wavy, extending to ocular region, terminating in close proximity
to small grooves proceeding posteriorly from indentation of lateral
cephalothoracic margin. Eyes distinct, small, with small orbicular
crystalline body at outer edge of suborbicular region of dark pig-
ment, pigmented region contiguous on median longitudinal axis of
cephalo thorax.
Free fourth pedigerous segment (fig. 33c) narrow, slightly more
than one-fifth the width of cephalothorax, distinct from genital seg-
ment and cephalothorax. Segment with posteriorly bilobed ala over-
lapping anterior region of genital segment dorsally, sinus between
lobes, deep, enlarged at apex.
Genital segment (fig. 33c) broader anteriorly than medially, with
2 winglike expansions posteriorly. Median posterior surface forming
broadly U-shaped sinus dorsally, with 2 spinides from middle of sinus
apex. Lateral posterior surfaces, medial to wing-shaped expansions,
rounded, overlapping posterior processes, with 6 clawlike marginal
spinides. Segment with pair of heavily sclerotized processes pos-
teriorly, processes projecting well past caudal rami, with spine-bearing
ridge on inner dorsal surface. Distal end of processes spined on outer
and inner margins. Ventral surface of genital segment with lyre-
shaped process directed ventrally and anteriorly from origin in pos-
terior region of segment. Shiino (1955a, p. 179) terms this structure
"a pair of horn-like spermatophores . . . ."
Abdomen (fig. 33c) termed 2-segmented by Capart (1953) and
Shiino (1955a) although segment division indistinct and incomplete.
Abdomen arising in apex of posterior sinus of genital segment, from
posterior end of short, necklike extension of genital segment. First
segment, excluding winglike projections, 3 times as wide as long,
winglike extensions directed posteriorly, curving around and covering
lateral regions of second segment. Second segment slightly narrower
than first, length approximately five-eighths the width, lateral regions
convex, posterior end with distinct, concave anal depression. Caudal
rami (fig. 34c) flattened except for small, heavily sclerotized ridge
along proximal inner surface. Lateral margins flatly convex, inner
lightly plumose distally, posterior surface UTegular, with 4 plumose
setae, 1 plumose setule and 1 bluntly pointed spicule.
Antennule (fig. 34a) 2-segmented, first segment approximately five
times the length of second, broad and flattened, distal third broadly
rounded although margin slightly wavy, bearing 20 subconical plumose
setules and 2 more elongate plumose setules. Second antennular
segment club-shaped, with 10 naked setules distally. Antenna (fig.
346) 3-segmented, situated posterior and medial to antennide base;
first segment broader proxunally than distally, with knob on proximal-
outer lateral surface, second segment narrow proximally, broad
