142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
AIeasurements. — One complete, two incomplete females (male not
measured) :
mean (mm.) range {mm.)
Greatest length, excluding caudal filaments (1 specimen) 21.84
Greatest length of cephalothorax (1 specimen) 4.27
Greatest width of cephalothorax (1 specimen) 5.25
Greatest length of neck (1 specimen) 7.42
Greatest length of trunk or genital segment (3 speci-
mens) 11.29 10.64-12.04
Greatest width of trunk or genital segment (3 speci-
mens) 3.38 2.87- 3.64
Greatest length of caudal filaments (2 specimens) 11.34, 10.71
Length of egg strings (3 specimens) 18.08 16.66-19.39
Diagnostic description of female. — Body (fig. 39a) divisible
into 3 regions, miiltilobed anterior region (cephalothorax), elongate
neck, and irregular trunk (genital segment) . Trunk with small, bi-
lobed abdomen posteriorly, abdomen with pair of smooth elongate
processes (caudal filaments) whose place of origin suggests possible
association with the caudal rami.
Cephalothorax (fig. 396) and most of neck embedded in host,
cephalothorax consisting of 2 large knobs forming anterior region;
single flaplike lobe arising from posteromedian dorsal surface of knobs
and projecting posteriorly over anterior end of neck; 6 pairs of knobs
arising from ventral surface. Anteriormost pair of ventral knobs
almost contiguous on median longitudinal axis, overlapping oral region.
Neck 2-parted, slender, mdth approximately one-eighth that of ceph-
alothorax although varying somewhat throughout length. Anterior-
most part of neck less than twice the length of posterior, appearing as
extension of median posterior cephalo thoracic surface; second part
appearing as extension of trunk. Trunk narrower anteriorly than
posteriorly, with constrictions on anterior end giving annulated appear-
ance. Lateral margins irregular; posterior end (fig. 39c) with distinct
sinus medially, slightly projecting lateroposterior regions rounded.
Single abdominal segment (fig. 39c) arising at apex of sinus, not pro-
jecting past lateroposterior regions of trunk, posterior end indented at
anal opening, with pair of caudal filaments arising from dorsal sm'face.
Caudal filaments slightly shorter than trunk, rod-shaped, without
distinct irregularities. Egg strings projecting from oviducal openings
situated just lateral to abdomen, on lateral surfaces of sinus in posterior
end of trunk.
Appendage complement consisting of paii" of mandibles, 2 pairs of
maxillae (using Wilson's 1919 appendage designation) and pair of
small, irregular processes, posterior to maxillae, that may be max-
illipeds. Mandibles (fig. 39c?) minute, rodlike, structiu-al details not
determined. Maxillule (?) (fig. 39^) minute, situated just lateral to
