144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
base of mouth cone and posterior to mandible base, consisting of
1-segmented, knoblike protopodite and 1 -segmented endopodite and
exopodite, each ramus with minute, hairlike processes. Maxillae
(?) (fig. 39e) 2-segmented, situated posterior to mouth cone base,
first segment strongly developed, second and terminal process claw-
shaped, with single, spikelike accessory process. Maxillipeds (?) (fig.
39/) attached to lobe lateral and posterior to maxillae, consisting of
2 indistinctly separated segments, second tipped by 2 minute, clawlike
processes.
Diagnostic description of male. — Attached to posterior medial
surface of female. Body (fig. 40a) of copepodid shape, separable
into 2 regions although external indication of body segmentation faint.
Anterior region (cephalothorax) composed of cephalon and maxilliped-
bearing segment according to Wilson's terminology (1919). Posterior
region (urosome) consisting of 5 indistinctly separable segments,
separated from cephalothorax by incomplete division and by size.
Diameter of urosome less than that of cephalothorax. Posterior
region with 2 pairs of small, lobate processes on fourth segment and
pair of somewhat longer caudal rami (fig. 40h) on last segment.
Cephalothorax of general ovoid shape in lateral view, anteroventral
surface depressed giving impression that dorsal and lateral cuticle
form carapace-like covering. Antennule (fig. 406) 2-segmented, sit-
uated on anterolateral cephalothoracic surface; second segment ap-
proximately three-fourths the length of first, not as well developed.
First segment with single setule on distal anterolateral surface, second
segment with single weak setule and 2 spikelike setules from distal
surface. Antenna (fig. 40c) situated posterior and slightly medial to
antennule, 4-segmented; first segment well developed, broader prox-
imally than distally, second segment with large lobate projection
anteriorly giving bifurcate appearance to appendage, projection with
3 small, spikelike processes distally and with denticulated inner
margin. Third segment denticulated along posterior surface, fourth
segment short, with well-developed, clawlike spine, 2 simple spines
and denticulated knob, all on distal surface. Mandible (fig. 40d) rod-
like, composed of at least 3 parts; proximal part broad, tapered
distally, second and third parts also tapered, thu'd with denticulated
inner margin distally. Mouth cone (fig. 40a) short, arising from de-
pression in anterior ventral cephalothoracic surface, distal end fringed
with plumosities. Maxillule (?) (fig. 40e) arising from ventral cephalo-
thoracic surface posterior to mandible and adjacent to mouth cone,
composed of 2 subequal segments, first overlapping second distally,
with flimsy, conical process on distal outer surface; second segment
with 3 flimsy, conical processes on distal outer and distal surfaces,
all processes indistinctly separable from segments. Maxilla (?) (fig.
