146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
40/) arising from ventral cephalothoracic surface well posterior to
mouth cone, both members of appendage pair fused along proximal
half of inner surfaces of first segment. Maxilla (?) 2-segmented, first
segment well developed, broader proximally than distally; second
segment small, fused with heavily sclerotized, clawlike terminal
process. Maxilliped (?) (fig. 40^) situated posterior to maxilla, 2-
segmented. First segment well developed, fused with opposing mem-
ber of pair along proximal half of inner surface, with heavily sclerotized
projection at inner lateral surface that receives tip of heavily scle-
rotized, clawlike terminal process of second segment when segment
flexed. Second segment small, poorly sclerotized except for inner
siuface, separable from terminal process only by difference in
sclerotization.
Remarks. — A question mark is used, in the designation of the
Hawaiian specmiens, because of some differences that exist between
the original description of P. vaissierei and the Hawaiian specimens
and because of the inability to definitely assign the specimen from
the original description. The primary characteristic used in asso-
ciating the Hawaiian specimens with P. vaissierei is the nature of
the lobes of the cephalothorax and, in particular, the posterior median
lobe that overhangs the anterior end of the neck. The genital seg-
ment is somewhat shorter in the Hawaiian specimens but the an-
nulations in the anterior region and the flaccid natiu"e of the segment
suggest that both the shape and size may be variable. The egg
strings of the Hawaiian specimens are somewhat longer than those
figured by Delamare-Deboutteville and Nunes-Ruivo (1953a) al-
though this characteristic is presumably also variable. It is unfor-
tunate that the single male listed in the specimens of the original
collection was not figured and described.
Paeon jerox Wilson (1919), differs from the Hawaiian specimens
primarily in the nature of the cephalothorax, P. jerox possessing
a single, large knob with several sets of protruberances on the anterior
ventral surface while the cephalothorax of the Hawaiian specimens
has several sets of large lobes. P. elongatus Wilson (1932), differs
from the Hawaiian specimens not only in the nature of the cephalo-
thorax, which is similar to that of P. jerox, but also in the relatively
thicker neck, more compact trunk and shorter caudal filaments.
P. versicolor Wilson (1919) differs from the Hawaiian specimen in
having a much shorter, heart-shaped genital segment, a thicker and
annulated neck and a broad, laterally ovoid cephalothorax with
heavily sclerotized knobs on the anterior surface.
