REVISION OF PILARGIDAE — PETTIBONE 177
beginning on setiger 3. Pygidiiim? Proboscis not extended. Intes-
tine with intestinal caeca, two pairs per segment, shorter anterior
pair and longer posterior pair extending into notopodia. Integument
with scattered minute papiUae.
A. jonesi may be distinguished from the other species of AncistrosyUis
as indicated in the key on page 165. It is closest to A. hamata, differing
by the development of the enlarged conical notopodial lobes and
the small median antenna.
Distribution: Chesapeake Bay. In 7 fms.
Genus Cabira Webster, 1879, revised
Cabira Webster, 1879. [Type-species: C. incerla Webster, 1879, by monotypy.
Gender: feminine.]
Remarks: Cabira was placed by Webster among "genera incertae
sedis." The brief description of C. incerta is confused, particularly
in regard to the parapodial rami. Fauvel (1920) referred the species
to AncistrosyUis among the Hesionidae, suggesting that perhaps the
median antenna was lost. Hartman (1947) placed it in the Pilargidae
and suggested that the name Cabira perhaps best be dropped, since
the original account is much too faulty and incomplete.
The t3^pe of Cabira incerta has not been found in the U.S. National
Museum, where most of Webster's polychaete material was deposited.
As far as can be determined, it no longer exists. Among the pilargids
collected in Chesapeake Bay off Rappahanock River, dredged in 7 fms.
in mud by Marvin Wass, are five specimens which can be identified
with Cabira incerta. I am herewith revising the genus and species,
based on this new material.
Diagnosis: Body subcylindrical, with parapodia poorly developed.
Prostomium small, with paired biarticulate palps consisting of large
palpophores and very small palpostyles; with paired small lateral
antennae (lacking in C. cax^ensis) ; w^ithout median antenna. Tentacu-
lar segment indistinct from prostomium, achaetous, with 2 pairs of
very small tentacular cirri. Parapodia poorly developed, subbira-
mous; notopodia represented by notoacicula and small dorsal cutI,
with emergent stout hooked notosetae beginning on setigerous seg-
ments 6-8; neuropodia small, with neuroacicula and few similar
neurosetae; neurosetae simple, delicate, capillary (additional short
setae in C. brevicirris) ; ventral cirri small, below or at tips of neuro-
podia. Pygidium bilobed, without anal cu-ri. Proboscis cylindrical,
sometimes ringed, with longitudinal basal rows of spines (in type-
species) or with soft papillae (C. brevicirris).
According to this revision, Cabira includes the following:
C. incerta Webster, 1879, p. 267. Chesapeake Bay, Virginia.
C. pilargiformis (Uschakov and Wu, 1962, p. 75), as AncistrosyUis pilargi-
formis. Yellow Sea.
