2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Ampitlioids bear spinning glands in pereopods 1 and 2, which are
used to form soft parchment-like tubes for inhabitation. Apparently
the tubes are formed mostly among the holdfasts of kelps, smaller
algae, and surfgrass. Limbaugh in a mimeographed report from
Scripps Institution of Oceanography reported on an Ampithoe that
rolls up the edge of a Macrocystis blade, "stitches" it along the seam,
and lives in the enclosed tube. Ampithoids follow algae down to
their photic limit; hence ampithoids live to greater depths in the
channel islands off southern California, where the waters are clearer,
than along the mainland shelf where the waters are quite turbid and
algae rarely grow below 30 meters.
I am indebted to the National Science Foundation for a grant
(G- 10750) that supported the illustration of this work, and to the
Beaudette Foundation for my support. Portions of the materials are
deposited in the U.S. National Museum and the Allan Hancock
Foundation, University of Southern California.
Key to Species of World Ampithoe
1. Third pleonal epimeron with a point at the lower posterior corner ... 2
Third pleonal epimeron rounded at lower posterior corner 4
2. Male gnathopod 1: fifth article 1.8 times as long as article 6.
tarasovi (check mitsukurii also)
Male gnathopod 1 : fifth article subequal to or shorter than article 6 . 3
3. Flagellum of antenna 1 shorter than flagellum of antenna 2 . australiensis
Flagellum of antenna 1 almost twice as long as flagellum of antenna 2.
lacertosa ( = scitula)
4. Gnathopod 1: palm distinctly transverse, short, corner sharply quadrate,
article 6 linear, posterior edge straight, article 7 greatly overlapping
palm (fig. la) 5
Gnathopod 1 : palm, if present, oblique 14
5. Flagellum of second antenna 2-4 articulate or very stout (fig. In) ... 6
Flagellum of second antenna slender or more than 8-articulate (fig. Im) . 8
6. Article 2 of pereopods 3-5 quite narrow, linear plea
Article 2 of pereopods 3-5 broad, biconvex 7
7. Lobe of article 5 on male gnathopod 2 acute . . brevipes (of Bate 1862)
Lobe of article 5 on male gnathopod 2 obtuse but narrow .... lindbergi
8. Male gnathopod 2 similar to gnathopod 1 humeralis
Male gnathopod 2 much larger than gnathopod 1 9
9. Palm of male gnathopod 2 minutely and irregularly serr'Bte its full
length annenkovae
Palm of male gnathopod 2 not serrate for its full length.
femorata, brevipes, falsa, orientalis, and those of couplet 10
10. Gnathopod 1: article 6 extremely slender (fig. la).
orientalis (of J. L. Barnard 1955)
Gnathopod 1 : article 6 moderately stout 11
11. Female gnathopod 2: palm transverse 12
Female gnathopod 2: palm oblique 13
