182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Sigambra grubii Miiller
Figure 13
Sigambra grubii Miiller, 1858, p. 214, pi. 6, figs. 7-9.
The figures and description have been taken from Miiller (freely-
translated from the German).
Description: Body with nimierous short segments. Prostomiimi
indistinct from longer tentacular segment and first setigerous segment,
with bilobed frontal part and 2 minute frontal papillae (=biarticulate
palps), with 3 occipital antennae, without eyes. Tentacular segment
achaetous, with 2 pairs of tentacular cirri. Fii'st setigerous segment
with upper pair of dorsal cirri very long, about 4 times longer than
ventral cirri. Parapodia subbiramous. Notopodium with notoacicu-
lum and single emergent notoseta (setiger on which hooked setae begin
not indicated; at least posterior to setiger 3, as mdicated by fig. 13a);
dorsal cirri long, slender, subulate, extending beyond neurosetae.
Neuropodimn with neuroaciculum and bundle of simple neurosetae.
Ventral chri short, filiform, lackmg on setiger 2 (at least not shown in
fig. 13a) . Pygidium with pair of long anal chri. Proboscis cylindrical,
with row of papillae. Intestine with lateral projections in bases of
parapodia. Blood yellowish.
Distribution: South Atlantic, Santa Catharina Island off Brazil.
Sigambra tentaculata (Treadwell)
Figures 14, 15
Ancistrosyllis tentaculata Treadwell, 1941, p. 1, figs. 1-3. — Hartman, 1963, p. 13;
1965, p. 71.
Material examined: Holotype from Long Island, N.Y., loan from
AMNH, no. 2893. York River, Va., mud, November 1960, M. Wass,
coll. Chesapeake Bay off Rappahanock River, sand, June 1962, M.
Wass, coll. Off Port Aransas, Tex., 27°49' N., 97°01.6' W., 5 fms.,
mud, M. Jones, coll. (AMNH).
Description: Length to 15 mm., width to 2 mm., segments to 91.
Body somewhat inflated and widest anteriorly, tapered gradually
posteriorly, flattened dorsoventrally, with parapodia deeply cut, as
long as body width. Integument smooth, without papillae. Prosto-
miimi variable in shape, posterior margin sometimes appearing mdented
posteriorly and extending on tentacular seginent as indicated by
Treadwell for the holotype (fig. 14a), possibly due to rather shrunken
condition of specmien; biarticulate palps with large palpophores in-
distinctly separated from prostomium, with small button-like to fili-
form palpostyles; median antenna on posterior part of prostomium,
extending far beyond palps; lateral antennae slightly more anterior
than median antenna and extending slightly beyond palps; without
definite eyes but sometimes with deep irregular pigmented areas lateral
