190
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM
notoseta in posterior segments (figs. lSd,e). Dorsal cirri large,
flattened, leaflike, wide basally, tapering distally, extending beyond
neuropodial lobes. Neuropodium conical with neuroaciculum and
numerous silky neurosetae. Neurosetae simple, shorter and coarsely
spinous to longer and faintly spinous, all tapering to capillary tips.
Ventral cirri beginning on se tiger 1, present on all se tigers, subulate,
slightly shorter than dorsal cirri. Pygidimn with 2 long anal cirri.
Proboscis cylindrical, with indefinite papillae around opening and with
irregular papillated area basally.
Remarks: ♦S'. wassi superficially resembles the figures given for
Otopsis longipes Ditlevsen, both being large, flattened, with integument
wrinkled and folded, with dorsal and ventral cirri large, lamelliform
and with numerous capillary setae. They differ in the following
characters :
Otopsis longipes Ditlevsen
Segment I: Tentacular segment achaetous,
with 2 pairs of subeqiial
tentacular cirri
Segment II: Second tentacular segment
achaetous with 1 pair of
tentacular cirri
Segment III: First setigerous segment with
dorsal and ventral cirri
Notopodia: With 2 notoacicula, without
notosetae
Sigambra wassi, new species
Same
First setigerous segment
with long dorsal cirri and
shorter ventral cii'ri
Second setigerous segment
With single notoaciculum
and emergent hooked
notoseta beginning on
setiger 23-31
S. wassi differs from the other species of Sigambra as indicated in
the key on page 181.
Distribution: Chesapeake Bay, Va. In 6-7 fms.
Genus Synelmis Chamberlin, 1919
Sijnelmis Chamberlin, 1919. [Type-species: S. simplex Chamberlin, 1919, by
original designation and monotypy; =S. albini (Langerhans, 1881). Gender:
neuter.]
Kynephorus Ehlers, 1920. [Type-species: K. inermis Ehlers, 1920, by mono-
typy; =5. albini (Langerhans, 1881). Geiider: masculine.]
Glyphohesione Friedrich, 1950. [Type-species: G. klatti Friedrich, 1950, by
monotypy. Gender: feminine.]
Diagnosis: Body long, subcylindrical, stiff, wiry, with lateral
parapodia sharply marked off from body. Prostomium small, with
paired biarticulate palps, 3 antennae. Tentacular segment achaetous,
with 2 pahs of tentacular chri. Parapodia subbiramous. Notopodia
with notoacicula and stout, emergent, straight or slightly curved,
