REVISION OF PILARGIDAE — PETTIBONE 199
tips, with numerous transverse spinous rows. Pygidium a rounded
anal plate, concave ventrally, with pair of lateral cirri and midventral
one. Proboscis long, subcylindrical, clavate, with circlet of 8 large
papillae. Without intestinal caeca.
Distribution : Southern California, Central America, Gulf of Mexico
(Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana). In low water to 625 fms.
Family Polynoidae
The pelagic polynoid upon which this part of the study was based
is the holotype of Ancistrosyllis longicirrata, taken from the plankton
off Peru and reported by Berkeley and Berkeley in 1961, with the
suggestion that it might be a juvenile of a bottom-living form. They
erroneously put it with the pilargids rather than with the polynoids.
Mr. Cyril Berkeley very kindly sent me the holotype and has allowed
me to study it and make additions and corrections to the original
description. It can be referred to Podarmus ploa Chamberlin, a
pelagic form described from off Easter Island in the South Pacific.
The holotype of the latter species is in the U.S. National Museum but
it is in very poor condition, being dark, brittle, and covered with
crystals, making it difficult to study many of the structures; according
to the original description by Chamberlin, it had been fixed in
Fleming's fluid, causing a blackening of the tissues. Coloration and
the poor condition of the specimen could account for Chamberlin's
failure to mention some features. The elytra are missing on the
specimens from both collections. Both are probably juveniles and
not fully developed (30 segments, 14 pairs elytrophores for P. ploa;
35 segments, 16 pairs elytrophores for A longicirrata). Podarmus
atlanticus Monro is herein referred to P. ploa since the setal differences
indicated by Monro appear to be within the range of variation for the
species; the specimen was perhaps fully developed (45 segments, 18
pairs elytrophores).
Genus Podarmus Chamberlin, 1919, emended
Podarmvs Chamberlin, 1919. [Type-species: P. ploa Chamberlin, 1919, by
original designation and monotypy. Gender: masculine.]
Diagnosis: Colorless and transparent, pelagic. Body short, taper-
ing posteriorly, composed of relatively few segments (30-45). Pro-
stomium bilobed, rounded, without cephalic peaks; 3 long antennae
with ceratophores distinct, median antenna inserted in anterior notch,
lateral antennae inserted slightly ventrally (subterminally, not
lepidonotoid or halosydnoid), with paired palps. Tentacular segment
achaetous, with 2 pairs of long tentacular cirri. With pair of long
ventral cirri or buccal cirri on segment 2 (first setigerous). Parapodia
