4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
32. Palm of male gnathopod 1 short, scarcely evident, finger overlapping palm
considerably, article 6 linear (fig. Id) longimana
Palm of male gnathopod distinct, long, finger matching palm, article 6
suboval (fig. Ic) djankonovi (in part)
Not included in the key are A. kergueleni Stebbing (1888), a female,
but see Chevreux (1927) for a possibly correct assignment of a male;
A. megalojproto'pus Stebbing (1895), which probably belongs in the
genus Exampithoe because of its enlarged first gnathopod.
Notes on the Literature of Ampithoe
The genus Ampithoe and many of its species are nomenclaturally
quite old. Several species have been based on females or juveniles,
and this early confusion still has not been straightened out.
The most important and involved situation is that concerning
Ampithoe femorata Kr0yer and A. brevipes Dana. Stebbing (1906),
without new material, recognized both species but noted their close
afiinities. By evidence of his synonymies, he considered A. gaudi-
chaudii Milne Edwards a senior synonym of A. femorata, and he in-
cluded questionably in A. brevipes the species A. peregrina Dana and
A.jalklandi Bate. These species are scattered widely in the Southern
Hemisphere on both sides of South America. Chilton (1921) also
reported A. femorata from the Juan Fernandez Islands.
Schellenberg (1931) combined femorata and brevipes and their
synonyms, including K. H. Barnard's (1916) reference to brevipes.
K. H. Barnard (1932) gave a new name, falsa, to his 1916 brevipes
identification from South Africa, but reported on brevipes from the
Falkland Islands and mentioned A. chilensis as a possible synonym.
Stephensen (1949) reported brevipes from Tristan da Cunha (again)
noting the characteristic swelling of article 4 of pereopods 1-2. J. L.
Barnard (1952) erroneously identified femorata from California. In
retrospect, I relied upon Bate's (1862) figure of brevipes (pi. 43, fig. 2)
showing the short flagellum of antenna 2. My identification should be
referred to A. lindbergi. The early drawings and descriptions of
brevipes, falklandi, peregrina, gaudichaudii, and chilensis leave much
to be desired in comparison to the better described A. femorata. The
gnathopods of the supposedly iemsde falklandi are rather stouter than
expected for brevipes, and the fifth article has a posterior lobe. I
strongly question that falklandi is a synonym of brevipes, as figured in
the literature, although, falklandi seems to fit brevipes as to be expected
of a female. There are discrepancies in the stoutness of article 4 of
pereopods 1-2 in the various figures of Bate (1862). Considering the
situation in California of several Ampithoes such as humeralis, lindbergi
mea, tea, and plea, all very diSicult to separate in female, juvenile, and
