210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
and Fisher (1925, 1926, 1932, 1935a, 1935b, 1941, 1942, and 1947).
The most recent contribution has been that of Cazier and Lacey
(1952) dealing with the Bahama Islands.
The author is grateful to Dr. Clarke for the opportunity to study
his material and to Professor E. G. Linsley for his assistance. This
project was undertaken during the course of a National Science
Foundation sponsored study on North American Cerambycidae
(Grant GB-2326).
Types of new species are deposited in the collection of the U.S.
National Museum.
Subfamily Cerambycinae
Tribe Methiini
Methia insularum, new species
Male: Form slender, short; elytra pale brownish testaceous; append-
ages darker; head, prothorax, and underside brownish to reddish
piceous; pubescence pale, sparse, short, distinct. Head wider than
pronotum; eyes separated on vertex by about diameter of third
antennal segment or less, separated beneath by a distance subequal
to diameter of antennal scape, upper and lower lobes connected by
a single row of facets; antennae extending about five segments beyond
body, scape with apical tooth small, erect hairs along outside margin
of segments shorter than diameter of segments, internal cilia dense,
suberect, slightly longer on the basal segments than the erect outside
hairs. Pronotum broader than long, sides rounded, base strongly
constricted, transverse impression not extending across disc, apex
feebly constricted and impressed; disc scabrous, punctures shallow,
vague, central area flattened, with a round, glabrous, depressed callus
at middle near base and two indistinct, raised calluses at basal margin;
pubescence sparse, long, subdepressed ; stridulatory plate of meso-
notum not grooved; prosternum convex; episternimi of metathorax
scabrous, opaque. Elytra about twice as long as broad, extending
to fourth abdominal segment; each elytron with a distinct median
costa; punctures dense, fine, confluent, shallow; pubescence rather
dense, short, recurved. Legs moderately densely pubescent, femora
scabrous. Abdomen sparsely punctate and pubescent; apex of last
sternite emarginate truncate. Length 4-6 mm.
Female: Slightly larger, more elongate; color usually paler with
head and prothorax orangish brown; antennae extending about
four segments beyond body, segments clothed wdth short suberect
hairs; elytral apices narrowly round; apex of last abdominal sternite
deeply emarginate, V-shaped. Length 4-7.5 mm.
