WEST INDIAN CERAMBYCIDAE — CHEMSAK 211
Holotype male (USNM 68224), allotype female, and 10 paratypes
(2 cT cf', 8 99) from Pricldy Pear Isl., Vixen Point, Virgin Gorda, B.V.I.,
Apr. 14, 1956, and Apr. 6, 1958 (J. F. G. Clarke); additional specimens
not designated as paratypes include: 2 cf cT , Francis Bay, Saint Johns,
A.V.I., Mar. 25, 1958.
The elytra of this species are pale with a little infuscation often
present at the base. M. insularum differs from M. necydalea (Fabri-
cius) by the usually concolorous elytra, narrower elytra! apices,
shorter pubescence of the antennal segments, and almost impunctate
pronotal disc. From M. pallida Fisher, it may be distinguished by
having the lobes of the eyes connected by a single row of facets.
Methia impressicollis, new species
Female: Form slender, small; color brownish testaceous; elytra
slightly paler; pubescence pale, sparse, short. Head slightly wider
than pronotum; eyes separated on vertex by less than diameter of
third antennal segment, separated beneath by a distance greater than
diameter of antennal scape, upper and lower lobes connected by a
single row of facets; antennae extending about four segments beyond
body, scape with strong apical tooth, segments densely clothed with
short suberect hairs along outside margin, suberect hairs of inside
margin longer. Pronotum broader than long, sides rounded, base
strongly constricted and broadly, deeply impressed transversely,
apex less strongly constricted, shallowly impressed; disc slightly con-
cave with an impressed, subglabrous, V-shaped area at middle begin-
ning near basal margin, surface scabrous, punctures fine, vague;
pubescence fine, mostly subdepressed; stridulatory plate of mesonotum
not grooved; prosternum narrowly impressed; episternum of meta-
thorax opaque. Elytra over 2K times as long as broad, extending
to about fourth abdominal segment; costae vague, punctm'es fine,
shallow, irregular, somewhat rugulose; pubescence very short, erect.
Legs with femora minutely rugulose, sparsely pubescent. Abdomen
with last sternite deeply V-shaped emarginate at apex. Length 5 mm.
Holotype female (USNM 67325) from Little Harbor, Jost Van
Dyke, B.V.I., Apr. 1, 1958 (J. F. G. Clarke).
This species differs from the other known West Indian Methia by
the V-shaped impression of the pronotum.
Tribe Achrysonini
Achryson surinamutn (Linnaeus)
Ceramhyx surinamus Linnaeus, 1767, p. 632.
Achryson surinamum. — White, 1855, p. 298.
Two 99, Saint Ann's Hill, Antigua, B.W.I., Apr. 19, 21, 1958.
For a synonymical bibliography of this species, see Linsley, 1962.
