VOL. 118
216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM
antennal tubercles, antennal tubercles strongly developed and diver-
gent- punctation obscured, pubescence concealing surface, appressed,
grayish and dark brown; narrow longitudinal line extendmg from
epistoma to occiput; eyes smaU, moderately coarsely faceted, deeply
emar-inate, separated above by less than diameter of antennal scape;
antennae extendmg about four segments beyond body, first four seg-
ments densely mottled with dark brown and pale gray-brown pubes-
cence the following segments pale gray brown with apices and bases
dark 'brown, the dark brown banding increasing m width apically,
scape extending to basal one-thkd of pronotum, subequal m length to
fifth segment, fourth longer than fifth, thu'd longer than fourth,
eleventh segment slender, subequal to tenth. Pronotum more than
IK^ times as broad as long, base broader than apex; sides rounded to
basal margin, then strongly constricted, strongly inflated at sides to
produce a very broad, obtuse tubercle; surface narrowly, shaUowly
impressed at apex, more deeply and broadly at base, disc ahnost
flattened, without caUuses, punctures not visible; pubescence dense,
recimibent, pale gray brown to brown with a narrow dark-brown
median \^tta extending length of pronotum, two dark brown obhque
bands at sides of median band in front of middle and two short dark-
brown basal bands near lateral marghas, smaU dark spots sparse at
edges; prosternum very narrow, intercoxal process broad, expanded
apically, coxal cavities closed; mesosternal process very broad, epister-
num of metathorax narrow, narrowing posteriorly; scuteUum tri-
angular, narrowly rounded behind, densely pubescent. Eb^ra over
1}.^ tmies longer than broad, shghtly broader than pronotum; humeri
not strongly developed; surface uneven, with subsutural costae ex-
tendmg from base to before apex, humeral costae extending obliquely
to about basal one-thh-d, then runnmg parallel to subsutural ones,
lateral costae arcuately jommg others before apex with a vague short
costa between lateral and humeral ones; punctures at base fine, sep-
arated, becoming coarser and denser at midelytra; pubescence dense,
reciunbent, grayish to brown with two dark elongate spots at middle
of elytra just behind middle, an oblique, inverted V-shaped, short
brown che\Ton at apical third extendmg from suture and darker
irregular spots placed behmd and toward the lateral margms, small
blacl: spots sparsely interspersed; apices obliquely truncate Legs
with femora strongly clavate, densely clothed with mottled pale and
brown pubescence; tibiae with two broad dark bands at outside
surface. Abdomen uniformly, moderately densely pale pubescent;
apex of last sternite narrowly rounded. Length 7 mm.
Holotype male (USNM 67327) from Little Bay, Peter Isl., B.V.I. ,
Mar. 30, 1958 (J. F. G. Clarke).
