218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ii8
Female: Antennae slightly shorter than body; femora less strongly
clavate; apex of last abdominal sternite shallowly emarginate
truncate. Length 6-8 mm.
Holotype male (USNM 67328), aUotype female, and 8 paratypes
(2 cfcf , 6 99) from English Harbor, Antigua, B.W.I., Apr. 2, 1956
(J. F. G. Clarke) ; also assigned to this species but not designated as
paratypes are 2 d^cf , 1 9, Saint Ann's Hill, Antigua, B.W.I., Apr. 21,
1958. . .
The exact relationships of tliis species are not known at this tnne
but the species may be recognized by the feeble calluses of the prono-
tum and the arrangement of the pubescent pattern.
L. bredini is dedicated to J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington, Del.,
sponsor of the Smithsonian-Bredin expeditions to the Caribbean.
Urgleptes clarkei, new species
Female: Form small, moderately depressed; integument dark to
pale reddish brown, appendages brownish testaceous and piceous;
pubescence short, recumbent, grayish with dark-brown mottling.
Head with front nearly square, convex, feebly impressed between
antennal tubercles, antennal tubercles slightly elevated, widely
divergent; narrow median groove extending from epistoma to occiput;
punctation minute, contiguous, scabrous; pubescence moderately
dense, appressed, not obscuring surface; eyes small, coarsely faceted,
deeply emarginate, separated above by much more than diameter of
antennal scape; antennae extendmg about six segments beyond body,
scape infuscated over apical half, remaining segments narrowly dark-
banded at apex, pubescence moderately dense, minute, appressed,
scape slightly shorter than thkd segment, fourth longer than third,
fifth subequal to scape. Pronotum over iK times as broad as long,
base narrower than apex; sides diverguig slightly to apices of acute
spmes near base, base stongly constricted behind the feebly obhquely,
outward extending spmes; base slightly impressed, apex not; disc
slightly convex, minutely, opaquely punctate except for row of coarse
punctures along basal margins; pubescence moderately dense, ap-
pressed, grayish with darker hairs on middle of disc which form dark
patches at sides of middle; pro- and mesosternal processes narrow,
about one-fourth the width of the coxae; scutellum broadly rounded,
moderately pubescent. Elytra less than twice as long as broad, wider
than the pronotum, sides parallel to about apical one-fourth, then
tapering to apex; surface feebly depressed at basal one-third, costae
lacking; punctures moderately coarse, contiguous over entire surface;
pubescence gray bromi, mottled with brown near base and irregular
dark spots at apical half, dark patches usually extending laterally
behind humeri and obliquely onto disc a little behind middle, two
