222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Gates Clarke of the U.S. National Museum and Mr. J. D. Bradley
of the British Museum (Natural History), who placed the materials
in their charge at the author's disposal. Acknowledgments go also
to Dr. J. G. Rozen, Jr., and Dr. F. H. Rindge of the American Museum
of Natural History for providing the necessary working facilities.
The work on this paper has been made possible because of a grant
from the National Science Foundation.
Pseudomeritastis^ new genus
Meritastis (not Meyrick, 1910). — Meyrick [1912], Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 1911,
p. 677 (voluta Meyrick); 1912, in Wagner, Lepidopterorum catalogus, pt.
10, p. 36 (voluta); 1913, in Wytsman, Genera insectorum, fasc. 149, p. 34
(voluta); 1932, Exotic Microlepidoptera, vol. 4, p. 261 (heliadelpha Meyrick). —
Obraztsov, 1954, Tijdschr. Ent., vol. 97, p. 186 (voluta). —Clarke, 1955,
Catalogue of the type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the British Museum
described by Edward Me5Tick, vol. 1, pp. 154, 326 (heliadelpha, voluta);
1958, op. cit., vol. 3, p. 156 (voluta).
Tortrix (in part). — Walsingham, 1914, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, vol. 42 (Lepidoptera-Heterocera, vol. 4), p. 276 (cordigera
Walsingham).
Type species: Tortrix cordigera Walsingham, 1914.
Head roughly scaled. Antenna in male slightly serrate, densely
short ciliated; in female simple, with short setae. Labial palpus
rather long, ascending, almost equally broad, scaling smooth; basal
segment slightly dilated; second segment long; terminal seginent
thick, exposed. Ocellus absent. Proboscis well developed. Thorax
with posterior crest more or less developed.
Forewing broad; costa arched; apex rotundate; termen straight,
almost vertical; tornus broadly rounded; dorsum straight, gradually
curved in basal portion. No costal fold in male. Twelve veins, all
separate; vein S gently curved; Ri from behind middle of discal cell;
R2 widely remote from Ri and R3, slightly more approximated to
the latter; veins R3 through Mi almost equidistant at base; R4 to
apex; Mi and M2 widely separated, at termen slightly approximated to
each other ; upper internal vein (generally underdeveloped) originates
between Ri and R2 and ends at R5; veins M2 through Cuj distinctly
bent upwardly, at base almost as widely separated from each other
as R3 through Mi; Cui originates slightly before lower angle of
discal cell; Cu2 distinctly from before two-thirds of discal cell, but
always from behind its middle; Ai in median portion generally indis-
tinct; basal fork of A2+3 slightly shorter than one-third of entu'e vein.
Hindwing rotundate-subtrapezoidal, as broad as forewing or
slightly narrower; costa gently arched; apex broadly rotundate;
termen almost straight; tornus very flatly rounded; dorsum broadly
rounded, in basal portion slightly sclerotized. Eight veins; S almost
straight; R and Mi closely parallel in basal portion, or stalked; M2
