226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
Remarks: In the genitalia of the holotype, figured by Clarke (1958),
the projected tubercles on the ventral margins of the valvae became
partly loose and look like free lobes directed ventrad.
Pseudomeritastis clarkei, new species
Plate 3 (Figs. 3-5)
Male: Antenna, labial palpus, head, and thorax light gray; second
segment of labial palpus darker apicad, teraiinal segment brownish
gray; posterior crest of thorax ferruginous-brown; abdomen whitish
gray. Forewing light gray; markings brown ferruginous, edged and
in part transversely strigulated with reddish fuscous, arranged as
follows: a rotundate-subquadrate blotch on dorsum towards base,
reaching lower vein of discal cell; a longitudinal streak tapering ex-
ternad, located above this blotch and slightly shorter than half length
of discal cell; a much larger, irregularly shaped blotch, also resting
on dorsum and occupying most of external half of forewing; upper
margin of this blotch roundly excavated; this excavation divides upper
portion of blotch in two unequal parts, external of them larger; a
longitudinal, whitish streak within this blotch, separating its external
upper portion from ground portion of blotch; a triangular, light gray
dorsal area between two above-mentioned blotches, vertically striated
by brown-ferruginous and connected with light gray, subcostal area;
a rather narrow, slightly curved, brown-ferruginous subterminal
fascia, edged with reddish fuscous and running from about four-fifths
of costa to tornus; a whitish interspace between this fascia and men-
tioned large blotch; costa narrowly edged with light pinkish brown,
and gray dotted beneath this edge; cilia gray at base and whitish gray
at tips. Length of forewing 9 mm. Hindwing pale yellowish,
slightly darker externally and cream-white basally; ciha light yellow-
ish at base and whitish at tips, with a rather broad, grayish dividing
line around apex and parallel to upper portion of termen.
Female: Unknown.
Male genitalia: Apical portion of uncus elongate-spatulate; middle
process of gnathos broad, at base with two lateral, angular processes;
lateral arms of gnathos shaped as long, curved appendages ending
with brushes of long setae. Valva with a broad, moderately setose
cucullus; ledge of sacculus with a longitudinal carina protruding from
venti-al margin of valva and ending with a rather long, free, acute tip.
Aedeagus pediform; carina penis dorso-externad of caulis.
Type: Holotype, male (genitalia on slide 15-Obr., 1963), 17 km.
southeast of Popayan, Cauca, Colombia, 2000 m., Jan. 10, 1959 (J. F.
Gates Clarke) ; USNM 67368.
Remarks : Very close to valuta Meyrick, but difi"ering in some details
of the markings of the forewing, color of the hindwing, and in the
