NEOTROPICAL MICROLEPIDOPTERA, VII — OBRAZTSOV 227
genitalia. The interspace between the larger (external) blotch of the
forewing and the curved, subterminal fascia is not divided by a shadow.
The inner margin of the mentioned blotch is straight in the new species,
and slightly incurved in valuta. The hind wing is distinctly pale
yellowish; in voluta it is gray whitish, tinged with fuscous reddish
towards apex. The shape of the uncus is quite different. The middle
process of the gnathos has two well-developed, lateral appendages
missing in voluta. Instead of a longitudinal carina of the sacculus,
observed in the new species, voluta has a brush of setae. The aedeagus
of the new species is of a unique shape, unknown in any other species
of the gen vis.
This new species is named for its discoverer, my friend and colleague,
Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke of the U.S. National Museum.
Pseudotneritastis heliadelpha (Meyrick), new combination
Plate 4 (Fig. 1)
Meritastis heliadelpha Meyrick, 1932, Exotic Microlepidoptera, vol. 4, p. 261. —
Clarke, 1955, Catalogue of the type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the
British Museum described by Edward Meyrick, vol. 1, p. 154.
Types: Holot3'pe, male, Rio Zongo (Songo), Bolivia, 2,500 ft.;
Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna (not seen) . One female paratype
(abdomen missing), same data, 1930; British Museum (Natural
History).
Remarks: The female paratype corresponds well with the original
description, and undoubtedly belongs to the type lot which was
erroneously described by Meyrick (1932) as consisting of two male
specimens. The forewings of this paratype are in a less than fresh
condition, but the markings are recognizable; the hindwings are deep
orange, as in no other species of the genus.
Pseudomeritastis orphnoxantha, new species
Plate 4 (Figs. 2, 3)
Male: Antenna, labial palpus, head, and thorax light gray ; terminal
segment of labial palpus brown. Forewing light gray, paler than
thorax; markings brownish ferruginous, edged and in part transversally
strigulated with dark brown, arranged as follows: a blotch (somewhat
rubbed off and not quite distinct in the examined specimen) on dorsum
towards base; its upper projection (or perhaps a separate streak) reaches
to upper vein of discal cell; a second larger blotch, also resting on
dorsum externad of former blotch, occupies most of external half of
forewing and extends almost to tornus; upper margin of this blotch
widely excavated; upper portion of blotch, externad of excavation,
large and rounded; upper portion of blotch, basad of excavation, acute
