228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ns
angulated, narrow; a slender, gently curved sub terminal fascia starting
at costa shortly before wing apex and running to tornus ; an interspace
of ground color, almost as broad as subterminal fascia, located between
it and mentioned large spot and divided lengthwa3^s hj an interrupted,
ferruginous line; a dorsal, light gray, triangular area finely striated by
ferruginous and located between two mentioned blotches; costa gray
dotted; cilia dark gray, whitish at tips. Length of forewing 8.5 mm.
Hindwing dark ferruginous; cilia whitish, at base yellowish, with
a broad, light ferruginous dividing line.
Female: Unknown.
Male genitalia: Uncus gradually tapering apicad, with tip moder-
atel}^ acute; middle process of gnathos rather narrow, with two acute,
lateral processes; lateral arms of gnathos shaped as long, curved ap-
pendages, each having a little tooth on inner margin of basal portion
and ending with a brush of setae. Valva with an elongate-rotundate
cucullus; ledge of sacculus with a longitudinal carina protruding from
ventral margin of valva and ending with a free, acute tip ; an elevated,
slightly curved and apically somewhat bulbose harpe located on carina
of sacculus slightly before its middle. Aedeagus spatulate at tip;
carina penis near apex of aedeagus.
Type: Holotype, male (genitalia on slide, prepared by A. Busck on
Sept. 30, 1932), Tuis, Costa Rica, 2400 ft. USNM 67369.
Remarks: Because of the ferruginous hindwings of this species,
A. Busck identified it as heliadelpha Meyrick. Actually, the hind-
wings of the latter species are much paler, orange colored. Moreover,
the new species differs in having the costa of the forewing less arched
than in heliadelpha, the subcostal area above the large dorsal blotch
somewhat narrower, and the upper internal angle of this blotch more
acute. Presence of a harpe on the carina of the sacculus is a special
character of the new species, not observed in any other species of the
genus.
The name orphnoxantha is derived from the Greek opcjji'os, meaning
dark, and ^avdos, meaning yellow.
Pseudomeritastis distincta, new species
Plate 5 (Figs. 1-3)
Female: Antenna light gray, on under surface pale ferruginous;
scapus and annulation of upper surface of antenna! segments dark
gray; labial palpus whitish, concolorous with front of head; most of
head and thorax light gray, but distinctly darker than front; anterior
portion of thorax and its posterior crest brownish ferruginous. Fore-
Aving light gray; markings ferruginous-brown, edged and in part
