NEOTROPICAL MICROLEPIDOPTERA, VII — OBRAZTSOV 229
transversely strigulated with dark brown, arranged as follows: a
rotundate-subquadrate blotch on dorsum towards base, reaching
lower vein of discal cell; an oblique streak starting costobasad of this
blotch, closely touching it at base, and continued along discal cell to
above a second blotch; this latter, much larger than basal blotch,
also rests on dorsum and is irregidarly shaped; its upper margin is
narrowly excavated, dividing upper portion of blotch in two unequal
parts, external of them larger and rounded; basal upper part of blotch
with a minute angle on inner margin; within blotch a short, whitish
streak between veins AI2 and M3; a triangular, light gray dorsal area
between two mentioned blotches, opened costally and striated verti-
cally by three ferruginous lines joined together at vein A24.3 and
continued as two parallel lines along interspace between basal streak
and larger of blotches; a rather narrow, slightly curved ferruginous-
brown subterminal fascia starting at about three-quarters of costa
and reaching upper portion of tornus; a pale ferruginous shadow
dividing lengthways interspace between this fascia and largei- of
blotches; this shadow becomes somewhat olive in its upper portion,
and in subcostal area joins a dilated streak; costa narrowly edged
with ferruginous, and dark dotted beneath this edge; some concolorous
dots in subterminal area; cilia dark gray at base and whitish at tips.
Length of forewuig 12 mm. Hindmng pale cream-white, shining,
becoming brownish at termen; cilia white with gray dividmg line
at base, more distinct around wing apex.
Male: Unknown.
Female genitalia: Erectile sacs on sides of postsegmental membrane
of eighth abdominal segment (on the only preprepared slide they are
badly damaged) . Apophyses posteriores not dilated at tips; apophj^^ses
anteriores with tips slightly dilated. Entire area around ostium
bm'sae membranous. Antrum short infundibuliform, in cephalic
portion slightly narrower than adjacent portion of corpus bursae.
Corpus bm'sae \vith a large (on the slide somewhat folded), broad,
moderately sclerotized signum shaped as a plate rounded cephalically.
Type: Holotype, female (genitalia on slide, prepared by A. Busck
on Apr. 24, 1929), La Florida, Costa Rica, 500 ft.; USNM 67370.
Remarks: Very similar to cordigera Walsingham, but having the
front of the head whitish, markings of the fore wing darker, and the
shadows dividing the light interspaces more distinct. The upper
projection of the basal blotch is not as long as in cordigera, and does
not extend far distad. The genitalia are distingidshed by the ostium
bursae slightly narrower than the corpus bursae, and the apophyses
posteriores not dilated at tips.
