234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
have included those with antennae that do not change to any extent
in the male. Some of the species that I have allocated to Trichohrotica
differ from T. sexplagiaia in having the third antennal joint short, as
in T. ruatanae (Jacoby). These species may eventually be placed
elsewhere.
In trying to classify these Galerucine beetles one is constantly
meeting some characters that are found in one genus in species that
otherwise seem predominately to belong to another genus. I have
been reluctant to make new genera for these species that are mainly
one of a kind until others like them tiu-n up, which I am confident in
time wUl be the case. For the present I have included such species
in the genus to which they appear to be more closely related. More
than in any group with which I have ever worked, these beetles inter-
mingle in their characters so that few of the genera are clear cut.
Six of the species dealt with in this paper, all having excised middle
tibiae in the male, have been described as Neobrotica, four as Dia-
brotica, and others as species of Phyllobrotica, Luperus, and Chthoneis.
In a later publication (Ent. Arb. vol. 9, 1958) Bechyne has described
the two new genera Deuterobrotica and Eomanita, in both of which
the males have excised middle tibiae, although here again Bechyne
has made no mention of this character. He took as type of the first
genus Diabrotica amplicornis Baly, which species I had placed rather
doubtfully in Luperosoma. He described two other closely related
species, each represented only by a female, as species of Neobrotica,
N. latifrons and A^. lineigera, separating them from Deuterobrotica
because they did not have enlarged antennal joints, which, of course,
is purely a male character.
In the genus Bechyne described as Romanita, he named R. amazonica
as the genotype and described three more species of widely different
aspect and doubtfully assigned Weise's Neobrotica jasciata as the fifth
species. Since they are all females it is impossible to be certain that
they are congeneric. I have made drawings of those that I have been
able to examine for the enlightenment of future workers in the gi'oup.
For another group of beetles somewhat resembling Romanita
amazonica but differing in the head and antennal characters, I have
erected the genus Porechontes because of the large pore in the middle
of the front of the head in the male. It resembles Romanita amazonica
in having the third antennal joint very short, but the apical joints
tend to be widened triangularly in the male. The species that I
tentatively described as P^atymorpha albiventris in my earlier paper
belongs here. Two other species have come to my attention, all three
having a similar pore in the middle of the front of the head.
Among other Galerucine beetles having the middle tibiae excised in
the male are two very different groups, both with bifid claws instead
