GALERUCINE BEETLES — BLAKE 237
Remarks: The male is an immature specimen with shriveled abdo-
men which I did not try to dissect. Although both specimens lack
the pronotal vittae characteristic of T. nymphaea (Jacoby), the
specimens in other ways resemble that species so much that I believe
they are but a color race of it.
Trichobrotica rhabdota, new species
Figure 8
About 3 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, nearly impunctate,
the middle tibiae of the male excised near the apex, elytra with a few
erectish hairs, pale yellow, each elytron with a wide brownish vitta
extending from over the humerus to cover half of elytra at base and
widening towards apex, margin pale.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
occiput rounded, polished, impunctate, frontal tubercles well marked,
a narrow carina down front, entirely pale yellow. Antennae yellowish
brown, long, slender, the four terminal joints missing. Prothorax
only a little wider than long with nearly straight sides, a depression
in basal half, shining, pale yellow. Scutellum pale. Elytra shining,
nearl}'^ impunctate, pale yellow with a wide brown vitta on each
elytron, leaving the margin and a wide sutural pale vitta. Body
beneath entirely pale, the legs entirely pale, middle tibiae of the male
with a small notch, front tibiae and first tarsal joint a little stouter.
Length 3 mm.; width 1% mm.
Type, male, MCZ 30675, from Aracataca, Magdalena Province,
Colombia, collected by P. J. Darlington, Jr.
Remarks: This is close to the Panama subspecies, T. nymphaea
flavicollis, but the legs are entirely pale and the dark elytral vitta
not so wide. The aedeagus of this species also differs from that of
typical nymphaea in not being rounded but pointed at the tip.
Trichobrotica egensis, new species
Figure 5
About 3.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
finely punctate, the prothorax with a transverse depression, pale
j^ellow brown, a piceous vitta on both sides of pronotum and a wide
piceous elytral vitta on each elytron joined at the apex.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
a well-rounded occiput, frontal tubercles distinct, a narrow carina
down front, entirely pale yellow brown. Antennae pale at base,
third and fourth antennal joints about equal, the rest missing. Pro-
thorax somewhat wider than long with nearly straight sides, a wide
transverse sulcus and on either side a wide piceous vitta. Scutellum
pale. Elytra shining, finely punctate, pale yellow with a broad
