238 PROCEEDESTGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
piceous vitta covering half of each elytron and uniting at apex.
Body beneath and legs entirely pale, anterior coxal cavities open,
claws appendiculate. Length 3.6 mm.; width 1.5 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Ega, Brazil.
Remarks: This is closely related to T. rhabdota from Colombia
and T. nymphaea (Jacoby) from Panama, but differs from either in
the elytral pattern with the elytral vittae joined at the apex. Although
only a female is known, the male will undoubtedly have notched
middle tibiae.
Trichobrotica nigripennis, new species
FlGTTBE 2
About 4.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, moderately shiny,
the elytra closely and coarsely punctate, middle tibiae of the male
excised near the apex, pale yellow, the occiput of head tan colored,
antennae, tibiae, and tarsi dark, femora with a dark streak, pronotum
with a piceous vitta on either side, elytra piceous with a pale margin.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
occiput shiny, very finely punctate, frontal tubercles swollen, a
depression in the middle above them, carina very short, lower front
punctate. Antennae long, slender, dark, joints five to seven a Httle
thicker. Prothorax a third wider than long, with wide transverse
depression, pale with a piceous vitta on each side at the end of the
sulcus, surface shiny, impunctate. Scutellum pale. Elytra with the
punctures contiguous, coarse, shallow, surface somewhat shiny,
piceous, with a pale margin. Body beneath entirely pale, femora pale
in basal portion, with a dark streak and dark apex, tibiae and tarsi
piceous. Coxal ca\dties open, claws appendiculate. Length 4.5 mm. ;
width 1.7 mm.
Type, male, BMNH, from Ecuador, 1920, Gilbert Hammond
collector.
Remarks : This is closely related to Trichobrotica sexplagiata (Jacoby)
and closely resembles T. biplagiata Blake in coloring but lacks the
pale elytral spots and the aedeagus is quite different.
Trichobrotica analis (Weise)
Figure 23
Neobrotica analis Weise, Ark. Zool., vol. 14, no. 1, p. 95, 1921.
About 5 mm. in length, oblong oval, moderately shiny, although
alutaceous, elytra w^ith traces of shallow nearly obsolete punctation,
especially noticeable in the middle pale spot, moderately convex,
without depressions, prothorax with a shallow transverse depression;
yellowish or reddish brown, the antennae except the penultimate joint
dark brown, tibiae and tarsi dark, and elytra dark piceous with six
