GALERUCINE BEETLES — BLAKE 239
large pale spots on disc and two along each lateral margin, middle
tibiae of male excised near apex.
Head pale reddish or yellowish brown, shiny, rounded over the
occiput with a median depression above the well-marked frontal
tubercles, a narrow carina down lower front on both sides of which
the surface is densely and coarsely punctate. Antennae with the
thu-d joint a httle shorter than the fourth, rest subequal, brown except
for the pale tenth joint. Prothorax a httle wider than long with some-
what arcuate sides and a shallow transverse depression, shiny, reddish
or yellowish brown. vScutellum pale. Elytra moderately convex,
without depressions except the short intrahumeral sulcus, alutaceous
and strongly and confusedly punctate, deep piceous, each elytron with
three large pale spots, the median being almost a fascia but interrupted
at the suture; along the sides of the lateral margin two pale spots.
Epipleura vanishing at apical curve. Body beneath pale with the
femora for the most part pale with a dark streak above, hind femora
dark at apex, tibiae and tarsi dark. Anterior coxal cavities open, claws
appendiculate, middle tibiae of male excised near apex, hmd tibiae
with spine. Length 4.9-5.5 mm.; width 2.4-2.7 mm.
Type, male, and female paratype, in Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet,
Stockholm, Sweden, collected at Manaos, Amazon, Brazil, by Roman.
Remarks: This species described by Weise as a Neobrotica has
excised middle tibiae and falls in the genus THchobrotica.
Trichobrotica pallida (Jacoby)
Figure 1
Neobrotica pallida Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Americana,
Coleoptera, voL 6, pt. 1, suppL, p. 335, 1892.
About 4 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, almost impunctate,
pale yellow with the antennae, tibiae and tarsi and a dark apex or
streak on the femora, middle tibiae of the male excised near apex.
Head with mterocular space half width of head, occiput smooth,
no depression above frontal tubercles, carina short, lower front short.
Antennae long, dark and hairy, the third joint a Httle longer than
second but much shorter than fourth. Prothorax a little wider than
long, sides nearly straight, a well-marked transverse sulcus. Scutel-
lum rounded. Elytra wider below the middle, impunctate, with a
little depression below the slight basal convexity, and another trans-
verse depression below the middle. Body beneath with the anterior
coxal cavities open, the middle tibiae excised in the male, the claws
appendiculate, entirely pale, the anterior femora with a dark streak
above, the hind femora dark at apex, tibiae and tarsi entirely dark.
Length 4.2 mm.; width 2 mm.
Type, male, BMNH, from Panistlahuaca, Mexico, Salle collector.
