240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Remarks: In Jacoby's description he states that he has two speci-
mens. Only one is now at the British Museum and there is none in
the Bowditch collection. Jacoby described the antennae as having
the last two segments missing, which applies to the specimen in the
British Museum. The shallow notching of the middle tibiae is
more typical of the genus Platymorpha, but the thu-d antennal joint
is not so compressed as in that genus, and in this respect is similar
to that of Trichobrotica ruatanae (Jacoby) .
Trichobrotica nigrosignata (Jacoby)
Figure 17
Diahrotica nigrosignata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Ameri-
cana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 522, 1887.
About 3.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
very finely and not densely punctate, pale yellow with dark antennae
and dark tibiae and tarsi, and on each elytron three dark markings,
one from the humerus down the side neariy to the middle, another
short one from the base down the middle, and the third large spot
near the apex; middle tibiae of the male excised.
Head with the interocular space about half width of head, occiput
smoothly rounded, very finely punctate, no depression above the
frontal tubercles, a narrow carina down lower front. Antennae
long, dark brown, with the second and third joints short. Prothorax
almost as long as ^^^de with slightly rounded sides and a shallow
depression across lower half. Scutellum pale. Elytra narrowly oblong
and a little wider at apex, depressed, very finely punctate, shining,
pale yellow with three dark markings on each elytron : the first from
the humerus along the side to the middle, the second a very short
curved vitta from the middle of the base, and the third a large dark
spot near the apex. Body beneath pale, the femora pale, the tibiae
and tarsi dark. Claws appendiculate. Length 3.2-4.9 mm.; width
1.4-1.5 mm.
Type, male, BMNH, and 4 paratypes, from San Geronimo, Guate-
mala, Champion collector. One specimen from San Isidro, Guate-
mala, 1600 ft.. Champion collector.
Remarks: In two specimens the lateral spots are united along the
side. This species with its excised middle tibiae in the male and
appendiculate claws belongs rather in Trichobrotica than Diabrotica.
The short third antennal joint resembles that of T. ruatanae (Jacoby).
Trichobrotica fenestrata, new species
Figure 14
About 4 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the prothorax
with a transverse scooped-out area in the lower half, elytra very finely
