GALERUCESTE BEETLES — BLAKE 241
punctate, yellow brown with dark antennae, a piceous occiput on the
head and a darkening over the anterior half of the pronotum, a wide
dark area extending from the base of elytra over the humerus and
down the side, widening to cover lateral half below the middle, margin
and interior pale, body beneath pale with the breast brown, the tibiae
and tarsi and apical half of femora piceous.
Head with the interocular space about half width of head, occiput
smoothly rounded, frontal tubercles distinct, a well-defined carina
down lower front, the occiput and around eyes piceous, front pale,
mouthparts brownish. Antennae piceous (last two joints missing),
third joint a little longer than second, remainder much longer. Pro-
thorax with nearly straight sides, about a third wider than long,
a scooped-out area in the basal half; shiny, yellow brown with the
anterior half darkened. Scutellum pale. Elytra shiny although
finely alutaceous, very finely punctate, somewhat flattish with small
humeral prominences and short intrahumeral sulcus, yellow brown
with a piceous band across base extending down over the humeri and
along the side and widening in apical half to cover half the elytra, the
explanate margin wide and pale, interior pale; body beneath pale with
the breast brownish, basal part of femora pale, apical half, tibiae, and
tarsi dark. Length 4 mm.; width 1.7 mm.
Type, female, CAS, from Cordoba, Mexico, A. Fenyes collector.
Remarks: Only a female of this species has been examined and
without the male it is impossible to be certain into which genus it
falls, but the front of the head resembles more the species of
Trichobrotica.
Neotrichota, new genus
Type species: Neotrichota fiavipennis, new species.
Elongate oblong oval, head with weU-marked frontal tubercles and
a short carina down the lower front; antennae long and filiform, the
third joint longer than the second. Prothorax nearly rectangular
with shghtly curved sides and explanate margin, a shallow scooped-out
area in lower half. Elytra with small humeral prominences, sHghtly
wider towards the apex. Anterior coxal cavities open, middle tibiae
of the male notched near apex, the first tarsal joint of the hindlegs
scarcely as long as the rest of the joints together, claws bifid.
This genus resembles species of Trichobrotica except that the claws
are not appendiculate but bifid. In this respect the genus is like
Deinocladus, and these two genera alone stand out as having bifid
claws in a group in which the claws are appendiculate.
The name Neotrichota is derived from the Latin "neo," meaning new,
and "trichota," an abbreviation of Trichobrotica.
