242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Neotrichota subtilis (Weise)
Figures 10, 11
Phyllobrotica subtilis Weise, Ark. Zool., vol. 14, no. 1, p. 104, 19'21.
Neobrotica achroma Bechyne, Ent. Arb. Mus. G. Frey, vol. 9, no. 8, p. 596,
1958.
About 4 mm. in length, oblong oval, very shiny, the prothorax with
a shallow scooped-out depression in the lower half, the elytra with a
short intrahumeral depression, the pronotum rather sparsely punctate,
the elytra more densely and strongly punctate, entirely pale yellow
except the tip of the mouthparts which are brownish, claws bifid.
Head with the interocular space half width of head, polished,
im punctate over occiput, frontal tubercles well marked, lower front
smooth with a short carina. Antennae long, first joint very long, sec-
ond joint shorter than thii-d, and thnd joint shorter than fourth, the
remainder long and slender, a little darker. Prothorax with nearly
straight sides, the basal half with shallow scooped-out area, shiny,
rather sparsely punctate, pale yellow. Scubellum pale. Elytra
wider towards apex, %vith small humeral prominences and a short in-
trahumeral sidcus, shiny, densely and moderately coarsely punctate,
pale yellow. Body beneath and legs pale, the middle tibiae of the
male notched near the apex. Claws bifid. Length 4 mm.; width
1.8 mm.
Type, male, in Riksmuseum, Stockholm, Sweden, collected on the
Rio Autaz, Amazon, Roman collector. Two other specimens from
Santarem, Brazil, in the Carnegie Museum. A female (type of Neo-
brotica achroma Bechyne) in the G. Frey Museiun, Tutzing bei
Miinchen, Germany, collected at Cayenne, French Guiana.
Remarks: Both Bechyne's and Weise's types have been examined
by the writer and they are the same. Because of the bifid claws
this species cannot be included in the genus Trichobrotica which it
strongly resembles. For the same reason it cannot be a species of
either Phyllobrotica or Neobrotica.
Neotrichota flavipenn is, new species
Figure 12
About 4.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, faintly shining,
the elytra densely and strongly punctate, the prothorax transversely
depressed in the basal haK, middle tibiae of the male excised; pale
yellow with the three terminal antennal joints brown, and with a
pale reddish brown vitta on each side of the prothorax.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
frontal tubercles somewhat swollen with a depression above them, a
short carina do\vn the lower front, which is smooth, without depres-
sions and with long pale hairs, upper haK of head a deeper yellow
