GALERUCINE BEETLES — BLAKE 243
than the lower front. Antennae extending below the middle of the
elytra, joints long, slender and from the third to eighth joints sub-
equal, last three joints deep brown. Prothorax about rectangular
with the sides nearly straight, a slightly scooped-out depression in
the basal half, sm'face shining, punctate along the base, pale yellow
with a pale reddish-bro\vn vitta on each side wider anieriorly but
not meeting in middle. Scutellum pale yellow. Elytra elongate, a
well-marked intrahumeral sulcus, densely and moderately coarsely
but shallowly punctate, pale yellow, a few hairs at apex. Body
beneath entu-ely pale yellow, the front tibiae thickened and middle
tibiae notched near the apex in the male. Claws bifid. Length
4.5-5 mm.; width 1.8-2 mm.
Type, male, and 2 paratypes, USNM 66857, from Mr. Peter's
Hall, 2 miles from Georgetown, British Guiana, Sept. 22, 1918, col-
lected by Harold Morrison,
Remarks: This is another species with bifid claws but strongly re-
sembling the Trichobrotica sexplagiata group with notched middle
tibiae in the male and similar shape and markings except that the
elytra are entirely pale.
Ectmesopus rhabdotus, new species
Figure 32
About 3 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, the antennae in the
male mth the tenth joint wider than the rest and the middle tibiae
excised; pale yellow brown with the occiput of the head dark, the
prothorax Avith a piceous lateral vitta on either side, elytra shining
with a blue-violet luster, tibiae in the apical half deeper brown.
Head smoothly rounded over the occiput with fine punctures over
the rather indistinct frontal tubercles, a narrow carina, pale yellow
with the occiput of the head having a darkened area behmd the eyes
and the tip of the mouthparts also dark. Antennae in the male with
joints eight to ten gradually thickening, the tenth joint the widest,
basal and terminal joints pale yellow brown, the remainder gradually
deepening in color to the tenth which is piceous. Prothorax a little
wider than long, with nearly straight sides, disc smooth and without
depressions, shining, impunctate, pale yellow brown with a piceous
vitta extending to margin and nearly the length of the pronotum on
each side. Scutelliun brown. Elytra blue violet, shining, in the one
specimen examined the elytra much wrinkled, the specimen being
immature. Body beneath entirely pale, the legs pale with the apical
half of tibiae brown. Length 2.8 mm.; width 1.2 mm.
Type, male, USNM 66855, collected at Bahia Honda, Cuba, on
June 1-3, by H. F. Wickham.
