244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Remarks: The markings of this species resemble those of E.
vitticollis Blake from Puerto Rico except that the vittae on the pro-
thorax are longer. The graduated enlargement of the eighth to tenth
antennal joints is different from any of the other species.
Luperosoma vittatum, new species
Figure 19
About 3.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
finely punctate, in the male the fifth to eighth antennal joints enlarged
and the middle tibiae excised, pale yellow brown with a broad piceous
vitta on each side of prothorax and a broad piceous vitta nearly
covering each elytron leaving the margin and a narrow pale sutural
vitta.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
occiput smoothly rounded, frontal tubercles well marked with a
median depression above, a narrow carina down lower front. An-
tennae in the male longer than half the body, third joint short and
compressed, not so long as second, fourth joint very long and slender,
fifth joint wider, sixth, seventh, eighth, much widened, ninth to
eleventh gradually diminishing in width, entirely dark piceous. Pro-
thorax only a little wider than long with the sides only slightly curved,
a faint transverse depression, sm-face shining, pale yellow with a
broad piceous vitta on each side. Scutellum pale. Elytra rather
depressed, a small basal callosity with an intrahumeral sulcus, surface
shining, finely and moderately densely punctate, pale yellow brown
with a broad piceous vitta extending nearly across the elytra, leaving
only a narrow pale vitta at the suture and the lateral margin pale.
Body beneath pale yellow brown with the tibiae and tarsi a little
darker, anterior tibiae in male enlarged, middle tibiae in male deeply
excised, anterior coxal cavities open, claws appendiculate. Length
3.5 mm.; width 1.4 mm.
Type, male, USNM 66850, collected at Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
July 9, 1918, by F. J. Dyer, at 5400 ft. altitude.
Remarks: The color pattern is similar to Phyllecthrus gentilis
Leconte, but the enlarged antennal joints (in this case the intermediate
instead of the terminal joints) and deeply excised middle tibiae in
the male are like those of Lwperosoma marginatum Jacoby and L.
nigrum Blake, both from South America.
Luperosoma nigricolle, new species
Figure 21
About 3 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, entirely dark piceous,
the antennae with thickened apical joints in the male (no female
examined) and excised middle tibiae, elytra rather rugosely punctate.
