268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Neohrolica has entirely the appearance and in many instances the elytral
pattern of Diabrotica. It might be easily mistaken for that genus unless the
claws are examined, these being appendieulate in Neohrolica (instead of
bifid as in Diabrotica) ; with this character a deeply sulcate thorax is generally
combined. Several species described here offer a striking instance of so-called
"mimicry" in regard to colour and mai'kings of the elytra (and indeed of the
antennae also), and in this respect agree in every particular with some forms
of Diabrotica. As I have in several cases both sexes before me, there can be
no question of sexual differences in regard to the structure of the claws, etc.
The genus will no doubt include some species at present referred to Diabrotica
and Cerotoma.
It is inevitable that some of the species under Jacoby's rather broad
and general classification of a transversely sulcate pro thorax, appen-
dieulate claws, and open anterior coxal cavities should not be very
close to the genotype as typified by N. variabilis. In a previous
paper (Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1958, vol. 108, no. 3395, pp. 59-102)
I have shown that N. sexplagiata and N. ruatinae belong with the
Galerucine beetles that have excised middle tibiae in the male.
Others, the types of which I had not seen at that time, notably
N. pallida Jacoby and N. analis Weise, also belong in the excised
middle tibiae group. And there are still other species of Jacoby's
that do not easily fit into the genus and belong elsewhere, although
it is true that they fulfill the generic requirements as stated by Jacoby.
None of the species described by Weise are in Neobrotica, and two of
Bechyne's, N. latifrons and A^. lineigera, belong to Deuterobrotica, a
genus that Bechyne himself described.
In Neobrotica, as I am restricting the genus, the antennae are
always filiform; the third joint is almost as long as the fourth, never
longer, and not different m the sexes; the front of the head is not
hollowed out but with a carina more or less distinct down the front.
The frontal tubercles are distinct and usually with a median depression
above them. The prothorax has an explanate margin usually ob-
scured from view anteriorly when viewed from above; the disc has
a transverse sulcus curving across the basal half; the elytra usually
have traces of costae, in some groups more developed than in others
and occasionally there is no sign of costation. The punctation tends
to be feebly striate in the more costate species. The anterior coxal
cavities are open and the claws appendieulate. The legs are moder-
ately long; in the male the front tibiae are frequently stout and the
first tarsal joint of the front feet is somewhat enlarged, but not so
dilated as in some species of Cerotoma. The first joint of the hind
tarsus is very long. The aedeagus is not a distinguishing factor in
separating the species, as it varies little.
In markings, the head is most frequently dark at least over the
occiput; the pronotum is almost always without dark markings; the
