270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
excavate in a manner similar to that found in the males of both
Eucerotoma and Cerotoma. They differ from Eucerotoma in not
having such costate elytra and in the long third antennal joint of the
female. When compared with A^^. variabilis, however, they appear
widely apart and far from being congeneric, and should be put in a
separate genus.
Jacoby had only the female of the species that he named Neobrotica
vittatipennis. Otherwise he would not have included that very
different beetle in Neobrotica. It is unlike any that I know and
deserves a generic place.
I have taken the opportunity here also to dispose of Galeruca
furcata Olivier, a species that has been assigned to various genera
from Cerotoma to Neobrotica, and recently placed by Bechyne in a
genus he himself described as Metrobrotica. By Bechyne's definition
of Metrobrotica "the third and fourth antennal joints of the male are
of a very complicated buUd", which generic differentiation applies to
his genotype Cerotoma geometrica Erichson but does not fit Galeruca
furcata in which the antennae of both sexes are filiform,
Bechyne has transferred another species, Neobrotica brasiliensis
Bowditch, from Neobrotica to Andrector. I have examined a female
specimen he determined as N. brasiliensis, in the Frey Museum,
and it is misidentified. As far as I loiow there is only one specimen
of N. brasiliensis known — the type in the Museum of Comparative
Zoology— and this is a female. There are two other species related
to it, all three densely and quite coarsely punctate, all three with a
broader prothorax than usual for Neobrotica, and all with closed
anterior coxal cavities, but otherwise resembling Neobrotica. The
antennae are like those found in Neobrotica, having the thu"d joint
no longer than the fourth, and the remaining joints gradually shorter.
All three species are from the Amazon region. For these I am
erecting the genus Potamobrotica.
Growing out of the study of this genus, Neobrotica, and its closely
related genera, a second paper has been prepared to deal with some
of the species that have been in the past relegated to Neobrotica, but
having excised middle tibiae in the male. In this paper are treated
such species as Neobrotica pallida Jacoby, N. achroma Bechyne,
A^. analis Weise, N. latifrons Bechyne and A^. lineigera Bechyne.
It is being published as "More New Galerucine Beetles with Excised
Middle Tibiae in the Male" (Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1966, vol.
118, no. 3528, pp. 233-266).
I wish to acknowledge the help I have had financially from the
National Science Foundation in enabling me to visit museums in Europe
and South America, both to study type specimens and to see and
collect more material. The British Museum (Natural History)
