NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 271
(BMNH) and various museums in the United States have loaned me
material, notably the Museimi of Comparative Zoology (MCZ), the
American IVIuseum of Natural History (AMNH), and the California
Academy of Sciences (CAS) . John A. Wilcox of the New York State
Museum has given freely his help in the classification of these difficult
galerucine beetles. Gerhard Scherer has made notes and drawings
of Bechyne's types in the Frey Museum collection at Tutzing,
Germany.
Key to the Genera of Galerucinae Here Treated
1. Head of male unlike that of female, with the front deeply excavated or with
a median hole 2
Head of male similar to that of female 5
2. Head of male with a small median hole over labrum.
Cyclotrypema, new genus (p. 354)
Head of male more or less deeply excavate or concave in front 3
3. Third antennal joint of female usually longer than the fourth, rarely equal to
it and never shorter Eccoptopsis, new genus (p. 339)
Third antennal joint of female equal to or shorter than fourth 4
4. Male antenna with third joint only much widened and irregularly excised
in middle, not at end Rachicephala, new genus (p. 354)
Male antenna with third and fourth joints widened and excised at adjoining
ends Eucerotoma
5. Anterior coxal cavities closed Potamobrotica, new genus (p. 351)
Anterior coxal cavities open 6
6. Fi'ont of face with well-developed carina, eh^tral costae usually faintly developed.
Neobrotica
Front of face depressed with carina not much in evidence, elytral costation
strong Hystiopsis, new genus (p. 324)
Key to North and Central American Species of Neobrotica
1. El3'tra entirelj' pale or at most with faint humeral darkening 2
Elj'tra not entirely pale 5
2. Head dark 3
Head pale 4
3. Elytra strongly costate pallescens Jacoby (p. 269)
Elytra weakly costate modesta Jacoby (p. 292)
4. Elytra strongly costate semicostata Jacoby (p. 296)
Elytra weakly costate inconspicua Jacoby (p. 297)
5. Head pale with a median occipital spot 6
Head either pale or dark but without occipital spot 7
6. Elytra with lateral vittate marking and two short median vittae on each
elytron spilocephala, new species (p. 287)
Elytra without lateral vittate marking and with six spots on each elytron.
oblongo punctata Jacoby (p. 308)
7. Elytra with a basal and apical, sometimes median, fascia 8
Elytra with spots, sometimes lunate, or vittate markings 14
8. Basal fascia extending below middle of elytra.
cartwrightii, new species (p. 281)
Basal fascia not extending below middle of elytra 9
