NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 275
Neobrotica undecimmaculata Jacoby
Figure 6
Neobrotica undecimmaculata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, CJoleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 575, 1887.
Between 5 and 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, faintly shining,
alutaceous, the elytra finely and not densely pmictate, head on top,
tibiae, tarsi, and breast piceous, elj^tra with reddish brown to piceous
spots on the humeri, two transversely across elytron before the middle
and two after the middle.
Head vnth. the interocular space about half the width of the head,
occiput shiny piceous, very minutely punctate, a median depression
above the well-marked frontal tubercles, carina down front, lower
front to labrum which is dark, pale reddish brown. Antennae with
the three basal and three apical joints pale, the rest dark brown.
Prothorax not twice as broad as long with a transverse sulcus most
marked at the sides; sides nearly straight, sm-face finely punctate,
pale. Scutellum either reddish browm or piceous. Elytra finely
alutaceous and unusually finely punctate, A\ith two or three feeble
lateral costae, pale mth reddish brown to piceous markings, the spots
small and located as above ; on the British Museum specimen a dark
area about the scutellum and extending a little way down the suture,
the specimen in the Bowditch collection without this. Body beneath
pale with the breast dark; tibiae and tarsi dark, femora pale. Length
5.7 mm.; width 2.9 mm.
Type, male, MCZ; one female paratype, BAINH; both from Jalapa,
Mexico, collected by Hoge.
Other locality: Xilitla, Mexico, Dreisbach, Julyj23, 1954, Monrds
collection, USNM.
Remarks: The dark head and unusually fine punctation of the
elytra distinguish this species from many others with similar markings.
Neobrotica schausi, new species
Figure 5
About 6.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, faintly shining and
faintly alutaceous, the elytra with costae most marked in the middle of
the elytra, finely punctate; pale yellow brown, somewhat deeper in
color over the occiput but not at all piceous, the elytra with small
reddish-brown humeral spot, two small spots before and two after the
middle of each elytron, body beneath entirely pale.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, a small
median depression over the well-marked frontal tubercles and a short
carina down the short lower front, occiput of head a shade deeper in
color than the lower front but not at all piceous. Antennae with the
