276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
terminal joints missing, the basal joints a little paler than the reddish
brown outer joints, third and fom-th joints subequal. Prothorax with
a transverse sulcus, surface alutaceous, finely pmictate. ScuteUum
deeper reddish brown. Elytra with distinct costae, more marked
from the middle to the side, punctation fine and confused ; surface alu-
taceous; elytra pale yellow brown, each with five small reddish-brown
spots, one on the humerus, one below on the side before the middle
and the second lateral one near the apical curve, opposite this and
near the suture two other spots. Body beneath entirely pale, the
tibiae and tarsi a deeper reddish brown, front tibiae and first tarsal
joint of male enlarged. Length 6.5 mm.; width 3.2 mm.
Type, male, AMNH, from Jalapa, Mexico, collected by W. Schaus.
Remarks: Possibly some specimens have a piceous head and piceous
elytral spots, but the single male known appears to be a mature speci-
men and differs from N. undecimmaculata Jacoby in having a pale head
and breast and a narrower interocular space. Both are from Jalapa,
Mexico.
Neobrotica noumenia, new species
Figure 3
Between 6.5 and 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, moderately
shiny although feebly alutaceous, the elytra strongly and densely
punctate, and feebly costate; pale yellow with dark upper half of head
and dark mouthparts, entirely pale legs and antennae and brown
breast, elytra with a dark humeral spot and narrow transverse fascia
below, a narrow dark sutural line a little below scutellmn, and a slender
semilunate dark mark near apex, these dark markings sometimes with
a purphsh lustre.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, shiny
piceous over occiput, pale in lower front with the mouthparts dark,
very finely punctate, the frontal tubercles distinct and a median
depression above them, a narrow carina down lower front. Antennae
entuely pale yellow. Prothorax only a fittle wider than long with
slightly rounded sides and a transverse sulcus, very finely alutaceous,
entuely pale yellow. ScuteUum tan colored. Elytra with costate
wrinkling, densely and distinctly punctate and with a tendency to being
geminate striate punctate, faintly alutaceous ; a piceous or deep purplish
marking on humerus, a transverse fascia not quite across the elytron,
interrupted at the sutiue, and a short narrow sutural vitta, also a
narrow semilunate mark near apex. Body beneath entirely pale
except brownish breast, legs pale, a spine on middle and hind tibiae.
Length 6.7-7.5 mm.; width 3.3-3.7 mm.
Type, female, MCZ 30665; one female paratype, USNM; both
from Cuernavaca, Mexico. One specimen from Cuernavaca, Aug. 30,
1944, on Eupatorium adenophorum, collected by N.L.H. Krauss.
