NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 277
Other localities: Escuintia, Guatemala, F. Kjiab, collector.
Remarks: On one of the specimens is an old label, Diabrotica
biannularis Harold, a species that it strongly resembles in its elytral
markings. There are three specimens, all females, in the MCZ with
no locality label. They all have delicate narrow dark markings.
The faint purple lustre of some is suggestive of A^. coeruleolineata
Jacoby, but I have not seen specimens of A^, noumenia with a long
stripe from the shoulder.
Neobrotica dentata, new species
Figure 7
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
faintly alutaceous and distinctly and somewhat striately punctate,
with faint lateral costae; pale yellow brown, the head entirely piceous
and the elytra with wide dark himieral, median and sutural vittae
united at the base and not extending to the middle of the elytra, a
wide dark lunate mark at apex, sometimes divided into two spots,
the legs, antennae and undersurface except the dark breast, pale.
Head with interocular space less than half the width of head, occiput
finely punctate, a depression above the frontal tubercles and a narrow
carina down front; entirely piceous. Antennae entirely pale yellow
brown. Prothorax about a third wider than long with rounded sides,
finely punctate, a transverse sulcus and shining pale yellow brown.
Scutellum dark brown. Elytra shining although faintly alutaceous,
distinctly and somewhat geminately striate punctate, some traces of
lateral costae, pale yellow with a dark marking having a faint bluish
lustre, a broad darkening in basal fourth of elytra with very narrow
pale inlets in middle and at suture in lower part, and a wide semi-
circular mark opening at the apical end and at apex. Body beneath
and legs entirely pale except for the black breast. Length 6.5-7.2
mm.; width 2.7-3.5 mm.
Type, female, USNM 66845, from San Jose, Costa Rica, collected
by J. F. Tristan. Specimens also from San Jose, 1000-1200 m.,
collected by F. Nevermann, and by M. Valerio, Sept. 17, 1930, on
Chamaedorea.
Remarks: The unusual elytral markings of this species differentiate
it from the others. It was collected at San Jose, Costa Rica, by
three different collectoi-s. The specimen collected by M. Valerio is
in the MCZ.
Neobrotica ornata Jacoby
Figures 23, 24
Neobrotica ornata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Americana,
Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 572, 1887.
From 5 to 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, feebly shining,
