278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iia
alutaceoiis, the elytra with three or four faintly marked short costae,
head dark with the front paler, antennae with the intermediate joints
darker; legs, pronotum and body beneath, except the breast, pale;
elytra with a dark basal ring and a dark apical one, the middle of the
ring being pale, apical ring sometimes not complete.
Head with interocular space a little less than half width of head,
frontal tubercles well marked, a median depression above, occiput
finely punctate, a narrow carina running down the front, the top of
the head piceous, lower front deep reddish brown, sometimes even
pale yellow, with the mouthparts dark. Antennae pale at base and
apex, joints five to eight usually deeper brown. Prothorax some-
what wider than long with slightly curved sides and a transverse
depression, alutaceous and very finely punctate, entirely pale yellow.
Scutellimi pale or reddish brown. Elytra with feeble costae, aluta-
ceous and rather coarsely punctate, entirely pale yellow with a large
basal and apical ring that is sometmies slightly purplish, the apical
ring occasionally not complete on the apical side towards suture.
Body beneath pale with the breast dark, legs pale, hind tibiae with
spine, anterior coxal cavities open, claws appendiculate. Length
5-7 mm.; width 2.5-3.5 mm.
Type, BMNH; three paratypes, MCZ; all from Tapachula in
Chiapas, Mexico.
Other localities: Tuxtla, Teapa, Tabasco, Mexico, collected by
Salle, H. H. Smith, and Hoge; Cordova, Vera Cruz, Mexico, collected
by Hoge, A. Fenyes, and F. Knab; Rio Antonio, Oaxaca, Mexico,
F. Knab, collector. Escuintla, Guatemala, and Izalco, Salvador, both
collections by F. Knab. Turrialba, Costa Rica, O. L. Cartwright,
collector, June 1951. Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, S. W.
Frost, collector; El Valle, Canal Zone, N. L. H. Krauss, collector;
Porto Bello, Canal Zone, Busck, Jennings, collectors.
Remarks : Jacoby wrote that this species resembles Diabrotica biannu-
laris Harold in its elytral markings. In one specimen from Teapa,
Mexico, he wrote that the rings were connected along the side by a
dark line. I have examined one specimen marked like this which
bears solely the locality label "Mexico" and is a female, now in the
Bowditch collection at the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Neobrotica coeruleofasciata Jacoby
Figures 19, 20
Neobrotica coer-uleofasciata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 575, 1887.
About 5.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytral
punctation strong and semistriate, faint traces of costae along the sides,
pale yellow, the head entirely dark, the breast piceous, antennal joints
