NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 279
five to eight deeper in coloring; elytra with a wide blue fascia at the
base and another large roundish area near the apex which is excavate
at the apical end.
Head with the interocular space less than half width of head,
occiput shining, impunctate, carina narrow, not much elevated, with
punctures on the lower front, and a depression above the frontal
tubercles. Antennae pale yellow with joints five to eight deeper
brown. Prothorax with the sides only slightly rounded, a sulcus
across, alutaceous and finely punctate, pale yellow. Scutellum dark.
Elytra with a wide dark blue basal fascia and a large rounded spot
below the middle on each elytron joined at the suture; punctation
dense and semistriate, with faint costae. Body beneath pale except
for the dark piceous breast, legs entirely pale. Length 5.7 mm.;
width 2.8 mm.
Type, male, BMNH; one paratype; both from Caldera, Panama,
collected by Champion; two others from the Volcan de Chiriqui, also
collected by Champion.
Remarks: In the British Museum are four specimens, two from
Caldera, two from the Volcan de Chiriqui, that are of the same species.
Jacoby listed under N. coeruleqfasciata other specimens from Bugaba
and Tole that are not the same. He appeared doubtful about these
as he noted that the space between the eyes was different. These are
described under A^. conjusa and N. piceofasciata.
There are several specimens from Costa Rica that may be of this
species also, although the markings are somewhat different in two of
the three. In the Bowditch collection is a specimen from San Carlos,
Costa Rica, collected by Schild and Burgdorf and also one in the U.S.
National Museum of the same label, and another from Bataan, Costa
Rica, collected by M. Stelzer; one of the San Carlos specimens and the
Bataan specimen have only the outer half of the elytron covered with
a dark violaceous spot. Otherwise these appear to be like Jacoby's
coeruleqfasciata.
Neobrotica confusa, new species
Figure 21
Neobrotica coeruleofasciata Jacoby (in part), in Godman and Salvin, Biologia
Centrali-Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 575, 1887.
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, moderately shiny
although alutaceous, elytra with numerous feeble costae, distinctly
and irregularly striate punctate, head and breast dark, antennae,
pronotum, legs and rest of undersurface yellow; the elytra yeUow
with a broad dark basal fascia having metallic blue or green lustre
and sometimes enclosing a small pale spot; another broad fascia near
the apex that is sometimes lunate; sometimes these fasciae represented
only by a lunate basal and apical marking.
