280 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Head with the interocular space nearly half the width of head,
frontal tubercles distinctly marked and with a median depression
above them, a distinct carina down the lower front, the occiput finely
punctate, entirely shining piceous. Antennae pale. Prothorax some-
what wider than long with a transverse sulcus, very finely punctate
and finely alutaceous, entirely pale. Scutellum dark. Elytra strongly,
densely and semistriately punctate and feebly costate, a broad dark
basal fascia with a metallic green lustre extending one-third the length
of the elytra and enclosing a small round pale spot in the middle, and
at the apex another roundish dark fascia with the apex hollowed out
as if the opening of an apical ring. Body beneath pale, except the
breast, legs pale. Length 6-8 mm.; width 3.1-3.8 mm.
Type, ?female, MCZ 30668, from Bugaba, Panama, collected by
Champion.
Other locahties: Porto Bello, Canal Zone, A. Busck, E. A. Schwarz,
collectors; Ancon, Canal Zone, A, H. Jennings, collector; El Valle,
Canal Zone, N.L.H. Krauss, collector; Cabima, Canal Zone, A. Busck,
collector; Muso, Colombia.
Remarks: Jacoby noted that there was a difference in the interocular
space between some of the specimens that he had assigned to the
species N. coeruleofasciata, the two from Bugaba having a wider
interocular space as well as somewhat different elytral markings.
There are other specimens in the U.S. National Museum from the
Canal Zone and one from Colombia that resemble the Bugaba speci-
mens. They are in general a little larger than A^. coeruleofasciata.
Neobrotica piceofasciata, new species
Figure 27
Neobrotica coeruleofasciata Jacoby (in part), in Godman and Salvin, BioTogia
Centrali-Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 575, 1887.
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
rather coarsely punctate, head dark, thorax pale, elytra pale with a
wide piceous basal band and another below the middle; antennae,
legs and undersurface except the dark breast, pale.
Head with the interocular space less than half the width of head,
occiput polished, finely punctate, tubercles distinctly outlined, a small
depression above them; the carina distinct, with punctm'es on either
side, head entirely piceous. Antennae pale yellow brown, the terminal
joint tipped with piceous. Prothorax with the sides nearly straight,
not deeply sulcate across, shining, finely punctate, pale yellow.
Scutellum dark. Elytra with distinct short intrahumeral sulcus;
punctures strong, tending to be geminate, pale yellow with a broad
basal piceous fascia and another below the middle, the apex pale.
