NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 281
Body beneath pale with the breast dark, legs entirely pale. Length
7 mm.; width 3.5 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Tole, Panama, collected by Champion.
Remarks: This is one of the specimens under A^. coeruleofasciata
Jacoby in the British Museum collection. A^. piceofasciata is, how-
ever, a distinct species, differing from coeruleofasciata in several points:
the space between the eyes is less, the antennae are shorter and en-
tirely pale, except for the tip, in contrast to the bicolored ones of
coeruleofasciata. In addition, the elytral markings are piceous,
without metallic lustre, and the beetle is larger and without costae.
The apical spot on the elytra is not at all emarginate at the lower end.
Neohrotica zonata, new species
Figure 22
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
distinctly but not deeply costate, the interspaces with geminate
striate punctation; pale yellow with a piceous head, and the elytra
with a wide deep blue basal fascia having in the middle of each
elytron a small pale spot, and a curved dark blue fascia before the
apex, the antennae, legs and undersurface except the piceous breast,
pale.
Head with interocular space about half width of head, occiput
smooth, shining, a median depression over the frontal tubercles and a
fovea on either side, a narrow carina down lower front, head shining
black. Antennae with only eight joints, the rest missing, pale yellow
brown. Prothorax not quite twice as broad as long with rounded
sides, a distinct transverse sulcus, surface with a few fine punctures,
faintly alutaceous, pale yellow, shining. Scutellum pale. Elytra
wider in apical half, strongly but not deeply costate, the costae not
much raised but smooth and broad, the interstices with rather coarse
geminate striate punctures, surface finely alutaceous but shining;
markings of deep violet blue, a basal fascia with a pale spot in the
middle and an apical one, somewhat curved, near the apical end,
apex pale. Body beneath and the neck of the head pale, but the
breast shining piceous, legs entirely pale. Length 7 mm. ; width 3 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Guatemala.
Remarks: Jacoby has attached a label to this "?omato". It is
with markings and coloration somewhat similar to N. ornata, but the
elytra are more costate.
Neohrotica cartwrighti, new species
Figure 25
About 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
distinctly but not strongly costate with the intervals densely geminate
