282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
striate punctate; yellow with a black head and breast, brown tibiae and
tarsi, the elytra with a wide dark blue fascia in the basal half and
another narrower one in the apical half, the intervening pale fascia
narrow, the apex and margin pale.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head, a
median depression above, frontal tubercles distinct, and a narrow
carina down the lower front, occiput smoothly rounded, shining, very
finely punctate, entire head black. Antennae with the basal and
apical four joints pale. Prothorax wider than long with slightly
rounded sides and a transverse sulcus, polished, a few very fine
punctures, yellowish brown. Scutellum tan colored. Elytra shining,
although faintly alutaceous, with strong geminate striate punctation
between the rather feeble costae; a broad steel blue fascia covering
basal half of elytra, then a narrow pale yellow fascia and in the apical
half another narrower dark blue fascia, the apex and margin pale.
Body beneath very lightly pubescent, pale yellow with the breast
dark, the femora pale, the tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Length 7.4
mm.; width 3.6 mm.
Type, female, USNM 66847; one female paratype; both from
Turrialba, Costa Kica, May 28 and June 5, 1951, respectively,
collected by O. L. Cartwright.
Remarks: The large size and the dark blue fasciae on the elytra
readily distinguish this species. I take pleasure in naming it after its
collector.
Neohrotica coeruleolineata Jacoby
Figure 8
Neohrotica coeruleolineata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt, 1, p. 753, 1887.
Between 5 and 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, feebly shining,
alutaceous, the elytra strongly, densely and semistriately punctate
between the feeble elytral costae, head tending to be dark on occiput,
sometimes entirely dark, intermediate joints of the antennae dark,
prothorax, legs, body beneath pale, except breast, elytra with a long
dark, slightly metallic blue or green vittate marking from the humerus
a little way down the side, another from scutellum down the suture a
way, a spot before and after the middle, and another lateral vitta at
apical curve not joined with the humeral vitta; front tibiae in the
male enlarged.
Head with the interocular space less than half width of head, frontal
tubercles somewhat swollen, a median depression above them, a
narrow carina running down the lower front, occiput smooth with a
few very fine punctm-es, usually the upper half of head deeper in color
from tan to piceous, lower front paler, labrum dark, sometimes entire
