NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 285
Remarks : In the BMNH there are four specimens from Guatemala
besides the type, and these have variable elytral markings in which
the vittae are more or less interrupted. One of the specimens with
unbroken vittae bears the label Capetillo, Guatemala, collected by
Champion, and in the Bowditch collection is another from Capetillo
in which the median vitta is broken. In a later publication Jacoby
adds the locality Corozal, Colombia, for the species, but I have been
unable to find the specimen either in the British Museum or the Bow-
ditch collection. In the latter there are two specimens from South
America under this species, one labelled Venezuela, the other Caracas,
and in the U.S. National Museum is a specimen from Turmero, Vene-
zuela, collected in November 1931 by MartoreU. The only male
specimen is the one from Caracas, and whether these South American
specimens are the same as the ones from Guatemala is at present
impossible to say.
As Jacoby notes, the markings of this species bear a strong re-
semblance to those of Diabrotica nigrolineata Jacoby.
Neobrotica linigera Jacoby
Figure 10
Neobrotica linigera Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Americana,
Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 574, 1887.
About 6.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
with traces of costae and the intervals strongly and semistriately
punctate, pale yeUow with a piceous head and the marks on the elytra
having a bluish lustre, a subsutm-al vitta extending one-third the way
down, another from the humerus of equal length and two short vittate
marks below the middle, one on the side at the apical curve, and the
other near the suture, and in some specimens the pale yellow of the
elytra across the middle becoming a deeper yellow band, legs and
body beneath pale yeUow except the dark breast.
Head with interocular space approximately half width of head,
frontal tubercles distinctly marked and a deep median depression over
them, the occiput finely punctate, a narrow carina running down lower
front, shining piceous with the mouthparts usually paler. Antennae
pale yellowish brown. Prothorax a little wider than long, with curved
sides and a transverse sulcus, finely punctate, shining, pale yellow.
ScuteUum pale. Elytra shining, with traces of costae especially
marked near base, having the intervals geminate striate punctate;
pale yellow with dark markings having a bluish lustre and consisting
of a long vittate mark from the humerus down the side curving slightly
inwards, in one specimen in the British Museum this inward curving
fascia almost joined with a subsutm-al vitta of the same length; below
the middle a vittate mark at apical curve and another often with a
