286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
spot beside it, near the suture; in some of the specimens the pale
yellow becomes deeper yellow in a band across the middle. Body
beneath and legs pale with the breast dark. Length 5.9-7 mm.;
width 2.9-3.2 mm.
Type, male, MCZ; seven paratypes, thi-ee in MCZ four in BMNH^
all from Volcan de Chiriqui, Panama, collected by Champion.
Other locality: Bugaba, Panama, collected by Champion.
Remarks: The markings of this species are very similar to many
others except that the basal vitta from the scutellum is not quite sutural,
but subsutural.
Neobrotica diiodecimsignata, new species
Figure 11
Between 4 and 5 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, faintly alu-
taceous, the elytra with fine punctation, feebly costate, yellow brown
with a brownish margin about the eyes, brown intermediate joints
of the antennae, often a brownish outer streak on tibiae and tarsi,
the elytra with dark brown vittate markings extending part way
down the suture, along the side, sometimes interrupted, and a median
interrupted vitta, a short vittate marking at the base and two elongate
spots in the middle sometimes joined into a vitta.
Head with the interocular space less than half width of the head,
occiput shining and smooth, a depression above the frontal tubercles,
carina smooth and narrow, a deepening in color about the eyes,
otherwise pale. Antennae pale with the intermediate joints deeper
brown. Prothorax about one-third wider than long with slightly
curved sides and a transverse sulcus, shining yellow brown, finely
punctate. Scutellum pale. Elytra alutaceous and distinctly punc-
tate, a well-marked costa laterally and smaller ones near the middle,
pale yellow brown with a deep brown vitta from the humerus along
the side which may be broken into two elongate spots along the side,
another in the middle consisting of a short vittate mark at the base,
a longer one often connected with another below the middle, also a
dark brown mark about the scutellum extending down the suture
more or less to the middle. Body beneath pale, the legs either
entirely pale or with a brownish streak on the outside of the tibiae.
Length 4.4-5.2 mm.; width 2.2-2.5 mm.
Type, male, BjMNH (bearing handwritten name IS-signata,"
probably by Baly), from Teapa, Mexico, Baly and Fry collection
labels; one paratype, male, Bowditch collection, MCZ, with Baly
collection and Jacoby 2nd collection labels.
Remarks: Only two specimens of this small species are known,
one with the label Teapa, the other without locality label. The
vittate markings are the distinguishing characteristics of this species.
