NEOBROTICA AXD RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 287
The pale head is different from that found in A^. oberthiiri Baly and
A^. atrilineata.
Neobrotica spilocephala, new species
Figure 12
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, alutaceous, not very-
shiny, the elytra faintly costate, pale yellowish brown, the head with
a median occipital piceous spot and also a piceous area about the eyes,
the elytra with a violaceous or greenish mark running across the base
and down the side to the apical curve and another vitta a little way
down the suture, two median spots, one before and the other after
the middle on each elytron, antennae with the intermediate joints
dark, breast dark.
Head with the interocular space half width of head, occiput finely
punctate, a depression over the frontal tubercles, carina well developed,
pale with a piceous spot at base of the occiput and a dark area about
the back of the eyes, mouthparts more or less piceous. Antennae
with pale basal and terminal joints, intermediate ones dark brown.
Prothorax with slightly curved sides and a transverse sulcus, pale
yellowish brown, finely punctate. Scutellum pale. Elytra faintly
costate along the sides, finely and rather sparsely punctate, alutaceous,
not very shiny, pale yellowish brown with violaceous or greenish
markings along the base and side down to the apical curve and also
about the scutellum down the sutm'e, a median spot before and another
one after the middle, and the lateral darkening opposite each wider,
as if possibly in darker specimens to connect with the median spot.
Body beneath pale with the breast dark; legs pale with the tibiae and
tarsi a little deeper in coloring on the outside. Length 7 mm.;
\vidth 3.3 mm.
Type, female; one paratype, female; both in BMNH, Baly collec-
tion; from Teapa, Mexico,
Remarks: The occipital dark spot is unusual in the genus and
besides this species is found only in Neobrotica oblongopunctata Jacoby
and A^. ebraea (Fabricius). This species has somewhat the same
elytral pattern as A^. duodecimsignata but in that species there is no
metallic lustre and the legs are pale.
Neobrotica melanocephala Jacoby
Figure 28
Neobrotica melanocephala Jacoby, m Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 579, 1887.
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, the elytra costate with
geminate striate punctures in the intervals, head, breast, tibiae and
tarsi dark, the elytra pale with a narrow piceous edging along the
