288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
base, the sides and half way down the suture, a small dark spot near
the apex common to both elytra and a still smaller spot on each
elytron near it.
Head with the interocular space more than half width of head, the
occiput with fine punctures, a depression over the frontal tubercles,
and a short and somewhat depressed carina down the lower front
with punctures on either side. Antennae with the three basal and
three terminal joints pale, the rest dark. Pro thorax not twice as
broad as long with the sides slightly rounded, a well defined transverse
sulcus across disc; surface shining, very finely and sparsely punctate,
pale. Scutellum pale. Elytra widened behind, shining, not aluta-
ceous, distinctly costate, the costae not much elevated but broad and
smooth and impunctate, between them rather fine geminate striate
punctures, coarser on the sides; pale reddish brown with dark piceous
markings along the side, base, and narrowly down the suture to the
middle; a small spot common to both elytra before the apex and near
it a still smaller spot on each elytron. Body beneath with the breast
dark, the femora pale, tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Length 6.8 mm.;
width 3.5 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Cordova, Mexico, collected by Salle;
only a single specimen known.
Remarks: The costate elytra and dark markings along the side
differentiate this from other Central American species. The color
pattern is similar to several South American species, which have more
deeply costate elytra that are here treated in the genus Hystiopsis, a
genus that appears to be confined to South America.
Neobrotica punctatissima Jacoby
Figure 30
Neobrotica punctatissima Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 573, 1887.
About 6 mm. in length, broadly oblong oval, somewhat shiny, the
elytra very coarsely and irregularly geminate striate punctate, pale
yellow brown, the head deep reddish brown to the frontal tubercles,
antennae, legs and body beneath pale, elytra with metallic blue-gi'een
markings consisting of a circle in the basal part and a semicircle in
apical half.
Head with interocular space fully one-half width of head, occiput
finely punctate, a median depression over the frontal tubercles, a well
developed carina down lower front, occiput deep brown to the frontal
tubercles, lower front pale, jaws tipped with brown. Antennae
entirely pale. Prothorax broad and with rounded sides, a deep
rounded depression on each side but not much evidence of a transverse
