NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA BLAKE 289
sulcus otherwise, iinpuuctate, shining, pale yellow brown. Scutellum
pale. Elytra coarsely punctate with the punctures irregularly
geminate striate and below the middle becoming larger and somewhat
ridged; the bluish-green markings in the form of a large circle in basal
half and a semicircle in the apical half on each elytron. Body
beneath and legs entirely pale. Length 4.5-6 mm.; width 2.2-3 mm.
Type, female, BMNH; one paratype, female, Bowditch collection,
MCZ; both from Acapulco, Guerrero, Mexico, collected by Hoge.
Remarks: Only two specimens of this species have been examined,
both of the original Jacoby material. The type in the British Museum
has a heavier, thicker dark ring on the elytra, with the pale space
within considerably smaller than in the MCZ specimen. The very
coarsely punctate elytra distinguish this species.
Neobrotica quadriplagiata Jacoby
Figure 26
Neobrotica quadriplagiata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 546, 1887.
About 02 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining although alutaceous,
the prothorax very lightly sulcate, the elytra with a trace of lateral
costa, head, tibiae, tarsi and breast dark, antennae bicolored, elytra
dark with a faint violaceous gleam, the margin and apex pale and a
large pale spot at base and another near apex opening widely behind
into the pale apex.
Head with interocular space a little less than half width of head,
frontal tubercles, carina and area about it brownish, the rest of head
piceous. Antennae with the four basal and three apical joints pale,
the intermediate ones dark. Prothorax with the sulcus across most
evident at the ends; surface shining, finely punctate, sides sUghtly
curved, pale yellow brown. Scutellum brownish. Elytra shrunken,
probably an immature specimen, the sides a little narrowed, a trace
of lateral costa; punctation not dense but distinct; the margins pale
yellow and two pale roundish spots on each elytron, one near the base,
the other at the apex, the apical one opening into and not distinct from
the pale apex. Body beneath pale with the breast deep brown;
femora pale, the tibiae and tarsi brownish. Length 4.5 mm.; width
2 mm.
Type, ?sex (the abdomen is hidden by the card on which the speci-
men is mounted), BMNH, from San Geronimo, Guatemala, collected
by Champion.
Remarks: Only one specimen is known to the writer, and this is a
poor, shrunken, immature one of undetermined sex, but quite distinct
in its markings from any other species.
