290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Neobrotica hondurensis Jacoby
Figure 13
Neobrotica hondurensis Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Ameri-
cana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 577, 1887.
Between 6 and 7 mm. in length, oblong oval, moderately shiny,
although alutaceous, the elytra faintly costate and with strong dense
semistriate punctation; head, intermediate joints of the antennae,
breast, tibiae and tarsi piceous, the thorax, femora and imdersm*face,
except breast, pale; elytra pale with piceous basal, median and apical
fasciae, the basal fascia sometimes partly joined with the median and
the apical fascia usually with a long narrow indented pale area at the
apical end.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, frontal
tubercles distinct with a median depression above, occiput finely
punctate, a narrow carina running down lower front, entirely dark and
shiny. Antennae with basal joints reddish brown, intermediate joints
dark, the three terminal joints pale yellow. Pro thorax a little wider
than long with slightly curved sides and well-marked transverse
sulcus, surface faintly alutaceous, finely punctate, entirely pale.
Scutellum deep reddish brown. Elytra faintly costate, alutaceous and
strongly punctate, a piceous fascia across base, sometimes connected
at sides or in u-regular toothUke projections with a broad median
dark fascia, a thkd fascia at apex, having a long narrow concavity
toward the apex, apex and margin pale. Body beneath pale with
the breast piceous, femora pale, tibiae and tarsi dark. Anterior coxal
cavities open, hind tibiae with a spine, claws appendiculate. Length
6-7 mm.; width 3.3-3.8 mm.
Type, female, BMNH; one paratype female, BMNH; one paratype,
male, MCZ; all from Rio Hondo, British Honduras, collected by
Blancaneau.
Other localities: Pancina and Cubilguitz, Vera Paz, Guatemala,
Champion, collector; Cacao, Trece Agua, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala,
Barber and Schwarz, collectors.
Remarks: This is an unusually dark and heavily marked species
and easily recognized.
Neobrotica simiilans Jacoby
Figure 14
Neobrotica simulans Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Americana,
Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 577, 1887.
About 5.5 mm. in length, oblong oval, somewhat shiny, although
alutaceous, the elytra faintly costate and with strong, moderately
dense semistriate punctures; head, intermediate joints of antennae
and breast piceous, a piceous fascia on elytra divided narrowly by a
