NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 291
pale yellow irregular fascia from another wider dark fascia extending
to a little below the middle, not quite meeting at the suture; before
the apex another broad dark fascia having an oblong pale spot in the
middle, apex and margin pale; legs pale, antennae pale with dark
intermediate joints.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, tubercles
distinct and a depressed spot above them, a narrow carina down
lower front; occiput smooth, very finely punctate, shining, black,
except the tubercles which are brownish. Antennae pale with the
fifth to ninth joints brown. Prothorax not twice as broad as long
with only slightly curved sides, a deep transverse sulcus; surface
although alutaceous shiny, very finely punctate, pale yellow. Scu-
tellum pale. Elytra wider behind the middle, faintly costate, alu-
taceous but shiny, punctation strong, moderately dense, tending to be
striate; pale yellow with a dark basal fascia, another broader one
before the middle, an apical one enclosing an oblong pale spot in the
middle of it, margin and apex pale. Body beneath pale, except
the breast which is piceous. Length 5.5 mm.; width 2.7 mm.
Type, male, BMNH, from Chacoj in Vera Paz, Guatemala, col-
lected by Champion.
Remarks: Only one specimen of this is known, the type. N.
simulans is similar in markings to A^. hondurensis; the only distin-
guishing marks are the pale tibiae and tarsi which are dark in A''.
hondurensis, and the slightly different color of the antennae. Pos-
sibly it may be only a color form of A^. hondurensis.
Neobrotica pterota, new species
Figure 15
About 6.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
densely and coarsely punctate, the punctures tending to be striate,
feebly costate along the side, pale yellowish brown, the head piceous
on occiput, pale in front, antennae with pale basal joints, the ter-
minal joints missing; elytra with a dark brown band enclosing a
round pale spot on each elytron, and extending down along the side
not quite joining with another narrower band that extends narrowly
down the suture and down the side.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, occiput
shining piceous with fine punctures, a depression over the frontal
tubercles which are tan colored, a carina down lower front which is
pale, the mouthparts dark. Antennae with the terminal joints
missing, the four basal ones pale, rest dark. Prothorax with curved
sides and transverse sulcus, finely punctate, yellowish brown. Scu-
tellum dark brown. Elytra with dense, moderately coarse, semi-
striate punctures, feebly costate along the side, pale yellow with a
