292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
wide dark brown basal fascia extending along the side, and enclosing
a round pale median spot, suture narrowly dark and below the middle
another narrower irregular fascia extending along the side and down
the suture and almost connecting with the basal fascia along the
side. Body beneath and femora pale yellow brown; breast, tibiae
and tarsi dark; front tibiae and first tarsal joint in the male thick-
ened, middle and hind tibiae with spine. Length 6.5 mm.; width
3.2 mm.
Type, male, BMNH, from Guatemala.
Kemarks: The two cliief characteristics of this species differentiating
it from others are the coarse, dense elytral punctation and the
dark brown color pattern on the elytra. The face is shorter than that
of N. hondurensis Jacoby.
Neohrotlca modesta Jacoby
Figure 35
Neobrotica modesta Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Americana,
Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 579, 1887.
Between 5 and 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, faintly shin-
ing, alutaceous, the elytra with feeble costae, occiput of head, tibiae
and tarsi piceous, breast a little deeper brown, rest pale yellow brown.
Head with interocular space half width of head, occiput shining,
piceous, finely punctate, a median depression over frontal tubercles,
lower front with a narrow carina, entirely dark. Antennae with the
basal two and apical three joints pale, rest deep brown. Pro thorax
not twice as wide as long with slightly curved sides, shining, very
finely punctate^ the transverse depression most marked at the ends,
very shallow in the middle. Scutellum a little deeper yellow than
elytra. Elytra faintly alutaceous, not very shiny, with three or four
feeble costae, distinctly but not densely punctate, the punctures
tending to be striate, entirely pale. In one specimen in the British
Museum the elytra with a dark humeral spot. Body beneath pale,
the breast a little darker brown and deep brown in one specimen,
femora pale, tibiae and tarsi dark brown, almost piceous. Length
5-6.5 mm.; width 3-3.4 mm.
Type, female, MCZ; one para type, female, BMNH; both from
Tuxtla, Mexico, collected by Salle. There is another specimen in
the British Museum, determined by Jacoby, from "Mexico."
Remarks: This species has much the same coloration as N. in-
constans Jacoby from Venezuela, but the elytral bare lines found in
inconstans are not so marked. In the Mexican female specimen
(without definite locality), the head has pale frontal tubercles and a
pale lower front and there is a dark humeral spot on the elytra.
