NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA BLAKE 295
elytra coarsely, striately and contiguously punctate, pale yellow brown,
the elytra each with seven small spots.
Head with the interocular space more than half the width of head,
vertex coarsely and densely punctate, a short carina down the front,
cheeks coarsely and densely punctate, all pale yellow except the
brownish mouthparts. Antennae brownish, sometimes the three basal
and three terminal joints paler. Prothorax with rounded sides and
transversely sulcate, pale, finely punctate. Scutellum pale. Elytra
each with seven dark spots, the punctation coarse, contiguous and
striate. Body beneath pale with the tibiae and tarsi dark. Length
6.6-7 mm.; width 3.4-3.5 mm.
Type, male, Bowditch collection, MCZ 30674, from Matamoras,
Mexico, collected in May; two paratypes, Fenyes collection, CAS,
bearing similar labels of Matamoras and May; one paratype, USNM
without locality label.
Remarks : The three specimens from Matamoras, Mexico, are larger
than the Arizona N. pluristicta Fall and are more coarsely punctate,
the punctures being contiguous. The elytral spotting is also a little
different. Whether this eastern form is really a species distinct from
the Arizona pluristicta and the central Mexican sexmaculata is uncer-
tain, but the elytral sculpture appears different from either the other
two.
Neobrotica tampicensis, new species
Figure 29
About 5.5 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, the elytra distinctly
and yet not coarsely punctate, feebly costate in the middle, yellow
brown, the antennae except the four basal joints, reddish brown, each
elytron with a dark humeral spot, a spot at suture by the scutellum,
two spots, one lateral the other median, before the middle, and two
after the middle; legs with tibiae and tarsi dark, breast shining piceous.
Head with interocular space more than half width of head; pale
reddish brown over occiput, front paler yellow; tubercles well marked,
a carina down lower front. Antennae with the four basal joints pale
yellow, the rest reddish brown. Prothorax with a transverse sulcus,
shining, pale reddish brown. Scutellum pale. Elytra wider towards
apex, shining, feebly costate in the middle, distinctly but not coarsely
punctate, the punctures not dense and tending to be striate near base,
markings as above. Body beneath pale with the breast shining
piceous, tibiae and tarsi dark. Length 5.3 mm.; width 2.9 mm.
Type, female, USNM 66843, Tampico, Mexico, collected by E. A.
Schwarz.
Remarks: This is the most distinctively dift'erent one of the sexmacu-
lata group. The coloring is different in that the breast is piceous and
the elytral spots slightly differently located, especially the one near
