296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
the scutellum. The sculpture is unhke that of the rest, the elytra
being less costate and rather finely and sparsely punctate.
Neohrotica semicostata Jacoby
Figure 36
Neohrotica semicostata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Ameri-
cana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 574, 1887.
About 6.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, wider at the apical
end, dull, not shining, the elytra with many costae, the intervals being
coarsely geminate striate punctate, entirely pale.
Head with interocular space half its width, a depression above the
frontal tubercles, occiput finely punctate and alutaceous, lower front
coarsely punctate on each side of the carina, a little pubescent, the
tips of the mandibles piceous. Antennae entirely yellow brown with
the three apical joints pale yellow. Prothorax almost rectangular
with slightly curved sides, a deep sulcus across the middle, surface
alutaceous, finely punctate, pale. ScuteUum pale. Elytra widened
below the middle, irregularly costate, the intervals with deep coarse
geminate punctures. Body beneath pale, legs pale, the claws a
little deeper in color. Length 6.7 mm.; width 3.5 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Panistlahuaca, Mexico, collected by
Salle.
Remarks: This is clearly closely related to Neohrotica pluristicta
Fall and N. sexmaculata Jacoby, but unlike them is without any dark
marks or spotting. Only a single specimen is known to me.
Neohrotica pallescens Jacoby
Figure 34
Neohrotica pallescens Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologica Centrali-Ameri-
cana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 575, 1887.
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining although
faintly alutaceous, the elytra with niunerous fairly distinct costae,
with the intervals irregularly geminate striate punctate, pale yellow-
ish brown with a piceous head, deeper brown intermediate joints of
the antennae and brown tibiae and tarsi.
Head with interocular space half the width of head, a median
depression over the frontal tubercles, a narrow carina running down
the lower front, shining, impunctate, piceous except for the pale neck
underneath. Antennae with paler basal and apical joints, intermedi-
ate ones deep brown. Prothorax much wider than long with rounded
sides and a transverse sulcus, shining although feebly alutaceous and
very finely and indistinctly punctate, entirely pale. Scutellum tan
colored. Elytra with 8 or 9 more or less distinct costae, the interspaces
irregularly geminate striate punctate, shining, although faintly
