NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 297
alutaceous, entii-ely pale. Body beneath entirely pale, femora pale,
tibiae and tarsi deep brown, front, middle and hind tibiae with spine.
Length 5.5-7 mm.; width 2.6-3.8 mm.
Type, female; one paratype, female; both Bowditch collection
MCZ; two paratypes, females, BMNH; all from Rio Hondo, British
Honduras, collected by Blancaneau.
Remarks: This species differs from the entirely pale species
Neobrotica semicostata Jacoby, in having a dark head and darker
tibiae and tarsi. All specimens examined are females and present a
uniform appearance.
Neobrotica inconspicua Jacoby
Figure 40
Neobrotica inconspicua Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, Coleoptera, vol. G, pt. 1, p. 576, 1887.
About 7K mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, the elytra wider
behind, faintly costate and rather densely and finely punctate,
entirely pale above except for the reddish brown scutellum; the an-
tennae, breast, tibiae and tarsi also reddish brown.
Head with the interocular space half width of head, frontal tubercles
not prominent, a depression above with dense fine punctures in it,
occiput sparsely and finely punctate, carina short and broad. An-
tennae with only five basal joints remaining, the first joint pale, the
rest reddish brown. Prothorax with rounded sides and a transverse
sulcus, pale, impunctate. Scutellum reddish brown. Elytra widened
below the middle, very faintly costate, a well marked intrahumeral
sulcus, the punctures not coarse but dense and confused. Body
beneath pale, shiny, very lightly pubescent, breast pale reddish
brown; legs pale with the tibiae and tarsi pale reddish brown. Length
7.8 mm.; width 4.2 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Cerro de Plumas, Mexico, collected
by Hoge.
Remarks: Only one specimen, the type, is known of this large pale
species. As Jacoby wrote in his description, "the lower five joints of
the antennae are piceous, the rest broken off." It is not so costate
as A^. semicostata Jacoby, also from Mexico.
Neobrotica decimsignata, new species
Figure 38
Between 8 and 10 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, not shining,
alutaceous, the elytra densely and confusedly punctate, not at all
costate, pale yellow brown with the intermediate joints of the antennae
darker, the elytra with ten dark spots, sometimes the two near the
hmnerus confluent.
