298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Head with interocular space a little less than half width of head, a
median depression over the frontal tubercles, occiput alutaceous and
finely punctate about the depression over the tubercles, a poorly
defined and narrow carina down the lower front, lower front more
densely punctate, head pale with the mouthparts edged with brown.
Antennae long wdth the basal and apical joints pale, the intermediate
ones brownish. Prothorax considerably vnder than long wdth slightly
curved sides and a shallow transverse depression, another shallow
median depression anteriorly, surface alutaceous and finely punctate,
entirely pale. Scutellum pale. Elytra with no signs of costae, densely,
confusedly and rather coarsely punctate, pale yellow, each elytron
with a piceous spot on the humerus and a smaller spot below it on the
side, these two spots sometimes confluent, a large spot below the
scutellum near the suture, a fourth spot on the side at the apical curve
and a fifth spot near the sutm-e and slightly above the apical curve spot.
Body beneath and legs entu-ely pale, the middle and hind tibiae with
a spine. Length 8.5-9.7 mm.; width 4.5-5 mm.
Type, male, USNM 66848, from near Cot, Costa Rica, collected by
P. Knight, Sept. 22, 1937, on potato.
Other localities: Coronado, Costa Rica, 1400-1600m. Nevermann,
collector; Carpentera, Costa Rica, Feb. 2, 1936, collected by Sofia and
C. H. Ballon, on Anona.
Remarks: In coloration and sculpture this resembles the Peruvian
species, N. octosignata, but the Peruvian species lacks the small spot
on the side below the hmnerus; the antennae are not so long, and the
first tarsal joints of the middle and hind legs are shorter. In N.
decimsignata the antennae and the first tarsal joints of the middle legs
are longer than in any of the other large spotted species.
Neobrotica septemmaculata, new species
Figure 39
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, not at all shiny, dull
alutaceous, elytra with dense and rather shallow punctation, pro-
thorax with a transverse sulcus most pronounced in the rounded
depressions on each side; pale yellow brown, the head with a dark
occiput and mouthparts, the antennae with pale basal and apical
joints; the elytra with a small dark spot on the humerus and two in the
middle on each elytron, one before the middle and one after the middle;
front tibiae and fii-st tarsal joint in male enlarged, the tibiae and tarsi
more or less dark.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, eyes large,
frontal tubercles distinctly marked and a depression over them,
carina short and distinct, occiput down to frontal tubercles piceous,
lower front pale, mouthparts dark. Antennae not extending to the
