NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 299
middle of elytra, basal and terminal joints pale, intervening ones
darker. Prothorax with slightly cm-ved sides and a transverse sulcus
most marked at each end in the form of a rounded depression; surface
alutaceous, yellow brown. Scutellum reddish brown. Elytra wider
behind the middle with traces of costae and with a short intrahumeral
sulcus, not shiny, alutaceous, densely and shallowly punctate, pale
yellow brown, a small dark spot on the humerus, another small spot
before and one after the middle on each elytron. Body beneath pale,
except the dark shiny piceous breast, femora pale, front tibiae of the
male enlarged and first tarsal joint of the anterior legs in the male also
enlarged, the front tibiae with a dark outer streak, the other tibiae
and tarsi dark. Claws appendiculate, a spine at the end of the middle
and hind tibiae. Length 7 mm.; width 3.5 mm.
Type, male, Bowditch collection, MCZ 30671, bearing locality label
"Tex."
Remarks : This differs from the other large spotted species in having
a dark occiput and large eyes, with the interocular space less than half
the width of the head. It is possible that it differs from the others too
in the greater enlargement of the front tibiae and first tarsal joint in
the male, but since only one male is known of the other species this
cannot be certain.
Neobrotica pentaspilota, new species
FiGUBE 37
About 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, not very shiny, the
elytra dull and alutaceous, densely punctate, with faint traces of
costae, pale yellow, the intermediate joints of the antennae brownish,
scutellum piceous; four tiny brown spots on each elytron, two before
and two after the middle; tibiae and tarsi streaked with dark on the
outside, breast deeper orange yellow.
Head with interocular space about half width of head, a median
depression over frontal tubercles, occiput finely punctate, a narrow
carina down lower front, upper part of head a deeper yellow in color,
mouthparts edged with brown. Antennae with pale basal and apical
joints, the intermediate ones dark brown. Prothorax wider than long
with slightly rounded sides and a transverse sulcus, very finely punc-
tate, shiny, pale yellow. Scutellum piceous. Elytra with numerous
faint costae, irregularly and densely punctate, alutaceous, not shiny,
pale yellow with fom- tiny brown spots on each elytron, two before
and two after the middle. Body beneath pale with the breast deeper
orange brown. Femora pale, the front tibiae on outside and the
middle and hind tibiae more or less dark, all tibiae with spines.
Length 7.5 mm.; width 3.6 mm.
782-220 — 66 3
