300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Type, female, USNM 66849, taken on a Bromeliad at Laredo,
Texas (port of entry), January 19.
Remarks: The locality from which this species comes is unknown
as the single specimen was intercepted on entry into the United
States at Laredo, Texas, of a shipment from south of Texas. It
differs from the other large pale species with spots in that there is no
humeral spot and the scutellum, tibiae and tarsi are dark.
Neohrotica quinquepunctata (Jacoby)
Figure 41
Diabrotica quinquepunctata Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-
Americana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 557, 1887.
About 7.5 mm, in length, elongate oblong oval, alutaceous, only
feebly shining, the elytra with dense, shallow and rather coarse
punctm-es, often contiguous; traces of costae, paler yellow brown with
intermediate antennal joints a shade deeper and on the elytra ten
small piceous spots.
Head with interocular space half width of head, a median depression
above the clearly marked frontal tubercles, carina down front strong
and not very long, head entu-ely pale. Antennae with basal four and
apical three joints a little paler than intermediate ones, third antennal
joint about equal to fourth. Prothorax with a deep transverse sulcus,
sides rounded, surface feebly shining, a few punctures, pale yellow
brown. Scutellum piceous. Elytra a little wider apically, densely,
closely, and shallowly pmictate, punctures not at all striate, often
contiguous; faint traces of costae; pale yellow brown with a small dark
humeral spot, two small spots before the middle, one lateral, the other
median, and two spots after the middle in a line across, on each elytron.
Body beneath and legs entirely pale, anterior coxal cavities open, the
claws appendiculate although the inner tooth is longer and more
slender than usual. Length 7.5 mm,; width 3.6 mm.
Type, female; two paratypes; all in Bowditch collection, MCZ,
from Capetillo, Guatemala, collected by Champion, 1st Jacoby
collection.
Remarks: Jacoby wrote that the "claws (were) bifid, the inner
division rather short," but they are not bifid to the extent that is
found in Diabrotica; the inner tooth, although unusually long and
slender, is not nearly as long as the outer one. This clearly belongs to
the group of large pale spotted species, and in its spotted elytral
markings most resembles N. pentaspilota; but that species lacks the
dark humeral spot and has darkened tibiae and tarsi, N. septem-
maculata has a dark head and more closely set eyes.
