302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
20. Elytra pale, each with only a small humeral spot and a small spot before the
middle quadrimaculata, new species (p. 322)
Elytra pale, each with a humeral spot and a spot before and usually 2 after
the middle colombiensis, new species (p. 303)
21. Tibiae with dark outer streak erythrinae Bechyne (p. 318)
Tibiae entirely pale 22
22. Elytra with dark basal marking across base to suture and running down side
to apex, widening before and after the middle.
regularis, new species (p. 319)
Elytra with a dark humeral and sutural mark and spots at apex.
ruficollis, new species (p. 311)
23. Elytra with dark humeri, a short dark sutural vitta and 2 apical spots, but no
spots before the middle comma Bechyne (p. 310)
Elytra with spots and even a fascia before the middle 24
24. Legs with tibiae and tarsi dark poecila, new species (p. 305)
Legs pale 25
25. Median spot before the middle straight and horizontal.
praeclara (Weise) (p. 306)
Median spot before middle more or less curved 26
26. Large, 6-7.5 mm fiavipes, new species (p. 302)
Small, 5.5 mm germaini, new species (p. 317)
27. Larger, 6-7.5 mm fiavipes, new species (p. 302)
Smaller, 5.5 mm dimidiaticornis Jacoby (p. 305)
Neobrotica flavipes, new species
Figure 49
Neobrotica variabilis Jacoby, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, p. 286, 1889. [Not variabilis.]
Between 6 and 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, somewhat
shiny, finely alutaceous, the elytra distinctly punctate and feebly
costate, head usually dark but often with a pale front; antennae, pro-
notum, legs and undersurface except breast pale yellow; elytra pale
with dark humeri and a dark line about scutellum extending down
suture and often connecting in a loose cu-cle with a dark line from
humerus which curves down and across elytron; at the apex another
semilunate dark marking often broken into two spots.
Head with the interocular space a little less than half the width of
the head, frontal tubercles well marked and with a median depression
above, a narrow carina down lower front; occiput finely punctate,
usually dark to the antennal sockets with the lower face pale, but not
always so, the mouthparts dark. Antennae entirely pale. Prothorax
not twice as wide as long with slightly ciu-ved sides and a transverse
sulcus, finely alutaceous and finely punctate, entirely pale. Scutel-
lum pale or tan colored. Elytra with traces of costae along the sides,
feebly shining, finely alutaceous, punctation distinct and tending to be
geminate striate. In the Corozal specimen the piceous markings on
the elytra from the humerus do not connect along the side with a
transverse fascia, a piceous dark mark around the scutellum and down
