NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA BLAKE 305
Remarks: This species is readily distinguished from others of sim-
ilar markings by its dull, coarsely punctate elytra. In this respect
it resembles A^. pluristicta Fall, but the latter species is much more
definitely costate.
Neobrotica poecila, new species
Figure 45
About 5.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, alutaceous, not
very shiny, the elytra rather densely but not coarsely punctate, and
with faint costae, pale yellow brown; the occiput, intermediate joints
of the antennae, tibiae and tarsi, and the middle of the breast brown;
the elytra with small piceous spots on the humerus, about the scutel-
lum, two in a line down the middle and two along the side of each
elytron.
Head with the interocular space about half width of head, occiput
smooth except for the fine punctures about the median depression
above the frontal tubercles, carina thin and not greatly elevated,
occiput dark, lower front pale. Antennae pale with joints five to
eight piceous. Prothorax not much wider than long, with the usual
transverse sulcus well marked, sides slightly curved, alutaceous, pale
yellow. Scutellum brownish. Elytra with traces of three or four
costae, distinctly but not coarsely punctate, alutaceous, not shiny,
pale with a small piceous spot on humerus, another surrounding the
scutellum, two in a line down the middle and two along the side of
each elytron. Body beneath pale with the middle of the breast
brownish; femora pale, tibiae and tarsi mostly deeper brown. Length
5.5 mm.; width 2.8 mm.
Type, male, MCZ 30666, from "Brazil."
Remarks: The elytral pattern is similar to many species of Neo-
brotica from Central America. There is one specimen without local-
ity label in the U.S. National Museum, a gift from the Bowditch
collection.
Neobrotica dimidiaticornis Jacoby
Figures 56, 59
Neobrotica dimidiaticornis Jacoby, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, p. 285, 1889.
Between 5 and 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, feebly shining,
alutaceous, pale yellow brown with darker markings on the vertex,
the intermediate joints of the antennae and spots or short vittate
markings on the elytra, undersurface and legs entirely pale.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, frontal
tubercles swollen, a median depression above, occiput smooth, a
narrow carina down lower front; occiput more or less piceous and
mouthparts brownish. Antennae pale with the intermediate joints
usually darker, sometimes nearly piceous, or in one specimen only
