306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
faintly brown. Prothorax not so long as wide with nearly straight
sides and transverse sulcus across the pronotum, shining, finely punc-
tate, pale yellow brown. Scutellum brown or piceous. Elytra with
a small costa running down from humerus, sometimes traces of other
lateral costae; finely punctate and finely alutaceous, pale yellow brown
with variable pale reddish brown, sometimes piceous, each elytron
with markings consisting of a spot on the humerus, another on the
side below this and another on the side near the apex, two median
ones, one before and the other after the middle; these last spots often
absent in part or coalescing along the side, and forming short vittae.
Body beneath and legs entirely pale, a spine on middle and hind tibiae,
front tibiae of the male enlarged. Length 5.3-6.8 mm.; width
2.4-2.9 mm.
Type, male; one paratype; both in MCZ, from Caracas, Venezuela.
Remarks : In the Bowditch collection are four specimens, two from
Caracas, one from San Esteban, collected by E. Simon, and one with
no locality label. These are undoubtedly the specimens named by
Jacoby in his original description, as A^^. dimidiaticornis ; even the
markings correspond with the variety having "spots or streaks."
There are no specimens from Venezuela in the British Museum col-
lection, but there is a male from Colombia, which is labelled by
Jacoby as Diabrotica piceolimbata Baly ; however it does not correspond
with Baly's description of piceolimbata, and Jacoby 's label should be
disregarded. In the U.S. National Museum are other specimens of
this species from Caracas collected by A. J. C. Rojas, and specimens
from El Valle (near Caracas) collected by C.H. Ballou on Paponax
and Crescentia cujete. There is a great variation in the two series in
the elytral markings in that the spots frequently are elongated and
coalesce, forming short vittae along the side, in the middle, and
below the scutellum along the suture. The marldngs usually pale
reddish brown become piceous brown in some darker specimens. The
beetles differ from N. ebraea in having a dark piceous or brown occiput.
In the latter species there is only a middle dark spot on the vertex.
Neohrotica praeclara (Weise)
Figure 47
Cerotoma praeclara Weise, Zool. Jahrb., suppl. 16, pp. 15-16, 1929.
Neohrotica dimidiaticornis praeclara. — Bechyne, Ent. Arb. Mus. G. Frey, vol. 7,
no. 1, p. 316, 1956.
About 5.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, feebly shining,
alutaceous, the elytra strongly and densely punctate with a tendency
to being geminate striate between the feeble costae, pale yellow, the
