NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 307
breast darker, elytral spots with a faint metallic lustre: a spot on the
humerus, one about the scutellum, one on the side below the humerus,
and a horizontal one before the middle, and one on the side and
another in the middle near apex on each elytron.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, frontal
tubercles distinct and a median depression above them, occiput
smooth, alutaceous, minutely punctate, a narrow carina down the
front; entirely pale in some specimens, brown to piceous in others.
Antennae pale. Prothorax not twice as wide as long wdth slightly
rounded sides and a transverse sulcus, shining, very finely and in-
distinctly punctate, pale. Scutellum pale. Elytra alutaceous with
strong dense punctation tending to be geminate striate between the
feeble costae, pale yellow with dark markings usually with a vio-
laceous lustre and consisting of a dark humeral spot, sometimes
united across the base with a dark area about scutellum, the latter
extending down the suture a little way but not meeting the trans-
verse short fascia below; this fascia sometimes broken into a short
horizontal mark and a lateral spot, near the apex a median and
lateral spot, sometimes united in a semilunate mark. Body beneath
and legs pale, the breast deeper brown, the anterior tibiae in male
enlarged. Length 5.4-5.9 mm.; width 2.7-3 mm.
Type, whereabouts unlmown, from Trinidad.
Other localities: Montserrat, Trinidad, collected by Augustus
Busck, June 1903; Cocoa estate about six miles from LaBrea, Oct. 18,
1918, collected by H. Morrison; Dept. Agricultm-e grounds, Port-0-
Spain, November 1918, collected by H. Morrison; Tobago Island,
collected by A. Busck.
Remarks: In the Bowditch collection specimens of this species
have been placed under A^. coeruleolineata Jacoby, which is found in
Mexico and Guatemala and has similar elytral markings. In the
British Museum (Natural History) is a series of seven specimens,
all from Trinidad and very constant in markings, that is labelled by
Gahan with the manuscript name trinitatis. Bechyne has labelled
the one specimen in the Frey museum, also from Trinidad, as Neo-
brotica dimidaticornis praeclara Weise, a new combination for Cero-
toma praeclara Weise. Although I have not examined the type,
Weise's detailed description fits this species, and in particular his
description of the distinguishing mark in the elytral spotting of this
species, "the 2 and 3 spots he in a straight cross row", applies to this
species and not to dimidiaticornis. The species appears to be con-
fined to Trinidad and Tobago Island.
