308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Neobrotica oblongopunctata (Jacoby)
Figure 54
Diahrotica oblongopunctata Jacoby, Cist. Ent., vol. 3, no. 26, p. 46, 1882.
Diabrotica nigroguttata Baly, Journ. Linnaean Soc. Zool., vol. 19, p. 243, 1886.
Between 7 and 8 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, somewhat
shiny although alutaceous, the elytra densely and shallowly punctate
with faint lateral costae; pale yellow, the head with a spot on the
occiput, sometimes two other spots at the very base of the occiput;
elytra with three spots along the side of each elytron and three in the
middle.
Head with the interocular space about half width of head, frontal
tubercles a little swollen, a small median depression above them and
a narrow carina running down the lower front, occiput smoothly
rounded, sometimes with a few pimctm-es, pale yellow with a small
brown spot in the middle at base and when the head is protruded a
smaller spot visible on each side; mouthparts edged with brown.
Antennae pale with the basal and apical joints a shade lighter, tip
of terminal joint black. Prothorax about a thkd wider than long
with sides shghtly rounded and with a transverse depression, finely
punctate. Scutellum brown. Elytra faintly alutaceous, shining, with
fine, dense and semistriate punctation, pale, each elytron with elongate
brown spots, one on the humerus, a second along the side not con-
nected with the humeral spot, and a third at apical curve, in the middle
of each elytron one below the scutellum, a second before the middle,
and a thkd after the middle. Body beneath and legs entirely pale,
the breast a shade deeper in coloring, middle and hind tibiae with a
spine. Length 6.7-8 mm.; width 2.5-4 mm.
Type, in Bowditch collection, MCZ from Caracas, Venezuela;
probably several paratypes as some specimens beside the type are
labelled "Caracas".
Other localities: Juan Mina, Canal Zone, collected by R. S. Shannon,
Sept. 2, 1923, Pecora, Panama, collected Feb. 10, 1945, by H. H.
Stage; Para Graso Mindi Dany Farm, Mindi, Panama, collected by
H. F. Dietz; Trinidad, collected by F. W. Urich and A. Busck; Cocoa
Estate, about 6 miles from LaBrea, Trinidad, collected by H. Morrison,
Oct. 18, 1918; Caracas, Venezuela; Mompos, Nare (on the Magdalena
River), Colombia.
Remarks: In the Bowditch collection is a specimen from Caracas
bearing the label nigroguttata Baly and beneath that the label oblongo-
punctata Jacoby. It seems likely that this is the original Jacoby
specimen described by Jacoby from Caracas in 1882. Dr. Selman
writes that there are no specimens of Diabrotica oblongopunctata
Jacoby in the British Museum. There is on one specimen an old
Chevrolat green label with the name "Diabrotica oblongonotata Chev."
