NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 309
which Dr. Selman has compared with nigroguttata and concluded they
are synonymous. There is one labelled ''Diabrotica oblongoguUata
Chev." in the same series with the same sort of green label. In
addition to these confusing old names, the species has been confused
with Neobrotica ebraea (Fabricius) which it strongly resembles in
its markings. It is, however, a little larger, the eyes are not so closely
placed, the elytral punctation is more distinct, and there are traces
of costae and the aedeagus is different, too. On the occiput the spot
is smaller in A^. oblongopunctata and there are two smaller spots
visible when the head is protruded. On the elytra the humeral spot
does not coalesce with the lateral spot below it. It is also similar
in elytral markings to Diabivtica significata Gahan but lacks the
two vittate marks on the prothorax.
Neobrotica ebraea (Fabricius)
Figure 58
Crioceris ebraea Fabricius, Mant. Ins., vol. 1, p. 89, 1787; Ent. Syst., vol. 1, pt. 2,
p. 8, 1792; Syst. Eleuth., vol. 1, p. 459, 1801.
Cry-ptoce-phalus {Crioceris) ebraeus. — Gmelin, Systema naturae, ed. Linn., vol. l,pt.
4, p. 1721, 1790.
Galeruca hehraea. — Olivier, Entomologie, vol. 6, p. 656, 1808.
Neobrotica ebraea. — Weise, in Schenkling, Coleopterorum catalogus, pt. 78, p. 103,
1924.
Between 5 and 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shiny,
faintly alutaceous, the elytra very finely punctate; head pale with a
triangular dark spot in the middle of the occiput, dark mouthparts;
the thorax, legs and undersurface pale; elytra with an elongate piceous
marking extending from the humerus to below the middle, an elongate
spot near the middle of base of elytron and one before and one after
the middle and one laterally near the apical curve.
Head with the interocular space less than half width of head, frontal
tubercles swollen, a median depression above and a narrow carina
down the lower front, occiput smooth and shining, head pale except
for a triangular piceous spot in middle of base of occiput, and dark
mouthparts. Antennae entirely pale except tip. Prothorax wider
than long with nearly straight sides, a shallow transverse depression,
pale, shiny, nearly impunctate. Scutellum dark. Elytra shiny, faint-
ly alutaceous, very finely punctate, pale with markings as described
above. Body beneath and legs usually entirely pale, anterior coxal
cavities open, a spine on the middle and hind tibiae, the first tarsal
joint and anterior tibiae of the male swollen. Length 5-5.9 mm.;
width 2.5-3 mm.
Type, whereabouts not known, from Cayenne, French Guiana.
Other localities: Para, Bahia, Brazil; Rustenwerk, Surinam (Dutch
Guiana), on cacao, collected by D. C. Geyskes; Cayenne, French
