310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Guiana, collected by W. Schaiis; San Rafael, Trinidad, collected by
Adamson; Caucagua, Venezuela, on cacao, collected by Ed. Miranda;
Caracas, Venezuela.
Remarks: The distinguishing mark of this species is the elongated
spot extending from the humerus down the side of the elytron, which
is broken into two spots in N. oblongopunctata (Jacoby).
Neobrotica comma Bechyne
FiGUBE 50
Neobrotica comma Bechyne, Ent. Arb. Mus. G. Frey, vol. 7, no. 1, p. 316, 1956.
heohrotica comma ssp. additionalis. — Bechyne, Ent. Arb. Mus. G. Frey, vol. 7,
no. 1, p. 317, 1965.
From 6 to 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, somewhat shiny,
although alutaceous, the elytra very finely punctate and with traces
of costae, pale yellow brown, the head piceous to antennal sockets,
lower front pale, mouthparts dark; legs and antennae pale, breast
dark; elytra with dark humeri, a narrow dark area about scutellum
and dark a little way down the suture, on each elytron two subapical
dark spots, one on the side, one in the middle; front tibiae and first
tarsal joint of the male enlarged.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, occiput
alutaceous and very finely punctate, a median depression over the
frontal tubercles, carina only visible a short way down lower front,
the lower front pale, mouthparts and occiput dark. Antennae entirely
pale. Prothorax somewhat wider than long with slightly curved sides
and a transverse sulcus, shining, very finely punctate, pale yeUow
brown. Scutellum tan colored. Elytra finely alutaceous and dis-
tinctly and densely punctate, the punctation tending to be striate
and with traces of four or five costae on each elytron, more apparent
in the male; pale yellow with elongate piceous markings, sometimes
with a greenish lustre, over the humeri, about the scutellimi and down
the suture and two elongate dark spots near the apex, one on the side
and the other near the middle of each elytron. Body beneath pale
except the shiny piceous breast, legs entirely pale. Length 6-7.5 mm. ;
width 3-3.5 mm.
Tj^pe, female, in G. Frey Museum, from Coroica, BoHvia.
Other localities: Yimgas, tropical region, Chapare, 4000 m., Bolivia,
collected by Zischka and E. W. Reitter; Cochabamba, Bohvia, col-
lected by Germain; Huallaga, Tocache, Peru, collected by C. A. Baer;
Monson Valley, Tingo Alaria, Peru, October-December 1954, collected
by E. I, Schlinger and E. S. Ross; Valley Chanchamayo, Peru, 800 m.,
collected by Weyrauch, August 1951; Colombia, Rio Jimtes, Brazil.
Remarks: In Bechyne's subspecies of this genus, additionalis, de-
scribed from specimens from Callanga, Peru, there is another line in
