NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 311
the middle of the base of the elytra. This may not be the same
species, but since it is described from a female, one cannot determine
the exact status, Bechyne includes under this subspecies a specimen
from Puno, Peru, which is also a female with an extra line, and two
others, one from Sicuani, Peru, and the other from Tingo Maria, Peru,
both without the line and similar to the type of comma. I have ex-
amined a large series from Tingo Maria and all are without this addi-
tional line. In fact, the markings are remarkably constant. The
species seems to be widespread, occurring from Colombia to Bolivia
and eastward into Brazil.
Neohrotica ruficollis, new species
Figure 44
About 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining although
faintly alutaceous, the elytra densely but not coarsely punctate, not
costate, pale yellow with the occiput, mandibles, antennal joints six
to eight, and spots and vittate markings on the elytra piceous,
pro thorax reddish brown.
Head with the interocular space scarcely half the width of the
head, tubercles rather indistinctly marked, a median pit above them,
carina indistinct, the lower front rather bulging, occiput to antennal
sockets piceous, lower front pale yellow, labrum dark. Antennae
brownish deepening to nearly piceous in joints six to eight, the three
apical joints pale. Pro thorax almost as long as wide with slightly
curved sides, the usual transverse sulcus, very shiny, nearly impunc-
tate, deep reddish brown. ScuteUum dark brown. Elytra alutaceous
but shiny, wider after the middle, finely and moderately densely
punctate, not costate, pale yellow with a piceous spot on the humeri,
extending along side to the middle, also a dark sutural vitta from base
nearly to the middle, and two spots on each elytron below the middle,
near apex, one along the side, the smaller one in the middle. Body
beneath and legs pale with the breast dark, the sides of prosternum
reddish brown as on pronotum. Length 6 mm.; width 3 mm.
Type, male, USNM 66841, from Loma Alta, Bolivia, collected
by G. Pmckert, April 22, 1957.
Remarks: The markings are much like those of A^. comma Bechyne
but the prothorax is reddish brown, the antennae bicolored, and the
elytra not at all costate.
Neobrotica rendalli, new species
Figure 48
About 6 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, the elytra densely
and tending to be geminately striate punctate, with faint ridges or
costae between, pale yellowish, the head piceous on the occiput, the
