312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
mouthparts, intermediate antennal joints and elytral markings
piceous, a long vitta extending from the humerus along the side but
not covering the margin, a dark area about and below the scutellum,
and a very small median spot near the apex; body beneath and legs
pale except for the dark breast.
Head with the interocular space a little more than half width of
head, a median depression over the frontal tubercles, occiput shining,
very finely punctate, a narrow carina running down the lower front,
occiput of head to the antennal sockets and around the eyes piceous,
lower front pale, mouthparts dark. Antennae with the intermediate
joints dark. Prothorax not twice as wide as long with slightly ciu-ved
sides and a transverse sulcus, shining, finely punctate, entirely pale.
Scutellum pale. Elytra faintly costate with geminate striate puncta-
tion in the intervals, shining, pale yellow with piceous or deep brown
markings, a vitta extending from the humerus along the side to the
apical curve of irregular outline, suggesting the coalescence of three
spots, and a broad dark area about the scutellum and a little way
down the suture, also a small median spot near the apex of each elytron.
Body beneath and legs pale with the breast dark. Length 6.2 mm.;
width 3 mm.
Type, female, MCZ 30670, from Caparo Valley, Port-of-Spain,
Trinidad, collected by Dr. Kendall, January 1897.
Remarks: Only one specimen, a female, is known. The elytra are
a pale lemon color, possibly faded from a green. The unusual
irregular lateral vitta on the elytra is distinctive of this species.
Bowditch had attached the manuscript name Rendalli to it, after its
collector.
Neobrotica stalagma, new species
Figure 55
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining although
alutaceous, elytra feebly costate on sides and with punctures tending
to be striate, yellow brown, the occiput of head piceous, the antennae
with the intermediate jouats dark and the elytra with a sutural dark
vitta extending below the middle and a long dark humeral area
uniting with a short median vitta and a shorter apical vitta on each
elytron, breast dark, legs pale.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
frontal tubercles swollen and a median depression above, the carina
down the lower front not very distinct, but rather flat and punctate,
upper half of head piceous, lower front pale, mouthparts dark.
Antennae pale with brownish intermediate joints. Prothorax wider
than long with curved sides and a transverse depression, alutaceous,
very finely and indistinctly punctate, entirely pale yellow brown.
Scutellum tan colored. Elytra with feeble costae along the sides,
