NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 315
at the suture and each vnth. a median pale spot, a narrow pale yellow
fascia between them; body beneath reddish brown with deeper brown
to piceous shadings in the middle of the abdomen and breast, femora
deep brown to piceous.
Head with interocular space fully half width of head, smoothly
rounded over occiput, shining, finely punctate, a median depression
above the frontal tubercles, a narrow carina down lower front; upper
part of head tan colored, lower half pale yellow; mouthparts tipped
with brown. Antennae entirely pale. Prothorax much wider than
long but not twice as wide, and with curved sides, a shallow transverse
sulcus, in some specimens only an oblique depression on either side;
very indistinctly punctate, pale yellow sometimes with a faint brown
spot in the middle at base. Scutellum tan colored. Elytra pale with
a broad reddish brown basal and an apical fascia having pale median
spot on each elytron, the first fascia not reaching the base and the
apical one not reaching the apex, leaidng the margins and suture pale
and a narrow pale fascia between the tan colored ones below the middle.
Body beneath tan colored with darker, often piceous, shadings on the
side of the breast and middle of the abdomen and metasternum.
Femora deep brown or piceous and usually pale at the apex ; tibiae and
tarsi pale, middle and hind tibiae with spine, front coxal cavities open,
claws appendiculate. Length 5.7-7.2 mm.; width 3.1-3.6 mm.
Type, female; one paratype; both in G. Frey Museum, Tutzing,
near Munich, Germany, from Rio Huallaga, Tingo Maria, Peru.
Other localities: A large series of this species in the California
Academy of Sciences, was taken by E. I. Schlinger and E. S. Ross in
the Monzon Valley, Tingo Maria, Peru, Sept. 21, 1954, and another
series in the U.S. National Museum was also taken at Tingo Maria by
J. Dieguez in October 1949, on Erythrina.
Remarks: The unusual color pattern of this species easily dis-
tinguishes it from other species of Neobrotica.
Neobrotica rogaguaensis, new species
Figure 52
About 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, densely and
not coarsely punctate, the elytra with faint traces of costae; pale yellow
with pale reddish brown markings on the occiput, on the intermediate
joints of the antennae, tibiae and tarsi and the three broad elytral
fasciae interrupted at the suture, the apical one with an elongate pale
spot on each elytron.
Head with the interocular space half width of head, occiput although
alutaceous finely punctate about the median depression over the
frontal tubercles, carina very short ending in a depression between the
rather bulging sides of the lower front, occiput and labrum reddish
782-220—66 4
