316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
brown, lower front pale yellow. Antennae brownish, shading to deep
brown in the intermediate joints, terminal three joints pale yellow with
the tip dark. Prothorax somewhat rectangular but not twice as wide
as long with slightly rounded sides, the transverse sulcus well marked,
surface shiny, very finely punctate. Scutellum brown. Elytra aluta-
ceous, feebly shining, rather densely and distinctly punctate, faintly
costate; pale yellow with a basal, median and apical fascia with an
elongate pale spot, possibly in some specimens dividing this apical
fascia into two. Body beneath and femora pale, tibiae and tarsi more
or less brownish piceous, anterior coxal cavities open, the claws
appendiculate. Length 5.8 mm.; width 3 mm.
Type, male, USNM 66846, from Rosario, Lake Rogagua, Bolivia,
collected by W. M. Mann, Oct. 28-Nov. 9, 1921.
Remarks: The pale reddish brown markings and rather unusual
elytral pattern sufficiently differentiate this species. In coloring it is
closest to N. hepatica Bechyne, having similar reddish brown elytral
markings.
Neobrotica inconstans Jacoby
Figure 61
Neobrotica inconstans Jacoby, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, p. 285, 1889.
About 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, faintly alu-
taceous, head, breast, intermediate joints of antennae, tibiae and
tarsi piceous; base of head, thorax and rest of beetle pale yellowish
brown, except in one specimen, which has a dark spot on the humerus;
the elytra not at all costate but with bare fines instead, the inter-
vals being geminate striate.
Head with interocular space about half width of head, shining
piceous except at the base which is pale, a median depression above
the rather indistinctly marked frontal tubercles, carina down front
not distinguishable from the slightly swollen lower front. Antennae
with the three basal joints and three apical ones pale, intervening
ones piceous. Prothorax almost twice as broad as long with rounded
sides and transverse sulcus, finely punctate, shining, pale yellow brown.
Scutellum pale. Elytra widened in apical half, a short shallow intra-
humeral sulcus, punctation in double rows between bare fines, not
at aU costate, surface faintly alutaceous but shiny, pale yeUow brown;
one elytron paler near the suture than on the sides, the other uni-
formly yellow brown. Jacoby writes that one specimen has a humeral
dark spot. Body beneath pale with the breast piceous, femora pale,
tibiae and tarsi dark. Length 6 mm.
Type, whereabouts unknown; "variety," female, in MCZ, from
Tovar Colonia, Prov. Guzman, Blanco Mts., 1900 m., Venezuela,
coUected by E. Simon in 1888.
