NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 317
Remarks: Only one specimen of this species has been examined,
the "variety" of Jacoby's description, which is in the Museum of
Comparative Zoologj^ The species was described from a collection
of beetles by E. Simon, made in Venezuela in 1888, and it is possible
that the typical form was returned to the collector. It is not in
the British Museum (Natural History). In the typical form Jacoby
describes the elytral shoulders as having a "short narrow elongate
and angular black mark, the lower angle of which turns inwards
and a round piceous obscure spot below." He describes the variety
as being immaculate, the specimen as having the left elytron pale
green and the right one fulvous. In this specimen at present the
green has entu'ely disappeared, leaving the elytron mostly pale yellow
but not so deep in color as the right elytron, which is yeUow brown.
The distinctive thing about the species is the lack of costation and
the presence of bare longitudinal lines on the elytra with the intervals
geminate striate punctate.
Neobrotica germaini, new species
Figure 46
About 5.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, feebly shining and
somewhat alutaceous, the elytra distinctly and rather densely punc-
tate, pale reddish brown with a dark piceous occiput on head and dark
markings having a faint violaceous tint on the elytra, these consist-
ing of a sutural vitta not reaching the middle and a dark lateral
mark from the humerus down the side of the same length as the sutural
vitta, which curves at the end across the elytron but does not reach
the suture, and near the apex on each elytron a thick lunate mark
opening towards the suture; breast dark, rest of undersurface and
legs pale.
Head with interocular space approximately half width of head,
a small median depression over the frontal tubercles, a carina down
lower front which is reddish brown, the occiput being piceous. An-
tennae with third joint shorter than fourth, joints five to eight deeper
brown, apical two joints pale yellow with the tip dark. Prothorax
with rounded sides, shining, smooth, the transverse sulcus represented
by an oblique depression on each side, entirely reddish brown. Scu-
teUum piceous. Elytra faintly costate, distinctly and confusedly
punctate, reddish brown with dark markings having a faint violaceous
tint and as described above. Body beneath and legs reddish brown
except the breast which is shining piceous. Anterior coxal cavities
open, claws appendiculate. Length 5.5 mm.; width 2.5 mm.
Type, female, Bowditch collection, MCZ 30816, from Cochabamba,
BoUvia, collected by Germain.
