318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
Remarks: Bowditch has attached the manuscript name N. germari
to this distinctive little species, meaning, I believe, to name it after
its collector. The label reads simply "Germ.," but I believe that
instead of the German Germar who died in 1853, this abbreviation
is for Germain (1827-1913), the Chilean entomologist who collected
in the Andes and wrote many papers on the msects of Chile.
This species is more costate and more stongly punctate than N.
ruficollis, and the third joint is shorter than the fourth antennal joint,
which joints in ruHcollis are subequal.
Neobrotica erythrinae Bechyne
Figure 43
Neobrotica enjthrinae Bechyne, Ent. Arb. Mus. G. Frey, vol. 9, no. 2, p. 598, 1958.
Between 5 and 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, somewhat
shiny, although faintly alutaceous, the elytra densely and finely
punctate, pale yellow with the upper part of the head piceous black
and the breast black; the elytra varying from having heavy piceous
markings over the base, middle and apex to being pale with only
traces of these markings at the side, suture and apex; tibiae with
a dark streak.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
occiput smoothly rounded, alutaceous, very finely punctate, the
frontal tubercles not well marked but somewhat swollen and above
them a median depression; lower front with a very narrow carina,
upper part of the head and about the eyes piceous, lower front some-
times entirely pale but usually with a median darkening and dark
mouthparts. Antennae with the intermediate joints brownish, tip of
terminal joint dark. Pro thorax a little wider than long, with some-
what curved sides and a rather shallow transverse sulcus, often marked
only by an oblique depression on either side, shining, impunctate, pale
yellow. Scutellum piceous. Elytra very finely punctate, alutaceous,
pale yellow with variable dark piceous markings; in the more darkly
marked specimens on each elytron a large dark basal spot often
connecting along the side with a median dark fascia that does not
reach the suture, or this may be entirely lacking; at the apex another
broad band, sometimes broken up into a semicircular dark marking
near the apex, the suture dark about the scutellum, in the paler
specimens only remnants of these fasciae marked by spots on the
humerus, along the side, and at apex. Body beneath pale with the
breast dark, legs pale, the tibiae with a darker streak on the outside,
the abdomen dorsally somewhat darker. Length 6.5-7.5 mm.; width
2.5-3 mm.
Type and paratype in the George Frey Museum, Tutzing, near
Munich, from Tingo Maria, Rio Huallaga, 700 m., collected by
