NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — ^BLAKE 319
Weyrauch, July 1947, and by J. Diaguez at the same locality in
October 1949; both collections taken on Erythrina.
Remarks: In a large series of this species in the U.S. National
Museum the markings are very variable, scarcely any two specimens
being exactly alike. I cannot detect any sexual dimorphism in the
color pattern as suggested by Bechyne.
Neobrotica regularis, new species
Figure 42
About 5 mm. in length, narrowly oblong oval, faintly shining,
alutaceous, the elytra finely and densely punctate, pale yellow brown,
the head over the occiput down to the frontal tubercles piceous, the
elytra with piceous markings across the base and down the side at the
the middle united with a spot and sometimes before the apex united
with a large spot, the breast dark, legs and antennae pale.
Head with the interocular space less than half width of head, frontal
tubercles swollen, a median depression above them and a narrow
carina down the lower front ; occiput alutaceous, very finely punctate,
piceous with the lower front pale. Antennae entirely pale. Pro-
thorax a little wider than long with nearly straight sides and a trans-
verse sulcus across disc; surface faintly alutaceous and shining,
entirely pale. Scutellum tan colored. Elytra not at all costate with
a short intrahumeral sulcus, strongly alutaceous and densely and
finely punctate; on each elytron a broad piceous band across the base
extending about the scutellum and a little way down the suture, and
from the humerus down the side, uniting with another large spot
before the middle and sometimes with another before the apex, or
this may not be united. Body beneath pale mth the breast dark,
the legs entirely pale; middle and hind tibiae with spine. Length
5.3 mm.; width 2.8 mm.
Type, male, MCZ 30669; one paratype, BMNH; both from Vene-
zuela and labelled "Laferte collection Venezuela."
Remarks: Bowditch has given this the manuscript name A^. regu-
laris. It is closely related to N. erythrinae Bechyne from Tingo Maria,
Peru, but the elytral markings are slightly different and, unlike
N. erythrinae, it has pale legs and pale antennae.
Neobrotica bowditchi Bechyne
Figure 60
Neobrotica inconspicua Bowditch, Canadian Ent., vol. 44, p. 15, 1912, [Not
N. inconspicua Jacoby.]
Neobrotica bowditchi Bechyne, Ent. Arb. Mus. G. Fray, vol. 9, no. 2, p. 596, 1958.
From 6 to 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, not very shiny,
alutaceous, the elytra densely punctate, pale yellowish brown, one
