320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
specimen with a reddish brown humeral spot, and in the same speci-
men the head on top deep brown. Antennae pale yellowish brown.
Head with interocular space less than half width of head, occiput
alutaceous, finely punctate, the frontal tubercles a little swollen with a
median depression above and a narrow carina down lower front, in
one specimen the occiput brown, in the rest entirely pale. Antennae
moderately long, yellowish brown. Prothorax somewhat wider than
long with slightly curved sides and a transverse sulcus, surface aluta-
ceous, distinctly punctate. Scutellum pale. Elytra without signs of
costae, densely, shallowly and rather coarsely punctate, the punctures
tending to be in rows, surface dull alutaceous, pale yellowish brown,
in one specimen a reddish brown humeral spot. Body beneath pale
with the breast in some specimens a little deeper in shading, legs
entirely pale, front tibiae in the male enlarged, a spine on the middle
and hind tibiae. Length 6-7.3 mm.; width 3.4-4 mm.
Type, male; one para type; both in MCZ, from Callanga, Peru.
Other locahties. Five specimens in the Museum of Comparative
Zoology all females, from Cochabamba, Bolivia, collected by Germain;
one specimen in the U.S. National Museum, one specimen in the Frey
Museum from Peru.
Remarks: Jacoby has already described a Neobrotica inconspicua
from Mexico which is also an entirely pale species except for the
antennae, but with elytral costae.
Neobrotica octosignata, new species
Figure 64
Between 6 and 8.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, not very
shiny, alutaceous, elytra not at all costate, coarsely and confusedly
punctate, pale yellow brown; the elytra with reddish brown or piceous
spots, one on the humerus, one large one below the scutellum near the
suture, another near apex and suture, and one at the apical curve on the
side of each elytron.
Head with interocular space about half width of head, a median
depression over frontal tubercles, occiput alutaceous and finely
punctate, a rather poorly defined carma down the lower front, lower
front punctate on the sides, head entirely pale. Antennae pale with
the intermediate joints a little deeper in color. Prothorax wider than
long with slightly curved sides and a transverse sulcus ; alutaceous and
finely punctate, usually entirely pale but one specimen with a piceous
spot on each side anteriorly, no trace of this spotting in the other four
specimens. Scutellum pale. Elytra without costae, alutaceous, not
shining, densely and rather coarsely punctate, the punctures tending
to be striate; pale yellow brown with reddish brown to piceous spots,
one covering the humerus, another large one a little below the scutellum
