NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 321
and near the suture, a third in Une with the second near the apex, and
a fourth at the apical curve on the side on each elytron. Body beneath
and legs entirely pale, spines on all the tibiae. Length 6-8.5 mm.;
width 3.1-4.2 mm.
Type, female, MCZ 30672, from ^larcapata, Peru; one specimen
labelled "Peru," collected by AI. Kirsch, 1st Jacoby collection; five
specimens, BMNH, three labelled "Peru," collected by M. Kirsch,
and one without a label.
Remarks: The specimens in the British Museum have the name
^'Diabrotica 8-punctata Jacoby i.l." (in litt.) and those in the Bowditch
collection "Neobrotica 8-signata," also a manuscript name. This
species resembles one from Costa Rica but lacks the small spot below
the humerus found in that species and the antennae are shorter.
A specimen of this species was collected at Tingo Maria, Dept.
Huanuco, Peru, 670 m., by G. H. Dieke Aug. 16-25, 1951.
Neobrotica grandis, new species
Figure 66
Approximately 8 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, dull aluta-
ceous, not at all shmy, the elytra very faintly costate with dense, not
coarse punctation, pale yellow with darker mouthparts, the elytra
with a deep brown almost piceous spot on the humerus, another
before the middle and one after the middle and another at the apical
curve, a dark edging about the scutellum on each elytron.
Head with interocular space half its width, a depression over the
frontal tubercles and finely punctate about this depression, the occiput
alutaceous, a narrow carina down the lower front with coarse punctures
on either side, entirely pale except the brown mouthparts. Antennae
pale with a fit tie deeper coloring in the mtermediate joints. Pro thorax
a little wider than long with slightly curved sides and a transverse
sulcus, surface dull, alutaceous with fine punctures. Scutellum pale.
Elytra faintly costate with the intervals irregularly geminate
punctate, the punctures shallow and dense, surface dull, alutaceous,
not at all shiny, pale yeUow with small deep reddish brown spots, one
on the humerus, one before and one after the middle, and one on the
side at apical curve, the scutellum edged with dark. Body beneath
and legs entirely pale, spines on all the tibiae. Length 8 mm.;
width 3.7 mm.
Type, female, MCZ 30673, from Cauca, Colombia.
Remarks: The dull alutaceous surface together with the position of
the elytral spots separate N. grandis from the other large spotted
species. It is larger as well as paler than N. colombiensis, the under
surface being entirely pale, and there are traces of costae which are
