322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
lacking in colomhiensis and the dull alutaceous surface is unlike that
species. Bowditch has attached the manuscript name grandis to it.
Neobrotica quadrimaculata, new species
Figure 65
About 7 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, somewhat shiny,
alutaceous, elytra densely and strongly punctate, the prothorax with
a shallow transverse sulcus, pale yeUow brown, the occiput of head
piceous, breast dark, elytra with a small dark spot on the humerus
and another small one before the middle of each elytron.
Head with interocular space half width of head, frontal tubercles
swollen, a depression above, carina short, lost in the bulging lower
front, head piceous over occiput, from frontal tubercles down yellowish
brown. Antennae with the terminal joint missing, brownish with
joints 9 and 10 pale yeUow. Prothorax with sides slightly curved, a
very shallow transverse sulcus, shiny, nearly impunctate, yellowish
brown. ScuteUum tan colored. Elytra wider towards apex, dis-
tinctly punctate, alutaceous, faintly shiny, no signs of costae, markings
as above. Body beneath pale yellowish bro^^^l with the breast dark,
legs entirely pale; middle and hind tibiae with a spine, anterior coxal
cavities open, claws appendiculate. Length 7 mm.; width 3 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Mucutuy, La Veganilla, 5000 ft.,
E. Merida, Venezuela, collected by J. Hanbury Tracey, Oct. 21, 1938.
Kemarks: This is another of the large pale spotted species. It
differs from the others in having only four elytral spots with the occi-
put of the head dark.
Neobrotica ludicra Bechyne
Figure 67
Neobrotica ludicra Bechj^ne, Ent. Arb. Mus. G. Frey, vol. 9, no. 2, p. 599, 1958.
Approximately 8 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, the elytra
strongly and densely punctate, pale yellow with the head dark and
dark markings along the base of the elytra extending down the side
and down the suture about a quarter the length of the elytra, also a
large dark spot on each elytron on the side near the apex.
Head with the interocular space more than half the width of the
head, tubercles somewhat swollen with a shallow median depression
above, occiput smooth, finely punctate, carina very short and broad,
cheeks bulging. Antennae long and slender, the basal three and apical
three joints pale, intermediate ones deeper brown; third joint not
much longer than second and fourth joint nearly tliree times as long
as second. Prothorax considerably wider than long, with slightly
curved sides; the transverse sulcus not deep, very finely punctate,
