326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
being for the most part geminate striate punctate; explanate margin
noticeably wide, surface dull and alutaceous; pale yellowish or reddish
brown with dark brown or piceous markings, a broad lateral vitta
extending from over humerus along the side nearly to the apex, a
narrow sutural vitta which widens at apex, a roundish area on each
side of the scutellum, another median roundish area near the apex.
Body beneath entirely pale, legs with tibiae usually deeper brown on
outside edge; in the male the front tibiae and first tarsal joint enlarged.
Length 6.2-6.5 mm.; width 3 mm.
Type in Fabricius collection, Copenhagen, Denmark, "Habitat in
America meridional!, D. Smidt, Mus. D. Lund."
Other localities : Two specimens, John Wilcox collection, from Caura
River, Suapure, Venezuela, collected April 7, 1899, by E. A. EQages;
two females, Bowditch collection, MCZ, without labels; one female,
BMNH, from Surinam (Dutch Guiana).
Remarks: In markings this species closely resembles H. peruensis
but the elytra are more strongly costate and the head is pale instead
of being piceous.
Hystiopsis nigriventris, new species
Figure 79
About 7 mm. in length, oblong oval, faintly shining, alutaceous,
the elytra distinctly costate with geminate punctation in the intervals;
head, breast and abdomen, tibiae and tarsi, and part of femora dark;
prothorax and elytra pale yellow, the latter with a long humeral dark
vitta extending almost to the middle of the elytra, the area about the
scutellum also piceous, the suture widely piceous in the apical half
joining with a lateral dark vitta extending from below the middle to
the apex, leaving the margin pale.
Head with interocular space half width of head, occiput finely punc-
tate, alutaceous but shiny, frontal tubercles swollen and a median
depression above them, lower front depressed, a fine elevated line down
from between the antennal sockets; head entirely dark except the neck,
antennae dark with the last three joints pale, the tip being dark.
Prothorax considerably wider than long with nearly straight sides and
a transverse depression, alutaceous, finely punctate, entirely pale
yellow. Scutellum piceous. Elytra with 7 or 8 more or less distinct
costae, the intervals being geminate punctate, alutaceous but feebly
shining, pale yellow, a piceous marking extending from humerus along
side nearly to the middle, and another along side from below the middle
to apex and uniting there with a broad sutural vitta, the margin pale;
another piceous marking extending from about scutellum down the
