NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA BLAKE 327
suture nearly to the middle, the intervals between that and the apical
sutural dark area being very narrowly piceous. Body beneath with
the breast piceous and abdomen dark brown, femora dark above and
at apex, tibiae and tarsi dark. Length 6.8 mm.; width 3.5 mm.
Type, female, CAS, from the valley of the Rio Monzon, Tingo,
Maria, Peru, collected by E. I. Schlinger and E. S. Ross, Dec. 2, 1954.
Remarks : This is an unusually dark colored species, but very similar
to H. peruensis with slightly different markings.
Hystiopsis heniensis, new species
Figure 86
Between 5.5 and 7.5 mm. in length, oblong oval, somewhat shiny
although alutaceous, the elytra strongly costate with the intervals
geminate striate punctate; pale yellow brown, the head on top and
sometimes below shining piceous, the elytra with a piceous lateral
vitta extending part way down the side to below the middle, a short
sutural vitta not reaching the middle, a large spot at the apical curve
on each elytron and a short apical sutural vitta; breast piceous, legs pale.
Head with the interocular space about half its width, occiput
polished, finely punctate, frontal tubercles somewhat swollen with a
median depression above, lower front depressed; piceous, sometimes
the lower front pale or in part pale. Antennae deep brown to piceous
with the terminal three joints pale, tip of last joint dark. Pro thorax
a Uttle wider than long, with slightly curved sides and a transverse de-
pression, alutaceous and in places densely and finely punctate; pale
yellow brown. Scutellum tending to be pale, sometimes dark brown.
Each elytron with 7 or 8 costae, the intervals being geminate striate
punctate, pale yellow brown with a wide piceous lateral vitta extend-
ing not quite to middle, and another shorter sutural one near the apex,
and a large spot at apical curve. Body beneath pale with the breast
shining piceous, legs pale. Length 5.7-7.5 mm.; width 3.2-3.7 mm.
Type, female, MCZ 30680; two paratypes, one USNM, one MCZ;
all from Salinas, Beni River, collected by M. Stuart, July 1895.
There are also five specimens, all females, from Cochabamba, Bolivia,
collected by Germain; specimens from Siamas and Rurrenabaque,
Rio Beni, Bohvia collected by W. M. Mann, October 1922, from
Loma Alta, Bolivia, collected by Pinckert, May 21, 1957; Misiones
Province, Argentina, Monros' collection, USNM.
Remarks : Bowditch has attached the manuscript name heniensis to
this species. It is closely related to H. marginalis (Fabricius) and
others with the front of the face depressed and the elytra strongly
costate.
