328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Hystiopsis peruensis, new species
Figure 69
About 6.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining although
faintly alutaceous, the elytra distinctly costate with geminate striate
punctation in the intervals between; pale yellow with the head dark
brown to the pale mouthparts, elytra with a broad metallic blue vitta
running from the humerus down the side, a short sutural vitta below
the scutellum and a median elongate spot before the apex on each
elytron.
Head with interocular space about half width of head, occiput
polished, with a few fine punctures, frontal tubercles somewhat swollen
and a shallow median depression above; lower front somewhat de-
pressed, a faint trace of median carina from between the antennal
sockets; head dark brown except for pale yeUow mouthparts. Anten-
nae brown with the three terminal joints paler. Prothorax somewhat
wider than long with nearly straight sides and a transverse depression ;
surface shining although faintly alutaceous and with scattered punc-
tures; entirely pale yellow. Scutellum pale. Elytra with seven or
eight pronounced costae and in the intervals between these shallow
and rather coarse geminate striate punctation, pale yellow with a
broad metallic blue vitta covering the humerus and extending down
the side to apical curve; another short sutural vitta running down a
little way below the scutellum, and an elongate median spot near the
apex. Body beneath and legs entirely pale. Length 6.5 mm.; width
3.5 mm.
Type, female, Bowditch collection, MCZ 30681, from "Peru."
Remarks: Bowditch has attached the manuscript name peruensis
to this species. Only one specimen is known, but it is clearly closely
related to H. marginalis (Fabricius) and others with the lower front
of the face somewhat depressed and without distinct carina and with
costate elytra.
Hystiopsis terminalis, new species
Figure 71
About 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, moderately shiny
although alutaceous, the elytra strongly costate with the intervals
geminate striate punctate, pale yellowish brown, the head with a dark
occiput, the elytra with dark piceous vittae along the side and suture
not reaching the middle, and a wide dark apical fascia, breast dark;
head depressed in front in the male.
Head with the interocular space less than half width of head, eyes
prominent, occiput shining piceous, finely punctate, a median depres-
sion over the poorly marked frontal tubercles and the lower front
depressed with a ridge on either side below the antennal sockets,
