NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 329
carina only visible between the antenna! sockets, lower front pale
yellow. Antennae yellowish brown with joints five to eight a little
deeper in color. Pro thorax with slightly curved sides and a transverse
sulcus, yellowish brown. Scutellum bicolored. Elytra wider towards
the apex, strongly costate with the intervals geminate striate punctate,
pale yellowish brown with a wide piceous vitta from the humerus down
the side not reaching the middle, a common sutural vitta of about the
same length, and a wide dark apical band, the apex pale. Body
beneath and legs pale, the breast dark. Anterior tibiae and tarsi in
male much swollen, middle and hind tibiae with a spine. Length 6
mm., width 3 mm.
Type, male, BMNH, Baly collection, from the upper Amazon,
Remarks: The elytral markings are slightly different from any
other species of Hystiopsis.
Hystiopsis flavipes, new species
Figure 73
Between 6.5 and 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, somewhat
shiny although alutaceous, the elytra strongly costate with the inter-
vals between geminate striate punctate, pale yellow brown with a
piceous head and broad piceous fascia across base of elytra and two
large piceous spots at apex not quite meeting at the sutm'e, other
specimens less hea^aly marked; antennae with the intermediate
joints darker.
Head with the interocular space fully half as wide as head, frontal
tubercles not very well marked and a depression above; in the male
no sign of a carina, the area below the antennal sockets depressed; in
the female not quite so depressed with a fine line scarcely at all
elevated marking the usual carina, below the depression the lower
front a little bulging; occiput shiny and finely punctate, head shiny
piceous down to the paler mouthparts. Antennae with the basal three
and terminal four joints pale yellow brown, the middle joints deeper
brown. Prothorax considerably wider than long with nearly straight
sides and a transverse depression, strongly and moderately densely
punctate, entirely pale. Scutellimi pale. Elytra with seven or eight
costae on each elytron, the intervals being more or less geminate
striate punctate; sm"face faintly alutaceous, a broad piceous fascia in
basal half not reaching the middle; in one specimen with a narrow pale
median area near the base, and another fascia divided into two spots
by the sutm-e near the apex; in one specimen the basal fascia only a
humeral and sutural elongate spot. Body beneath pale with the
breast dark, legs pale, front tibiae and first tarsal joint of the male not
enlarged, a spine at the apex of tibiae, claws appendiculate. Length
6.5-7.6 mm.; width 3.3-3.9 mm.
