330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ns
Type, male, John A. Wilcox collection, from Caura River, Suapmi-e,
Venezuela, collected by E. A. Klages, March 20 and April 14, 1899;
paratype, female, USNM; one female specimen, MCZ, from Rio
Madeu-a, Brazil, collected by Mann and Baker.
Remarks: In the more heavily marked specimens this species
resembles Neobrotica coeruleofasciata Jacoby but that species is not so
strongly costate and has metallic colored spots and is somewhat
smaller. The head of N. coeruleofasciata has no such depression in
the lower front as in this species.
Hysttopsis manseif new species
Figure 83
About 6.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
strongly costate, the intervals geminate punctate; pale yellow brown,
the head piceous with paler mouthparts; the elytra with piceous or
dark blue spots on humerus, about scutellum and along side at apical
curve and another spot near the suture at apex, breast dark.
Head with interocular space about half width of head, occiput
smooth, shiny, finely punctate, frontal tubercles not very distinct,
but swollen, a median depression above, no carina down front, the
lower front depressed, the head piceous except for the light brownish
neck below and paler mouthparts. Antennae reddish brown with
the three terminal joints paler, tip of last joint dark. Pro thorax
considerably wider than long with nearly straight sides and a trans-
verse depression, a few fine punctures, otherwise smooth, shining,
pale. Scutellum pale. Each elytron with 7 distinct costae, the
intervals being geminate punctate; surface faintly alutaceous, shiny,
pale yellow brown with a piceous spot on humerus, a piceous marking
about scutellum, running down the sutiu"e a short way, an elongate
piceous spot at the apical curve and another near the suture at
apex of each elytron, these dark markings sometmies with a dark
blue or violaceous lustre. Body beneath pale with the breast dark,
legs pale. Length 6.5-7 mm.; width 3.5 mm.
Type, female, Bowditch collection, MCZ 30682, from Rio Manse,
Amazon, collected by Staudinger, 1st Jacoby collection; one paratype,
female, USNM, from same locality; fom* specimens, BMNH, two
from the Amazon region, one from Rio Pmus, collected Dec. 9, 1874,
and one from Barreiras das Araras, Amazon, collected by R. Solimoes,
Nov. 15, 1874; one specimen, John A. Wilcox collection, from Caura
River, Suapure, Venezuela, collected by E. A. Klages, April 1899,
Remarks: Bowditch has attached the manuscript name of mansei
to this species which is another of those with a depressed lower front
of the face and strongly costate elytra. It is closely related to
H. marginalis (Fabricius).
