NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 331
Hystiopsis bryanti, new species
Figure 72
About 6 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shining, the elytra
with many flat costae, the interstices being geminate striate punctate,
yellow brown with the occiput of the head piceous, a brown lateral
vitta interrupted before the apex on the elytra, and a brown area
about scutellum.
Head with the interocular space half width of head, frontal tubercles
swollen but not very definitely marked, a median depression above
them, carina a thin line down front, lower front depressed, punctate,
tan colored, the occiput and mouthparts piceous. Antennae brownish
with the three basal and three apical joints paler. Pro thorax almost
rectangular, the sides slightly curved, a shallow transverse sulcus,
shiny, impunctate, yellowish brown. Scutellum yellowish brown.
Elytra shining and with many low costae, the intervals being ir-
regularly and rather coarsely geminate-striately punctate, yellowish
brown with deeper brown lateral markings and a narrow brown area
surrounding the scutellum. Body beneath and legs pale, the breast
piceous, middle and hind tibiae with a spine. Length 6 mm.; width
3 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Trinidad, collected by G. E. Bryant,
March 1903.
Remarks: Only one specimen, a female, is known. The coloration
is unlike any of the other species. It is less strongly costate than
most of the group, but the costae are still apparent. It differs from
H. marginalis (Fabricius) in having a dark instead of pale occiput
and not so long antennae.
Hystiopsis mapirii, new species
Figure 85
About 5 mm. in length, oblong oval, somewhat shiny although
alutaceous, the elytra strongly costate; pale yellow, the head piceous
down to antennal sockets, elytra with a short reddish brown vitta
along the side below the humerus and a spot at the apical curve, suture
about scutellum and below faintly reddish brown and another faint
darkening near the apex, breast brown, tibiae and tarsi brownish.
Head with the interocular space approximately half width of head,
occiput finely punctate, frontal tubercles not clearly marked but
swoUen and with a median depression above ; lower front depressed and
without any trace of carina, the top of head down to antennal sockets
shining piceous, lower front pale yellow with the mouthparts tipped
with brown. Antennae pale, except the dark tip of the terminal joint.
Prothorax not twice as broad as long with somewhat curved sides and
a transverse depression; surface alutaceous, finely punctate and en-
782-220—66 5
