332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
tirely pale yellow. Scutellum tan colored. Elytra strongly costate with
the intervals geminate striate punctate; surface alutaceous, somewhat
shiny, pale yellow with a lateral brown stripe running down the side
but not reaching the middle, and a brownish spot at the apical curve
of each elytron, the suture brownish about and below the scutellum
and near apex. Body beneath pale with a brown breast and the
tibiae and tarsi and apex of hind femora brown. Length 4.7 mm.;
width 2.2 mm.
Type, female, Bowditch collection, MCZ 30683, from Mapiri River,
Guanay, Bolivia, 1500 ft., August 1895.
Remarks: This is the smallest as well as palest of the species with
the depressed lower front of the face. Bowditch has attached the
manuscript name mapirii to it.
Hystiopsis bella, new species
Figures 75, 77, 78
About 5.5 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, although finely
alutaceous, elytra strongly costate, antennae dark except the last
two or three joints, head dark over occiput, pale in lower front, thorax
and body beneath except the breast pale yellow, the femora pale with
a dark apex, tibiae and tarsi more or less dark, elytra with a pale margin
and dark piceous within, on each elytron a pale spot in the basal half
variable in size and a pale fascia, varying in width, below the middle.
Head with interocular space approximately half width of head, a
shallow median depression above the somewhat swoUen frontal
tubercles, the upper half of head deep piceous, alutaceous although
shiny with fine punctation, lower front depressed, without carina and
with two transverse ridges, one on either side, lower face pale, mouth-
parts tinged with brown. Antennae long, slender, dark brown except
the terminal joints which are pale, the last joint tipped with brown.
Prothorax nearly twice as wide as long with slightly curved sides and
a transverse depression, alutaceous, finely punctate, entirely pale
yellow. Scutellum tan colored. Elytra not very convex, each with 7
or 8 more or less distinct costae, the intervals having irregularly striate
punctation; surface alutaceous but shiny, deep piceous with a pale
margin and in the basal part a pale spot, sometimes enlarged to reach
the base, and a broad pale fascia below the middle that occasionally is
narrowed and sometimes does not reach the margin. Body beneath
pale with a brown breast, the femora pale with dark apices, hind tibiae
and tarsi more or less dark, in one specimen the legs entirely pale.
Length 5.5-5.7 mm. ; width 2.8-3 mm.
Type, male, USNM 66838; two paratypes, females, all from Loma
Alta, Bolivia, collected by G. Pinckert, March 21, 1957. Other speci-
