NEOBROTICA AXD RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 335
Eucerotoma; surface alutaceous and with scattered fine punctation;
pale yellow with a broad median piceous vitta extending the length
of pronotum and narrowed at the base. Scutellum dark. Each
elytron with 8 distinct costae and the intervals geminate striate
punctate ; black with faint purplish lustre, in the middle of each elytron
a large pale spot not reaching the suture or margin and another pale
area along the apical margin to the apical curve. Body beneath with
the abdomen and most of the breast dark, but the forepart of the breast
pale, the mesothorax dark in the middle. Legs with the femora pale
except for a dark streak on the apex, the tibiae and tarsi mostly
dark. Front tibiae of the male and the first tarsal joint enlarged.
Length 5-6 mm.
Type, male; one paratype, female; both in Zoologische Sammlung
des Bayerischen Staates, Munich, Germany, from Guayaramerin, 150
m., Beni Gebiet, Bolivia, collected by W. Forster, 1954.
Remarks : Bechyne has labelled this as a new species of Eucerotoma
and attached the specific name irritans to a specimen in the zoo-
logical collection at Munich. I have been unable to find that the
name has ever been published. It does not belong to the genus
Eucerotoma as it does not have the sexual characteristics shown in
that genus, consisting of the excavate face and enlarged third and
fourth antennal joints of the male. Neither do the elytral costae
resemble the much stronger costae of Eucerotoraa, and the sulcus
across the pronotum has none of the intagho-like carved impression
of that genus. It belongs rather with the gi"oup found mainly in
Peru and Bohvia with a depressed lower front of the head not dif-
fering in the sexes.
Hystiopsis maxima, new species
Figure 88
Approximately 9 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, shiny, the
elytra strongly costate with geminate striate punctation in the in-
tervals, pale yellow brown with a piceous head and the elytra ^^dth
a metallic blue green lateral vitta and a shorter sutural vitta.
Head with interocular space approximately half width of head,
occiput mth a median depression over the frontal tubercles, lower
front depressed and without a carina (no male examined) ; enthely
piceous. Antennae long, pale, with the intermediate joints a little
browner. Prothorax with slightly curved sides and a shallow trans-
verse sulcus, reddish brown. Scutellum reddish brown. Elytra
strongly costate w^th the intervals with geminate striate punctures,
pale yellow brown with a greenish or bluish lateral vitta extending
from the humerus to apical curve, and a shorter sutm-al dark vitta
extending a httle below the middle. Body beneath and legs pale,
