336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iia
breast piceous, a spine on all the tibiae. Length 9.2 mm,; width
4.4 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from New Grenada (Colombia).
Kemarks: Only the female is laiown, but the size and markings
differentiate it from related species. It is larger and more strongly
costate than H. bryanti from Trinidad.
Hystiopsis megala, new species
Figure 82
Between 8 and 9 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, somewhat
shiny, the elytra strongly costate and the front of the head depressed,
pale yellow brown with the head mostly piceous except about the
mouthparts, the elytra with a dark vitta down the suture and another
down the side, not reaching the middle, sometimes a median spot
and also a larger apical spot often with a similar one beside it on
each elytron, the breast tending to be dark.
Head with the interocular space less than half mdth of head,
occiput finely punctate, a depression above frontal tubercles, lower
front depressed, head piceous except about mouthparts, often only
the jaws pale and the labrum sometimes also pale. Antennae red-
dish brown (terminal joints missing). Prothorax somewhat rectang-
ular wdth shghtly cm'ved sides and often not a very conspicuous
transverse sulcus, yellowish or reddish bro\\m, finely punctate. Scu-
tellum pale. Elytra wider towards apex, strongly costate with the
intervals having geminate striate punctures, pale with dark markings,
sometimes with a metallic lustre, a vitta from base covering humerus
down the side and another from about the scutellum down the sutm-e,
neither reaching the middle, sometimes a median spot opposite the
end of these and near the apex a large median spot, sometimes broken
into two spots. Body beneath pale with the breast darker, often
only along the sides, legs entnely pale; a spine on middle and hind
tibiae. Length 8-9 mm.; width 4.2-4.4 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, Fry collection, from Ecuador, collected by
Buckley; another female labelled "Cuenca" [Ecuador], and a third
female, Baly collection, without any locality label.
Remarks: This is as large as H. maxima, but with a shghtly dif-
ferent elytral pattern,
Hystiopsis phaica, new species
Figure 87
About 7.5 mm. in length, elongate oblong oval, moderately shiny,
the elytra costate, the intervals geminate striate punctate, pale yel-
lowish brown with the head piceous and mouthparts somewhat paler,
antennae with the intermediate joints dark, the elytra having a dark
