NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 337
spot on the humerus, the apex dark with 2 round pale spots in the
middle, tibiae and tarsi dark.
Head with the interocular space half width of head, occiput shiny,
finely punctate, a depression over the frontal tubercles, lower front
depressed, without carina, piceous, except about the jaws. Antennae
pale with the intermediate joints deeper brown. Terminal joints
missing. Prothorax with a transverse sulcus, alutaceous, finely punc-
tate, pale 3^ellow. Scutellum pale. Elytra shrunken as specimen is
inmiature, but still with signs of costae discernible, and the punctures
in the intervals geminate striate, pale yellomsh brown with a small
spot on the humerus and at the apex a dark band with 2 median
round pale spots. Body beneath pale with the breast dark; tibiae
and tarsi more or less dark. Length 7.4 mm.; width 3.5 mm.
Type, female, BMNH, from Cuenca, Ecuador.
Remarks : The ely tral color pattern of this species is unUke that of
any other examined.
Hystiopsis grossa, new species
Figure 84
Between 8 and 10 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, although
faintly alutaceous, the elytra with 7 or 8 feeble costae and with rather
coarse geminate striate punctures in the intervals; pale yellow brown
with a piceous head and dark intermediate joints of the antennae,
the elytra dark with metallic green or purphsh lustre, the margin,
apex and four spots pale yellow brown, in one specimen the apical
two spots coalesce at the suture; breast, tibiae and tarsi dark.
Head with the interocular space approximately half the width of
the head, a median depression above the rather swollen but in-
distinctly marked frontal tubercles, occiput alutaceous and finely
punctate, the lower front smooth, shining black, with very little
evidence of a carina in the female (no males examined), and in some
specimens the lower front somewhat concave; antennae long, the
three basal and three terminal joints pale. Prothorax broad but not
twice as wide as long with shghtly curved sides and a rather shallow
transverse depression; surface shining although alutaceous, finely
punctate, entirely pale. Scutellum pale. Each elytron with 7 or
8 distinct costae, the intervals tending to be geminate-striate
punctate; surface alutaceous but somewhat shiny metallic green with
four large pale yellow spots, two on each elytron, the ones below the
middle in one specunen coalescing at the suture, apex widely pale and
the margin pale. Body beneath pale with the breast dark, femora
pale, tibiae and tarsi brownish, all tibiae with spines, anterior coxal
cavities open, claws appendiculate. Length 7.5-9.8 mm., width
4-5 mm.
