338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Type, female, MCZ 30684 ; two paratypes, females, (one USNM) ;
all from Cachabe [labelled "low c."]. Province Esmeraldas, Western
Ecuador, approximately 500 ft., collected by Rosenberg, December
1896; one female, BMNH, Baly collection, without locality label.
Remarks: The large size and the dark elytra with the pale spots
make this species easily recognized. Most of the species of this
genus have been collected in the Andes or from the eastern side of
the Andes, but this was taken in western Ecuador in the low country.
Hystiopsis exarata, new species
Figure 74
Between 4.5 and 7 mm. in length, oblong oval, faintly shining, the
elytra costate with the intervals geminate striate punctate, pale yellow
brown with piceous tibiae and tarsi ; the elytra often with metallic blue
or purplish markings on the humerus, below the scutellum along the
suture, a large spot on each elytron slightly below the middle and a
smaller spot at the apical curve, these markings often evanescent in
part or enlarged to form three fasciae across the elytra.
Head with the interocular space a little more than half the width of
the head, occiput alutaceous and finely punctate, the frontal tubercles
swollen, a median depression above, no carina down the lower front but
sometimes a median elevated line, the lower front depressed, entirely
pale yellowish brown. Antennae brown with the three basal and three
terminal joints pale. Prothorax nearly twice as wide as long with
curved sides and a transverse sulcus, shining, impunctate, pale
yellow brown. Scutellum pale. Elytra costate, the intervals with
coarse geminate-striate punctm"es, finely alutaceous but somewhat
shiny, pale yellow brown with often pale metallic blue or purplish
markings consisting of a spot covering the humerus, a long spot on
each side of the scutellum and a little way down the suture, a large spot
nearly across the elytra but usually not joined at the suture in the
middle, and a lateral spot near the apex, the suture narrowly dark at
this point; these markings sometimes enlarged to form three fasciae
across the elytra, or again the spots in part evanescent. Body beneath
pale with the breast sometimes darker, femora pale, tibiae and tarsi
dark. All tibiae with a spine. Length 4.5-7 mm.; width 2-3.7 mm.
Type, female, MCZ 30685, from Brazil.
Remarks: This species is represented mostly by females, only one
male being examined, most are very old specimens. There is one
specimen, USNM, from Buenos Aires, ten specimens, BMNH, all
from Bahia and Rio de Janerio, Brazil, The most recent specimen
found was collected by G. E. Bryant at Corcovado, Rio de Janeiro,
May 8, 1912. The only male examined does not show any head or
