NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 339
antennal differences from the female. On two old specimens of
the British Museum is the Dejean Catalogue name "Cerotoma exarata."
Eccoptopsis^ new genus
Elongate oblong oval, the head with the eyes widely set and the face
of the male more or less deeply excavated, often with spines, the third
and fourth antennal joints in the male usually swollen and always
excavated at the adjoining ends. Antennae in the female with the
third joint usually longer than the fourth, rarely equal, never shorter.
Prothorax with a more or less distinct transverse sulcus, sometimes
only marked by a depression on each side. Elytra usually with distinct
costae, but in some species only feeble traces of costae, the punctation
in the intervals being geminate striate. Anterior coxal cavities open,
the tibiae with a spine, the first tarsal joint of the middle and hind legs
long, claws appendiculate.
Type species: Neobrotica denticornis Jacoby.
Remarks: This genus has been erected for some species that have
been assigned to the genus Neobrotica but which are in reality inter-
mediate between that genus and Eucerotoma. They resemble both
Cerotoma and Eucerotoma in the development of the sexual charac-
teristics of the male in having the face excavated and the third and
fourth antennal joints cut out. In the female the third antennal joint
is usually longer than the fourth, rarely equal to it, and never shorter.
There is considerable variation in the extent of development of these
male characters. In some species, such as Neobrotica denticornis
Jacoby, the face and antennae resemble species of Cerotoma or
Eucerotoma. In two other species, one of them Neobrotica cavifrons
Jacoby, there is a different modification of the antennal joints as well
as differences in the face in the male. And in three South American
species, the third and fourth antennal joints are only slightly swollen,
but have the excavation at the adjoining ends, and the face is only
shallowly excavate but with spines.
This genus is distinguished from Cerotoma by having the anterior
coxal cavities open ; from Eucerotoma it is distinguished by having the
elytra usually considerably less costate and the prothorax with a
transverse sulcus, like that found in Neobrotica, not so deeply carved
as in Eucerotoma. It is distinguished from Neobrotica and Hystiopsis
by the development of the male characters in the antennae and face.
And it is distinguished from Eucerotoma, Neobrotica and Hystiopsis
by having the third antennal joint in the female longer than (rarely
equal to) the fourth joint, never shorter as is the case in Eucerotoma,
Neobrotica and Hystiopsis.
The name Eccoptopsis is derived from the Greek eKKoirru, meaning
"cut out" and'o^ts, meaning "face."
