340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Key to Species of Eccopiopsis
1. Elytra entirely dark except the margin 2
Elytra not entirely dark 3
2. Elytra strongly costate, Brazil . . . cyanocosmesa, new species (p. 346)
Elytra only feebly costate, Argentina . argentinensis, new species (p. 347)
3. Elytra dark with four pale spots . . quadrimaculata, new species (p. 350)
Elytra not dark with four pale spots 4
4. Elytra with a basal and an apical fascia 5
Elytra not with a basal and an apical fascia 6
5. Prothorax twice as wide as long, Costa Rica . laticollis, new species (p. 342)
Prothorax not twice as wide as long, Peru . . clara, new species (p. 344)
6. Elytra distinctly and usually strongly costate 7
Elytra at most only feebly costate 9
7. Occiput of head piceous, Costa Rica . costaricensis, new species (p. 341)
Occiput of head pale 8
8. Prothorax approximately twice as wide as long, Bolivia.
boliviensis, new species (p. 343)
Prothorax not twice as wide as long. Central America.
denticornis (Jacoby) (p. 340)
9. Third and fourth antennal joints in male not noticeably enlarged and
inconspicuously excised at adjoining ends.
piceofasciata, new species (p. 345)
Third and fourth antennal joints in male much widened and much excised
at adjoining ends 10
10. Elytra pale with a lateral dark vitta from humerus to apical curve and a
short sutural vitta to the middle and on each elj^ron three spots in a row
between vittae mexicana, new species (p. 348)
Elytra mostly dark with a pale median vitta that turns horizontally to the
margin and at apex another pale curving ring enclosing a dark sutural
spot cavifrons (Jacoby) (p. 347)
Eccoptopsis denticornis (Jacoby)
Figure 91
Neobrotica denticornis Jacoby, in Godman and Salvin, Biologia Centrali-Amer-
icana, Coleoptera, vol. 6, pt. 1, p. 578, 1887.
About 6 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, the elytra strongly
costate, pale yellow with deep brownish or even piceous markings
across the elytra in the shape of a humeral spot, a spot common to
both elytra below the scutellum on the suture, a band across the middle
sometimes interrupted at the suture, and another before the apex,
sometimes lunate or sometimes abbreviated to a spot on each elytron.
Antennae in the male with the third and fourth joints deformed,
much swollen and excavated at adjoining ends, and the head with
the front excavated and having odd developments in the shape of
shelving and spines.
Head with the interocular space more than half width of head, the
frontal tubercles swollen and a median depression above them, lower
front in female slightly excavate and with no trace of a carina down
