NEOBROTICA AND RELATED GENERA — BLAKE 341
the front, in the male there is a similar lack of caiina, the front du-ectly
below the antennal sockets being scooped out and on either side a
projecting shelf curving downwards over a deeply excavated lower
front, on each side of which is a strongly curved long spine. Antennae
in the female with the thu"d joint longer than the fourth, in the male
with the third joint swollen and excavate at the apex, the fourth
joint excavated at the end joining the third and somewhat swollen,
similar to the development in species of Cerotoma, pale with the
intermediate joints brownish and the three terminal joints pale j^ellow.
Prothorax not twice as broad as long, somewhat rectangular, with
the sides slightly curved, almost straight in some specimens, and a
well developed transverse sulcus, shining, finely punctate. Scutellum
pale. Elytra shining, strongly costate, the intervals with coarse
geminate-striate punctation, pale j^ellow with reddish brown to
piceous markings, a humeral spot, a spot below scutellum common to
both elytra, a fascia that may be broken into spots across the middle
and another before the apex, the last frequently lunate in shape or
sometimes reduced to a spot. Body beneath entirely pale, the
femora pale, tibiae and tarsi brownish, all tibiae with a spine, claws
appendiculate, anterior coxal cavities open. Length 6-6.5 mm.;
width 3.3-3.5 mm.
Type, male, BMNH, from Chontales, Nicaragua, collected by Janson.
Other localities: Cubilguitz, Vera Pas, and Paso Antonio, Guate-
mala, 400 ft., collected by Champion. Punta Garda, British Hon-
duras, collected by Peck, Sept. 10-20, 1906. Trinidad River, Panama,
collected by A. Busck, May 6, 1911; Porto Bello, Panama, collected
by E. A. Schwartz, May 1, 1911, and by A. Busck, Feb. 18, 1912;
Cabima, Panama, collected by A. Busck, Maj 27, 1911. Ciricito,
Canal Zone, collected by R. E. Blackwelder, March 1930.
Eccoptopsis costaricensis, new species
Figure 89
About 8 mm. in length, oblong oval, somewhat shiny; in the male
the front of the head excavated and the third and fourth antennal
joints swollen and excavated at adjoining ends, the prothorax deeply
sulcate, the elytra with feeble costae and with shallow geminate-
striate punctation between the costae, pale yellow brown with the
head on top piceous, the elytra with reddish brown markings.
Head with interocular space approximatelj^ half width of head, a
deep median depression above the frontal tubercles, occiput piceous,
this deep color decreasing in lower front so that the mouthparts are
yellowish brown; under each antennal socket in the male a broadly
rounded shelf with long hairs, beneath which the lower front is deeply
excavated, and on each side a long curved spine. Antennae in the
