342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
male with a very long basal joint, a short compressed second joint,
the third joint swollen and excavated near the apex, the fourth joint
swollen and excavated in the basal portion, remaining joints long and
slender (the last three missing), pale yellow brown with the first
three on the outside touched with deep piceous. In the female the
third joint is approximately equal to the fourth. Prothorax nearly
twice as wide as long with slightly rounded sides and a deep transverse
sulcus, entu*ely yellowish brown, nearly impunctate. Scutellum
pale. Elytra wider in apical half, rather depressed with a short
intrahumeral sulcus and feeble costae, the intervals being obsoletely
geminate-striate punctate; pale yellow brown with reddish brown
markings on the humerus, about scutellum and a little way down the
suture, a broad fascia before the middle not extending to the suture
and a rounded half circle of two spots before the apex on each elytron.
Body beneath yellow brown with the breast deep reddish brown,
legs entirely pale; first tarsal joint in all legs unusually long, anterior
coxal cavities open, claws appendiculate. Length 8 mm. ; width 4 mm.
Type, male, USNM 66855, from Piedra Negra, Costa Rica,
collected bj^ vSchild and Burgdorf; paratype, female, from same col-
lection.
Remarks: The second specimen, a female, has a slightly different
coloration, the entire head being yellow brown, the markings on the
elytra are more indistinct, but of the same pattern, and the underside
is entirely pale. A third specimen, also a female, from Waldeck,
Costa Rica, collected by C. H. Ballon, has also a pale head and under-
surface, but more distinct reddish-brown elytra! markings of similar
pattern. Still another male, from Lolola, Costa Rica, collected
June 22, 1957, on cacao by M. J. Stelzer, is of similar coloring. In
all of these specimens the elytral sculpture is like that of the type,
and in this respect differs from denticornis in which the costae are
very distinct and the punctation deep and coarse. The third antennal
joint in the female is about equal to the fourth, whereas in denti-
cornis it is a little longer in most specimens.
Eccoptopsis laticollis, new species
Figure 92
From 5 to 6 mm. in length, oblong oval, shining, the face in the
male excavate and antennal joints three and four swollen and ex-
cavated at the adjoining ends, prothorax with a scooped-out de-
pression in the lower half and the elytra strongly costate, pale yeUow;
the occiput of the head piceous, a broad dark blue basal elytral
fascia and another before the apex, the former sometimes enclosing
a pale spot; legs, undersurface and antennae pale.
