374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
In this paper an attempt is made to elucidate many of these enig-
matic species. On occasion the result has been the synonymy with
some well-known, adequately figm*ed species, while in other cases it
has been necessary to prepare figures for a species not well illustrated
by present-day standards. In the genus Dicosmoecus, and to a lesser
degree in Leytocella and Brachycentras, it has been necessary to do a
more complete study of all the related species. No attempt is made
to give descriptions or complete bibliographies of any of the species.
The original description is cited and a subsequent reference is added
to an adequate figure whenever one exists, and in a few cases some
salient characters are pointed out.
I wish to thank Dr. P. J. Darlington, Jr., and Dr. H. E. Evans for
theu' help during my visits.
Family Psychomyiidae
Phylocentropus carolinus Carpenter
Figures la,b
Phylocentropus carolinus Carpenter, 1933, p. 43, fig. 9.
The original figiu-es of this species were prepared from an unrelaxed
specimen. The figures here presented were prepared from the
cleared, relaxed type.
Family Hydropsycliidae
Diplectrona californica Banks
Figures ld,e
Diplectrona californica Banks, 1914, p. 253, fig. 63.
Diplectrona margarita Denning, 1965, pp. 83-84, figs. 14-15. [New synonymy.]
Because the genitalia of this species have not been well illustrated,
figm-es are given of the unique male type.
Denning recently described D. margarita from San Bernardino
County, Calif. His figures of the genitalia of margarita leave no
doubt that it is the same as californica.
Aphropsyche doringa (Milne), new combination
Diplectrona doringa Milne, 1936, p. 68.
Aphropsyche aprilis Ross, 1941, p. 79, fig. 60. [New synonymy.]
The male holotype of doringa is present in the collection in the
Museum of Comparative Zoology rather than lost, as stated by Ross
(1944). The type is identical to Ross's figures of aprilis and to a male
in my collection from North Carolina.
