376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vul. lis
material studied, each is somewhat (or sometimes highly) variable,
and intergrades may be found in the future.
Dicosmoecus atripes (Hagen)
Figures 2a-/
Platyphylax atripes Hagen, 1875, p. 600.
Dicosmoecus jucundus Banks, 1943, p. 358, figs. 102, 108, 118. [New synonymy.]
Dicosmoecus nigrescens Banks, 1943, p. 359, figs. 88, 90, 93, 96. [New synonymy.]
This species appears to be the most variable in the genus, especially
in the armature of the lateral sheaths of the aedeagus. There is a
great variation in the number of spines present and in their arrange-
ment. In general the species may be said to possess sheaths that
are round or slightly depressed, generally bearing on the outer side
(but sometimes on the inner also) a variable number of rather long,
slender spines. The upper end of the basal ridge of the clasper is
barely separated from the ridge and not developed into a sharp
spine. Figures are given of the lateral penis sheaths of the holotypes
of atripes, jucundus, and nigrescens, as well as 3 other specimens,
to show the degree of variability encountered in this species.
The types of all three species as well as other males from Colorado,
Utah, New Mexico, California, Montana, Wyoming, and Idaho
were studied.
Dicosmoecus gilvipes (Hagen)
Figures 2g,h
Platyphylax gilvipes Ilagen, 1875, p. 601.
This is a large species often with the veins strongly marked with
fuscous. The lateral sheaths of the aedeagus are quite constant and
distinctive in structure. The sheaths are compressed and bear on
their upper and lower margins a row of rather short, broad spines
which vary greatly in number and exact placement. The basal ridge
of the clasper bears a distinct sharp tooth at its upper end.
All the males Banks determined as D. grandis Ulmer are this species.
However, because the type of grandis is female and not in this country,
I am not synonymyzing grandis at this time. In addition to the type
of gilvipes, males from California, British Columbia, Nevada, Oregon,
and Idaho were seen.
Dicosmoecus pallicornis Banks
Figure 2i
Dicosmoecus pallicornis Banks, 1943, pp. 359-60, figs. 82, 83, 86, 87.
In coloration this species is paler than the others, and the wings
are much more pilose. The lateral sheaths of the aedeagus are
distinctive, being short, blunt, and tipped by a cluster of short setae.
This species is known only from California.
