NEARCTIC TRICHOPTERA — FLIXT 385
Part of the syiitypic scries of intervena is at the U.S. National
Museum, where the type was stated to be placed, and part at the
Museum of Comparative Zoology. I am designating here as lectotype
a male in the collection of the U.S. National Museum, bearing the
following labels: "Zavalla Co., Nueces Riv. rV.26.10 Tx/at light/
Hunter & Pratt Coll/Type No. 18273 U.S.N. M./Zep^ocgZk intervena
Bks. Type [in Banks' writing]/Lectotype Leptocella intervena Bks.
Designated Flint 1965."
The only difference between the lectotype of intervena and a male
paratype of diarina at the Museum of Comparative Zoology is in the
darkness of the V-marks along the posterior margin of the forewing.
In diarina they are nearly black, in intervena mostly brown, a difference
I do not think to be of specific value, considering the lack of other
characters.
In all likelihood more material will show intervena to be a synonym
of texana and possibly even of alhida.
Leptocella stigmatica Banks
Figure 4d
Leptocella stigmatica Banks, 1914, p. 262, fig. 48.
Leptocella stigmatica Ross, 1938b, pp. 22-23. [Lectotj^pe designated.]
This species is recognized easily by its nearly black coloration and
the large eyes and shape of the clasper in the male.
Family Brachycentridae
Genus Brachycentrus
The genus Brachycentrus in northeastern North America contains
at least six species easily recognized in the male sex. In certain
species the females are also distinctive, for example, B. nigrisoma
(Banks), B. lateralis (Say), and B. americanus (Banks). However,
there are three species, B. incanus Hagen, B. numerosus (Say), and
B. Juliginosus Walker, in which I am totally unable to differentiate
between the females. To compound this difficulty, the types of two
of these, incanus and fuliginosus, are unique females. Because,
then, I am unable to obtain conclusive evidence from the types as to
which name goes with which species, the names will be applied here
as they are recognized in the literature.
Brachycentrus incanus Hagen
Figures 4e,f
Brachycentrus incanus Hagen, 1861, p. 272.
Brachycentrus incanus. — Denning, 1941, pp. 202-203, fig. 8. [Male allotype
designated.]
Figures are here presented of the female type of this species.
