392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
this study will stimulate collectors to provide additional specimens
and biological data.
The author wishes to acknowledge with thanks the cooperation
and aid of the following persons who have allowed him to study the
types and specimens in their charge: Mr. J. D. Bradley of the British
Museum (Natural History) ; Dr. J. G. Franclemont of Cornell Univer-
sity; Dr. H. J. Hannermann of the Institut fiir Spezielle Zoologie and
Zoologisches Aluseum der Humbolt-Universitat zu Berlin; and Dr.
Fritz Kasy of the Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.
The author also wishes to thank Mr. Andre Pizzini for the genitalic
drawings and distribution maps included in this paper and Mr. Jack
Scott for the photographic work.
The work on this paper was aided in part by the National Science
Foundation on Grant GB-1800.
History: The genus Falculina was described by Zeller (1877) for
a new species, ochricostata, which he described from a single female
specimen. Meyrick (1916) redescribed the genus, added a new
species, lepidota, and gave a brief description of a male from French
Guiana believed by him to be that of ochricostata. One year later
Aleyrick (1917) described a new species, antitypa, and reported that
this new species was described from the French Guiana material he
had mistakenly identified as ochricostata. He also states that he is
"indebted to Mr. A. Busck for examples of the true ochricostata from
Panama, distinguishable from antitypa by the smaller size, partial
rosy tinge of forewings, and especially by having 7 and 8 of the fore-
wings stalked, as Zeller correctly states." Fifteen years later Meyrick
(1932) described F. caustopis from a single male specimen from Brazil.
Busck (1934) listed Falculina and the four described species in the
Stenomidae part of the Lepidopterorum Catalogus series. Clarke
(1955) selected lectotypes and illustrated the genitalia and w4ngs of
antitypa and lepidota in his study of the Meyrick types in the British
Museum (Natural History) .
Genus Falculina Zeller
Falculina Zeller, 1877, Hor. Soc. Ent. Rossica, vol. 13, p. 385.
Type species: Falculina ochricostata Zeller, by monotypy.
Head rough, lateral tufts spreading. Labial palpus moderately
long, recurved; second segment thickened with appressed scales;
apical segment acute, shorter than second. Forewing with costa
slightly arched, apex falcate, termen concave, tornus rounded, with
12 veins, 3 and 4 connate, 5 approximate to 3 and 4, 7 and 8 stalked
or separate, 7 to termen. Hindwing broader than forewing; with 8
veins, 3 and 4 connate, 5 closely approximate to 3 and 4, 6 and 7
