NEOTROPICAL MICROLEPIDOPTERA, VIII — DUCKWORTH 393
stalked. Abdomen of males with strong, eversible pair of hair pencils
contained in an elongate cuplike pocket on first sternum (fig. la).
jMale genitalia: Uncus simple or furcate, erect or strongly recurved;
gnathos with separate arms, with or without yokelike connection from
their bases; subscaphium present or absent; harpe sunple, furcate
setae present; anellus with four lateral lobes, ventral pair simple,
setiferous, dorsal pair larger, variously shaped; aedeagus with or
without long lateral process, entrance of ductus ejaculatorius lateral,
cornuti present or absent.
Female genitaha: Ostium bursae sclerotized; ductus bursae mem-
branous; inception of ductus seminalis near ostium; corpus bui"sae
membranous, with a heavily sclerotized, dumbbell-shaped, dentate
signum.
This genus is unique in that it is recognized easily by its wing shape
and maculation, a situation not common in the stenomids. No other
genus in the family has the falcate wing apex and curious wing macula-
tion which Meyrick (1916) referred to as "an aspect of reptilian
mimicry." As regards "reptilian municry, " I have not been able to
locate any prior or subsequent application of this term and must
simply presume that Meyrick detected a resemblance between the
maculation of the moths of this genus and the scaling of reptiles.
The genitalia provide a number of distinguishing characters for the
genus. In the males the lateral entrance of the ductus ejaculatorius
into the aedeagus plus the separate gnathal arms associated with
either a yokelike connection from their bases or a subscaphium on the
tuba analis. In the females the mception of the ductus seminalis just
before the ostium, membranous ductus bursae, and dumbbell-shaped
signum readily distinguish the genus.
Key to the Species of Falculina Based on the Genitalia
1. Male 2
Female 7
2. Subscaphium present 3
Subscaphium absent 4
3. Uncus truncate apically F. ochricostata Zeller
Uncus strongly furcate apically F. kasyi, new species
4. Ventral edge of harpe clothed with short, heavy setae 5
Ventral edge of harpe not clothed with short, heavy setae 6
5. Short, heavy setae extending to apex of harpe F. bella, new species
Short, heavy setae not extending beyond apical third of ventral margin.
F. lepidota Meyrick
6. Anellus with one dorsal lobe large, curved laterad, apex irregularly truncate.
F. antitypa Meyrick
Anellus with one dorsal lobe large, curved laterad, apex acute.
F. caustopis Meyrick
