394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
7. Lamella antevaginalis reniform F. lepidota Meyrick
Lamella antevaginalis not reniform 8
8. Posterior margin of lamella antevaginalis bi'oacUy notched.
F. kasyi, new species
Posterior margin of lamella antevaginalis narrowly cleft.
F. antitypa Meyrick
Falculina ochiicostata Zeller
Figures la-d, 4; Plate 1 (fig. 1)
Falculina ochricostata Zeller, 1877, Hor. Soc. Eiit. Rossica, vol. 13, p. 385, figs.
135a, b.
Alar expanse 22-28 mm.
Antenna whitish basally, brown beyond. Head whitish shaded
hiterally with orange; second segment of labial palpus orange on
outer side, white on inner side, apical segment white. Legs whitish
shaded with orange. Thorax brownish ochreous irregularly spotted
with fuscous. Forewing with veins 7 and 8 stalked; brownish ochreous
becoming whitish towards costa basally; costa orange; basal half of
wing more or less irregularly spotted with fuscous including two round
fuscous spots enclosed by a ring of ground color at basal third; a
line of indistinct fuscous dots from middle of costa to near termen
beneath apex then sharply angulated and sinuate to dorsum before
tornus; a terminal series of fuscous dots from apex to tornus. Cilia
brownish. Hindwing stramineous basally deepening to bright yellow
apically; cilia whitish.
Male genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D. 2632). Uncus erect,
truncate apically; gnathos two separate spiny arms; subscaphium
present, bearing small spines apically; harpe of approximately uni-
form width throughout, apical third recurved approximately 45°;
anellus with four lateral lobes, ventral pan* small, setiferous humps,
dorsal pair curved slightly laterad, bladelike in shape, apically acute;
aedeagus simple, vesica without cornuti.
Female genitalia : Unknown.
Type: In the Zoologisches Museum der Humboldt-Universitat zu
Berlin.
Type locality: Unknown.
Distribution: Panama: Trinidad River (June, Sept.); La Chorrera
(May). Costa Rica: Tuis [no date].
I have examined Zeller's type, a single female without abdomen,
and associated it with material from Central America collected by
Busck and identified by him as ochricostata. Zeller described ochri-
costata from material in the Staudinger Museum and, although
Zeller's type is without locality data, the fact that most of the species
described in the same paper were collected in Central America by
