NEOTROPICAL MICROLEPIDOPTERA, VIII — DUCKWORTH 395
H, Ribbe, who was at that time curator of the Staiidinger Museum,
lends considerable support to the association with Busck's material.
On the basis of external characters such as maculation, venation,
etc., ochricostata is inseparable from kasyi. However, the genitalia
afford abundant distinguishing characters of which the truncate
uncus in the males of ochricostata as compared to strongly furcate
uncus in kasyi is the most prominent. Since the only known female
of ochricostata, the type, is without abdomen no distinguishing charac-
ters for the females can at present be given.
Falculina kasyi, new species
Figures 2a, 36, 4; Plate 1 (fig. 2)
Alar expanse 26-28 mm.
Antenna, head, legs, thorax, forewing, and hindwing as in
ochricostata.
Male genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D. 2525, type). Uncus
erect, strongly furcate apically; gnathos two separate arms, recurved
and spatulate apically; subscaphium present, without apical spines;
harpe broad, basally narrowing near midpoint; anellus with four
lateral lobes, the ventral pair very slight setiferous elevations, the
dorsal pair broad basally, excavated sharply near apex forming
recurved, flat lobes; aedeagus simple, vesica without cornuti.
Female genitalia: See figures (slide A. Busck 1001, paratype).
Posterior margin of lamella antevaginalis broadly notched; ostium
bursae pouchlike; ductus bursae membranous.
Type: Moengo, Boven, Cottica R., Surinam. USNM 67227.
Distribution: Surinam: Moengo, Boven, Cottica R. (May);
Kwakoegron, Saramacca R. (June). French Guiana: Saint Jean,
Maroni R. [no date]. Brazil: Ponte Nova, Rio Xingu [no date].
Described from the male holotype. May 14, 1927, Moengo, Boven,
Cottica R., Surinam; two male paratypes (Wm. Schaus), Saint Jean,
Maroni, R., French Guiana, June 9, 1927, June 11, 1927, Kwakoegron,
Saramacca R., Surinam; and one female paratype (Dognin Coll.),
Ponte Nova, Rio Xingu, Amazonas.
This species is related very closely to ochricostata and characters
for separation of the males were given in the discussion of that species.
The broadly notched posterior margin of the lamella antevaginalis
in the female genitalia readily separates kasyi from the other known
females of Falculina.
I take great pleasure in naming this species in honor of Dr. Fritz
Kasy, distinguished lepidopterist at the Naturhistorisches Museum,
Vienna, Austria, who has been of invaluable aid in my study of the
family Stenomidae.
