396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ns
Falculina antitypa Meyrick
Figures 2b, 3a, 4; Plate 1 (fig. 3)
Falculina antitypa Meyrick, 1917, Exotic Microlepidoptera, vol. 2, p. 58.
Alar expanse 24-36 mm.
Antenna white basally, brown beyond. Head whitish ochreous,
shaded shghtly with ochreous laterally; second segment of labial
palpus grayish on outer side, white on inner side, apical segment
white. Legs whitish, slightly shaded with fuscous. Thorax as in
ochricostata. Forewing as in ochrico^tata except veins 7 and 8
separate. Hindwing as in ochricostata.
Male genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D. 2640). Uncus curved
approximately 90° ventrad at midpoint; gnathos consisting of two
separate, apically acute arms with yokelike ventral connection from
their bases; subscaphium absent; harpe narrow, slightly curved,
apically acute; anellus with four lateral lobes, the ventral pair short,
setiferous, the dorsal pair as3niimetrical, one apically acute, bladelike,
the other long, curved, trumpet-like, apex irregularly truncate;
aedeagus with a long, curved, lateral process, vesica clothed apically
with small spines.
Female genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D. 3063). Posterior mar-
gin of lamella antevaginalis naiTOwly cleft; ostium bursae with two
hea\dly sclerotized, pouchhke areas; ductus bursae long, membranous.
Type : In the British Museum (Natural History) .
Type locality: Rio Maroni, French Guiana.
Distribution: French Guiana: Rio Maroni [no date].
I have examined specimens from Meyrick's original series and the
photograph of the type specimen given in Clarke (1955). This
species is very distinct on the basis of characters of the genitalia.
The long trumpet-like anellar lobe in the male genitalia and the
narrowly cleft posterior margin of the lamella antevaginalis in the
female genitalia readily separates antitypa from the other species of
Falculina.
Falculina caustopis Meyrick
Figures 2c, 5; Plate 1 (fig. 4)
Falculina caustopis Meyrick, 1932, Exotic Microlepidoptera, vol. 4, p. 288.
Alar expanse 29 mm.
Antenna whitish, shaded with gray basally, fuscous beyond. Head
grayish white, shaded laterally with orange; second segment of labial
palpus orange, shaded with fuscous on outer side, white on inner side,
apical segment white, slightly shaded with fuscous at apex. Legs
whitish, foreleg heavily shaded with fuscous. Thorax brown, shaded
with fuscous. Forewing with veins 7 and 8 closely approximated at
base; brown with faint pinkish tinge; basal half of wing mottled with
