NEOTROPICAL MICROLEPIDOPTERA, VIII — DUCKWORTH 397
fuscous scales; costal edge fulvous; a faint fuscous subterminal line
from middle of costa to near termen beneath apex, then sharply
angulated and sinuate to dorsum before tornus; a terminal series of
fuscous dots. Cilia concolorus with ground color. Hindwing bright
yellow basally, apical fourth fuscous; cilia fuscous.
Male genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D. 3125, type). Uncus erect,
rounded apically; gnathos as in antitypa; subscaphium absent; harpe
narrow, slightly curved, bluntly pointed apically; anellus with four
lateral lobes, ventral pair simple, setiferous, dorsal pair asymmetrical,
one long, curved 90° laterad near apex, inner margin serrate at apical
third, apex acute, other shorter, slightly curved laterad, apically
acute; aedeagus with a thin, straight lateral process, vesica clothed
with tiny spines.
Female genitalia: Unknown.
Type: In the Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.
Type locality: Teffe, Amazonas, Brazil.
Distribution: Brazil: Teffe, Amazonas [no date].
Through the courtesy of Dr. Fritz Kasy, Naturhistorisches Museum,
Vienna, I have had the opportunity to study Meyrick's type specimen
which is the only known example of this species. The fuscous margin
on the hindwing and the large, hooked lateral process of the aedeagus
in the male genitalia readily distinguish caustopis.
Falculina lepidota Meyrick
Figures 2d, 3/, 5; Plate 1 (fig. 5)
Falculina lepidota Meyrick, 1916, Exotic Microlepidoptera, vol. 1, p. 482.
Alar expanse 28-36 mm.
Antenna whitish basally, brown beyond. Head whitish, shaded
laterally with yeUow; second segment of labial palpus whitish, shaded
with yellow ochreous on outer side, white on inner side, apical segment
white. Legs whitish ochreous, shaded with brown. Thorax as in
caustopis. Forewing with veins 7 and 8 separate; maculation as in
caustopis. Hindwing in female grayish basally, yellow apically; in
male fuscous tinged with yellow ochreous at apex; cilia whitish
ochreous in female, grayish ochreous in male.
Male genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D. 2641). Uncus short,
curved ventrad, apically acute; gnathos two separate truncate
arms with yokelike ventral connection from their bases; subscaphium
absent; harpe broad basally, ventral edge clothed in short, heavy
setae from basal third to apical third ; anellus with four lateral lobes,
ventral pair simple, setiferous, dorsal pair asymmetrical, one longer,
apically acute, bladelike, other shorter, twisted, apically rounded;
aedeagus with a long, recurved lateral process, vesica clothed with
tiny spines.
