398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Female genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D, 3064). Lamella
antevaginalis reniform; ostium bursae simple; ductus bursae long,
membranous.
Type : In the British Museum (Natural History) .
Type locality: Rio Maroni, French Guiana.
Distribution. French Guiana: Rio Maroni [no date].
This species is very closely related to hella new species; however,
the long, recurved, lateral aedeagal process and the short, heavy
setae on the ventral edge of the harpe not extending to the apex
readily separates the males. Since the female of hella, new species
is not known, it is at present impossible to compare the females.
However, the reniform lamella antevaginalis in the female genitalia
distinguishes lepidota from the other known females in the genus.
FalcuUna hella, new species
Figures 2e, 5; Plate 1 (fig. 6)
Alar expanse 28 mm.
Antenna whitish. Head whitish, slightly shaded laterally with
ochreous; second segment of labial palpus white, slightly shaded with
ochreous on outer side, white on inner side, apical segment white.
Legs whitish, foreleg shaded with brown. Thorax as in ochricostata.
Forewing with veins 7 and 8 separate; maculation as in ochricostata.
Hindwing as in ochricostata.
Male genitalia: See figures (slide W.D.D. 3060, type). Uncus
short, recurved, blunt apically; gnathos two separate apically acute
arms, dorsal margin at apex serrate, with yokelike ventral connection
from their bases; subscaphium absent; harpe broad basally, ventral
edge clothed in short, heavy setae from basal third to apex; anellus
with four lateral lobes, ventral pair simple, setiferous, dorsal pair
asymmetrical, one longer, apically acute, bladelike, the other short,
broad, flaplike; aedeagus with a long, curved lateral process, vesica
clothed with tiny spines.
Female genitaha: Unknown.
Type: Above Obidos, Amazon, Brazil. USNM 67228.
Distribution: Brazil: above Obidos (Sept.).
Described from the male holotype, Sept. 10, 1920, above Obidos,
Amazon, Brazil.
This species is related very closely to lepidota and a comparison
of distinguishing characters has been included in the discussion of
that species.
