REVISION OF GENUS FURNARICOLA — CARRIKER 407
Later Miss Clay published a paper in 1953 on "The Rallicola-
coraplex" (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, vol. 123, pt, 3, pp. 563-587), in
which it was maintained that Furnaricola, Epipectus Carriker, and
Corvicolu Carriker were synonyms of Rallicola. How^ever, Epipectus
is parasitic only on large woodpeckers (Phloeoceastes and Dnjocopus,
especially the former), and Corvicola is from a species of Corvidae
from Guam Island,
Her contention is based on the fact that the heads of all three
genera are of a similar type, that the male genitalia are similar in
all three, and that a pair of ventral spines is present on each side of
the distal segment of the abdomen in the females with a fringe of
short spines around the posterior margin of the last sternite.
The species of Rallicola, found on the family Rallidae, are a some-
what heterogenous lot, many of them with strongly dimorphic antennae
and other outstanding variations; they range in size from very minute
to quite large. Furnaricola has proven to be a very large, very
homogenous gi-oup in which there is never any sexual dimorphism in
the antennae; there are also certain differences between it and Rallicola
in the abdominal structure and chaetotaxy.
The numerous known species of Furnaricola are all of a similar
type, with variations in the shape of the head, size of body, and always
in the male genitalia, but the females are sometimes so closely related
that their separation, without the male, is often difficult. The only
certain manner that I have discovered for separation of the females
is by the chaetotaxy of the last abdominal segment.
I think that it would be most unwise to place this genus under the
synonomy of Rallicola, since it would utterly confuse any idea of the
relationships betw^een the Mallophaga and their hosts.
Key to Known Males of Furnaricola Based Largely on Genitalia
A. Paramera bifurcated on inner margin.
a. Bifurcations long and slender, extending backward almost to base.
b. Head large, with wider frons (.43X.39; frons .108) . . . heterocephala
bb. Head smaller, frons narrower (.40X.35; frons .078) . . . . laticephala
aa. Bifurcation much shorter.
b. Distal half of outer margin of paramera straight titicacae
bb. Distal half of paramera slender and curving inward.
c. Basal half of paramera wide, in contrast to slender, curving distal
portion (paramera: .05) punensis
cc. Basal portion narrower; paramera long (1.05), tapering gradually
from base to tip with a reverse curve myrmeciza
A A. Paramera not bifurcated on inner margin.
a. Distal portion of paramera straight on outer margin.
b. Endomera with a rounded median, and pointed lateral, projections on
basal margin.
c. Distal portion of paramera very short, with the straight inner margin,
terminating at tip of endomera parvigenitalis
