408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
cc. Distal portion of parameres as long as wide basal portion and with
inner margin sharply concave.
d. Basal plate shorter (.13) ; wide basal portion of paramera extending
considerably beyond tip of endomera . . . acutifrons acutifrons
(Id. Basal plate longer (.16); wide basal portion of paramera ending at
tip of endomera acutifrons subsimilis
bb. Endomera without prolongations on basal margins.
c. Basal margin of endomera concave.
d. Paramera long, tapering gradually from base to tip (.11).
e. Paramera straight on both sides; lateral carinae of basal plate
swollen basally and with base concave lachrymosa
ee. Paramera with distal half slightly concave on inner margin;
carinae of basal plate not swollen basally . . hirsuta picirostris
dd. Paramera shorter; basal portion wide; distal portion concave on
inner margin and tapering abruptly from tip of endomera to short,
slender tip hirsuta hirsuta
cc. Basal margin of endomera strongly convex; wide basal portion of
paramera extends far beyond tip of endomera, with slender tip short
and concave on inner margin cephalosa
aa. Distal portion of paramera slender and more or less incurved.
b. Wide basal portion of paramera twice the length of ^ort, slender curving
tip certhia colombiana
hb. Basal portion of paramera never twice the length of slender curving tip.
c. Basal plate much narrower at distal end than at base; wide basal
portion of paramera concave on outer margin and extending beyond
the tip of endomera certhia microgenitalia
cc. Basal plate wider at distal end than at base.
d. Basal plate expanded at distal end; paramera rather slender basally,
and with long, slender, slightly incurving tips longer than the wide
basal portion triangularis
dd. Basal plate not wider at distal end than at base.
e. Basal plate equal in length with paramera; sides straight.
longifrons
ee. Basal plate considerably longer than paramera; wide basal
portion of paramera about equal in length to slender, curving tips.
certhia certhia
aaa. Paramera more or less straight, but with undulating outer and inner margins
which are edged with blackish; endomera large, expanded laterally in me-
dian portion fuliginosa antioquensis
Key to Known Females of Fumaricola
(Length of head does not include hyaline tip of frons)
A. Head at least .05 mm. longer than wide at temples.
a. Head .075 mm. or more, longer than wide at temples.
b. Lateral spines on VIII long and slender; not more than 1 long and 3
short setae back of spines.
c. Pterothorax narrow (.30), with lateral margins but slightly divergent
and straight, or almost so (never strongly convex) ; head with lateral
margins straight from temples to frons; anterior plate extending
beyond tips of preantennary carinae.
d. Head: .466X.36 acutifrons acutifrons
dd. Head: .435X.35 parvigenitalis
