410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
aaa. Size very small, 1.40-1.55 in length.
b. Preantennary margin of head straight, or very faintly concave; spines on
VIII long, anterior one shorter; 1 long, 1 medium, and 1 short setae back
of spines heterocephala
})h. Preantennary margin of head convex; spines on VIII short, posterior one
the shorter; 1 long and 3 short setae, the latter set along posterior margin
of segment myrmeciza
AAA. Head either wider than long, length and width equal, or else not more than
.02 inm. longer than wide.
a. Head equal in length and breadth, or else wider than long.
b. Head with length and width at temples equal; anterior spine on VIII the
longer; 4 long and 3 short setae set on a crenulated ridge . . . triangularis
bb. Head wider than long; temples expanded laterally (male) . . . cephalosa
aa. Head not more than .02 mm. longer than wide at temples.
b. Head triangular in shape, sides straight.
c. Five short setae set on a crenulated ridge on VIII all point forward;
4 short and scattered and 1 longish, point backward . . . pipraphaga
cc. Spines on VIII short and equal; 4 short scattered setae and 1 medium
long on posterior margin of VIII (head: .50X.48) pyriglena
bb. Head triangular in shape but both preantennary margin and temples are
convex, with head considerably larger (.575 X .564) ; spines on VIII long and
slender; 4 very short and 1 very long setae, back of spines, all of which
point inward tergalis
Furnaricola tergalis, new species
Figures 1, la, 2
Holotype female, and allotype male adults, from Xvphocolaptes a.
albicollis (Vieillot), collected at Serra do Angrada, Edo. Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, by Dr. F. L. Werneck (Carriker type no. 786).
Diagnosis: One of the largest of the known species of the genus,
with a very large, triangular-shaped head, with rounded temples and
very wide frons, and with the hyaline tip unusually wide and circular.
Pleurites narrow and largely black; tergites reduced in width near
pleurites and widely separated by hyaline bands. Sternites short
(transversely) and also widely separated by hyaUne bands. Segment
VIII large, but lateral spines very short, and with 1 rather long and 3
very short setae posterior to them.
Male genitaUa large; basal plate constricted in median portion, and
with basal portion curiously complicated (see fig. 2) ; paramera rather
short, thickened basally, and with short, slender tips, slightly curving;
endomera large and of a type common to the genus. Represented by
the female holotype, male allotype, and 3 male and 2 female paratypes.
Three females taken on Xiphocolaptes promeropirhynchns sanctae-
martae, collected in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Colombia,
cannot be separated from the BraziUan females. Perhaps the male
genitalia, when known, will be found to differ.
Measurements follow the next species.
