412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
Furnaricola certhia micro genitalia, new subspecies
Figures 6, 7
Holotype male and allotype female adults, from Dendrocolaptes
certhia colombianus Todd, collected by the author at Unguia, Dept.
Choco, Colombia, March 14, 1950 (Carriker type no. 788).
Diagnosis: Very distinct from the nominate race and from F.
certhia colombiana, new subspecies. Smaller than certhia, especially
the female (1.74 against 2.00), but males differ less (1.55 against 1.59) ;
head smaller, with narrower frons and preantennary margins straight
(concave in certhia) (male: head .52X-51, frons .108; female: head
.54 X. 518, frons .11).
It will be noted that in this race there is much less sexual difference
in size, especially of the head.
Unfortunately the condition of the types does not permit accurate
measurement of the thorax and abdomen, or of figuring the chaetotaxy
of segment VIII in the female.
The most striking difference is in the male genitalia, which differs
greatly from both certhia and colombiana (see fig. 7). The basal
plate is shorter and much attenuated distally, and the basal portion
somewhat different; paramera are slightly longer than in certhia and
are much longer than in colombiana; the general shape is somewhat
as in certhia but the wide basal portion is much longer and parallel
sided, tapering abruptly to the shorter, slender tips.
Furnaricola lachrymosa, new species
Figures 4a, 8, 9
Holotype female and allotype male adults, from Xiphorhynchus
I. lachrymosus (Lawrence), collected by the author at Quibdo, Dept.
Choc6, Colombia, March 15, 1918 (Carriker type no. 789).
Diagnosis: One of the largest species of the genus presently known,
with a very peculiarly shaped head, the posterior half being almost a
quadrilateral, thence narrowing rapidly to the frons, and with lateral
margins of preantennary portion strongly concave. Pleurites nar-
row and heavily chitinized, excepting the heads which are almost
hyaline; tergites continuous across abdomen, closely fused with
pleurites and with posterior margin hyaline; sternites prominent and
in median portion of abdomen (see fig. 8).
Paramera straight and tapering. Legs small, with dark marginal
carinae along outer side of femora and tibiae. Represented by female
holotype, male allotype and male and female paratypes; also one
male and one female from another individual of the type host. A
single male from A'', lachrymosus alarum Chapman, collected at Tarazd,
Antioquia, is inseparable from the allotype. Measurements follow
next species.
