REVISION OF GENUS FURNARICOLA — CARRIKER 413
Furnaricola hirsuta hirsuta, new species
Figures 10, 11, 16a, 17a
Holotype female and allotype male adults, from Xiphorhynchus
picus saturatior (Hellmayr),^ collected by the author at Puerto
Venecia, Caquetd, Colombia, May 8, 1952 (Carriker type no. 790).
Diagnosis: A species very different from lachrymosa, although the
hosts of both belong to the avian genus Xiphorhynchus (see footnote) .
It is strongly pigmented and with certain cephalic carinae and
anterior portion of paratergals black; abdominal sclerites rather
distinct, as well as the sternal fringe of short spines and the two long
spines on each side of sternite VIII. First and third femora, and
third tibiae unusually large and with strong claws. Lateral margins
of preantennary portion of head almost straight; frons narrow and
anterior plate long and narrow.
Basal plate of male genitalia with wide marginal carinae; paramera
with basal two-thirds wide, and thence tapering sharply to the short,
straight, and narrow apical portion. Represented by female holo-
type, male allotype, and one male and five female paratypes. One male
and one female from the type host collected at Ciicuta are slightly inter-
mediate between hirsuta and the next subspecies but closer to the f onner.
A male and two females from Rio Viejo (eastern Dept. Bolivar,
Magdalena Valley), within the range of X. p. dugandi, although dif-
fering slightly from specimens of picirostris (the following subspecies),
must be placed under that race, whose host is X. p. picirostris.
Specimens from Pto. Venecio and Covenas (hirsuta) are the smallest
of the different populations, are the most deeply pigmented, and
also differ in the male genitalia and chaetotaxy of segment VIII of
the female.
Figures are given of the male genitalia of hirsuta (Pto. Venecia)
and of picirostris (from El Conejo), also the chaetotaxy of segment
VIII of the females of picirostris from Rio Vieja (16a) and El Conejo
(19a) which, it will be noted, are very similar, while that of hirsuta
(Pto. Venecia) is very different. Certainly much more material from
the different subspecies of Xiphorhynchus picus is required in order
to satisfactorily classify the forms of Furnaricola parasitic on them.
The chaetotaxy of segment VIII in the females and the male
genitalia have been largely used in the classification of the species
and subspecies of this genus, the characters which appear to be the
3 I have examined 5 males and 10 females from three supposedly different
subspecies of Xiphorhynchus picus. All are conspecific but may be roughly
divided into two subspecies. In addition to the specimens cited above from
X. p. saturatior, there is a single female from Covenas (coast of Dept. Bolivar)
in the range of X. p. dugandi which cannot be separated from them, being small
and deeply colored, and must be called F. h. hirsuta.
782-223—66 2
