434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
material, some of his published descriptions are so brief and general
that they could apply to many species within the genus.
In more recent years additional species have been added by A. A.
Girault (1916-1920), A. B. Gahan (1922-1934), and the author of
tliis revision (1939-), among others.
Source of Study Material
A study of several collections was made in preparation for this
revision. With the aid of a grant. No. G-1308, from the National
Science Foundation it was possible to spend a sabbatical year studying
collections of this genus in the United States. Collections studied
included those of the U.S. National Museum, Washington, D.C.,
Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada, and Cornell University,
Ithaca, N.Y. In addition, collections from the Universities of
Oregon, North Dakota, Wisconsin, and Illinois, as well as my own
collections, were available and contained some new species and im-
portant host and distribution data.
All available types in the United States and Canada have been
examined. Type material of a number of species has been lost or
destroj'ed. This is true for the two species described by Say
{Eurytoma studiosa and E. orhiculata), three species described by
Walsh {E. gigantea, E. bicolor, and E. auriceps), and E. solenozopheriae
Ashmead. Neotypes are designated for these species, and E. studiosa
and E. auriceps are redescribed below.
Nineteen new species are described and several species, the original
descriptions of which were brief and inadequate, are redescribed.
The hey to the 82 species treated in this revision is based on an
unpublished one by the late A. B. Gahan, formerly of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Division of Insects. Mr. Gahan's key
was modified and enlarged considerably. The key suffices for most
of the more distinct species, but for many of the species good key
characteristics have been difficult to find. Experience reveals certain
characteristics that may seem obvious to the worker constructing
the key but which are difficult to interpret by those unfamiliar with
the group. No clahn is made for a completely accurate and workable
key, but a first attempt must be tried at some time. It is hoped that
the present key will eventually lead to the preparation of a more
adequate one as weaknesses are discovered.
In the course of preparing tliis revision, I have received help from
a number of people. Dr. B. D. Burks of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Entomology Kesearch Branch, Washington, D.C., and
Dr. Oswald Peck, Canada Department of Agriculture, Research
Branch, Ottawa, Canada, made available collections containing
