NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — BUGBEE 459
view; averages 1.3 mm. (1.2-1.5) in length; sculpturing heavy on
lateral surface of sixth, but disappears dorsally; segment six from a
dorsal view as long or longer than segments five and six combined;
ninth tergum short and stubby, averaging .09 mm. (.07-. 12) in length
with a small oval cercus on each side. Internal genitalia with broad
dorsal valves for horizontal length and very little dorsal extension
anteriorly; arch of the stylets in a horizontal to an oblique plane;
length of genitalia averages 1.3 mm. (1.1-1.5) and height averages
.88 mm. (.72-1.1); length thus about 1.7 times the height. Petiole
elongate; less than half the length of hindcoxa; a prominent pointed
scale on dorsal anterior surface, a small lateral projecting tubercle
on each side. Tegula yellow to dark brown. Propodeum with a
shallow concavity with a distinct median furrow demarked by lateral
carinae complete to base and a central carina for tln-ee-quarters of
length; furrow narrows to\\ard base; lateral areas finely punctate
ventrally and irregularly ridged dorsally. Antenna filiform; scape
yellowish brown; flagellum six segmented; joints longer than wide
but becoming progressively less so from base to tip; last segment
consisting of tln-ee closely fused units. Fine striae on face converging
on clypeus from below eyes and base of antennae. Legs may be all
yellowish brown or black smudge on middle of outer face of front
femora and tibiae; black infuscation encircling mid- and hindfemora
and tibiae; front coxae may be yellow or all black. Wing veins
yellowish brown to brown; marginal stout and broad but not heavily
chitinized; postmarginal short, stout, and truncate at outer end;
marginal averages .30 mm. (.25-.35) and postmarginal averages .20
mm. (.17-.25); marginal vein always longer than postmarginal by
about .10 mm.; stigmal vein short; club large and almost square.
Males: Black. Average length, 2.9 mm. (2.2-3.3). Scape of
antenna yellowish brown or upper one-third black and rest yellowish
brown. Legs all yellowish brown or hindfemora and sometimes hind-
tibiae may have a brown to black smudge medially on outer surface ;
front coxae as in the female; midcoxae may be all yellow. Wing veins
yellowish brown to dark brown. Marginal averages .29 mm. (.27-.35)
and postmarginal averages .19 mm. (.15-.22).
Types: 56 females and 63 males. Holotype female, allotype male,
and paratypes in the U.S. National Museum collection (USNM 06053).
Type locahty: Wyatt, La., Oct. 31, 1934, Kinsey collection.
Emerged from June 14 to 30, 1935.
Host: Disholcaspis spongiosa (Karsch) and D. guercus-globulus
(Fitch) on Quercus stellata, Kinsey collected and determined.
Distribution: Southern Ohio and Ilhnois, south to the Gulf of
Mexico: east to the Atlantic coast and west to eastern Texas and
Missouri. This species seems to follow the coastal plain, extending
