462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
but the presence of yellow to yellow brown on the lower half of the
frons, around the compound eyes, and the anterior lateral edges of the
pronotum is quite consistent,
18. Eurytonia lutea, new species
Map 8
Female: Mostly brown to orange yellow. Average length 3.3 mm.
(3.0-3.9). Abdomen oval from a lateral view; medium amount of
lateral compression; deep brown in color except for yellow venter
anteriorly; sculpturing on lateral aspect of sixth tergum limited to
lower half; ninth tergum in line with horizontal axis of abdomen and
averages .21 mm. (.20-.25) in length. Internal genitalia average 1.6
mm. in length and 1.0 mm. in height, thus the height is more than
half the length; dorsal valves black and narrow for horizontal length;
turn dorsally, anteriorly, with ventral valves at right angles; stylet
arch in an oblique plane. Propodeum with a complete median fur-
row that occupies most of the wide, shallow concavity; lateral carinae
complete to base and central carina in upper half only; lateral areas
narrow with fine irregular ridges covering surface. Tegula yellow.
Two small spots on dorsum and lateral sm-faces of pronotum yellow;
rest of thorax brown above and yellow laterally. Head yellow except
brown vertex. Antenna with j-ellow scape and flagellum; clavate;
all funicle joints longer than wide; terminal three joints fused together
to form a slightly enlarged club. Legs including coxae orange
yellow, except brownish infuscation medially on hindfemora and tibiae,
and occasionally on mid tibiae. Wing veins linear and pale yellow;
marginal vein averages .29 mm. (.2 5-. 3 5) and postmarginal averages
.21 mm. (.20-.22) in length.
Male: Averages 2.9 mm. (2.7-3.1) in length. Mostly yellow except
for black area on vertex around ocelli ; black to dark-brown dorsum of
thorax. Abdomen and petiole dark brown. Wing veins yellow.
Antenna with yellow scape and brown flagellum; funicle consists of
five longer than wide pedicellate segments; the sixth segment not
pedicellate distally but separated from terminal unit by a distinct
annulation.
Types: 12 females and 7 males. Holotype female, allotype male,
and paratypes in U.S. National ]\Iuseum collection, Washington,
D.C. (USNM 66054) . Paratypes in the Bugbee collection, Meadville,
Pa.
Type locality: Monroe, Mich. L. C. Jones collector.
Distribution: United States: Michigan.
Host: From Elecampane (Inula helenium Linneaus).
Remarks: No clear host relationship was discernible from the data
on the labels, other than that the species was bred from Elecampane.
