464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Type locality: Glendale, Calif., collected in 1914 by T. D. Urbahns,
Webster no. 11214.
Distribution: United States: Northern United States from coast
to coast. Canada: Alberta, Quebec.
Host: Agropyron repens (Linneaiis) (Cornell University collection.
Host not stated). Phytophaga destructor (Say), (Gahan, 1933).
Harmolita tritici (Fitch) (Gahan, 1933). Elymus canadensis Linneaus
(Gahan, 1933, host not stated). Harmolita atlantica Philhps and
Emory (specimens in U.S. National Museum collection). Elymus
triticoides, E. condensatus (specimens in U.S. National Museum
collection). Harmolita elymophage PhiUips and Emory (Peck, 1951
in Muesebeck et al, U.S. Dept. Agric. Monogr., no. 2). Scolytus
rugulosus Ratzeburg (Peck, 1951 in Muesebeck et al, U.S. Dept.
Agric. Monogr., no. 2). Galls on Sitilias grandiflora (Brandhorst,
19^43).
Remarks: See Bugbee (1956) for notes on synonymy of this species.
The most Hkely hosts of E. pachyneuron appear to be species of
Harmolita on Elymus species. The record from Scolytus rugulosus
(Ratzeburg) seems doubtful. The reference to Phytophaga destructor
(Say), although doubtful, might be possible, since Phillips (1917)
showed that E. pater = (E. pachyneuron) may be parasitic on Harmolita
larvae in the early stages of its larval development but can finish its
late larval growth as a plant feeder. In its earlier stages, it might
destroy Hessian fly larvae as well as Harmolita.
In the collections of the U.S. National Museum, Department of
Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada and Cornell University are numerous
long series of E. pachyneuron. In the majority of cases, the host plant
is cited as a species of Elymus, but the insect host was determined in
one or two cases only. In the Cornell University collection is a long
series from Quackgrass (Agropyron repens) but without any insect host
designation. Harmolita species do occur in this grass and therefore
could serve as hosts.
This is a variable species as pointed out in the article by Bugbee
(loc. cit.). Leg color which was used to separate E. pachyneuron,
E. pater, and E. phoebus proved unreHable, and since the three species
were alike in aU other characteristics, the latter two were placed in
synonymy with E. pachyneuron.
The wide postmarginal vein in relation to the Unear marginal vein,
the clavate antennae, the weakly developed female genitalia with the
wide dorsal valves and stylet arch in a horizontal plane, added to the
characteristics mentioned in the key, will help to distinguish this
species.
