470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
sionally slight brownish infuscation on hindfemora and some black on
forecoxae. Average 2.9 mm. (2.4-3.2) in length. Abdomen longer
than head and thorax combined; averaging 1.9 mm, (1.4-2.1) in
length; laterally compressed so that greatest width in cross section is in
uper thu'd; sixth segment as long as three, four, and five combined;
its lateral surface heavily scidptured for lower three-quarters but
dorsal sm'face smooth and shiny; ninth tergum long and pointed;
averaging .35 mm. (.25-.40) in length; cercus about middle of length.
Internal genitalia averages 2.1 mm. (2.0-2.2) in length and 1.2 mm.
(1.1-1.3) in height; ventral and dorsal valves turn dorsally, anteriorly
at approximately a right angle; broadened dorsal extension of ventral
valves measures .25 mm. at widest part; dorsal valves narrow for
horizontal length and yellow in color except for exposed black tip;
stylet arch in an oblique plane; length of genitalia averages slightly
longer than abdomen because of elongate ninth tergum. Propodeum
with a wide concavity marked laterally by lateral carinae that may be
complete to base or fade out in lower third; center of concavity finely
punctate and with two or three short, incomplete carinae extending
toward center from lateral carinae; lateral areas narrow and present
in upper half only. Lateral ocelli large and approximately equal in
diameter to length of ocellocular line. Antenna with seven segmented
flagellum, fu'st five segments longer than wide, truncate, moniliform;
sixth separated from terminal unit of two closely fused segments by a
distinct annulation. Wing veins light yellow, linear; postmarginal
vein short, averaging .12 mm. (.10-. 15); marginal vein averaging .35
mm. (.25-.40) or approximately three times the length of the post-
marginal.
Male: Length 2.3 mm. Color much as in the female; may be black
infuscation on hindfemora and hindcoxae; rest of legs yellow. Antenna
with four longer than wide, pedicellate segments ; fifth segment without
pedicle but separated from six by an annulation; seven and eight
closely fused; two whorls of long hairs on two, three, and four. Mar-
ginal and postmarginal veins with same relationships as in the female.
Types: 9 females and 7 males. Holotype female and paratypes in
the collection of the Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada.
Paratypes in the Bugbee collection, Allegheny College, Meadville,
Pa. Paratype series dated as follows: 1 female, May 10; 4 females.
May 14; 1 female, May 15; 1 female, May 18; 1 female. May 25;
2 males, May 5; 2 males. May 8; 3 males. May 9, 1951.
Type locahty: Clemson, S.C., May 14, 1951, W. Mason.
Distribution: Known only from the type locality.
Host: From gall on Nyssa sylvatica. Host gallmaker not stated.
Remarks: This species seems most closely related to Eurytoma
contractura, new species, E. discordans, and E. acuta. They aU have
