NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — ^BUGBEE 471
an elongated abdomen with considerable lateral compression and an
elongated ninth tergum. The dorsal valves of the genitalia are narrow
for their horizontal length. The yellow legs, tegula, antenna, the
very short postmarginal vein in relation to the long marginal, and the
four pedicellate segments of the male antenna instead of five, wOl
distinguish this new species from those mentioned above.
32. Eurytoma contractura, new species
Figures 13, 31; Map 15
Female: Black except for tarsi and extremities of femora and tibiae.
Average 3.0 mm. (2.4-3.4) in length. Abdomen averages 1.7 mm.
(1.6-1.8) in length; longer than head and thorax combined and
laterally compressed; sixth segment longer than two and thi'ee com-
bined, or about a third length of abdomen; densely scidptured on
lower half; sparse, silvery pile on segments seven and eight. Ninth
tergum long and pointed, averaging .22 mm. (.20-.25) in length.
Internal genitalia averages 1.7 mm. (1.6-1.8) in length and 1.1 mm.
(1.0-1.2) in height; dorsal and ventral valves turn dorsally, anteriorly
at a right angle; stylet arch in an oblique plane; dorsal valves entirely
black and narrow for horizontal length but expand, after turning
dorsally, into a broader plate; ventral valves expand dorsally into a
broad plate averaging .20 mm. at widest part, Propodeum with a
wide concavity that is practically all median furrow; lateral areas
absent; surface with irregular, horizontal ridges; lateral carinae in
upper half to two-thirds. Tegula black. UmbUicate punctures on
pro- and mesothorax very shallow and widely spaced with shagreened
surfaces between; punctations fade into a shagreened area on anterior
tliird of mesothorax. Antenna with the scape black; flagellum with
five longer than wide truncate segments ; first segment about twice as
long as wide; sixth separated from seventh by a deep annulation and
slightly swollen so that antenna appears wealdy clavate. Legs with
coxae black and black to dark-brown infuscation on all femora and
tibiae. Wing vems yellow and linear; marginal vein averages .25
mm. or about 1.3 times the length of the postmarginal that averages
.19 mm. (.17-.20).
Male: Color as in the female. Averages 1.8 mm. (1.4-2.1) in
length. Antenna with five longer than wide pedicellate segments;
last two closely fused. Wing vein relationships as in the female
except both veins shorter; marginal averages .21 mm. and postmar-
ginal .16 mm. in length.
Types: 6 females and 6 males. Holotype female and allotype in
the collection of the Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada.
Paratypes in the Bugbee collection, Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa.
