474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
somewhat blunt, averaging .19 mm. (.15-.25) in length. Internal
genitalia with the dorsal valves very narrow for horizontal length
and black to light reddish brown in color; dorsal and ventral valves
turn dorsally, anteriorly, at approximately a right angle; ventral
valves curve dorsally and then slightly posteriorly so that stylet arch
and fulcral plate are in a vertical plane; whole structure averages
1.6 mm. (1.2-1.9) in length and 1.0 mm. (.87-1.1) in height; height
averages about 64% of the length. Thorax with the tegula yellow or
yellowish brown; most often some deep reddish-brown coloration on
dorsal and lateral surface of the pronotum; less often dorsal thorax
black, or reddish brown extensive on both dorsal and lateral surfaces.
Propodeum narrowly concave; shallow concavity occupied almost
entirely by the median furrow that may be delimited laterally by
distinct, irregular carinae, or lateral carinae may lose identity in
lower half; median carina more or less complete to base dividing
furrow into small irregular rectangles, largest at top, smallest toward
base; median carinae may separate deep rectangular depression below
base of median furrow into two foveae; lateral areas narrow and ir-
regularly ridged and pitted. Head most often black, occasionally
deep reddish brown frons; fine striae on face converging on the
clypeus. Antenna with the scape yellow; flagellum appears six
jointed; segments longer than wide. Legs yellow including coxae.
Wing veins yellow; marginal mediumly broad and stout and averages
.32 mm. (.32-.37) in length; postmarginal linear, short, and averages
.15 mm. (.15-. 17) in length; thus the marginal is quite often twice
the length of the postmarginal; stigmal vein short and club deeply
rounded so that it appears almost square.
Male: Black or mostly reddish brown. Averages 2.6 mm. (2.3-
3.0) in length. Thorax and abdomen most often black, or reddish-
brown tinge to lateral pronotum and occasionally to dorsal pronotum
and lower, lateral meso- and metanotum; may be a deep reddish-
brown splotch on the lateral aspect of sixth abdominal segment.
Head often black, or it may have a reddish-brown frons. Petiole
longer than hindcoxa by about Iji times; most often black but may
be reddish brown. Legs and all coxae yellow or hindcoxae may be
black to dark reddish brown. Tegula yellow. Antenna with the
scape yellow; flagellum appears 7-segmented. Wing veins with same
relationships as in the female.
Types: U.S. National Museum, no. 1531, 1 female and 4 males,
labelled by A. Bolter, 1890.
Type locality: No locality is given for the types but Walsh de-
scribed many of his species from material collected in the vicinity of
Rock Island, 111. Lacking any specific evidence otherwise, it seems
