NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — BUGBEE 479
(.12-.22) in length; the postmarginal averages about 53% the length
of the margmal; stigmal vein short and stout, averaging .14 mm.
(.12-.20).
Male: Body black. Abdominal petiole long, averaging 1.33 times
the length of hindcoxa, or hindcoxa about three-fourths length of
petiole; legs most often including all coxae, scape and tegula yellow;
less often hindcoxa black and some black infuscation on middle of
outer face of hindfemora and occasionally hindtibiae. Pile covering
face and on thorax, often with a golden-yellow tinge; less often silvery
white. Wing veins brown; marginal vein stout, averaging .30 mm.
(.20-.37) and postmarginal averages .16 mm. (.12-.20) in length;
stigmal averages .17 mm. (.15-.20).
Neotypes: Neotype female and male in U.S. National Museum;
paratypes in the Bugbee collection, Meadville, Pa. Additional
specimens in the series from which the types were picked include 31
females and 19 males.
Type locality: Elsah, Jersey County, 111. (Principia College). J. E.
Remington collection (ex pupa, June 6, 1946), 155.
Host: Reared from pupa June 5 and 6, 1946, in gall of Callirhytis
seminator (Harris), L. H. Weld determined, on Quercus alba. The
lost type material came from Acrasjns erinacei (Beutenmuller),
A. hirta (Osten-Sacken), Amphibolips spongijica (Osten-Sacken) and
Diplolepis radicum (Osten-Sacken) .
Distribution: E. auriceps occurs over most of the eastern half of the
United States and Canada probably to the northern limit of white
oak distribution. Its hosts are species of cynipids, producing galls,
principally on the white oaks Quercus alba and Q. stellata.
The list of additional host records was taken from specimens in my
own collection located at Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa., the
collections of the U.S. National Museum, Washington, D.C., and
Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. A^ndricus flocci, A. ignotus, A.
pattoni, A. foliatus, Amphibolips cookii, Acraspis pezomachoides,
Callirhytis lanata, Disholcaspis globulus, D. spongiosa, D. mamma,
Holcaspis fasciata, and Sphaeroteras melleum.
Remarks: This is a highly variable species. It has been impossible
to find any good morphological characteristics that would distinguish
more than one species. All characters seem to intergrade throughout
the widespread distributional area.
Since the original types seem to be lost, the redescription is based
on a neotype and a paratype series from a locality in Illinois in prox-
imity to the area where Walsh is believed to have collected.
