NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — BUGBEE 481
addition to those listed in the key, are given in the section entitled
"Remarks," under the succeeding species.
43. Eurytoma vernonia, new species
Figure 15; Map 21
Female: Medium-sized species averaging 2.1 mm. (1.8-2.5) in
length. Black except for proximal and distal extremities of tibiae
and femora, all of tarsi and wing veins which are yellow to yellowish
brown. Abdomen dorsally arched anteriorly, triangular in shape
from a lateral view and moderately laterally compressed; averaging
1.3 mm. (1.3-1.4) in length; sculpturing on lateral aspect of the long
sixth tergum heavy for lower half and then becomes lighter in upper
half, disappearing entirely so that dorsal surface is smooth and shiny;
ninth tergum short and pointed averaging .12 mm. (.10-. 15) in
length and in line with the horizontal axis of the abdomen ; black to dark
brown in color. Internal genitalia short; dorsal and ventral valves
turn dorsally, anteriorly, at a right angle to horizontal axis so that
stylet arch is in an almost vertical plane; height more than half of
length; height averaging .82 mm. (.80-. 87) and length 1.2 mm.
(1.1-1.3); dorsal valves black and narrow for horizontal length.
Propodeum at right angles to the scutellum; wide shallow concavity
that is evenly punctate except for three or four large round pits with
shiny surfaces along dorsal margin; median furrow, lateral and central
carinae may be absent or carinae indicated dorsally by short stubs
only. Tegula black. Pronotum narrow; its width less than half
its length. Antenna short and stocky; enlarging shghtly distally so
that they appear clavate; pedicle and first funicle segment about
equal in length viewed from above; first funicle segment slightly
longer than wide, rest almost square; three closely fused units in the
club ; scape black. Front coxa with a prominent tubercle about mid-
way on the anterior outer margin. Wing veins yellow; marginal and
postmarginal linear, the marginal longer than the postmarginal,
averaging .17 mm. (.15-. 20) in length and the postmarginal averaging
.12 mm.
Male : Black ; exceptions as in the description of the female. Length
averages 1.6 mm. (1.3-1.9). Antenna with the first four funicle seg-
ments about equal in length, pedicellate, longer than wide and de-
pressed medially ; a whorl of long hairs arises from each hump on either
side of the depression and extends outward at right angles to the longi-
tudinal plane of the segment; fifth funicle segment not pedicellate
distally, nor noticeably depressed; its proximal end has longer hairs
that appear to arise from a slight eminence and may or may not simu-
219-931 — 67 4
