484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
same locality, collection, and rearing dates as above. Types and
paratypes in the U.S. National Museum and paratypes in the Bugbee
collection, Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa. and the University of
California at Berkeley.
Type locality: Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz County, Calif.
Host: Believed to be phytophagous in the stems of Pinus sylvestris.
Distribution: California.
Remarks: See Bugbee (1962).
48. Eurytoma fossae, new species
Figures 11, 24; Map 22
Female: Averages 2.8 mm. (2.2-3.3) in length. Black except for
the tarsi, knees, and apices of mid- and hindtibiae, occasionally all of
fore tibiae and wing veins. Abdomen, viewed laterally, narrowly oval;
longer than head and thorax combined; averaging in length 1.5 mm.
(1.2-1.7); sixth tergum dorsally, longer than three and four combined;
sculpturing Hmited to lower anterior half of lateral surface; rest of
surface shiny black; ninth tergum short, averaging .14 mm. (.12-.17)
in length. Internal genitalia average 1.5 mm. in length and .77 mm.
in height; thus height is about half the length; dorsal valves narrow
and black for horizontal length and turn dorsally, anteriorly, with
ventral valves at less than a right angle in relation to the horizontal
axis; stylet arch in an oblique plane. Propodeum rounded with a
deep, narrow concavity occupied by a median furrow, wider at top
and dehmited laterally by complete lateral carinae to base; central
carina may extend from dorsal margin for half to three-quarters
length of median furrow; spaces in furrow with shiny, unsculptured
surfaces; lateral areas absent or if present very narrow. Thorax with
the tegula black. Antenna with the scape black; first segment of the
funicle slightly longer than pedicle, itself longer than wide and trun-
cate distally; next four segments subequal to square and truncate dis-
tally; distal three segments grouped closely together to form a slightly
expanded club. Legs with black infuscation on all femora and tibiae,
except occasionally fore tibiae; tarsi may have black infuscation on
dorsal surface. Wing veins light brown and linear; marginal vein
longer than postmarginal, averaging .32 mm. (.25-. 35) in length and
postmarginal averaging .22 mm. (.20-.22).
Male: Averages 1.9 mm. (1.6-2.2) in length. Wing veins are dark
brown; marginal longer than postmarginal, averaging .27 mm.
(.25-.30), and postmarginal averaging .16 mm. (.15-. 17) in length.
Types: 8 females and 10 males; holotype female and allotype male
in the U.S. National Museum collection, Washington, D.C. (USNM
66057). Paratype females in the U.S. National Museum, Bugbee col-
lection, Meadville, Pa., and University of California.
