NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — BUGBEE 487
paratypes in the U.S. National JMuseum (USNM 58244) ; paratypes
in Bugbee collection, Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa.
Type locality: Hays, Kans.
Host: Phytophagous in the seeds of Schmaltzia=(Rhus) trilobata
(Nuttall).
Distribution: United States: Kansas, Oklahoma.
Remarks: The lack of black infuscation on the tibiae of the legs
and the reddish-brown to yellow scape of the antenna are additional
characteristics to look for in this species.
52. Eurytotna altifossa, new species
Figures 21, 23; Map 23
Female: Black except for yellow fore- and midtibiae, extremities
of hindtibiae and all femora, scape of antenna, and wing veins. Aver-
age in length 3.4 mm. (3.2-3.8). Abdomen globular and plump with
only slight lateral compression; sixth tergum about V/i times the
length of the fifth; sculpturing of fine, shallow punctations covers
all of lateral surface of sixth tergum and extends over dorsal sur-
face on anterior half; covers most of lateral and dorsal surfaces of
all other abdominal terga; ninth tergum short and stubby, averaging
.14 mm. (.12-. 17) in length. Internal genitaha with broad dorsal
valves for horizontal length and their color is black; very little dorsal
extension ateriorly, of dorsal and ventral valves, so that stylet arch
is close to a horizontal plane; average length of genitaha 1.5 mm. and
average height .75 mm. ; thus height is about half of length. Propo-
deum broad with a shallow concavity in center of which is a deep,
narrow, complete median furrow that narrows gradually toward base ;
central carina in upper third; large lateral areas. Antenna fihform;
flagellum with five trunctate segments distally; sixth separated from
seventh by a distinct annulation, terminal unit of two closely fused
segments. Legs may have fore- and midtibiae yellow or with slight,
hght-brownish infuscation on middle of outer surface; same on hind-
tibiae; darker brown infuscation toward base of fore- and midfemora
and on middle of hindfemora. Wing veins linear; marginal slightly
longer than postmarginal; marginal averages .30 mm. (.25-. 37) and
postmarginal averages .25 mm. (.17-. 30); stigmal club rectangular.
Male : Color much the same as in female except that color of the legs
is darker and more extensive. Average length 2.4 mm. Relation of
wing veins as in the female but average slightly shorter.
Types : 5 females and 1 male. Holotype female, allotype, and para-
types in the collection of the Department of Agricultiu-e, Ottawa,
Canada and paratypes in the Bugbee collection, Allegheny College,
Meadeville, Pa.
