488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Type locality: Aweme, Manitoba. Collected June 10, 1929, by
R. M. White. Paratypes collected June 12, 13, 16, and Aug. 13, 1929.
Host: From galls on Oxijtropis lamberti. Host relationship not
stated.
Distribution: Known only from the type locaUty.
Remarks: This new species resembles Eurytoma crassa, new species,
in its plump, globular abdomen and extensive sculpturing of the
abdominal terga. It differs, however, in the complete, narrow median
furrow on the propodeum, the shorter postmarginal vein in relation
to the marginal, and the lack of as dark and extensive infuscation
on the legs.
53. Eurytoma crassa, new species
Figures 16, 25; Map 24
Female: Black. Length averages 3.4 mm. (3.1-3.8). Abdomen
plump; oval from a lateral view; averaging 1.9 mm. (1.7-2.0) in total
length; most often whole surface of segments four through eight
covered with fine punctations; less often sculpturing reduced on dorsal
surface of sixth to a narrow band covering anterior half of surface;
ninth tergum broad and pointed, averaging .19 mm. (.15-.22) in
length and usually in line with horizontal axis of the abdomen. In-
ternal genitalia with broad and stout dorsal valves for horizontal
length anterior to concavity behind exposed tip; dorsal and ventral
valves turn dorsally, anteriorly, at slightly less than a right angle;
stylet arch in an oblique plane; length of genitalia averages 1.8 mm.
(1.7-2.0) and height averages .98 mm. (.92-1.0); anterior dorsal
expanded plate of ventral valves, narrow, maintaining same width
or narrowing slightly at top. Propodeum broad, shallowly concave,
without a median furrow, or an indication of one in dorsal third only;
rest of surface covered with irregular ridges with fine punctations
between. Tegula black. Antenna with the scape most often en-
tirely black; less often with yellow base; flagellum filiform; segments
one to five longer than wide; six closely applied to seven but dis-
tinguished from it by a shallow annulation. Legs with black in-
fuscation on all femora and tibiae. Wing veins yellow; marginal
and postmarginal linear; marginal averages .26 mm. (.22-.30) in
length and postmarginal averages .27 mm. (.27-.32) ; thus the post-
marginal is most often longer than the marginal, less often equal to
it in length; stigmal club small and narrowly rectangular in shape.
Male: Black. Averages in length 2.0 mm. (1.5-2.8). Abdomen
may be covered with fine, delicate punctations over entire surface, or
sculpturing extends over two-thirds of lateral surface of sixth segment
