NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — BUGBEE 489
only, leaving dorsal surface smooth and shiny. Propodeum may have
a complete wide median furrow that maintains same width from top
to bottom. Wing vein relationships and color of the legs same as
in the female.
Types: 6 females and 1 male. Holotype female in the U.S. Na-
tional Museum (USNM 66058); paratypcs in Bugbee collection,
Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa.
Type locality: Gosport, Ind. Holotype collected on Mar. 28,
1933; emerged May 30, 1933. Paratypes collected on Mar. 28 and
Apr. 3, 1933; emerged May 30 and June 1, 1933.
Host: Bred from dipterous gall on Ragweed (Ambrosia species).
The gallmaker is believed to be a species of Trypetidae.
Additional hosts records include Trypeta { = CaUachna) gibba Loew,
and T. (=Aciunna) notata Coquillett.
Distribution: Eastern half of the United States, from Illinois, Ohio,
and Indiana, south to Louisiana and west to Texas and New Mexico.
Remarks : The most likely hosts of this new species seem to be dip-
terous gallmakers of the family Trypetidae and Ortalidae.
This species differs from E. tylodermatis and E. pini in having a
broader, shallow, concave propodeum with a wider median furrow that
is indicated dorsally only ; in other specimens the median furrow may be
lacking entirely, and the surface may be covered with fine, even punc-
tations dorsally and irregular horizontal ridges ventrally; postmar-
ginal vein is usually longer or equal in length to the marginal, seldom
shorter; the extensive reticulation of the abdominal segments, es-
pecially the sixth, which may be completely covered or reduced to a
narrow band on the anterior half of the dorsal surface.
54. Eurytoma terrea Bugbee
Map 25
Eurytoma terrea Bugbee, 1951, pp. 23S-240.— Burks, 1958, p. 82.
Types: 7 females. Holotype female in the U.S. National Museum.
Paratypes in the Bugbee collection, Meadville, Pa.
Type locality : Ashland, Oreg.
Distribution: Oregon.
Host: Diplolepis polita (Ashmead) var. on Rosa species.
Remarks: Additional characteristics that will help to define this
species include: black tegula and scape; black infuscation on femora
and tibiae of all legs; broad dorsal valves of the female genitalia that
turn dorsally, anteriorly, only slightly with ventral valves, so that
stylet arch is in a horizontal plane.
