30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Material: Reported by Barnard, 1954. Velero stations 1463 (1),
1489 (1). Barnard station 40 (2).
Records: Coos Bay, intertidal; North Bay, Cape Arago State Park,
Oreg., intertidal. Coal Oil Point, near Goleta, Calif.
Remarks: Possibly Ampithoe corallina represents a senior synonym
of this species. The shape of the lower lip and gnathopod 1 correspond
well with the female of A. simulans but Stout draws a small point on
the thu'd pleonal epimeron, possibly gi\'ing indication that A. corallina
belongs -^ath A. lacertosa. In any case the second antenna is not
typical of either species and more search must be made for animals
correspondmg with Stout's figures.
Two aberrant male specimens from Barnard station 40 are figiu'ed
to show the aspect of gnathopod 2 similar to A. pollex; however, their
lower lips are those of A. simulans.
Distribution: Oregon to Coal Oil Point, southern California,
Ampithoe tea, new species
Figures 19-21
Diagnosis : All pleonal epimera rounded behind and at lower corners,
no lateral ridges; articles 5 and 6 of male gnathopod 1 equal in length,
posterior edge of article 5 with a truncated, rather shallow hind lobe,
article 6 narrow, sublinear, palm transverse, finger overlapping palm
by its full length ; gnathopod 2 in male undergoing extensive differentia-
tion, commencing with a finger about half as long as article 6 and the
palm slightly excavated, scarcely defined and quite oblique, through
several stages until the finger is as long as article 6, fitting the entire
hind edge of article 6, which forms the palm, the palm developing a
process near the finger hinge, followed by a shallow excavation and
then a relatively straight but sloping edge, the palmar edge minutely
crenulated; the finger becoming increasingly bent at its base; article
2 of gnathopod 2 with poorly developed distal bump; article 2 of
pereopods 1 and 2 strongly inflated, 1.9 times as long as broad; article
2 of pereopod 3 broader than long; ventral edge of article 1 of first
antenna not spiniferous; antenna 1 much longer than antenna 2, the
flagellum of antenna 1 more than four times as long as that of antenna
2, the latter flagellum rather short, 0.5 times as long as article 5 of
peduncle, and the second antenna rather setose; article 4 of peduncle
120% as long as article 5; outer apical lobule of lower lip somewhat
longer than medial lobule ; coxae 1 and 2 shorter than 3 and 4 but not
broadened, coxa 1 not produced forward; peduncular process of
uropod 1 long.
Female: Article 5 of gnathopod 1 shorter than article 6 and thus
shorter than in the male ; gnathopod 2 with article 6 similar to that of
