NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — BUGBEE 493
collections consisted of only one or two specimens. Too often the
host was not indicated or only the host plant was named from which
the parasite Avas bred. Exact relationships of host and parasite,
therefore, were impossible to determine in many cases.
The results of this study must be considered as only tentative.
The need for more material from additional localities, plus more
exact determinations of host relationships, will lead to clearer defini-
tions of the species of the complex in the future. Nevertheless the
importance of these parasites, occurring as they do on many hosts
of economic importance, makes it necessary to make some attempt to
put the classification of the parasites on a more realistic basis. The
redescription is based on the holotype female, allotype male, and an
additional series of 7 females in the U.S. National Museum collection,
Washington, D.C.
This species has its closest aflanities with the Eurytoma pini, E.
diastrophi, and E. bolteri group of species. The whole complex is
probably associated with the larvae of weevils and small moths that
live in stems of various species of plants. They act as either primary
or secondary parasites. Hosts listed for the specimens of E. tyloder-
matis exammed include: Trichobaris texana, which is reported to
occur in stems of Solanum rosiratum; Lixus scrobicollis in stems of
Ambrosia trijida (Pierce, 1908 a, b, and c; Pierce, Cushman and Hood,
1912); Tyloderma Joveolatum in the stems of Oenothera biennis; Mom-
pha eloisella also m stems of 0. biennis. Additional possibilities
reported in the Hterature include Trichobaris trinotata in Solanum
carolinense (Chittenden, 1911) and Lixus musculus, in Polygonum
pennsylvanicum (Pierce, 1907); Coleophora malivorella and Tricho-
baris rostratum.
59. Eurytoma gossypii, new species
Map 26
Female: Black. Length averages 4.2 mm. (3.8-4.6). Abdomen
plump and oval in lateral view; averages 2.2 mm. (1.9-2.4) in length;
long sixth abdominal segment averages .68 mm. (.62-.75); surface
of sixth covered by fine shallow pitting which covers all of lateral
surface for lower half to three-fourths, then sculpturing recedes
toward anterior margin and may continue over dorsal surface in a
narrow band. Ninth tergum, mediumly long and pointed; averages
.26 mm. in length (.25-.30); anterior half naked and with finely
shagreened or smooth surface; posterior half with shallow pits and
covered with white pile. Internal genitalia average 2.1 mm. in
length; in height 1.2 mm.; anterior expanded plate of dorsal valves
averages .20 mm. in width at widest point; dorsal and ventral valves
bend dorsally, anterioriy, at about a right angle and stylet arch is in
