494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
an oblique plane; dorsal valves broad for posterior two-thii^ds.
Propodeum narrow; deeply concave; median furrow, if present, wide
and indicated in upper one-quarter to one-third only; lateral surfaces
rougiily pitted and center crossed by fine horizontal nregular carinae;
flat carina across top center bends ventrolaterally; shallow rectangular
depression at base. Tegula black to dark brown. Antenna with
the outer face of scape yellowish brown; whole structure short and
stocky; segments truncate on distal ends; first segment longer than
wide; two to five almost square; last three closely fused to form a
bluntly pointed terminal unit. Legs reddish brown on base of
forefemora and reddish brown to black medially on hindfemora;
apices yellow; tibiae yellowish brown. Wing veins light yellow and
thin; marginal and postmarginal veins usually equal in length;
marginal averages .29 mm. (.27-.32) ; postmarginal averages .29 mm.
(.25-.35).
Male: Black. Length averages 3.0 mm. (2.6-3.5). Scape usually
with lower half yellowish brown and upper half black or dark brown;
antenna with first five segments pedicellate; six and seven closely
united; first segment longer than wide and covered with long hairs;
two to five shorter, though still slightly longer than wide and each
with two whorls of long hairs. Legs with dark brown on all femora
and tibiae; knees and apices yellowish brown. Wing veins yellow
and marginal and postmarginal veins equal in length, marginal
averages .26 mm. (.25-27); postmarginal averages .26 mm. (.25-.30).
Types: 6 females and 5 males. Holotype female and allotype male
in the U.S. National Museum (USNM 66059). Paratypes in Bugbee
collection, Meadville, Pa.
Type locality: Arlington, Tex. Holotype female collected Aug. 6,
1908, by F. C. Bishop. Male and female paratypes bred Aug. 14-21,
1908.
Distribution: Its range will probably correspond to that of its host
Anthonomus grandis, the cotton-boll weevil, although this study
included specimens from Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana only.
Fenton and Dunnam (1929) record a species determined as E. tyloder-
matis, which could be this species, from Florence, S.C., and Pierce,
Cushman and Hood (1912) list E. tylodermatis as a cotton-boll weevil
parasite from Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas, and Mexico.
Host: Parasite of Anthonomus grandis Boheman, the cotton-boll
weevil.
Remarks: This species seems to be close to E. pini in the equal
length of the marginal and postmarginal veins, the fine pitting on the
surface of segment 6 of the abdomen, which extends as a narrow band
over the anterodorsal surface, and the short, stocky antenna with
segments 2 to 5 approximately square.
