498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
which recede dorsally toward anterior margin and continue over
dorsal surface in a narrow band; ninth abdommal segment elongate
and sharply pointed, averaging .20 mm. (.17-.22) in length. Internal
genitalia dorsally extended, anteriorly, so that both dorsal and ventral
valves turn dorsad at approximately a right angle in relation to
horizontal length; stylet arch in an oblique plane or halfway between
a horizontal and vertical plane; dorsal valves not broad, mediumly
narrow for horizontal length; whole structure averages 1.6 mm.
(1.5-1.7) in length, 1.1 mm. (1.0-1.1) in height. Propodeum con-
cave; faint, wide median furrow sometimes indicated by lateral
carinae in dorsal half only or often lacking; lateral areas irregularly
punctate and ridged. Tegula black. Scape variable, all black or
dark brown except base, or outer face all yellowish brown; fiagellum
short and stocky; first segment longer than wide; segments two to
five becoming progressively shorter so that five is approximately
square; six to eight closely grouped, although six is separated from
seven by a shallow annulation; flagellum same diameter throughout
length, and segments one to five truncate distally. Legs with black
to dark brown on all femora and tibiae except sometimes yellowish
brown fore tibiae; knees and apices yellowish brown. Wing veins
yellow and narrow to linear; marginal either longer than postmarginal
or equal to it in length; marginal averages .27 mm. (.25-. 32) in
length and postmarginal averages .24 mm. (.22-. 25) ; stigmal club
small and rectangular in shape.
Male: No males in the type series. Two male specimens from
Glen Burnie, Md., appear to belong to this series.
Types: 4 females. Holotype female and paratypes in the U.S.
National Museum collection (USNM 66061); additional paratypes
(3 females and 2 males) in the Bugbee collection, Meadville, Pa.
Type locality: Wathena, Kans., emerged July 3-11, 1939, P.G.
Lamerson collection.
Distribution: United States: Kansas, Maryland.
Host: Parasite (external on larvae) of the Strawberry Leafroller
(Ancylis comptana (Frolich)), and hyperparasite (?) of Cremastus
cookii Weed, a primary parasite of the Strawberry Leafroller.
Remarks : This species can be distinguished from E. pini by its more
dorsally produced genitalia that turn dorsad anteriorly, at almost a
right angle; its smaller size; shorter marginal and postmarginal veins;
and the short, stocky antenna with the segments of the flagellum
truncate distally.
The host is a native of Europe; it was introduced into the United
States and is now quite widespread. According to Peairs and David-
son (1956, p. 495) it is "present over a large part of the United States,
from the Mississippi Valley eastward."
