500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
veins yellow; marginal broader than postmarginal ; marginal averages
.26 mm. (.25-.30) and postmarginal averages .26 mm. (.22-.30) in
length; thus marginal and postmarginal often equal in length; stigmal
club small and rectangular in shape.
Males: There are only two males in the series that are curled up
so that a true measurement of their length cannot be made. Probably
averages 2.18 mm. in length. Abdomen shiny black to very deep
brown. Tegula dark brown. Scape of antenna black except base
which may be yellowish brown. Legs with black or dark brown on
aU femora and tibiae; apices and knees yellowish brown. Wing veins
much the same as in the female; marginal averages .25 mm. and post-
marginal .23 mm. in length.
Types: 6 females and 2 males. Holotype female, allotype male,
and paratypes in the U.S. National Museum (USNM 66062); para-
types in Bugbee collection, Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa.
Type locality: King and Queen Co., Va. Collected June 5 and 8,
1940. L. A. Hetrick collection.
Distribution: United States: Known only from Virginia.
Host: Parasite of pine xyelid gall.
Remarks: The marginal vein is broader than the linear post-
marginal and the two veins are most often equal in length. The female
genitalia are short in relation to the height and the dorsal valves are
narrow for their horizontal length. Scape and tegula are yellowish
brown.
66. Eurytonia crassineura Ashmead
Map 29
Eurytoma crassineura Ashmead, 1894, p. 324. — Schedl, 1932, pp. 1, 2. — Peck,
1951, p. 576.
Types: U.S. National Museum no. 25508. Type series consists of
6 females and 3 males of which 1 female has been labeled and desig-
nated as lectotype.
Type locality: Morgantown, W. Va. from Scolytus rugulosus Ratze-
burg.
Distribution: United States: Virginia, West Virginia, Ohio, Wash-
ington, D.C., New York, North Carolina, Idaho, Oregon, Colorado.
Canada: Quebec, Ontario, Nova Scotia.
Host: Scolytid larvae in plum, cherry, and apple (Ashmead, 1894).
Scolytus rugulosus Ratzeburg in peach (Ashmead, 1894). Magdalis
armicollis Say in elm (record from U.S. National Museum collection).
Remarks: The rectangular-shaped abdomen, very broad dorsally,
with the long sixth abdominal tergum that often covers the seventh
tergum and that lacks sculpturing except at the extreme ventral,
anterior edge, help to distinguish this species. In addition, the
