502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Both species are bred from wheat, but E. atripes parasitizes Hessian
fly puparia (Phytophaga destructor (Say)) and E. parva destroys
larvae of the wheat jointworm (Harmolita tritici (Fitch)). There are
also records of both species having been bred from the larvae of the
wheat stem sawfly (Cephus cinctus Norton). E. atripes, so far as I
have been able to determine, has never been observed emerging from
H. tritici larvae. Until suitable life-history studies are made that
show that these two species of Eurytoma are either restricted to distinct
hosts or will parasitize the same hosts, it seems best to treat them as
two good species.
E. parva displays an additional characteristic that can be used to
separate it from E. atripes. The propodeum has a wider median
furrow with lateral and median carinae that extend ventrally about
three-fourths the length of the propodeum before fading out. Below
the furrow the surface is finely punctate.
68. Eurytoma fusca, new species
Map 30
Female: Black. Length averages 2.1 mm. (1.8-2.9); abdomen
plump; oval from a lateral view and with some lateral compression;
length averages 1.4 mm. (1.2-1.6); sixth abdominal segment at
longest point averages .47 mm. (.40-.55) ; fine pitting limited to lower
anterior quarter of lateral surface of sixth; surface of rest of segment
smooth; ninth abdominal segment short but sharply pointed, averaging
in length .15 mm. (.12-.17). Internal geintalia short and weakly
developed dorsaUy, anteriorly; dorsal valves narrow for horizontal
length and bend dorsally at less than a right angle anteriorly; stylet
arch in an oblique plane but only a little above a horizontal plane;
whole structure averages 1.4 mm. in length, .73 mm. in height, and
expanded dorsal extension of ventral valves averages .12 mm. in width.
Propodeum only slightly depressed to flat; median furrow absent or
indicated in upper one-half only; surface finely punctate; slightly
arched dorsal carinae curves ventrally for about one-third length of
propodeum and then fades out or turns laterally. Scape of antenna
most often with outer face black to dark brown, except yellowish-
brown base; less often lower half yellowish brown; rest black to dark
brown; segments of flagellum slightly longer than wide; first the
longest, two to five about equal, six to eight closely fused as a terminal
unit. Legs most often with black to dark brown on all femora and
tibiae; knees and apices yellowish brown; less often foretibiae all
yellowish brown. Tegula often deep reddish brown. Wing veins
straw yeUow; marginal longer than postmarginal ; marginal averages
