508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
oblique plane. Propodeum depressed and with a narrow, shallow,
but distinct median furrow; widest at top; lateral carinae converging
immediately below two large rectangular depressions at top of furrow;
lateral to rectangular depressions ; leading lateroventrally, are three or
four pentagonal- or hexagonal-sided pits; below these, rest of lateral
areas covered with fine small pits. Tegula black. Scape of antenna
all yellowish brown or with upper tip dark brown; segments one to
five of flagellum longer than wide and moniliform; segment six closely
applied to segment seven but separated by a distinct annulation; six
to eight form terminal unit; flagellum filiform. Legs all yellowish
brown except black coxae and white tarsi or may be dark brown on
base of forefemora and medially on hindfemora; wing veins thin,
yellow in color; marginal averages .31 mm. in length (.30-.37) and
postmarginal averages .25 mm. (.22-.27) ; thus the marginal is always
longer than the postmarginal.
Male: Black. Averages 2.6 mm. (2.1-3.2) in length; scape of
antenna with lower half to two-thirds yellowish brown, rest black;
segments one to five pedicellate and slightly constricted; six separated
from seven by a distinct annulation; all segments longer than wide;
two to five with two whorls of long hairs. Legs light yellowish
brown, except hindfemora which are brown or black medially; tarsi
white. Marginal vein averages .29 mm. (.27-.32) in length and post-
marginal averages .20 mm. (.20-.22).
Types: 7 females and 5 males. Holotype female, allotype male,
and paratypes in U.S. National Museum (USNM 66064). Paratypes
in Bugbee collection, Meadville, Pa.
Type locality: Haddon Heights, N.J., collected Aug. 8, 1931, by
L. J. Bottimer,
Host: Bred from Bruchus brachialis Fahi'aeus in seeds of Vicia
villosa (Hairy vetch).
Distribution: The host weevil (B. brachialis) of this species was
introduced from Europe into the United States and first discovered at
Haddon Heights, N.J. in June 1930 (Pinckney, 1937). Bridwell and
Bottimer (1933) give the distribution of the host as New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, and Virginia. Peairs (1947)
and Peairs and Davidson (1956) add Georgia, and state that it has
been "recorded in a limited area near Portland, Oregon, and in
Washington." The only parasite specimens that I have seen came
from the type locality.
Remarks: This species is close to E. tylodermatis in size, length of
abdomen, relation of length of marginal and postmarginal veins,
genitalic, and antennal characteristics. It differs in possessing a
