510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. lis
77. Eurytoma spina Bugbee
Map 34
Eurytoma spina Bugbee, 1951, pp. 250, 251. — Burks, 1958, p. 81.
Types: 5 females; holotype female, para types in U.S. National
Museum collection, no. 61234.
Type locality: La Grande, Oreg.
Distribution: United States: Oregon. Canada: Saskatchewan.
Host: Diplolejpis iubercidator var. versicolor Kinsey and Ayres on
Rosa species.
Remarks: Characteristics in addition to those in the key include
the length of the ninth tergum that averages .22 mm., the length of
the marginal and postmarginal veins (the marginal averages only
.04-.05 mm, longer than the postmarginal), and the weakly developed
female genitalia with wide dorsal valves for horizontal length.
78. Eurytoma picea, new species
Map 35
Female: Black except for brown wing veins, yellow base of scape,
and extremities of femora, tibiae, and whitish tarsi. Length averages
3.6 mm. (3.1-4.1). Abdomen oval from lateral and dorsal views;
medium lateral compression so that greatest width in cross section is
nearer middle, sixth tergum about two times the length of the fifth;
smooth and shiny surface except for fine scaling on lower, anterior
half; ninth tergum elongate, averaging .22 mm. (.24-.25) in length.
Internal genitalia with narrow dorsal valves that turn dorsally, ante-
riorly, with the ventral valves at slightly less than a right angle so
that stylet arch and fulcral plate are in an oblique plane; dorsal
valves dark brown to black for entire length; whole structure aver-
ages 1.7 mm. (1.6-1.8) in length and .97 mm. (.95-1.0) in height.
Propodeum narrowly concave with a wide, shallow, complete median
furrow that narrows toward base; central carina about one-quarter
to three-quarters length of furrow; surface between horizontal ridges
within fmTow, smooth and shiny; lateral areas narrow or nonexistent.
Antenna with a flagellum of five truncate, slightly moniliform, seg-
ments; sixth separated from the terminal unit by a shallow annula-
tion. Legs with black to dark-brown infuscation on all femora and
tibiae. Wing veins brown; marginal about two times the width of
postmarginal, quite long, averaging .40 mm. (.35-.50) in length; post-
marginal averages .27 mm. (.22-. 32) in length.
