NO. 3533 CHALCID WASPS OF GENUS EURYTOMA — BUGBEE 513
longer than wide and truncate distally; six separated from seven by
a shallow annulation; flagellum filiform. Legs may have all femora
and tibiae yellowish brown or hindfemora may be brown to dark
brown medially. Wings with the veins yellow to brown; marginal
vem thin and long, averaging .38 mm. (.35-.40) in length; post-
marginal shorter than marginal, averaging .30 mm. (.27-.32) in length;
stigmal club narrowly rectangular in shape.
Male: Black. Averages 3.3 mm. (3.0-3.6) in length. Outer face
of scape black except yellowish-brown basal extremity. Legs with
femora and tibiae of fore- and midlegs yellowish brown; hindfemora
dark to light brown, except yellowish-brown apices and knees; hind-
tibiae yellowish brown. Wing veins brownish yellow to straw
yellow; marginal vein longer than postmarginal ; marginal averages .37
mm. (.35-.40) in length; postmarginal averages .27 mm. (.25-.27).
Types: 6 females and 4 males. Holotype female, allotype male,
and paratypes in the U.S. National Museum (USNM 66065). Para-
types in the Bugbee collection, Meadville, Pa.
Type locaUty: Troy, Kans. Collected or bred (?) July 2-14,
1932. P. G. Lamerson collection.
Distribution: Kansas, New York, Wisconsin, Wasliington.
Hosts: Parasite of the apple curculio, Tachypterellus quadrigibbus
(Say), T. q. magnus List, and T. consors Dietz.
Remarks : This species is apparently widespread, occurring wherever
apples are grown and its hosts, the apple curcuHo, Tachypterellus
quadrigibbus or T. consors, are present. The importance of the
parasite as a natural control of the host is great. Parker and Lamer-
son (1934) credit it with over haK of the total parasitism of the cur-
cuHo (T.q. magnus) in northeast Kansas in the years 1932-1933.
Ritcher (1936), using the name E. tylodermatis, states that it was the
most important and numerous parasite in Wisconsin in 1934-1935,
where parasitism ran as high as 40-63%. Hammer (1936) lists it
again as E. tylodermatis, from T. quadrigibbus in the Champlain
VaUey.
Distinguishing features of this species are the extremely narrow
dorsal valves of the female genitalia, the reduced sculpturing on the
sixth abdominal segment, the all yellowish-brown legs with the excep-
tion of the reddish-brown tinge to the hindfemora, and the longer than
wide segments of the antenna. It resembles E.fusca, new species, but
the characteristics mentioned above will separate them.
