NO. 3534 EURYTEMORA — WILSON AND TASH 567
evidence for the bionomics of E. arctica, and only some speculative
points that might have value in future studies can be offered. Pre-
svmiably development in some pools is both earlier and more rapid
than in other pools and in Lake 4. The appearance of adults of E.
arctica in one pool and of E. gmcilicauda in two pools as early as June
29, 1960, cannot be accounted for by overwintering of live specimens,
because the pools are so shallow they would freeze to the bottom
before thawing. It is more reasonable to assume that the populations
of these two species developed from overwintering resting eggs in
bodies of water that not only melted early (as was observed in the
coastal area for some bodies of water in May) but had a high enough
temperature to permit a comparatively rapid development of some of
the population to the adult stage. If such bodies of water did not
dry out daring the summer season there would be time for develop-
ment of a second generation as Oloffson (1918) postulated for E. raboH
in Spitzbergen and as may be true for some Alaskan Eurytemora. On
the other hand, adults of a monocyclic population that developed
rapidly might not persist long after egg production in a shallow^ pool
with fluctuating water level where it is associated with a related and
more dominant species. Successful collection of a short-lived, mono-
cyclic species would be dependent upon an element of chance in
sampling the body of water at the particular short period of time when
identifiable copepodid stages were present. Such factors might ac-
count in part for failure to collect more specimens of E. arctica in the
coastal pools. An additional factor that might be very important but
difficult to assess until more of the numerous bodies of water along the
coast of Alaska are investigated, is that brackish water even of very
low salinity is a marginal habitat for E. arctica, it being dominantly
a freshwater species.
Coastal Pools and Ponds
Three species of Eurytemora were collected in pools and ponds on
the coast (table 1). Of these, precisely identifiable copepodid stages
of E. arctica occurred only as one or two specimens in four pools in
1960, so that its importance as part of the coastal brackish fauna is
not known. The other two species, E. canadensis and E. gracilicauda,
occurred in large numbers and frequently enough to be considered
characteristic elements of both fresh and brackish coastal bodies of
water. They were associated with one another in brackish pools or
occasionally with Limnocalanus johanseni, a dominant associate of
Eurytemora in nearby lagoons and the only other calanoid copepod
found in the brackish pools. In freshwater pools, E. gracilicauda
occurred with the freshwater calanoid Heterocope septentrionalis.
