568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Samples reported here represent only a small part of such habitats
in the entire Cape Thompson region. Most are from the marshy area
near Singoalik Lagoon and are characterized as pools because of their
intermittent nature and small size. Many are shallow, ranging from
only 15 to 30 cm. in depth but some have a maximum depth of about
1 meter. Those near Singoalik and Mapsorak Lagoons are considered
as more or less brackish; precise salinity records associated with the
collections are not available but other records indicate that they are
not continuously fresh. Salinity undoubtedly varies with the fluctu-
ating water level which may be considerable both during a season and
from one year to another.
Records are summarized by year of collection in table L Excepting
Pool 1, the pools from which collections were made in 1961 were not
correlated with any of the previous year, and it is not known which
correspond to the pools listed for 1960. Copepodid stages are listed
for each date. In no instance do the collections furnish adequate data
for life cycle studies, but they do emphasize the value of the locale for
such studies. Of particular interest is the question of whether such
populations of Eurytemora, unlike most other calanoids of continental
bodies of water on the Arctic Slope, produce more than one generation
a year (Wilson and Tash, MS.) . The copepodid stages present in the
series of 1960 collections in Pool 1 (table 1) suggest two generations of
E. gracilicauda. Absence of any specimens in the middle of the season
may have been due to the presence of the species only as naupliar
stages which collecting gear failed to sample. Production of two
generations in a season would undoubtedly be dependent upon early
melting of snow and ice in the region, as probably happened in 1960
when adults bearing ovisacs were collected as early as June 29 (see
discussion under E. arctica, p. 567). As with E. gracilicauda, the
records of E. canadensis in shallow pools that freeze to the bottom,
not only in the Cape Thompson region but in other parts of its dis-
tributional range, suggest overwintering of the species as resting eggs.
Coastal Lagoons |
Including those studied by Johnson in 1959, a total of 11 lagoons
has been surveyed. As Johnson (1961) indicated, they group natural-
ly into those lying north and south of Cape Thompson, and the}^ are
summarized here by these geographic subdivisions (table 2). They
are dish shaped in profile, range in length from 3.2 to 8.0 km., are
shallow (maximum depth, 3 meters), and are free of ice cover for
about 2)2-3 months. Most do not now have direct connections with
the sea. Maximmn temperatures recorded in 1960 were 13.7° C. on
July 18 for Mapsorak Lagoon and 16.2° C. for Pusigrak Lagoon.
