570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ns
With a few exceptions during the observed periods, salinity was
relatively low (table 2). It seems logical to expect, however, that
the salinity of all the lagoons may be subject to greater or lesser
variation both throughout the season and from one year to another
because of physical factors influenced by the weather and climate
of this high latitude region. Strong winds are frequent even in the
summer months, resulting in practically no thermal or haline strati-
fication and contributing also to an erratic sampling of plankton
organisms. Thus, data from one week or year to another are not
necessarily sufficient to estimate accurately the quantitative abun-
dance of a species or to assume that its absence from a sample means
that it was also absent from the lagoon. Records in table 2 should
be viewed on the basis of these considerations.
Johnson found four species of Eurytemora in nine of the lagoons
in 1959. Two of these {E. herdmani, E. pacifica) were not found
in our collections, but three additional species (E. composita, E.
raboti, E. gracilicauda) occurred. E. arctica was not present in
the lagoons but was collected in pools, so that eight species of Euryte-
mora occur in the coastal area. In order to indicate what is known
of the continuity of species composition shown by three years of
collecting, Johnson's records for August 1959 are combined here
with our records of July 1959 and of 1960-1961 (table 2).
With two exceptions, collections from the eight lagoons south of
Cape Thompson yielded only E. canadensis, usually in association
with and in smaller numbers than Limnocalanus johanseni. Both of
these species in Alaska occur along the coast in waters ranging from
low salinity to fresh, but there are more known records of E. canaden-
sis than of L. johanseni in fresh water with associated freshwater
calanoid genera such as Heterocope and Diaptomus (literature and
Wilson collection).
Mapsorak Lagoon (Johnson no. 2S) presents a striking example of
the temporal nature of the copepod communities that may at times
be collected. In 1959, Johnson found nine marine species that he con-
sidered as having been "probably only recently recruited from the
sea." He describes the lagoon as having "a narrow above-sea-outlet
that probably floods with sea water during high storms." That this
large assemblage of species probably had been washed into the lagoon
from the sea is suggested by the high saUnity and by the fact that
none of the species was found in series of samples taken weekly in
1960 and 1961. The difference in the species of Eurytemora found in
the three years is noteworthy. E. herdmani and E. pacifica, occurring
only diu-ing the period of high salinity in 1959, are typical of inshore
waters of the Alaskan coast but are not known from fresh waters nor
from waters of extremely low salinity. In 1960, relatively low salinity
