VOL. 118
574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM
in determining brackishness in absence of other data. In the Cape
Thompson lagoons of very low salinity, the common freshwater
calanoid genera of the region, Heterocope and Diaptmnus, have not
established populations. A few specimens of D. arcticus were found
in one lagoon in August 1960, but since none were collected at other
dates, we believe them to be stragglers washed into the lagoon from
a freshwater soiu-ce. The few harpacticoid copepod genera that were
collected are, like the calanoid genera Eurytemora and Limnocalanus,
those having species with varying degrees of euryhalinity— Z)ameZs-
senia, Nitocra, Onychocamptus.
Distribution of Cape Thompson Eurytemora
The group of eight species of Eurytemora in the relatively small area
surveyed on the coast of the Chukchi Sea, ranging 39 miles north and
south of Cape Thompson (from latitude 68°15'-67°55' N. and longi-
tude 165°02'-166°0S' W.) and about 11 miles inland (from latitude
68°11'-68°14' N.) is the largest assemblage of species of the genus
recorded from any similar-sized area of the world. This group also
represents about one-half of the species known for the world and
nearly all of those known for Alaska (8:10) or North America (8:11).
Similar large numbers of species occur in coastal areas south of Cape
Thompson, where Heron (1964) found, in a single sample, five species
in Kivalina Lagoon and four species in two samples from Krusenstern
Lagoon. Including those of neritic waters and continental bodies of
water, five species are currently known (Hteratm-e and Wilson col-
lection) along the Beaufort seacoast from Point Barrow eastwards
as well as along the coast of the Bering Sea south to the Alaska
Peninsula. Similar numbers occm* in nearby Asian waters so that
the geographic region of northern and western Alaska and north-
eastern Asia is, in present-day distribution, richer in numbers of species
than any other of the world. This large representation probably
reflects the northern origin of both the genus and many of its species,
and emphasizes how well the biological requirements of the species
are met by the arctic-subarctic en\Tronment. The species of all
types of habitat illustrate the strong zoogeographic affinity between
the copepod faunas of Alaska and northeastern Asia, previously
pointed out by M. S. Wilson (1953b).
The eight species of Cape Thompson Eurytemora include all but
one of the total number known for landlocked bodies of water of
the Arctic Slope physiographic province of Alaska, of which the
Cape Thompson region is a part. In this province, comprising the
Arctic coastal plain and the foothills of the Brooks Mountain Range,
