578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ns
Busck (1932) probably overlooked the publication of the name
Ceracidae by Meyrick and established for the same group a syn-
onymic family name Atteriidae. Clarke (1955) was the first who
turned his attention to the male genitalia of Pseudatteria and stressed
the close relationship of this genus to the genera Polyortha Dognin
and Ardeutica Meyrick. Studies of the present author have con-
firmed this relationship in the morphology of the female genitaUa
also. Moreover, these studies have shown that the genera Atteria
and Idolatteria have nothing in common with Pseudatteria except
for the superficial resemblance; Atteria should be placed in Ana-
crusini (new status) and Idolatteria in the tribe Archipini. The
genera Pseudatteria, Polyortha, and Ardeutica require separation as
the new tribe Polyorthini, established in this paper. All of the
above-mentioned genera are c^uite distinct from the tribe Ceracini
which maintains its recognized status (Obraztsov, 1954.)
This paper represents the first revision of the genus Pseudatteria.
Until the present, most of the species have been known from the
original descriptions only; additional information was published by
Clarke (1958) for the species established by Meyrick. Favorable
circumstances have given the present author an opportunity to
examine the type specimens of all known species, to figure them and
their genitalia, to estabUsh the synonymy, to study extensive com-
parative materials, and to describe seven new species and one new
subspecies. The paper deals with 24 species of the genus Pseudat-
teria; some species are represented by females only.
The author is greatly indebted to all of the following persons
and institutions for their cooperation and permission to study the
specimens in their possession. The author expresses his cordial
thanks to J. D. Bradley of the British Museum (Natural History)
(BMNH); Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke of the U.S. National Museum
(USNM), who also placed at the author's disposal some photographs
for the present paper; Dr. P. J. Darlington, Director of the Museum
of Comparative Zoology (MCZ); Dr. W. Forster and Dr. K. Sattler
of the Bavarian State Zoological Collection (''Zoologische Sammlung
des Bayerischen Staates" in Munich; ZSM); Dr. H. J. Hannemann
of the Zoological Institut and Museum of the Humboldt University
in Berlin (ZMB); Dr. F. Kasy of the Vienna Museum of Natural
History (VMNH); Dr. A. B. Klots and Dr. F. H. Rindge of the
American Museum of Natural History (AMNH); and Dr. G. Petersen
of the German Institut of Entomology (''Deutsches Entomologisches
Institut"; DEI). The author is grateful also to W. G. Tremewan
of the British Museum (Natural History) for his careful assistance
in making genitalic slides. The work on this paper was done under
the auspices of the National Science Foundation; this agency also
