NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 579
contributed much to the accumulation of the Neotropical Microlepi-
doptera in the U.S. National Museum.
Polyorthini, new tribe
Tincidae (in part). — Dognin, 1912, H^tcroceres nouveaux de TAmerique du
Slid, fasc. 6, p. 50.
Tortricidae, groups B (in part) and D (in part) Meyrick, 1913, in Wytsman,
Genera insectorum, fasc. 149, pp. 20 and 47.
Atteriidae (in part) Busck, 1932, Bol. Biol., vol. 21, p. 44.
Ceracidii (in part). — Diakonoff, 1939, Zool. Meded. Rijksmus. Nat. Hist., vol.
21, p. 128.
Head with face more or less smooth. Antenna simple or false
serrate because of slightly raised scales; in male shortly pubescent
with setae protruding, cilia not longer than width of antennal shaft,
in female with setae only. Labial palpus porrect, moderate to very
long, tapering distad, rarely with second segment dilated by scales.
Vein Rs of forewing to costa or apex; no costal fold in male.
Male genitalia. — Eighth abdominal segment with large, well-
developed coremata, one on each side of segment; clusters of long
hair arising from these coremata, in resting position hidden in folds
of valvae. Uncus moderate to rather long, variously shaped, often
with an apical thorn directed ventrad and at base generally accom-
panied by a soft papilla; socius moderate to large, hairy, generally
padlike with broad base, pendant, occasionally modified; gnathos
with lateral arms distally fused into a middle process. Valva very
broad, folded outward along saccidus, crossing it longitudinally at
about middle, and thus forming a kind of pocket opened costally
and externally; sacculus slightly sclerotized at base, then occasionally
prolonged as a narrow strip along edge of fold of valva; costa some-
times sclerotized, occasionally with a rudimentary harpe; no pulvinus
and processus basalis. Fultura superior shaped as a transverse bar
between upper inner angles of valvae; vallum penis generally with
a lamina praeputialis. Aedeagus generally thick, robust, occasionally
slender, mostly with an apical process, often with sculptures in apical
portion ; cornutus as a ride single, large, cornif orm or variously platelet
shaped; rarely more than one cornutus or no cornuti; cuneus of little
spines or thorns often present.
Female genitalia. — Papillae an ales broad, pelmiform, hairy;
eighth abdominal segment rather short; ovipositor, if developed,
formed by three narrow, subcylindrical, retractable segments, and
ending with minute papillae an ales. Sinus vaginalis wide, more or
less infundibular, deep or rather flat, located caudad of seventh
abdominal segment, and as broad as latter; sterigma simple, composed
of a rather narrow, band-shaped, transverse lamella antevaginalis
