580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. u
occasionally fused with adjoining intersegmental membrane showing
in this case a somewhat modified structure; lamella postvag-
inalis generally not defined, membranous, forming dorsal wall of
sinusal funnel. Antrum tubular, generally sclerotized, always
rather short and wide, as a rule with two lateral colliculi, one on each
side of antrum. Corpus bursae generally elongate, much longer than
broad, occasionally somewhat ovate, in greatest portion membranous
with very fine sculpture; cervix: bursae as a rule not separated from
corpus bursae, merely definable morphologically, more or less sclero-
tized and scidptured, as broad as or broader than antrum, occasionally
fused with it; ductus seminalis opening into caudal portion of cervix
bursae, close to antrum; cestum elongate, more or less sclerotized,
often with a longitudinal carina, located or starting in cervical area
of bursa copulatrix, rarely cephalad of it or missing; signum generally
present, shaped as slightly sclerotized, small area or plate, not always
distinctly separated from adjacent surface of corpus bursae, gen-
erally with a transverse, slightly elevated carina and/or various
sculptures.
Remarks. — The valva of the Polyorthini is very peculiar and unique
for the entire family Tortricidae. If spread, it is extraordinarily
broad, but normally it is folded along the sacculus, and the broad
infrasaccular lobe, unbent externally, forms together with the inner
lobe of the valva a kind of pocket opened externally and costally.
This pocket serves as a receptacle for the cluster of long hairs of the
corema. The folded valva is foliaceus in its shape. Morphologically
the external lobe of the valva is probably the same as the infra-
saccular portion of the valva of some species of Archipini and Ana-
crusiini, in which it is rudimentary and not straight.
The female genitalia of the Polyorthini are characterized by a wide
ostium bursae, and a low differentiation of the separate sections of the
bursa copulatrix. In most species of the tribe, merely the antrum is
sejDarated from the bursa while the cervix bursae is united with the
corpus bursae. Only some few species have the caudal portion of the
cervical section narrower than the remaining corpus bursae. The
ductus seminalis opens mto this narrow portion, but in the species
^^•ithout this contraction the cervical section of the corpus bursae
directly receives the ductus seminalis. In connection with this mor-
phology, there are reasons to indicate the caudal sclerotized sculpture
of the wall of the corpus bursae as a cestum, leaving the name of the
signum for the sculpture located closer to the fundus bursae.
In regard to the genitalia, the tribe Polyorthini is rather close to the
Cnephasiini. The position of vein R5 of the forewing, running in the
Polyorthini to the costa or the \nng apex, speaks rather for a more
ancient origin of this tribe and its probable relationship to the Tor-
