582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ns
Hindwing subtrapezoidal, slightly narrower than or as broad
as forewing; costa almost straight or slightly undulate; apex rotundate;
termen flat or slightly sinuate; tornus broadly rotundate; dorsum
very slightly convex, strongly curved basally. Eight veins; Sc
almost straight; R and Mi more or less approximated in basal third,
then diverging; M2 and M3 parallel; M3 and Cui connate or slightly
separate at lower angle of discal cell; Cu2 from three-fourths of discal
cell; all three of anal veins present. No cubital pecten.
Male genitalia. — Eighth abdominal segment with large lateral
coremata bearing clusters of long hairs. Uncus moderately long,
elongate-scaphiform, flatly calathiform or somewhat obcordate, in
last two cases on a narrow stalk, or equally broad, slightly flattened
dorsoventrad, and with a transverse, ventral carina; tip of a scaphiform
or calathiform uncus generally with an apical thorn directed ventrad
and often with a small papilla at base of this thorn; middle process of
gnathos short; socius weak, haired, more or less dilated, pendant,
and with a broad base. Tegumen rather broad with narrow pedunculi.
Valva in folded position rotundate-foliaceus, oblong; costa sometimes
strengthened, especially at base, occasionally with a rudimentary
harpe; sacculus generally somewhat dilated at base. Fidtura superior
as a simple, transverse bar; vallum penis generally with a more or less
large, finely spinose lamina praeputialis; fultm'a inferior rather high.
Aedeagus generally thick and somewhat stout, occasionally rather
slender, in both cases with a process at tip, and in distal portion
sometimes with little scobination; caulis practically absent; coecum
penis rather rudimentary; a strong generally conriform cornutus,
sometimes also a cuneus of minute, more or less numerous thorns.
Female Genitalia. — Papillae anales pelmifonn, oblong, soft, and
haired. Sinus vaginalis wide, more or less infundibidar. Antrum
shortly tubular, as wide as sinus vaginalis or narrower, generally with
lateral colliculi, one on each side of antrum; no separate ductus bursae;
corpus bursae elongate, sometimes very long; cervix bursae not
difTerentiated, united with corpus bursae, generally stronger sclerotized
than latter and sculptured, and merely perceptible morphologically
as receiving ductus seminalis; in subgenus Pseudatteria cervical section
of corpus bursae broader than antrum, in remaining subgenera only
as broad as antrum, and fused with it; cestum generally present,
located in cervical section of corpus bursae, generally shaped as a
strongly sclerotized, elongate plate, as a rule with serrate margins and
a narrow, longitudinal carina; signum (if present) shaped as a rather
small, generally scobinate plate or an indistinctly outlined area with
or without a transverse carina.
Remarks. — Among the Neotropical Tortricidae the species of the
genus Pseudatteria are the most striking moths, which, with their
