NO. 3533 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 583
bright color and characteristic markmgs of the wiiigs, might be
compared only with the species of the tortricid genera Atteria Walker
(tribe Anacrusiini) and Idolatteria Walsingham (tribe Archipini).
The external morphological characters, like the long labial palpi and
the vein R5 of the forewing leading to the wing apex, make the
separation of the Pseudatteria species from these two genera very-
easy, and the genitalic characters permit their recognition at once as
members of the tribe Polyorthini.
Both male and female genitalia provide the bases for a division of
the genus Pseudatteria into three subgenera, Pseudatteria Walsingham,
sensu stricto, Eurynatteria, new subgenus, and Sj^haer atteria, new
subgenus, as they are defined m this paper. Only the external
morphological characters, common in all three of the above subgenera,
restrain the present author from raising them to the generic status.
In respect to the markings of the wmgs the Pseudatteria species
might be divided mto fom' groups, independent from the subgeneric
division:
1. Markings of forewing consist of more or less broad, black
marginal streaks, variously numerous, and perpendicular or slightly
oblique to costa and termen; no spots on dorsum; some occasional,
scarcely developed spots in internal area of forewing; subcostal area of
forewing white, variously broad; apicoterminal portion of forewing
also white, very broad; remaining portion of forewing and hindwing
orange; latter with some white in cilia only and with black spots on
margins; no internal spots on hindwing {volcanica Butler; splendens
Druce; cladodes Walsingham; bradleyi, new species; chrysanthema
Meyrick; igniflora IVIeyrick; shaferi, new species; dognini, new species;
tremewani, new species; maenas Meyrick; and pseudomaenas, new
species) .
2. Black marginal streaks of forewing as in former group, in some
species narrower and more numerous; as a rule spots on dorsum present;
internal area of forewing generally with very numerous and well-
developed spots; white subcostal area of forewing almost as broad as
in group 1, or narrower to completely lacking; white apicoterminal
area of forewing always narrower or lacking; hindwing with spots on
margins and in internal area {symplacota Mejnck -ffumipennis Dognin;
ardoris, new species; leopardina Butler; marmarantha Meyrick;
myriocosma Meyrick; unciana Dognin; pantherina Felder; heliocausta f.
baccheutis Meyrick). The nominate form of heliocausta Dognin shows
the characters intermediate between the two groups, having on the
forewing no dorsal spots and no or only some occasional, internal
spots, and the hindwing well spotted in the internal area.
3. Dark markings of forewing confluent, leaving ground color of
