584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ng
forewing in form of spots; hindwing with internal spots separate or
confluent {dictyanthes Meyrick; buckleyi Druce).
4. Markings of wings greenish blue; costal spots of forewing less
numerous than in three preceding groups; two very broad, transverse
bands, and a large spot in external portion of forewing; hindwing with
internal spots confluent or separate (cantharopa Meyrick; analoga,
new species).
Remarks. — There are no field or other observations on the living
moths of the genus Pseudatteria, and no information is yet present
about the natural enemies of these insects. Consequently nothing
is known about the biological significance of the bright colors of the
moths in question, and any treatment of these colors as being sematic
would be based merely on pure speculation. Nevertheless, it is
important to emphasize that the Pseudatteria species have their
analogies among Neotropical Lepidoptera belonging to different
families. This resemblance is in some cases so deceiving that it may
mislead (and already has misled) taxonomists and cause misinterpre-
tations of the systematic position of moths (see Appendix at the end
of this paper) . If the resemblance of the Pseiidatieria species to those
of two other tortricid genera, Atteria and Idolatteria, might in some way
be explained by the law of homologous series in variation (Vavilov,
1922), this explanation appears hardly applicable to the cases of a
remote relationship. For instance, many species of the oecophorid
genus Eumimographe Dognin have not only the color but also the
details of the wing markings of at least three pattern types as they have
been observed in the genus Pseudatteria. Only the sizes of the moths,
shapes of the wings, and other morphological details disclose the
diflerent family membership of these species. The zygaenid species
Euclimacia tortricalis Druce exactly reproduces the color and wing
markings of Pseudatteria volcanica or some other species of the pattern
group 1. The above resemblance is in no way less complete than in
the classical examples of mimicry of some South American Rhopaloc-
era. It should be mentioned that the Psendatieria species and their
analogues, which belong to other families of the Lepidoptera, inhabit
the same localities in many cases.
Chronologically Meyrick (1912) was the first to introduce the
generic name Pseudatteria in the literature, crediting this name to
Walsingham, and wi'iting ''Pseudatteria Wals. Biol. Centr. Amer. 4
(ined.)." In his catalogue of the Tortricidae, in which the above
quotation was published, Meyrick did not establish any new genus,
and there is no reason to suppose that he intended to make an excep-
tion for Pseudatteria. Later, Meyrick ("15th March 1913") gave
a description of this genus and named volcanica Butler, one of the
Pseudatteria species of his above catalogue, as its type species. He
