NO. 3535 ]\nCROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 587
14. Forewing with more or less large, almost equally sized streaks, following
more or less regularly one after another along entire dorsum; subterminal
longitudinal streaks of forewing close to terminal spots, and crossing
white area not deeply intrusive into orange area . . symplacota Meyrick
Dorsal spots of forewing irregularly distributed along dorsum, and some of
them distinctly larger than others; a longitudinal streak, located in
orange area of forewing, precedes two irregularly rotund, submarginal
spots fumipennis Dognin
15. Apical and one or two terminal streaks of forewing forming a fork connected
with a longitudinal, subterminal streak crossing entire width of white area.
pseudomaenas, new species
Furcate spots of forewing formed either by streaks other than above or by
same apical and terminal streaks, but then no longitudinal streaks com-
pletely crossing subterminal area; or no furcate spots on forewing . . 16
16. Costa of forewing with not more than nine streaks 17
Costa of forewing with more than nine streaks 20
17. Preapical costal streak of forewing not furcate and not connected with
apical streak; penultimate costal streak longest of all on forewing.
shafferi, new species
Two preapical streaks of forewing forming a fork, separate or connected
with apical streak 18
IS. Preapical and penultimate costal streaks of forewing forming a fork with a
long "handle" obliquely crossing white area and intruding into orange
area; tornal spot of forewing connected with trifurcate terminal spot
above it; hindwing with a large apical spot and three smaller, separate
terminal spots tremewani, new species
Apical and two preapical costal streaks of forewing forming a complicate,
biradiate fork with secondary, occasionally varicate branches and with-
out a "handle"; hindwing with apical spot and upper of terminal spots
connected 19
19. Two central terminal spots of forewing forming a short fork connected
with a rather rotundate tornal spot bradleyi, new species
Two central terminal spots of forewing forming a fork separated from
elongate tornal spot igniflora Me}Tick
20. Forewing with two terminal spots and these with not more than two terminal
points chrysanthema Meyrick
Forewing with not less than four terminal spots or with not less than three
terminal points of these spots 21
21. Forewing with a fork formed by three lower, adjacent terminal spots.
splendens Druce
Forewing with a fork formed by two lower, adjacent terminal spots; or
forks formed by some other, not adjacent terminal spots; or none of
terminal spots furcate 22
22. Only third costal streak before apex of forewing longer than remainder of
costal spots dognini, new species
Penultimate, occasionally also third of costal streaks before apex of forewing
longer than remaining costal spots 23
23. Apical and lower of terminal spots of forewing much broader than a terminal
spot between them cladodes Walsingham
Terminal spots of forewing almost equally broad among themselves; apical
spot of forewing occasionally broader volcanica Butler
