588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. H8
Subgenus Pseudatteria Walsingham, new status
Synonymy. — As listed above for the genus.
Type species.^ — ■Pseudatteria potamites Walsingham, 1913; by
monotypy and original designation.
Male.^ — ^Uncus elongate, somewhat scaphoid, at least in apical
portion, as a rule with an apical thorn du-ected ventrad, and generally
with a soft papilla ventrad to base of this thorn. Vesica with a large
cornutus, and generally with a cuneus composed of minute thorns.
Female. — Antrum well defined, subcylindrical, narrower than sinus
vaginalis and adjacent portion of corpus bursae; lateral coUiculi
generally present. Cervix bursae indicated by a stronger sclerotiza-
tion and striation.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) dognini, new species
Plate 1
Antenna brownish black with white annulation. Labial palpus
black, at base and inner surface white scaled. Head yellowish white
with a black median line dilated into a round, preoccipital spot.
Thorax [damaged; probably black, as some scales preserved in pos-
terior portion] yellowish white laterally; tegula black with external
fringes yellowish white. Abdomen orange. Forewing orange, in
subcostal and apicoterminal areas yellowish white; markings bluish
black, arranged as follows: ten costal streaks, some of them penetrating
into orange area; penultmiate of these streaks (ninth, counting from
wing base) much longer than others and spotlike dilated at tip; last
(tenth) of costal streaks U-shaped, resting with its branches on costa
before wing apex; two sunilarly shaped streaks, one on wing apex,
another on termen above tornus, and a much smaller, rotundate
terminal spot between them; a rather large, semirotundate spot on
tornus; an 8-shaped spot oblique basad, located on border of white and
orange areas, in front of interspace between tornal spot and mentioned
U-shaped terminal streak above it; cilia bluish black in front of
terminal streaks and spots, and white in interspaces. Length of fore-
wing 14-15 mm. Hindwing orange with black, rotundate marginal
spots: a large spot on wing apex, connected by a blackish shadow with
two spots, one of them a smaller spot on end of costa, another spot
slightly smaller than latter spot and located close to lower portion of
apical spot, basad of it; thi'ee rather large spots on termen, first of them
close to apical spot; a small dot closely following last of terminal spots,
and two much smaller, widely remote dots on dorsum; in male a little,
additional dot below and slightly basad of lower spots accompanying
apical spot; cilia black in front of spots, and orange or whitish in
interspaces.
