NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 589
Male genitalia. — Uncus with a narrow stalk ending with a
rotundate, flatly calathiform-dilated apex with an acute point directed
ventrad and accompanied by a little, haired papilla. Valva sub-
rectangular with external margin rotundate; sacculus slightly dilated
at base, and narrowly prolonged along ventral margin (of a folded)
valva. Aedeagus rather slender with a slightly curved apical process;
cornutus with two basal branches and a small, conical cap on apex;
cuneus indiscernible.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis with a trapezoidal lamella
antevaginahs. Antrum short, tubular with two shghtly arcuate
colliculi remote one from another. Cervical portion of corpus bursae
with fine, longitudinal striation and a stronger sclerotized, oblique
striation probably representing a modified cestum; corpus bursae long
and narrow; signum ovate.
Types.— Holo type, USNM 67566, male (genitaHa on shde 2-Obr.,
Jan. 22, 1961), Loja vicinity, Loja, Ecuador, 1S87 (Dognin Collection),
allotype, USNM, female (genitalia on shde 4429, JFGC), El Monje
near Loja, Loja, Ecuador, 1893 (Dognin Collection).
Remarks. — Very similar to shafferi, new species, but differs from
it in the shapes of the terminal marldngs and the subterminal spot
of the forewing. Also the apical spot and the terminal spots of the
hindwing are of different shapes and in dognini much larger. The
female genitalia of both species differ in the shapes of the lamella
antevaginahs, colhculi, striation of the cervix bursae, and the signum.
Besides the types of dognini, there is in the U.S. National Museum
a female specimen from Loja vicinity, Ecuador (pi. 1, fig. 7), somewhat
resembling this species, and differing from it in the details of the wing
marldngs. The costal streaks of the forewing of this specimen are
distinctly less oblique than in dognini, the penultimate and the last
of them are simple, and two separate spots are located internobasad
of these streaks and the streak preceding the penultimate one. Also
the apical spot of the hindwing is replaced by a group of three separate
spots. It is quite possible that this specimen might be a variety of
dognini, but this cannot be proven presently because the abdomen of
the moth is missing.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) sliafferi, new species
Plate 2
Female, — Antenna black with few whitish, scattered scales. Labial
palpus black, white on scapus and largest portion of inner sui-face of
second segment. Head [worn] with black face and white scales
around it. Thorax blue black with scattered, whitish scales; tegula
blue black with cream-yellow emargination. Abdomen orange.
