590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Forewing orange, white in subcostal and apicoterminal areas; markings
bluish black, arranged as follows: nine streaks on costa, penultimate of
them (eighth, counting from wing base) longest and dilated at tip;
a trifurcate streak with short branches resting on wing apex and
termen below it; another trifurcate streak with short branches resting
on termen above tornus; a semirotundate spot on tornus, on border of
white and orange areas: on elongate spot, slightly oblique basad, and
located between tornal spot and penultimate costal streak; cilia black
in front of streaks, and white in interspaces. Length of forewing 14
mm. Hindwing orange with purple-black spots: a large apical spot,
composed of two confluent spots, one at end of costa, another on wing
apex; five much smaller spots on termen; cilia black in front of termi-
nal spots, twice checked with white at apical spot, and white in inter-
spaces between apical spot and three following terminal spots; re-
mainder of cilia orange with a black dot on tornus, basad of last
terminal spot.
Male. — Unknov/n.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis with a subtrapezoidal, some-
what obtusely pointed lamella antevaginalis on middle of caudal mar-
gin. Antrum short, tubular with incurved sides, and with broad, curved
colliculi touching each other at middle of antrum. Cervical portion of
corpus bm"sae membranous caudally, slightly dilated and covered with
a dense, sclerotized, rather disorderly, longitudinal striation at middle,
and again narrowed cephalically; cestum indicated by a laterocaudal
sclerotization in striated area of cervix bursae; corpus bursae long and
narrow; signum with an arcuate, transverse carina dividing it in an
open, not well-defined caudal area and a subtriangular cephalic area
narrowly extended cephalad.
Type. — Holotype, 9 (genitalia slide 8680), Guainia ("Upper Rio
Negro"), Vaupes, Colombia, 800 m. (A. H. Fassl); BM.
Remarks. — ^Very similar to dognini, new species, and compared with
it in the description of the latter. In the female genitalia, shaferi is
also rather close to tremewani, new species, but has no external
similarity to it. This species is named for M. Shaffer of the British
Museum (Natural History) for recognition of his kind assistance in the
preparation of the genitalia slides for the present author's studies on
the Neotropical Tortricidae.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) pseudomaenas, new species
Plate 3
Antenna black with whitish spots on some segments. Labial
palpus black with basal segment, and inner surface and dorsal edge
