NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 591
of second segment cream white. Head cream white with a large,
black, triangular spot on vertex. Thorax cream white with black
spots, one anteriorly, and two posteriorly; tegula black with cream-
white emargination. Forewing orange with costal and apicoterminal
areas cream white ; markings black, arranged as follows : eleven streaks
on costa; one streak on apex, successively connected with two terminal
streaks below apex and a broader, straight, longitudinal, subterminal
streak reaching to imaginary line drawn between third costal streak
(counting from wing apex) and upper tornal streak, and thus forming
a trivaricate fork with long "handle"; two more terminal streaks
below this fork, and two tornal streaks, occasionally connected by
their tips; two round or slightly elongate subterminal spots internad
of last terminal and upper tornal streaks, connected with themselves
and occasionally with mentioned streaks; a minute dot basad or
dorsobasad of "handle" of fork; a minute dot dorsad of tip of sixth
costal streak (counting from wing apex) ; ciUa black in front of streaks,
and white in interspaces. Length of forewing: male 11 mm.; female
14 mm. Hindwing orange with nine black spots on margins; two
largest of them on end of costa and wing apex; remaining spots along
termen and tornus; interspaces of upper seven of these spots yellowish
wliite; ciha concolorous with spots and interspaces.
Male genitalia. — Uncus with a long stalk ending with a dilated,
ovate-calathiform apex bearing a thorn directed ventrad. Valva
subrectangular, slightly oblong with external margin rotundate;
saccidus shghtly dilated at base and narrowly prolonged along ventral
margin (of a folded) valva. Aedeagus rather slender with a narrow
apical process; cornutus with an apical cap and narrow, basal exten-
sion; cuneus indiscernible.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis flatly infundibular; lamella
antevaginalis with a rotundate-trapezoidal dilatation at middle.
Antrum slightly longer than broad, inciu'ved laterally; two lateral
colhculi touching each other at middle of antrum. Cervical portion
of corpus bursae striated; no cestum discernible; corpus bursae narrow,
moderately long: no signum.
Types. — Holotype, cf (genitalia slide 8668), and allotype, 9
(genitaha sUde 8669), Costa Rica, April 1924 (Janson) ; BM.
Remarks.— This new species is known in two specimens, a male
and a female, well matching each other. Very characteristic of the
species is a longitudinal streak in the subterminal area of the forewing,
looking like a "handle" of a trivaricate fork formed by the apical and
two terminal streaks. The species might remind one of maenas Mey-
rick, but in the latter the longitudinal steak is formed by the upper
terminal streak, is broader and shorter than in pseudomaenas, and
