592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
has no fork at the termen. Moreover, maenas has only 10 costal
streaks of the forewing, and they are somewhat heavier, the external
ones distinclty longer, and the internal area of the foremng has many
round, rather large, black spots. Also the spots of the hindwing are
different in the two species. The lamella antevaginaUs of 'pseudomaenas
has no sclerotized caudal Une, and the striated area of the cervical
portion of the corpus bursae and the entire corpus bursae are shorter
than in maenas.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) maenas Meyrick
Plate 4
Pseudatteria maenas ^Nleyrick, 1924, Exotic Microlepidoptera, vol. 3, p. 109. —
Clarke, 1955, Catalogue of the type specimens of IMicrolepidoptera in the
British Museum described by Edward Meyrick, vol. 1, p. 195; 1958, op. cit.,
vol. 3, p. 196, pi. 98, figs. 4-4b.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis wide, very flatly infundibidar;
lamella antevaginalis semicircular with a narrowly sclerotized caudal
margin. Antrum as long as broad, deeply incm-ved laterally; colliculi
lateral, rather broad, each with a narrow, strongly sclerotized streak
externally. Cervical portion of corpus bursae rather long with
longitudinal, slightly undiUate striation, laterocaudally with an
elongate, strongly sclerotized patch (?cestum) ; corpus bursae long
and narrow; signum indiscernible.
Type. — Holotype, 9 (genitalia slide 4531, JFGC), Chuiqui, Panama,
1S99 C'K.");BM.
Other specimen examined. — 9, Las Lagunas, El Volcan Chiriqui,
Panama, Jan. 28, 1948 (R. E. Ellison); BM.
Remark. — No males are known.
Pseudatteria {Pseudatteria) tremetvani, new species
Plate 5
Female. — Antenna blackish brown. Labial palpus cream yellow;
terminal segment and outer surface of second segment blackish brown.
Head cream yellow, slightly orange around eyes, and with a black
spot between antennae and occiput. Thorax reddish orange; black
dots on shoulder of tegula, and an occasional, black spot at middle of
thorax. Abdomen reddish orange, occasionally black on tip. Fore-
wing deep reddish orange, in subcostal and apicoterminal areas
white; markings black, arranged as follows: nine streaks on costa,
smallest of them at wmg base, and each following, somewhat longer
than preceding one; penultimate and preapical costal streaks (eighth
and ninth, counting from wing base) forming a fork with a heavy,
oblique ''handle" slightly capitate at tip and mtruding into orange
