NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 593
area; a rather triangular or somewhat elongate spot at wing apex
and apical portion of termen, trivaricate or quadrivaricate toward
them; an elongate spot, bivaricate or trivaricate extern ad, located on
termen beneath former spot, with lower, internal portion connected
with upper portion of a large tornal spot, and thus forming a common
tornoterminal spot touching wmg margin at three or foiu- points;
preapical costal streak, apicoterminal spot, and tornoterminal spot
occasionally connected by means of narrow crosspieces; cilia black
in front of markings, and white in interspaces. Length of forewing
14-15 mm. Hindwing reddish orange with black spots: a large spot
on wing apex, two smaller spots on termen below former spot, and
one or two more, smallest, on torn us and dorsum; cilia black in front
of spots, white m interspace of apical and upper of terminal spots,
sometimes white also m next interspace, and reddish orange in others;
some occasional grayish or blackish dots in white or orange interspaces
of cilia.
Male. — Unknown.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis flat with a narrow lamella
antevaginahs. Antrum cyhndrical, sHghtly longer than broad;
two large, lateral colliculi, each with a longitudinal, strongly sclerotized
streak. Cervical portion of corpus bursae with a strong, longitudinal,
somewhat disorderly striation; no cestum discernible; corpus bursae
long and moderately broad; signum ovate.
Types. — Holotype, 9 (genitalia slide 8678), Cuzco, Peru, January
1901 (Garlepp); BM. Paratypes: 9, Peru; DEI. 2 99 (genitaha
shde 8677), La Merced ("La Mercede"), Junin, Peru, 2000-3000 ft.
(Walkins); B^L 2 99 (genitaha shdes 8675, 8676), Bohvia (nos.
71078, 13496); B^L 3 99 (genitaha shdes 4439, JFGC, and 8670),
Rio Zongo ("Songo"), Boh^^a, 750 m. (A. H. Fassl) ; B^L 9, same
data; USNM. 9, same data; DEL
Remarks. — In the genitaha this new species is rather close to the
new species shafferi and dognini but differs from them in the shape of
the colliculi and the striation of the cervical portion of the corpus
bm'sae. Moreover, tremewani is completely unlike both of these
species in the wing markings. It is more like chrysantheina ]Meyrick,
but has the tornoterminal spot never divided, and always separated
from the wing margin by several white spaces. The arrangement and
the shapes of the spots on the hindwing and the genitalia are quite
different in tremewani and chrysanthema. The species is named for
W. G. Tremewan of the British Museum (Natm'al History) in rec-
ognition of his kind assistance in the dissections of moths; also the
author is grateful for haAdng his attention drawn to all characters
observed as new or rare in the slides, including this new species.
219-933—66 2
