598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
long and broad; signum with a transverse carina separating a
triangular, cephalic area from a flat, open, caudal area.
Type. — Holotype, 9 (genitalia on slide 5773), Bogota, Cundin-
amarca, Colombia (Lindig; 400161); BM.
Other specimens examined. — Colombia: 2 99, no locality data,
1915 (Meyrick Collection); BM. 1 9, Pacho, Cundinamarca,
2200 m. (H. Fassl); BM. 1 9, same data; USNM. 2 99, Bogota,
Cundinamarca (Lindig, Felder Collection, 400162; and Rothschild
Collection) ; BM.
Remarks. — The shape and size of the spots of the wings are
slightly variable. The marginal streaks along the external portion
of the costa and termen of the forewing are either separate or con-
nected in pairs. On the hindwing the number of the spots is somewhat
inconstant. The male of the species is unknown.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) funtipennis (Dognin)
Plate 12
Atteria fiimipennis Dognin, 1904, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belgique, vol. 48, p. 133.
Pseudatteria fumipennis. — Meyrick, 1912, in Wagner, Lepidopterorum catalogus,
pt. 10, p. 16; 1913, in Wytsman, Genera ineectorum, fasc. 149, p. 22.
Male genitalia. — Uncus rather long with a narrow basal stalk
and a scaphiform, dilated and rounded apical portion ending with a
short, acute point directed ventrad; a Httle, haired papilla closely
approximate to this point, and located basad of it. Valva sub-
rectangular with external margin rounded; sacculus short and rather
broad, triangular. Aedeagus thick and stout with a narrow apical
projection; vesica finely punctulate; cornutus large, stout with a short,
strong, bent hook distally; cuneus shaped as a short, arcuate row of
minute spines.
Type.— Holotype, cf (genitaha slide 3-Obr., Feb. 24, 1961), Micay,
Valle del Cauca, Colombia, August 1896 (Dognin Collection) ; USNM.
Remark. — The holotype is the only known specimen of the species.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) ardoris, new species
Plate 13
Female. — Antenna black ; scapus with a slight prismatic-blue luster.
[Labial palpi missing.] Head dark prismatic blue; white emargination
around eyes, dilated at face. Thorax dark prismatic blue; patagia,
tegula, and posterior edge of mesothorax with white margins; lateral
sides of metathorax with orange-yellow tufts of hairs. Legs black;
lower edge of foreleg white; middle and hindlegs with white rings.
Abdomen black with yellow rings. Forewing deep reddish orange, at
costa and termen white; markings black, formed by numerous spots
and streaks with a slight bluish or violet luster, and arranged as
