NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 599
follows: twelve broad, more or less sub quadrate spots on costa, most
of them continued distad as oblique, irregularly shaped streaks formed
by confluence with a longitudinal row of rotundate, subcostal spots,
only a few of which remain isolated; wing apex with a short, trifurcate
streak fused with an ovate spot located basad; termen with three
elongate, nearly 8-shaped, oblique streaks narrower than costal
streaks; at tornus two rather large, rotund spots; dorsum with 10
spotlike streaks slightly inclined in diiTerent directions and occasionally
touching each other with tips; five spots in discal cell, and one externad
of it, forming a common, longitudinal row; the outer two more remote
from each other and remaining spots of same row; a longitudinal
streak being a continuation of this row and located close before upper
of terminal streaks; two pairs of round spots beneath this longitudinal
streak, one pair below other and before two lower of terminal streaks,
and forming an 88-figure; four spots in interspace of veins Cui and
Cu2; eight spots in interspace below discal cell and vein Cuj; some
minute dots in external wing portion and here and there between large
spots; cilia black in front of spots, and white in interspaces. Length
of forewing 14 mm. Hindwing concolorous with forewing but without
white; at apex two large, rotundate spots touching each other; one
subtriangular spot on costa before apex; five moderately sized spots
on termen and tornus, and three larger ones on dorsum; two large,
round spots forming a row beneath discal cell, and two smaller spots
externad of it; two spots in interspace beneath vein Cu2, external of
these spots smaller; four large, somewhat unequally sized spots in
vein interspace next dorsad of this row, and two small spots dorsobasad
of basal of these four spots; ciha black or grayish in front of spots,
orange or whitish in interspaces.
Male. — Unknown.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis flatly infundibular; lamella
antevaginaUs bandlike, narrow at middle, and shghtly broader lat-
erally. Antrum cylindrical, slight]}^ longer than broad; coUiculi
lateral, vestigial; cervical portion of corpus bursae with a tangled
striation; cestum rather narrow, elongate, at margins serrate, tapering
cephalad, and divided by a narrow, medi ©longitudinal carina; corpus
bm'sae rather long and moderately broad; signum shaped as a smooth,
elongate area, at middle with a transverse, stronger sclerotized fold.
Type. — Holotype, 9 (genitaha on sHde 8659), Marcapata, Peru,
4500 ft. (Rothschild Bequest) ; BM.
Remarks.— Similar to Jumipennis Dognin but differs from this
species in some details of the wing markings. The costal streaks of
the forewing are inclined distad, while in fumipennis their tips are
tiu-ned sharply basad. The dorsal streaks of the forewing are more
numerous and shaped quite differently from fumipennis. This also
