600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. 113
concerns the spots of the internal portion of the forewing, which in
the new species are arranged in distinctly longitudinal rows; mjumi-
pennis these spots are less numerous, and their arrangement is more
disorderly. The markings of the hindwing are quite different in the
two species. In consequence of so many essential differences in the
wing markings, it is difficult to assume that fumipennis and arcloris
might belong together as two sexes of one species. jMoreover, the
types of both of them originate from locahties rather remote one from
the other. The new species also has some resemblance to symplacota
A'leyrick, but differs from the latter in the number and size of the wing
spots, and has distinct genitahc structures requiring the placement of
these two species in separate subgenera.
Pseiidatteria (Pseudatteria) cladodes Walsingham
Figure 8; Plate 14
Pseudatteria cladodes Walsingham, 1914, Biologia Centrali-Americana, Lepidop-
tera Heterocera, vol. 4, p. 2G9, pi. 8, fig. 6.
Male genitalia. — Uncus rather narrow, slightly and gradually
dilated toward rotundate apex with a minute, acute point, and on
ventral surface with a little, haired papilla. Valva broadly subovate
with external margin rounded; costa sHghtly sclerotized; sacculus
slightly dilated at base and narrowly extended along entire ventral
margin of valva. Aedeagus moderately long and thick, with a narrow
distal process slightly dilated before tip, with spinulation laterobasad
of this process, and more basad with a long, ventral keel directed
basad and pointed at tip; cornutus large, transverse-subovate with
a thick, obtuse, cuculliform distal process; a long, loop-shaped cuneus
of numerous little spines, multiordinal in basal portion of loop, behind
its middle, and on end, and uniordinal in intermediate portions.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis flatly infundibular with a
moderately broad lamella antevaginalis. Antrum tubular, slightly
elongate, narrower than adjacent portion of cervical portion of corpus
bursae; two lateral collicuh, one on each insignificantly incurved side
of antrum. Cervix bursae striated, more densely caudad, with a
strong lateral sclerotization; cestum long, narrow, tapering cephalad,
surrounded by a weaker sclerotized, serrately outlined area. Corpus
bursae moderately broad; signum indiscernible.
Type. — Holotype, female (genitalia on slide 5768), "Central
America" (O. Sahdn; Felder Collection; 400153); BM.
Other specimens examined. — cf (without abdomen), paratype,
Peru (Saunders Collection; 94-68); cf (genitaha slide 6615), Peru
(Saunders; 4012.32) ;BM.
Remarks. — The label of the holotype of cladodes reads "Central
America," and Walsingham (1914) supposed that the specimen might
