NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 601
originate from Panama. Of the specimens examined by the present
author, two others are labeled as originating from Peru, It seems
therefore quite probable that some confusion has occurred in the label-
ing of the Walsingham specimen. Future records perhaps will bring
more clarity to this problem.
Superficially dadodes might easily be mistaken for some form of
the highly variable volcanica Butler; however, dadodes has 10 costal
streaks of the forewing instead of 11 streaks as in volcanica, and
there is a distinction in the genitaha of these two species. The male
of dadodes has the uncus less narrowed basad, the valva is somewhat
shorter and therefore looks relatively broader, the aedeagus has a
ventral keel, and the cornutus and the cuneus are shaped differently.
The female genitalia are rather similar in both dadodes and volcanica,
but the antrum of the first species is less incm'ved laterally, and the
signum is not discernible.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) leopardina (Butler)
Plates 15, 16
Atteria leopardina Butler, 1872, Cistula Ent., vol. 1, p. 89; 1874, Lepidoptera
Exotica, p. 178, pi. 61, fig. 5.
Pseudatteria leopardina. — IMeyrick, 1912, in Wagner, Lepidopterorum catalogus,
pt. 10, p. 16; 1913, in Wytsman, Genera insectorum, fasc. 149. p. 22. —
Walsingham, 1914, Biologia Centrali-Americana, Lepidoptera Heterocera,
vol. 4, p. 269, pi. 8, fig. 7.
Male genitalia. — Uncus scaphiform-spatulate, dilated and
rounded apically, at tip with a short, acute point directed ventrad,
and a minute, setose papilla beneath this point. Valva subrect angular
with a roimded external margin; sacculus dilated at base, and then
narrowly extended along ventral margin of valva, not reaching
external angle. Aedeagus thick but not stout, with a slight "waist"
at middle, and a robust distal process; cornutus elongate with two
apical points; no cuneus.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginahs flatly infundibular; lamella
antevaginalis narrow. Antrum tubular with two broad, lateral
colliculi, one on each side; cervical portion of corpus bursae mar-
morate; cestum indiscernible; corpus bursae rather broad; signum
divided by a transverse carina in two unequal portions, caudal one
larger.
Type.- — Holotj^pe, female (genitalia on shde 5766), Costa Rica
(75-17); BM.
Other specimens examined.— ^Costa Rica: 9 (abdomen missing),
no exact locahty data; AMNH. 9, same; USNM. 5 99, same
(A. G. M. Gillot; Adams; Underwood); BM. cf (genitaha on shde,
prepared by A. Busck on Sep. 28, 1920), and 2 99, Volcan de Poas,
