610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. ub
and turning on inner surface to middle of second segment. Head
cream white with a median, black stripe expanded on vertex. Thorax
black with some cream-white spots posteriorly and laterally; patagia
cream white, black at middle; tegula black, along external margin
and on apex cream white. Abdomen orange. Forewmg deep reddish
orange, in subcostal area and external third of wing cream white;
blue-black markings: nine costal streaks; two external streaks con-
fluent with themselves and a long, apical streak, forming a trifurcate
spot; a large, bifurcate spot on termen, confluent with a rotundate,
tornal spot; a separate, rotundate spot at border of orange and cream-
white areas between tornal spot and seventh costal streak (counting
from wing base); cUia concolorous with marginal markings, blue
black in front of spots touching termen, and cream white in inter-
spaces. Length of forewing 14 mm. Hindwing deep reddish orange
with violet-black marginal spots: a large spot at wing apex, confluent
with a smaller terminal spot beneath; two smaller, separate spots at
tornus; cUia cream white at apex, between apical and terminal spots,
and between terminal and tornal spots; in front of spots cilia con-
colorous with them, in remaining portions orange.
Male. — ^Unknown.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis rotundate-infundibidar with
lamella antevaginalis laterally dilated, at middle narrowed for a short
distance. Antrum widely tubidar, slightly narrowed caudally, and
mth cephalic margin scalloped; two narrow, lateral colliculi; cervical
portion of corpus bursae striated, with a dense sclerotization near lin-
ear cestum, latter slightly protruding this sclerotized area; corpus
bursae moderately broad; signum with an arcuate, transverse carina, a
weakly sclerotized area caudally, and a serrate, triangular area
cephalically.
Type. — Holotype, 9 (genitalia slide 8679), Las Yungas, La Paz,
Bolivia, 1000 m., Oct. 29, 1908 (Seebold; 16476); BAL The exact
date and the altitude were established on the basis of information by
H. Rebel, found in the catalogue of the Walsingham Collection.
Remarks. — Very similar in the markings of the ^^'ings to ignijlora
Meyrick. Differs from this slightly variable species in having some
scattered, whitish scales on the scapus of the antenna, the inner surface
of the second segment of the labial palpus cream white only to its
middle, the patagia interrupted at the middle by black, the terminal
and the tornal spots of the forewing connate, the latter spot rotundate,
the apical spot of the hindwing smaller, and the genitalia distinct in
their details. The genitalic differences consist mainly of the sinus
vaginalis being less wide and more rotundate, the narrow middle por-
tion of the lamella antevaginalis much shorter, the antrum somewhat
longer and slightly narrowed caudally, its cephalic margin being dis-
