NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 611
tinctly scalloped, both of the coUiculi narrow, and the signum shaped
differently. The cestum is similar to that in igniflora, but does not
reach as far cephalad, being almost hidden in the sclerotization of the
cervix portion of the bm-sa copidatrix. This sclerotization is distinctly
striated in the new species; in igniflora it is rather marmorated.
The species is named for J. D. Bradley of the British Museum
(jSIatm'al History), whose kind assistance and steady attention to the
present author's research have contributed much to the completeness
of the present paper.
Pseudatteria (Pseudatteria) igniflora Meyrick
Plates 29, 30
Pseudatteria igniflora Meyrick, 1930, Exotic Microlopidoptera, vol. 3, p. 606. —
Clarke, 1955, Catalogue of the type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the
British Museum described by Edward Meyrick, vol. 1, p. 167; 1958, op. cit.,
vol. 3, p. 196, pi. 98, figs. 3-3c.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis very flatly infundibular with
lamella antevaginalis narrow at middle and dilated laterally. Antrum
tubular, rather short, caudally slightly narrower than cephalically;
two lateral colliculi, right one distinctly broader; cervical portion of
corpus bursae caudally almost as broad as antrum, cephalically more
or less dilated, striated, and sometimes with spots between lines,
looking somewhat marmorate; caudal margin of cervical portion more
or less scalloped, caudolaterally sometimes with sclerotized areas;
cestum more or less long with a longitudinal carina; corpus bursae
long, rather broad; signum with a transverse fold and two rather
smooth, weakly sclerotized areas somewhat narrowed to their ends
and located caudad and cephalad of fold.
Type. — Holotype, 9 (genitalia slide 4424, JFGC), Bolivia (ex
Germain) ; BM.
Other specimens examined. — BoHvia: 9 (genitalia slide 4532,
JFGC), no exact data (ex Germain); USNM. 9 (genitalia slide
M. 1030), Chapare, 400 m., June 1951 (R. Zischke); ZSM.
Remarks. — The species was established on the basis of a single
female specimen; the male is unknown. The two females, additionally
examined by the present author, differ slightly from the type. In one
of these females (Chapare; slide M. 1030) there is a narrow, additional
costal streak on the forewing between the fourth and fifth main
streaks; on the left forewing the terminal spot is joined to the tornal
spot, and on each hindwmg there are two tornal spots below the large
terminal spot. These characters make this female somewhat smiilar
to bradleyi, new species, but in the latter the corpus bursae is distinctly
shorter, and the lamella antevaginalis, antrum, and cestum have
