NO. 3535 MICROLEPIDOPTERA, IX — OBRAZTSOV 613
portion of corpus bursae; many strong, rather long thorns in and
before caudal section of cer\'ical portion of corpus bursae; caudal half
of corpus bm-sae slightly sclerotized and decorated with some stronger
sclerotized, longitudinal folds; corpus bursae elongate, rather broad,
rounded cephalicallj" signum shaped as an irregular, scobinate plate.
Type.— Holotype, 9, Ecuador; DEI.
Remark. — The species is known only from its holotype.
Pseudatteria {Eurynatteria) biickleyi (Druce)
Plates 32, 33
Atteria buckleyi Druce, 1901, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 7, vol. 7, p. 439.
Atteria purpurea Dognin, 1904, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belgique, vol. 48, p. 132, [New
synonymy.]
Pseudatteria buckleyi. — Meyrick, 1912, in Wagner, Lepidopterorum catalogus, pt.
10, p. 16; 1913, in Wytsman, Genera insectorum, fasc. 149, p. 22.
Pseudatteria purpurea.— Meyrick, 1912, in Wagner, Lepidopterorum catalogus
pt. 10, p. 16; 1913, in Wytsman, Genera insectorum, fasc. 149, p. 22.
Male genitalia. — Uncus spatulate, obtriangular, narrow at base,
and widel}^ dilated and rounded distall}^ Valva subrectangular
with external margin rounded; costa sclerotized, and with a dentate
harpe. Aedeagus thick with a broad, apical process; cornutus long,
dilated in basal portion, and narrowly tapering in distal portion.
Female genitalia. — Sinus vaginalis with a lamella antevaginalis
narrow at middle and dilated laterally. Antrum scobinate cephali-
call}^; thorns in cervical area moderately long; caudal half of corpus
bursae distinctly sclerotized; corpus bursae broad, cephalically
rounded; signum shaped as a plate with serrated outline, and cephali-
cally with an elevated carina.
Types. — Holotype of buckleyi, cf (genitalia slide 5769), Intag
("Intaj"), Ecuador (C. Buckley; 6609) ; BM. Holotype of imrpurea,
9 (genitalia missing), Loja A'icinity, Ecuador, 1893 (Dognin); USNM.
Other specimens examined. — Ecuador cf, and 3 99 (genitalia
of one, slide 6625), Chiguinda (C. Buckley); BM. cT, Sarayacu
(C. Buckley) ; BM.
REi\iARKS.-^In compliance with the labels in the collection of the
British Museum (Natural History), J. Durrant supposed that buck-
leyi and purpurea might merely be the two sexes of one species.
The present author approves this point of view and finds especially
convincing the fact that the markings of the forewing are very similar
in both buckleyi and purpurea. The differences in the markings
of the hindwing may be explained by sexual dimorphism, already
observed in two other species of the same subgenus Eurynatteria.
Thus, in the males of cantharopa Meyrick these markings also are
more developed and confluent, while in the females they consist
