614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
of separate spots. In the females of heliocausta Dognin the markings
of the hindwing are somewhat more scanty than in the males, and
only in the form baccheutis Meyrick of this species is the difference
less striking, because of the development of additional spots. A
careful comparison of the male specimens of buckleyi and the female
specimens of purpurea peiTnits recognition of common elements
in the markings of the hindwing. This is particularly convincing
in the specimens of both sexes, collected in the same locality
(Chiguinda) .
The abdomen of the holotype of purpurea had been badly damaged,
probably at the time the specimen was caught or shortly after,
and the genitalia became lost. For this reason it has become necessary
to examine and photograph the female genitalia of a specimen other
than the holotype, but superficially similar to it.
Pseudatteria (Eurynatteria) cantharopa (Meyrick)
Plates 34-36
The holotype of this species is a female with the abdomen missing.
The present author had the chance to examine two more female
specimens originating from the same locality as the holotype (Chulu-
mani, Bolivia) and well matching the latter. Moreover, he had at
hand six more specimens from Peru, similar to those from Bolivia,
but nevertheless distinct from them in some external characters,
constant in all of the examined specimens. The female genitalia
give no grounds for separation of the Peruvian moths as a species
distinct from cantharopa, but the external appearance permits treating
them at least as a subspecies.
Pseudatteria (Eurynatteria) cantharopa cantharopa
(Meyrick), new status
Plate 34
Atieria cantharopa Meyrick, 1909, Trans. Ent. Soc. London, p. 14. — Clarke, 1955,
Catalogue of the type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the British Museum
described by Edward Meyrick, vol. 1, p. 73.
Pseudatteria cantharopa. — Meyrick, 1912, in Wagner, Lepidopterorum catalogus,
pt. 10, p. 16; 1913 in Wytsman, Genera insectorum, fasc. 149, p. 22. — Clarke,
1958, Catalogue of the type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the British
Museum described by Edward Meyrick, vol. 3, p. 195, pi. 97, fig. 2.
Female. — Antenna black. Labial palpus with terminal segment
and outer surface of second segment black; basal segment, inner surface
and dorsal edge of second segment gi-eenish black. Head orange
with a median black stripe expanded on vertex. Thorax and tegula
deep bluish black; patagia, base and fringes of tegula, two anterior,
three median, and two posterior spots on thorax orange. Abdomen
