638
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM
VOL. 118
specimens examined by him from the Galapagos Islands exhibited
"almost infinite variation." This variabiHty is especiaUy discon-
certing in the form of the meriis of the outer maxillipeds ; that segment
may be either subquadrate or markedly produced at the distolateral
angle in specimens from the same general area. On the other hand,
the prolongation of the posterolateral angles of the penultimate
abdominal somite of the male and the form of the gonopods seem to
b
Figure 1 —Micropanope melanodactylus, laterocephalic aspects of right gonopods: a,
homoeotype with carapace length of 6.1 mm. from roadstead of Porto Grande, St. Vincent'
b, syntype of Micropanope polita with carapace length of 5.3 mm.; c, syntype of Panopeus
tanneri with carapace length of 6.0 mm.
be reliable diagnostic characters. Intensive study of material from
the eastern Atlantic and the eastern Pacific may eventually disclose
dift'erences of subspecific importance, but it seems best for the present
to consider the two populations identical.
It is remarkable that this species, which is abundant in the eastern
Atlantic and the eastern Pacific, is apparently absent from the western
Atlantic. None of the species described from eastern America have
gonopods that could be confused wdth those of M. melanodactylus.
M. truncatifrons Rathbun, 1898, which is known from only two fe-
males and one juvenile from off Cuba and off Yucatan, bears a
superficial resemblance to M. melanodactylus, but I beheve that it is a
distinct species; in both adult females, the front is straighter, the
outer surfaces of the pahns are more completely granular, and the
color on the fingers is less extensive than in any specimens of M.
melanodactylus examined.
I agree mth Monod (1956, p. 324) that M. melanodactylus is prob-
ably not a synonym of Xantho minor Dana, 1852b. Unfortunately,
the type-specimen of Dana's species is probably no longer extant, and
his name is therefore likely to remain a nomen duhium indefinitely.
