NO. 3536 DECAPOD CRUSTACEANS — CHACE 643
tubercles, but without continuous marginal line dividing outer and
inner faces; distinct longitudinal line running nearly entire length of
outer siulface of propodus near lower margin ; palm about one and one-
half times as high as length of superior surface; movable finger longer
than height of palm; fingers narrowly gapmg, except where mterrupted
by large, triangular tooth near middle of fixed finger; inner surface of
palm very famtly rugose, with stronger striae near upper and lower
margins. Merus of walkmg legs with small, subdistal spine on
dorsal margin and with two or three triangular teeth at distal end of
posterior margin ; plumose setae covering much of anterior siu-f aces of
carpus and propodus of first leg, becoming progressively sparser on
second and third legs, and absent from last leg; second and thu-d legs
subequal, one and thi'ee-fourths times as long as carapace; first and
fourth pairs subequal, shorter.
Terminal somite of male abdomen broadly triangular, with famtly
sinuous margins (somewhat foreshortened in figiu-e) ; margins of
penultimate somite diverging slightly before convergmg strongly to
distal margin. Broadly sickle-shaped end pieces of gonopods showmg
faintly through appressed abdomen.
Color: In ethyl alcohol, carapace mottled grayish brown, with all
transverse striae dark brown; chelipeds dark reddish brown dorsally,
fading to light tan on outer surface of palm and to nearly white near
tips of fingers; walking legs mottled with browm, gray, and tan,
proximal and distal ends of propodus and proximal end of dactyl
nearly w^hite, giving banded appearance to legs; conspicuous whitish
patches on both sides of dactyl of chelipeds and walking legs, near tips
of fingers of chelipeds, on lower surface of eyestalks, and at both
ends of epistome at junction with inner end of lower margin of orbit.
Measurements: Carapace of male holotype, 10.3 mm. long, 13.1
mm. wide. Carapace lengths of male paratypes, 3.7-12.0 mm.; of
females without eggs, 3.1-10.7 mm.; of ovigerous females, 3.2-12.4
mm.
Remarks: The general appearance of this crab, mcluding the smuous
front and the plumose setae on the anterior sm"f aces of the first walk-
ing legs (noted by Holthuis, 1959, p. 240), is very similar to that of
Pachygrapsus transversus (Gibbes, 1850). Comparison of St. Helena
material with specimens of P. transversus from the eastern and western
Atlantic and the eastern Pacific shows that P. loveridgei differs m
having the dorsal surface of the carapace mflated and evenly convex,
rather than flattened or depressed on the cardiac region; m having
the transverse striae on the anterior half of the carapace more numer-
ous and crowded; in lacking the longitudinal crenulate line that
extends over the entire length of the upper surface of the palm in P.
transversus; and in having the chitinous terminal portion of the
