644 PROCEEDESTGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
gonopocls broadly sickle shaped, rather than obliquely T-shaped
(see fig. llh).
The genus Pachygrapsus is in need of intensive study and possible
revision. As a contribution toward such a review, illustrations are
ofi'ered in figure 11 of the gonopods of the described species in the
national collections. Whenever possible, topotypic males have been
selected. This study has demonstrated the importance of the gono-
pods at the species level in this genus. It has confirmed that Sesarma
murrayi Caiman, 1909, is identical with Pachygrapsus minutus A.
Milne-Edwards, 1873 (see Schmitt, 1939, p. 22) and that P. longipes
Rathbun, 1893, is a synonym of P. planifrons De Man, 1888 (see
Edmondson, 1959, p. 175); the latter species seems to attain a some-
what larger size in Hawaiian waters than it does in Indonesia, but
the gonopods are identical. How important the gonopods are at the
generic level remains to be demonstrated. Those examined fall into
two categories. One group [P. crassipes Randall, 1839; P. gracilis
(De Saussure, 1858); P. marmoratus (Fabricius, 1787); P. maurus
(Lucas, 1849); and P. minutus] has a dense brush of stout, amber
setae which completely conceals the tip of the appendage. The other
group [P. loveridgei; P. planifrons; P. plicatus (H. Milne Edwards,
1837); and P. transversus] bears more slender, longer setae which do
not cover the chitinous end-piece. Attempts to relate these differ-
ences to other morphological characters have not been entirely suc-
cessful. A cursory examination of the species available to me, how-
ever, shows a possible correlation between the two groups of species
and the presence or absence of the conspicuous, but delicate, brush
of plumose setae on the anterior surface of the first pah' of walking
legs. Such a brush was found in P. loveridgei, P. minutus, P. plicatus,
and P. transversus. Although P. minutus is placed in the first group
of species above (which otherwise lack plumose setae on the first
walking legs), it might be assigned to either group; the endpiece of
the gonopod is hidden by a few stout setae, but it does not project
at an angle to the axis of the appendage as it does in the other species
of that group. Also, the brush of setae was not observed in any of
the available specimens of P. planifrons, a species that seems to
belong to the second group on the basis of its gonopod. These setae
are frequently lost in museum specimens, however; it would be im-
portant to know if they are present in fresh material of this species.
A detailed study of the gonopods of all species of the family Grapsidae
might yield worthwhile information on generic relationships.
Distribution : P. loveridgei is known only from St. Helena. It will
be noticed that 85 of the 211 specimens were found on the buoy
alone and were therefore living at or near the surface; it is not known
