NO. 3536 DECAPOD CRUSTACEANS — CHACE 651
Only the thi'ee largest males, with carapace lengths to the base of
the rostral smus of 14.9 to 18.0 mm., are conspicuously pubescent, and
the smallest of these has the matted covermg largely confined to the
chelipeds. Also, all of the males except the largest (the holotype)
have a distinct, though not always completely functional, sutiu-e
between the third and fourth abdominal somites.
Distribution: Known only from the type locality off Rupert's Bay,
St. Helena.
Subfamily Pisinae
Pisa sanctaehelenae, new species
Figure 14
Material: Off Rupert's Bay; buoy; 0-2 meters; Feb. 11, 1963; 1
male, 2 ovigerous females [male is holotype, USNM 112459].
Description: Carapace, not including rostral and lateral spines,
one-sixth to one-third longer than broad. Regions well marked and
uneven. Cardiac region swollen, surrounded by broad, deep fiu-row
accentuated laterally by curved, longitudinal ridge near inner margin
of each metabranchial region. Intestinal region with median promi-
nence. Branchial region bearing lateral boss with obscure longitudinal
sulcus behind cervical groove and three smaller prominences in oblique
row across mesobranchial region, posteriormost forming blunt tooth
on posterolateral margin. Surface pubescence sparse, but groups of
hooked hairs (shown on left side of fig. 14a) on rostral spmes, on
anterior and posterior portions of each protogastric region, on bran-
chial prominences, and along margin of each branchial region. Ros-
tral spines divergent thi-oughout. Supraocular eave with long anterior
spine and distinct tooth at posterior angle. Tooth between supra-
ocular eave and postocular process large, vktually closing dorsal
margin of orbit. Strong spine on hepatic region behind postocular
process. Four distinct spines on lateral margin of branchial region,
first two close together, last largest, nearly as large as hepatic spine.
Basal antennal article with long anterior spine visible from above and
approaching preocular spine in length. Distinct tooth just posterior
to posterolateral angle of basal antennal article. Row of three acute
teeth, decreasing in size posteriorly, on each pterygostomian region.
Chelipeds of male about as long as carapace. Merus covered \vith
raised tubercles and four spines, one terminal, in dorsal midline.
Carpus with four rows of large tubercles delimiting three broad,
longitudinal sulci. Hand wath massive tubercle at dorsal articulation
with carpus and double row of irregular tubercles or sharp granules
forming shallow longitudinal sulcus in dorsal margin; ventral margin
with blunt carina on proximal three-fourths; outer surface micro-
