NO. 3536 DECAPOD CRUSTACEANS — CHACE 653
male only; dactyl with five to seven low tubercles on ventral margin.
Male abdomen and gonopods as figured.
Color: In ethyl alcohol, carapace vnih rusty to orange-red re-
ticulated mottling on grayish background; elevations cream colored.
Chelipeds with dark, rusty red patch near distal end of upper surface
of merus and reticulations of same color on carpus and on inner and
outer surfaces of hand; hght orange-red mottling on upper surface of
hands and in two bands on fingers. Speckels of red on ambulatory
legs and on ventral surfaces of crab.
Measurements: Carapace of male holotype, 11.3 mm. long in mid-
line, 13.2 mm. long to tip of rostral spine, 9.7 mm. wide between
branchial margins, 10.7 mm. wide between tips of lateral spines.
Carapace of ovigerous female paratypes, 5.8 and 8.2 mm. long in
midline, 7.0 and 9.2 mm. long to tips of rostral spines, 4.3 and 6.8 mm.
wide between branchial margins, 5.0 and 7.6 mm. -wide between tips
of lateral spines.
Remarks: Pisa sandaehelenae bears a faint resemblance to P.
carinimana Miers, 1879, from West Africa and the Canary Islands,
but it is readily distinguished by the much stronger preocular and
antennal spmes, the sahent posterolateral angle of the supraocular
eave, the larger intermediate supraocular tooth, the more uneven
carapace, and the more numerous spines on the branchial margins.^
Distribution: Known only from the type locahty off Rupert's Bay,
St. Helena, where it was represented only in the last of the five collec-
tions made from the buoy and cable at that location.
Distribution
The distribution of the 23 species of decapod crustaceans (fig. 15)
does not conform exactly with the distribution patterns of St. Helena
fishes (Cunningham, 1910, and Cadenat and Marchal, 1963), mollusks
(E. A. Smith, 1890), and echinoderms (Mortensen, 1933). CoJman
(1946, p. 279) concluded from the studies published prior to 1946 that
"In each case the principal links are mth the West Indies first, and
secondly, ^ith the Mediterranean and north-east Atlantic, while there
is only a sUght connection with South Africa." Cadenat and Marchal
(p. 1307) state that "les affinites de cette faune sont tres nettement
plus antiUaises que ouest-africaines." On the contrary, the decapods
seem to be more closely allied to the West African than to the East
American faunas. Excluding the six decapods that are found in
2 Pisa sandaehelenae seems to differ from the closely related P. calva Forest and
Guinot, 1966 (p. 99, figs. 10, lla-f, 13), in its divergent rostral spines, more
salient posterolateral angle of the supraocular eave, and more angularly sinuous
shaft of the male gonopod.
