664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
proportions have been extracted from the original descriptions or from
the illustrations of the types of the nominal species /. africanus, I.
bideni, I. cepedii, I. dekayi, I. glaucus, I. gomphodon, I. guentheri, I.
huidobrii, and /. tigris. Comparable data could not be obtained
from the descriptions of /. mako, I. oxyrinchus, and /. spallanzani for
a variety of reasons: either no measurements or proportions were
given, or no indication of the size of the specimen concerned was in-
cluded, or illustrations were poor or lacking. The rehability of the
data from some of the original descriptions is discussed on page 666
and elsewhere in this paper.
Seventeen of the specimens for which there are full data have been
examined and measured by me. These include: one from the western
North Atlantic; one from the eastern North Atlantic; two from Japan;
three from California; seven from New Zealand; one from South
Africa; and two from the Indian or Pacific Oceans (exact locality
uncertain). Measurements were made in the manner outlined by
Bigelow and Schroeder (1948, p. 61).
Data from 13 specimens taken in the central Pacific during 1952
through 1955 by the program of Pacific Oceanic Fishery Investigations
of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service were supplied by Dr. Donald W.
Strasburg. These were reported earlier in summarized form by
Strasburg (1958). J. Moreland provided measurements of a New
Zealand specimen, and S. Gruber supplied measurements of one from
New York.
Information was obtained from recently published accounts of four
specimens from Madagascar (Fourmanoir, 1961), three specimens
from South Africa (Smith, 1953, 1957, 1958), and two specimens from
the western North Atlantic (Bigelow and Schroeder, 1948).
The material included 31 males, 11 females, and 6 specimens for
which the sex was not recorded. No sexual dimorphism was observed
in proportions. In total length the specimens ranged from late
embryos 605 mm. long to an adult of 3,200 mm., the latter a cast of a
New Zealand female in the Auckland Museum.
Many of the specimens were discarded after they had been meas-
ured, but some were preserved whole. The latter are listed under
Study Material in the accounts of the two species given here.
My thanks are due to the many colleagues who have assisted in
this study by providing specimens and data. To those at the insti-
tutions mentioned variously in this account I would add Dr. T. Abe
(Tokaiku Suisan Kenkyujo, Tokyo, Japan) for his considerable con-
tribution in supplying three specimens of the new species of Isurus
described here; F. Begley of Awanui, New Zealand, for assistance in
obtaining specimens of New Zealand makos; Dr. L. R. Richardson
(formerly of Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand) for his
