666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. us
not Carcharodon, has a secondary lateral keel on the anterior part of
the caudal fin.
Comparing the original (and some later) accounts of the nominal
species of Isurus with the diagnostic criteria mentioned above reveals
discrepancies in a few cases. For example, the original illustration of
Lgomphodon in Miiller and Henle (1841, pi. 28) shows the first dorsal
origin above the pectoral axil— a character of Lamna. However, the
teeth, as illustrated, are clearly those of an Isurus, and likewise there
is no secondary caudal keel. Miiller and Henle's illustrations are, for
the most part, accurate representations, so one is led to the assumption
that the illustration of /. gomphodon was made from a distorted
specimen. The type and only specimen, a mounted skin, was depos-
ited in the Berlin Museum but unfortunately cannot be found.
Compared with other makos, the illustration of /. gomphodon shows
a considerably shorter body sector as measured between pectoral axil
and pelvic origin (see table 1, E). Also the first dorsal fin is higher
than usual (fig. 3), and the pectoral is longer (figs. 1-2)— though not
as long as that of the new species described below. On this evidence
there is reason to believe that the skin of the type of I. gomphodon
underwent shrinkage along its midsector when it was being mounted.
Consequently, the proportions of /. gomphodon must be used with
caution.
Isurus spallanzani, first illustrated in Bonaparte (1839, pi. 136,
fig. 1) from an Italian specunen, is also shown with the first dorsal
origin over the pectoral axil, but again it is clear that the specimen
was an Isurus. Conversely, Bonaparte's illustration (1835, pi. 134,
fig. 2) in the same account, of Lamna cornubica, has the first dorsal
origin slightly behind the pectoral posterior comer— a character of
Isurus. It must be presumed that Bonaparte's illustrations are
maccurate in these features for subsequent accounts of Isurus and
Lamna from Italian waters (e.g., Tortonese, 1956) do not agree with
Bonaparte but instead show the "normal" positioning of the first
dorsal fin relative to the pectoral fin.
The above-mentioned discrepancies make understandable the con-
fusion which has arisen between Isurus and Lamna. The persistence
of such confusion is exemplified by Waite's (1921, p. 21, fig. 27)
illustration of an Australasian specimen of Lamna nasus as Isurus
glaucus. Waite's illustration was later redrawn by Barnard (1925,
pi. 1, fig. 6) who used it for /. glaucus in his account of South African
fishes. Whitley (1940, p. 123, fig. 130) also used Waite's iUustration
but identified the shark as /. mako.
Isurus guentheri stands noticeably apart from the other 11 nom-
inal species in having many more teeth. Murray's (1884, pp. 348-
351) account of the type, the only information available for the species,
