SHARK GENUS ISURUS — GARRICK
669
makos which I have seen, the underside of the snout and around the
Hps is at least partly dusky. Lesson states that the caudal fin is
deeply forked, the dorsal lobe with a "haut de 15 pouces," the
ventral lobe with a "haut a peine de 8 Pouces." I assume that by
"haut" Lesson meant the length of each lobe from its origin to tip.
If this is so, Lesson's stated length of 15 inches for the dorsal lobe on
a 6-foot long specimen is in agreement ^\dth other makos. But his
stated length of 8 inches for the ventral lobe would be far too short.
In all my material the length of dorsal lobe divided by the length of
the ventral lobe ranges from 1.19 to 1.54, whereas in /. cepedii it is
1.88. The difference is sufficient to throw considerable doubt on the
validity of Lesson's measurements, and in consequence of this, plus
the discrepancy in snout color and the lack of type material to pro-
vide confirmation, I cannot regard the evidence as warranting the
recognition of /. cepedii as a long-finned mako.
Figures 3, 4, 5, and table 1 were constructed from data on short-
finned makos only. In figiu-es 3-5 individual specimens are plotted,
while in table 1 the data is summarized for three size gi'oups, plus
the types wherever possible. The various proportions represented
in the figures and table are those which have been used by recent
authors, particularly Bigelow and Schroeder (1948), and Smith
(1957, 1958), as diagnostic criteria for the several species of Isurus
they recognize. In summary, these diagnostic criteria are based on:
the proportions of the first dorsal fin (height relative to base), its
position and its shape; the height of the first dorsal fin relative to the
o
ATLANTIC
•
PACIFIC
•
INDIAN
-5^
UKKNO'.VN
o
^
gomphodon
tigr,s-0
•
W ©— africanuS
o
*°***^
o
bidenl
•
glaucus
**.
o
cepedii
A
huldobrii
guenlheri
1000
1500 2000
TOTAL LENGTH IN MM
2500
3000
Figure 3. — hums, short-finned only, showing growth change in height of first dorsal fin
relative to total length (identified specimens are types of nominal species).
