672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
recognized by these authors are largely dependent on specimen size.
Thus only juveniles clearly fit the criteria of I. glaucus, while middle-
sized specimens show more affinity with /. oxyrinchus, and large spec-
imens usually agree with I. tigris. In the case of /. glaucus and /.
tigris these size characterizations follow from the sizes of the types;
the types of /. glaucus were juveniles, the largest being 1,020 mm. long
(selected by Boeseman (1947, p. 217) as lectotype), and the type of /.
tigris was a large adult, 2,690 mm. long. Isurus oxyrinchus has been
interpreted in recent years mostly from the excellent account and
illustrations of a specimen 1,640 mm. long in Bigelow and Schroeder
(1948, p. 125, fig. 18). Application of Bigelow and Schroeder's and
of Smith's criteria for the species does not produce clear-cut results
when a series of specimens is examined. This of course would be
expected in view of the evidence given here on the size-dependency
of the criteria and on the variation which occurs. Thus Cadenat
(1962, p. 309) reports that foiu* West African specimens which he has
examined show more affinity with /. tigris as recognized by Smith,
but in some characters, differing from specimen to specimen, there is
agreement with /. oxyrinchus. I have found similar overlap in New
Zealand specimens which, if small, could be variously identified as
/. glaucus or /. oxyrinchus depending on the character used, or if large
could be 7. oxyrinchus or I. tigris. Dr. F. Talbot informs me (per-
sonal communication) that a series of makos caught off Capetown
offered the same problems.
Examination of the features which were thought distinctive for
the nominal species of makos when first described does not provide
any other evidence for recognizing more than one species of short-
finned mako. Rafinesque (1810b, p. 60) distinguished his Mediter-
ranean 7. spallanzani from the Mediterranean I. oxyrinchus on the
grounds that 7. spallanzani lacked a lateral line. However, all makos
have lateral lines. Lesson (1830, p. 93) did not diagnose his Atlantic
i. cepedii and made no comparison with other makos. Miiller and
Henle (1841, p. 69) differentiated the Pacific 7. glaucus from 7.
gomphodon (locality unknown) on the position and shape of the first
dorsal fin — features already treated here. Gill (1862b, p. 409) named
the Atlantic 7. dekayi on De Kay's (1842, p. 352) account of Lamna
punctata, but in neither account is there any discussion of the diag-
nostic characters. Atwood (1869, p. 268) compared his Atlantic
1. tigris only with Carcharias atwoodi Storer which is now known to be
a synonym of Carcharodon carcharias. Murray (1884, p. 349) differ-
entiated his Indian Ocean 1. guentheri from 7. glauca and /. spallanzani
(and from Lamna cornubica) on the basis of its greater number of
teeth, the position and shape of the fins, the length of the caudal
keel, and the presence of a prominent lateral line. The question of
