NO. 3537 SHARK GENUS ISURUS — GARRICK 681
Trunk slender, its height at pectoral origin about one-seventh of
its length to subcaudal origin. Caudal peduncle notably flattened
dorsoventrally, and expanded laterally to form a sharp-edged hori-
zontal keel along midlevel of each side; anteriorly the keels become
inconspicuous a Httle behind tips of pelvic fins, while posteriorly they
extend onto anterior part of caudal fin. Lateral line not prominent.
Upper and lower precaudal pits strongly developed, their anterior
margins transverse and sharply defined.
Dermal denticles small, close packed, overlapping, circular in out-
line, each with three longitudinal ridges and three posterior marginal
teeth, the latter relatively larger in denticles of smaller specimens,
median tooth always longer than lateral teeth.
Head long, its length to fifth gill opening one-quarter of total length,
its greatest width 2.2 to 2.1 in its length. Snout sharply pointed,
conical, shghtly depressed dorsally, its length to eye 4.2 to 4.3 in
head. Prenarial length equal to internarial distance and 1.4 to 1.5
in preoral length. Eye large, circular, its diameter 2.8 to 3.1 in snout,
its anterior margin slightly behind front of mouth. Nostrils almost
transverse, small, their anterior margins with a low pointed lobe.
Mouth large, rather long, upper Hp broadly arched at front, lower lip
not meeting upper even when mouth is closed; width of mouth 1.2 in
its length. Labial furrows long, upper more than one-third length of
mouth, lower about two-thu-ds as long as upper. Gill openings very
large, their vertical lengths extending almost two-thirds of depth of
body at same region; lower end of fifth gill opening extends beneath
and slightly behind pectoral fin origin.
Teeth ^^ o^ ^^"^^ ^^ |^ ^ similar in upper and lower jaws, unicusped,
narrowly triangular, smooth edged, with complete cutting edges on
then- lateral and medial margins; first two teeth on each side of sym-
physis in both jaws noticeably longer than others; those in upper jaw
closely followed by a very much smaller third tooth, and the latter by
a distinct gap before larger lateral teeth begin; first two upper teeth
sUghtly oblique to curved in outline; in side view these first two upper
teeth are virtually straight except for their tips which curve outward;
lateral teeth obhque in outhne, and progressively smaller toward
angles of jaws. In lower jaw the third tooth smaller than first two
teeth but at least as large as fourth, and the gap between thu-d and
fourth teeth not greater than that between fourth and fifth; first lower
tooth distinctly narrower than second; first two lower teeth weakly
flexuous in outline ; in side view the first two lower teeth are curved in-
ward except for their tips which are reverse curved Uke those of upper
teeth; lateral teeth obUque and diminishing in size toward angles of
jaws. Two or three rows of teeth functional at center of mouth in both
jaws, one or two rows along sides.
