NO. 3537 SHARK GENUS ISURUS — GARRICK 683
tapered, anterior (outer) corners moderately rounded; length of
anterior margin of pectoral slightly greater than head length measured
from tip of snout to most anterior part of fifth gill opening; when
adpressed to side of body with anterior pectoral margin horizontal,
anterior (outer) pectoral corner reaches about 90 percent of distance
from pectoral origin to pelvic origin.
Color. — Grayish black above, white below; underside of snout
and around mouth at least partly dusky, more so in largest specimen;
dorsal fins and both lobes of caudal fin dusky black; pectoral fin
dusky black above except for a translucent to white area at posterior
(inner) corner; underside of pectoral fin white but with a narrow
dusky band along anterior margin, and a broader dusky-black edging
to anterior (outer) corner and outer half of distal margin ; pectoral fin
in largest specimen, in addition, with some black mottlings under-
neath ; pelvic fin dusky black on anterior half of upper surface, white
posteriorly and below except in largest specimen in which underside
is partly black mottled; anal fin in holotype white, with a dusky-black
blotch anteriorly; anal fins in paratypes with more dusky-black
coloration, only distal margins remaining more or less white.
Vertebrae.— Vertebral counts as in table 2. Centra very regular
over entire length of vertebral column. Centrum diameter con-
siderably greater than centrmn length, even in longest monospondy-
lous centra at posterior region of abdomen. Diplospondyly occurs
above anterior third to middle of pelvic base.
~^^^ — of penultimate monospondylous centrum=0.63 to 0.67
Diameter
Length of penultimate monospondylous centrum _ ^ ^^ ^^ ^ ^^
Length of first diplospondylous centrum
Discussion. — The specific name of /. alatus is the Latin adjective
alatm=wmged, and is given in reference to the extremely long
pectoral fins of this species.
In view of the wide distribution of the few known specimens of
/. alatus (central Pacific to Indian Ocean), it is rather surprising that
the species has not been recognized before. The chief reason for this
may be that it is a truly oceanic species, not coming mshore as does
/. oxyrinchus. If this is the case, it is understandable that it has not
been taken during routine oceanographic explorations, few of which
have been equipped to catch fishes as large as isurid sharks. The
comparatively recent discovery of the abundance of other oceanic
sharks such as Carcharhinus Jalciformis and C. longimanus in the
western North Atlantic is a parallel situation. The larger eyes of
/. alatus suggest the possibility that it lives in rather deeper water than
/. oxyrinchus.
