684 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
Addendum
Accounts of the following two species have appeared since the
present revision was prepared.
Isurus paucus Guitart Manday, 1966, was proposed as a new
name for Lamna punctata of De Kay (1842) but was based on 3 adult
specimens (female 2,450 mm. t.l.; male 2,030 mm., and female 2,260
mm. long from snout tip to precaudal pit) from Cuba. The measure-
ments, description, and discussion of the Cuban specimens in Guitart
Manday's account leave no doubt that his paucus is conspecific
with my ahtus described here on p. 677. In consequence, alatus
becomes a junior synonym of paucus. Guitart Manday's proposal,
however, that paucus is the same species as De Kay's punctata is
open to question although whatever the answer, it wall not affect
nomenclature.
Lamiostoma belyaevi Gliickman, 1964, was described on dental
characteristics from material taken in deep water in the Pacific.
Gliickman (1964, p. 105) designated belyaevi as type species of a
new genus Lamiostoma, which he placed in a new family, Lamio-
stomatidae. He diagnosed the Lamiostomatidae as having more
than 3 and up to 8 functional teeth in the first series on each side
of the symphysis of the jaw, whereas in his family Isuridae there
are only 1 to 3 functional teeth. Gliickman's illustrations of belyaevi
(fig. 31, a photograph of the anterolateral aspect of a dried, mounted
specimen; fig. 32, a photograph of the lower jaw, possibly of the same
specimen as in fig. 31; and pi. 31, figs. 13, 14, 18, and 19, photographs
of individual teeth) strongly suggest that he had an Isurus and that
the high number of apparently functional teeth was due to exposure
of the replacement teeth behind those normally functional (this
could well be due to removal of the inner labial membrane surrounding
the replacement teeth when the specimen was prepared for mounting).
Figure 31 also suggests that belyaevi has notably long pectoral fins
and is dark colored or dusky under the snout and head— features
characteristic of I. paucus. Evaluation of the status of belyaevi,
however, cannot proceed until more information is available, par-
ticularly on its proportional dimensions, its teeth, and its color.
