OEDEMERIDAE FROM TEXAS — ARNETT 49
9. General color reddish orange, elytra stained at base with piceus to entirely
piceus; mandibles usually large; pronotum distinctly marked with centi'al
piceus stripe, and a piceus patch on each side.
Oxacis trimaculata Champion
Elytra purple piceus, often with very narrow pale sutural and marginal stripe,
rarely with vague submarginal pale stripe; pronotum orange, usually with
piceus markings Oxacis cana (LeConte)
The folloAving list of Big Bend National Park species is complete
as of this writing. Although other collections have been made in
the Park previously and since, including collections made by the
author, only one additional species has been taken which was not
collected by Howden and Becker. Only this additional record is
included. No doubt additional collecting at other times during the
season will reveal stUl more species.
No extensive ecological characterization of the area has been made.
Webb (1950) and others (e.g., Peterson, 1960) refer to the area as the
Trans-Pecos community which corresponds to Dice's (1943)
Chihuahuan Biotic province. Plant succession in the area has been
described to some extent by Muller (1940). Some of the more
striking plants are described in McDougall and Sperry (1951). The
geology of the region is reported by Udden (1907). Howden (1960)
has published a map of the area, which is reproduced here, and a list
of the Scarabaeidae. All of the Big Bend National Park localities
mentioned in the following discussion are located on this map (fig. 1).
Sparedrus depressus (Champion)
This species was taken at Chisos Basin May 1-8 by beating gray
oak and at light. At Tornillo Flat specimens were taken on May 12
by beating Acacia species. This is the first record of the species in
the United States.
The species was described from a single male specimen taken at
Mexico City. It has not been again reported until this collection of
13 specimens. As in other species of this genus, the fifth visible
sternum of the male is deeply emarginate in contrast to the slightly
emarginate condition in the female.
Vasaces elongatus Amett
The type locality of V. elongatus is Chisos Basin (pi. 1, top). Until
this collection of six specimens, the species was known only from the
female holotype. The specimens reported here were collected at
light between May 23 and 29. The description of the male follows:
Male: Chisos Basin, Big Bend National Park, Tex., May 29, 1959
(collected by Howden and Becker). The male agrees with the
female holotype except as follows: front of head coarsely punctate,
depressed somewhat behind antennae. Pronotum longer than broad
