OEDEMERIDAE FROM TEXAS — ARNETT 53
(LeConte). The darker central spot on the head is confined in most
specimens to the interocular area, only rarely extending over a larger
area. The paler prothorax varies considerably from specimen to
specimen. In a few the prothorax is as dark as the elytra. One
of the ways to distinguish this species from Oxycopis mariae (Arnett)
HOWDENI, n. sp. v^^
1 — - H . — ^^pm 1 1
,
■— 1 ■HHH '1
MARIAE, Sabino Canyon
to 1- 1 IHIilulllllllMIl 1 1
I
^ 1 mjuHUHIi 1
1 1
1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
Figure 3. — Interocular distance ratio of Oxycopis howdeni, new species, and two populations
of 0. mariae Arnett (horizontal line = range of variation; vertical line = mean; black part
of bar = two standard errors of standard deviation on either side of mean; one-half of
each black bar plus white bar at either end =one standard deviation on either side of mean).
is by the wider interocular distance. The variation of this distance
was studied statistically and is found to be significant. The sta-
tistical differences between 0. howdeni and 0. mariae, so far as this
character is concerned, are compared in figure 3.
Oxacis pallida (LeConte)
Some of the 26 specimens of this species were taken on candelilla
(Euphorbia antisyphilitica) (pi. 1, bottom) and others at light at the
Boquillas area. May 17-23. This species is very common throughout
the arid regions of the United States. It also occurs in Sonora and
probably in Chihuahua.
Oxacis subfusca Horn
Plate 2
Only one specimen of this species was collected. It was taken at
Boquillas, May 23. The species is usually abundant on prickly poppy
blossoms in other areas during late July and August, so perhaps more
may be found later in the season.
Oxacis angustata Champion
Although this species was described from four specimens taken at
Tehuacan, Puebla, Mexico, I have seen it from Chihuahua and Tamau-
lipas. It agrees very well with the description and type of the species.
Eighty-five specimens were taken as follows: Hot Springs, 1900 ft.,
May 1-29; Boquillas, 1850 ft.. May 13; Oak Spring, 3000 ft.. May 24;
Panther Junction, 4000 ft.. May 28; and Tornillo Flat, 3200 ft..
May 12.
