84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM vol. iis
lateral plates of second pedigerous segment. Third pedigerous seg-
ment with bilobed, platelike extension overlapping fourth pedigerous
segment, 2 minute denticulations medially, just anterior to sinus
between lobes of extension. Fourth pedigerous segment also a narrow
band, almost completely covered by plates of second and third pedig-
erous segments, with bilobed plate, similar to that of third pedigerous
segment, projecting posteriorly over anterior half of genital segment,
pair of minute denticulations present just anterior to V-shaped con-
cavity at junction of lobes of plate.
Male second, third and fourth pedigerous segments (fig. 106) free,
second pedigerous segment narrow, with posterolaterally projecting
extensions that bear filmy membrane across distal and inner lateral
margins. Posterodorsal surface of segment, between extensions, with
4 denticulations. Third pedigerous segment narrow, posterior margin
flatly convex, posterodorsal surface with 2 denticulations. Fourth
pedigerous segment slightly less than twice as wide as long, lateral
surfaces winglike, median posterior margin convex, posterodorsal
surface with 2 denticulations.
Female genital segment (fig. lOd) roughly heart-shaped, wider
anteriorly than posteriorly, posterior end with deep, U-shaped sinus
dorsally. Sinus forming place of attachment of large, obovate anal
lamina extending posteriorly well past posterior end of abdomen,
almost to distal end of caudal rami. Lateral margins of sinus formed
by lobate projections of genital segment that bear single denticula-
tion from posterior dorsal surface. Posterior ventral sm^face of
genital segment irregular, with several knoblike regions of heavy
sclerotization medially.
Male genital segment (fig. lOe) broadest anteriorly, anterior margin
convex; posterior lateral regions extending posteriorly past median
posterior margin as 2 sharply rounded lobes with minute irregularities
on inner margin, dorsal median posterior margin overlapping fu'st
abdominal segment. Fifth legs (fig. 10/) small, projecting laterally
and posteriorly from genital segment margin, bearing spinule and 3
setules distally. SLxth leg (fig. 1 Og) visible only as small spinule and
single, plumose setule on padlike swelling of ventral genital segment
surface just anterior and medial to lobate projections of segment.
Female abdomen (fig. lOd) hregular, narrower anteriorly and pos-
teriorly than medially, at heavily sclerotized articulation surface of
caudal rami. Abdomen extending ventrally past anal opening and
caudal rami bases as plate-shaped projection with flatly rounded
posterior margin. Caudal rami strongly sclerotized, elongate, ter-
minating in sharp, spiniform process and giving rise to 2 additional
spiniform processes on dorsal surface, in distal half of rami.
Male abdomen (fig. lOg) 2-segmented, first segment shorter than
