PARASITIC COPEPOD CRUSTACEANS — LEWIS 85
second, broad anteriorlj^, convexly rounded posteriorly. Second seg-
ment flared to V-shaped posterior end. Caudal rami laminate, in-
ner margin plumose, distal surface with 4 plumose setae and 2 minute
setules, 1 on each lateral edge of distal sm-face.
Color of adult female, in alcohol, dark bro^vn or black over most
of dorsal cephalothoracic surface, dorsal plates, posterior end of
genital segment and anal lamina, light yellowish brown along margins
of body parts and caudal rami. Color of adult male, in alcohol,
brown or yellowish brown, without distinctive color pattern.
Female antennide (fig. 11a) 2-segmented, attached to lateral ven-
tral surface of frontal region although appearing to articulate, at
least partially, in small depression on anterior ventral cephalothoracic
siu"face. First segment slightly more than three times the length
of second, mth 26 roughened setae on anterior ventral surface in
distal half of segment. Second segment slender, \vidth varying little
throughout length, distal siu-face rounded, with 6 short, naked setae
anteriorly, 2 short, naked setae medially and 2 posteriorly; additional
short, naked seta present on posterior lateral surface just proximal
to distal end. Male antennule (fig. 116) 2-segmented, first segment
approximately two and one-half times the length of second, distal
half \^'ith approximatelj^ 27 stiffly plumose setules on anterior ventral
and distal ventral sm-face. Second segment club-shaped, with ap-
proximately 9 naked setules on distal surface and 1 on distal posterior
surface.
Female antenna (fig. lie) 3-segmented, situated medial and pos-
terior to antennule base. First segment irregular, outer lateral and
distal margins heavily sclerotized, distal forming articulation surface
for second segment. Second segment slightly longer than first, prox-
imal margin irregular, projecting anteriorly as lobate surface artic-
ulating in slight irregularity on inside of inner distal lateral surface
of first segment. Outer lateral margin ^vith large, knob-shaped
swelling, distal margin irregular, posterior portion projecting beyond
anterior. Length of third segment and terminal process similar to
that of second segment, proximal margin irregular, distal distinct
although appearing partially fused with clawHke terminal process.
Accessory processes consisting of small, knoblike structure on pos-
terior medial surface of segment and single, setiform process on dis-
tal inner surface at junction of segment and terminal process. The
antenna appears capable of being projected from or mthdrawTi into
the ventral cephalothoracic siu-face to some extent, the movement
being allowed by a rather flexible arthrodial membrane that, in the
fuUy extended appendage, appears segment-like. Large, obovate pad
attached to posterior surface of membrane, extending from cephalo-
thorax to middle of second antennal segment. Pad roughened,
