PARASITIC COPEPOD CRUSTACEANS — LEWIS 99
from both thii'd and genital segments, lyre-shaped although anterior
end with large, heavily sclerotized, knob-shaped anterior lateral pro-
jections.
Genital segment (fig. 17c) barrel-shaped except for lappet-like lateral
posterior projections, anterolateral corners of segment forming small,
knoblike, heavily sclerotized projections. Fifth leg (fig. 17^) small,
slightly irregular, projecting from ventral lateral surface of genital
segment just posterior to middle of segment, bearing single, small,
spiniform projection and 3 plumose setules. Sixth leg (fig. 17e)
consisting of small, spiniform projection and single setule at posterior
end of oval irregularity of ventral genital segment sm'face in region
of genital opening.
Abdomen (fig. 17c) 2-segmented, first segment subrectangular,
wider than long; second segment narrow anteriorly, flared to middle
of segment then cm-ved irregularly to anal concavity. Caudal rami
(fig. 17c) greatly enlarged, slightly shorter than genital segment,
excluding projections, laminate, with inner lateral margins plumose,
bearing 4 large, plumose setae from distal surface and 2 small setules,
one on each posterolateral surface.
Antennule (fig. 18a) 2-segmented, attached to irregularity of an-
teroventral cephalothoracic surface and posteroventral surface of
frontal region. Both segments of general elongate natiu-e, first
approximately one and one-third times the length of second, flat-
tened ventrally, rounded dorsally, bearing approximately 22 plumose
and naked setules. Second segment rounded distally, with 6 small,
spinelike projections and 4 naked setules from distal surface, 1 naked
setule from distal dorsal surface. Antenna (fig. 186) 3-segmented,
situated medial and posterior to antennule base and lateral to oral
region. First segment flattened, proximal end abutting against small,
heavily sclerotized, padlike projection of cephalothorax. Third seg-
ment and terminal process fused, clawlike, with 2 setule-like acces-
sory processes, 1 medially, second proxtmaUy. Mandible (fig. 18c)
2-parted, proximal end articulating in circular depression in plate-
like region of heavy sclerotization; appendage rodlike, distal end
sharply rounded, distal inner surface denticulated. Postantennular
adhesion pad (fig. 18a) similar to that of Pandarus but not as well
developed, with kregular cross striations. Postoral process (fig. 18d)
irregularly lobate, tipped by spiniform process. Postoral adhesion
pads (fig. 18c) small, knob-shaped, situated slightly posterior to mouth
cone, at beginning of heavily sclerotized region forming articulation
surface for maxilla and maxilliped. Alaxilla (fig. 18c) 2-segmented,
first segment approximately one and one-thu'd times the length of
the second, with proximally projecting articulation surface (not
visible in figure) . Second segment narrower proximally than distally.
