106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM tol. lis
damaged although appearing similar to those of female except for
greater plumosity of inner margin.
Female antennule (fig. 21a) 2-segmented, attached to lateral anterior
ventral ceplialothoracic surface at junction of lateral cephalothoracic
margin and frontal region. First segment approximately two and one-
half times the length of second, broader proximally than distally,
with approximately 18 naked or finely plumose setides along edge of
ridge extending along anterior and distal portions of ventral surface
and terminating in small, subtriangular projection of distal posterior
surface. Second segment club-shaped, with 2 naked terminal setules.
Antennule of male (fig. 216) with first segment slightly more than twice
the length of second, bearing approximately 14 setules, distal 7 densely
plumose; second segment with 1 short and 4 elongate, naked setules.
Female antenna (fig. 21c) 3-segmented, first and second segments
short, strongly developed, first with small adhesion pad; third segment
and fused terminal process clawlike, terminal process strongly curved,
segment with 2 setule-like accessory processes. Antenna of male
(fig. 2lg) 3-segmented, first segment without adhesion pad, second
segment slightly shorter than first, with distinct adhesion surface on
anterior distal surface, third segment and terminal process complex,
segment short, distinct from terminal process, with small adhesion
pad, terminal process short, clawlike.
Female and male mandible (figs. 2ld, e) appearing 2-parted, rod-
like, first part short, second part elongate, distal region of second
part slightly flattened, rounded distally, inner margin with 12 dentic-
ulations. Female and male postantennular adhesion pad (fig. 21a)
2-parted, consisting of small, cup-shaped structure situated just
posterior and lateral to antennule base, and just anterior to large,
ovoid adhesion pad extending posteriorly and shghtly medial. Post-
oral process of female (figs. 21c, /) appearing 4-segmented, proximal
segment attached to rib-shaped region of heavy sclerotization con-
nected to Y-shaped region siurounding mouth and extending anteri-
orly, rib-shaped region also forming attachment and articulation
surface for mandible. Proximal segment of postoral process strongly
developed, with at least 1 plumosity-bearing nodule (Shiino, 1954c,
and others report 2 nodules) ; second and third segments elongate,
subrectangular, fourth segment lamellate and folded and may be
terminal process of third segment. Postoral process of male (fig.
21(7) 3-segmented although third segment with irregularity attached
to distal end that may be remains of fourth segment or terminal
process. Female and male with pair of oval adhesion pads just
posterior to mouth cone base (figs. 21^^, h), situated on extensive
region of heavy sclerotization forming articulation and muscle at-
