PARASITIC COPEPOD CRUSTACEANS — LEWIS 113
partially covered by second, slightly more than twice as wide as
long, rounded posteriorly, without winglike extensions. Fourth pe-
digerous segment with large, posteriorly bilobed ala covering anterior
end of genital segment, sinus between lobes deep, similar to that of
Dinematura latifolia.
Genital segment (fig. 24c) distinct from fourth pedigerous segment,
with 2 lobate posterior projections formed as extensions of pair of
longitudinal swellings extending most of dorsal length of segment.
Median posterior sm-face forming place of attachment of orbicular
plate (sixth segment of Wilson, 1907b) extending posteriorly ventral
to lobate posterior projections of segment. Fifth leg (fig. 24(/) a
minute, lobate projection from lateral ventral surface anterior to
seminal receptacles, bearing 2 plumose setules. Abdomen (fig. 24c)
1 -segmented, attached to slight swelling on ventral surface of genital
segment, just posterior to seminal receptacles (each receptacle bear-
ing large club-shaped spermatophore) . Caudal rami (fig. 24c) large,
laminate, with 4 pliunose setae from posterior margin in addition
to 2 setules, 1 on either side of group of setae.
Antennule (fig. 25a) 2-segmented, attached to lateral ventral
cephalothoracic surface just posterior to division between cephalo-
thorac and frontal region. First segment approximately one and two-
thirds the length of second, slightly broader proximally than distally,
appearing twisted so that anterior surface forms ventral sm-face
distally, surface bearing approximately 22 setules and plumose setae.
Second segment elongate, distal end with approximately 8 naked
setules. Antenna (fig. 256) indistinctly 3-segmented, poorly devel-
oped, attached medial and posterior to antennule base. First and
second segments forming club-shaped structure, segments partially
fused, division incomplete, visible at base of swollen distal end of
club-shaped formation. Swollen end with irregular, narrow, platelike
regions of heavy sclerotization that form adhesion surface. Third
segment and terminal process claw-shaped. Mandible (figs. 25c, d)
long, rodlike, articulating in plate-shaped region of heavy sclerotization
closely associated with plate forming base of postoral process. Distal
region of mandible not curved although slightly flattened, inner margin
with 12 denticulations. Postantennular adhesion pad (fig. 25a) ir-
regularly ovoid, with indistinct ridges. Postoral process (figs. 25c, e)
elongate, lateral margins irregular, with small, 2-parted, conical sub-
terminal process. Postoral adhesion (fig. 25c) pads elongate, situated
at anterior medial end of region of heavy sclerotization associated with
maxilla and maxilliped bases. Maxilla (fig. 25e) 2-segmented, first
segment slightly longer than second and larger, second segment
narrow proximally, flaring distally, distal end bearing 2 saber-shaped
terminal processes and tuft of plumosities between processes. Inner
