PARASITIC COPEPOD CRUSTACEANS — LEWIS 119
' tinctly separated from third pedigerous segment and genital segment.
Female genital segment (tig. 27c) large, appearing* swollen. Pos-
terior end of segment wider than anterior, lateral margins flatly
convex, posterior region bilobed, sinus between lobes narrow and
deep. Male genital segment (fig, 21d) narrower anteriorly than
posteriorly, lateral margins flatly convex, posterior with pah- of lobes,
just lateral to junction of abdomen and genital segment. Fifth legs
(fig. 21e) small, lobate projecting just anterior to genital segment
lobe, projection bearing triangular spinule and single, naked setule;
sixth legs not visible.
I Female abdomen (fig. 27c) 1 -segmented, attached to ventral surface
of genital segment just anterior to apex of posterior sinus, covered by
genital segment lobes. Abdomen slightly widei anteriorly than pos-
teriorly, lateral margins flatly convex, posterior margin flat except
for anal indentation. Caudal rami lobate, projecting to posterior
end of genital segment, with 6 naked, spike-like setules from distal and
distal inner-lateral margin. Male abdomen (fig. 27 d) 1 -segmented,
distinctly divided from genital segment ventrally, indistinctly dorsally.
Segment widest medially, tapered anteriorly and posteriorly. Caudal
rami similar in shape to those of female, with 4 plumose setae on
medial distal surface, 1 naked setule at each lateral posterior corner.
Female and male antennule (figs. 28a-c) 2-segmented, situated on
lateral ventral cephalothoracic smiace, at division between frontal
region and cephalothorax. First segment almost twice the length of
second, broader distally than proximally, with approxunately 16 naked
or lightly plumose setules from distal thu'd of posterior and ventral
surfaces. Second segment club-shaped, with approximately 9 naked
setules distally, additional naked setule on distal posterolateral surface.
Female and male antenna (figs. 28a, 6, d) 3-segmented, attached
medial to antennule base. Fii'st segment slightly larger than second,
both irregidar in outline. Length of thhd segment and terminal
process slightly less than combined lengths of fu'st 2 segments, third
segment tapered to sharply rounded proximal end; division between
third segment and terminal process distinct, slightly moreso in male
than in female, terminal process strongly curved and clawlike. Two
setule-like accessory processes present, 1 from middle of segment
second from junction of segment and terminal process.
Female and male mandible (figs. 28e, /) rodlike, curved inwards
very slightly distally, inner margin of distal region with approxi-
mately 12 denticidations. Immediately posterior and lateral to
antennule base of both male and female specimens is a single, spike-
shaped process comparable, in position only, to postantennular ad-
hesion pads of Pandarus and comparable, in shape only, to post-
antennal process of caligids. Female and male postoral process
