PARASITIC COPEPOD CRUSTACEANS — LEWIS 121
(figs. 28e, /) consisting of pad, immediately lateral to mouth cone,
with pair of minute setules in female and subtriangular projection in
male. Postoral process attached to platelike area of heavy scleroti-
zation contiguous but not continuous with plateUke area forming
articulation surface for mandible. Female and male postoral ad-
hesion pads (figs. 28a, b) lappet-like, heavily sclerotized, situated
posterior and slightly lateral to postoral process.
Female and male maxilla (fig. 2Sg) 2-segmented, situated just
lateral to postoral adhesion pads. Fhst segment approxunately one
and one-half times the length of second, second segment slender,
distal region with 1 short and 1 long, membrane-margined, saber-
shaped process in addition to plumose, knob-shaped projection.
Female maxilliped (fig. 29a) 2-segmented, first segment appearing
2-parted and strongly developed. Proximal part broader distally
than proximally, distal part large, knob-shaped, at right angles to
first part, with adhesion pad distally; both parts connected, without
segmental division separating them. Second segment short, irreg-
ular, situated on distal surface of knob-shaped distal part of first
segment and bearing single, clawlike terminal process. Male max-
illiped (fig. 296) also with 2-parted first segment although second
part in line with first, bearing 2 adhesion pads and spike-shaped
protrusion. Second segment with distal end of clawlike terminal
process denticulated. Single, setule-like accessory process at dis-
tinct division between segment and terminal process.
Thoracic legs I-IV bhamous, first 3 with 2-segmented rami, fourth
with 1-segmented although slight indication of segmentation present
in male endopodite as indistinct line. For natm*e of armature and
legs see tables 11-12 and figures 29c-/, 30a-d.
Remarks. — The armature of the male thoracic legs differs from
that given by Wilson (1935) although the presence of a copulating
pair in the collection suggests that the male and female specimens
are of the same species. Further, an examination of the males of
Wilson's collection (USNM 64057) verified the identification of the
male and indicated that the thoracic leg armature in table 12 is cor-
rect for the male of the species. Some variation is present, both in
WUson's collection and in the Hawaiian collection, especially in the
shape of the posterior end of the male genital segment and the size
of the postoral adhesion pads. The nature of the body and the
appendages, especially the thoracic legs, indicates however, that the
specimens in both collections are conspecific.
782-215—66-
