3C*IE FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS IN TAXONOMY
H. A. Gleason
Since the beginning of taxonomy as a science, which we
may date at 1755» ^'t ^^ been beset by objectors. Every
innovation in the accepted procedure has been criticized.
Linnaeus' sexual system, the first forward step in class-
ification in half a century, had its opponents. Binomial
nomenclature was not fully adopted for a few decades. Ex-
cept binomial names, which had long been and still are in
common use by various peoples, and except the subordination
of species to genus, which dates back at least two thousand
years, every important principle and practive in taxonomy has
been an innovation, and we may be sure that each of them has
received its due share of objection and criticism before it
was generally accepted. Even these may theoretically be
discarded in the future, just as various other ideas have
already been permanently rejected after experience with them.
The reason for this condition will be obvious, if one will
stop to reflect on the fundeunental nature of taxonomic re-
search. Our science is not an exact mental discipline, as
mathematics; neither is it an exact experimental science, as
chemistry or physics. No field of botany can compare with
these sciences in precision; genetics and plant physiology
offer the nearest approach to them.
Taxonomy must be regarded as an interpretative science.
.•/o observe various phenomena of plants as completely and as
accurately as we can with our limited powers. 'Ve cogitate on
our observations and the result of our thought is expressed
as a taxonomic conclusion. We have interpreted our observa-
tions and formed an opinion.
Those who engage in taxonomic research have always pre-
viouly acquired a considerable body of botanical knowledge.
This knowledge is unavoidably a potent factor in directing
and controlling our taxonomic conclusions. He invariably try
to make our opinions conform to ous established ideas. Usual-
ly we succeed, and we emerge with an opinion which offers
nothing new but is merely an extension or continuation of the
prevailing tnought of the time. Innovations in taxonomic
thought and procedure, some of which fall, some of which are
eventually generally adopted, come only from those with the
courage to depart from con.ention, a courage which is forced
upon them by tne weight of their own observations.
Taxonomists no longer propound tneories wnich are based on
pure speculation wit.iout some foundation of observable fact.
1
