19^2 Moldenke, New and Noteworthy Plants 129
sis; foliis oppositis; petiolis gracillbus valde elongatis
strigillosis; laminis ovato-subrotimdis rugosis crassiuscule den-
tatis utrinque parce strigillosis; inflorescentiis terminalibus
spicatis dein elongatis; bracteolis lanceolatis strigillosis;
calyce 2 — 3 mm. longo; corolla pairvlssima lilacina.
Small creeping herb; stems procumbent, tetragonal, rooting at
the nodes, sparsely strigillose; principal internodes 2.$ — h cm,
long, sometiiies slightly arched; leaves decussate-opposite, num-
erous; petioles very slender, elongated, often as long as or
longer than the blade, 1 — 2,5 cm. long, flattened-canaliculate
above, sparsely strigillose; blades rather firmly chartaceous,
rather uniformly green on both surfaces, ovate-subrotund, 1 — 2,5
cm, long and ^vide, acute at the base or slightly prolonged into
the petiole, roiinded at the apex, rather coarsely dentate along
the margins except toward the very base, rugose above, sparsely
strigillose on both surfaces, the teeth acute or rovinded; midirib
and the Ij. or $ secondaries about equal in diameter, very slend-
er, impressed above, prominulous beneath, ascending, not arcuate;
veinlet reticulation sparse and rather obscure; inflorescence
terminal, spicate, slender, 7 — 13 cm, long, rather loosely many-
flowered; peduncle very slender, h — U,5 cm, long, sparsely strig-'
illose with whitish ascending hairs like those on the stems, pe-
duncles, and leaf -blades; rachis very slender, strigillose like
the peduncle; bractlets lanceolate, about 2,5 nur.. long, equaling
or slightly shorter than the calyx, or only 1,5 mm, long and
much shorter than the calyx, acuminate at the apex, sparsely
strigillose; calyx cylindric, 2 — 3 mm. long, 5-ribbed, scarious
between the ribs, strigillose with ascending ■whitish hairs on
the ribs, 5-apic\ilate, the lowermost ones often short-pedicell-
ate; corolla hypocrareriform, lilac, its tube very slender, e-
qualling the calyx, its rim about 2 ram, wide.
The type of this interesting species was collected by Gert
Hatschbach ( no. 2560 ) in "terreno umido da mata ciliar", Rio
CaniiS, Palmeira, Parand, Brazil, on November 11, 1951, and is de-
posited in the Britton Herbarium at the New York Botanical Gard-
en,
STROBUS PEUCE (Griseb,) Moldenke, comb, nov,
Pinus peuce Griseb,, Spicil. Fl, Rumel, 2: 3U9. 18U5.
SYNGONANTHUS NITENS f . MAXJIEI Moldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma typica speciei recedit foliis arete ad-
presso-pilosis, pilis albidis saepe ref lexis.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having the leaves closely appressed-pilose, the hairs yrtiitish
and often reflexed.
The type of the form was collected by Gustaf Oskar Andersson
Mai me ( no, 1966a ) at Saftta Anna de Ghapada, Mattogrosso, Brazil,
on August 2, 1902, and is deposited in the herbarium of the
Naturhis tori ska Riksmuseum at Stockholm.
SYNGONANTHUS NITENS f , PILOSUS Moldenke, f. nov.
