130 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 2
Haec forma a forma typica specie! foliis patenti-pilosis re-
cedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having its leaves spreading-pilose.
The type of the foim was collected by Gustaf Oskar Andersson
licime (no. 1966) at Santa Anna de Chapada, Mattogrosso, Brazil,
on July 18, 1902, and is deposited in the herbarium of the
Naturhistoriska Riksmuseum at Stockholm,
THE SELECTED TIVRITINGS OF A GREAT NATURALIST*
Harold N. Moldenke
In this time of great tension and stress, when we are being
deluged from all sides by wars and rumors of wars — hot and
cold — and by frantic radio reports and scare newspaper head-
lines about the imminent extinction of the hxman race, when life
has become well calculated to give stomach ulcers and nervous
breakdowns to even the more placid individuals among us, it is
increasingly important that our attention be directed periodic-
ally to the timeless philosophy of the great naturalists of our
land. It is no accident that in recent years there has been a
great revival of interest in the works of Audubon, Emerson,
Whitman, Thoreau, and Burroughs. These men belong to that bless-
ed company of spirits able properly to separate the transient
ephemeral trivia of day-to-day existence which, because of our
nearness to them, often seem so exaggeratedly large and import-
ant to us, from the eternal verities of the universe as seen in
the natural world all about us and of which we are but such a
small part.
How badly most of us need from time to time, at least, to
escape from "the maddening crowd", from the hustle and bustle
and rush of modern civilization, to the quiet solitudes of some
sylvan temple, there to renew and refresh our souls in blessed
communion with our Makerl When our daily newspapers keep repeat-
ing their seemingly never changing refrain of the chronicling of
greed and hate and crime, it is a source of great comfort to be
able to stand in some wayside thicket and observe the self-
sacrificial devotion of mothers' love as demonstrated by a brown
thrasher or ruby-throated hummingbird blindly attacking the sup-
posed enemy h\indreds of times her size menacing her babies, or
of the worm-eating warbler feigning a broken wing and even roll-
ing over and over down a hillside to distract one's attention
from her nest.
Mary of us have copies of John Burroughs' twenty-four publish-
ed books, but with so much demand on our time, it becomes in-
creasingly difficult to find leis\ire to read all that one would
like to read. Miss Wiley has, therefore, done this and future
