1952 Moldenke, Selected Writings 131
generations a great service in ciolling the very best from
Burroughs' writings and placing it in one handy volume. Now there
is no longer any excuse for us not to be acquainted with this
great Hudson River nat\irali3t. He it was who emphasized that
"the most precious things of life are near at hand, without mon-
ey and without price. Each of you has the whole wealth of the
universe at your very door. One has only to sit down in the
woods or fields or by the shore of the river or lake, and necirly
everything of interest will come round to him — the birds, the
animals, the insects; and presently, after his eye has got accus-
tomed to the place and to the light and shade, he will probably
see some plant or flower that he has sought in vain for So,
on a large scale, the student and lover of nature has this ad-
vantage over people who gad up and down the world seeking some
novelty or excitement: he has only to stay at home and see the
procession pass. The great globe swings around to him like a
revolving showcase; the change of the seasons is like the passage
of strange and new co\mtries; the zones of the earth, with all
their beauties amd marvels, pass one's door and linger long in
the passing."
Not only was he a great naturalist and philosopher, but a
writer of \insurpassed charm and beauty who knew well how best to
use the English language. Consider, for instance: "Unadulterated,
unsweetened observations are what the resil nature lover craves.
No man can invent incidents and traits as interesting as the
reality." Or, in speaking of the joy of walking: "A race that
neglects or despises this primitive gift, that fears the touch of
the soil, that has no footpaths that warns off the walker as
a trespasser, that knows no way but the highway that forgets
the stile, the footbridge, that even ignores the rights of the
pedestrian in the public road, providing no escape for him but in
the ditch or up the bank, is in a fair way to far more serious
degeneracy." "The human body is a steed that goes freest and
longest under a light rider, and the lightest of all riders is a
cheerful heart The heaviest thing in the world is a heavy
heart." "If I were to name the three most precious resources of
life, I would say books, friends, and natiire; and the greatest of
these, at least the most constant and always at hand, is nature."
"The bora naturalist is one- of the most lucky men in the world.
Winter or summer, rain or shine, at home or abroad, w alking or
riding, his pleasures are always near at hand. The great book of
nature is open before him and he has only to turn its leaves,"
In speaking of the coming of spring: "A few days ago, not a
bird, not a sound; everything rigid and severe; then in a day the
barriers of winter give way, and spring comes like an inundation.
...The present season is always the mother of the next ... .Before
nature closes her house in the fall, she makes ready for the
spring opening. .. .In March the door of the seasons first stands
ajar a little; in April it is opened nnich wider; in M^ the win-
dows go up also; and in June the walls are fairly taken down and
the genial currents have free play everywhere Summer always
comes in the person of June, iri-th a b\inch of daisies on her
