132 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. 2
breast and clover blossoms in her hands," It was he irtio describ-
ed our bluebird as having "the sky-tinge on its back, the earth-
tinge on its breast." Maples in the autumn gleam, he says, "like
great bonfires along the hills"; animal hibernation in winter is
a condition where "the fires of life [are] banked up and burning
just enough to keep the spark over till spring."
He it was who spoke of "the bright constellations of the
bloodroot" in the leafless woods; of the waterlily: "What a
queenly flower, indeed, the type of unsullied purity and sweet-
ness! Its root, like a black, corrugated, ugly reptile, clinging
to the slime, but its flower in purity amd whiteness like a
star." The cambium layer of trees: "Generation and regeneration
take place through this layer. I have called it the girdle of
perpetual youth." Of the bee: "The honeybee goes forth from the
hive in spring like the dove from Noah's ark, and it is not till
after many days that she brings back the olive leaf, which in
this case is a pellet of golden pollen upon each hip."
Listen to him describe winter in the Hudson River valley:
Winter, "a severe artist'. No longer the canvas and the pigments,
but the marble and the chisel. When the nights are calm and the
moon fiill, I go out to gaze upon the wonderful purity of the
moonlight and snow. The air is full of latent fire, and the cold
warms me — after a different fashion from that of the kitchen
stove. The world lies about me in a 'trance of snow' . The clouds
are pearly and iridescent and seem the farthest possible removed
from the condition of a storm — the ghosts of clouds, the in-
dwelling beauty freed of all dross. I see the hills, bvilging
with great drifts, lift themselves up cold and white against the
sky, the black lines of fence here and there obliterated by the
depths of the snow. Presently a fox barks away up next the
mountains, and I imagine I can almost see him sitting there in
his furs, upon the illuminated surface, and looking down in my
direction. As I listen, one answers him from behind the woods in
the valley. What a wild -winter sound, wild and weird, up among
the ghostly hills'." And, again: "the snow is a great telltale
and blabs as effectually as it obliterates. I go into the woods
and know all that has happened. I cross the fields, and if only
a mouse has visited his neighbor the fact is chronicled."
"The preparations of a snowstorm are, as a rule, gentle and
quiet; a marked hush pervades both the earth and the sky. The
movements of the celestial forces are muffled, as if the snow
already paved the way of their coming. There is no uproar, no
clashing of arms, no blowing of wild trumpets. These soft,
feathery, exquisite crystals are formed as if in the silence and
privacy of the inner cloud chambers." But then the blizzard
comes: "As the sun went down and darkness fell, the storm impulse
reached its full. It became a wild conflagration of wind and
snow; the world was wrapt in frost flame; it enveloped one and
penetrated his lungs and caught away his breath like a blast
from a bximing city. How it whipped around and under every cover
and searched out every crack and crevice, sifting under the
shingles in the attic, darting its white tongues under the kitch-
