2 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. 1;, no. 1
They may carry their reaeoning further than their basic know-
ledge justifies, or we may think that they do if we disagree
with them, but back of every theory there is always some fact.
Botanical facts enter our mind through our five senses, chief-
ly through our sight. Taxonomists have, in general, about the
same po-/vera of observation. V.'hat is known to one is known to
another, or can be verified by another if he desires. To be
sure, no one knows everything about any plant, and new facta
are constantly being discovered and our existing ideas
amended accordingly.
After taking full account of new discoveries, after making
every allowance for errors in our conclusions caused by in-
complete or faulty observation, it is still apparent that the
mental processes of taxonomists, by which these facts are di-
gested, differ so widely and have differed ao continuously
that various taxonomic matters have been in controversy for
two centuries. If we look over the field of taxonomy even
hastily, we can find three general subjects on which there
has been, is, and probably long will be great discussion.
In two hundred years we have reached no permanent conclusion.
Probably most of us will think first of the problems of
nomenclature. The International Rules, since their adoption
in 1867, have been considerably eunended three times and some-
what changed twice. 3cores of proposed amendments, often
conflicting, submitted to the Stockholm Congress by scores of
taxonomists from many countries, indicate the dissatisfaction
and disagreement still prevalent among botanists. If the ex-
perience of the past five sessions of the International Con-
gress can be any guide to the future, we may confidently ex-
pect still other proposed changes and still other adopted
amendments at the next meetings. Tiomenclature, however, is
not a taxonomic problem. It has nothing to do with the kinds
of plants and deals only with the names applied to them. We
exclude it from further discussion here.
A second problem is the arrangement of the families and
orders in accordance with their probable phylogeny. The
change from the old sequence of Benthara and Hooker to that of
Engler and Prantl was severe, but no greater than the change
from both advocated by Hallier and in this country by Eessey,
Schaffner, and Pool, or the still later proposals of Lotsy,
Hutchinson, Pulle, and others. Although phylogeny is one of
the most important problems of taxonomy, it will not be dis-
cussed further here.
Distinctly taxonomic is the third problem of the nature
and scope of the species, the genus, and the various other
categories of classification. Much has been written on the
concept of the genus, on the difference subspecies and var-
iety, and similar topics. Many attempts have been made to
