19^2 Uoldenke, Notes on Eriocaulaceae ll;7
PI. Cyp. 2: 276. 1855; Laslolepls pllosa BOck., Flora 56: 90.
1873; Lasiolepsis pllosa BOck, apud Milne-Redhead, Kew Bull.
I9U8: U72, sphalm'. I9U8.
Illustrations: Lam., Encycl. USth. 3: pl. 50, fig. 3. 1789.
This small and easily overlooked herb is s aid to be common
locally on wet sandy soil of open savannas, in marshy places in
lower portions of valleys, in marshes along rivers, in woods and
savannas near sealevel, and among grasses near footpaths in its
American area of distribution. In British Honduras it grows in
company with P. gentlei and Syngonanthus bartlettii , and is in-
timately mixed with these and with several xyridaceous, cypera-
ceous, and juncaceous species on herbarium sheets. It is said to
be "very rare" in British Honduras, but occurs rather abundantly
in Venezuela and the Guianas. It grows at altitudes fix)m near
sealevel to 500 meters. Specimens have been distributed as " P.
lamarckLanus H.B.K.* and Eriocaulon caesium Griseb,
Literature: Kunth, Enum. PI. 3: 306. lUitl; Lecomte, Joum. de
Bot., s6r. 2, 1: I36. I908; Lecomte, Bull. Soc. Bot. France 55s
595. 1909; Malme, Phanerogamen 3« 3. 1933; Moldenke, Carnegie
Inst. Wash. Publ. 522: lh3—'Wi, 191x0; Milne-Redhead, Kew Bull.
19li8: li72— U73. 19U8.
In Africa this species has been collected in moist sandy
places near a roadside ditch, on poor sandy soil bare of other
vegetation in rest-house compounds, on moist sand near the sea,
in association with Utricularia , Polygala , and i-ushes where wet-
season lagoons are drying up, in in sanc^ places in general. It
has there been collected in flower in Karch, August, October, No-
vember, and December. In the New World it has been collected in
flower in February, March, August, October, November, and Decem-
ber.
The specimen cited by Alvaro Silveira from "l.;arajo" is from
Karajo Island, Pard, Brazil. The species has also been collected
in Uonagas, Venezuela (Las Botellas, Llaturin) .
Lecomte has described the remarkable structure of the calyx
of the female flowers of this species and the resulting method
of seed dispersal. LJLlne-Redhead notes that the detached calyxes,
after the dispersal of the fruits, are quite conspicuous cling-
ing to the heads of all the specimens he examined. He cites, in
addition. Chevalier 20307 from French Guinea; Deighton 1)|)|1 and
Adames 90 from Sierra Leone; Bequaert s.n. [Linder II4.5I] from
Liberia; Lecomte F.30 from Gabun; and Fitzgerald 5213/2 f rem
Mafia Island, Tanganyika. In a letter to me he states that P. J,
Qreenway also collected it on Mafia. ^ says 'Iffhilst it is pos-
sible that the species has been introduced into Tropical Africa,
it is, on the other hand, qtiite reasonable to suppose that it is
a native. It is hoped that, when collectors pay more attention
to the members of this interesting if insignificant family, the
distribution of P. lamarckii may be shown to be a natursQ. one."
The amazingly disjointed distribution of this species is very
probably due to poor collecting. It brings to mind the known dis-
tribution of several other species irtiich are inconspicuous and
