1952 Gleason, Fundamental Concepts in Taxonomy
define the apecies, and most of the definitions have been
fully satiefactory only to the definer. This is the problem
which we propose to discuss in the following paragraphs. If
the reader expects to find a weighty pronouncement on any of
these matters all ready for him to demolish by his own super-
ior wisdom, he would do better to turn to the statements of
various contemporaries who apparently know all about than.
If he expects to chortle in glee at the wit and sarcasm which
we shall direct against some hapless botanist, he had better
lay this down and pick up a copy of the New Yorker.
The concept of genua and species is not a new one, al-
though some biosystematists give one the impression that they
are the original discoverers, or even the inventors of the
idea. The concept is vastly old, and because it is so old we
have to consider some of the fundamental ideas which underly
it. Of course it has changed somewhat with the increase of
botanical knowledge, and its use by the taxonomist of today
differs somewhat from its earlier use by the laity. Just the
same, its present connotation in even our most advanced (or
most radical) taxonomic work is a direct result of its earl-
ier and simpler history. Our science has grown, both in
breadth and depth, out of the contacts of early man with the
world of plants about him. The changes which we may detect
are the changes of a normal ontogeny. As the poet said, "the
child is father to the man."
The concept of apecies and genua is inextricably bound
with certain matters of semantics and certain mental proces-
ses. To get it properly oefore us, I propose to discuss
three general concepts or principles upon which taxonomy is
founded and a fourtn which we have developed for ourselves.
Some of these will have to be presented in a very elementary
way.
Aa every taxonomist knows, the original meaning of p:enus
in the Latin tongue was a kind of something, while a species
was a special kind. From the general meaning of the two
words in ancient times, tnrough the loose application to
plants by the pre-Linnaean fathers of botany and their re-
stricted application in post-Darwinian time, down to the pre-
sent day, the words have changed from tne common speech of
the laity and become technical terms of the taxonomist. Nev-
ortheless, the words still carry inherently within them some
implications derived with little or no change from the orig-
inal usage. The most apparent of these is the subordination
of species to genus . Tnere is nothing in the origin of the
words to indicate that every species must belong to a genus
or that every genus must contain a species. The next appar-
ent implication in meaning is more obvious in the English
translation kind. As soon as we stop to consider, we realize
