A FLORISTIC STUDY OF BIG TREES OF THE MIDWEST
Kendall Laughlln
4114 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 24, 111.
The list of big trees near the end of this article, List 1,
shows in the order of their sise the diameter, circumference and
location of the largest individual of each species or hybrid of
forest trees that I have found in the area enclosed vd.thin the
following line:
Beginning at Benton Harbor, Mich., thence thru
Niles, Mich., South Bend, Plymouth, Kokomo and Indianap-
olis to Jef f ersonville , Ind., thence down the Ohio and
Mississippi Rivers to the southeast comer of Arkansas,
thence west along the southern border of Arkansas to
eastern Oklahoma and north thru eastern Oklahoma and
Kansas to northwestern Missouri, thence east to Fort
Madison^ Iowa, thence up the Mississippi River to the
northwest corner of Illinois, thence east to Beloit,
Wis., thence ERE via the C.M.St.P.& P. Railroad to Ra-
cine, Wis.
Wher« both the diameter and the circiunference are shown in
List 1, these measiirements were taken at 54 inches above the
ground, but where only the diameter is shown it was measured at
about 62 inches above the ground or beneath the lowest limb,
iriiichever was less.
The data in List 1 up to the double vertical rule relate to
the individual trees listed in the first column. The data in the
last column, headed "RANCS," relate to the species shown opposite
in the first column.
List 2 shows the rates of growth of large individual forest
trees, arranged in plant order. The average annual increment of
circxaiference was arrived at by dividing the difference between
the last measurement and the first measuremoit by the growing
years elapsing between the two meaBurements . A growing year is
the period between the last killing frost of spring and the first
killing frost of fall, according to the Weather Bureau's records,
and the nearest tenth of a growing season was used in the co^uta-
tions ^ere measurenents were made during the growing season.
A study of List 1 shows that ^^ of the trees occur in colo-
nies and only lk% occxir singly; i.e., one in a woodland.
Perhaps the most important result flowing from this study is
the rating of the woodlaitds. By adding together the diameters of
the trees sho«m in List 1 in each continuous woodland (portions of
whidi are often subdivided by name for convenience of reference),
such total is treated in this paper as a measure of the magnitude
of the timber in each of such tracts. The results for the fifteen
highest ranking tracts are shown in the following Woodland Table:
153
