1953 Laughlln, Big Trees of the Midwest 155
four other states. It is 37 miles southwest of Cairo, 111., 6
miles northwest of Hickman, Ky., 10 miles north of the northern
border of Tennessee, and 47 miles northeast of the northeast corner
of Arkansas.
Nineteen of the 34 species in this park exceed 3 feet in diam-
eter. Baldcypresses , Bur Oaks, American Elms and Swamp Chestnut
Oaks exceed 6 feet; Silrer Maples and Eastern Cottonwoods exceed 5
feet; Rock Elms, Pecans, Shellbark Hickories, Pin Oaks and Cherry-
b&rk Oaks exceed 4 feet; and Shumar^ Oaks, Green Ashes, Overcup
Oaks, Swamp Red Oaks,Thomless Honeylocusts , Quercus mutabilis .
Sweetguffls, Black Willows and Sycamores exceed 3 feet.
Following are the measured heights of a few of the park cham-
pions: Bur Oak, 143 ft.; Quercus mutabilis . 143 ft. (carrying a
greater height in proportion to its girth than any other American
Oak); Shellbark Hickory, 128 ft.; Cherrybark Oak, 122 ft.; Swamp
Red Oak, 104 ft.; Swamp Cottonwood, 63 ft.; Swamp- Privet, 32 ft.;
Planertree, 31 ft.; Possumhaw, 20 ft. These trees are things to
marvel at. Nowhei^ else east of the Pacific Coast states do trees
grow to such lofty heights.
An excess of precipitation in this locality favors tree
growth. At New Madrid, Mo., 13 miles west, the average annual pre-
cipitation is 51 inches, irtiile at Cairo it is 41 inches and at Mem-
phis it is 48 inches.
The nucleus of the park was 80 acres in the northeast corner,
which was purchased by the state from the Southern Hardware Co. for
18.000 for the purpose of saving the big Bur Oak, third in List 1.
H. S. Roberts donated 120 acres; Mrs. W. C. Bryant, Sr. , 40 acres;
and Mrs. Carl Mitchell, 40 acres. The remainder of the thousand
acre tract was purchased from the owners. The park was presented
to the State Park Board in March 1938. Credit must be given to
Gov. Lloyd C. Stark (who insisted upon a thousand acre park), Mr.
Elgin Davis of East Prairie and other citizens of Mississippi Coun-
ty for their timely efforts in devising ways and means for the
state to acquire the original tract. The state now owns 1007
acres, of which 440 acres are in Section 14, 40 acres are in Sec-
tion 11, 480 acres are in Section 10 and 40 acres are in Section 3*
Missourians may well be proud of this magnificent remnant of
Mississippi River bottomlcind timber. The park is bordei*ed by
closely cultivated fields, sharply contrasting with the primeval
forest a step beyond. But a botanist cannot help wishing that the
area to the north to Black Bayou and east to the county highway had
also been preserved, for the entire area was covered with superla-
tive timber and there must have been tree monarchs of a size un-
known today outside this area.
TURKEY RUN
Turkey Run State Park of Indiana, comprising 1520 acres. Is
located on Sugar Creek in northeastern Parke County 4 miles north
of Marshall. In a channel carved in postglacial time, Sugar Creek
passes here thru a resistant formation of red sandstone, the ero-
sion of which has produced rugged scenery.
The big trees are scattered thru the creek gorge, the 'slopes
of side canyons and the uplands. The largest tree is an American
Elm 15 '7" in circumference.
This tract was homesteaded by Salmon Lusk in I826, whose
