156 PHTTOLOGIA Vol. 4, no. 3
holdings later aggregated nearly 1400 acres. Salmon Lusk operated
a grist mill on the creek until it was washed out in ld47. His
son, John, a bachelor, Jealously guarded his trees from the rapaci-
ty of lumbermen. After John Lusk*s death in 1915 at the age of 75
it was necessary to divide the propex*ty among numerous heirs. In
1916 26$ acres of big timber of the Lusk tract was sold at an auc-
tion to the Hoosier Veneer Co. for #30,200.
Thru prodigious effox*ts and publicity Riehai*d Lieber, pioneer
conservationist, aided by Mrs. Juliet V. Strauss, procured suffi-
cient state funds to buy the tract for the state. And so, thru the
devotion of John Lusk to his trees and the dogged persistence of
Mr. Lieber and Mrs. Strauss this prime timberland, the first in In-
diana's state park system, was preserved from destiniction.
DAROANELLE, ARK.
Dardanelle, the city of big trees, is located on the south
bank of the Arkansas River about halfway between Little Rock and
Port Smith. The Oaks are apparently remnants of big Oak timber in
the high Arkansas Valley.
The Cottonwood, 101 feet high, the fourth tree in List 1, is
on the west side of Arkansas Highway 27 south of town. It is an
extraordinary tree because the species is rare to the southwaz*d.
The Southern Red Oak ( Quercus falcata Michaux) is one of sev-
eral large specimens of the species on the grounds of the grammar
school.
The White Oak, located about 100 feet east of Front Street, is
known as "The Arkansas Coxincil Oak" and is honored by a bronze mar-
ker erected by the Daughters of the American Revolution of Arkansas
with the following inscription:
"Upon this spot, under the Council Oak, acting Govenior
Robert Crittenden and Chief Black Fox, tribe spokesman, met in
council April 1820 and made the treaty tAiich gave to Arkansas all
of the Cherokee land south of the Arkansas River."
The Black Oak is growing in the yard of a residence on Front
Street*
GLENWOOD, ARK.
The town of Glenwood, Ark. is located on the Caddo River Just
above the point where it emerges from the Cossatot Mountains onto
the Athens Plateau. Most of the big trees are located in the riv-
er valley, which was traversed by Hernando De Soto in 1541, above
and below U.S. Hi^way 70 and on Bumham Mountain.
Forty-one genera of trees are represented, which is a much
greater number than in any other woodland.
The growth factor here is evidently the average annual precipe
itation of 57 inches, which is the greatest in the entire area cov-
ered by this survey.
The big trees of Glenwood are owned by Robert Newcomb of Con-
way, Ark., Patrick T. Hayes of Crestwood, 111., and others.
MOUNTAIN FORK, OKLA.
Located half a mile west of Mountain Fork River, half a mile
north of U.S. Highway 70 and 2 miles west of Eagletown, McCurtain
County, Oklahoma, this tract is noted for the presence of a gigan-
tic Baldcypress, the largest and oldest tree in the entire area
covered by this survey. It is advertised to be two thousand years
old, wiiicn may be an underestimate. The existence of this
