1953 Laughlln, Big Trees of the Midwest 157
remarkable tree, growing on relatively di*y ground at the northwes-
tern limit of the range of the species, verifies the dendrologlsts*
contention that the Baldcypress makes Its best growth on dry land;
It grows In water only to escape the competition of other species.
This tract was formerly the seat of government of the Choctaw
Nation. The owner, Robert Stiles, lives In the former mansion of
the Choctaw Nation's native governor.
COI WOODS
Cox Woods, comprising 200 acres. Is located 2 miles southeast
of Paoll, Ind. between U.S. Highway 150 and Indiana Highway 37.
The noirthern part Is bottomland bordering on Lick Creek and con-
tains fine specimens of Black Maple. The southern part is hilly
with the exception of a portion In a small tributary valley. The
hill soil Is a red clay, which Is deeply eroded In the absence of
trees. In the southern part there are comparatively large speci-
mens of Northern Red Oak, Chinkapin Oak, Tullptree, Black Walnut,
White Ash, Beech, Blackgum and Flowering Dogwood. The largest tree
is a White Oak with a diameter of 4*10" and a circumference of
14*7". Photographs show the most Intense competition, with closely
spaced spindling saplings shooting upward to the light.
There seems to be nothing particularly favorable about the
soil or the climate to produce such a dense growth of large trees,
so that credit must be given to the Cox family and, latterly, the
U.S. Foi^st Service for the excellent state of preservation of this
tract.
The south 150 acres was purchased in 1942 from the Wood-Mosaic
Co. for $24,150, which was raised by public subscription thru the
efforts of the Paoll Meridian Club and the Pioneer Mothers of Indi-
ana Society, aided by the American Forestry Association's publici-
ty* The north 50 acres, known as the Jeff Cox tract, bordering on
Lick Creek, was purchased in about 1945 for lldOO, half of which
was raised by public subscription thru the efforts of the Paoll Me-
ridian Club and the other half appropriated by the U.S. Forest Ser-
vice.
Cox Woods is now embodied in the Hoosier National Forest.
HOT SPRINGS, ARK.
Here are the town of Hot Springs and the Hot Springs National
Park, established in 1^32. The diverse topography and the protec-
tion afforded in this oldest of our national parks have produced
many unusual trees of valley and mountain types.
Outstanding is the magnificent Tilia nnda in Whlttlngton Park,
114 feet high, the tallest Basswood in the United States.
INDIANA DUNES
The Indiana Dunes State Park, cooprising 21d2 acres, is locat-
ed at Tremont, Porter Coxuty, Indiana, between Lake Michigan and
the Chicago South Shore k South Bend Railroad. It is exactly three
miles wide from east to west and has a frontage of 3.3 miles on the
lake. Hi^ moving sand dunes border the lak9 and reach a maximum
height of 193 feet above the lake. Where vegetation has been able
to get a foothold, the sand hills (f>articularly their south slope)
support a growth of Black Oak, Wltch-Hasel, Sassafras and Choke-
cherry, with Smooth Basswood on the sumnits of the dunes. The
•teep north slope of the dunes, facing the lake, provides a haven
for the survival of the boreal conifers, while at the same time th»
