158 PHTTOLOGIA Vol. 4, no. 3
dunes encourage the growth of southern species on the lowlands bf
cutting off the cold north winds. The area south of the dunes,
comprising more than half the total area of the park, is nearly
level. A considerable area in the eastern half is a swamp, much of
which is treeless. The humus that has accumulated on the sand left
by the ice sheet and the persistently high hxunidity have encouraged
the growth of a diversity of flora unequaled elsewhere in the Mid*
west. It is interesting to note, in this vast ligneous display,
the boreal relicts, viz: White and Jack Pines, Common Juniper, Pa-
per and Gray Birches and Speckled Alder; and the southern invaders,
viz: Pin Oak, Sycamore and Pawpaw.
The trees are not conspicuously large, but it is an outstan-
ding fact that all the small species of endemic trees attain phen-
omenal size in this particular tract. The largest tree is an Amer-
ican Elm 3*2" in diameter. A Smooth Basswood is 3 feet in diame-
ter. Eastern Cottonwoods, White Oaks, Northern Red Oaks, Black
Ashes, White Ashes, White Pines, Black Oaks, Tuliptrees, Blackgums,
Red Maples, Swamp White Oaks, Pin Oaks, Beeches and Bittemut Hick-
ories exceed 2 feet in diameter.
The total number of species, 71, shown in the Woodland Table
on page 154* is greater than in any other woodland of similar size
in the Midwest. This number includes the species in Dune Acres,
adjoining the state park on the west. Sixty-nine of these species
are in the state park. The two additional species in Dime Acres
are Betula lutea and Quercus ellipsoidalis .
The acquisition of the state park in 1925 was financed by leg-
islative appropriations and contributions by private individuals
and interests. Being located near a thickly populated area and of-
fering diversified recreational attractions, it is the most heavily
patronized of the Indiana state parks.
FOREST PARK
Forest Park, comprising 1375 acres, is located on the western
border of St. Louis, Mo. The River Des Peres, now largely enclosed
in a sewer, flows thru the northern and eastern paz*ts.
The Swamp White Oaks in the river valley in the northeastern
part of the parte are notably large. The White Oak is conspicuous
in the uplands of the eastern part, but in the western part the
Black Oak and the Shingle Oak are very common. In the vicinity of
the Art Museum there are an extraordinary number of specimens of
Quercus bushii (marilandica x velutina ) and one large specimen of
Quercus runcinata ( borealis ■j^ imbricaria ) . Aside from the estab-
lishment of the many hybrid Oaks, the upland forest appears to be
of youthful age.
An act was passed by the Missouri Legislature in 1^72 author-
izing the purchase by the City of St. Louis of a thousand or more
acres of land for a public park. As the result of the opposition
of property owners, the Missouri Supreme Court declared the act un-
constitutional. In ld74 another bill meeting the objections was
approved by the Legislature. This law gave the County Court of St*
Louis discretionary power in the purchase of grounds. In pursuance
of this authority appraisers were appointed to fix the value of the
lands, which were then owned mainly by C. P. Chouteau, John Ca-
banne, William Forsyth and Thomas Skinker. The Forest Park tract,
comprising 1371 acres, was purchased by the city under condemnation
