19^3 Moldenke, New and Noteworthy Plants 181
uncles similar to the branchlets in all respects, about 2 cm.
long, minutely puberulous; cyme-branches yellowish, flattened,
puberulent; bracts often 1 or 2 at the apex of the peduncle,
foliaceous, suborbicular or ovate, about 2 cm, long and 1.5 cm.
wide, very minutely and obscurely pilosulous or glabrescent;
bractlets linear, a padr at each furcation of the corymb, 2 — 7
Ttrni . long, puberulent; pedicels filiform, mostly less than 1 mm.
long, puberulous; calyx campanulate, about 2 mm. long and 1 mm.
wide, puberulous, its rim minutely 5-toothed; corolla greenish-
white, its tube about U mm. long, minutely puberulous only at
the apex outside, the limb very small.
The type of this species was collected by Dacr&nont ( no. 361
bis) at llatadi, Belgian Congo, on December 20, 1992, and is de-
posited in the herbariimi of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at
Binissels .
PRELINA CONGOLENSIS var. INTEGRIFOLIA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit laminis foliorum
Integerrimis .
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having entire-margined leaf -blades.
The type of the variety was collected by J. Gillet ( no. U022)
at k'oanda, Belgian Congo, in 1907, and is deposited in the her-
barium of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at Brussels.
PREMNA UATADIENSIS var. PARVIFOLIA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit foliis minoribtis,
laminis oblongo-ellipticis 2.2 — 5-3 cm. longis, l.U — 3.2 cm.
latis, crasse dentatis, subtus dense pilosis, petiolis sarmentis-
que juvenilibus puberulenti-pilosis .
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having much smaller leaves, the blades oblong-elliptic, 2.2 — 5.3
cm. long, l.U — 3.2 cm. wide, coarsely dentate except at the
base, scattered-pilosuloua on the venation above, more densely
pilose beneath, rather densely puberulent-pilose on the petioles
and young twigs.
The tjrpe of the variety was collected by Frederic Wellens
( No. 1015 ) at Banana, Belgian Congo, in January, 1921;, and is
deposited in the herbarium of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at
Brussels.
PREMNA QUADRIFOLIA var. SUBGLABRA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit ramis ramulisque
petiolisque laminisque foliorum utrinque subglabrescentibus .
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its branches, branchlets, petioles, and both leaf-surfaces
subglabrescent .
The type of the variety was collected by Edouard Piere Luja
( no. 119 ) at the cataracts of Yumba, Belgian Congo, on December
16, 1898, and is deposited in the herbarium of the Jardin Botan-
ique de I'Etat at Brussels.
