182 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 3
STAGHTTARPHETA URTICAEFOLIA f . ALBIFLORA Moldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma typica specie! corollis albis recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having white corollas.
The type of the form was collected by Benedictus Hubertais
Danser ( no. 66$$ ) at Tjiandjoer along the roadside near Soekabo-
emi. Res. Priangan, Java, on May ,30, 1927, and is deposited in
the Herbarium Bogoriense at Buitenzorg.
SYNGONANTHUS YACUAKBENSIS Moldenke, sp. nov.
Herba acaulescens usque ad 12 cm. alta; foliis rosulatis
graminoideis rigidiusculis erectis nxraierosis dense confertis, ad
apicem acutis vel mucronatis, 5 — 7-nervatis, basin versus sub-
fenestratis, utrinque glabris; vaginis arete adpressis subcon-
tortis glabris vel ubique parce pilosis striatis, ad apicem ob-
lique fissis; pedxmculis erectis rigidis U — 10 cm. longis, 3-
costatis densiuscule albido-strigosis et apicem versus dense
patenteque glanduloso-pilosis; capitulis albis hemisphaericis
usque ad 9 mm. diametro.
Acaulescent herb to 12 cm. tall; leaves rosulate, grass-like,
3 — U cm. long, widest at the base, about 3 mm. wide at the mid-
point, rather rigid and erect, nxmierous, densely clustered, a-
cute or mucronate at the apex, 5 — 7-nerved, slightly fenestrate
beneath, glabrous on both siirfaces except for the hidden densely
lanate base; sheaths rather closely appressed, about 3 cm. long,
slightly twisted, glabrous except for the very base or sparsely
scattered-pilose throughout, striate, obliquely split at the a-
pex, the blade erect, about 6 mm. long, attenuate-aciaminatej pe-
duncles several, erect, rigid, U — 10 cm. long, 3-costate, rather
densely strigose with whitish antrorse hairs and also densely
spreading-pilose toward the apex with gland-tipped hairs and
sparsely so lower down; heads iirtiite, hemispheric, to 9 mm, wide;
involucral bractlets pale-stramineous, obovate, about 3 mm, long
and 1.5 mm. wide, apute at the apex, glabrous, shiny; receptacle
densely long-villous with vrhite hairs; receptacular bractlets
hysdine, elliptic or oblanceolate, about 3 mm. long aund 0.9 mm.
wide, attenuate-acute at the apex, concave-navicular, glabrous;
staminate florets: sepals 3, united only at the very base, hya-
line, firm, erect, elliptic, about 3 mm. long and 0.6 mm. wide,
attenuate-acute at the apex, glabrous; petals 3, united into an
infundibular stramineous tube about 2 mm. long, glabrous; sta-
mens 3; pistillate florets: sepals 3, free and separate, hya-
line, elliptic, about 3 mm. long and 0.9 mm. wide, attenuate-
acute at the apex, glabrous; petals 3, oblanceolate-spatulate,
connate at the middle, hyaline, about 1.5 mm. long and 0.2 mm.
wide, obtuse and subcucullate at the apex, sparsely long-villous
on the back; pistil about 0.8 mm. long, glabrous; ovary 3-celled-
The type of this species was collected by F. Prieto ( no. P.
197 ) in swampy areas between Ofia and the Rio Yacuambi on the
Eastern Cordillera, Azuay, Ecuador, between September 10 and 19,
I9U?, and is deposited in the Britton Herbarium at the Hew York
Botanical Garden.
