h P H Y T L G I A Vol. U, no. 1
that in evary instance, we know or we infer from past experi-
ence that a kind of plant includes a number of individuals
all more or leas alike, rfaahington 21m or Charter Oak or
General (Jrant Sequoia do not denote kinds of plants; they are
proper nouns applied to individuals. Ulmus americana or
American Elm denote a plurality of individualsl they are com-
mon nouns. The mere fact that each of these terms consists
of two epithets does not affect their standing as nouns, even
though the grammarian may insist that half of each term is
adjectival. This brings us to the first and most elementary
idea in taxonomy, the population.
The Concept of Population
This word, derived from the Latin populus , people, soon
lost its original meaning in English and became, according to
'Vebster, "the whole number of people or inhabitants in a
country, section, or area." It was only a short step from
this meaning to apply it to other organisms besides Homo
sapiens . It was taken over by the biologist and used to in-
dicate, again quoting Webster, "the organisms, collectively,
inhabiting an area or region." Such an expression as 'the
bird population of an orchard' is intelligible to anyone. It
is equally practicable to speak of the 'weed population' of
the same orchard. Still later, according to V/ebster, the
word was used in statistics to denote "the entire group of
organisms, from which samples are taken for measurement," or
any "group of persons, objects, or items." In this sense the
word is commonly used in various branches of science today.
How does it happen that a group of objects can be estab-
lished? What is the real basis of this concept of popula-
tion? V/ebster 's definition of the cognate word people em-
^asizes a point which also appears but is not clearly ex-
pressed in the other definitions. People denotes a body of
persons "united by a common character," and it is at once
apparent that the only basis and the only reason for the
modern concept of population lies in the similarity of the
component individuals. As used by the biologist, the word is
always a collective noun and connotes a plurality of individ-
uals all of which have some point or points of similarity.
This likeness may be of any kind qualitatively (that is,
based on any common character) and of any degree quantitat-
ively. Thus, the bird population of an orchard is composed
of individuals with just two effective points of similarity:
tney are all birds and they all live in the same orcliard.
From this loose but perfectly valid use of tne term, there
is every gradation to the highly restricted populations of
the geneticist, who may have for study a group of plants or
