1953 Moldenke, New and Notefworthy Plants 183
VERBENA DEMISSA Moldenke, sp. nov.
Herba perennls prostrata; caulibus ramisque numerosis gracil-
ibus acutiuscule tetragonls decumbentibus vel adscendentibus
minute strigillosis vel glabratis; intemodiis valde abbreviatis;
foliis oppositis subsessilibus vel breviter petiolatis chartac-
eis ellipticis ^ — Hi cm. longis, 2 — 7 nmi. latls, acutis inciso-
dentatis, ad basin cuneato-angustatis , supra plusminusve albo-
strigosis, subtus ad marginem et in venis albo-pilosis vel sub-
strigosis; inflorescentiis terminalibus spicatis laxe multiflor-
is erectis .
Prostrate perennial herb with heavy woody roots and many
stems issuing from the crown; stems and branches numerous, slen-
der, rather acutely tetragonal, decumbent or ascending, minutely
strigillose with tiny widely scattered hairs or glabrate; nodes
annulate, often marked with a band of denser, whitish, spreading
hairs; principal internodes much abbreviated, to 2 cm. long, us-
vially much less; leaves decussate-opposite, subsessile or short-
petiolate; petioles filiform, about 1 mm. long, white-pilose on
the margins with sharp-pointed ascending hairs; blades chartace-
ous, rather imiformly d\ill-green on both surfaces, elliptic in
outline, $ — lU mm. long, 2 — 7 mm. wide, incised-dentate from the
widest part to the acute apex, cuneately narrovred to the base,
more or less sparsely triiite-strigose above, white-pilose or sub-
strigose along the venation and margins beneath; midrib and the
2 or 3 pairs of ascending secondaries usually subimpressed above
and prominulous beneath; veinlet reticulation indiscernible on
both surfaces; inflorescence terminal, spicate, elongate, loose-
ly many- flowered, 2 — 10.5 cm. long, erect; peduncles filiform,
5 — 7 nun. long, glabrate or very minutely scattered-pilosulous ;
rachis filiform, glabrous or very minutely and obscurely scatter-
ed-pilosulous; flov/ers imbricate during anthesis only; calyx
cylindric, about 2 mm. long, strigillose on the ribs; corolla
very small, deep-blue, hypocrateriform, its narrow-cylindric
tube about 2 mm. long, its limb 1 — 1.5 mm. wide; frui ting-calyx
somewhat divergent, not imbricate, not enlarged, minutely strig-
illose; cocci U, about 1.8 mm. long.
The type of this species was collected by W. H. Camp ( no.
E.251O) in the Parroquia Luis Cordero near the village of San
Marcos, 5 — 8 km. northeast of Azogues, Caflar, Ecuador, on April
1, I9U5, and is deposited in the Britton Herbariian at the New
York Botanical Garden. The collector notes that the plant is
sometimes used as a fever cure, and is called "verbena echada".
VITEX MEGAPOTAMICA f . ALBIFLORA Moldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma typica speciei corollis albis recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having white corollas.
The type of the form was collected by Paulino Reitz ( no.
3226 ) in capoeirSo at Brusque, altitude $0 m., Santa Catharina,
Brazil, on December U, 19U9, and is deposited in the Britton Her-
barium at the Nefw lork Botanical Garden. Albino forms are being
found in many species of this genus.
