19^2 Gleason, Fundanel'tal Concepts in Taxonomy ;
animals in which the individuals are so closely related by
descent, so closely similar in every observable character,
that they are essentially identical.
V/hen population was defined as a group from which samples
were taken for statistical study, it might more appropriate-
ly have been stated 'for any kind of scientific study.' iVith
either term, the selection of samples and the conclusions
drawn from their study are based on the assumption that all
the individuals of the population are alike, at least in the
features which are the subjects of the study, and therefore
tnat the results derived from the study of some will be ap-
plicable to the group as a whole.
Now that is precisely wnat we do in taxonomy. Our studies
of a kind of plant are never based on the whole population,
but only on that fraction of the total which we are able to
see alive in the field and preserved in the nerbarium. '-.'hen
we write a description of a species or a genus or any other
taxonoiaic group, we believe that our description will apply
to all the individuals which constitute that unit.
It is only natural that the new systematists' should adopt
the term population for groups of individuals which have some
sort of taxonomic status. They find it to be a very useful
term and other taxonomists will also use it to advantage.
Geologists think without mental strain of tne bird popula-
tion of an orchard, a group whose only taxonomic similarity
is their membership in the class Aves, or even of the biota
of the same orchard, including all the plants and animals.
Taxonomists and geneticists commonly use the term in a more
restricted sense, limiting it to a species or part of a spe-
cies. It is equally applicable to ar>y superior group. A
genus or a family is composed of a number (presumably large)
of individuals all possessing in common a certain set of
characters. The use of the term population for such a group
may seldom be useful, but it is certainly technically ad-
missible.
Tne Concept of Kind
In taxonomy, the first and most fundamental of all con-
cepts is that of the existence of kinds of plants. Kinds
were recognized long before the emergence of botany as a sci-
ence. Uioscorides and Tiieophrastus and Vergil wrote about
them; scores of kinds are named in the Bible. 2ven the first
chapter of Genesis says "Let the earth bring forth the living
creature after his kind." They were known before language
was committed to writing; all contemporary primitive races
know them and have names for them. They antedate the human
race; certainly the monkeys distinguish kinds, eating the one
and refusing the other. They were distinguished at a still
