6 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. 1
level of animal evolution; the Zebra Swallowtail butterfly
flits through our woods and deposits its eggs only on the
Papaw.
The only way to understand the basic nature of the con-
cept, to formulate an adequate definition of kind, is to con-
sider many kinds of plants and ascertain what characters they
possess in common. Since we desire to get to the fundament-
als of the problem, we must draw our ideas not from the kinds
of plants accepted by the modern taxonomist, but from those
known to the layman. I have developed the ideas which are
presented below not from literature or from the opinions of
professional taxonomists, but from actual conversation with a
number of persons of intelligence but uneduca"ted and untrained
in botanical matters.
First, a kind consists of and includes a plurality of in-
dividuals. So far as the actual number is concerned, it may
vary from the score of Sequoias which he sees on a vacation
in California to the millions of plants of wheat which he
raises on his Kansas farm. The taxonomist will retort that
there are many kinds of plants known only through a single
individual. That is true, but, in originally describing a
species from a single individual, the taxonomist tacitly as-
sumes or piously hopes that additional plants will eventually
be found and experience teachoa that they usually are. It is
of course theoretically possible that a kind might arise by
evolution as a single first plant, and practically possible
that a moribund kind might persist as a single last individ-
ual, as did that last passenger pigeon in the Cincinnati zoo.
Second, the individuals of a kind are alike, perceptibly
alike to the human senses. Keeping to the kinds known to the
layman, we can easily see that the likeness may be of any
degree and lie in any or all features of the plant. A'e ob-
serve, in general, that striking or conspicuous features or
superficialities are sometimes given greater weight than by
the taxonomist. An orchardist, for example, will speak of
the many different kinds of apple, basing his kinds on the
color, size, shape, and flavor of the fruit, while the tax-
onomist is content with the single kind Pyrus Malus. The
layman very seldom tries to analyze what the features of
similarity are. He recognizes a kind by the totality of its
characters and is often unable to tell or lacks the words to
tell how or why he knows it. In the field, the taxonomist
recognizes plants in exactly the same way. It is only in
writing for others that he finds it necessary to express in
words certain distinctive and often minute diagnostic char-
acters.
Tnird, a kind of plant is not divided. It seems to be an
indivisible unit. If a group of plants can be and is divided
