A NEW SPL;CIES of STRYCHNOS from RIO OIAPOQUE
Joseph V. Monachlno
STRYCHNOS LUGENIAEFOLIA Monachino, sp. nov,
Arbuscule scandens, partis vegetetls oinnlno gla-
bris, ramis clnereis, petiolls ca, 2-3 cm. longis,
lemlnis foliortun ovatis usque od elliptlco-ovatis, ca.
U-6.5 cm. longis, 2-3.5 cm. letls, ad basin rotundato-
cvineatls, ad eplcem aciomlnatis, triplinervis, reticu-
lo venularum undlque modico prorainente; fructis sphae-
rlcis msgnis ca. 8 cm. diara., seminibus niamerosis ca.
2,5 en. longis, 1,8 cm. latls.
Vine, the vegetative parts completely glabrous,
the branches cinereous; petioles ca. 2-3 mm. long;
blades ovate to elliptic-ovate, ca. U-6,5 cm. long,
2-3.5 cm. broad, broadly or roundly cvneete at base,
acuminate at apex, little shining above, somewhat
paler beneath, drying greyish with some tint of yell-
ow, subcoriaceous, 3-plinerved and also with a pair
of faint marginal nerves, the inner pair opposite end
diverging neer bese of blade, the principal lateral
nerves (secondaries) ascending (making ca. 60 degree
angle with the midrib at middle of blade), the reticu-
lation moderately prominent on both surfaces. Inflo-
rescence and flowers lacking. Fruit globose, very
large, (I|..5-) 8 cm. diam., shell ca. 3 nim. thick,
seeds numerous, flattened. Irregular, ca. 2,5 cm.
long, 1,8 cm, broad, the surface lightly roughened,
glabrous, cinereous, the testa crustaceous.
Type. - R. L. Froes 2581|U, Brazil, Territorlo do
Amap^, Rio Oiapoque, entre Igarape Moncherri e Igar-
ap6 Nataia, floresta alta, terra flrme, balxa, 1+-II-
1950, clpo de 9 cm, (Matured leafy stem and two sepa-
rate fruits, deposited at The New York Botanical Gar-
den,) The river has variant spelling: Oyapok, Oya-
pock, Oyapoc, Olapock; it is on the bovindary of
French Guiana and northern Brazil,
Although the flowers of S, eugenlaefolie are not
known and consequently its alliance is not revealed,
it is easily distinguished from all the American
species of Strychnos described, by its small ovate
leaves and the total lack of puberulence or any kind
of indumentum on its brenchlets, petioles and leaf-
blades. Verruculosity and microscopic (atomic) dots
are absent from the leaves. Tendrils, but not spines,
have been observed on this vine.
The association of large fruits with small leaves
recalls S^. pachycerpa . According to A. Ducke, the
fruit resembles that of S. Blackil ,
209
