210 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. h
Dr. Ducke informed me (letter of March 30, 19^2)
that the species wes collected twice by Proes and
later also by G. A. Black. The fruits were obtained
on the first collection. R. Proes has made attempts
to locate flowers of the plant, but without success.
Sr. Proes hes provided me with en illustration
showing a branching stem with foliage and also a de-
tached fruit. It is from this sketch I infer that
the plant has tendrils.
Since the original monograph in 19U2, six new
species of Strychnos have been proposed: pechycerpa
Ducke (19U5), Duckei Kruk. & Monach. (19U6)T Kruk -
offiena Ducke C1947), Torresiana Kruk. & Monach.
(1940), Blackii Ducke (1930). Froesii Ducke (1951).
In addition, CHree old species have been reinstated.
Only one, S. hachensis Karsten (noraen confusum) , was
deleted in 19U7 from our list of valid species. At
least one other, S. Barnhartiena Krukoff, has been
questioned; S, SmTthiena Krukoff also needs clarifi-
cation.
S. Torresiana , originally described from sterile
material, falls in the intricate complex involving S,
rubiginosa and relatives in the section Breviflorae;
this has been ascertained by recent collection of its
flowers. Ducke (1951) thought he had the fruit of
the species from Rio de Janeiro, demonstrating an
easy distinction between it and other members of the
Breviflorae. But later (letter of Oct. 10, 1952) he
visited the station where the fruit had been collected
and found S, trinervis and S. Torresiana climbing on
the same tree, and he verifTed that the fruit de-
scribed and depicted in the Boletiin was of S. triner -
vis .
S. Froesii very closely resembles S^. javariensis
vegetatively. Judging from a sterile specimen collect-
ed by Ducke at Manaus ("No. 6," Aug. 8, I9I4.I) and de-
posited at The New York Botanical Garden. The other
Garden specimen, cited by Ducke as belonging to a
young plant of S. Proesii (Luiz Emygdio de Mello
Filho 567), is like S. hirsutus . S, javariensis has
terminal flowers (Ducke 1770) , whereas the inflores-
cence of S. Proesii was described as axillary. Ducke
(1950) wrote that the fruits of S. javariensis are
perfectly like those of S. diaboTl , frequently a
little larger. The fruiT-shell of* S. dieboli is frag-
ile and thin, 1 mm. or less thick, whereas that of S.
Froesii is described as hard-woody and very thick, '^-
7 mm. thick. Experiments made at the Institute Agro-
nomico do Norte indicate that the extract of the bark
of young pltnts of S. Proesii is more poisonous than
that of any other species of Strychnos studied there,
Ducke has discovered that the fruits are very
