19^3 I.^onachino, Ne^-v species of Strychnos 211
linportant in the diegnoses of certein species of
Strychnos, This Is particulerly so in the section
Brevlflorse, in which the flowers are nearly identi-
cal in many species. S. brechiatanthe and S. nigri -
cfins have nearly identTcal flowers and also nearly
identical foliage, end it has been hinted that they
may be conspecific. The former was believed confined
to the northern region, Mexico and Central America to
northern South America. Collections from Brezil were
reported as S. nigricans , principally because of geo-
graphical considerations ; but the safety of this cri-
terion has been exploded, Ducke examined fruiting
specimens resembling S. nigricans in every respect
except for the very different fruits, collected in
Sao Peulo end Mines by Dr. Kuhlraann and his nephew.
The fruits were incomparably larger, hard-shelled,
and contained many seeds, different from those of S,
nigricans . Believing at first he had a new species,
Ducke did not rest, but with his customary meticu-
lousness borrowed for comparison flowering specimens,
including an isotype, and a fruit of Central American
S. brachistantha . It seemed hardly admissible that
The sr-me species could grow in two widely separated
areas with very different climates (in the plateau of
Sao Paulo end Mines the mean annuel temperature is 17
to l8 degrees Centigrade, minima sometimes below
zero). Yet Ducke found the two morphologically not
separable (letter of Sept, 29, 19^1) . On basis of
this discovery, ^. brachistantha must be acknowledged
the most wide-spread Strychnos in America.
The foregoing discussion, then, would suggest
that expansion has been the general trend in Strych-
nos since 19U2. Only one species hss been submerged;
of the six recently described, I would hold S. Torre -
siana under suspicion, but little reduction Ts other-
wise anticipated. One can, thus, with some confi-
dence a priori accept novelties in the genus if pro-
posed after reasonable study, S, eugenieefolla , how-
ever, needs no such circumstantTal support, for it is
so different from other species that not even affin-
ity can be suggested,
Froes and Ducke communicete that a second new
species from Rio Oiapoque was recently discovered by
Froes, who is describing it in the Boletim of I , A. N,
Its specific epithet will be based on the name of the
river. I rely completely on information received
from Froes end Ducke that S. eugeniaefolia and Proes»
new species are surely not the sane.
The chief studies on American Strychnos since
the monograph in 19U2 have been conducted by Dr.
Ducke, True that a score of papers on the genus has
