A NEVY TEXTBOOK ON THE FUNGI (1)
Harold N. Moldenke
GSumann's splendid new book entitled "The Fungi" deals with
four classes of fungi: the Archimycetes (U families), the Ptyco-
mycetes (5 orders and 13 families ) , the Asconycetes (lU orders
and UO families), and the Basidiomycetes (6 orders and 26 famil-
ies) . The bacteria and nQocomycetes are excluded because the
author does not regard them as true fungi.
It is the author's opinion that all fungi have developed from
disturbances of the nutritional physiology of their algal ances-
tors, reducing them to a psirasitic or saprophytic life. Thair
algal ancestors are thought to be the Siphonales , which gave
rise to the oOmycetes, and the Flagellata , whicH gave rise to
the Phycomycetes , Ascomycetes , and Basidiomycetes .
Emphasis in the book is on morphological and developmental
features and on the probable evolutionary relationships of the
varxous groups. Since the emphasis is not purely taxonomic, it
is, perhaps, not surprising that family names are given in some
orders and not in others. One can only assume that the author
means to imply that there is but a single family in such orders.
It is to be regretted that the author does not adopt the
recognized standard ending of -ales for all the orders which he
accepts. More and more taxonomic botanists in recent years are
coming to discard the certain "exceptional" family names in the
phanerogams which do not end in the staindard termination of
-aceae , and it is to be hoped that mycologists ■vvill soon follow
suit in regard to these "exceptional" order designations. It is
also to be regretted that family and other scientific group
names are not always italicized. One finds the anomaly here of
seeing family names, for instance, italicized when they occur in
a sectional heading within a chapter, but given in ordinary
roman type in the sentence immediately following and throughout
the text. The present reviewer realizes that this limiting of
italic type to names of generic or subgeneric rank in the body
of a text is now quite common practice, yet he feels that it is
inconsistent and unfortunate. If Agaricus is to be italicized as
a scientific group name, as it is quit 3 uniformly, then the
words A:*aricaceae and Uredinales ought also be italicized'.
The khO text figures are splendid, mary representing habitat
photographs, and make the book of more than passing interest
even to the non-mycologist.
(1) The fungi. A description of their morphological features and
evolutionary development, by E. A, oaumann. Translated from the
German and arranged as an Americain text by F. L. Wynd; I4.2O pages,
UiO figures. Hafner Publishing Company, l^evi York, 19^2, $10.
222
