SEVEN SMALL PLANT COLLECTIONS IN COSTA RICA
AND NEIGHBORING PANAMA
WllllaB A. Dayton
At varying intervals between February and J\ily, 19A3» under
a grant from the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American
Affairs, six members of the U, S, Forest Service, Messrs,
Arthur Bevan, Clarence A. Herker, William R. Barbour, John A.
Scholten, Elbert L. Little, Jr., and I, were assigned to give
technical advice to engineers of the Pan American Highway,
chiefly in Costa Rica, and other United States officials and
agencies working in that region. Two formal reports on this
assignment were issued (12,12) • Large numbers of wood samples,
under the supervision of Mr, Scholten, timber engineer, were
collected and a set submitted to the late Dean Samuel J.
Record of the Yale University School of Forestry for identifi-
cation. The main set of wood samples was deposited at the
Forest Products Laboratory, Madison, Wisconsin.
Botanical material was collected from the timber trees from
which the wood samples were made. The party, mostly as a
sideline, collected (largely in multiple sets) 264 plant speci-
mens, mostly- of trees, in Costa Rica, including 31 specimens
collected in the neighboring Chiriqui Province, Panama, In
addition, Mr, William R, Barbour, the only member of the party
to spend this entire period in Costa Rica, later (on two other
missions) submitted to the Forest Service 34 additional speci-
mens (chiefly timber trees) from that country.
The handling of all this botanical material and its distri-
bution to various herbaria was entrusted to the writer, who
served as dendrologist of this party during the last two and a
half months of the period mentioned. The bulk of the identifi-
cation work was done by Dr, Paul C, Standley of the Field
(Chicago) Natural History Museum. Mrs. Agnes Chase, the late
Dr. William R. Maxon, Dr. E. S. Luttrell, Prof. A. LeRoy
Andrews, Mr. Edwin B. Bartram, and Dr. Hugh O'Neill have iden-
tified the (relatively few) grasses, ferns and femworts,
lichens, sphagnums, mosses, and sedges, respectively. Dr.
Caroline K. Allen later checked the Lauraceae. The hearty
thanks of our party are extended to these botanists for their
generous and invaluable cooperation.
The main collection is deposited in the Field (Chicago)
Natural History Museim, but a set of specimens correlated with
wood samples has gone to Yale University, Other partial sets
are deposited in the U. S. National Herbarixm, the Forest Ser-
vice Herbarium in Washington, the Museo Nacional in San Jos^,
the Tropical For«st Experiment Station at Rio Piedras, P. R.,
and several proiainent herbaria in this coxmtry.
223
