10 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 1^, no. 1
first reply will probably be that they are not worth bother-
ing with. I admit that, but it is not a real answer. V<'e
want to know vlny they are not worth bothering with, especi-
ally since they are all based on morphological characters.
Analyze your own ratiocination carefully and you will soon
get the answer. Basing your opinion on your experience with
these plants and with many others, you believe that these
plants do not have genetical continuity. They are not races
in which tne distinguishing characters are transmissible to
the progeny. You do not know that; you merely infer it, and
you are almost certainly right. 3o there we are, right back
to one of the pre-Linnaean concepts of kind rife for hundreds
of years among the laity, that a kind is a self-perpetuating
population. You will also say that the nature (qualitative)
and the degree (quantitative) of the differences between
these populations is not sufficient to warrant taxonomic
recognition. 3ut notice that tnis conclusion is not a matter
of botanical fact but merely one of personal opinion, llever-
theless, it brings us back to another fundamental concept of
kind, that a kind is the smallest population which is not
divided. A kind can be divided but is not , because the dif-
ferences separating the minor populations are trivial when
measured by our standards .
Consider two other examples. The cultivated Dahlia is now
separable into several thousand populations wnich have re-
ceived names from the horticulturists. T;"ie differences which
separate them are so great, according to his standards, that
they need names; to hin they are kinds of plants. In fact,
the differences between collarette, cactus, peony-flowered,
and pompon types are so great that they might be placed in
different genera if they occurred in nature. But they lack
genetical continuity; every one of them must be propagated as
a clon. Lacking this continuity, they are not recognized as
kinds by the taxonomist. In the eastern states, as far west
as Indiana, Phlox divaricata has rounded petals; farther west
it has notched petals. "Since the races are geographically
separate, cross-breeding is impossible in nature. Obviously
they have genetical continuity. Still the taxonomist keeps
both types in the same species because the differences be-
tween them are trivial according to his standards. To be
sure, they have been given varietal status, but both are
still in the same species; they are all Phlox divaricata ,
r'rom all the evidence at hand, it seems that the taxono-
mist uses just two criteria in distinguishing kinds of
plants: tr,e one, a degree of m:irphological similarity witiiin
the population and of dissimilarity from otner populations
which is satisfactory to him ; the other, a belief, seldom
substantiated by experimental evidence, that each kind forms
