23ii PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. U
((Mills Co.) Camp, Pan American Highway,
(2900 m. Tree 28 ra. high, 7.6 dm. D.B.H,
(May 15, fr.
Que reus copeyensis was published by Muller (July, 1942) to
cover the type (but not "isotype") material of ^. costaricensia
Liebm., forma kuntzei Trel,, together with three sheets of Costa
Rica and one sheet of Panama material. The description of ^.
costaricensia (and possibly also of g. endresi Trel.) in Stand-
ley's Flora of Costa Rica probably embraces £, copeyensis as
well. Mviller describes this tree as "15 m, in hei^t or tal-
ler," It seems likely that, until the U. S. Army engineers ex-
tended the route of the Pan American Highway into the high ele-
vations in Costa Rica where this oak occurs in an almost pure
stand and reaches its optimum developcent, this species was
known only frtxn a few scattered botanical specimens and from
outlying locations. Certainly there is no hint in the refeir-
ences mentioned that this is, in some ways, one of the most
remarkable oaks in the world (3it»2l). Messrs. Bevan, Barbour
and Little were probably the first foresters and botanists to
see this unique forest (2,5^2*^) • ^ proposed in 1943 the Eng-
lish name "Copey oak" for this species; the Spanish equivalent
would, I prestane, be roble de Copey or, simply, roble Copey,
So far as I have been able to asceirtain the first published ref-
erences to this Copey oak forest are by Thcxnpson (2^^) Aug, 15,
1943, and by Carter (6) Aug, 26, 1943, followed shortly by more
detailed accounts by Barbour (2) Sep, 1, 1943, and by Bevan (^)
October, 1943. Barbour reports having meaaui^d a Copey oak
36.5 m, high with a 2,5 m, D,B,H, He indicates that extensive
areas will run 20,000 board feet to the acre, and that individ-
ual acres will run at least 60,000 board feet each. Bevan
refers to this Costa Rican Copey oak forest as "perhaps the
largest single stand of oak timber in the world," The largest
specimens he says are 38 m. or more tall, heavily buttressed at
their bases to a hei^t of 3 to 4 m, above ground, with a diam-
eter of from 2 to 2,5 m, above the buttresses, and extending
25 m, to the first limb,- The immense size of the individual
trees in a veteran stand of this sort is hard to realize unless
one sees a man or some other comparable object beside one of
these giant oaks (see Fig, 7). Bevan aptly dubs this forest
"the emcestral home of the gremlins," an Illusion to the weird
light effects and swirling mists which give this type of cloud
forest an almost unearthly and "spooky" appearance. Thcxnpson
( op, cit ,) refers to my opinion that this oak may prove to be
the largest oak in the world, surpassing in size the valley oak
of California and the white oak of eastern North America,
Miss Waterman (26) found the extractive of the heartwood
toxic to two wood-decay fungi. The Forest Products Laboratory,
Madison, Wise,, placed the wood intermediate between that of
white and live oaks in hardness. The wood is durable (19).
