1952 Gleason, Fundamental Concepts in Taxonomy 11
a genetic continuum. Both of these criteria are essential;
neither is sufficient without the other.
Turning now in the other direction from a kind of plant,
we can envision a long series of assemblages of kinds, each
of theai in turn more inclusive in its scope, i^ery one of
them is a population according to our definition of the term,
yet they are rarely thought of as such. The fact that they
are assemblages rather trian kinds is attested by the names
given to some of them, which are almost invariably plural,
.'■-very one of them is characterized by certain features of
structural similarity, i'eatures not only distinguishable by
the eye but subject to expression in words. i'-*,uny of them are
believed to be composed of genetically related plants. As
exa.Mples, beginning with the Ragweed already used as such,
we may cite such superior groups as Ambrosia, Heliantheae,
Tubiflorae, Gompositae (which is co-extensive with Aeterales),
Inferae, oympetalae, Dicotyledoneae, Angiospermae, and Sperm-
atophyta. But they are by no means all, since additional
populations :aay be intercalated at many points in the series.
The taxonomist will at once see a vast differences between
a kind of plant and these larger and more inclusive popula-
tions, ris will call tha latter classif icatory groups and
will regard tnem as actually or theoretically formed by suc-
cessive syntheses. Tney are therefore easily divisible, in
contrast to the kind or species, './hile they are considered
to be related, he will regard them as theproducts of genetic
discontinuity, that is, of evolution, while the kind is main-
tained by genetic continuity.
A kind or species of plants marks a turning point in our
ideas. Above it we synthesize; below it wa can but do not
divide. Tne superior synthesis is always possible. 3ince it
may be done in various ways, it has led to our manifold sys-
tems of classification. The inferior division is always pos-
sible but is not used. VrTiy not? Because, by our definition,
a kind (or species) of plant is the smallest population which
has satisfactory morphological distinctness and inferential
genetical continuity. If a kind is subdivided, the minor
populations are separated by features which we regard as tri-
ial, or they lack genetical continuity, or they fail in both
essentials. The Hagweed has never been so divided. To be
sure, tne variety or form integrifolia has been noticed, but
it is rejected by most botanists; even if it were accepted it
would still be a part of Ambrosia trifida. Neither has Phlox
divaricata been divided; tne characters of its variety Lap-
hami are considered trivial. If they were not so regarded,
the variety would satisfy our definition of a species and
would by this time have been named Phlox Laphami .
