12 P H y T L G I A Vol. U, no. 1
I have been trying to develop a picture of a long aeries
of plant populations, each in turn more comprehensive in its
scope, beginning with small groups of comparatively few ind-
ividuals and ending with the whole plant kingdom. This we
can all grasp, but I have also been trying to emphasize the
idea that this long series is hinged, so to speak, somewhere
near the middle at what we are pleased to call a kind or a
species of plant; that below this turning point the popula-
tions are obtained by subdivision of the species, while above
it they are regularly regarded as groups obtained by the com-
bination of species.
The species is the starting point from which we begin our
taxonomic work. From it as a vantage point, we can turn in
two directions and see entirely different landscapes. In one
view we see a long series of populations, progressively in-
creasing in size and scope, many of them valuable to ua in
the formation or expression of our ideas on classification
and phylogeny, many of them distinguished by names commonly
used by taxonomists, all of them regularly regarded as groups
of species. In the other direction we see (or we can see, if
we are so disposed), but with an entirely different mental
attitude, a similarly long series of populations, becoming
successively snaller the farther we look and becoming also,
in our opinion, successively less important, less worthy of
attention by the busy taxonomist. Ar^d why are they leas im-
portant? Simply because they lack one or both of the funda-
mental requirements of a kind of plant, morphological dis-
tinction and genetical continuity. We may sometimes suspect
the accuracy and completeness of our knowledge and opinions.
We may investigate these minor populations with the improved
and comparatively new methods taught us by the morphologist,
the cytologiat, the geneticist, and even the phytogeographer
and the physiologist, not in the hope, but on the chance of
finding more important characters which might lead us to
change our opinion. Usually we do not find them.
The Concept of Category
Starting from the species and considering the successively
larger groups which may be formed by associating other spe-
cies with it, we find that many of these groups are of such
importance that names are given to them, as Hibiscus, tolv-
aoeae, and Malvales. These groups differ in their size and
scope, the latter term merely signifying the degree of morph-
ological similarity which the group exhibits. This is a
matter of classification, not of category.
lie are also required to indicate the relative rank of
these groups by referring them to certain categories and by
