1952 Gleason, Fundamental Concepts in Taxcnony 13
designating them by descriptive terms, as genus, family, and
order, and by certain indicative endina, as -aceae and -ales.
The sequence of these categories is fixed by botanical legis-
lation. This is ordinarily a useful bit of taxonomic formal-
ity, but one which can not always be fully justified by taxo-
nomic logic. .Ve may illustrate this by the tropical seashore
plant Batis maritima . It is the only species of the family
Satidaceae and of the order Batidales. This apparently indi-
cates that the nature and degree of the flifferencea which
separate this one species from all other kinds of plants are
of the same nature and degree as those which usually separate
orders from each other. If this is true, it might be useful
to admit the order Batidales, but still superfluous to dis-
tinguish Batidaceae and Batis, both of which are exactly co-
extensive. It might even be argued that, in a discussion of
classification, Batis maritima might be contrasted directly
with Ranales, Fagales, and other orders, and its order and
family eliminated.
The principle trouble with t'ne enforced use of categories
is that no attempt has been made to supplement legislation
with advice or requirement about their nature. The scope of
any category above the species is left completely to individ-
ual opinion and usage. In taxonomdc research we develop and
express our own opinions and often change the category to
which a population is assigned. lu taxonomic practice (not
the same as research) we commonly accept the opinion of some
qualified student and are guided by usage alone.
As a result, categories above the rank of genus have been
subject to frequent change since the time of Linnaeus, and
the general tendency has been to increase the number of fanv-
ilies and orders. Some changes of category have been based
on significant new knowledge, as the union of Lacistemaceae
and Flacourtiaceae or the transfer of Nyssa from the Corrv-
aceae of the Umbellales to an independent family within the
Myrtales, Very few, possibly only one, the Degeneriaceae,
are based on the actual discovery of previously unknown
plants, iven this remarkable plant could have been assigned
to another family by only a slight extension of definition.
Sometimes the changes nave been based on erroneous inform-
ation. There are still among us some who remember the obser-
vation of chalazogany in Casuarina. Shortly thereafter an
entirely new superior category appeared in print, the Chalaz-
ogamae, a subclass of dicotyledons contrasted with Porogamae.
Its content was the single order Casuarinales, including the
single fanjily Caauarinaceae, including the single genus Cas-
uarina, including a handful of species. No one knew whether
Chalazogaay was universal in Casuarina; no one knew that it
never occurred elsewhere. We know better today.
