19^3 Moldenke, New and noteworthy plants 289
3, 1931, and is deposited in the herbariim of the Jardin Botan-
ique de I'Etat at Brussels.
CLERODEIffiRUl! LA.EVIFOLIUU var. FLETCH5EI Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit laminis foliorum
sinuato-dentatis et calicibus sub anthesi profunde 5-fissis
h — 11 mm. longis.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having sinuate-dentate leaf -blades and deeply ^-fid calyxes
which are U — 11 mm. long during anthesis.
The type of the variety was collected by H, B. G. Garrett
( no. 899 ) in waste ground at the Forestry Department, Chiengmai,
Thailand, on November 26, 193U, and is deposited in the herbar-
ium of the Royail Forestry Department at Bangkok,
GLERODEiroRUM SESSILIFOLIUM Moldenke, sp, nov.
Subfrutexj ramis paucis gracilibus subtetragonis sulcatis
levissime puberulis; foliis sessilibus firme chartaceis vel sub-
coriaceis ellipticis acutis, as basin acutis vel acimiinatis,
argute serratis, supra subglabratis nitidisque, subtus glabres-
centibus dense impresso-punctatisj inflorescentiis termlnalibus
subspicatis vel racemiformibus paucifloris.
Woody subshrub; stems apparently few, h$ cm. tall, branched,
issuing from a hard, knobby base, slender, finely puberulent
throughout with microscopic hairs, subtetragonal, sulcatej
principal intemodes h — 9 cm. longj nodes not annulate; leaves
sessile or practically so, firmly chartaceous or subcoriaceous,
elliptic, h—6.$ cm. long, 2 — 3.5 cm. wide, acute at the apex,
acute or acimiinate at the base, sharply serrate from below the
middle to the apex with rather appressed teeth, subglabrate and
shiny above, glabrescent beneath and densely impressed-punctatej
midrib slender, very slightly proninulous above and beneath;
secondaries very slender, ascending, regular, about 10 per side,
rather sharply prominulous on both surfaces; veinlet reticula-
tion abundant, prominulous and conspicuous on both surfaces; in-
florescence apparently terminal, subspicate or racemiform, app-
arently few-flowered; calyx campanulate, 6 — 7 mm. long and wide,
densely puberulent; corolla hypocrateriform, the tube slender,
about 111 mm. long, glabrous or microscopically pilosulous on the
outside, its limb about 10 mm. wide, the lobes reflexed; stamens
exserted 10 — 11 mm. from the corolla-mouth; pistil exserted a-
bout 15 mm. from the corolla-mouth; stigma bifid, one branch a-
bout 1 mm. long, the other weak and only 0.5 mm. long.
The type of this species was collected by Ad, Hock at
Nikondama, Belgian Congo, in October, 1911, and is deposited in
the herbarium of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at Brussels. The
plant has much of the aspect of a member of the Lamiaceae.
CLERODENDRUM SPLENDENS var, LONGICUSPE Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietats a forma typica speciei recedit lobis calicis
7 mm. longis, ad basin angustatis, usque ad apicem longissime
caudato-attenuatis .
