290 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. h
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having the calyx-lobes about 7 nm. long when mature, narrow at
the base and very long caudate-attenuate to the apex.
The type of this variety was collected by I^acinth Vanderyst
( no. I389U) at Kisandu, Belgian Congo, in November, 192U, and is
deposited in the herbarium of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at
Brussels .
COSMOS BIPINNATUS f . PLENIFLORUS Moldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma typica specie! floribus centralibus petal-
oideis recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having its disk-florets modified into a crowded mass of petal-
like structures the same color as the ray-florets.
The type of the form was collected by H. 11. Iloldenke ( no.
15921) from c\iltivated material at Watchung, Somerset County,
New 'Jersey, on September 3, 19U3, and is deposited in the her-
barium of the Bailey Hortorium at Ithaca.
ERIOCAULON SODCHEREI Moldenke, sp. nov.
Herba acaulescens; foliis rosulatis membranaceis rectis vel
patentibus gramlnoideis acutis saepe subulatis obsc\xre fenestra-
tis utrinque glabids vel subglabris; vaginis anguste cylindricis
valde adpressis subcontortis glabris oblique fissisj scapis
numerosis gracillimis vel filiformibus stramineis rectis 2-cos-
tatis glabris; capitulis conicis griseis 1; mm. longis 2 mm. lat.
Acaulescent herb; leaves rosulate, membranous, erect or the
outermost spreading, bright-green, broadly linear or grass-like,
1 — 3 cm. long, 0.5 — 2 nm. wide, acute at the apex and often
subulate-tipped, very obscurely fenestrate, glabrous or subglab-
rous on both surfaces, numerous; sheaths narrowly cylindric,
closely appressed to the scapes, 2 — h cm. long, equaling or sur-
passing the leaves, slightly twisted, glabrous, obliquely split
at the apex, its limb ovate, erect, appressed, not swollen,
rather attenuate-acute; scapes mostly numerous, very slender or
filiform, stramineous, erect, 6 — 2U cm. long, 2-costate, glab-
rous; heads conic, grayish, about 2 mm. wide and to U mm. long,
sharply acute when young; involucral bractlets obovate, gray,
about 2.7 mm. long and 0.9 mm. wide, abruptly long-caudate-
acuminate at the apex, conspicuously concave on the inner sur-
face, glabrous; receptacle very densely long-pilose with white
hairs; starainate florets: sepals 3, hyaline, about 1.8 mm, long,
obovate, connate at the base, obtuse at the apex, glabrous;
petals united into a slender white tube for about 1.6 mm.; sta-
mens 6; filaments about 0.3 mm. long; anthers about 0.2 mm.
long; pistillate florets: sepals 3, separate, hyaline, narrowly
oblong-elliptic, about 1.2 mm. long and 0.l5 mm. wide; petals
apparently absent; style white, filiform, about 0.6 mm. long,
glabroiis; stigma-branches 3, filiform, about 0.75 mm. long; o-
vary 3-celled, 3-lobed, 3-sulcate, 3-ovulate, white, glabrous,
about 0,li5 mm. long and wide.
