292 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. U
1953, and is deposited in the Eritton Herbarium at the New York
Botanical Garden, -under the distribution nianber of H. N_. Molden-
ke 21370 .
LIPPIA AMERICANA f . HYPTOIDES (Benth.) Moldenke, stat. nov.
Lippia hyptoides Benth., PI. Hartw. 122. 18U3.
LIPPIA AMERICANA f , PILOSA Moldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma typica speciei ramulis juvenilibus valde
longiter pilosis, pilis adpressis, recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having its young branches conspicuously long-pilose, the hairs
mostly appressed.
The type of the form was collected by E. P. Killip, A. Dug and
and R. Jaramillo (no. 3833U) in a deep wooded canyon, at an al-
titude of 380 to 600 meters, at Quebrada Gabafia, Hacienda El
Cucharo, between Tocaima and Pubenza, Cundinamarca, Colombia, on
May 8, 19hh, and is deposited in the Britton Herbarium at the
New York Botanical Garden.
LIPPIA PRAECOX I'dldbr., n. sp.
Herba perennis; ramulis numerosis gracilibus brevibus 1 — k
cm. longis simplicibus dense albo-hirsutis; foliis decussatis
subsessilibus vel breviter alato-petiolatis oblongo-ovatis
utrinque dense albo-hirsutulis obtusis vel rotundatis saepe
obscure 3-denticulatis , usque ad basin angustatis; inflorescen-
tiis axillaribus capitatis dense albo-hirsutulis.
Perennial herb grovfing from a large woody underground stem
often 1.5 — 2.5 cm. thick and 1; cm. long, apparently burned off
periodically; above-ground stems several or numerous, apparently
slender and short, 1 — k cm. long, simple, densely vfhite-hirsutej
principal intemodes 5 — 10 mm. longj leaves decussate-opposite,
subsessile or vdth carinate-winged very short petioles, oblong-
ovate, 5 — 7 iffli. long, h — 5 mm. wide, densely white-hirsutulous
on both surfaces, obtuse or rounded at the apex, narrovred into
the petiole at the base, often obsciirely 3-denticulate near the
apex; inflorescence axillary, capitate, decussate-opposite; pe-
duncles filifonn, 1 — 1.5 cm. long, densely white-hirsutulous;
heads many-flowered, hemispheric; bractlets broadly ovate, about
3 mm. long and wide, acuminate at the apex, rounded or subtnm-
cate at the base, densely whitish-hirsutulous or short-pubescent
on the back, ciliate-margined; corolla hypocrateriform, 3.5 — h
mm. long, the tube very narrow, the limb about 1.5 mm. wide.
The type of this species was collected by A. Stolz ( no. 2210 )
at Kyimbila, altitude 1350 meters, Nyasaland, in 1912, and is
deposited in the herbariiim of the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseum at
Stockholm.
LYCin.'; SUBGLABRUM (Moldenke) Moldenke, comb. nov.
Citharexylum flexuosum var. subglabrum Moldenke in Fedde,
Repert. 37: 222—223. 193U.
