19^3 Moldenke, New aind note^Torthy plants 293
X POPULUS SCHREIKERI Moldenke, nom. nov.
Populus trichocarpa Hook, x P^ maxlmowiczli Henry ex Rehd.,
Man. Cult. Trees & Shrubs, ed. 2, 78. 19U0.
X QUERCUS CAESARIENSIS Moldenke, hybr. nov.
Arbor hybrida foliis Q^ rubra L. [Q. falcata Kichx.] et Q^
lllcifolia 17ang. intermediis.
Nat\iral hybrid with f olisir and other characters intermediate
between those of Q^ rubra L . and Q. ilicifolia Wang .
The type of the hybrid was collected by H. N. Moldenke (no.
10581) in sandy woods at Forked River, Ocean County, New Jersey,
on Juns 13, 1938, and is deposited in the Britton Herbarium at
the New York Botanical Garden.
X QUIiRCUS PINETORUM Moldenke, hybr. nov.
Arbor hybrida foliis Q. rubra L. [Q^ falcata Michx.] et Q.
velutina Lam. intermediis.
Natural hybrid with foliar and other characters intennediate
between those of Q^ rubra L. and Q^ velutina Lam,
The type of the hybrid was collected by H, N. Moldenke ( no.
hOhh) in sandy soil along a roadside at Yfildwood, Cape May
County, New Jersey, on August 1, 1928, and is deposited in the
Britton Herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden.
x RUBUS RYDBERGI Moldenke, hybr. nov.
Planta hybrida caiilibus foliis que inflorescentiisque R^ ostry-
ifolius Rydb. et R. nigrobaccus L. H. Bailey intermediis.
Natural hybrid plants, with stem, leaf, and inflorescence
characters intermediate between those of R_^ ostryifolius Rydb.
and R. nigrobaccus L. H. Bailey.
The type of the hybrid was collected by H. N. Moldenke ( no.
1269 ) in a thicket at T/atchimg, Scanerset County, New Jersey, on
June 2U, 1930, and is deposited in the Britton Herbarium at the
New York Botanical Garden.
VERBENA LOBATA var, SESSILIS Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei foliis sessilibus lamin-
is 1 — 2 cm. longis 5 — 13 mm. latis recedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its leaves sessile, with the blades 1 — 2 cm. long and
5 — 13 mm. wide.
The type of the variety was collected by Gert Hatschbach ( no.
26 76) at Varzea, SSo JosS dos Pinhaes, Paran£, Brazil, on Decem-
ber 2, 19^2, and is deposited in the Britton Herbarium at the
New York Botanical Garden.
VITEX ORINOCENSIS var, GLABRA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei foliis utrinque glaber-
rimis recedit.
This variety differs from the t^Tsical form of the species in
