Hi PHYTOLOGIA Vol. k, no. 1
The vast majority of changes represent nothing more than
differences of opinion. No new information is involved in
assigning the pod-bearing plants of the Rosales to a single
family Legurainoaae or to three separate families, or the Oaka
to one genua or to three. Their classification has bot been
changed one iota.
Objections to changes of category at or above the level of
the family are seldom voiced. To be sure, there was some
mild protest in this country over the proposed division of
Oompositae into a dozen or more families. That was probably
because the name Oompositae was so familiar to all and not
because of any intensive knowledge of the family. The great
body of taxonomists work mostly at the level of tne genus and
species. Changes of category at the generic level are often
severely criticized. Note the numerous criticims leveled at
Rydberg, who advocated the division of Astragalus into a
large number of smaller genera, or at Britton and Rose, who
similarly divided Cassia. The odious word 'splitter' was
often applied to all of them. A similar word was probably
used on Neas a century ago, when he frap;mented the old genus
Laurus, although iTOof today are quite content to use Persea,
Sassafras, Kectandra, and the numerous other segregate terms
for these plants. One objection to Rydberg' s action was that
his segregations could not be maintained in the genus as a
tihole, including the Eurasian species, but I never heard this
objection advanced by anyone who had personal knowledge of
these foreign plants. The chief cause of all such criticism
seems to rise from the fact that the generic name, under our
binomial nomenclature, is part of the specific name, and any
change of category at this level, whether by the division or
the union of genera, is bound to result in change of name for
some species. The whole purpose of our rules of nomenclature
is to promote stability* of names.
Also below the rank of species certain categories are
specified by name and must be used, if used at all, in a pre-
scribed sequence, 'ifhile these categories share with those
above the species the complete lack of legislated definition,
they differ radically in that they are not necessarily used.
That difference is based absolutely on the nature of the
species, which has already been discussed. Recognition of sub-
specific categories does not affect the species; every one of
is still a part of the species and still bears the same name.
It makes no difference whether we recognize Linnaea borealis
•Dr. Rogers correctly points out that the word in the
International Rules is fixity , not stability. The general
desire of botanists seems to be stability , while the original
purpose of the Rules was apparently to promote uniformity .
