PIVE yXRIETAL TRANSFERS 0? UNITED STATES TREES
Elbert L. Little, Jr.
These nomenclatural transfers for five varieties of United
States trees are in the genera Quercus . Ulmus, Cercocarpu^ and
Prunue (2). They are needed for the Forest Service Check List
of the Native and Naturalized Trees of the United States (In-
cluding Alaska), now in press.
QUERCUS STELUTA Wang. var. MISSISSIPPIENSIS (Ashe) Little,
comb. nov. Delta post oak
Quercus miBsissippiensie Ashe, Torreya Jit 59« 1951-
This variation of the Mississippi Valley in bottom lemda of
western Mississippi, southeastern Arkansas, and eastern Louisi-
ana has been distinguished by foresters of the Southern Forest
Experiment Station ever since its publication as a species by
W. W. Ashe in 1951. Ashe noted that QL* Piesisaippiensis was
one of the common oaks on intermediate or better drained class-
es of alluvial lands of the lower Mississippi Valley. It was
a timber tree of importsuice, its lumber not separated in meir-
keting from upland white oak.
J. A. Putnam and Henry Bull (The trees of the bottomlands
of the Mississippi River delta region. U. S. Dept. Agr.,
Forest Service, Southern Forest Expt. Sta. Occas. Paper 27,
207 pp. 1952. Mimeographed.) described this oak at length
(pp. 156- 159)* Under the heading post oak together with two
specific nanes Quercua stellate Wangenh. and Q. miss ies ipp iens is
Ashe, they explained that this post oak probably was not the
true Q. stellata , which it closely resembles in most respects,
and, if not a variety, was the very closely allied newly pub-
lished species 1. mississippiensis . They observed that this
variation differs from g,. stellata in size, quality, and habi-
tat, developing a tall, straight, massive trunk with broad,
open crown of stout branches and branchlets. Ordinarily
medium-sized, in West Carroll Parish, Louisiana, it often
reaches 100 to 110 feet in height and 5 feet or more in diame-
ter. This common bottomland oak occurs throughout the Delta
region but principally in second bottoms. Noting that small
trees occasionally were confused with small specimens of over-
cup oak, ^. lyrata Walt., they pointed out the differences be-
tween these two in leaves, branchlets, fruity and bark of large
trees (pp. 165-16A).
