1952 Gleason, Fundamental Concepts in Ta^xonomy 15
borealia and L. borealia americana , or whether we call them
Bubapecies or varietiea; they are still all Linnaea borealia *
The apeciea is not divided. Since there ia so little agree-
ment about the connotation of categories below the apeciea;
since their epithets all have the form of a specific epithet;
since their uao ia optional, not obligatory; since the dif-
ferences between them are of minor importance or trivial;
since they often have no genetical continuity, or are chance
ephemeral mutants, or teratological forms, or mere ecads, the
distinguishing of subspecific populations and their subordin-
ation in categories is a difficult and precarious undertaking*
The Concept of Classification
The only practicable way to investigate the classification
of plants by the laity in early times is to search our lan^
guage for group terms, but to consider only those which are
purely names of plants and to exclude all which refer in any
way to the properties or uses of plants. Oak and Maple are
usable terms; Snakeroot is not.
English plant-namea include hundrede of generic rank, each
covering two or more apeciea which resemble each other in
structure and are more or less equivalent to modern taxonomic
genera. Very often the species are named by adjectival epi-
thets, resulting in binomials. Some popular genera are more
or less co-extensive with taxonomic ones, as Oak and Elm;
some were drawn too large, as Mint and Mustard, while others
were certainly not recognized at all. For example, the
English had the two words Leek and Garlic, to which were soon
added from the French Onion, Chive, and Shallot, but our
language does not have any one word for the genus Allium as a
whole. The Romans knew five kinds of trees as ^uercus,
Robur, Cerris, Ilex, and Suber, but apparently had no generic
word for Oak.
American usage gives us little evidence about classifica-
tion, since so many English names were misapplied by early
colonists to unrelated plants and many English plants and
plant-names had been forgotten before their American rela-
tives had been discovered. Ivy, as applied here to Rhus rad-
icans and Kalmia latifolia and in England to Hedera Helix,
Buckeye and Horse Jhestnut do not indicate that they were
regarded as tv;o groups or genera of plants. Excellent exam-
ples of American generic names are Hickory and Goldenrod. A
farmer may call Garya ovata Shellbark, but he will tell you
that it is a kind of Hickory. On the other hand, in the few
inquiries I have made, I have not found a farmer who uses the
name Goldenrod for a member of the section Euthamia. The
common people of Illinois half a century ago knew the genus
