19^3 Little, Five varietal transfers 307
OBRCOCARPDS
The North American genua Cercocarpua H. B. K., cercocarpua
or "mountain-mahogany* (family Roaaceae), is a difficult one,
because of numerous puzzling intergrades and hybrids between
the extreme fcrma. The complexity of the variationa in weatern
United Statea is illustrated by two monographs from extreme
points of view. Rydberg (No. Amer. Fl. 22: A18-42A. 1915)
accepted 21 specie^ including in western United States 6 spe-
cies of trees and 5 of ahruba. Floyd L. Martin (A revision of
Cercocarpua. Brittonia 7: 91-111, illua. (maps). 1950) in a
conservative monograph, though with field work confined to
southern California, reduced the number of species in this ge-
nus to 6. All the variations in western United States were
combined into 2 apeciea, C. montanus Raf., composed of 8 vari-
eties, and C. ledifolius Nutt., with 5 varieties.
Many botanists probably will prefer a middle course some-
where between the two extremes, with an intermediate number of
species. For example, Kearney and Peebles (Ariz. Flora 588-
590. 1951) retained in the revision of their work on Arizona
plants (Fl. PI. Ferns Ariz. U. S. Dept. Agr. Misc. Pub. 425j
4o6-Ao7. 19't2) the same number of species of Cercocarpua , five,
though mentioning Martin's reduction to two.
Of the ta» or entities in the United States reaching tree
size, Martin accepted six varieties in the two species. Sar-
gent (Man. Trees No. Araer. Ed. 2, corr. 550-555. 1926) had
five tree species. Following the reduction of the two local
California island species by Dunkle (So. Calif. Acad. ScL Bui.
59j 1-2. 19^0), I accepted three tree species with two addi-
tional varieties in the preliminary mimeographed Check List of
I9W. These three species were further accepted in my popular
illustrated handbook. Southwestern Trees (pp. ^-60, figa.
1950).
Cercocarpus ledifolius var. intercedens Schneid. can be uni-
ted with C. ledifolius Nutt. as a species without varieties.
Both variations occupy almost the same broad range and differ
scarcely except in width of the narrow leaves and degree of
rolling of the margins.
C. betuloides Nutt. and C. brevif lorua A. Gray in Arizona
are quite different in habit. The former is generally a tree
with a single trunk up to 6 inches in diameter and compact
crown, while the latter is usually shrubby or branching from
near the base and has open widely spreading branches and long
slender twigs. Though their ranges meet in Arizona, the two
probably have a different history. C. brevif lorus is a species
