16 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 1
Sweet V/illiam, with its three species Phlox divaricata, P.
pilosa , and P. glaberrima , but they did not know the equally
conspicuous genus Silphium. Its two species were kept aepar-
ate as Prairie Dock and Rosinweed.
Of superior classification into families we can find
scarcely a trace, unless we regard the ancient terms Grass,
'■^stard, and Mint as of this category. In modern times Palm,
Orchid, and perhaps others have been added to this list.
Beech, Oak, and Chestnut were common words in England, yet
our language contains no word for the Fagaceae. No families
are more easily recognized than Umbelliferae and Leguminosae,
but we have no English word for either. 'Pulse,' sometimes
used by botanists as the English name of the latter family,
properly refers only to the edible seeds of peas and beans.
Tne first faint trace of classification appears in numer-
ous works of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Then as
now it was customary to divide books into chapters, and the
herbalists often put into one chapter their discussions of
plants having similar habits or similar usee. If this can be
called classification, it is based mostly on the relation of
plants to man. Not until the eighteenth century, with sev-
eral earlier exceptions, were plants studied as objects of
interest in themselves, and botany as a science was differ-
entiated from botany as a part of horticulture and medicine.
The number of known species grew rapidly; they were organized
into genera.
There seams to be an innate urge in the human mind to keep
knowledge in small and conveniently assorted packages, small
enough that we may easily comprehend their contents, assorted
so that we may easily compare one with the other. Even today
we search the larger genera for ways to sort the species sub-
genera, sections, and species-groups. Following this urge
and departing completely from the humanistic viewpoint, Lin-
naeus sorted his numerous genera according to his well known
sexual system. There followed a full century in which taxon-
omists were busily engaged in discovering more genera and
species and a few, notably Jussieu and DeOandolle, were at-
tempting to classify these genera into superior groups. Every
proposed change in classification was intended to set up
groups based on a greater number of similarities or on
structural features which their authors considered more im-
portant. They did not understand what the word 'important"
meant.
The general acceptance or organic evolution explained the
meaning of the term and gave an impetus to fresh attempts at
improvement of classification, /or the past century all re-
visions of classification have been made in the hope of a
better expression of the course of evolution.
