1952 Gleason, Fundamental Concepts in Taxonony 19
At the present time there ia very little discrepancy
among taxonomiats in the recognition of species. The vast
majority of species in the United States, as presented in
current Manuals, are accepted by all authors in precisely the
same circumscription. Errors have been made in thepast and
corrected later, and other errors may still be extant which
we shall discover and correct in the future. We have done
well to achieve this happy condition.
There is greater discrepancy in the subdivision of species
into minor groups. These may be regarded by us as the diff-
erent manife stations of a species, not distinct enough to
be called independent species, but conspicuous enough to draw
the attention of the observant botanist. The/ are not homo-
geneous in nature. They may be caused by slight differences
in genes, or by mutation, or by the direct effect of the en-
vironment; they may or may not be correlated with geographic
distribution. There is no necessity of describing or naming
and of them, and failure to give them names or to use names
for them can not be regarded as a denial of their existence.
Names should be given and used only when they serve some
useful taxonomic purpose. Otherwise we may conceivably ap-
proach the chaor imagined in this paper for Ambrosia trifida»
or the septinomials of Stellar ia and ^axifraga, or the tri-
plicate sets of varieties in Cruciferae.
There are still several unsolved problems in taxonomic
procedure, most of them connected with the process of evolu-
tion. V/e all believe that evolution has occurred and has
produced our present flora; it is sometimes hard to under-
stand that it is still proceeding. The dictum of Linnaeus,
that God made species, Linnaeus describes them, continued
well into the present century and is still apparent in some
taxonomic research. Under that view, we are competent to
handle most of our plants but we do not know what to do with
others. More and more apogamous plants are being discovered.
Shall we call them species, as has been done ad nauseam in
Hieracium, or varieties of original sexual species, waiting
of course for the discovery of what that species was, or
shall we invent a special new term to be used as their name,
a new category to include them, and a new system of nomencla-
ture for them? V/e are finding, with the help of the geneti-
cist and cytologiat, more and more hybrids, and hybrid
swarms, and introgressions; more and more polyploids. Some
of these anomalous populations seem to represent the incep-
tion of species, others the gradual merging of two or xore
species into one. At present we do not know how to refer
such plants to a place in our legislated categories or how to
give them appropriate names. Moat of the confusion in taxon-
omy are caused by plants of this nature.
