314; PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. ^
of B. latifolla by Bentham and by Schmidt. From the
original description and illustration, however,
Vellozo' 3 species cannot be definitely identified,
althoiigh one may guess it has been correctly inter-
preted. That Macbride and others since Bentham have
vTithout cue st ion identified B. bono dor a with B. lati-
folia, is more a case of following the leader than one
of independent judgment. Materiel from Peru identi-
fied as B, bonodora is barely distinguishable from B,
maritime Bentham, at least as suggested by Spruce
lk95 * However, in the Spruce specimen the pedicels
are long, lap to 2 cm. long, and the corolla-lobes are
narrow. A specimen collected by Riedel (no. l8) in
Brazil resembles B, maritima- B, bonodora in Peru,
proving that in Brunfelsia the same species can be
widely distributed. A photo of the type of B, mari -
time ( Lund 75 » inaritimas Taipu pr. Hio Janeiro) Is at
the Field Museum, No authenticated material of B.
latifolla (Pohl) Bentham Cin DC. Prodr. 10:199. T8I46;
non B, latifolla Hort, ex Steud., in syn., l8I|0) was
examineTii The descrintion by Bentham and that by
Schmidt (in Mart. Fl.^Brss. 8:257. l862) disagree on
the size of the leaves and calyx. The name was based
on Franciscea latifolla Pohl (PI. Bras. Ic. 1:3, t. 2.
1827"! Type. - "hab. sd Tljuca, non procul Rio de
Janeiro."), The description end illustration by Pohl,
"folia... ed tres unlclas longa, unam et quartam, ad
sesquinuncism lata," do not siiggest the large leaves
described by Schmidt, B, grandiflora D, Don (N. Edin,
Phil, Journ, Apr. -Oct., 86. 1^29. ^pe. - "Peruvla ad
Uchlza, v,s. Herb, Ruiz nunc in Mus, Lamb,") Is de-
scribed by Bentham as similar to and perhaps varietal
of B. latifolla . The United States National Herbarium
and the Field Museum were requested to send on loan
southern Brazil specimens of B, latifolla , B. bonodora ,
and B. maritlma, but no authenticated materTal of the
firsT two was received. The Field Museum lacked
southern Brazilian specimens of B, latifolla and B,
bonodora ; the U. S, Nat. Herbarium supplied two, one
from Klo de Janeiro that flowered at the Botanical
Garden, Washington, D. C.,:pnd "only one actually
collected in the wild, Kuhlmann 1327 , Matto Grosso,
Caminho do Porto Velho, determined by C, V, Morton.
The latter specimen, with puberulent leaf-underside,
calyx and corolla, the calyx up to 12 mm, long, corol-
la-tube up to 3»S cm long, j so differs from others
named B, jatifolia that, on the one hand it suggests
somethTng new, and on the other hand casts suspicion
on the specific distinctions that clready have been
drawn in the genus. It is thus seen that the speci-
mens available fell far short of the number examined
