20 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 1
Your author is one of the so-called old-fashioned taxono-
mists, or, as they say at Harvard, a claaaical taxonomist.
He is just modern enough to recognize these problems but suf-
ficiently old-fashioned and conservative to offer no solution
for them. So far as he is concerned, that is a task for the
future. In performing it, the taxonomists must keep their
heads and not be led astray by any clique of botanical new-
dealers.
The settled results of taxonomic study, fortunately ac-
cepted by a great majority of taxonomists and for a great
majority of American plants, seem to be based on a concept of
the species essentially or quite identical with that present-
ed in these pages. This concept implies a nature and degree
of morphological similarity satisfactory to us under our
standards, and almost all of us have the same standards.
CHANGE OF NAME FOR CERTAIN PLANTS OF THE 'MANUAL RANGE.'
H. A. Gleason
During the preparation of manuscript for the forthcoming
Illustrated Flora, it seemed desirable to change the status
of a number of taxonomic groups. Most of these changes were
reductions of species to varieties; for many of these vari-
eties valid names were found and new names were unnecessary.
For others the use of the valid varietal epithet under the
proper specific term resulted in a new combination. Five
apparently undescribed entities were detected and considered
to be sufficiently important to deserve varietal status. Only
three changes of specific epithets are included, two necessi-
tated by the rules of nomenclature and one by the elevation
of a variety to specific rank. All these changes and addit-
ions require publication in accordance with the International
Rules of Nomenclature and these formalities are complied with
below.
My concept of species and ray opinion of infraspecif ic taxa
have been presented in the preceding article. As stated
there, varieties are regarded as manifestations of a species
caused by slight differences due to heredity, mutation, or
direct effect of the environment. There is no necessity of
recognizing varieties or using varietal names, but failure to
do so does not deny the existonate of such minor populations.
Names and descriptions should be provided only for thoee
which are conspicuous enought to attract attention. All re-
ductions of species to varieties have been made in accordance
with my idea that a species must be clearly distinguished
