19^3 Uonachino, A new species of Brunfelsia 3U^
by Benthan end by Schmidt. Therefore a clprif ication
of the true identity of E, bonodora ond B. Istifolia
was not possible by circmnstsntial evidence, that is,
by suits of specimens from the type localities, any
more than by examination of the types.
Of the Multiflorae with the corolla-tube far ex-
serted from the calyx, there is B, ranosissima (Pohl)
Bentham (based on Franciscea ranosissima Pohl, l827).
The earlier Gerardia bresiTiensis Sprengel (lo2^) is
probably the same rThe name " Ggr^oquig oboyeta Spr . "
has also been referred to the sane species) , and a
strict application of priority would demand a new
combination. Two formae of B. ranosissima were de-
scribed by Schmidt in l862, ^ . conf ortif lora ( Fran -
ciscea confortiflora Fohl) and y . parciflora. In
addition to the typical forma. The species has short
narrovJ leaves and an entirely different rppesrance
from B, Hire . Schmidt placed Franciscea divaricata
Fohl in the synonymy of D, ranosissima a . conferti- '
flora , and B. acuminata TPohlj Bentham in that of B.
ranosissima .
Of the Multiflorae vjith the corolla-tubo usually
not as prominently exserted from the calyx (see also
B, macrophylla end B. silvicola ) , B, Lindenigna
TPlench.) Ilicholson ( Franciscea Lindeniana Planchon,
1865, "introduction de Libon, qui 1' a envoy6 de les
catingas de 1' interieur de la province de Ste.
Catherine a M. Linden,") appears to have smaller
leaves than our species, and a long cylindrical calyx-
tube, according to specimens from cultivation deposit-
ed at The New York Botanical Garden, An isotype of B,
ob ovate Bentham is at K.Y.B.G, B, cuneifolia J, A.
Schmidt and B, silvicola Taubert ("calyce. , .corollae
tub^um medium vix eequante .. .folia 2,5-5 ^ 1,5-2 cm,")
are described as allied vjith B, obovata . Fr6e3 20210
from the region of Serres de SincorS, Bahia, suggests
B. bahiensis, but the leaves are smaller, L|.-8.5 cm,
Tong (in B, bahiensis "3-1+ poll, longa, 1-1,5 poll,
lata."). Of the larger leaved species authenticated
material of B. hydrengeaef ormis (Pohl) Bentham and an
isotype of the very closely related B. capitata Benth-
am ( Ggrdner 5^3 ) were available. The varieties B,
capitpta B . angustifolia Bentham and B, hydren^eae -
formis B ; Gl"a&riuscf:la Schmidt (syntype. - Garaner
5fe3 . the type number of B, cepitata ) hcve been pro-
posed, B, macrophylla CChsm, £c Schlecht.) Bentham
vjas described ss sinilcr to B. hvdrangeaeformis (type.
- Brasil aequinoctiale, Sellow, ''corollae tubo sub-
recto calyce subduplo longiore .. .calyx 10-12 lin long-
us. . .folia. . .subtus praecipue ad nervos venasque rufo-
pubescentia. . .in petiolum. , ,ruf o-tomentosuih attenu-
