3U6 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. ^
ata."). B. exlma (Scheidweiler ) Hooker la rererrad
to B. hydr ange aef orml s . B, calyclna Bentharti (type. -
L^^r^ 753 » S. Paulo, "calyx pollicsris . . .f oliis . . . in
nervo medio subtiis hirtellus.") is referred to B,
pauciflore a . calycina by Schmidt, Besleria inodora
Vellozo rnon Briinfelsia inodora Hertius) is also
pl-^ced in the synonymy, Franci'scea ( Brunfelsia )
macrantha Lemaire was described cs having a large
toraentose calyx. The combination " Brtinf elsin ma-
crantha " has been attributed to Lemaire by Bailey snd
Raf fill, but Lemaire noted that his species was not a
true Brunfelsia , Bailey snd Raffill listed the nevj
combination^ B, calycina var, macrantha snd B. calyci-
na var, eximia , and also B, calycina var, floribunda
TFased on B, floribunda Hort , ) .
The Longiflorae are chiefly of the West Indies,
B. inodora Ilartius v/as described from cultivation,
B, Testevini Benoist (1928), from Rio Jard'So in the
Amazon Valley, was described as having a corolla-tube
I), cm, long, and was said to resemble B, americana .
The Unif lorae in South America comprise perViaps
three species, TKe basonym of B, uniflora (Pohl) Don
antedates that of B, Ilopeena (Hook. ) Benthan by one
year. The description of B, mutabilis (Pohl) Poiteau
presents no point of difference from fe, uniflora . B,
australis Bentham was reduced to a variety of B,
Hope ana by Schmidt, A Kuntze specimen (x, 92) idcnti-
f led as B, australis (inflorescence up to It-flowered),
obtained from cultivation in Paraguay, resembles some
cultivated forms named B, latifolia , B, Paraguay ens is
Chodat was referred to B. lini flora forma obovatifolia
Hassler by Kassler, who also proposed B. uniflora
forma intermedia . A Trinidad specimen collected by
L. J. Graff recalls B, Hope ana a .? pubescens Bentham
(possibly B, Lockhar'Fi Hort. ex Heynh., noraen nudvim) ,
originally~TDased on a LockHart specimen from Trinidad,
Miller & Johnston 265 from ^Margarita Island also has
pubescent leaves, but likewise pubescent are the young
leaves of Gardner 1798 , a collection cited by Bentham
as typical B. Hopeana . C. V. Morton (Proc. Biol. Soc,
Wash. 62:l5T-152. 19U9) presents differences between
his B. amazonica Cisotype at N.Y.B.G., corolla- tube
abouT 2 cm. long) and B, guianensis Bentham,
The Re gel names in Brxmfelsia ( falcate , gracilis ,
longiflora, multiflora , Sieberi ) and B. Schomfeurgkiana
Klotzch are nomine nuda. The following names were
published in synonyiny: B. august a Hort. ex Gentil,
under B. calycina ; B. Sprue e ana hb. M. by Schmidt
under "E, maritima , Martia (jpifera Lacerda in hb. M.
Tjinder B. Hopeana , and P. P(})hliana Hort. ex Schmidt
■under B. ramosissima.
