380 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 6
Type in the Clhicago Natural History Museum, collected on
loraas of the Cuchilla de Santa Bcirbara, Cartago, Department of
El Valle, Colombia, altitude 1,000-I,lii0 meters, November 17,
19U6, by J. Cuatrecasas (No. 22963).
PITCAIRNIA OCCIDENTALIS L. B. Smith, sp. nov.
A P. reflexi flora Andrfe, cui via af finis sed in clave Mezii
juxta ponenda, inflorescentia laxe pauciflora, floribus secun-
dis, pedicellis minoribus, sepalis majoribus differt.
Epiphytic, caulescent, flowering shoot li2 cm. high; stem U
mm. in diameter, covered with roots and old leaf-basesj leaves
all alike, fascicled at the apex of the stem, 5-6 dm. long, en-
tire, sparsely and very obscurely brown-lepidote beneath, gla-
brous above, the sheaths small, ovate, the petioles short but
distinct, the blades linear-lanceolate with a strong narrow
median channel, flat, caudate-acuminate, to 30 mm. wide; scape
erect, very slender, brown-flocculosej scape-bracts large, all
but the uppermost exceeding the intemodes, but divergent and
very narrow so that the scape is completely exposed; inflores-
cence sin^ile, very laxly 6-f lowered, 12 en. long, spars "sly and
obscurely flocculose viien yoimg; floral bracts ovate, acute,
exceeding the pedicels, thin; pedicels 7 mn. long; flowers
secund, orange; sepals oblong, broadly rounded and apiculate,
30 mm. long, e carina te, thin; petals naked; ovary largely
superior. PI. I, fig. U: Plant x l/lO; fig. 5: Flower x 1;
fig. 6: Sepal x 1.
Type in the Comisi6n de Botinica de la Secretaria de Agri-
cultvira y Fomento del Departaraento del Valle del Cauca,
collected at Cordoba, basin of the Rio Dagua, western slope of
the Cordillera Occidental, Department of EL Valle, Colombia,
altitude 39-60 meters, Noveriber lU, 19li5, by J. Cuatrecasas
(No. 15819).
The flowers are so young in the only inflorescence now
available that it is iiipossible to verify the form of the ovules
or the relative length of petals and stamens at anthesis.
PITCAIRNIA VERRUCOSA L. B. Smith, sp. nov.
Planta e fl'agmentis solum cognita, a P. spectabill Mez, cui
affinis, pedicellis fere rectis, sepalis verrucosis, petalis
appendiculatis differt.
Caulescent; stem erect, probably climbing, 1 cm. in diameter,
the lower part long-setose with the persistent nerves of de-
cayed leaves; leaves all alike, entire, rigid, glabrous, the
sheaths broadly ovate, encircling the stem, brown, the petioles
3 dm. long, slightly widened toward the base and apex, centrally
6 mm. wide with a strong median channel, the blades lance-
oblong, flat, 3-U dm. long, 7-8 cm. wide, acuminate, rounded at
the base, bright violet beneath, green above; scape and axis of
the inflorescence unknown; inflorescence probably simple; floral
bracts ovate, acuminate, 17 mm. long; pedicels spreading, nearly
straight, slender, h cm. long, veirrucose and lepidote toward the
apex; sepals very narrowly triangular, obtuse, 6 era. long.
