382 PHITOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 6
coarsely verrucose especially at the green base, elsevrtiere
red- violet J petals 9 cm. long, acute, reddish yellow, at base
bearing a bidentate scale 13 mm. long; ovary almost wholly
superior. PI. II, fig. 1: Leaf x l/lOj fig. 2: Floral bract
and flower x Ij fig. 3: Sepal x Ij fig. li: Base of petal x 1.
lype in the Chicago Natural History Museum, collected in a
ravine by Km. 51, left bank of the Rio San Juan, near Queremal,
basin of the Rio Digua, western slope of the Cordillera Occi-
dental, Department of El Valle, Colonibia, altitude l,5l40-l,6$0
meters, February 2^, 19ii7, by J. Cuatrecasas (No. 2373B).
PUYA SANCTAE-MARTAE L. B. Smith, sp. nov.
A P. kuntzeana Mez, cui in clave Mezii juxta ponenda, pedi-
cellis longioribus , sepalis multo minoribus differt.
Aggregated, flowering plant at least 7 dm. high (the top of
the inflorescence missing in the single very old specimen seen)j
leaves many, densely rosulate, 3 dm. long, the blades narrowly
triangular, 3 cm. wide, flat, laxly serrate with pale curved
spines h mm. long, glabrous at least with agej scape erect, 15
ram. in diameter, glabrous; scape-bracts numerous, very densely
imbricate, only the lowest at all foliaceous, the others thin
and deciduous with age, probably reflexed but undoubtedly
corpletely covering the scape; inflorescence simple, racemose,
densely cylindric, 30-U5 cm. long (I Foster), 7 cm. in diameter
and glabrous in fruit; axis stout; floral bracts reflexed in age
lanceolate, 5 cm. long, thin; pedicels arcuate-spreading, 15 ram.
long, rather slender and slightly thickened toward apex; sepals
lanceolate, about 25 mm. long, ecarinate, nerved; petals contor-
ted in drying; seeds alate. PI. II, fig. 5: Plant x 1/20; fig.
6r Leaf -margin x 1; fig. 7: Floral bract and flower x 1,
Type in the Gray Herbariiun, collected on perpendicular rocks
in full STHi, mountains above Hacienda Cincinnati, Santa Marta,
Department of Magdalena, Colombia, August 19U6, by M. B. and R.
Foster and E. Smith (No. Iii08). Duplicate in the Herbario
Na clonal Colombiano.
Because of the extreme age of our only material of Puya
sanctae-martae it is not possible to give further distinctions
from P. kuntzeana although others such as the character of the
indument seem very probable.
BOLIVIA
BILLBERGIA CARDEKASII L. B. Smith, sp. nov.
A B. stenopetala Harms, cui af finis, bracteis florigeris
quara ovario brevioribus, sepalis minoribus late acutli, tubo
epigyno angusto differt.
Leaf -blade ligulate, broadly acute and apiculate, h dm. long,
35 mm. wide, covered on both sides with coarse cinereous
appressed scales, laxly serrate with dark curved teeth 2 mm.
long; scape slender, densely and very finely white-flocculose;
scape-bracts lanceolate, acute, 13 cm. long, rose; inflorescence
sin^ile, densely many-floweredj its axis idiite-flocculose; floral
