Ill8 PHITOLOGIA Vol. li, no. 7
Small tree 5-8 m. high, 15-25 en* in trunk diameter, much
branched, evergreen. Twigs gray, densely appreesed tomentulose,
at length glabrous and fissured. Stipules connate at base,
ovate, 2-5 mm. long, acute, appressed tomentulose. Leaves oppo-
site, petioled, with petioles 5-10 (12) mm. long, thick, gray,
appressed tomentulose; blades elliptical or sometimes obovate,
h-6 (5-10) cm. long, 2,5-5 (2-5) cm. broad, base rounded or
cuneate, apex slightly retuse or obtuse, coriaceous, margins
revolute, above green or dark green, slightly shiny, when young
slightly tomentulose but when mature glabrous except on midrib
and toward base, primary veins usually 4-6 on each side, these
with midrib sliehtly impressed, beneath gray and densely ap-
pressed tomentulose. Racemes terminal, 5-7 cm. long, with pedi-
cels 5-10 mm. long; rachis appressed tomentulose with gray hairs
toward base and with brown hairs toward apex and on pedicels;
bracts 1-2 mm. long, acute, with brown hairs. Flowers 10-12 mm.
broad. Sepals 5. ovate, 4 nn. long, acute, brown hairy, per-
sistent, bearing 2 oblong glands 1 mm. long at base, white but
at length brcwn. Petals 5> 5-^ "ku* long, with claw and blade
nearly equal, reniform, denticulate, white but at length pink,
spreading and slightly recurved. Receptacle with brown hairs
2 mm. long. Stamens 10, 4 mm. long, filaments 5 ™n« long, pink,
hairy toward base, anther locules pale yellow, glabrous, mucro-
nulate, connective more than 1 mm. Icn^ oblong, yellow, nearly
twice as long as anther locules. Ovary ovoid, more than 2 mm.
long, brown, 5-angled, appressed tomentulose, 5-celled; styles
5, slender, 2 mm. long, white. Drupe globose-ovoid, 10-12 mra.
long, 6 mm. broad, pink or red, appressed tomentulose near the
acute apex, slightly fleshy; stone ovoid, 6-7 mm. long and broac^
with acute apex, verrucose, whitish, bony, with 5 seeds 4 mm.
long. Fig. 1.
The compact dense crown of dark green foliage varies from
broad and spreading to narrow. The bark is brown or dark brown,
with many small fissures or slightly furrowed, 5 J"™* or more in
thickness. Inner bark is red streaked in outer part and pinkdA
beneath, bitter. The wood is light brown and hard. Flowering
in summer (June to August) and maturing fruit in autumn (Septem-
ber and October),
Almendrillo is the common name generally applied to this
tree. Another common name, used also for other species of th«
genus, is maricao.
It is a pleasure to associate with this well-defined epecies
the name of Frank Howard Wadsworth, who first called my atten-
tjoi to it as an unidentified species of Byrsonima occurring on
sample plots and who collected specimens from the type tree with
