1953 Little, A new Byrsonima hX9
me in I95O and 1952. Dr. Wadsworth, an authority on forestry
in Puerto Rico, has been in charge of forest research at the
Tropical Region, United States Forest Service, Rfo Piedras,
Puerto Rico, since I9A2 .
Byrsonima Rich, is a tropical American species of more than
100 species of trees and shrubs. Niedenzu (Pflanzenreich Heft
91, 95, 9^ (IV. 1^1), 870 p., illus. 1928^ in his thorough
monograph of family Malpighiaceae accepted lOA species of Byrso-
nima with additional varieties. A few other species have been
published since. According to Niedenzu' s key, Byrsonima wads-
worth ii belongs in Subg. Macrozeugma , Sect. Acrotheca, Subeect.
Brachyceras , in which only A species were placed, including B.
trinitensis Juss. and B. martinieensis KrugA Urban in the West
Indies and 2 others of South America. The new species would be
near the same 2 species in a separate key to the West Indian
species of this genus published the same year by Niedenzu
(Repert. Spec. Novarum Regni Veg. 24: 2^9-252. 1928) and in
the key of the earlier monograph by Small (No. Amer. Fl. 25:
166-171. 1910).
Byrsonima wadsworthii is readily distinguished from the 5
species of this genus recorded from Puerto Rico by Britton and
Wilson (Sci. Surv. P. R. 5: ¥\6-h^6. 1924) by its elliptical
coriaceous leaves densely and finely gray hairy beneath. The
white petals turning pink separate it from all except B. luclda
(Mill.) Rich., as the other 4 species have yellow flowers.
This new species has been collected in four separated moun-
tainous areas of Puerto Rico and may be sought in others. Byr-
sonima wadsworthii is distributed chiefly in the dwarf forests
on ridges along the mountain summits at elevations between 2,500
and 5,000 feet but sometimes occurs in mountain forests on
slopes at slightly lower elevations. The main center of distri-
bution ie Luquillo Mountains, an isolated mountainous area in
the northeastern part of the island and the home of many endemic
species. There it has been collected at several places within
the Luquillo Division of the Caribbean National Forest, includ-
ing near La Mina Ranger Station (the type localily) in the cen-
tral part of these mountains and in the northwestern part south
of Rio Grande and El Verde Ranger Staticn. One specimen was from
Tore Negro Division of the Caribbean National Forest in moun-
tains of the central part of Puerto Rico about 75 kilometers
west of Luquillo Mountains.
In 1952 I collected It also within forests of the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico in two other parts of the island. One was at
Bosque de Carite more than JO kilometers southwest of Luquillo
