U20 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 7
Mountains, south of Caguaa and also in the eastern mountains.
The other was at Bosque de Guilarte, about 75 kilometers farther
west, near Ad juntas and in the western mountains of Puerto Rico.
Cn short field trips I found trees at two different localities
in each of these two Commonwealth forests.
This new species is rare and scattered. Associated tree
species in the dwarf forests of Luquillo Mountains include
Clusia krugiana Urban, Micropholis p:arcinifolia Pierre, Tabebuia
rigida Urban, and Hirtella rugosa Pars.
Puerto Rico has been so thoroughly explored by botanists in
the past that a new species of trees is unexpected. However,
this species remained undetected until recent years, after the
mountainous areas have been made more accessible by automobile
highways. The late flowering of this species in summer may
account in part for its absence in collections made by botanists
visiting the island in winter and spring.
In March 195^, Claud L. Horn, of the United States Deparhnent
of Agriculture, then with the Forest Service, collected speci-
mens in the Luquillo Mountains of the Caribbean National Forest.
A duplicate sent to the New York Botanical Garden was "identi-
field by P. Wilson as probably a new species."
The National Herbarium of the United States National Museun
contained cne specimen cf this species, collected by F. H. Sar-
gent in the same area on July A, 1958 •
On July 7, 1959, Dr. Leslie R. Holdridge, while with the
United States Forest Service, collected specimens also on the
Luquillo Division and noted on the label that this species was
not in Britton and Wilson's Botany of Porto Rico and the Virgin
Islands. Luis E. Gregory, then with the U. S. Forest Service
also, on Sept. l4 of the same year found this species on the
Toro Negro Division of the Caribbean National Forest, in the
central part of the island.
Mrs. Frances tf. Home, artist and botanist who has made
numerous beautiful paintings of the plants of Puerto Rico, found
this species on July 15, 1959, in Luquillo Mountains south of
Rio Grande. She reported seeing it near Maricao on July 29 of
the same year. (Previously she had discovered another new spe-
cies, Byrsonima horneana Britton A Small, near Mayaguez.) After
making a painting of this unidentified species, she sent a spe-
cimen to Percy Wilson (1879-19'lA) at the New York Botanical Gar-
den. He replied that it was a new species and that he was for-
warding the specimen to Franz Niedenzu (1857-1957), of Germany,
