1953 Swallen, New grasses from Guatemala U25!
fascicles, the lower ones as nmch as 7 cra» long, naked below
the middlej spikelets 6-7 mm. long, the gliunes equal, acuminate,
3-5-nervedj lemma 5 ran, long, scabrous, the tip hyaline, the
nerves excxirrent, awned from about the middle of the back, the
awn about 10 mm. long, geniculate, tightly twisted below the
bend, appressed pilose; callus hairs dense, about 2 mm. longj
rachilla 2 mm. long, densely hairy, the hairs about 2 ram, long.
Specimens of this species were formerly referred to C,
junciformis , but are readily distinguished by the short iTgule,
pilose blades, and pilose awn.
Type in the U, S. National Herbarium, No, 1,637,886, col-
lected on Vol can Santa Maria, Quezaltenango, Guatemala, by
Alexander F. Skutch (No. 836),
DIGITARI/. OBTUSA Swallen, sp, nov.
Culmi erecti vel geniculati, ca. 50 cm, altij vaginae
intemodia aequantes, glabrae vel inferiores marginibus sparse
pilosae; laminae 9-13 cm. longae, 3-k nim. latae, acuminatae,
glabrae vel sparse pilosaej racemi 5, 8-10 cm, longij spiculae
densae, 2,2 mm. longae, sparse vel dense pilosae; gluma prima
nulla; glvana secunda fructo 1/3-1/2 brevior, 3-nervis; lemma
sterile fructum aequans, 5-nerve; fructus acutus, striatus,
brxinneus.
Perennial; culms erect, geniculate at the lovrer nodes,
about 50 cm, high; sheaths about as long as the internodes,
glabrous, or the lower ones sparsely pilose on the margins;
blades 9-13 cm, long, 3-ii nim, wide, flat, actuninate, glabrous,
or sparsely pilose toward the base; racemes 5, 8-10 cm. long,
stiffly ascending, spike let-bearing to the base, pilose in the
axils; spikelets mostly in 3's, crowded, 2,2 mrn. long; first
glume wanting; second glume and sterile lemma sparsely to
rather densely pilose between the nerves with capitate hairs,
the glume obtuse, 3-nerved, 1/2-2/3 as long as the fruit, the
lemma 5-nerved, equalling the fruit; fruit acute, dark brown,
striate.
Type in the U. S. National Herbarium, No. 795,987, col-
lected at Coban, Alta Verapaz, Guatemala, August 1912, by
H. von Turckheim (No. 3,793).
This species has been referred to Digitaria villosa (Walt.)
Muhl. which differs in having the racemes naked or nearly so at
the base, less crowded spikelets, and longer, acute second
gl\ime. Several specimens from southern Mexico also may be
referable to this species,
ICHNANTHUS BREVIVAGINATUS Swallen, sp. nov,
Culmi decxmbentes ramis adscendentibus 20-30 cm. longis;
vaginae internodiis multo breviores, dense pilosae; laminae
lanceolatae, acvmiinatae, usque ad 9 cm. longae, 15 mm. latae,
infra scabrae, supra glabrae; paniculae tenrdnales et axillares,
k-7 cm. longae, ramis appressis vel adscendentibus; spiculae
U mm, longae; gltima prima acuta, spicula 1/2 brevior, vel
