U26 PHITOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 7
acuminata spiculam aequansj gluma secunda actunlnata, lemmati
sterili paulo longior; fructus 2,^ mm. longus, acutus, basi
appendicibus nullis.
Annual; culms widely decumbent-spreading, the ascending
flowering branches 20-30 cm. long; sheaths mostly 15-20 mm.
long, much shorter than the internodes, usually rather densely
pilose; blades lanceolate, as much as 9 cm. long, 15 mm, wide,
acuminate, scabrous below, smooth above, the cells readily
visible with a lens on the under surface; panicles terminal and
sometimes axillary from the upper sheath, U-7 cm. long, the
branches appressed or ascending, the brsmchlets and spikelets
appressed; spikelets h mm, long; first glume acute, about half
as long as the spikelet to acuminate or attenuate and nearly as
long as the spikelet, scabrous on the keel; second glume acumi-
nate, usually longer than the acute sterile lemma; fruit 2,5 mm.
long, acute, the wings reduced to scars.
Type in the U. S. National Herbarium, No, 1,867,601, col-
lected on high ridge, Swasey Branch, Monkey River, Toledo
District, British Hond\iras, March iX, 19^12, by Percy H, Gentle
(No, 3,971).
The only other species of Ichnanthus having the cells
plainly visible on the under surface of the blade? is I,
axxllaris which has shorter and broader ovate blades, ~
ICHNANT?IUS GRACILIS Swallen, sp, nov.
Culm graciles, decunbentes, elongati, ramis adscendenti-
bus ca, l5 cm, longis; vaginae glabrae vel sparse pilosae,
narginibus ciliatae; laminae 3-5.5 era, longae, U-7 rnm, latae,
lanceolatae, supra sparse papilloso-hispidae; paniculae ca, 3
cm. longae, angustae, pauciflorae; spiculae 3 ran. longae; gl\una
prima abrupte acuminata glumam secundam aequans vel paulo
brevior; glvuna secunda et lemma sterile subaequalia, gluma
acuta, lemma subobtusum; fructus 2 mm, longus, lucidus, basi
appendicibus nullis.
Annual?; culms slender, creeping, branching, elongate,
glabrous, the flowering branches ascending, mostly about 15 cm,
long; sheaths glabrous or sparsely pilose, the margins ciliate;
blades 3-5,5 cm, long, U-7 mm, wide, lanceolate, acute, sca-
brous on the margins, sometimes sparsely papillose-hispid on
the upper surface toward the base; panicles about 3 cm, long,
narrow, few-f loitered, sliort-exserted or partly enclosed in the
sheath; spikelets 3 ram, long; first glume abruptly acuminate,
equaling the second glume or a little shorter, scabrous on mid-
nerve; second glume and sterile lemma subequal, the gliome acute,
the lemma sub-obtuse; fruit 2 mm, long, smooth and shining, the
wings reduced to scars.
Type in the herbarium of the Chicago Natural History
Museum, No, 1,0U5,U55, collected on top of ridge of Loraa de la
poloma, above Finca El Porvenir, San Marcos, Guatemala, March 8,
19ii0, by Julian A. Stej'-ermark (No. 37,293).
