1953 Swallen, New grasses frcan Guatemala U27
LASIACIS LINEARIS Swallen, sp, nov,
Culml vagantes, rarais adscendentibus ca, 7$ cm, longisj
vaginae dense rillosae intemodiis longioresj ligvila 2'k mm*
longaj laminae lineares, acuminatae, 16-22 cm, longae, 5-9 mm.
latae, scabrae vel sparse pilosaej panlcula 30 cm, longa, ramis
gracilibus, solitariis, scabris, anguste adscendentibus, pauci-
florisj spiculae li ram, longae, pedicellis longis, erectis.
Culms relatively slender, straggling, the flowering
branches about 7$ cm, longj sheaths densely villous, as long as
or longer than the intemodesj ligule 2-i; mm, long, brown;
blades linear, acuminate, narrowed toward the base, 16-22 cm.
long, 5-9 ram, wide, scabrous, sometimes sparsely pilose; panicle
about 30 cm, long, the slender scabrous branches rather narrowly
ascending, solitary, distant, bearing a few long-pedicellate
spikelets; spite lets U mm, long, usually erect.
Type in the herbarium of the Chicago Natural History
Museum, No. I,0l;ii,li22, collected in pine-covered canyon border-
ing rIo Lima, Sierra de las Minas, below Finca Alexandria,
Zacapa, Guatemala, Oct, lii, 1939, by Julian A, Steyermark
(No. 30,OU6),
ADDITIONAL NOTES ON THE GUJUS AEGIPHILA . XIII
Harold N. Moldenke
AEGIPHILA Jacq.
To the List of Excluded Species should be added
Aegiphila triflora Moldenke, Suppl. List Invalid Names 1, in syn.
- Clerodendnjm tessmanni Uoldenke.
An additional synonym of Aegiphila virgata Turcz. is Cornutia
brasillensis Miers ex Turcz., Bvdl, Soc. Nat. Mosc. 36 (2): 220,
in syn. 1863; Moldenke, Prelim. Alph. List Invalid Names 23, in
syn. I9UO. Since Aegiphila virgata Turcz. is based on a Miers
specimen from Rio de Janeiro and Cornutia brasillensis Miers is
synonymous with it, and since Cornutia brasillensis Mart, is a
synonym of Arrabldaea corchorloides (Cham.) P. DC. [see Fedde,
Repert. UO: I96. 1936] in the Bignonlaceae , it seems very prob-
able that Aegiphila virgata , long a perplexing name [see Britton-
la 1: U69 — U70. I93U] is also synonymous with Arrabldaea corchor-
loides. The original description of Aegiphila virgata agrees very
well with the characters of Arrabldaea corchorloides.
Line 97a on page 271 of my key to the species and varieties of
Aegiphila in Brittonla 1 (I93J4) should read: 97a. Branchlets
tomentulose-pubemlent, puberulent, f urf urac ecus , or p\ilverulent .
Line llii on page 273 should lead to: 79- A. lax icupulls .
So many persons have asked me to explain the sense in which I
use various descriptive terms for leaves and f j-owers in my publl-
