30 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. 1
His type sheet of J^ erythrocgrp a contains, besides several
normal firuits, one abnormally developed one of 'brovniish,- violet
color, about 7x5 mm, sis well as a nximber of abnonnal proces-
ses vrtth elongated, supemumerous floral scales. The rather
pointed leaves of the specimen are not ■unusioal in J^ monosper-
ma. The large hilum matches that of the var. Pinchotii , from
vftiich variety Cory's Juniper may not be clearly distinguishable
and to vdiich, urjon examination of additional material, we may
want to refer it. To date we have seen only one collection,
Koch 5, from the Big Bend National Park, vMch matches Cory's
type specimen as to fruit and seed.
Meanvdille, tae name J^ e rythrocarp a invites confusion with
the more strikingly erythrocarpous forms of J\ texensis . Prior
to our erPEiination of Cory's type we supposed that the name
covered the rose- to red-fruited forms of o\ir J^ texefasis , and
that the brown-fruited material of otir species was, therefore,
conspecific vdth J^ erythrocarp a. Under that impression vie so
misidentified one of three specimens of oxir J^ texensis from
the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station (Hinckley 2594 ) . The
other tv;o sheets (Cory 58605 , 38606 ) had been so indentified by
I. W. Johnston.
J. texensis is not likely to be confused with its easterly
neighbor, Jj_ Ashei , in whici the fruit, in living material, Is,
before maturity, bright-blue and at maturity, living and pre-
served, a very dark blue. Eiough there is only little pulp, the
fruit is quite juicy. The seeds (l or 2) are only faintly pit-
ted or grooved, or both, and the small hilum is of the same rel-
ative leii<i;th as in Jj^ monosperma .
Along Routes 80 and 67, eastward of Ranger, Eastland Co.,
Texas, J^ Ashei mostly resembles J^. texensis in habit, but is,
generally, of somevdiat lesser relative vriLdth; often with o-
bliquely diverging limbs ascending in their upper parts; vary-
ing to rather narro", nearly erect, plural stemmed trees, often
to 8 m high. Buchholz, in his original description (Bot. G-az.
90 : 329, 1930) mentions heights of 12 to 20 ft. in northwest-
ern Arkansas; P?laer ( 45032 , 43986 ) indicates heights of 10 to
15 m in the ArbuckLe Mts. in Oklahoma.
The color of the adiilt foliage is mostly deeper green than
in J^ texensis ; the lesser tranches are less rigid, and the
teriiiinal slioots are often drooping, like those often seen in J.
virginiana L. The ultimate adult branclilets are mostly thinner
thrn in J^ texensis , and thicker tlian in J\ virginiana . Partic-
ulrrly in the more narrov; md more erect plants there is con-
siderable resemblance to Jj^ virginiana , except for the consis-
tent plTiral- stemmed habit.
In fact, it is difficult to avoid the impression that J.
Ashei shovra signs of intermediacy between J\_ texensis and J.
virginiana . More particularly, it is in the northerly material
that there appecrs a strong influence of J^ virginiana , \Alle
