19^2 Van Melle, Juniperus texensis 31
in the more southerly, in the general vicinity of Austin, "ex.,
there appears to ^be a strong infusion of J^ silicicola (Snail)
Bedley.
Ve think of J\ Ashel , then, not in terms of a liy'brid species
of recent origin, Tmt as a pretty well Jelled, though not com-
paratively old species of composite derivation. But before ven-
turing more detailed speculation as to its origin, let us re-
turn to Jj^ texensis .
GROUITDS POR SPECIFIC STATUS OP J. TEXEITSIS
Despite admitted reserahlances hetvreen it and J^ monosperma
vre refrain from puhlisliing it a^ a variety of the last-named
because of a "belief that the tvro taxons do not represent, simp-
ly, two varietal phases of a single species. We think that, of
the two, J^ texensis represents the more primitive species, and
J. monosperma a more recent one of composite derivation, invol-
ving, on the one hand, J^ texensis and, on the other, an eaa*-
em Red Cedax influence. Ue believe that J^ monosperma is of
the same basic derivation as ia Jj_ Ashei, but that the texensis
influence is more prominent in it than in J;^ Ashei .
Our diagnosis of J^ texensis as a comparatively primitive
species, based upon a monoecious type, proceeds from a view
that appears not to have been applied by others to the study of
Junipers, but which appears to us as helpful in the discernment
of patterns of relationships and distributions. It is this:
that the occurrence of monoecism in Junipers is indicative of
comparatively primitive stocks .
It appears to be a well established opinion (Arnold, Intr.
Paleobot. 325, 1947"^ that, in relation to the Pinaceae . the
Family Cupressinaceae (or the Subfamily Cupressineae ) consti-
tutes for the greater part a comparatively recent £,roup. In it
appears a trend tov/ard the breald.ng up of the monoecism of the
older group into a more sjwcieuLized, dioecious biosis. This
trend comes into view clearly in the genus Juniperus, in vMch
may be obsei^red both monoecious and dioecious as well as tran-
sitional phases.
In our Review of J. Chinensis et Al. (IT.Y. Bot. Gdn. , 1947)
we applied this view to the restoration of J\ s pha-erica Lindl.,
calling attention to the occurrence in it of the three phages
- the transitional represented by belatedly monoecious materi-
als in vdiich pistillate flovrers appear in plants of a more or
less advanced (sometimes considerable) age.
We do not mean, here, to go into a lengthy discussion of our
view. vMch, with pertinent data, might well f\amish subject
matter for a separate pe,per. But \/e venture to present, here, a
few of the indications yielded by the study of the phenomenor
of monoecism - viiicli we have limited to the heterophyllous Ju-
nipers.
