32 PHITOLOGIA Vol. h, no. 1
It seems, for instance, that monoecious elements of species
never occur in b. casual, scattered manner, "but alv/ays "by way of
monoecious "cores", so located as to constitute proliatle cen-
ters of oriijin of dioecious distrilDutions, v;liether of a single
or of several species. Once "brolzen up, it seems that monoecism
does not recur.
It appears, pIso, thcfc, around the v/orld, monoecious "cores"
occur in only a fev; areas, '>;iiich may contain the monoecious el-
ements of a single or of several species. For instances, in and
about Turkey and certain coastal parts along the Black Sea oc-
curs the monoecious element of one, distinct relationship. Here
is found the largely monoecious J_j_ excel sa BieT)., of \diich J.
isop h yllos C. Koch appears to he only a some^Aiat modified, di-
oecious development. But of the large group of Asiatic one-
seeded heterophyllae, some 15 or 16 species of \^iich liave heen
published, it seems that all the laaovm nonoecious elements are
concentrated in a relatively small, contiguous are i coraprising
Silcang, southern Kansu, parts of Szechuan Province, part of tlie
Ku-lIu-lTor Range and possihly adjacent i^arts of Yunnan - \;Aiile
dioecious phases, species and derivatives are spread over large
parts of central Asia.
In fr.ct, more often th,?ii not, monoecious elements are found
clustered together in ^■/hat mny well "be taken for centers of or-
igin. For instance, those of J^ Sahina L. and of Jj_ phoenicea
L. concur in southeastern Prance and adjacent parts of the Pyr-
enees, at the vrestem end of their oljvious eastvrard distrihu-
tions. In and ahout Chekiang Province, China, occur the monoe-
cious elements of J^^ s phaerica and of J^ Sheppardii van Melle,
dioecious radiations of v^liicli can "be traced readily in every
direction.
Known monoecious "cores" are in some instances large in re-
lation to the distribution of their dioecious developments, as
in the case of Jj, osteosperma (Torrey) Little - even if one in-
cludes in the over-all dioecious distribution J^ calif omica
Carr. , vdiich would seem to represent a somevftiat modified, di-
oecious development of J^ osteosperma . More often monoecious
"cores" are relatively smaller, as in the case of J. SaMna .
In some cases they re-oresent probably mere remnants. There are
undoubtedly one or more undiscovered "cores"; and possibly
one or more are extinct.
With allowance for Tondiscovered "cores", it seems that in
every one of the major, distinctive types in vMch the hetero-
phyllous Junipers may be readily grouped a monoecious "core"
exists. The most important instance known to us of an undis-
covered "core" is that of the Red Cedar group of eastern
North America, continental and insular. Though there is re-
peated mention in literature of monoecious material of "Jj_
virgin! ana " , we have not seen indication of its geographical
locatipn; and there is, moreover, a probability that the name
