PHYTOLOGIA is financed entirely by its contributors, each one paying
in advance for the entire cost of printing, binding, and distributing his con-
tribution. All money received from subscribers, after the expenses of
collection have been deducted, will be distributed among the contributors upon
the completion of a volume, in proportion to the space which they have used.
Each contributor is theretore a shareholder in the magazine, assuming his
part of the expenses and sharing m the profi::, if any accrue.
Each number consists of not less than 32 pages. All manuscript
accepted will be published in the next issue, so that the siz^ of numbers
may vary greatly. A volume will contain about 32 signatures, 512 pages,
or a smaller number of pages with an equivalent number of plates. Thif
plan insures immediate publication of all accepted manuscript.
Illustrations will be published according to the desires of the authors. No
extra charge is made for line drawings, such as are ordinarily reproduced in
fine, or for diagrams, tables, or charts, provided they conform to certain
limitations of size and proportion. An extra charge will be made for half-
tones, depending on their size, as fixed by the engraver, with a minimum of
about $2.25.
Articles dealing with research in all lines of botany, in any reasonable
length, biographical sketches, and critical reviews and summaries of liter-
ature will be considered for publication. Floristic lists, casual notes of an
amateur or so-called popular type, and polemics will not be published. Advice
on the suitability of manuscripts will be solicited, if necessary, from quali-
faed botanists.
Ur.der the present cost ot printing, the basic rate for a page or fraction
thereof is $1.65 for an edition of 200 copies. This price is subject to chanRr
without notice, since it depends entirely on the prices prevailing ii the
prmting industry.
Reprints will be furiiished at cost. A proportionate fraction of the
edition of 200 • opies is also furnished gratis to contributors.
Upon request, the editors will send detailed instructions concerning the
preparation of manuscript or further intormaticn about the magaziix}. In-
quiries may be addressed to the. magazine or to eithei* editor.
