19^2 Van Uelle, Juniperus texensis 33
J. virginlana was used In such instances for some other species
of the Red Cedar group.
In the case of J^ flaccida - a very distinct species vriLth a
\rf.de distribution in Mexico, spilling over into '•.he Big Bend
Rational Park - no reference to monoecious materir.l is knovm to
us in literature. V'e have seen only imperfect evidence of it.
Brenckle 51017 , from the Park, contains, besides abundant sta-
minate cones, two or three abnormal processes \^J.ch appear to
represent pistillate inflorescences stiong by an insect into a
development of supemxamerous , elongated scales - an injury to
pistillate inflorescences viiich is very commonly found on J.
osteosperma and other species, as well as on the type sheet of
J. ei-ythrocarp a Cory. Imperfect though the evidence of the
Brenckle sheet is, it is, nevertheless, evidence of monoecism.
Ve deem It probable that nore conclusive evidence of it will
be found in the Big Bend national Park.
llartlnez (o.c) makes casual mention of monoecism in Jj_ Dep -
peana , without geographical data. ITorth of the Hio Grande there
is the following evidence of monoecism in this species in the
Herbarium of the IT. Y. Bot. Gdn.: J. C. Blumer 1256 , Paradise,
Chlricahua Mts., Ariz., is annotated as representing three
trees, staninate, pistillate and monoecious. Otto Kuntze 28259
"Arizona", v/ithout locality, is obscurely monoecious. We thinJ:
t'nat monoecious material of this species may occur also farther
eastward. ViHien we visited the Big Bend ITational Park in July,
1951, staminate cones \^rere not, or only rarely and obscurely,
in evidence. Yet we noted a few plants as possibly monoecious,
including our No. 517 .
It seems to us that , generally, monoecious elements may be
regarded as the purest and most distinct evidences of their
ld.nds. Ve have seen no evidence of monoecism in any Juniper of
discernible composite derivation.
Available data on monoecious materials axe Inevitably incom-
plete. As far aa they go they seem to point unanimously to the
conclusion that monoecious elements are indicative of comparsr-
tively primitive stocks, and the areas in vAiich they occur of
probable centers of origin.
We have, therefore, based our Jj_ texensis intentionally up-
on a monoecious type, J. P. Brenckle 51019 , collected by Dr.
Brenckle, of Milette, S. D. , from a single plant in the Big
Bend National Park on March 16, 1951, and kindly placed at our
disposal by him. The plant growing immediately near that from
which the type was taken, Brenckle 51018 , is dioecious. It
seems probable to us that additional monoecious material will
be f o\ind in the Park, or perhaps also In other mountain ranges
in southwestern Texas. The fact that no other monoecious mate-
rial had come into our view among earlier collections leads us
