19$ 2 Van Melle, Jioniperus texensis 35
Our general picture, then, of the relation'3hips dealt vd.th
in tills paper is one of a comparatively primitive species, J»
texensis , representing a northward, dioecious extension from a
monoecious "core" In the Chlsos Mts. in Brewster Co., Texas.
At the northern end of its distribution, where It overlapj^ed
upon J\ vlrginiana, hybrldity between the two species Is "be-
lieved to have given rise to a hybrid species, J\ ^.^.©i.* \^lcli
found Its distribution eastward and which extends along the
eastern fringe of J^ texensis . Subsequently, thro\igh back-
crossing with J. texensis , in or near southwestemnost Oklaho-
ma, another liybrld species Is believed to have resulted: J.
monosperma , \idilch, through the northwest of Texas, passed Into
a large distribution westward, In southern Colorado, New l-texl-
CQ, Arizona and northern Mexico.
We did not see J^^ Ashel along Route 90 between San Antonio
and Del Rio; nor have we seen living or preserved material of
It from between this route and the Rio Grande. Yet there ap-
pears to exist a strong resemblance between this species and
the Mexican, slender-fruited, thin-branchleted J<j_ monosperma.
var. gracilis of Martinez (Los Juniperiis Mexicanos 109) ; and
one easily supposes that a relationsliip exists betvreen them.
Investigation of it would Involve an extension of the scope
of the present paper viiich we must forgo - not, however, with-
out pointing to the desirability of closer correlation between
the admirable study by Martinez and available treatments of
Junipers north of the Rio Grande.
Grateful acknowledgement is made of courtesies extended to
the writer by the New York Botanical Garden, the Arnold Arbo-
retum, the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station, and by Mr.
Peter Koch, of the Big Bend National Park Photo Shop; particu-
larly, by Dr. J. P. Brendcle, of Ullette, S. D. , in placing at
our disposal valuable study material, collected by him.
S U n MARY
Available data on the occurrence of monoeclsm among the
heterophyllous Junipers point to monoecious elements as in-
dicative of comparatively primitive stocks, and to the ar-
reas in \^lch they occur as probable centers of origin.
J. texensis sp. nov. is based upon a monoecious type.
J. Ashel is believed to be of composite derivation from J.
texensis and J^ vlrginiana ; and J^ monosperma , from J\_ tex -
ensis and J^ Ashel .
J. Pinchotli is presented in a new combination ae J^ mono-
s perma var. Pinchotli . J. erythrocarp a Cory is regarded aa
conspeclflc with J^ monosperma and hardly distinct from the
var. Pindiotll.
