Il0 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 1
num, as indicated by Walter.
As can be seen from my enumeration of the species together
with their dates of publication, only Villamilla racemosa has
priority over Rivina densiflora . These two species are at
about opposite poles, as far as differences can be observed in
a genus of very closely allied species. The black color of the
dried flowers and the comparatively dense bristly indumentum
of S. racemosa distinguish it rather easily from Sj^ densiflora .
Kuntze cited two taxa under Rivina densiflora : subrosa
0. Ktze. Flores subrosei, f . erecta herbacea. Bolivia: 2000 m,
Santa Rosa. flavida 0. Ktze. Flores flavidi, f. subscandens
fruticosa. Bolivia: Tunari. I select the first citeS, that
from Santa Rosa, collected by Kuntze in April 1392, as the
type of the species. It is deposited in the herbarium of The
New York Botanical Garden.
Rivina densiflora was missed by Hans V/alter in his mono-
graph of the Phytolaccaceae in Engler's Das Pflanzenreich
(1909) IV 83. The leaves are glabrous or very sparsely puberu-
lent on the nerves beneath and the inflorescence is glabrous
in the t^^pe, whereas the Tunari plant has the nerves of the
underside of the leaves manifestly puberulent and the axis of
the inflorescence tomentulose. S. rivinoides is close to the
Tunari specimen in pubescence character. Rusby described its
flovfer as having a reddish keel; '.Valter, as having "tepala....
alba". The sepals in S. V.'eberbaueri , a species of the glabrous
kind, were described as greenish.
I have not seen sufficient material to draw a sure identity
between the above three species, although I strongly suspect
such specific equivalancy. The poke ( Phytolacca americana L.),
which is found frequently in the vicinity of New York, shovfs
v/hite, pinkish or greenish sepals, with obviously no diagnostic
value. That the indumentum differences in the above three spe-
cies is probably merely an insignificant variation is further
indicated by the follovdng three collections, v;-hich were orig-
inally distributed without names but belong sorr.ewhere in the
densiflora- rivinoides-Weberbaueri group .
Steinbach 9361 , Bolivia, Cochabanba, Chapar6, 26 Feb. 1929.
Leaves puberulent beneath and inflorescence tomentulose, but
not as densely so as in S. rivinoides.
Rosa Scolnik 9O6, Peru, Guzco, Paucartambo, 9^0 m., 23 — 31
July I9U8. Leaves and inflorescence glabrous.
D. llcCarroll 5U, Peru, Puno, Sandia, Santo Domingo area, i;
November 1939 . V/hite f lov;ers pink-tipped . Leaves puberulent be-
neath, inflorescence glabrous or minutely roughened.
Bang 1292 is the type of S. rosea , and this number is cited
in part by Walter in Das Pflanzenreich for S_. rivinoides . The
nerves on the underside of the leaves and the inflorescence of
