]_9^2 Konachino, Neav Combination in Schindleria Ul
S. rosea are puberulent; the sepals are described as rose by
Walter. I am not sure that S. rosea is distinct from S_. rivin -
oides .
I recognize the genus Schindleria principally on the auth-
ority of V/alter, who first proposed it in I906 and three years
later elaborated it in his monograph of the phytolaccaceae .
The flower of Schindleria is hermaphroditic, has four sepals,
irregularly disposed many stamens, a superior unilocular uni-
ovulate ovary, penicillate stigma, and a dry fruit. Rivina has
four stamens, capitate stigma, and baccate fruit. Kuntze, in
1898, transferred Villamilla racemosa to Rivina . Villamilla
Ruiz L Pav. ex Moq. (= Trichostigma A. Rich.) differs from
Schindleria chiefly in its baccate fruit; Ledenbergia Klotzsch
ex Moq. (= Flueckigera Kuntze), in the arrangement of its
stamens .
NOTES ON NEW AND NOTBVORTHI PLANTS . XIII
Harold N. "oldenke
CALLICARPA BREVIPES f . ANNAlvffiNSIS L'oldenke, f . nov.
Ilaec forma a forma typica recedit laminis foliorum arete
ellipticis usque ad 1^ cm. longis et 6 cm. latis minute serru-
latis, ad basin attenuato-acutis .
This form differs from the typical form of the species and
from the several other described forms in having its leaf-
blades decidedly elliptic, the larger ones about 1$ cm. long
and 6 cm. wide, minutely serrulate from below the middle to be-
low the terminal acumination, attenuate-acute at the base.
The type of this form was collected by Joseph and L'ary
Knapp Clemens ( no. hh99 ) at Tourane or its vicinity, Annam,
French Indochina, between May and July, 1927, and is deposited
in the Britton Herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden.
CALLICARPA FORMOSANA var. GLABRESCENS Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei foliis subtus glaberr-
imis vel in venis majoribus sparse stellatis recedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species
in having the lower leaf-surfaces entirely glabrous or else
sparsely stellate only on the midrib and larger veins.
The type of the variety was collected by Maximo Ramos and
Gregorio E. Edafio [Herb. Philippine Bureau of Science 29137 ] on
Mount TulaoE^, province of Tayabas, Luzon, Philippine Islands,
in L'ay, 1917, and is deposited in the Britton Herbarixom at the
