19^2 Koldenke, Ne\T and Noteworthy Plants U3
ited in the Herbariun Bogoriense at Buitenzorg.
CALLICARPA LONGIPETIOLATA var. GLABRESCENS Koldenke, var. nov.
Kaec varietas a forma typica speciei laninis subtus arete
argentatis sparsissime (in venis majoribus) furfuraceis recedit
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its lower leaf-surfaces decidedly silvery, but only very
sparsely furfuraceous on the larger venation when mature.
The type of the variety was collected by Father Lorice Van-
overbergh ( no. 1376 ) in Dontoc Subprovince, Luzon, Philippine
Islands, on June 20, 191li, and is deposited in the herbariun of
the Botanisch I^^useum at Utrecht.
CITHAREXYLUM STANDLEYI var. MEXIGANUM Koldenke, var. nov.
Kaec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit racemis fruc-
tiferis 3.5 — 3 cm. longis et laninis foliorum subtus ubique
minute puberulis.
Thds variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its fruiting-racemes only 3.5 — 3 cm. long and its leaf-
blades minutely puberulous throughout on the lower surface,
much more densely so on the larger venation.
The type of the variety was collected by B. L. Turner ( no.
2077) in gravelly-clay soil on a dry stream-bank, one mile east
of La Placita, U5 air miles south of Colima, Michoac5n, I.^exico,
on July U, 1950, and is deposited in the herbariun of the Uni-
versity of I.'ichigan.
CLERODENDRUM BAKHUIZENI Iloldenke, sp. nov.
Finitex vel arbor; ranis ramulisque gracilibus griseis ob-
tuse tetragonis dense breviterque pubescentibus, in statu sen-
ili glabrescentibus; foliis ternatis; petiolis gracillinis
dense breviterque pubescontibus; laminis tenuiter chartaceis
fragilibus late ellipticis vel elliptico-ovatis rotundatis vel
obtusis integris, ad basin late rotundatis, supra plusminusve
dense puberulis, subtus plusminusve dense puberulis vel brevi-
ter pubescentibus et impresso-punctatis; inflorescentiis ter-
minalibus dense adpresso-puberulis .
Shrub or tree; branches and branchlets rather slender,
light-gray, obtusely tetragonal, densely short-pubescent with
sordid-canescent subappressed hairs, glabrescent in age; twigs
very slender, very densely short-pubescent with antrorsely
curved sordid hairs; nodes not ampliate, sometimes annulate;
principal internodes 0.5 — h.$ cm. long; leaf-scars subcircxilar,
borne on large, very divergent and prominent corky sterigmata;
leaves ternate; petioles very slender, 1 — 2 cm. long, densely
short-pubescent like the twigs; blades thin-chartaceous,
brittle when dry and rather unifonnly gray-green on both sur-
faces, broadly elliptic or elliptic-ovate, 2.2 — 6.5 cm. long,
1.5 — U.5 cm. wide, rounded or obtuse at the apex, entire, broad-
