Ik P H Y T L G I A Vol. h, no. 1
I7 rounded to a shortly/ acuminate base, more or less densely
puberulent above, more or less densely puberulent or short-
pubescent and ijipressed-punctate beneath; midrib slender, flat
above, prominulous beneath; secondaries very slender, U — 6 per
side, arcuate-ascending, flat above, subprominulous beneath;
veinlet reticulation rather sparse, mostly very obscure or in-
discernible above, rather obscure or slightly subprominulous
beneath; inflorescence terminal, composed of 2 — 6 whorls of
rather few-floivered cymes mostly about 3 cm. long; peduncle
much abbreviated, indistinguishable from the twigs; sympodia
abbreviated, mostly 5 — 10 ram. long, densely appressed-puberu-
lent; cyme-branches slender, 1 — 2 cm. long, densely appressed-
puberulent; pedicels filiform, 1 — 2 mm, long, densely sordid-
puberulent; bractlets narrow-elliptic or linear, 2 — U mm., long,
densely broivnish-puberulent; calyx narrow-campanulate, about 3
mm. long and 2 mm. vn.de, rather densely puberulent with twisted
antrorsely subappressed sordid hairs, its rim very shortly h-
denticulate; corolla hypocrateriform, its tube 3 — 9 nun. long,
nigrescent in drying, ver^r minutely pulveinilent on the outside,
its limb suberect, the lobes 2 — 3 mm. long, rounded at the a-
pex, glabrous; stamens and pistil exserted to about 2 cm.;
frui ting-calyx shallowly patslliform, 10 — 13 mm. wide, more or
less irregularly puberulent, its rim shallowly and irregularly
lobed or merely sinuate; fruit drupaceous, nigrescent in drying
and subglobose, 3 — 10 mm. long and wide, much ^rrinkled in dry-
ing, glabrate.
The tj'pe of this puzzling species was collected from material
cultivated in the Botanical Garden at Buitenzorg, Java, during
or before 1916, and is sheet no. 20766 in the Herbarium Bogori-
ense. The file number of the cultivated plant is Hort. Bog. XV.
L.ll. The plants at Buitenzorg were received as and cultivated
as " Clerodendron glaucum V/all." and it may well be that this
nomen nudum of Vi'allich (ex Steud., Nomencl. Bot., ed. 2, 1:
333. I8U0) is to be reduced to synor^any here. In 1919 the dis-
tinguished taxonomist, Reinier Cornells Bakhuizen van den
Brink, Sr., who has done such noteworthy and splendid revision-
ary work in this family and to whom the species is respectfully
dedicated, regarded it as C. emirnense Bojer, native to Mada-
gascar. In I92U he decided that it was not that species, but
was G. tomentosum (Vent.) R, Br., native to tropical Australia
and New Guinea.
This plant is not C. emirnense , because that species, even
in its var. diffusum (which has somewhat similar inflorescence)
has smaller glabrous leaves. It is not C. tome ntosum because in
that species the calyx and frui ting-calyx are 5-fid and the
corolla is smaller. It somewhat resembles C. aculeatum var.
gracile Griseb, & Koldenke, vrhich, however, has spinose stems
and narrower leaves . Its ternate leaf arrangement reminds one
