19^2 r.:oldenke, New and Noteworthy Plants h$
of C. molle H.3.K., C. margaritense Moldenke, and C. ternifol -
ium var. mexiae I.:oldenke, but in all those the calyx-rim is
deeply lobed and flaring . Similarly, C_. hircinum Schau . , C.
glabrum var. ovale (Klotzsc) H. K. \'i . Pearson and var. pubes -
cens Tf/omas, which it resembles in habit, have elongated calyx-
lobes . In C . pyrifolivtm J . G . Baker and C . sakaleonense !.!olden-
ke tho leaves are glabrous, as they arc also in C .heterophyllum
(Poir.) R. Br., some forms of which our plant resembles. It
bears striking resemblance to C. rehmanni Gtfrke, but in that
species the calyx is decidedly villous. C. perrieri var. laxi -
cymosum I,:oldenke is similar, but has larger leaves and the pub-
escence on pedicels and calyx wide-spreading. It comes closest
of all to C. premnoides Uoldenke, of Ladagascar, in which, hovf-
ever, the leaf -blades are thinner in texture, only sparsely
strigillose beneath, the calyx and corolla smaller, and the
corolla- tube plainly pilose on the outside .
CLERODENDRUM BRACTEATUM var. bUnNEMEIJERI Koldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica specie! recedit laminis folio-
rum subtus glabratis vel glabrescentibus, tubis corollae
sparse strigilloso-pilosis, et lobis calycis perspicue ellipti-
cis, marginibus recurvatis.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having the leaf -blades glabrate or glabrescent beneath, the
corolla-tubes sparsely strigillose-pilose, and the calyx-lobes
conspicuously elliptic (instead of ovate) and with recurved
msirgins .
The type of the variety iiras collected by H. A, B. BtTnnemeij-
er ( no. 8369 ) — in whose honor it is named — at G, Koerintji,
at an altitude of about 1770 m., on the vrest coast of Sumatra,
on yarch 1$, 1920, and is deposited in the herbarixom of the
Botanisch Museum at Utrecht.
CLERODENDRUM BUCHANANI f . ALBUM Moldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma t^/pica specie! corollis albis recedit.
Tiiis form differs from the typical form of the species in
having white corollas.
The type of the form was collected by Oene Posthumus ( no.
730) near Bangko, at an altitude of 180 m., Smnatra, on August
13, 1925, and is deposited in the Herbarium Bogoriense at
Buitenzorg.
CLERODENDRUM BUCHANANI f . BREVIFLORUM Moldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma typica specie! tubis corollae usque ad 1
cm. longis recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having its corolla- tubes only 1 cm. long or less during anthe-
sis.
