19^2 I,:oldenke, liew and Noteworthy Plants h?
cute at the base, entire or subentire, rather densely short-
pubescent on both surfaces; midrib slender, prominent beneath;
secondaries filiform, few, mostly about h per side, distant,
arcuate-ascending, flat above, very slightly subprominulous
beneath; veinlet reticulation abundant but rather obscure on
both surfaces; inflorescence terminal, paniculate, consisting
of 1 or 2 pairs of lateral and a terminal cyme; peduncle slen-
der, obscurely tetragonal, very finely puberulous, 2.5 — h cm.
long; sympodia and inflorescence-branches very slender, often
stramineous, sulcate or compressed, microscopically puberulous
or glabrescent; pedicels filiform, about 1 mm. long, microscop-
ically puberulous; calyx campanulate, about 2 mm. long, micro-
scopically puberulous or glabrate, its rim deeply 5-lobed, the
lobes about as long as the tube; corolla very small, about h
mm. long; frui ting-calyx broadly campanulate, about 3 mm. long
and h mm. wide, minutely puberulous, its lobes ovate, erect-
spreading, acute.
The type of this species v/as collected by Georg Scheffler
(no. 62) on a sunny thick bush steppe, on red laterite soil,
at Kibwesi, Ukambani, at an altitude ol about 1000 m., Tangan-
yika Territory, on January 23, 1906, and is deposited in the
herbarium of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at Brussels. The
plant has much of the aspect of a Premna , but vras placed by
Berthold Thomas in " Glerodendrum cfr. Sektio i..i cro calyx " .
CLERODENDRUM LANUGINOSUM var. ADPRESSIPILUM Lioldenke, var. nov.
Ilaec varietas a forma typica speciei pilis calicis arete
adpressis recedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species
only in having the dense pubescence closely appressed to the
calyx.
The type of the variety was collected by Adolph Daniel Ed-
ward Elmer ( no. 13559 ) at Cabadbaran, Mount Urdaneta, province
of Agusan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, in August, 1912, and
is deposited in the Herbarium Bogoriense at Buitenzorg.
CLERODENDRUM LEPARENSE Moldenke, sp. nov.
Arbor alta; petiolis immaturis densissime flavo-tomentoso-
pubescentibus; laminis immaturis chartaceis ellipticis longe
apiculatis integris, ad basin obtusis, s^^nra parciuscule pilos-
ulis, subtus densiuscule flavo-puberulis; inflorescentiis ut
videtur axillaribus vel forsitan terminaliter aggregatis, cynis
trifloris; calice tubuloso-campanulato dense puberulo-piloso .
Tall tree; only the ver-/ small leaves from directly beneath
the inflorescence knovm, these have their petioles 3 — 11 mm.
long, very densely yellow toiuentose-pubescent, the blades char-
taceous, elliptic, 1.7 — h cm. long, 7 — lU mm. vdde, entire, ob-
tuse at the base, long-apiculate at the apex, rather sparsely
pilosulous on the upper surface (more densely so on the midrib)^
