50 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 1
rather densely yellow-puberulous beneath, especially on the
midrib, the apiculum densely yellowish-puberulentj inflores-
cence apparently axillary, surpassing the subtending leaves,
possibly aggregated in a dense terminal cluster, each cyme ap-
parently 3-flowered, borne on a stout medullose peduncle which
is 3 — 5 cm. long and densely yello-vvish-short-pubescent, the 3
branches 1 cm. long, the pedicels about 1 cm. long, exactly
similar to the inflorescence-branches in texture, color, and
pubescence; calyx tubular-campanulate, 13 — 15 mm. long, 6 — 8
mm. TO-de, nigrescent, densely puberulent-pilose, its rim 5-
lobed, the lobes ovate, h — 5 ™i. long, gradually attenuate to
the apex.
The type was collected by H. A. B. Bttnnemeijer ( no. 2Ullt )
on Lepar, near Banka, L'olucca Islands, on December 12, 1917,
and is deposited in the Herbarium Bogoriense at Buitenzorg.
Bakhuizen van den Brink, in his revision of the group in 1920,
annotated this specimen as C. lanuginosum Blume, from v;-hich it
differs widely. In fact, with the material so fragmentary it
is difficult to be certain of the taxonomic disposition of the
plant. It is to be hoped that a new expedition to this island
may bring forth more complete material .
CLERODENDRUM LEPRIEURI Moldenke, sp. nov.
Frutex; ramulis gracilibus obscure tetragonis dense ferru-
•gineo- vel fulvo-villosis; petiolis dense f errugineo-villosis;
laminis tenuiter chaxtaceis ovato-ellipticis acuminatis integ-
ris, ad basin rotundatis vel cordatis, supra parciusc\ile longe-
que pilosis, subtus densissime ferrugineo-tomentosis.
Shrubby; branchlets slender, very obscurely tetragonal,
densely villous vrLth ferruginous or fulvous hairs, more dense-
ly so on the younger parts; principal intemodes 1.3 — 3.5 era.
long; nodes not annulate; leaves decussate-opposite; petioles
medium-slender, densely ferruginous-villous, 3 — 10 mm. long,
borne on stiff spine-like sterigmata 2 — 6 ram. long; blades
thin-chartaceous, bright-green above, lighter beneath, ovate-
elliptic, 3 — 3 cm. long, 2 — U.3 cm. vrLde, acuminate at the a-
pex, entire, rounded or cordate at the base, rather sparsely
long-pilose above, very densely forruginous-tomentose beneath;
midrib slender, flat or subimpressed above, prominulous be-
neath; secondaries slender, 6 — 8 per side, arcuate-ascending,
flat or sub impressed above, prominulous beneath, anastomosing
near the margins; veinlet reticulation rather abundant, obscure
above, hidden by the tomentum beneath; inflorescence terminal,
capitate or subcapitate, densely many-flovrered, about 2 cm.
long and 2 — 3 cm. Yri.de; peduncles and inflorescence-branches
abbreviated, densely ferruginous-villous; pedicels 1 mm, long
or obsolete, ferruginous-villous; bractlets linear or filiform,
5 mm. long or longer, villous; calyx campanulate, about 3 nun.
long, nigrescent, sparsely villous, its rim with h elongate-
