19^2 I.:oldenke, New and IJotevrorthy Plants 51
filiform lobes about 3 rnn. lon^, villous; corolla about 1 en.
long, its limb about 5 ™n. '.Tide.
The type of this species was collected by F. R. Leprieur in
Gambia in about 1330, and is deposited in the herbarium of the
".laturhis tori ska Riksmuseum at Stoctiioln.
CLERODENDRUM LONGIFLORUM var. PUBESCENS lloldenke, norn. nov.
Clerodendron longituba Valet., Bull. Dep. Acric. Indes
IJeerl. 10: 52. 190? [not Clerodendro n longitubum De V/ild. S:
Th. Dur., Compt. Rend. See. Roy. Bot. Eelg. J): 7U. 1900].
CLERODENDRUM MYRICOIDES var. GHARTACEUM l.Ioldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit la'ninis folio-
rum parvioribus pleruraque 1.5 — 5 era. longis et 1 — 2.5 en. lat-
is, subtus in venis majoribus floccoso-tomentellis, chartaceis
et firmioribus, marginibus saepe subrevolutis, cymis pauciflor-
is sed in axillis superioribus nunerosissimis.
This variety differs frox the tj'pical form of the species in
having its leaf -blades smaller, mostly 1.5 — 5 cm. long and 1 —
2.5 cm. wide, floccose-tomentellous on the larger venation be-
neath, chartaceous and in general firmer in texture, with the
margins often subrevolute, and the c^Tnes few-flovrered but very
abundant in the upper a;d.ls of numerous twigs and branchlets .
The type of the variety was collected by Edgar Alexander
: 'earns ( no. 1101 ) in the vicinity of Thika, Uganda, at an alti-
tude of about 1350 m., on September 6 or 7, 1909, and is depos-
ited in the Britton Herbariim at t>ie I'evf York Botanical Garden.
CLERODENDRUM PHYLLOMEGA var. trnyJECOPHILUM (Ridl.) Lloldenke,
comb. nov.
Clerodendron myrmecophila Ridl., Journ. Bot. 33: U2. 1395-
CLERODENDRUM SERRATUM var. AMPLEXIFOLIUM I.:oldenke, var. nov.
I'aec varietas a forma t;>pica speciei foliis sessilibus, ad
basin plusminusve amplexicaulibus, saepe ternatis recedit.
This vai'iety differs fron the t;,-pical form of the species in
having its leaves sessile, more or less amplexicaul-clasping at
the base, and often ternate.
The type of this variety was collected by Augustine Henry
(no. 10077a) at Kengtse, YWnnan, China, and is deposited in the
herbarium of the !Iew York Botanical Garden. The f louvers are de-
scribed as vfhite by the collector, blooming at the end of Aug-
ust. The bracts at the base of the inflorescence-branches are
often much enlarged and the panicle-branches much elongated and
large-bracted. The collector records the com-Tion name "raa-to-lol'
CLERODENDRUM SPECIOSISSniUM f . ALBUM Koldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a forma typica speciei corollis albis recedit.
This form differs from the tj-pical form of the species in
