1952 I'oldenke, New and Ilotevrorthy Plants ^3
The type of this species vfas collected by Cornelia "i:icolaas
Abraham de Voogd ( no. 59? ) at Kepahiang, Benkoelen .'leservation,
Sumatra, on February 26, 1?31, and is deposited in the Herbar-
ium Docoriense at Buitenzorg.
FARADAYA DIMORPHA var. CAULIFLORA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a i'orma typica speciei inflorescentiis cauli-
floris recedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
havings its inflorescences cauliflorous rather than terirdnal
and axillary.
The t>-pe of the variety was collected by Leonard John Brass
(no, 7U27) at Orovllle Camp, 30 miles above D'Albertis Junction
on the Fly River, Papua, in August, 1936, and is deposited in
the Rijksherbarium at Leiden. The collector describes the plant
as a large canopy liana with white malodorous f loAvers .
FARADAYA NEO-EBUDICA var. DEGENERI Koldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica sp?ciei recedit pedunculis
ramisqoe inflorescentiae pedicellisque calyceque glaberrimis
et laminis f oliorum regulariter angusto-ellipticis .
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its peduncles, inflorescence-branches, pedicels, and
calyx completely glabrous and its leaf-blades more regularly
narro'.7-elliptic .
The type of the variety vras collected by Otto Degener and
Emilio Ordonez ( no. 13762 ) in the forest at an altitude of 30 —
30 m. at the Suva Pumping Station, llaitasiri province, Viti
Levu, Fiji Islands, on December 1?, 19li0, and is deposited in
the Britton Herbai-ium at the Ilev;- York Botanical Carden.
FARADAYA IJEO-EBUDIGA var. PUBERULENTA (L:oldenke) I'.oldenke,
comb . nov .
Faradaya vitlensis var. puberulenta I'oldenke, Phytologia }:
60~6l. 19u9~
FARADAYA OVALIFOLIA var. GLABRA Loldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit pedunculis rara-
is'iue inflorescentiae pedicellisque cailyceque glaberrimis,
tubis corollae crassis ca. 6 cm. longis et 3 — h mm. latis,
ILiibo corollae 2.? cm. lato, et laminis f oliorum angusto-
ellipticis firmioribus.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its peduncles, inflorescence-branches, pedicels, and
calyx completely glabrous, the corolla- tube heavy- textured, a-
bout 6 cm. long and 3 — h mm. '.vide, the corolla-limb 2.5 cm.
wide, and the leaf-blades more narrowly elliptic and firmer in
texture.
The t^.-pe of this variety v^as collected by John '.Vynn Cilles-
