19^2 l.Ioldenke, New and NotewortVy Plants $$
naximis orchidaceis ornatis .
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its leaf-olades firmly coriaceous, elliptic, rounded at
the base, and marked at the very base vdth two very large and
prominent orchidaceous glands .
The type of this variety was collected at Morobe, I.lorobe
district, northeastern Mew Guinea, and is number N.G.F. 2922
of the Herbarium of the Department of Forests, Lae, New Guinea,
deposited in the Herbarium Bogoriense at Buitenzorg.
HYACINTHUS ORIENTALIS f . PLENIFLORUS ^'oldenke, f . nov.
Haec forma a fomia typica speciei floribus plenis recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having "doubled" f lovrers .
The type of the form was collected by H. N. I.'oldenke ( no.
3131) from cultivated material at V.atchung, SoT.erset Co., New
Jersey, on Karch 30, 1927, and is deposited in the Eritton
Herbarium at the 'lev/- York Botanical Garden.
CNIDOSCOLUS TEPIQUENSIS (Costantin L Gallaud) Lloldenke, comb,
nov.
Jatropha tepiquensis Costantin L Gallaud, Rev. G4n. de Dot.
13 : 391. 1906^
LANTANA LEPRIEURI l.Ioldenke, sp. nov.
Frutex; ramulis gracilibus obtuse tetragonis apicGin versus
parce hirsutulis, pilis interdum f^lanculiferis; foliis parvisj
petiolis gracilibus hispiculo-pubescentibus; laminis chartace-
is rigidis perfragilibus ovatis acutis vel obtusis regulariter
serratis, ad basin acutis vel acuminatis, supra breviter \±s-
pidulis (pilis ad basin bulbosis), subtus olusminusve dense
puberulo-pilosis .
Shrub; branclilets slender, obtusely tetragonal, sparsely
hirsutulous tcward the apex, glabrescent in age, the younger
portions also with very short gland-tipped hairs interspersed
among the longer sharp-pointed ones; principal internodes 1.^ —
U cm. long; nodes annulate; leaves decussate-opposite, small;
p-tioles very slender, 2 — ^ mm. long, hispidulous-pubescent;
blades chartaceous, stiff, very brittle, gray-green, ovate, 1.5
— 2.7 cm. long, 1.2 — 2 cm. wide, acute or obtuse at the apex,
regularly serrate, acute or acuminate at the base, short-his-
pidulous above v/ith bulbous-based hairs, more or less densely
puberulent-pilose beneath; midrib slender, impressed above,
prordnulous beneath; secondaries very slender, impressed above,
prominulous beneath, about $ per side, arcuate-ascending, not
anastomosing, not entering the teeth, usually bifurcate at the
end and each branch ending in a sinus; veinlet reticulation
very abundant and conspicuous, impressed above, prominent be-
neath; inflorescence axillary, opposite, solitary in each axil.
