56 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 1
shorter than or subequaling the subtending leaf, about 2 cm.
long; peduncles slender, 11 — 12 miri . long when mature, pilose;
flowers not seen.
The tyoe of this species was collected by F. R. Leprieur
from cultivated material in Senegal in 1330 and is deposited
in the Reichenbach filius herbarium (sheet no. 127300) at the
Naturhistorisches I.Iuseum in Vienna.
LATHYRUS ODORATUS f. PLENIFLORUS I^oldenke, f . nov.
Kaec forma a forma typica speciei corollis plenis recedit.
This form differs from the t^-pical form of the species in
having its corollas "doubled" .
The type of the form was collected by H. II. Iloldenlce ( no.
IhJUO) in greenhouse cultivation at the Bronx, Bronx Co., Ilev:
York, on Tay 1, 19li3, and is deposited in the Britton Herbarium
at the Uevr York Botanical Garden.
LIPPIA COOTRO VERSA var. BREVIPEDUNGULATA I'.oldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei pedunculis usque ad 1
en. longis recedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having the peduncles under mature heads only 1 cm. long or
less.
The t^r^^e of the variety was collected by Edward Johnston
Alexander ( no. 192 ) on a riverbank at Nizanda, Oaxaca, Kexico,
and is deposited in the Dritton Herbarium at the Mew York Bot-
anical Garden.
PAEPALANTHUS PUNGENS var. BREVIFOLIUS Foldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit foliis 1 — h
cm, longis in statu juvenili densissirae villosis et pedunculis
6 — 3 cm. longis.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its leaves only 1 — h cm. long and veiy densely villous
T.'hen young and the peduncles only 6 — 3 cm. long.
The type of the variety was collected by Erik Leonard Ekman
(no. 23J-1I, in part) in "charrasco" near Rio Piloto, Sierra de
Nipe,~Oriente, Cuba, on July 30, I9IU, and is deposited in the
herbarium of the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseum at Stockholm.
PHYLA LANCEOLATA f. AHLESII Moldenke, f. nov.
Haec forma a forma tj'pica speciei corollis albis et bracteo-
lis viridibus recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the species in
having white (not pink) corollas and green (not purple) bract-
lets.
The type of the form was collected by Harry E. Ahles ( no.
2560) in a pasture four miles south of Seaverville, Iroquois
Co., Illinois, on August 5, 19^0, and is deposited in the her-
