19^2 Iiloldenke, lleiv and llote-zrorthy Plants 59
VITEX AGNUS-CASTUS var. PSEUDO-NEGUNDO f . ALBIFLORA Koldenke,
f. nov.
Haec forma a forma typica specie! et varietatis corollis
albis recedit.
This form differs from the typical form of the variety and
species in having white coro lias .
The t;;,'pe of the form was collected by John Edvrard Dinsmore
( no. 172f ) near v;ater at Jesr-ul-Ghajir, at an altitude of l60
m., Dead Sea, Israel, on September 2h, 1921, and is deposited
in the herbarium of the Ilaturhistoriska Riksmusevmi at Stock-
holm.
VITEX ALTMANNI !.!oldenke, sp. nov.
Arbor vel frutex; ramis crassiusculis griseis obtuse tetrag-
onis minute pubei*ulis deinde glabrescentibus; sarmentis graci-
usculis puberulis; foliis trifoliolatis; petiolis gracilibus
compressis nigrescentibus puberulis j foliolis sessilibus brun-
nescentibus ellipticis vel obovato-ellipticis supra glabris,
subtus parce pilosulis, rotundatis vel breviter acuminatis.
Tree or shrubj branches rather stout, gray, obtusely tetrag-
onal, sometimes sulcate, minutely puberulous on the younger
parts and at the nodes, glabrescent in age; twigs much more
slender, puberulentj nodes annulate; principal intemodes 1.^ —
13 cm. long; leaves decussate-opposite, trifoliolate; petioles
slender, 1.5 — 5 cm. long, compressed, nigrescent in drying,
puberulous; leaflets 3, chartaceous, sessile or practically so,
dark-creen above, lighter beneath, brunnescent in drying, el-
liptic or obovate-elliptic, glabrous above, sparsely pilosu-
lous beneath, more densely so along the midrib and larger vena-
tion, rounded or abruptly short-actuninate at the apex' in cuspi-
date fashion, the central one 6.$ — 12.5 cm. long, 3.5 — 6.5 cm.
vrLde, sometimes with a puberulent petiolule 1 — 2 mm. long, the
lateral ones often ver;"- much smaller; midrib slender, flat a-
bove, prominulous beneath; secondaries slender, 7 — 10 per side,
rather close and uniform, ascending, arcuate only tovrard the
margins, flat above, prominulous beneath, anastomosing in loops
near the margins; veinlet reticulation very abundant, mostly
rather conspicuous and slightly subprominulous above (on mature
leaves) and beneath; flov;ers and fr\iit not seen.
The t^'pe of this species v;as collected by Hendrik Altmann
( no. 577) at Cheribon, Java, on December 3, 19U0, and is depos-
ited in the Herbaid.jm Bo, oriense at Puitenzorg. The leaves re-
mind one somewhat of some forms of V. pinnata L.
VITEX BUDDINGII I.ioldenke, sp. nov.
Arbor; ramulis tetragonis nigrescentibus densiuscule fulvo-
tomentellis; foliis 5-foliolatis; petiolis dense cinereo- vel
fulvo-pulerulis; petiolulis dejisiuscule puberulis; lardnis
Lmmaturis membranaceis nigrescentibus anguste ellipticis plus-
