19^2 Koldenke, New and Noteworthy Plants 6l
osulous or glabrescent, nigrescent in drying, compressed at the
nodes on young parts; nodes not annulate; principal internodes
h — 7.5 cm. long; leaves decussate-opposite, palraately compound;
petiole ver;:,'- slender, ii.5 — 11cm. long, glabrous; petiolules
subfiliform, 1 — 6 mm. long, glabrous; leaflets 5, membranous,
often very thinly so, rather uniformly green on both surfaces
or somewhat lighter beneath, glabrous or subglabrous on both
surfaces, the 2 basal ones much smaller than the rest, the cen-
tral one oblanceolate, 7.5 — 13 cm. long, 2.5 — k cm. wide, long-
acuminate at the apex, attenuate-cuneate at the base, entire;
midrib very slender, flat above, prominulous beneath; secondar-
ies filiform, 6 or 7 per side, arcuate-ascending, plainly anas-
tomosing 1 — 1 .5 mm. from the margins, flat above, prominulous
beneath; veinlet reticulation very irregular and fine, obscure
or indiscernible above, flat beneath; inflorescence supra-
cLxillary, very much shorter than the subtending petiole, cym-
ose; peduncles filiform, 10 — 17 mm. long, very sparsely pilos-
ulous or glabrescent, compressed, nigrescent in drying; cymes
rather dense, small, many-flowered, their filiform branches
compressed and minutely pilosulous or glabrescent; bractlets
filiform. It — 5 mm. long; pedicels very short, to 1 mm. long,
strigillose; caljrx campanulate, about 2 mm. long and wide,
strigillose, its rim subtruncate in bud, during anthesis deep-
ly 5- toothed, the teeth lanceolate, about 1 mm. long; corolla
densely pubescent on the outside, less than 1 cm. long.
The t;/pe of this species was collected by L. Dubois (no,
608 ) at Bo. Kutu, Ekota territoiy, Tshuapa district, Belgian
Congo, in September, 193U, and is deposited in the herbarium
of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at Brussels. A common name
for the plant is "liseta" .
VITEX GLABRATA var. POILANEI Moldenke, var. nov.
Ilaec varietas a forma typica speciei laminis foliolonm
subtus valde strigillosis recedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having the lovrer surface of its leaflet-blades decidedly strig-
illose even irhen mature.
The type of the variety was collected by Euglne Poilane (no.
i;0829 ) near Bien Loa, Cochincliina, French Indochina, on Llay 25,
1919, and is deposited in the Herbariiun Bogoriense at Buiten-
zorg.
VITEX IRAQUENSIS I.loldenke, sp. nov.
Frutex vel arbor; ramis gracilibus fistulosis ubique glab-
ris; petiolis gracilibus glabris canaliculatis; foliolis 3 — 7
membranaceis utrinque glabris oblanceolatis breviter acuminatis
vel cuspidatis integris, ad basin longe attenuatis vel cuneatis;
inflorescentiis axillaribus cymosis; pedunculis glabris; cymis
IcLxissime bifurcatis paucifloris ubique glabris.
