19^2 I'oldenke, New and Note^To^t}y Plants 63
ondaries filiform, about 5 per side, distant, arcuate-ascend-
ing or spreading, anastomosing near the margins, flat or ob-
scure above, prominulous beneath; veinlet reticulation veiy
sparse, plane or obscure above; inflorescGnce axillary, shorter
than the subtending petiole, cymose, levf-flo'vered, strigillose
throughout; peduncle filifonn, about 1 cm. long; bractlets fil-
iform, about 3 nm. long; pedicels 1 — 1.^ mm. long, strigillose;
calyx campanulate, about 2 mm. long and vn.de, strigillose, its
rim subtruncate, short-denticulate; corolla rose-ochraceous,
very densely strigose-pubescent outside, about 1 cm. long;
fruit oblong7~7e±io-.T-orange, shiny.
The type of this species was collected by Jean Lebrun ( no.
^303) — in whose honor it is named — in a forest at 1232 m.
altitude between Vifalikole and Koleke, Belgian Congo, in Larch,
1932, and is deposited in the herbarium of the Jardin Botanique
de I'Etat at Brussels.
VITEX MADIENSIS var. GLABERRBtA Koldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica specie! foliis glaberrimis re-
cedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its leaves, as well as all other parts, completely glab-
rous.
The type of the variety was collected by Pittery (no. 819 )
in the neighborhood of Bambesa, Belgian Congo, in 1936, and is
deposited in the herbarium of the Jardin Botanique de I'Etat at
Brussels.
VITEX SCANDENS Moldenke, sp. nov.
Frutex scandens; ramulis graciusculis rotundatis multistria-
tis glabris; petiolis gracilibus glabrus; foliolis $ sessili-
bus membranaceis ellipticis utrinque glabris breviter acumina-
tis integris, ad basin acuminate attenuatis; inflorescentiis
subterminalibus paniculatis; pedunculis glabris.
Liana; branclilets rather slender, round in cross-section,
many-striate, glabrous; nodes not annulate; principal inter-
nodes 2 — h cm. long; leaves decussate-opposite, ^-foliolate;
petioles slender, 6 — 10 cm. long, glabrous; leaflets sessile,
membranous, dark-green above, lighter beneath, elliptic, glab-
rous on both surfaces, short-acuminate at the apex, entire, a-
cuminately attenuate at the base, the central ones 11 — 15 cm.
long and li.3 — 5.6 cm. wide, the lateral ones slightly smaller;
midrib slender, flat above, prominent beneath; secondaries fil-
iform, 11 — 15 per side, flat above, suborominulous beneath,
widely spreading, arcuate only near the margins, not anastomos-
ing; veinlet reticulation mostly indiscernible above, the larg-
er parts somewhat subprominulous beneath in drying; inflores-
cence apparently subterminal, paniculate, about 15 cm. long and
U cm, vdde; peduncle slender, similar to the branchlets in col-
