6U PKYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. 1
or and texture, about 5 cm. long; sjTnpodia similar, several, e-
longate to U cm. at base, glabrous, striate, nigrescent; pan-
icle-branches very slender, 1.$ — 2.7 cm. long, glabrous or very
minutelypplverulent, cjonosely branched; pedicels filiform, a-
bout 2 mm. long, minutely pulverulent-lepidote ; bractlets lin-
ear, about 1 mm. long, lepidote; calyx campanulate, about 3 mm.
long and wide, glabrous or minutely scattered-lepidote, nigres-
cent in drying, its rim deeply li-toothed; corolla rose, about 1
cm, long in bud, densely incanous-puberulent on the outside;
fruit not seen.
The type of this remarkable species with such a decided
bignoniaceous aspect was collected by V.'illem I.Iarius Docters van
Leeuwen-Reijnvaan ( no. 10703 ) at Expedition Bivouac in the Nas-
sau i:ountains, Dutch New Guinea, in October, 1926, and is de-
posited in the Herbarium Bogoriense at Buitenzorg.
VITEX VENULOSA I.:oldenke, sp. nov.
Arbor; ramis crassis medullosis valde tetragonis dense ad-
presso-to:.:entellis, pilis ochraceis; pstiolis elongatis crass-
is densissime adpresso-tomentellis; foliolis 5 firms chartace-
is nigrescentibus supra glabrescentibus subtus densissime
ochraceo-tomentellis ellipticis vel late ellipticis acutis vel
brevitsr acuninatis integris, ad basin acutis vel rotundatis;
inflorescentiis axillaribus cyanosis dense ocliraceo-puberulis .
Tree; branches heavy, medullose, very decidedly tetragonal,
densely appressed-tomentellous with ochraceous hairs, often
somewhat ampliate and more compressed at the nodes; nodes ann-
ulate; principal internodes 2 — 6 cm, long; leaves decussate-
opposite, palmately compound, composed of $ leaflets; petioles
elongate, stout when mature, 5.5 — 18 cm. long, verj' densely ap-
pressed-tomentellous or puberulent with ocliraceous hairs, club-
like at the apex; leaflets rather firmly chartaceous, bright-
green above, nigrescent in drying, lighter beneath, microscop-
ically puberulous or glabrescent above, very densely tomentel-
lous with cir.ereous-ochraceous hairs beneath, elliptic or
broad-elliptic, acute or short-acuminate at the apex, entire,
acute or rounded at the base, rarely subacuminate, the central
one 7 — 18 cm. long, 3.3 — 7.5 cm. wide, the basal ones much
smaller; petiolules stout, h — 1? mm. long, densely puberulent;
midrib rather stout, flat above, very prominent beneath; sec-
ondaries very n\amerous and close, 17 — 20 per side, spreading-
ascending, parallel, not arcuate except at the very margins
where they are incompletely anastomosing, flat above, prominent
beneath; veinlet reticulation ver;,'' abundant, flat and obscure
above but very conspicuous to the smallest parts beneath and
decidedly prominulous there, the tertiaries subparallel, at
right angles to and connecting the secondaries; inflorescence
axillary, cymose, shorter than the subtending leaves; peduncles
stout, about the same diameter as the subtending petiole, U.5 —
