19^2 Koldenke, New and Noteworthy Plants 6$
11,5 cm. long, densely ochraceous-puberulent; cymes many tines
bifurcate, the branches wide-spreading, loosely or densely
many-i'lowered, densely ochjraceous-puber'alent throughout, the
branches rather conspicuo isly flattened and sulcate, conspicu-
ously annulate at the nodes; bractlets linear, 3 — 15 nn. long,
densely puberulentj pedicels very slender, much abbreviated,
usually 1 mr., long or less, densely ochraceous- or cinereous-
puberulent or short-pubescentj calyx campanulate, about 2.5 nm.
long and v;-ide, densely short-pubescent with antrorse ociuraceous
hairs, its rim subtruncate, subentire or minutely apiculate;
corolla violet, about 8 mm. long, its tube about 5 mn. long,
densely short-pubescent vrLth cinereous hairs outsidej fruiting-
calyx cupuliform, about 5 nmi. long and 3 mm. Tvide, densely
short-pubescent with cinereous hairs, truncate and subentire
or minutely denticulate; fruit drupaceous, subglobose, about 1
cm, long and wide, glabrous, shiny.
The type of this species was collected by Jean Lebrun (no.
5878 ) in the forest at Lumuna, Belgian Congo, in August, 1932,
and is deposited in the herbarium of the Jardin Botaninue de
I'Etat at Brussels.
VITEX VESTITA var. SIAMICA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei recedit foliolis 2.5 —
3 cm. longis, 1 — 3.5 cm. latis, plusminusve serratis, subtus
in venis breviter pubescentibus .
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its leaflets only 2.5 — 8 cm. long and 1 — 3.5 cm. vdde at
time of anthesis, more or less serrate along the margins, and
the short pubescence confined to the venation only beneath.
The type of the variety was collected by Kasin (no. 3U6) on
a rock at Tripagodas, about ItO km. north of ".Vagka, on the Bur-
mese border, Thailand, on I'.aj lU, 19^6, and is deposited in the
Herbarium Bogoriense at Buitenzorg.
THE KNOVi/N GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF THE MUmERS OF THE VERBEN -
ACEAE, AVICENNIACEAE . STILBACEAE, SYMPHOREMACEAE . AND
ERIOCAULACEAE . SUPPLEMENT 8
Harold N. Moldenke
Since the publication of the previous supplement 11,000 ad-
ditional specimens of these groups have been studied and anno-
tated by me . These specimens are deposited in the United States
National Herbarium at Washington, the Britton Herbarium at the
New York Botanical Garden, the Herbarium Bogoriense at Buiten-
