1952 Konachino, South American Manilkara 95
covered 9 species, of which U were fully illustrated. The stud-
ies by A. Ducke are inccmparably the most important. Ducke has
been the best source of original knowledge in the group, Vy
revision has been made possible largelj"- by Ducke 's help and
also by the aid received from Dr. H. N. Moldenke.
In "As Ma^arandubas AmazSnicas" Ducke treated 16 species.
He presented descriptions, field notes and observations, and a
key to the species.
Now is not the time, nor will it be for mary years in the
future, when studies in most groups of Sapotaceae can hope to
approximate completeness. Taxonomically, the family is too
much in flux. Of the many new species being discovered some
fall into generic boundaries already too tenuous, thus suggest-
ing union of genera; and still others, if in qiiantity, may show
a sufficiently marked nuclear concentration of species to make
it preferable to reinstate these genera, notwithstanding the
overlapping boundaries. It is not expected that vrtien all the
taxa of Sapotaceae are known, an unt- oken continuum of micro-
species will reduce the family to a .,j.ngle genus, but certainly
many genera will merge. Most recent authors separate Manilkara
from Mimiisops, on good grounds. Superficially there is greater
difference in the flower structure of typical Achras and Manil-
kara than between Manilkai-a and Mimusops. Discovery of Mimuscps
in America would contribute much to its re-embracing Manilkara,
A greater possibility is that intermediates may be found in the
Old World, irtiere both genera grow.
Generic revaluation may be a thing of the future, but addi-
tional knowledge to the species of Manilkara is gained almost
daily. Dr. Ducke is actively continuing studies in the Brazil-
ian Manilkara. On this very day I am in receipt of critical
material obtained by Ducke. The present paper, then, should be
considered an interim and provisional one, intended mere to help
future studies than settle many current problems.
One of the largest collections of South American Sapotaceae
was made about 19UO-19U2 (-19U6 ?) under the auspices of the
Chicle Development Company. The material of Manilkara collected
on this project has been removed from The New York Botanical
Garden to an undesignated place and is not available for study.
Specimens in this collection were named in the herbarium as new
species by Gilly. Most of these and other cheironyms remain
unpublished,
Mimusops i?etic\ilata Huber ex Ducke, Bol. Mus. Goeldi (1913)
7:17U is a nomen nudum . In a discussion of the flora of the
municipality of Obidos, Pari, Brazil, Ducke wrote that this
shrub (with fruits very sweet and tasty) is perhaps the most
common and certainly the most characteristic there, not encount-
ered elseirtiere. This invalid name has not been identified.
Manilkara is a member of the Mimusopeae. See Dubard for a
world synopsis of the group and good schematic illustrations of
the flowers. The genera of this tribe by far the best repre-
sented are Manilkara and Mimusops. While Mimiasops is confined
to the Old World, Manilkara is found in about equal ratios in
both hemispheres. In America it is found in Florida and the
West Indies to extratropical South America. Achras, wholly
American, is confined to the northern part of the range; this
