96 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 2
alone might suggest a distinct generic status for Achras, albert
a weak one. There is, no doubt, transition between Achras and
Manilkara, but transition alone does not always justify syn-
onymy. If it did, it would be necessary to unite families,
genera and species of plants by the scores.
Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Rhodora U9:289-293. 19lj7; Ballots for
Proposed Amendments to the International Rules of Botanical
Nomenclature etc., 636I. 19li8) proposed Achras L, emend. Loefl.
ex L. for conservation against Manilkara, if necessary. The
following arguments might be presented against his proposal.
All species of Achras have already been transferred to Manil-
kara; there are some $0 nsunes in the latter still not appended
to Achras. There is little likelihood that many new species of
Achras will be described. On the contrary, novelties in Manil-
kara will continue to be published even if Achras is conserved,
as some botanists will not agree to their equivalency. Others,
confirmed believers in the synonymous link of the two, will
snatch the new names for transfer. The recombination will be
done automatically by some, without profound consideration of
the botany of Achras and its position in the Mimusopeae as a
whole. In addition to the early confusion regarding Achras,
approximately 20 names already published in this genus belong
to species of Calocarpum, Pouteria, Dipholis, Bumelia, etc,
Althcjgh " Achras zapota " is more familiar in texts and to com-
mercial persons, it is botanically less precise than Manilkara
zapotilla ; real taxonomic contributions to the Achras complex
have been made only comparatively recently by Pittier, Gilly,
Cronquist, and others.
Dr. Little suggested that Achras zapota L. (17^3) be consid-
ered emended, and argued for its retention under Article ^0 of
the International Rules, which states that an alteration of the
diagnostic characters of a group does not warrant a change in
name. The original description of Achras L. (Gen. PI., ed. 5)
was based completely on "Sapota Plum, h." Plumier's figure and
Linnaeus' descidption contain no recognizable element of Manil-
kara zapotilla . In Species Plantarum, Linnaeus presents seven
citations under Achras zapota , not one of which, apparently,
refers to M. zapotilla . In fact, two citations (Sloan, jam.
and Pluk. aim.) rather definitely suggest Calocarpu m sapota
(■ C. mammosum ) . Article $0 is not definite on the subject,
but it seems that it intended no extension of the meaning of
"alteration" to include complete change, a wholly new defini-
tion of a group containing not one of the original elements.
Up to at least 19^0, Ducke was not fully convinced of a dis-
tinct generic separation of Manilkara from Mimusops. However,
in "As Ma^arandubas AmazSnicas" he used Manilkara in designat-
ing the species. Previously, he published new species under
Mimusops, and later, in I9I42, he proposed M. longiciliata and
M. siqueiraei under both genera simultaneously, e.g., " Manil-
kara longiciliata Ducke, sp. nov. vel Mimusops longiciliata
Duclce , sp . nov . " This form of publication has been regarded as
invalid under Article 37 of the International Rules, because
the names were "proposed provisionally in anticipation of the
eventual acceptance" of one or the other; because neither one
was "definitely accepted by the author,"
I do not regard Ducke 's usage a serious breach of the Rules.
