19^2 Monachino, South American :.:anilkara 97
It may truly be that Ducke proposed the alternate name in anti-
cipation of its possible eventual acceptance, but one can
assume otherwise, that Ducke definitely, not provisionally,
accepted both binomials , as both were and would be equally
worthy of acceptance. Under some circumstances the species is
better referred to Kimusops and in other instances to I.'anilk^ra,
the preference being sometimes reversed for the sake of conven-
ience, not for botanical reasons. There is nothing in Ducke 's
usage to preclude "definite acceptance" of both names. Or, to
use a different argument, Ducke 's "vel" may be interpreted as
"indication of tajconomic doubt," which, according to the chants
made at the 7th Int. Cong, at Stockholm, does not apply to the
provision concerning definite acceptance. In the present stage
of knowledge of generic delimitations in the Sapotaceae, cert-
ain species fall into two genera with almost equally good
reasons. Publication of alternate names simultaneously by the
same author, in such instances, is more commendable than pub-
lication of new combinations at different times by the same or
different authors.
In respect to separation of Mimusops and Manilkara see
Dubard (191$), Eyma (1936), Lam (19lil), Cronquist (19U6) , and
Ducke (19$0) . Pierre and Urban suggested in 190lj that Manil-
kara is a distinct genus.
Manilkara falls in Mimusops sect. Ternaria A.DC. flBLiU), and
Mimusops subgen. Manilkara (Adanson) Pierre & Urban (190l|) .
Manilkara sect. Eumanilkara Dubard (191$) was elevated to a
subgenus by Gilly (19ii3). '^* zapotilla was placed in Sapota
sect. Achras A.DC. in Prodromus. The Achras group was tri-
sected by Gilly into subgenera Manilkariopsis , Nispero and
Euachras . Some species have the filaments and staminodes
\mited below into a very short tube (Synarrhena Fisch. & Mey.,
l8Ul) . The ind'unentum is an important diagnostic character but
is quickly lost. Its base color is rusty or mfous becoming
greyish with age. The leaf-blades are oblanceolate or obovate
to subelliptic; more or less cuneate at the base; rounded or
emarginate to slightly narrowed or short-acuminate at the apex;
the midrib is usually raised on the upperside. The pedicels
elongate in fruit, sometimes greatly. The sepals are variously
pubescent outside and often are hairy also along the margins
within; the inner sepals are slightly different from the outer
in shape (more oblong) , texture (thinner) , and have lighter
colored indumentum. The corolla-tube in most species of Euman-
ilkara is approximately one mm. long; the lobes are narrowed at
base into somewhat of a claw. The staminodes are, within cert-
ain limits, highly variable in size, shape and lobing, and un-
less broadly interpreted may lead to error. For an example of
variation in sapotaceous staminodes see Lam (1925), Planch on-
ella obovata , fig. 58. Flower size is also variable; the meas-
urements given in the following descriptions of species are all
approximate. Manilkara bidentata, and perhaps some other
species, comprise numerous forms, and may prove to be "species
complexes." Many indubiously distinct taxa are closely allied
and difficult to (iistinguish in the herbarium. M. subsericea
of South America and M. e mgolensia of Africa present an instance
of two species that simulate each other.
