'8 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. 2
In the northern range of our area there are three species
belonging to the section Achras., These extend to North America
and are treated by Cronquist (19U5). Their relationship to
other North American species has not been studied by me.
In South America the species are found in the eastern part
of the continent. The center of concentration of Eumanilkara
is in the hylaea of the Amazon.
Species of Manilkara and Mimusops have been cultivated in
the New World since early times. Aublet's Achras balata in
1775 was based on an introduced species, Mimusops coitimersonii ,
found in botanic gardens in the Antilles, Guiana and Brazil
(Chevalier). The type-species of Manilkara, the Asiatic
H. kauki , was introduced in Jamaica and Guiana; naturalized in
Saint Vincent (Grisebach, Fl. Br. W. Ind., p. UOO. 1861).
Mimusops elengi has been introduced in the West Indies; its
cultivation in Brazil is mentioned by Martius (Flora 22 Beibl.
h. 1839) and Barbosa Rodrigues. It was collected in the Trini-
dad Botanical Garden (Rusby, Apr. 1836) and in the wild land in
the Botanic Garden, Georgetown, British Guiana ( A.S.Hitchcock
l65U5j low ground of Jungle, Oct. 1919). M. zapotilla may be
TouncT anywhere in the tropics. Campos Por^o lists the follow-
ing species cultivated in the Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro:
M. bidentata , from Rio Branco, M. huberi and M. amazonica from
Belferr do Par4. In addition to ^e species already mentioned,
the U. S. Dept. Agr. , Bureau of Plant Industry, lists receipt
of seeds of Mimusops zeyheri (1920 and 1925).
ARTIFICIAL KEY TO SOUTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF MANILKARA
1. Appendages of corolla-lobes free to summit
of tube, flowers usually several to many in
the axil, sepals less than 7 mm. long (ex-
cept M. longif olia) , corolla-tube less than
2 mm. long, staminodes less than 2,5 mm,
long (excluding long filamentous tips in
some), ovary glabrous (except M. elata, M.
excelsa, M. pubicarpa) . ( Exmanilkara ) 2,
2, Leaf blades at maturity densely ap-
pressed-pubescent beneath (see also M,
bidentata, M, longlciliata) 3 •
3. Pedicels shorter than or little sur-
pasising subtending petiole U.
U. Reticulation of veinlets very strik-
ing on underside of leaves, indument-
um chiefly ocher-yellow, covered by
a vemicose coating, blades large,
7.5 - 27 cm. long, ovary pubescent... 1. M. elata
U. Reticulation not striking 5»
5. Blades mode rate- si zed or small,
U - 15 era. long, pubescence beneath
of linear trichomes, staminodes
over 1,5 mm. long, deeply cut 6,
6, Calyx less than 3 mm. diam.,
closely appressed scurfy-pubes-
cent; Para, Maranhao 2. M. paraensis
