102 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. U, no. 2
Nov. 2, 1951) wrote:
"We have compared the fragment of Mimusops huberl sent by
you with our type of M. elata . An exact identification, nat-
urally, is not possible with respect to the small material.
The network, in the whole, is just the same; probably in M.
elata, the anastomoses are a little more distinct. M. huFeri
possesses a tomentum consisting of minute needle-shaped yel-
lowish brown hairs enclosed in a dense cover of wax. Just the
same cover is found in M. elata , but the hairs are more
hyaline and therefore tEe under surface of leaves seems to be
glabrous. We cannot decide how far that difference of colour
is of systematical importance. We return the fragment of M.
huberi and add such one of M. elata ' s type. If it seems
necessary, you can get that type on loan, too."
The leaf segment of the tjrpe sent by Suessenguth is approx-
imately 21 X 17 mm. It is indistinguishable from M. huberi .
The greyish color phase of the indumenttim in M. elata type is
frequently found in M. huberi (e.g., C.Wilgress Anderson 9 ,
British Guiana) . The photo of the Martius type (Field Mus.
and Gray Herb.) shows the characteristic reticulation of
veinlets.
The original description in Fl. Bras, (leaves "multinervio-
striulatis. ..venulis distinctis" etc.) agrees with the Martius
type at Munich. It was based on sterile material. An over-
sized juvenile leaf of M. bella (M. elata sensu Ducke) sent to
me by Ducke bore no resemblance to M. huberi (true M, elata),
Ducke, who knows both M. huberi and~M." T3ella in the field,
stressed that the leaves of the two are always and unmistakably
distinguishable from each other.
There is no other known South American species with leaves
iresembling those of M. elata. If there were any southern
Brazil species with such characteristic leaves, it would prob-
ably have commanded attention by now.
The leaf character of M. elata , however, can be duplicated
in other species. Manilkara eicisa (Urban) Gilly ex Cronquist,
of Jamaica in the West Indies, has leaf indumentum and vena-
tion remarkably like in M. elata, although the flowers of the
two species are very difTerent. I choose to believe that act-
ually the type of M. elata was collected in Northern Brazil,
rather than assume that a species with leaves like it remains
unredi scovered in Southern Brazil,
To select the Allemao collection as the type would be in
disregard of the indubious Martius type at Mimich and the
original description which agrees in all particulars with the
Martius type. Allemao 's M. elata may be regarded as a later
homonym. His description should not be interpreted as an
emendation of Miquel's species. "Mimusops elata Fr. AllemiTo
in litt. ad Martiim" was cited by Miquel probably due to some
misinterpretation; in any evert, the citation is ambiguous,
Allemao noted regarding his MaSsaranduba that it was found in
all the forests of Brazil from Para to Santa Catharina.
Ducke (1950, p. 233) refers to " Manilkara elata (Fr. All.)
Chev." The combination was not located in works by Chevalier.
It was not formally proposed by Ducke.
M. elata is the true Massar»nduba of Pai:4. The wood is
