19^2 Moldenke, Nevf and Noteworthy Plants 127
Haec varietas a forma typica specie! recedit laminis foliorum
subtus dense hirsutulis non tomentosis, pedunculis usque ad 1 cm.
longis, cymis laxioribus, et floris fructibusque distincte pedi-
cellatis.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having the lower leaf-surfaces densely hirsutulous but not
matted- tomentose, the peduncles 1 cm, or less in length, and the
cymes much more open, ivith the flowers and fruits distinctly
pedicellate .
The type of the variety was collected by Frederik Hendrik
Endert ( no. 2913 ) at Long Temelen, northeastern Borneo, at an
2Q.titude of 200 meters, on August 26, 1925, and is deposited in
the Herbarium Bogoriense at Buitenzorg,
GALLIC ARPA KINABALUENSIS var. TONSA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma tjrpica speciei recedit ramis ramulisque
petiolisque pedunculisque ramisque inflorescentiae laminisque
folioiTjm utrinque fulvo-pubescentibus, pilis brevibus adpressis
vel subadpressis et pedunculis usque ad 1 cm. longis patentibus.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having the pubescence on its branches, branchlets, petioles, pe-
duncles, and inflorescence-branches, as well as on both leaf-
surfaces, merely fulvous-pubescent with rather short appressed
or subappressed hairs, and the peduncles 1 cm. or less in length,
and more open and loose.
The type of this variety was collected by Frederik Hendrik
Endert (no. 14^89 ) at Kemvel, northeastern Borneo, at an altitude
of 1800 meters, on October 22, 192^, and is deposited in the
Herbarium Bogoriense at Bxxitenzorg.
CLERODENDRWi H2TER0PHILLUM var. BAUERI Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei calyce distincte dentato,
dentibus brevibus triangulsiribus , recedit.
This variety differs from the typical fonn of the species in
having its calyx-rim distinctly toothed, the teeth short and
triangular .
The variety is based on a series of draiwings made frcan living
material at Keppel Bay, Queensland, Australia, by Ferdinand
Lucas Bauer between 1801 and 1803 and deposited in the herbarium
of the Naturhistorisches Museum at Vienna, drawing 968a being
regarded as the type. One of the drawings was submitted to the
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, where Dr, R, Melville studied it.
His report is that it does not match any material in the Kew
herbarium nor any known A\;stralian species. He thinks that the
plant may have been a i^brid between "G, hemiderma " [= Glossocar -
ya hemiderma ] and G. f loribundtun . I^ seems more likely to me
that it represents a variety of the very variable G. heterophyll -
um with whose broad-leaved typical fonn it agrees almost perf ect-
ly in all characters except the plainly short-toothed calyx-rim,
ERIOCAULON BREVIPEDUIICDLATUTJ var. ANGUSTIFOLIUM Moldenke, var.
