128 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. h, no. 2
noT.
Haec varietas a forma typica specie! foliis angustioribus
plerumque 0.5 — 1.5 nm. latis recedit.
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
having its leaves much narrower, usually only 0.5 — 1.5 inm. wide.
The type of the variety was collected by L. J. Brass ( no.
9288 ) at the edge of pools in boggy grasslands. Lake Kabbema, at
an altitude of 3225 meters, Dutch New Giiinea, in August, 1938,
and is deposited in the Britton Herbarium at the New York Botan-
ical Gsuxlen.
ERIOCAULON GRACILE var. PUBERULENTUM Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma typica speciei bracteis involucrantis
dense puberulis recedit.
This variety differs from the typical foim of the species in
having the involucral brae tie ts densely puberulent.
The type of the variety was collected by L. J. Brass ( no.
7822 ) on wet grass plains at Lake Daviunibu, Middle Fly River,
P^ua, New Gxiinea, in September, 1936, and is deposited in the
Britton Herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden,
LANTANA FUCATA var. ANTILMNA Moldenke, var. nov.
Haec varietas a forma tjrpica speciei recedit foliis parvis
lanceolato-ovatis attenuato-acutis et bracteis floralibus infim-
is quam supremis plus elongatis ovato-lanceolatis attenuato-
acutis .
This variety differs from the typical form of the species in
its more uniformly small, lanceolate-ovate, attenuate-pointed
leaves and in having the lowermost floral bracts more elongated
than the upper ones, ovate-lanceolate, and attenuate-pointed,
often tAvice as long as the upper ones.
The type of this variety was collected by Christopher Perraton
(no. 12) in red dirt overlying limestone, forming the advancing
edge of the bush invading commons and playing fields at Munro
College, Saint Elizabeth, Jamaica, on March l5, 1952, and is de-
posited in the Britton Herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden
SABINA HORIZONTALIS f . DOUGLASII (Rehd.) Moldenke, comb. nov.
Juniperus horizontalis var. douglasii Rehd. in L. H. Bailey,
Stand. Cycl. Hort. 3: 1729. 1915.
STROBUS LAJ.ffiERTIANA (Dougl.) Moldenke, comb. nov.
Pinus lambertiana Dougl., Trans. Linn. Soc. Loryl. 1$: 500.
1827T
STROBUS PARVIFLORA (Sieb, & Zucc.) Moldenke, comb. nov.
Pinus parviflora Sieb. & Zucc, Fl, Jap. 2: 27, pi. 115.
181|2^^^70.
VERBENA CANIUENSIS Moldenke, sp. nov.
Herba parva; caulis procumbentibus gracilibus parce strigillo-
