1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 135
external and caudal external lobes very small. Ventral femoral
margins armed with minute spines, as follows. Cephalic internal
4 and 4, cephalic external 4 and 6, median internal 0, median
external 6 and 7, caudal internal and 1, caudal external 8 and 8.
Supra-anal plate very small, triangularly convex, deflexed between
the cereal bases. Cercus with base small, stout conical, its apex
produced inward in a sharp, slender blade nearly twice the length
of the shaft, directed at right-angles to the shaft; this blade is
longitudinally tri-lamellate and curves evenly and weakly to its
sharp apex. Subgenital plate strongly narrowing at base, the
distal portion very deeply and narrowly cleft and extending caudad
of the cerci; the fingers thus formed stout, with external surface
moderately supplied with short hairs and internal surface very
thickly supplied with very short, erect hairs.
General coloration of tegmina and exposed portions of wings
light green (in life probably including body and limbs), faded to
yellowish brown over greater part of other portions. Head with
vertex pinkish and two postocular suffusions of pinkish brown on
each side. Antennae beautifully annulate, each of these annuli
first briefly blackish brown, then fading over a considerable space
to pinkish brown, terminated by a brief buffy area; these annuli
become more elongate distad in strongly increasing ratio. Teg-
mina green, stridulating field pinkish brown, caudad of it a paler
area and the pinkish brown narrowing beyond along the sutural
margin and disappearing mesad; intervals between veins minutely
flecked with brown, these flecks clustering to form distinct small
patches at considerable intervals mesad between the veins. Ce-
phalic femora and proximal portions of cephalic tibiae heavily
suffused and dotted with brown, distal portions of cephalic limbs
darkened. Median and caudal limbs with many minute dots of
brown, the tibiae with a dark proximal fleck externally, caudal
tibiae in large portion and caudal tarsi very dark.
Length of body 20, length of pronotum 4.8, least width of pro-
notum 2.2, greatest (caudal) width of pronotum 3.2, length of
pronotal lateral lobe 3.8, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.9,
length of tegmen 31.2, greatest width of tegmen 7.8, least width
(near apex) of tegmen 7, length of cephalic femur 7.3, length of
caudal femur 26.7 mm.
The type is unique.
Letana brunneri (Krausze)
1904. Pyrrhizia brunneri Krausze, Insekten Borse, XXI, p. 29. [ 9 ;
Than-Moi, Tonkin.]
Phuc-Son, Annam, (from H. Fruhstorfer), 1 9 .
This specimen agrees closely with the original description except
that the pronotal disk is not only punctate with a dull pink, but is
also medio-longitudinally suffused with the same color, while the
pronotal length does not equal the tegminal width. The femora
