136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
are armed with very minute spines along their ventral margins,
as follows. Cephalic internal 3 and 4, cephalic external 0, median
internal 0, median external 3, caudal internal 8 and 10, caudal
external 10 and 12. The subgenital plate is rather broadly truncate
and sub-bilobate distad.
Scambophyllum albomarginatum new species. Plate XII, figure l.
This species is related to the Sumatran S. sanguineolentum
(Westwood). Females before us differ from females of that species
in the narrower tegmina, which narrow gradually distad from the
median point, with meso-proximal concavity of the costal margin
decidely less and in the flattened subsulcate dorsal surface of the
cephalic femora. Difference in coloration is shown by the broad
white ventral margins of the pronotal lateral lobes and the narrow
white costal margins of the tegmina.
Type: 9 : Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 805.]
Vertex represented by a small rounded, subsulcate projection,
not extending as far cephalad and a very brief distance above the
more narrowly rounded facial fastigium. Pronotum short, disk
rounding broadly into lateral lobes, broader than long, with
transverse sulci decided, its caudal margin broadly convex and
showing faint angulation mesad; lateral lobes with ventral margin
weakly oblique and very broadly convex (straight in paratype),
caudal margin weakly oblique to the broad and weakly indicated
humeral sinus. Tegmina very narrowly elongate-oval, narrowing
gradually from the median point to the broadly rounded apex,
the costal margin showing a broad and weak concavity meso-
proximad; mediastine vein very weak, but as heavy as the more
than usually heavy transverse veins; discoidal vein curving to
costal margin at end of its proximal three-fifths; median vein
straight to costal margin near apex, branching at base of distal
curvature of discoidal vein, this branch nearly longitudinal and
running to apex; ulnar vein with a proximal branch running to
median vein, this branch from that point running parallel to ulnar
vein to opposite branch of median vein, there ceasing; the ulnar
vein itself running nearly parallel to the median vein and
branch. Wings Gryllacroid, parachute -like, not full and thus
apparently showing incipient atrophy. Ovipositor strongly re-
curved at base, broad, broadly rounded at apex, disk distad sca-
brous, dorsal margin in distal portion and ventral margin toward
apex with heavy triangular teeth. Subgenital plate triangular
with broad truncate apex rounded, chitinous only in narrow mar-
ginal portions. Genicular lobes and ventral margins of femora
unarmed. Caudal tibiae unspined dorsad, armed distad with a
dorso-lateral minute pair of spurs and a median pair of heavier
spurs.
