1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 137
Head biscay green, face yellowish, a very broad postocular bar
of mummy brown which is continued on the sides of the body
below the pronotum. Antennae with proximal joints marked
with blackish, in remaining portions black with light buff, widely
spaced annuli, of which the second is much the largest, occupying
three joints. Pronotum biscay green, the lateral lobes very broadly
margined ventrad with cream color, this showing traces of mars
brown along its inner margin. Tegmina serpentine green with
countless microscopic flecks of dark vinaceous (the intervals between
the very closely packed veinlets), costal margin white, with a
slightly narrower internal border of dark vinaceous, sutural margin
more broadly black between the brown veins, this occupying all
of the anal field. Wings apricot buff, the anterior field suffused
with acajou red and the transverse veins of the radiate field strongly
defined in that color. Abdomen washed with acajou red dorsad.
Ovipositor green, suffused with brown distad. Limbs green and
brown, the tibiae with dark dorsal margins, the femora tipped
dorsad with black, with a white area immediately preceding and
in strong contrast.
Length of body 27 and 19 (the latter specimen shrunken, the
measurements of the type being given first), length of pronotum
4.5 and 4.7, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.8 and 4.9, length of
tegmen 26.8 and 24, greatest (median) width of tegmen 8.7 and
6.9, meso-distal width of tegmen 7 and 5.8, length of cephalic femur
9.8 and 9.6, length of caudal femur 17.8 and 16.4, length of ovi-
positor 8.2 and 8.1 mm.
A female paratype, bearing the same data as the type, is before us.
Scambophyllum sanguineolentum (Westwood)
1848. Phylloptera sanguineolenta Westwood, Cab. Oriental Ent., p. 52,
pi. XXV, fig. 3. [<?, 9 ; Sumatra.]
Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra, October and November,
(Harrison and Hiller)j 1 juv. & , [A.N.S.P.].
This small immature individual is dark brown, beautifully marked
with buff and white. There is no question that it represents the
genus, but we can not say with certainty the same for the specific
determination. One species only, however, has been recorded from
Sumatra.
Scambophyllum sandakanae new species. Plate XII, figures 2, 3 and 4.
The unicolorous wings and lateral margins of pronotal disk
defined by dark markings are striking features of difference in this
insect. In addition, though the emargination of the costal margins
of the tegmina is more sudden even than in S. sanguineolentum
(Westwood), these organs taper more strongly distad even than in
S. albomarginatuni here described, with venation more delicate and
different in several important respects.
