138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The present appears to be a dully colored species, showing none
of the brilliant and striking contrasts found in the other known
forms of this extraordinary genus.
Type : 9 ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F. Baker.)
[Hebard Collection, Type, no. 806.]
Agrees with albomarginatum except as follows. Vertex more
sulcate, distinctly so. Pronotum slightly longer than broad, with
lateral margins of disk defined from lateral lobes by color, though
not bjr contour. Tegmina broader, with a strong sub-angular
concavity of the costal margin meso-proximad thence narrowing
more strongly to the more strongly rounded apex, the sutural mar-
gin showing greater convexity, the axis of the distal portion of the
tegmen being at a slight angle to the axis of its proximal portion;
mediastine and transverse veins much weaker, scarcely visible to
the naked eye, principal veins proportionately weaker; discoidal
vein curving to costal margin at end of its proximal two-thirds;
median vein showing a weak angulation mesad, reaching costal
margin near apex, branching at base of distal curvature of disco-
idal vein and again distad, its first branch forked dbtad, these
branches curving but in large part longitudinal; ulnar vein follow-
ing margin of anal field for two -thirds its length, thence longitu -
dinal, running straight to sutural margin at base of distal third.
Wings with area proportionately slightly less, contour slightly
more parachute-like. Caudal tibiae with dorso-distal spurs absent
on all but one side of one tibia, (present on all in paratype).
Allotype : cf ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Size decidedly smaller than female. Vertex more distinctly
sulcate, the apex of the facial fastigium also sulcate. Pronotal
disk as long as broad. Stridulating field of tegmina large, with
stridulating vein very short and heavy; concavity of costal margin
weaker; distal portion of tegmina tapering much more strongly to
the more sharply rounded apex; first branch of median vein not
forked. Ultimate tergite broadly and narrowly concave above
the rotundato-trigonal supra-anal plate, which is slightly broader
than long. Cerci moderately stout, straight, cylindrical, tapering
slightly to the apex which is armed with a single sharp tooth,
directed inward at slightly less than a right angle to the shaft.
Subgenital plate short, simple, transverse, with distal margin
convex.
General coloration greenish yellow, (discolored, probably green
in life). Antennae suffused with brown and showing small, widely
spaced, buffy annuli. Head with a broad, irregular postocular
suffusion of mummy brown, this continued on lateral lobes of
pronotum, proximad there extending to near the ventral margin,
the dorsal margin of this marking, though not continuous, clearly
defining the lateral margins of the pronotal disk. Tegmina with
areas between veins of anal field, except meso-distad, prouts
