1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 141
Occiput and pronotum strongly impresso-punctulate, femora and
other portions of head less strongly so. Occiput flattened, very
weakly convex; vertex very small, narrowing strongly and sulcate
proximad, the apex thickened, convex and subattingent to frontal
fastigium, nearly half as wide as the proximal antennal joint.
Pronotal disk deplanate, scarcely wider caudad than cephalad;
lateral lobes vertical and forming a sharply rounded angle with the
disk, slightly higher than wide. Tegmina and wings fully de-
veloped. Tegmina broad, narrowing gradually distad to the
rounded apex; ulnar vein sending three branches to the sutural
margin; median vein branching distinctly proximad of its median
point and with one more distinct, oblique, distal branch, the first
branch forking before its median point. Supra-anal plate small,
elongate, rounded triangular, deflexed between the cereal bases.
Cerci large, base briefly cylindrical, the ventral margin thence
curving evenly to the acute apex, the dorsal margin strongly pro-
duced and lamellate, the knife-edge thus formed rounding to base
in proximal portion, thence evenly and gradually narrowing and
concave to the recurved apex. Subgenital plate elongate but not
extending as far as the cereal apices, tapering strongly proximad,
thence weakly to apex, which is rather strongly transversely emar-
ginate, this emargination rotundato-quadrate, the short lateral
projections cylindrical and supplied with slightly more slender,
straight styles, which are about seven times as long as wide.
Ventral femoral margins armed with small teeth as follows. Ce-
phalic internal cf 4, 9 3 and 4; cephalic external 0; median in-
ternal 0; median external d 1 0, 9 1 and 1; caudal internal c? 4,
9 3 and 5; caudal external cf 5, 9 4 and 5. Genicular lobes of
femora rounded and unarmed.
Allotype: 9 ; Dapitan, Zamboanga District, Mindanao, Phi-
lippine Islands. (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with male, size slightly larger. Ovipositor broad,
tapering evenly to the acute apex; dorsal margin subserrulate in
distal portion, ventral margin serrulate near apex. Subgenital
plate triangular, with apex sharply acute.
General coloration immaculate green. The type is discolored.
The allotype has the ovipositor light brown, darkened at apex.
Length of body <? 28, 9 31.7; length of pronotum cf 7, 9 7.3;
cephalic width of pronotum cf 4.5. 9 4.8; caudal width of pro-
notum c? 5, 9 5.2; depth of pronotal lateral lobe cf 5.8, 9 6;
greatest (dorsal) width of pronotal lateral lobe cf 5, 9 5.2; length
of tegmen cT 43.7, 9 43.8; greatest width of tegmen c? 10.7,
9 11.9; length of ovipositor 9.2 mm.
The species is known from the described pair.
