144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Type: 9 ; Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 793.]
Vertex small, very narrowly V-shaped and deeply sulcate to
near apex; as characteristic of genus. Pronotum with lateral
lobes no deeper than wide. Tegmina and wings fully developed.
Tegmina with median vein branching a brief distance before its
median point, this branch forking nearly at its median point, these
veins running longitudinally and showing only weak obliquity;
near its extremity the median vein sends one or two, poorly defined,
branches to the sutural margin and apex. Anal tergite simple,
triangularly emarginate above the small, short, shield-shaped
supra-anal plate. Ovipositor short for the genus, dorsal margin
strongly concave proximad, ventral margin evenly convex to the
acute apex; dorsal and ventral margins distinctly serrulate, surface
of dorsal valves to near proximal portion with minute nodules,
the other portions of the lateral surfaces of the valves with even
smaller, very minute nodules. The ovipositor is much shorter
and more strongly curved, with apex more acute than in E. tenera
Brunner. Subgenital plate broad and short, its distal margin
broadly convex but showing a slight flattening of this convexity
laterad. Limbs elongate. Caudal femora heavy in proximal
portions, very slender in distal portions. Genicular lobes of
femora all bispinose, except one internal lobe of the cephalic
femora which is unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed as
follows. Cephalic internal 2 and 4, cephalic external 0, median
internal 0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 4, caudal
external 5.
The unique type is badly discolored. It would appear to have
been pale green in life, immaculate except for a delicate marking
along the sutural margins of the tegmina, much as here described
for Casigneta himellosa Brunner on page 142.
Length of body 22.5, length of pronotum 5.1, caudal width of
pronotum 3.1, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.7, width of pro-
notal lateral lobe 3.7, length of tegmen 36, greatest width of tegmen
7, distal width of tegmen 5.4, length of cephalic femur 8, length of
median femur 10.9, length of caudal femur 25.2, proximal width of
caudal femur 3.4, length of ovispositor 7.6, greatest width of
ovipositor 2.1 mm.
The species is known from a single specimen.
Elbenia serraticauda new species. Plate XIII, figures 3 and 4.
This remarkable insect has the male genitalia of the general type
found in the Sumatran E. appendiculata Brunner, but shows de-
cidedly greater specialization and several differences of striking
character.
It agrees very closely with the Malaccan E. nigrosignata Stal in
these features, but the bifid production of the anal segment has
