1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 145
its arms parallel, becoming weakly convergent distad, the cerci
are proportionately shorter and do not extend as far caudad as
does the subgenital plate, with a small cylindrical projection above
their bases and the subgenital plate is straight-produced to the
elongate and recurved, divided and internally serrulate distal
portion. In other features these species appear to agree very
closely, except that in serraticauda the tegmina are slightly wider,
with first branch of the median vein forking mesad.
Though agreeing closely in general appearance with the female,
here described as E. makilingae, the present male differs con-
spicuously in the pronotal lateral lobes, which are distinctly higher
than wide and in the shorter limbs.
Type: cf 1 ; Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 794.]
Vertex as described for makilingae. Pronotum with lateral lobes
distinctly higher than wide. Tegmina with median vein branching
at about end of its proximal two-fifths, this branch forking at
nearly its median point, these veins running longitudinally and
showing very weak obliquity; near its distal extremity the median
vein sends another poorly defined branch to the apex. 21 Anal
tergite produced mesad in two slender, narrowly separated, pro-
cesses which are parallel proximad and converge weakly distad,
with delicate, lamellate, rounded apices vertical. Below this
tergite and above the cerci is a small projection bearing a small,
straight, cylindrical projection, with apex rounded, directed
caudad. Cercus cylindrical, tapering, curved evenly inward distad
to the acute apex. Subgenital plate trough shaped, straight-
produced proximad and narrowly V-emarginate in distal portion
of this section, the two distal portions thus formed suddenly and
strongly recurved, directed dorso-cephalad, each straight and
gradually tapering, with internal margin armed with a regular
row of small, stout teeth. Limbs as described for makilingae,
except that they are decidedly shorter. Genicular lobes of femora
all rounded and unarmed, except the internal of the caudal femora
which are unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed as follows.
Cephalic internal 4 and 4, cephalic external 0, median internal 0,
median external 2 and 3, caudal internal 2 and 3, caudal external
1 and 2.
The unique type is badly discolored but shows the entire proximal
portions of the tegminal stridulating field, to and including the
stridulating vein, very dark brown. The other portions were
apparently immaculate, light green in life.
2 * The venation of the sinistral tegmen is distorted in this specimen, the ulnar
fusing with the first branch of the median vein, that branch forking twice instead
of once, meso-proximad and meso-distad.
