4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Umbra pygmaea (DeKay). Bear Brook.
Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). Corson's Inlet, in the surf.
Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus very common and large, on the
meadows. Mr. Huber also secured a few Anchovia mitchilli in
the surf, and Anguilla rostrata noted large and very abundant.
Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). Bella Vista.
( 'yprinodon variegatus Lacepede. One from the gullet of a Hooded
Merganser killed at Barnegat November 26, 1921. I also examined
a mossbunker (Brevoortia tynuuins) taken from a Red-throated
Loon, shot at Salem, November 24? The loon was said to have had
two mossbunkers inside, the one I examined measuring 90 mm.
Syngnathus fuscus Storer. Common in the surf at Corson's Inlet.
Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). Corson's Inlet, common in
the surf with the next.
Mugil curema Valenciennes.
Tli a n huh thynnus (Linne). Mr. Drinker reports it common 25
miles off Barnegat, during the summer, examples of 12 to 50 pounds,
and large ones occasional. Other notes he sends from Beach Haven
are as follows:
Sphyrna zygaena (Linne). Two small ones.
Megalops atlanticus Valenciennes. Two in the pounds.
Euthynnus alleteratus (Rafinesque). Common off shore, also the
nexi .
Sarda sarda (Bloch).
Pomatomus saltatrix (Linne). Common and runs to 13 pounds
off shore.
Coryphaena hippurus Linne. Small one August 25.
Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). Common in Barnegat Bay with
the IMXt t\VO.
Pogonias cromis (Linne).
Paralichthys dentatus (Linne).
Trachinotus enrol in us ^ Linne). Common in the surf at Corson's
Inlet. An example of Strongylura marina about a foot long also
reported from this locality, besides several of Seriola zonata.
Pomatomus saltatrix (Linne). Two young in the surf at Corson's
Inlei. Frequent ;d)out the mouth of the Inlet, and large ones at sea.
Mesogonistius chaetodon (Baird). Bear Brook.
Lepomis auritus (Linne). Bear Brook.
Pomotis gibbosus (Linne). Millstone River and Bella Vista.
Bairdiella chrysura (Lacepede). Young in the surf at Corson's
