148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
portion, instead of being there parallel as in phaneropteroides.
Pronotum with surface smooth, the lateral lobes very slightly
deeper than wide. Tegmina and wings fully developed. Tegmina
with costal margin of stridulating field convex, not produced at
stridulating vein; median vein with four oblique branches which
do not fork. Anal tergite hooded, produced to opposite proximal
portions of cochleate cereal apices, there truncate, the lateral
margins obliquely ascendant and broadly concave to that point.
Supra-anal plate concealed. Cerci cylindrical in slightly over
proximal* half, the remaining distal portion expanded into a de-
licate, vertical, lamellate plate, which is irregularly quadrate with
angles rounded, bearing mesad on its concave internal surface a
large erect tooth. 23 Subgenital plate small, short, extending
cauclad as far as median portion of cerci, carinate mesad, with
apex broadly U-emarginate, the lateral portions thus formed
short, straight, styliform but not articulated. Genicular lobes
of caudal femora very weakly bispinose, of other femora bluntly
or triangularly rounded. Ventral femoral margins armed with
small teeth, those of the cephalic and median femora being minutely
microscopic, as follows. Cephalic internal cf 2 to 3, 9 3 to 6,
cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external o 71 and
9 5, caudal internal c 71 5 to 7, 9 4 to 5, caudal external c 71 7,
9 10 to 11.
Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Larger and more robust than male, but not showing as great
sexual contrast as does phaneropteroides. Coloration similar, the
marking of the cephalic tibiae of apparent decided specific diag-
nostic value. Ovipositor very short for the genus, curving very
gradually upward to the acute apex, dorsal and ventral margins
very finely serrulate an equal distance distad, lateral surface without
nodes or grooves. Subgenital plate triangular with apex bluntly
rounded and ventral surface showing a strong, very slenderly
lamellate medio-longitudinal carina, percurrent to near apex.
General coloration immaculate yellowish oil green, the bodies of
the specimens before us being much faded. Tegmina along sutural
margin, immediately beyond stridulating area, with veins brown
and interspaces toward anal vein blackish, this continued to apex
of tegmina along the edge, but the veins become green and the
interspaces so small that they are visible only under the lens.
Pronotum, abdomen and femora microscopically dotted with
hydrangea red. Cephalic tibiae in area of auditory foramen
washed with hydrangea red and there, on dorsal surface, suffused
with blackish.
Length of body d 71 (shrivelled) 15, 9 22.3; length of pronotum
cf 4.7, 9 4.8; caudal width of pronotum <? 2.7, 9 3; depth of
23 The general type is as in phaneropteroides, the lamellate distal portion in
that species being, however, proportionately smaller, narrower, ovate and in
position decidedly beyond the apex of the decidedly less produced anal tergite.
