1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 151
similarly black -speckled cephalic femora, which, however, bear
four striking, opaque, buffy patches; tegmina which have the median
vein with two weak branches beyond the forked first branch, 27
and male subgenital plate which is produced distad in two tri-
angular and not lobate projections, each showing on its inner
margin a minute rectangular offset, rather than an acuminate tooth.
Type: tf ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 797.]
Vertex narrowly V-shaped and sulcate to near apex. Maxillary
palpi exceedingly elongate and slender, fourth joint half as long-
as third and one-third as long as fifth. Pronotum with surface
smooth, disk defined from lateral lobes by the broadly rounded
lateral margins, lateral lobes decidedly deeper than wide, with
humeral sinus deep. Tegmina and wings fully developed, the
delicate but close veinulation of the former giving them somewhat
the appearance of ground-glass; tegmina with ulnar vein reaching
sutural margin slightly beyond end of its proximal two-thirds,
median vein branching distinctly before median point, two strongly
oblique and irregular branches of the median vein distad. Supra-
anal plate strongly deflexed, short, slightly broader than long,
triangular, with lateral margins broadly convex. Anal tergite
truncate distad. Cercus elongate, slender, weakly and evenly
curved inward, tapering gradually to its acute apex. Subgenital
plate narrowing proximad, distal portion V-emarginate, the lateral
portions thus formed narrowly triangular with apices rounded, their
internal margins each with a minute rectangular offset mesad.
Genicular lobes of femora unarmed, except those of caudal femora
which are unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed with minute
spines as follows. Cephalic internal 8, cephalic external 0, median
internal 0, median external 8 and 9, caudal internal 6 and 7, caudal
external 5 and 7.
Tegmina translucent light grape green, body and limbs in life
apparently of this color. Maxillary palpi immaculate. Pronotum,
abdomen, median and caudal femora minutely and thickly dotted
with hydrangea red. Cephalic femora very thickly dotted with
black, with five opaque buffy areas on dorsal surface, spines of
these members black. Cephalic tibiae with a few black dots prox-
imad, particularly dorsad on the auditory foramina. Tegmina,
in areolae on each side of the ulnar vein with a few of the minute
intervals between the veinlets mesad black, six or seven cross-
veins near median vein gathering knots of veinlets near their bases,
which are buffy; stridulating field with intervals between veinlets
embrowned latero-proximad and mesad, sutural margin beyond
very narrowly darkened, with veins brown and intervals between
veinlets blackish, to apex.
27 In this feature alone is closer agreement with S. chlorotica (Brunner) shown
