152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Length of body 24, length of pronotum 6.2, caudal width of
pronotum 3.4, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5, width of pronotal
lateral lobe 4.2, length of tegmen 35.3, greatest width of tegmen
8.3, length of cephalic femur 6.7, length of caudal femur 19.7 mm.
The type is unique.
Stictophaula quadridens new species. Plate XIII, figure 13.
Nearest the Javan S. spinoso-laminata (Brunner), the male of
this insect may be quickly distinguished by the subgenital plate,
which is produced distad in two slenderly acute-conical projections,
between the bases of which are two sharp, straight teeth, one-third
as long.
Un.ike that species and S. bakeri here described, the present
insect has the pronotum and limbs immaculate. The tegmina
have the stridulating field more extensively suffused with blackish
brown than in bakeri, but with brown areolae along the sutural
margin much less conspicuous.
The tegminal venation is much as in bakeri, differing as described
below.
Type: cf 1 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 854.]
Agrees with the description of bakeri in all details except the
following. Tegmina with median vein branching mesad, the
cross-veinlets to the median vein more distinct and not gathering
knots of veinlets near their bases. Subgenital plate narrowing
proximad, mesad with a weak medio-longitudinal carina, distal
portion briefly produced, terminating on each side in a slenderly
acute-conical spike, each of these slightly longer than the distance
between their bases, that interval supplied with two sharp, straight
teeth of one- third the length, the narrowly U-shaped interval
between these slightly deeper than the similar intervals between
them and the lateral projections. Ventral femoral margins armed
with minute spines as follows. Cephalic internal 5 and 7, cephalic
external 0, median internal 0, median external 9 and 10, caudal
internal 4 and 4, caudal external 9 and 9.
Tegmina translucent light grape green, body and limbs im-
maculate (discolored, in life probably the same color). Tegmina
in areolae on each side of ulnar and principal branch of median
vein with a few of the minute intervals between the veinlets mesad
black; stridulating field blackish brown in proximal half, sutural
margin beyond stridulating field very narrowly and weakly suffused,
with veins brown and very minute intervals between veinlets
blackish, to apex.
Length of body 21 Cshrivelled), length of pronotum 6.2, caudal
width of pronotum 3.7, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.9, width
of pronotal lateral lobe 4.2, length of tegmen 36, greatest width
