1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 153
of tegmen 8.8, length of cephalic femur 6, length of caudal femur
18.3 mm.
The type is unique.
Stictophaula micra new species. Plate XIII, figures 14 and 15.
Known form a unique female, the present species is seen to agree
closely with S. spinoso-laminata (Brunner) and S. bakeri here
described, except for its decidedly smaller size.
In tegminal venation it agrees with spinoso-laminata in having
the median vein with a single branch beyond its forked first branch,
while it appears also to agree closely with that species in coloration.
We believe that the male genitalia will show signal differentiation.
Type: 9 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 798.]
Size small for the genus. Vertex narrowly V-shaped and sulcate
to near apex. Maxillary palpi exceedingly elongate and slender,
fourth joint slightly over half as long as third, slightly over one-
third as long as fifth. Pronotum with surface smooth, disk round-
ing broadly into lateral lobes, these very slightly higher than wide,
with humeral sinus deep. Tegmina and wings fully developed,
the tegminal structure and venation as described for bakeri except
that the median vein has but a single strongly oblique and irregular
branch beyond the forked first branch. Ovipositor slightly longer
than pronotum, its structure as characteristic of the genus. Sub-
genital plate very short, triangular. Genicular lobes unarmed
except those of the caudal femora, the internal of those portions
each with a large and very minute spine, the external of those
portions unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed with minute
spines as follows. Cephalic internal 7 and 9, cephalic external 0,
median internal 0, median external 8, caudal internal 4 and 6,
caudal external 8 and 9.
Tegmina biscay green proximad (other portions, body and
limbs faded, probably that color in life). Maxillary palpi with
distal portion of terminal joint suffused with blackish. Cephalic
femora very thickly dotted with black, the dorsal surface with
these dots clustered, so as to appear subannulate but without inter-
vening opaque patches, spines of these members black. Cephalic
tibiae with a few black dots proximad, particularly dorsad of the
auditory foramina. Tegmina in all areolae of discoidal field formed
between ulnar, branches of median and median veins, except distad,
with a few of the intervals between the veinlets mesad black, as
are the intervals between the minute veinlets along the sutural
margin for some distance caudad from the anal field. Head,
pronotum, abdomen and other portions of limbs immaculate.
Length of body (shrivelled) 14, length of pronotum 5.3, caudal
width of pronotum 2.8, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.8, width
of pronotal lateral lobe 3.5, length of tegmen 30.8, greatest width
