1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 155
the Group Holochlorae, while in the astonishing male genitalic
development closest approach appears to be found in the Group
Isopserae.
In general appearance, however, the insect strongly suggests a
small, uniformly colored species of the genus Psyra.
Genotype. — Pseudopsyra mirabilis new species.
Size medium for the group, form much as in the genus Psyra.
Head with eyes extremely prominent, bead-like. Vertex very
small, in dorsal aspect appearing only as a smooth narrowing of the
occiput cephalad without sulcatum, in cephalic aspect with face
nearly vertical, narrowly and irregularly sulcate to ventral margin,
where it is briefly separated from the facial fastigium, its lateral
surfaces fully occupied by the large lateral ocelli. Pronotum much
as in Psyra, surface smooth, lateral lobes with length equal to width
and with humeral sinus decided. Tegmina and wings fully de-
veloped, the former with venation much as in Psyra. Tegmina
with mediastine vein distinct, median vein sending a forked branch
and two or three distal branches obliquely across the discoidal field.
Mesosteriium with lobes small, triangular with apices rounded,
metasternum with lobes much larger and more rounded. Male
genitalia very highly specialized, the subgenital plate bearing ex-
tremely elongate styles. Femora supplied with minute spines on
the usual margins for the group, genicular lobes bispinose. Ce-
phalic tibiae with auditory foramina internally conchate, externally
apert; dorsal surface weakly sulcate, its internal margin with three
and one distal, small spines.
Pseudopsyra mirabilis new species. Plate XIII, figures 16 and 17.
This plainly colored species shows one of the highest types of
male genitalic specialization we have encountered, such occurring
not only in the ultimate tergite but in the cerci and subgenital
plate as well.
Type: d 1 ; Island of Penang, Malay Peninsula. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 799.]
In addition to the characters given in the generic treatment,
we note the following. Tegmina with ulnar vein distad sending a
branch to the nearer fork of the first branch of the median vein,
from there to the sutural margin strongly flexuous. Cross- veins
of tegmina numerous, many of these straight and transverse.
Anal tergite produced in a large shield-shaped plate, which is
strongly deflexed with dorsal surface concave, this plate distad is
nearly rectangulate emarginate, the emargination with lateral
margins weakly divergent to its base, where the dorsal surface of
the plate is briefly and very strongly concave in a V-shaped area.
Supra-anal plate concealed beneath production of anal tergite.
Cercus very large and elongate cylindrical, extending as far caudad
as the subgenital plate, weakly tapering and directed ventro-
