156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
caudacl in proximal half, there curving strongly up so that the distal
portion is directed dorsad and weakly curved, that portion flattened
with a percurrent knife-edge dorsad, which terminates in a minute,
straight, aciculate spine at the apex. Subgenital plate tapering
strongly proximad, then produced in a long narrow shaft with
lateral margins parallel, weakly diverging distad with apex tri-
angularly emarginate, the lateral portions produced beyond,
straight and very slender, bearing at their apices extremely long,
very slender, nearly straight, weakly sigmoid styles. Ventral
femoral margins armed with the following number of spines.
Cephalic internal 6 and 6, cephalic external 0, median internal 0,
median external 5 and 6, caudal internal 5 and 6, caudal external
5 and 5.
General coloration yellowish green, probably rich green in life,
Antennae with distal joints brown, their intersections yellowish.
Length of body 24.3, length of pronotum 6, caudal width of
pronotum 3.7, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.2, width of pro-
notal lateral lobe 4.3, length of tegmen 36.4, greatest width of
tegmen 9, length of cephalic femur 7, length of caudal femur 24.7.
length of cercus 4 mm.
The type of this remarkable species is unique.
Holochlora venosa Stal. Plate XIII, figure 18
1873. H[olochlnra] venosa Stal, Of v. Kongl. Vet. Akad. Forh., 1873, p. 43.
[ 9, Java.]
Singapore, British Straits Settlements (from C. F. Baker), 1 cT.
This specimen agrees closely with Brunner's description of the
male sex. Length of body 19, length of pronotum 5.8, length of
tegmen 33, greatest width of tegmen 6.8, length of caudal femur
24 mm.
Holochlora mindanao new species. Plate XIII, figures 20, 21 and 22.
Related to H. japonica Brunner 30 (see Plate XIII, figure 19),
the present insect differs in having proportionately longer limbs
with femoral spines more decidedly darkened. The male sex is
further distinguished by the shorter and much more deeply cleft
anal segment, the two portions of which are not produced and
lamellate laterad and thus do not conceal the cerci, and by the
much longer and much more deeply cleft subgenital plate, with
distal portions moderately expanded and supplied with longer
styles.
In the females the genitalia are the same, except that in min-
danao the dorsal portion of the ovipositor plica is almost black,
like the distal portion of the ovipositor.
\ large series of that species is before us, from Hawaii, Japan and China
