1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 157
Type: c? ; Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 800.]
Size medium small for the males of this genus. Head, pronotum,
tegmina and wings much as in japonica. Anal tergite deeply
U-emarginate to near its base, bearing two lobate fingers which
are weakly curved downward, with dorsal surface weakly convex
and very hairy, their truncate apices with a very small deflexed
inner and a slightly larger deflexed outer projection. Cerci ex-
tending slightly caudad of apices of these, cylindrical, straight,
tapering to the apex which curves up into an erect spine, directed
dorsad and curving slightly cephalad. Subgenital plate narrow
and elongate, extending far beyond cereal apices, proximal portion
medio-longitudinally carinate, distal third deeply V-emarginate,
the lateral portions thus formed vertical, expanding slightly and
then narrowing to their truncate apices, which are each supplied
with a straight flattened style, three times as long as broad, with
apex rounded. Femoral genicular lobes bispinose. Ventral fem-
oral margins armed with spines as follows, those of the caudal
femora being heavy. Cephalic internal 5 and 5, cephalic external
0, median internal — , median external 4 and 4, caudal internal 5
and 6, caudal external 6.
Allotype: 9 ; Zamboanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands.
(From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection.]
Differs from the male as follows. Size much larger, form
broader, the contrast between the sexes much as in japonica.
Ovipositor as characteristic of genus, with proximal plica of dorsal
valves acute; distance from base of ovipositor to end of plica
distinctly less than half that to end of ovipositor. Subgenital
plate shorter than basal width, triangular, with apex acute, medio-
longitudinally carinate.
General coloration immaculate, bright green, the dried specimens
before us much discolored. Tegmina with mediastine vein and
adjacent veinlets buffy. Spines of femoral margins brown, those
of caudal femora blackish to near bases.
Length of body rf 1 22.5, 9 32; length of pronotum <? 6.2, 9 7.7;
caudal width of pronotum cf 3.6, 9 5.2; length of tegmen cf 36,
9 49; greatest width of tegmen cf 7.8, 9 12.5; length of cephalic
femur cf 8, 9 12.4; length of caudal femur tf 31.8, 9 33.7; length
of ovipositor 10 mm.
The species is known only from the pair here described.
Holochlora signata Bruimer. Plate XIII, figure 23.
1891. Holochlora signata Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien., XLI, p. 92.
[cT, 9 ' Borneo; Singapore, [British Straits Settlements].]
Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra, October and November,
1901,. (Harrison and Hiller), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
The markings of this very small species, though inconspicuous,,
are very distinctive.
