1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5
Inlet. Mr. Huber also reported a few Roccus lineatus, frequent
and fairly large Centropristis striatus, few Stenotomus chrysops,
large Cynoscion regalis common, and four Cynoscion nebulosus on
September 23. In July Mr. J. A. G. Rehn reported Centropristis
striatus, Cynoscion regalis, Paralichthys dentatus and Opsanus tau in
Barnegat Bay at Beach Haven. During late September Mr. D.
McCadden found Centropristis striatus, Orthopristis chrysopterus,
Cynoscion regalis, Leiostomus xanthurus, Pogonias cromis said Paral-
ichthys dentatus at Ocean City.
Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). Young common in the surf
at Corson's Inlet. Mr. Huber reports at this place an example of
Sciaenops ocellatus of 36 pounds and another of 52 pounds; a few
Leiostomus xanthurus, Micropogon undulatus common and large,
also Tautoga onitis, an example of Chiloniycterus schoepfi about
253 mm. long and many large Paralichthys dentatus.
Dioclon hystrix (Linne). August 24, 1921, Mr. R. P. Schriver Jr.,
reported an example captured at this place which he skinned out
and sent later. The skin now measures 320 mm. Color when fresh
blackish-slate passing through slate color to gray on upper parts of
side. Back with numerous close-set dark or blackish spots. Fins
all more or less dusky terminally, with obscure blackish spots,
most distinct on caudal and only few about pectoral axil. Bases
of pectoral and ventral pale. Lower surface of head and trunk
white, though narrow slate-gray band crosses throat. Sides of
head slate-gray. But a single small example ever obtained pre-
viously, and that at Atlantic City many years ago.
Mola mola (Linne). An example, said to have weighed 380 pounds
and measured 1423 mm. was captured off McCray's Shoal, about
four miles off Cape May, August 12.
Phycis regius (Walbaum). Mr. W. T. Innes secured two young
at Corson's Inlet, with a young example of Pomolobus pseudohar-
en gus.
Dr. R. 0. Van Deusen has kindly sent more or less complete
notes on the fishes observed by him at Atlantic City during the
season of 1921, of which the following resume appears noteworthy:
Carcharias iaurus, 8 to 10 during June and July and about 20 during
the season; Mustelus canis, common all summer; Eulamia milberti,
two young in August; Sphyrna zygaena, 5 or 6 small ones in one
haul in October; Squalus acanthi as, common in October and Nov-
