1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 161
Type: 9 ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 802.]
The following features are noteworthy, in addition to those given
in the generic diagnosis.
Antennae, beyond first two joints, exceedingly slender. Pro-
notal disk with cephalic margin weakly concave and caudal margin
broadly convex, lateral margins straight and moderately divergent
caudad. Ultimate tergite with a small, transverse, rectangular
impressed area above the median portion of the supra-anal plate;
the latter broader than long, simple, triangular. Lateral surfaces
of ovipositor showing very faint, delicate, transverse striation in
distal portions. Subgenital plate with lateral portion reflexed,
roughly triangular, the weakly concave lateral margins converging
to the rather broadly convex apex. Ventral femoral margins
specialized as indicated and armed with the following spines.
Cephalic internal (lamellate) 6 and 6, cephalic external and 1,
median internal 0, median external (lamellate) 6 and 7, caudal
internal 3, caudal external 6.
General coloration ochraceous buff, the following portions baryta
yellow; a vertical subocular line, a very faint postocular line, the
broad lateral margins of the pronotal disk, the transverse veins of
the tegmina and a broad stripe including the ulnar vein but evenly
continued an even distance from the median vein to the tegminal
apex. Interval between ulnar stripe and median vein of tegmen
greenish, the surfaces adjacent to the transverse veins showing a
faint greenish tinge. Antennae of general coloration with very
widely separated, rather broad annuli, which in proximal half
are whitish and in distal half very dark brown.
Length of body 26, length of pronotum 5.9, cephalic width of
pronotal disk 3.8, caudal width of pronotal disk 5.2, depth of
pronotal lateral lobe 5, width of pronotal lateral lobe 4.7, length
of tegmen 32.8, greatest width of tegmen 19, length of cephalic
femur 7.2, length of caudal femur 20.8, length of ovipositor 18,
greatest (meso-distal) width of ovipositor 3.8 mm.
The type of this extraordinary and leaf-like katydid is unique.
Sympaestria lampra new species. Plate XIV, figures 5 and 6.
This handsome species appears to resemble closely Haan's
nitidifolia* 2 in general appearance and tegminal venation, differing
in having the auditory foramina of the cephalic femora conchate
internally, apert externally.
32 Karny has recently shown that Dohrn was in error in supposing nitidifolia
assignable to Sympaestria and in considering the Brazilian Slibara cornea Brunner
a synonym of that species. The differences between those species are there dis-
cussed, the decision being that nitidifolia is a species of Stibara or a member of a
genus more nearly related to that entity than to any known Asiatic genus (Zool.
Mededeel. Rijks Mus. Nat. Hist. Leiden, V, p. WO, (1920).).
