162 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
In the three specimens before us, the proximal fork of the first
branch of the median vein runs to the sutural margin ; in the single
male, however, the sinistral tegmen has this branch running di-
rectly into the ulnar vein, as described for the genotype, Sympaestria
acute-lobata Brunner. Unusual individual variation is shown by
this same fork being before the middle of the branch in the male,
beyond the middle of the branch in the Sandakan female and de-
cidedly beyond the middle of the branch in the Labuan female.
In the tegmina the ulnar vein to near its apex, the median, its
first branch and forks of the same to near their apices and the dis-
coidal veins are very heavily defined in the discoidal and scapular
fields, other venation being scarcely noticeable to the naked eye.
Type: 9 ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 858.]
Size large, form robust but graceful. Vertex rounding strongly
ventrad, its surface flattened so that in dorsal aspect it appears
truncate, as wide as first antennal joint, showing mesad a short
but rather heavy medio-longitudinal sulcus. Pronotum with disk
feebly convex, broadening evenly caudad to the nearly semicircular
caudal margin, sharply defined from the vertical lateral lobes by
well rounded lateral angulation; lateral lobes decidedly deeper than
long, cephalic margin straight, broadly rounding into the briefly
straight ventral margin, which rounds even more broadly into the
weakly convex caudal margin, humeral sinus decided. Tegmina
and wings fully developed, the former stiff, shell-like, glossy, ap-
pearing smooth to the naked eye, but under the lens seen to be
thickly and very finely impressed between the myriad of very
minute veinlets; veins as described above; tegmina broadest meso-
proximad, the sutural margin showing there a broadly convex
angulation, margins convergent distad to the rather strongly
rounded apex. Ovipositor broad, curved upward, apex rounded,
dorsal and ventral margins armed distad with regular, small,
rounded serrulations. Subgenital plate small, convex, longer
than wide, triangularly acute-angulate produced with apex blunted.
Cephalic coxae unarmed. Genicular lobes of cephalic and median
femora rounded, of caudal femora bispinose. Ventral margins of
cephalic and median femora unarmed, of caudal femora with 2 to
5 internal and 3 to 6 external, minute, almost microscopic spines.
Cephalic tibiae rounded and with a single, minute disto-internal
spine dorsad ; internal auditory foramen conchate (or better termed
moderately swollen, rimate), external auditory foramen apert.
Allotype: c? ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees with female except as follows. Form slightly more
graceful, pronotum distinctly narrower cephalad. Tegmina with
surface of stridulating field much as elsewhere, stridulating vein
