1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 163
weakly defined. Ultimate tergite produced, truncate distad,
lateral portions convex, mesad showing an angulate concavity
which is narrowest distad. Supra-anal plate beneath, shield-
shaped. Cerci slender, simple, cylindrical, tapering and weakly
curved inward to the apex, which is armed with a very minute
tooth. Subgenital plate moderately produced, tri-carinate, with
lateral carinae rounded; distad bluntly V-emarginate, the lateral
portions truncate and surmounted by small, simple styles, slightly
longer than the depth of the emargination and three times as long
as wide.
General coloration rich oil green. Lateral margins of pronotum
and stridulating field of tegmen yellowish, beyond the sutural
margin of the tegmina is blackish or has the minute intervals
between the veinlets blackish, this continued to the apex. Proxi-
mad on the tegmina, particularly in the marginal field, moderately
large suffused flecks of darker green or purple drab are indicated.
Caudal margin of pronotum immaculate in male, faintly margined
with black in Labuan female, narrowly but distinctly margined
with black in Sandakan female.
Length of body d* 36, 9 34 and 35.8; length of pronotum d" 8.7,
9 8.9 and 9.4; caudal width of pronotum cf 7, 9 7.2 and 7.7;
length of tegmen cf 53.8, 9 49.2 and 52.7; greatest width of tegmen
c? 18, 9 17.8 and 18.2; length of caudal femur <? 22.3, 9 19.8
and 21.2; length of ovipositor 7 and 7.7 mm.
This handsome species is known from the described pair and a
paratypic female from Sandakan, British North Borneo, from
C. F. Baker.
Dysmorpha obesa Brunner.
1878. D[ysmorpha] obesa Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 355,
pi. VIII, fig. 106. [ 9 ; 33 Malacca, [Malay Peninsula].]
Jelabu, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, 1 9 .
This insect is clearly a higher development from a type similar
to that of Sympaestria. Brunner separated these species very
widely, due to the presence in Dysmorpha of apert auditory fora-
mina on both faces of the cephalic tibiae. Though representing a
Group, the Dysmorphae, we place it immediately after the genus
Sy?npae stria.
The female before us is found to resemble the type closely. The
ovipositor is broad, upcurved, with apex rounded, suggesting the
type developed in Eulophophyllum.
The richness and beauty of the coloration in this insect is very
striking. The tegmina are shell-like, glossy, with stridulating
field blackish brown, except for a few small areas of javel green.
33 A Sumatran male of this species has subsequently been fully described by
Griffini (Wiener Ent. Zeit, XXVIII, p. 105, {1909).)
