164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The other portions of the tegmina are javel green, with numerous
short, linear streaks of purplish black, the sutural margin yellow
ocher, interrupted by heavy flecks of blackish brown, which
become smaller and are marginal in position distad.
Length of body 32, length of pronotum 12.7, 34 caudal width of
pronotum 9.7, length of tegmen 41, greatest width of tegmen 22.1,
length of caudal femur 16.7, length of ovipositor 12.8 mm.
Liotrachela cryptisema 35 new species^. Plate XIV, figure 7.
The unique female before us of this species is distinguished from
its close ally, L. minuta Brunner, by the more slender form, dis-
tinctly narrower tegmina, slightly longer ovipositor and antennal
coloration. In these appendages the first joint is blackish brown
dorso-distad, the second joint solidly blackish brown, in striking
contrast to the other portions which are of the pale general color-
ation.
Type: 9 ; Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 803.]
Size small and form slender for the genus. Vertex narrow,
scarcely wider than the first antennal joint proximad, narrowing
strongly, then with margins parallel to the blunt apex, with a
linear sulcation to near apex;declivent in proximal portion, weakly
declivent in distal portion. Pronotum with disk flattened, its
lateral margins sharply rounded; lateral lobes distinctly higher
than wide. Tegmina elongate, slender for the genus; first branch
of median vein very weakly oblique, branching a short distance
beyond its median point; second branch distal, strongly oblique,
unbranched. Cephalic tibiae flattened dorsad, subsulcate briefly
beyond proximal portion. Ovipositor short, broad, with lateral
surfaces weakly and minutely tuberculate, curved strongly upward
proximad, apex rounded, dorsal margin to near base and distal
third of ventral margin armed with minute, even, rounded teeth.
Subgenital plate longer than broad, with lateral margins weakly
convex and convergent to the sharply rounded apex. Ventral
femoral margins armed with small spines as follows. Cephalic
internal 3 and 4, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median
external 1 and 2, caudal internal 9 and 11, caudal external 10 and 11.
Coloration yellowish, probably green in life, the antennae marked
as described above. Spines black tipped, except those of cephalic
tibiae.
Length of body 20, length of pronotum 5.6, caudal width of
pronotum 4.2, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.8, width of pronotal
34 Though given as 18 mm. for the type, the figure shows this dimension to be
11.9 for that specimen.
36 In allusion to the easily overlooked, but apparently diagnostic, antennal
marking.
