1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 165
lateral lobe 3.7, length of tegmen 37.8, greatest width of tegmen
7.3, length of cephalic femur 6. length of caudal femur 25.7, length
of ovipositor 6.9 mm.
Liotrachela minuta Brunner.
1878. L[iotrachcla] minuta Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 184.
[cf; Luzon, [Philippine Islands].]
Los Bafios, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, February 21,
1919, (S. G. Yap), 1 <? .
Mount Banahao, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 9.
The previously unknown female of minuta differs only from the
female of L. cryptisema, here described, in the vertex which is
broader proximad, in the immaculare antennae and in the pro-
portions of the pronotum, tegmina and ovipositor.
Length of body 24.7, length of pronotum 6, caudal width of
pronotum 4.8, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5, width of pronotal
lateral lobe 3.9, length of tegmen 39.3, greatest width of tegmen
8.7, length of cephalic femur 5.9; length of caudal femur 24.3,
length of ovipositor 6 mm.
Liotrachela iliganae new species. Plate XIV, figures 8, 9 and 10.
Related to L. minuta Brunner, the male before us differs from
the male type of that species in its slightly larger size, broader
tegmina, distinctive genitalia and caudal tibiae which have a small
dark brown suffusion on their external faces proximad.
Type: cf, Iligan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 804.]
Size slightly larger than minuta, form similar. Vertex much as
here described for L. cryptisema, except that it is more evenly
declivent. Pronotum as there described, except that it is slightly
broader. Tegmina similar except that they are wider, the first
branch of the median vein forking mesad. Supra -anal plate weakly
produced to a bilobate apex, with emargination between very
small and rounded, below which projects the small, acute, trian-
gular supra-anal plate. Cerci extending caudad nearly to apex of
subgenital plate, proximal portion cylindrical, feebly tapering and
feebly recurved; external margin very weakly convex proximad and
strongly so distad to the acute, toothed apex, which is horizontal
and directed mesad; internal portion of distal half enlarged into a
somewhat flattened, rounded triangular projection, the internal
margin, from the apex of this projection to the apex of the cercus,
strongly concave and armed to near apex with (9 to 11) minute,
stout teeth. Subgenital plate with margins moderately convergent
in proximal portion, produced in two slender, sharp, straight
spikes in slightly over distal third, the interval between these very
