166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
narrowly U-shaped. Ventral femoral margins armed as follows.
Cephalic internal 3 and 4, cephalic external 0, median internal
0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 7 and 7, caudal external
6 and 6.
Coloration yellowish, greenish on caudal limbs and tegmina,
probably uniform green in life. The caudal tibiae are marked as
described above.
Length of body 25, length of pronotum 6.7, caudal width of
pronotum 4.7, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.8, width of pronotal
lateral lobe 4. length of tegmen 40, greatest width of tegmen 9,
length of cephalic femur 5.8, length of caudal femur 27 mm.
In addition to the type, a single immature male is before us,
secured at Kolambugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, from C. F.
Baker.
Ephippitytha trigintiduoguttata Serville.
1839. Phaneroptera [Ephippitytha] trigintiduoguttata Serville, Hist. Nat.
Ins., Orth., p. 422. [cf, Australia.!
Queensland, Australia, 1 9 .
In all, thirty eight small, transverse, brown marks are to be found
on the tegmina of this specimen.
Caedicia gloriosa new species. Plate XIV, figures 11 and 12.
This beautiful insect in form reminds one of one of the species of
the New World genus Phaneroptera (Scudderia of recent authors).
It shows nearest relationship to C. marginata Brunner, differing
in the unicolorous pronotal disk, more striking and varied coloration
of head, abdomen and tegmina and in the much more elongate
limbs. It runs to marginata in Brunner's key, except that the
caudal margin of the pronotum is not margined with black (Monogr.
der Phaneropteriden, p. 190, {1878).)
Type : & ; Townsville, Queensland, Australia. [Hebard Col-
lection, Type no. 789.]
Vertex very slender, evenly and strongly declivent, longitudinally
sulcate, its apex very slightly enlarged, minutely bilobate. Face
convex, bounded laterad by a distinct impression which, in turn,
is bounded by a low rounded ridge running from the eye to the
clypeal suture. Maxillary palpi with fourth joint four-fifths as
long as third, one-half as long as fifth. Pronotal disk deplanate,
lateral margins straight and diverging very weakly caudad, round-
ing strongly into the nearly vertical lateral lobes; the latter with
depth subequal to width. Tegmina elongate and narrow, narrow-
ing gradually distad to the rounded apex; stridulating field very
narrow; median vein branching at end of proximal third and with
two distal branches, the first branch curving and running longi-
tudinally in median portion, forking at end of its proximal three-
fifths. Supra-anal plate very small and deflexed between cereal
