1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 167
bases. Cerci moderately elongate, moderately stout, flattened
cylindrical, curving gently inward to the truncate apex which is
armed with a row of- minutely microscopic teeth. Subgenital plate
small, extending caudad a decidedly lesser distance than the cerci,
apex triangularly emarginate, the lateral extremities bluntly
rounded. Genicular lobes of femora bidentate. Ventral femoral
margins armed as follows with small teeth; cephalic internal 5 and
6, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external 5 and 6,
caudal internal 7, caudal external 9. Cephalic tibiae with dorsal
surface strongly sulcate, external margin with three and one distal
small spines.
Head clay color, a postocular buffy line continued on each side
along the pronotum to its caudal margin and below eyes to clypeal
suture, this line bordered internally on vertex with hydrangea red
and with a short median streak of the same color below the eyes.
Eyes auburn, with a slender longitudinal blackish line. Pronotum
clay color, the disk evenly washed with hydrangea red. Femora
clay color with spines mars brown, tibiae and tarsi mars brown.
Abdomen clay color, with a series of blackish brown markings
laterad, the dorsal surface showing traces of hydrangea pink.
Tegmina with anal field ochraceous-tawny margined with black,
this heavy in area of stridulating field; discoidal field light green,
scapular field dark green proximad shading into vinaceous, the
costal margin narrowly white with immediate margin black in
proximal portions.
Length of body 22.7, length of pronotum 5.8, cephalic width of
pronotum 2.3, caudal width of pronotum 3.3, width of pronotal
lateral lobe 4.2, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.1, length of tegmen
36.5, greatest (meso-proximal) width of tegmen 6.7, median width
of tegmen 6, distal width of tegmen 3.9, length of cephalic femur
7.8, length of caudal femur 30 mm.
The delicacy of coloration in this species, the type of which is
unique, gives it an exceptional beauty.
PLATTCAEDICIA new genus
This genus is erected to include species which have a very dif-
ferent general facies from the genotype of Caedicia, showing to it
much the same general contrast which, in the New World is found
between the genera Amblycorypha and Phaneroptera (Scudderia
of recent authors) .
A general revision of the species of Caedicia is evidently greatly
needed, the species now included probably representing several
distinct genera. To Platycaedicia belong major (Brunner), obiensis
here described and very possibly hospes (Brunner). The latter
species was described from Amboina and referred to by Brunner
as an Asiatic species. This is incorrect, Amboina being far east
of Wallace's line and its fauna distinctively Melanesian.
