168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXTV
Genotype. — Placycaedicia obiensis new species.
Agrees closely with Caedicia differing in the following features.
Cephalic tibiae nearly flat dorsad, showing subobsolete sulcation.
Pronotum with disk widening distinctly caudad, lateral lobes
with width distinctly less than depth. Tegmina broad, width
much greater than the pronotal length, the branches of the median
vein resultantly more oblique. Limbs decidedly shorter and
heavier in proportion to the body bulk.
Nothing is to be found of diagnostic importance in the shape of
the mesosternal and metasternal lobes. It is surprising to find so
little differe ce after a close comparison of obiensis with the very
widely different appearing Caedicia gloriosa here described.
Platycaedicia obiensis new species. Plate XIV. figures 13 and 14.
This insect is closely related to P. major (Brunner), differing in
the decidedly smaller size, narrower tegmina, less numerous spines
of the dorso-external margin of the cephalic tibia and more numerous
spines of the ventro -external margin of the caudal femora.
To P. hospes (Brunner) it would appear to be nearest in the
majority of features, but the slightly sulcate dorsal surface of the
cephalic tibiae and tria gular mesosternal and metasternal lobes
in that insect may indicate that these species are actually generically
distinct.
Type: 9 ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type no.
790.]
Vertex narrow, narrowing and evenly and strongly declivent,
longitudinally sulcate but with the sharply rounded apex entire.
Face rather decidedly convex, the depression and ridge on each
side less decided than in Caedicia gloriosa, here described. Maxil-
lary palpi with fourth joint two -thirds as long as third, only two
fifths as long as the very elongate fifth joint. Pronotal disk de-
planate, lateral margins very weakly concave and diverging moder-
ately caudad, rounding strongly into the nearly vertical lateral
lobes ; the latter with depth distinctly greater than width. Tegmina
elongate and broad sutural margin very broadly and weakly convex
but curving more broadly into the rounded apex than does the
costal margin; median vein branching slightly before its median
point and with four more distal branches the first branch forking
slightly before end of its proximal third, all of the branches of the
median vein following a strongly oblique course throughout or in
greater portion. Ovipositor minute, unarmed, the apices of the
dorsal valves produced with extremities sharply rounded; basal
plica with a large, stout, convex-conical projection meso -caudad,
which is directed caudad, the entire median portion of the plate
very deeply concave. Subgenital plate very small, rounded tri-
angular, with apex very briefly and narrowly emarginate. Geni-
