1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 191
femora and ventro-internal margin of median femora armed with
very small spines. Ventro-external margin of median femora and
ventro-internal margin of caudal femora armed with small but
elongate spines. Ventro-external margin of caudal femora and
tibiae and dorsal surface of caudal tibiae armed with large lamellate
spines, the ultimate of the caudal femora noticeably the largest of
all. Ventral femoral margins armed with the following number
of spines. Cephalic internal 5 and 5, cephalic external 6 and 7,
median internal 6 and 7, median external 7 and 7, caudal internal
11 and 12, caudal external 10 and 12. Caudal femora dorsad with
a row of minute tubercles which become broader and weaker distad.
General coloration pale green. Eyes dark brown. Antennae
with weak brown suffusions, forming elongate and very weak
annuli. Tegmina in proximal area between anal and ulnar veins
marked with a curved brown line; areolae between ulnar and first
branch of median vein with one or two brown flecks in proximo-
sutural and disto-costal corners, similar flecks in areolae between
median vein and its branch in proximo-costal corners and a few
similar flecks in areolae of scapular field.
Length of body 38.5, length of pronotum 11.7, greatest width
of pronotal disk 10, length of tegmen 76.5, approximate width of
tegmen 32.5, length of tegminal stridulating field 20.8, length of
stridulating vein 9.2, length of cephalic femur 11.1, length of caudal
femur 24.2, length of distal spine of caudal femur 3.1, wid.h of
same at base 1.9 mm.
The type is unique.
Cleandrus titan (White)
1846. Pseudophyllus titan White, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., XVIII, p. 24.
[9, Silhet, [Assam].]
Khasia Hills, Assam, 1 c?.
Arracon, Yomah Mountains, Burma, (A. V. B. Crumb), 1 9 ,
[A. N. S. P.].
Toungoo, Burma, (A. V. B. Crumb), 1 cf, [A. N. S. P.].
The male genitalia appear to show little of specific value in the
genus. In the present male the styles are elongate paddle-shaped.
The tegmina have the branch of the median vein, from near its
base, showing a very slender blackish line. In the specimen from
Assam, a whitish ocellate tegminal spot is developed, its periphery
narrowly blackish with a slender outer ring of purplish brown.
This specimen has the tegminal veins showing yellowish flecks
with small interrupted areas of very delicate purplish. The
Burmese specimens show only a faint trace of an ocellate marking,
the other features described above scarcely indicated in the female,
obsolete in the male.
The measurements of the male from Assam are given first
