1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 193
tegmen 45.5, length of tegminal stridulating field 35.3, length of
stridulating vein 18.2, length of cephalic femur 15.6, length of
caudal femur 29.7, height of distal spine of caudal femur 1 mm.
There is a possibility that the Bornean material, recorded as
C. rex ( = titan) by Brunner, represents this species and that the
maximum measurements there given for the female sex apply to
that specimen.
The type of this huge Pseudophyllid is unique. So great is the
stridulating development that the sound which the males produce
must be almost deafening.
Onomarchis leuconotus (Serville)
1839. Pseudophyllus leuconotus Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 469.
[d 1 , Java.]
Los Baiios, Laguna, Luzon, Phillipine Islands, (from C. F.
Baker), 1 cf •
Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
Labuan, British North Borneo, 2 9 .
Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker).
1 d".
Toungoo, Burma, (A. V. B. Crumb), 1 <?, [A. N. S. P.].
Brunner, stating that the tegminal width is subject to consider-
able individual variation in this apparently common species,
established three synonyms, to which Kirby has added one.
The form of the tegmina gives to the females a distinctive and
hump-backed appearance.
The Butuan specimen shows a strikingly beautiful color form,
in which the delicate green of the tegmina gives place in the areolae
to extensive suffusions of lavender.
HAPALOPHTLLUM new genus
This genus is erected to include the single species described as
Brunnea vrazi by Bolivar. This insect, it is true, runs to Brunnea
in Brunner's key, but shows the following important differences. 56
Size medium, form moderately slender, resembling rather the
more delicate species than those of the genus Pseudophyllus, to
which latter Brunnea cincticollis Brunner shows a close superficial
resemblance in size and contour. Pronotum supplied with blunt
tubercles which are found also on the ventro-cephalic margin of
the lateral lobes, the latter with ventral margin horizontal and
broadly convex, the caudal margin cutting back to the deeply
56 Comparison is made with a specimen of Brunnea cinciic ollis belonging to the
United States National Museum. That specimen will be discussed at a later
date by Mr. Rehn.
