194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
concave humeral sinus, so that the lateral lobes are slightly nar-
rower mesad than ventrad. Tegmina more delicate, with costal
margin more strongly convex and cross-veins of discoidal field
decidedly oblique. Ovipositor with dorsal margin broadly sub-
sinuate, showing very faint obliquity only in apical portion. Limb
spination heavier, the caudal tibiae with dorso-external margin
supplied with a few minute spines. Cephalic tibiae with auditory
foramina conchate, very full and projecting beyond the dorsal
plane of the limb.
Hapalophyllum vrazi (Bolivar)
1898. Brunnea vrazi Bolivar, Act. Soc. Espanola Hist. Nat., 1898, p. 141.
[ 9, Borneo.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 9 .
This is a most delicately beautiful species and the present
specimen appears to be even more strikingly colored than the type.
The general coloration is cream buff, the occiput and particularly
the disk of the pronotum washed with wax yellow, the latter with
a very narrow line of deep vinaceous bordering the caudal margin.
The cross-veins of the discoidal field of the tegmina are vinaceous,
with a dot of wax yellow at the extremity of each and a buffy
fleck margined with wax yellow proximad between the median
and ulnar veins. The apex of the caudal femora externally, and
base of the caudal tibiae, are lumiere green. Each of the first two
abdominal sternites has a large triangular patch of purplish red.
Length of body 41, length of pronotum 6.3, caudal width of
pronotal disk 18.3, length of tegmen 62.1, greatest width of tegmen
20, length of cephalic femur 8.6, length of caudal femur 18.3, length
of ovipositor 16, greatest width of ovipositor 3.7 mm.
Section PHYLLOMINI
Temnophyllus speciosus Brunner. Plate XVII, figure 1.
1895. Temnophyllus speciosus Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p. 46,
pi. II, fig. 1^. [ 9 : Malacca, [Straits Settlements]; southern Borneo.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cf .
The tegmen of the previously unknown male of this species is
here figured. The ultimate tergite is deeply angulato-concave
mesad, the supra-anal plate fitting into this. That plate is broad,
with lateral margins straight and very weakly convergent to the
apex, which is strongly angulate-emarginate, the delicate lateral
acute-angulate portions thus formed being curled dorsad in the
specimen before us.
The general coloration of this individual is jade green.
Length of body 42, length of pronotum 10.8, length of tegmen
56.8, (estimated) median width of tegmen 29, distal width of
