1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 197
To the previously established synonymy for the present species,
(sinensis Walker, granulosus Stal and truncatifolia Pictet and
Saussure), we add the above.
It appears that the common Philippine insect before us is the
species recognized as detersus by Kirby, after examination of the
type. The greatest confusion has apparently been caused by
Brunner who, failing to recognize the variability of the species,
considered the two Philippine species described by Stal to be valid
and described two more. The species is exceedingly plastic, as
the series of sixteen specimens, now before us, amply demonstrates.
Baguio, Benguet, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 9.
Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (E. H. Taylor), 2 9.
Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F.
Baker), 1 d\ 3 9.
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1>,3 9.
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 c?.
Iligan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf.
Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 2 9 .
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf .
The present insect is subject to very great individual size vari-
ation, irrespective of geographic distribution. Stal gave 39 to 58
mm. for length including tegmina, for this dimension the present
series shows the following extremes; cf 34.5 to 42.5, 9 40 to 68 mm.
The tegminal venation is irregular and the branching of the
veinlets of the scapular field (used as a specific character by
Brunner) particularly so.
Though usually with a black spot meso-proximad between the
median and ulnar veins of the tegmina, individuals without this
spot occur, others showing it reduced to different degrees.
In the smallest and one of the largest females at hand, the caudal
femora distad and caudal tibiae are purplish pink. A rather
similar individual color variation apparently constituted one of the
reasons for Brunner's describing rufatus.
The measurements (in millimeters^ of selected specimens from
the series before us are as follows :
