1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 201
Type: 9 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. May, 1899.
(Dr. Wm. L. Abbott.) [U. S. National Museum.]
Size small for the genus, form robust. Vertex horizontal, sharply-
acute, projecting very slightly beyond the antennal scrobes and
moderately sulcate throughout. Pronotum densely beaded, with
ventral margins of lateral lobes very weakly rounded obtuse-
angulate (as figured for genicularis by Saussure and Pictet).
Tegmina fully developed, with convexity of costal margin stronger
than that of sutural margin, so that the very sharply rounded,
acute apex is at the latter. Wings extending as far caudad as the
tegmina, but apparently narrow. Supra-anal plate triangular,
slightly longer than wide, with lateral margins weakly convex
and apex sharply rounded; surface convex and sub-tectate. Ovi-
positor shorter than caudal femur, dorsal margin almost straight,
feebly sinuous, serrulate in meso-distal portion; ventral margin
straight proximad, curving meso-distad to the acute apex and sub-
serrulate distacl; lateral surface with (four and five) oblique,
sharp, delicate distal ridges on dorsal valves and a blunt node
below these on ventral valves. Limbs moderately pilose. Dorsal
femoral margins lamellate and very minutely tuberculate, this very
weak for median femora. Ventral femoral margins armed as
follows. Cephalic internal 6 and 7, cephalic external 0, median
internal 6 and 6, median external 3 and 4, caudal internal 9 and 9,
caudal external 12 and 16. Dorso-internal margin of caudal tibiae
weakly lamellate and minutely serrulate.
General coloration buckthorn brown tinged with tawny and
quite uniform. Ovipositor deepening to tawny distad and still
darker at apex.
Length of body 30, length of pronotum 7, length of tegmen 46.2,
greatest tegminal width 12.3, length of cephalic femur 7.7, length
of caudal femur 13.8, length of ovipositor 13.2 mm.
The type is unique.
Gonyatopus gemmiculus new species. Plate XVII, figures 5, 6 and 7.
This delicate and beautiful little insect does not have the external
genicular lobes of the cephalic femora compressed and horizontally
produced, but in all other respects agrees so closely with the de-
scription of Gonyatopus that we do not feel justified in erecting a
new genus to include it.
The mesosternum in this species, however, does not have the
margins simple, as might be inferred from Brunner's generic de-
scription, while the form and coloration of the cephalic coxal spine
is a most remarkable feature in gemmiculus, not mentioned
elsewhere for other of the species.
The species is apparently nearest the Philippine (?. integer
