202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
(Stal), from which it differs in the somewhat larger size and in
striking features of coloration. 60
Type: d 1 ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 815.]
Size small, form slender, structure very delicate. Head smooth,
vertex acute, produced very slightly beyond margins of antenna!
scrobes, dorsal surface concave. Antennal scrobes produced
ventrad in a bluntly conical projection. Pronotum with minute,
scattered tubercles on disk and dorsal portions of lateral lobes;
disk flattened, defined from the lateral lobes faintly by contour
but strongly by coloration, with a subobsolete medio-longitudinal
sulcus and two decided transverse sulci, caudal margin broadly
convex; lateral lobes with cephalic and ventral margins straight and
tuberculate and forming an obtuse-angulation. Tegmina and
wings fully developed and capable of sustained flight. Tegmina
with costal margin broadly convex, sutural margin weakly convex
in stridulating field, thence nearly straight to distal extremity,
where it curves into the broadly rounded apex; scapular field broken
into irregular areolae; anal field very small; discoidal and median
veins gradually diverging in distal two-fifths, median vein branching
at end of proximal two-thirds, the branch forming an acute angle
and curving proximad so that it thence runs parallel to the ulnar
vein. Cephalic coxal spine lamellate, with ventral margin convex,
so that it is half as wide as long. Mesosternum narrower than
metasternum, cephalic and lateral margins weakly concave, these
margins produced, convex latero-cephalic angles minutely tuber-
culate, the cephalic margin subtuberculate to near median portion.
Ultimate tergite surrounded by preceding segment so that its
dorsal portion is alone visible, with caudal margin concave. Supra-
anal plate ovate, with greatest breadth distad and apical portion
moderately truncate. Cerci small, stout conical, straight, tapering
to apical portion which is folded inward at a right -angle to the
shaft and terminates in a minute spine which does not extend inward
so far as the inner margin of the shaft. Subgenital plate with
lateral margins concave, narrowing to distal portion, then widening
slightly to the truncate apex. Styles conical in proximal half,
filiform in distal half. Dorsal femoral margins moderately lamel-
late and smooth. Ventro-external femoral margins and dorso-
internal margin of caudal tibiae lamellate and armed with minute,
procumbent spinulae, except distad on caudal femora where (7
and 8) small, erect spines occur. The count for these limbs as
follows. Cephalic internal 14 and 14, cephalic external 15 and 15,
median internal 8 and 8, median external 17 and 20, caudal internal
2 and 3 (subobsolete), caudal external 28 and 31. Genicular lobes
of femora bluntly rounded. Mesosternum narrower than meta-
60 As well as in the male genitalia, if these have been correctly described for
integer by Brunner.
