1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7
common; Pseudopleuronectes americanus, common; Achirus fascia-
tus, few irregularly; Astroscopus guttatus, one in September; Opsa-
nus tauirequent in fall; Pollachius virens, 1 on October 10;Microgadus
tomcod, common in late October and during November; Gadus
callarias, one July 4 and frequent in November; Phycis regius, 4
in October; P. chuss, common in fall; Merluccius bilinearis, spring
and late fall, Lophius piscatorius, common.
Delaware.
Mr. W. J. Fox reported a few species from Bowers Beach, July
30 and 31. Dr. Thomas Barbour gave me a list of eight species he
met with off Ship John Light, August 19. With Messrs. Innes and
Dorsey I visited Wyoming Pond on August 20. This is formed
simply as a wide pond about a mile long, by the dam on the trib-
utary of Jones Creek called Wyoming Creek. The water is still
and very hard, the banks mostly of sand, shallow and sloping.
Along each bank we found wide growths of aquatic vegetation,
often as great mats of Ceratophyllum. In the more sheltered
small coves the water was often covered with a mantle of green
algae, duckweed, etc. Mr. G. MacReynolds sent some notes on
food fishes he captured at Delaware City and St. Georges in 1905,
interesting in comparison with present conditions.
Carcharias taurus Rafmesque. About a dozen at Bowers Beach.
Eulamia milberti (Muller and Henle). Small example at Ship
John.
Sphyrna zygaena (Linne). Small one at Bowers Beach.
Raja erinacea Mitchill. One at Bowers Beach.
Dasyatis say (Le Sueur). One at Ship John.
Ameiurus catus (Linne). Common at Delaware City and St.
Georges, reaching about 300 mm. At Wyoming Pond Ameiurus
nebulosus, Anguilla rostrata and Perca flavesce?is were reported
abundant. Morone americana was said to have been introduced
during the past few years, prior to which none were seen for twenty
years.
Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Abundant, all small, in Wyoming
Pond.
Erimyzon sucetta oblojigus (Mitchill). Young very common
in Wyoming Pond.
Esox americanus (Gmelin). One in Wyoming Pond.
Esox tridecemlineatus Mitchill. Abundant in Wyoming Pond,
