1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 205
length of caudal femur 15 and 16, length of ovipositor 17 to 19.2 mm.
Togona philippina new species. Plate XV, figure 4.
Closely related to the Formosan T. unicolor 62 Matsumura and
Shiraki, 63 the present females may be distinguished by their slightly
smaller size, much smaller pronotum, longer tegmina, shorter
ovipositor and the lamellate and much more abundantly spinose
ventro-external margins of the median and caudal femora.
This genus is clearly very near Tympanoptera, differing in the
subobsolete medio-longitudinal sulcation of the pronotum, narrower
ovipositor which is evenly though weakly curved upward, shorter
tegmina with veins not minutely tuberculate proximad, median
vein forking slightly beyond end of proximal fourth, greater distal
divergence of discoidal and median veins and sinuous ulnar and
branch of the median vein.
Type: 9 ; Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 818.]
Size small, form moderately slender, structure delicate. Vertex
acute, projecting very slightly beyond antennal scrobes, dorsal
surface concave to near apex. Pronotum weakly tuberculate
with a weak medio-longitudinal line defined by lateral carinulae
which are mainly indicated by tubercles, with two transverse sulci
which are not interrupted mesad; caudal margin of disk convex,
humeral sinus obtuse-angulate but distinct, other margins weakly
tuberculate; lateral lobes higher than wide, ventro-cephalic angle
rounded rectangulate, ventral margin very weakly convex, ventro-
caudal angle sharply rectangulate. Tegmina and wings fully
developed and capable of sustained flight. Tegmina with costal
margin broadly convex, sutural margin almost straight to the
rather sharply rounded apex at its distal extremity; veins of dis-
coidal field parallel in greater part, though the ulnar and branch
of the median vein are sinuous, median vein branching slightly
before end of proximal fourth and diverging from discoidal vein in
distal third; majority of cross- veinlets of discoidal field transverse
and straight, those of scapular field irregularly branching and
moderately oblique. Supra-anal plate linguliform, medio-longi-
tudinally carinate. Ovipositor not heavy for group, curving
6? Karny has recorded a male from Los Bailos, Luzon, Philippine Islands, as
unicolor, having compared it with Formosan males of that species. That in-
dividual almost certainly represents the present insect and it is probable that
the differences in limb structure were not noted (Philippine Jour. Set., XVIII,
p. 610, {1921).)
63 The figure originally given of unicolor does not show the acute-angulate
branching of the median vein, nor the gradual distal divergence of the discoidal
and median veins of the tegmina, found in the material here treated. This is
probably attributable to faulty drawing.
