206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
gently dorsad to its acute apex, the margins serrulate in distal
half. Subgenital plate delicate, triangular, with apex bluntly
bilobate. Ventro-external margins of median and caudal femora
lamellate. Ventral femoral margins armed with the following
number of procumbent spinulae. Cephalic internal 10 and 11,
cephalic external 11 to 13, median internal 11 and 11, median
external 15 to 18, caudal internal 16 to 17, caudal external 25 to 30.
Caudal tibiae with four margins supplied with very small spines,
the dorso-external margin weakly lamellate.
General coloration immaculate light greenish yellow, apparently
faded to yellowish on body, probably pale green in life. Antennae
delicately and finely annulate distad.
Length of body 27 and 25, length of pronotum 4.3 and 4.3, caudal
width of pronotum 3 and 3, length of tegmen 37.8 and 36.4, greatest
width of tegmen 11.9 and 11.7, length of cephalic femur 5.9 and
5.9, length of caudal femur 12.3 and 13.1, length of ovipositor
10.3 and 11.5 mm.
In addition to the type, a single paratypic female, from Los Bafios,
Luzon, Philippine Islands, is before us.
Morsimus albomarginatus new species. Plate XV, figure 5; plate XVII, figures 8, 9,
10 and 11.
Apparently nearest M. inversus (Brunner), the present insect
differs; in proportions, in the non-carinate vertex, the immaculate
head and pronotum, weak proximal curvature of the branch of the
median vein of the tegmina, which forms an acute angle with that
vein, anal field of tegmina, which lacks a spurious longitudinal vein
and proportionately much smaller ovipositor.
Type: 9 ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 816.
Size large for the genus, form medium, structure very delicate.
Head smooth; vertex acute with dorsal surface faintly convex
proximad, thence weakly concave to near apex. Distal margin
at first antennal joint with a sharp tubercle ventrad and a smaller
rounded tubercle dorsad. Pronotum moderately well supplied
with very minute tubercles ; disk rounding evenly into lateral lobes,
with a very weakly indicated rounded medio-longitudinal carina
and two distinct transverse sulci, flattened in caudal portion;
lateral lobes with ventro-cephalic marginal portion thickened,
tuberculate and broadly convex to slightly beyond median portion
on ventral margin, ventro-caudal angle strongly convex at slightly
more than ninety degrees. Tegmina and wings fully developed.
Tegmina with costal margin broadly, though more strongly than
usual, convex to the sharply rounded apex at sutural margin,
which margin is straight except in the weakly convex proximal
portion; veinlets of marginal and scapular fields pale, forking distad,
oblique; discoidal and median veins scarcely diverging in distal
