1922] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 207
portion; median vein branching at end of proximal third, this
branch forming an acute angle and curving gently to run parallel
to median, ulnar and anal veins; these veins connected by six con-
spicuous (and distad one or more inconspicuous), straight, oblique,
pale cross-veins, which are directed proximad toward the sutural
margin, so that they are approximately parallel to the pale veinlets
of the scapular field. Supra-anal plate apparently slightly longer
than wide (partially pulled inward in this specimen), triangular,
with lateral margins convex and medio-longitudinally carinate.
Ovipositor moderately heavy; dorsal margin nearly straight, weakly
convex proximad, thence weakly concave and very finely serrulate ;
ventral margin broadly convex meso-distad to the acute apex, with
distal margin very finely serrulate; dorsal valves disto-laterad with
five weakly oblique, sharp but delicate, transverse ridges. Sub-
genital plate very small, delicate, truncate trigonal. Ventro-
external margins of median and caudal femora weakly lamellate.
Ventral femoral margins armed with the following compound 64
spinulae, 65 which are produced though very small only distad on
the external margins of the caudal femora. Cephalic internal 5
and 6, cephalic external and 3, median internal and 4, median
external 7 and 9, caudal internal 6 and 6, caudal external 14 and
15. Caudal tibiae with dorso-internal margin armed with a series
of closely placed, minute, compound spinulae and becoming
moderately lamellate distad.
Allotype : c? ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with the female, except as follows. Size very
much smaller. Pronotum more strongly tuberculate. Tegmina
slightly less acute at apex; stridulating field small, oblique vein-
and veinlets less contrastingly paler. Genitalia crushed, the sub-
genital plate is seen to be very slenderly produced, with paddles
shaped cerci. Spinulae of limbs even more compounded; those of
the ventral femoral margins numbering as follows. Cephalic in-
ternal 3 and 4, cephalic external 7 and 7, median internal 1 and 5,
median external 9 and 11, caudal internal 7 and 7, caudal ex-
ternal 16 and 16.
General coloration cream color. Head with occiput laterad
washed with olive buff. Antennae cream color with a faint greenish
tinge. Pronotum ochraceous-buff dorsad, shading to olive buff
64 See plate XVII, figures 9, 10 and 11. This remarkable type of femoral
spination is developed in the species of this and a number of other Pseudophylhd
genera, which follow in linear arrangement.
66 The number of such spines is evidently so variable that probably little of
specific diagnostic value will be found. The actual number of femoral spines is
probably very rarely constant in any species of the Tettigoniidae, though the
average for a species, when sufficient material is available to determine it, will
probably often be found to differ from that for related species. It is for this
reason that we have given the exact spine count, in the present paper, for the
new species described; as an aid in beginning to find the averages for these species,
but certainly not to distinguish them from their allies on the basis of the exact
number of spines present.
