208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
on lateral lobes and with caudal portion of disk light grape green,
ventral margins of lateral lobes rather broadly cream color. Teg-
mina grape green, this weakening in areolae and heaviest toward
the pale oblique transverse veins of the discoidal field and pale
oblique veinlets of the scapular fields, the entire costal margin
cream color, this rather broad proximad. Limbs buffy with a
greenish tinge, the tarsi somewhat embrowned. Ovipositor
ochraceous-buff, with distal portion blackish brown. In the
allotype the transverse veins and veinlets are less contrastingly
paler and, as a result, the distinctive coloration of this insect is
seen to be far less pronounced in the male sex.
Length of body cf 18.7, 9 33; length of pronotum cf 4.3 ; 9 5.5;
caudal width of pronotum cf 2.9, 9 4.3; length of tegmen c? 30,
9 50.5; greatest width of tegmen d" 8, 9 17.1; length of cephalic
femur d* 1 5, 9 5.3; length of caudal femur d" 10.3, 9 14; length of
ovipositor 14.8 mm.
This interesting species is known from the described pair.
Morsimus serraticollis Bolivar.
1890. Morsimus serraticollis Bolivar, Anal, Soc. Espanola Hist. Nat. ,
XIX, p. 325. [ 9 ; [Island of] Waigiou, [Melanesia].]
Setekwa River, opposite Aru Islands on south coast of Dutch
New Guinea, (from A. S. Meek), 1 9 .
The pronotum in this specimen is not densely granulose, as later
described by Brunner. The median carina is decided and irregu-
larly tuberculate, the tubercles in places forming two irregular
adjacent lines; 66 the other portions with scattered, minute tubercles,
except the ventral margins of the lateral lobes, which are more
strongly tuberculate.
The presence of a longitudinal spurious vein, running througn
the narrow anal field to near the tegminal apex, combined with
other striking characters, will probably oblige separation of this
species from Morsimus, when the forms here assigned are better
known.
CHONDRODERELLA new genus
The present genus is erected to include the new species, C. sex-
guttaia and very probably rubromarginata (Haan), of which it is
likely that borneensis (Brunner) is, at least in part, a synonym.
Genotype. — Chondroderella sexguttata new species.
Agreeing very closely in all other features with Chondrodera
Karsch, this genus may be separated by the following characters.
Tegmina with anal field lacking a spurious vein; discoidal and
66 This shows some slight divergence toward the genus Chondrodera.
