1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 213
Oxijstethus in Karny's key, 70 except that the pronotum is not as
decidedly truncate caudad.
Genotype. — Eppioides malaya new species.
Head with fastigium of vertex small, the dorsal surface weakly
sulcate only at the comparatively broadly rounded, truncate, apex;
its cephalic surface, in the same plane and connecting with the
facial fastigium. Face and genae smooth and shining. Pronotum
broadening caudad and shining, not rugose; its disk flattened,
broadened caudad and sharply defined from the lateral lobes in
color; lateral lobes vertical, decidedly deeper than any except dorsal
width, ventral portion of caudal margin as strongly convex as the
decided humeral sinus is concave. Tegmina and wings fully
developed. Tegmina with anal field flattened and sharply de-
limited; broadening gradually to the strongly truncate apex.
Prosternum unarmed. Mesosternum with latero-caudal angles
strongly produced ventrad in acute-angulate, lamellate spikes.
Metasternum similarly but not as strongly specialized and with a
node also at latero-caudal angles of proximal section. Ovipositor
short and moderately heavy, slightly upcurved and tapering to
the acute apex, the dorsal valves with margin smooth, but with a
distal serrate ridge laterad, ventral valves with a similar but
longer serrate ridge and with ventral margin coarsely but weakly
serrate distad. Limbs short, but proportionately not as short
nor as thick as in Oxylakis. Cephalic coxae spined. Femora
with genicular lobes rounded, except the caudal internal which are
unispinose; ventral margins armed with heavy spines, between
which there are no smaller spines. Cephalic tibiae with auditory
foramina rimate.
Eppioides malaya new species. Plate XVII, figures 13 and 14.
We have discussed above the appearance of this distinctive and,
in many respects, anomalous genus. The present species is very
closely related to E. bicolor, here described.
Type: 9 : Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection..
Type no. 833.]
In addition to the characters given in the generic diagnosis, the
following appear noteworthy:
Size medium, form rather slender for the group. Eyes small and
protuberant. Pronotum with a single distinct, though linear,
transverse sulcus on disk; ventro-cephalic angle of lateral lobes
strongly obtuse-angulate and showing a minute angular production,
ventro-caudal portion rounding evenly into the straight, oblique
ventral margin. Tegmina extending beyond caudal femora a dis-
tance nearly equal to their length to that point, the distal margin
faintly concave, truncate. Ovipositor showing a faint obliquity
70 Gen. Ins., Orth., Locustidae, Agraeciinae, Fasc. 141, p. 4, (1912.).
