214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
of the dorsal margin distad. Subgenital plate short, truncate;
lateral margins rounding distad to the very broadly and weakly
concave caudal margin. Femora with ventral margins armed as
follows. Cephalic internal 3 and 3, cephalic external 0, median
internal 1 and 2 (very small spines), median external 4 and 4,
caudal internal 3 and 5, caudal external 6 and 8.
General coloration cinnamon-rufous, faintly mottled. Head
with median ocellus buffy. Antennae of the general coloration,
with alternating segments tipped with prouts brown. Dorsal
surface of vertex, occiput, pronotum and anal field of tegmina solidly
russet, very narrowly bordered laterad with buffy. Tegmina in
other portions transparent cinnamon-rufous, paling somewhat
distad with occasional areolae of discoidal field toward the median
vein slightly darker than the others. Limbs cinnamon-rufous with
flecks of buffy to median portions of femora, remaining portions
washed with buckthorn brown and flecked with prouts brown.
Ovipositor ochraceous-tawny, becoming chestnut brown distad.
Length of body 24.3, length of pronotum 6.1, cephalic width of
pronotal disk 2.2, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.1, depth of lateral
lobes of pronotum 4.7, median width of lateral lobes of pronotum
3.7, length of tegmen 35, median width of tegmen 6.3, greatest
(distal) width of tegmen 7.8, length of cephalic femur 5.8, length
of caudal femur 13.9, length of ovipositor 9.5 mm.
The type is unique.
Eppioides bicolor new species. Plate XVII, figures 15, 16 and 17.
Very closely related to E. malaya here described, the present
insect, also kn^wn from a single female, may be distinguished by
pronotal differences, the longer and narrower tegmina and very
slightly longer limbs and ovipositor.
We believe that males of these species will show further differ-
ences of decided specific value.
Type: 9 ; Jelabu, British Straits Settlements. [Hebard Col-
lection, Type no. 834.]
Agrees with the generic description and very closely in all
respects, except the following, with the description of malaya.
Pronotum distinctly more elongate; lateral lobes with ventro-
cephalic angle without a projecting apical angulation, caudal margin
with ventral portion more convex, this convexity terminating sud-
dently at the straight, oblique ventral margin. Tegmina more
elongate but distinctly narrower distad, with distal margin straight,
truncate. Ventral femoral margins probably very similarly armed
in these species, except that no minute spines are present on the
internal margins of the median femora in bicolor; the number as
follows. Cephalic internal 2 and 3, cephalic external 0, median
internal 0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 3 and 4, caudal
external 6 and 7.
