1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 215
Coloration very similar to that of malaya, except that the shade
is different and the dark dorsal portions are in much stronger
contrast. General coloration buckthorn brown, faintly mottled.
Dorsal surface of vertex, occiput, pronotum and anal field of teg-
mina contrastingly and solidly warm sepia, narrowly bordered
laterad with buffy, though more broadly so than in malaya.
Other markings as in that species except that the tegmina have
more numerous clouded areolae, with a few flecks of darker brown,
particularly along the sutural margin.
Length of body 23.5, length of pronotum 6.8, cephalic width of
pronotal disk 2.2, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.2, depth of
lateral lobes of pronotum 4.8, median width of lateral lobes of
pronotum 4.1, length of tegmen 36.3, median width of tegmen 6.5,
greatest (distal) width of tegmen 7.6, length of cephalic femur
6.2, length of caudal femur 15, length of ovipositor 10.1 mm.
The type is unique.
Oxystethus dyaka new species. Plate XVII, figure 18.
Related to the Bornean 0. geniculatus Bolivar, the present
female is distinguishable from the single male known of that species
by its more simple coloration with less developed color pattern,
particularly of the head and pronotum, and the tegmina and wings
which, though fully developed, are decidedly shorter in proportion
to the body bulk.
The general appearance of the present insect strongly suggests
that of certain species of the Neotropical genus Agraecia.
Type: 9 ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 835.]
Size medium for the genus; form rather slender, much more
slender than in some of the species. Vertex slenderly produced in
a conical fastigium which is scarcely longer than the first antennal
joint, moderately ascendant to its sharply rounded apex. An-
tennae extremely elongate. Face thickly and heavily impresso-
punctate, this weaker on the genae. Pronotum elongate, surface
thickly and heavily impresso-punctate; dorsum rounded into
lateral lobes but with a few, small, smooth, impressed areas on
each side, shoulders indicated only latero-caudad and weakly
rounded; caudal margin of disk transverse, faintly sinuate and
subemarginate; transverse sulci indicated only dorsad on lateral
lobes, the latter decidedly longer than deep, with ventro-caudal
portion strongly and roundly produced ventro-caudad, so that the
ventral margin is broadly obtuse-angulate emarginate and declivent
to that portion, humeral sinus decided. Tegmina and wings fully
developed, extending slightly beyond apex of ovipositor. Tegmina
narrow, straight, tapering very slightly to the evenly rounded apex;
median vein branching mesad, this branch having two and three
short, oblique distal branches. Mesosternum with a long, slender
