216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
spine latero-caudad on each side. Metasternum with a shorter
but decided spine latero-caudad on each side of proximal section
and terminating caudad in two bluntly rounded projections of
equal length. Ovipositor elongate and slender, unarmed, of the
usual Copiphorine type developed in this genus, widening slightly
beyond its base, then narrowing as weakly to the moderately
acute apex, so that it is widest mesad. Subgenital plate distorted,
apparently decidedly produced and strongly concave at apex,
fitting tightly about the ventral portion of the ovipositor base.
Femoral genicular lobes developed as follows; cephalic internal and
median internal strongly acute-angulate produced, cephalic ex-
ternal rounded, median external bluntly triangular, caudal internal
and external heavily unispinose. Cephalic and median femora
thickened, the ventral femoral margins armed with large spines,
between which are minute spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 3
and 3 large, 8 and 9 small; cephalic external large, 2 and 2 small;
median internal 0, median external 4 and 4 large, 9 and 9 small;
caudal internal 0; caudal external 5 large, 7 small.
General coloration clay color; face evenly suffused with tawny;
dorsal surface of vertex, occiput, pronotum mesad and tegmina
proximad, evenly suffused with mars brown. Antennae ochra-
ceous-tawny, proximad with intersections of joints slightly darker,
mars brown; distad uniform cinnamon-brown. Tegmina clay color
with veinlets paler, with very numerous small flecks of blackish
chestnut brown which are more numerous in half toward costal
margin. Limbs and ovipositor clear ochraceous tawny; the former
with femora briefly shining blackish brown distad, this weak on
cephalic femora, strong and sharply defined on the others; the
tibiae with a similar but very much more limited and inconspicuous
marking proximad and distad, the cephalic tibiae suffused with
that color very briefly dorsad at end of auditory foraminal area.
Length of body 31.5, length of pronotum 7.8, caudal width of
pronotal disk 3.7, median depth of lateral lobe of pronotum 3.9,
median length of lateral lobe of pronotum 6.1, length of tegmen
36.7, greatest width of tegmen 5, length of cephalic femur 8.3,
length of caudal femur 16.8, length of ovipositor 17.1, greatest
(median) width of ovipositor 2.2 mm.
The type is unique.
Oxystethus intermedius Redtenbacher.
1891. Oxystethus intermedius Redtenbacher, Verb.. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
XLI, p. 441. [J>, 9; Java.]
Tengger Mountains, Java, 1890, (from H. Fruhstorfer), 1 9 .
In coloration this specimen agrees fully with the original de-
scription, except that the genicular areas of the tibiae are not
darkened.
Length of body 23.7, greatest width of head 4.8, length of pro-
notum 6.4, length of tegmen 5.7, width of tegmen 2.9, length of
