218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIY
Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, roundly produced distad on each
side in a small area, from a socket on the ventral surface of which
spring the styles, between these the caudal margin of the plate is
roundly emarginate to the median point, where there is a rounded
projection, deeper than wide and longer than deep. Styles stout,
straight, cylindrical, two and one-half times as long as broad, with
apices bluntly rounded. Femoral genicular lobes as follows;
cephalic internal and median internal produced in a small but
stout tooth, cephalic external and median external triangularly
produced with apex rounded, caudal all strongly bispinose. Ventral
femoral margins armed (in the pair at hand) as follows. Cephalic
internal 5 to 6, cephalic external 4 to 5, median internal 2 to 2
(proximal), median external 5 to 6, caudal internal 1 to 3, caudal
external 7 to 8.
Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with male, differing as follows. Size larger.
Pronotum with caudal portion of disk decidedly shorter and caudal
margin truncate, weakly convex, rather than broadly and evenly
rounded. Ovipositor moderately elongate, slender, unarmed,
gradually curved dorsad and tapering to the acute apex. Sub-
genital plate short, truncate-bilobate.
General coloration shining black, except in the following areas.
Fastigium of vertex and two proximal antennal joints amber
brown. Eyes brussels brown. Clypeus ochraceous-tawny, be-
coming orange rufous on the labrum. Tegmina with all veinlets
conspicuously reed yellow. Ovipositor shading from black to
russet distad. Ventral surface of abdomen blackish brown.
Femora amber brown, in the female with median and caudal femora
weakly darkened proximad and distad. Tibiae ochraceous-buff,
the spines amber brown. Tarsi with dorsal portions of first two
joints ochraceous-buff, black in other portions.
Length of body <? 33, 9 36; length of pronotum & 10.8, 9 10;
median depth of lateral lobe of pronotum d 1 5, 9 5.2; median
width of lateral lobe of pronotum <? 7.3, 9 7.7; length of tegmen
c? 6.8, 9 6; exposed length of tegmen <? 3.2, 9 4.7; width of tegmen
<? 4.7, 9 4.6; length of cephalic femur d" 9.8, 9 10.3; length of
caudal femur rj 1 23.3, 9 25.2; length of ovipositor 18; greatest
width of ovipositor beyond immediate base 2.2 mm.
The species is known from the pair here described.
Anthracites zebra new species. Plate XVIII, figures 1 and 2.
This is a small, pale species, showing a beautiful color pattern
of dark brown. It belongs to the same group as A. apoensis here
described and, though apparently nearest in relationship to that
species, differs strikingly in color pattern and male genitalic
features.
In coloration alone it shows nearer agreement with A. femoralis
