222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Nicsara taylori 72 new species. Plate XV, figure 7; plate XVIII, figure 5.
The present insect appears to be nearest N. inflata Brunner,
described from the Island of Celebes. The female of that insect
is unknown, but the ovipositor of the female of the apparently
closely related N. nigrifrons Brunner, described from the Island
of Lombok, agrees with that of taylori.
From inflata this species differs in having the proximal antennal
segments pale, merely flecked with dark brown, the pronotal disk
having dark lateral bands only, which are interrupted on the
prozona and do not invade the lateral lobes and in having the limbs
entirely pale, with pale spines.
Type: 9 ; Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (E. H.
Tajdor.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 837.]
Average in size and form for the genus. Head and pronotum
smooth and shining, showing a few minute subobsolete impressions.
Pronotum with sulci strongly defined in dorsal portions of lateral
lobes, convex callosity below humeral sinus more prominent and
outlined by a more decided sulcus than normal in the genus. Teg-
mina and wings fully developed, the former widening slightly to
the broadly rounded apex. Ovipositor short and broader than is
usual in the genus, curved dorsad, broadening gradually to median
point, then narrowing gradually to the very acute apex. Subgenital
plate subchitinous except at the thickened distal portions, truncate,
transverse, leaving the decidedly hairy ventro-proximal portion of
the ovipositor exposed. Genicular lobes of femora as follows;
cephalic and median internal unispinose, cephalic and median
external bluntly triangularly produced, caudal all bispinose.
Ventral femoral margins armed as follows. Cephalic internal 6
and 6, cephalic external 7 and 7, median internal 3 and 3, median
external 7 and 7, caudal internal 2 (and 8 very small), caudal
external 11.
General coloration clay color. Head with two small, weakly
sulcate, postocular lines of blackish brown. Entire face shining
black; median ocellus, clypeus and labrum clay color. Proximal
antennal joint clay color with a minute suffusion of dark brown,
antennae in other portions uniform clay color. Pronotum with
lateral margins of disk defined irregularly in blackish brown, this
forming a triangle to the first transverse sulcus, interrupted and
subobsolete to next sulcus, thence broken to principal sulcus and
heavy from that point to caudal margin of disk. Tegmina trans-
parent clay color, with proximal portion of discoidal field weakly
suffused with chestnut brown. Limbs and spines immaculate,
clay color. Ovipositor clay color, tinged with tawny distad.
72 Named in honor of the collector, Mr. E. H. Taylor, who has done much work
in Philippine Herpetology.
