1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 223
Length of body 33, length of pronotum 10.4, caudal width of
pronotal disk 5.1, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5.4, median width
of pronotal lateral lobe 8.4, length of tegmen 43.5, median width
of tegmen 7.3, distal width of tegmen 8.7, length of cephalic femur
11.8, length of caudal femur 27.7, length of ovispositor 17.7, width
of ovipositor beyond base 2.2, width of ovipositor mesad 2.9 mm.
The type is unique.
Nicsara philippina new species. Plate XV, figure 8; plate XVIII, figures 6 and 7-
Apparently nearest N. taylori here described, the present species
is quickly separated by the suffused but much paler face, solidly
black irregular bands separating the disk from the lateral lobes of
the pronotum, not as decided convex callosity of the lateral lobes
below the humeral sinus, delicately though distinctively marked
limbs, decidedly more elongate ovipositor which is curved less
strongly upward and tapers evenly from the basal portion and
dark spines of the ventral femoral margins.
Discovery of the male of taylori will probably show marked
genitalic differences to further distinguish that sex of these species.
Type: cf 1 ; Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 838.]
Agrees fully with the description of taylori, except in the following
features. Size somewhat smaller and caudal margin of the pro-
notal disk slightly more convex, as would be expected for the male
when compared with the female sex. Convex callosity of lateral
lobes of pronotum normal for the genus, not as decided as in taylori.
Ultimate tergite truncate distad and hairy; supra-anal plate vertical
and largely concealed by the arms of the cerci. Cerci heavy, very
short, convex conical, but with minute apex acute, in length slightly
exceeding their proximal width; meso-dorsad furnished on the
internal surface with a cylindrical arm as long as the cercus, directed
mesad with distal portion bent slightly meso-caudad, tapering to
the apex which is armed with a heavy, weakly curved spine; beyond
this on the ventro-internal margin of the cercus is another arm,
forming with it a V-shaped interval with apex truncate, this more
distal arm two-thirds as elongate, straight, similarly cylindrical
and tapering to the rounded apex which is armed with a similar
spine on its proximal face, this spine forming an obtuse angulation
with the shaft of this arm. Subgenital plate feebly tricarinate
d : stad, these carinae low and rounded, the distal margin between
the styles angulate-emarginate at slightly less than ninety degrees,
the lateral projections thus formed with apices bluntly rounded.
Styles situated there in sockets at apices of the lateral carinae,
straight, cylindrical, slightly flattened proximad and there very
slightly narrower than at the rounded apex, each slightly over
three times as long as greatest width. Femoral genicular lobes as
in taylori. Ventral femoral margins armed with similar spines, as
