224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXX1V
follows. 73 Cephalic internal 5 and 5(96 and 6), cephalic external
3 and 3(94 and 4), median internal 0(92 and 2), median external
5 and 5(96 and 6), caudal internal 1(92 and 2), caudal external
7 (9 9 and 10).
Allotype: 9 ; Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (E. H.
Taylor.) [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with the male, differing as follows. Size larger,
nearly equal to that of the female of taylori. Caudal margin of
pronotal disk slightly more truncate, as in this sex of taylori.
Pronotum with convex callosity of lateral lobes as in male, not as
decided as in taylori. Ovipositor elongate, slender, tapering evenly
from beyond base to the acute apex; weakly curved dorsad, this
not as decided as in taylori and strongest meso-distad. Subgenital
plate of the same type developed in this sex of taylori, the thickened
distal portion heavier and more extensive, the transverse distal
margin showing a weak trace of bilobation.
General coloration of male buckthorn brown tinged with tawny.
Occiput, vertex and genae of that color, the occiput with a post-
ocular line on each side of dark brown; face heavily suffused, mars
brown, with a faint vertical median line of prouts brown; median
ocellus buff, clypeus buffy, this deepening on labrum to russet
distad, mandibles black. Antennae ochraceous-tawny, with inter-
sections of a few joints darkened. Pronotum of general coloration,
the disk slightly paler and more tawny, separated from lateral
lobes by a broad, irregular band of blackish brown, sharply defined
on the dorsal margin, vague on the ventral margin, this band oc-
cupying as much a portion of the disk as of the lateral lobes. Teg-
mina transparent buckthorn brown, suffused with tawny, this
deepening in proximal portion of discoidal field, th^re weakly
chestnut brown, flecks of the same toward the humeral trunk proxi-
mad in marginal field. Limbs buckthorn brown tinged with tawny,
with very numerous, narrow, transverse lines of darker brown of a
more tawny shade, distad the caudal femora deepen and become
solidly brown, with distal portion conspicuously paler, ochraceous-
buff tinged with buckthorn brown, spines deep russet. Abdomen
clay color.
The female is a much darker, intensively colored individual;
in general coloration prouts brown tinged with chestnut. The
markings are as described above, the distal portion of the caudal
femora ochraceous buff in even greater contrast. The ovipositor
is dresden brown proximad, in remaining portions shining burnt
sienna.
Length of body c? 29, 9 32.4; length of pronotum c? 8.8, 9 10;
caudal width of pronotal disk c? 4.3, 9 5; depth of pronotal lateral
3 The difference in spine count we believe to be wholly attributable to in-
dividual variation. So closely does the pair here described agree in all other
features of specific diagnostic value, that we feel fully warranted in designating
the female as allotype.
