226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Xom-Gom, southern Annam, February, (from H. Fruhstorfer),
1 9.
Length of body 42.3, width of head 10, length of pronotum 10.3,
exposed length of tegmen 2.1, width of interspace between tegmina
1, length of cephalic femur 11.2, length of caudal femur 18.8, length
of ovipositor 20 mm.
Dicranocercus zamboangae new species. Plate XVIII, figures 8 and 9.
The coloration, though dull, readily distinguishes this insect
from the two previously known species of the genus. In general
appearance the male resembles that sex of Macroxiphus vaginatus
Pictet, but closer examination shows the numerous distinctive
features by which these genera are separated, while striking dif-
ferences in coloration are then also noted. The remarkable cerci
of the male are different from those of any other Tettigoniid known.
Type : d 71 ; Zamboanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 839.]
Size slightly smaller than that of D. niger Pedtenbacher, 74 form
moderately slender. Vertex slenderly produced, compressed, de-
cidedly ascendant, with apsx sharply rounded; dorsal surface with
a low rounded carina, which is strongest proximad. Face deeply
and thickly impresso-punctate, lateral portions of occiput and all
of pronotum similarly but more shallowly impresso-punctate.
Pronotum not produced and truncate caudad; lateral lobes weakly
broadening caudad with ventro-caudal angle sharply rounded
rectangulate and caudal margin nearly straight, very weakly
oblique and nearly vertical. Prosternum unarmed. Tegmina
and wings decidedly reduced, falling short of the apices of the
caudal femora. Ultimate tergite large, distal margin truncate
but showing broad convexity laterad and brief concavity mesad;
supra-anal plate concealed. Cerci heavy proximad, there ventro-
internally produced in a large tooth which is directed mesad,
beyond this short proximal portion cylindrical, tapering to the
sharply rounded apex, the ventral portion developed into a very
large lamellate plate which widens gradually but strongly proximad
from the apex of the cercus, its ventral portion curled inward and
produced in a large lamellate finger directed meso-cephalad, then
with free margin deeply convex to a smaller rounded lamellate
projection directed mesad, thence with the free margin deeply
concave to shaft of cercus. Subgenital plate with lateral margins
broadly concave convergent, deeply U-emarginate distad, with the
slender lateral apices thus formed weakly divergent; a small de-
curved style, three times as long as broad, situated in a socket
disto-ventrad on each of these. Genicular lobes of femora uni-
74 Described from Jolo Island, Sulu Archipelago.
