228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
described from Tonkin, but no characters warranting generic
separation can be determined after close comparison with the
description of that species.
The fully developed tegmina give mindanensis a much stronger
resemblance to species of the genus Salomona. It is, however,
easily distinguished from that genus by the unspined prosternum,
specialized vertex, absence of a spine on the median coxae, 76
ovipositor of the type found in Oxylakis and other less important
features.
The fully developed organs of flight, much shorter vertex, very
weakly impresso-punctate face, pronotum which is produced caudad
with humeral sinus distinct, apparently different femoral armament
and coloration quickly separate 'mindanensis from brongniarti.
Type: 9 ; Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 841.]
Size medium, form robust; much as in the smaller heavier species
of Salomona. Head very large and broad, occiput moderately
impresso-punctate, face shallowly impresso-punctate, genae more
strongly so and irregularly rugulose. Vertex produced in a slender
conical fastigium, slightly longer than its proximal width, with apex
rounded; dorsal surface with low, heavy basal tooth, then a blunt
tubercle followed by two transverse sulci. Pronotum much as in
Salomona, but with ventro-caudal portions of lateral lobes bent
outward; disk flattened, rugulose, with a slightly impressed area
at the weakly indicated principal sulcus, caudal portion slightly
produced with caudal margin truncate; lateral lobes rugose with
sulci distinct, ventral margin oblique declivent caudad, weakly
obtuse-angulate-emarginate cephalad, ventro-caudal portions lightly
and roundly produced so that a broad humeral sinus is indicated.
Tegmina and wings extending to near apex of ovipositor. Ovi-
positor unarmed, weakly curved dorsad, broadening slightly beyond
base, then narrowing gradually to the rounded apex. Subgenital
plate short, with caudal margin truncate. Genicular lobes of
femora unispinose, except the external of the cephalic and median
femora, which are roundly produced. Cephalic and median femora
moderately heavy, their ventral margins distad showing a broad
and weak but appreciable concavity. Ventro-internal margin of
cephalic femora armed with a large spine preceded by (1 to 3) very
small spines, followed by (2 to 3) small spines and then a larger
spine. Ventro-external margin of median femora armed with
three large spines, of which the median is the largest, with (2 or 3)
small spines in the intervals between. Ventro-external margin of
76 In all species of the genus Salomona before us, both the cephalic and median
coxae bear a stout spine, those of the median coxae being shorter and more
uncinate.
