1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11
found in New Jersey and Pennsylvania examples of Boleosoma
olmstedi with pectorals equally as long as the Virginian, and the
variation present both in young and adult. I have seen breeding
males of Boleosoma nigrum inky or entirely black. Of the numerous
males of Boleosoma olmstedi the body or trunk never becomes
black, usually with some brown or olive, or at least noticeably
pale in contrast Moreover I have never seen a breeding male of
Boleosoma nigrum much over 63 mm., while the male of Boleosoma
olmstedi frequently reaches 25 mm. more.
My Virginia specimens all agree at least with Arlina effulgens
( irard, which appears to be the southern representative. It
approaches Boleosoma nigrum perhaps more closely than Boleoso?na
olmstedi, at least in its smaller size.
Poecilichthys flabellaris (Rafinesque). Two.
(2) My first collecting in Virginia was in a tributary of the
Dan River west of Danville, Roanoke basin in Pittsylvania County,
October 21, 1921. This stream is very clear flowing over a sandy
and gravelly bottom, and an excellent place to use a minnow seine.
In most places it was bare of obstructions and snags, and had many
pools of moderate depth. The fish were abundant mostly about
the little eddies and backwater pools, especially along the bends of
the stream. One deep stagnant pool, with simply a gravel bottom,
yielded a great lot of fish, as here they had evidently been en-
trapped during high water.
Chrosomus oreas Cope. Frequent.
Notropis procne (Cope). Five.
Notropis ivhipplii analostanus (Girard). Series of 135, many
pale and none with the blue lateral band of Notropis niveus. One
example distorted with sigmoid pattern to the haemal region of
vertebral column vertically.
Notropis cerasinus (Cope). Very abundant.
Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). Very common and
variable.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Abundant and all very
young.
Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. Young.
Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). One young.
Lepomis auritus (Linn6). Young.
Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). One.
