1922] NATUPAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 231
femur 24.7., length of ovipositor 22.3, greatest width of ovipositor
3.1 mm.
Salomona conspersa St&l.
1877. S[alomona] conspersa Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877,
No. 10, p. 46. [d", Philippine Islands.]
Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 •
Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 large juv. 9 .
In spite of the very inadequate original description, we believe
the present insect to be correctly located. The only feature in
any way disturbing is that Stal gives, for the male length, including
the tegmina, 58 mm., this dimension being, for the female before
us, only 51 mm. Such decided size variation has, however, been
recorded for other species of Salomona.
The general coloration is clay color, the mandibles and spines
black, the tegmina with numerous very small flecks of blackish
brown. The antennae have the first two joints clay color, the
others chestnut-brown, solidly so distad, but in greater portion
with intersections between the joints clay color. The ovipositor
is much as in S. nigripes here described.
The vertex is exactly as in S.maculifrons Stal, its fastigium short,
straight, acute conical, strongly ascendant, dorsad with a small
tubercle at its base and with cephalic surface somewhat swollen.
The structure is slightly more robust, with head broader than in
that species; the face and genae much less deeply impresso-punctate,.
best described as thickly covered with shallow but large impressed
puncta. The ovipositor differs from that of maculifrons in not
tapering as markedly distad to the apex, which is distinctly less
acute.
Had it been included, the species would have been placed in a
different section of Redtenbacher's, Brongniart's and Karny's keys
to the genus from maculifrons, due to the facial sculpture. Never-
theless, it is clear that these species are more closely related
to each other than to the other species of Salomona here discussed.
Length of body 41, width of head 8.8, length of pronotum 10.8,
cauial width of pronotal disk 5.9, length of tegmen 35.1, median
width of tegmen 8.6, length of cephalic femur 13, length of caudal
femur 22.7, length of ovipositor 20.2, greatest width of ovipositor
2.8 mm.
Salomona maculifrons Stal.
1877. Salomona maculifrons Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877,
No. 10, p. 46. [d\ Philippine Islands.]
