232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (E. H. Taylor), 1 9 .
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (fromC. F. Baker),
1 <? , [U. S. N. M.].
In addition to the markings described by Stal, the femora in the
specimens before us are ornamented with numerous small, blackish
brown transverse spots or short li les, arranged in transverse series.
The insect is compared with S. conspersa Stal under that species.
Length of body 33.5 and 41.5, width of head 7.4 and 7.8, length
of pronotum 9.6 and 10.1, caudal width of pronotal disk 5.7 and
5.8, length of tegmen 34.5 and 37.1, median width of tegmen 7.7
and 8.7, length of cephalic femur 11.8 and 12.1, length of caudal
femur 20.8 and 20.9, length of ovipositor 19.2 and 18.8, greatest
width of ovispositor 2.8 and 2.7 mm.
Salomona guamensis new species. Plate XXII, figure 1.
This species is nearest S. vittifrons Walker (better known as the
synonymous S. dohrni Redtenbacher). It agrees in the com-
paratively small size, heavily and thickly impresso-punctate face,
immaculate pronotum and tegmina which extend beyond the apex
of the abdomen. It differs in the darkened face, clypeus and
labrum, pale antennae, tegmina without spots and pale, trans-
parent wings.
Type: 9 ; Island of Guam. July, 1918. (P. Nelson.) [Hebard
Collection, Type no. 856.]
Size rather small, form robust for the genus; larger and very
much heavier than S. lita here described. Head broad; face and
genae heavily, thickly and irregularly ruguloso-impresso-punctate ;
occiput weakly impresso-punctate and showing a few irregular,
impressed lines. Vertex slender, acute-conical, straight but some-
what declivent toward its acute apex, below which its cephalic
surface shows a convexity, projecting as far as the apex. 77 Pro-
notum nearly quadrate in dorsal aspect, surface impresso-punctate,
principal transverse sulcus alone decided, caudal margin of disk
transverse, each side showing very faint concavity. Tegmina
and wings showing some reductions, extending a short distance
beyond the apices of the caudal femora. Ultimate tergite greatly
depressed, lying below and beneath preceding tergite, deeply cleft
medio -longitudinally, with surfaces of lateral portions weakly
convex. Ovipositor unarmed, evenly and broadly curved dorsad
and with meso-distal portion very faintly wider than just beyond
the swollen base, tapering distad to the narrowly rounded apex.
« In the type the dorsal surface of the vertex is smooth proximad, in the para-
1 ype a decided conical tubercle is found there. This is the first case noted where,
in Salomona, such tuberculation is found to be present, or absent, in individuals of
unquestionably the same species.
