1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 233
Subgenital plate short, median portion moderately concave, round-
ing into the vertical lateral portions, disto-lateral angles rounded,
with caudal margin between broadly obtuse-angulate emarginate.
Ventral femoral margins armed with spines as follows. Cephalic
internal 4 to 6, cephalic external 3 to 5, median internal 2 to 3,
median external 4 to 5, caudal internal 0, caudal external 7 to 8.
Shining clay color. Head cinnamon buff, in the paratype with
a greenish tinge. Face and cephalic portions of genae, except in
subocular area, blackish chestnut brown; below subocular area
broadly margined with hazel, with subocular area itself of the
general pale coloration; clypeus, labrum and mandibles blackish
brown; cephalic surface of vertex and proximal antennal joints
washed with brown, remaining portions of antennae ochraceous
tawny. Eyes isabella color. Pronotum and limbs immaculate
clay color, in the paratype with a greenish tinge. Tegmina im-
maculate, the principal veins of the pronotal coloration, the in-
tervals between these slightly darker, but the veinlets themselves
noticeably paler, cinnamon buff. Palpi and abdomen clay color,
the latter apparently suffused with brown disto-ventrad (discolored
?) . Ovipositor rich chestnut, slightly darker distad and buffy in
enlarged proximal portion.
The measurements of the type are given first. Length of body
35 and 36, width of head 9 and 10, length of pronotum 9.7 and
10.1, caudal width of pronotal disk 5.8 and 5.9, length of tegmen
30 and 31.7, median width of tegmen 7.7 and 8.3, length of cephalic
femur 10.7 and 11.7, length of caudal femur 17.2 and 18.7, length
of ovipositor 17 and 19, greatest width of ovipositor 2.6 and 2.7 mm.
In addition to the type, a single paratypic female, taken on the
Island of Guam, by D. T. Fulloway and belonging to the United
States National Museum, is before us.
Salomona lita new species. Plate XVIII, figure 13.
This plainly colored and diminutive species has the caudal
femora armed as in S. ornata Brunner and its allies. The pale
green fastigium of the vertex appears to afford an inconspicuous
but valuable color character.
Though running close to S. dohrni Redtenbacher ( = S. vittifrons
(Walker)) in the keys, the present insect differs widely from that
species in numerous features.
Type: cf ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type no.
842.]
Size small, form slender for this genus of large and very robust
species. Head comparatively narrow, much as in ornata, but with
face and genae heavily impresso-punctulate and occiput weakly
ruguloss; vertex very slenderly lamellate produced, straight,
(neither ascendant or decurved, sulcate or nodulose), with apex
in lateral aspect rounded. Pronotum much as in ornata, but with
