234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol LXXIV
surface smooth, caudal margin of disk transversely truncate and
transverse sulci weaker. Tegmina and wings showing some re-
duction, extending a short distance beyond the apices of the caudal
femora. Ultimate tergite produced caudad in two fingers which
are slightly convergent, then curve outward weakly near their
acute apices, showing throughout a broad convexity dorsad; the
area between these is evenly curved, forming more than a semi-
circle proximad. Cerci very large and heavy; shaft with internal
surface oblique and flattened from proximo-median point to apex,
bearing proximo-mesad on its ventral margin an elongate, sigmoid
process with apex acute, above which is a heavy, blunt, cylindrical
process; apex of cercus with a large dorso-external and a smaller
ventro-internal tooth, both of these curving inward. Subgenital
plate with lateral margins w r eakly convergent to the broad and
weakly undulate, transverse caudal margin; styles at slightly
produced apices of latero-caudal angles, small, cylindrical, four times
as long as proximal width. Limbs short and heavy, much shorter
than in ornata. Ventral femoral margins armed with spines, as
follows. Cephalic internal 6 and 6, cephalic external 6 and 6,
median internal 2 and 2, median external 6 and 6, caudal internal
4 and 5 (small), caudal external 7 and 8 (and 4 and 5 very small
proximal spines).
General coloration shining ochraceous-buff tinged with ochra-
ceous-tawny. Fastigium of vertex neva green. Face below eyes
deepening to russet, with large triangular median portion deepening
to prouts brown, the clypeus almost wholly covered by two suf-
fusions of blackish chestnut-brown, the labrum ochraceous orange,
the mandibles blackish chestnut-brown. Antennae with first
two joints of the general coloration, elsewhere uniform ochraceous -
tawny. Tegmina transparent, of the general coloration, with
veins and veinlets warm buff, except in marginal field where they
are paler, light buff. Limbs of the general coloration, all spines
russet; genicular areas of cephalic and median femora faintly washed
with green; cephalic tibiae with a fleck of dark brown dorsad at the
apex of the auditory foramina.
Length of body 29, width of head 5.8, length of pronotum 8.9,
caudal width of pronotal disk 4.4, length of tegmen 23.2, median
width of tegmen 4.6, length of cephalic femur 8.5, length of caudal
femur 15.7, length of cercus 5.1 mm.
The type is unique.
Salomona ornata Brunner.
1898. Salomona ornata Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges., XXIV,
p. 270, pi. XX, figs. 52, 52a and 52b. {&, 9; Halmahera, [Gilolo
Island, Celebes].]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 2 9 .
Length of body 26.3 and 29.3, width of head 5.8 and 6.2, length
of pronotum 9 and 9.2, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.6 and 4.7,
length of tegmen 32.4 and 36, median width of tegmen 6.3 and 7.3,
