1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 237
lateral margins converging evenly to the acute apex; ventral
surface convex, rugulose, showing an indication of medio-longi-
tudinal angulation, basal spine prominent, slender, with apex
rounded, separated from frontal fastigium by a space greater than
its width, which in lateral aspect is rounded. Head with occiput
and genae weakly rugulose, face more strongly so. Pronotum
heavily rugulose, disk flattened and separated from lateral lobes by
heavy and blunt lateral carinae. Tegmina and wings fully de-
veloped, the former rounding rather sharply at apex. Mesosternal
lobes acute-angulate produced. Subgenital plate acute-angulate
emarginate meso-distad, the lateral portions thus formed truncate
distad, each surmounted by an elongate, straight, very slender,
cylindrical style, nearly five times as long as its greatest width.
Femora with dorsal surfaces all showing low, rounded, very broad,
transverse rugae. Caudal femora very slender. Ventral femoral
margins armed as follows. Cephalic internal 4 and 5, cephalic
external 6 and 7, median internal 5 and 6 (some of these minute),
median external 5 and 6, caudal internal 12, caudal external 13.
General coloration tawny olive, finely mottled with brown and
immaculate, except for a blackish line on proximal portion of the
ventro-external margins of the caudal femora, a fleck of the same
at the distal extremity of each auditory foramen of the cephalic
tibiae and a number of dark brown flecks on the tegmina.
Length of body 39, length of fastigium of vertex 4.8, length of
pronotum 9.9, caudal width of pronotum 6.2, length of tegmen 49,
length of cephalic femur 10.3, length of caudal femur 22, greatest
width of caudal femur 2.4 mm.
The type is unique. It constitutes the first record for the genus,
as at present limited, from the Philippines.
EUCONOCEPHALUS Karny
1907. Eueonocephalus Karny, Abh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, III, Heft III,
pp. 4 and 39.
Karny proposed this name as of subgeneric rank, but it has
subsequently been given full generic recognition. Here we find
an array of species, some of which are extremely plastic and many
of which are exceedingly close in relationship. The treatment by
Redtenbacher in his "Monographie der Conocephalidarum" is
superficial, dogmatic and confusing. The work of several earlier
authors was ignored and a multitude of species described, the
validity of many being more than doubtful. Even the characters
used are in many cases of questionable value, particularly those of
coloration.
It is much to be regretted that Karny, in his "Revisio Cono-
cephalidarum," made no effort to clear up the numerous Redten-
bacherian errors. Though insufficient material of Eueonocephalus
