12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
PoecilicMhys flabellaris (Rafinesque). Two small examples.
Both have seven dark saddles down middle of back.
(3) Tli<' same day we visited Falls Creek, also a tributary of
the I )an River just east of Danville. It is very similar to the above.
Fish life was also very abundant, and many large schools were
found in the deeper pools. I am indebted to Mr. W. C. Hilderman,
of Danville, for much assistance while collecting in Virginia.
Chrosomus oreas Cope. Common.
Notropis procne (Cope). Few.
\ otropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). Very common, variable
( >ne adult with some white pigment in its fins.
Notropis cerasinus (Cope). Head 3| to 3| depth 4 to 4|; D.
in, 7, i: A. in, 8, i; scales 38 in lateral line to caudal base and 2
c on latter; <> or 7 scales above 1. 1., 4 or 5 below; 18 to 20 pre-
dorsal scales: snout 3 to 4 in head; eye 2\ to 3f ; maxillary 3;
interorbital 3 to Z\. Body deep, well compressed. Head compress-
ed. Muzzle conic, length f to f its width. Eye moderate, less
than snout. Mouth inclined, moderate, lower jaw included. Max-
illary to hind nostril. Interorbital convex. Teeth 2, 4 — 4, 2. hook-
ed, with strong grinding surfaces. Scales very narrowly imbricated
along side- especially in costal region, small, crowded and well
exposed on predorsal, breast and belly. Scales with 12 to 17 apical
radiating prominent striae, circuli coarse. Upper surface and side
of head above with fine sharp and rather scattered tubercles, row
of larger close set ones around upper jaw edge, none on mandible,
though others extended up on predorsal medianly.
Color in alcohol with black or dusky markings on side very
variable, usually as two or three rather large clusters. All fins
with more or less orange-reel medianly, especially brilliant on anal
and paired fins. Sides flushed with crimson.
Very abundant, in large schools in the deeper places. Though a
common species it is little known. The fully ornate males at this
late season are very interesting. Readily distinguished from
Votropis cornutus by the dark lateral blotches and nearly entirely
red fins.
Notropis coccogevis (Cope). Seven, largest 78 mm. Sometimes
mandible not protruding beyond upper jaw.
Notropis ariommus (Cope). Head 3f; depth 5; D. in, 7; A. in,
ile- :; , .i in lateral line and to caudal base, 2 more on latter;
32 tubular scales in 1. 1.; 6 scales above 1. 1., 5 below; predorsal
scales is; snoul 31 in head; eye 2f; maxillary 3; interorbital
Body and head well compressed. Snout much less than
width. Eye greatly larger than snout, high.
Maxillary extends little beyond eve front. No barbel. Mandible
