244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The presence of a series of maculatus from the Province of Kwang-
Tung, China, in a recently received collection, indicates that this
is probably the most abundant species of Conocephalus in that
region. As Walker's description agrees in all respects with this
material we feel justified in indicating the above synonymy.
Mount Banahao, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 9.
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
2 cf.
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf ,
1 9.
Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker),
1 9.
In addition to the suffused and interrupted brown band between
the median and ulnar veins of the tegmina, this species is distinctive
in having the limbs thickly supplied with flecks of mummy brown.
The tegmina are not heavily marked in any of the present series,
the specimens from Mount Makiling being so recessive that the
tegminal suffusions are weakly defined. All are macropterous,
with tegmina extending slightly beyond the apices of the caudal
femora.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) laetus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Xiphidium laetum Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,XLI,
p. 514, pi. IV, fig. 87. [ 9 , northern Australia.]
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 9.
Zamboanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 cf.
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 cf , 1 9 .
The Philippine material differs from the original description in
lacking the dorsal brown stripe of head and pronotum, the Moluccan
pair in being decidedly larger. These specimens agree so closely
in all other features that we feel fully justified in considering them
conspecific.
We note the following features, not mentioned by Redtenbacher.
The antennae appear closely and minutely subannulate, rather
than "remote fusco-annulatae." The ovipositor shows a very
faintly sigmoid tendency and is broader than normal in the genus;
thus of the same type as in the Japanese C. gladiatus (Redten-
bacher), but much less elongate. Genicular lobes of caudal femora
strongly bispinose. Caudal tibiae distad with dorso-internal spur
