248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Though apparently belonging near C. melas (Haan), the species
has been referred by Karny to Conocephalus in its most limited
sense (the subgenus Conocephalus as recognized by us), due to the
absence of prosternal spines. We find that the prosternal spines
are well developed in melas (as is normal in the subgenus Xiphidion),
much smaller in C. formosus (Redtenbacher) and reduced to mere
tuberculations at the latero-caudal angles of the prosternum in
vestitus.
As a result we do not believe this character can be given higher
than specific diagnostic significance in the present case and that
the subgenus Xiphidion will fall as a synonym of the subgenus
Conocephalus, unless other characters exist to warrant its separation.
Further study, however, we believe necessary before final action
can be taken.
LISTROSCELINAE
Karny has recently described a genus, Cecidophaga, 86 related to
the genera discussed below and which, in our opinion, should
unhesitatingly be referred to the Listroscelinae. He has again
dogmatically followed the assignments of Brunner and is confused
by the fact that that author placed Teratura in the Conocephalinae
(as at present understood), but the genus Xiphidiopsis in the
Listroscelinae. This is one of the major reasons why Karny feels
unable to assign Cecidophaga to a definite subfamily.
We feel certain that Teratura and Xiphidiopsis are related
genera of the Listroscelinae. The spines of the cephalic tibiae
are not unusually elongate in certain species of these genera, a
character separating most of the Listroscelinae from other sub-
families. The general structure, however, shows such decided
similarity to that of species of other unquestioned Listroscelids,
that to separate them from that subfamily would be a violation
of common sense. In fact both types of spination can be found
in different species of the genus Xiphidiopsis itself.
Having modified the characterization of the Listroscelinae to
cover the genera Teratura, Xiphidiopsis, Cecidophaga and Lipo-
tacies, little of the confusion encountered by recent workers remains.
To do this admittedly weakens the distinction between the
related subfamilies, but it is our experience that, as the species of
the World become better known, the impossibility of separating
86 Treubia, I, p. 292, (1921).
