1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 251
angles in a weakly decurved, socketed style, three times as long
as its basal width. Femoral genicular lobes bluntly rounded, tibial
spination normal.
General coloration immaculate, buffy; probably a delicate, light
green in life. Eyes dark brown. Antennae weakly suffused with
brown at the intersection of each joint, a few of these widely spaced,
much heavier, giving a subannulate facies.
Length of body 8.7, length of pronotum 3.8, greatest total width
of pronotum 2.3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 2.9, depth of pro-
notal lateral lobe 1.4, length of tegmen 9.2. width of tegmen 2.1,
length of cephalic femur 3.6, length of caudal femur 9.2 mm.
The type is unique.
Alloteratura bakeri new species. Plate XIX, figures 4 and 5.
Though instantly recognizable by the distinctive male genitalia,
this sex of the present species agrees very closely in other respects
with a male of A. xiphidiopsis (Karny) before us. In the present
male the only other differences are seen to lie in the broader,
blunter vertex which is less distinctly sulcate, the less ample pro-
notum with proportionately slightly shorter lateral lobes and the
antennae which show no trace of annulation.
Type: cf ; Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 821.]
The following characters are considered diagnostic for this
species, in addition to those noted in the generic description. Size
and form medium for the genus. Vertex broader and blunter than
in A. xiphidiopsis, flattened dorsad and showing a linear subsul-
cation. Pronotum very slightly less convex than in A . xiphidiopsis.
Lateral lobes of pronotum with ventro-cephalic and ventro-caudal
angles weakly indicated by broad convexities, the latter weakest
ventral angle rounded at ninety degrees, caudal margin with
humeral sinus deep, rounded obtuse-angulate. Tegmina and wings
fully developed. Ultimate tergite moderately produced, its distal
margin showing on each side two weak convexities, between which
it is dorsad broadly and weakly concave. Cerci very heavy,
swollen and irregular in contour, proximal three-fifths nearly as
broad as long, lamellate dorsad and swollen in ventral portion,
thence the cerci are cylindrical, produced dorsad, slanting inward,
scarcely tapering in proximal half, weakly tapering in distal half
to tin rounded and attingent apices. Mesad between the cerci
the yoke of the ultimate tergite projects caudad considerably
beyond the subgenital plate, its angulate apex is hooded with dorsal
surface medio-longitudinally sulcate, the ventral surface deplanate.
Subgenital plate with lateral margins broadly convex-convergent
to the narrowly truncate apex; the surface, on each side, just before
the apex, raisad and bearing a small, weakly decurved style, dis-
tinctly less than three times as long as its greatest width. Femoral
genicular lobes bluntly rounded, tibial spination normal.
