1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 253
Alloteratura sandakanae new species. Plate XIX, figures 8 and 9.
Though females alone are before us, the present insect may be
readily separated by the dark vertex, antennae and pronotal disk,
the denticulate genicular lobes of the caudal femora and average
greater number of ventro-external spines of the median tibiae.
The ovipositor is longer than in any of the species of the genus
of which females are known.
Type: 9 ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 822.]
Size medium, form comparatively slender. Vertex normal, with
dorsal surface showing a subobsolete linear sulcation. Pronotum
narrower than in females of A. xiphidiopsis (Karny); lateral lobes
shorter, cephalic angle broadly convex, ventral angle rounded at
ninety degrees, caudal angle obsolete, humeral sinus distinct,
obtuse-angulate. Tegmina and wings fully developed, longer than
in A. xiphidiopsis. Ultimate tergite, as in females of that species,
deeply concave above base of ovipositor. Cerci showing, as in
A. xiphidiopsis, a meso-distal thickening but proportionately
more slender, then tapering to the acute apex. Ovipositor slender,
weakly curved dorsad, tapering to the acute apex. Subgenital
plate shorter than wide, convex, sub-bilobate and showing a very
weak median emargination. Genicular lobes of cephalic and me-
dian femora bluntly rounded, of caudal femora each with a single
heavy spine. Tibial spines as normal in the genus. 83
General coloration clay color. Eyes dark brown. Antennae
chestnut brown, heavily overlaid with black proximad, this be-
coming less extensive distad and only occupying the intersections
of the joints. Vertex and occiput blackish brown, this continued
as a dorsal suffusion of chestnut brown on the disk of the pronotum.
Wings suffused with brown. Ovipositor tawny.
The type measurements are given first. Length of body 11 and
12.5, length of pronotum 3.5 and 3.9, total width of pronotum
2.3 and 2.5, length of lateral lobe of pronotum 2 and 2.1, depth of
lateral lobe of pronotum 1.8 and 1.9, length of tegmen 17.6 and
18.7, width of tegmen 2.3 and 2.6, length of cephalic femur 3.3 and
4, length of caudal femur 10.5 and 11.7, length of ovipositor 8.8
and 9.8 mm.
In addition to the type, a female paratype, bearing the same
data, is before us.
XIPHIDIOPSIS Redtenbacher
Genotype, selected by Kirby in 1906, X. fallax Redtenbacher.
We here restrict this genus to the species having the auditory
foramina of the cephalic tibiae apert on both faces.
89 Except that, in the type, only one of the ventro-external margins of the
median tibiae bears six (and one distal) spines.
