254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
As in Alloteratura, a single species is before us which has the
genicular lobes of the caudal femora unispinose. Redtenbacher
and Karny's characterization of the genus must, therefore, be
modified in this respect. The subgenital plate in the female sex
shows great specific differences. The cephalic coxae are armed
with a spine in all of the species before us except the aberrant
gemmicula and aglaia here described. In the species before us the
longest cephalic tibial spines exceed the width of the tibia at their
bases by one and one-half to slightly over four times.
Xiphidiopsis dicera new species. Plate XIX, figures 10, 11 and 12.
This insect is distinguished in both sexes by the darkened and
rounded tips of the genicular lobes of the caudal femora.
In the male, the ultimate tergite is produced mesad in a small
two-horned process, the cerci are flattened, weakly incurved, with
a blunt dorso-internal projection proximad.
In the female, the subgenital plate is of the same type as found
in X. lita Hebard (described as probably adventive in Hawaii),
but the triangularly produced median portion is more ample, with
apex more acute.
The cephalic tibial spines are longer than in any other species
before us, those of the males being somewhat longer than those of
the females at hand.
Type: cT; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 824.]
Size rather small for the genus, form slender. Vertex showing
a subobsolete linear sulcation. Last joint of maxillary palpus
equal in length to fourth, enlarging suddenly near the transverse,
truncate apex. Pronotum elongate, with dorsal surface very
feebly convex, the metazona produced caudad and equal in length
to the prozona; cephalic margin of lateral lobes with ventro-
cephalic angle rounded and broadly obtuse-angulate, margin ven-
trad more strongly rounded, caudal margin weakly concave at
humeral sinus and slightly more decidedly concave opposite the
very large, apert, thoracic foramen. Tegmina and wings fully
developed. Ultimate tergite moderately produced, its caudal
margin shallowly concave between cereal bases, its surface mesad
raised and produced caudad in a pair of cylindrical projections,
each slightly over twice as long as its basal width, which diverge
and form a right-angle between their bases. Cerci moderately
stout, flattened in distal portions and twisting so that meso-distad
the flattened surfaces are oblique and distad they are vertical;
internal surface with a large, flattened, blunt tooth at end of
proximal third, this margin showing a feeble convexity in median
