1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13
slightly protrudes. Scales all broadly exposed, crowded along
dark median predorsal line. Lateral line incomplete, though
reaches caudal peduncle. Dorsal inserted slightly behind ventral
origin. Back pale olive, scale edges dusted dusky. Underlaid
leaden band from eye to caudal base, more intensified blackish
dots along caudal peduncle side and at caudal base, though not
forming well-defined black caudal spot. Lower parts and iris
silvery- white. Fins pale. Length 45 mm.
No previous notice of the occurence of this species east of the
Alleghenies has been given.
Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). Very common. Several
males with snout and dorsal fins orange-red.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Common, though all small.
North Carolina.
The fishes examined from this State were all obtained by Mr.
Dunn in 1917, in a small tributary of the French Broad River
near Brevard, Transylvania County, with the exception of one
species from Linville.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). Abundant. Largest 128
mm. One abnormal, with hunched back.
Notropis spectrunculus (Cope). Eleven examples 50 to 70 mm.
The black spot at the caudal base is triangular in shape. Dr.
H. M. Smith says it is "exceedingly abundant in the upper waters
of the Swannanoa, but is scarce in other tributaries of the French
Broad. " I have compared examples in the Academy from the
French Broad in Henderson County.
Notropis coccogenis (Cope). Very abundant. Specimens of
all ages secured the largest 110 mm. Adult males with front
edge of snout, preorbital and mandibular rami covered with small
tubercles. Also inner surfaces of pectoral rays with each of larger
with row of fine tubercles. In preserved examples the blackish
humeral bar, band on upper portion of dorsal and submarginal
cresent distinct.
Notropis brimleyi B. A. Bean.
Head 3f to 3f; depth 4| to 4f; D. in, 7, i; A. in, 7, i; scales
35 to 38 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 6 or
7 scales above 1. 1., 4 or 5 below; predorsal scales 15 to 21; snout
3 1 to 3 1 in head; eye 3 J to 3f; maxillary 2f to 2f; inter-
orbital 3 to 3|. Body elongately fusiform, moderately compressed.
Muzzle pointed slightly longer then eye in adult, its length about
| its width. Mouth oblique, lower jaw slightly included. Maxil-
lary reaches opposite front pupil edge. Interorbital little wider
