1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 255
portion of section beyond this tooth; cerci straight and scarcely-
taper to that point, thence evenly recurved and show weak con-
vergence of the lateral margins to the bluntly bidentate apices.
Subgenital plate very small, with a median transverse ridge, beyond
this with lateral margins straight and parallel to the slightly de-
curved styles, each of which is nearly four times as long as its basal
width, separated by a distance slightly greater than the length
of one of these, the subgenital plate briefly produced between
these and strongly transverse, trapezoidal. Cephalic coxae armed.
Genicular lobes of all femora bluntly rounded. Cephalic tibiae
very slender, except at the auditory foramina, which portion is
decidedly swollen, ventral margins armed with four pairs and one
external (or rarely five pairs) of elongate spines and with a distal
pair of minute spines. These spines are unusually long for the
genus, the longest slightly over four times the width of the tibia
at that point. Median tibiae ventrad with five pairs of shorter
spines and with a minute pair of distal spines; thickened in proximal
two-thirds, decidedly more slender in distal third. Caudal tibiae
armed as described for Alloteratura on page 250.
Allotype: 9 ; Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements.
(From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with male, differing as follows. Size very slightly
larger. Production of pronotum decidedly shorter, the metazona
two-thirds as long as the prozona; lateral lobes with concavity of
caudal margin opposite thoracic foramen less than at humeral sinus.
Supra-anal plate small, subtriangular with apex very broadly round-
ed, impressed meso-proximad. Cerci cylindrical, widest meso-proxi-
mad, thence tapering to their acute apices, slightly incurved and
hardly three times as long as greatest width. Ovipositor elongate,
swollen proximad, distal portion curved very weakly dorsad with
margins unarmed; dorsal valves acute at apex, ventral valves
with a very faint concavity of ventral margin just before apex,
with apex itself rounded and decurved. Subgenital plate of the
same type as in lita, differing in being supplied with stiff hairs,
while the produced, triangular, median portion is much larger,
leaving only brief convex lateral portions, the produced portion
only half as long as its basal width, with apex sharply rounded.
General coloration pale yellowish brown, probably immaculate
light green in life. The genicular lobes of the caudal femora are
tipped with blackish brown, this apparently of specific diagnostic
importance. The intersection of the antennal segments are weakly
embrowned to different degrees. The tegmina show the sutural
margin faintly tinged with brown, as are the areolae toward that
margin.
The measurements of the type are given first for the male sex,
those of the allotype first for the female sex. Length of body cf 11
and 9 (greatly shrivelled), 9 11.5 and 11.3; length of pronotum
cT 4.1 and 3.9, 9 3.6 and 3.4; greatest total width of pronotum
