256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
d" 2.1 and 2, 9 2.2 and 2.3; length of pronotal lateral lobe <? 2.2
and 2.1, 9 2.2 and 2.1; depth of pronotal lateral lobe d* 1.7 and
1.7, 9 1.8 and 1.8; length of tegmen cT 17.4 and 17, 9 18 and 18.7;
width of tegmen d 1 2 and 2, 9 2.1 and 2.2; length of cephalic femur
cT 4.3 and 4.3, 9 4.2 and 4.2; length of caudal femur J 1 10 and 10,
9 10.2 and 10.8; length of ovipositor 8.1 and 8 mm.
In additional to the described pair, a paratypic male, bearing
the same data as the type, and a paratypic female bearing the same
data as the allotype, are before us.
Xiphidiopsis cryptosticta new species. Plate XIX, figure 13.
This species has the tegmina marked faintly with suffused spots
of brown, the genicular lobes of the cephalic and caudal femora
suffused distad with brown, the latter unispinose.
In the female sex, which alone is known, the subgenital plate is
broad, the disto-lateral portions with margin broadly convex and
the median portion with distal margin concave. This is a very
different type from that developed in X. lita Hebard and X. dicera
described above. It is a much more simple development of the
type found in the very distinct X. drepanophora described below.
Type: 9 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 826.]
Compared with the female sex of dicera, the present insect is
found to show the following diagnostic characters. Size medium,
form slender. Vertex showing a weak sulcation, which in basal
portion broadens into a shallow depression. Last joint of maxil-
lary palpus equal in length to fourth. Pronotum with metazonal
portion about two-thirds as long as prozonal portion; lateral lobes
with margin curving evenly to ventral angle, which is more strongly
rounded, concavities of caudal margin opposite humeral sinus and
thoracic foramen very weak and of equal degree. Supra-anal plate
small, shield-shaped, with apex rounded and dorsal surface weakly
concave. Cerci of same type as in dicera but more elongate, nearly
four times as long as greatest width, with apical portion very slender.
Ovipositor as in dicera, except that the distal extremity of the
ventral valves is even more weakly specialized. Subgenital plate
distinctive; not narrowing to the distal extremity, latero-distad
with margins broadly convex, mesad with distal margin concave;
surface transversely shallowly concave meso-proximad and shal-
lowly concave in disto-lateral portions. Limbs more elongate
than in dicera. Genicular lobes of cephalic and median femora
bluntly rounded, of caudal femora unispinose. Cephalic tibiae
armed with the same number of spines as in dicera, these, however,
much shorter, the longest slightly over twice (in one paratype
varying to slightly over three times) the tibial width at that
point. Median tibiae as in dicera, except that the internal of the
proximal pair of spines is often missing.
