1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 257
General coloration pale yellowish brown, probably light green
in life. The genicular lobes of the cephalic and caudal femora are
tipped with a suffusion of dark brown, these markings not as
decided or as conspicuous as in dicera. The intersections of the
antennal segments are strongly embrowned, at intervals being
stronger and forming distinct annuli. Tegmina with sutural
margins faintly embrowned and with areolae toward this margin
forming a number of vague brown spots.
Length of body (females) 12.2, 90 11.4 and 13; length of pronotum
4, 3.9 and 4.2; total width of pronotum 2.2, 2.2 and 2.3; length of
pronotal lateral lobe 2.7, 2.6 and 2.7; depth of pronotal lateral
lobe 2, 1.9 and 2; length of tegmen 20, 18.5 and 19.3; width of
tegmen 2.3, 2.2 and 2.3; length of cephalic femur 5.7, 5.6 and 5.8;
length of caudal femur 13.2, 12.8 and 12.8; length of ovipositor
8.7, 8 and 8.5 mm.
Two paratypic females, bearing the same data as the type, are
before us.
Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species. Plate XIX, figure 14; plate XX, figures 1, 2,
3 and 4.
This is the first species of the present genus known to us which,
in the male sex, has the ultimate tergite produced latero-ventrad
into a specialized projection between the cerci, thus forming a sort
of yoke.
The genitalia for both sexes are highly distinctive.
Type: d* ; Kolambugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 825.]
Size large for the genus, form slender but comparatively broad
for the genus. Vertex weakly but distinctly sulcate. Last joint
of maxillary palpus equal in length to fourth. Pronotum elongate,
the metazona produced caudad and slightly exceeding the prozona
in length, its surface slightly more convex than in X. dicera here
described. Pronotal lateral lobes as in X. cryptosticta here de-
scribed, except that the concavity of the caudal margin is very
slightly stronger than that opposite the thoracic foramen. Teg-
mina and wings fully developed. Ultimate tergite triangularly
produced with apex bi-mammate, the apices of these each forming
a blunt and decurved denticulation. Supra-anal plate concealed.
Cercus moderately stout, extending to apex of subgenital plate,
there suddenly doubled-in upon itself to near base, thence with
distal portion curving broadly inward, scythe-like., with acute apex
projecting on opposite side of body. Above the subgenital plate
and between it and the scythe-like portions of the cerci the large
yoke of the ultimate tergite projects upward and extends beyond
the apex of the ultimate tergite; this process is medio-longitudinally
carinate ventrad opposite the distal emargination of the subgenital
411
The measurements of the type are given first.
