1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 261
Xiphidiopsis aglaia new species. Plate XV, figure 11; plate XX, figures 8, 9 and 10.
Agreeing closely with the male of X. gemmicula, here described,
in general structure and color pattern, the present male differs in
certain color features, but signally in the remarkable and distinct-
ive genitalic specialization.
Type: cf; Island of Basilan, Zamboanga Province, Philippine
Islands. (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 828.]
Agr ;es closely with gemmicula in all structural features except
the following. Vertex with a delicate, linear, medio-longitudinal
sulcus. Pronotum with metazona slightly shorter than prozona.
Ultimate tergite and supra-anal plate similar, except that the latter
is more slender, with median shaft decidedly more elongate, this
portion with dorsal surface channeled, the distal portion similar
but less heavy, so that the apex has its median portion narrow,
vertical but convex, with the lateral ridge reduced to a small,
flattened lobe dorsad on each side, with outline strongly convex,
these directed dorso-laterad. Cercus very large and intricately
specialized., proximal portion heavy, short, produced internally
in a heavy sub-denticulate plate; from this portion a much more
slender shaft is directed caudad, developing distad as follows.
Dorsad produced in a stout finger which is widest just before its
rounded apex, ventrad produced as a very large and heavy plate,
directed mesad with ventral surface deeply concave, forming an
auriform process (so that these portions of the cerci overlap
strongly). Above the subgenital plate the yoke of the ultimate
tergite is produced, bearing two slender processes directed dorsad,
which are concealed by the proximo-internal plates of the cerci.
Subgenital plate very similar to that of gemmicula, except that it
is somewhat shorter and the styles are not over three times as long
as their basal width.
General coloration (apparently discolored) buffy brown, the sides
of the thorax yellow and probably striking in life. Antennae as
in gemmicula. Vertex tipped with blackish brown, remaining por-
tions and a medio-longitudinal suffusion on occiput and pro-
notum of zinc orange, this, toward the caudal margin of the pro-
notum, changing to a small, elongate, triangular patch of buffy,
bordered by a suffusion of blackish brown. This conspicuous
marking, though of the same general character as in gemmicula,
is seen to be differently proportioned. Tegmina very similar to
those of gemmicula, but more embrowned, with a regular series of
eleven, instead of ten, similar spots and one or two similar spots
distad between the median vein and its branch. Limbs as in
gemmicula except that the penultimate joint of the tarsi and the
apices of the caudal tibiae are more heavily embrowned.
Length of body 13, length of pronotum 3.7, greatest width of
pronotum 1.7, length of pronotal lateral lobe 2.8, depth of pronotal
lateral lobe 1.4, length of tegmen 15.9, width of tegmen 1.9,
length of cephalic femur 4, length of caudal femur 9.3 mm.
The type is unique.
