262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
EUANISOUS 92 new genus.
We propose the present genus to include the two species, pre-
viously assigned to the genus Xiphidiopsis, which have the external
auditory foramen of the cephalic tibiae apert, but the internal very
strongly conchate; distincta (Redtenbacher) and teuthroides
(Bolivar) .
Genotype. — Euanisous teuthroides (Bolivar).
The larger size and heavier build of teuthroides, when compared
with the species of Xiphidiopsis before us, gives it a somewhat
stronger, though wholly superficial, resemblance to a very di-
minutive and slender Gryllacrid.
Euanisous teuthroides (Bolivar)
1904. Xiphidiopsis teuthroides Bolivar, Ann. Mus. Nat. Hungarici, II,
p. 391. [& ; Singapore, [British Straits Settlements].]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 9 .
Singapore, British Straits Settlements., (from C. F. Baker),
1 <?,1 9.
In addition to the characters given by Bolivar, the following
are noted. Vertex not sulcate. Distal joint of maxillary palpus
distinctly longer than fourth. Cephalic coxae armed with a strong-
spine.
The topotypic female before us shows the following additional
features of value. Ovipositor elongate, very faintly curved upward,
margins unarmed, ventral valves subemarginate near the blunt
and weakly deflexed apex, (as in Xiphidiopsis). Ovipositor with
ventral valves, on each side at base, produced in a short, narrow,
horizontal, rounded lamella. 93 Subgenital plate apparently not
strongly chitinous and transversely truncate distad.
The caudal tibiae, though described by Bolivar as unarmed,
are in the topotypic material before us armed dorsad with small
spines and ventrad, except in proximal portion, with slightly larger
spines, distad with three pairs of spurs. The male before us agrees
so closely in every other detail with Bolivar's description that we
are convinced "femora" instead of "tibiae" was intended. Thus
distincta appears to be separable mainly by its smaller size, un-
armed mesosternum and by male genitalic differences.
92 In allusion to the remarkably, but very differently, developed auditory
foramina on the internal and external surfaces of the cephalic femora.
3 The Labuan female has this lamella decidedly broader, and, though appar-
ently agreeing in all other features (the contour of the subgenital plate can not
be accurately distinguished), males from Borneo may show that insect to be
specifically distinct.
