264 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
apex of the caudal femora. Prosternum and mesosternum each
with a pair of bluntly conical projections, metasternum unarmed.
Ultimate tergite briefly produced in space between cerci, the apex
of this production transverse, weakly emarginate, with margins
weakly convex. Cerci elongate and heavy, weakly sigmoid in
lateral aspect, cylindrical with vent ro-internal surface swollen at
end of proximal third, thence slightly widening, then tapering to
the sharply rounded apex, this distal two-thirds vertically some-
what lamellate (the cerci thus form elongate claspers, which are
attingent distad). Subgenital plate with surface moderately
convex, lateral margins weakly convergent to the truncate and
weakly convex distal margin; styles situated at disto-lateral angles,
very slender, cylindrical, directed ventrad and slightly curved
cephalad, nearly six times as long as basal width. Femoral geni-
cular lobes bluntly rounded. Cephalic femora armed ventrad with
three external and four internal, moderately elongate spines, other
femora entirely unarmed. Cephalic tibiae armed with four pairs
of elongate spines and a minute pair of distal spines, the longest
(proximo-internal) nearly five times the width of the tibia at that
point. Median tibiae armed only with a minute pair of ventro-
distal spines. Caudal tibiae unarmed ventrad, supplied with
numerous small spines along the dorsal margin and armed distad
with two pairs of short but heavy spurs.
General coloration immaculate, light brownish buff (apparently
much discolored). Caudal tibial spurs and lateral portions of
tarsal joints embrowned.
Length of body 11.5, length of pronotum 3.4, greatest width of
pronotum 2, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3, depth of pronotal
lateral lobe 1.2, length of tegmen 8.8, width of tegmen 1.9. extent
of wing beyond tegmen 2.7, length of cephalic femur 3.8, length of
caudal femur 11 mm.
The type is unique.
Phisis obiensis new species. Plate XVII, figure 20.
This insect is closely related to the Papuan P. arachnoides
(Bolivar), differing in the female sex from the description of that
species in the slightly shorter limbs, slightly longer ovipositor,
subgenital plate which has its apex produced mesad in a small,
narrow-necked lobe and spination of the trochanters and femora of
the median limbs.
Type: 9 ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type no.
830.]
Size medium, form very slender for the genus. Vertex very
slender, weakly ascendant to the sharply rounded apex, medio-
longitudinally weakly sulcate. Maxillary palpi extremely elongate,
last joint decidedly longer than fourth, weakly and evenly curved,
widening very slightly and gradually to the sharply rounded apex,
