1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 265
the dorsal surface concave in distal two-thirds. Pronotum with
disk showing weak sulci, caudal margin weakly concave and cin-
gulate; lateral lobes elongate, ventral margin horizontal, ventro-
cephalic angle more strongly rounded than ventro-caudal, caudal
margin strongly oblique ascendant, humeral sinus very weakly
indicated. Between the tegmina proximad, a convex scutellum
is exposed. Tegmina and wings fully developed, the former narrow
and elongate, extending as far caudad as the wings, broadening
somewhat caudad with apices rather broadly rounded. Prester-
num bispinose, mesosternum binodulose, me'tasternum weakly bino-
dulose. Cerci simple, slender, curved. Ovipositor moderately
falcate, the dorsal and ventral margins distad very finely serrulate
to the acute apex. Subgenital plate very small, with a narrow-
necked, small, oval production at apex. Cephalic coxae unarmed.
Median trochanters with a small ventral spine. Femoral genicular
lobes strongly unispinose. Cephalic femora with four internal and
six external, very elongate and slender, ventral spines. Median
femora with two very small proximo-internal and four elongate
external ventral spines. Caudal femora with eleven and thirteen
small ventro-external spines. Cephalic tibiae with auditory fora-
mina inflated conchate, the oval openings ventro-cephalad; armed
ventrad with eight pairs of very elongate, slender spines (on one
tibia with a single sub-distal additional ventro-internal spine),
which decrease in length distad, and a pair of minute apical spines.
Median tibiae armed ventrad with seven external and six internal,
somewhat less elongate spines and a pair of minute apical spines.
Caudal tibiae with numerous very small dorsal and less numerous
larger ventral spines and three pairs of distal spurs.
General coloration immaculate buffy, probably a very pale
green in life. Flecks of green occur on this dried specimen on the
occiput, dorsum of the pronotum, scutellum and sides of the
thorax. Ovipositor ochraceous-buff, tinged with tawny distad.
Length of body 13, length or pronotum 3.2, greatest width of
pronotum 2.3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3, depth of pronotal
lateral lobe 1.7, length of tegmen 25.3, proximal width of tegmen
2.2, greatest (meso-distal) width of tegmen 2.7, length of longest
cephalic tibial spine 1.9, length of cephalic femur 8.9, length of
caudal femur 14.8, length of ovipositor 9.8 mm.
The type is unique.
Phisis philippinarum Karny.
1920. Phisis philippinarum Karny, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, LXX,
p. 31. [ 9 ; Los Bafios, [Luzon], Philippine Islands.]
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
We assign the present specimen to philippinarum, as it agrees
in every detail of limb armament as well as in many other features
given in Karny's description. The proportions are, however, so
different that it may represent a distinct species. Males probably
will be needed to determine this.
