266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The broadly truncate subgenital plate has the distal margin
showing very weak obtuse-angulate production, the lateral portions
of this margin being faintly concave.
Length of body 17 (distended), length of pronotum 3.8, greatest
width of pronotum 2.7, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.7, depth
of pronotal lateral lobe 1.9, length of tegmen 18, greatest width of
tegmen 2.1, length of longest cephalic tibial spine 2.3, length of
cephalic femur 8.2, length of caudal femur 14.5, length of ovipositor
10 mm.
Phisis pectinata (Guerin)
1830. Lislroscelis pectinata Guerin, Voyage de La Coquille, Zool., II, part
II, p. 153; Atlas, pi. Ins. X, figs. 1 and la to lc. [[<?]; Island of Bourou,
Moluccas.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 9 .
Though this genotype has been excellently figured by Guerin
and subsequently diagnosed by Serville, Redtenbacher has confused
under this name probably a number of species and has given char-
acters in his description which are not correct for pectinata.
The following features are noteworthy in the specimen before us.
Ovipositor as described here for P. obiensis, but proportionately
broader. Subgenital plate narrow, flattened ventrad, the lateral
margins gradually converging to the truncate apex, which shows
a weak concavity. Cephalic coxae with a short spine. Cephalic
femora armed ventrad with four internal and five external, elongate,
slender spines. Median femora armed ventrad with three shorter
external spines and the internal margin with two minute proximal
spines and a series of microscopic serrulations (this margin figured
as unarmed by Guerin and so described by Serville). 95 Caudal
femora armed ventrad with twelve external and two internal,
minute spines. Cephalic tibiae armed ventrad with seven pairs of
long, slender, curved spines and a pair of minute distal spines.
Median tibiae armed ventrad with the same number of shorter
spines and with a meso-dorsal spine.
Length of body 16.7, length of pronotum 4.5, greatest width of
pronotum 3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.7, depth of pronotal
lateral lobe 2, length of tegmen 30.2, width of tegmen 3.8, length
of longest cephalic tibial spine 2.7, length of cephalic femur 8,
length of caudal femur 14.8, length of ovipositor 11.9 mm.
Phisis acutipennis Carl. Plate XXI, figure 5.
1908. Phisis acutipennis Carl, Rev. Suisse de Zool., XVI, p. 144, pi. 4,
figs. 22 and 23. [ 9 , Java.]
96 This may be due to the fact that the spines and serrulations of this margin
are so small that they could easily have been overlooked without high mag-
nification. Redtenbacher 's description of this margin as bearing five spines is
certainly referable to a distinct species.
