1 t PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
than eye. Teeth 2, 5—5, 2, with moderate grinding surf aces. Scales
largest and slightly imbricated along middle of sides. Apical
marginal striae 10 to 18. Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal
than snoul tip, nearly midway in young, slightly behind
ventral origin. ( !olor in alcohol, back brown with scales distinctly
dark edged, in some examples sharply so and approaching duskyor
black. Leaden lateral band from shoulder to caudal base medianly,
mning blackish on latter and side of caudal peduncle, so that
distind Mack spol at caudal base, more or less reflected out in
median caudal rays basally. Dark median line down back. Fins
all pale. Iris, sides of head and lower surface of body largely
whitish with silvery reflections. Many examples show edges of
costal scales sharply dusky and dark oblique line from shoulder
to pectoral axil. An adult male shows end and edge of snout,
also sides of mandible, finely tuberculate. Thirty-three examples,
25 to 75 mm.
Quite variable when preserved, especially color and size of eye.
This species does not seem to have been found since described.
Rhinichthys atronasus (MitchiH). Twenty-four examples, larg-
esl 69 mm.
Fundulus catenatus (Storer). Nine young from Linville, the
only species from this locality.
Poedlichthys flabellans (Rafinesque). Six.
Cottus bairdii Girard. Five, largest 60 mm.
South Carolina.
(1). On October 19, 1921, we visited the Pacolet River above
Spartanburg, in the basin of the Broad River, Spartanburg County.
A1 the dam. just east of the town, this is a broad muddy stream,
with many soft banks in the back-water. Below the dam we found
a mass of shallow pools, with debris, snags, many large rocks,
etc. Few fish were found except in the deep holes, and these all
of small size.
Ameiurus ruins (Linne). Young examples.
Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Four, mostly silvery, though
otherwise very pale.
Notropis hudsoiiiu-s .salurimivs (Jordan and Brayton). One
example li? mm. Caudal with very pale spot.
Notropis niveus (Cope). Four .small ones.
Notropis scepticus (.Jordan and Gilbert).
Head 3 ; to 1; depth 4 to 4§; D. in, 7, i, forward rudimentary
rays abnormally i; A. in, 10, i, abnormally n, 7, and in, 2; scales
