1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 267
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
The remarkable spatulate development of the spines of the
cephalic limbs is well figured by Carl. These spines have their
ventral surfaces concave and supplied with numerous microscopic
black spinulae.
Carl has apparently (unlike most other authors) counted the
distal pair of minute spines in giving the count for the cephalic
and median tibiae. In the specimen here recorded the cephalic
tibiae bear ventrad six pairs of very elongate, specialized spines
and a pair of minute distal spines. The median tibiae have ventrad
six external and five internal moderately elongate, slender spines
and a minute distal pair of spines.
In this specimen we note further that the median trochanters
are armed ventrad with a single small spine, the ovipositor has its
margins minutely serrulate distad and the subgenital plate is
minutely but suddenly concave-emarginate at its apex.
Length of body 16, length of pronotum 4.2, greatest width of
pronotum 3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.8, depth of pronotal
lateral lobe 1.7, length of tegmen 18.7, width of tegmen 2, length
of longest cephalic tibial spine 3.4, length of cephalic femur 10.3,
length of ovipositor 11.8 mm.
LIPOTACTES Brunner
1898. Lipotactes Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges., XXIV, p. 274.
1909. Mortoniellus Griffini, Wiener Ent. Zeit., XXVIII, p. 107.
The above synonymy is wholly due to Brunner having assigned
his genus to the Listroscelinae, while, when Griffini submitted his
specimen, it was referred by Karny, Redtenbacher and Werner to
the Tympanophorinae. It appears almost certain that the latter
subfamily, based primarily on the absence of a dorso-internal spur
on the caudal tibiae is of no value. The much lower significance
of such differentiation is well understood if it is noted that the
North American subgenera of Conocephalus, for instance, are in a
number of cases thereby separable, 96
Lipotactes maculatus new species. Plate XV, figure 12.
This remarkable insect is readily distinguished from the Bornean
genotype, L. alienus Brunner and the Sumatran L. karnyi (Grif-
fini) by its much smaller size and varied coloration.
It is odd that, though three species are now known, a male of the
genus has as yet not been described.
96 See Rehn and Hebard, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLI, p. 226, (1915).
