268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Type: 9 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 831.]
The structural features appear to agree closely in all the species
of Lipotactes, the present insect differing in size; agreeing with
alienus but differing from karnyi in the pronotal sulci, the first of
which is deep on the disk and near the cephalic margin, the others
broader and subobsolete in that portion. The other important
features are the stout form; large and broad head; prominent
eyes; vertex which rounds down to the low, suddenly projecting,
narrow, vertical fastigium, which is subsulcate on its cephalic face
and is in contact with the frontal fastigium. Prozona heavily bi-
spinose, mesozona and metazona each heavily binodulose. Prono-
tum short, truncate. Tegmina and wings absent. Ovipositor short,
acute, moderately recurved, with base somewhat swollen, the mar-
gins smooth to the acute apex. Subgenital plate triangular, medio-
longitudinally carinate. Femora unarmed, the caudal femora much
swollen proximad. Cephalic tibiae with auditory foramina rimate,
these and the median tibiae armed ventrad with five pairs of heavy
spines. Caudal tibiae with five distal spurs, the dorso-internal
being absent. Cephalic coxae unispinose. Caudal coxae internally
produced in a long fingsr. Femoral genicular lobes blunt, the ce-
phalic internal and all of the median femora minutely and sub-
obsoletely bispinose, the external of the caudal femora armed with
a small spine and the internal with a large, heavy spine.
General coloration shining, brussels brown. Eyes deep chestnut
brown. Occiput brussels brown, with four broad, suffused, longitu-
dinal bands of dark prout's brown. Projecting portions of fastigium
of vertex and facial fastigium blackish bay, with a broad vertical
band of deep bay on face of clypeus, a similar but narrower sub-
ocular band on each side and a vertical fleck of this color beneath
the narrowly blackish bay margined antennal sockets. Antennae
with proximal joints brussels brown with suffusions of blackish
bay, remaining joints darker with some of the intersections brussels
brown. Pronotum brussels brown, with a broad dorsal band of
blackish on the lateral lobes, this margined dorsad by a slightly
paler shade than that of the remaining portions of the disk. These
markings continued caudad, becoming very weak toward the distal
portion of the abdomen. Ovipositor tawny. Cephalic and median
limbs buckthorn brown showing a faint tinge of tawny and thickly
ornamented with large flecks of blackish brown; the caudal tibiae
similar, but less heavily flecked. Caudal femora buckthorn brown
showing a faint tinge of tawny, with the following markings:
externally a large, dorso-proximal, immaculate, oval patch of buffy,
below which is a heavy, roughly elongate-trigonal patch of blackish
brown with base distad, sending a ray of blackish brown from the
dorso-distal angle to the dorsal margin of the limb ; distad chestnut
brown with a fleck of buffy dorsad, the remaining portions from the
proximal to the distal dark marking showing numerous flecks of
