1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15
22 to 35 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 6 scales
above 1. 1., 4 below, predorsal scales 15 to 18, snout 3^ to 3f in
head; eye 3 to 3|; maxillary 2f to 3|; interorbital 3^ to 3f .
Body well compressed, rather deep, also head. Muzzle conic,
length | its width. Eye large, slightly larger than snout, less than
interorbital. Maxillary reaches eye. Upper lip opposite eye center,
jaws equal. Interorbital convex. Teeth 1, 4 — 4, 1, hooked,
with grinding surfaces. Lateral scales rather narrowly imbricated,
predorsal smaller, though without crowded appearance. Scales
with 6 to 18 apical marginal striae, circuli coarse. Dorsal origin
well behind ventral origin or slightly nearer caudal base than
snout tip. Color in alcohol pale grayish, sides of head and lower
surface with bright silvery-white tints. Median lateral plumbeous
streaks along side of caudal peduncle. Edges of scales on back
slightly dusky. Four examples, 55 to 65 mm. long.
This is the southern deeply-bodied ally of Notropis photogenis
and occurs chiefly in the Santee Basin. Though said to be abundant
locally we secured only the few examples described above, all
with abnormal fins and one with an abortive snout, snub-nosed.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Young one.
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very common.
(2). Later in the day we visited Fair Forest Creek, also basin
of the Broad River, near Arkwright, Spartanburg County. This
is a clear brook where we explored, flowing over a rocky and gravelly
bottom. All the rocks were of moderate size. The stream was
without any submerged aquatic vegetation, except a little eelgrass
in its lower reaches which contained many craw-fishes (Cambarus).
Notropis lutipinnis (Jordan and Brayton).
Head 4; depth 3^ to 4; D. in, 7, i; A. in, 6 or 7,i; scales 37 in
lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 7 scales above
1. L, 4 or 5 below; predorsal scales usually 17: snout 3^ to 3| in
head; eye 3| to 3|; maxillary 2| to 3|; interorbital 2| to
2|. Body well compressed deep. Head compressed, short.
Muzzle conic, length about f its width. Eye rather large. Mouth
moderate, lower jaw slightly included. Maxillary reaches eye.
Interorbital convex. Teeth 2, 4 — 4, 2, hooked, with grinding
surfaces. Upper surface and sides of head finely tuberculate.
Scales all well exposed, slightly crowded before dorsal. Scales
with radiating apical striae conspicuous, 11 to 15, circuli coarse.
Dorsal origin behind ventral origin, about midway between snout
tip and caudal base. Color in alcohol with all fins, at least
basally, bright yellow. Males largely with body flushed with
pink to reddish. Broad black lateral band very conspicuous,
though best defined along caudal peduncle side ; bordering above
a gamboge-olive streak. Twenty examples, 47 to 53 mm.
