306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [LXXIV
Preparateur au College de France; in 1893, Professeur at the
Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, and in 1896 Director of the Labora-
toire de Mineralogie, Ecole des Hautes Etudes. In 1892, and again
in 1903, he was made Laureat de 1' Institute; and in 1904 was elected
a member of the Academie des Sciences, section de Mineralogie.
Ten years later he became Secretaire perpetual of the section of
Physics of the Academie. He has also been created Chevalier de
la Legion d'Honneur. He is a member of numerous learned
societies in France and elsewhere, and has headed many scientific
missions in all parts of the world. His last visit to this continent
was in 1913, when he attended the meetings of the Internationa]
Geological Congress in Canada, and subsequently visited many
colleagues in the United States. He also took an active part in
the International Geological Congress held in Belgium in 1922,
where his eminence in his science was universally recognized.
At the early age of 25 he collaborated with Professor A. Michel-
Levy in the preparation of an important book, Les Mineraux des
Roches, (334 pages, Paris, 1888). The first of the five volumes of
his great work, Mineralogie de la France et ses Colonies, appeared in
1893; the fifth and final one in 1902; and recently this has been
supplemented by an elaborate Mineralogie de Madagascar (1922).
Other important volumes from his pen are Les enclaves des roches
volcaniques (1893), and La Montague Pelee et ses eruptions (1904).
In addition to these and other books he has contributed numerous
papers to various scientific journals and proceedings of scientific
societies, many of them announcing important discoveries in
geology, petrology, and mineralogy.
These include the proposal of about forty -seven mineral names;
the reinvestigation and characterization of a large number of in-
completely described species. The mineral "Lacroixite" was
named in honor of Professor Lacroix by F. Slavik in 1914.
Over forty rock minerals and other petrographic terms are due to
Professor Lacroix; and he has made extensive studies of the phe-
nomena of contact metamorphism, endomorphic metamorphism,
and numerous other similar phenomena.
A resolution of appreciation of the services of Mr. John Cad-
walader, the retiring President, was unanimously adopted by a
rising vote.
