16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
This species is greatly suggestive of Notropis chalybaeus, but
differs in coloration, especially its characteristic yellowish fins
and broader Mack lateral band. We found it only in the deeper
pools.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Very abundant. All
taken are young.
Lept mis auritus I Linne). Six examples, largest 85 mm.
(3). October 18 we visited the Saluda River at Piedmont, in
Greenville County. This muddy river for about three miles did
not afford a single suitable place to operate our small seine. The
bank- were steep and mostly all overgrown, and very few places
even accessable from them. About a mile below Piedmont we
found a small estuary, known as "Depot Branch," the only place
we could examine satisfactorily. Above, Depot Branch was found
to be but a small brook, partly polluted from near-by dwellings,
though it contained a number of fishes. It flows chiefly through a
sandy valley of cotton and corn -fields. Though we did not meet
with any, eels were said to ascend its reaches. The river fishermen
reported various suckers, "carps", "white-carps", chubs, cats,
yellow-cats, channel-cats, crappies, sunfish, fliers, spotted-sunfish,
and yellow-perch in the river. The following fishes were all obtained
in Depot Branch:
Schilbeodes insignis (Richardson). One 110 mm. It agrees in
every way with Pennsylvania specimens.
Ilifbognathus nuchalis Agassiz. Eight, largest 70 mm. Coloration
very pale. Back pale olivaceous, sides and below silvery-white.
Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). Abundant, all small.
Notropis niveus (Cope). Series of 270 examples, largest 57 mm.
in alcohol the dark lateral streaks only distinct along side of caudal
peduncle, ending in the rather faint dusky basal caudal spot.
Along side medianly this streak dull blue, in life. My specimens
evidently represent the Codoma chloristia Jordan and Brayton,
synonym of the present species.
Very abundant in large schools in the deeper pools about the
more quid places. A handsome little fish, similar, or greatly
like Notropis whipplii. No example in nuptial coloration met
with.
Notropis lutipinnis ('.Jordan and Brayton). Thirteen examples,
larg out ID nun.
