1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17
Hybopsis rubrifrons (Jordan). Five small examples, which
agree with those from Toccoa Creek.
Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). Young example.
Lepomis auritus (Linne). Two young.
Georgia.
(1). Toccoa Creek, tributary of the Chatooga River in the
Tungalow River Basin, near Toccoa, Stephen County, was visited
October 17. This is a stream of moderate size, with sandy and
gravelly bottom. It is polluted with three local sewers, though
apparently not greatly detrimental to fish-life, which was very abun-
dant in the pools. Large suckers, cats, sunfish and perch were re-
ported abundant.
Notropis rubricroceus (Cope). Very abundant and found in
schools of varying size, of from a few individuals to several hundred.
We secured over three hundred specimens. In the adults snout
brilliant orange. Often small examples show an orange tip to the
snout, without the brilliant orange-red color of the body in general.
In the young often also dorsal base, caudal and other fins all more
or less tinted with pale orange.
Hybopsis rubrifrons (Jordan).
Head 3^ to 3|; depth 4j to 5; D. ii, 7; A. n, 7, scales 35 in
lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter, 6 scales above
1. 1., 5 below; 14 predorsal scales; snout 3 to 3| in head; eye 3^
to 3f; maxillary 3 to 3f ; interorbital 3 to 3\. Body fusiform,
moderately compressed. Head conic, scarcely compressed. Snout
conic, somewhat depressed, length about § its width. Eye high,
less than snout, little advanced, equals interorbital, greater than
snout and interorbital in young. Mouth small, snout greatly
protruding. Maxillary reaches eye, terminal barbel always con-
spicuous. Interorbital broadly convex. Teeth 1,4 — 4, 1, hooked,
with grinding surfaces. Scales more or less uniform, absent from
breast, with 10 to 13 radiating striae, and circuli moderate.
Color in alcohol with back pale olivaceous, each scale on back
bordered broadly with dull dusky dots. Dusky leaden band from
front of preorbital to base of caudal, where it ends in a small dusky
spot. Under surface of head and trunk, below lateral band, bright
silvery white. Fifty specimens, 40 to 84 mm.
Abundant in the channels, associated with the other species.
Compared with Hybopsis amblops, from Paint Rock, Alabama,
the eye of the latter is larger, greater than either the snout or inter-
orbital space. In Hybopsis rubrifrons the eye is distinctly smaller
than the snout and though it often equals the interorbital is
