18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
usually less. Its head is also shorter and broader though Jordan
and Evermann say "head long, narrower than in H. amblops."*
The plumbeous median lateral band of Hybopsis rubrifrons
extends indistinctly around the snout and is usually within the
compass of the lateral line, ending in a dark caudal spot not es-
pecially pronounced. Each scale of lateral line with a cluster of
black dots, one above and the other below each tube. At this
season our specimens are with pale olivaceous backs, scales dark
edged and sides below bright silvery white. Fins also pale. No red.
Hybopsis rubrifrons was originally described from the South Fork
of the Ocmulgee River at Flat Rock in De Kalb County, based
on six specimens. Its occurrence and abundance in the Savanna
Basin is therefore of interest.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Very abundant. Though
without ornamentation at this season all the specimens show the
dorsal and anal nearly bittersweet-orange in tint, varying to more
deeply in some individuals. The dark median lateral band distinct,
though not conspicuous, only faintly present in the adults, the
largest 116 nun. Ninety specimens.
< atostomus nigricans (Le Sueur). Six largest 93 mm.
Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). Six small examples.
(2). In a small tributary brook of Toccoa Creek, near Toccoa,
we found many fine minnows. This stream is of rapid cold water,
flowing over rocks with many cascades, riffs, and a few water-falls.
Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). One young example.
Notropis rubricroceus (Cope). The most abundant species in
all the rock-pools, and deeper places in the brooks. The adults,
largely silvery at this time, have much the appearance of Leuciscus
vandoisulus.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Seven young.
Catostomus nigricans (Le Sueur). Three young.
Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). One young.
On October 16, the headwaters of the Oconee River, near
hula, Hall County, were visited. The stream we visited was a
small clear cold spring-fed brook. It flows through bottom-lands
with little incline, over gravel and red clay. In most places it is
diflicult to approach, on account of thickets and shrubs.
- Bull. I". s. Nat. Mus., No. 47. pt. 1, 1896, p. 320.
