1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21
species by the larger black blotch, similar to that of the adult.
Notropis callistius (Jordan). Forty-one examples.
Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). Four young.
Notropis chrosomus (Jordan). Five examples. In alcohol the
largest shows an orange band above adjoining the dusky median
band. Iris silvery-white, with slight rosy-purple tint.
Catostomus nigricans (Le Sueur) Four young.
Boleosoma stigmaeum (Jordan).
Head 3^ to 3f; depth 5f to 6^; D. IX— i, 11; A. II, 9; scales
42 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; tubes in
1. 1. 23 to 32; 5 scales above 1. 1., 5 below; predorsal scales 8; snout
3 1 to 3 1 in head; eye 2>\ to 4; maxillary 3^ to 3|; interorbital
If to 2 in eye. Body elongate, slender, but slightly compressed.
Head well compressed. Muzzle rather short, length f its width.
Eye large elevated. Mouth small, lower jaw slightly included.
Maxillary not quite to e} r e, but little protractile. Interorbital
narrow. Opercular spine moderately large. Gill-membranes
deeply cleft, but slightly connected. Scales on opercles, head
otherwise naked. Breast and predorsal naked. Scales with 9
or 10 basal marginal striae, apical denticles 19 or 20, rather large,
with three series of basal elements, and circuli large. Caudal
slightly emarginate. Color in alcohol pale brownish tessellated or
speckled with deep brown to dusky above. About nine w-like
marks of dusky close along and below lateral line. Six dark saddles
down middle of back. Dorsals and caudal finely barred with
duskjr. Dusky streak from eye to snout tip and another below
eye. Two examples.
This species bears a great resemblance to Boleosoma nigrum,
though both specimens show two anal spines. In my series of
Boleosoma nigrum there is usually but a single anal spine. Originally,
described with a band of bright orange red above on the spinous
dorsal.
Cottus bairdii Girard. One 44 mm. This represents the Pot-
amocottus zopherus Jordan, or the dark colored southern variety
of the Alabama basin.
Alabama.
(1). We first visited Swan Lake, in Morgan County, October 10.
This is a large still body of water, mostly muddy, about a mile
long and a few hundred yards in width. During very high water
it is connected with the Tennessee River.
Polyodon spathula (Walbaum). Tail of a large example examined;
caught in the lake.
