22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very common.
Ambloplites rupestris (Hafinesque). Several.
Chaenobryttus gulosus (Cnvier). Three secured. A common
species.
Lepomis incisor Valenciennes. Thirteen. Very common.
Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede). Several examples, 2\ to 3
pounds, caught with plugs.
2 . In the Tennessee River above Albany, October 11, we found:
Lepisosteus osseus (Linne). Saw portions of an adult example
ai the ship-yard.
Ictalurus punctatus (Hafinesque). Several of about two pounds.
Notropis umbratilis (Girard). Ten young examples, brilliant
silvery in life, seined along the river.
Stizostedion canadense (Griffiths). One adult.
(3). In the ponds along the river, mostly muddy, and about
Albany, we found:
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very common, also the next.
Lepomis incisor Valenciennes.
(4). Limestone Creek, at Bellemina, Morgan County, October 12.
This tributary of the Tennessee River is sluggish and rather
muddy, shallow in places and with a bottom of small stones and
pebbles. In pools left by floods or high water, we found many
small fish entrapped. The riffs were all shallow and gradual,
though shallow places scarce and hard to reach.
Ameiurus natalis (Le Sueur). Two, larger 67 mm.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafmesque). Thirteen. Small and dark.
Hybognathus nuchalis Agassiz. One 86 mm.
Pimephales notatus (Rafmesque). Eleven.
Ceratichthys vigilax Baird and Girard. Three examples.
Notropis coccogenis (Cope). Twenty-four.
Notropis umbratilis (Girard). Eleven. This would be Notropis
umbratilis fasciolaris Gilbert, though my examples differ in their
normal slender body and absence of five to eight dark blue, vertical,
cross-bars.
Hybopsis amblops (Hafinesque). Thirteen.
Minytrema melanops (Rafmesque). Five Though the largest
example is only 90 mm. long, most show the dorsal and anal with
brick red tints and the former black apically.
Moxostoma aureolum (Le Sueur). Four, largest 75 mm. All
