1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23
have five to eight tubular scales in fore part of lateral line. Largest
with anal and caudal tinted brick-red.
Fundulus notatus (Rafinesque). Three.
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very abundant.
Apomotis cyaneUus (Rafinesque). Eleven.
Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). Four.
Percina caprodes (Rafinesque). Four.
Ulocentra simotera (Cope). Five.
Poecilichthys maculatus (Kirtland). One. It shows: D. XII — i,
11, A. II, 10; scales in 1. 1. 52 to caudal base and 3 more on latter.
Poecilichthys coeruleus (Storer). Five.
(5). On October 13 we visited the Paint Rock River at Paint
Rock, in Jackson County. This broad stream, tributary also to
the Tennessee River, was partly clear, though muddy in places.
Below the dam we found a few stony shoals, especially about the
fords. A mile below were high banks, where the bottom was
largely clay, and only one place with a few submerged aquatic
plants. Also, in many places the shoals were full of snags. In
most places the only fish were free-swimmers, as we could not
drag the shoals on account of the rocks on the bottom.
Ameiurus natalis (Le Sueur). Saw one dead exanple.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). Fourteen examples.
Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). Ten, largest 75 mm.
Opsopoeodus emiliae Hay. •
Head 4; depth 4§; D. n, 8, i: A. n, 7, i; scales 35 in lateral
line to caudal base and 2? more on latter; 6 scales above I. 1., 4
below; 19 predorsal scales; snout 4 in head from upper jaw tip;
eye 3i; maxillary 4£; interorbital 2f. Body fusiform, com-
pressed. Head compressed. Muzzle obtuse. Snout depressed,
length f its width. Eye large, greater than snout, less than inter-
orbital. Mouth small, cleft less than pupil, vertically oblique,
mandible well protruded and snout tip level with upper part of
pupil. Interorbital broadly convex. Predorsal scales little crowded,
somewhat narrowly imbricated along side of trunk, moderate
on breast, apical radiating striae 6 or 7, circuli coarse. Dorsal
inserted little nearer snout tip than caudal base, first branched
rays depressed back much further than last. Color in alcohol
very pale olivaceous above, sides and below silvery-white. Dusky
lateral band, made up of black dots, on preorbital and opercle
to caudal base, where ending in slight dusky spot, width much
less than pupil. Fins all pale, with dusky dots along bases of
dorsal and anal and row down predorsal. Length 48 mm.
Besides the above I examined another example in the Academy,
