2 i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
53 mm. long from Beaumont, Texas. Head 4 T V; depth 4; D. n,
8, r A. ii. 7. i: -rales 37 in lateral line to caudal base and 2
more on latter; 7 scales above -1. 1., 4 below; 21 predorsal scales;
head width I, 1 iii its total length; snout 3£; eye 3|; maxillary 4;
interorbital '!}: teeth 5 — 5.
N"o1 common. An interesting little fish, and is easily distin-
guished among our cyprinoids by its very small mouth and strongly
projecting lower jaw. Not previously known from the Tennessee
River basin.
Ceratichtkys vigilaz Baird and Girard. Four small examples.
Notropis hoops Gilbert. Two examples, largest 55 mm. These
specimens 1 questionably place with this species. They are greatly
like Hybopsis amblops of equal size, though without any grinding
surfaces, or only with slightly or irregular transverse grooves
suggestive of erenulations.
Votropis whipplii (Girard). Seven examples, largest 60 mm.
Notropis coccogenis (Cope). Ten, largest 73 mm.
Notropis telescopus (Cope). Thirty-one.
Notropis umbratilis (Girard). Very abundant.
Hybopsis dissimilis (Kirtland). Twenty-two examples, largest
84 mm. Only met with in schools, at the ford, in open shallow
water. The species appears to collect in schools of moderate size,
and mostly composed of individuals of uniform size.
Hybopsis amblops ( Rafinesque). Twenty-two.
Catostomus nigricans (Le Sueur). Three young.
Moxostoma aureolum (Le Sueur). One young example. Paired
fins and dorsal pale orange, tip of latter blackish.
Fundulus catenatus (Storer). Adult male 90 mm. long. Associ-
ated with Hybopsis dissimilis.
Fundulus notatus (Rafinesque). Two.
Labidesthes sicculus (Cope). Ten.
Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). One 40 mm.
Micropterus dolomieu (Lacepede). One young.
l-'.lh, ostoma blennioides Rafinesque. One 52 mm.
Ulocentra simotera (Cope).
Head 3| to 4; depth .V, to 5|; D. X— i, 9 or r, 10; A. II, 7:
scales 42 to 48 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3 more on latter^
though only one tubular; 4 or 5 scales above 1. 1. to spinous dorsal
origin,
snout
U to
