1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25
forward. Head moderate, greatly obtuse. Snout obtusely convex,
both in profile and over surface, length | its width. Eye anterior
to head center, elevated. Mouth small, but little inclined, lower jaw
slightly included. Maxillary reaches eye. Interorbital slightly
concave. Gill-rakers 2+7, lanceolate, short. Gill-membrane
a broad fold over isthmus. Cheeks and 'breast naked, opercles
scaly. Preclorsal scales small and crowded. Scales with 10 basal
radiating striae, apical denticles 23 or 24, with basal elements in
3 to 5 rows, circuli coarse. Color in alcohol pale olivaceous above
generally. Down back medially nine dark brown saddles, usually
alternately dark and pale. Back marked with many waved, dusky
specks, bars or blotches. Along lateral line twelve vertical
blotches, mostly below. Upper surface of snout speckled with
dark brown, bounded below by dusky bar from close to snout tip,
though above upper lip, to eye. Broader dusky bar below eye.
Dorsal spines each with five broad dusky blotches, last four on
membranes usually with blackish streaks parallel with spines
terminally. Soft dorsal and caudal barred with dusky. Pectoral
pale or only with faint bars. Five examples, 38 to 45 mm.
Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). Ten, all small and pale.
Poecilichthys maculatus (Kirtland).
Head 3£ to 3f; depth 5| to 6; D. XII— i, 11; A. II, 8 or 9;
scales 46 to 53 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 3 or 4
more on latter; 38 to 41 tubular scales in lateral line, 6 above,
6 or 7 below; preclorsal scales 12 or 13; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye
3| to 3|; maxillary 3j to 3|; interorbital 2 to 2| in eye.
Body long, slender, but little compressed. Snout convex, both
in profile and over surface, pointed, about long as wide. Eye
advanced, elevated, nearly or quite long as snout. Mouth but
slightly inclined, mandible included. Maxillary slightly beyond
front eye edge. Interorbital narrowly concave. Gill-rakers 2+9,
rather short, obtuse. Gill-membranes deeply cleft. Cheeks and
breast naked, postocular and opercles scaled. Preclorsal scales
reduced. Scales with basal radiating striae 10 or 11, apical denticles
21 to 24, with basal elements in 3 or 4 rows. Lateral line incomplete,
usually not extending beyond soft dorsal, occasionally to middle
of caudal peduncle side. Color in alcohol, pale olivaceous above,
with six dark saddles down middle of back. Scales on back more
or less bordered dusky or brown. Along sides ten or eleven w-like
dusky blotches. At caudal base medianly jet-black blotch, about
size of pupil. Dorsals and caudal barred with dusky. Broad dusky
bar on side of snout to eye, also dusky blotch below and behind
eye. Paired fins and anal pale or whitish, few dusky specks close
about base of latter. Six examples, 35 to 45 mm.
The Bellemina example, with ten branched anal rays is greatly
suggestive of Etheostoma tessellata Storer 3 . Quite likely Etheostoma
3 Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 2, 1845, p. 48. Florence, Alabama.
