;,
2G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
cinereum Storer 4 is .•mother synonym.
According to the original account of Etheostoma maculata Kirt-
land, the dorsal fins are connected and the anal has only a single
spin
Po( dlichthys squamiveps (Jordan).
Bead 3|; depth 5; 1). XI— i, 11; A. II, 8; scales 51 or 52 in
lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 5 scales above
1. 1., 7 below; predorsal scales 11 or 12; snout 4j to 4| in head;
eye 3 to 3|; maxillary 3| to 4; interorbital If in eye. Body
moderately long, compressed. Head obtuse, compressed. Snout
convex in profile and over surface, length \ its width. Eye elevated,
well advanced, greater than snout or interorbital. Mouth little
inclined, small, jaws nearly even. Maxillary reaches eye. Inter-
orbital shallowly concave. Gill-rakers 3+8, lanceolate, moderate.
Gill-membranes broadly free across isthmus. Cheeks and opercles
scaly. Breast naked. Belly scaled and predorsal scales fine.
Scales with 7 to 9 radiating coarse striae, apical denticles 16 or
17. large, basal elements in 3 or 4 rows. Lateral line complete.
Color in alcohol pale olivaceous above, under surface white.
Down middle of back, six deep brown blotches. Along lateral
line, ten dusky rings with dark bar from lower edge of each, some
reaching anal and others extending over lower surface of caudal
peduncle. Small blackish spot at caudal base medially, one above
and another below marginally or at origin of each lobe. Deep
dusky brown line from snout tip, meets its fellow above upper
lip, to eye. Blackish bar below eye and blotch close behind. Max-
illary end dusky and dusky bar across mandible medianly. Dorsals
and caudal barred with dusky, other fins pale. Length 38 or 39
mni.. t wo examples.
No mention seems to have been made, by the various writers
supposed to have obtained this species, of the dark color pattern
extending to the anal base and on the lower surface of the caudal
peduncle. My examples appear to agree best with the original
account of Etheostoma squamiceps Jordan. 6
4 L. c, p. 49. Florence, Alabama.
' Boston .Tourn. Nat. Hist., 3, 1840, p. 276 PI. 2. fig. 3. Mahoning, Ohio.
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 10, 1877. p. 11. Russellville, Kentucky.
