#
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
of the comb-lateral are usually hidden by the overhanging mar-
ginals, even after the radula is flattened out. The centrals are
arranged in a slightly convex line along the bottom of the trough,
already mentioned, while the accessory plate is tilted slightly dor-
sad under the ends of the innermost marginals.
The marginal group consists of a varying number (28 to 136 in
the species studied) of ligulate teeth. The number appears to vary
with the size of the species; but a considerable variation in number,
among species of similar size, appears to be a matter of systematic
importance. These teeth or uncini are proportionately quite large
and are so heavy as to appear horn-colored. They are arranged in
very oblique rows, which run posteriad from the corresponding
capituliform complex. The bases (Plate III, fig. 6, 9) are broadly
U-shaped, with the open portion of the U facing the outside of the
radula: those of contiguous teeth nest into one another. The
body of the tooth is twisted so as to bring the cusps into action.
These are arranged across the tip of the tooth or down its outer
side. The innermost marginal (Plate III, fig. 9) is the broadest
and shortest of the entire functional series. In the species observed
the length usually increases gradually toward the outside of the
radula, until the longest teeth are about one-third of the way
out from the center; here the teeth are from 1.5 to 2 times as long
as are the innermost. Towards the outer edge of the radula,
they again decrease in length, so that the outer teeth are not much
longer than the innermost. The distal portion becomes more
-lender in the teeth toward the outside, so that these may only be
one-third as wide, near the tip, as those at the inner edge. However,
the hases of the marginals are of about the same width throughout
each transverse row, andthevery outermost teeth take the form
of delicate, rectangular plates, as wide as the bases, and arranged
almosl parallel to the long axis of the radula. In all of the species
observed, the inner marginals (except sometimes the innermost
one or two) has the smallest number of cusps, while the number
gradually increases towards the outside of the radula. Each new
cusp in the series is added to the outside of the row of cusps. I
ave as high as L5 cusps on the outer, definitive teeth, and have
mated, by counting portions of the total row, that some of the
•road, outermosl marginals have at least 25. The cusps of these
outer, scale-like teeth are so minute as to approach the limits of
opic vision, which probably accounts for the statement
