#
:;i
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
single cusp, although more commonly one or two cusps will be con-
siderably reduced. However, the cusps of the centrals, laterals,
i inner marginals are quite often broken or worn, so as to give
an apparent variation, but an examination of all parts of the
radula will easily remove this source of error. In specimens of
similar size, the maximum variation in the number of marginals
was •"• teeth, and part of this may have been due to the difficulty
in ascertaining to which row the divergent outer teeth belonged.
However, a dwarfed form of Helicina adspersa (H. a.marmorata
d'Orb. +tenuilabris Pfr.) had only 80 marginals on each side,
while the larger form had 106.
On the other hand, big variations are fairly common. In one
of the radulae of Lucidella aureola and in one of Oligyra orbiculata,
two rows of A-centrals were present on each side, so that there
were 9 teeth in the central group; this, if a constant character,
would exclude them from the Helicinidae, as at present defined.
In these cases, the outer A-central was a little smaller than the
inner, and, especially in the latter species, somewhat approached
the B-central in shape. In another radula of H. orbiculata, all but
one of the cusps on one row of A-centrals were absent or vestigial,
although the other side was perfectly normal. In a radula of Hender-
sonia occulta, the seventh marginal on one side was vestigial,
while an entire longitudinal row of marginals on the other side was
branched, and bore from 2 to 4 quite perfect tips, each with its
full complement of cusps. In a specimen of Helicina adspersa
marmorata, most of the cusps were represented by mere knobs on
one row of comb-laterals, although those of the other side were nor-
mal. However, this type of variation comes under the heading of
monst rosil ies or mutations and is very easily separated from fluctuat-
ing or intergrading variation. It does not affect the use of the radula
as an index of relationship, any more than the presence of gill-
slits, or a fuller complement of aortic arches in an adult human
being, affeel the use of these characters in the classification of
vertebrates.
In the following arrangement of the groups of species from the
mainland of North America, the radular characteristics are listed
in some detail. Opercular and other shell characters are omitted
3 used for the separation of groups; they are treated in detail
by A. .). Wagner I 1907-1911). In each case the name of the group
is given hist., followed by a list of synonyms. In the West Indian
