[1922 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35
groups, which were not studied in detail, sectional names are
sometimes included as synonyms under subgenera or typical
sections. Next comes a list of the species in each group from the
mainland of North America, with synonomical notes, followed by
a description of the radulae of examples studied.
The following synoptic key shows the main distinguishing
characters of the groups studied:
A. Capituliform complex consisting of a comb-lateral and accessory
plate Subfamily HelicininaB.
B. Operculum paucispiral; radula "like Helicina" . .Bourciera.
BB. Operculum subspiral to eccentric.
C. Accessory plate with well-developed wing which invests
the base of the comb-lateral so. as to mask its outer
cusps; all paired centrals with well-developed cusps;
operculum with calcareous plate quite well-developed
and forming a complete operculum; horny plate thin,
usually amber-colored.
D. Operculum subspiral to almost concentric; cusps
of centrals very well-developed; cusps of comb-
lateral exceptionally long and pointed; accessory
plate short and heavy with triangular wing;
marginals few (39-43) Hendersonia.
E. Operculum subspiral with marginal nucleus
Sect. Hendersonia s. s.
EE. Operculum subspiral with submarginal nucleus
Sect. Miluna.
EEE. Operculum -almost concentric, with nearly
central nucleus Sect. Waldemaria.
DD. Operculum eccentric with nucleus near middle of
columellar margin; cusps of C-central somewhat
reduced; accessory plate longer; marginals more
numerous (52-123) Oligyra.
F. A and B centrals not developing heavy backs;
comb-lateral with few, sharp-pointed cusps
(6-7) ; operculum light with point and corres-
ponding lip-notch poorly developed
Subgenus Oligyra s. s.
G. A and B centrals like Hendersonia; accessory
plate with wing slightly reduced, so as to
show lanceolate outline jmarginals quite strictly
ligulate; shell depressed with heavy lip
Section Oligyra s. s.
GG. A-central with tendency to reduce the
number of cusps, which are borne on the
extreme outer tip; marginals with wing-like
expansions below the tips, and with number
