*
36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
of cusps increasing rapidly towards outside;
shell more globose Section Siiccincta.
FF. A and B centrals with heavy knob-like cusp-
bearing backs; capituliform processes heavy
and interlocking; marginals ligulate; operculum
heavy and usually with inferior point, which
fits into notch in lip Subgenus A Icadia.
H. Smallish shells with notch in lip less well-
developed; comb-lateral with more pointed
cusps Section Idesa.
HH. Larger shells with well-developed notch or
lower lip of aperture; comb-lateral with
large spatulate cusps: R-central longer
than broad Section A Icadia s. s.
CC. Accessory plate smaller with reflection (slightly de-
veloped or absent) which at most only invests the
outer tip of the prolongation of the thickened upper
edge of the comb-lateral; centrals and opercula
various.
J. A-central with cusps like Oligyra, or with a thickened,
cuspless cutting edge; marginals with tendency
for the numerous cusps of each tip to arrange
themselves in a transverse row; operculum with
calcareous plate poorly-developed, often incom-
plete towards palatal margin; horny plate well-
developed and bright-colored, usually red
Helicina.
K. Marginals sickle-shaped with well developed
lateral wings near tips; A-central with shelf-like
projection bearing the cusps; accessory plate
with small body but large lanceolate appendix,
and with the reflected anterior edge forming a
lather prominent shelf; operculum and comb-
laterals as in Tristramia. s. s
Subgenus Helicina. s. s.
KK. Marginals quite strictly ligulate; A-central and
accessory plate not as preceding
Subgenus Tristramia.
L. All paired centrals with well-developed cusps;
calcareous plate of operculum usually
somewhat thickened above nucleus, opaque
ii ii Iky -white to bluish; shells usually with
spiral s! riations
-M. Comb-lateral with numerous (9-11), long,
sharp cusps; shell depressed, angular to
subangular Section Oxyrhombus.
MM. Comb-lateral with more rounded cusps
(8 LO); shell globose. ...Section Tamsiana.
