H
38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
TT. More (9) marginals bicuspid, close-
ranked; shell usually with upper sinus on
aperture; Mexico and Guatemala
Subgenus Schasicheila.
<+. A-central unicuspid; B-central with 3 heavy
cusps; comb-lateral tricuspid; inner 10 mar-
ginals unicuspid; shell small, slightly like
Schasicheila s. s. in shape Stoastoma.
AA. Capituliform complex consisting of a mushroom-shaped T.
lateral and a reduced accessory plate; many unicuspid
marginals Subfamily Vianinae, new.
B. Marginals with sharp-pointed blades; T-lateral with stalk
as long as width of tooth, which is considerably smaller
than central field of radula; R-central triangular-ovoid
to broadly elliptic Eutrochatella.
C. All paired centrals with at least three well-developed,
cusps; T-lateral with cusps on margin; shells smallish
quite smooth and elongate
Subgenus Troschelviana, new.
D. T-lateral with well-developed cusps on inner portion
of margin; shell smallish, quite smooth and elongate:
Section Troschelviana.
DD. T-lateral with a few cusps towards outer portion
of margin: shell more conoid in shape
Section Cubaviana, new.
CC. At least A-central without well-developed cusps;
T-lateral without cusps on margin; shell with spiral
sculpture..
E. B-central with 3 quite well-marked cusps; T-lateral
with horny thickenings near margin which give the
tooth a wavy appearance; small species
Subgenus Pyrgodomus.
EE. Both A and B centrals without well-marked cusps;
T-lateral without sign of cusps; larger species.
F. R-central broadly elliptic; operculum with nucleus
near columellar margin and almost linear; de-
pressed pagoda-shaped shell
Subgenus Priotrochatella.
IT. R-central narrowly ovoid to circular; operculum
with nucleus nearer center
Sul. genus Eutrochatella; Sections Ustronia,
Excavata, Eutrochatella.
BB. Marginals with tips more rounded; T-lateral with short,
-tout stalk, and broad, semicircular cutting edge, so
ih.it entire tooth is almost or fully as large as the central
field of the radula (7 teeth); R-central more or less
shield-shaped with scallops on lateral margins; paired
centrals and T-lateral without cusps.
