1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43
certainly demands it generic recognition. It seems that Hendersonia
is a primitive genus which once had a wide holarctic distribution,
but which only survives in a few localities in Asia and North
America. The case of the giant salamander amongst the amphibians
(Ohio River, U. S.; and Japan) appears to be analogous. In this
connection the genus Dawsonella Bradley (1872), from the Car-
boniferous of Indiana, is at least interesting. If it actually belongs
in the Helicinidae, the circular aperture would seem to indicate
that it probably possessed a spiral operculum.
An additional reason for the position of Hendersonia as a primi-
tive group, was found in the study of the radula of Aphanoconia
(Sphaeroconia) verecunda (Gould) 3 . This radula (Plate V, fig. 23)
is also quite close to that of Hendersonia, but its divergence is
along different lines from that of Oligyra, and apparently denotes a
divergent line of evolution. The large number of cusps on the
peculiar paired centrals (Table II), the long comb-laterals with
numerous pointed cusps, the exceptionally long accessory plates
with somewhat reduced wings, and the very long and slender
marginals give an assemblage of characters that separate this
group from any American one that I have examined. H . verecunda
Gould (1859) is here chosen as the type of Sphaeroconia A. J.
Wagner (1909). Verecunda A. J. W. (1909) is an exact synonym.
Pilsbry and Cooke (1908) have described the radulae of H.
baldwini, uberta, laciniosa, and rotelloidea from Hawaii, and figured
those first and third. From their studies, it appears that the radula
of Sturanya Wagner (1905) (Type H. laciniosa Mighels, 1845) is
very close to that of Sphaeroconia, but that the radula of Oro-
bophana Wagner, 1905 (type H. uberta Gould, 1847), as they point
out, is considerably different.
Genus OLIGYRA Say. Tropical and Subtropical America.
Subgenus OLIGYRA s. s. Same distribution.
Section Oligyra s. s. United States; New Mexico, Bermudas etc.
Olygyra Say (1818). Type (monotype) O. orbiculata Say (1818). Easte/n
Fla., U. S.
Oligyra Say (1819). Emended form of preceding; emended by Say himself.
Orbiculata A. J. Wagner (1905). Type (by tautonomy) O. orbiculata Say
(1818).
3 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 78852; collected at Ryukyu, by Y. Hirase
(1900).
