54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Voi. LXXIV
A number of minute, globose shells (L. venezuelensis n. sp.),
which were collected rear Palma Sola, Estado Falcon, Venezuela
(1920), closely resemble this Jamaican group, which originally
was described as a genus of " Stoastomidae. " The margin of the
aperture is entire, but quite simple, and the shell is well-perforated.
The sculpture consists of well-marked spiral ridglets. The calcare-
ous plate of the operculum is rather heavy, and is quite markedly
concave externally.
On examination of the radula (1 dried specimen), I was greatly
surprised to find it very close to that of Lucidella lirata (Plate III,
fig. 5; Plate V, fig. 21), and totally unlike that of Stoastoma (Plate
VI, fig. 26). It differs from that of L. lirata in the presence of
several cusps on the upper margin of the hood-shaped A-central,
in the lanceolate C-central without the accessory lateral cusp,
and in the larger number of cusps (like L. aureola) on the comb-
lateral. It is the smallest Helicinid radula that I have examined.
On account of the very similar shell-characters, it is placed
tentatively in the subgenus Lindsleya, which is transferred to the
genus Lucidella. If the shell-characters are any key to their re-
lationship, I suspect that all of the species of this group and part
of those in Metcalfeia belong here, as they do not possess the lip
expansion and upper sinus, characteristic of true Stoastoma. This
would restrict the latter genus to Jamaica, as S. haitianum Weinland
and S. domingensis Vanatta from Haiti, and S. portoricense Pfr.
from Porto Rico, lack these typical shell characters of Stoastoma
pisum C. B. Adams (1849). The whole Stoastoma-problem needs
reinvestigation, as practically none of the species have been figured,
and many are impossible to identify from the descriptions.
The radula and the shell of L. venezuelensis n. sp. will be more
completely described and figured in a future paper. The radular
formula is given in Table III.
Subgenus POENIA H. and A. Adams. Tropical America.
Poenia H. and A. Adams (1856). Type (Fischer) H. unidentata Pfr.
(1849). Guatemala.
Perenna Guppy (1867). Type H. (Perenna) lamellosa Guppy (1867).
Isle Trinidad.
L. lirata (Pfr.). (1847). Yucatan. (Mexico to Venezuela).
//. unt'dcntalii Pfr. (1N49). Honduras.
//. rusticetta Morelet (1849). Carmen Island, Yucatan.
? //. semialriata Sowerby (1866). Boca del Toro, Chiriqui, Panama
(v. Mart. 1890).
L. pilsbryi Clapp (1914). Swan Island, Bay of Honduras.
L. tantilla (Pilsbry) (1902). Florida, U. S. (Cuba, Ramsden).
