1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55
The radula of L. Virata™ is figured (Plate III, fig. 5; Plate V, fig. 21
21), and the formula is given in Table III. The A-lateral is hood-
shaped, with the opening inwards; its shape is perhaps better
shown in the tilted A-lateral shown beneath the row of teeth of
Lucidella aureola (Plate III, fig: 4). This "hood" ends distad
with a curved hook, while there is also a stout point on the outer
margin. It bears no true cusps. The B-central has a cuspless
space on the outer tip, which fits over the C-central. The last is
very long and slender, and bears a small cusp on the outer margin,
besides the 4 terminal ones. The comb-lateral has a peculiar
saddle-shaped expansion of the cusp-bearing border. The accessory-
plate is long, but very thin and transparent; it just touches the
outer end of the comb-lateral. This gives the radula a peculiar
appearance, as the comb-lateral appears to be set off from, the inner
ends of the marginals by a transparent border. The entire radula
is so small as to require an oil-immersion lens for its thorough ex-
amination. Its total width is less than that of a single T-lateral of
Viana regina.
Subgenus LUCIDELLA s. s. Jamaica; Haiti? Cuba?
Lucidella Swainson (1840). Type Helix aureola Ferussac (1822). Jamaica.
? Prosopis Weinland (1862). Type (monotype) P. sulcata Weinland
(1862). Haiti. 33 Not Prosopis Fabricius (1804).
The radula of the type species 34 has been examined. It is figured
from an example that had two A-centrals (Plate III, fig. 4; Plate
V, fig. 22); the inner one corresponds more to the type found in
the other two, normal radulae. Below the row of centrals in the
normal position, a single inner A-central is shown in a slightly
tilted position, so as to give a better idea of the shape. This
radula differs from that of L. lirata mainly by the absence of the
upper point on the A-central, by the broader C-central, with
especially well-marked cusps, and by the greater number of cusps
on the comb-lateral. The marginals are more numerous than in
any other species of Helicinidae examined.
Genus SCHASICHEILA Sh. Mexico; western Cuba; Bahamas?
Subgenus EMODA H. and A. Adams. Western Cuba.
32 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 72171; collected in Garden of Juarez
Institute, San Juan Bautista, Tabasco, Mex., by J. N. Rovirosa.
33 This group may be valid, but its name is certainly not.
34 3 alcoholic specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 104533; collected in Jamaica, by A. P.
Brown.
