1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63
is doubtless erroneous. However, Eutrochatella does have a larger
number of unicuspid marginals than does Ustronia, and in this
features agrees better with Priotrochatella. Its separation from
Excavata seems justifiable on the basis of the heavier sculpture of
the shell in this typical section.
Genus VIANA. H. and A. Adams. Cuba.
Viana H. and A. Adams (March, 1856). Type H. regina Morelet (1849).
Cuba.
Hapata Gray (Nov., 1856). Type H. regina Morelet.
Rhynchocheila Shuttleworth (1878). Type H. regina Morelet.
In this genus, through the kindness of Mr. J. B. Henderson, I
have been able to examine the type species 56 . Before receiving his
material, the laterals alone of V. regina subunguiculata (Poey)
were obtained by washing out dermestid feces from an old shell.
V. regina is figured (Plate VII, figs. 34, 35, 36).
The paired centrals have no definite cusps, although there is a
rounded hook on the C-central. The R-central is shield-shaped with
two scallops on each side, a very well-marked triangular cusp, and a
rounded base. The A-central is proportionalely very large, while
the B and C centrals are much smaller, and appear to be rather
weak, as they are easily crushed in mounting the specimen, The
T-laterals are exceptionally large (.5 mm. in diameter) ; each is
fully as large as the whole central area (7 teeth). The stalk or
base is proportionately very short and stout, while the reflecteb
portion is semicircular (Plate VII, fig. 36 gives anterior view) and
very large. It is less dome-shaped than in Eutrochatella. The
accessory plate is small and, when united is almost completely
hidden by the T-lateral. The unicuspid marginals are more broad-
ly rounded at the tips than are those of Eutrochatella and the
inner, multicuspid ones are not as deeply cleft.
In addition the shell-characters are peculiar. Especially note-
worthy is the definite sinus on the outer lip of the aperture of the
male. Altogether, it seems that the generic separation of this
group is justifiable on natural grounds. In addition, there is a
practical reason. Viana (and also its two synonyms) is prior to
Eutrochatella Fischer, and would become the generic name of the
entire group if the two were combined. The resemblance of Fischer's
term to the original, preoccupied name, Trochatella, and its wide
acceptance, would make this peculiarly unfortunate.
56 2 alcoholic specimens; Cuba from collection of J. B. Henderson.
