64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Genus CALYBIUM Morelet. Indo-China.
Subgenus CALYBIUM s. s.
Calybium Morelet (1891). Type (monotype) C. massiei Morelet (1891).
Subgenus GEOTROCHATELLA P. Fischer.
Geotrochatella P. Fischer (1891). Type (now chosen) H. mouhoti Pfr. (1862).
In this group the radula of the type species C. mouhoti (Pfr.) 57
has been examined and is figured (Plate VI, fig. 29). It is startlingly
like that of Viana regina, but has several, rather important dif-
ferences. The A-central is not especially enlarged, as compared
to the two outer, paired centrals. The unicuspid marginals are
much broader, and the number of marginals is the smallest observed
(28), which is remarkable when one considers that the tiny E.
rupestris has 35. As the broad, outer marginals were observed in
both radulae of C. mouhoti, it does not seem possible that the
count is very erroneous.
With the depressed shell, Geotrochatella has a linear operculum,
somewhat similar in shape to that of Priotrochatella. However,
the horny plate of the operculum in the former group is well-
developed, while the calcareous plate is extremely thin. The
spiral nucelus is near the columellar margin. The horny plate has
a thickening, which runs transversely across the inner side; when
examined under the microscope, this thickening is seen to consist
of lamellae, which project out a considerable angle to the rest of
the plate. As the margin is not thickened, as is the calcareous
plate of Priotrochatella, it appears as if the growth-stress, due to
the shape of the aperture, finds expression in this lamellar thicken-
ing across the middle of the plate. Thus the opercula of Priotro-
chatella and Geotrochatella, although superficially similar, are fund
mentally different, both in texture and arrangement of the growth
lamellae. For this reason and on account of the divergence of the
radulae, it seems that the relationship between these two groups
is not as close as has often been stated. They probably represent
parallel development in two rather distantly related stocks. The
dominance of the horny operculum also helps to separate this
group from Viana, which, it appears to me, is more probably its
closest relative in the West Indies.
A. J. Wagner included Geotrochatella, Calybium and Priotrochatella
in his Pseudotraochatellinae. This "subfamily," altho based on
opercular characters, had for its type genus Pseudotrochatella
67 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 66060; collected at Luang-Prabang, Laos,
by Ph. Dautzenberg. (1895)-
