1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65
Nevil (1881) a subfossil form of which the operculum was unknown.
The peculiar spiral sculpture of the embryonic shell of Pseudo-
trochatella, and its habitat, the Island of Mauritius, render its
reference to the Helicinidae extremely dubious, at least until the
operculum is known.
In conclusion, it may be stated that the position of the spiral
nucleus of the operculum, and the arrangement of the growth-
lamellae, furnish excellent characters for the separation of the
minor groups. The relative dominance of the horny and calcareous
plate, altho somewhat variable, especially with age, are of value,
even in the separation of genera. On the other hand, the opercular
characters are not of much value in the determination of the
relationship between genera, and certainly cannot be used for the
division of the Helicinidae into subfamilies.
Description of Plates III — VII.
On account of the considerable difference in size, the capituliform complexes
are usually shown here with a different magnification than are the centrals and
marginals of the same species. In addition, it was found necessary to show the
radulae of different species with different degrees of magnification. For these
reasons, the centrals and marginals of each species are in a group by themselves,
while the capituliform complex is shown separately, usually with less mag-
nification.
In the following descriptions, the magnification is given as 1, 2, 3, 5 or 6 times
(diameters). This means that the drawing with the least magnification is taken
as a standard, and the enlargement of the others is expressed in proportions to
the nearest integer, so as to facilitate their rapid comparison, by the use of a
simple fraction. The accurate scale in microns (^ = .001 mm.)is given with each
set of figures under the same magnification. Each scale pertains to the figures
between it and the next scale above, and to those below in case no other scale is
given. All of the drawings were made with the aid of the camera lucida. The
magnification under which the drawings were first made is as follows: XI = 248
diameters; X2 is a camera lucida reduction from X3; X3 = 705 diameters; X5
= 1180 diameters; X6 = 1490 diameters.
All of the teeth in the series shown are those from the right side. As the central
groups are all arranged in the same order, with the R-central at the left hand of
the sheet, followed by the A, B and C centrals in order named, they are not
specially numbered. The marginals are numbered as they occur in the transverse
row, from the center out. The figures themselves are numbered separately at
the edge of the plate. All of the teeth, including the tips of the marginals, are
oriented into the most common position, although this is necessarily often only
approximate.
Plate III. — Hendersonia, Oligyra, Lucidella and Helicina. Centrals and Marginals.
Fig. 1 — Hendersonia occulta. Centrals and tips of lrst, 8th and 13th marginals
(x5).
Fig. 2 — Oligyra orbiculata. Centrals (x5). Compare fig. 1 for marginals.
Fig. 3 — Oligyra (Succincta) flavida streoeli. Centrals and tips of 1st, 5th,
and 12th marginals (x5).
Fig. 4 — Lucidella aureola. Centrals and tips of 1st, 6th and 40th marginals
(x6) (A-central shown below in tilted position).
