1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 91
Canyon (on both slopes), and more especially at the mouth of
Tahquitz Canyon. He must have happened on a remarkably
favored location at a fortunate time, for on the later expedition
we failed to meet with living specimens in any numbers anywhere,
whereas only a week before he had taken over a hundred in the
open at the latter locality alone. On that occasion he found the
snails abundant and crawling actively on the surface among big
slabs of granite and under bushes on quite a moist slope, where
they seemed to constitute quite a definite colony. The time was
between 8:00 and 9:30 A. M. In Murray Canyon where he had
collected the previous afternoon, Mr. Smith found dead shells
fairly common on both slopes of the canyon along its lower course,
but live shells were only scattering and mostly to be found under
stones, indeed only one being found crawling on the surface. In
this canyon he could detect no indication of any association in
colonies, and we found conditions in Palm. Canyon altogether
similar in this respect. The slope back of the Palm Springs Hotel,
which, by the way, impressed us as by no means the best collecting
ground, is reputed to be the type locality. This was our Station
IV, or at any rate not far from it.
Orcutt ('90, p. 67) has already recorded a snail which he collected
at Snow Creek Canyon as Helix traskii, but at that time the
peculiarities of the desert snails were little understood, and I think
there is small doubt that his shells were really wolcottiana. The
fact that we collected indubitable specimens of the species so
near there and actually to the west supports this contention.
True Epiphragmophora traskii is still unknown from the desert
drainage.
As is brought out in the table of measurements, wolcottiana is
an extremely variable species even within the confines of a single
circumscribed colony like that found at the mouth of Tahquitz
Canyon. Some are fairly depressed, some strongly elevated, some
large, some with less than one-half the bulk, some extremely thin,
some thick and heavy, some with the narrow umbilicus left nearly
free, others with it entirely closed, and so on. The color of the
animal, too, shows a considerable range of variability, though
always strikingly different from, that, for instance, of the following
species. On the other hand the shells of adults vary little in color.
Young shells are always much darker and brighter than adults,
their bright snuff brown color being quite unlike that of any other
species of desert snail.
