92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
The canyons inhabited by this snail are generally noteworthy
for their growth of the palm, Neowashingtonia, but the palms
occur principally in close proximity to the creek bed, while the
snails inhabit the immediately adjacent slopes.
Micrarionta xerophila new species. Plate X, figs. 1-4.
Shell strongly depressed, of moderate weight; whorls convex;
sutures distinct; last whorl strongly descending behind peristome.
Umbilicus of moderate width, being contained about seven times
the diameter of the shell, funicular, permeable. Aperture strongly
oblique, its deflexion about 45°. Peristome distinctly thickened,
its margin somewhat reflected, especially near the umbilicus,
the circular outline of which, however, is scarcely affected. Nuclear
whorls heavily covered with elongate, moderately crowded papillae,
more or less distinctly ranked in oblique, forward slanting lines;
subsequent whorls showing gradually smaller, more granular, and
less crowded papillae, which finally become practically obsolete
on the body whorl both above and below. Spiral sculpture wanting.
Periostracum, except for the papillae and numerous fine lines of
growth, smooth, thin, lustrous. Shell moderately to conspicuously
encircled by a narrow band, 0.5-1.0 mm. wide, varying in color
from deep brownish vinaceous in light toned shells, to liver brown
in darker ones, this band bordered above and below by very light
bands about twice as wide, which vary from white to light ivory
yellow; base of shell pale grayish vinaceous to avellaneous; region
below suture pale grayish vinaceous to deep brownish vinaceous;
shell on living animals pale olive buff, passing to cinnamon drab
near suture, often much mottled or clouded. Body of animal
varying from slate black to black, shading slightly lighter toward
margin; mantle neutral gray to slate gray, without conspicuous
pigment patches; sole of foot deep neutral gray, shading rather
abruptly to blackish slate at margin.
Maximum Minimum Diameter Number of
Diameter Diameter Altitude Umbilicus Whorls
mm. mm. mm. mm.
hiratvpe (dead shell ). . 17.0 14.0 10.1 2.4 4%
Paratype, Smith Coll... 16. S 13. S 9.3 2.3 4%
Paratype (dead shell) . . 16.3 13.5 10.3 2.3 4%
Type 16.7 13.5 9.2 2.3 4Y 2
Paratype 14.0 11.7 8.2 2.0 4Y 2
Type: Berry Collection Cat. No. 4,888. Paratypes in the
museum of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,
the California Academy of Sciences, and tin; private collection of
Allyn G. Smith.
Type Locality. Station VII; in crevices and under stones on
slope on Ocean to Ocean Highway, 5 miles west of Indian Well,
Riverside County, California; alt. 400-000 ft.; April 2, 1920, 4
