1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 95
last turn, minute, well spaced, and granular on almost the whole
of the basal surface. Spiral sculpture wanting. Periostracum,
except for the papillae and numerous fine lines of growth, smooth,
thin, and lustrous. Shell white or very light ivory yellow, passing
to avellaneous on the spire; a narrow fawn band, about 0.7 mm.
wide encircling the shoulder, flanked both above and below by an
obscure whitish band of approximately the same width.
Maximum
Minimum
Diameter
Number of
Diameter
Diameter
Altitude
Umbilicus
Whorls
mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
Cal. Ac. Sci. 8.676A . .
15.5
13.0
8 . 5
2.5
4M
Berry Cull. 4,767
15.0
12.5
8.2
2.4
4%
Type Locality: "San Jacinto Mts., California" (Bryant).
Material has been examined as follows:
No. of Specimens Locality Collector Where Deposited
4 Warner's Hot Springs, F. W. Bryant Cal. Ac. Sci. 8.676A
San Diego Co., Cal.
2 do F. W. Bryant Berry Coll. 4,767
On a visit to the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco
a year or two ago, it was a matter of great interest to discover among
the material acquired by the Academy from the collection of the
late Henry Hemphill, a small series of the little-known Epiphrag-
mophora harperi Bryant, evidently authentic since received from
Bryant himself. As the original description was only a short
notice of a few lines, and nothing further regarding the species was
ever published, I have ventured to redescribe it and to add figures
of the best of the Academy specimens. More important still it is
now possible to give Warner's Hot Springs as the locality, perhaps
even the original locality, where the species was found, Bryant
having obscurely recorded it as "San Jacinto Mts." Such des-
scriptions and records surely were better never published, as they
are sure to lead to misunderstandings and confusion, and much
laborious research and waste of time to unravel the tangle. If the
present specimens are truly originals, the present species can be
established as a typical Eremarionta, although the peculiarities of
the sculpture on the early whorls seem to have been pushed farther
than in any other of the described species. M. orcutti Bartsch,
however, is very close to this, and when better material of it can
be found, it may prove to be identical. M. xerophila is another
somewhat similar species, but is smaller, has a more lively colora-
tion, and the umbilicus is much narrower, besides there being-
manifest differences in the embryonic sculpture.
