96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
With Bryant's description, as far as it goes, the specimens ex-
amined show fair agreement. The chief discrepancies are in the
number of whorls, which he gives as 5, his account of the first three
whorls as smooth (conceivably because he did not use a sufficiently
powerful lens), and, more disturbingly, his description of the peri-
stome as "broadly expanded." He also states that the umbilicus
is "about one-fifth" the diameter of the shell. I am hopeful that
(he slightly larger size of his type specimen as compared with the
present specimens and its evidently more adult condition are suf-
ficient to account for most of the contrariety.
Micrarionta orcutti (Bartsch 1904)
1904. Sonorella baileyi orcutti Bartsch, Smiths, Misc. Coll., vol. 47, p. 96,
pi. 33, fig. 5.
The type locality of this species is given by Bartsch as simply
"in the Colorado desert." I once asked Mr. C. R. Orcutt, who
collected the original specimens, if he possessed any more explicit
data than this regarding their source. He informed me that he
was no longer entirely certain, but believed the specimens described
came from near Mountain Springs, Imperial County. If so, it
ought not to be very difficult to rediscover the species. An immature
specimen from the original lot kindly given me by Mr. Orcutt
(Berry Coll. Cat. No. 3204) shows that orcutti is a characteristic
Eremarionta in fact dangerously near to M. (E.) harperi Bryant,
which is four years antecedent. 5 The nuclear sculpture is eroded
on this specimen, but in good material may show valid differences
from the very peculiar ornamentation of harperi. In their propor-
tions, depressed outline, and wide umbilicus, the shells of the two
forms are very close.
Genus HELMINTHOGLYPTA Ancey 1887
Helminthoglypta tudiculata (Binney 1843) var.
1843. Helix tudiculata Binney, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., vol. 4. p. 360, pi. 20.
The occurrence of this characteristic species of the coastal and
5 Were it not for this fact the inclusion of so many of the desert snails in Mic-
rarionta would necessitate the renaming of this species, for the prior Epiphrag-
mophora orcutti Dall 1904, belongs with kellettii and stearnsiana in Pilsbry's
division Xerarionta of the former genus. There will, however, be plenty of time
to suggest a name for it after the rediscovery of the type locality enables us to
establish whether or not it is really taxonomically distinguishable from M.
harperi.
