KEELEYITE, A NEW LEAD SULFANTIMONITE FROM ORURO, BOLIVIA.
By Samuel G. Gordon.
The Oruro district of Bolivia has long been known to miner-
alogists by the excellent crystals of andorite, stannite, and other
rare minerals which the mines have produced. The present paper
is descriptive of a new lead sulfantimonite, keeleyite, which was
obtained on the Vaux-Academy Andean Expedition of 1921.
The silver-tin mines of Oruro are situated in the hills at the
western edge of the town, and are three in number: the Socavon,
the San Jose, and the Itos. The keeleyite was obtained at the
San Jose mine.
The ore-veins are essentially pyritic bodies forming fissure fillings
in a quartz-porphyry, and the dark Paleozoic slates into which
the porphry has been intruded. The principal minerals are pyrite,
light-brown massive cassiterite, tetrahedrite, and jamesonite(?).
Andorite and stannite are extremely rare.
The exact mode of occurrence of the keeleyite is not known,
as the single specimen brought back was obtained at the cancha
of the mine. This specimen, measuring 3 X 5 X 7 inches, is a mass
of cavernous quartz, studded with small white quartz crystals.
The cavities contain sheaf-like aggregates of acicular crystals
of keeleyite, some pyrite, and an undetermined sulfide.
General Description. Keeleyite is dark gray in color, and gives
a grayish-black streak. The luster of the mineral is bright metallic.
The hardness is about 2. The specific gravity was determined
in H 2 Oin a 5 cc. pycnometer and gave the value 5.21 ±.
The mineral occurs in aggregates, usually radiating, of acicular
crystals which may measure an inch in length. The crystals are
deeply striated and furrowed, due in part, perhaps, to parallel
growth. No measurable crystals were found, but the mineral
is probably orthorhombic.
Keeleyite fuses at 1, and gives the same reactions before the
blowpipe, etc., as the other lead sulfantimonites. A white sublimate
of antimony oxide is obtained by heating in the closed tube, while
dense white fumes are obtained in the open tube. The mineral
is almost entirely volatilized on charcoal, with the formation of a
(101)
