122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
■
Accurate and full descriptions of the genitalia have been found
of the greatest importance. Failure by Brunner and Redtenbacher
to describe these parts adequately constitutes one of the most
serious defects in their monographs. The accuracy and finish
shown in the accompanying figures, particularly of the Listroscelid
genitalia, are due to the exceptional skill of Miss Mary B. Lane.
We are deeply indebted to her for the unusual effort which was
required in reproducing these indescribably intricate parts.
We have given the number of spines on the ventral femoral
margins for many species, not because we believe the exact number
to be diagnostic for any species, but because each species will
probably be found to have a definite range in number and develop-
ment 2 of such spines, often differing from that of its nearest re-
latives. In some groups we have already found these spines to be
decidedly variable in certain species, quite constant in others. In
our studies of the South American species of the genus Conocephalus,
where we had large series of many species, the range in a species of
such spines was found to constitute a valuable aid.
PHANEROPTERINAE
Group Elimaeae
Elimaea insignis (Walker)
1869. Phaneroptera insignis Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., II,
p. 344. [<? , Silhet-.]
Khasia Hills, Assam, 1 cf, 1 9.
The treatment, by Brunner, of material from Assam, as the
synonymous annulata, 3 is much more satisfactory than Walker's
diagnosis.
Elimaea annamensis new species. Plate XI, figures 1 and 2.
This relatively large species is of a general pale green coloration,
excepting the dorsal surface of the head, pronotum and tegmina,
which is uniform dark reddish brown, and the antennae, which are
of a similar dark color ventrad, slightly paler dorsad and show a
few, very small and widely separated, pale annuli distad.
It is very closely related to E. schmidti Krausze, described from
the same locality. 4 It differs from that species in having the occiput
and pronotal disk dark, in the shorter pronotum, more elongate
tegmina and decidedly more elongate limbs.
Six species have been described as members of the genus Elimaea
2 Highly specialized spines tjccur on the ventral femoral margins in the
Pseudophyllid genus Morsimus and its allies.
3 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 92, pi. I, figs. 10, a to d, (1878).
4 Ins.-Borse, XX, p. 2, (1903).
