PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
tostomus emu an rsonnii (Lacepede). The largest of four males,
is 200 mm. long. Scales (32 in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more
on latter. The lower half of the caudal and all the anal rays tuber-
culate. This evidently represents the nominal C.utawana Mather,
a dwarfed form from the Adirondack^ said to reach less than 130
mm. in length.
I have found a very wide range in the maturity of this species,
in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Examples when but 75 mm. long
were found with perfectly developed roe and milt, similar to
examples 600 mm. The fully adorned male shows the pearl organs
on the upper part of the body till level with the axils of the paired
fins, and the entire upper surface of the head minutely tuberculated.
The dorsal rays, at least anteriorly and basally, lower caudal lobe
with its rays, anal rays and inner or upper surfaces of pectoral and
ventral all with series of tubercles. On pectoral and ventral
tubercles usually a little weaker than elsewhere. The tuberculated
males most always have the lower surface of the caudal peduncle
rough. I have examined males only 100 mm. with tuberculate anals,
also lower caudal lobe and under surface of caudal peduncle rough.
Other males 500 mm. were less ornate. Some males show the head
more or less tuberculate over parts of its surface.
Esox lucius Linne\ Two heads sent September 29, the larger from
a seven pound fish 792 mm. long. The smaller was nearly two
pounds and is of interest in showing a pair of bony spines, splint-
like, covered with epidermis and projecting from the top of the head.
According to Mr. Goudy during several months of the year, or in
the summer, one seldom finds any remains of food in the stomach,
excepl green slime.
Pomotis gibbosus (Linn6). Small and dark.
I'i mi flavescens (Mitchil ). Several.
New Jersey.
( !ollections were made in Bear Brook, a tributary of the Millstone
River east of Princeton Junction, on May 28 and June 10; in the
Shabboconk Creek, near Bella Vista, June 21, and in September,
with Mr. Edwin Fowler. Mr. Wharton Huber made a collection
of marine fishes at Corson's Inlet, September 15 to 25.
Carcharias taurus Rafinesque. Mr. H. Walker Hand reports
eighl at Cape May April 21. They were 1220 to 2440 mm. long,
and were sold as "gray-fish" at New York for five cents a pound.
