1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 123
from Than-Moi, Tonkin, alone, by Krausze and Carl. We are
told by Dohrn 5 that one of the former's species is referable to
Hemielimaea and another to Ducetia. We believe, however, that
the numerical abundance of the species of Elimaea in Indo-China
is very large.
In Brunner's key 6 the species runs nearest to appendiculata
Brunner. The insect is large, with comparatively broad tegmina
for the genus, though not as large or with tegmina as broad as in
E. insignis (Walker).
Type: cf; Phuc-Son, Annam. November to December. (From
H. Fruhstorfer.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 783.]
Cephalic femora slightly compressed and distinctly curved in a
Phasmoid manner; dorsal surface convex, but with its internal
margin weakly ridged, except in the more slender proximal portion.
Cephalic coxae unarmed. Foramina of cephalic tibiae flattened
conchate. Tegmina with median vein branching at end of proximal
third, this branch sending three branches to the sutural margin
distad. Pronotal disk with surface weakly convex to flattened
caudal portion, lateral margins very broadly and evenly concave,
the least width of disk meso-cephalad; lateral lobes slightly longer
than greatest (caudal) depth, ventral margin weakly concave in
cephalic half, weakly convex in caudal half, these portions forming
a very weak rounded angulation at their juncture. Tegmina and
wings fully developed, the former with greatest width decidedly
greater than pronotal length, narrowing very slightly and evenly
to the broadly rounded apex. Femora with genicular lobes bi-
spinose. Caudal femora with dorsal surface deplanate in proximal
three-quarters. Ventral femoral margins armed with minute
but rather broad spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 11 and 12,
cephalic external 6, median internal 0, median external 15, caudal
internal and 1, caudal external 12 and 15. Supra-anal plate
elongate shield-shaped, with apex narrowly acute-angulate. Cerci
cylindrical, curved and gradually tapering to near apex, where
they are briny enlarged, the external margins showing weak emar-
gination at base of this enlargement, the apical enlarged portion
with a low, longitudinal ridge extending to the apex, which there
projects as a short, stout tooth. Subgenital plate elongate and
slenderly produced, cleft for slightly over half its length, the two
distal portions thus formed slender, parallel, curving very weakly
dorsad, of nearly equal width in distal portions to their rounded
apices.
Occiput and disk of pronotum victoria lake, this continued along
the sutural margin of the tegmina as a broad suffusion, narrowing
and disappearing near their apices. Disk of pronotum showing a
6 Stett. Ent. Zeit., LXVI1, p. 352, (1906).
6 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 91, (1878).
