124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
slightly paler coloration medio-longitudinally. Other portions
probably light green in life, now yellowish with tegmina strongly
tinged with green. Antennae blackish victoria lake ventrad,
slightly paler dorsad; showing distad two widely spaced, very
small buffy annuli. Tegmina with very minute flecks of victoria
lake in all areas between veins of discoidal field, these more nu-
merous toward sutural margin and mesad. Tarsi tinged with
brown.
Length of body (squeezed out) 30, length of pronotum 5.2, least
width of pronotal disk 2, greatest (caudal) width of pronotal disk 3,
greatest (caudal) depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.4, length of
pronotal lateral lobe 4, length of tegmen 39, greatest width of
tegmen 7.2, width of tegmen near apex, 5.7, length of cephalic
femur 10.2, length of caudal femur 28 mm.
The type of this handsomely colored insect is unique.
Elimaea lamellipes new species. Plate XI, figure 3.
This species is closely related to E. caricifolia Haan, 7 described
from Loetontoer, Borneo. Brunner 8 indicated that his E. femorata,
described from Borneo, might represent that species. After
careful comparison of the original descriptions, we follow Dohrn
who, in 1906, placed femorata in synonymy under caricifolia.
The present insect differs in the generally smaller size, with
tegmina much narrower. Compared with the female, described
by Brunner as femorata, further decided difference is found in the
median vein of the tegmina, which does not branch mesad, the
tegmina which do not widen distad and the median femora which
are not carinate dorsad. 9
Type: 9 ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 784.]
Cephalic femora very strongly compressed and strongly curved
in a Phasmoid manner, lamellate dorsad except in immediate
proximal portion, this formed by the external margin which longi-
tudinally shows a broad convexity. Cephalic coxae unarmed.
Foramina of cephalic tibiae flattened conchate. Face, to clypeal
suture, strongly swollen. Tegmina with median vein branching
at end of proximal two-fifths, this branch sending two branches to
the sutural margin distad. Pronotal disk with surface flattened,
showing very feeble convexity cephalad, lateral margins very
broadly concave but showing irregularity by a minute emargination
a1 the principal sulcus, caudad of this the disk is defined from the
7 Verh. Nat. Gesch. Nederl. overzee. bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 195, (1842).
8 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 98, (1878).
9 This latter feature may, however, be due to an error in description No
species of FJiimua is known to us having the median femora carinate like the
cephalic femora.
