1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 125
lateral lobes by a strong but rounded angulation. Lateral lobes
of pronotum with length equal to greatest (caudal) depth, ventral
margin very broadly convex. Tegmina and wings fully developed
the former with greatest width decidedly greater than pronotal
length, narrowing slightly and evenly to the broadly rounded apex.
Femora with genicular lobes bispinose, except the external of the
caudal femora which are unispinose. Caudal femora with dorsal
surface deplanate in proximal two-thirds. Ventral femoral margins
armed with very minute spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 8
and 9, cephalic external 11, median internal 0, median external 14
and 16, caudal internal 0, caudal external 7 and 8. Supra-anal
plate very elongate, symmetrically trapezoidal, the lateral margins
showing traces of concavity, the truncate apex with margin showing
a trace of bilobation. Ovipositor curved dorsad, this slightly
strongest proximad, apex rounded; lateral faces with faint trans-
verse rugae distad, dorsal margin serrulate to near base, ventral
margin serrulate in distal portion, the distal serrulations all rounded.
Subgenital plate very small, triangular, with apex broadly truncate.
General coloration pale green. Antennae pale ventrad, suffused
with brown dorsad in proximal portions (remainder missing).
Tegmina with extremely numerous but exceedingly minute brown
flecks in areas between the veinlets in the discoidal field, these
fewer between median vein and its branch and absent between
proximal portions of median and ulnar veins. Dorsal portions of
lateral lobes of pronotum with minute dark brown dots, these
more numerous at the juncture with the disk, which is defined by
a faint yellowish line. Median limbs with small dark brown dots
on external surface, cephalic and caudal limbs similarly marked
with subobsolete dots. Tarsi tinged with brown.
Length of body (squeezed out) 23.5, length of pronotum 4.1,
least width of pronotal disk 2.1, greatest (caudal) width of pronotal
disk 2.8, greatest (caudal) dspth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.3,
length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.3, length of tegmen 35, greatest
width of tegmen 7.1, width of tegmen near apex 5.3, length of
cephalic femur 7.7, length of caudal femur 20.7, length of ovi-
positor 6.4 mm.
The type is unique.
Elimaea bakeri 10 new species. Plate XI, figures 4, 5 and 6.
The present insect belongs to that section of the genus including
forms with relatively less constricted pronotal disk and broader
tegmina. It shows nearest agreement with the specimen de-
scribed by Brunner as paru?npunctata (Serville) 11 differing in the
10 Named in honor of Professor C. F. Baker, Dean of the College of Agriculture,
University of the Philippines, through whose kind assistance a large portion of
the material here studied, has been secured.
11 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 98, (1878). That specimen, a female from
the Philippines, we do not believe represents Serville's parumpunctata, described
