126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
coloration of the antennae, pronotum and limbs, while, though of
the opposite sex, the tegmina are shorter and narrower and the
caudal femora shorter, showing a differentiation in these proportions
greater than we believe can be attributed to sexual differentiation.
The present is a medium large species, in life probably of a pale
green coloration, the lateral margins of the pronotal disk outlined
in a series of brown flecks, the tegmina with brown flecks, the
cephalic and median femora proximo-externally splotched and
necked with brown and the median and caudal tibiae with a
proximo-external fleck of the same color. 12
The male subgenital plate is forked to near its base and divided
into two strongly recurved, almost flagellate, processes, which
proximad are embraced by the cerci.
Type: cf ; Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 785.]
Size and form medium for the genus. Cephalic femora rather
strongly compressed and curved in a Phasmoid manner, lamellate
dorsad except in immediate proximal portion, this formed by the
external margin which longitudinally shows a very weak con-
vexity. Cephalic coxae each armed with a very small spine.
Foramen of cephalic tibiae conchate, deplanate dorsad and strongly
flattened laterad. Face to clypeal suture somewhat swollen,
bounded on each side by a broadly and shallowly concave area.
Tegmina with median vein branching mesad, this branch sending
two branches to the sutural margin distad. Pronotal disk with
surface flattened, lateral margins very broadly and evenly concave.
Lateral lobes of pronotum with length slightly greater than greatest
(caudal) depth; ventral margin horizontal, almost straight, curving
gently into the ventro-cephalic and ventro-caudal angles. Tegmina
and wings fully developed, the former with greatest width de-
from a female from Java (Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 418, (1839).) Dohrn, recog-
nizing this difference, has named the species brunneri and has described very
briefly the male sex. That sex is seen to differ from the male of baker i in having
the supra-anal plate sharply acute distad, the cerci apparently more simple and
not embracing the subgenital plate (Stelt. Ent. Zeit., LXVII, p. 348, (1906).)
Unfortunately Karny overlooked this and has again renamed the species brunneri
(Zool. Mededeel. Rijks Mus. Nat. Hist. Leiden, V, p. 183, (1920).) It would
appear that Haan, describing a Javanese male as parumpunctata Serville, really
had that species (Verh. Nat. Gcsch. Nederl. overzee. bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 192,
(1842).) If this is true, parumpunctata is a species belonging to t hat section of
the genus in which the pronotal disk is more decidedly constricted and the
tegmina narrower.
u To this species, E. puncticosta Bolivar (Asoc. Espanola Prog. Cienc, Sec. 4a,
Cien. Nat., Junio, p. 8, (1913)) is apparently also related, differing, however,
in a number of important features. It is unfortunate that that author chose
to describe as new an imperfect female of this genus which contains so very many
species and more unfortunate that such important measurements as the pronotal
width, proportions of its lateral lobes and tegminal width were not given.
