1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 127
cidedly greater than the pronotal length, scarcely narrowing to
the broadly rounded apex, the curvature of which is stronger
toward the costal than toward the sutural margin. Femora with
genicular lobes bispinose, except those of caudal femora which are"
unispinose. Caudal femora with dorsal surface deplanate in prox-
imal half. Ventral femoral margins armed with very minute
spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 13 and 14, cephalic external
8 and 10, median internal 0, median external 17, caudal internal 0,
caudal external 11 and 13. Supra-anal plate very elongate, sym-
metrically trapezoidal the lateral margins weakly convergent in
proximal two-thirds, thence parallel but distad curving broadly
into the truncate apex. Cerci elongate, cylindrical, curving
inward, gradually and very feebly enlarging in proximal fourth,
thence gradually tapering to near apex where they are suddenly
thickened and truncate, the ventro-internal portion produced in a
broad, acute, knife-like plate, resembling the dactyl of a mole-
cricket. Subgenital plate very elongate, curving evenly dorsad
with apices above distal portion of abdomen; cleft to near base
and sulcate to base itself, the two processes thus formed slender
and tapering, weakly divergent in proximal half, thence cylindrical
weakly convergent and armed on the dorsal surface 13 with very
minute teeth to their closely adjacent apices.
General coloration yellowish brown, probably pale green in life.
Antennae light brown ventrad, darker dorsad, with weakly defined
dark annuli. Head immaculate. Pronotum with a series of
blackish flecks and dots along area of intersection of disk and
lateral lobes. Tegmina with an occasional fleck of dark brown
in areas between veins of distal portion of section between median
vein and its branch and throughout medio-ulnar section, areas
between veins in ulnar-anal section with very numerous, exceed-
ingly minute, dark brown flecks. Cephalic and median femora
with a small longitudinal blotch and a few flecks of dark brown
proximad on the external face near the ventral margin. Median
and caudal tibiae with a minute fleck of dark brown proximad on
the external face.
Length of body 22, length of pronotum 4.7, least width of
pronotal disk 2.4, greatest (caudal) width of pronotal disk 3.3,
greatest (caudal) depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.9, length of
pronotal lateral lobe 4.1, length of tegmen 36.2, greatest width
of tegmen 6.2, width of tegmen near apex 6, length of cephalic
femur 8.1, length of caudal femur 25 mm.
The type is unique.
Elimaea filicauda new species. Plate XI, figure 7.
This insect resembles more closely E. parumpunctata (Serville)
in general form, but shows a type of genitalic specialization agreeing
13 Due to the curvature of the plate this surface, in the distal portion, faces
ventrad.
