128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
rather with that of E. bakeri here described and E. brunneri Dohrn.
To the latter species closer relationship is shown.
The male, however, may be quickly recognized by the great
length of the two recurved, filiform processes into which the sub-
genital plate, cleft to its base, is produced.
Type: d" : Los Bafios, Laguna, Luzon, Phillipine Islands. Octo-
ber 21, 1914. (E. F. Banzou.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 855.]
Size medium, form very slender for the genus. Cephalic femora
and foramina of cephalic tibiae as described for bakeri. Cephalic
coxae unarmed. Face to clypeal suture flattened, with lateral
concave areas weaker than in bakeri. Tegmina very narrow,
scarcely widening distad; median vein branching shortly before
median point, this branch sending two branches to the sutural
margin distad. Pronotum narrower but otherwise quite similar
to that of bakeri, except that the ventro-cephalic angle of the lateral
lobes is sharp, forming an angle very slightly greater than ninety
degrees; lateral margins of pronotal disk rounded, parallel on
prozona, then diverging evenly and weakly to caudal margin.
Tegmina and wings fully developed, very narrow, the former
slightly narrower than the pronotal length except in stridulating
field, showing very faint widening to distal portion; apex well
rounded, median in position. Genicular lobes of cephalic femora
bispinose; of median femora unispinose, rounded, (caudal femora
missing). Ventral femoral margins armed with very minute
spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 8 and 8, cephalic external 0,
median internal 0, median external 2. Supra-anal plate declivent,
linguliform, distinctly over twice as long as basal width, with apex
rounded. Cerci as described for bakeri, but tapering from the base
and slightly more slender. Subgenital plate cleft to base, the
lateral portions slender, narrowing evenly and produced caudad
some distance, then curved dorsad and directed dorsad as two
extremely elongate, nearly straight, thread-like processes, their
apices reaching to the dorsal margins of the tegmina when these
are in repose, their apices faintly thickened.
General coloration buffy tinged with green, probably pale green
in life. First joint of antennae buffy, tipped with brown (other
portions missing). Head showing traces of a postocular yellowish
line on each side, this continued along lateral margins of pronotal
disk with minute scattered dots of dark brown (particularly ex-
ternally), caudal margin of disk with regularly spaced dots of the
same. Tegmina Veronese green, stridulating field and costal
margin very narrowly buffy, areolae between median vein, its
branch and ulnar vein, with brown flecks mesad, toward sutural
margin the minute intervals between the veinlets are brown but
inconspicuous, ^ephalic femora with a few flecks of dark brown
on externa] face near ventral margin, this weaker on median
femora; spines dark brown.
