1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 131
Type: c? ; Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 786.]
Size small, form compact, limbs short. Vertex weakly silicate
and moderately declivent to acutely rounded apex, which is
strongly sulcate to the apical marginal border and fails to extend
cephalad as far as the plane of the face by half the width of the
first antennal joint. Maxillary palpi very elongate, fourth joint
two-thirds as long as the third, fifth two and one-half times as
long as the fourth. Margin of pronotal lateral lobes broadly
convex from the rather deep humeral sinus to the ventro-cephalic
angle. Metanotum hyaline and swollen beneath the stridulating
field of the tegmina. Dorsal abdominal tergites unspecialized, but
those proximad thickly supplied with fine hairs. Supra-anal plate
very small and inconspicuous. Cerci very elongate, curving weakly
outward, then strongly inward distad; shaft swollen proximad,
then tapering, the distal portion slender and cylindrical to the
bifid apex. Apex itself rounded conical, with a projection at its
base on the inner side slightly more slender but twice as long,
tapering to a minute uncinate tooth, which is curved ventrad.
Subgenital plate tapering strongly proximad, thence elongate and
slender but extending caudad only as far as proximal two-thirds of
cercus; apex deeply and narrowly V-emarginate, the slender fingers
thus formed very delicate, with apices rounded. Genicular lobes
of femora rounded. Ventral femoral margins with the following
minute spines distad. Cephalic internal 2 and 3, cephalic external
0, median internal 0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 1
and 1, caudal external 4 and 5.
General coloration pale yellowish green, probably pale green in
life. Antennae with first two joints suffused with whitish dorsad
and with large brown suffusions ventrad, succeeding joints with
homologous brown suffusions, which become rapidly weaker and
disappear distad. Pronotum with symmetrically arranged streaks
of heavier pigmentation and with a minute brown fleck between
the sulci on each side of the median carina. Tegmina immaculate
except for a small brown suffusion mesad in the stridulating field.
Limbs immaculate except for a brown line on each side of the
enlarged proximal portions of the cephalic tibiae.
Length of body 14, length of pronotum 4.7, length of pronotal
lateral lobe 3.4, greatest (caudal) height of pronotal lateral lobe
3.4, length of tegmen 21.2, width of tegmen 5.7, length of cephalic
femur 3.8, length of caudal femur 11.8, length of cercus 5 mm.
The type of this interesting species is unique.
Mirollia cerciata new species. Plate XI, figures 14, 15 and 16.
This insect agrees closely with M. aeta here described, in general
form, but is quickly separated by the very different vertex, punctate
tegmina and distinctive male genitalia.
Type: c? ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 787.]
