132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Vertex sulcate proximad, thence suddenly and sharply declivent,
the distal portion represented by a delicate rounded ridge, which
fails to extend cephalad as far as the plane of the face by half the
width of the first antennal joint. Maxillary palpi elongate but
much shorter than in aeta, fourth joint slightly shorter than third
and slightly over half as long as fifth. Margin of pronotal lateral
lobes less broadly and evenly convex than in aeta, with humeral
sinus weaker, the ventro-caudal angle broadly but more strongly
rounded and the ventral margin thence nearly straight to the
ventro-cephalic angle. Metanotum hyaline and swollen beneath
stridulating field of tegmina. Median segment with a transverse
proximal ridge adjacent to that area. First abdominal tergite
with a large round area mesad which is deeply covered with a wax-
like substance, second tergite with a smaller but similar area,
third tergite with a much smaller and weaker area. Supra-anal
plate very small and inconspicuous, rounded trigonal, with dorsal
surface concave and lateral margins wrinkled mesad. Cerci very
elongate, very weakly sigmoid except distad where they are strongly
curved inward, shaft swollen and gradually enlarging in proximal
half, this swelling occurring on the internal portion only, thence
tapering and slender to the incurved, enlarged and bluntly rounded
apex, at the base of which proximad is a small process directed
distad and parallel to the true apex, beyond which it projects
slightly and is there terminated in a small, chitinous, sharply
decurved tooth. Subgenital plate extending caudad to near cereal
apices, narrowing gradually in proximal portions and thence medio-
longitudinally caiinate, deeply and very narrowly V-emarginate
distad, the broad fingers thus formed with apices more strongly
convex externally than internally. Limbs as in aeta. Ventral
femoral margins with the following minute spines distad. Cephalic
internal 0, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external
and 3, caudal internal and 1, caudal external 2 and 3.
General coloration pale yellowish green, probably pale green in
life. Antennae with first two joints suffused with whitish dorsad
and with large brown suffusions ventrad, remaining portions
yellowish with weakly defined, narrow, suffused brown annuli.
Stridulating field of sinistral tegmen showing a large median suf-
fusion of dark brown; other portions of tegmina with a small but
visible fleck of blackish brown mesad in all the larger areolae
except distad in scapular field and with all the countless and
microscopic intervals between the veinlets toward the sutural
margin black, these areas so minute that they are invisible to the
naked eye and do not even cause the tegmina to there appear darker
in shade. Pronotum with all but lower portions of lateral lobes
showing a profusion of minutely microscopic brown dots and with
one larger, though minute, brown dot between the transverse sulci
on each side of the median carina. Cephalic femora with a weak
suffusion and flecks of brown proximad on the external surface.
Cephalic tibiae with enlarged proximal portions suffused with
