134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
tegmina with distinctive venation, spinafcion of the cephalic tibiae
and different type of male genitalic devlopment. Nearest actual
agreement, however, is with Himerta, the male genitalia being
similar in type, but Prohimerta differs in the weakly sulcate vertex,
lateral lobes of pronotum which are not longer than high, much
larger size, much longer and broader tegmina (with branches of the
median vein strongly oblique, as in the genus Phaula Brunner) and
spination of the cephalic tibiae.
Though the dorsal margins of the cephalic tibiae bear a few spines,
the sudden constriction beyond the auditory foramina and the male
genitalic development show the position of the genus to be in the
Group Letanae and not in the Group Ducetiae.
Genotype.- — Prohimerta annamensis new species.
Cephalic coxae unarmed. Pronotum with disk flattened and
caudal margin broadly convex, the lateral lobes roundly inserted
but with angulation distinct, humeral sinus distinct. Vertex
weakly sulcate and declivent to the rounded, horizontal distal
extremity, which is separated by a considerable gap from the small,
erect, rounded frontal fastigium. Male subgenital plate without
styles, deeply cleft, with the fingers thus formed nearly parallel.
Cephalic tibiae with apert auditory foramina, these members
there stout but suddenly constricted beyond; sulcate dorsad
bearing a proximo-external, meso-distal-external and on each side
a distal very small spine. Pronotum and limbs, except caudal
tibiae, rather thickly supplied with very small, stiff, short, erect
hairs. Tegmina decidedly wider than pronotal length with
branches of median vein strongly oblique. Prosternum unarmed.
Mesosternum weakly lobate, metasternum sublobate.
Prohimerta annamensis new species. Plate XI, figures 17, 18 and 19.
This is a striking species, due to the conspicuous pale annuli of
the dark antennae, the dotted tegmina and dark cephalic feet and
caudal tibiae.
Type: cf; Phuc-Son, Annam. November and December.
(From H. Fruhstorfer.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 788.]
Head with occiput convex. Eyes prominent, globose. Maxil-
lary palpi with fourth joint two-thirds as long as third and slightly
over half as long as fifth. Pronotal sulci distinct on lateral lobes,
principal sulcus indicated on disk by a median Y-shaped impression
with arms convex and base short. Tegmina and wings fully de-
veloped, extending well beyond apices of caudal femora. Tegmina
broad, narrowing very slightly to the broadly rounded apex;
ulnar vein reaching sutural margin very slightly beyond median
point; median vein sending four oblique branches to that margin.
Femora with genicular lobes bispinose, the spines of the median
