24 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 62
considered here, appreciable variation occurs in the total
amount of olfactory epithelium, and the available surface area
may be expanded in certain forms by an invagination (concha)
of the olfactory chamber wall. In mammals, still more complex
folding of the epithelium has resulted in an increase in sensory
epithelial surface area and more acute olfactory powers. With-
in the lambeosaurine crest, the nasal passage has been elon-
gated and in some sections greatly inflated. But not only has
it been lengthened and inflated, the total surface area has also
been increased, perhaps as a parallel means of increasing the
total area available for olfactory epithelium. In support of
this interpretation, it should be noted that the largest of the
crestal cavities is always situated immediately adjacent to the
"choanal" canal and it is this segment of the modern reptilian
capsule that is usually involved with sensory activities.
If the large chamber of the lambeosaurine crest did in fact
house the olfactory chambers of the nasal capsule, how were
the contained areas of olfactory epithelium innervated? Several
specimens suggest an answer. Corythosawrus casuarius (R.O.M.
No. 1938), Corythosaurus excavatus (N.M.C. No. 8676),
Lambeosaurus lambei (N.M.C. No. 2869), and Lambeosaurus
clavinitialis (Y.P.M. No. 3222) display a uniform relationship
between the "choanal" passage from the crest and the olfactory
foramen at the anterior limit of the brain case. In each of
these specimens, the "choanal" passage opens into the inter-
orbital region immediately in front of the olfactory nerve
canal. The distance between the olfactory foramen of the brain
case and the "choanal" opening of the crest never exceeds 40 mm.
A fifth specimen, Parasaurolophus cyrtocristatus (C.N.H.M.
No. P27393) displays the "choanal" opening located in a
similar position that must have been immediately anterior to
the brain case. Unfortunately, however, the brain case is not
preserved so the relationship cannot be verified in this par-
ticular case.
The proximity of these two openings, together with their
respective dimensions, indicate that the olfactory bulbs were
probably located up in the crest cavities and the olfactory
tracts passed downward out of the crestal cavities through
the "choanal" canal and then turned backward into the endo-
