June 29, 19(52 Hadrosaurian Dinosaurs 7
does not rise in the inverted U-tube for the simple reason that
pressures at both ends of the tube are equal. In the case of
the hadrosaurian loop, equal pressures on opposite sides of the
loop could only occur in the emerged state. Even at shallow
depths, hydrostatic pressure would have exceeded the air pres-
sure within the crestal cavities and lungs. Such excessive
hydrostatic pressure would have resulted in compression of
crestal air and the entrance of water into the narial passages
— even in an upward path against the force of gravity. Only
excessive lung pressure (over hydrostatic pressure) could have
prevented water from rising within the narial loop with the
consequent admission of water into the nasal chambers and
possibly into the lungs as well. No modern air breathing verte-
brates, aquatic or semi-aquatic, rely solely on lung pressure
to prevent drowning. Moreover, when one considers that the
far simpler and more effective sphincter valves or vascularized
narial tissues have been developed repeatedly for this very
same function in such diverse aquatic animals as cetaceans,
sirenians, pinnepeds, rodents, crocodiles, lizards, snakes and
amphibians, the proposed water trapping function of the
hadrosaurian crests loses much of its appeal.
Storage of a reserve air supply, for the purpose of prolong-
ing the period of submergence, at first glance seems to be a very
plausible and practical adaptation for semi-aquatic, air breath-
ing animals. However, two quite unrelated factors make such a
thesis highly improbable — if not impossible. First, the available
volume of the crestal chambers appears totally inadequate in
comparison with the probable lung capacity. A very conserva-
tive estimate of the lung capacity of Corythosaurus casuarius,
(A.M.N.H. No. 5338) for example, is approximately 65,000
cc, or less than one fifth of the total volume of the rib cage.
If it be assumed that the entire crest volume of this species
could have been utilized as storage space, the total available
volume of the uncrushed crest probably did not exceed 2500 cc.
Thus in this particular species, the crest volume at best rep-
resented only about four per cent of the total lung capacity,
and it is more than likely that it actually represented a much
smaller fraction. Species with much smaller crests, such as
Procheneosaurus and Cheneosaurus, would have had an even
