8 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 62
less significant volume of reserve air. It therefore seems unlikely
that such extreme structural modifications were related to air
storage. Furthermore, it seems somewhat anomalous that a
semi-aquatic vertebrate should have undergone such extreme
modifications for this purpose when purely aquatic air breathers
have been so conservative with regard to such adaptations.
Finally, if we consider the manner in which the proposed
storage cavities would have been utilized, it is immediately ap-
parent that highly undesirable or totally impossible conditions
would have resulted. For example, in order to withdraw this
"reserve air supply" from the crest cavities and into the lungs,
something (either air or water) must have displaced it. Water
seems a most unlikely agent in view of its adverse effects and
the numerous effective precautions against just such circum-
stances that have been repeatedly developed in other aquatic
tetrapods. Air as a displacing substance, obviously was avail-
able only in an emerged state — in which case the "reserve air
supply" was unnecessary. If narial sphincter muscles or vas-
cularized narial valves prevented the entrance of water into
these narial passages, as seems probable, these very same
valves must have prevented air withdrawal from the crest dur-
ing submergence. Thus, in spite of the attractiveness of the air
storage theory, it seems quite improbable on the basis of
current evidence.
NASAL APPARATUS IX MODERN REPTILES
Partial or complete dissection of several hadrosaurian crests
has shown that the crestal cavities are continuous with the
rostrally situated external nares and demonstrates most clearly
that this structure was largely, if not entirely, related to the
nasal apparatus and to some phase of respiratory activity. It
is necessary therefore to examine the nasal anatomy of modern
reptiles and to consider the various functions of the tetrapod
nasal system.
The primary function of the nasal apparatus quite obviously
is the conduction of air from the exterior to the lungs. In addi-
tion, this principal activity requires other preparatory func-
tions such as cleansing, warming (or cooling), and humidifying
of the inspired air. (The trapping hypothesis relates to the first
