June 29, 1962 Hadrosaurian Dinosaurs 9
of these.) It should not be necessory to consider each of these
functions in detail in order to arrive at the respective merits
of each as an explanation of the structures under consideration.
It is true that temperature regulation or humidification of in-
spired air may be the proper explanation, but all of these seem
improbable in view of the humid, temperate to subtropical con-
ditions indicated for the hadrosaurian environment.
A second major function involving the nasal apparatus is
that of olfaction. It is surprising that this activity, which is
associated with respiratory activities in all tetrapods, has not
been considered more seriously before this. Perhaps the reason
for this may lie in the general impression that modern reptiles
do not posse>> a highly developed sense of smell. This is cer-
tainly true, if one compares them with mammals — particularly
with macrosmatic mammals, but the fact that reptiles do have
olfactory powers cannot be disputed.
Mammals which are characterized by a highly developed
sense of smell show a corresponding expansion of the olfactory
sensory epithelium. This is reflected in the expanded and com-
plex turbinal and ethmoid systems. There is of course no com-
parable "ethmoid-turbinal complex" in the hadrosaurs, but the
crestal cavities could well have contained analogous structures.
The question to be answered here is — what was the purpose of
the greatly elongated and complex path of the narial passages?
Might not this expanded passage have been a means of increas-
ing the surface area of sensory epithelium? The form, pattern
and size of the cavities are quite variable, but in every crested
hadrosaur there has been some increase in the length of the
narial passages through which the inspired air traveled. This
is the only common denominator for all lambeosaurine crests.
Examination of the nasal capsule in modern reptiles reveals
some interesting morphologic evidence pertinent to this subject.
The reptilian nasal capsule (see fig. 1), which is largely car-
tilaginous, encloses the membranous nasal sac. The sac itself
consists of four major parts: the anterior nasal tube, the
anterior chamber, the olfactory chamber, and the choanal tube
(Beecker, 1903; Pratt, 1948;* Bellairs and Boyd, 1950; and
Oelrich, 1950). Each of these regions may vary from one form
to another, but they are at least partly distinct from each
