12 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 62
areas on the medial and dorsal surfaces of the restricted concha,
a relatively much smaller proportion of the available area as
contrasted with certain lizards (Pratt, 1948). Olfactory nerve
fibers arise from these small areas of olfactory epithelium and
pass posteriorly along the lateral wall of the antorbital space
and through the posterior wall of the nasal capsule (planum
antorbitale) where they join the olfactory bulb just behind.
It is important to note here that in spite of the relatively weak
development of the olfactory chamber, the small olfactory
bulbs are situated immediately behind the short nasal capsule
anterior to the orbits.
The relatively short preorbital length, together with the
large eyes of Sphenodon, limits the available space for the nasal
capsule and undoubtedly is related to the restricted develop-
ment of the olfactory chamber and concha. The latter ap-
parently is not related, however, to the limited olfactory sen-
sitivity of Sphenodon, because even the available surface area
of the olfactory chamber is not fully utilized for sensory func-
tions. The limited olfactory powers (Pratt, 1948) would ap-
pear to be in contradiction to the nocturnal, predatory nature
of the animal where an acute sense of smell would seem to be
advantageous, but on the other hand it is consistent with the
burrow-living (but possibly not fossorial) habits of Sphenodon.
Stebbins (194a and 1948) and Pratt (1948) have demon-
strated that there is considerable variation in the respective
parts of the lizard nasal sac depending upon the mode of life.
For example, in deserticolous lizards the trapping and humidi-
fying functions are more critical and there is a corresponding
enlargement of the anterior chamber. In arboreal lizards, vision
is of greater importance than olfaction and the visual appara-
tus seemingly has expanded and limited the development of the
olfactory chamber. In cursorial forms, particularly in the non-
burrowing varieties, vision and olfaction are both important.
Thus there commonly exists a relatively large eye which limits
the expansion of the olfactory chamber in front. However, in
such cases, the concha is usually greatly expanded and it ap-
pears that conchal expansion is an alternative method of
maintaining or increasing the available area for olfactory
epithelium when other factors (orbital expansion or short snout
