June 29, 1962 Hadrosaurian Dinosaurs 15
to be true of the Crocodilia. The long snout has provided space
for a relatively long nasal capsule that extends over the entire
preorbital length. Extensive development of sensory epithelium,
an expanded concha, and moderately sized olfactory bulbs all
indicate a significant (if not acute) level of olfactory sensitivity.
NASAL APPARATUS OF THE HADKOSAFRIDAE
Turning our attention hack to the group in question, the
Hadrosauridae are subdivided into three subfamilies (four by
Lull and Wright [1942] and certain other workers) chiefly on
the basis of cranial anatomy. The three subfamilies recognized
here are the Hadrosaurinae, characterized by Mat, non-crested
skulls; the Lambeosaurinae, possessing hollow bony crests com-
posed of the premaxillaries and nasals extending over the top
of the cranium; and the Saurolophinae, which hear less promi-
nent, solid, bony crests composed exclusively of the nasals. The
lambeosaurine crests have been referred to as "true narial"
crests because they are all hollow and enclose parts of the
elongated and sometimes complicated narial passages. The
various species of Procheneosaurus, Cheneosaurus, Corythosau-
rus, Lambeosaurus, Hypacrosaurus, and Parasaurolophus all
display variations of the true narial crest. Crests of the
Saurolophinae (Sawrolophus, Prosaurolophus, and Brachylo-
phosaurus) have been labeled "pseudo-narial" crests, because
of their solid construction and the fact that they do not enclose
any part of the nasal apparatus (Ostrom, 1961b).
Correlated with these cranial conditions is the construction
of the hadrosaurian snout. Those hadrosaurs which bear true
narial crests have greatly reduced snouts, while all other hadro-
saurs are characterized by a long and inflated snout. As a re-
sult, all memhers of the Hadrosaurinae and the Saurolophinae
have conspicuous preorbital fossae, while the Lambeosaurinae
have virtually no preorbital space available in the snout. It is
quite reasonable to assume that the prominent preorbital ex-
cavation of the hadrosaurine and saurolophine premaxillaries
and nasals housed (at least in part) rather large nasal organs
as suggested by Versluys in 19.'36. In the Lambeosaurinae, on
the other hand, the snout is greatly compressed dorsovcntrally
