June 29, 1962 Hadrosaurian Dinosaurs 19
sally, at the anterior limit of the nasal bone, the narial canals
loop forward and then upward in an S-shaped curve and finally
enter a common medial crest cavity anterior to and at the level
of the orbits. (This media] cavity quite probably was divided
by cartilage or membranous tissues in life, consistent with the
paired conditions of modern reptilian nasal structures.) Ventro-
posteriorly, a single (also probably paired in life) "choanal"
canal descends from this medial crest cavity into the inter-
orbital region. The latter feature is certainly comparable to
the choanal tube of the modern reptilian nasal capsule and the
undivided cavity above it would appear to represent the loca-
tion of paired olfactory chambers. The S-shaped curve of the
nasal passage then seems to represent the anterior chamber.
The crest of Corythosaurus excavatus (N.M.C. No. 8676),
although differing in details, displays a very similar pattern
(see fig. T). In this and most other species of Corythosaurus,
the nasal is a very prominent bone forming a major part of the
crest. Again, separate narial passages (anterior nasal tubes?)
ascend posteriorly from the external nares, enclosed for most
of their length by the two lobes of the premaxillaries. In front
of and slightly above the level of the orbits, the two passages
turn forward and then upward and back again, forming sepa-
rate S-shaped curves (anterior chambers?) similar to those of
Procheneosaums cranibrevis. Unlike the condition in that
species, however, the paired narial canals lead into paired
lateral cavities above and posterior to the S-shaped loops.
These lateral cavities (olfactory chambers?) occupy the lower
half of the crest, but dorsally they open into a common medial
cavity that extends well up into the crest. Although this latter
cavity could not be fully explored, it apparently extends ven-
trally as a single "choanal" tube between the lateral cavities
to the interorbital region just anterior to the olfactory canal
of the brain case. These relationships indicate a great expan-
sion of the lateral (olfactory) chambers back around the more
medially placed "choanal" tube.
Two specimens of Lambeosaurus (L. lambei, N.M.C. No.
2869, and L. clavinitialis, Y.P.M. No. 3222) display similar
narial patterns characterized by the independently ascending
passages (anterior nasal tubes?) and the S-shaped loops
