22 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 62
in this relatively simple crest plan were a pair of elongated
cavities situated between the upper and lower passages. These
extend caudallv from the common cavity for about half of the
total crest length.
In each of these specimens, at least a part of the crest is
occupied by a large undivided or unpaired chamber — that part
of the narial cavities adjacent to the "choanal"" canal. It is
quite probable that this common cavity, as well as the
"choanal" canal, was actually divided by cartilage or mem-
branous tissue. In support of this are numerous patches of
organic material dispersed throughout the matrix of these
crestal cavities of both Parasaurolophus cyrtocristatus and
Lambeosaurus clavinitialis. These appear to represent remnants
of thin sheets of organic material — probably cartilage — which
were originally situated within the crestal cavities. In view of
the cartilaginous nature of the modern reptilian nasal capsule,
it is quite possible that the hadrosaurian capsule was of similar
construction and that these bits if organic material are rem-
nants of this structure. No similar material could be discovered
in the matrix outside of the crestal cavities, but most of the
matrix had already been removed prior to the present study.
None of the other crests which were examined showed any
comparable material within the accessible parts of the crest.
OLFACTION IX THE HADUOSAIKS
That the hadrosaurian dinosaurs were like all other tetra-
pods in the possession of a nasal capsule, is not likely to be
disputed. And that this capsule was concerned with the same
fundamental activities as those of modern tetrapods is likewise
beyond doubt. It even seems safe to assume that the hadro-
saurian nasal capsule was probably of the same basic design
as that of modern reptiles. But as to the precise capsule form
and the relative importance of the several nasal functions there
is considerable uncertainty.
The restricted construction of the lambeosaurine snout in-
dicates that the nasal apparatus could not have been located
rostrallv. The crest, on the other hand, not only provides a
likely site — it constitutes the only possible site for the lambeo-
saurine nasal capsule. Moreover, the construction of the crest
