26 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 62
CONCLUSION
From all available evidence, it appears quite likely that the
lambeosaurine crest was an adaptation for increasing olfactory
sensitivity by providing an increase in the total surface area
available for olfactory epithelium. (It also seems probable,
in view of the very large and unique preorbital fossae, that the
non-crested hadrosaurs had also developed enlarged or modified
nasal apparatus situated in a more normal position in the in-
flated snout. See fig. 5.) But the inevitable question arises, why
should the hadrosaurs, rather than any other dinosaur, have
required superior olfactory powers? Of course this question
cannot be answered to the complete satisfaction of everyone
concerned, but some interesting possibilities are suggested by
reconsidering hadrosaurian ecology.
It is quite probable that hadrosaurs lived a rather passive,
perhaps even retiring existence as relatively slow moving, ter-
restrial or amphibious herbivores. That they were able to move
about over the land is verified by their skeletal construction
and that they may have been terrestrial browzers, at least in
part, is suggested by Krausel's(1922) analysis of the "stomach
contents" of Anntosaurus (Trachodon) annectens. Other evi-
dence (the large Laterally compressed tail and the webbed
nmnus) points to a certain dependency upon an aquatic en-
vironment — perhaps for food in the form of soft aquatic plants
or perhaps as a place of refuge from terrestrial predators.
In comparing the hadrosaurs with other dinosaurian herbi-
vores, it is striking that they alone lack any obvious defensive
or protective adaptations. They possessed no horns, no claws,
no sharp teeth, they carried no clubbed or spiked tail, and they
had no bony armor. They certainly were not constructed for
rapid flight and they cannot be considered giants for their
time. In short, the hadrosaurs appear to have been quite
defenseless — a most improbable plight. As an alternative it
seems increasingly probable that they depended upon the rela-
tive security of lakes, swamps, or rivers and thereby escaped
from their enemies.
However, such inland waters represented only potential
safety as long as the individual was out on the land — potential
safety contingent upon adequate advance detection of the im-
