June 29, 1962 Hadrosaurian Dinosaurs 5
proboscis-bearing reptiles in wbich there existed a large mus-
cular, "telescoping air tube" that rose from the preorbital fossae
of the snout. This device enabled the animal to "reach'" up to
the surface for air without interrupting its underwater feeding.
The dee]) excavation of the snout is interpreted by Wilfarth
as the origin scar of the large proboscis muscles. In the crested
hadrosaurs, a similar muscular "snorkel" was pictured as at-
tached to the crest, but strangely enough, in the same paper,
Wilfarth accepts Parks' ligamentous connection between the
dorsal vertebrae and the crest in Parasaurolophus. In later
papers, the "snorkel" interpretation is greatly elaborated by
Wilfarth. The crested hadrosaurs are represented with unique
"upper" external nares located high on the crests. The usual
narial openings situated rostrally on the snout are considered
as nonfunctional relicts closed in life by skin and other tissues.
The large surface area of the crest presumably provided large
areas for the origins of proboscis muscles and inspired air was
conducted down the flexible "breathing tube." through dorsal
"nares" into the crest cavities and then to the mouth cavity
and trachea. It is further suggested that this remarkable
breathing tube may also have been prehensile and therefore
useful in feeding.
Wilfarth's imaginative solution to the hadrosaurian crest
problem, appealing and exotic as it may be, is not supported
by any evidence. In the first place, not all of the hollow hadro-
saurian crests are characterized by the required external open-
ings which Wilfarth has interpreted as external nares. The
crest of Cheneosaurus tolmanensis, for example, is not pene-
trated by any lateral or dorsal openings. The same is also
true of Corythos.aurus frontalis, Corythosaurus brevicristatus,
and Hypacrosaurus altispinus. And in spite of Wilfarth's
implications to the contrary (1947), there are no terminal
openings in the crest of either Parasaurolophus walkeri or P.
tubicen and they appear to have been absent in P. cyrtocristatus
as well. Furthermore, the highly varied and irregularly shaped
crestal openings th.it do occur in some specimens. (Corytho-
saurus casuarius, Lambeosaurus htmbci, and Procheneosaurus
praeceps) appear to be due to incomplete ossification at bone
margins, and the areas involved were probably closed by
