6 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 62
cartilage or membrane. Still more doubt is cast on Wilfarth's
hypothesis by the lack of any discernible muscle scars on any
of the hadrosaurian crests. Although the preorbita] fossae of
the non-crested hadrosaurs might be considered as excellent
scars left by proboscis muscles, it seems much more likely that
these excavations contained narial sphincter muscles together
with relatively large nasal organs.
Although perhaps not comparable, proboscis-bearing mam-
mals are generally characterized by a marked reduction in the
size of the nasal bones rather than an enlargement as is the
case in many of the crested hadrosaurs. Furthermore, the
nearest thing to a homologous structure, the elephant trunk,
is not used as a "snorkel," but is a prehensile feeding mecha-
nism and it apparently has always been such a device. If the
hadrosaurian snorkel-like proboscis were also prehensile, as
suggested, it would hardly seem to be functionally advan-
tageous together with an expanded beak, as C. M. Sternberg
(1939) has already pointed out.
Two additional explanations that have received a much
greater degree of acceptance are similarly correlated with the
semi-aquatic habits of the hadrosaurs. C. M. Sternberg (1935,
1939, 1942, and 1953) and L. S. Russell (1946) consid-
ered the crest as a trapping device which prevented the
entrance of water into the narial passages and lungs while the
animal was submerged. According to this thesis, the S-shaped
narial loop is considered analogous to an inverted U-tube,
and the greatly elongated crest of Parasaurolophus is rep-
resented as the functional peak of this adaptation. In contrast
to the trai) theory is the air storage hyothesis put forward by
E. H. Colbert (1915 and 1955) and Homer (1933 and 1945).
Here, the crestal cavities are interpreted as chambers for
retaining a reserve supply of air which would have enabled the
animal to remain submerged for longer periods. Both of these
capabilities would seem to be highly advantageous adaptations
for air breathing, aquatic animals. However, neither of these
functions seems possible for the structure involved.
The U-tube trap explanation is unsatisfactory for several
reasons. First, the mere presence of an inverted loop in the
narial passage could not in itself have prevented the entrance
of water into the narial passages, or even into the lungs. Water
