Information for Authors
Articles from botanical systematics and ecology, including
biographical sketches, critical reviews, and summaries of literature
will be considered for publication in PHYTOLOGIA. Manuscripts may
be submitted either on computer diskette, or as clean typescript.
Diskettes will be returned to authors after action has been taken on
the manuscript. Diskenes may be 5.25" or 3.5" and may be written in
any IBM or Macintosh compatible format. Typescript manuscripts
should be single spaced and will be read into the computer using a
scanner. The scanner will read standard type fonts but will not read
dot matrix print. Manuscripts submined in dot matrix print cannot
be accepted. Use underscore (not italics) for scientific names.
Language of manuscripts may be either English or Spanish. Figures
will be reduced to fit within bmits of text pages. Therefore, figures
should be submitted with internal scales. Legends for figures should
be included in figures whenever possible. Each manuscript should
have an abstract and key word list. Specimen citations should be
consistent throughout the manuscript. Serial titles should be cited
with standard abbreviations. References cited only as pari of
nomenclatural summaries should not appear in Literature' Cited.
Nomenclatural work should include one paragraph per basionym
and must provide proper (as defined by the current International
Code of Botanical Nomenclature) citation of sources of epithets and
combinations.
Authors should arrange for two workers in the appropriate field to
review the manuscript before submission. Copies of reviews should
be forwarded to the editor with the manuscript. Manuscripts will not
be published without review.
Cost of publication is currently S13.(X) US per page for pubUcation
without reprints. Publication with 100 reprints is provided for
S18.00 US per page, 200 reprints for S21.50 US per page. Page
charges are due with manuscript and no paper will be published
before payment is received in full. Reprints must be ordered and
paid for in advance. Page charges will be determined on the basis of
a typeset page. Title page should include title, auihors(s) name(s),
and address(es). No extra charge is made for line drawings provided
they conform to limitations of size and proportion for normal text.
Halftones require an extra charge of SH.CXD US per page at 100%.
Enlargement or reductions cost an additional S6.00 per page.
