352 PHYTOLOGIA May 1 998 volume 84(5):347-353
A Ophryosporo heptantho (Sch.-Bip. ex Wedd.) R.M. King & H. Rob. in
foliis iatioribus et argute duplo-serratis distinctus.
Erect to clambering shrubs to 1.5 m high, moderately branched, branches
spreading at 60-80° angles; stems pale to dark brown, terete, densely puberulous with
brownish hairs; pith solid. Leaves opposite; petioles 0.2-0.8 cm long; blades ovate,
mostly 1-5 cm long, 0.7-3.5 cm wide, base broadly obtuse, entire, margins from
widest part with large, crowded, jagged, doubly serrate teeth, apex acute, upper
surface dark green, pilosulous, lower surface somewhat paler, puberulous mostly on
veins, with scattered glandular dots, trinervate with strongly ascending veins near
base. Inflorescences corymbiform to subpyramidal, with branches spreading at ca.
90° angles, ending in dense corymbiform clusters of heads; peduncles 1-4 mm long,
puberulous. Heads ca. 9 mm high, 2-3 mm wide; involucral bracts ca. 7, green,
narrowly oblong to linear, ca. 6 mm long, 1 mm wide, acute at tips, puberulous
outside. Florets 6-9 in a head; corollas white, ca. 6 mm long, with scattered glands
outside mostly on basal tube and lobes, tube ca. 1 mm long, throat narrowly
funnelform, ca. 4 mm long, lobes ca. 1 mm long, 0.5 mm wide, mamUlose inside;
anther thecae ca. 2 mm long, with small rudimentary appendage; style branches
gradually but distinctly broadened at tips. Cypselas ca. 3.5 mm long, with scattered
glands on ribs; with slender, pale, crooked stipiform base ca. 0.5 mm long, with firm-
walled elongate cells and bearing numerous glands; pappus of ca. 30 irregularly
subplumose bristles to 4.5 mm long, not broadened distally, apical cells narrowly
acute.
Ophryosporus ferreyrae is evidently a close relative of O. heptanthus (Sch.-Bip. ex
Wedd.) R.M. King & H. Rob., including O. origanoides (Meyen & Walp.) Hieron.
of central Peru in Junin southward into Bolivia. The latter differs by the more
ascending branches and the narrower leaf blades with more rounded bases and only
subserrulate to simply serrate margins. Both species have the extended, slender,
stipitate base of the cypsela, but the stipe in O. heptanthus has thitmer-walled cells that
are more sharply differentiated from the carpopodium.
Ophryosporus sagasteguii H. Rob., spec. nov. TYPE: PERU. Cajamarca:
Contumaz^ Contumaza-Cascabamba, 2700 m, ladera, 12 June 1981, Sagdstagui,
Lopez, & Mostacero 9975 (HOLOTYPE: US; Isotype: HAO).
A Ophryosporo cetero in caulis fistulosis et in setis pappi sparsis
distinctus.
Subshrub 1-2 m high, moderately branched, with branches diverging at ca. 45°
angles; stems brown, terete, sparsely puberulous near nodes, glabrescent, narrowly
fistulose. Leaves opposite; petioles 2-8 mm long; blades narrowly ovate, to 3.5 cm
long and 1.5 cm wide, base broadly obtuse, margins serrulate to obuisely and
somewhat unevenly serrate, with 6-12 teeth on each side, apex acute, upper surface
sparsely minutely puberulous, somewhat paler and puberulous mostly on veins below,
trinervate from near base. Inflorescence broadly thyrsoid, with central axes of
inflorescence and lateral branches usually aborting and forming pseudodichotomies at
tips; branches densely puberulous with whitish or sordid hairs; peduncles 0-1 mm
