ter Welle & Adams: Wood anatomy oiJuniperus 355
Adams 1994) and var. arizonica R.P. Adams; / comitana Mart.; J.
deppeana Steudel var. deppeana and f. sperryi (Correll) R.P. Adams and
var. pationana (Mart.) Zanoni; var. robusta Mart., and var. zacatacensis
Mart., J. durangensis Mart.; J. flaccida Schlecht. var. flaccida, var.
martinezii (Perez de la Rosa) Silba, and var. poblana Mart.; J. gamboana
Mart., J. jaliscana Mart., J. monosperma (Engelm.) Sarg.; J. monticola
Mart. f. compacta Mart., f. monticola, and f. orizabensis Mart.; /.
occidentalis Hook. var. australis (Vasek) A.H. & N.H. Holmgr. and var.
occidentalis\ J. osteosperma (Torr.) Little; J. pinchotii Sudw.; / saltillensis
M.T. Hall; and J. standleyi Steyerm.
The entire (or smooth) leaf margined junipers are mostly associated with more
mesic habits or mountains. These junipers can be divided into the mainland
and Caribbean Island species (Adams 1995):
Smooth leaves. Mainland:
/ blancoi Mart.; / horizontalis Moench; /. scopulorum Sarg. and J.
virginiana L. var. virginiana and var. silicicola (Small) E. Murray.
Smooth leaves, Caribbean Islands:
J. barbadensis L.; J. bermudiana L.; J. gracilior Pilger var. gracilior, var.
ekmanii (Florin) R.P. Adams, and var. urbaniana (Pilger & Ekman)
R.P. Adams; J. lucayana Britton; J. saxicola Britt. & P. Wilson.
The wood of the timber-producing members of the family share the following
features: latewood never conspicuous, alternate bordered pits of the tracheids lacking,
tracheids without spiral thickenings, parenchyma present and frequendy abundant,
cupressoid (Pierce 1937) cross-field pits present, except in Thuja, and resin ducts
lacking.
Many species of Juniperus are readily distinguished from all other conifers (except
Cupressus and Cedrus) by the peculiar cedar-like odor which one normally associates
with pencils. In fact, the cedarwood oil is practically identical for Juniperus ashei, J.
virginiana, and Cupressus funebris Endl. (Adams 1991). Anatomically, these species
are separated from most other gymnosperm woods by the presence of abundant
parenchyma with nodular transverse walls and the cupressoid cross field pits.
Phillips (1968) and Panshin & de Zeeuw (1964) reported that Juniperus virginiana
and / lucayana differ from other Juniperus species by the presence of nodular
thickenings on the vertical end walls of the rays. Nevertheless, according to Jacquiot
(1955), the wood structure of the genus Juniperus is very homogeneous and the
differences between the various species are mostly biometrical.
A systematic examination of the wood anatomy of the Juniperus from the Western
Hemisphere has not been reported. The present research was an exploratory effort to
evaluate the taxonomic utihty of wood anatomy using a large portion of the Juniperus
species (section Sabind) in the V>'estem Hemisphere.
