ter Welle & Adams: Wood anatomy of Juniperus 36 1
Tracheids: Uniseriate rows of bordered pits (or rarely paired on the radial walls)
are present on the radial walls of the earlywood and on both radial and tangential walls
of the latewood. Pit apertures 2-4(-5) ^m in diameter, the pits 10-13(-16) |im in
diameter. Intercellular spaces well-marked as observed in the transverse sections.
Maximum lumen diameter between 13 and 21 |im, very occasionally up to 40 ^im,
walls 2A ^im. Length 1471-2356 (1205-2793) ^im.
Rays: Homogeneous, composed of procumbent cells, 4-9 (3-11) per mm.
Generally uniseriate, occasionally also some biseriate. Maximum number of cells
rarely over 10, but in a few samples the highest rays up to 18-27 cells. However, the
majority of the rays usually 1-4 cells in height.
Horizontal walls fairly thin to thick, sparsely pitted with large elliptical pits. End
walls fairly thin to thick, well pitted.
Cross field pits cupressoid, (l-)2-4(-5) per cross field. These pits are regularly
arranged, and sometimes show a tendency towards the taxoid type.
Parenchyma: Usually abundant throughout the growth ring, often arranged in
tangential zones. Horizontal and tangential walls pitted, often nodular.
DISCUSSION
Nodular end wall thickenings were present in most cells in the Juniperus species of
this study. It appears that this character can be used to separate Juniperus from other
genera of the Cupressaceae. Thus, one can separate species of Juniperus,
anatomically, from most other gymnosperm woods by the presence of abundant
parenchyma with nodular transverse walls and the combination of at least some
nodular vertical end walls in the rays and medium size cupressoid cross field pits.
The wood anatomy of Juniperus of the Western Hemisphere was found to be very
homogeneous and differences were entirely quantitative (in agreement with Jacquiot
1955) with respect to the characters included in this study (Table 1). These differences
cannot be used to separate species, as the variation within species was larger than
between species.
LITERATURE CITED
Adams, R.P. 1991. Cedar wood oil - Analysis and properties. Pp. 1-51-173. In:
Modem Methods of Plant Analysis ■ oil and waxes. H.-F. Linskens & J.F.
Jackson (eds.). Springer- Verlag, Bc-lin, Germany.
