364 PHYTOLOGIA May 1998 volume 84(5): 363-367
Prop. HH (Greuter & Hawksworth 1999), if approved at the next Botanical Congress,
will alter automatically the orthography of Saxe-Gothaea to Saxegothaea. We are
using Saxegothaeales, Saxegothaeaceae, and Saxegothaea in anticipation of adoption
of one of these proposals following Rec. 14A of the International Code of Botanical
Nomenclature (Greuter et al. 1994).
In adopting Gaussen's (1979: p. 6) concept that the conifers (his "Coniferae")
consist of three distinct "megaphyla" or "ensembles" (his "Pinodines," 'Taxines," and
"Podocarpines"), we establish the two new classes, Taxopsida and Podocarpopsida,
in accordance with the rules and ranks estabUshed by the International Code of
Botanical Nomenclature (Greuter et al. 1994). Taxopsida (originally suggested by
Florin [1944, 1948a, 1948b, as 'Taxales" or 'Taxineae"], Pilger & Melchior [1954]
and Pant [1959] - all invaUdly published [Art. 32.1(c), 36.1]) with arillate seeds
represents a distinct taxon within gymnospermous seed evolution, being rooted among
the extinct cupular pteridosperms (Lyginopteridophyta). The origin of the
Podocarpopsida with their peculiar epimatial structures around the seed is thought to
be among the extinct cone-bearing Walchiaceae-Voltziaceae assemblages, having a
detached, but common origin with the extant Pinopsida Burnett {e.g., Araucariaceae of
Pinopsida is linked to Saxegothaeales of Podocarpopsida by their strobilar structures).
The problems associated with the origins and phylogenetic interrelationships of the
three classes of Pinophyta will be addressed more extensively in Doweld's new book.
The family name Saxegothaeaceae, originally suggested but not validated by
Gaussen (1974a, 1974b, 1976), is validated to accommodate the Chilean genus
Saxegothaea Lindl. The new family differs from the remainder of Podocarpaceae
(excluding the anomalous Tasmanian genus Microcachrys Hook./.) by their taxaceous
habit, cone-like aggregations of female strobili and amentaceous rnale strobili, and
other characters as noted by Gaussen. It is noteworthy that in proposing the
illegitimate name Squamataxus for Saxegothaea, Nelson (1866: 168) emphasized the
sinularities of likeness of their bracteose strobili with the fleshy ones in Taxus L. By
taking into account these differences, it is proposed that Saxegothaeaceae be
maintained apart from the other families of Podocarpales PuUe ex Reveal
(Pherosphaeraceae [Pilg.] Nakai, Podocarpaceae Endl., Nageiaceae Fu, and the
recendy established Acmopylaceae Bobr. & Melik.) by placing them in their own
order, Saxegothaeales. The recognition of Saxegothaeaceae brings into question the
relationship of the arborescent Chilean genus Saxegothaea with the shrubby
Tasmanian genus Microcachrys. In addition to their distinct habit, the several
morphological differences in their reproductive structures (Morvan 1990) and the
numerous differences in their vegetative features leads us to establish a new
monogeneric family, Microcachrydaceae, for the isolated endemic. We hereby assign
Microcachrydaceae to the Saxegothaeales.
Taxopsida R. Florin & Doweld et Reveal, class, nov. TYPUS: Taxus L., Sp. PI.
2:1040. 1753.; Taxaceae Gray, Nat. Arr. Brit. PL 2:222, 226. 1821., nom.
cons.
Ab classis Pinopsida habitum fruticibus vel arbusculis ramosissimis,
lignum pycnoxylicum resiniferum, tracheidas spirales tertiarias, lepides nullae,
'stamina' squamata peltataque, microsporangiis 2-8, unilocularibus, grana
pollinis asaccata, ovula solitaria vel cum brachyblasto squamoso, semina
