Grant & Day: Transfers from Gilia 369
On external morphology, the four species appear to belong in Gilia. However,
certain microscopic characters have forced a reconsideration of their relationships. In
pollen characters, section Kelloggia differs from the rest of Gilia, but agrees with
Allophyllum. The four species possess a type of glandular hair that is found in
Allophyllum and Tintinabulum, but not in the rest of Gilia. There are also some gross
morphological characters that differentiate the four species from Gilia proper.
The character relationships suggest that the four species should be taken out of
Gilia, that section Kelloggia should be placed in Allophyllum, and that G. tenerrima A.
Gray belongs in Tintinabulum. Here we present the evidence for the proposed
transfers and make the formal taxonomic and nomenclatural changes. The effects of
the changes on the definition of the genera Allophyllum and Gilia and the tribe Gilieae
are discussed.
We will sometimes refer to the species involved as gilias, sometimes as
allophyllums or tintinabulums, depending on the historical context. When referring to
a given species as it was in the past, we cite it as a Gilia, but it is cited as an
Allophyllum or Tintinabulum when looking to the future. The term "true gilias" is
used for the genus Gilia exclusive of section Kelloggia and G. tenerrima A. Gray.
The original members oi Allophyllum will be referred to as the "typical allophyllums"
ox Allophyllum sect. Allophyllum.
CHARACTTERS
Pollen morpholog y.
Good surveys of the various morphological features of the pollen grains in the
family Polemoniaceae as a whole were made by Stuchlik (1967a, 1967b) and Taylor &
Levin (1975). Additional observations in particular genera have been recorded for
Collomia, Acanthogilia, and Maculigilia (Chuang et al. 1978; Day & Moran 1986;
Patterson 1989). Maculigilia is a new monotypic genus recendy segregated from Gilia
(Grant 1999). Day investigated pollen morphology in Gilia proper, G. tenerrima A.
Gray, and Allophyllum, and the new results are presented here (Table 1, Figure 1).
Because there are numerous palynological characters varying among numerous
polemon genera and species, authors have sought to reduce this variation to a
manageable number of syndromes or "types" (Stuchlik 1967a, 1967b; Taylor & Levin
1975; Chuang et al. 1978). This has its advantages, but also disadvantages.
Important single characters become lost in the aggregate syndrome.
The location of the apertures on the pollen grain is one such character. We have
singled it out and found it to be a very useful indicator of relationships. Two
contrasting conditions are: pantoporate (apertures scattered over grain) and
zonocolporate (apertures located in the equatorial zone).
In all sections of the tnie gilias, the pollen is zonocolporate. In the original or
typical allophyllums, by contrast, it is pantoporate. In the three species of section
Kelloggia, it is also pantoporate (Table 1, Figure 1).
