372 P H Y T O L O G I A May 1998 volume 84(5):368-382
Next, consider the exine pattern. In Gilia exclusive of Kelloggia, the pattern varies
but is commonly striate. In Allophyllum sect. Allophyllum, the exine has spinules.
Gilia sinistra has a spinulose exine like typical Allophyllum. However, the exine is
striate in Gilia capillaris and G. leptalea (Table 1, Figure 1). Thus, the exine pattern
varies among species in Kelloggia, but exhibits the typical Allophyllum condition in
one of the species.
Gilia tenerrima has zonocolporate striate pollen, as does G. filiformis Parry ex A.
Gray (Table 1). The pore arrangement in G. tenerrima is unusual, which led to its
being misinterpreted as "approaching pantoporate" in a previous paper (Grant 1999).
A better characterization is broad-banded zonocolporate (see Table 1).
Trichomes.
The true gilias and Allophyllum sect. Allophyllum both have stipitate glandular
hairs on the upper stems and often in the inflorescence. These trichomes consist of a
chain-like series of cells forming a stalk and a terminal globular single-celled sticky
gland. In the species of true gilias that have been examined, the stalk is generally stout
and the terminal gland is usually amber-colored. In typical Allophyllum, the stalk is
long, slender, and translucent, and the terminal gland is a black dot (Figure 2).
The latter type of glandular hair is unusual in the temperate genera, but is found
again in a modified form in Kelloggia. The glandular hairs of Kelloggia are greatly
reduced in size as compared with typical Allophyllum. They often have a short single-
celled stalk, in which case they measure ca. 0.05 mm long. The terminal gland is a
black dot as in typical Allophyllum (Figure 2).
The glandular hairs of Gilia tenerrima are also of the Allophyllum type, with a
slender hyaline stalk bearing a black dot-like gland. They are tiny as in Kelloggia,
measuring 0.07-0.13 mm long. We at first construed this as evidence for a
relationship of G. tenerrima with Allophyllum sect. Kelloggia, but then we discovered
the same type of tiny black-tipped gland in Tintinabulum inyoensis (I.M. Johnston) V.
Grant, which G. tenerrima resembles in gross morphological characters.
Other Characters.
Seed form and color are conservative characters in the temperate Polemoniaceae,
and are good indicators of generic and tribal relationships (Grant 1998). The true
gilias and Allophyllum sect. Allophyllum differ with respect to these seed characters.
In true gilias, the seeds are small, angular, and sandy colored. In typical Allophyllum,
they are large, plump, with a rounded contour on one side at least, and brown or
black. It is significant that mature seeds of Kelloggia are also plump, rounded and
dark brown, as in typical Allophyllum.
To summarize, the three species of Kelloggia differ from the rest of Gilia, but
agree with Allophyllum sect. Allophyllum in pollen pore arrangement, type of
trichome, and seed characters. In addition, one species of Kelloggia is like the typical
allophyllums in pollen exine pattern.
