374 PHYTOLOGIA May 1998 volume 84(5):368-382
Gilia tenerrima has a growth habit of spreading branches with slender stems, and
the flowers are usually solitary. In these respects it differs from Gilia proper but is
like Tintinabulum. The corolla is small and campanulate in both G. tenerrima and
Tintinabulum. As noted earlier, tiny black-tipped glandular hairs occur in both G.
tenerrima and Tintinabulum inyoensis.
The DNA evidence published to date for Kelloggia is scanty. It consists of the
sequence in the cpDNA gene matK in Gilia sinistra (Johnson et al. 1996). In the
cladogram for this gene, G. sinistra falls in a clade of Navarretia species (Johnson et
al. 1996). Gilia sinistra is remote from Navarretia by nonmolecular criteria of
relationships. More molecular work on Kelloggia is desirable.
In the cpDNA and nrDNA cladograms (Johnson et al. 1996; Porter 1997), Gilia
tenerrima falls close to the far-western annual giUas {Gilia subgen. Gilia), but is
remote from G. filiformis. This is one of the unexplained cases of discordance
between molecular and morphological data in the family.
THE EXPANDED GENUS ALLOPHYLLUM
Allophyllum is a small genus related to Collomia in the tribe Polemonieae. It was
set up in 1955 for the former Gilia gilioides (Benthcim) Greene group (Grant & Grant
1955). The group consists of four or five species depending on how one treats the
taxa gilioides and violaceum. These entities behave as distinct sympatric species in
some parts of their range (Grant & Grant 1955) and as intergrading races in other areas
(Day 1993b, unpubl.). Accordingly, one can treat them either as separate species
(Grant & Grant 1955) or as two subspecies of one species (Day 1993a, 1993b). We
will treat them as one polytypic species in this paper.
The transfer of the Gilia leptalea group to Allophyllum introduces a distinctive
element into the genus and expands its range of variation. The relationships between
the old allophyllums and the new A. leptaleum (A. Gray) A. Day & V. Grant group
can be expressed taxonomically by treating them as separate sections.
The revised classification of Allophyllum is presented in outline form. Diagnoses
are given rather than descriptions. The essential nomenclamre is presented rather than
complete synonymy. For more details see the treatments of Grant & Grant (1955) and
Day (1993a).
ALLOPHYLLUM (Nuttall) A. Grant & V. Grant, Aliso 3:98. 1955. TYPE
SPECIES: Gilia divaricata Nuttall. BASIONYM: Gilia sect. Allophyllum NunaJl,
J. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, ser. 2 1:155. 1848.
Annual herbs with leafy stems. Plants medium-sized to small. Leaves digitately
lobed or simple and entire. Pubescence of glandular hairs consisting of sieodcr
translucent stalks and small black tips. Culyx with herbaceous lobes and micrnbranous
sinuses. Corolla funnelform, medium-sized to small. Pollen paniororate. CspsitJe
