Grant & Day: Transfers from Gilia 379
Comments on the Segregation of the Genus Aliciella
The splitting off of subgroups as segregate genera can go too far. Where should
we draw the Une? Segregating subgroups out of a genus in order to reduce polyphyly
is one thing: splitting the branches of a single monophyletic group into separate genera
is something else. The first action is necessary for phylogenetic taxonomy; the latter
type of change is unnecessary from a phylogenetic standpoint. Furthermore, the
splitting up of a heterogenous, but monophyletic genus into two or more separate
genera is generally undesirable taxonomically since it obscures the relationship
between the branches.
Porter (1998a) has recently segregated the genus Aliciella from Gilia proper.
Aliciella sensu Porter corresponds to Gilia sects. Giliandra and Gilmania (Figure 3;
Grant 1999). In a second paper. Porter (1998b) elevates the section Giliastrum of
Gilia to a separate genus. Porter's stated reason for the changes made in both papers
is to reduce polyphyly in Gilia. Thus, Porter has the same goal as we do, but arrives
at a very different result.
Porter is an exponent of molecular cladistics, whereas our work is carried out in
the framework of traditional taxonomy and evolutionary systematics. The two
approaches are very different, and they lead to disagreement regarding phylogenetic
classification of Gilia. Molecular cladistics emphasizes the diagnostic value of single
DNA segments, and it processes the DNA evidence by the procedures of cladistics to
produce cladograms. The cladograms are often misconstrued in practice as organismic
phylogenies (see Grant 1998). Traditional and evolutionary systematists have learned
from long experience to beware of overemphasis on any single character; we stress the
importance of using all available characters to construct classifications and infer
phylogenies. The best use of DNA evidence in systematics, in our opinion, is to
integrate it with all other types of evidence, rather than to overgeneralize from a
molecular cladogram (Turner 1998; Grant 1998).
Porter's (1998a) segregation of Aliciella from Gilia is based primarily on the
molecular cladogram for nrDNA ITS (Porter 1997). Supplementary evidence comes
from Johnson et al.'s (1996) work on the cpDNA gene matK, but these authors
assayed only three of the twenty species belonging to Aliciella sensu Porter. Porter
(1998a) cites other lines of molecular and morphological evidence (Porter 1993;
Tommerup & Porter 1996). However, the role of this supplementary evidence is
difficult to assess since it is unpublished (as of this writing), one reference being a
dissertation and the other a lecture abstract, and the data are not summarized in the
1998 paper. Porter (1998a) does give detailed morphological descriptions of the
species; but he does not present parallel short diagnoses of the main groups involved,
which would be more helpful than descriptions in revealing the morphological
characters used in the classification.
In addition to setting up Aliciella as a genus. Porter recognizes three levels of
infrageneric groups; subgenera, sections, and subsections. Each one of these groups
from genus to subsection is defined in cladistic terms. Here is the definition of section
Giliandra of Aliciella. "Section Giliandra is phylogenetically defined as the most
recent common ancestor of Aliciella pinnalifida and A. stenothyrsa and all of the
descendants of that ancestor." {Porter i998a, p. 27.). Parallel definitions are given
