380 P H Y T O L O G I A May 1998 volume 84(5):368-382
for the other main groups. Thus, the groups are clades, or cladons in the terminology
of Mayr (1995) and Brummitt (1997). The only cladograms published for the Gilia-
Aliciella group are molecular cladograms. The separation of Aliciella from Gilia
subgen. Gilia is in agreement with the cpDNA and nrDNA cladograms, and the
subdivisions of Aliciella correspond with the clades and subclades in the nrDNA
cladogram (Porter 1997, 1998a).
But the molecular cladograms are gene trees, not organismic phylogenies.
Furthermore, they can be interpreted in different ways. The cladograms are consistent
with the view that Gilia sect. Giliandra and Gilmania (or Aliciella) are only distandy
related to Gilia subgen. Gilia. This agrees with the prevailing view based on
morphological evidence. But is does not necessarily follow that the branches involved
should be separated at the genus level. For generic segregation, more evidence and
stronger arguments are needed than those presented by Porter ( 1998a).
In another paper. Porter (1998b) takes the first step in segregating Gilia sect.
Giliastrum as a genus. This short paper makes the nomenclatural changes of the
species involved; it contains little discussion and our discussion will be brief. Here
again, as in the case of Aliciella, the main evidence is the cpDNA and nrDNA
cladograms of Johnson etal. (1996) and Porter (1997), along witfi other unpublished
molecular studies of Porter. It appears that another big taxonomic change is being
made on a narrow data base, and without considering the difference between
segregation for the sake of monophyly and splitting for the sake of homogeneity.
Improved Definition of the Tribe Gilieae
The transfer of section Kelloggia from Gilia to Allophyllum reduced the polyphyly
in the tribe Gilieae as well as that in the genus Gilia. It is the latest in a series of
transfers that have made the Gilia tribe more natural. To see this in perspective, it is
necessary to go back in time. When the Gilieae was set up years ago, it consisted of
seven genera in three or four groups: namely, the basal genus Gilia; Ipomopsis-
Eriastnan-Langloisia; Navarretia; and Leptodactylon-Unanthus (Grant 1959, p. 258).
This assemblage was believed to be phylogenetically natural at that time, according to
the evidence then available, but new evidence in subsequent years brought cases of
unnaturalness to light, and a series of taxa were excluded from the tribe.
The species formerly known as Ipomopsis gloriosa (Brandegee) A. Grant was
segregated into the new genus Acanthogilia (Day & Moran 1986), and this was placed
in a tribe of its own (Grant 1998). Leptodactylon and Linanthus were removed to a
new tribe Leptodactyloneae on the basis of a combination of molecular and
morphological characters (Grant 1998). Navarretia was transferred to the tribe
Polemonieae on combined molecular and morphological evidence (Grant 1998). The
former Gilia maculata Parish was placed in a new genus (MacuUgilia) in the
Leptodactyloneae (Grant 1999). The U-ansfer of Gilia sect. Kelloggia to Allophyllum
in this paper continues the process.
The reduced uibe Gilieae, consisting now (in our system) of Gilia, Ipomopsis,
Eriastrum, Langloisia, and the resurrected genus Tintinabulum, is much more natural
than it was. Common characters in the seeds, calyx, leaves, and ecology help to
define it. To these is added unexpectedly a pollen character.
