Robinson: New species and combinations in Eupatorieae 349
Guevaria micranthera is evidently most closely related to opposite-leaved members
of the genus farther north in Ecuador, and differs from the previously known species
from farther south in Peru, G. vargasii (I.C. Chung) R.M. King & H. Rob., which
has alternate leaves. The new species has the small-leaved spreading habit closest to
the most northern of species of the genus, G. sodiroi (Hieron.) R.M. King & H. Rob.
The new species is primarily distinguished by details of its florets. The corolla tube is
distinctly shorter than the throat, the tube bears only short-stalked glands and the
anthers are very small.
Gongrostylus pipolyi H. Rob., spec. nov. TYPE: COLOMBIA. Antioquia:
Mpio. de Frontino, Vereda Venados, Parque Nacional Natural Las Orquideas, sitio
La Gumicha, 06째 32' N, 76째 19' W, 700-900 m, 5 Feb 1995, Pipoly et al. 18406
(HOLOTYPE: JAUM; Isotypes: MO,US). Paratype: COLOMBIA. Choco, Rio
San Juan just below Tad6, ca. 100 m, 15 Aug 1976, Gentry & Fallen 17725
(COL,MO,US).
A Gongrostylo costaricense (O. Kuntze) R.M. King & H. Rob. in foliis
breviter acutis et in setis pappi apice minute latiores distinctus.
Somewhat woody, scandent, slender epiphyte with few branches, branches
spreading at 45째-80째 angles; stems densely pilose to hirsutulous with blackish hairs.
Leaves opposite; petioles 5-11 mm long; blades ovate, 2.5-6.5 cm long, mostly 1.3-
3.0 cm wide, shortly acute, surfaces sparsely pilosulous, mostly on veins below,
trinervate 3-8 mm above base, with veins parallel to margin in basal half.
Inflorescence narrowly pyramidally thyrsoid with lateral branches from axils of leafy
bracts, branches densely puberulous with dark hairs; peduncles 0.5-2.3 cm long.
Heads 8-10 mm high; involucral bracts ca. 25, subimbricate in ca. 3 series, oblong-
ovate to lanceolate, 3.5-7.0 mm long, mostly 1.0-1.8 mm wide, shortly to narrowly
acute, glabrous outside, outer bracts thicker and darker, inner bracts paler and suiated;
receptacle glabrous. Florets ca. 90 in a head; corollas whitish, narrowly funnelform,
6.0-6.5 mm long, glabrous outside below lobes, with scattered uniseriate hairs inside
tube and lower throat, tube ca. 3 nun long, throat ca. 3 mm long, lobes ca. 0.5 mm
long, with few glandular dots on outer surface; anther thecae ca. 1 mm long, apical
appendage very short and broad; style base enlarged, densely hirsute; tips of style
branches greatly enlarged. Cypselas ca. 2.2 mm long, glabrous; carpopodium with
enlarged basal row of cells; pappus of ca. 30 slender bristles up to 5.5 mm long,
longer bristles with slightly but distinctly broadened tips and with rounded apical cells.
Gongrostylus pipolyi is apparently a local endemic in the Pacific coastal area of
Colombia. It is a second described species of a previously unispecific genus. It
differs from the more widely distributed G. costaricensis (O. Kuntze) R.M. King &
H. Rob. by the shortly acute rather than narrowly acuminate leaves and the shghtiy
enlarged tips of the longer pappus bristles with rounded apical cells. The hairs on the
inside of the corollas are easily overlooked, but apparently occur in both species.
