100 Charles Fenner :
Both the Glenelg and its chief tributary, the Wannon, rise in the
bold meridional sandstone ranges of the Grampians, and drain
nearly all the Victorian territory west and south thence to the sea,
emptying into Discovery Bay. When nearing the coast the river
makes a long westerly sweep, looping across the border into South
Australia, thence it doubles back round a coastal border hill, Mt.
Ruskin, and enters the sea on the Victorian coast.
A casual examination of the river basin (see Plate XIX.) shows it
to be curiously one-sided, and detailed enquiry into its physiographic
history brings out many interesting details of the changes which
have occurred during its lifetime.
It is very interesting to note the first impressions gained by that
talented explorer and keen observer. Major Mitchell, in his traverse
of this area. In the latter part of July, 1836, his expedition had
reached the very fiat land (average elevation, 530 ft.), which lies,
imn-ediately north of the Glenelg basin. Here, since it was winter
and very wet, he had great difficulties in getting his bullocks,
waggons, etc., over the soft, swampy, sodden ground. After floun-
dering on through lakes and swamps for many days, ever seeking
solid ground, he made this entry on July 30 : "By pursuing a course-
towards the base of the friendly mountains,! I hoped that we should
at length intercept some stream, channel, or valley, where we might
find a drier soil, and so escape from the region of lakes. . . .
From here the pinnacled summits of the Victoria range presented
an outline of the grandest character. The noble coronet of rocks
was indeed a cheering object to us after having been so long half-
immersed in mud. ... I found at length, to my great delight,
... a valley, where we finally encamped on a fine stream2 flowing
to the south-west over granite rocks (white felspar, quartz and
silvery mica). . . . We had solid granite beneath us; and, instead
of a level horizon, the finely rounded points of ground presented by
the sides of a valley thinly wooded and thickly covered with grass.
This transition, from all we sought to avoid to all we could desire
in the character of the country, was so agreeable, that I can record
that evening as one of the happiest of my life."
It Avas on the next day, July 31, that Mitchell actually discovered
the Glenelg. (See Fig. 1.) Although he shows in all his records a
keen instinctive knowledge for physiographic features, the peculiar
nature of the course of this river for many days presented a com-
1 The Granipiaiis.
2 Probably Reilly's Creek.
