102 Charles Fenner :
II. — General Description of the Area.
The accompanying plan (Plate XIX.) shows the courses of the
main stream, and its most important tributaries ; the extent of the
basin is shown by a dotted line, and the approximate contours of
the area are also shown. Fig. 1 is copied from Mitchell's first map'
of the river and its tributaries, and shows the route of his expedi-
tion.
As has been previously noted, there is u distinct preponderance-
of tributaries to the east, and especially to the north-east. Indeed,,
except for a few short valleys, there are no tributaries on the
western side at all. In order to more systematically consider the
various features, we njay conveniently divide the area into four
parts; these are numbered respectively. A, B, C, and D in Plate
XIX.
The chief distinctions between these four divisions consist in the
nature of the drainage, but there are other characteristics which,
may be briefly summarised as follows : —
A. — The tract between the Glenelg and the South Australian
border; low land, sloping gently to west and south-west. Irregu-
larly timbered, mostly scrubby; poorly drained, abounding in
swamps and lakes with low separating ridges, often of limestone;
some dairying and grazing, sparsely populated. Recent work shows-
good agricultural possibilities in this area where extensive drain-
age schemes are undertaken.
B. — The tract north of the Glenelg, towards Goroke and Natimuk;
slightly better populated, and with a better class of land, grazing,
some wine and wheat; timber mostly scrubby, but abundant good
redgum; badly drained, abounding in lakes and swamps, and with-
a few wandering " creeks."
C. — The tract enclosed by the Upper Glenelg and the Wannon; of
varied elevation, rising in the Dundas higlilands to 1535 feet;
well drained by streams flowing north, north-west, and south; well
peopled for the most part; good land, in places excellent, especially
in the open downs to the south. The underlying rocks of this
important area consist of a series of ancient gneisses, schists, slates,
cherts, with acid and basic igneous intrusives. The most elevated
portions (Grampians, Dundas, etc.) consist of lower carboniferous
sediments — purple and grey sandstones and quartzites, strongly
faulted; in the lower part of area C, calcareous Jurassic mudstones
occur; practically the whole area, up to 1000 feet, has l^een covered
by marine deposits of late tertiary (1 pliocene) age.
