Physiography of the Glenebj River. 105
of Victoria. Evidence is gradually being accumulated which
appears to show that this, our chief watershed, although of very
great diversity in material, has yet a unity of structure. This
general structure is of the " Ijlock-fault type," and in this the
Grampians, Serra, Victoria, Black, and Dundas ranges are distinct
partakers (if not the suggesters of the idea).!!
A writer on the Geography of Australia2 says: "The Pyrenees
may be considered as the end of the Great Dividing Range on the
continent." This, of course, suggests that the Pyrenees are also the
end of the Main Divide of Victeria. Further, the much-debated
uniform hachure line which marks the Divide on most maps of our
State usually ends about Ararat.
As a matter of fact, this Divide, regarded as a structural feature
of Victoria, does not end until tlie Glenelg is reached, less than 40
miles from the western border (see accompanying plate). The unity
of structure hitherto referred to must cause the inclusion of the
Grampians in the Divide, as also does the fact of the division of
the north and south flowing drainage (see Fig. 2). The low gap at
Ararat, where the head waters of the IMount William creek
(northern) and the River Hopkins (southern) are almost without
any separating elevation does not militate against this, nor does
the similar gap west of the Victoria Range. Mr. T .S. Hart, who
has given many years of cai-eful study to the western highlands
of Victoria, has shown them to consist throughout of a series of
north-south ranges, with intervening north-south valleys. ^
The railway departments of Victoria and South Australia have
kindly provided sufficient reliable data of heights to allow of the
construction of sections from north to south throughout the area
here dealt with, and these clearly indicate the continuation of the
Main Divide right to the Glenelg. There it gently plunges below
the tertiary plains of the Murray estuary.
(c) Minor Elevations. — Hills which would come under this head
are abundant and of great variety : —
(i.) Low-rounded hills, wholly of coast plain material, such as
Mount Clay and Mount Kincaid, are residuals. The timbered
ranges throughout area D are mostly of this type.
(ii.) Numerous hills in the Casterton-Wando Vale area are of soft
Jurassic mudstones capped by a level layer of ferruginous tertiary
1 See T. S. Hart. " Hi^'hlands and Main Divide of Western Victoria," Proc. Roy. See. Victoria,
December 1907, p. 270, line 36.
2 Commonwealth Year Book, No. 3. 1910.
3 B.A.A.S., Melb., 1914. " The Central Hiu'hlands and Main Divide of Victoria." T. S. Hart.
