106 Charles Fenner:
material. Robin Hill, near Corea Creek, with its flat top, may be
cited as characteristic of this class.
(iii.) Around Casterton, Coleraine, and Merino, we find Ijeauti-
fully undulating, well-grassed country, the low rounded hills bear-
ing witness to the evenness and softness of the level-bedded Jurassic
mudstones in which the streams have done their work. In places
where the slopes are steeper, landslips are characteristic features;
their abundance is probably due to the " greasy " nature of these
felspathic mudstones, combined with their porosity. On a small
scale interesting complications in the drainage of these hills have
been caused by the landslips. The general fertile appearance of
this part of the country greatly impressed Mitchell, and on his
suggestion the Hentys in 1837, brought stock up from, Portland,
settling in the neighbourhood of the present township of Henty.
In his pamphlet on " The First Settlers in Victoria," Henry Henty
says of this venture: "When they caught sight of the country,
' Why, here is Sussex !' they exclaimed, ' Sussex without a building,
Sussex without inhabitants, Sussex all our own.' They galloped
their horses for joy, cheering and throwing up their hats."
(iv.) In area A, long low ridges, generally trending north-west,
run away into South Australia. In these limestone often plays a
large part, and caves are frequent.
(v.) Granite hills occur rarely. Bracken Hill is an example. Most
of these hills are residuals, the ancient, resistant bed-rock (granites,
gneisses, slates, etc.), having been deeply dissected in places by the
Glenelg and its tributaries; other hills of this class are very ancient
physiogra2:)hic features, relics of a prior peneplanation, covered by
lake and marine deposits, and more recently uncovered by stream
action. The Hummocks, near Bracken Hill, will be dealt with more
fully at a later stage. Volcanic hills, e.g., Mount Bainbrigge and
Mount Eckersley, occur, mostly in the south-east.
v.— Valleys and Streams.
(a) Glenelg River. — The valley of the Glenelg lies almost wholly
in those rocks of coastal plain origin, which are uniformly coloured
sage-green on our geological maps. Accepting all these beds as of
one age, and as Pliocene, Ave see that the development of the
river must be still more recent, and we thus have a freedom from
any effects of complicatory prior drainage-systems, such as must
be considered in dealing with most other Victorian rivers.
