FJtysiograpJty of the Glenelg River. 107
Mr. T. S. Hartii believes tlie ]\[ain Divide of Victoria to have been
slowly uplifted along an east-west line, with trough faults on
either side. This elevation amounts to some 6000 feet in the extreme
east, and becomes gradually less westward, so that it seems most
likely that in the areai under consideration we have the last traces
of this great hoist as it gradually decreased to nothingness. To'
the south, at Portland, a proved depth of 2265 feet)^ of tertiary sedi-
ments indicates a very great subsidence there.
If we picture the whole of the old Murray estuary as slowly
rising above sea-level, it is evident that the first part uncovered by
the sea would be the Dundas Highlands^ — our area C. We should
then have developed there the two sets of short consequent streams-
that still exist (see map). One set, Chetwynd, Pigeon Ponds^
Mathers' creeks, etc., flowing north, and the other set, Dundas,.
Steep Bank, Wando, Koonong Wootong, etc., more or less southerly.
A certain amount of caj^ture in the region of their headwaters has
slightly but not materially affected these streams since then. (See
Fig. 2.)
The remaining flatter part of the estuary floor would probably
rise a little more slowly, the sea apparently receding along a north-
west south-east coastline. Such a movement appears to be still
continuing, probably with minor oscillations, and is aided in its
reclamation work by the ridges and sand-dunes built by winds and
currents. The north-north-west trend of the parallel ridges and
swamps in that corner of South Australia is strongly suggestive of
this, and the part played by coastal dunes during the uprising is
evidenced by the occurrence, all through the areas concerned, of
patches of dune sand, sometimes very extensive, at other times blown
away and re-collec-ted in recent hollows. With the continued
recession of the sea, the northern streams would endeavour to make
their way north, probably a little west; while the southern streams
would gather to form two or three more or less uniformly south
flowing streams (see Fig. 2). Of these, the Glenelg would be one,
and a stream formed by the union of the Dwyer's Main Creek, and
the Upper Wannon would almost certainly be another.
The sad lack of grade to the north would act against any definite
valleys being cut out and adhered to there, and we should probably
have our northern streams degenerating into chains of shallow
lakes, such as still occur in area B. The sister stream, the Wim-
1 Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, December, 190y, and B.A.A.S., 1914.
2 Quoted by H. Herman, Vict. Handbook, B.A.A.S., 1914, from Vict, boring records.
