F}tysiograp}iy of the Glenelg River. 109
As the land rose the Glenelg would continue to deepen its valley
and increase its territory. In the soft Jurassic rocks the valley is
wide, and flood-plains, cut-offs, and terraces are to be seen ; but in
the somewhat harder, level-bedded limestones lower down the
course, below Dartmoor, the river has cut down into a steep valley
with high precipitous cliffs that still persist.
At this time we may picture two chief tributaries of the Glenelg
— an eastern one, the Wannon (W. Fig. 2), and a more northern,
to which we may give Mitchell's name — the Nangeela valley (N. Fig.
2). The Nangeela would have everything in its favour to proceed
with vigorous headward erosion, and we may picture it advancing
more and more to the north, rounding the Dundas highlands, and
ultimately, one by one, capturing the struggling northward
streams, eventually reaching back into the territory of the Wim-
mera itself, as indicated in Fig. 2.
In August, 1836, Mitchell'^ made the following observations re-
garding the flow of the river at a point about four miles north of
the junction w4th the Stokes River : — Average breadth, 35 yds. ;
mean depth, 17 ft. ; velocity of current, 1863 yds per hour. This
represents a flow of about 62,000,000 gallons per hour. The river
is subject to very severe floods, when, of course, the flow is even
greater. On the other hand, in summer time, the surface flow often
practically ceases. This was the case at the time of our camp
there in January, 1914.
The absence of any deep, Avide estuary at the mouth of the Glenelg
was a great disappointment to Mitchell. The mouth is shallow, and
shoaled with shifting sand bars. On August 20, 1836, Mitchell
wrote in his journal : " The day was squally, with rain, neverthe-
less, during an interval of sunshine I obtained the sun's meridian
altitude, making the latitude 38° 2' 58" S. I also completed, by
2 p.m., my survey of the mouth of the river and the surrounding
country. ... On re-entering the river from the sea, I presented
the men with a bottle of whisky, \vith which it was formally named
the Glenelg, after the present Secretary of State for the Colonies."
(b) The Wannon.; — This tributary, whose native name has for-
tunately been preserved by Mitchell, was favourably placed in the
soft Jurassic and tertiary rocks. There are, however, two or three
features in the present Wannon valley that demand explanation.
The valley may be divided into three very distinct tracts. In the
lower Wannon, from Tahara to Casterton, we have a fine stream,
1 Journal, vol. ii., p. 218.
