110 Charles Fenner:
winding in a definite channel through a wide, middle-aged valley
(see Plate XIX.). In the central tract of the Wannon, up as far as
Mount Sturgeon, we have the river taking a most unexpected loop
to the north, towards the mountains, and thence wandering slug-
gishly and wide, with practically no defined valley, north-west,
then west, and south-west, passing over waterfalls into the lower
Wannon in the neighbourhood of Tahara. Still further towards the
source Ave have Dwyer's Alain Creek and the Upi^er Wannon (above
Mt. Sturgeon) flowing almost due south in deep stable valleys in
the hard rocks of the Grampians.
We thus have an upper and a lower tract of more mature age,
Avith a central part of extreme youth. As before indicated, there
appears to be no doubt that this uppermost part, with Dwyer's
3Iain Creek, originally flowed on to the south as a separate river;
also that the lower Wannon did not extend nearly so far eastwai-d
as at present (see Fig. 3). With the advent of the newer basalt
period, however, a great sheet of lava effectually dammed up these
present tributaries of the Upper Wannon, in the neighbourhood of
Mt. Sturgeon, and forced the streams to slowly find their swarnpy
way right round the northern margin of the basalt sheet, finally
reaching the Avider and more mature valley of the lower Wannon.
Thus, to use the terminology of rivers, the Lower Wannon is a
■"consequent " stream, the extreme Upper Wannon is a "captured
consequent," while the central part may be called an "insequent "
stream (a term used by Andrews, " Physical C^^eography of N.S.W.,"
p. 36).
The deeper valley of the Lower Wannon is now endeavouring
l:>y means of headward erosion, as at the Wannon and Xigretta
falls, to reduce the three parts of the stream to a more harmonious
grade. The events are so recent, and the evidence so clear, that
any geological map of Victoria will evidence the truth of this
theory; especially is this so if taken in conjunction Avith the more
■detailed county maps as to the nature and direction of the river's
course.
It should be noted also that of the two older tracts of the Wannon,
the lower one — from Tahara to Casterton — is Avholly due to erosion.
The upper part, Avithin the Grampians, lies in valleys that are
probably of tectonic origin, and older than the Tahara-Casterton
portion.
(c) Wando and Wando Vale Ponds. — These tAvo streams rise in
the Avestern part of the Dundas highlands, and Aoav south-Avesterly,
