Pltysiography of the Glenelg River. 113
and then south-southeast about IS miles, forming a V-shaped loop
with the sharp angle to the- north. This angle is at a point east of
the Black Range, near Brim Spring. A low gap occurs, and it is
interesting to know that some years ago a scheme was proposed
whereby a canal was to be dug to carry the water from the upper
Glenelg across to the Wimmera on the north. While not able to
visit the spot, the writer has obtained much valuable information
from the details of the railway survey through the gap, and also
from Miss Sinclair, of the Brim Spring school. There appears to
be evidence that the upper Glenelg originally flowed north, perhaps
down Norton's Creek, to the Wimmera. This area is well worth
closer investigation.
(e) Minor Streams. — A numljer of other streams present pecu-
liarities in their courses, and leave much room for detailed
physiographic work. Of these may be mentioned the Pigeon Ponds.
Steep Bank rivulet. Harvester Creek, and the Stokes River; the
latter shows a remarkably sharp southern loop north of the town-
ship of Lyons, probably due to the lava stream having filled up
part of its former valley.
VI.— Lakes.
The basin of the Glenelg has an extremely ill-defined boundary.
Except in the case of the Grampian district, low, flat, swampy
divides are the rule. On the eastern side this low divide has
been carefully selected as the route for the Dunkeld-Portland por-
tion of the railway; lakes and swamps, lying on the basalt sheet,
are common here. To the north, in area B, the very numerous
lakes are perhaps to some extent relics of the streams which
attempted to make their way northwards before being captured by
the active headward erosion of the Glenelg ; there are no streams
whatever adjacent to the Glenelg valley here. In the north-west
one or two ill-defined creeks occur, such as the Mosquito creek,
towards Apsley. To the west of the Glenelg, if we except a few
minor streamlets, there are no tributaries whatever; the water
collects in the depressions, and is got rid of by evaporation and
percolation. Most of these swamps, especially across the border,
are elongated along north-north-west axes. Woods^ records that
at flood times the Dismal Swamp — a large swamp north of Mount
Gambler — drains eastward into the Glenelg.
1 Geological Observations in South Australia. J. E. Woods, 1862
