114 Charles Fenner :
The lakes may he rouglily classified as (i.) solution lakes, (ii )
cut-offs, (iii.) basalt dainuied, and (iv.) those (in basalt sheet.
(i) Solution Lakes. — This type, dealt with bv Professor Gregory, 2
is common. Mitchell had close experience with a large numijer, and
deals with them in some detail. I'ndoubtedly wind erosion plays
a large part in forming many of these lakes, as shown by the
frequently occurring crescentic bank of sand on the eastern shores.
A beautiful drawing of the group called the Greenhill lakes is
given by Mitchell in Vol. II. of his journal, plate XXXII.
(ii) Cut-offs. As before mentioned, these occur in the wider and
more mature portions of the Wannon and Glenelg, especially where
Jurassic mudstones are dominant.
(iii.) Swamps and lakes caused by the damming up of streams
by lava flows are common northward from Glenthompson towards
Mount William. These include the Cockajemmy lakes. Larger ones
occur west of Mount Abrupt.
(iv.) The lakes found on the basalt sheet itself are numerous and
shallow. Tliey are similar to those found all over south-western
Victoria, and bear witness to the innuaturity of the drainage
systems. They are usually ascribed to one or more of the follow-
ing agencies :— Sagging of the basalt, the meeting of tw-o or more
lava flows, wind erosion, and more rarely, crater depressions.
VII.— The Hummocks.
This remarkable natural feature deserves a special section for
itself. It consists of a hill, a little over 450 feet high, cut through
bv two steep-sided gorges — those of the Wando and the Wando Vale
ponds. An observer coming eastwards up the wide, open valley
of the Wando, cannot fail to be struck by the fact that tliis hill
lies riglit across the valley almost at right angles to the course of
the stream. Closer observation is necessary to show that it is cut
through by the tw^o streams named, which narrow their valleys down
to gorges a cliain or less in width. A detailed survey of the imme-
diate area was made under the direction of Mr. 0. A. L. Whitelaw,
Field Geologist, Geological Survey of Victoria, and is shown in
Figure 5.
To the traveller along the Harrow road to the east, a similar
puzzle is presented of two wide U-shaped valleys suddenly nar-
rowed to two small V-shaped guts. Since it lies on Major Mitchell's
Geograplij' of Vittoria, pp. 132 et serj.
