118 Charles Fenner :
80 venerable a feature that it can only l^e regarded with awe.
Except for the two gorges, it stands to-day in all likelihood with
the same general outline that it presented to the sun and wind
when it formed part of the landscape of those extremely remote
mesozoic ages.
Figure 6 represents in a diagrammatic way the chief features
of importance that have been referred to in this paper. The various
letters and figures of that diagram are explained below, and will
serve as a general recapitulation.
(a) Rock Types.
k. — The bedrock of the area, outcropping abundantly in the
northern parts, and greatly influencing the physiographic features
(see A. Fig. 6). As far as known it is non-fossiliferous; it consists
of mica schists, tale schists, phyllites, slates, etc., intruded by
both acid and basic plutonics and dykes. Many ages of rocks are
perhaps represented in this complex, but the youngest present may
be taken as not younger than ordovician. These rocks are on the
whole very resistant to weathering and erosion.
B. — The faulted and tilted sediments of the Grampians and Mt.
Dundas (probably Lower Carboniferous) ; grey and purple mud-
stones, sandstones, and quartzites. These are strongly resistant
to erosion, and form the highest land in Western Victoria, com-
prising much magnificent mountain scenery. The letter F in Fig.
6 indicates the faulting which is so prominent in these rocks.
C. — Jurassic lacustrine sediments, consisting of felspathic mud-
stones, sandstones, and occasional grits; frequently calcareous, and
in places carbonaceous; nearly always level-bedded; weather easily
and good outcrops are rare. Fine agricultural land, wide valleys,
broad, fertile flats, and rounded hills.
D. — Older Basalts, etc. — These are taken as belonging to various
periods in the tertiary. Different types occur; the relics are small
and scattered. They are of minor importance from the physio-
graphic point of view.
E. — Tertiary limestones, gravels, and sandstones often strongly
ferruginous. These are in places f ossiliferous ; very Avidespi'ead,
originally covering the whole of this area up to the thousand-foot
contour line. They are level-bedded, and easily eroded. In the
higher areas these beds are naturally quite thin — a few feet in
thickness; the deposits become thicker towards the south and west;
in the southern areas they reach a depth of from two to three
