Physiography of the Glenelg River. 119
thousand feet. Some of the most famous tertiary fossil beds in
Australia occur in this series in the Wannon and Glenelg valleys.
G. — The Newer Basalts. — These flows cover large areas in the
south-eastern portion of the Glenelg Basin ; wide level sheets with
occasional cones. They have considerably influenced the physio-
graphy, obliterating the old valley systems, diverting streams, etc.
The features so far developed on these areas are, of course, con-
siderably more recent than those of the Glenelg Basin as a whole.
(h) Valley Types.
(w.). — As typified in the loAver Wando River; broad and gently-^
sloping in the tertiary and Jurassic, narrow and steep-sided in the
underlying bedrock (A). See Fig. 6.
(x.). As typified by the Lower Wannon; broad, gently-sloping
valleys, with wide flats, almost wholly in tertiary and Jurassic
sediments.
(y.). — As typified by Robertson's and Corea creeks; valley in
level coastal plain material, superimposed on hard ancient rocks
(A); Jurassic sediments absent.
(z.). — As typified by the Upper Wannon (Dwyer's Main Creek,
etc.); deep V-shaped valleys, partly tec'tonic in origin.
(c) The Past " Erosion Periods.''
We may regard the periods of rock-foi-mation (sedimentation,
etc.), as being " positive " periods in the geological history of the
area. Equally important ai-e the intervening " negative " periods
— the periods of rock-destruction (erosion, etc.). These great
erosive periods are represented only by the unconformable bound-
ing lines between the rocks of any two ages, as shown in Figure 6.
(1) Post 1 Lower-Palaeozoic and Pre-lower-carboniferous. — As
already stated, this boundary was not investigated.
(2) Post ? Lower-palaeozoic and Pre-jurassic.^ — This erosion period
ended in the formation of an area of low relief to which extended
reference has already lieen made. Whether lower- ? carboniferous
rocks (B) ever covered the more ancient rocks (A) over the whole
area cannot be determined.
(3) Post-jurassic and Pre- ?older Basaltic. — Some valleys of this
period are preserved by remnants of basaltic flows ; such basalts are
older than the tertiary (Murray gulf) material, and are here loosely
included under the comprehensive term of " older basalts." Wliilo
much theory could be indulged in regarding this erosion period.
