Australian String Figures. 125
so that this string makes a half turn round their tips, at the same
time keeping the thumbs closely pressed against the index fingers to
hold the ulnar thumb string firm. Then extend the figure by turn-
ing the palms of the hands away from you.
You are sometimes required to twist a loop. This may be done
" clockwise " — that is in the direction in which the hands of a clock
travel — or in the opposite way, which is termed "counter clock-
wise."
In some finished figures, if the strings are pulled apart carelessly
a hopeless tangle is the result. To avoid this, take the top and
bottom straight strings of the figure and pull them apart, and the
string will usually resolve itself into a simple loop.
The string selected should be smooth and pliable, and one which
is not liable to kink. Macrami thread, or a fine woven cord, like
blind cord, will be found to be very suitable. A length of about
6 ft. 6 in. (2 metres) is usually the most convenient. The ends
should be tied in a reef knot, or sewn together with cotton, or, best
of all, spliced.
1. (Plate XX.) — Barbed UPEAUS — Miral Kaiperi. (South Australia).
Collected by Miss C. Herdman.
Hold the string between the thumb and index fingers, the hands
being about six inches apart, and make a loop by bringing the right
hand towards you and to the left. Hold the strings between the
thumbs and index fingers, so that both the loops hang down, and
pass both index fingers towards you through both loops.
Draw the hands apart, and turn the fingers up (Top Opening).
Pass the right thumb distal to the proximal radial index string,
and pick up the proximal ulnar index string from the proximal
side.
Pass the left thumb distal to the proximal index loop, and pick
up the distal ulnar index string from the proximal side.
Pass the right little finger distal to the distal ulnar index string,
and pick up the proximal radial index string from the proximal
side.
Pass the left little finger distal to the proximal ulnar index
string, and jaick up the proximal radial index string from the
proximal side.
Pass the middle fingers distal to the distal radial index string,
and into the little finger loops distally, then straighten them out,
thus picking up the distal ulnar index string. .^''^Cnli''-^-^
L I B R A R Y 1 30 1
