126 Katldeen Hdddon :
Release the thumbs, pass them distal to their original loops, and
pick up the distal radial index string beyond the point where it is
•';rossed by the radial middle finger string.
Hook the little fingers over the ulnar middle finger strings, re-
release the middle fingers, and pull down the little fingers to extend.
Release the thumbs and the little fingers and the spears are
thrown.
The inverted triangle in the centre represents the barb.
2. (Plate XX,) — Granitk RoCKii=. Tarkai. (South Australia).
Opening A.
Pass the thumbs proximal to the index loops and into the little
finger loops proximally. Pick up the radial little and ulnar index
strings. Release the index fingers.
Pass the index fingers distally into the thumb loops, and out
towards you proximal to the two distal strings, but distal to the
proximal string (Avhich runs straight across), turn the index fingers
down and up away from you and pick up thi^ string.
Keeping the thumbs pointing away from you, pass them proximal
to the ulnar little finger string and pick this up through the thumb
loops. Release little fingers.
Transfer the thumb loops to the hooks of the little fingers.
Keeping the little fingers hooked down, pass the thumbs distally
through the little finger loops, and pick up the radial, little, and
ulnar index strings. Release indices and Pindiki.
3. (Plate XX.)— A Night 0\yh = Kroldambi. (South Australia).
Make the " Granite Rocks."
Hold the two thumb strings firndy against the base of the index
finger, and release the little fingers.
Pass the little fingers proximally through the loops just released,
and hold down the ulnar index string. Release the index fingers.
Pindiki the original little finger string.
This represents the Night Owl, with its large ears.
4. (Plate XXT.)— Water RAT=Ekeli. (South Australia),
Hold 2Dart of the string with the thumbs and index fingers, the
hands being about six inches apart. Make a small ring by passing
the right hand away from the body, and toward the left side, and
hold it by the thumb and index of the right hand in such manner
that the small ring is away from the body.
