Australian String Figures. 127
Insert the index fingers, pointing downwards, into the small ring,
and the thumbs, also pointing downwards, into the large loop.
Draw tight.
With a turn of the wrists make tlie thumbs point upward. Pass
the thumbs distal to the radial index string, and pick up the ulnar
index string proximally.
Pass the little fingers distal to the radial index string, and pick
up the ulnar thumb string proximally. Release thumbs.
Pass tlie thumbs proximally into the little finger loops, and pick
up the radial little and ulnar index strings. Release indices.
Pindiki — The Rat Swimming.'^
Release indices and Pindiki distal radial thumb strings — The
Hat Under Water.
5. (Plate XXT.)^Two Swans = A'?«((/?(;a/-i. (South Australia).
Opening A.
Pass the thumbs distal to the index loops, and pick up the radial
little finger strings proximally.
Bend the index fingers into their own loops, over the palmar
strings. Release the little fingers, and turn up the indices away
from you.
Pass the little fingers proximal to the index loops and into the
thumb loops proximally, hook down the distal radial tliumb string,
then pass them towards you proximal to the radial thumb string,
and pick up this string on their backs, returning proximal to the
other strings. Release the thumbs.
Pass the thumbs proximal to the index loops, and into the little
finger loops proximally. Pick up the radial little and ulnar index
strings. Release the index fingers.
Pick up the ulnar thumb strings with the index finger proximally,
•and extend.
6. (Plate XXI.) — -A Crask = Krogwali. (South Australia^
Collected by Miss C. Herdman.
Position 1, with a double twist in the centre, so that the radial
string runs straight across, whilst the ulnar string loops round it.
Opening A.
Pass the thumbs distal to the radial index strings, and proximal
to the ulnar index and radial little finger strings, and return, pick-
ing up these two strings on the back of the thumbs.
1 Roth (lop. cit.), pi. iv., No. 7.
