128 Kathleen H addon :
Pass the little fingers distal to the radial index and ulnar thumb
strings, and draw these strings out. Take the little fingers out of
their loops, and reinsert them in the opposite direction.
There are now two triangles with their bases towards you ; bend
the index fingers into these distally, and on their backs pick up
the inner string of each triangle. Release the thumbs.
Pass the thumbs through the little finger loops from the proximal
side, and pick up the radial little and both ulnar index finger
strings returning proximal to the radial index finger string.
Release the distal index loops.
With the index fingers pick up tlie distal ulnar thumb strings
proximally.
Hook the right index over the distal left index loop, taking it off
the finger, and hook the left index over the equivalent loop on the
right index, and take it off the finger.
Release the thumbs and extend, turning the indices away frora
you.
7. (Plate XXI.) — A Jew Lizard. (Victoria)
Collected by Mr. J. W. Layard.
Opening A.
Release right index and pull tight.
*Pass the right thumb into the right little finger loop proximally,
and i^ick up the radial string. Pass the right index over the
palmar string, and into the thumb loop proximally, and pick up
the ulnar thumb string.
With the left thumb and index take hold of the two radial thumb
strings and lift them off the right thumb. Pass the right thumb
away from you between its radial index and radial little finger
strings, then turn it down and up towards you, thus picking up on
its back the radial little finger string. Release the right little finger
and transfer the right index loop to it.
Repeat from * twice.
Pass the right thumb into the right little finger loop proximally
and pick up the radial string.
With the right tluimb and index lift the left index loop off that
digit, and place it over the wliole left hand. Then take hold of the
left ulnar thumb and radial little finger strings, release the left
hand from all its strings, and replace the thumb and little finger
loops.
Pindiki with tlie riglit index, and turn the hand away from you
till the fingers point downwards, to extend the figure.
