Australian String Figures. 129
This figure represents a Jew Lizard (Amphibolurus barbatus),
with its large head on the left, and its tail and back legs on the
right, and is the same as Roth's " Fish " from Atherton (PI. VII, ,
Fig. 4).
B. (Plate XXII.) — A CoRROBOREE = Eivit^. (C;i,pe York).
Opening A.
Place the big toe across the centre of all the strings. With the
left thumb and index draw out the right ulnar thumb string proxi-
mal to the radial thumb string, pass the digits through this loop
proximally, and draw out the radial index string; repeat with the
ulnar index, and radial and ulnar little finger strings in turn.
Release the little finger, and place the last loop on it.
Repeat with the other hand.
Release the toe, then place tlie ulnar little finger string in the
centre of the figure, over the toe. Release the indices. Rotate the
hands from side to side, and imitate the movements of the dance.
9. (Plate XXII.)— Making FiKE=^ ^imcZi. (Cape York).
Hold part of the string with the thumbs and index fingers, the
hands being about six inches apart. Make a small ring by passing
the right hand clockwise (towards the lx)dy) towards the left side,
and hold the loop by the thumb and index of the right hand in such
manner that the small ring is away from the body.
Insert the index fingers, pointing downwards, into the small ring,
and the thumbs, also pointing downwards, into the large loop. Draw
tight and turn the thumb up.
Transfer the thumb loops to the index fingers.
Turn the left index downwards, and place each index loop on its
hand in Position 1.
Another person puts his hand through the centre to represent the
flame. Release right hand and pull off.
This figure resembles one from Torres Straits, called " Playing
Ball," collected in 1898, by Dr. A. C. Haddon.-i
10. (Plate XXII.)— A Co\5OH = 0le. (Cape York).
Opening A.
Make The Crayfish (p. No. xxii.)
Pass the little fingers proximally into the triangles adjacent to
the thumb loops, thus catching down the radial thumb string that
runs straight across. Release thumbs.
1 Reports of the Cambrid'^^e Anthropological Expedition to Torres Straits, vol. iv., p. .336.
4
