loO KatJdeen Haddon:
Pass the thumbs away from you (proximally) into the triangles
adjacent to the index finger loops, picking up the radial index
string that runs straight across. Release index fingers.
Pass the index fingers into the little finger loops and turn them
up towards you, thus picking up the i-adial little finger string.
Extend and release thumbs, so that their loop unwinds with a
jerk.
II. (Plate XXIf.)— A Full Moos =zAkiana.^ (Cape York).
Opening A.
Close together the fingers of each hand and pass them distally into
the thumb loop, then turn them up, so that the radial thumb string
passes to the ulnar side of the hand. Pass the thumbs proximal to
the radial string (that comes from the back of the hand, and is the
original ulnar thumb string), and allow the loop to slip on to the
wrist.
Pass the thumbs towards you, then away, proximal to the wrist
loop, but distal to the ulnar little finger string, catch this string on
the backs of the thumbs and return. Release little fingers.
Pass the little fingers distal to the index loops and pick up the
ulnar thumb strings proximally.
Exchange the index loops, passing the right through the left.
Pass the middle fingers distally through the index finger loops
and pick up the ulnar thumb strings proximally.
Release the thumbs and indices, and then the little fingers, and
extend.
12. (Plate XXII.) — Lightnings: C/jt<e»io, (Cape York).
Opening A.
Pass the mouth proximal to the radial thumb string, distal to the
radial cross, proximal to the ulnar cross, and catch hold of the ulnar
little finger string, draw this out, pass it under the figure and place
it over the toe.
Pass the thumbs into the index loops proximally and pick up the
radial string. Navaho thumbs and release indices.
Pass the indices distal to the ulnar thumb strings, then bend
them downwards, and into the little finger loops distally and turn
them up towards you, picking up the radial little finger strings.
Release thumbs.
Cf. Roth (loc. cit.), pi. .\i., No. 5. "Two Rocks stickirifr out of the Water." Cape Grafton
and Atherton.
