150 Frederick Chapman:
Pulp cavity moderately deep. Root entirely covered with cement.
Crown bevelled on inner, concave side and surface radiately
grooved.
Scapfodon lorlderi, gen. et. sp. nov. (Plate XXVII., Figs. 1-3).
Description. — Tooth (mandibular), large, conical, tapering from
a wide base to a narrow crown; much depressed and widely curved,
in basal section, long elliptical. The base is open, and has a mode-
rately deep pulp cavity. The whole of the root, so far as pre-
served, was covered with a fairly thick layer of cement ; the sur-
face is relieved by a series of shallow longitudinal furrows extend-
ing from the base through more than half the length. The crown
can scarcely be separated, being continuous in contour, with the
root, and is apparently marked off at the limit of the tevel. The
apex of the crown is bevelled to a sharp cutting edge towards the
convex side, the bevelled surface being marked with some low
radiating ridges producing a few serrations on the cutting edge,,
the latter having a parabolic curvature.
Measurement. — Length of tooth, measured along the convex face,.
113 mm. Greatest width of tooth at base of root, 41 mm.; width
at base of bevel, 13 mm.; thickness at base of tooth, 19.25 mm.;
thickness at base of bevel, 7.5 mm. ; depth of pulp cavity, 36.5
mm. ; weight, 46.5 dwts (troy), or 161 kilogrammes.
Microscopic Structure of the Tooth. — A thin transverse section
was taken through the wall of the tooth at the base, bordering the
pulp cavity. The intermediate layer is of the nature of ivory like
that of the Cachalot,^ and the outer and inner margins, each about
one quarter of the thickness of the middle layer, show the structure
of cement. Under a 1-inch objective (about 52 diameters), the
cement layer, about 5 mm. in thickness, is homogeneous in struc-
ture, but in this specimen is crowded wlith ramulose borings of a
parasitic fungus, the hyphal tubes being filled with dark material,
probably due to the grinding; isolated spores are also seen here
and there.
The intermediate layer, the dentine or ivory, shows a dense
structure composed of a closely set series of minute dentinal tubes
transversely arranged, whilst circumferentially, or crossing these
tubes, are parallel lines of greater density at varying distances,
probably contour lines. The intermediate ivory layer in the slide
examined measures 2 mm. in width.
1. See Owen. Odontography, 1845, p. S.'ifi, pi. Ixxxix., fij.'. '2.
