New Tijpe of Cetacean Tooth. 151
A higher power (g^in. giving 380 diameters) shows the cementum,
where not obscured by the hyphae of the boring fungus, to be fairly
homogeneous, excepting near the inner dentinal layer, where it is
penetrated by tlie dentinal tubes, which ramble away from their
parallel structure in the ivory. The dentinal tubes are crossed by
numerous lines of ivory globules and interglobular spaces, probably
air-filled. The dentinal tubes are spaced in each optical layer,
15/x apart. The hyphal tubes of the parasitic fungus have an average
diameter of 5//,
Observations. — In the microscopic structure of the above tooth
there is sufficient evidence to show its close relationship to the
living sperm whale, Physeter; but the flattened form of the tooth,
which is long — elliptical in section, is a very distinct feature, for
only in very extreme examples of that genus can one find a tooth
having a broadly elliptical outline. The widely separable forms of
tooth base and apex in the two genera are very apparent. In
Physeter the base is always more or less cylindrical, or even taper-
ing, and the point of the tooth, when depressed, is not hollowed
and scalprate as in the above described form.
The heavy, flattened root and moderately deep pulp cavity re-
minds one of the tooth of Hoplocetus, but in that genus the crown
is separated from the root by a constriction, and the tooth is fusi-
form in shape and not wide at the base, and gradually tapering,
as in the present form. In reply to a note and sketch of this speci-
men, which I sent Dr. C. W. Andrews, F.R.S., of the British
Museum, he has kindly remarked that it does not agree with Hoj^-
locetus as figured by Gevvais — whose works, by the way, in the
Zoologie et Paleontologie Francaises (vol. I. 1848-52, p. 161) and
the Osteographie des Cetaces (p. 345), are not in Melbourne. In
view of the fact that the cement layer in this tooth extends over
the convex surface almost up to the cutting edge of the apex, there
could have been little of the crown exposed, and in view of this
character the affinities of the tooth appear to lie with modern
sperm whales as Physeter.
A rolled and otherwise abraded cetacean footh figured by E. Ray
Lankester in 186T'i from the Red Crag of Suffolk, may have some
generic affinity with the present form. It is stout and fusiform,
with a compressed crown, which, so far as the rather obscure .sketch
shows, is marked with radiating furrows, as in the Table Cape
specimen.
1. Trans. Uoy. Micr. Soc. Lond., vol. xvi., 1867, pp. 63, G4 (fifr. 3).
