Timber Production and Groivth Curves. 3
-conditions, thickness of planting, etc. It is evidently before the
50th year and after the 40th year. The curve rises somewhat
sharply from the 30th to the 40th year, and falls from the 50th to
the 60th, so that the maximum groAvth occurs between the 40th and
50th years. This is in accordance with the view that has been put
forward from time to time. But although the tree reaches maturity,
say, at its 50th year, it would not be correct to say that the tree is
then fit for milling. The sap-wood is about 1 inch thick, and this
represents so much waste. Further, the value of the wood produced
in the next decade, that is, from the 50th to 60th year, may still
give a good return on the money invested. But there is the further
advantage in leaving the tree to grow on for a further period.
Although the tree may have reached its maximum growth period, yet
it cannot be deduced that the wood has reached its maturity; for it
is quite probable that this wood will improve in quality during the
next twenty years. From observations of the logs coming into the
mill, it may safely be concluded that the tree at 80 years is still in
health, and therefore there need be no fear of heart rot.
In Fig. 4 is given the total area of cross section during each
decade. There is a gradual rise of the curve, indicating a gradual
increase in diameter; but as in the other figs, we get a gradual
flattening of the curve after we pass the 70th year. This flattening
of the curve would indicate that the tree is losing its vitality, and is
hence open to attacks of all kinds. This is borne out by a study of
the standing forest, for tliere is a very intimate connection between
the paucity of foliage on these old trees, and the small amount of
wood produced in the older years.
From the study of the annual rings, then, we may conclude at
present that the Mountain Ash reaches its maturity l^etween the
40th and 50th years; but we are not entitled to conclude that the
tree is then fit for milling. In view of the fact that in the future
a large proportion of this timber will probably find its way on to
t?ie market in a dressed and seasoned condition, the tree cannot be
said to be fit for milling until the Avood is ripe. It may well be, that
so long as the tree maintains a good head, i-he timber is improving in
quality, and therefore it m.ay be inadvisable to cut it during this
period. There are other factors as well to be considered with regard
to the time of harvesting the timber. The upkeep of this forest ig
small, at present, as compared with that of the forests of the old
world. Hence interest charges will be much smaller, and we could
therefore allow the forest to stand for a longer period than is the'
■case with old world forests.
2a
