[Pkoc. Eoy. Soc. Victoria, 30 (N.S.), Pt. II., 1918].
Art. XV. — A Covtrihution to the Theory of Gel Structure.
By W. a. OSBORNE, M.B., D.Sc.
(From the Physiological Laboratory, University of Melbourne).
[Read 13th December, 1917].
It is now generally admitted that a gel is a diphasic system, but
divergent views are held concerning the nature and possible vec-
torial characteristic of the more solid phase, and the forces which
hold the more liquid phase in position. Whether the meshwork of
the more solid phase is composed of micro-crystals, or is truly
amorphous, or whether both can give rise to gel structure, further
refinements in ultra-microscopy may determine. But Avhatever
view may be correct, the question is unaffected, whether the " fila-
ments," " needles," or micellae assume a definite arrangement
under the influence of forces akin to those that produce crystallisa-
tion. Is the meshwork of the more solid phase devoid of any vec-
torial characteristic, or is such actually present?
To throw some light on this problem I commenced certain experi-
ments in 1909 on the shapes of bubbles found in strong gelatine
gels when decompressed after being subjected, when warm and dur-
ing setting, to gas under pressure — generally COr,. The ordinary
fracture of a gel can be described as " perfectly conchoidal," and
this in itself indicates that like obsidian or ordinary flint homo-
geneity of structure may be present. But such reasoning cannot
be pushed very far, for conchoidal fracture can be given by crystal-
line substances, notably quartz. It was this consideration that led
me to exaimine the internal fractures produced by bubble forma-
tion. The simplest way to carry out the experiment is to subject
warm 10% gelatine solution in a sparklet syphon to the action of
CO2 under pressure. I have also employed the Leonard Hill high
pressure chamber with gas pressures of 10-20 atmospheres but the
small quantity of gelatine that can be used is here a disadvantage.
On decompression the appearance of the jelly is remarkable. Each
bubble that forms is lenticular, or apparently a disk of great thin-
ness, and entirely in one plane. I communicated this result to the
late Mr. William Sutherland, and he wrote me as follows, under
date May 7th, 1910;—
" The form of the gas cavity will depend on the rigidity of the
jelly in the following way : The spherical form characteristic of
