154 • W. A. Osborne.-
bubbles in a liquid, when they are small, results from the equality
of hydrostatic pressure in all directions. But in a jelly suppose
a cavity of any arbitrary shape formed. In the jelly bounding it
there will be surface stresses due to the unequal pressure effects of
the surface tension acting on parts of the surface of different curva-
ture. If the jelly is weak enough it will begin to flow (like lead in
the manufacture of pipes), and will assume finally the spherical
form round the cavity. But if the jelly is too strong to flow quickly
enough the unequalites of stress will not be relieved rapidly. The
escape of gas may accentuate them, with the result that in a stiff
enough jelly the material begins to tear at the part of the original
arbitrary cavity, where the conditions are most favourable, and the
tearing will go on till no longer necessary. A slow flow of the
jelly w^ill round off the edges of the spreading cavity, and give it a
lenticular shape."
The bubbles make all possible angles with each other, giving a
spangled appearance. This point I was particularly anxious to
investigate. In a recent number of " Science Progress,"! there is
a reference to an article by Hatschek in 1914. which apparently
dealt with this same subject — the formation of bubbles in jellies.
I have been unable through the war to get Hatschek's article in
the " Kolloid-Zeitschrift," and so cannot institute any comparison
l>etw€en his results and mine, but most certainly my observations
did not support the assumption that any particular angle was pre-
dominant amongst these disk-like bubbles. I was at first inclined to
regard these results as evidences of the absence of crystalline or
pseudo-crystalline arrangement ; but as lines of cleavage are
absent in certain substances most definitely crystalline, this view
can not be rigidly held. If, however, a vectorial characteristic is
present, the arrangement must be similar to that exhibited in
masonry composed of courses of uniform cubical bricks.
Fracture and Regelation.
If a solid cylinder of 5%-10% gelatine is broken transversely at
any point, and the fracture mended by warming the opposing sur-
faces and allowing to set, it will be generally found that the former
line of fracture is the seat of weakness. If a sti-aight piece of
combustion tubing filled with 10% jelly is heated between cork
guards at some point, and then allowed to stand over-night, it will
1 S. C. Bradford. On the Gelation of the Natural Einulsoids. Soience Progress, July, 1917
p. 64.
