Theory of Gel Structure. 157
that the liquid phase of the soap gel has been replaced wholly by
ether (containing, of course, some water in solution). The gel now
exudes ether on compression, and if lit will burn violently. The
discharged fluid, however, has some of the solid phase in solution,
for it contains more than double the amount of solid matter present
in the fluid expressible from the original gel, and moreover, if
exposed to the air, and so allowed to lose its dissolved ether, will
revert to a moderately firm jelly. Indeed this seems to me to be
an ideal method for studying stages of gel formation, as the
process can be made slow or rapid as desired. I had at first attri-
buted this partial solution of the solid phase to the presence of
alcohol, but repeated washing with water failed to remove this
faculty from the ether. The ether layer above the soap jelly in these
experiments was found to contain some solid matter in solution,
and from the qualitative tests I employed this seemed to be fatty,
acid, but I have been unable to pursue this particular investiga-
tion.
The discharged fluid will set, therefore, on-'exposure to the air,
and the gel thus formed can be once more subjected to ether ; the
liquid phase and a portion of the solid dissolved in it will be discharged
and the remainder of the solid phase left behind impregnated with
ether. This procedure can be repeated three or four times.
The fact that the liquid phase of the soap can be discharged and
be replaced by ether is obviously similar to that obtained with wet
sand. It certainly indicates that the liquid phase of the soap gel
is held by capillarity in the open meshwork of the solid phase.
If, however, a 5% gelatine gel is submitted to ether immersion
no fluid, or only an exceedingly small amount is extruded. "Where-
as a 2% gelatine will show the Struve-Baumstark phenomenon
clearly. That there exists a profound physical distinction between
these two is evident to the sense of touch alone — the 5% gelatine
is dry, the 2% is wet. In the 5%, and in greater concentration, the
fluid, we may assume, is not merely held by capillarity, but exists
in solid solution in the substance of the framework, whereas in the
2% gel the water-logged lattice holds by capillarity a fluid with
a small amount of solid matter in solution. This is at any rate
an explanation that falls in with modern physico-chemical theories
of gelation. Another possible hypothesis is that the liquid phase
in the more rigid gels is formed of small vesicles completely en-
closed by walls of solid phase in honey-comb fashion. This expla-
nation is, however, rendered most unlikely by the results of ultra-
