Formation of "Natural Quarries." ]Q\
The " hack " and the floor of the quarry approximate in outline to
rectangles, which are frequently at right angles to each other. The
two sides of the quarry form triangles on vertical planes, or planes
■which approximate to the vertical, and which tend to be at right
angles to the plane of the " back," The sides of the triangles are
therefore formed by the planes of the hillside slope, the "back"
and the floor. In the rounding off of corners there is a tendency
to destroy the sharp rectilinear outlines, btit such outlines are
clearly recognisable.
A quarry may form on any hillside provided the rocks under-
lying the surface rocks are comparatively soft and easily removed.
Thus this type of quarry is found on hillsides of soft schistose or
stratified rocks, or of any decomposed rocks; and such hillsides may
include " dry " lake cliffs. It is not found on slopes with hard
granite boulders; but it does occur on slopes littered with small
but tough greenstone fragments, for often beneath the surface litter
the rock in situ may be much decomposed. Rain furrows and
small channels may lead to and from the quarry and across its
floor. Most quarries are of small dimensions, the average of
which for many would be about eight to ten feet high, six to eight
feet broad, and ten to twelve feet long. Some quarries greatly
exceed these measurements. One on the western shore of Lake
Goongarrie, at Comet Vale, is probably 30 to 40 feet high, 40 to 60
feet broad, and 60 to 70 feet long; but this is an exceptionally
large one so far as the writer's observations have gone. The
figures given are approximate only, as no actual measuring has
been done.
The Triangular Qiifrrr//. — This type of quarry is more akin to
gulches produced by normal erosion at the heads of gullies. On the
plane of the slope which it dissects it is roughly triangular, and has
the base of the triangle on the upslope and the vertex pointing
downhill. It is usually V-shaped in a cross section parallel to the
base of the triangle, the sides having but moderate slopes. The
" back " however, is somewhat steeper, this feature being accen-
tuated when, as often occurs, a rock cap which tends to be under-
mined forms the coping to the back. The quarry is mostly con-
nected with a drainage line at the vertex of the triangle, the quarry
representing the present but somewhat abnormal head of that line,
as the steep slopes and gulches do in an area of normal erosion.
Similarly, as in such a normal erosion area, the quarry tends to be
at the top of the slope, with its " back " close to the crest line of
6
