162 J. T. Jutson :
the ridge. There is thus a close resemblance between the two
types — the quarry under arid, and the steeji slopes and gulches
under normal, erosion; but marked differences also exist. In
normal areas, the lower drainage line or channel is wider and
more strongly marked than the upper portion running up towards
the crest line, and if the upper portion be branched, the branches
are separated by a ridge. In the quarry, however, there is a wide
scooping out with no distinct bisecting ridge.'i Moreover, the
quarry is the clearly marked feature, the lower drainage line often
being insignificant and difficult to trace by reason of the tendency
of the occasional water flows to spread themselves over a compara-
tively wide belt of the lower country.
The triangular quarries have a moderate range in size. They
are from 10 to 15 feet in all dimensions, to a large quarry having
a " back " perhaps 100 feet in length measured horizontally along
the top. They probably approach equilateral triangles in shape,
but the base (the " back ") is, the w^riter lielieves, usually longer
than the sides.
This type of quarry does not, as a rule, form in granite. Much
weathered "greenstones" or greenstone schists, with a cap of
hard ironstone, appear to be the most suitable rocks for their for-
mation.
Mode of Fonnation.
The action of the rain in beating upon and undermining decom-
posed comparatively soft rocks, which ai'^ associated in definite
Avays (to be presently stated) with cei'tain harder rocks, is appar-
ently the main factor in producing tlie three types of natural
quarries above described.
The circular quarry originates in most instances at least in the
following way : On the face of a " breakaway," the detritus from
the hard surface layers and from the rocks below slowly drift
towards the bottom, and in doing so the whole face of the " break-
away " may at any particular period of time be covered with this
detritus or talus to a thickness of about one foot or less.- Owing
to the widespread tendency in sub-arid Western Australia to
cement all loose surface deposits by mineralised water rising to the
1 It must be remembered that these remarks only apply to the triaii-ular natural quarries
here described, and that gullies with normal branches in every way similar to those formed in
wetter climates are numerous in hilly country in the dry areas.
2 A gfreater thickness than one foot may occur, but under such conditions it is doubtful
if a natural quarry would form.
