[Proc. EOT. Soc. Victoria, 30 (N.S.), Pt. I., 1917].
Art. II. — 071 a Shell-bed underiying Volcanic Tuff near
Warrnamhool ; with Notes on the Age of the Deposit.
FREDK. CHAPMAN, A.L.S.,
AND
CHAS. J. GABRIEL.
[Read 10th May, 1917].
1. — Occur/nice of the Shell-bed.
Whilst on a visit to the Western District in 1912, the writers M^ere
informed by Mr. H. J. Hauschildt, of the Warrnambool Agricul-
tural High School, of an interesting occurrence of a bed of shells in
the dune-rock exposed at the mouth of the Hopkins River, on the
right bank, close to the Boat-sheds. This occurrence seemed worth
investigation from tlie fact that the shell-bed is completely covered
by the tuffs of the Tower Hill series, an examination of the organic
contents promising to thi'ow some light on the age of the tuffs of the
district and the building of the Tower Hill crater.
It is a matter of general knowledge amongst geologists that
exposures of shell-beds are frequently found underlying the newer
volcanic in this locality ,'1 but so far as we are aware, no detailed
examination of the fauna has been carried out. Hence, as a result
of our visit these notes have been prepared, although owinj^: to
more pressing work they have been unavoidably delayed.
2.— Condition of the Shell-bed.
The stratum consists of a closely packed shelly and calcareous
sandy deposit. The material is not consolidated by deposition from
solution or by any secondary mineralisation, for it can be readily
1 Broiiifh Siiivth in his paper "On the Extinct Volcanoes of Victoria, Australia" (Quart.
Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., vol. xiv., IS.'iS, p. 227), quotes a letter of A. R. C. Selwyn's d»ted Augfnst
11th, 1857, in which he says "Tower Hill is certainly the most recent volcanic vent I have yet seen.
It appears, at lea.st during its later eruptions, to have emitted vast quantities of ashes and scoriae ;
these are seen near Warrnambool, restin{r on beds of shell, sand and earthy limestone, containinf;.
numbers of livinff littoral species of moUusca."
