Formation of "Natural Quarries." 163
Burface by capillary attraction and by the evaporation of such
water with deposition of mineral water, this detritus may be
compacted and hardened by the introduction of (chiefly) iron oxide
or travertine as a cement. The cemented detritus then forms a
■cover, fairly strongly resistant to erosion, over the underlying soft
rocks. The latter are, therefore, so long as the cover lasts, pro-
tected from further erosion. The cover may, however, not be quite
continuous everywhere, or it may be very thin and not completely
cemented in certain places, or for some other reason a hole in such
cover may exist or be made. Having such a hole, the rain may
directly beat upon the soft underlying rocks, or may find its way
between the cover and the softer rocks, with the result in either
case of removing portions of such softer rocks and undermining
the cover, which collapses and gradually disintegrates into fine
enough material to be carried away by the rain. Once started this
process may go on, the hole growing larger until one sufficiently
large enough is produced to be called a circular natural quarry.
This seems to be the chief method of formation, although some
quarries occur which do not seem to have had a distinct cover; but
here there is probably some surface hardening of the rocks, with-
out, however, the formation of an appreciable cover. It is also
conceivable that some parts of the soft rock are less resistant to
•erosion than others; that therefore where no cover exists, the beat-
ing action of the rain may gouge out the less resistant rocks; and
that when once started the cavity so formed may grow in size.
The rectangular quarry in places resembles the scar left by a
landslip, but as an accumulation of detritus, such as would result
from a rock fall, is never found on the floor of the quarry, this
mode of origin must be rejected. It is difficult to account for all
quarries of this type, but the following conditions favour their
formation : — (1) An abuttal along a vertical or nearly vertical
plane of decomposed soft rocks against a band of hard erosion-
resisting rocks. (2) Decomposed soft rocks capped by a practically
continuous band of loose fragments of a hard erosion-resisting
rock derived from an outcrop farther up the hillside. In both
cases, if the soft rocks form vertical or nearly vertical schists, the
formation of the type of quarry now discussed, is accelerated.
The mode of origin is not easy to understand, but it seems that the
action of rain l>eating on the soft i-ocks is mainly responsible for
the wearing away, aided of course by the ordinary weathering
agents ; and that the resulting form is governed by the band of
hard rock or by the surface cover of hard detrital rock mentioned
