[Proc. Koy. Soc. Victoria, 30 (N.S.), Pt. II., 1918].
Akt. XVII. — The Influence of Salts in Rock Weathering in
Sub-arid Western Australia}
By J. T. JUTSON.
(Geological Survey of Western Australia).
(With Plate XXX.).
[Read 13th December, 1917J.
Intpoduction.
Among the many erosion processes that are now acting in that
portion of sub-arid, south-central Western Australia, which corre-
sponds with the writer's Salt Lake or Central physiographic divi-
sion, 2 the apparent influence of the crystallization of salts under
certain conditions in breaking up the rocks and in assisting to
give characteristic forms to certain features of the landscape, has
not hitherto been recorded. This phase was first pointed out to
the writer at Lake Raeside, which lies chiefly to the east of the
railway running north from Kalgoorlie through Menzies and
Kookynie,^ by Professor J. Walther in 1914, on the occasion of the
visit to Australia of the members of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science. This process of erosion may be regarded
as one of the phases of " exsudation," a term which is subsequently
defined. Since the visit referred to, the writer has studied the
question in the field in several localities, and now submits a brief
account of the process and its effect in modifying the land surface.
Situations Favourable for the Wopk of " Exsudation."
"Exsudation," as understood in this paper, can only be ob-
served taking place in certain comparatively limited situations
These are as follow : On tlie face, but most frequently close to the
bottom of the cliffs bounding the "dry" or "salt" lakes; on
the rock floors of such lakes; possibly in hollows beneath the hard
caps of lines of cliffs known as " breakaways," (which may border
1 By permission of the Direntor of the Geological Survey of Western Australia.
•2 Jutson, J. T.^An Outline of the Phf/siofjiaphicnl Gfolocin (Plnixionraphy) of Western
histralia. Bulletin 61 of the Geol. Snrv. Western Australia, pp. 32 and .5-2.
3 .Menzies is 80 miles and Kook^\nie IIS miles north of Kalyoorlie.
