166 J' T. Jutson:
or he quite apart from lakes); and possibly on the under surfaces
of granite and quartz boulders. The process may be acting on
other rock outcrops, but it is probably masked by the stronger
erosive action at such other outcrops of other processes, such as
insolation and the action of rain.
The Process of " Exsudation " as here Defined.
According to Hunieji^ " exsudation " is a name given by Fut-
terer, and comprises several "desert evaporation effects"; but in
this paper the term will be restricted to those processes by which,
under certain conditions, flakes or grains are mechanically broken
off from the parent rock, or by which the latter, if soft and decom-
posed, may crumble almost to powder. These results are appar-
ently chiefly due to the crystallization of salts contained in solu-
tions brought to the surface by capillary attraction, and the evapo-
ration there of the water. The deposition of the salts exerts pres-
sure on the rock, with the result that flakes or grains may be forced
off or a soft rock may crumble. Walther2 has described the effect
on the rocks in arid areas of the crystallization of salts from
evaporating underground water, and a valuable series of observa-
tions and experiments as to the disintegration of building stones
in Egypt has been made by Lucas, ^ who regards such crystallization
of salts as the main agent of such disintegration.
In sub-arid Western Australia, the operation of "exsudation"
is best seen in cliffs — usually at or close to the base of such cliffs —
of weather-resisting rocks, at the edge of a " dry " lake. Amongst
the resistant rocks forming these cliffs the " greenstones " are the
most abundant; and such cliffs are frequently high, steep and
prominent features on the borders of the lakes. " Hard," prac-
tically undecomposed granite also occurs, but the cliffs so far seen
by the writer are usually low and insignificant.
These rocky cliffs frequently rise from a rock floor at the edge
of the lake of such an extremely smooth level character that the
writer has applied to such a floor the name " billiard-table rock-
floor." The cliffs may be nearly vertical for some height, ranging
from a few feet to perhaps 20 feet, beyond which they recede at
1 Hume. W. F. — Professor Walther's Erosion in the Desert considered. Geol. Mau. Decade
VI , vol. i. (1914), V. If).
1 Walther, J. -Das (iesetz der Wustenhildiing. 2 ed., Leipzit;-, 191-2, pp. T2S-l-2f>.
3 Lucas, A.— VVte Disinteri ration of Bwlding Stones in Kriyitt. Survey Department, Cairo,
1902.
