The Influence of Salts in Rock Weathering. 167
either a high or a moderate angle from the horizontal; or such
approximate verticality may not exist in any portion of the cliffs.
The base of the cliffs is, in various localities, undermined into
irregular caves and hollows varying both in breadth and height
from a foot or two to several feet, but the floors of the caves and
hollows are not always coincident with the lake floors, although
frequently they are so. The caves and hollows in places increase
in height away from the cliff face, that is, the roofs become more
dome-like. This doming is helped by the tendency to form resis-
tant films on the outside surfaces of the rocks; and in its results
resembles to some extent the " pocket rock " and the effects partly
due to " shadow-weathering " of other areas, referred to by Hobbs.'^
The undermining may V)e more or less continuous along the base
of the cliff's for some yards ; and where strong vertical joints or
other division planes occur, a roughly rectangular outline may be
given to the part attacked.
The roofs, sides and floors may be damp, and the roofs and sides
have a very scaly appearance owing to innumerable thin rock-
flakes (of from one-half to two inches in length and breadth, and
usually from one-eighth to one-quarter of an inch in thickness)
being shed from the parent rock. On account of their thinness
and of their decay dui-ing the process of splitting oft', these flakes
can usually be broken by the fingers. This flaking is, in the
writer's opinion, chiefly due to the process of " exsudation," which
has been defined above.
Meteoric water percolating from the surface downward must
assist " exsudation " by acting as a solvent, however slight or slow,
thereby weakening the rocks and making them more liable to fur-
ther decay. This water also, by passing doAvn joint planes and
dripping on to the floors of the caves and hollows, helps to enlarge
such hollows, one mode of such enlargement that has been noticed
being the scooping out of small lens-shaped hollows in uneven
floors along joints.
The rocks at the base of the cliffs must, by reason of the constant
drawing up of moisture by capillary attraction, aided by the
downward percolation of surface waters, be mostly in a more or
less soaked state, which must undoubtedly tend to make the rocks
less coherent.
In many places the sun's rays never reach the sides and roofs of
the cavities, so that temperature variations must be negligible in
1 Holibs, \V. n. — Earth Fcatiuvs and their Mcanlvrj. New Ynik, 191-2, pp. 201-200.
