168 J. T. Jutson:
their effect on the disintegration of the rocks. The direct action
of rain must also be excluded, as it cannot beat on to many sides
and roofs. Similarly the wind must take little part in the actual
breaking up of the rock; and as regards the lake waters as abrad-
ing agents, the lakes are dry, especially at the edges, for very long
periods; and the water in the lakes is, as a rule, not more than a
few inches deep.' No normal waterworn pebbles are found, and
the only conclusion appears to be that the lake waters have no
abrasive power.
The rock flakes further break up on the floor of the caves, and in
time the debris is removed, mainly, in the writer's opinion, by
deflation, but discussion of this aspect does not come within the
scope of this paper.
Cavities are sometimes scooped out on the face of a cliff at any
height from the ground up to perhaps 20 feet, but the hollowing
out is chiefly confined to a band rising from the lake floor to a
height of about four feet; and where the undermining takes place
regularly over a length of some yards, the cliff may, in a very
marked way, overhang a regularly hollowed out area, which is
about two feet high from the lake floor upwards, one to two feet
broad, and several yards in length along the line of junction of
the lake floor with the cliff. Lucas2 has noted that in the decay of
building stones in Egypt the action is frequently limited to a
metre or a metre and a half above the ground level ; or if not actu-
ally limited to that extent, it is usually greatest at or near the sur-
face of the ground; and liis conclusion is that the disintegration is
chiefly due to the crj^stallization of salts by the evaporation of
water on the rock surface, that is the process now under descrip-
tion.
White incrustations or etflorescences occur frequently, but not
always, on the Egyptian rocks, which are subject to the process de-
scribed. In Western Australia no pronounced efflorescences at the
lake cliff cavities have been noted by the writer. Tliis is a jjoint
requiring further investigation.
The ground water is usually close to the lake floors, and is very
saline. The following are two analyses, made in the Western Aus-
tralian Geological Survey Laboratory, of watos, one of which was
collected from a trench sunk on Lake Cowan, Norseman, 3 and the
1 The writer has heen informed that water, 10 feet or more deep, lias been observ ed in a lake ;
but if so, it i.s quite exceptional aiid perhaps due to some artificial embankment. Most oliservers
agree that the lake waters are generally not more than a few inches deep.
2 Op. cit., p. 3.
3 Norseman is 108 miles south-southeast of CoolKardie.
