170 ^ J. T. Jutson:
AH greenstone clifts bordering lakes have not pronounced caves-
and hollows at their base; but some hollowing out, although per-
haps only a small scale, can generally be detected. If the rocks are
comparatively soft or finely schistose, the rate of ordinary weather-
ing on the face of the clifi by insolation and the action of rain, may
keep pace with or, exceed the rate of weathering at the base, with
the result that no pronounced hollows or caves are formed; and the
angle of slope of the cliff will depend on the ratio between the two
forces. The prominent greenstone cliffs on the western shore of
Lake Goongarrie, close to the town of Comet Vale, afford excellent
illustrations of fairly steep slopes with practically no hollows at tlie
base. Here the respective rates of erosion at the Dase and on the
upper portion of the cliff appear to be about equal.
The writer believes that " exsudation " also acts to some extei\t
away from the lakes in the hollowing out of granite boulders, and
in the formation of caves and hollows beneath the hard caps of
the lines of clifJs known as "breakaways." It is proposed, how-
ever, to discuss these questions in another paper.
Rock jfioors are exposed — or coated with mere films of silt — in at
least portions of many lakes. The rocks may be ancient sediments
or igneous rocks, and are frequently " soft " and easily broken.
When the floor is free from surface water, the underground water
is drawn to the surface by capillary attraction, evaporation takes
place, and an efflorescence of salts (chiefly common salt) occurs on
or near the surface of the rocks. The surface of the latter tends to
break down into a meal, which is soon swept away by wind or
water. The writer has collected numeroiis specimens of these
rocks, which showed little salt deposited on the surface, but which
must have contained in solution a comparatively large amount, as
alter a few days common salt was thickly deposited as an efflores-
cence, and some specimens had crumbled to pieces. On these rock
floors, exposed as they are for the greater part of the year to the
sun's rays, the amount of direct and indirect disintegration by
salt efflorescence is probably considerable, and an appreciable
factor in the general erosion of the land.
The Results of the Process.
The results of the process of " exsudation " as here considered,
aided by other apparently subordinate processes, have already
been partly stated. They may. however, be now briefly sum-
marised. Thev include :
