176 Alfred J. Ewart :
Phalaris pakadoxa, L. (Gramineae).
Menindie, N.S.VV., November, 1916.
A new locality for this introduced plant. It is a native of the
Mediterranean Regions.
Rosa kuuiginosa, L. (Rosaceae). "Sweet Briar."
In a tall old plant, 6 ft. high, the tap root was found to have
descended 3 ft. in sandy soil, Avhile the largest lateral root extended
6 ft. 6 in., at an average depth of over 2 ft. In the case of this
plant, after cutting the stem nine inches below the surface, new
shoots appeared above the ground. Usually, however, lateral shoots
only arise from the stock a few inches below the ground, and with
such young plants a six inch ploughing usually cuts away the roots
capable of growth, those left in the ground dying. When the
ground is moist and the plants are dragged out with a horse and
chain, there is a greater possibility of leaving behind pnrts capable of
developing new shoots, but th'^se can be easily de.stroyed witli a mattock
when they appear a few months later.
vSlSYMBRiUM ori^:ntalk, L. (Cruciferae). " Indian Hedge Mustard."
Foreshore, Geelong, H. B. Williamson, No. 1449, December,
1910. Northcote, W. R. A. Baker, January, 1911. Bank of Yarra,
Anderson Street Bridge, W. R. A. Baker, January, 1913. War-
racknabeal, E. T. Lukey, November, 1913.
It is a native of Europe and Asia, now widely spread in Victoria.
This plant is very easily confused with Erysimum repandum, and
in some cases records of E. repandum really refer to Sisymbrium
orientale. It is a weed of waste places, but spreads in pastures and
cultivated ground if neglected.
Solanum hkterandrum, Pursh. (Solanaeeae). "Pincushion
N^ightshade."
Bute, S. Australia, per Professor Osborn, March, 1917. This
North American weed is already recorded as a naturalised alien in
Victoria and New South Wales, and is now evidently establishing
itself in South Australia.
Staticr Thouini, Vis. "Thouin's Sea Lavender."
A garden escape at Wycheproof.
A native of the Mediterranean Regions. Coll., Rev. W. W.
Watts, Dec, 1916.
