[Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, 30 (N.S.I, Ft. II.. 1918].
Art. XIX. — On ChloropJtyll, Carotin and Xanthopltyli, and
on the Production of Sugar from Fonnaldehyde.
By ALFRED J. EWART, D.Sc, Ph.D.
(Professor of Botany and Plant Physiology in the Melbourne
University and Government Botanist).
[Read 13th December, 1917].
In a previous paper the theory was put forward that the produc-
tion of carbohydrates in plants did not take place by a direct
synthesis of carbon dioxide and water to form formaldehyde, and
then sugars by polymerization, but that the carbon dioxide and
water combined with the phytyl base of chlorophyll to form xantho-
phyll or carotin, and that this by photo-oxidation produced for-
maldehyde, reducing sugar and phytyl, the latter recombining with
the chlorophyll molecule. This would represent a change in which
chlorophyll played the part of an enzyme, requiring a supply of
energy in the form of light for its activity. This conclusion was
mainly based upon the facts that formaldehyde is produced by the
photo-oxidation of chlorophyll films in the presence or absence of
carbon dioxide, and that chlorophyll films in contact with water
saturated with carbon dioxide turn first yellow and then brownish
white, slowly in darkness and rapidly in light, while at the same
time they appeared to gain in weight and did not set free any
oxygen.
In the earlier work I was able to extract small amounts of
xanthophyll from chlorophyll fibns decomposed by carbon dioxide
by treatment with potash and extraction with alcohol and separation
with ether. Hence the conclusion was made that an actual produc-
tion of xanthophyll had taken place. Jiirgensen and Kidd^i suggest,
however, that the chlorophyll films used might have contained
xanthophyll as an impurity, and they confirm Willstatter's^ state-
ment that the action of carbon dioxide on chlorophyll is due to its
removing magnesium, and converting the chlorophyll into phaeo-
phytin, which in the form of films is yellow in colour.
On using chlorophyll separted from 80 per cent, acetone by
petrol ether, and removed from the latter, after washing, by the
1 Proc. Roy. Soc, J.-inuary, 1917, p. 342.
•2 Sitzungsb. d. Ksl. Press. Akad. der Wiss, 191fi, pp. 322, 544.
