Garhon Dioxide and Chlorophyll. 181
and partially melting the chlorophyll, the film sometimes becomes
more or less distorted. This can largely be avoided by keeping
the syphon under cold water flowing from a tap. The syphons
remained highly charged with carbon dioxide, but contained no
oxygen.
The films on washing with absolute alcohol gave a yellow solution
containing phaeophytin and turning green with zinc acetate. The
water was also evaporated to dryness. It was at first clear and
colourless, but became faintly brown on evaporating. A trace of
solid residue was left by the water from both syphons, which was
partly soluble and partly insoluble in water. It averaged under
2% of the weight of chlorophyll used.
If the films are prepared from the first petrol ether separation of
chlorophyll without further purification, the water always leaves
a larger residue, and that from the syphon exposed to sunlight
always contains some reducing sugar. Thus, in one case, the water
from the syphon in darkness left a residue containing a little
matter soluble in water, and giving a trace of reduction by Feh-
ling's test, and a brownish white waxy solid soluble in petrol ether.
The residue from the syphon in sunlight contained more matter
soluble in water, and gave a strong reduction with Fehling's test.
Further tests showed a hexose sugar to be present. The weights
were in grams.
Suiiligrht. Darkness.
Chlorophyll film .-..-. 0.359 - 0.37
After 1 week in water + CO^ under pressure - 0.265 - 0.306
Residue from evaporation of water - - - 0.056 - 0.039
Total Residue - 0.321 - 0.345
The same experiment was repeated, using thicker films of chloro-
phyll, exposures of four weeks' duration, and evaporating the large
bulk of water under reduced pressure and temperature. The
water from the sunlight syphon left a brown residue on the sides of
the vessel on evaporating, and a gummy residue on the bottom.
More than half of the residue was soluble, and it gave the tests
for a reducing hexose sugar. The water from the syphon in dark-
ness left a brown non-gummy residue of which less than 1/5 was
soluble in water, and gave a white flocculent precipitate with Feh-
ling's test, but no reduction. No trace of free oxygen was found.
For deinoiistration purposes the s.vphoii can he filled h.alf way ahove the danger mark and
then charged with a sparklet, usinff a control without carbon dioxide. After a week in dark-
ness a comparison of the twO syphons forms an admirable lecture demonstration of the action
of a solution of carbon dioxide on chlorophyll, the film in the first case beini; yellow, in the
latter, green.
