182 Alfred J. Ewart :
The film from sunlight was in the thinner parts nearly colour-
less, and in the thicker parts more brown than yellow. It contained
less phaeophytin than the films kept in darkness. The weights
were —
Chlorophyll film - . -
Total film residue after 4 weeks
Total water residue
Sunlight,
grammes.
Darkness,
grammes.
0.555
0.527
0.301
0.458
0.205
0.058
Total
From the above it would appear that in sunlight and COg, chloro-
phyll decomposes slightly more than in darkness, that a little for-
maldehyde or other volatile product is formed, and that if any
oxygen is formed, it is not set free, but oxidises the phaeophytin.
The action is not continuous as in the plant, since there is no re-
construction of the chlorophyll.
It appears, further, that the sugar formed in the plant remains
at first in loose combination with the chlorophyll, and follows it
into the petrol ether and other solvents, and that it is only sepa-
rated from the chlorophyll when this is purified by precipitation.
If pure chlorophyll films are dusted over with zinc dust, they
remain green in contact with a solution of carbon dioxide in water
indefinitely, and even after a week's exposure to sunlight only show
a slight fading on the more exposed side. On dissolving the films
the solution shows the same absorption bands as chlorophyll, but
the solubility is altered.
On incinerating, the ash of the green pigment was found to consist
of zinc oxide, and not of magnesium oxide. It evidently consisted
of the salt of zinc with phaeophytin, described by Willstatter and
Hocheder (Annalen der Chemie, 1907, 353, p. 205), which closely
resembles chlorophyll. Evidently in the presence of a saturated
solution of carbon dioxide in water, zinc will displace the mag-
nesium of chlorophyll. In the previous paper I had described some
results which seemed to show that with the aid of zinc dust and in
the presence of carbon dioxide a reconstitution of chlorophyll was
possible from the products of its decomposition. What really hap-
pened was that the zinc salt of phaeophytin was formed, which
closely resembles chlorophyll, and is easily mistaken for it. This
zinc salt appears to be more resistant to acids and to photo. -oxida-
tion, and to be more stable than natural chlorophyll.
It is worthy of note that impure chlorophyll films prepared
directly from the first petrol ether separation of an alcoholic
