Oxidation of Chlorophyll. 183
extract of chlorophyll always bleach more rapidly in light than do
pure preparations of chlorophyll. No evidence could be obtained
of the existence of any special oxidase enzymes in the impure films,
but these always yield small amounts of reducing hexose sugar, even
if previously well washed with water prior to photo-oxidation,
whereas fully purified chlorophyll yields no sugar on photo -oxida-
tion. In one test experiment, a sample of pure chlorophyll was
prepared as described by Willstatter and Hiig (Annalen, 1911, p.
177). Two films of it were prepared each in a large bulb tube,
containing dry CO^ free air. After a week's exposure to sunlight,
no further bleaching took place. The volume of air decreased by
14.6%, a small amount of water appeared, but no reducing sugar.
After shaking with water and filtering, the latter gave Riminis,
Schryver's, Schiff test, and the Schiff and sulphuric acid tests for
formaldehyde. The amount present was, however, distinctly less
than when a current of air was passed over long tubular films
exposed to sunlight, and then led into water, as described in the
previous paper.
The changes which chlorophyll undergoes during photo-oxida-
tion in dead tissues are not necessarily precisely similar to those
taking place after its extraction and purification. It has, how-
ever already been shown (Proc. Royal Society B., 1908, 80, 30) that
formaldehyde is produced in green leaves by the photo. -oxidation
of chlorophyll after death, and in the absence of carbon dioxide.^
Green grass leaves were boiled and then dried in a strong press re-
peatedly until they yielded no trace of reducing sugar. The leaves
were then spread flat on glass plates, and held in position by silk
threads. The plates were placed in large glass vessels — (a) contain-
ing COg free air, (b) with COj present, (c) ordinary air. The vessels
(a) and (b) were exposed to sunlight until the leaves were bleached,
(c) was kept in darkness. The air in all three was kept moist. The
leaves were then extracted with boiling water, which was concen-
trated, filtered and tested. Both (a) and (b) yielded small amounts
of reducing hexose sugar, while (c) yielded none. Apparently the
post mortem photo-oxidation of chlorophyll and its companion
substances can increase the extractable sugar content of drying hay
in the same way that photo-oxidation causes sugar to separate
from an impure chlorophyll film.
1 Further confirmation of this has recently been g\vtn l).v Osterho it, see n. se:'
p. 68. See also Schr.wer, Proc. Roy. Soc. London, B., 1910, 82, 226.
