184 Alfred J. Eivart:
The influenct of ttmptratart.
Thin, bright green chlorophyll films formed on the floor of a
beaker kept on a boiling water bath rapidly turned bright yellow,
After twenty-four liours in darkness on the water bath, the films
were nearly colourless. Comparative tests showed that although
the bleaching of chlorophyll by oxidation at 100°C. is rapid, it is
not as rapid as in sunlight at 30-35°C.
Films prepared from a petrol ether solution separated from an
alcoholic solution, to which copper sulphate had been added,
remained green after an hour on the boiling water bath, and still
showed colour after twenty-four hours. The copper compound with
chlorophyll is therefore more resistant than chlorophyll, not only
to photo-oxidation, but also to thermo-oxidation.
Chlorophyll films in large sealed tubes filled with carbon dioxide
kept at 100 ''C, Avithin one to two hours became bright yellow.
The petrol ether extract was dark yellowish in colour, showed a
strong fluorescence, and gave the spectrum of phaeophytin. It
^uelded no appreciable ash. Apparently at high temperatures car-
bon dioxide acts readily on chlorophyll, removing its magnesium
and producing phaeophytin.
The photo-oxidation of xanthophyll.
In a previous paper it was suggested that portion of the oxygen
produced during the interaction of carbon dioxide with chlorophyll
might he used to oxidise xanthophyll into phytol, hexose sugars and
formaldehyde. This suggestion was based upon data obtained by
passing moist oxygen over dry " xanthophyll " films in tubes
exposed to light. Further experiments carried out with films
exposed to light under water kept saturated with air gave no
trace of formaldehyde on distilling the oxidised liquid. The
method of obtaining the xanthophyll used in these experiments
yields a product which though free from chlorophyll, contains a
high proportion of xanthophylloid and other impurities.
Owing to their presence, the impure " xanthophyll " obtained as
previously described is temporarily soluble in petrol ether. Films
from petrol ether solutions were covered with water exposed to sun-
light and frequently shaken with fresh air, until the film breaks up
to form a white, milky liquid. In addition strong alcoholic solu-
tions were poured into water and similarly exposed. The products
in this case are the same, but the bleaching is more rapid.
