186 Alfred J. Eivavt :
solution had a sweetish taste, was dextro-rotary, and gave a strong
reduction with Fehling's test.
The precipitate from the carbon dioxide was suspended in water,
sulphuretted hydrogen passed through and filtered. The filtrate
was evaporated to dryness, and the nearly colourless gummy residue
dissolved in water and filtered. It was sweetish in taste, laevoro-
tary, and gave a strong reduction with Fehling's test.
Hence the sugars produced are a mixture of dextrose and levu-
lose, and probably in equal proportions since the original solution
showed a slight laevorotation.
In a further experiment Pasteur's solution was added to a watery
extract from photo-oxidised " xanthophyll,'' and a drop of water
containing lU to 20 yeast cells. The tubes were sealed, and kept
at 25*^0. In one week, yeast cells were abundant, and actively
budding, carbon dioxide was formed, and the filtered liquid gave
the iodoform test for alcohol. The sugars are, therefore, ferment-
able by yeast.
In the above experiments the " xanthophyll " used contained not
only " xanthophylloids," but also other extractives. Accordingly
pure preparations of xanthophyll were prepared by slight modifica-
tions of the methods used by Willstatter and Mieg. (Lieb. Ann. 355
.1. 1917). Chopped dry grass leaves (4 kilogrammes) were ex-
tracted with alcoholic potash. The filtered liquid was treated with
excess of ether and a separation effected by the addition of water.
The red ether extract was washed with water, dried with anhydrous
sodium sulphate, concentrated, and petrol ether added. The red
precipitate which forms, was dissolved in hot acetone and filtered
after cooling and standing, leading a white solid, and a dark almost
black liquid (orange red when dilute). To this, twice its volume of
methyl alcohol was added, and on standing in darkness and out of
contact Avith air, pure xanthophyll crystallizes out, and can be
finally washed with petrol ether.
The xanthophyll obtained was exposed to photo-oxidation as dry
films in tubes in a current of air, and in the form of a fine emulsion
in water. No trace of reducing or non-reducing sugar could be
detected after oxidation whatever the method used. In the first
experiments traces of formaldehyde seemed to appear, particularly
when the photo-oxidation was rapid. It was found, liowever, that
the methyl alcohol used for precipitating the xanthophyll yielded
traces of formaldehyde when exposed to sunlight. On removing
this source of error no formaldehyde could be detected as a product
of the oxidation of xanthophyll. It is worthy of note that pure
