Oxidation of Xanthophyll. 187
samples of xanthophyll oxidize and bleach much more slowly in
light than do impure samples, xanthophyll being less readily oxidiz-
able than chlorophyll, and very much less so than carotin. The
white waxy solid separated by acetone during purification was ex-
posed to light. No production of sugar or formaldehyde could be
detected.
Dry films obtained from the first ether separation yielded small
amounts of reducing sugar after photo-oxidation, and this even
when the films had been previously well washed with water. The
inference might be made that xanthophyll oxidized in the presence
of certain associated substances yields sugar, but not when oxidized
by itself. The addition of a few particles of magnesium powder re-
tards the oxidation of pure xanthophyll greatly, but no sugar or
formaldehyde appears.
To an alcoholic solution of impure " xanthophyll " which yielded
sugar readily on photo-oxidation, alcoholic potash was added. A
reddish yellow precipitate formed, insoluble in petrol ether, acetone
or ether, but dissolving readily in water, and consisting almost
wholly of reducing sugar. On now separating the xanthophyll
solution with ether, no trace of sugar could be obtained from dry
xanthophyll films after photo-oxidation. The impure xanthophyll
films evidently contain preformed sugar, possibly held in loose com-
bination, so that it is not readily removed by washing with water,
but is easily separated from an alcoholic solution by the addition
of potash.
In the purification of the ether solution of xanthophyll by preci-
pitation with ether, a large amount of yellow xanthophylloid
material remains in solution, and is not precipitated from an
acetone solution by methyl alcohol. This forms a yellow oily solid
with a low melting point. It is readily soluble in petrol ether.
Boiled with water it yields neither formaldehyde nor reducing
sugar. Films exposed to sunlight bleach fairly rapidly. They
usually yield a trace of acetone (Schiff test, etc.) when previously
washed and dried, but give no formaldehyde, Schryvers, Rimmers,
and the Schiff, and sulphuric acid tests being all negative. The
watery extract from the bleached films when evaporated to dryness
dissolved in a little water and filtered, gave in all cases the test
for a reducing hexose sugar.
In a further test, with pure xanthophyll, nearly half a gram was
spread as a film inside a large flask exposed to strong sunlight, with
a slow current of moist CO.i-free air passing through the flask and
then into water in a darkened receiver. The film was wholly
