188 Alfred J. Ea-ari:
bleaclied in three chiys. The wuter in tlie reeeivei- gave Schiff' s test
strongly, Seliryvers, Kinmiers, and thL' Schiff and sulphuric acid
tests faintly. It apjiaiently contained a trace of formaldehyde
in addition to a trace of acetone, but not sufhcient of the former
to give the characteristic smell.
Apparently when subject to violent photo-chenucal oxidation
pure xanthophyll may produce traces of formaldehyde, but none
when tlie oxidation takes place in darkness or in weak illumination
or under water. According to Willstatter, Mayer, and Hlini
(Annalen. 1910. p. 73), the constitutional formula of phytol may
be
CH,-CH-CH-CH-CH-CH-CH - C = C - CH-CH.,0
I I I I I I I I I
CH, CK, CH, CH, CH, CH, CH, CB, CH,
Phytol would therefore be constructed from similai- l)uilding
materials to alipliatic and cyclic terpenes and rublx-r. Just as
geraniol and limonol may be constructed from two molecules of
isoprene, so may four molecules form phytol. as thus : —
4C,H, + H".,0 + 3H, = r'.,„H,„0
In the same way eight molecules of isoprene might yield cai-otin
<C,uti,,,) or xanthophyll (C,oH,,,0,,).
8C,H„ + 2.0,,=G,„H,,, + 4H.,0
8C,,Hh + 3.0.,=C,„H,A + 4H.,0
It would not be surprising that under violent photo-oxidation
some of tlie CH — CHj components of carotin, as well as of phytol,
and hence also of chlorophyll, might be torn away, and oxidized to
formaldehyde, and as thus (CH -CHg) + 0^, = 2 CH^O. If so. the
presence of two additional atoms of oxygen in tlie xanthophyll mole-
cule renders it not only more stable in this respect, but also more
resistant to oxidation than is carotin.
According to Willstatter and Stoll, pulverised xanthoi)liyll takes
up 36.5% by weight of oxygen and produces a compound which
when precipitated fi'om methyl alcohol by ether has the formula
CioHsfiO^^ This is, however, merely a percentage formula, and
gives no indication of the mode of union of the oxyg^ii.
The orUlafion of carotin.
In tlie experiments descrited in the previous paper, films of
carotin were exposed to light in a current of moist air. Using
watery emulsions of carotin exposed to light and air, the oxidation
was much more rapid than in the case of xanthophyll, the liquid
