Influence of Carbon Dioxide. 191
oxidizing agents failed, whether solutions or emulsions in water
were used. Lubimenko^ finds, however, that both carotinoids and
xanthophylloids exist which are intermediate between xanthophyll
and carotin. The carotinoid from the aril of Euonymus is indeed
insoluble in petrol ether, while xanthophylloids are soluble to a
greater or lesser extent. According to Lubimenko, in the absence
of oxygen, the xanthophyll decreases and the carotin increases,
while in boiled leaves exposed to air and peroxidase, the carotin is
converted into a yellow pigment equally soluble in alcohol and
petrol ether, and with a spectrum intermediate between carotin
and xanthophyll.
The influence of the absence and presence of carbon dioxide.
Mustard seedlings were grown in moist air in diffuse daylight,
and under similar conditions in air deprived of carbon dioxide.
The cotyledons in the first case were larger, broader and more yel-
lowish green, and in the second were smaller, darker and more
bluish green. The cotyledons with the upper halt of the hypocotyl
were removed, and the crushed material after killing by boiling was
extracted with successive poi'tions of absolute alcohol, and finally
with hot alcohol. The last extraction was nearly pure carotin, and
showed clearly that the seedlings grown in tlie al)sence of carbon
dioxide contained more carotin than the others.
The whole extract was divided into three parts. From one the
chlorophyll was separated by three successive petrol ether extrac-
tions, and the amount of chlorophyll estimated by comparison with
solutions of known strength. The second sample was evaporated to
dryness, dissolved in a minimum of cold absolute alcohol, saponi-
fied and separated with ether. The third sample was saponified,
petrol ether added, and then water. After w^ashing the petrol
ether and ether solutions, their strengths were estimated by com-
parison with solutions of known concentration. This method is not
wholly accurate, but in the complete separation of chlorophyll, caro-
tin and xanthopliyll, the losses are so great that the exact estima-
tion of the amounts originally present is impossible.
The values obtained were : —
Weight of
Material. Chlorophyll. Carotin. Xanthophyll.
wramnies. grammes. grammes. grammes.
CO2 present - 100 - 0.474 - 0.11 - 0.15
C0„ absent - 100 - 0.271 - 0.275 - 0.12
1 Compt. Rend. 191.5, p. 27S.
