Precursors of CJdoro'phyll. 193
Hence impure chlorophyll appears to spontaneously undergo
partial segregation into carotin and xanthophyll, and pale brown
waxy solids rich in magnesium. In addition small quantities of
formaldehyde appear. An equation for the production of glauco-
phyllin and carotin from chlorophyll cannot be made to balance
without the addition of oxygen, but small quantities of dissolved or
occluded oxygen might have been present before sealing, as this
possibility was overlooked, In that case a suggested equation
might be —
(cOOC,oH3,
If a similar change resulted in the production of the monocar-
boxylic phyllophyllin (CgiH.nNjMg.COOOH) still less oxygen would be
required.
In samples of chlorophyll purified by precipitation, no carotin or
xanthophyll appeared, and dry samples kept in sealed vacuum
tubes were apparently unaltered after five months in darkness. In
the case of dry samples from the unpurified petrol ether extract,
after keeping for some months, the sample will flow slowly over the
glass, and shows a separation of solid red carotin or xanthophyll
particles.
The Precursors of Chloroj)hyU.
According to Timiriazeff'i and to Monteverde2 etiolated leaves yield
a small amount of fluorescent pigment which they term " proto-
chlorophyll," This, according to Monteverde and Lubimenko,^ is
a derivative of the labile " chlorophyllogen." which rapidly turns
into chlorophyll when exposed to light. The precursor of this
theoretical substance is. according to the same authors, a colourless
theoretical substance, " leucophyll."
Kohl* showed that etiolated seedlings contained carotin in
abundance, and even doubted whether any other pigment was pre-
sent. He also found that the percentage of carotin did not decrease
during the formation of chlorophyll on exposure to light, and
hence denied that any conversion of carotin into chlorophyll com-
ponents took place. Kohl's observation might, however, merely
indicate that while food materials were abundant, the production
1 Conipt,. rend.. 102, 686 (1886) ; 414 (1889).
•2 Acta. Horti. Petropol., 13, 201 (18S4); Bull. Lard. Imp. Dot. Pecrograd, 7, 37 (1907).
3 Biol. Central, 31, 449 (1911) ; Bull. Ac. Imp. Sci. Pctro-rad, 73 (1911) ; 609 (101-2).
4 Untersuchungen iiber Carotin, 7.'> (1902).
