194 Alfred J. Ewart :
of carotin continued at a greal^er rate than it was used in the for-
mation of chlorophyll.
To test this, two batches of wheat seedlings were grown in dark-
ness, until approaching partial starvation. One batch was then ex-
posed to full sunlight for one day. Equal quantities were then dipped
in boiling water, the surplus Avater squeezed out, and the leaves
twice digested with cold absolute alcohol on two successive days.
The fully etiolated leaves were still deep yellow, and with hot alcohol
gave a strong, nearly pure solution of carotin. Those which had
been exposed to light were nearly colourless, and gave a pale yellow
solution with hot alcohol, containing only a small amount of
carotin.
Kohl is, however, correct in stating that carotin is the chief pig-
ment in etiolated seedlings. Complete extractions with etiolated
wheat seedlings yielded from 8 to 10 parts of carotin to one of
xanthophyll, the percentage may of course vary Avith other seed-
lings, and after prolonged etiolation it appears to decrease.
If colourless precursors of chlorophyll exist, they should have a
high magnesium content, and should be capable of separate extrac-
tion. An area of ten square feet of closely planted AA'heat Avas kept
in darkness until the seedlings were six inches high. The yelloAv
leaves Avere cut at once and dropped into boiling Avater, and after
squeezing out all excess of Avater, tAvice digested in cold alcohol for
periods of a day, all liquid being squeezed out in a strong press after
each extraction. The nearly colourless material AA-as then digested in
boiling absolute alcohol for five hours. Tlie solution Avas filtered
hot, petrol ether added while still Avarm. and sufficient Avater to
bring about separation. After standing for a day the pale yellow
petrol ether extract Avas evaporated to dryness, and the residue
dissolved in a minimum of hot alcohol. In this solution, after
standing for one day, a bulky white crystalline solid separates out
Avhich appears to contain alcohol of crystallization. After filtering
and Avashing with a little absolute alcohol a pale broAvnish Avhite
solid Avas obtained. This gave off alcohol AA'hen heated, and after
incinerating Avith a drop of nitric acid yeilded 1.5% of ash as mag-
nesium oxide.
The original precipitate, hoAvever, appears to consist of two solids
— (a) a Avhite Avax less 8oluble in cold alcohol than carotin, but readily
soluble in hot alcohol; and (b) a broAvner Avax, Avhioh is still less
soluble in alcohol, than the preceding, and can be separated from
it by Avashing Avith small amounts of warm alcohol. This less
soluble broAvner Avax yielded in one experiment 6.2% of ash as mag-
