Decomjwsition of Chlorophyll. 195
nesium oxide, and in another 7.4%. The discrepancy is consider-
able, but the difficulty of purifying without great loss of material
is very great. The amounts of solid obtained for incineration were
only 0.35 and 0.42 gram, respectively. Presumably, the original
precipitate consists of a darker waxy solid, with a high magnesium
content, and a paler wax with little or no magnesium, which may
possibly partly be derived from the wax impregnating the cuticle,
and have nothing to do with chlorophyll.
The wax present in the cuticle does not, however, decrease with
starvation, and increases in amount with increasing age. In a
further experiment the seedlings were grown in darkness until
nearly starved, and the yellow leaves were treated as before. The
waxy solids obtained after separation fiom petrol ether and crystal-
lization from hot alcohol gave a yield of 5.1% magnesium oxide.
The amount obtained was insufficient for the separation into mag-
nesium containing and non-magnesium containing waxes, but the
result indicates that the waxy solids with little or no magnesium
decrease during starvation, and hence are not derived wholly from
the cuticle.
The decomposition of chlorophyll in grass leaves in darkness.
Plots of barley grass (Hordeum murinum) were kept in darkness
from just before the commencement of flowering until the greater
part of the leaves turned yellow or yellowish red. These parts were
cut away and extracted. A little chlorophyll was still present, as
well as xanthophyll and carotin, in the approximate proportions
of 1, 3 and 12 respectively. The pale brownish white wax obtained
,as previously described yielded 1.15% of ash. After washing with
warm alcohol the darker residue remaining yielded as much as
12.9% of ash, but the whole of this did not consist of magnesium
oxide.
Many of tlie old grass leaves were bright red in colour, and
remain so in darkness, until they died and shrivelled. These
were extracted with absolute alcohol and petrol ether until all caro-
tin and xanthophyll were removed. They were still red. They
imparted a red tinge to water and the red pigment rapidly dis-
solved in dilute hydrochloric acid or dilute potash. The neutral
solution in water was precipitated by lead acetate, turned yellow
with sodium hydrate, reddish brown with hydrochloric acid, and
dark reddish l)rown, with ferric chloride. It was apparently,
therefore, a flavone, and as it appeared to develop in or in the
neighbourhood of the chloroplastids, it may be one of the products
Sa
