Oxidation of Rhodoj^hyllin. 197
leaves exposed to light. Brown leaves of Salix Babylonica were
collected in quantity and boiled and pressed repeatedly until all
the soluble tannins were removed. They were then washed with
absolute alcohol, and extracted with hot absolute alcohol.
The liquid was filtered, concentrated and cooled and refiltered.
The brown waxy solid removed consisted partly of phaeophytin.
Ether was added to the alcohol and then salt. The reddish yellow
ethereal layer contained all the pigment. After washing with
water and drying with sodium sulphate, it was evaporated. The
residue was extracted with methyl alcohol, leaving a white waxy
solid undissolved. To the liquid, alcoholic potash was added, and
after heating, it was filtered. On standing, shining red platelets
with a steely blue shimmer of potassium rhodophyllin separated
out.
Yellow leaves picked off the tree and kept in darkness for three
days turned brown, as in fallen leaves, so that the change is not
necessarily due to light. They yielded, however, xanthophyll
largely on extraction and rhodophyllin only in small amount.
Rhodophyllin was also obtained from the brown autumnal
foliage of the English oak. When these are red in colour erythro-
phyll is present- in the cell sap, but it soon fades, leaving them a
pure brown colour. The colour of such leaves is due to several pig-
ments of which the erythrophyll fades first, then the xanthophyll,
then the rhodophyllin and the permanent brown colour is due prac-
tically wholly to oxidized tannin compounds.
The evolution of oxygen from etiolated plants.
It appears from the foregoing that etiolated leaves contain
carotin, a little xanthophyll, and a nearly colourless waxy solid
rich in magnesium, which is either glaucophyllin, or is related to
it. Carotin appears to be the first pigment formed in the construc-
tion of chlorophyll, and presumably it is produced at the expense
of carbo-hydrate or of hydrocarbon food materials. The relative
amounts of carotin and xanthophyll in etiolated parts may depend
upon the relative activities of oxidase and reductase enzymes re-
spectively.
When an etiolated plant turns green in light, it seems reasonable
to suggest that the carotin undergoes photo-oxidation, •! liberating
formaldehyde, which is rapidly polymerized, and that the bleached
1 111 the case of plants able to develop chlorophyll in darkness, an oxidase enzvme could
produce the same effect.
