198 Alfred J. Eivart .-
carotin residue combines with the glaiicophyllin, converting it intO'
the tricarboxylic chlorophyll. This process involves an absorption
of oxygen. If carbon dioxide is present, it interacts "with the
chlorophyll, probably undergoing additive combination. If it
tlieu separated formaldehyde and phytyl, it would liberate a
large amount of oxygen. The phytyl would then recombine with
the glaucophyllin, reforming the chorophyll molecule. If the
supply of carbon dioxide was abundant in proportion to the inten-
sity of illumination, the decomposition and recombination would
balance and an evolution of oxygen Avould be possible without any
actual accumulation of chlorophyll taking place. In 1896 I was
able to confirm on a variety of plants the statements of Draper and
of Englemann that etiolated chloroplastids can evolve oxygen in
light,*!- and showed that this took place before any actual chloro-
phyll was developed. The rule was not a universal one, however,
and particularly in the case of maize, which has a high temperature
minimum for the formation of chlorophyll, no evolution of oxygen
could be detected from etiolated leaves so long as they were free
from chlorophyll. It was also shown that sealed preparation of
etiolated leaves of Elodea with Bacteria, owing to the presence of
an excess of carbon dioxide did not turn green in light, although
they produced the small amount of oxygen necessary to support
protoplasmic streaming.
The presence of from 2% to 5% of carbon dioxide in the sur-
rounding air distinctly retards the turning green of etiolated grass
seedlings as compared with those in ordinary air, 2 but if the in-
tensity of the illumination is approximately quadrupled, the re-
tarding action of the carbon dioxide is less pronounced or even
ceases to be perceptible. Kohl^ ten years later without referring to
the previous work reconfirmed the statement that etiolated plants
may evolve oxygen in light. He showed that carotin was the chief
pigment in etiolated plants, and held that it was responsible for the
assimilation of carbon dioxide in the absence of chlorophyll. It
is, however, more probable that the evolution of oxygen takes place
as outlined above, and that carotin is not by itself capable of caus-
ing the assimilation of carbon dioxide. Actual observation shows
that it does not appear to comljine with carbon dioxide, and that
it combines more energetically and rapidly with oxygen than either
chlorophyll or xanthophyll does. Tlie formaldehyde produced
1 See Journal of Liiinean Society, vol. xxxi., 1896, p. 554.
2 See also Bohni, Sitzungsb. d. Wien. Akad,, 1878, p. 14.
3 F. G. Kohl, Ber. d. D. Bot. Ges., 19(»6. vol. xxiv., p. 222.
