Polymerization of Forinaldeliyde. 201
while kept heated to boiling point one and a-lialf volumes of 12%
sodium hydrate are added. The latter portions are added slowly,
and if necessary a few drops additional. A white precipitate is
formed at first, with each addition of sodium hydrate, which re-
dissolves slowly, the liquid remaining alkaline. With the addition
of the last few drops, the liquid suddenly clears, become pale
yellow, ceases to smell of formaldehyde, but develops a slight cara-
mel smell, and is neutral. If an excess of sodium hydrate is added,
the liquid turns brown, and a precipitate may form, but it may be
neutralized with a drop or two of acid. On cooling and standing,
a white crystalline solid separates, which is insoluble in absolute
alcohol, and practically so in cold water. On heating it chars,
glow^s and leaves a bulky chalk ash. It is, therefore, an organic
calcium compound. The filtrate gives all the tests for a reducing
hexose sugar. It also gives red with picric acid, and sodium
hydrate, and gives a caramel smell, and darkens when warmed with
sulphuric acid. It gives the keto-hexose reaction, with resorcin and
HCl. With phenylhydrazin and sodium acetate, it gives a golden
yellow imperfectly crystalline osazone. The liquid showed a feeble
laevo rotation.
The diluted liquid, after adding yeast and Pasteur's Solution,
keeping at 30°C. for three days, and distilling, gave a product
containing an appreciable quantity of alcohol, and giving the
iodoform test readily. The sugars are, therefore, in part at least
fermentable.
The following procedure was adopted to separate the different
products : —
The original syrup contains several compounds. After no more
of the insoluble calcium compounds would crystallize out, the
syrup Avas filtered, and twice its volume of absolute alcohol added.
A colourless viscid liquid separates and falls to the bottom. After
washing this with alcohol it becomes a white viscous solid. On
adding water it partly dissolves and a white crystalline solid
separates, which when heated chars with a slight caramel odour, and
leaves an alkaline ash containing CaO and CaC03. The filtrate,
after the addition of water, gives a strong reduction with Fehling's
test. On evaporating nearly to dryness, and cooling, a white crys-
talline solid separates, Avhich is an organic sodium salt, and the
syrup contains sugar. It yields a glucosazone, but gives only a
faint reaction with resorcin and HCl., and appears to contain more
glucose than levulose.
