202 Alfred J. Ewart:
The original filtrate from the first addition of alcohol is a clear,
slightly yellow liquid. On adding twice its volume of alcohol, it
becomes turbid; after standing one day a bulky mass of long,
slender crystalline needles separates. This, after washing with
alcohol, gives no reduction with Fehling's, but chars on heating,
and gives an ash of sodium carbonate. It is readily soluble in
water, and consists of an organic sodium salt.
The yellow filtrate on evaporating to a thick syrup and cooling,
crystallises out the remainder of the sodium salt. The filtered
syrup contains mainly hexoses, but also some pentose sugar. Thus
distilled with HCl. it turn aniline acetate strongly red, while with
HCl. and phloroglucin it turns red, and then gives a brown preci-
pitate soluble in amyl alcohol.
The purified syrup was treated with ammonical lead acetate, and
filtered. The filtrate contained pentose sugar. It was evaporated
to a small bulk, after treating with CO-2 and filtering, cooled, the
liquid drained off, diluted, and Pasteur's ash and yeast added.
No alcoholic fermentation took place.
The washed precipitate was treated with carbon dioxide and
filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness, dissolved in a
little water and filtered. It gave the test for glucose, was dex-
trorotatory produced a glucosazone, and after adding yeast and
Pasteur's ash, the liquid distilled after three days readily gave the
iodoform reaction for alcohol.
The remaining solid was treated with sulphuretted hydrogen,
and the filtrate evaporated to dryness and dissolved in water. It
gave the ketose reaction, was laevoratatory, and produced glucosa-
zone. After adding yeast and Pasteur's ash, the liquid distilled
readily, and gave the iodoform reaction for alcohol. Both sugars
were also capable of nourishing putrefactive bacteria, PenicilUum
and Mucor, when infected with these organisms.
The proportions given above are the most satisfactory for a com-
plete reaction. With less lime water the reaction is less perfect,
and less sugar is produced. With more lime water the boiling
liquid clears only slowly, between each addition of sodium hydrate,
and it is more difficult to obtain a perfectly neutral liquid at the
end of the reaction. On cooling, however, a larger amount of the
calcium salt crystallizes out directly, as for instance, when the pro-
portions used are 50 c.c. of 40% formaldehyde, 500 c.c. of lime
water, and 65 c.c. of 12% sodium hydrate. The crude sugar con-
sisted almost entirely of hexoses, with apparently a trace of pentose,
as it gave the furfural test more readily than a pure hexose solu-
