Polymerization of Formaldehyde. 203
tion, and gave a slight coloration and turbidity with phloroglucin
and HCl.
A more rapid but less perfect separation than that given above
is effected by evaporating the whole synthesized product nearly ta
dryness in a water bath, and adding a minimum of cold water.
The calcium salt remains undissolved. The filtrate is again
evaporated nearly to dryness, and treated with 90% alcohol. The
residue consists of sodium tartrate; the filtrate contains the sugar.
In previous work on sugar synthesis, alkalies have been used
singly instead of jointly, and not as here described. As the bye-
products described have been saccharates, formates, etc., with
which the calcium and sodium salts did not agree, a precise de-
termination of their character was necessary.
Professor E. W. Skeats investigated the crystallographic charac-
ter of the calcium salt, and found that it belonged to the ortho-
rhombic system, forming pyramids, domes and elongated pinacoid
pyramids, with parallel sides. The crystals were strongly, doubly
refractive, optically negative, and had a mean refractive index of
1.55. Mr. J. W. Clendinnen carried out a complete analysis of
pure samples of the two salts.
Analysis of tufo Crystalline Salts obtained by Professor Ewart.
The calcium salt was in the form of well defined crystals, and so
needed no further treatment to purify it. As the salt was evidently
one of an organic acid, simple ignition left a residue of calcium
oxide, from which the percentage of calcium could be calculated.
A combustion was then done with the calcium salt, and this
gave the percentages of hydrogen and carbon, and thus oxygen by
difference.
These were the results obtained : —
Percentag-e. Approx. Ratio
Element. Duplicates. Mean. At \vk. At wk. x .3Sri.
Oa - \^^^] - 1.5.4 - .385 - 1
H - \^] - 4.9 - 4.9 - 12
C - ^^%] . 18.7 - 1.56 - 4
O - - 61.0 - 3.81 - 10
(diff.)
This formula (CaHjoC^ Oj^) corresponds with that of calcium
tartrate CaH4C^Oe.4H„0. The usual quantitative tests for tar-
