204 Alfr(^d J. Eiuart :
trates were then applied to both the salts. All the tests were posi-
tive, thus confirming that these were salts of tartaric acid.
The importance of this method of producing sugar lies in the
fact that it iS a rapid and well dehned action, yielding definite
salts, namely, sodium and calcium tartrates, and that the
amount of sugar produced, particularly of hexose sugars, is large,
being intermediate between the weights of the calcium and sodium
salts. It is not, however, likely that this mode of producing sugar
from formaldehyde is of any importance in the living plant, since
it involves a high temperature, and the presence of an abundance
of two free alkalies.
WiUstaUer's and StolUs^ work on Photo-synthesiis.
These authors found that all attempts to produce extracellular
photo-synthesis failed, which they conclude is owing to the absence
of a hypothetical enzyme from extracted chlorophyll. They found,
however, that slight pressure applied to the leaf completely stopped
photo-synthesis, which rather supports my own view than an
orderly physical arrongement of the chlorophyll molecules in the
chloroplastid is an essential factor in continuous photo-synthesis,
and that a disturbance or disorganization of this arrangement may
be partly responsible for the temporary inactivity into which an
apparently normal chloroplastid may be thrown by various agencies
or treatments, which wlien extreme, lead to death and permanent
disorganization.
They also conducted experiments on living leaves by passing a
mixture of air and carbon dioxide over them in vessels on a water
bath exposed to light, and estimating the amounts of carbon
dioxide assimilated. They found that the assimilation was not
always proportional to the chlorophyll content, a fact already well
known to the plant physiologist.
In leaves lich in chlorophyll the authors found that increased
illumination did not increase the assimilation, whereas a rise of
temperature did, while in leaves deficient in chlorophyll a rise of
temperature had little effect, and increased illumination rendered
the assimilation of carbon dioxide more active. Hence they con-
clude that their hypothetical enzyme is in relative excess, and only
exercises its maximum effect when the chlorophyll is working at full
pressure.
1 Berichte, 1915, 48, 1540.
