Theories of Plioto-synthesis. 205
Willstatter and Stoll have, however, overlooked the principle of
limiting factors established by Blackmann and his pupils. In
leaves rich in chlorophyll the limiting factor is usually the supply
of carbon dioxide and an increase of illumination beyond that
necessary to assimilate the carbon dioxide available in a given unit
of time is naturally without effect.
An increase of temperature on the other hand accelerates all
plant functions, including respiration. In leaves rich in chloro-
phyll this may not be more than -"^ the activity of CO^- assimila-
tion, but in leaves poor in chlorophyll it represents a large frac-
tion of the COo assimilated. Respiration may be 20 to 40 times as
active as 35"^ C. to 40°C. as at 0"C., and this would be sufficient to
prevent any accelerating action of a rise of temperature upon the
photo-synthesis of leaves deficient in chlorophyll being shown.
Willstatter and StoU's results are, therefore, capable of a simple
and natural explanation, and do not support the construction they
place upon them.
Theories of Photo-synthesis.
From Jorgensen and Kidd's criticismi of the results obtained by
Usher and Priestly, by Wager and by myself, it would appear as
though the work of these avithors was completely antagonistic, and
mutually contradictory, and therefore of no value. This is not
quite a correct view, as the work of each investigator led on to or
directly gave rise to that of the next. Thus Usher and Priestley
(I.e.) in supposing that they produced photo-synthesis outside
the cell, drew attention to facts which otherwise might have been
overlooked, and it was their work which led me to determine that
the formaldehyde was a direct product of the photo-oxidation of
chlorophyll, and was formed in the absence of carbon dioxide. It
was a further investigation of their results which enable me to de-
termine that carbon dioxide decomposes chlorophyll in darkness as
well as in light. I was in error in concluding that xanthophyll was
one of the products ol this decomposition, and this error has lieen
corrected by Willstatter as well as by Jorgensen and Kidd, thus
bringing our understanding of the changes possible in photo-syn-
thesis a stage further. The direct action of carbon dioxide is to
remove the magnesium from the chlorophyll, forming phaeophytin,
and I have shown that if zinc dust is present during this reaction,
the zinc steps into the place vacated by the magnesium, forming
the stable green zinc chlorophyll.
1 Proc. Roy. Soc, vol. 89, B., p. 342, 1917.
