206 Alfred J. Eivart :
The removal of the magnesium from clilorophyll by carbon
dioxide, and the fact that magnesium will l>ring about the combina-
tion of carbon dioxide and water to formaldehyde suggests at first
sight a possible explanation of carbon dioxide assimilation. This
action, however, takes place as well in darkness as in light. Fur-
ther, the magnesium is separated from chlorophyll as the carbonate,
and not in the form of the metal, and if any such action was
necessary in photo-synthesis, when the latter was active, tlie bulk
of the chlorophyll would exist in the form of phaeophytin, and the
leaf should lose its green colour, which is not the case. Carbon
■dioxide decompose the chlorophyll in heaped grass leaves in dark-
ness, but in living leaves exposed to light in air rich with CO-o, the
chlorophyll remains green. If no carbon dioxide is present, and
the illumination is strong, the chlorophyll slowly bleaches, but this
is stopped if the supply of carbon dioxide is proportionately in-
creased.
It is more reasonable, therefore, to suppose that the chlorophyll
as a whole takes part in photo-synthesis, acting as a light fer-
ment, or lytase enzyme, which, using light energy to draw carbon
dioxide and water into its own organisation, breaks down again,
liberating them as carbohydrates, and that so long as the supply
■of CO-o corresponds to the intensity of the light, and the joroducts
are removed, the decomposition and reconstruction of the chloro-
phyll remain in equilibrium.
There is no difficulty about the decomposition of chlorophyll, but
evidence of its regeneration is difficult to obtain.
In a previous paperi an account was given of various attempts
made to bring about the regeneration of chlorophyll outside the
plant. Although indications were obtained suggesting that this
might be possible, these were not conclusive. Further attempts in
the same direction have so far completely failed. It was frequently
observed that in the separation of chlorophyll, alcoholic solutions
of xanthophyll, containing the waxy derivatives by precursors of
chlorophyll in finely suspended form, when evaporated formed
greenish yellow skins, which contained chlorophyll, and left the
remaining liquid with little xanthophyll. This happened even when
the watery alcoholic liquid showed no trace of chlorophyll under
the spectroscope. Further investigations showed, however, that
when alcoholic solutions of pure xanthophyll containing a little
water are evaporated slowly, the first pnrt of the xanthophyll to
1 Pioc. Hoy. Sor. [,01x1., B., vol. 80, p. 30, 1908.
