12 Chaptnan and Gabriel:
0. — Holocene Mollusca from Lahe Pertohe.
This deposit probably belongs to a later episode than the shell-.
l>eds underlying tuffs. The locality is S. of Warrnambool and quite
close to the coast-line.
V eiier ujyis crenata, Lam. sp.
Tellina deltoidalis. Lam.
Spisula triyonella, Lam. sp.
Soletellina hiradiata, Wood sp.
SoleteUina donacioides. Reeve
Monodonta (Austrocochlea ) co/istricta, Lam. sp.
Ri sella melaiio stoma, Gmelin sp.
Potamides australis, Q. and G. sp.
Bitfium cerithium, Q. and G. sp.
Nassa lahecula, Adams.
Salifiafor fragilis. Lam,, sp.
These specimens were found by Mr. H. J. Hauschildt and
donated to the National Museum, March 18th, 1908.
6. — General Bemarl-s on the Ar/e of the Old Duue-rock and
associated shell-heds.
The dune-rock of Warrnambool, like that of Sorrento, owes its
origin mainly to the remains of shells, and is therefore almost
entirely calcareous. That both of these rocks are far from modern,
historically "speaking, is proved by the occurrence in the Sorrento
dune-rock of the remains of an extinct kangaroo, Palorchestes, repre-
sented by pelvis, scapiila, portions of ribs and a tooth, as recorded
1>Y Prof. J. W. Gregory ji^ whilst that at Warrnambool has yielded
the footpi'ints of a gigantic bird, probably Ge?>7/ornis, a contem-
porary of Diprotodon in South Australia.
The Warrnambool dune-rock affords an added interest to geolo-
gists, in its relationship to what are probably the latest effusions of
volcanic ejectamenta in Victoria, for as we have seen, shell-beds,
insisting practically of existing species occur in this locality over-
lain by volcanic tuffs^ similar to those of Tower Hill.
1 Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, vol. xiv. (n.s.), pt. i., 1901, pp. 139-144. Gregory concludes his
piper with these remarks :—" Accordingly the lower exposed part of the Sorrento dunes dates
back to the time of extinct kangaroos, the agre of which is described as late Pliocene or Lower
Pleistocene."
2 Voloanio tuff as defined by Prof. Judd and quoted by Prof. J. W. Gregrory is stated to consist
of "the finely divided materials, which, owing: to the storms of rain which frequently accompany
volcanic eruptions," descend in the condition of mud, which flows evenly over the surface of the
growing cone and cotisolidates in beds of very regularly stratified tufa or tuff.
