, Shell-bed underlying Volcanic Tuff. 13
In regard to the plant remains of the tuff-beds, it is worth
recording- that a block of tuff containing what are probably Euca-
lyptus leaves, was obtained by Mr. Hauschildt^ some years ago, when
the foundations for the Milk Factory at Bennington were being
excavated. Data of age derived from fossil floras of so recent a
stage are not, however, of much value, seeing that their types are
more persistent than those of animals. Thus the tuffs of Mount
Gambler have yielded fronds of the Bracken fern {Pterii< aquilina)
and of Baiiksia, practically identical with plants now living in the
same locality.
The Hampden tuffs of the Camperduwn district _, are in all
probability of the same age as those of Warrnamlx)ol and have
covered ancient swamps such as those of the Pejark Marsh. In
samples of this ancient m.ud deposit which were submitted to one of
us (F.C.) by Mr. R. H. Walcott, Curator of the Technological
Museum, there were found diatomaceous frustules and remains of
a species of Ci/penis indistinguishable from the living Cyperus
lucid us.
The extinct marsupial bones found on the shores of the crater
lakes of the Camperdown district are probably contemporaneous
Avith the tuff beds, as note the opinion of Prof. Sir Baldwin Spencer
and Mr. R. H. Walcott regarding those from Lake Colongulac^ : —
"No bones have been found in situ as far as we are aware, those
found having been picked up on the shores of the lake, but there
is no doubt, like those of the Pejark Marsh, that they were origin-
ally deposited in a swamp or lagoon which was afterwards buried
under the ashes ejected by the neighbouring volcanoes; the bones
in tliis instance being subsequently freed by the breaking up of the
old bed and cast upon the shores of the lake."
Summary.
From the foregoing discussion it may be assumed that : —
1. — The shell-bearing l^eds underlying the volcanic tuffs near
Warrnambool belong to the same episode as the older dune-rock
accumulations of that locality and Sorrento, and the swamp deposits
under the tuffs of the Camperdown district.
1 This specimen, presented by Mr. Hauschildt, is now in the National Museum and can be seen
in the wall-case of the Australian Gallery.
2 Mem. Geol. Surv. Vict., No. 9, 1810. "Geology of the Camperdown and Mount Elephant
District." Grayson and Mahony, p. 6.
3 Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, vol. .xxiv. (n.s.), pt. i., 1911, p. 114.
