18 Alfred J. Eivavt:
organisms, the starch grains are dissolved away. If metallic
poisons are responsible for these defects, their j^resence shuuld be
capable of demonstration by direct analysis, since potatoes are
much less sensitive to metallic poisons than are apples. Organic
poisons are, however, also a possible cause, for it is now well known
that the infertility to crops of certain peaty and other soils is due
to the presence of traces of organic poisons of tlie iiatui'e of phenols,
or creosote-like combinations. *
The late Dr. Rothera carried out some experiments in the direc-
tion of endeavouring to produce bitter pit symptoms by the direct
absorption of dilute solutions of metallic jjoisons. Cut leafy
branches bearing fruit were placed in solutions of copper sulphate
and mercuric chloride of strengths varying from 1 in 100,000 to
1 in 600,000. The results obtained were negative. The tests, how-
ever, only lasted a fortnight, and were discontinued on account of
the slirivelling of the apples. The latter is due to the rapid
blocking of the cut surface preventing the absorption of water (and
poison). If the experinient is carried out differently by driving in
the poisonous solution under a head of 5 or 6 feet of water or
roughly one-sixth of an atmosphere positive results are easily
obtained in a few days, and although the browning usually takes
place along the veins, it is often strikingly reminiscent of bitter pit.
When these tests were performed in the unripe starch stage, the
apple always died before all the starch grains had dissolved in the
unpoisohed pulp cells, but I have already shown that if dilute
poisons are injected into young apples while on the tree, although
most of the treated apples usually fall, some remain and ripen on
the tree. These show bitter pit areas at the points injected and
these areas show every sign of normal bitter pit, including the
presence of starch grains in brown cells, Avhile the surrounding
healthy tissue contains no starch.
A second test carried out by Rothera was by watering apple trees
with solutions of copper sulphate of 1 in 100,000 strength.
The following results were obtained : —
Yield. Pitt<<l. ° Pitted.
Counted by Mr. IMc Alpine—
Gravenstein - ]00 - 8 - 8
Jonathan - - 164 - 1(5 - 9.7
Coimted by Dr. Rothera —
Charles Eoss - 48 - 10 - .'20.8
Mr. McAlpine, however, states that the trees used were previously
liable to Bitter Pit. Why such trees were selected for the test is
difficult to say. To be conclusive the tests would need to be repeated
