The Cause of Bitter Fit. 19
on a larger scale over at least 2 years, and on trees whose previous
history was known.
The present position in regard to the theories of the origin of
bitter pit may therefore be summed up as follows : —
(1) The bursting cell theory is founded on a confusion between
cause and effect. The cracks in the cell walls sometimes seen in
sections of dead bitter pit tissue are either cracks caused after death
by drying and contraction, or more usually are tears produced by
the razor. In sections cut from tissue imbedded in paraffin the
cracks are rarely seen, and are often entirely absent.
(2) The vascular interruption theory is unsupported by any
morphological evidence, and is contradicted by direct evidence such
as the existence of healthy tissue beyond bitter pit areas where
according to the theory vascular interruption should have occurred,
Further, the occurrence of starch in the cells shows that the channels
along which carbohydrates are conveyed to the bitter pit tissue
must have been open and functioning freely.
(3) The poisoning tlieory lias behind it the weight of the following
evidence : —
Every symptom of this defect can be produced by the artificial
application of poisons, including the presence of starch grains in
dead cells.
Various observers have noted similar results in leaves and young
stems as the result of the application of poisonous sprays (patclies
of dead tissue with In-own shrivelled cells packed with starch.) In
apples the sensitivity is so great that the poisoning may be oligo-
dynamic, i.e., poisoning may occur in the presence of traces of
poison beyond detection by ordinary chemical analysis.
As apples ripen the sensitivity of the pulp cells to poison in-
creases, so that an apparently sound apple may develop bitter pit
after it has been picked.
There is a close correspondence between resistance to poison and
resistance to bitter pit. The most resistant variety to bitter pit
(Yates) is also the most resistant to poison. Varieties specially
sensitive to poison are also specially sensitive to bitter pit. There
is also a close correspondence in regard to temperature effects. At
low temperatures the development of bitter pit is checked or retarded.
Similarly at low temperatures the resistance to poisons is greatly
increased, being 10 to 100 times greater at 0°C what it is at 2.5^C.
Further, there is evidence to show that where a comparison is
possible the incidence of bitter pit is greater in orchards that have
3a
