20 Alfred J. Eivavt:
been heavily sprayed for some time than in orchards which have-
been lightly sprayed or not sprayed at all. It is unfortunate that
statistics on this point, which by now should have been available in
abundance have not been published. It is quite beside the point to
indicate the existence of bitter pit in unsprayed orchards as a com-
plete and satisfactory answer. If bitter pit is simply the result of
local oligodynamic poisoning, any trace of any poison capable of
absorption may produce it, independently of how it is absorljed and
whether it is originally present in the soil or not.
The Browning of Bitter Pit Tissue. — In certain varieties of
apples, notably Statesman, the pit tissue is usually paler than in
other varieties. The browning is due to the action of the oxidase
liberated from the dying j^rotoplasm upon the tannic acid of the
cell sap. When a Statesman apple is cut, the cut surface remains
paler than in most apples, the browning being most evident along
the veins. This might be due either to a deficiency of oxidase or of
tannin or to the i^resence of an oxidase inhibiter. More than one-
distinct variety of ajople has been known as Statesman. One of
these false Statesmans is known as Chandler's Seedling. Its pulp
browns readily Avhen cut. The sap was expressed from equally ripe-
true Statesman and from Chandler's Seedling and tested for tannic
acid; the former yielded 0.24 and the latter 0.16, a difference which
is hardly sufficient to explain the pronounced difference of browning.
Testing with guiacum and peroxide of hydrogen for oxidase gave
about the same depth of blue, but this test though a delicate one
does not discriminate quantitively. A dilute solution of amidol
is a good test for apple oxidase. By adding varying quantities of
apple sap until the rate of change of colour was the same in each
case, it Avas found that three parts of Chandler sap contained as
nuich oxidase as 8 parts of Statesman sap. The glycerine extract
from pulp dried by pressure gave values of 3 and 9 respectively.
No evidence of the presence of any special inhibiting agent could
be obtained, so that the feeble browning of Statesman pulp is
mainly due to a deficiency of oxidase. The amount of oxidase pre-
sent in an apple can therefore to some extent be used as a test to
distino-uish between certain varieties.
