[Pboc. Rot. Soc. Victoria. 30 (N.S.), Pt. I., 1917J.
Aht. Y.—New or Little-known Victoria/a Fossils in the
National Museum.
Part XXI. — Some Tkrtiaky Cetacean Remains.
By FREDERICK CHAPMAN, A.L.S., &c.
(Palaeontologist, National Museiun, Melboiirne).
(With Plates IV. and V.).
[Eead 12th July, 1917].
Introduction.
The following notes embrace descriptions of teeth of two new
cetaceans, one of which is a second Australian species of the extinct
genus of sperm whales, Scald icetvs, namely, S. lodge i. The other
form is a tooth referred to tlie living genus Sfeno, a dolphin which,
so far as I am aware, has not been previously noted in the fossil con-
dition. Both types are from the Lower Pliocene or Kalimnan series.
A new locality is given for the tooth of the great sperm wdaale,
Physetodon haileyi, whilst an incisor of the squalodont genus, Paras-
qualodon, is newly recorded from Leigh River, near Shelf ord, an
occurrence which helps to confirm the Miocene age of these particular
beds.
Probably the most interesting cetacean discovery from a distribu-
tional point of view is the occurrence in the Victorian Kalimnan
(Lower Pliocene) series, of Owen's ziphoid species, Mesoplodon com-
pressus. This genus of beaked whales is already represented in the
Victorian Janjukian (Miocene) beds by the strap-shaped tooth of
Mesoplodon geelongensis, McCoy sp. Cranial rostra belonging to
several species of Mesoplodon are also found in the Pliocene of Eng-
land, Belgium and Italy, and about eight species still exist. Until
the present occurrence, the rostra of this genus were only known in
the fossil condition from the northern hemisphere, but six of the
species now found living have their habitat in the Southern Ocean
and adjacent seas.
The following remarks on tlie genus Mesoplodon by Prof. Flower
have an especial interest to students of Australian recent and fossil
cetaceai : " The geographical distribution of the group has a very
great interest in relation to that of many other Australian groups,
both of vertebrates and invertebrates. Among the earliest known re-
1 Trans. Zool. Soc. Lon.l, vol. .\., 1878, p. 436.
