36 Frederick Glaqmidu:
Ohseri'dlions. — Meso2)h)do/i agrees with the other beaked whale^
Ziphius (of which there is probably only one living species), in hav-
ing an ossified niesethmoid, but the nasals joined together form the
vertex of the skull in the latter genus. In Hyperoodon, the bottle-
nosed whale, there are large longitudinal ci-ests on the maxillae at
the base of the rostrum. In Berardiiis the mesethmoid is only par-
tially ossified. Chonezijyhius has the mesethmoid cartilage non-
ossified, and there is a fistular cavity throughout the short, thick
rostrum. According to Flower, the tympanic bone of Berardiiis is
exactly like that of Mesoplodon.'^
The chief character given by Owen for the cranial rostrum in the
species comjtressiis is " the predominance of the dimensions of depth
over that of breadth at every part of the extent of the specimen
figured." Prof. Owen also states that " the pre-frontal mid-tract
is transversely convex from its beginning, the convexity increasing
as it advances; and, from the low position of the ecto-maxillary
ridges and the steep slope thereto of the premaxillaries, the mid-
tract seems, of itself, to constitute the upper surface of the rostrum,"
In Huxley's specimen the same character of great vertical depth pre-
vails, with the exception of the extreme posterior, where it is wider
tlian deep. This exception would also most likely have obtained
in Owen's specimen, but for the fact that the posterior area adja-
cent to the narial openings is wanting.
The only apparent differences between Huxley's and Owen's speci-
mens are that, in the former, the sectional outline is more distinctly
rhomboid, and there is a slit in the mesethmoid band '' about 2^ in.
in front of the upper apertui-es of the canals," . . . . " Avhich
deepens as it passes backward and becomes lost in an irregular
fossa." This median slit is not present in the nearly perfect Aus-
tralian specimen from Grange Bvirn, so that in this point it agrees
with Owen's example. On the other hand, another specimen from
Grange Burn, Avhich is in Mr. Dillwell's collection at Hamilton, and
of which there are casts in the National Museum, shows a distinct
median slit, as in the Huxley example, and much longer, measuring
4f in. The two Grange Burn specimens have been carefully
examined and measured, Avith a view to discovering any definitely
separable characters, but with the result that one feels bound to
conclude that the slight differences between them represent merely
individual variation, such as are evident in living species of this
genus. For example, the median slit probably representing a vesti-
1 Flower. Uiid., vol. x., 1878, p. 423.
