^]8 Frederick Cha/nnav :
Tlie uai-ial orifices are situated in a concavity of the extended pre-
maxillae, the left being not so long as the right. The nervo-vascular
foramina of the interorbital area of the maxillary are slightly in ad-
vance of the narial openings, and lead downward and backward to
tlie ent-orbital foramina. The vomerine is visilile on the inferior
surface of the rostrum as a narrow lenticular wedge about 90 mm.
long and 9 mm. broad in the widest part.
In a cavity of the premaxillary on the right side of the rostrum.
about -41 mm. from the anterioi-, tliere occurs, embedded in the
hardened and phusphatiztd mud, a small tooth of a depressed conical
shape, slightly curved and bluntly pointed, having a length of 4
mm. and a width of 2.5 mm.^
Measurements. — Total length of complete rostrum, 49.5 cm.
Width on a tranverse line tlirough middle of antorbital foramina,
12.6 cm. Width at 10 cm. from base, 62 mm.; depth, 80 mm.
Width at 20 cm,, from base, 54 mm. ; depth, 61 mm. Width at 30
cm. from base, 39 mm.; depth, 46 mm. Width at 20 mm. from
apex, 21 mm. ; depth, 23 mm. Distance between narial openings, 31
mm. Distance between antorbital foramina, 82 m.m. Width of
mesethmoid band at 75 mm. from base, 23 mm.
Specimen B. Description. — This is a less perfect example than the
foi'egoing, the rostrum having lost alxmt one-half of the anterior por-
tion, and tlie lateral edges of the maxillaries in the pre-frontal
region. The characters of this specimen compare closely with the
foregoing. The slope on either side of tlie mesethmoid ridge is steep
as in the previous specimen, but the surface is more convexly rounded
and the ecto-maxillary ridge less prominent. The inner margins of
the narial openings are 21 mm. apart as against that of Spec. A, in
which they are 32 mm. apart. Specimen B, however, is proportion-
ately smaller in every respect, and either represents a mature indi-
vidual of different sex from Specimen A, or is a younger example.
Measurements. — Length of rostrum (incomplete), 25.5 cm. Width
on a transverse line through middle of antorbital foramina (incom-
plete expanse), 9.4 cm. AVidth at 10 cm. from base, 61.5 mm.;
depth 90 mm. Width at 20 cm. from base, 43 mm. ; depth, 59 mm.
Rekitionship of M.comjjressvs irith liviiif/ species.
According to Professor Sir W. H. Flower there are eight exist-
ing species of this genus, all of which, as that author says,
1 The strncture of the tooth in MfsoplotJnn .<mrerbi! ( = ^f. hidens) has been described by
E. Ray Laiikester in Trans. R. Microse. Soc. (n.s.), vol. xv., 18C7, p. .1.',. See also Flower, W. H.
Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. viii., 1S72, p. 2-23, for description of tooth of P>i;rai-dnit: anwuxi.
