Victorian Fossils, Fart XXI. 41
in the photograph by Dr. Hall, is due to an interesting minera-
logical change set up in the tooth during early fossilisation and sub-
sequent weathering. The narrower root axis as compared with the
•crown is caused by phosphatization of the dentine and its consequent
hardening, whereas the surrounding cement, being of a softer tex-
ture, has subsequently been removed by the resortment and disturb-
ance of the deposit before final sedimentation. The surface of the
phosphatized axis of the tooth is polished like that of the mineralized
tympanic" bones found associated in the same beds. The grooved
■ornament of the enamel of the crown of the tooth is exactly similar
to typical incisor teeth of r.wiU.itisoni .
Occurrence. — ^^Tertiary (Janjukian.) Waurn Ponds, near Gee-
long. Presented by the Rev. C. S. Y. Price.
A new locality for P.wilki/isoni may here be noticed, namely Leigh
River, near Shelford, where a fairly comj^lete incisor was found and
presented to the National Museum by Mr. J. H. Young, of Meredith.
This discovery of a typical Miocene species helps to correlate the
Shelford beds with the Janjukian series.
Fam. Delphinidae.
Genus Steno, Gray.
Steno cudmorei, sp. nov. (Plate IV., Fig. 5).
Descr'iption. — Tooth, convexly curved and twisted, more or less
circular in section. Root more than twice the length of the crown,
closed at the base and swollen or bulbous just beh^w the base of the
crown. Crown conical, curved, with a moderately sharp apex;
colour dark brown increasing in depth to black at the base; surface
roughly scored by fine irregular vertical furrows. The cementum
impinges over the base of the crown, and at 2.5 mm. below the crown
is cinctured by a brown stain, probably marking the upper edge of
the alveolus. The root is ochreous brown to yellow, and irregularly
wrinkled and furrowed, especially towards the base.
Measurements. — Length of tooth, measured along tlie f)uter side,
23 mm. (crown 7 mm.; root, 16mm.); width of crown at base, 4
mm. ; Avidest part of root, near distal end, 5 mm.
Observations. — At first glance this tooth might be thought to show
alliance with the incisor of Parasqiialodon , which it resembles in
general shape and in the vertically rugose crown. The root in the
present tooth, however, is closed, Avhilst that of the incisor of Paras-
qualodon is open and deep. Further than this, ParasquaUdon has
