42 Frederlch Chapman :
the crown nearly, if not quite, equal in length to the root, and the
enamel furrows are sharply ridged and not vermiculate, as in the
above species.
The smaller and slender character of the tooth and the closed root
resembles that of the Dolphin family, and comparison was made
with Delphi/ius uncichns, Lankester,!! which, although having the
peculiar twisted and swollen shape of the root of the Beaumaris
tooth, has the enamel of the crown finely and sparsely furrowed.
Turning, then, to Prof. Flower's classical paper " On the Characters
and Divisions of the Family Delphinidae,"2 we read that the genus
Stetio, Avhich is rei^resented by S.rostratvs, Cuvier sp., and found in
the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans, and in the Red Sea, is
distinguished from other genera of this family by the furrowed
character of the teeth : — " Teeth, 21 to 25 on each side of the jaw,
of comparatively large size (5-6 millims at base of crown), ^
and in most, if not all the spec'ies, with their surfaces roughened by
fine, irregular longitudinal grooves (which are in a great measure
effaced in old individuals), not seen in other Dolphins, and whence
the name Gh/phidelphis proposed by Gervais for the section."'*
Occurrence. — Tertiary (Kalimnan), Lower Pliocene. Beaumaris,
Port Phillip. Found by Mr. F. A. Cudmore, after whom it has been
named, and who presented it to the National Museum.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Plate IV.
Fig. 1. — MesopIodoN comp7'essus, Huxley sp. Cranial rostrum,
viewed from above. Specimen A. Tertiary (Kalimnan.)
Grange Burn, near Hamilton, Victoria. About 'i natural
size.
Fig. 2. — M.comj^ressus, Huxley sp. Cranial rostrum, viewed from
the side. Specimen A. About i- natural size.
Fig. 3. — M.compressus, Huxley sp. Cranial rostrum, viewed from
below. Specimen A. About f natural size.
Fig. 4. — M.compressus, Huxley sp. Cranial rostrum, viewed from
above. Specimen B. Same locality. About '^ natural
size.
1 Ann Mag. Nat. Hist , ser. 3, vol. xiv., 1864, p. 350, pi. viii., fisfs. 12, 13. This tootli and
otic bones have since been referred to the genus Globieephalvs. See TiVdekker. Cat. Foss. llani-
nialia. Brit. Mu.s., pt. v., 18S7, p. 81.
2 Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1883, pp. 466-513.
3 Width of crown in fossil specimen, 4 nun.
4 Op. supra cit., p. 482.
