Neiv Engine for RidiiKj. 45-
tional work vipon the niacluue, and also partly in that the under-
taking Avas later recognised as a piece of " Research Work " under
the regulations governing University Research Scholarships. The
latter adjustment served to bring the work directly under the
notice and control of the Professor of Physics, Dr. T. R. Lyle,
F.R.S., to whom it was arranged that I should report from time to
time. Tliis served to make available additional mechanical facili-
ties, and led to a transference of my services and work to the
Department of Physics.
Preliminapy Outline of the Design of tlie Machine.
It is desirable, before describing the more important parts of the
machine, to outline its essential features. A fuller description of
certain parts is also desirable, as published descriptions of similar
machines frequently lack constructional details.
Even Professor Rowland's article, on the grinding of a pre-
cision screw, omits reference to impoitant working details;
while similar omissions occur in the published description of
his ruling machine, issued at a much later date. Thus one
frequently fails to find the information sorely needed when entering
upon a 'similar undertaking. The omission of information, with
respect to the working routine of these undertakings, may frequently
mean the difference between success and failure, or, in any case,
great lose of time and labour on the part of those who attempt
similar work. Occasionally, even negative experiences are not
without value, and are worth recording.
In the following preliminary description of the completed
machine, reference to the plates and photographs, particularly
Plates VI. to XA^II., will l^e advantageous. For example, Plate VI. is
a plan of the complete Engine drawn to scale. The various parts
are numbered, and their general purpose and relationships are
indicated in the descriptive index.
The bed of the machine, marked A, of cast iron, is a hollovy
rectangular oblong box, with several internal cross webs for increas-
ing its rigidity. Plate VII., an end view photograph of the
machine, shows the external outline of the bed. Externally, the bed
has been accurately machined throughout; the top surface and one
edge have also been ground true. This form of bed is very rigid
in proportion to its mass, and is, moreover, not unwieldy to handle
or complicated in outline; its weight, apart from any attachments,,
is under 70 lbs.
