46 H. J. GrayHun:
Attached to the outer faces of this simple form of l)ed are all the
essential working parts of the machine, other than the driving
mechanism, which is independent of the bed, apart from the neces-
sary attachment to its base. This relationship is shown in Plate
VII.
On the right hand half of the upper surface of the bed is the
screw (1) Avith its supports (8), or capped Ijearings, which are bolted
directly to the bed. The sci-ew carries and operates the nut only,
and is therefore practically free, from any stress or strain other
than what is due to a direct axial pull. The connection of the
screw with the travelling carriage, supporting the plate to be
ruled, is made through two steel bars (19), one on the right hand
and the other on the left of the screw, and both parallel with it.
These rods are screwed into a horizontally swivelling steel ring, sur-
rounding the outer casing of the nut, and are rendered slightly
flexible in a vertical plane by grinding them, partly through near
the point of attachment to the ring. The nut is therefore relieved
from any stress other than the weight of the two rods and ring.
The other ends of these rods are joined to a crossbar, and the latter
to the carriage, through the agency of parts Nos. 18, 20 and 21,
details of which will be found in the index to Plate A^I.
The " pitch " of the screAv is approximately 20 threads to the
inch, or more exactly, 20 threads= .9997 in. at 62oF., and as it may
carry one or other of two interchangeable and accurately cut ratchet
heads with 360 and 540 teeth respectively, operated by double paAvls,
its ruling range varies from 20,000 lines per inch down, in to
approximately 7200 lines per inch. The position of the ratchet
heads, and mode of their attachment to the screw, is shown on the
plan and index of the related parts.
The travelling steel nut is 3 inches long, and is lined with a
special alloy, related to a bearing metal, in which the threads are
cut. After cutting the threads, the nut was ground with oil only,
under pressure, to a bearing fit upon a duplicate screw of identical
pitch and thread form, and finally upon the permanent screw itself,
thus ensuring 'a true bearing fit throughout. The steel casing of
the nut is surrounded by an outer ring of steel, in which, in addi-
tion to the rods already described, is screwed a round steel lever (4),
the further end of which carries a short revolving bar with hardened
bearing surfaces sliding upon an optically true guide bar (13).
This bar is adjustible Avith respect to its parallelism in relation to
the screw axis, and can be used, if ik'sii-ed, for slight corvection
