New EiH/lne for Riding. 47
of tlie pitch of the sci-eAv. This last adjustiaeiit is ett'ecteJ by means
■of two micrometer screws (15) seen in Ph\te VIII. Any elevation
of the bar due to a reversed action of the screw and ratchet is obvi-
ated by a weight serving as a counterpoise and an upper guide bar
^16). The nut has a clear run of nearly 7 inches upon the screw;
thia range of motion therefore represents the ruling capacity of
the engine.
The thrust block (17) witli its sapphire bearing face and several
adjustments (7 and 7a), are important parts of the machine, which
call for great precision in setting, wliich will be the subject of
special mention latei-. The position of the thrust block is almost
exactly central upon the bed of the machine. Hence, it is favour-
ably situated with respect to any expansion of the bed due to
temperature changes. The effect upon the ruling of such changes
appears to be very slight, as seems to be proved by careful inspection
of a 40 hours' ruling, during the progress of which temperature
fluctuations amounting to 3°C. were recorded, but appeared to have
produced no discoverable change in the regularity of the ruling.
The travelling carriage, Avhich supports the plates while they are
being ruled, is advanced by a central axial pull, directly in line
with the screw axis, through the agency of tlie two rods already
described, which serve to connect up the ruling carriage with the
nut. The advantage of having screw, nut and ruling table joined
together in a direct axial line is obvious, and, so fai- as I am aware,
is an arrangement which has not hitherto been adopted in existing
ruling engines.
The ruling table itself is simj^le, being merely a Sijuare plate of
steel fitted with a detacliable, circtilar graduated revolving super-
table for supporting any rulings, or plates for such, requiring
angular adjustment. The lower j^late, serving as the base, is 6
inches square and | in. tliick. It slides, by means of semi-circular
■grooved supports, attached to its under stirface, along two heavy
circular rods of steel very accurately ground and polished, and
resting in special supports screwed to the bed. The chief function
of these two rods is to act as guides or Avays for maintaining the
exact alignment of the ruling carriage with the screw. Most of the
weight of the ruling plate, and also of any load it may carry, is
borne by a separate under carriage rolling with a minimum of
friction directly upon the upper surface of the beil.
The frame and supports of the carriage are seen in outline on the
plan as 27, 28 and 29. The under frame (27 and 28) supporting
