48 H. J. Grayson :
thy rods upon which the carriage slides to and fro, is best seen in-
Plate IX. It consists of two identically shaped strong brackets
bolted to the bed, one on each side, which serve mainly to support
two rectangular steel bars grooved on their upper surfaces, through-
out their length, to the exact curvature of the two circular glass-
rods (29) which are ground perfectly straight and accurately
uniform. These rods rest in, or rather float upon, a viscous medium
(thick oil or vaseline) within the grooves of the two steel supports.
The glass rods can be slightly adjusted to secure parallelism, and
alignment, by means of the four screws (30 and 31). Such adjust-
ment is very slight, and made with only just sufficient pressure to-
prevent any longitudinal movement of the bars.
The chief effect of thus supporting the glass rods is the complete-
suppression of any tremour or vibration during movement of the
diamond carriage over their surface. The surfaces themselves are
not only ground, but are semi-polished, so that they consist essen-
tially of innumerable minute facets, and when so prepared render
the use of any lubricant unnecessary. It was found that the use of
any lubricant would vary in its action, frequently introducing a
variable load or pull upon the carriage during the progress of a
ruling.
The diamond bearing carriage is seen detached in the plan
(Plate VI.), and in various other aspects in the series of photo-
graphs illustrating the machine. It is a somewhat complicated
piece of m,echanism. Leaving to a later page its more detailed
description, the following outline of its principal parts and move-
menta will serve to make clear its general operation. The plan
shows the outline of the carriage as a rectangular framework, which
is built up of brass and steel parts (32, 33 and 34) supporting a
superframe (35) carrying all the adjustments for raising and low'er-
ing those parts which control the movements of the diamond ruling^
point, situated at 40, during the operation of ruling a line. The
chief adjustment in elevation is effected by means of a central screw
(36) operating' the dovetailed slide near 35. This slide carries all
the parts 37-42.
The lower frame comprises the two broad bars (34) immediately
over the glass guides (29). These bars are connected together by
means of two steel plates (32, 33). The lower faces of the bars form
rectangular grooves, and are fitted Avith boxwood linings adapted to
the curvature of the glass rods upon which the frame slides to and
fro. This motion is conununicated to the carriage from the eccen-
