New Engine for Riding.
)1
The method of its adaptation to its Avork is as follows : — It is set
up in an outer room adjacent to the small specially constructed room
in which the ruling machine is housed. When at work the engine
is regulated to run at about 250 revs, per minute. This speed is
reduced to about one-fourth by means of leather bands and alu-
minium speed reducing pulleys. Motion is given to the machine
by a cord passing directly from the reduced drive, through a
narrow slot in the wall of the machine house, to the driving wheel
{60) on the main shaft (57) of the ruling machine. The shaft (57)
is supported on a portion of an underframe which comprises three
parts indicated on the plan as B, C and D. It will be noted that
plate D rests upon and is bolted to B and C, which in turn are
attached, by means of angle brackets, to the lower projecting flange
of the machine bed. This construction has the merit of greatly
reducing the weight of the whole machine and yet secures sufficient
rigidity.
Describing in order the parts of the machine supported on D, B
and C; D carries on its upper surface two stout iron pillars, one
near each end, which support the driving shaft (57), a circular
rod of steel about 28 inches long, resting on bearings (55) with
adjustable collars (56). Near its right-hand end are two cam collars
{58 and 59). These are constructed so as to slide along the shaft,
and are recessed on their inner faces. Within the recess is placed
a cam, provided with means for lateral displacement as required ;
it lies immediately under its lubricating pad and spring (62). A
slotted, under cut, circular brass disc (54) is screwed to the opposite
end of the main shaft, and provides for the eccentric adjustment of
the crank bar head (53). The range, up to three inches, of this
adjustment governs the length of the lines. On inspection of Plates
VII., VIII. and X. will serve better than further verbal description
to make clear the construction and relations of the j^arts just named.
The second plate, B, carries a single substantial iron pillar (64)
which forms the main support and fulcrum of the steel lever bar
{61). One end of the lever passes under the cam on 57, and is
pivoted at 63, with provision for adjustment and alignment in
relation to both cam and ratchet wheel. The ratchet end of the
lever is fitted with a small and carefully made frame which supports
and controls the pawl or pawls engaging the ratchet teeth (9). The
pawls are fitted with the utmost care and are controlled through
the agency of the several parts of the frame (66 to 69). Just below
the frame carrying the pawls is a support provided with screw
5\
