52 H.J. Grayson :
adjustment and lock nut for regulating its height. The top surface
of the pillar is hardened and polished, and serves as an arrest for a
hardened spherical projection extending from the main lever imme-
diately under the pawls. The arresting pillar and its adjustments
are attached to a separate base plate (11) extending out from the
base of the main l>ed of the machine to which it is bolted. The
two screws, the heads of which are shown on 11, have no relation
to Bj tliey, however, prevent any flexure of 11, due to the weight
of the lever and counterpoise (65) descending upon it. It is, of
course, important that all movements affecting the ruling be regu-
lated to avoid the sudden arrest of any movement affecting the
operation of the diamond point ; hence the provision throughout the
machine of a variety of parts necessary to its protection. Reference
to Plates VII., VIII. and X. wdll serve to supplement the brief
description of the features indicated.
Passing to base plate C. A glance at the plan will show that it is
complementary to B in its relation to D and the main bed of the
machine, to both of which it is similarly attached. Plate VII. shows
its position, and indicates in perspective its purpose. It forms the
base of a rigid pillar, of cast iron, supporting a frame which
carries the two steel rods (50). These rods, both of which are
accurately ground, mainly serve as guides to a small platform of
steel, through the agency of which the ,eccentric swing or throw of
the crank rod (52) is converted into a steady, even horizontal " to
and fro " motion, as free as possible from any kind of constraint.
This movement can be communicated to the ruling carriage as
required. The transmission of a smooth and even motion is due
primarily to the attachment of the connecting rod (52) to
a rotating crosshead placed between the two guides (50) im-
mediately below tlie lower plate or base of 49 ; and in
part to the carefully fitted sleeves sliding on 50. To the
upper surface of platform 48, are secured the various adjust-
ments needed to effect and control the motions of the ruling car-
riage, the chief of these being the centre block (47), which is rigidly
screwed to the surface of 48. The communication rod (44) passes
through the centre of 47, one end screwing into a rocking bar on
the ruling carriage, the other resting partly in a guide frame (45)
and partly in block 47. On opposite sides of the latter (47) are
small sleeves or clamps fitted with binding screws; these, if free or
clamped at a sufficient distance from 47, will permit 44, on which
they travel, to slide freely through 47 without communicating any
