New Engine for Ruling. 53
motion of the main driving rod (52) to the ruling carriage. When,
however, the clamping blocks are brought closer to 47 and secured,
the free motion of 44 is restricted to a precise interval, which may
vary from 0.01 in. to 0.1 in. or more, as desired; any further
motion exceeding the interval to which the setting has been adjusted
is of course communicated to the carriage. The purpose served
by this preliminary movement of 47, which is not communicated to
44 or the ruling carriage, is to permit of the lowering and raising
of the ruling diamond at the beginning or end of each line. This
is effected by means of a second rod which passes tlirough 47, and
may be clamped therein at any convenient jjoint in relation to the
end, which pushed against a small lever. This lever lowers the
diamond point before the ruling of a line and raises it from the
plate on the return traverse as already explained. The location of
this rod is not seen on the plan, as it lies immediately under 44
and parallel with it.
As brief reference has already been made to the operation of the
-diamond when ruling lines, furtlier allusion to the sul)ject may be
deferred until the matter is dealt with in detail.
The foregoing brief outline of the chief mechanical features and
operation of the machine and ruling mechanism may fittingly close
with a short description of its earliest trial runs, and the subsequent
housing, etc., after which a more detailed account of certain of the
methods adopted in the construction of its more important parts
will be entered upon.
The Housing of the Ruling Engine, etc.
The provision of suitable accommodation for a machine for such
exacting requirements as are involved in the ruling of a dift'raction
grating is of some moment, especially when it is borne in mind
that such a machine has to run for long periods ranging from 20 to
200 hours at a stretch. During such intervals there must be no
very appreciable change in temperature of the air inmiediately sur-
rounding the machine, that is, no change exceeding two or three
tenths of a degree. Further, during the ruling of a grating the
machine must not be subjected to vibrations, such as might arise
from the proximity of trains, trams, or any heavy vehicular traffic;
nor yet to shocks or tremors due to the operation of other machinery
in the same building or immediate neighbourhood. Thus the pos-
sibilities to be provided for or against are by no means easily met.
