54 H. J. Grayson :
Oil the completion of the machine, it was not found possible for
some considerable time to house and use it under conditions favour-
able to a satisfactory trial of its capabilities. Hence perforce it
remained in an ordinary dwelling-house situated not far from a
railway, but otherwise fairly free from serious disturbing influ-
ences, other than those inseparable from such a location.
Seeing that for a time no other alternative offered, it was^
decided to make the best of the available accommodation. The
machine was set up on a brick pier, erected below the floor of a
small room used as a study, etc., in which the temperature condi-
tions were fairly even. In the main, the results from a series of
trials justified the experiment. Certainly, defects of various kinds
Were apparent, and for some of these remedies were devised, this
being one of the objects for which the trial was undertaken. But
the principal result of the experiment served to prove that it was
possible, in the intervals between the somewhat extreme fluctuations
of temperature to which our summer climate is liable, to rule fair
gratings, even under adverse conditions.
Subsequently a large sub-basement room., having very thick outer
walls, situated under the main Library of the University, and suffi-
ciently remote from disturbing influences akin to those named,
was partitioned off into two smaller rooms. One of these is used
for spectroscopic examination and work, while within the adjacent
room a still smaller room has been constructed especially for the
accommodation of the ruling machine. The latter room has double
walls, the intervening space being filled with non-conducting
material, consequently a very uniform temperature can be main-
tained for a considerable period, the variations being mainly of a
seasonal character. Within this small room, a foundation of dry
sand, enclosed within cemented brickwork, has been laid down below
the floor level. A heavy stone slab, resting upon the sand, serves
to support a brick pier capped with a thick slate bench insulated
from the brickwork with rubber pads. The upper surface of the
slate is ground smooth and true, and carries the machine and
driving gear, other than the engine; the whole being enclosed within
a carefully constructed case, consisting niainly of heavy glass
sashes, affording ready access to every part of the apparatus. The
driving motor is placed outside the machine house, and does not
affect its temperature. As the gas consumption of the motor is
under one cubic foot per hour, any heat from this source is easily
conveyed from the room.
