New Engine for Riding. 55
It will be perceived from the foregoing that the provision respect-
ing insulation, isolation, general stability and comparative freedom
frcjni temperature variations, combined with easy accessibility,
leaves little of importance unprovided for. Naturally, the result
of favourable conditions in the housing and surroundings of the
machine was a pronounced improvement in the quality of the grat-
ingti ruled, even apart from further mechanical improvements
resulting from a more extended acquaintance with the working of
the machine.
This general account of the more important mechanical features
of the Ruling Engine will, it is hoped, convey a fair idea of its
structural divergences from other machines designed for ruling
gratings; that is, so far as descriptions of such machines have
been published. Two such descriptions, more or less complete, have
recently appeared, viz., that of the Blytheswood machine, now at
the National Physical Laboratory, and a partial account of a new
machine designed by Professor Michelson, of the Chicago Univer-
sity. Descriptions of Ruling Engines of earlier design, as for
example those of Nobert, Rutherford, and Rowland, have been
published. With perhaps the exception of the Blytheswood Engine,
few of the descriptions convey to the reader any very detailed or
important information concerning the actual construction of a
machine of this character. Therefore, as much of the work entailed
differs from ordinary instrument work and involves an intimate
appreciation of minute values, it may be useful to give some
account of the actual work involved in constructing special parts of
the machine. The methods adopted were largely due to unavoidable
limitatiiins, and better results might liave been attained by other
means.
This record is primarily the fulfilment of a definite obligation to
the University whose generosity has made the building of a machine
possible of accomplishment. That the information concerning its
construction, which is here given, may be of service to others who
may be engaged on similar or related work, affords the possibility
of additional usefulness.
In conformity with the foregoing, the following special parts of
the machine appear to merit more detailed attention, namely : —
1. The Screw.
2. The Ratchet Wheel.
.3. The Thrust Plate.
4. The Bulinq Diamond.
