56 H. J. Grayson :
1.— The Screw.
Embracing : —
1. Cutting the screw tliread and (i.) the grinding nut.
2. Process of grinding the screw, including : —
(i.) Preliminary separation of Emery or other abrasives.
(ii.) Method of Refining crudely separated abrasives,
(iii.) Preliminary grinding of the screw by hand,
(iv.) Grinding Avith fine abrasives and semi-automatic control.
(v.) Mode of operating the mechanical grinder.
3. Method of testing the screw and its bearings during final
correction and adjustment.
I. — Cutting the Screiv Thread.
The method of cutting the screw thread hereunder described
differed but little from that adopted by Rowland and others, but
the process of grinding it varied in important particulars. The
Rowland screw appears to have been ground between the regular
lathe centres by means of a specially constructed brass nut, described
in the article on " Screws " in the Encyclopaedia Britannica. The
process of grinding followed by the writer varied materially, and is
described below. With respect, first, to the operation of cutting the
thread.
A suitable bar of mild steel was selected and carefully annealed
by slow heating and cooling. Its diameter permitted of the removal
of several heavy cuts from end to end of its length, after v.hich it
was again annealed, accurately centied in the lathe, and turned
down to about | in. diameter with repeated light cuts. Later
experience with other screws has shown that fine grinding may be
preferable to turning as a preparation of the surface for threading,
as it is not so likely to warp and compress the rod, and leaves its
surface more uniform and true.
The cutting of the thread on the prepared bar differed in no wise
from the routine usually followed in the cutting of a good thread.
The lathe was run slowly with an abundant supply of potash soap
solution continually playing on the threading tool. The advance
or forward " feed " of the cutting tool should never result in a
heavy cut;, and as the work proceeds the cuts sliould l>e reduced until
those finally taken are apj^roximately only .0005 (if an inch. It is,
however, important that the last cuts taken should be continuous
and even throughout the threaded length of the bar, even though
