Neiv Engine ior Ridiitg. 57
this should involve a slightly heavier cut than that just named.
Also it is material that the over-all threaded length of the bar
should exceed by several inches the portion it is pro^Dosed to use in
the finished screw.
The thread " pitch " and " angle " should be appropriate to the
work for which the screw is designed. The pitch value of the screw
here described is 20 threads to the inch, a value convenient for sub-
division, and the thread angle 50°, permitting of a somewhat deeper
thread than the usual Whitwortli standard; both "crown" and
" root " of the thread, previous to grinding, remained as left
from the threading tool. The greatest care was taken so that the
intersections of the thread walls with any plane through the axis of
the screw should be straight lines — a precaution applying equally
to the counterpart threads within the nut. Should the work for
which a screw is being cut justify tlie expenditure of the time
involved, it will pay to cut several screws at the outset, selecting two
of the best for final grinding.
(i.). — The. grinding nut . — For grinding his screw, Rowland, accord-
ing to the Encyclopaedia article, appears to have made use of a brass
nut constructed externally so as to taper from the centre towards
-each end, and split longitudinally into four equal segments which
could be fitted to the screw and held in position by means of
sliding sleeves or collars adapted to the tapered ends of the nut.
The opposing sleeves were connected with bolts and nuts, and could
thus be drawn together as the work of grinding proceeded.
Soine objection may be taken to the use of this form of nut for
grinding a precision screw for the following reasons : — (1) The
iise of a brass nut upon a steel screw has the disadvantage due to
the wide difference in the coefficients of expansion of the two metals,
as some heating will take place in the process of grinding. To
avoid heating, the Avork ol grinding must either proceed very slowly
or else be conducted under water or oil, which entails very serious
disadvantages. Hence any gain from the use of brass, due to its
superior action with abrasives upon a harder metal, is lost. (2)
The division of a grinding nut into four segments appears to be
faulty, in that it is possible for one or more sections to move
.slightly in relation to the others providing, as is almost sure to be
the case, there are periodic or other irregularities in the screw.
While the method of tightening up the segments is likely to produce
uneven pressure, so that one or more sections of the nut may do more
than their share of grinding, even though the general trend of the
