58 H. J. Grayson:
pressure applied may be in the direction of uniformity of action^
Thus any advantage derived from increased surface action; result-
ing from the use of a segmented nut, may be somewhat discounted
by unequal pressure.
The foregoing and one or two minor considerations led up to th&
decision to employ a continuous steel nut of sufficient thickness and
rigidity to resist any variations in pressure which were likely to be
used upon it. This nut was cut, bored and threaded up to a length
of about 10 inches, which was nearly equal to the length proposed
for the finished screw when in use.
This long nut was threaded on the lathe used for cutting the-
thread of the screw, with a threading tool and such other conditions
and precautions as would result in the closest correspondence
between the tAvo threads.
The outer wall of the finished nut was slotted through on one side
and partly so on its inner opposite side. The two halves of the-
nut could thus be drawn or rather forced together on the applica-
tion of moderate external pressure at suitable points. To effect
this pressure the nut was encircled with three strong metal rings
fitted with set screws bearing directly on its opposite sides. As the-
rings, under pressure, Avere slightly elastic or yielding the pressure
exerted by them was free from any rigidity likely to lead to seizure
between the respective surfaces of nut and screw. Fig. 2, Plate XI.
illustrates several of these features.
II. — Process of Grinding the Screiv.
As may readily be supposed, success in grinding an accurate
screw is so intimately related to the abrasive used, that some-
account of the properties and preparation of those^commonly em-
ployed is desirable before treating of the method of their application.
The following three well-known substances, in tlie form of
abrasive powders, viz. : Carborundum, Alundum and Emery were-
used, at least to some extent, experimentally in grinding the screws.
As each of these abrasives possesses qualities and structural peculi-
arities of its own, some explanation of the n\ethod of separating or
grading, with i-espect to size and uniformity of grain, is essential
to an appreciation of their efficiency.
With respect to their nature and qualities : —
Carhornndum, whilst by far the hardest of the three substances,
is also the most brittle and the least suited for application to such
