Netv Engine for Riding. 81
of this paper preclude any detailed statement concerning the manner
in which these investigations were carried out.
3.— The Thrust Plate.
The thrust plate or ]:)earing surface against which the screw
rotates is of great importance, in that any imperfection or weakness
of its surface or any diversion from a strictly normal position, of
even a small area of its surface, may result in some error or slight
disturbance of the screw which is almost inevitably communicated
directly to the ruling. Hence a thrust plate must be made of
material combining the properties' of compactness, hardness, tough-
ness and durability in a high degree. This material, whether
natural or artificial, must also be such as is capable of receiving
the highest possible optical finish, that is, with respect to the
perfection of its working or bearing surface. The importance of
these requirements will be appreciated when it is borne in mind
that errors resulting from imperfection of a thrust bearing will be
periodic and if so an error of amplitude less than .0000005 in. would
be quite appreciable by its effect on the finished grating. Thus in
the selection of a substance suitable for a thrust surface we are
restricted to an extremely limited choice of material. Naturally, to
those familiar with the limitations and requirements involved, the
diamond is at once suggested as the most likely substance to ade-
quately fulfil all the demands made upon it. Unfortunately a
diamond of a suitable size and shape for the screw thrust of a
ruling engine would be difficult to procure, extremely costly
and almost impossible to work, without professional aid, to
the requisite perfection of surface demanded. Of other substances
we only propose to mention those of which we have had actual
experience, and know wherein they failed to meet requirements.
Naturally, of the substances experimented with, only the most
perfect examples obtainable were used. These included the hardest
steel, crystalline quartz, agate, topaz and sapphire.
The steel thrust plat« was promptly discarded; though hard and
tough and worked to a highly finished surface, it required lubrica-
tion to prevent seizure and this at once introduced instability,
owing probably to the varying thickness of the oil film. Moreover,
with steel against steel (the screw terminal face also being steel)
signs of wear wei'e soon apparent. The two examples of quartz
which were tried, afforded, for a time, some promise of success and
permanence; eventually, how^ever, minute circular scratches or
7
