84 H. J. Grayson :
Although it may not Ije absolutely essential that both thrust faces
sliould be strictly parallel and perpendicular to the screw axis, one of
them must be exactly so placed and the other as nearly so as pos-
sible; hence the adjustment of both was effected as part of the same
operation.
In the first place, the cone and flat of the inserted screw thrust
was ground Avith all due precaution in the lathe and a surface
approximately perpendicular to the axis of the screw Avas obtained.
This, however, was not accurate enough for the purpose required
and, as the further adjustment of the end of the screw was related
to that of the sapphire face, the method adopted for their mutual
correction will be exj^lained with the setting up of the thrust block.
In order to obtain a close approxiniation to its true position the
sapphire thrust block was first set up with the aid of the usual mecha-
nical appliances. More exact adjustment was obtained by the use of
a well-known optical method of setting up a mirror normal to a rota-
ting axis. A round bar of steel, rather longer than the screw, was
accurately ground at each end to the same diameter as the screw
bearings. This bar formed the counterpai't of the screw without
its threads, and hence could be used with greater freedom and with-
out risk. To one end of the bar, representing the thrust end of the-
screw, a truly plane quartz mirror was attached by means of a
slightly plastic cement. This rod was placed in the bearings of the
ruling machine, and the mirror firmly pressed without rotation
against the sapphire thrust face. The rod was then transferred tO'
V bearings so placed that by means of a reading telescope of fairly
high power a distant illuminated disc Avith cross wires and perpen-
dicular scales could be viewed by means of the quartz mirror.
Rotating the rod caused the image of the cross wires to move in the
field of view unless the surface of the mirror Avas normal to the axis
of the rod. Definite movements corresponded, as was soon found,
to definite errors in the thrust and so by means of trial and error
the thrust Avas, after considerable AA'ork, adjusted until the image
of the cross wires remained fixed during a rotation. As the sapphire
thrust had already- l>een adjusted to a nearly correct position, these
later adjustments Avere only of microscopic dimensions. For adjust-
ment in a horizontal plane, the small movements required were
effected with the aid of tAA-o micrometer scrcAvs placed one on the
right and the other on the left of the thriist block to which they
could be made to impart a minute rotary movement. Adjustment of
the block in a vertical direction Avas obtained by slightly grinding
