New Engine for Riding. 85
•either the front or back surface of the block base as required. The
-effect of every adjustment was determined -with the telescope and
waa followed by such further alterations as was indicated by the
motion of the image of the cross wires. The process of correction
was continued in this way until the telescopic image remained steady
within the limits of experimental error. Finally the mirror was
removed from the rod representing the screw and was placed upnn
the actual screw of the machine and a slight further adjustment of
the thrust plate made by the same method.
As the thrust block could now be removed and restored to its
position tetween the micrometer screws with certainty, it was taken
out and the surface of the sapphire coated with a very thin film of a
solution of eosin in alcohol and water, applied with the aid of a
fine smooth needle. In this way an immeasurably thin film of stain
or colour was left upon the polished sapphire face. On replacing
the block in its former position the thrust facet of the screw was
;gently pressed into contact with the sapphire and rotated through
a very small angle. The effect produced was carefully examined
with a powerful magnifier and the exact position and area of contact
determined; this showed that the surface of contact was not central
but was limited to one part of the thrust near its edge. Another
test with the screw I8O0 from its former position definitely indicated
that the screw facet was principally at fault. Correction of this
defect was obtained by inserting a thin parallel plate of quartz
between the thrust plate and screw bearing; one face of the quartz
was polished the other smoothly ground, the latter being in contact
with the steel thrust. The screw was then slowly rotated in contact
with the plate which was constantly moved, i-evolved and reversed
between the thrusts. The result of these combined movements was
a delicate abrasive action upon the screw facet without any cor-
responding effect upon the sapphire thrust face. In this way, with
<;arQ and judgment, fairly uniform central contact of the screw
thrust face with that of the sapphire was obtained. It should be
understood that the amount of material removed from tHe bearing
surface of the thrust by this process was probably not more than one
or two wave lengths in thickness. These correctional operations,
which extended over a considerable period, with intervening trial
rulings, resulted eventually in the almost complete elimination of
any remaining periodicity.
