86 H. J. Grapon :
4. — The Diamond.
Under this heading it is proposed to allude briefly to the minor
but yet essential mechanical appliances for adjusting and con-
trolling the movements of the diamond during the act of ruling.
The principal features of the mechanism of the ruling carriage have
already been described and a short account given of the sequence in
^vhich certain movements took place during the process of ruling.
(See page 49.) The follo^ving remarks so far as they relate to
the mechanism controlling the diamond, are sui^ijlementary to the
previous descrij^tion.
Figs. 2 and -3, Plate XVI., are photographic views, back and
front respectively, of the ruling mechanism. Fig. -3 sho\vs in some
detail the following parts : — (1) The bar of hard steel of square
section supported in a steel frame with the aid of two hardened
conical screw pivots wliich permit of movement in arc of a few
degrees. Secured to this bar on its lower face there is a plate of
hard steel (37), i triangidar in shape, in the centre of which the
principal dash well (42) is placed, the diamond holder being
secured to its apex. This liolder is a small hollow cylinder (38) of
aluminium with solid end whose walls are partly slotted through to
hold the diamond clamp (39). The attachment of the solid end of
the cylinder to the triangular steel plate provides for rotational
adjustment. Three important movements of the diamond are pro-
vided for in this form of holder, viz. : (1) axial rotation of the rod
or pin 'jn which the diamond is mounted ; (2) movement of the clamp
block 39 in a vertical plane parallel with the direction of the lines
ruled; (3) movement in a direction or plane at a right angle to the
direction of the lines ruled. All these movements are important in
the preliminary setting up of a diamond. Two steel rods complete
the control outfit of the diamond ; one of these (4) is made to lift the
diamond from the plate after each line has been ruled, the other
supports the plunger of the dash well and is not shown by the
photograph.
In Fig. 2, Plate XVI., we have a back view of the diamond
carriage and its fittings. Here may be seen an oblong block of
metal secured to the suspension bar and sei'ving as a counterpoise
to the trianu'ular frame and fittings of the diamond holder. This
block in addition to acting as a counterpoise is fitted with twO'
additional oil wells and dashers and also carries a projecting
T The numbers refer to positions and parts indicated by corresponding- numbers on the plan of
tlie machine, Plate VI.
