New Engine for Riding. 87
threaded bar on which additional weights are screwed for regu-
lating to a nicety the pressure upon the dianiond ruling point. The
ruling system is thus completely controlled and balanced upon the
two hardened centres of the suspension frame.
Considering the long period during which interest has been more
or less centred upon fine ruling and the means for accomplishing
it, either for use as spectroscopic gratings, test rulings or micro-
meters — all of which recjuire very fine accurately spaced lines — but
little has been written concerning the diamond Avith which such
ruling is effected. As already mentioned, Nobert guarded with
jealous care his knowledge of the subject, the result of years of
patient work, and whicli he regarded as an important secret known
only to himself. Tpun Xobert's death his ruling machine passed
eventually into the possession of the late Dr. von Heurick, of Antwerp,
who was interested in ruling in its relation to the microscope. Some
years ago the writer had correspondence with Dr. van Heurick, who
stated that he had spent some time in trying to rule test plates
similar to those prepared by Nobert, but without success. In the
course of his experiments he had had prepared by one of the
most skilled diamond workers in Antwerp a set of diamonds exactly
similar to those found with the Nobert machine and Avith Avhich
Nobert presumably ruled his plates. Dr. van Heurick generously
presented to the writer three of the prepared stones. Whilst it was
a matter of great interest and pleasure to obtain these diamonds,
the knife edges of which appeared to have been exquisitely worked,
the results obtained by their use were most disappointing. Indeed
the lines obtained with these carefully prepared knife-edged gems
Avere quite unsuited for any but the coarsest ruling. Prior to this
experience with the diamonds from Dr. van Heurick, an interest-
ing paper by Profesor Rogers, of Baltimore, U.S.A., had ap-
peared. This paper contained much information concerning the
operation of a ruling diamond Avith prepared knife edges and Avitli
edges resulting from fracture; the latter AA-ere stated to be more
or less unsatisfactory. His method of using .either knife edges or
fractured splinters appears to have been diametrically opposed to
that of otlier AA-orkers; certainly to that of the Avriter.
Professor Rogers, for example, emphasises the statement that a
ruling diamond should produce, or did in his experience produce,
a distinct and characteristic sound during the act of ruling. So
familiar had this note become to his sense of hearing that he Avas
accustomed to judge of tlie behaviour of a particular diamond by
