88 H. J. Grayson:
this characteristic note. The writer's experience, extending over some
20 years, of the behaviour of a diamond during the act of ruling is
that its action should be practically free from any appreciable
sound or note of any sort. Anything approaching a distinct hissing
or singing note has invariably l>een regarded as evidence that the
lines thus being ruled would show, when examined miscroscopically,
some indication of a vibratory or chattering effect upon the surface
ruled, and that the " life " of a diamond operated under these
conditions would be comparatively short. Apart from this some-
what contradictory position with respect to the experience of others
whose work has extended over a considerable period, the article
referred to contains much interesting information.
One other reference to the action of a diamond when ruling
appears in the collected Researches of tlie National Physical Labora-
tory, Vol. VIII., 1912. The results therein embodied have pre-
sumably been derived from experience in ruling with the Blythes-
wood Engine. So far as the method of using a diamond is there
explained, the writer is in full agreement; with certain other
statements and procedure there recorded his experience is at
variance.
With respect to the choice and selection of diamonds suitable for
ruling. After an experience extending over 20 years the writer
prefers diamonds found in the diamondiferous drifts of New South
Wales. These stones are both harder and tougher than any other he
has hitherto obtained. Both Cape and Brazilian stones have been
tried; also the so-called black diamond, carbonado and " bort,"
nearly all the varieties of which are more or less crypto-crystalline
and unsuited for ruling except for the coarsest lines. The best
Australian stones for ruling work are those showing smooth, bright
crystalline faces, the simpler octahedral forms affording the best
results. The more complicated the crystalline structure, the fewer
the splinters adapted for ruling obtainable from a given gem.
Cleavage fragments intersecting the smooth outer surface of a
stone frequently give excellent results and are very durable.
For breaking the stones, a small mineralogical hammer and hard
steel anvil are required, with provision to prevent loss of flying
fragments. Straight smashing blows must be avoided^ or the stone
will be reduced to dust. A dragging blow ranging from a sharp
tap to one of considerable force may be used ; changing the position
of the stone until success is attained. 20/- worth of selected stones
will serve for a lifetime if properly vised. Once a stone has been
