[Proc. Roy. Soc. Victokia 30 (N.S.), Part I., 1917.]
Art. r. — Timber Production and Grrnvth Curves in the
Moivntain Ash (EiLCulyj^tus regnans).
By R. T. PATTON.
(Witli Plates I.-II.)
[Eead April 12th, 1917].
It has been said that Mountain Ash will mature in 40 years, and
will give in this time a butt of from 2 ft. to 2 ft. 6 in. It has
also been claimed for Mountain Ash that it is the fastest growing
tree in the world, and that it will give a cut of 150,000 ft. super
per acre. In order to test the truth of these statements a series of
measurements was carried out at Powelltown on logs of this timber.
It was found impossible at the time to get any reliable figures as
to either its fast growing rate or its quantity of timber per acre.
Many factors militated against this. In the first place all the forest
noAv being cut is over ripe, and consequently many trees are hollow.
Again, a very large number of trees have incipient decay in the
heart. Other factors also prevented any accurate estimate being
formed. However, there was ample material for a study of the
annual rings. It was impossible to obtain measurements from all
logs coming in, as in quite a large percentage there was either a
pipe, or decay had proceeded far enough to destroy the boundaries
of the first annual rings. Only those logs, then, were taken in which
the annual rings were clearly defined. The measurements were
taken to the eightieth (80th) ring, and not continued further owing
to the difficulty in many cases of distinguishing the rings. In one
case the rings, though narrow, were easily distinguishable to the
125th ring. It was obvious from these later rings that the tree had
lacked vigour. This was borne out by a study of the trees in the
standing forest. The paucity of foliage on these big trees is very
noticeable, as was also the amount of mistletoe. No mistletoe was
observed on the saplings or even on trees half grown. From these
observations, one was led to conclude that the tree reaches its prime
well under a hundred years.
The most remarkable feature is the rapid expansion of the trunk
(and hence width of annual ring) during the first ten years of
growth. This is shown in Fig. 1. In this graph the average width
of ring for each decade is shown. The annual rings were measured
in groups of ten and tlien averaged. This was done in order to
2
