2 R. T. Patton:
allow for the variiitiou of the successive seasons, conditions of
environment, and any accidents. Some very wide fluctuations were
obtained, but these were discarded as being obviously not the normal
growth of the tree. On reference to Fig. 1 it Avill be seen that there
is a steady decline in the width of the ring. It is very apparent,
too, that the Avidth varies much less after the 30th year. This rapid
decrease to the 30th year, and then a more gradual decrease after
that, may indicate that the tree is entering on its manhood, so to
speak. The theoretical curve w'hich has been drawn indicates that
it will approach the abscissa very gradually, and this is what we
would expect.
The differences between tlie width of the annual rings as the tree
gets older will be less and less. There is a point of interest here,
and that is that the enormous decrease in the width of the ring may
be due to overcrowding, or putting it in other words, that as the
trees grow older and so many are striving for the same light and
carbon dioxide, that the crown it not as large as it would Ije if the
forest were controlled. It was very apparent from a study of the
mature tress that width of ring is largely dependent on the distance
of the trees apart, for in many logs the original centre is well to one
side of the mature log. Some trees have limbs on the congested side
only 6 to 8 ft. long, while on the free side they are 15 to 20 ft. long.
The maintenance of a good head is important from a forestral
point of view.
In Fig. 2 the curve is given for the diameter at each dei'ade.
The curve is remarkably even, and from it one may deduce the age
of a tree very approximately if the diameter (or girth) be known.
It will be seen on inspection that the curve is flattening consider-
ably at the 80th year, and this again indicates that the tree is
making very little headway. The curve gives rather a remarkable
relation between diameter and years of growth. If we let ■z:=age of
the tree and 3/ = diameter in inches, we find that the equation ^^/x=y
is approximately the equation to the curve, and by using this equa-
tion we can arrive, approximately, at tjie age of trees grown in the
forest.
The flattening of the curve at the 80th year is in accordance with
the narrowness of the rings iit these older years. In Fig. 3 is given
the amount of wood produced in each decade. It will l)e noticed
that the growth of the second decade is approximately twice that of
the first decade. The maximum growth occurs in the fifth decade.
To fully establish the year of maximum growth, more measurements
will be necessary, though the year may vary according to local
