ISOPTERA 131
" The fierce face of the younp; dragon is all concealed " by its
extensible lower lip, which folds up. With their strong jaws and
legs dragon-flies secure and devour their prey. They devour vast
numbers of larval mosquitos and are thus of great use to man.
Finally, the full-grown nymph creeps up some stem, and the
winged form of the imago or adult dragon-fly breaks through the
old skin and flies away into the air and sunshine to enjoy its
aerial life until the falling temperature ends its existence.
These beautiful creatures may be called creatures of the air, for
they actually feed upon the wing and may sometimes be seen
poised in mid-air as if resting. The adult devours many gnats
and mosquitos. There are two types of dragon-flies, one
which keeps its wings horizontal and one which folds its wings
together vertically over the back.^
The breathing of the nymphs is peculiar. " The caudal end
of the alimentary canal is lined with trachea), and water is
alternately drawn into and expelled from this cavity. The
water may be expelled with such force as to propel the body
forward. So this has a locomotive function also."
ORDER V. ISOP'TERA
The Termites (Fig. 101), or so-called "white ants," are abun-
dant in the tr<)])ics, but less so in the United States. Where
they are numerous they become pests, destroying houses, furni-
ture, or anything made of wood. They are not ants, as may be
seen l)y their structure.
The body is always soft and usually whitish in color, though
sometimes brown. " It is plump and slightly })roader than
thick." In the union of the abdomen with the thorax the little
pedicel or stem found in the ant is lacking, the abdomen being
broad at the base. They are l)lind or have simple eyes. They
conceal themselves from the light. The slender antennae look
like strings of tiny beads.
The young are all apparently alike when hatched, but by
some means not understood they are afterward developed into
soldiers, workers, males (kings), and females (queens). The
winged males and females swarm, and each pair which is fortu-
' Damsel flies, Kellogg.
