ORTHOPTERA 133
The grasshopper (see Fig. 85, p. 113) may be taken as typical of
this order.
The Head. — The mouth parts consist of a labrum or upj^er
lip, the mandibles, a pair of crushing or biting jaws, followed
by a pair of rnaxillce, or smaller jaws, each of which consists of
three parts — an outer, jointed maxillary palpus, and a spoon-
shaped piece which covers the brown incurved rnaxilla. Then
follows the labium, or lower lip, with its jointed labial palpi.
On the head are two compound eyes and three simple eyes,
or ocelli, and a pair of antennae or feelers.
The thorax is divided into three well-marked divisions:
First, is the movable, cape-like prothorax, to which is attached
the first pair of legs. Second, is the mesothorax, bearing the next
pair of legs and the anterior pair of wings, which are straight
and rather narrow. Third, is the metathorax, with the large
third pair of legs and the posterior wings, which fold up like a
fan under the anterior wings when not in use.
The segmented abdomen follows the thorax. Close observa-
tion with the magnifying glass will show minute openings on the
sides of the segments. These openings are the spiracles or
breathing pores.
" Singing. '^ — This order of insects gives us most of our
" singers " and leapers of the insect world, and, strangely enough,
the leapers are the singers, and, stranger still, they sing without
a voice. Of the six families of Orthoptera, three are composed
of these leaping and " singing " insects. The locust or short-
horned grasshopper, when at rest, makes a noise by rasping the
inner surface of the hind thighs across the thickened and ridged
longitudinal vein of the outer surface of the fore wings. In the
air, the " clacking " is made by rubbing the upper surface of the
anterior margin of the hind wings back and forth past the
under surface of the posterior margin of the fore wings. " This
can be heard for a distance of several rods."^
The male cricket holds his fore wings (Fig. 102) up over his
body and rubs together the upper side of their basal region.
The male tree crickets, katy-dids, meadow-green grasshoppers
with long antennse, also rub together specially modified por-
tions of the fore wings.
1 Kellogg, p. 134.
