ORTHOPTERA
137
in wait," and may thus be called aggressive resemblance. Several species
from India resemble flowers, and thus attract insects, upon which they
feed. This is an exami)le of (illuring colors.
The walking-sticks {l'li(i.^'»n(l(r) (Fig. 106) afford even better examples
of special protective resemblance than the mantids. Our species are
wingless and may be either green or brown, and are usually found upon
twigs of a color corresponding to that of their bodies. The body, which
is long, straight, and slender, looks exactly like a twig, while the slender
legs look like so many tiny branches. One may pick up a walking-stick,
thinking it a twig until it moves. Although it is so repulsive to the unin-
itiated, it is a perfectly harmless creature. The only common species in the
northern states, Diaphcrom' era femora' ta, " feeds uj)on the leaves of oaks
and other trees. It drops its hundred seed-
like eggs loosely and singly on the ground,
where they lie through the winter, hatching
irregularly through the following summer,"^
or even the second summer. Over six hun-
dred species of this family are known. They
are numerous in the tropical and sub-tropical
countries and present many striking resem-
blances to their environment, one of the most
perfect of which is the "green-leaf insect"
(Fig. 90, p. 117). Its wings, flat body, ex-
panded legs, and even head and prothorax
are bright green flecked with yellow, making
it look wonderfully like a leaf attacked by
fungi.
" The locusts or short-horned grasshoppers
{Acrid'idce) include those 'grasshoppers' in
which the antennae are shorter than the body,
and in which the ovipositor of the female is
short and made up of four separate plates. "-
The tarsi have three joints. The first ab-
dominal segment has a tympanic membrane
on each side. It is to this family that the
locusts mentioned in the Bible and in his-
tory belong, as well as those which have
wrought such havoc in our own country.
A conspicuous species is the common red-
legged locust, Melan'oplus fe'mur-ru'brum.
There are about five hundred species of this
family in the United States, but only three or
four of them are migratory. These go in swarms, sometimes so dense
as to obscure the sun as a great cloud, and when they alight they literally
devour every green thing in that region. The largest, most injurious, and
most numerous of these are the Rocky Mountain locusts {Melan'oplus
spre'ius). Their permanent breeding-grounds are upon the western pla-
teaus, from 2000 to 10,000 feet above sea level, and they cannot endure
for successive generations the low, moist land of the Mississippi Valley.
" These locusts show a tendency to become gregarious from the beginning
of their life as nymphs. A recent method of fighting them is to cultivate
1 Kellogg.
^ Comstock.
Fig. 107. — Carolina lo-
cust killed by a fungus.
(Bulletin No. 81, _ New
Hampshire Experiment
Station Insect Record,
1900.)
