138
BRANCH ARTHROPODA
in a sweet solution a destructive fungous growth (Fig. 107) . A few members
of the swarm are dipped in the solution and turned loose, spreading the
disease. 1 Melan'oplus atlan'tis sometimes does much harm in New England.
Locusts lay their eggs, numbering from 25 to 125, in oval masses, cov-
ered with a glutinous substance. The female deposits them (Fig. 108) in
the ground or in rotten wood, with her strong, horny ovipositor, or they
may be laid on the surface of the ground among the grass and weeds. The
eggs are usually laid in the fall and hatch in the spring, there being but the
one new brood a year. The yoimg resemble the i)arents in general, having
biting mouth parts and long legs. They are paler and wingless. The
wings appear as minute scale-like projections and grow larger with each of
the five or six molts (Fig. 104) Strangely enough, the hind wings, which
are always underneath the fore wings in the adult, lie outside during devel-
opment. Birds are the best exterminator. The eggs may be plowed up
-«5*^(^>A'iU^-' vmi.—
Fig. 108. — Rocky Mountain locust: a, a, a, Female in different positions,
ovipositing; h, egg-pod extracted from ground, with the end broken open;
c, a few eggs lying loose on the ground ; d, c, show the earth partially removed
to illustrate an egg-mass already in place and one being placed; /, shows
where such a mass has been covered up. (After Riley.)
in the fall, or when they hatch in the spring the young could be crushed by
heavy rollers or burned by scattering straw over the ground and lighting it.^
Locus'tidae. — This family includes crickets, katy-dids, and long-horned
grasshopjiers. Unfortunately, the common name of locust is applied only
to members of the family of Acrididoe, and to the cicada of the order
Hemiptera, but to none of the Locustidoe. The long-horned meadow-green
grasshopper has the delicate antennae longer than the body, the tarsi
four jointed, the ovipositor sword shaped, anfl the tympanum on the
tibia (Fig. 95, p. 123) of the front leg. The males call their mates by
1 Linville-Kelly, p. 15.
2 Kellogg, p. 139.
