142
BRANCH ARTHROPODA
The giant water-bugs (Belostom'idoe) are an example of the largest
Heteropiera or true bugs. They are often seen about electric lights. They
fly from pond to pond and are very rapacious, feeding upon the juices of
young fishes, insects, and tadpoles.
The chinch-bug family {Lygce'idoe) has nearly two hundred species in the
United States. The most destructive is the small but widely distributed
chinch-bug {Blis'sus leucop'terus) (Fig. 112), and though it measures less
than ^ inch in length, it costs the United States $20,0()0,000 annually, for
it is " the worst pest of corn and one of the worst of wheat." There are two
generations of the chinch-bug annually. The adults winter under rubbish,
and in early spring they lay their eggs in fields of grain upon roots or stems
beneath the soil. They hatch in about two weeks, and the little red nymphs
attack the root and then the stalk of the wheat. They mature in about
six or seven weeks, when they are " blackish, with the wings semitransparent
white, and with a conspicuous small triangular black dot near the middle
of their outer margin." At about harvest time they migrate by the
Fig. 112. — The chinch-bug (BH/t^us leucop'terus): a, b, Eggs; c, newly
hatched larva; d, its tarsus; e, larva after first molt; /, same after second
molt; g, pupa — the natural sizes indicated at sides; h, enlarged leg of per-
fect bug; j, tarsus of same still more enlarged; i, proboscis or beak, en-
larged. (Riley.)
millions to fields of growing corn, marching in a body like an approaching
army. When th(> bugs of the first brood have reached maturity, they pair,
at which time only they use the wings, and the second generation is liegun.
The adults of the second generation that survive the winter lay the eggs
for the si)ring brood. It is thought that a third brood sometimes appears
in Kansas.
Their migration from wheat to corn fields may be hindered by plowing
furrows around the fields and pouring crude petroleum or coal-tar into these
moats. If this has not been done, when the bugs collect on the first few
rows of corn they should be sprayed at once with kerosene emulsion.
Predaceous insects, as the aphis-lion and ladybird beetles, and birds hold
them in check. But a parasitic fungus (Sporotri'chum globulif'crum)
will kill the bugs rapidly in moist, warm weath'^r.
The cicadas (Cicod'idcp) are easy of recognition on account of their
large, blunt-headed, robust bodies, the thr(>e ocelli, and their shrill " sing-
ing " during the daytime in the late summer and early fall. The male
does all the talking or singing, if you choose to call it a song, and " his wife
