144 BRANCH ARTHROPODA
nected with a compound booklet. "^ The sucking beak is three jointed
and may or may not be longer than the body. They have prominent com-
pound eyes and usually ocelli. The long antennae are from three to seven
jointed. Many species have on the sixth segment of the abdomen two
tubular processes, long supposed to be the honey tubes, but Kellogg says
" from them issues another secretion, not sweetish, about which little is
known," and that the "honey-dew" so relished by ants (p. 179) "is
now known to be an excretion from the intestine issuing in fine droplets
or even spray from the anal opening." It is sometimes produced in large
quantities, so that the leaves below the plant lice are coated with it and the
walks beneath the trees spotted by it. It is fed upon by bees and wasps
as well as by ants. In addition to the "honey-dew," many species secrete
another fluid, which is excreted as a liquid through "various small open-
ings scattered over the body." This liquid soon hardens into a wax.
The total waxy secretion appears as a mass of felted threads or wool, as in
the wooly apple aphis, and probably serves as a protection for the soft,
defenseless body.
The aphids are remarkably variable as regards their reproduction sexually
or agamically,'- and as regards their possession of wings, so that the life-
history varies not only in different species, but in the same species under
different conditions. The eggs are laid in the fall, and from them hatches,
in early spring, a colony of wmgless individuals which may produce (without
pairing) either living young or eggs. This may continue under favorable
food supply and temperature for a number of generations. Slingerland,
of Cornell University, reared four generations of wingless " agamic "
aphids. At any time, especially if food becomes scarce or other conditions
unfavorable, winged individuals are likely to appear and fly away to other
host plants, where they produce, agamically, new colonies. If temperature
becomes low or other unfavorable conditions occur, these asexual individuals
produce a brood consisting of both males and females. " The males may
be either winged or wingless, but the females are always wingless." These
sexual forms pair and produce one or more large fertilized eggs which lies
dormant over winter and hatches into a wingless " stem-mother " in the
spring, and a series of agamic generations follow. The multiplication of
aphids is so rapid that, were it not for predaceous insects, such as lady-
bird beetles, aphis-lions, and parasitic Hymenop'tera, and for insect-loving
birds (see Birds), they would utterly destroy their host plant and ulti-
mately starve themselves. Professor Forbes made an estimate of the rate
of increase of the " corn-louse," and found that if " all the plant-lice de-
scending from a single ' stem-mother ' were to live and reproduce through-
out (the year we should have coming from the egg the following spring
9,500,000,000,000 young. As each plant-louse measures about 1.4 mm.
in length and 0.93 mm. in width, an easy calculation shows that these
possible descendants of a single female would, if closely placed end to end,
form a procession 7,850,000 miles in length."
Aphids vary greatly in their feeding habits, many feeding upon the
juices of tender leaves, .stems, leaf-buds, or blossom-buds, while others
suck the juices of tender roots in the soil, and sometimes the same species
lives both above and below ground. Above ground they may be fought
by strong solutions of soap, by kerosene emulsion, or by a weak solution of
nicotin. Since they suck the juices of plants they cannot be affected by
poisoning the food. Underground, carbon bisulphid is sometimes used,
' Comstock, 2 Glossary.
