148 BRANCH ARTHROPODA
male has but a single pair of wings and has no organs for procuring food.
The mouth parts disappear during metamorphosis and a second pair of
eyes develops. The adult female is always wingless and the body is always
scale-like or gall-like in form, or grub-like and clothed with wax. Those
of some species retain their eyes, antennae, and legs, while others are fixed
in adult life and very degenerate, lacking eyes, antennae, wings, and legs.
In speaking of the San Jose scale, Kellogg says, ' ' it has a long, fine, flexible
process projecting from near the center of its under side, this is its sucking
proboscis, and serves as a means of attachment as well as an organ of feed-
ing." The San Jose scale is very prolific. It was ascertained at Washington
that there are four regularly developed generations and possibly part of a
fifth in a year. It is estimated that about 200 females (and about the same
number of males) are given birth to by each female. Thus the descendants
of a female amount to 3,216,080,400 individuals. From this it can easily
be seen how destructive to fruit trees this pest soon becomes. It is now
found in every state and territory and in Canada. Many states have
laws to try to prevent its distribution with nursery stock.
Perhaps the most effective remedy is the fumigation of orchard trees by
hydrocyanic gas. To do this the tree is entirely enclosed in a large tent
and the gas generated under it " by pouring about 50 ounces of water into
5 ounces of commercial sulphuric acid and dropping into it 15 ounces of
cyanid of potassium." These amounts are sufficient for a tree 12 feet high
with a spread of 10 feet. The fumes are deadly poison. Of sprays for
leaves and greenhouse plants, crude petroleum and kerosene emulsion are
best. Protection of the birds is one great means of holding these pests in
check. It has been proved by the examination of 226 stomachs that more
than one-fifth of the food of the blackheaded grosbeak {Zamelo'dia melano-
ceph'ala^) consists of scale insects. For the work (Fig. 118) of ladybird
beetles see p. 147.
ORDER VIII. COLEOP'TERA
This order consists of eleven or twelve thousand species in
America, north of Mexico.
The mouth parts of beetles (Fig. 119) consist of the upper
lip or labrum, the jaws or mandibles for seizing the prey or for
gnawing; the complicated many pieced maxillce with usually
prominent maxillary palpi; the lower lip or labium of several
parts, and rather large labial palpi. These mouth parts are
adapted for biting, and are not easy for beginners to identify.
The student should identify these parts on a large beetle with
the help of a good figure (Fig. 119) and a good magnifying
glass.
Compound eyes are present, but usually the simple eyes are
wanting.
The wings are four in number, except in some ground beetles,
which have only the anterior pair. The anterior wings are
1 Plate III, Bulletin 32, U. S. Biological Survey.
