COLEOPTERA
151
Comstock says they remain still until within our sight, but out of reach,
and then " like a flash they fly up and away, alighting several rods ahead
of us," with eyes toward us. The ugly larvse live in vertical burrows
about a foot deep on beaten paths or in the sand. The larva, with its dirt-
colored head which is bent at right angles to its lighter colored body, plugs
the entrance to its burrow, and with its wide-open jaws forms a living
trap for passing insects. On the fifth abdominal segment there is a hump
bearing two hooks curved forward, by which the larva holds fast, thus pre-
venting larg(> prey from dragging it out of its burrow.
The ground beetles (Fig. 122) {Carab'idce) are i)robably the most im-
portant family of predaceous insects, though a few species are vegetable
feeders. They are usually dark colored and nocturnal, but some are large
and brilliantly colored, and the wing covers are generally " ornamented
with longitudinal ridges and rows of punctures." They hide in daytime
under stones and logs. There are about twelve hundred species in North
Fig. 121.— June beetles: 1, Pupa; 2, larva; 3, 4, adult. (Riley, Report of
State Entomologist of Missouri.)
America. The larva; of most of them are long flattened grubs, with body of
uniform breadth throughout, protected on top bv horny plates, ending in a
pair of conical bristly appendages. Usually they biiry themselves just
beneath the surface and feed upon insects which enter the ground to
pupate. They destroy large numbers of leaf-feeding beetles or their
larva;. They pupate in small round cells in the soil, from which the adults
push their way out.
The caterpillar hunter (Caloso')ua scruta'tor) is a familiar example of the
ground beetles (Fig. 122). Its wing covers or elytra are bright green or
violet, margined with reddish. It is found on trees at dusk. It is known to
climb trees and make raids upon the hairy tent caterpillar, hence it is a
friend. Two others {Calmoma friqidum and C. calidum) are hunters of cut-
worms and canker-worms. The latter is sometimes called the fiery hunter,
from the rows of reddish pits on its black elytra.
Another one {Agonod'crus pal'lipes) feeds "upon sprouting corn.
