DIPTERA 153
Plaiypsyl'la casto'ris is the sole representative of the family Platypsyl'lidce.
This queerly shaped beetle lives a parasitic life upon beavers. It is wingless
and blind, and the elytra are rudimentary and short, exposing five abdomi-
nal segments. Its degeneration is due to its parasitic life.
The lady-bugs {Coccinel'lidoe) are interesting little predaceous beetles,
yellow or reddish, with black spots. The cottony cushion-scale {Ice'rya
purchasi), so destructive to California fruits, was subdued by a lady-bug
{Vedd'lia cardind'lis) brought from Australia to feed upon it. The hop
louse is destroyed by the larvae of certain lady-bugs known as " niggers."
The lady-bugs, with few exceptions, are predaceous. One {EpUach'na
borea'lis) is herbivorous. Its larva, which is yellow and clothed with
forked spines, feeds upon the leaves of the squash family.
The little carpet beetle (Anthre'nus scrophula'rice) is a household pest.
Its larva feeds upon carpets, furs, feathers, and woolens.
The fireflies {Lainpyr'ida:) or " lightning-bugs " are not flies, but beetles.
The light giving has never been full}' explained. " The light-giving organ
is usually situated just inside of the ventral wall of the last segments of the
abdomen, and consists of a special mass of adipose tissue richly supplied
with air-tubes (tracheae) and nerves. From a stimulus conveyed by these
special nerves oxygen, brought by the network of tracheae, is released, to
unite with some substance of the adipose tissue, a slow combustion thus
taking place. To this the light is due, and the relation of the intensity or
the amount of light to the amount of matter used up to produce it is the
most nearly perfect known to physicists. "'•
Myrmecoph'ilous Beetles. — There are nearly one thousand species
of beetles w'hich live in the nests of ants. Many of them are commensal
with the ants, deriving perhaps the greater benefit by the association, but
others live truly symbiotically with their hosts.- They secrete a sweet
substance which is eaten by the ants, which in return shelter, clean, and,
by regurgitation, feed them. They are strangely modified for this mode
of life, usually by degeneration.
ORDER IX. DIP'tERA
This order contains about fifty thousand species, of which
about seven thousand are known in America. It includes some
famous flies (Fig. 124).
The mouth parts are adapted for piercing and sucking or for
lapping. Just what constitutes these mouth parts is a contro-
verted question among scientists. Comstock says, "According
to the most generally accepted view the six bristles represent
the upper lip (labrum), the tongue (hypopharynx) , the two
mandibles, and the two maxillae, and the sheath enclosing these
bristles is the lower lip (labium)." Identify these parts on the
head of a big fly with the aid of a large figure and a magnifying
glass.
1 Kellogg, p. 269. 2 Kellogg, p. 553.
