SIPHONAPTERA 161
of winter wheat ; the burning or plowing of stubble ; the early planting of
strips of decoy wheat to attract the egg-laying females to deposit their eggs,
and then to be burned; and the rotation of crops.'
Another common and conspicuous gall-gnat is the pine-cone-willow gall-
gnat, which lays its eggs in the newly formed buds of the willow. The
stem ceases to grow, but the leaves continue, causing the bud to resemble a
pine-cone. In this the larva remains through the summer and winter,
pujjating in early spring, soon after which the adult emerges. There are a
number of others, as the clover-leaf midge, the clover-seed midge, and the
wheat midge, each injurious to its respective crop.
The Syrphus flies {Syr'phida), of which there are twenty-five hundred
species, differ much. Some species in the adult form imitate bees and
wasps (Fig. 132). They can be distinguished by the longitudinal "spu-
rious" vein between veins three and five. Some of the larva? are found in
ants' nests and some in the nests of bumble-bees and wasps. One of the
commonest is the yellow-banded species of the genus Syrphus, whose larvae
do great good by destroying aphids, in whose colonies they live.
The larva? of one of the bee-flies {BombyW idee) are also friends of man.
They destroy many grasshoppers by burrowing into the egg-cases and
devouring the eggs. The adults of these maggot-like larva; are swift,
hairy, and bee-like, mimicking the bee in appearance and feeding habits.
ORDER X. SIPHONAPTERA
The fleas consist of a single family, the Pulic'idce, of nearly
one hundred and fifty species, about fifty of which are found in
the United States. Until recently the fleas were regarded as
degenerate wingless Diptera, but entomologists now place
them in a separate order. They are found usually as temporary
external parasites on the cat, rat, rabbit, dog, poultry, and
man.
The mouth parts are adapted for piercing and sucking.
They are almost wingless, the wings being represented by mere
scaly plates. The bodies are naked, smooth, hard, oval, and
compressed. The metamorphosis is complete (Fig. 133).
The " small, slender, white, footless, worm-like grubs " are
composed of thirteen segments. They seem to live on dry dust
and the organic matter it contains. When grown they usually
spin a silken cocoon and pupate in the dust. In the species
infesting cats and dogs the larval life lasts only al^out a week.
The development from the egg to the adult requires l)ut two
weeks. Fresh pyrethrum dusted al)Out the rugs where dogs
and cats lie, or spraying the rugs with formalin, will help get
rid of fleas.
' .Jackson and Daughterty's " Agriculture through the Laboratory and
School Garden. "
11
