LEPIDOPTERA 163
rudiments. Find those rudiments on a large specimen and
compare with the mouth parts of the grasshopper.
The compound eyes are large and conspicuous.
Some of the Lepitloi)tera have ocelli,^ one on either side above
and near the margin of these compound eyes, but they are usually
hidden by the scales covering the head.
The many jointed antennae are very various in size, shape, and
color.
The thorax bears three pairs of legs and two pairs of wings.
The wings are large, membranous, and covered with overlapping
scales, which are, in reality, modified hairs. These scales
strengthen the wings and give coloration to the species.
The abdo7nen has no paired appendages.
The metamorphosis is complete. The larvae of Lepidoptera
are commonly called caterpillars. They are very destructive,
being almost without exception injurious to vegetation. Com-
stock says, "a very few feed upon plants below the surface of
the water." The species which destroys scale-bugs, also those
attacking woolen cloth, feed upon animal matter. Caterpillars
are usually cylindric. The thorax bears six clawed, jointed,
tapering legs, which develop into the legs of the adult. The ab-
domen bears from two to ten thick, fleshy, non-jointed, contrac-
tile pro-legs (see figure of silkworm, p. 126), which are shed at
the last molt. The pro-legs are usually surrounded at the ex-
tremity by many minute hooks. The mouth parts of caterpil-
lars are formed for biting, hence they can be exterminated by
the arsenical poisons when it is safe to use them.
The Lepidoptera pupate in chrysalids or cocoons. The
adult stage is the familiar winged form. It does no harm except
the occasional puncturing of fruit to get the juice.
Distinctions Between Butterflies and Moths. — The antennae of
butterflies are filiform or thread-like for most of their length, but
the end is thickened into a spindle-shaped enlargement or club.
The antennae of moths are of various forms, usually filiform or
pectinate (feathery), but never clubbed. Butterflies are diurnal,
while the moths are crepuscular or nocturnal. Butterflies
at rest fold the wings together in a vertical position above the
back. Moths spread the wings horizontally, or fold them leaf-
iComstock, p. 199.
