164 BRANCH ARTHROrODA
like, or wrap them about the body, but never hold them in a
vertical position.
The skipper Ijutterflies are diurnal, l)ut, unlike other butter-
flies, the antennae are usually recurved, forming hooks. Their
bodies are more robust than those of other butterflies. They
fold the wings, sometimes only the front ones, vertically when
at rest. The skipper caterpillars are distinguished from other
caterpillars by the unusually large head and the much constricted
neck. Skippers spin thin cocoons of silk in which to pupate.
Authorities enumerate 650 species of butterflies in the United
States east of the Mississi])])i River. Kellogg gives six families of
butterflies and forty-four of moths. Of the thousands of species
with their various and interesting habits only a few can be
mentioned. These should serve to stimulate the student to
observe and study others. See " Laboratory and Field Guide "
for collecting, breeding, and mounting.
The carpenter moths (Cds'sidoe) , of which there are twenty species in North
America, an>, in the larval stage, wood-borers, burrowing about in the heart-
wood of shade and fruit trees. Pepper and salt gray moths, indistinctly or,
in a few cases, conspicuously marked with black and white, lay their eggs
on the bark of trees, where the naked, grub-like larva; burrow into the wood.
Here they tunnel through the wood for two to four years, according to the
species. In this tiuinel the pupal stage is spent. When ready for the adult
stage the pupa works its way, }:)y backward projecting saw-like teeth on the
abdomen, to the opening of the tunnel, from which the moth emerges.
The empty pupa skins may often be found projecting from the deserted
burrows.
The meal moth (Pyr'alis farina'lis), whose larva feeds upon meal, flour,
or old clover-hay, is a common species. It is usually found near the larva
food, but sometimes sits upon the ceiling with its tail curved over its back.
Its expanse of wing is about an inch. The wings are light brown with red-
dish reflections and a few wavy transverse lines. The larva makes long
tubes of silk in the meal. Perhaps the most formidable mill pest is the
Mediterranean flour moth (Ephcs'tia kuehjivi'la) . The caterpillars spin
silken galleries through which they pass, making the flour lumpy and stringy.
The coccid-eating pyralid (LoBtil'ia coccidiv'ora) differs from other
members of its family in being predaceous. It feeds upon the eggs and
young of several scale insects. The larva spins a silken tube or bag, in
which it lives.
The codling moth (Carpocap'sa pomonel'la) (Fig. 134) is one of the best-
known and most cordially hated of moths. It causes an annual loss in the
United States of $10,000,000. The adult is small, with finely mottled, ash-
gray or rosy fore wings. Near the square ends of these wings is a large brown-
ish spot marked with metallic, bronze bands. The hind wings and abdomen
are a lustrous light yellowish brown. This moth lays its eggs singly in the
blossom end of an apple, just when the petals fall. When the larva hatches
