192 BRANCH CHORDATA
is the collar, opening by two spores into the first gill-slit; the re-
mainder constitutes the flattened but nearly cylindric trunk.
There is no segmentation of the body. By alternately contract-
ing and dilating the proboscis and the collar the Balanoglossus
can burrow in the mud.
Gill-slits. — On the dorsal surface of the anterior portion (the
branchial region) of the trunk is a double row of gill-slits which
increase in number throughout life.
Digestive System. — The mouth is situated ventrally at the base
of the prol)oscis just within the collar, and from it the alimentary
canal extends to the posterior extremity of the body. "Into the
dorsal half of the anterior portion of the alimentary canal open
the internal gill openings." The hepatic coeca bulge out in ex-
ternal prominences in the middle part of the canal. The
anal opening is at the posterior end of the body.
The notochord, "a blind tube surrounded by a tough mem-
brane, extends from the pharynx into the proboscis." There are
dorsal and ventral nerve strands connected by nerves in the
collar.
A dorsal blood-vessel lies above the notochord.
The larvae of some species so much reseml)les certain echino-
derms that the Balanoglossus was formerly placed with that
branch.
SUB-PHYLUM AND CLASS II. UROCHOR'DA OR
TUNICATA
This degenerate group is represented by minute animals a few
centimeters long and by some measuring several feet in length.
They are found singly or in string-like colonies which have been
developed from a solitary individual by budding, the two forms
thus giving rise to alternation of generations. Multiplication
is both sexual and asexual. They are hermaphroditic, but cross-
fertilization occurs. They are marine and most of them are
pelagic.
The most common forms, the "sea-squirts" or ascidians (Fig.
155), are surrounded by a tough elastic bag, one end of which is
attached to stones. At the other end is a large round oral
aperture, for the inlet of water carrying food and air, and near it,
