198 BRANCH CHORDATA
generally "rhomboid and arranged like parquetry." They are
covered with a thick coating of vitrodentin which gives an
iridescent effect, and are often closely articulated into a coat of
armor. (3) The cycloid scales are closely related. They are
placed loosely in the pockets and arranged in rows. In over-
lapping, one scale covers parts of two scales posterior to it. The
middle part of the scale is surrounded by concentric lines from
which proceed radiating lines. (4) The ctenoid scales (see Fig.
174) have the posterior edges truncate and the free margin
toothed. The scales are often striated or polished, and this
gives rise to various colors, especially the iridescent gleam on
the sides of the fish.
Color. — The color in general harmonizes with its environment.
Most of the fresh- water fishes are dark colored (olive or greenish)
above and whitish below, so that to the enemies from above,
as fish-eating birds, the form appears indistinct in the water, and
to the enemies below they look white like the light. Many are
variously dotted or striped with lighter or darker colors, thus
simulating the lights and shadows among the weeds and grasses.
The scales reflect all the hues and tints of the rainbow, causing
the fishes to rival the birds in beauty. The males of some species
put on brighter colors at the spawning season. Some species
have the power of changing color at once to meet the surround-
ings, as the pipe-fishes, some sticklebacks, the plaice, and the little
Oligocottus snyderi, of Monterey Bay, California. Many others
change the colors more gradually. Recent experiments upon
fishes in aquaria have shown that if the light be thrown from
below and cut off from above, the upper part grows light colored
and the lower part dark colored. This would seem to show that
the colors are due to the action of light, but while many fishes
in caves are colorless, it is said that those in the black depths
of the ocean may be either pearly white or black ; so the question
is yet unsolved. Many deep-sea forms are phosphorescent.
Some fishes have special protective resemblance, as the leaf-
finned sea-horse, the pipe-fish, and some angler-fishes, the pos-
terior fins of which are bedecked with fringes "that exactly
mimic seaweed." The mouse-fish, or Sargassum, is colored to
harmonize with the gulf weed, Sargassum, among which plants
it lives.
