RHIZOPODA 6
may be contracted, or the whole body protoplasm may flow
along after them, thus producing locomotion as well as constant
change of form.
According to the experiments of Professor H. S. Jennings,
I^articles attached to the ectopla.sm move forward on the upper
surface, disappear over the anterior edge, and, as the proto-
plasm flows along, appear again at the posterior end, to repeat
the circuit, showing that this locomotion is a sort of " rolling
process."
Feeding. — As the ama?ba flows or rolls along, if it comes in
contact with a particle which is unfit for food, it passes by or
over it, but if the particle is fit for food, it flows about and en-
velops it, and forms the so-called food vacuole. As this food
vacuole^ moves along the endoplasm, the digestible part of the
food disappears in digestion, while the indigestible portion is
left l)ehind as the protoplasmic body moves along.
Multiplication in the case of the Ama-ba is by binary division
or fission and by sporulation. This becomes necessary, since
the entire animal is but a single cell, and all the functions for
the whole animal nmst be performed by this one cell. Hence,
it must remain exceedingly small, so the nucleus, as well as the
body substance, divides into two halves, and two individuals
result.
Encysting. — Under unfavorable environment, such as drouth,
the Ama-ha contracts into a tiny si)here, becomes encysted or
encased in a horn-like membrane, and remains in a dormant
condition until favorable environment returns to it, or it is trans-
ported ]:)y the wind or carried by other animals — in the dirt
which has clung to them — to a favorable environment, where
it bursts its cyst and resumes active life.
The Radiola'ria are marine Rhizopoda which have their pseudopodia
arranged like rays. Many of these forms jwssess a sihcious shell or skele-
ton, and myriads of these shells are found in rocks of various geologic
ages. One type reproduces by swarm spores, the original nucleus dividing
into hundreds of daughter-nuclei.
The Foraminif 'era are lihizopoda whose fresh-water forms have chitinous
or silicious co\erings, while the typical members, which are marine, have
calcareous shells, ^^'h(>n the animal dies the shell sinks to the bottom of
the ocean. Such multitudes have existed that vast formations of chalk
or limestone rock have been made by their shells. The stone of the Pyra-
mids is said to be composed of fossil Foraminifera.
