PISCES 199
" The color of fishes is of threefold origin. The silvery luster is due to
crystals of guanin which occur in the skin. The other colors are due
partly to numerous strongly pigmented fat-cells and partly to the chro-
matophores in the derma, which under the control of the nervous system
can alter their forms and extent and thus produce color changes in the
fish, thus adapting it to its surroundings. It is of interest to note that
destruction of the eyes results in loss of power to change color. "^
Locomotion and Appendages. — The appendages of fishes, ex-
cept in rare instances, are the unpaired dorsal, anal, and caudal
fins, and the paired pectoral and ventral fins. "Fishes are
the only vertebrates having median fins supported by fin-rays."
The fin-rays supporting all the fins are of dermal origin. The
locomotion is mainly produced by the flexing of the body and
tail, so as to propel the usually spindle-shaped animal through
the water. The fins aid in directing the movements of the fish,
as does also the air-bladder, which regulates the specific gravity
of the fish.
The skeleton is cartilaginous or bony. The notochord of the
protovertel)rate becomes surrounded by a mesodermic sheath
which produces the centra of the vertebrae, consisting of cartilage
or bone. From the centra are outgrowths dorsally which give
rise to the neural tube, "an inverted tunnel of cartilage" en-
closing the cerebrospinal cavity, and ventral (hemal) outgrowths
protecting the viscera. Thelvertebrse are usually amphicelous,
and the notochord persists in the cavities between the centra.
The neural arches extend throughout the spinal column, while
the hemal are complete only in the tail. In the trunk the
hemal spines are absent and the hemal processes are divided
into basal processes and ribs which surround the viscera. There
is no sternum.
The skull (Fig. 159) encloses the brain which does not fill the
cavity. The lower jaw is movable and usually bears teeth.
Some fishes have many teeth; others, few or none. They have
no other prehensile organs.
The pectoral and ventral fins are homologous with the paired
limbs of the higher vertebrates, ]:)ut lack many of the bones of the
higher forms, as a comparison of the bones of man's arm with
those of the pectoral fins will show.
1 Hertwig's " Manual of Zoology," Kingsley, p. 559.
