206 BRANCH CHORDATA
the mountain streams, while the catfish can Hve in exceedingly
warm water. "Fishes have been found in hot springs of 120° F."
The Protop'terus of Africa and Asia "so completely slimes a ball
of mud around it that it may live thus for more than one season."^
Other fishes bury themselves in the mud and cestivate through
the dry season. The little "mud-ski]ipers" move from pond to
pond by the use of their pectoral fins. Other fishes migrate to
cooler waters as necessity requires. In winter some of the
fishes of our small streams hibernate in the mud, while some,
as the carp, may have the water frozen into ice about them and
live when thawed out.
Development. — The sexes are separate. Multiplication is
by eggs, which are numerous. The cod is said to lay one
million eggs. In the bony fishes the eggs are naked and numer-
ous, and fertilization usually takes place in the water.
In sharks the eggs are few and are protected by a horny shell.
In most sharks and in a few bony fishes the eggs are fertilized
and hatched within the body of the mother fish. Mating takes
place in a few viviparous forms only. Most fishes do not care
for their young "fry," but the sticklel)ack l)uilds a nest and de-
fends it with great courage. There is usually no metamorphosis,
but some ocean species change almost as much as frogs.
SUB-CLASS I. ELASMOBRAN'CHII
The rays and sharks represent the Sela'chii, in which are found
all the living elasmobranchs. They have no operculum (gill-
cover) and no air-bladder. The skeleton is cartilaginous. The
mouth and nostrils are ventral and the tail heterocercal.^
The scales are small. "The cloaca is the common outlet for the
rectum, renal and reproductive ducts." Some are viviparous,
others lay a few eggs, each enclosed in a chitinous case.
Sharks vary in length from 2 to 60 feet, the majority being
under 8 feet in length. Some are large and voracious, a few
dangerous even to man. Hornaday says the only loss of life
from sharks on our coast occurred in 1830. They feed mostly
upon fishes.
The rays (Rai'idoe) have the body disk shaped, broad, and flat,
1 Baskett. ^ Glossary.
