4 BRANCH PROTOZOA
It is said that in the bodies of some Radiolaria are found unicellular
Algae, or microscopic plants, which furnish, even in this low stage of life,
an example of symbiosis, or the living together of different kinds of organisms
for mutual benefit.
CLASS n. MASTIGOPHORA
The Eugle'na is a representative of the second class of Pro-
tozoans (Mastigoph'ora). It has a more fixed arrangement
of parts than the Amoeba. The cell is surrounded by a delicate
membrane perforated at the blunt anterior end by a funnel-
shaped mouth through which the food passes into the body sub-
stance. From the base of this mouth the protoplasm extends
out in a long flagellum which, by its lashing, propels the body
forward, and produces currents of water which bear food into
the mouth. Back of the mouth is a tiny pigment spot beside a
clear space which is sensitive to light.
CLASS III. SPOROZOA
This class consists of parasitic protozoans. The Gregari'na
is parasitic in the intestines, reproductive organs, or, rarely, in
the body cavity of invertebrates, such as crayfish, insects, and
worms. It absorbs liquid food from its host and has no mouth
nor pseudopodia. One or two individuals become encysted and
then break up into a number of minute portions called spores.
The Haemosporid'ia are sporozoans which live in the blood-corpuscles of
vertebrates. In man they are the germs which produce malaria. The
malaria-producing protozoans spend part of their life in man and part in a
certain genus of mosquito Anoph'eles). When this mosquito sucks the
blood of a malarial patient the germs are taken into the stomach of the
mosquito. " After fertilization the oosphere wanders into the intestinal
wall of the mosquito, grows larger, encysts, and produces many sporo-
blasts, which in time form many sporozoites." These pass out with the
saliva of the female Anoph'eles as it " bites " another person, and thus the
germs of malaria are transferred to his blood, where, under proper condi-
tions, they multiply rapidly, and fever results. It is evident that the bite
of this mosquito does not cause malaria unless the mosquito is itself in-
fected with the germs.
Yellow fever is believed to be caused by another sporozoan carried by a
different genus of mosquito (Stegomy'ia).
