212 BRANCH CHORDATA
present. The swim-bladder is usually present, but its duct is
often closed. Eyes are usually conspicuous and without lids.
Reproduction is by eggs. They are small and numerous,
and are fertilized in the water by the milt deposited by
the male at the same time. This accounts for the enormous
schools of some fishes in certain places at the breeding season
each year. They sometimes go thousands of miles to reach these
spawning places. The salmon come from the salt water up
into the rivers to deposit their eggs, which are about the size
of peas, in depressions or nests. When very small the young
salmon are banded and called parr, and later become silvery
smolt. The perches form nests or hollows in the ground near
the shore. In a form allied to the perch both male and
female form these depressions and guard the eggs. The male
Chromis of Lake Tiberias carries the eggs and young in its
mouth. The stickleback (see Fig. 163), a small fresh-water
fish, builds a nest and the male cares for the young. The
male Loph'ohranch carries the eggs in a ventral pouch, forcing
the young out by pressing the pouch against a stone. An
Indian ocean form carries the eggs in a pouch formed by the
ventral fins of the mother.
Sub-order Physos'tomi includes the catfishes, buffalo, carp,
salmon, trout, herring, eels, etc.
The catfishes (Silu'ridne) are devoid of scales. The majority live in
fresh water. The head is fiat and the wide mouth is provided with long
thread-like feelers or barbels. They have, for a weapon of defense, a strong
stiff spine for the first ray of dorsal and pectoral fins. They are sluggish
and abound in the muddy streams of the Mississippi Valley. The flesh is
quite free from bones and is much used for food. Some catfishes weigh
150 pounds.
The common catfish guards its young. The South American catfish
carries its eggs and young in its mouth. Other South American species
build nests of leaves in which they place their young. An electric catfish
inhabits the Nile, and blind catfishes live in subterranean streams of Penn-
sylvania.
Carps, buflFalo fishes, and suckers have a naked head and usually scaly
body. The flesh is bony and not of much food value, yet quite largely used
because inexpensive on account of the immense number seined. They have
a toothless sucking mouth and are vegetable feeders, hence the intestine
is long. The air-bladder consists of two or three finks. . . . The
shiners, minnows, and dace (Fig. 175) belong to this group. The black-
nosed dace (Rh'inich'thys atronasus) is a nest builder. Both male and
female form a depression in which the eggs are deposited. Both parents
