INFUSORIA 7
cause response or reaction in living protoplasm are called
stimuli. The principal stimuli^ may be classed as chemical
stimuli, differences in temperature, light, contact, electricity,
and gravity. Protozoans possess: (1) Irritability, that property
of living ]5rotoplasm which gives it power to respond to stimuli;
(2) automatism, the power of movement, or of changing the form.
Locomotion. — Protozoans move by means of pseudopodia,
cilia, or flagella. Some forms, as the VorticeVla, are fixed, and
can move only ])y the contractility of their stalks or stems.
Nutrition. — The food of protozoans is composed of whatever
minute organisms or fragments of organic matter they are
able to obtain in the water. The parasitic forms, of course,
simply al)sorb nutriment from the liciuids of the host. The jiroc-
ess of nutrition in the simplest protozoan consists in wra])i)ing
or, more correctly, flov/ing itself about the particle of food,
absorl)ing the nutriment needed, and rejecting what it cannot
use. Thus we see that it has the power of selective absor})tion,
or digestion.
Circulation is brought about by simply changing the form of
the body mass, thus changing the position of the absorbed
nutrim(>nt in the one-celled body.
Assimilation, or the making of this absorbed material into
its own Ijody substance, next takes place, and, as a consequence,
growth. The using up of assimilated material for heat or
motion (energy), or metabolism, also takes place.
Respiration, or the taking in of oxygen and the giving ofT
of carbonic acid gas and other wastes, is effected by the absorp-
^ Tho reactions (orientation) of animals in response to these various
stimuli are called tropisms; the response to chemical stimuli is called
chemolropism ; to heat, thermotro-pism ; to light, phototropism ; to contact,
thigmotropism ; to electricity, elcctrotropism ; to gravity, gtotropism, and so
on. Loeb and others claim that the movements of the lower forms and
many of those of the higher forms are purely physical and chemical reac-
tions, just exactlj' as those known to us in the inorganic world. H. S.
Jennings, who is another very careful investigator, asserts that his inves-
tigations show " that in these creatures their behavior is not, as a rule, on
the tropism plan — a set, forced method of reacting to each particular agent
— but takes i)lace in a much more flexible, less directly, machine-like way
by the method of trial and error. . . . This method leads upward, offer-
ing at every point opportunity for development, and showing even in the
unicellular organisms what must be considered the beginnings of intelli-
gence and of many other qualities found in higher animals."
