AMPHIBIA 225
knowledge of danger. Romanes records an instance of a pet
frog which would come when his name, "Tommy," was called,
no matter at what time of day, though fed only at morning, and
another instance of a toad kept as a pet for thirty-six years,
which knew all of his friends. In either case, the knowledge
might have been gained, at least in part, by sight.
The eye has no lids in the lower forms, and is degenerate in
the Pro'teus, which lives in caves (see Fig. 189), and in some
Gymnophi'ona. Most of the Anura have an upper lid, but no
lower one. There are no tears. The "flying tree-toad" has
large owl-like eyes (see Fig. 195), so that it can see as far as it
leaps. Frogs are able to project the eyes upward to give greater
range of vision. When the mouth is inflated the eyes are pushed
forward, since there is no partition between the eyes and mouth.
It is well known by boys that frogs recognize bright colors, and
it has been proved by experiment that they can distinguish red
from white.
Development. — The eggs of Anura, which consist of the
yolk enclosed in a mass of jelly-like matter, are not surrounded
by a shell. They are usualy dejiosited in masses (frogs) or in
strings (toads), and then left to hatch by the heat of the sun.
The little tadpole has a small sucking mouth and a slender active
tail. The branched gills soon grow out on the sides of the neck,
but are later replaced by internal gills, when the water passes
in through an opening on each side of the neck. The tail is
gradually absorbed, the legs develop, the holes on the sides of the
neck close, and the limbs develop underneath the skin, the hind
legs coming out first in the frog forms, but in all others it is the
fore limb that first shows.^ Meanwhile "the tadpole ceases to
feed, the whole intestinal canal is voided of its contents, and, by
histolysis, is entirely rebuilt, becoming wider and shrinking
to about one-sixth of its original length, undoing thereby the
spiral, preparatory for the coarser food, which consists of in-
sects, worms, "2 and any live animals it can capture.
Care of the Young. — Usually the parents take no care of the
young, but there are some interesting exceptions. The little
South American frog {Rhinoder'ma dar'wini) carries the eggs in
' Baskett, " Story of the Amphibians and Reptiles," p. 34.
^ Gadow, p. 61.
15
