AMPHIBIA 227
nervous system.^ The Indians of Columl^a, it is said, use the
secretion of Dendrob'ates lincto'rius for poisoning arrows to shoot
monkeys. That this secretion protects these amphiljians from
their enemies (the "glass snake" is an exception) is evident from
the fact that "a dog that has once been induced to bite a toad
suffers so severely that it will not repeat the experiment." The
handling of the tree-frogs irritates both nose and eyes. Many
of the most poisonous amphibians (as Salaman'dra rriaculo'sa,
Bom'binator, and Dendrob'ates) are conspicuously marked with
yellow and black. The horned frog of South America, which
fights and poisons its antagonist, is brilliant in green and gold.
Many assume a threatening attitude. " Toads normally have
the sections of the breast-bones overlapping, so that they can
swell themselves enormously when angry. "^
Ec'dysis. — All amphibians shed the epidermis. The first
ecdysis occurs at the time the metamorphosis is completed,
preparatory to terrestrial life. The Anu'ra roll up the cast-off
skin and swallow it. The Urode'la also eat it. The skin of the
Anura generally splits down the back, but that of the Urodela
breaks loose around the mouth, and the animal slips out, turn-
ing its hide wrong side out. So long as growth continues, the
skin must be shed often, as this outside layer will not "give"
to make room for growth. The adult Urodela do not molt
often, but usually at the breeding season, when they go to the
water to deposit their eggs. The Anura molt frequently, at
least every few months, probably to keep the skin moist.
Voice, — Most of the Anura and some of the Urodela have a
voice produced by the larynx, which is often provided with a
complicated cartilaginous and muscular apparatus and with
vocal cords. The female of the Anura is mute or utters only a
grunt. The sound made by the male is called a croak. The
voice of Urodela is a feeble squeak. The song of frogs and toads
is usually of the nature of a serenade to its would-be mate, for
they do not, as a rule, cry out in fright nor in rage. A notable
exception is that of the vicious horned frog of South America,
which is said to defy its foes with a sort of l)ark, but which has a
clear bell-like tone for its friends. Our common green frog is
' Gadow, " Amphibia and Reptiles," p. 38.
2 Baskett, p. 29.
