228 BRANCH CHORDATA
also an exception. That cloudy or damp weather has some
effect in making certain species, as the tree-frogs, sing, is per-
haps explained by the fact that the skin of amphibians is used as
a breathing organ as well as for a body covering, and it must be
kept moist to be serviceable.
Influence of Temperature. — Amphibians living in the water
assume its temperature, which varies much from noon to mid-
night, and from the stream in open sunshine to the cool, shady
spring. According to Gadow, "most Anura die when their tem-
perature rises to 40° C," but those outside of water in open air
endure greater heat than aquatic ones, since the evaporation of
the moisture from their skin lowers their temperature. Most
of them, and especially the drier skinned toads, seek the cool
shade or even estivate during the hottest part of the summer.
Many of them, unless they are used to tropical climates, can en-
dure a very great amount of cold, their temperature sometimes
falling to the freezing-point during hibernation. Our spotted sal-
amander, in a jar of water out-doors, was forgotten one severely
cold night, when the water about it froze solid. It was put into
a cool room and allowed to thaw gradually as the weather moder-
ated, after which the salamander seemed to be as active as ever.
Of course, the animal was not sawed into parts to find out if
it was frozen solid, but it surely looked solid enough. It does not
seem possible that the heart was absolutely frozen, for the heart
"must not itself be frozen if the animal is to have a chance of
recovery. "1
CLASSIFICATION OF AMPHIBIA
Order I. Stegoceph'ala. — This is an extinct order of amphibians,
described by Scott as animals, which have a skull "well covered
with a roof of sculptured bones and which are of moderate or
small size, not exceeding 7 or 8 feet in length and mostly much
smaller. The backbone is not ossified, the limbs are weak, the
tail short and broad, and in many forms the belly is protected
by an armor of bony scutes. "^ Most of them were like sal-
amanders in shape, but some were long and snake-like.
Order II. Ap'oda or Gymnophi'ona. — This group comprises
one family of limbless, tailless, vermiform, subterranean am-
1 Gadow, p. 68.
^ Scott, " Introduction to Geology," p. 427.
