CLASSIFICATION OF AMPHIBIA 231
The water-dog or mud-puppy (Fig. 188) (Nectu'rus mdcula'luH) is a rather
common, elumsy form found in the Mississippi Valley and the region of the
Great Lakes and east to the Alleghenies. They are nocturnal, but vora-
cious, feeding on insects, worms, small fish, and crustaceans. Those in
our laboratory were 1.5 inches long with dark brown spots.
The blind I'ru'teus atigui'mis of Europe (Fig. 189) belongs to this family.
It is white and lives in total darkness in a temperature of about 50° F. If
brought to the light the skin will ultimately change to a dark color.
There is a similar specues {T ij phlomol' gc rath'huni) in Texas.
Family Amphi'umidae. — Tliese animals are without gills in the adult
stage. They have teeth in both jaws. They have four small, weak
limbs.
Th(> hellbender {('njplohnin'chns (illcghanien'sis) is a stout-bodied, four-
footed, ugly, l)ut harmless amphibian, which is sometimes 2 feet in length.
It is brown or gray above and lighter below. It feeds on worms, crayfish,
fish, and such other creatures as it can obtain in its aciuatic habilat. It is
restricted in its distribution to the streams of the mountainous regions of
the eastern United States.
Fig. 190. — Congo snake {Amphiu'ma mc'an.^). (From Holder's " Elements
of Zoology," American Book Co., Publishers.)
The giant salamander of Japan (C. japon'icus) reaches a length of 4 to
5 feet. It lives in small streams and mountain meadows of Jajian and
China, from 600 to 4.100 feet above sea-level. Sasaki n>port:S that it lives
singly, lying concealed und(;r rocks, in swift, thickly shaded, small, clear,
cold streams. It feeds on animals which it can capture in the water and
may be caught with a fish-hook. It is used for food by the Jai)anese.
The "Congo snake" (Amphiu'ma me'ans) (Fig. 190) is eel-like, with
four weak limbs, ha\ing two or three toes each. Its general color is black,
with lighter under parts. It attains a length of 3 feet. It lives in the
swamps and rice fields of the southeastern United States. It feeds on
crayfish, mollusks, and fishers. It is quite harmless.
Y'AimXy Sahnmut'ilridd, or salamanders and newts, are our most common
Urodela. iVll are harmless, and are generally but erroneously called
lizards. They have no jiersisl-ent gills. They have two pairs of weak
limbs. Nearly all have movable eyelids and teeth in both jaws. There
are twelve or fifteen species in the United States.
