236 BRANCH CHORDATA
the evening, feeding on insects. Gadow mentions a tree-frog which Hved
twenty-one years.
Family Ran'idae. — Frogs {RaninxjE) have teeth in the upper jaw. The
toes, four to five, are more or less webbed. The tongue is like the toad's.
Our largest species is the bullfrog {Ra'na caleshia' na) , which measures
from 5 to 8 inches. It is known by its tleep bass voice. It has two
large internal vocal sacs. Its toes are broadly webbed. In color it is
varying shades of green above, with faint dark spots, the head is bright
green, the legs blotched. The tympanum is large. Its hind limbs are
much prized for food. Bullfrogs are solitary except in the breeding season,
when hundreds collect in the same small pond. They are commonly found
sitting half immerseii in water, or waiting for their prey u])on the banks
of a pond. ^Fhe liuUfrog is voracious, devouring mollusks, fishes, and frogs,
as well as ducklings and young water fowls. It is eaten by fishes, birds,
otters, snakes, and alligators.
The green frog (K. datnala) is a brownish-green color, brighter in front,
with irregular small black spots, and blotched limbs. Below, the color is
yellowish white. The tympanum is large. It is common in the eastern
United States. The vocal sacs are small and internal.
Wallace describes a species of Rauida: which was brought to him in
Borneo. The body was about 4 inches in length and the webs of both fore
and hintl feet were enlarged and used as parachutes by these " flying frogs"
(Fig. 195j.
Classification. —
Order. Examples.
I. Stegoceph'al'ia. Extinct forms.
II. Ap'oda or Gymnophi'ona. Coeciliidae.
III. Urode'la or Cauda'ta. Necturus, Salamanders.
IV. Anu'ra or Ecauda'ta. Frogs, Toads.
CLASS IV. REPTILIA
This class of Chordates consists of snakes, lizards, turtles,
crocodiles, and alligators, together with a num])er of extinct
orders.
Reptiles are scaly. They are aquatic or terrestrial; a few
are arboreal. There is one occijiital condyle, and the lower jaw
is united to the base of the skull ])y a quadrate bone.
The limbs are four, two (the Python and some kindred forms
have the vestiges of the hind limits only), or none, as in the
"glass snake" and our common snakes.
Reptiles are poikilothermal. The heart has one ventricle
and two auricles, except in order Cro'codilia, where the heart has
two auricles and two ventricles.
