8 BRANCH PROTOZOA
tion of the one and the throwing off of the other through the
surface.
Excretion takes place through the surface or through the
contractile vacuole, there being a definite point at which the
waste is ejected in the more advanced forms, such as the
Paramoecium and the Vorticella.
Multiplication. — While these life processes are going on, the
animal grows or increases in size. This size must necessarily
be very limited, for only small animals could live in this primi-
tive way; hence, when the protozoan has reached a sufficient
size, it divides into two complete halves, each half containing
its share of the original cell-nucleus, as well as of the cytoplasm
or protoplasmic cell body. This cell division, or the multiplica-
tion of individuals, is called fission. After simple fission has
taken place for many generations the fusion of two individuals,
or conjugation, in which the nucleus of one individual is broken
up and fused with that of the other, occurs. After this fusion,
the process of fission continues, in which each new individual now
contains a portion of the two parent nuclei which were fused
in conjugation, instead of one parent nucleus as before con-
jugation. This surely contains a suggestion of sexual mul-
tiplication, though the conjugating cells may appear exactly
alike. However, instances are given in which the individuals
differ in size, the " males " being smaller and more mobile.
Also we see, not exactly " alternation of generations," but, at
any rate, alternation of methods of reproduction.
Animal Mind.^ — Of the mental life of the protozoan little is
known. If the rudiments of future complex animals is fore-
shadowed in the protozoan, why may we not recognize the fact
that here, too, is found the merest suggestion of the mental life
as well?
It has been abundantly demonstrated that protozoans possess
irritability and contractility. It has been shown that they are
sensitive to touch or contact, and, indeed, can discriminate
between a hard substance and a softer substance suitable for
food, as well as to recognize their kind by contact.
1 Mind is here used in the biologic sense, and is the "sum total of all
psychic changes, actions, and reactions." — Jordan and Kellogg's " Evolu-
tion and Animal Life," p. 448.
