240 BRANCH CHORDATA
or subterranean, while still others are arboreal in their habits and
habitat.
The color of snakes is usually brownish or green, which affords
a good protective resemblance to the ground or grass upon which
they creep.
The skin is scaly. The horny epidermis is shed from one to
several times yearly, the whole outer skin, from lips to tail, being
turned wrong-side out, even to the transparent covering of the
eyes. The first molting takes place "within forty-eight hours
after birth" before the young snake begins to feed. In the
rattlesnake, at each time the skin is shed, "there is left a ridge
or rim of it at the tail, which forms the rattle."
Food. — Since there are no limbs for prehension, snakes must
depend upon the mouth to secure the prey, which is swallowed
whole. The constrictors, like our common blue racer and the
boa constrictor, wind their bodies about their victims and
literally squeeze them to death. The teeth point toward the
throat, thus preventing the escape of the prey from the mouth.
The snake has also a distensible lower jaw, enabling it to swal-
low an animal as large or larger than the diameter of the snake's
own body. The ])ones anfl palatal aii])aratus are united by
ligaments only, thus allowing them to spread apart in the
process of swallowing. An abundant supply of saliva (which
appears first in reptiles) renders swallowing the more easy.
Snakes are carnivorous, feeding upon mice, birds, frogs, and
insects. Poisonous snakes should be killed, of course, but the
non-poisonous ones are quite useful in the fields in destroying
vegetable-feeding animals, especially rodents and insects.
Respiration is mainly by one lung, the other one being
rudimentary. The trachea may be slightly protruded between
the halves of the lower jaw during the process of swallowing, to
prevent suffocation.
Senses and Intelligence. — The eyes are not movable nor have
they a movable eyelid, hence their glassy stare. The lacrimal
fluid passes internally into the nasal cavities. No external ear
is visible, though the hearing is good. The sense of smell is
well developed, some snakes being greatly aided by it in their
search for prey. The tongue, which is slender, forked, and
sheathed, is protractile, moist, and very sensitive to touch.
