OPHIDIA 241
Snakes, while showing considerable intelligence, are seldom
much attached to their keepers, being more often reticent and
surly.
Multiplication. — The eggs of snakes are not hard shelled,
but are covered with a tough membrane. Generally the snake
loosely buries the eggs or deposits them half-hidden in cracks
and crevices. Many snakes are ovoviviparous.' The young
are precocial. Male snakes are smaller than the females.
As in reptiles generally, the numl)er of young at a litter is
large, but the number varies with the species. That of the
poisonous snakes is said to seldom exceed fifteen, except those
of some of the tropical ones. Ditmars mentions a boa con-
strictor in captivity which " gave l)irth to sixty-four fully devel-
oped young, while a huge python deposited seventy-nine eggs,
which she gathered in her coils and guarded jealously" until
hatched. During this period of incubation the body tempera-
ture is raised. Our little garter snake has a litter of about
thirty-five, while that of the common water snake has been
known to number sixty. The copperhead has about eight or
nine young.
The length of life may be said to be considerably shorter than
that of the chelonians and crocodilians, as growth is more
rapid. Adult snakes received in the Zoological Garden, New
York, says Ditmars, have been kept for ten years without show-
ing signs of age, and pythons even fifteen years. The snakes
of this latitude hibernate in caves and dens or in deep crevices
between the rocks. In the tropical regions some species esti-
vate in summer.
Defense. — Besides their protective coloration, snakes are
further provided with several means of defense. Some are
protected from their enemies by a characteristic odor, while
others have the deadly poison fangs. Another, and by far the
most common means, is by noiseless flight. A few species
burrow or slip into holes to escape, while the boa constrictors
squeeze their enemies to death. Most snakes will not attack
man if unmolested, and they are generally as much frightened
as the person is. They charm birds, probably by paralyzing
them with fear, until they can creep up to and catch them.
1 See Glossary.
16
