LACEKTILIA 247
leaves and in the sand under bushes. This species lays eggs, though some
of its family are viviparous. It hides its eggs under moss and leaves and
the young mature very slowly, taking several years to reach maturity.
The American Chameleon and its Relatives. — Our very interesting lit-
tle lizard {An'uUs) (Fig. 202 j of Florida and the Carolinas is commonly
called a "chameleon," but the real chameleon is a native of Africa. The
" green chameleon " (Anolis) has the power of suddenly and voluntarily
changing its color to adapt itself to its environment. Experiments upon
this animal in our laboratory proved that it changes color more rapidly
when placed upon objects with natural colors than it does upon artificially
colored ones. It is arboreal and insectivorous. The males have " large
gular sacs which can be distended by the hyoid bones." These sacs are
white, with occasional red lines and spots, but when inflated they become
crimson. The AjioUs is .5 or 6 inches long.
Another member of this family is our little Swift, common in the forests
and fence corners of the United States as far north as Michigan. It delights
to lie basking in the sun, but disappears quickly when disturbed.
Fig. 20.3. — The " horned toad" {Phrynos.o'ma hlainvillei) . The spiny cov-
ering repels many enemies. (From Jordan and Kellogg, " Animal Life,"
D. Appleton and Co., Publishers.)
Another member is the very interesting little lizard called the "homed
toad" (Fig. 203), Phrynoso'ma, found in the dry regions of the Southwestern
States. The body is oval in form, rather flat and broad, with a short conical
tail. It is covered with irregularly shaped keeled or spiny scales, the head
being " bordered posteriorly with osseous spines." The small eyes are each
protected by a ridge running backward above them. The ventral side of
the author's pet " horned toad," a specimen from southeast Kansas, is
yellowish in color, with a number of brown spots dotted over it. The scales
are small and regular. The general color of the animal, dorsally, is grayish
or yellowish brown, affording, together with its irregular and roughened sur-
face, an excellent protective resemblance to the sand in the desert regions,
in which it likes to sink until the sjMnes of the head alone stick out. Thus
some species, at any rate, lie concealed through the night and on cloudy
days. They are liveliest in the middle of the day and delight in t he hot suii.
When alarmed they shut \\w\r eyes and lie flat on the sand. Their food
is insects, which they cat ch as toads do with their tongues, which are smooth,
short, and scarcely at all notched, and can be thrust out a short distance
