248 BRANCH CHORDATA
only, perhaps not over A inch. " Horned toads " will endure long fasts.
They hibernate in winter. All species are viviparous and the young at
one litter number seven or eight.
Another Iguana (tuberculata) , of South and Central America and the
West Indies, is sometimes 5 or 6 feet long and weighs nearly 30 pounds.
It spends much of its time in trees, but when alarmed plunges into the
water below it. It lays about two dozen eggs in a hole in the side of the
bank. The flesh of these animals is much prizcfl for food by the natives.
The Monitors. — The one genus {Var'anus} of this family {Varan'idce)
consists of about thirty species. They are found in Africa, but not in
Madagascar, in Australia, and in Southern Asia. They have long forked
extensible tongues. They are large, attaining the length of 4 or 5, or even
6 feet. Some are found in desert or dry regions, while others are semi-
aquatic. The natives of .some regions use the flesh of the monitors for
food. The monitors are rapacious, devouring any animals which they
can get. The monitor of the Nile is a great enemy of the crocodile, de-
vouring great numbers of its
Library Work, — See Gadow or other large works on reptiles
for an extended description of Lacertilia of the tropical regions.
The " Flying Dragon " and other interesting forms are well
worth your study. Baskett and Ditmar's " Story of Am]:)hib-
ians and Reptiles " relates many interesting facts in a simple,
yet instructive manner, also, Hornaday's " American Natural
History." Do not fail to read the larger works. Get beyond
mere text-book study of these wonderful forms in this and other
lands. Broaden your own horizon.
ORDER IV. CHELONIA
Turtles vary in size from a few inches in length to 6 or more
feet in some marine forms. The turtles of to-day are small as
compared with some extinct forms. They vary in weight from
a few ounces to over 1000 pounds. There are marine, fresh-
water, and land forms, while the " gophers " of the South bur-
row in the ground.
Skeleton. — Turtles are easily recognized by their shell or
exoskeleton. The dorsal portion of the shell is called the cara-
pace, and the ventral portion the plastron. The covering of this
shell consists of horny epidermal plates. These are thin, and
when pulled off reveal the bony shields beneath.
The hony carapace (Figs. 204, 205) is composed of the spines of
the dorsal vertebrae, flattened, the ribs broadened out and joined
to each other by sutures, also to the outer marginal row of
