CHELONIA 251
while others are omnivorous. Predacious species probably
lie in wait for their prey.
The respiration is unique. The larji;e spongy lungs reach to
the pelvis. In breathing the neck and limbs act like pistons in
being drawn in and out. The throat is alternately inflated and
emptied by the hyoidean apparatus when the neck is stretched
out, thus the air is swallowed or pumped into the lungs. Since
the lungs are so roomy and the animals poikilothermal, most
turtles can live for a long time without breathing, sometimes
remaining under water for hours or even days.
Special Senses. — Their eyes, though comparatively small,
are their most highly developed sense organ. They are situ-
ated far forward on the head and protected by two lids and a
nictitating membrane. The nostrils are terminal; thus by ex-
posing a minimum portion of the head above water they are
able to breathe and see what is going on about them, compara-
tively free from danger. The sense of smell is well developed,
many species showing a choice of certain kinds of food which
they distinguish by smell. The sense of hearing is not well
developed. That they distinguish sounds is evident from
their voice, which Gadow declares is very tiny and piping during
the pairing season. Some species, at least, snap their jaws
together when angry, and when the head and limbs are with-
drawn they make a hissing sound. Holder says the male
" elephant turtle " of the Galapagos Islands " utters a hoarse
croak or bellow during the breeding season." They are fright-
ened by noise. The tympanic membrane in most water forms
is thin and quite exposed. In land tortoises it is often thick and
covered with the skin. Turtles, contrary to the notion of small
boys, are very sensitive to the touch, both upon the shell and
ui)on the soft parts.
Multiplication. — Turtles lay their eggs at night in the sand,
cover them carefully, and leave them for the heat of the sun-
warmed sand to hatch.
The young are like the adult in general, but differ somewhat
in color.
Enemies and Defense. — They are preyed upon by carnivo-
rous l)irds, fishes, alligators, and by men. They defend them-
selves by closing up their shell, as the box turtle; by snapping
