252 BRANCH CHORDATA
and scratching, as the snapping turtle; by swimming away or
by hiding in the mud, and thus escaping by the protective
resemblance. They hibernate in winter in this latitude.
The leathery shelled sea-turtle (Sphar'gis coriacea) is the largest of all
recent turtles. It is from 6 to S feet long, and of a dark brown color, and
may weigh 500 pounds or more. It is widely distributed in the tropical
seas, but it is abundant nowhere. The dorsal and ventral portions of the
weak bony shell are continuous. It is buried under a layer of fat which
yields " about a j)int of oil to each square foot."' The sea-turtles have
long flat triangular flippers without toes or claws. The front flippers are
long. Its flesh is not edible.
Hard-shelled Sea-turtles (Cheloti'idce). — In this group is found the green
turtle, one of the most widely distributed of the Atlantic turtles. It is
found from Long Island to Cuba and south to Brazil and also in the
Indian Ocean. Its flesh is prized for food. It varies in weight from 50 to
500 pounds.
The tortoise-shell turtle, from which is obtained the valuable tortoise
shell, has its upper jaw terminated in a strongly hooked beak. Until the
animal is very old the shields overlap one another from before backward.
The scales are clear yellowish horn beautifully mottled with black and
brown. These turtles do not reach the size of the green turtle; the largest
one on record, says Gadow, is 34 inches long. They range over all the
tropical and subtropical seas, being found occasionally around the Bahama
Islands.
The soft-shelled turtles {Trioynjch'ida') are of wide distribution both in
time and space. The shell is very flat and almost circular. It is imper-
fectly ossified both above and below, and terminates at the edges in thin
plates of leathery skin. When properly cooked the shell is tasty.- These
turtles are brown, mottled with black above and clear white below, and
weigh from 20 t(j 30 pounds.
The Snapping Terrapins (Cheli/d'ridcp). — This family includes the alli-
gator snapper, the largest North American terrapin of the Gulf States, and
our common " snapping turtle " found everywhere in fresh-water ponds
and streams. The snapping terrapin has very powerful strongly hooked
jaws, a long tail with a crest of bony compressed tubercles, and a small
cross-shaped plastron. It seldom leaves the water. It is carnivorous, very
voracious, and savage. It is destructive to fishes and water birds.
The Smooth-shelled Terrapins {Emyd'idre). — The diamond-back terra-
pin is found (or was until so much hunted for food) in salt marshes from
New York to Teaxs. It varies in color from greenish to dark olive or black
(rarely). It is small, one weighing a povind is considered large. It is
regarded as the choicest variety for a terrapin stew. It is said that there
are several " terrapin farms " in the South in which this turtle is being
reared for the market. Unless some such provision is made they will soon
be exterminated.
The painted terrapin (Chry'semys pic'ta) is common in most regions east
of the Mississi])i)i. The shell is much depressed. The plates of the cara-
pace in Chryscniys picta are greenish black edged with yellow, those .about
' Hornaday, p. 331.
2 Ibid.
