256 BRANCH CHORDATA
of these being the " salt-water crocodile " of the Malay Peninsula. The
American crocodile and the alligator are not dangerous to man.
" The Florida crocodile is the only crocodile which inhabits a country
that is visited by killing frosts."^ It is most abundant in low wet lands and
shallow water, where the mainland sinks into the gulf. There is a Cuban
crocodile and two South American species.
Distribution of Reptiles. — The animals of this class are
generally tropical and sul)tropical. Snakes are said to extend
farther north in America than do lizards. In Europe snakes are
not found north of 60°, while lizards are sometimes found farther
north or at an elevation of ten thousand feet.
Lizards are the most numerous of reptiles at the present time,
and are found in all except the circumpolar regions.
Chelonia are also widely distributed in the tropical and tem-
perate regions.
The alligators occur only in North America and in China, and
the Caimans are found only in Central and South America.
Crocodiles are distributed over Africa, southern Asia, northern
Australia, and tropical America, there being one species in
Florida.
True reptiles are known to have existed in the Permian Pe-
riod. Indeed, there was such a "variegated reptilian fauna" that
it is believed their ancestors must have lived in the Carboniferous
Period. One of the Permian orders (Theromor'pha) exhibits cer-
tain strong points of resemblance to the earliest amphibians and
other points of resemblance to the lower animals. They have
been found in rocks of the Permian and Triassic Periods, but in
none of the more recent formations. These fossils have been
found in Texas, South America, Europe, Africa, and India.
Lizard-like forms (Sauroptery'gia) existed in the Cretaceous
and Triassic and possibly in the Permian periods. They varied
from small forms up to those of 40 feet in length. A fish-like
form {I chthyoptery' gia) , varying from 30 to 40 feet in length, ex-
isted from the upper Triassic to the upper Cretaceous periods.
In the Triassic were also forms allied to the crocodile.
One of the most characteristic of the Mesozoic orders of
reptiles was the Dinosauria, many of which existed in the Triassic
Period. Some were herbivorous, others carnivorous. Some
1 Hornaday.
