CROCODILIA 257
walked on all fours, others occasionally or habitually walked
upright, after the manner of birds, with which they had many
structural features in common. Their size was so great that the
footprints measured from 14 to 18 inches. The length was
sometimes 60 to 70 feet and the height nearly 20 feet.
The earliest turtles were found in the Triassie of Europe.
True lizards appeared and turtles abounded in the Jurassic.
The Pterosau'ria appeared in the Jurassic. They had toothed
jaws and were winged like a bat. The spread of wings did not
exceed 3 feet. In the Cretaceous Period the spread of wings was
20 feet. Gigantic carnivorous marine lizards swarmed on the
Atlantic and Gulf coasts and in the interior seas of that time.
In the tertiary period reptilian life shows a great change, the
animals being neither so large nor so varied.
All the fossil snakes, except one found in the cretaceous, have
been found in the tertiary period.^
It is plain to be seen why the Mesozoic Era is called the "age
of reptiles," and how closely related the reptiles are to both
amphibians and birds. They differ from amphibians in having
bodies covered with scales, in having but one occipital condyle,
in having the embryonic membranes, the amnion and allantois;
in Crocodilia, in having a four-chambered heart; in never having
gills, and in never having a tadpole stage. They differ from birds
in having scales, but never feathers, and in the circulation (being
poikilothermal) . If we include the extinct forms, there will be
found many points of similarity between reptiles and birds.
Hence it is believed that amphibians, reptiles, and birds have a
common ancestry.
Economic Importance. — As has been mentioned, many rep-
tiles are used for food. The skins of rattlesnakes and boas are
made into bags, cases, boots, saddle cloth, etc. The oil of the
rattlesnake and boas is valuable, and that of the copperhead is
used in medicine. The scales of the tortoise-shell turtle are
valued for combs and ornaments, and the oil from its eggs is
used in dressing leather. From alligators we get valuable
leather, oil, and musk. The teeth, flesh, hide, and oil of croco-
diles are valued.
Most of our common forms are not dangerous to man, and,
^ Parker and Haswell.
17
