WATP]R BIRDS 285
The frigate or man-of-war bird is a very long-winj^ed, long-tailed bird
of the ocean. Its legs are very weak, but it is a remarkable flyer. It is
found hundreds of miles from shore on the ocean. These birds live in the
southern waters of both hemispheres. In the Cocos-Keeling Islands,
Mr. H. O. Forbes says, they gain their living by forcing other fishing birds,
like the gannets and noddy terns, to disgorge the fishes they have caught.
The cormorants are large, green-eyed, marine blackbirds. They are
common along the seashore. They feed chiefly on fish and arc gregarious.
Their gular pouch is rudimentary as compared with that of the pelican.
The Chinese tame the cormorant and use it in catching fish. The pelican
is used for a like purpose in the East Indies.
The pelicans are large birds, with very large bills and immense gular
pouches in which they catch the fish upon which they feed. The brown
pelican {Peleca'nus fus'cus) of Florida is a sociable bird, about 4 feet in
height. It does not acquire its full colors until its third year. The neck
of the adult bird is in two colors, white and a rich blackish brown. The
back is a beautiful silvery gray-brown effect composed of many tints.
The top of the head is white or yellowish, the pouch a bluish purple or
greenish. The bill is a foot long and demands and supplies four poimds of
fish each day. Pelican Island, Florida, is the government reservation for
these birds (Fig. 232).
The California brown pelican {Peleca'nus califor'rdcus) is found along the
Pacific coast from Galapagos to British Columbia. The beautiful great
white pelican {P. eri/lhrorhyn'chos) is now rare. It is found in large western
inland lakes and in the Yellowstone National Park. The male has a pe-
culiar knob on the bill during the breeding season only.
Order V. An'seres. — These birds have flat, lamellated bills
(Fig. 233). The body is rather flat. The legs are far Ijack on
the body, causing them to waddle when they walk and making
them good swimmers. Their toes are webbed. The feathers
are well oiled so they can go into the water. Geese spend less
time in the water than ducks do. The food is largely vegetable.
The swans, geese, and eider duck do not dive in feeding, but
thrust the head and neck under water, sometimes tipping up the
body. Marine ducks are expert divers. The wild geese, ducks,
and brant are migratory, but they are not so numerous as
formerly, since so many have been slaughtered for market and
sport
The swan belongs to this order and is the largest of the Anseres. In
fact, it is one of our largest birds. Hornaday says it is pugnacious and
quarrelsome. The plumage of the trumpeter swan is white; the bill and
feet are black. The young are a dirty gray. The ' ' voice is like a blast from
a French horn," but is musical when given by a large flock in chorus. The
range is from the Gulf to the fur countries. They breed from Iowa north
and west to the Pacific coast.
