LAND BIRDS 291
few species the tibia is bare of feathers, sometimes ahnost to the
knee. With a single exception, the hind toe is short and elevated
or lacking. There are al)0ut 125 species of these shore birds, or,
as their original name suggests, mud-dwellers, of which 75 live
in America, north of Mexico.
The Phal'aropes are small in size and in number of species, of which there
are but three. These lobe-toed birds have this peculiar characteristic:
the female, which is larger and more brightly colored than the male, does
the courting. The male does the incubating and cares for the young,
which are soon able to swim and to hunt their own food.
Snipes and plovers (Fig. 236) are much sought for game birds in some
regions The young are precocial. They afford some fine examples of
protective resemblance. One may be very near a snipe and not see it if
it only keeps still, so perfect is its resemblance to its surroundings.
The Jack snipe {Gallina'go ddica'ta) and the American woodcock
(Philohe'la minor) have shorter legs and the eyes are farther back on the
heads than in any other birds. Their long, straight bills have sensitive
tips, with which they probe down into the mud for earthworms. Horna-
day describes the shrill cry of the Jack snipe when it rises as a half-scream,
half-squawk. Its range is large, extending all through the United States,
except in arid regions.
The avocet or stilt {Rccurviro'stra americana) is like a snipe, but the legs
and bill are nuich longer than those of a snipe.
The curlews (Fig. 237), sandpipers, and oyster-catchers also belong to
this order.
A plover {^■Egiali'tis vocif'cra), commonly called killdeer, is found through-
out the temperate portion of North America. They are quite common
birds in the Mississippi Valley. Though scattered when feeding, they fly
in flocks.
LAND BIRDS
Order X. Galli'nae. — This order includes many birds val-
uable to man, as pheasants, pea-fowls, guineas, chickens, turkeys,
quails (Fig. 238), and prairie-chickens. The birds of this order
are chiefly ground birds, living largely on seeds and grains, hence
the crop and gizzard are well developed. Their bodies are robust,
their wings rather short, the legs stout, and the feet clawed.
The bills are short and stout. They are poor flyers, often going
with a " whirr." In the wild forms the protective resemblance
is almost perfect, their colors blending with the grass, brush, and
weeds in which they live. The ptarmigan (Fig. 239) changes
color with the season to suit its environment, being white in
winter. The males of this order usually have conspicuous mark-
ings on the head, as the rooster's comb and wattle, anfl the red
head of the turkey gobblers, or conspicuous plumage, as the pea-
