300 BRANCH CHORDATA
Order XVI. Machrochi'res. — To this order belongs a group of
remarka])le flyers, such as the humming-bird, chimney-swifts,
whip-i>oor-wills, and night-hawks. These birds have long,
pointed wings. Most of tliem fly at dusk or at night and feed
chiefly on insects.
'I'lic humming-birds are tropical or semitropical birds of the New World,
there beinji some 400 or 500 species. The hawk or sphynx-moths which
feed at flusk may be mistaken for humming-birds. Apgar says several
species are found west of the Rocky Mountains in the United States. The
ruby throated humming-bird is the one we see about our trumpet-creepers,
honeysuckle, and salvia, seeking both insects and nectar. Chapman says
" the young are fed by regurgitation, the parent bird inserting its bill
into the mouth of its offsjiring and injecting food as though from a syringe."
It.s note is a mere squeak or prolonged twitter. A humming-bird's nest is
about the size of a lady's watch, and the two frail, pearly white eggs, like
large peas, hatch in fourteen days.
The swifts are widely distributed. Thej' have strong wings. They can
fly straight up or down and feed on the wing. The legs are so weak that
some species cling to a vertical surface, using the tail to help support them,
instead of perching. The tip of each tail feather ends in a sharp point,
the shaft extending beyond the vane. They nest in hollow trees or chim-
neys. " The nest of our chimney-swift is a bracket-like basket of small
twigs gathered while the bird is on the wing, and glued together and to tree
or chimney by a glutinous saliva."
The night-hawk resembles the whip-poor-will, and is usually compared
with it, l>ut it is a bird of the sky, and " its not(^ is a loud nasal peent uttered
as it flies." It has an enormous mouth fringed above with bristles. It
eats insects which it catches on the wing. When it alights it chooses a
nearly horizontal limb on which it sits lengthwise, looking like a big knot.
It migrates to South America in winter
The whip-poor-will is well known by its peculiar cry. It feeds on
insects which it catches at night as it flies. During the day it rests quietly
on the ground in the woods.
Order XVII. Pas'seres. — This vast order comprises at least
half of the birds. They have four toes, three in front and one
behind, on a level with the front toes. The legs are rather slen-
der, and so placed on the body as to give it a horizontal position
when it rests. These are our most common birds. They var}'
in size from the little house wren to the crow. Thrushes, blue-
birds, kinglets, chickadees, creepers, wrens, wag-tails, warblers,
vireos, shrikes, wax-wings, swallows, tanagers, sparrows, orioles,
crows, larks, and fly-catchers are representatives of this order.
They include some of our finest songsters. Most of them are
plainly clad, inconspicuous birds, working and singing, often
unseen. Not all of them, however, are unattractive in ap-
