LAND BIRDS 309
and should he killed. The co\vl)ird should be added to this list,
since it lays its eggs in the nests of smaller l)irds. When this
hatches, it deprives their young of room and care, often pushing
them out of the nest, or taking their food and allowing them to
starve. The blackbirds and jaybirds are questionable charac-
ters, since they are so mean about robbing nests and driving
away other birds. The protection of all but the few birds named
should be emphasized, especially by all farmers and fruit growers.
The useless destruction of bird life every year is alarming.
Besides the thousands on thousands killed for food, there are
thousands of others killed by the plume-hunters to gratify the
foolish pride of thoughtless, silly women. Much as this is to be
deprecated, it slaughters but one-fifth as many birds as those
killed by men and boys for the mere sport of killing. Surely
the killing for the love of it, many times leaving the birds to
decay where they have been shot, perhaps only wounded and
left to die by a slow torture of starvation, is a cruel and sense-
less practice, yet fully one-half of all the birds killed in the United
States are killed merely for sport. -^
Surely it is time to stop and think ; time to teach the coming
generation the value of birds to human life; time to teach the
boys and girls to love the birds and to study their habits, so as to
learn which are friends and which foes. Girls should learn that
a dead bird upon the hat, no matter how beautiful, is a mark of
the heartlessness of the wearer. Boys should be taught to shoot
birds with a camera, not with a gun. It takes far more intelli-
gence and skill and will be found a more fascinating sport.
Laws are being made in many states for bird protection. The
United States Government is making bird reservations, such as
Pelican Island, off the coast of Florida; Breton Island, Louisiana;
Stump Lake, North Dakota, and Yellowstone Lake in the
National Park.
Geographic Distribution. — Birds as a class are the most
widely distributed of all animals. They are at home in the
frozen regions of the North or in the dense shades of the tropics,
upon the rocky steeps of the mountains, or out on the ocean far
from sight of land. Their wide range of variation in structure
and habits renders them, as a class, able to adapt themselves to
1 Hornaday, p. 172.
