MAMMALIA 311
CLASS VI. MAMMALIA
Mammals are homoiothermal, bilaterally symmetric, air-
breathing, usually hairy chordates. They are, as a rule,
viviparous and suckle their young. They vary in size from the
tiny little harvest mouse, probably less than 5 inches long, to
the great sulphur whale, weighing many tons. Not all of them,
however, are widely distributed, but everywhere, save in a few
of the South Sea Islands, some of the several thousand species
are found.
Covering. — No other characteristic is more rightfully called
a distinguishing characteristic than the hair of mannnals.
True hair is found on no other vertebrate. It is general to find
a hairy covering among mammals. Even among the Cetacea
hairs are sometimes found upon the muzzle, and traces of hair
are sometimes found in the embryo. The skin of the whale is
underlaid by a layer of fat or blubber, while that of those un-
gulates that are sparsely covered with hair, as the rhinoceros,
is very thick. The hair may differ greatly both in length and
texture. It may be soft and kinky "wool" or very fine fur.
The coarse hairs may become long, hard bristles, like those of
the hog, or be differentiated into stiff " spines," like those of
the porcupine, or into a scale armor, like that of the armadillo.
Sweat glands in the skin are also characteristic of mammals.
The skeleton is the most nearly perfect of any of the chordates.
The skull (Fig. 254) is composed of fewer bones more firmly
united than in the lower chordates. The lower jaw is composed
of a single bone on each side, the dentary, and is articulated
directly with the squamosal. The skull is connected with the
first vertebra, the atlas, by two occipital condyles instead of one,
as in the birds and reptiles.
The spinal column (Fig. 255) consists of a varying number of
vertebra, the first two, the atlas and axis, being somewhat modi-
fied to support the head and to permit its various movements.
The vertebrae do not articulate with one another by cup and
l)all (except in some ungulates), as in amphibians, reptiles, and
birds, since the intervertebral disks of fibrocartilage permit
lateral bending of the spine. The vertebrae are classified, ac-
cording to their location, as cervical, dorsal, lumjjar, sacral.
