316 BRANCH CHORDATA
The mouth is generally characterized by thick and fleshy lips,
which serve as organs of prehension to grasp the food, as does
also the tongue, the latter being also the seat of the sense of
taste.
Owing also to the varying feeding habits, the different organs
of digestion vary in size; for example, the intestine, which is
longer in mammals than in any other chordate, is, in the rumi-
nants, ten times the length of the animal, while in the carnivora
it is only three or four times as long. At the junction of the
small with the large intestine there is a blind tube or cecum,
which is especially developed in most of the vegetable feeders.
The Circulatory System. — The heart is composed of four
parts: two ventricles and two auricles. The circulation is
double, closed, and complete. The left aortic arch is present
instead of the right aortic arch, as in birds. "There are two
features in the venous system which distinguish all mammals
(except Echidna) from the lower chordates. The hepatic portal
system is limited to a vein which conveys to the liver l)lood
derived from the alimentary tract; in no mammal (except in
Echidna) is there any representative of the anterior abdominal
vein of the lower vertebrates. ... In no mammal is there any
trace of a renal portal system. The kidneys derive their blood
from the renal arteries only."^
The red corpuscles of the blood of mammals differ from those
of other chordates in being much smaller, non-nucleated, cir-
cular, and biconcave, except in the camel, in which they are
elliptic.
The Respiratory System. — No mammals have external gills,
but all breathe by means of lungs throughout life. Respiration
is aided by a diaphragm or muscular partition, which com-
pletely divides the body cavity, separating the heart and lungs
from the abdominal viscera. When this muscular diaphragm
contracts its upper surface becomes more concave, increasing
the lung cavity and allowing the lungs to expand under the pres-
sure of the air. When the muscles relax the upper surface again
becomes convex and the lung cavity is reduced, thus forcing out
the air of the lungs.
The soft palate and the epiglottis are structures peculiar to
1 Beddard, p. 88.
