MAMMALIA 319
for warning, or for protection by mimicking tlie odors of a more
formidable foe; as the odor of the nmsk deer may suggest that of
a crocodile.
It is readily seen that the nervous system is the highest and
most comphcated of any chordate's, thus giving mammals
highest rank in the scale of intelligence.
Order I. Monotrem'ata. — The animals of this order are
primitive mammals, but that they are mammals is proved by
the fact that they are covered with hair and nourish their young
with milk. The heart has an incom]:)lete auriculoventricular
valve. The temperature is lower and more variable than in
the higher mammals.^ The brain has no corpus callosum. Like
birds and reptiles, they are oviparous, and the intestines oi)en
into a cloaca. These animals are characterized by a temporary
Fig. 261. — A spiny ant-eater. (From Clau.s
" mammary pouch," in which they are hatched or to which they
are transferred after hatching, and into which open the ducts of
the mammary gland.
The spiny ant-eater {Echid'tia aculea'ta) (Fig. 261) is a small nocturnal
animal about the size of a duck-bill. It i.s covered with spines mingled
with hairs. When danger threatens it curls up like a hedge-hog. Its
legs are short and stout, and its feet are armed with strong claws for tearing
open ant-hills. Its tail is vestigial. It has a long, pointed, toothless .snout
and a long, extensible tongue for licking up ants, other insects, and worms.
The salivary glands are very highly developed, and when the tongue, cover-
ered with sticky saliva, is thrust into an ant-hill, it is .soon covered with the
insects. The tongue is then drawn back into the mouth and the adhering
insects swallowed. It seems that the mother places the egg in the mammary
pouch with her mouth. When the young is hatched it is nourished with
milk. When it attains sufficient growth she removes it from the pouch, re-
placing it from time to time for nourishment. She shows further intelli-
gence by digging a burrow and concealing her young in it when she goes out
iReddard, p. 112.
