320
BRANCH CHORDATA
at night for food. An allied i'onn, the nodiak, is eaten by the aborigines
of the Faiman region.
The duck-bill {OrnUhori/n'chiis) (Fig. 262) is fomni in southern and
eastern Australia and Tasmania. It has a small, round head, and a
l)road, flattened, sensitive bill. Its eyes are small and somewhat hidden,
but well developed. Its great i)addling feet are five toed and webbed, the
w(>bs of the anl( rior feet being longer than the claws. It is about the size of
our eomiiion rabbit and has short legs and a flattened tail. Its body is
covered with loos(> skin, protected by thick, glossy hair, with an imder layer
of fine waterproof fur. The duck-bill is acjuatic, digging burrows 'M or 40
feet long in the banks of streams. One opening of this burrow is below tlie
water. It dives, enters this opening, and is safe from its enemies. It has
teeth when young, but s(H)n sheds tliem, and the gums harden into horny
plates for crushing insects, worms, snails, and mu.ssels, which it digs out of
the mud with its snout and stores away in its cheek pouches to be (>aten as
Fig. 262. — Duck-bill (Ornilhorhyiichus p(ir(ido.n(s). (From Liitkcn.)
it drifts uj>on the wat(T. Sight and hearing are acute, l)uf it has no external
ears, '^i'he male is armed with a strong horny spur on each hind foot,
which is connected with a poison gland. 'I'he duck-bill is as shy as a bea\'er.
Its voice is like the growl of a i)upi)y. The young are blind and naked.
Order II. Marsupia'Iia. — Marsu])ials are ftir-covered, terres-
trial (rarely a(iuatie), or arhoreal, or sul)terraneait maminals,
whieh carry the young, ])orn immature, miked, and Mind, at-
tached to the mammary gland in an abdominal integumentary
pouch. Th(> milk is forced down the throat of the young by
the nuiscuhu' action of the mother. The young are able to
In-eathe at the same time by th(> wrapi)ing of the soft palate
around the u])i)er end of the traclu>a in such a manner that the
air may pass from the nose down the trachea while the milk
passes down the throat. The clavicle is present. The cloaca
