322 BRANCH CHORDATA
The Tasmanian wolf has a skull like a dofji's, and is like the ordinary wolf
in size, build, and habits. It is of a dusky hue and marked upon the hind
parts with blackish bands. The hallux is wanting. The "Tasmanian
devil " is black with white patches on the body. It is the size of a badger
and its voice is a yelling growl.
The Australian ant-eater is of a bright reddish color, banded posteriorly
and dorsally with white, and looks much like a large red squirrel. It feeds
upon ants, which it captures with its tongue. Its habitat is both terrestrial
and arboreal. The young are nourished as in other marsupials, but the
pouch is lacking, and they are concealed only by the long hair of the
mother.
The Australian mole has somewhat the aj^pearance and habits of our
common mole. It is pale golden red, in harmony with the arid soil in which
it lives. The claws of the third and fourth front toes are enlarged. "It
is not only blind, but its eyes have been more completely lost by degenera-
tion than in any other known case. Its anatomy abounds in curious
adaptations to an underground existence, evidently antique."
The Wombats. — There are three species, one Tasmanian and two Aus-
tralian. Cheek pouches and tail are rudimentary. They are heavily
built animals, like the badger or marmot, with a shuffling gait. They are
gregarious, live in burrows, and feed upon roots. They are gentle, but
stupid. Over a hundred thousand skins are sold in London yearly.
Several of the smaller species of family Phalangcr'iihp are called "flying
phalangers." They cannot fly upward, of course, but are sujjportcd by
a parachute-like membrane from fore to hind limb, as they descend with a
sort of skimming or sailing movement. The tail is usually long and jire-
hensile, and the thumb opposable and naillcss.
The Kangaroos {Macro pod' idee) are herbivorous marsupials of Australia
and the surrounding islands (Fig. 264). They have three incisors on each
side of the upper jaw and one on each side of the lower. The lower pair
of incisors are sharp on the inner etlge, and to some extent may be moved
toward and from each other, cutting grass like shears. The fourth toe of
the hind foot is exceedingly long and strong, and the fifth nearly as strong,
but shorter, while the third digits are syndactylous,' but so slender that
they are of no use in supporting the body. The fore limbs are short and
small and are used only for grasping. With the exception of Dendrol'agus,
which is arboreal and has less difference in the length of fore and hind limbs,
this family is terrestrial. Locomotion consists of a series of leaps, effected
by the long limbs and the long and powerful tail.^ They vary in size from
that of a rabbit to giant forms 5 or 6 feet in height. The larva^ of a large
kangaroo is not over 3 inches in length. They are gregarious, the droves
numbering from 50 to L50. They are crepuscular, nocturnal, and herbiv-
orous. They are timid, shy, and harmless if unmolested, but they can rip
open a dog with their strong hind claw when necessary to defend themselves.
When wounded they take to water, and if they get hold of a dog, they under-
take to drown it.
Genus Mac'ropiis includes kangaroos and wallabies, making together
twenty-three species. Macropus rufus attains the height of 5 feet, 5
1 See Glossary.
^ Some authorities state that the tail is not used in rapid locomotion,
but we know from observation of the kangaroo in the Zoological Gardens
that it does rest upon the tail between successive leajis in slow locomotion.
3 Beddard, p. 124.
