MAMMALIA
325
The different forms are distinguished chiefly by the number of the movable
bands of " seutes " between the anterior and posterior shields. The little
Chlamydoph'orus, of about 5 inehes in length, has no movable bands at all,
the series of plates being uniform and continuous even to the neck. The con-
spicuous external ears so prevalent among the armadillos are also absent.
Toljjpcu'tes can roll itself up into a ball and be protected by its armor, or
roll away from its enemies. Its walking is digitigrade and it is called
" pig-footed." Armadillos are omnivorous, and one species {Das'ypus
sexcinc'tus) is especially fond of carrion, burrowing up to a carcass like bee-
tles. The limbs of armadillos are short, powerful, and clawed, enabling
them to dig rapidly in the ground.
Fig. 265. — Nine-banded armadillo {Das'ypus novemcinc'lus). (Liitken.)
Order IV. Sire'nia. — These are dark-colored, sparsely haired
or bristly, toothed, herbivorous mammals. The elongated
snout of the whale is replaced by large movable lips for grasping
the food, which consists of seaweed and other aquatic plants.
External ears and hind limbs are absent. The anterior limbs
are flipper-like, but more flexible than those of the whale, and
the mother sometimes holds the young under her arm. The tail
is horizontal. Sirenia grow to a length of 9 or 10 feet. They
have two sets of heterodont teeth.
The dugong (Fig. 266) is sparsely covered with stout hairs.
The thick skin is underlaid with blubber. It is found on the
east coast of Africa, in the Indian Ocean, and the north coast of
Australia, and in the Red Sea.
The manatee is found on the Atlantic coast of South America
and of Africa, and in the mouths of the large rivers of these
countries. The blubber in the manatee differs from that of the
whale in that it has no free oil.
Steller's sea-cow, the recently extinct Rhyti'na, was found in
herds in Behring Sea. It reached a length of 20 to 30 feet. The
flesh was good for food, and the hide and oil of value.
