328 BRANCH CHORDATA
plates are " frayed out " and form a strainer, through which the
water taken into the mouth trickles out, leaving the small
animals from the water in the mouth. This baleen or whalebone
is worth several dollars a pound, and from 800 pounds to several
tons are derived from a single whale. One whale has been re-
ported as furnishing $12,230 worth of whalebone, and oil valued
at $3490.
Whales vary from 6 to 60 or 80 feet in length, and some have
been found 100 feet long. The voice of some species has been
described as similar to the lowing of a cow, and others like the
bellowing of a bull. The young whale is called a calf.
The great Ror'qual whales may measure from 60 to 85 or even 100 feet.
A species of whale, probably of genus Balcpuop'tcra, is described as having a
mouth so wide that " divers men might have stood up in it, yet the throat
so narrow as would not have admitted the least of fishes." The blue
whale {Balaenopter' idee sibhal'dii) is the giant of the rorquals. The Califor-
nia gray whale is said to be a cunning, courageous enemy.
The " right irhalcs " are from .50 to 60 feet long, the head about one-
fourth the length of the entire animal, and with no dorsal fins. The
whalebone is valuable and the oil is of excellent quality and large quantity.
In toothed whales, which have no whalebone, the orifice of the blow-hole is
single.
The sperm whales {Physeter'idce) have teeth in the lower jaw only. Phy-
se'ter vuicroceph'alus) is from 55 to 80 feet long. The head is enormous,
ending in a great blunt snout. The mouth is ventral and " it has been as-
serted that the sperm whale turns over on its back to bite."^ The single
blow-hole is not in the median line, but on one side. Inside of the great
" square head" is a cavity lying above the skull, which during life is filled
with oil or fluid fat, of which the spermaceti of commerce is the product.
This oil is also found in other whales. Ambergris, an expensive substance
used in connection with perfumery (which is at first a greasy mass and then
hardens), is a product from the intestinal canal of the sperm whale. This
whale is tropical. The females are found in herds or schools. Their food
is chiefly cuttle-fishes. The throat is said to be large enough^ to have
swallowed Jonah. It has great strength, being able to throw itself entirely
out of the water.
Dolphins and porpoises have many teeth which are present in both upper
and lower jaw. The size of these animals is small to medium. The Be-
lu'ga, or " white whale," is a northern species. It has a distinct neck and
free vertebrae. The young are blackish, growing white as they mature.
This porpoise ascends rivers in search of food, which is preferably salmon.
One {Delphin'idce elphineraptus) is fairly common in the Gulf of St. Law-
rence. ^
1 Beddanl, p. ,362.
2 Ibid., 1). .365.
3 Shipley and McBride.
