MAMMALIA 329
Distrihution. — Cetacea are cosmopolitan, mostly marine. A
few ascend rivers, some being exclusively river forms of South
America and southeastern Asia.
Use to Man. — A good quality of ivory is obtained from nor-
whal's tusks (the left upper incisor which sometimes reaches a
length of 8 to 10 feet). Whalebone, oil, and spermaceti have
already been mentioned.
Geologic Distribution. — The cetaceans are represented in the
Eocene and Miocene of Europe, Egypt, and North America.
Both whalebone whales and toothed forms have been found in
the Pliocene deposits. The toothed whales are represented in
the Miocene, Pliocene, and Pleistocene of Europe, North Amer-
ica, New Zealand, and Australia by the extinct heterodont family
Squalodon'tidm.
Order VI. Ungula'ta. — This is a large order of diverse forms.
A large proportion of these forms are extinct, and existing forms
are connected to some extent by fossil forms. Many of these
animals are very large. They are chiefly herbivorous. The
molar teeth are adapted for grinding by having broatl crowns,
with tuberculated or ridged surfaces. Canines are absent or
small, or, in a few cases, tusk-like in the upper jaw. Although
the older types were plantigrade, the existing forms, excepting
such as Hyrax, are digitigrade, walking on the tips of their
toes. The one-four terminal phalanges are nearly always en-
cased in solid horny hoofs, which are, in reality, enlarged and
thickened claws. The weight of the body usually rests upon
these hoofs. The limbs have no power of gras])ing or climl)ing,
l)ut are simply organs of locomotion. Clavicles are absent.
This is the only order of mammals in which horns appear. They
are surely a needed and effective means of defense in those forms
which are too heavy to be swift, as they cannot defend themselves
with teeth nor claws, as do the rodents and carnivores. The
order contains many domesticated animals indispensable to man
as beasts of burden or as food. It is the most beneficial to man
of any order of mammals.
The Hyrax ( Hyracoi'dca) .—Thh and llic following family are often
placed in a sub-order. Th(\v are the survivors of those great animals of
the past that had their wrist-bones i)laced in a longitudinal series and had
toes which were nearly equal in length. The hyrax (Fig. 268) is a small
