33U
BRANCH CHORDATA
animal found in Ethiopia, Africa, and Arabia, including Palestine. ^ It
is sometimes culled the "rock-rabbit," since the most species live among
rocks and mountains, and their squatty attitude, short tail, and split
muffle, as well as a pair of rodent-like incisors in the upper jaw, remind one
of the rabbit. They have no canine teeth. Some species are found upon
the trunks and large branches of trees, and sleep in the hollows of trees.
The skull shows affinity with the Perissodactyles and also with the rodents.
The ears are short and the body fur covered. The clavicle is absent, the
radius and ulna complete, but often ankylosed. The hyrax has a greater
number of trunk vertebra) than any other mammal, twenty-one or twenty-
two of them bearing ribs. The hyrax differs from all other mammals in
having, in addition to the ordinary cecum, a i)air of supplementary ceca
situated some distance down the large intestine.
The Elephant ( Proboscid' ea) . — The skin is greatly thickened and scantily
covered with hair. There is a tuft of hair on the end of the tail. The mass-
ive, stiff limbs are quite free from the body. The nose and upper lip- are
produced into a long, flexible, muscular, ))rehensile trunk or proboscis (Fig.
269), at th(^ end of which the nares are situated. There are five complete
digits on both fore and hind limbs, and though they are bound together in
Fig. 268. — Hyrax ayriacuti.
the integument, each is encased in a separate hoof. The skull is very large,
but the bones are rendered light by their numerous air cavities. The brain-
case is small in comparison with the size of the skull, as the bones are
enormously thickened. In some specimens the bony skull wall is greater
in diamet(>r than the cranial cavity, the frontal bones in older animals some-
times reaching the thickness of one foot. In existing forms there is a
single pair of upper incisors, which develop into long tusks of solid ivory.
A single tusk sold in London in 1874 weighed 188 pounds. There is no
trace of any canines. Molars are so large that there is never but a single
functional one on each side of each jaw at a time. They are transversely
ridged. Elephants are herbivorous. The stomach is simple and the cecum
^ This is supposed to be the cony of the Bible, where it is spoken of as a
"wise, though a feeble folk." It is said to be too wise to be caught
in traps, at least, but the further reference that it " cheweth the cud, but
divideth not the hoof" throws some doubt upon its identity. However,
Bruce kept one in captivity and found that it did chew the cud. (See
Beddard, p. 234.)
^Beddard's " Mammalia."
