MAMMALIA
331
wide. The cerebral hemispheres are much convohited, but the cerebellum
has no convolutions. There are but two living species: one {El'ephas
africanus) is found in the forests of tropical Africa, the other {E. indicus)
is found in India, Ceylon, and the Malayan Islands. The African species
has not the two rounded bosses which give the wise countenance to the
Indian species, and its head slojics bac'k more and the ears are much larger.
It is digit igrade, though a thick pad of fat makes it appear plantigrade.
It reaches the height of about 12 feet. " Jumbo " was 11 feet to the shoul-
der and weighed 6^ tons. There are tusks in both sexes, but in this species
they are larger in the female. The tusks are used not only as a means of
defense, but especially the right one is used also for grubbing roots for footl.
The Africa'nus is more active and savage than Iu'dicus, but it has been
tamed. It is not used in Africa now save for food and ivory. It is
long lived, maturing at forty and living one hundred and fifty or more
Fig. 269. — Various uses of the trunk of the elephant: 1, Drinking; 2,
pulhng grass; 3, washing. (From Holder's " Elements of Zoology,"
American Book Co., Publishers.)
years. Elephas indicium is invaluable as a beast of burden on account
of its great strength, though not all are to be depended upon. One may
be perfectly docile and obedient, and another furious, vicious, and un-
manageable, but, stranger yet, they are sometimes exceedingly timid.
Baker tells of one he was riding fairly bolting at the sight of a hare. The
elephant rushes into the nearest jungles, when bolting, tearing through
the underbrush, while the rider is swept off or torn by the thorns. Its
obedience to the slightest sign of the Indian mahout shows that it has con-
siderable intelligence. Baker asserts that the locality and time of ripening
of particular kinds of fruit are remembered by it. The power of remember-
ing and recognizing individuals is proved by their revenge of particular
treatment of certain keepers. This group of ungulates appeared in the
Miocene.
The Mammoth is an extinct form which once was found about the north
pole in Siberia, Europe, and America. It was covered with long, woolly fur.
