OO- HKANcll e'HUKDATA
iMissil nMuaiiis of another rxlinci tiniu, the Ma.stodon, arc constantly boing
fomul in (he fi;ra\('l i)its ot' I'lnropc, Asia, and Xortl\ America. Somcspecics
have tusks in both jaws and tuberculatetl molars like the pig.
The remaitulcr of this onh^r is iiu'huUHl in the two groat divis-
ions of Pcrlsf^otldc'tyld (odd toed) and Aiiiodac'li/la (even toed).
Perissodactyla.— The odd-tt)ed i:;rou]) lias the niohirs and
]mnnohirs of the same size and the middle toe predominantly
developed. " The other toes in the three living families are
rinhieed to diif(>rent degrees."
'I'he tapirs [Tapir' iiiiv) an^ amonj;; the oldest manunals represented to-day,
thi> family beinii as old as that of luiuiild. though th(> specialization of the
t()es lias never advanced .so far. The fore feet are four toed, and the hind
feet three toed. The nose and the upper lip are lengthened into a short
proboscis.
.Vn .Vmerican species {Tapirkhp (errestris) is a solitary, dull, and gloomy,
timid and defenseless animal, hiding away near the streams in tlu> marshy,
tropical woods in the daytime, and feeding at night. When alarmed or
pursued it always takes to the water for safety, 'i'he jaguar is its most
formidable enemy.
'i"he Malayan forms haunt the most retired spots among the wooded
hills, thus escaping its enemy, the tiger.
The tapirs (,genus Tap'irus) are now found only in South and Central
.Vmerica, the Malay Peninsula, Java, and Sumatra. They are small or
modt>rate sized, ungainly creatures, covered with brownish-black hair.
The young is spotted and striped with white, as is the rule among quad-
rupeds of the forest.' The tajiir's quick seJises enable it to slip away,
which it can do with great rapidity, when disturbed. When at rest in the
daytime a Malayan form "exactly resembles a grayish boulder, and as it
often lives near the rocky stre.-uns of the hill jungles, it is not easily de-
tected." T.apirs are browsers, .seizing and drawing the succulent leaves and
shoots into th(> mouth with the proboscis. " They are extremely fond of the
leaves of the low-growing cocoa jilant, and they often in on(> night destroy
a cocoa Held which has cost a poor Indian the hard labor of a year."
South American tapirs are said to make interesting pets. They are
kept in the National Zoological Park at Washington. In Costa Hica the
tapir is nuich hunted, for its flesh is good, both fresh and .salted, and its
thick hide is made into twisted wiiips (rawhides).
The primitive forms were distributed all over the world, " but as the later
tertiary conditions changed from torrid to temperati- outside the tropics,
they became extinct everywhere save in the hot, moist climate under the
equator, where they have continueil to the j)resent time." .Vlthough now
structurally very (HtTcn-cMit from the horse of to-day, they ])robably rcpn^
sent something of the character of the ancestral hor,s(>.
The rhinoceros (Rhini)rrrot'id(r) is a relic of natiu'c's early attempts to
fornudate the .solid-hoofed type of (luadruped. It is n>cognized in i"o.ssils
toward the close of the Eocene in both Kurope and North America, iind the-
^ Ingersoll, p. o72.
