MAMMALIA
335
bottom of the river, but swims. It is thought that it swam from the Con-
tinent across to Madagascar, thus jjopulating that island with the genus,
fossils of which are found in the swamps. The gap of the mouth is wide and
the large teeth are used in cutting the bark from trees, which is a prominent
feature of the food. They produce a strange carmine-colored secretion,
"sweat," containing small crystals and corpuscles, from the skin. "Like
other aquatic animals the nostrils are on the surface of the head and can be
closed when under water," where it can remain not over ten minutes, and,
after reaching the surface again, it spouts like a whale. It is a dangerous
animal to meet, as it cannot only capsize a boat, but even bite out large
portions of it and will attack man.
Fig. 271. — Hippopotamus and young. (Holder's "Zoology," American
Book Co., Publishers.)
The hog (Suidce) (Fig. 272) has four toes, but only two touch the ground,
except in miry places. The nostril is situated at the end of the tough,
proboscis-like snout. Hogs are generally covered with coarse hair or brisf les.
The stomach is simple and the cecum present. The typical geims Suk is
found in Europe, northern Africa, Asia, and in the Malay Archipelago.
The wild boar is Sus scrufa of Europe.
The wild hog loves to wallow in the wet ground, but sees to it that
"cover is handy." The male is usually solitary, while the female and young
go about in groups of- about a dozen. In India it makes huts of leaves,
grass, and twigs, so interwoven as to be practically rainproof, in which the
young are housed for several weeks. The domestic pig has been developed
from the wild hog by artificial selection and intercrossing. The African
wart-hog, the ugliest of land animals, and Bdbiru'sa are allied.
The hog industry in the United States represents hundreds of millions
of flollars. One-third of the hogs of the world are })roduced here. Be-
sides the pork used at home, large quantities are exported to Europe. It
