338 BRANCH CHORDATA
which the large nostrils may be closed against the simoons of the desert;
and by their prominent eyes and heavy, overhanging eyelids. The hump
is a real and acknowledged reservoir of nutriment stored up during moist
seasons, as well as nature's pack saddle for the conunerce of the ages.'
For centuries the camel has been the means of transportation over the desert.
Papyrus records show it was well known in Egypt at least thirty-two
centuries ago. Yet in all these centuries "little of sympathetic association
has been gained between beast and master." Owing to its viciousness and
stupidity it has been subjugated rather than domesticated. However, it
has been developed into many serviceable forms, some swift and elegant,
others strong and ugly.
There are two distinct species of camels, the Bactrian or two-humped
camel {Canie'lus haclrianus) and the one-humped species (C druniedarius)
(Fig. 275). The two species will interbreed it is said, and it is not probable
th:it either is now found in a genuinely wild state. The camel is a thickly
built, ungainly pack horse. The dromedary is the finer-haired, light-step-
Fig. 274. — a, Water-cells in the paunch of the camel; /*, foot, showing
the ])ad. (From Holder's " Elements of Zoology," American Book Co.,
Publishers.)
ping race horse. The former travels three miles in an hour and six hours
in a day, while the latter can run seventy miles a day. The latter is several
times the value of the former. The single calf is weaned when about a year
old, but it is not fitted for service until five years old. We are accustomed to
think of camels as associated with heated countries alone, but the Bactrian
camel can endure much cold, and carry on the overland trade between China
and Russia across the plains of Mongolia or Turkestan amid the snows of
winter and the dust of summer. Every spring the camel loses every frag-
ment of its hair and for about twenty days it is as naked as if clean shaven,
and is then sensitive to cold and rain. When the hair, which is at first fine
and beautiful, becomes long and thick it can brave the severest frost. Its
strong, elastic, lustrous hair is woven into warm cloth. The Andean vicu-
nia has finer, soft, curly wool. The Arabian depends upon the camel for
many things: "fuel, milk, hair for tents, ropes, shawls, and coarser fabrics;
and flesh, leather, and bones from the dead animal. Camel's milk, though
1 Ingersoll, p. 337.
