MAMMALIA 345
crescent patches across the throat, on the under surfaces, and in a broad
heart-shaped patch around the brown scut of a tail." This whiteness of
stern belongs in a greater or less degree to nearly all the ruminants and to
other gregarious animals. It is thought to be a recognition mark by which
the young and other members of a herd follow the leader or one another.
The prong-horns are gregarious. The prong-horn is, or used to be, a crea-
ture of the plains, living on the dry bush grass, and avoiding these wolf- and
wildcat-inhabited thickets, but now frequently seeks their cover. The
young fawns (usually two) cling close upon the heels of the mother, which
defends them with lowered horns and sharp, striking feet. The fur is use-
less, but the flesh is delicious.
The cattle family {Bo'vidae) contains the wild cattle, the bison or buffalo,
sheep, goats, and antelopes. They are distinguished by divided hoofs and
unbranched horns, which consist of a hollow sheath growing over a horny
core, which are never shed. As a rule they are present in both sexes.
They have no upper canine teeth. They are heribvorous, preferring grass
and herbage. Only a few examples can be mentioned here.
The antelopes, so far as we know, are the oldest of all bovine animals.
They date from the Miocene. They differ from true cattle in their more
graceful form, in that the horns, when curved, curve backward toward
the neck. Their skin is usually smooth and sleek. They are now limited
to Eurojje, Asia, and Africa, predominating in tropical Africa. The
sable antelope {Hippot'ragus m'ger), says Gumming, "is the rarest and most
beautiful animal in Africa. It is large and strong, looking much like the
ibex. Its back and sides are glossy black and the under parts pure white.
The horns are upward of 3 feet in length and bend strongly back with a bold
sweep, reaching nearly to the haunches." The mane is erect, the hide satin-
like, and the whole attitude fearless and noble. Like all the antelopes, it
has an equine form and gait. It is readily tamed and seems able to breed
in captivity. These antelopes love to pasture on the open plain, a few to-
gether, mostly chestnut cows, says Ingersoll, and "the horns are used with
undaunted courage even when attacked by lions."
We cannot refrain from mentioning the small, active, beautiful gazelle.
"The skin is as sleek as satin, of a color difficult to describe, as it varies
between the lightest mauve and yellowish brown," the belly and legs from
the knee down are white, the hoof tapers to a sharp point. "The head of
the buck is ornamented by gracefully curved, annulated horns, perfectly
black, and generally from 9 to 12 inches long on the bend. The eye is the
well-known perfection, the full, large, soft, and jet-black eye of the gazelle."
The Dorcas gazelles arc found in twos and threes all over Egypt. They feed
upon juicy plants and shrubs, and visit the crops at night. They may stand
motionless until the hunter is within rifle shot and then fairly skim the groud
in their flight.
Associated with the antelopes are the ugly gnus of South Africa.
Sheep and goats are very closely allied, the goats differing from the
sh(>ep in their slight build, in the beard of the male, and in the horns, which
are arched over the back instead of spirally curved, as is the rule with sheep.
True goats (Ca'pra) are almost exclusively Palaearctic. They are repre-
sented by the Spanish ibex (C pyrmaica), the steinbock {C. ibex) of the
Alps and Tyrol, and the Persian wild goat (C. cegagrus). The Persian wild
goat is probably the principal species from which the tame goats are derived.
According to Mr. Blanford, the "bezoar stones," the concretions of variou.s
lime salts found in the stomach, were supposed to be of great virtue as an
antidote for poison. One stone of 4 ounces once sold in Europe for £200.
