346
BRANCH CHORDATA
Geologically, goats are traced back to the Pliocene. Their distribution is
limited and varied, owing chiefly to their mountain-loving nature. Their
different environments and tendem-y to vary have given rise to many and
very various breeds of the domestic goat.
The goats of central Asia, living in a climate of great extremes of tempera-
t ure, furnish the fine wool of Cashmere and Thibet, which is their under coat.
The Angora goat of Asia Minor furnishes millions of pounds annually of
long silky hair. The cashmeres and mohairs of our stores are from goat
hair and wool. The leather from goat hide is always valuable, especially
that of morocco, while the skin of the kid is valued for gloves. The goat
has for many centuries been used as a domestic animal. It supplies an
abundance of good milk, rich in cheese-making casein, and requires much
less food than the cow. In southern Europe herds of goats are driven from
house to house and milked at the door of each customer, and then driven
Fig. 281. — Rocky Mountain goat (Haploc'cros monla'nus).
back to pasture. The goat readily cleaves to the household and exhibits
more intelligence than other members of our flocks and herds.
The chamois of the European Alps and the Rocky Mountain goat (Fig.
281) are described as goat antelopes. The Rocky Mountain goat is the
nearest we have to the goat, for this is not a true goat nor a true antelope.
It is twice as large as a goat and looks much like a miniature buffalo, only
its pelage is pure white, soft, and fine. Its hoofs, horns, and nose are black.
''It has high shoulders, low hind-quarters, thick legs, and neck. It carries
its head low. Its face is long." The small, angular hoofs consist of a
pad insifle and a knife-edge outside, equally adapted to snow or bare
rock. It "inhabits the grassy belt of high mountains just above timber line,
and loves the dangerous ice-covered slopes," being able to ascend almost
perpendicular precipices. It is exceedingly tlifficult to capture and does not
live long in captivity. "It is now found in only Idaho, Washington, and
