348 BRANCH CHORDATA
crags of the mountains, the boldest rim-rock of the plateau, or the most
rugged "bad lands," for which it is adapted by its round firm hoofs, its
warm winter under coat, its ability to subsist on scant herbage, and its keen
senses. It is hunted by mountain lions and by man for its savory flesh.
It has a handsome head and massive horns curved into the half or three-
fourths of a circle, as arc the horns of no other wild animal. It needs to be
seen in its native cloud land to be fully appreciated.
There are many breeds of the domestic sheep. The original of this per-
haps most useful and least educated of animals is not known. The variation
of external characters, such as horns, ears, and tail, and in the color, length,
texture, and quality of the fleece, is exceedingly great. The existence of
these numerous breeds is probably due to their tendency to vary and to
effect fertile crosses, and to long-continued selection, combined with the
obstinacy with which these variations are transmitted and retained. Sheep
are used to an enormous extent both for the production of their wholesome
flesh and for their wool. Thousands of Persian lamb skins are used in the
fur trade annually, and hundreds of thousands of Astrakans, which is the
same breed taken when exceedingly young, it is said, before their natural
birth. This breed is also greatly valued for its fat, which accumulates on
the haunches in two great protuberances. In the fat-tailed sheep of Asia
the tail of pure fat sometimes weighs 30 to 50 pounds, and trails upon the
ground if not suspended upon wheels or carried upon a truck. This fat
is regarded as a great luxury. The Spanish Merino sheep has been intro-
ducetl into South Africa, Australia, and the United States. It is celebrated
for the fine quality of its wool.
The musk-ox {O'vibos moscha'tus) is a strange, long-haired, short-legged
creature of the frozen North. It belongs between the sheep and ox, par-
taking of the characters of each.
Oxen are distinguished from other hollow-horned ruminants by their
stouter build, and by their smooth curved (not twisted) horns, which stand
out from the sides of the head. The wild ox of Europe {Bos primigenius),
believed to be surviving in the herds of Chillingham and Chartley,' is
supposed to be the progenitor of our cattle. The original, called the auroch,
or, by the Romans, Urus, was of more gigantic size.
One of the largest of the family to-day is the European bison {Bos
bonasus). It looks much like our American bison or buffalo, but is taller.
Bisons differ from oxen in having a hump over the shoulder formed by
spinous processes for the attachment of the great muscles used in holding
up the massive head and in the great pushing matches of the bulls. The
American "buffalo" is more shaggy and robust than the European "wisent "
(Fig. 283). The latter was forest inhabiting, while our "buffaloes" loved
the plains, where they congregated formerly in great herds in spring and fall,
but usually formed only scattered bands which traveled over the plains in
single file. The true buffalo of Africa and India has no hump and is almost
hairless. No animal is more dangerous than an infuriated bull buffalo, and
none more easily provoked. Pugnacity and revenge are its ruling impulses.
It has been domesticated in India, and is very useful, but not lovable.
Africa has two species, which are sometimes accompanied by starlings.
In the East starlings and herons "perch on their backs and hunt for ticks
and other parasites" — a strange, but mutually beneficial commensalism.
The yak {Bos grunniens), of the mountains of Thibet, has short legs,
goat-like feet, humped shoulders, smooth, spreading horns, and carries its
1 Beddard, p. 321.
