350 BRANCH CHORDATA
Old World camels, as well as giraffe-like forms. " That the
camel got the pads on his feet, the water-pockets in his stomach,
and the other drought and sand resisting arrangements from an
ancestor that began in the United States a million or more years
years ago " has been proved l^y Cope, Doctor \\'irtman, and his
assistants. The oldest fossil deer types are Miocene. They
were small, hornless creatures. The first horned deer were in
the middle Miocene, when the horns were bifid. The giraffe,
or its close allies, existed in the Miocene. The bison existed in
the Miocene, as shown in fossil Bos sivalensis from India. The
Pliocene life included a variety of oxen and two North American
bisons.
Order VII. Rodentia or Gli'res. — Rodents are exceedingly
numerous and well-known mammals, covered with fur or spines.
They are generally small, varying in size from the porcui)ine, of
about 3 feet in length, to some of our small mice, not over 4 or 5
inches long.
The one distinguishing characteristic of rodents is their teeth.
(See Fig. 288, p. 355.) These have enamel on their front surfaces
only. Thus, their incisors, which grow continuously from per-
sistant pulps, are always chisel shaped and kept sharp by the
wearing away of the posterior surfaces. There are never more
than two incisor teeth in the lower jaw, and only two in the
up]:)er, except in Lepor'idcp, where there are four. The lack of
canine teeth in all rodents leaves a space or diastema between
the incisors and the molars. The molars vary in number from
two to six on each side of each jaw. There is a hairy ingrowth
in the mouth back of the incisors, which serves to catch the
particles when the animals are gnawing. They are usually
vegetable feeders, but some are carnivorous or omnivorous.
The intestine is long and the cecum large (except in dormice) and
often complicated.
As a rule the clavicle is present. Most rodents are five toed.
The toes have claw-like nails. They are usually plantigrade or
semiplantigrade. The cerebrum is small and nearly or quite
smooth, but in some of the larger forms (the beaver excepted)
it is well convolut<Ml. The ears and eyes are well developed.
The voice is a squeak or squeal. Their defense is by spines,
as in the porcupine; by biting, as in the rat; and by flight or
