352 BRANCH CHORDATA
fibula are distinct. Thoy feed upon nuts and fjruin, as well as eggs and
young birds. They are chiefly arboreal, building their nests in tree-tops.
They lay up a store of food in hollow trees, where they pass the severe
winter weather. Four species of this genus {Sciurus) are found in the
United States and Canada. S. vulgaris, the common squirrel of Great
Britain, is found from Ireland to Japan.
Flying squirrels (genus Sciurop' tents) (Fig. 284) of the palsearctic region
(which includes Europe, northern Asia and Japan, North America, and
India) have a furry membrane connecting the anterior and posterior limbs.
This, together with the broad tail, acts as a sort of parachute, enabling these
squirrels to take enormous downward leaps from limb to limb or tree to
tree. They cannot "fly" upward, but ascend the tree by climbing. The
Asiatic flying squirrel is 16 to IS inches long without the tail, and, it is said,
SO yards have been covered in their longest leaps.
The little striped ground squirrel {Taiuias striatus) burrows and carries
its food in its cheek pouches to its nest in the ground.
The prairie-dog (genus Cy'nomys), of the great western plains, is also sub-
terranean, digging a burrow and throwing up a mound at its entrance.
There are whole villages of these mounds, sometimes covering acres. The
prairie-dog hibernates in winter, at least comes out only occasionally. One
kept in a cage by the author comes out of his "straw burrow" at night or
just before dawn, only at long intervals, for food. They sit up on their
hind feet and look all around like sentinels, but dart back into their burrows
again at the least approach of danger, uttering a shrill cry as a warning to
the rest of the community. They are so quick of movement that it is diffi-
cult to shoot or trap them. Their ears are small. Their legs are so short
that in running they "hug the ground," of which, in sandy regions, they are
very nearly the color. They grasp their food with their paws like true
squirrels.
The marmots of the arctic regions are closely allied to these. The Alpine
marmot (Arcto'niys marmotta) lives far up in the Alps. Its danger signal is
a shrill whistle. These marmots hibernate, ten to fifteen being packed
together in a well-lined burrow.
The North American beaver (family Castor'idce) is an aquatic rodent with
a stout body, flat, scaly tail, and webbed hind feet. It fells trees by means
of its strong incisors, damming the stream so as to raise the level of water
above the entrance to its burrow. The beaver {Castor canadensis) is fast
becoming exterminated on account of the demand for its fur.
Rats and mice (Muridcp) have naked tails which are scaly underneath.
The soles of the feet are naked and the tibia and fibula are united below.
Some of the numerous genera are found in all parts of the world. The
muskrat is the largest member of this family. Some of the species are
among the smallest quadrupeds known.
The North American muskrat (genus Fiber) is a genus of two species of
dark brown aquatic animals. They dig burrows in the banks of streams, the
entrarices to which are beneath the surface of the water. The hind feet
are slightly webbed, the tail flattened and scaly, with scattered hairs.
The shortened thumb has a fully developed claw, and the}' grasp theii food,
which consists of roots and water plants, with their paws, like the squirrels.
A Rocky Mountain species (Fiber osoyoosensis) is said to construct a dome-
shaped house of "bulrushes" in the water. It feeds largely upon water-
fowls and fish.
The common mouse {Mus mus'cidus) and rat (M. decumanus) have
been introduced into America from the Old World. M. minutus is said to
