MAMMALIA 357
of other animals, which they catch by cunning, by chasing, or
by stealtliily creeping up upon them and pouncing on them,
wher(>upon they bite and tear them in pieces. Here we find
anotlier strilving ihustration of the adaptation of structure to
habits. They must be fitted to attack and destroy other ani-
mals. Their five or four toes are armed with sharp claws, which,
in the cat, are retractile into a sheath by which they are pro-
tected when not in use. The teeth are adapted for seizing,
biting, holding or cutting, in contrast to the nibbling or grind-
ing teeth of the herbivores. The usually six incisor teeth are
small. The canines are long, strong, and conical, fitted for
tearing, and the premolar in the upper jaw and the first molar
in the lower jaw, called the " carnassial teeth," are developed
into thin, sharp, three-pointed fangs, shutting down past one
another like scissor-blades, while the cusps of the molars form
more or less angular and sharp ridges.
The stomach is simple, and the cecum small or wanting.
The clavicle is reduced, the radius and ulna well developed.
As to manner of walking, there are several gradations from the
plantigrade bears, which walk on the soles of their feet, to the
digitigrade cats, which walk on the tips of their toes. The
coloration is varied to conform to their habits. Some are
spotted, others striped, while many adults are quite modest in
their plain, uniform colors. The brain is large and well convo-
luted, and the sense organs well developed, giving them a high
degree of intelligence.
This provision of nature, wherein some animals feed upon
vegetable matter and others feed upon animals — for every living
thing, from the microscopic algae in the water to large animals
like the deer and horse, becomes food for some animal — is a
wise one. For thus the vegetation of the earth supports not only
the herbivorous animals feeding directly upon it, but the carniv-
orous animal has his food very largely prepared for him by the
vegetable-feeding animals. But the carnivorous animal also
aids the herbivorous survivors in their struggle for existence, for,
was not the number kept within bounds, the rapidly multiply-
ing herbivores would soon absolutely destroy the vegetation of
the world.
These animals are usually clothed in dense, soft hair, and
