358
BRANCH CHORDATA
many of them are valuable for their fur. The cat and dog have
been domesticated.
The Terrestrial Carnivora {Fisdye'dia). — The number of
digits may be five on each foot, but is often reduced to four on
the hind feet, as in cats and dogs, and sometimes to four on the
front feet, as in Hyce'nidce, ])ut the reduced first toe may bear a
claw.
The cat family {Fc'lidcB) includes the lions, tigers, leopards or pan-
thers, jaguars, pumas, lynxes, wildcats, etc. They are widely distributed
in both the Old World and the New, but are absent in Australia.
They seem to have evolved in the Old World first, migrating to North
America at the close of the Pliocene, and from thence to South America.
The legs are relatively short and the claws are retractile. The terminal
Fig. 291. — Bones and ligaments of the toe of a cat, showing the claw re-
tracted (A) and protruded {B).
joint bearing the claw (Fig. 291) folds back into a sheath by the outside
of or above the middle joint, and is held there by a strong ligament. This
is the natural position of the claw and prevents it from friction. When
wanted for aggression or defense it is pulled into position by the flexor
muscles bearing the claw.
The raccoons (Proci/on'idcF), placed by some with the bear family, are
plantigrade and omnivorous, eating anything in the way of fish, oyster,
crayfish, flesh or fowl, and green vegetables especially corn. They have
the peculiar habit of washing their food. They are nocturnal. The limbs
are long and the soles of the feet naked. "The raccoon is at home in the
timbered regions of the southern and eastern United States where there are
swamps," for it loves to play and to fish in the water. It has long active
fingers, and uses its hands as cleverly as a monkey. It makes its home in
the hollow limb of a tree. The annual family of five or six young follow the
mother about for a year. In August the "coons" are fat and the flesh is
tender and juicy, and "coon hunting" is a great sport. The young are easily
