MAMMALIA 359
tamed, but are annoying on account of their curiosity and the skill with
which they open doors with their hands. The fur is much used. The fam-
ily includes also the civet-cats of the Southwest, the kinkajou of the
tropics, and the South American coati.
The bears ( Ur'sidve) are clumsy, omnivorous animals, with thick limbs
and naked-soled, plantigrade feet, bearing strong non-retractile claws.
The tail is short and the hair coarse. The "molar teeth are more adapted to
grinding than to cutting and the flesh teeth are massive and blunt." Some
species are especially fond of insects, such as day-flies, grubs, and termites.
The latter they obtain by digging into the nest and sucking them into the
mouth with inhalations strong enough to be heard two hundred yards away.
They are also fond of honey and fish. They live upon the ground, few spe-
cies being able to climb trees. The den may be in a hollow tree or in a cave
in a hillside, either natural or dug out by the mother. Two cubs, not larger
than rabbits, almost hairless, blind, and helpless, are born in mid-winter,
and the mother guards them solicitously. It takes seven years to reach
maturity. Bears rarely breed in captivity. The male bears wander
about singly, "the females are accompanied by their cubs, often as big aa
themselves."
Bears are naturally good tempered. The majority of the instances of
unj)rovoked attacks, says Hornaday, have been probably by mother bears
who fancied their cubs in danger — even those bears which ate up the chil-
dren in Ellijah's day were "she-bears. "^ When a bear is aroused it is
exceedingly formidable. It deals killing blows with one of its pavys,
having been known to kill a buffalo with one blow. It does not hug its
victims to death. The grizzly flees from man unless cornered. In cold,
snowy countries, where bears are unable to obtain food they pass the winter
in a sort of sleep, living upon their fat stored up in the fall, but they do not
become torpid, as the cold-blooded animals do. In some species the males,
which hibernate singly, come out from time to time. They do not hibernate
in the tropics nor in captivity, leading us to believe that the winter sleep
of the north is only another adaptation to environment.
According to Beddard, the polar bear hunts "by scent rather than sight
or hearing, both of which senses seem to be somewhat dull." All American
bears, except the polar bear, change their color, being darkest in late summer
and lightest in spring. There are a numbei of well-marked types of bears,
eight of which live in Asia and Europe, and four, the polar bear, the brown
bear, the grizzly, and the black, live in America. One group is found all
around the North Pole and another group in South America. The oil, fat,
and fur of bears are used.
Not until the Pliocene in the Old World and later in the New did the true
bears ( Ursus) appear. So this family, which is highly specialized in some
features and very primitive in others, is among the youngest of the Car-
nivora.
The fur-bearers {Mustel'idce) are blood-thirsty robbers, often killing
many times what they can consume, seemingly from a spirit of mere wan-
tonness. "The testimony of the rocks," says Ingersoll, "shows that this
family is either an ancient branch from the civet stock, or that it has sprung
from the same root." The genus Lutrn is widely distributed. It includes
the otter. The front and hind feet are webbed, and the claws on the hind
feet flattened and nail-like.
The North American otter is still occasionally found "in Florida, Carolina,
1 II Kings ii, 24.
