MAMMALIA 361
The weasid is the smallest animal of the group. The body is very long
and "no thicker than a man's thumb." Its fur changes from brown in
summer to white in winter. This winter fur is known as (>rmine, and comes
from Alaska, Canada, Lapland, Russia, and Siberia. It is used not only
for ladies' garments, but for the robes and crowns of kings. The smallest
of all Carnivores is Pntorius rixosus, of northwestern Canada. It is only
6 inches in total length and brown to the tip of its tail. In all other species
the end of the tail is black. The change of color to white helps to retain the
body heat, and helps also to conceal the animal from its enemies and its
prey. Poulton believes that the cause of this change of color is the lower
temperature acting upon the skin, and that existing dark hairs become white
at the tips. Others maintain that in cold regions the sunnner pelage is re-
placed in winter by hairs which come in wholly white, while in warm regions
the new winter coat is brown. However, Doctor Coues says he has seen
many autumnal skins which were white at the roots and dark at the tips.
In any case, natural selection has preserved those individuals having the
power of changing the color of the fur until this character is now general.
The dog family {Canidce) is universally distributed, with the exception
of New Zealand. These animals have a simple, cyhndric cecum and usually
five toes. Perhaps the most striking feature of the family is the bladder-
like inflation of the auditory bulla, that part of the skull containing the
internal ear. This apparatus and sense is perfected in the dogs. Many of
this family are familiar.
There are several genera, but the principal one is Cards, including our
dogs, wolves, foxes, and jackals. Huxley divides them into fox-like and
wolf-like dogs. The foxes are more active than the wolves, with a "broad
skull, sharper muzzle, larger ears, a more bushy tail, and, usually, longer
fur." They are notably clever and quick witted, and often show skill in
meeting new situations made by the advent of man.
The typical fox is the common red fox {Vulpes fulvus),oi wide distri-
bution. Our American form varies from the typical yellowish red, darkest
on the back and shoulders, to a very bright or very pale yellowish red.
It may have the markings on the spine and withers very dark and distinct,
making it a "cross-fox," or be totally black with a white-tipped tail, or black
with the tips of most of the hairs white, giving the fur a frosted oi silver
appearance. Either of the last two cases is called "silver fox." These rare
and valuable variations may occur in the same litter with the normally
reddish ones. Foxes feed upon ground birds and their eggs, rodents, frogs,
lizards, insects, and fruits. They may be caught by rapid chase, by digging
the burrowing forms out of the ground — for the fox is naturally a burrower; —
by stealthily creeping up on them, or by lying apparently dead until the vic-
tim approaches, and then pouncing upon it . While it does sometimes raid the
hen coops, the fox does good service in tlestroying rats, mice, and gophers.
It sometimes stores its surplus food. Its enemies are all the large cats and
wolves, as well as man and dogs in the so-called sport of fox chasing. The
red fox has a litter of seven or eight young; the southern gray fox, of four or
five. The gray fox is smaller. It climbs trees to get the "sour grapes" and
persimmons, but it cannot adapt itself to the prairies. The arctic fox
{Vulpes lagopiis) furnishes another example of color variation under the
influence of a different climate. In the extreme north it is snow white all
the year round. A little farther south it is brown, with the under parts
lighter in summer and white in winter, while in the southern part of its
range, as in the Aleutian Island and parts of Greenland, it is most often bluish
