362 BRANCH CHORDATA
or slate gray. That these are not different species is proved by the fact that
occasionally one or two "blue foxes" occur in the litter where all the rest
become white; for all the young are blue. The arctic fox is valued for its
fur. The blue variety, being less abundant, is worth twice that of the white.
Commercial companies are, therefore, making attempts to breed these foxes
on the islands of the Alaska coast. In the extreme north the arctic fox
Btores its food in summer for the long, desolate whiter. There are a number
of other species of foxes.
The wolf-like dogs include the dogs, jackals, and wolves. Domestic dogs
of to-day comjjrise about two hundred brc^eds. They are owned by natives
of all countries except the South Sea Islands. They have been associated
with man for thousands of years, their rcmiains having been found in Danish
kitchen-middens, in the Swiss lake-dwellings, and in the remains of the
Bronze Age in Euroi)e generally. It is only since the invention of firearms
that hunting with dogs has become general, as stealth was necessary to the
successful hunter and the dog might frighten the game. It might have been
used in ruiming down such animals as th(> deer, but it seems from obtainable
evidence that it- was used for the i)rotecti()n of the camp, to watch while the
master slej)t, and to give the alarm if b(\ist or man came near; or it served as
food in time of necessity. Authorities vary in their opinion as to what stock
gave rise to the domestic races. " The ja('kal, bunasu, and the Indian wolf
have been suggested as ancestors. It is probable there has been much
mixture and tiiat different wild tyi)es have been selected by man in various
countries."^ The intelligence of dogs and their ability to learn by training
are well known and utilized by breeders and dealers.
There are many species of African and Oriental jackals. Some feed
chiefly on carrion, but also commit depredations upon the hen roosts and
farmyards; others live upon figs, and others chiefly upon fruits. Their cry
is a long howl, ending in a series of short yelps. Anderson says "they often
congregate near one's tent and make the night hideous with their howls."
The wolf of t he present time is distributed over most of Europe, northern
Asia, and North America, wherever a rough country affords it shelter.
Hornaday says "there is no depth of meanness, treachery, or cruelty to
which they do not cheerfully descend. They are the only animals on earth
which make a regular practice of killing and eating their companions and
devouring their own dead. But in the face of foes capable of defense even
gray wolves are rank cowards, and, unless cornered in a den, will not stop
to fight for their own cubs." The five or more sooty brown whelps are born
in a cave (which is often dug by the mother) early in May, but usually only
two or three survive. lu winter wolves form a pack to assist each other in
attacking the prey. Travellers through infested regions have been boldly
pursued and killed by them. The prolonged deep-chested bass howl, which
"multiplies itself by its rapid echoing until one wolf sounds like a dozen,"
is not broken into a bark like that of the coyote. The timber or gray wolf
{Cauis occideritnlis) is very much like the European (C lupus). It can adapt
itself to almost any situation, being at home in the timbered regions or on the
treeless prairies of the West, in the evcTgreen or on the treeless prairies of
the West, in the evergreen forests of British Columbia, and on the desolate
barren ground of arctic America. Its winter coat is long and shaggy, and
varies from the standard gray (black and white mixed) to black in Florida
and rufous in Texas, while in" the North it varies from black to the predomi-
nating white color of arctic animals.
1 Beddard, p. 423.
