SEGMENTATION 385
on which the chromosomes are again arranged as before, and
the second polar cell is formed. These polar cells disintegrate.
The nucleus of the ovum now contains only about half the
number of chromosomes present before the process of throwing
off the polar bodies. This remaining portion of the nucleus
retires from the circumference and is called the female pro-
nucleus, or macrogamete, which is ready for fertilization. The
spermatozoon previous to entering the ovum undergoes a
similar reduction of chromosomes, though the resulting cells
form sperms.
Fertilization. — The envelojiing membrane of the ovum con-
tains one or more minute openings through wliich the si:)er-
matozoon, or male germ cell, enters for the purpose of fertiliza-
tion. The spermatozoon consists of a nucleus or extremely
minute head, a centrosome, and a fiagellum or tail, which is
for the purpose of locomotion and disappears upon the entrance
of the spermatozoon into the ovum. The nucleus, called the
male pronucleus or microgamete, enlarges, the centrosome
divides, and a mitotic figure is formed which moves toward the
female pronucleus, which moves toward the male pronucleus.
Finally, male and female nuclei meet in the midst of the spindle
formed about the male nucleus; thus the male and female
nuclei are united into one nucleus or zygote.
Segmentation. — This zygote or fertilized ovum now contains
the normal number of chromosomes or "hereditary threads"
for its species, one-half of which have heew furnished by the
maternal cell and one-half by the paternal cell. When the
process of mitosis is completed, this zygote is divided into two
daughter-cells, each containing the same number of chromo-
somes, half of which have been derived from the sperm and half
from the ovum. Each of these daughter-cells subdivides into
two, and the resulting four, into eight cells, and so on, the num-
ber varying with different species. When there is little or no
yolk or nutritive material the whole egg divides equally; when
there is much yolk the division is unequal or partial.
Differentiation of Tissues. — From the ectoderm are produced
the outer portion of the skin and its outgrowths and the whole
nervous system; from the endoderm come the lining of the di-
gestive tract and the essential parts of the glands connected with
