386 THEORIES OF DEVELOPMENT
it. The mesoderm gives rise to the bones and muscles, the cir-
culatory system, and the muscular walls of the alimentary tube.
All metazoans pass through these early stages of development,
and embryology teaches that from these simple beginnings the
most complex animal body is developed.
This sphere of cells is known as the morula or mulberry stage
(Fig. 5), and is succeeded l)y the blastula stage, in which the
cells are arranged in a circle about a cavity filled with watery
fluid. On account of inequalities, one portion of this sphere
becomes jiitted, this pitting-in grows deeiier until there is a
complete invagination of this portion, like the pushing in of one
side of a hollow rubber ball until the two sides touch. This is
called the gastrula stage, and occurs in all the main divisions
of the animal kingdom. (In many vertebrates delamination
supercedes or follows invagination, but this, perliai)s, "is a
later development or, possibly, improvement upon gastrula-
tion."^) This gastrula stage is an open sac composed of two
layers of cells, the outer or ectoderm, and the inner or endoderm.
In most cases a third mass of cells, the mesoderm or middle
layer is formed, probably from the endoderm. The opening
of this sac-like body becomes the primitive mouth.
History and Theories of Evolution. — Evolution is not a new
th(M)ry. Traces of such an idea are found in old Greek ]ihil-
osophy. Empedocles (about 500 b. c.) believed that "i^lants first
sprang from the earth while the latter was in process of devel-
opment. After them came the animals, their parts having
first formed themselves independently and then been joined by
love." After ceaseless trials, nature succeeded in ])roducing
fit tribes for perpetuation. Osborn says this is the germ of the
"survival of the fittest." Aristotle (384-322 b. c), though
believing in separate creation, taught vaguely that living beings
formed a gradual succession from the "less to the more perfect."
Aristotle laid great stress upon the inductive method of study,
and he was so great an observer of animals as well as a collector
of the statements of others concerning them that he has been
calletl the founder of zoology. If only his principle — ^that "we
must not accept a general principle from logic only, but must
prove its application to fact; for it is in facts that we must
1 Romanes' "Darwin and After Darwin."
