HISTORY AND THP:ORlES OF EVOLUTION 387
seek general principles, and these must always accord with
facts" — had been remembered and applied by him and his
successors, science need not have progressed so slowly for so
many centuries.
The special creation theory interrupted scientific thought
and investigation for many centuries. Philosophy preceded
science in the line of evolutionary thought. Leibnitz, a German
philosopher (1646-1716), believed that "living beings form an
unbroken series from the simple to the complex, some steps in
the series having become extinct."^ Buffon (1707-88) thought
that organisms could be modified by changes in food and envi-
ronment or by domestication, and that parts could be modified
by disuse. He was one of the first to attempt an explanation
of the geographic distribution of animals.
Erasmus Darwin (1781-1802), grandfather of Charles
Darwin, author of "The Origin of Species," was a physician and
physiologist as well as a gardener and lover of plants. He
thought that the various plants and animals were descended
from "few ancestral forms or possibly from one and the same
kind of vital filaments." He emphasized function, saying that
"from their first rudiment or primordium to the termination
of their lives all animals undergo perpetual transformations;
which are in part produced by their own exertions in conse-
quence of their desires and aversions, of their pleasures and their
pains, or of irritations or of associations; and many of these
acquired forms or propensities are transmitted to their poster-
ity."
Lamarck (1744-1829), although unappreciated in his own
day, scientists of the present day, whether agreeing with him or
not, admit to be one of the bravest of pioneers. Haeckel
says "to Lamarck will remain the immortal glory of having for
the first time established the theory of descent as an independ-
ent, scientific generalization of the first order as the foundation
of the whole of biology." To quote Lamarck, "Nature in all
her work proceeds gradually and could not produce all animals
at once. At first she formed only the simplest, and passed
from these on to the most complex." He gives four laws as
the summing up of his ideas:
1 McFarland's "Biology."
