388 THEORIES OF DEVELOPMENT
(1) "Life by its inherent power tends continually to increase
the volume of every living; body, and to extend the dimensions
of its parts up to a self-regulated limit.
(2) "The production of a new organ in an animal body re-
sults from the occurrence of some new need which continues to
make itself felt, and from a new movement which this need
originates and sustains.
(3) "The development of organs and their power of action
are constantly determined by the use of these organs.
(4) "All that has been acquired, begun, or changed in the
structure of individuals during the course of their life is pre-
served in reproduction and transmitted to the new individuals
which spring from those which have experienced the changes."
But the man whose work is most completely identified with
organic evolution is Charles Darwin (1809-82), who after
spending many years in travel, observation, and investigation,
published in 1858 a paper of great scientific interest. At the
same time, Ijy the arrangement of friends, Wallace, then in the
Malay Archipelago, published his paper, giving essentially the
same conclusions. In 1859 Darwin published his great work,
"The Origin of Species," in which natural selection was more
fully elal)orated.
All organisms vary. These variations may be due to envi-
ronmental changes or to excess of food, to the inherited effect of
use or disuse of i)arts, or to atavism, reverting to the character-
istics of a remote ancestor, or to reversion, a character or
structure found in more recent ancestors. Darwin emphasizes
the fluctuating or indefinite variations as of most use in natural
selection. Every plant or animal must struggle for existence
because of the vast number of other plants and animals and
liecause of conditions of environment, such as cold, heat, or
drouth. This struggle is threefold: (1) with its own species;
(2) with other species of plants or animals which may prey
upon it or its food, and (3) against unfavorable conditions of
climate or weather. Thos(> which most frequently survive do
so because of certain individual characteristics which have made
them able to win in this struggle for existence, or, as Spencer
says, "the fittest survive." Now, according to Darwin, nature
takes advantage of these favorable variations possessed by the
