HYDROZOA 19
The food is obtained by the viscid tentacles, which, when the
Hydra is undisturbed, are extended (as is usually the body),
ready to grasp the prey, for this tiny animal is carnivorous,
feeding upon small organisms, usually crustaceans. There are
nettle cells, or nematocijsts, in the ectoderm of the tentacles.
When an animal comes in contact with a tentacle, the nemato-
cyst^ near the point touched throw out stinging threads which
partially paralyze the animal by the fluid which they discharge
into the wound they have pierced. The tentacles then pass
the prey to the mouth, which opens into the gastrovascular
cavity, in which digestion is carried on and into which the
wastes arc gath(^red and thrown out through the only opening,
the mouth. The Hydra, by its wide-open mouth and env(4op-
ing lips, often takes in organisms much larger than itself.
N(!rve-cells, sex-cells, and nettle-cells are situated in the
ectoderm.
Multiplication in the Hydra is both sexual and asexual.
It rei)rodu(^es by buckling, but as the l)uds mature th(^y become
detached, so that no permanent colony is formed. It also
reproduces by eggs, the animal being hermaphroditic, that is,
the reproductive organs of both sexes are found in the same indi-
vidual. Near the base of the tentacles are found the spermaries
from which the sperm cells are discharged into the water; the
ovaries are situated farther down, near the lower end of the
body. The eggs are cross-fertilized, that is, fertilized by the
sperm cells of another individual. After fertilization the ova
remain in the ectoderm for some time, when they become en-
cysted in spiny cysts, drop off into the water, and sink to the
bottom. They lie here till the following spring, when they
jjreak their casing and come forth as minute Hydras. In the
encysted condition they are able to withstand cold and drouth,
thus insuring the perpetuation of the species. Hydras also have
the power of regenerating the whole body from a part in case of
injury.
Locomotion.— The Hydra is temporarily fixed by adhering
to the submerg(Hl stems of water plants by means of a sticky
secretion from the closed end of the tul)e. It can detach itself,
and, by grasping with its tentacles, can pull itself up and again
attach the end of its tubular body to an object. By this cater-
