HISTORY AND THEORIES OF EVOLUTION 389
survivors, and they are transmitted by heredity to their off-
spring, while those having less favorable ada])tations do not
survive and, h(Mice, are eliminated. Thus did Darwin think
that si^ecies came into existence — by a gradual im])rovement
of advantageous variations until the type was l)est adapted
to its surroundings. "I am convinced," he said, ''that natural
selection has been the main though not the exclusive means of
modification."
One of the many objections offered against this theory is the
perpetuation and improvement of disadvantageous modifica-
tions, such as the beautiful colors and songs of birds and adap-
tations for fighting which render them conspicuous. Darwin
ex])lained many of these cases by his theory of sexual selection.
Among the high(T animals it is a fact of common observance
that in mating the members of either sex prefer the most at-
tractive individuals of the opposite sex. The successful rival
wins the mate, and, of course, it is his characteristics which are
transmitted and improved in succeeding generations. Adap-
tations for rivalry by battle among males are explained in the
same way.
Among the helpful contemporaries of Darwin several must be
mentioned. To Herbert Spencer (1820-1903), the philosopher
and author of "Principles of Biology," we owe the phrase,
''the survival of the fittest." Haeckel summed up the recapit-
ulation theory of Von Baer (published in 1828) — i. e., that the
embryonic phases of higher forms resemble or pass through the
corresponding embryonic stages of lower forms — in his funda-
mental law of biogenesis, that ontogeny recapitulates ])hilogeny.
Huxley was the author of "Man's Place in Nature."
Dr. August Weismann (born in 1834) is the foremost oi>po-
nent of Lamarck as to transmission of acquired characters. He
led to the critical examination of reported cases, and he claims
that no case really shows the transmission of acquired char-
acters. He recognizes the chromatin as the hereditary sub-
stance or idioplasm, and calls the idioplasm of the germ cells
germ plasm. This germ plasm, he says, is "never formed de
novo, but it grows and increases ceaselessly; it is handed on from
one generation to another like a long root creeping through the
earth, from which at regular distances shoots grow up and be-
