390 THEORIES OF DEVELOPMENT
come plants, the individuals of the successive generations."
He further states "that only those characters are transmissible
which have be(>n controlled — i. e., produced — by determinants of
the germ, and that consequently only those variations are
hereditary which result from the modification of several or many
determinants in the germ plasm, and not those which have
arisen subsequently in consequence of some influence exerted
upon the cells of the body. In other words, it follows from this
theory, that somatogenic or acquired characters cannot be trans-
mitted.
"This, however, does not imply that external influences are
incapable of ]:)roducing hereditary variations; on the contrary,
they always give rise to such variations when they are capable
of modifying the determinants of the germ plasm. Climatic
influences, for example, may well produce permanent variations
by slowly causing gradually increasing variations to occur in
the determinants in the course of generations. The primary
cause of variation is always the effect of external influences.
When deviations only affect the soma they give rise to temporary
non-hereditary variations; but when they occur in the germ
plasm they are transmitted to the next generation and cause
corresponding hereditary variations in the body."
The M}Uation Theory. — De Vries is the chief exponent of the
mutation theory, though Bateson also emphasizes its import-
ance. This theory assumes that new species and varieties are
produced from existing forms by sudden leaps. These may
arise simultaneously and in groujjs, or separately and at more or
less widely distributed periods. This new theory does not
try to account for these sudden variations, but claims that
"when they occur it is a striking fact that the characters tend
to be transmitted." When a mutation appears, it will survive
and leave descendants if it is adapted to its environment. Only
a comparatively small amount of evidence has been found to
support the zoologic side of proof for this theory.
Orthogenesis is believed by many specialists, among whom
may he mentioned Eimer, Whitman, Tower, and Ruthven.
Development in a definite, predetermined direction, even if
this development is harmful to the race, is called orthogenesis.
"According to this theory, certain lines of development remain
