HISTORY AND THEORIES OF EVOLUTION 391
stationary while others advance." Thc^ explanation most
favored "ascribes the control of these modifications to the direct
effects of physiochemical factors on organisms." Professor
Whitman says, "Natural selection, orthogenesis, and mutation
appear to present fundamental contradictions, but I believe
that each stands for truth, and reconciliation is not distant."
Mendel's law affirms that when mating takes place between
two animals unlike in some characteristic, the offspring will
often exhibit the characteristic of only one parent. This
characteristic is said to be dominant, while the character which
does not appear in the immediate descendants is said to be
recessive. The hybrids which result from the crossing of ani-
mals will produce a number of germ cells which bear only the
pure character of one parent and the same numl)er which l)ear
only the pure character of the other parent.
From this law follows the occurrence in the next and succeed-
ing hybrid generations of a definite number of forms in definite
numerical proportions. Thus, when gray rabbits are crossed
with all)ino rabbits, all the immediate offspring are gray, while
in the next generation produced by the breeding together of
these gray hybrids there will occur in nearly every case three
gray young to one albino. This is explained in the following
way: the second generation is all gray because in the zygote, or
fertilized germ cell, the chromosomes, or hereditary units, which
bear the gray character are more potent in the color of the young
than are the chromosomes bearing the albino character. This
gray character is said to be dominant; the recessive albino char-
acters are not destroyed, but are carried over and give rise to
chromosomes of their own character, so that in the breeding
of two hybrids one albino germ cell from each of the two sexes
unite to produce one albino descendant. If one of the hybrid
dominants (gray) is mated with a recessive animal, half of the
young are hybrid dominants and half recessive. One who has
found out by experiment which are dominant and which are
recessive characters may produce several distinct types within
a species. If future experiments add support to this law, it will
then be explained how races suddenly spring into existence and
t)ecome established.
By collecting evidence and arranging it in the form of pedi-
