22 BRANCH CCELENTERATA
and connected, the whole colony shares the food thus supplied.
When disturbed the polyi) withdraws into the hydrotheca for
prot(X'tion.
Blastostyles. — But while the majority of the members of this
colony are hydra-like, tentacle-bearing polyps which reproduce
by budding only, and can enlarge the original colony, they
have no power of directly producing a new colony in a more
favorable position. There is, therefore, another set of individ-
uals (see Fig. 11). These, while forming a part of this tubular
colony, are modified in their form for a particular function.
They are situated toward the proximal r(>gion of the colony and
are long, cylindric bodies, known as blastostyles, each of which is
enclosed in a transparent case, the gonotheca. These are the
reproductive zooids, and bear small lateral circular buds called
medusa buds, which, as they mature, become detached and pass
out through an opening now formed at the end of the gonotheca.
Alternation of Generations. — These medusa buds are sexual
and dioecious, i. e., the sexes are separate, one individual producing
the ova and another the sperm cells. After fertilization, which
takes place in the water, the egg develops into a simple, free-
swimming ciliated larva, the planula, which soon attaches itself
to some object, develops into a polyp, and, by budding, forms
a new colony. This regular reproduction by budding, and then
by eggs, and then by budding again is called alternation of genera-
tions, or metagenesis.
Medusae. — Careful study shows that the Medusa is only a
highly developed or modified zooid. The cylindric body has
been developed into a disk or umbrella-shaped body (Fig. 14) ;
the long axis has been greatly shortened and is suspended be-
neath the center of the sub-umljrella, as the under surface of
the disk is called, where it takes the name of manubrium, or
" handle." At the free end of this manubrium is the mouth,
which opens into the gastric cavity that occupies the whole
interior of the handle.
At the base of the manubrium four radial canals, equally
distant from each other, are sent out to the circular canal,
which runs around the margin of the umbrella, but within its
substance. Thus, the food taken into the mouth is distributed
to the whole animal. The whole canal system is lined by endo-
