32 BRANCH CCELENTERATA
tractile, and these cilia accomplish locomotion. They are
free and single, there being no polyp stage. They are found
from the tropical to the arctic seas. They are small — from
5 to 20 mm. in diameter — and their shape varies from that of a
pear to a sac-like or ribbon-like form. They have but two
tentacles. They are hermaphroditic, multiplying by eggs.
The central nervous system is represented by a ciliated area
on the aboral pole, and is connected with a single sensory
organ.
Economic Value. — The animals of this branch are of great
use to man, indirectly, by furnishing food for other animals, and,
directly, by the formation of great beds of limestone and of
coral reefs and islands, also by forming an article of commerce
of no small value. ^
" The red coral of commerce is obtained in the Mediterranean
Sea off the coast of Africa and the west coast of Italy. The price
varies according to the color. The finest rose pink in large
pieces is valued at $400 or more an ounce. The common
article brings from $1 to $1.50 an ounce. "^
Geologic Distribution. — The hydrozoa are believed to be
represented by the Graptolites, which appeared in the Cambrian
Period, were numerous in the Ordovician, greatly diminished in
the Silurian, and almost extinct in the Devonian. Large
numbers of casts of jelly-fishes are found in the Cambrian rocks. ^
Hydroids and true corals were important. Marine life and reefs
were formed in the Silurian Period. Corals vastly increased
in size and number in the Devonian Period, and were abundant
in the Carboniferous, contributing largely to the limestone.
Hydractinia were found in the Cretaceous Period.
Important Biologic Facts. — In the Ctenophora is found for the
first time a true middle layer of mesoderm cells.**
In the hydroid colony is found the division of labor among
the different sets of individual zooids and a differentiation of
structure according to their function.
^ " The fishing for the red coral {CoralUum rubrum) at Naples amounts
yearly to half a million dollars." — Kingsley.
2 Adam's "Commercial Geography."
3 Scott's "Geology," p. 371.
* Parker and Haswell's "Zoology," vol. i, p. 207.
