40 BliAXCH PLATYHKL.MIXTIIKS
an alimentary tract with an anal opening and a distinct blood-
vascular system.' They are usually dicjccious.'-
Geographic Distribution. — This branch of animals is the most
widely distributed of any above the })rotozoans. They are
found on land, in streams, and in the depths of lake and sea.
The parasitic forms are found in some stage in almost every class
of metazoans, while others have a commensal life with ascidians.
All are carnivorous.
Economic Importance. — Many domestic animals are hosts
for these parasites and much loss is occasioned thereby. A
number of class Cestoda are parasitic in man and cause annoy-
ing if not dangerous disc^ases. Th(> only sure preventive of these
parasites is to have all meats thoroughly cooked and Jruitn and
vegetables well washed.
Important Biologic Facts. — An anterior end — one placed
foremost in locomotion — and a ])osterior (>nd appear for the first
time in platyhelminthes. Also right and left and dorsal and
ventral sides are found.
In the Nemertinea there is an alimentary tract with a mouth
and an anal opening. There is no distinct coelom.
Class Turbellaria is the most primitive and the most closely
related to the Coclenterates, but it is not thought to be derived
from them, though it shows special points of resemblance to the
Ctenophora. It is thought that Trematoda and Cestoda are
descendants of Turbellaria. In Trematoda is seen an alterna-
tion of generations consisting of the succession of several dis-
tinct generations in regular series. Such an alternation of gen-
erations is termed heterogeny. The simple structure of parasitic
forms illustrates the principle that easy life — one requiring
little exertion — is accompanied by a low stage of development.
Classification. —
Class. Examples.
I. Turl)ellri'ria. Planarians.
II. Tremato'da. Liver-fluke.
in. Cesto'da. Tapeworms.
IV. Nemertin'ea. Carinella, Tetrastemma, etc.
1 McMurrich, p. 160; Ogborn's "Economic Zo()logv," p. 85; Kingsley's
Hcrtwig, p. 2S9.
" " Invertebrate Zoology," McMurrich, p. 162; Parker and Haswell, p. 279.
