BRANCH NEMATHELMIN'THES
Round- or Thread-worms. — The worms of this branch are
elongated and cylindric and have a ccelom or body cavity.
The vinegar-eel affords a good example. They differ from
annelids in that they are not divided into segments or rings.
CLASS I. NEMATODA
The members of class Nematd'da are best known as para-
sites, but there are many fresh-water and marine forms.
The tough body wall encloses a body cavity which surrounds
a straight alimentary tube having a terminal mouth and a
ventral anal opening. An excretory system is usually present.
The nervous system consists of an esophageal nerve ring which
sends out six nerves anteriorly and six posteriorly. The only
sense organs are sensory papillae on the lips. The sexes are
usually sc^parate. Many of the aquatic forms are free. Some
of the parasites infect plants, as Tylen'chus trit'ici, which does
gr(>at damage to wheat, and Heterode'ra schach'tii, to turnips in
Europe.
One form, Ascaris nigrovcnasa/ living a parasitic life in the lungs of
frogs anfl toads, is horina{)hro(litio. The embryos reach the alimentary
canal and pass out, with the waste material. In water they develop into
a stage in which the sexes are sf^parate. The eggs develop in the body of
the female; and devour the entin; substance of the tissue of the mother,
leaving only the cuticle. When set free they live in the mud until they
are taken into the mouth of a frog, when they pass into the lungs and
develop into the hermaphroditic stage. Here, again, is a peculiar alterna-
tion of gen(Tations (heterogeny), the alternation of an hermaphroditic with
a dia>cious form.
TrichineFla spira'lis (Fig. .SI) is another member of this class. In the
adult stage it lives in the alimentary canal of man or of other mammals,
'i'he length of the aflult male is about jV inch, and that of the female about
s inch. The sexes are sef)arate. The young, at, least one thousand, are
born alive. The young worms (Figs. 32, 33) pass through the intestinal
wall and make th(>ir way to the voluntary muscles, where they penetrate
the sarculemma and become encysted.
^ Parker and Haswell, vol. i., p. 286. McMurrich, p. 176.
41
