NEMATODA
43
When the infested flesh, unless thoroughly cooked, is eaten by man the
cysts are dissolved, the young entering the small intestine, the worms con-
tinue developing and become sexually niature in a few tiays, the female
j)enetrates into the superhcial layer of the intestinal villi, and in the course
of a month gives birth to young, and then dies. The young wander
through the lymph-vessels and blood-vessels into the capillaries, pass into
the muscle and become encysted (Fig. 34), as did the parents in the former
host; 1 ounce of infested pork, unless thoroughly cooked, may liberate
80,000 worms. If half of these were females, each producing 1000 embryos,
40,000,000 worms would shortly begin to migrate into the muscles, causing
trichinosis, which may be fatal. The worst epidemic known was in Emmers
Leben, Saxony, in 1SS4, where 364 persons were infected from eating one
pig, and .57 jiersons died within a month.
The Guinea-worm {Dracun'culus tnedinen'sis) is an East India parasite
in the subcutaneous connective tissue of man. It is long and slentler,
sometimes 1 yard long. It forms abscesses under the skin. When the
newborn young pass out of their host, if they pass into water, they enter
the body of a small crustacean (the Cy- _ „ . ^
clops), which is necessary to their develop- f WB~ '*-TM
ment. It is supposed that they reach
the human system through the Cyclops, ""^t^f'-'-Z \\ //
which is swallowed in unfiltered drinking-
water.
Fig. 35. — Eggs of the ga]ie-worm
{Syn'yamus trachea' lis), one of them
hatching; enlarged 260 times.
(After Megnin.)
Fig. 36. — Windpipe of chicken
split open to show ga];)e-worms at-
tached to its inner surface; en-
larged. (After Megnin.)
The hook-worm {Neca'tor america'nus), of the Southern United States
and the West Indies, is thought to have been introduced from Africa by
slaves.
" In hook-worm disease we have ground-itch, tibial ulcer, anemia, inter-
ference with physical and mental development, and, in bad cases, dirt
eating." i
Other Species. — There are various other species. Some, as the pin-worm
{Oxyuris vcrtnicjilaris) and the round-worm (As'caris luvibricoVdes), are
parasitic in man. Some are parasitic in other mammals and some in birds.
One of the latter, Syn/gamus trachea'lis (Fig. 35), about 5 inch in length,
causes " gapes " in poultry (Fig. 36).
1 Stitt, 244.
