44 BRANCH NEMATHELMINTHES
Gordius, the " hair-worm," is found in watering-troughs and erroneously
believed by superstitious people or those ignorant of biologic principles to
be horse hairs transformed into live worms. The larva? are parasitic in
the grasshopper, the adults live in water. Agassiz tells of experimenting
with one 18 inches long which was wrajjped in and out of its eggs, which
were rolled up into a ball about the size of a coffee bean. He disentangled
it and it " sewed " itself through and through the little white mass. Three
times he separated the worm from its eggs, and each time the process of
entangling was repeated, convincing Agassiz that there was a definite
purpose in its attempts, and that even a being so low in the scale of animal
existence has some dim consciousness of a relation to its offspring. ^
He placed a small portion of the egg mass under the microscope, and
estimated that there were not less than 8,000,000 eggs in the whole mass,
which, when unwound, made a string 12 feet long.
CLASS II. ACANTHOCEPHALA
Most of the class Acan'thoceph'ala are small parasites. The
chief genus (Echinorhyn'chus) is parasitic in the intestines of
mammals, birds, reptiles, amphiljians, and fishes. The largest
species is found in the pig, and one species, EcMnorhynchus
hominis, is extremely rare in man.
CLASS m. CHiETOGNATHA
This class contains but two genera of curious arrow-shaped
worms, all but one species of which are pelagic. They are
hermaphroditic and have three pairs of coelomic pouches,
" fins," and bristle-like jaws.
Economic Importance. — In this branch may be found worms
which are harmful and those which are helpful to man. Those
forms like TrichineUa spiralis, wliich are parasitic in man, are
very injurious. The only preventive upon which it is safe to
rely is thorough cooking.
Those forms which infest wheat and turnips are also harmful
to man, in that they destroy his food; while Gordius, which is
parasitic in the grasshopper, is indirectly beneficial to man.
Important Biologic Facts. — For the first time in the scale of
animal life, a ccelom, or body cavity, appears. It is filled with a
clear fluid, and through it extends the straight alimentary tube
which consists of pharynx or stomodeum, an intestine, and a
rectum. There are no circulatory and no respiratory organs.
1 " Methods of Study in Natural History," Agassiz, pp. 63, 64.
