BRANCH MOLLUSCOIDA
In this branch there is usually a body cavity, with the ali-
mentary tube suspended by mesenteries. The mouth and anal
aperture are near together, the dorsal surface being shortened.
In the adult there is a tentacle-bearing ridge, or lophophore, about
the mouth, containing a compartment of the body cavity.
The tentacles are used not only in securing food, but in respira-
tion. The nervous system consists of one or two ganglia or of a
nerve ring.'
CLASS I. POLYZOA
Molluscoi'da, which usually form colonies of zooids by budding, are
Polyzy'a.^ The character of the colony differs, according to the mode of
budding in the different species and the charact(T of the exoskeleton. It
varies from a bush-like colony to a calcareous or gelatinous sheet. Each
zooid has a crown of ciliated tentacles which can be extended or with-
drawn. They are held together by the common exoskeleton formed by
the ectoderm. There is no vascular system. The digestive tract is bent
like the letter U, the anal opening being near the mouth, within or just
outside of the ring of tentacles. The nervous system consists of a gang-
lion situated between the mouth and the anal opening. Polyzoans are
usually hermaphroditic.
CLASS IL PHORONI'DA
The classification of this group of worm-like forms of the sea is doubtful.
The worm is covered by a leathery cylindric tube into which it may
withdraw. The body is unsegmented and bears a crown of tentacles.
The mouth and anus are close together and are situated at the tentacle-
bearing end of the body. The body cavity is divided into three chambers.
There is an alimentary tract and a closed system of blood-vessels contain-
ing red blood-corpuscles. The central nervous system consists of a horse-
shoe-shaped nerve ring at the base of the tentacles. The Phoronis is
hermaphroditic. There is a metamorphosis.
CLASS III. BRACHIOP^ODA
Brachiopods are marine and were abundant in former geologic times,
being very plentiful as early as the Cambrian Period. There are a few
living species.
They are enclosed in a bivalve shell (Fig. 38), the valves being dorsal
and ventral instead of right and left, as in the mollusks. They are at-
tached to foreign objects by a peduncle or stalk, which passes through the
larger or ventral valve near the hinge. They do not form colonies.
1 Parker and Haswell, p. 313.
48
