METAMORPHOSIS 53
fish. On the inside of the floor of each ray are the ampullce,
small bulb-like water-sacs, which are connected with the tube-
feet on the outside of the ray. " By a contraction of the deli-
cate muscles in the walls of the amj^ullae the fluid in the cavity
is compressed, thereby forcing the tul)e-feet out. By the con-
traction of muscles in the tube-feet they are again shortened,
while the small disk-like terminal sucker clings to some firm
object. In this way the animal i^ulls itself along by successive
steps." By the aid of these am])ulacral or tul)e-feet the starfish
is able to turn over if placed upon its back. They also act as
suckers to fasten the starfish to the rocks. When once this is
accomplished, arm after arm may be broken off before the
animal can be pulled loose or the feet will relax their hold.
So-called blood canals accompany the ring and radial canals,
and associated with them are sometimes two intestinal blood-
vessels.^
Nervous System. — " There is a nerve ring and radial nerve,
frequently in the ectoderm, to which may be added an entero-
ca^lic or apical nervous system, possibly of peritoneal origin."
The circulating fluid is somewhat lymph-like and the circula-
tion slow.
" Respiratory organs are represented by the hranchicp, or thin-
walled outpushings of the ccelom, either around the mouth, as in
the Echinoi'dea, or on the aboral surface, as in the Asteroi'dea,
the hursoe of the Ophiuroi'dea, the branchial trees of the Holothu-
roi'dea, and the various parts of the arnhulacral system.^'-
The alimentary tube is complete, that is, shut off from the
body cavity and runs through the body. Its length depends \\\)on
the food of the echinoderm. In carnivorous forms, as the star-
fish, it is short, but in vegetable feeders, as the sea-urchins
and sea-cucumbers, the alimentary tu]:)e is two or three times
the length of the body.
Multiplication is sexual, as a rule, the sexes being separate
except in rare cases. Fertilization takes place in the water.
They never form colonies by budding.
The metamorphosis, or change from the larval to the adult
form, is as mark<'d as that from the caterpillar to the Ijutterfly.
1 Hertwig's "Manual of Zoology," Kingsley, p. 331.
2 Ibid.
