54 BRANCH ECHINODERMATA
The larva is l)ilateral/ while the adult is radial, the development
being complex.
Generally the young shift for themselves, but cases are
recorded of broods l)eing cared for by the female echinoderm
in a pouch on the dorsal surface.
CLASS I. ASTEROIDEA
To this class belong the starfishes, with their central disks
and varying numljer of rays, five being the typical number.
They live along rocky seacoasts. Fresh water kills them.
The common starfish {Aste'rias vulga'ris) is abundant along the
Atlantic coast, especially in the vicinity of oyster-beds, to
which they do much injury l)y devouring the oysters. Star-
fishes are found also on the Pacific coast from Sitka to southern
California. They are said to devour small fishes as well as
crabs.
The body wall is composed of a thick leathery sul)stance in
which is embedded a great number of calcareous ossicles
(12,000 by estimation), many of which are armed with spines
for protection. Between the spines on the aboral surface are
soft stalked projections ending in pinchers, called pedicella'rice,
with which it cleanses the surface of the body and protects
itself from ]:)arasites.
The alimentary tube extends from the oral to the aboral
surface. It consists of a mouth, a short esophagus, and a large
sac-like stomach, which is five lol)ed and fills most of the disk.
(See Fig. 41, p. 52.) The stomach is eversible and is furnislied
with muscles for withdrawing it. From the pyloric, or upper,
division of the stomach the cceca extend, a pair into each arm.
These caeca secrete much fluid, which is emptied into the
pyloric portion of the stomach and used in digesting the food.
From the stomach a short conical intestine extends upward
to the aboral surface. The aboral opening from the intestine is
not exactly in the center of the disk and is often difficult to find.
In a few forms it is wholly obliterated.
Locomotion, — The arms are somewhat flexible, and, aided by
their tube-feet,^ enable the starfishes to move slowly along in
1 Hertwig's "Manual of Zoology," Kingsley, p. 331.
2 See text, Water- vascular System of Echinoderms, p. 52.
