62 BRANCH ECHINODKRMATA
They are probably excretorj^ organs also, and are connected
with the manipulations of the tentacles.^
Multiplication is generally similar to that of the starfish,
except in rare cases of hermaphroditism. There are also cases
recorded of the female caring for her brood in dorsal pouches.
In unfavorable conditions they void the whole viscera and yet
live and replace the lost parts.'
In the development from the bilateral larva to the radial
adult there is a marked metamorphosis.
Several species are hosts for certain parasites. A small
fish infests the cloaca and branchial trees of one or two species.
A snail lives in one species and a nmssel in another.
Use. — They are used for food l)y the Malays, who call them
" trepang," and use them principally for soups. Millions of
them are captured in the south seas, where hundreds of vessels
are engaged in the trepang fisheries.
Distribution. — Holothurians are widely distril)uted, being
found from the arctic to the tropical regions.
Geologically, they date from the Carboniferous Period.
CLASS V. CRINOFDEA
Crinoids are fixed echinoderms with a flexible stem or stalk
of calcareous perforated disks, bearing a flower-like body at
the top of the stem (Fig. 48). This body consists of a cup-
shaped center bearing five or ten arms, usually branched.
The " feather stars," found at a less depth, later become de-
tached and float around in the water.
Ambulacral Grooves. — Five ciliated ambulacral grooves
(Fig. 49) extend from the mouth out on the arms and their
branches, and give off branches to the pinnules. They serve
as channels through which the food passes to the mouth, and also
for the purpose of respiration.
Food. — They feed on small crab-like animals and on marine
unicellular animals and plants.
The nervous system consists of a nerve ring surrounding the
mouth, and given off from this nerve ring are a series of ambu-
lacral nerves which extend the entire length of the arms and
pinnules.
1 Parker and Haswell's "Zoology," vol. i, p. 372. - Ibid., p. 400.
