90 BRANCH ARTHROPODA
CLASS I. CRUSTACEA
As examples of this class may be named crayfishes, lobsters,
crabs, and " pill-bugs." The body has a limited number of
segments, about twenty in the crayfish. Each pair of append-
ages is regarded as being attached to a different segment.
The head and thorax are united and called cephalothorax.
The chitinous covering, rendered hard by deposits of carbonate
and phosphate of lime, is called the carapace.
Respiration is by gills, or branchise, though some breathe
through the skin.
The appendages are biramous, as seen in the swimmerets of
the crayfish. A typically developed appendage, as the third
pair of swimmerets, consists of a main stalk (protopod) and two
branches, the outer (exopod) and the inner (endopod). Several
of the appendages lack some of these parts. The student should
homologize the appendages and tell or demonstrate which ones
have missing parts.
The class Criista'cea is usually divided into two sub-classes,
the En'tomos'traca and the Mal'acos'traca, with several orders
under each.
Sub-class Entomostraca is composed of crustaceans with a
varying number of joints or segments. They are usually small
or microscopic. There is a metamorphosis, the first stage being
the free-swimming nauplius.
Order I. Phyllop'oda are small aquatic crustaceans with
segmented bodies and leaf-like appendages. The brine shrimp,
fresh-water Branchipus, and Daphnia are examples of the
order. Daphnia is shelled and looks like a very small clam.
The animals of this order form an important part of the
food of fresh-water fishes. The eggs of many species can
resist the drought, which is a valuable means of perpetuating
them in small streams which dry up in summer.
Order II. Ostrac'oda are small crustaceans with apparently
unsegmented bodies enclosed in a bivalve shell, as the fresh-
water Cypris. The abdomen is rudimentary. There are only
two pairs of thoracic appendages, two pairs of maxillae, one pair
of mandibles, one pair of antenna?, and one pair of antennules.
The antennae and antennules are used for locomotion. The
