ARACHNIDA 107
all directions attached to blades of ^rass for support. In the morning dew
these webs form a shinnnering silken sheet. The spider runs ;il>out on
the upper surface of the " sheet " and catches any insects which lifi;ht upon
it. The tube or hiding; place opens below, so that the spider can escape if an
enemy aj^pears upon the web. These are long-legged brown spiders, of
which th{> common grass sjtider is a familiar example.
The "curled-thread weavers" are of two kinds, those which spin regular
webs and those which spin irregular webs. The curled thread is composed
of silk spun from a special organ, the cribel'lum, in front of the spinnerets.
It is combed into shajjc l)y means of stif? hairs called the calamis'trum on
the metatarsus of the hind legs, as the spider moves the hind legs rapidly
back and forth.
Those spiders which spin irregular curled threads (Dictyn'idae) usually
make variously shaped webs on fences, under stones, in rotten logs, or upon
plants having clusters of small flowers like the golden-rod.
There are but two genera of these sjjiders which spin regular webs
(Ulobor'idae). The " triangle spitler " is found all over the country in pine
woods. Its web is usually stretched between the twigs of a tlead branch
of pine or spruce, and consists of four plain radiating lines and a series of
double cross-lines. The spider, which rests near one of the twigs from which
a strong line is drawn to one of the other twigs, pulls the web tight, so that
the cross-lines are separated as far as possible. When an insect lights
upon one cross-line the spider suddenly lets go, so that the whole web springs
forward and the insect becomes tangled up in the other cross-lines.
The cobweb weavers {Thcridi'ida') build their webs, which are ap-
parently only a shapeless maze; of threads, in the corners of rooms — as the
house spider — or out in the fields between the leaves of bushes, or in the
fence corners, or among rocks. They are generally rather light colored,
small, and soft. They live in their webs, hanging by their feet, with the
back downward. The cocoons, several of which are made in one season,
are soft and round and hang in the web.
The orb weavers (Epei'ridw) construct some of the most wonderful
homes built by any animal. First, ther(> is an irregular outer framework of
supporting lines; then there is a number — from twelve to seventy — of dry
and inelastic lines radiating from the center. There is an inner spiral of
these inelastic threads which begins at the center and winds outward.
The rings of this spiral are about as far apart as the spider can reach.
Its use is merely for support. The spider then begins at the outermost
part of the web and spins an outer spiral of sticky elastic threads, winding
inward, the concentric circles being close together. As it becomes neces-
sary, in forming this outer spiral, the threads of the inner spiral are de-
stroyed. When an insect touchers one of the outer sticky threads the thread
not only sticks to it, but it st ret ches so that the insect becomes tangled up
in the other circles, which is all t he easier to do since the threads are so close
together. Many species strengthen the web by spinning a zigzag ribbon
across the center. The making of the entire web seems to be done alto-
gether by feeling and can be done in the dark as well as in the deylight.
Most of the orb-weaving species have large, nearly spheric abdomens and
stout legs, sometimes " with humps and spines." These spiders are often
brightly colored, the colors of the abdomen being arranged in a triangular
or leaf-shaped pattern. Some species live near the center of the web,
hanging head downward, others hang back downward near one edge of the
nest. In some species the male is smaller than the female.
