118
BRANCH ARTHROPODA
greens, . . . are due to the structural or physical make-up of the
scale covering."^
Variable Protective Resemblance. — Often the different intli-
viduals of the same species are of slightly different colors, the
colors varying to harmonize with the particular environment
of the individual during its development, being fixed in the
adult.
Special protective resemblance (Fig. 90) is illustrated by
Kallima, which resembles a dead leaf, and Phyllium, resembling
a green leaf (Fig. 91), and, more commonly, by the measuring-
worm, as it holds the body out stiff, imitating a short or broken
twig. Thus in many cases " the insect's appearance simulates
in more or less nearly exact ways some par-
ticular part of the habitual environment."
Warning colors are possessed by many
insects having a special organ of defense
— as the sting of that wonderful little
stimulator, the hornet — or a disagreeable
taste or odor, as that of the milkweed or
" monarch " Imtterfly (Anosia plexippus)
(Fig. 92, a). Other examples of insects
having conspicuous or warning colors are
the black and yellow wasps and bees, the
lady-bird beetle, and the swallow-tail but-
terflies. Many others might be mentioned.
Since the bodies of insects are soft, one
can easily see why these conspicuous colors
are of natural advantage. A single stroke
of the beak of a bird might prove fatal
to any of them. The bird must learn by
experience that the insect is armed or distasteful, but if the
insect is conspicuously colored, it will be noticeable and easily
remembered, so that the bird will not attack another of this
brightly colored kind. Hence the species will be perpetuated
and the characteristic colors handed down to the next genera-
tion, or, in other words, " preserved and accumulated by natural
selection."
Alluring or directing colors or Joryns may bt^ found among in-
1 Kellogg.
Fig. 9l.—Phyr-
lium siccifo'lium
feeds on leaves, and
mimics fresh leaves.
(Holder.)
