120 BRANCH ARTHROPOD A
muscular system varies widely in the different forms. In the
caterpillars there is a " simple worm-like arrangement of
segmentally disposed longitudinal and ring muscles," while in
the more active forms, as flies and bees, the muscular system is
complicated. The muscles are composed of fine, cross-striated
fibers, forming masses of various sizes, and are attached to the
rough inner surface of the exoskelton. The muscles are trans-
parent and have great contractile power.
Digestive System. — The alimentary tube (Fig. 93), which may
be coiled much or little, varies greatly. It is about the length
r;ectun%
Fig. 93. — Internal anatomy of Caloptc'nus fe'mur-ru'hrum: at, Antenna
and nerve leading to it from the " brain " or supra-esophageal ganglion
{sp); oc, ocelli, anterior and vertical, ones, with ocellar nerves leading to
them from the " brain "; oe, esophagus; m, mouth; lb, labium or under lip;
if, infra-esophageal ganglion, sending tliree pairs of nerves to the man-
dibles, maxilUr, and labium respectively (not clearly shown in the engrav-
ing); sm, sympathetic or vagus nerve, starting from a ganghon resting
above the esophagus, and connecting with another ganglion (sg) near the
hinder end of the crop; .so?, salivary glands (the termination of the sahvary
duct not clearly shown by the engraver); 7W, nervous cord and ganglia;
ov, ovary; ur, urinary tubes (cut off, leaving the stumps); ovt, oviduct;
sb, sebaceous gland; be, bursa copulatrix ; ort', site of opening of the oviduct
(the left oviduct cut away) ; 1-10, abdominal segments. All other organs
labeled in full. (Drawn from his original dissections by Mr. Edward
Burgess.) (From Packard's "Zoology," Henry Holt & Co., Publishers.)
of the body in carnivorous forms, and longer in the herbivorous
insects. It consists of a mouth, esophagus, crop, gizzard (the
chitinous lining of which is toothed for grinding the food), a
digestive stomach, and an intestine. There may be one or two
pairs of salivary glands, and usually two or more pairs of
gastric caeca containing glands supposed to supply digestive
fluids. The intestine usually consists of a small intestine and a
large intestine, the two regions of the latter being the colon and
the rectum. The Malphighian tulmles, fine tubes connected
with the intestine at the beginning of the rectum, take the place
