122 BRANCH ARTHROPOD A
takes up the food supply and then re-enters the heart through
the side openings. It does not supply the tissues with oxygen,
since it receives only enough for its own use.
Respiration is carried on by a series of air-tubes called
tracheae. These tubes are interbranching and penetrate to
every portion of the botly. The air enters them through a
pair of stigmata or pores, one on either side of each segment.
The functions of these tracheae are to take up oxygen from the
air and to distribute it to the tissues of the body, since this is
not done by the circulation of the blood, and to collect and carry
off the carbon dioxid.
Insects which live in water either come up to the surface to
bn>athe and, in some cases, to take down a supply of air held
on the outside of the body by a fine pubescence, or they are
provided with tracheal gills which will enable them to breathe
air mixed with water. Gill(>d insects, of course, do not have to
come to the surface to breathe.
The Nervous System. — Besides the central or ventral (Fig.
93) nervous system (see Branch Arthropoda), insects have
a small and varying sympathetic nervous system (Fig. 93),
consisting of a few small ganglia sending nerves to the automatic-
acting visceral organs. Commissures connect the sympathetic
system with the brain just at the origin of the subesophageal
commissures.
Touch. — The sense of touch is located in the " hairs " dis-
tributed over the various parts of the l)0(ly, but most numerous
on the feelers.
Taste is located on small papillae or in ])its on the mouth-
parts, particularly on the tips of the ])alpi and on the upper wall
of the mouth.
Smell is probably the most used sense of insects. The
organs of this sense are minute papillae and " microscopic pits "
on the antennae and mouth ])arts. It has been proved that
most ins(H'ts find their food by this sense. " It is lielieved that
ants find their way back to their nests by the sense of smell and
that they can recognize by scent, among hundreds of individuals
taken from various communities, members of their own com-
munity."^
' Kellogg's " American Insects."
