124 BRANCH ARTHROPODA
The psychology of insects is a very interesting study. Whether
the activities of insects are due to reflex action, instinct, or
intelhgence can be better determined when studying the various
species, but one will surely find that insects, as well as being the
most numerous and various, are also the most interesting and
wonderful of all the classes of invertebrates.
Multiplication is by eggs, of which many are deposited in
various places. Some are placed on or in another animal's
body, others on leaves or stems of plants, which serve as food
for the young. However, some insects, as the Aphides, show
parthenogenesis, i. e., they are supposed to protluce young
from unfertilized eggs.
Metamorphosis. — Insects pass through a more or less com-
plete series of changes, called metamorphosis. The larvse,
whose business it is to feed and grow, are called by various names,
as caterpillars, grubs, nymphs, and maggots. Since the larvae
are wingless they are placed in different relations to their
environment from those of the adult, and hence often have
special larval organs. The larval stage is followed by a quiet
stage called the pupa (Fig. 89). In this condition many in-
sects pass the winter and come forth in the spring as adults
or imagoes, the reproductive stage. Others remain in the
pupa stage but a few weeks, thus giving time for two or more
broods in a season.
Parasitism is common in insects. Parasites may be ex-
ternal or internal. The natural consequence of a parasitic life
is degeneration, as is seen in lice and fleas, whose ancestors were
winged insects.
Environmental Influences. — Insects are affected by tempera-
ture. They Ijecome active with the rise of temperature in the
spring, and some become dormant or hibernate as the tempera-
ture declines in fall and early winter. Most of them die with
the advent of frost. The direction and velocity of the wind
is a factor in insect life, especially in its distribution.
The amount of precipitation will influence the amount
and kind of vegetation, which determines to a large extent the
number and kind of insects. Certain kinds of precipitation,
as hail, for example, or floods, would destroy large numbers of
insects. Any environmental factor would increase or decrease
