128 BRANCH ARTHROPODA
they come forth in myriads along streams. The authors saw
their dead bodies piled a foot deep on an Illinois river bridge
just under the electric lights. So thick were they that workmen
came next day and shovelled myriads of them into the river.
They are fragile, soft skinned, and long bodied, with four gauzy
wings, of which the anterior pair is much the larger. The
abdomen ends in long thread-like anal projections. The
mouth parts are rudimentary. Indeed, the adults are said to
take no food, but to reproduce and die. The eggs are laid in
the water. Soon appear tiny, soft-bodied, wingless nymphs,
bearing leaf-like fringed gills arranged segmentally along the
sides, and two or three many jointed anal appendages. They
have strong legs and can both swim and walk. They lie on the
bottom of streams, and, with their powerful mandibles which are
adapted for biting and chewing, catch and devour other insects.
They eat plants also, and are themselves prized as food by many
kinds of fishes and other aquatic animals.
After the ninth molt (some species have twenty-one) the wing-
pads begin to develop. The nymph continues to grow and to
molt, until finally it leaves behind its " water-nymph skin "
and comes forth a winged May-fly. Again it sheds its skin,
it may be within a few minutes or within twenty-four hours, a
thin layer coming off even from the wings. This is the only
known instance of an insect molting after acquiring its wings.
Order iii. plecop'tera
The stone-flies are comprised of a single family, the Per'lidce.
These grayish or brownish insects (Fig. 99) are | to 1^ inches
long and have four large membranous wings, but the posterior
pair folds up like a fan when not in use. Unlike the dragon-
flies, in which the anterior and posterior wings are about equal
in size, the posterior wings are much wider than the anterior
ones. The mouth parts are adapted for biting, but poorly so
as compared with those of the dragon-fly. The adults probal)ly
eat little. The long antennae are many jointed and the abdomen
is often furnished with a pair of many jointed bristles or fila-
ments. The 5000 or 6000 eggs are probably well scattered in
the swift current before dropping to the bottom. The meta-
