BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 129
terminal joint moderate, stout, tolerably pointed. Tongue well
developed. Antennae in male simple or laminate, ciliated, with
a pair of bristles on each joint. Thorax with a prominent
anterior and a prominent posterior crest. Abdomen not crested.
Legs normal. Forewings with vein 2 from -|, 3 from near angle,
6 from well below upper angle, 7, 8, 9 stalked, 10 connected by
a bar with 8, 9 opposite 7. Hindwings with 3 and 4 connate, 5
approximated to 4 at base, 6 and 7 connate, 8 anastomosing with
cell to 1-.
Distinguished by the doubly crested thorax.
LOPHOTOMA DIAGRAPHA, n.sp.
Head and thorax fuscous. Palpi ochreous-whitish, mixed with
fuscous. Antennye fuscous ; in male shortly laminate, except
near apex, shortly ciliated (1) with longer bristles (2). Abdomen
whitish-grey. Legs ochreous-whitish ; anterior pair fuscous.
Forewings elongate-triangular, costa rather strongly arched, apex
pointed, termen bowed on vein 3, oblique ; fuscous, markings
whitish; a broad streak from base along fold, becoming lost in
disc; several streaks along veins from end of cell; a narrow
oblique blackish discal dot beneath mid-costa; three whitish dots
on terminal third of costa; a well marked oblique line from costa
just before apex nearly to dorsum at |; an inwardly oblique
whitish apical shade; a row of dark fuscous dots succeeded by a
whitish line immediately before termen; terminal edge fuscous :
cilia fuscous, with a whitish basal line. Hindwings with termen
rounded; whitish, suffused with fuscous: a fine fuscous terminal
line preceded by an indistinct subterminal line; cilia whitish.
Brisbane, Q.; in May, one specimen.
LOPHOTOMA METABULA, n.sp.
(^2- 2S-37 mm. Head, thorax, palpi, antennae, and abdomen
ochreous-grey. Antennae in male ciliated (1) with longer bristles
(2). Legs ochreous-grey; anterior pair mixed with dark fuscous.
Forewings elongate-triangular, costa gently arched, apex pointed,
termen nearly straight, slightly oblique ; ochreous-grey ; with
9
