138 AN ASCOBACTERIUM FROM THE SUGAR-CANE,
The bacterium was grown in the presence of various sugars,
and it was found that either dextrose, levulose maltose, or saccha-
rose would serve equally well as a source from which the asci
could be formed. Starch and lactose were useless for this purpose.
In the presence of a suitable sugar, salts such as calcium chloride,
magnesium sulphate, did not show any advantage over potassium
phosphate in accelerating the growth in gelatine media.
There are many races of the bacterium, and these may be
classified into two groups. The bacteria of one of the groups
form a pale yellow growth on gelatine and agar media; they
liquefy gelatine slowly, and produce many asci. The organisms
of the other group are deep yellow on agar and gelatine; they
liquefy gelatine quickl}^, and produce few asci. The gummy
substance of the asci from both groups is identical. On continued
cultivation in the laborator}^, the ^''ellow rapidly liquefying races
become paler yellow or cream-coloured, and, losing the greater
part of their liquefying power, they become identical with the first
or normal type whose specific characters are given at the end of
this paper.
When the growth was scraped from the surface of saccharose-
agar and heated with water, a slimy emulsion, like unbeaten
white of egg, was obtained; and as I was at that time searching
for the gummosis bacterium, this organism seemed to be very
promising. But as the slime had to be tested chemically, and its
relation to the gum of the sugar-cane investigated, a considerable
quantity of the culture with the accompanying asci was necessary.
To obtain a sufficiency of material the bacteria were sown upon
the surface of a neutral medium contained in large covered
vessels. The medium contained peptone 10, saccharose 100,
sodium phosphate 2, potassium chloride 5, agar 20, and tap-water
1,000 grms. In about a week at 30° the growth seemed to have
reached a maximum, and after soaking in water for about a
quarter of an hour the culture, which had become considerably
swollen, was easily separated from the agar.
The swollen emulsion was of a deep yellow colour, and had the
consistency of unbeaten white of egg. Numerous attempts were
