BY R. GREIG SMITH. 139
made to break up the asci and obtain a solution of the slimj'^
material. The most successful method was found to consist in
heating the emulsion in the autoclave up to three atmospheres
pressure. With this treatment the emulsion separated into a
viscous solution and a yellow sediment. The slightly opalescent
viscous solution was clarified by using small quantities of alu-
minium hydrate, care being taken to avoid an excess of the
hydrate, which coagulated the gummy material of the solution.
The clear solution was viscous, but readily passed through filter
paper. On the addition of alcohol a voluminous white curd}^
precipitate was thrown down This readily swelled up in water
to form a clear gelatinous unfilterable emulsion. On standing for
some weeks the sterilised and clear emulsion became slighth^
turbid, a light flocculent portion separating out, leaving a filterable
solution. From this behaviour it would appear that treatment
with alcohol alters the outside surface of the lloccules to an
insoluble modification, so that on subsequent treatment with
water each particle of dissolved slime is enclosed in a thin mem-
brane. The addition of alcohol to the gelatinous solution again
gave a curdy precipitate, but on repeating the precipitation
several times a stage was reached when the addition of alcohol
produced no precipitate, and formed an opalescent solution.
However, on adding traces of salts — such as common salt — the
curdy precipitate was again formed. The aqueous solution was
tested with a number of reagents, and the reactions obtained are
as follows : —
EkACTIONS of the mucilaginous slime of the ASCI.
Lead acetate... ... ... ... opalescence; opaque solution on heating
Basic lead acetate ... .. ... precipitate
Ammoniacal lead acetate ... ... precipitate
Barium hydrate ... .. . . no precipitate
Calcium hydrate ... ... ... precipitate
Copper sulphate no precipitate
Ferric chloride ... ... ... no ppt. followed by ammonia gave no
ppt. of Fe (OH).
Hydrochloric acid, dil opalescence
Alcohol ... ... ... ... curdy precipitate in presence of salts
