BY R. GREIG SMITH. 143
feebly; fuchsin, and especially violet, stain well. Staining l)y
Gram's method is negative. No spores are formed.
Kelation to oxygen, etc. — The bacterium does not grow anaero-
bically, and the optimum temperature is 28° C.
;^% glucose-gelatine ■plate.- — The colonies are white glistening,
slightly raised and irregular. When magnified they are seen to
have a dark clouded, convoluted or areolate centre, and a finely
granular margin, w^ith a crenate structure near the smooth edge.
Nutrient gelatine plate. — Whitish or cream-coloured, round,
raised, glistening colonies. When magnified the surface colonies
are finely granular, the subsurface colonies are coarsely granular,
and the deep colonies are rounded and opaque.
Nutrient agar plate. — The colonies vary in colour from dirty
white to buff-white; they are rounded, flat and glistening; the
centre becomes depressed. When magnified the rounded colonies
are fineh'' granular, with large granules distributed chiefly
round tlie centre. The older surface colonies are coarsely granular,
with a puckered or wrinkled centre. In crowded plates the small,
round, coarsely granular colonies maytiave a marginal ring (halo).
The deep colonies are rounded or lenticular with large coarse
granules.
Nutrient agar stroke. — The growth is cream-coloured at 37°,
yellowish-white at 22°, slightly raised, glistening, and has a
lobular margin. The condensed water carries a slight film.
Neutral cane-agar stroke. — A luxuriant, almost transparent,
yellowish-white, raised, spreading growth is formed. It has a
gelatinous consistency, and the condensed water is slightly viscous.
Neutral cane-gelatine stroke. — An ivory-white or yellowish-white
glistening, irregularly raised growth, with an irrregular serrated
margin, and gummy or gelatinous consistency is produced. The
culture slowly gravitates, and forms a thick gummy mass at the
base of the slope. Sometimes there is no apparent liquefaction
of the medium until the gravitated gummy mass is removed and
a pit revealed ; at other times the site of the stroke l^ecomes
furrowed by a partial liquefaction of the medium.
