144 AN ASCOBACTERIUM FROM THE SUGAH-CANE,
Nculral cane-gelatine stab. — The needle track shows a filiform
i^rowth, with a hemispherical yellowish nail-head. Neither in
this nor in a glucose-gelatine shake were gas bubbles produced.
Nutrient gelatine stab. — The growth is filiform, with a thin,
flat, white, glistening and spreading nail-head. The nail-head is
depressed, but there is no sign of liquefaction within a week with
the normal races. After the seventh day the gelatine beneath
the nail head either appears consumed or shows a slight crateri-
form liquefaction.
Potato. — The growth is thin, dry, deep yellow, flat and glisten-
ing.
Carrot and turnip. — A slimy, translucent, whitish growth
rapidly spreads over the surface.
Sugar-cane. —A yellow, glistening, gummy growth spreads over
the surface, and growing down the vessels exudes at the lower
ends as raised globules similar in appearance to the exuded gum
of gummy cane.
Siveet ivort. — The growth is luxuriant.
Bouillon. — The medium becomes turbid, and forms a film and
sediment. A faint indol reaction is sometimes obtained.
Nitrate bouillon. —Nitrate is reduced to nitrite.
Milk. — The medium is coagulated about the tenth da}' at
28^ C, and the reaction is faintly acid.
The ascobacteria which have been described are few in number.
Bact. luteum (List.), Adametz,* is non-motile, and produces asci
in the absence of sugar. The colour of the gelatine cultures is
decidedly yellow, and it does not appear to liquefy gelatine.
Bac citreus, Xlnna,"^ gro\\'s ver}^ slowl}'- in gelatine, and produces
asci in sugar-free media. Ascobacillus aqitatilis, Moreno,! is
stained b}- Gram's method, and grows quickly at 37°. Like the
others the asci are formed in sugar-free media. Since this
organism forms asci only in the presence of sugar, and otherwise
differs from the bacteria hitherto described, I have named it
Bacte^num sacchari.
* Migula, System der Bakt. 1900.
t Moreno, Cent. f. Bakt. 1 Abt. 80, 111.
