BY E. C. ANDREWS. 169
Saville Kent* also concurs in Jukes's conclusions as to the origin
of the continental shelf and the Barrier Reef as supplied by his
(Mr. Jukes's) section.
Prof. Agassiz, however, claims that the forces of subsidence
are unnecessarily called in by these writers, and that the coast
(formed of granites and allied rocks) was planed down by the
forces of marine erosion, and that coral and other reef-building
organisms seized upon " the terraces of erosion " to which the
coastal area had been reduced, and in this way by the coalescence
of once isolated masses of coral, the Great Barrier Reef was
determined in position.
The following extracts! illustrate the opinions held by Pro-
fessor Agassiz and Mr. Jukes as to the origin of the Reef : —
"While it is undoubtedly true, as mentioned by Kent, that
Jukes considered Darwin's hypothesis as ' perfectly satisfactory to
my [his] mind,' yet I cannot help analysing Jukes's summary to
show how correctly he had analysed the main features of the
Great Barrier Reef, and of its relations to the mainland and
intervening islands, and was led to what seem to me erroneous
conclusions, from the inferences he drew from the diagram he
gives of an imaginary section of the Great Barrier Reef, and
which I here reproduce, i.
" It seems strange that Jukes should have given a section across
the Great Barrier Reef, and have left out the islands which crop
up nearly all along the coast of Queensland between the mainland
and the outer or inner line of reefs. This would have given his
section an entirely different aspect, as he would have had,
cropping up and connected with the line of the mainland, a series
of peaks rising from ten to thirty fathoms, round which alone, or
round the flat bases of islands and peaks which had disappeared
from erosion or other atmospheric causes, corals had grown
Such a section is not an imaginary one, for the channels between
* Saville Kent, The Great Barrier Reef of Australia; London, 1893.
+ A. Agassiz, "Great Barrier Reef of Australia," pp. 136-139.
X Voyage of H.M.S. "Fly," Vol. i., p. 333.
