170 GEOLOG\ OF QUEENSLAND COAST,
the outcropping peaks, islands, reefs, or reef flats are covered
with the telluric detritus derived from the decomposition of the
rocks forming those islands, or obtained from the slopes of the
mainland. Such a section would have shown the layer of corals
to be comparativel}^ thin, of not more than twelve to fifteen
fathoms, and it would have shown the great probability that the
outer line of reefs, even built upon similar bases, once connected
with the mainland, had not attained a much greater thickness.
8ee sections across the Great Barrier Reef (Plates xxxvii. toxli.).
That Jukes himself felt his imaginary section and his explanation
of it not to be of universal application can be proved from his
own words."^ He says : —
" ' The most remarkable^deviations from this condition are in
the spaces between Cape Melville and Lizard Island, and at the
back of Wreck Bay and Raine's Islet. Now in each of these
cases there are islands of granite or other rocks advanced from
the mainland, and thus causing an original irregularity in the
depth of water, as it would be independent of the coral reef.
This is very remarkable in the space between 12° 20' and 11° 30',
where we have Cape Grenville, Cockburn Islands, and 8ir C.
Hardy's Islands, projecting towards Raine's Islet opening, and
Fair Cape and Cape Weymouth, Avith Forbes Island and Quoin
Island projecting towards Wreck Bay. Near Sir C. Hardy's
Islands there is also a remarkable narrow channel of deep water,
between them and the large Cockburn Reef, in which there is a
depth of thirty fathoms, while on each side of it is either a reef
nearly dry at low water, or a depth not exceeding ten fathoms.
This channel is about twenty miles long, rarely more than two
miles broad, and it runs in the same direction as the islands lie
off Cape Grenville, or about east-north-east, and points in a
straight line for Raine's Islet opening.'
" It seems tome tljat Jukes has here struck the correct explana-
tion of the structure of the Great Barrier Reef. But having
examined only the two extremes, he did not perhaps realise that the
Jukes, Voyage of H.M.S. " Fly," Vol. i., p. 883.
