BY E. C. ANDREWS. 171
same condition of things existed off any line in which such islands
were found. He allowed his admiration for the simplicity of the
explanation of the theory of coral reefs b}^ Darwin to blind him to
his own still simpler explanation, which I will here quote.*
'' ' In the lirst place, speaking generally, the outline of the
Great Barrier Reef is parallel to the outline of the north-east
coast. The one follows the other in all its curves and flexures with
quite sufficient conformabilit}^ to show that the two are connected.
This is perceptible even in the small chart attached to this work,
but still more remarkably so when the large Admiralty Charts
are examined. It is evident that the circumstances that modified
the outline of the coast likewise determined the general outline
of the reefs. This is nothing else than to sa}', that the outline of
the reefs depends upon the depth of the water. Just as in a
large and accurate chart of an}' line of coast we should find the
boundary of any certain line of soundings, such as 20, 50, or 100
fathoms, conforming generally to the outline of the coast, following
its larger flexures and more important features; so we find the
outline of the Barrier Reefs conforming to the north-east coast
of Australia. Granting that the mean slope of the rocks, forming
the original sea-bottom of this coast, was tolerably regular and
conformable to the slope of the land, it is evident that if we took
away the coral reefs and raised the land to any given height as,
for instance, 100 fathoms, we should not greatly alter the outline
of the coast, but only shift its situation. It would be thrown so
much further forward, or towards the east. Now, sujDpose the
coast cleared of coral reef, and raised so much that it emerged
from the sea just widiin the line of the present Barrier Reef.
Then let the reef commence in the shallow water along that shore,
and a very slow and gradual depression take place, giving time
for the polyps to build up so as to keep near the surface of the
water. The result of this action would be the present Barrier
with its steep outer slope, and its gradual extension over the
sinking rocks that were once dry land within it. Portions that
*■ Voyage of the " Fly," Vol. i., p. 345.
