172 GEOLOGY OF QUEENS1.AND COAST,
were once hills oa the dry land would now be islands between the
Barrier and the main, such as Sir C. Hardy's Island and those
about it. Islands that once existed in front of the mainland
would now be altogether submerged, and their places only marked
by detached reefs outside the Barrier, such as those north and
south of Wreck Bay. According to the old rule of high land and
deep water going together (in other words, the slope of the ground
below water being only a continuation of that above), we should
have the Barrier much closer to the present land in its more
abrupt and lofty portions than in those which were lower and
less highly inclined. We see accordingly the reefs approach the
present land about Cape Melville, where the land is steep and
lofty, and recede from it as we go further north in proportion as
the land becomes flatter and more gentle in its inclination. Deep
holes and ravines, full perhaps of fresh water, may have existed
on the old land, so that when the surface of these lakes and
hollows first sank to the surface of the sea, and admitted its
waters, the bottom may have been too deep for the coral animals
to live on. This would explain such a phenomenon as the deep
narrow channel just north of Sir C. Hardy's Islands, with reefs
running along each side of it. In short, every modification in the
form and structure of the reefs is explicable by this h3"pothesis,
and many difficulties solved, which admit of no other explanation.'
" He assumes, as we do, that the Australian coast at one time
was just within the line of the present Barrier Reef; but it seems
to me that the causes given by Jukes for the formation of the
Barrier Reef are equally well explained by erosion and denuda-
tion. He assumes a great thickness for the corals on the outer
edge of the Barrier Reef, — a thickness to have grown b}' the
synchronism of the subsidence and the growth of the corals, — a
thickness the extent of which no one can even guess at. We
assume for the corals a thickness that can be determined fairly
accurately as only a veneer of at most 20 fathoms upon the faces
of the denuded platforms of the islands which once formed the
outer line of the Australian continent. . . ."'
