by e. c. andrews. 173
Deductions from foregoing Observations with References
TO Geograpiiv of the Cordillera.
It is well known that coast lines of the regular or smooth type
indicate (except in cases of riverless foreshores) a verj^ advanced
stage of marine erosion either in the present cycle or in one
immediately preceding recent elevation, the tendency of marine
erosion being to reduce irregularities, whereas the recession of the
coast line from the edge of the continental shelf, combined with
highly indented coast lines and numerous outlying islands, evi-
dences the effect of recent subsidence.
The general trend of a coast line is due to earth movements, a
very subsidiary part being plaj^ed by the agencies of marine
erosion, no inlets* or fiords arising as the result of such action,
these being attributable to the subsidence of deeply eroded
plateaux of accumulation or erosion.
Sedimentation also plays an important j^art in the genesis of
coastal topograph}'-, the w^aste resulting from subaerial denudation
being arranged to form deltas, coastal plains, shoals and spits.
Marine erosion also helps in a lesser degree, but always in the
way of forming a regular coast, viz., by attacking the headlands,
the waste thus derived being formed into bars, or being swept
into sheltered spots.
In forming an}' theory as to the origin of the present aspect of
the Queensland and New South Wales coastal areas we may
rememl^er that : —
(1) The outer edge of the Great Barrier Reef appears to follow
the general trend of the coast.
(2) The seaward edge of the Great Barrier Reef is not the only
portion of the continental shelf-margin removed to a considerable
distance from the coast line, since that part lying between Lady
Elliot Isle (where temperature places a limit on the southward
* Under " inlets" are not included those small irregularities in a coast such
as exist between Port Jackson and Botany Bay Heads, but indentations like
the above-mentioned ports themselves.
