174 GEOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND COAST,
extension of the Reef) and the Tweed Heads is also of consider-
able width.
(3) The Barrier Reef rises suddenly from great depths, but in
a less marked degree than does the shelf eastwards of Moreton
Bay and Sydney Heads.*
(4) The great shoals of the shelf in the neighbourhood of
Stradbroke, Moreton and Frazer Islands are arenaceous and
argillaceous in character, and small calcareous patches, as Lady
Elliot Isle, have grown on the northern extension of one of these
banks, t
(5) Between the outer Barrier and the mainland the average
depth of the water is from 10 to 20 fathoms. A few dejDths
exceeeding 30 fathoms have, however, been recorded in the vicinity
of Wreck Ba3^l
(6) The Great Barrier Reef itself is of variable width, and is
broken up by long passages arranged parallel and transversely to
its length. The depth of the water in these '* lanes " or passages
varies from about 20 to 40 fathoms.
(7) A maze of islands exists on the shelf, occupying a zone of
from 10 to 15 miles from the coast, close together inshore and
scattered in an easterly direction; 20 miles off shore no trace of
continental island occurs above H.W.M. In size these insular
areas var}-^ from several acres to rugged mountainous masses, like
Hinchinbrook Island 20 miles in length and 3,600 feet in height,
or huge masses of sand dunes as Moreton, Stradbroke and Frazer
Islands. Frazer Island is 80 miles in length, has a great spit
continuing from its northern extremity, with a fairl}^ meridional
disposition, and the eastern coast forms a long uninterrujDted
curve. Moreton and Stradbroke Islands have lines of sand
dunes as much as 800 feet in height, and show masses of conti-
nental rocks at their northern extremities. All of these three
large sandy islands are associated with large sand shoals, island
* See also A. Agassiz, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. Coll. xxviii., pp. 129,
140, 141.
t Jukes, Voyage of H.M.S. "Fly," Vol. i., p. 318.
+ Jukes, Ibid., p. 333.
