BY E. C. ANDREWS. 175
tying in various stages, and extensive coastal plains. They occur
also in proximity to large rivers.
(8) On the mainland and islands of Queensland the occasional
evidence of small cliffs is present, although typically conspicuous
by their absence. (Clifls are noticeable on the JST.S. Wales coast,
and are very pronounced on the Tasmanian seaboard.) Innnelise
rugged escarpments exist on both mainland and insular areas.
These abut in many cases on to wide coastal plains. Large
beaches and coast plains exist also on the leeward sides of the
islands sometimes as much as 20 feet above H.W. M., while
examples of tied islands are frequent, as at the Palms, Hinchin-
brook and Dunk Islands.
Fringing coral reefs are associated with most of the islands.
(9) Lagoons and lagoon-marsh meadows are of frequent occur-
rence along the coast, especially so between Townsville and Sydney
Heads. At Ballina"^ (just south of the Queensland area) there
exists a great extent of low land encircled by an amphitheatre of
hills. Long lines of sand dunes on this area curve sympathetically
with the coast line. Lagoons have been formed between successive
dunes to be changed subsequentl}^ to lagoon-marsh meadows. A
still later phase here is elevation and encroachment by the sea, as
shown by the peaty products of the marshes being exposed in the
present coast nips.
(10) Bay bars and spits have a great distribution.
(11) South of the Great Barrier Reef numerous rivers, of which
the Brisbane, Tweed, Richmond, Clarence and Macleay may be
taken as types, pursue general easterly directions to within a few
miles of the coast, when they flow to sea along northerly channels
sometimes as much as 50 miles in length.
The country east of these deviations is typicall}^ of flat, low,
sandy or swampy nature. River bars exist at the entrances.
Although the rivers have a general easterly flow, the head waters
frequently follow meridionally disposed channels.
* J. E. Carne, Ann. Eeport Dept. Mines N.S. Wales, 1896, p. 151.
