176 GEOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND COAST,
(12) Along the present seaboard the coastal plains maintain a
fairly constant height above sea level. A few miles inland from
Townsville, however, along the flanks of the ranges, recent
deposits occur at elevations'^ of as much as 300 feet above sea
level. Variable heights at which Post-Tertiary deposits occur
may be seen at the Hunter River mouth and Raymond Terrace
(E. C. Andrews), Maitland district! (50 feet; David and Etheridge).
(13) Splendid examples of consequent drainage occur on the
coastal plains of Hinchinbrook Island, Townsville flats, Palm,
Dunk Island and other places.
(11) The coast is attended by a wide upland, rising gradually
towards the west until an elevation of about 4,000 feet is attained.
Considered broadly, this mountainous belt is represented at the
coast merely by undulating country, rising occasionall}^ into
isolated mountains. Still further west the monadnocks crowd
together until the country has the aspect of a maze of wild
ravines from 2,000 to 4,000 feet in depth, separated by long razor-
backs, the summits of which would lie on the surface of a flattened
hemi-cylinder, the decrease in height taking place in an easterly
direction. The central and highest portion of the mountain mass
consists of undulating tableland. Flat basaltic hills occupy the
highest points, and overlie numerous extensive and deep masses
of auriferous river drift. These old water courses far exceed in
size those of the present streams. The central portion of the
Cordillera consists principally of various granitic rocks, while to
east and west lie the variously inclined rocks belonging to the
Palaeozoic era. On the upturned edges of these the old rivers ran.
A most interesting feature in the present topography is the
generally wide and shallow series of basins (with basaltic outliers),
in which the present streams run, and the numerous long and
narrow canons, 2,000' to 4,000' in depth, which are entrenched
along the recent broad basins of the present streams.
* Jack and Etheiidge, Geology of Queensland, p. 617.
+ David and Etheridge, Rec. Geol. Survey N.S. Wales, 1S90, ii., Pt. 2,
pp. 37-52, pi. 3.
>>
