BY E. C. ANDREWS. 179
The appearance of the coasfcal area is explained by the forces
of subaerial denudation acting on a plateau till a period of
maturity and old age, when the general outline of the upland
would have vanished, with only a few mountains left amidst the
undulating country to show its former extent. The extreme old
age of this area will be reached when it is reduced to a peneplain.
It must be remembered that mature dissection of an upland is
not necessarily associated with a mature neighbouring coast, since
the ranges may have been developed to this stage in a cycle pre-
ceding a crustal movement which would place the coast line in its
initial stages when the other was alread}'- mature.
The frequent occurrence of wide and very thick masses of river
gravel underlying the various Tertiary basaltic flows of the table-
land, and now associated with the present insignificant strearas
only, points to a cycle of erosion antedating the present one.
In this first cycle several basaltic outbursts occurred, and
the present 3,000 feet level of the New England plateau was
developed near sea-level, since which period a 3,000 feet eleva-
tion has taken place and the present coastal forms evolved. The
upland elevation and coastal subsidence"* indicate a differential
movement from east to west, while the various phases of shore
development show a variable movement from north to south.
The subsidence was accentuated seawards, therefore the Barrier
Reef is probably of some considerable thickness, though forming
but a mere fraction of the mass of the continental shelf.
One of the most instructive and interesting features in connec-
tion with this subject is the still more recent differential movement
from east to west. On the most easterly limit of the Great
Barrier no records exist of any trace of elevatory movement;
closer in shore Mr. Jukes and Professor Agassiz found abundant
signs of a slight movement varying from 5 to 20 feet above
H. W.M. Large terraces and coastal plains exist on the mainland,
up to as much as 300 feet in one instance.
On the eastern uplands themselves the recent streams which
ha^•e flowed over the plateau in broad and shallow basins now
* The coastal subsidence, however, postdated by a long period of time the
last considerable elevation of the plateau.
