180 GEOLOGY OF QUEEN'SLAND COAST,
precipitate themselves over precipices in places 1,000 feet in
height.
Lower down"^ the canons attain a depth of 3,000 feet, and
are entrenched upon their former basins, while the general
level of the plateau persists for as much as 30 miles
beyond, only broken up by these inaccessible falls, often
but a few hundred yards in width, and not noticeable
a quarter of a mile away. The traveller may wish to reach
a hill four or five miles distant across the gently undulating
plateau, but a detour of many milesf must be made in order to
cover the short intervening space, the gullies trenching the upland
being practically impassable. This points to a late rejuvenescence
of the plateau — the hydrographic system was disturbed, and
*' valley in valley " structures induced, terminating in gigantic
waterfalls. Withal, however, there appears to have been no
deflection of the streams by the formation of the anticline, since
the canons open along the recent stream basins into the old valley
and plain tracks. This then points to stream revival.
The general east and west trend of the coastal streams shows
consequent drainage attendant on the seaward slope of the upland
during previous elevations, while the long north and south courses
of the head waters of such rivers as the Fitzroy, Brisbane,
Clarence, Hawkesbur}'- and Shoalhaven tell a tale of subsequent
drainage determined by the dominant meridional strike of
Palaeozoic rocks varying in hardness. These " strike " streams
point to a youthful stage in stream development. Such rivers as
the Hastings, now completely encircled by the "strike" streams
of the Manning and Macleay, may in time capture the latter,
owing to their steeper grade allowing them to eat back more
quickly into the plateau (unless checked by very resistant
structures the while the individual streams cut their way down
approximately to base level). This will mark the graded stage
* 5 to 15 miles,
t Special reference is here made to the canons of the Upper Macleay
waters (New England).
