BY E. C. ANDREWS. 181
for the upper courses of our coastal streams, since waterfalls and
rapids will then be no more.
Instances of these interesting phases of river development
might be multiplied from the cordillera.
It appears, then, that probably at some period in Tertiary time,
immediately preceding the present cycle, the Queensland coast (as
also that of N.S. Wales) ran parallel to, although at a consider-
able distance from, the present shoreline, and that shore develop-
ment had advanced to the advanced old age stage as a result
of long-continued marine erosion and sedimentation. An old
upland* curved sympathetically with the coast, and was coeval
with it. The evidence goes to show that immediately prior to
the great movement obtaining at present, this old land was
dissected by subaerial agencies as to its eastern and western
portions to a stage of old age. A differential movement
was set up, involving such forms of stress as tilting, folding,
faulting and warping, the motion varying both from east to
west, and from north to south. The pivotal axis was probably
an inconstant quantity, although confined in the main to the
neighbourhood of the centre of the cordillera. It may be stated
here, although the discussion is reserved for a future paper, that at
the close of the Cretaceous period a long protracted cjx'le of
erosion resulted in the formation of a plain almost at sea-level in
the area occupied now by the tableland. An elevation of 1,000-
1,500 feet took place in the early Tertiary period ; while the
new cycle of development was in a fairly advanced stage, several
distinct basaltic outbursts occurred, each separated by long-
intervals of time. The plateau was then worn down to the old
age stage, when another cycle of elevation intervened, forcing
the Cretaceous and Tertiar}^ peneplains an additional 3,000
feet above sea-level. Reduction of the plateau was then
started afresh by the swiftly falling streams, and after an
anastomosing series of canons had been imposed upon the
plateau, accompanied by mature or old age coastal develop-
ment, a minor cycle of subsidence ensued for the coastal area, of
* Plateau of erosion.
