182 GEOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND COAST,
Pleistocene a<]je. This subsidence determined the present Barrier
Reef. What the immediately antecedent stage to the early-
Tertiary uplift of the Cretaceous peneplain may have been is not
known at present. Secular movement is, however, doubtless the
key to the initial stages, while subsidence with concomitant sedi-
mentation was merely an after factor in the evolution of the main
features of the present shore line topography. The presence of
small cliffs only on the markedl}^ irregular Queensland coast,
combined with the even seabottom of interinsular areas, and the
great extent of coastal plains, argues a gentle subsidence combined
with filling of sunken coast valleys, while marked depression
succeeded by more stable conditions during which marine erosion
could cut cliffs is hinted at b}" a study of N.S. Wales, Victoria,
and Tasmanian coasts. Shore-grade"* was attained in places, and
island-tying was effected by the complicated processes of along-
shore action. Splendid examples of this action are illustrated at
Challenger Bay in the Palms (marine erosion), at Hinchinbrook
Island (complication of tide, along shore current, marine erosion,
fluviatile action, and elevation), Stradbroke, Moreton, Frazer,
Curtis and other islands. Gain to the coast was accomplished
by the development of coastal plains. Bay bars were produced
by wave and current action, while similar processes resulted in
the foi'mation of lagoons, lagoon-marsh meadows, and successive
aggradation lines curving sympathetically with the shore line,t
while bays were becoming silted uj^ b}' fluviatile and {eolian
agencies after the formation of bay bars.| During this period
* An adolescent feature — attained when transportation occurs along shore,
with island tying and formation of bay bars.
t Line of intersection of the sea with the land. Gulliver, " Shoreline
Topography."
X Port Jackson is an example of a ria or submerged subaerially curved
valley, which owes its commercial importance to its steep off- shores, the
absence of large streams discharging either into it or into the sea immediately
south of the Heads, thus preventing silting up by river action, or the redis-
tribution of river loads by wave and dominant along shore current (south)
action to form spits and bay bars.
Botany Bay is an instructive lesson in the filling up of a submerged valley
by river and ieolian action aided by recent elevation. Aggradation lines are
seen on the large flat near Lady llobinson's Beach.
