BY E. C. ANDREWS. 183
the dissection of the eastern uplands was carried on from the
maturity of the previous cycle to a very slightly advanced stage
during the cycle of subsidence. The subsidence of the coast
gave diminished stream action along the lower portions of the
watercourses. River grade was also reached, no falls interrupting
the courses of the streams.
The sinking of the maturely (or adolescently) developed coast
and shore of the previous cycle was the occasion of its investiture
by coral growths to form the Great Barrier Reef. These growths
kept pace with the gradual subsidence, and, as in other coral reef
regions, numerous deep water lanes became coexistent with the
growth of the Great Barrier, being determined probably in part
by tlie old watercourses of this area of drowned topography.
The evidence points to the limitation of luxuriantly growing
coral masses to the outer centre and edge of the shelf, owing to
the turbid water west of the centre of the shelf, the recession of
the shore line from the edge of the continental plateau permitting
of their existence in the clear water to seaward, while the turbid
water of the closer inshore area militates against its western
expansion. Exceptions occur in the deeper off-shore areas of
mountainous coasts possessing inconsiderable streams (coast
north of Cairns). The inner and central portions of the fairly
flat continental shelf seem determined by the conjoint influences
of tides and dominant currents in the way of redistributing the
loads brought down by the rivers, and the material lost to the
islands and mainland by the agencies of marine erosion. Gain
to this area is also represented by various animal and plant
growths containing calcareous tissues, coral growths being con-
fined to the formation of island fringing reefs.
This cycle of coastal depression was interrupted in modern
times, as regards the shore,* by an epicycle of elevation, which
may have originated ni a shifting of the pivotal axis, inasmuch
as that, while apparent elevations along the coast line are con
* The anticline to the west across which the canons of the coastal rivers
have sawn their way appears to have been in process of formation for a con-
siderable period.
