18-1: GEOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND COAST,
fined between vertical limits of 5 and 20 feet, traces of contem-
poraneous elevation exist inland from Townsville to the extent
of 300 feet; terraces also occur at Raymond Terrace about 20
feet above sea level, while some 10 miles to the west traces of
the upward movement occur as much as 50 feet above present
high water mark. From observations made in North Queensland
and along the New England plateau the topographical features
of the central and eastern portions of the cordillera record a
double cycle of elevation. The hydrographic system was dis-
turbed ; the broad shallow basins which had been developed
in the plateau after the Tertiary basalt outbursts were forced
upwards again in much more recent times, the criteria of later
elevation consisting in the ''valley in valle}- " form of the river
systems. The canons of such rivers as the Macleay, 2,000 to
4,000 feet deep, occupy the centres of their former basins, and
end in gigantic waterfalls sometimes 1,000 feet in height. Other
e.xamples of recently disturbed drainage systems are : —
(1) The Barron, Tull}^, and Johnson falls in N. Queensland.
(2) The various Clarence and Macleay falls in New England.
(3) The Nepean and Shoalhaven falls in southern N.S. Wales.
A youthful stage in stream development is also hinted at by
the "strike" streams of the upper waters of the coastal rivers.
More steeply graded rivers travelling westwards from the coast
may hereafter catch the long meridionally disposed headwaters of
streams like the Clarence, Shoalhaven and Nepean.
The recent epicycle of elevatory coastal movement accentuates
such features as island tying, the formation of lagoons, coastal
plains, bay bars and silting up of bar-bound harbours.
Such rivers as the Brisbane, Richmond, Clarence and Macleay
furnish magnificent examples of the dominance of a southern
along-shore current, and the evident intention of the sea to
establish a straight shore line in the enormous deflection north-
wards of these streams and the presence of liuge bars at their
mouths. Other evidence of the influence of sea action is manifest
from the position of Frazer Island, the uninterrupted sweep of
its eastern coast, its extensive northerly spit, and the gently
