BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 189
A. cardiophylla was found on the sedimentary ridge previously
mentioned, and was not noticed in any other part of the countrj^
described in these papers. It was flowering earl}'- in September,
and in general appearance, as well as size, much resembles A.
pubesceiis, R.Br., of the Parramatta district.
A. rigens was found growing as trees up to 12 feet high with a
peculiar rough crinkled bark, and needle-shaped leaves generally
having straight points. The trees were covered with flowers earl}'
in September.
A. ixiophylla (*?) was also flowering at the same time, but is a
smaller tree, with fairly smooth grey bark and ^Dale-coloured
leaves with numerous parallel veins. It was not seen previously,
and there is some doubt, in the absence of pods, as to its identity.
A. diff'ormis was also first noticed here. This species, which is
common in the Wyalong district, somewhat resembles A. hakeoideSy
but has decidedly darker bark and foliage. The latter was
flowering in August and September, but young pods were found
on A. diff'ormis, showing that it must have flowered some time
previously. These trees, which average about 10 or 12 feet high,
often form scrubs extending over many acres, and sufticiently
thick to afford shelter for the nests of the Mallee Hen [Leipoa
ocellata).
The Eucalypts noticed between Marsden and Wyalong were : —
E. rostraia (River Red Gum), E. Woollsiana (Black or N^arrow-
leaved Box) ; 10 m. E. sideroxylon (Ironbark), E. tereticoriiis,
v&v. dealbata (Gum); 8 m. E. co7iica (Apple IBox); 4 m. E. diimosa
(White Mallee), E. sideroxylon (Ironbark), E. jjopulifolia (Box,
scarce), E. Behriana, F.v.M., and a few trees of E. melliodora
(Yellow Box).
The district around Wyalong is interesting to lovers of either
geology or botany. The formation in which the rich gold reefs
occur is granite, whereas many, though not all, of the reefing fields
in New South Wales are in sedimentary formations, ver}' often
Silurian slate, or, if in Plutonic, the rock is often other than
granite. The depth to which the rock has decomposed, and the
level at which water too salt for use is found, are among the
