190 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
points of geological interest. Plants are very plentiful, and many
are met with here which do not occur to the eastward, but extend
across into South Australia. The localit}- may be regarded as
being on the eastern boundary of the true interior flora.
Various trees and shrubs noticed around Wyalong and tov. ards
Barmedman were : — Bertya Cunninghamii, Sterculia diversifoJia,
Myoporum deserti, Melaleuca parvijlora, J/, uncinata, Olearia
phneloides, A. Cunn., 0. lepidopht/lla, Benth., Eriostemon difformis,
Philotheca ciliata, Hook., Bursaria spinosa, Pittosporum phiHy-
rceoidesy Fxocarpus aphylla, Phehalium glandidosum, P. ohcorda-
tum, A. Cunn., Callit7'is robusta, C. calcarata, Halea leucopdera,
Cassia eremophila, Calythrix tetragona^ Casuarina Luehmaiini,
C. Cambagei, Cassytha sp., Dodonce.a sp., Heterodendron olecefolium,
Templetonia egena, Benth., Fusanus acuminatus, Thryptomene
Tninutiflora, F.v.M., Lissanthe strigosa, R.Br., Prostanthera
coccinea, F.v.^l., Solanuin simile, F.v.M., Helichrysum obcordatum,
F.v.M. , and Leptospermum myrsinoides, Schl. This last-named
species was also found north of the Lachlan, and was previously
mentioned as Tea-tree (Part iv., p. 325), but not then definitely
identified.
The species of Cassytha growing at AVyalong is found as a
parasite clinging to and often almost smothering the top of the
Mallee or other bushes, the leafless vines being so numerous as in
many cases to form quite a canopy. They are often known as
Mallee-vines, and are useful as a fodder. The fruits are con-
sidered edible by children.
Eriostemon difformis flowers profusely around Wyalong ■ in
September, and contributes much to the beauty of the flora.
Pliebalhtm obcordatum was found at Wyalong only, and,
judging by its absence from herbaria, is evidently a plant not
often met with by the collector. It is somewhat difl'use in its
habit, and when covered w^ith yellow flowers is an ornamental
little shrub. Usually the colour of a flower is decided by the
colour of its petals, but in this species it is from the anthers that
the yellow appearance emanates, a feature, of course, not confined
to this genus. I have noticed these flowers apparentl}^ change
