BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 191
colour after a shower of rain, but an inspection showed that it was
simply owing to the removal of the pollen b}^ the rain drops.
Melaleuca parviflora is fairly common around Wyalong, and in
general appearance, as well as habit, is exactly similar to this
species growing in the Ninety-Mile Desert, South Australia. On
the coast of New South Wales it is generally a darker green, and
the leaves are often more flexuose.
The Acacias around Wyalong and towards Barmedman are
numerous, and include several which had not been seen along the
country described to the northward, as well as one not previously
recorded for New South Wales. Those noticed were : — A. mon-
tana, Benth., A. microcar^Kt, F.v.M., A. rigens, A. aspera, Lindl.,
A. conferta, A. acinacea, Lindl., A. t^ernicifiua^ A. hakeoides, A.
decora, A. cidtri/ormis, A. Cunn. (west of Wyalong ', A. homalo-
jihylla, A. pendula (towards Barmedman), .1. Osivaldi, A.
ixiophylla (?), A. difformis, A. dealbata {green \ariety), A. ohliqiia,
A. Cunn., and A. rhigiophylla, F.v.M.
A . microcarpa grows as a shrub 3 or 4 feet high, spreading across
the top to 4 and 5 feet. In general appearance it somewhat
resembles A. montana, but the latter is slightly taller, not so
spreading, and very viscid, while its leaves have several nerves,
those of A. micTocar'pa having but the central one, and that not
very prominent.
A. rhigiophylla occurs a few hundred yards north-westerly of
West Wyalong, and has not previously been recorded for New
South Wales. It was originally described from specimens
collected in South Australia; but the country to the westward of
Wyalong is of much the same nature as some of the eastern parts
of South Australia, so the plant does not appear to be out of
place in this part of New South Wales, and will probably be
found to extend over a considerable area in the south-west. It
grows as a somewhat spreading shrub, a few feet high, with rigid
pointed leaves.
Between the two towns of Wyalong and West Wyalong, which
are situated about two miles apart, the country is almost level and
was formerly covered with Mallee, though some of it is now
