192 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
cleared. There appear to be four species, but the scrub is made
up chiefly of two, viz.. Eucalyptus Behriana and E. polyhractea ^
Baker. The other two, which are not so plentiful, are E. dumosa
and E. viridis, with an occasional Box (E. Woollsiana) and Iron-
bark [E. sideroxylon).
E. Behriana usually grows as a Mallee about 8 to 15 feet high,
though in rare instances I found trees up to about 35 feet high,
with a diameter of 9 or 10 inches, the bark being smooth and
white, though often toning off to greenish and grey. Perhaps
the most striking feature of this Mallee is that it has fairly broad,
smooth, and generally shining leaves, though this latter is not so
marked as in the case of E. popidifolia. Yet to the westward of
Wyalong I have collected a few specimens of this species having
silvery-white powdered leaves, though on no other occasion was
this glaucous form met with. The flowers of E. Behriana are
small and the fruits almost sessile. Its timber, which is of a pale
red colour, is usually too small to be of use, but from the larger
trees it is sometimes brought in and used for timbering the mining
shafts, though that growing near the mines on the goldfields is
too small for the purpose.
E. pohjhractea has never been seen by me except around
Wyalong, though it probably occurs to the westward. So far as
observed it has alwaj's a glaucous appearance, and is in conse-
quence known as Blue Mallee. If it were not for this white
powder on the leaves there would be some difiiculty, without
examination, in separating it from E. viridis^ and even in the
herbarium specimens the similarit}' in buds and fruits is notice-
able, but the identification is here also assisted by the glaucous
appearance of the leaves. When I first found this species I
adopted the method of crushing a few leaves to ascertain vvhether
it could be separated from E. viridis, and soon found this could
readily be done, as the Blue Mallee seems exceedingly rich in oil.
In no case was this species found growing into a tree, but usually
from 6 to 10 feet high and forming dense scrubs.
The Eucalypts noticed on the roadside between Wyalong and
Barmedman were: -E. dinnosa, K. Behriana, E. poJyhractea
