BY K. H. CAMBAGE. 193
(only near Wj^along), E. melliodora (scarce), E. tereticornis
(Forest Red Gum), E. conica (scarce), E. WooUsiana, E. sider-
oxi//o)i, and E. tereticornis var. dealbata.
The first three Eucalypts mentioned are Mallees, but a few
trees of E. dumosa were noticed about 50 feet high and a foot in
diameter. After passing Barmedman no more Mallee was seen,
but it is to be found extending away to the south-west. Though
it is very plentiful just at Wj'-along, it may be said that between
the Lachlan and Murrumbidgee Rivers it is not common east of a
line joining Condobolin, Wyalong, Temora and Wagga, and does
not come up to this line except in places.
E. conica was last seen at a few miles south of Wyalong, and
this is probably one of its most southern points in this locality.
E. populifolia was not noticed south of the Wyalong district,
but from this point northwards it is one of the commonest trees
in the interior. Although usually known as Bimble Box, I was
informed that away to the westward of Wyalong it bears the
name of Mint}^ Box, but as I did not visit the locality indicated
I cannot be certain of the species. E. populifolia is the Box tree
which usually produces such a number of seedlings after the land
has been ringbarked, and in this respect is a considerable source
of annoyance to the landowner.
From Barmedman to Temora is south-easterly about 20 miles,
and various trees and shrubs noticed along the roadside were : —
Heterodendron olecf^folium, Myoporum deserti, CaHitris calcarata,
C. robusta, Casuarina Luehmanni, Cpaludosa, Sieb. (?), Dodoncea
viscosa, Exocarpus cupres si/or mis, Cassinia Theodori, F.v.M.,
(Sifting Bush), Eusamcs acwminatus, Cassia ereinop>hila, Caly-
thrix tetragona, Hihbertia stricta, R.Br., Brachyloma daphnoides,
Pimelea linifolia, Sm., Eremophila longifolia (very scarce),
Sterculia diversi/olia, and Indigofera australis, Wild. On a ridge
just west of Barmedman a species of Olearia was found, but so
far not identified.
The tree mentioned as Casuarina paludosa (1) is found in
various parts of Central New South Wales, but chiefly to the
eastward of the route followed in these papers. It is doubtful
13
