194 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
whether this is really C. paludosa at all, or a distinct species. I
have collected it on the Harvey Range near Peak Hill, near
Manildra, and on the hills around Cow Flat in the Bathurst dis-
trict. It grows rather more as a little tree than a shrub, and
ranges from about 6 to 12 and sometimes 15 feet high. The
medullary rays in the wood, though fine, are quite distinct, while
the bark is generally smooth. A feature of this species is that in
all the localities mentioned it usually grows on dry ridges, and not
in damp places, as its botanical name would suggest. Its affinities
appear to be with C. suherofia on the one hand, and C. distyla
on the other; but I have never met with either of these sjDecies
between the Macquarie and Murrumbidgee Rivers. C. distyla is
mentioned, however (B.Fl., vi., 198), as having been collected on
the Lachlan by Allan Cunningham, though imperfect specimens of
C. pahidosa C?) might possibly be confused w^ith those of C. distyla.
Cassinia Theodori is very plentiful in the Temora district,
where it is known by the name of Sifting Bush. This name is
suggested by the similarity of the numerous fallen florets to
the " sif tings " which are blown away from grain by a winnowing
machine. Although only a few feet high, it forms a dense under-
growth in places where the soil is slightly inferior, often covering
many acres; and in addition to affording a shelter for vermin, it
sometimes encroaches on wheattields which are adjacent to these
areas.
At intervals along the whole of the route followed from
Bourke, patches of a species of Cucumis, usually known as melons,
were seen. They are found on good soil, and the vines from each
plant radiate several feet, being covered with small, round melons
nearly an inch in diameter, and exceedingly bitter. In the
autumn when the vines are dead, and especially in times of
drought when the grass has disappeared as well, these green
marbles are very conspicuous, and sometimes are scattered over
several acres where the vines have been numerous. So far as I could
judge they seem to be untouched by stock of any kind, though
recently a report came from Lake Cowal to a Sydney daily jDaper
