BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 195
that 150 sheep had died presumably from eating these wild melon
seeds.
The Acacias noticed between Barmedman and Temora were : —
A. honialophylla (only near Barmedman), A. hakeoides, A. dealhata
(green variety), A. verniciflua, A. flexifolia^ A. Cunn., (which had
just ceased flowering in September), A. difformis^ A. decora, and
A. ixiophylla (?).
The Eucalypts were represented by ^. Woollsiana, E. sideroxylon,
E. melliodora (increasing in quantity), E, tereticornis and var.
decdbata, one tree of E. ajfinis and three of Ironbark Box similar
to the questionable hybrid of ]Sr3^magee.
E. Woollsiana, which is known locally as Black Box, was being-
cut for railway sleepers. Finding it on a ridge near Barmedman
with E. sideroxylo7i, I searched a considerable area for the
questionable hybrid, and eventually found three trees fairly close
together, with the bark, timber and fruits about midway between
those of the other two, and corresponding with trees previously
found in similar compsmy (vide Part ii., p. 716, and Part iii., p. 324).
I am still unable to offer any definite opinion as to what these
trees really are. In a general way they seem to more nearly
approach E. sideroxylon than any other local species, but the
fruits are smaller, the bark less rough and inclined to be like that
of the Box, and the wood yellowish, while they seem too scarce
to represent a distinct species. In this instance, as previously,
they were only found as the result of special search. Although
these trees appear to be very rare, it may be mentioned that in
nearly every case they have been found in twos or threes.
E. Woollsiayia, between Barmedman and Temora, showed a dis-
tinctly glaucous appearance in September, a feature never noticed
by me at an}?- other place.
In going southerly from Temora towards Sebastopol for about
10 miles, the following plants were noticed : — Pittosporum
phillyrceoides, Daviesia corymhosa, Sm., var., Myoporum deserti,
Fusa7ius acumi^iatios, Cassinia Theodori, Callitris rohusta, C.
calcarata, Dodoncea viscosa, Exocaryus cupressi/ormis, Bursaria
