196 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
n'pinosa^ Pterostylis mutica, R.Br., CaJadenia claviyera, A. Cunn.,
and Glossodia major, R.Br.
The Acacias passed were A. hakeoides, A. difformis, A. conferta,
A.Jlexifolia, A, dealbata, and var. (green variet}^).
This is the second instance in coming from Bourke that the
typical A. dealbata has been found. Easterly and southerly from
this point it becomes more plentiful.
The Eucalypts noticed southerl}^ from Temora were: — E.
Woollsiana (still known as Black Box), E. melliodora, E. tereti-
cornis, E. tereticornis var. dealbata, E. sideroxylon and E. macro-
rhyncha, F.v.M. (Stringybark).
Over the area described in these papers this is the first record
of Stringybark. This species prefers a colder climate than is
found in the interior, and the fact of its being so far west as
Temora is possibly owing to the influence of southern latitudes.
North of the Murrumbidgee this is the most western point at which
I have ever found the species; but a settler informed me that
there are similar Stringybark trees on Scrubby Mountain, near
Rankin's Springs, about 70 miles north-west of Temora. If this
is the case, the species is probably E. macrorhyncha, it being by
far the most westerly of our Stringybarks. The statement is
probably correct, but requires investigation. The most western
point in New South Wales at w^hich I have collected this species
is Albury. E. rtiacrorhyyicha has an extensive range in this State,
and is fairly plentiful over the area which extends north and
south along the Great Dividing Range, spreading sometimes to
the westward and again to the eastward of the range. South of
Mudgee its western boundary coincides very nearly with the
eastern boundary of E. hemiphloia var. albens, except in isolated
cases as at Temora, Grenfell and Manildra, svhere it occupies
ridges to the westward. So far as my observations have gone I
find that it undoubtedly prefers a geological formation of sedi-
mentary origin, and may, therefore, often be found on goldfields
in Silurian slate areas. To the miner and settler it is a most
useful tree. The bark is used freely for roofing huts and out-
buildings, while its timber is greatly in request in all kinds of
