BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 199
E. sideroxyJon is also rare to the east of Cootamundra except
in some isolated coast spots, the elevation being too great for it.
Its eastern boundary, south of the Macquarie, corresponds very
nearly with that of E. Woollsiana. It also extends into Victoria at
least as far as Chiltern, showing little or no variation. The other
Victorian tree, known as E. leucoxylon, F.v.M., though having a
smooth white bark and yellowish wood, is thought by some to be
the same species as the New South Wales E. sideroxylon, but the
distinct difference in both bark and timber seems to me sufficient
to show that they are separable, notwithstanding a considerable
similarity in the fruits. So far I have not met with any trees
showing a decided gradation from one species to the other, those
which have come under my notice in the forests being either
typical Ironbarks or Gums.
E. Cambagei is a species extending over a considerable area on
the highlands of New South Wales and in Victoria, though in
the latter State it is also found almost down to sea-level, which is
probably another instance of the effect of southern latitudes. In
the Mudgee, and Bathurst to Goulburn districts it is seldom found
below an altitude of 2,000 feet above sea-level, though near
Cootamundra it is growing at about 1,200 feet, and at about 550
near Albury. It is known under the names of Apple, Mountain
Apple, Bastard Box, and Bundy, the latter being the local name
south of Bathurst around Rockley and Burraga, where it is in con-
siderable request as a fuel in the copper smelting furnaces. South
of the Macquarie River E. Cambagei is seldom found west of a line
joining Wellington, Molong, Cargo, Mount McDonald, Gundagai
and Albury. There are, however, a few patches of it to be found
west of this line, one being near Bumberry between Molong and
Parkes, and that now under discussion near Cootamundra, while
there are probably other small areas of it in isolated spots. In
these extreme western localities it is usually found occupying the
tops of hills, and is undoubtedly more in its regular home on the
higher lands to the eastward. The wood of this tree is hard for
a mountain species, but as the trees are seldom straight or tall
the timber is not considered to be of much value. In the Bathurst
