200 BOTANi: OF THE INTERIOR OF NBW SOUTH WALES,
and Orange districts it may generally be found growing on ridges
of Silurian slate; and although it evidently prefers a sedimentary
formation, it is occasionally to be found on hills of igneous origin,
though in such cases the wood often appears to be softer, probably
owing to a more rapid growth through being in a better soil. In
no case does it appear to grow on an alluvial flat. The bark of
this tree is a dark grey, somewhat resembling a Box bark, but of
a more woolly nature, toning off to smooth on the ultimate
branches. It is, however, only in rare instances that it is found
in company with typical Box trees such as E. hemiphloia var.
albens, or F. Woollsiana, preferring a colder climate.
For many years E. Camhagei was confused in various herbaria
with E. goniocalyx, F.v.M., but in the forest the two species are
scarcely ever, or it might almost be said never, confounded. The
latter is usually a large straight Gum tree, found along the south
coast and in Victoria, having smooth bark and moderatel}^ hard
fissile timber; while the former has more of a Box or Apple tree
appearance, with hard, interlocked timber. In some cases, how-
ever, E. goniocalyx has a rough bark somewhat similar to that
at times seen on E. saliyna, Sm., the Sydney Blue Gum, covering
the trunk almost up to the branches. I have seen this at Fern
Tree Gully, near Melbourne, where my attention was drawn to it
by Mr. J. G. Luehmann, F.L.S. The sucker-foliage, however,
separates these two species very clearly.
The tree with which E. Camhagei is often confused in the
forest is that named E. Bridyesiana by Mr. R. T. Baker (Proc.
Linn. Soc. N.S.W. 1898, Part 2) and formerly recognised as^.
Stuartiana, F.v.M., there being a fancy with many bushmen that
the latter, often known as Apple, and which has a soft wood and
grows on flats, graduates into the former species, which grows
on the hills and has a hard wood. Botanically these two trees
are very distinct, but the similarity in the bark causes the con-
fusion among casual observers.
E. Bridgesiana was not met with in coming from Bourke until
Cootamundra was reached. It extends, north and south, almost,
if not quite, through the entire length of New South Wales,
