BY R. H. CAMBAGE 201
following in a general way the course of the Great Dividing-
Range, being found perhaps more on its western than eastern
slopes and seldom, if ever, coming down to the sea-level. It is
usually known as either Apple or Woolly-butt, the former name
being in general use to the south of Bathurst, while it is known
by the latter name to the northward, though these names are not
constantly allotted according to the above divisions. In some
localities it is called Peppermint, \vhile in others it bears the name
of Box from a similarity in the appearance of the bark to some
of the Box trees. It takes its name of Apple from a general out-
ward similarity which it has to Angophora intermedia, DC, that
species being known as Apple almost wherever it is found in New
South Wales; and when these trees grow together the Eucalypt
is often designated Woolly-butt by way of distinction. Although
Angophora intermedia is plentiful all along the coastal districts,
and crosses to the western slopes in many places to the northward,
it is rare within that large area lying to the south of the Great
Western Railwa}^ Line, and to the west of the Great Dividing-
Range, though it touches the boundary of this area near Welling-
ton, and may possibly be found somewhere in the Yass and
Tumut districts. Within this area £. Bridgesiana is usually
known as Apple. But the name changes to Woolly-butt north
of Bathurst and in the Rylstone district, as A. intermedia begins
at about 7 miles from Bathurst towards Sofala and continues
northwards.
E. Bridgesiana is generally found growing on flats, but some-
times on elevated land in basaltic country, and in the colder parts
often in company with a white drooping Gum, E. vlminalis,
Labill. In habit these trees somewhat resemble each other, but
the white smooth bark of the latter is very distinct from that of
the former, which has a grey Box bark, usually covering all the
trunk and part of the branches. Although these two species
grow in company in the cold parts, it is found in going to the
lower western country that the Gum ceases considerably before
the Apple. The timber of this Apple-tree is considered useless,
beinsc even valueless as a fuel.
