202 BOTAXY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Near its western limit it is often found on the river flats in
company with E. melliodora (Yellow Box), and reaches its most
western points along the rivers to the south. From the Mac-
quarie River southwards its western boundar}^ may be roughly
defined by lines joining Wellington, Eugowra, Grenfell, Coota-
mundra and Albiuy, although it apparently continues down the
Murray at least to Mulwala, having been recorded from that
locality by Mr. Baker (Proc. Linn. Soc. N.S.W. xxv., 667). It
is common on the Murrumbidgee around Gundagai. It may also
be seen in Victoria from the railway line at various points
between Albury and Seymour.
Baron von Mueller always placed this tree under his E.
Stuartiana, but it differs from the tree growing at Ringwood and
other places near Melbourne, also included by the Baron under
E. Stv^artiana, in timber, bark and foliage, the Melbourne tree
showing strong aflinities to the Argyle Apple of New South Wales,
E. pulveridenta, Sims, to which E. Brldgesiana shows much less,
excepting in the sucker-foliage. Attention was first drawn to this
difference by Mr. A. W. Howitt, F.G.S., in 1898, before a meeting
of the Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science,
w^iich resulted in the New South Wales tree being described by
Mr. Baker under the name of E. Bridgesiana.
Messrs. Deane k Maiden in their " Observations on the
Eucalypts of New South Wales " have retained the name of E.
Stuartiana for the N. S. Wales tree, and Mr. Maiden has since
included the Victorian tree under the lanceolar-leaved form of E.
pulveridenta (Proc. Linn. Soc. N.S.W., xxvi., 547).
Between Cootamundra and Junee the following trees and
shrubs were noticed from the train : — Callitris calcarata, C.
robusta, Sterculia diversi/oUa, Cassinia Theodori, Casiiarina
quadrivalvis, C. Luehmanni, and Bicrsaria spinosa.
The Acacias noticed were : — A. doratoxylon, A. diffusa, A.
montana, A. difformis, and A. Bailey ana.
The Eucalypts passed were : — E. melliodora, E. Bridgesiana,
E. tereticornis, E. macrorhyncJia, E. heiniphloia var. albens, E.
