205
NOTES AND EXHIBITS.
Ml-. D. G. Stead exhibited two specimens of the rather
uiicoinmon "Doctor''- or ^^Snrgeon^^-Fifih, Prionurus microle2ndotus,
Lacep,, (so-called on account of the keeled, sharp, bony jDlates
running along each side of the tail, which are used for purposes
of offence and defence). These were both procured from Port
Jackson by means of the trammel net. This means of capture is
worth}" of note, as there is only one man at present using this
kind of net in Port Jackson. It will be of interest to record
that the contents of the intestinal tracts of both fishes consisted
of the remains of two or three species of Fucus-like seaweeds,
for the plucking of which the curiously denticulated teeth are
splendidly adapted. He also showed a specimen of the " Flute-
mouth " (Fistularia serrata, Cuv.), also from Port Jackson.
Although the mouth of this curious fish is only J inch in length
as compared with a snout SJ inches long, the stomach contained
a small fish 2 inches long, which could not be determined, as all
the external portion had been digested.
Mr. Froggatt exhibited specimens and photographs of Aus-
tralian fleas, in illustration of the well known fact that members
of the Siphonaptera often li\e upon animals of different species,
and of diverse habits. The largest known flea, Hystrichopsylla
talpcSy described from the mole, is common upon the field-mouse,
and in the nest of humble bees whither field-mice go in order to
feed upon the bees' nests. One of the most peculiar Australian
species, Echidnojohaga ambulans, was described from an Echidna
by Mr. Olliff (Proceedings of this Society, 1886). The specimens
of this species now exhibited were recently received from Mr.
Steel, and were caught upon a native cat {Dasyurus). Mr.
Turner, of Mackay, had lately sent him the exhibited photographs
of a flea taken upon a bandicoot [Perameles), which agreed with
Mr. Skuse's description of Ste2:)hanocircus dasyuri, taken upon a
native cat.
