BY EDWIN CHEEL. 211
pith which give them a jointed appearance readily seen in her-
barium specimens. These, I presume, are the " articulations "
mentioned by R. Brown. I have examined numbers of plants of
this species throughout the Port Jackson district in the living
state, and have never found less than six stamens present. These
are best seen on a dull damp morning when the flowers may be
found to be fully expanded. The seeds are of a brownish colour,
and prominently striate, as may be easily seen under an ordinary
pocket lens.
./. prismatocaiyus is a much taller plant than the former species,
and usually grows in tufts, hardly ever producing a creeping
rhizome. The leaves are much broader and more compressed,
appearing almost flat; they are of a yellowish-green colour and
are not hollow inside like those of J. holoschcenics, but have three
longitudinal partitions of pith extending from base to apex; these
are again divided by transverse partitions, but are not so pro-
minent as are those of J.holoschcenus. The stamens are only three
in number. The seeds are much lighter in colour, appearing
almost transparent, and are obscurely striate.
The internal structure of the leaves appears to me to be a very
important character to be observed in the determination of these
two species; and may easily be detected by splitting open the
leaves. By kind permission of Mr. J. H. Maiden, F.L.S., Director
of the Sydney Botanic Gardens, I have examined all the specimens
labelled ./. prismatocarpus in the National Herbarium, which are
from various parts of Australia and Tasmania. Some of the Tas-
manian specimens closely resemble in outward appearance the
plants of J. prismatocarpus grown in dry situations in New
South Wales. I find that plants of both species, if grown in dry
situations, so closely resemble each other as to appear almost
identical, " their natural habitat being in swampy ground." But
by applying the test of splitting open the leaves it will be found
that the hollow-leaved plants (J. holoschcenus) have six stamens,
whilst the longitudinally partitioned ones have only three. A
further test was made by me by sowing some carefully selected
seeds of each of these species in separate pots which received the
