•222 ON EUCALYPTUS CALYCOGOXA, TURCZ.,
This is a glaucous form with fruits slightly urceolate, and
slightly rimmed. I think it is a well marked variety of E.
calycogonch^ Turcz., and therefore propose the name of var. celas-
tr aides for it.
Range.
It appears to be confined to Western Australia. Following
are some specimens in the National Herbarium of New South
Wales :— Elder Exploring Expedition. Camp. 63, W. A., 27.9.91,
and 40 miles N.W. of Eraser's Range (R. Helms; 4/xi/91). These
specimens were labelled E. fmcunda by Prof. Tate. They have
leaves rather broader than the Coolgardie specimens.
''Goldfields" (Conservator of Forests, Perth).
Coolgardie (W. L. Webster).
2. E. gracilis, F.v.M. : Fruticose; leaves coriaceous, alternate, shining,
narrow-lanceolate, hooked-acuminate, a little oblique, thinly veined, dotted;
umbels axillary and terminal pedunculate: flowers small, short-stalked; lid
blunt, depressed-hemispherical; tube of the calyx obconical, bell-shaped, a
little broader and three times longer than the lid; fruit nearly hemispherical;
not contracted at the top; valves of the capsule almost enclosed.
In the desert on the Murray River, where it forms the Mallee Scrub
together with E. dumosa, santalij'olia and other species. (Trans. Vict. Inst,
i. 35, 1855.)
Miquel's description is in the following words.: —
3. E. gracilis, Ferd. Milll. E, perforata Behr. Herb, partim : arbuscula
gracilis, ramulis teretibus apice angulatis lanceolato linearibus vulgo subfal-
catis in acumen vel apiculum uncinatum excurrentibus glabris coriaceis
crebro pellucido-punctatis, umbellis axillaribus et lateralibus 3-6 floris, calycis
tubo turbinato operculum depresso-hemisphaericum apiculatum triplo ex-
cedente.
Ab E. amygdalina proxime afiine differt foliis non venosis, ab E. ambigaa
operculo vix apiculato, petiolis longioribus, umbellis plerumque 5-fioris ab
E. cneorifolia floribus breviter pedicellatis (Miiller).
Frutex vel saepe arbuscula gracilis 5-8 pedum altitudinis, partem magnam
fruticetorum extensorum aliquot miliaria a fl. Murray remotorum sistens,
aestate florens, ramuli junioresrubri (F. Miiller Herb, et observ. manuscript.);
Stuart Herb. Tasman. n. 3). Folia 2 poll, longa, H lin. lata. Calycis
tubus pallidis ^-2 lin. lata (Ned. Kruidk. Arch, iv, 1856).
C. Stuart's Tasmanian specimens No. 3 are E. amygdalina^
Labill. T have seen them. Micjuel's statement that E. gracilis,
