BY J. H. MAIDEN. 223
F.V.M., is near to E. arnygdaluia, Labill., applies with a good
deal of force to Tasmanian specimens, the superficial resemblances
of herbarium specimens being frequently very considerable.
The type of E. gracilis, F.v.M., is a South Australian specimen,
and was collected by Dr. H. Behr. It was labelled by Mueller in
Herb. Melb. as "Eucalyptus gracilis, Ferd. Muell. Murray
Scrub. Dec. 1848. Behr, Nov. Holl. Austr., Dr. Ferd. Miiller."
It will be observed that neither in Mueller's nor Miquel's
description is there any mention of an angular calj^x which is so
obvious a feature of the typical E. calycogona, Turcz.
It, however, passes by insensible gradations into the angular
form.
3, E. gracilis, F.v.M., var. hreciflora, Benth. Calyx-tube scarcely angled,
1^ to nearly 2 lines long. Fruit about 2 lines only, but the deeply sunk
capsule and the stamens entirely as in the ordinary form — Darling and
Murray Desert, also F. Mueller's Spencer's Gulf specimens, which being in
fruit only are somewhat doubtful (B.Fl. iii. 211).
Bentham's specimens cannot be traced in Herb. Melb., but I
am indebted to Kew for a fine drawing of the original specimens,
and for fragments of the specimen which place its identity beyond
doubt.
I am of opinion that E. gracilis, F.v.M., and E. gracilis, F.v.M.,
var. hreviflora, Benth., are so closely allied that it is impossible
to separate them even as two varieties. I think that they should
form one variety readily noted by its hemispherical operculum
and almost entire absence of angularity in calyx or operculum.
I propose the name gracilis for this variety, i.e., E. calycogona,
Turcz., var. gracilis.
Range.
Western Australia. -Coolgardie (Nos. 100 and 101; 1899; K.
Helms). Sap-green leaves, very shiny; fruits small, pear-shaped,
constricted at the mouth, but not ripe ; operculum a little
pointed.
Specimens from South Australia [no locality] (W. Gill, 1896
and 1900) are very close to this form.
