226 ox EUCALYPTUS MELANOPHLOIA, F.v M.,
these develop lanceolate, alternate leaves as the trees attain a
maximum height.
As stated above, E. cor data, LabilL, and E. puh-erulenta, Sims,
are the only two Eucalypts in Eastern Australia and Tasmania
which preserve the sessile, cordate form or shape of leaf through-
out their life-history. The other species also recorded as posses-
sing this character are : — E. setosa, Schau., Gulf of Carpentaria;
E. gamophylla, F.v.M., Northern Territory, S.A.; E. macrocarpa,
Hook, f., West Australia ; and E. pricinosa, Schau., Gulf of
Carpentaria. I know nothing of the life-history of these species;
but possibly future research may also show that some at least
develop lanceolate leaves in their mature stages of growth.
The lanceolate form of leaf of E. melanophloia, F.^■.M., first
came under my notice in January, 1900, in the shape of material
collected at Coolabah, and also between Girilambone and Cobar,
by Mr. Bauerlen, the Museum Collector, and forwarded under the
name of " Ironbark." At that time it was not even suspected of
being E. melanophloia; and as the specimens dia not agree with
any species known to me, its naming and investigation were held
over.
Later, having occasion to collect material of E. melanophloia at
Narrabri, the "Silver-leaf Ironbark" of that district and a species
well known there bj'' its cordate, sessile, opposite leaves, it was
found that E. microtheca, F.v.M., occurred there also, and was
known vernacularly as " Swamp Box." Amongst some of the
material of this latter species forwarded for oil-investigation were
found leaves identical with the " Ironbark " of the West above
mentioned. The ver}'- greatest care had then to be exercised that
none but true leaves of E. microtheca were distilled, and several
distillations were undertaken in order to verify the results.
The lanceolate form of leaves corresponding to the Western
"Ironbark" were next traced to their botanical source, which turned
out to be none other than E. melanophloia, and which species
Avas found to have a complete gradation of leaves from the
narrow-lanceolate to sessile-cordate, and also that the far Western
" Ironbark " is the same species, only differing in having a lanceo-
