BY K. GREIG SMITH. 231
I obtained the specimen from Mr. J. H. Maiden, Government
Botanist. It had been taken from the bark of a Eitcalyptus
Stuarfiana, F.v.M., by Mr. A. M. N. Rose at Dalgety, Southern
Monaro. Mr. Maiden obtained for me two more samples from
the same tree. The second specimen consisted of the exudate in
situ adhering to the bark, and containing fragments of a ruby-
coloured kino. The third specimen consisted of a mixture of the
same exudate with Eucalyptus manna of various colours ranging
from white to reddish-brown. In portions of the white manna I
found small quantities of the same gum that was obtained from
the first exudate, and after separating the gum spherical masses
of prismatic crystals of raffinose were readily obtained.
In all three specimens the same bacterium was obtained in
practically pure culture.
A quantity of the gum was prepared by growing the bacterium
in saccharose-peptone fluid, and after a sufficient amount had
been formed, as indicated b}^ the medium being very opalescent,
the gum was precipitated with alcohol, and purified by repeated
solution in water and precipitation with alcohol. When free
from reducing sugars the gum was tested with the following-
results. Fehling's solution was not reduced, and the gum readily
hydrolysed with dilute acids producing a reducing sugar which
yielded glucosazone. Basic lead acetate gave a strong opalescence,
and the solution passed through filter paper unaltered. Ammonia-
cal lead acetate, barium hydrate, strontium hydrate and lime
water in excess, each gave a white precipitate. Lead acetate,
tannic acid, ferric chloride, copper sulphate, aluminium hydrate,
iodine, sodium hj^drate and ammoniacal silver nitrate gave no
reaction. The melting point of the dry and powdered gum was
199° C. Mr. T. U. Walton, B.Sc, of the Colonial Sugar Refining
Co., found the sugar to be laevorotatory, and to hydrolyse com-
pletely to levulose.
From these results it is evident that the gum is levan, which I
first obtained on cultivating Bac. /evaniformans in saccharose
media.
