BY R. GREIG SMITH. 233
These results show that the action of this bacterium upon
saccharose is precisely similar to that of Bac. levaniformans. The
relative amounts of levan and reducing sugars are about the same,
and there is also a similar hydrolysis of the levan by the secreted
acids in the old culture. On the 19th day the culture medium
contained an acidity equal to 0-135% of lactic acid.
For the same reason that levaniformans was shown to secrete
invertase, so is it with this bacterium : the amount of acids
secreted in both cases is similar, and too small to account for
the heavy inversion, which must, therefore, be ascribed to the
action of an enzyme.
During the bacterial fermentation, carbon dioxide is evolved.
This was made manifest by connecting the cultivation flask with
a bottle containing baryta water and aspirating air which had
passed over soda-lime, through the apparatus. A copious forma-
tion of barium carbonate occurred.
The acids secreted by the bacterium were tested in the manner
already described for Bac. levaniformans* The chief acid formed
is lactic; capric, formic and acetic acids were detected. The
presence of butyric acid could not be definitely proved, which
may be accounted for by the fact that a young (6 days') culture
was used for the separation, and it is admitted in some cases of
butyric fermentation that the butyric acid is formed from the
calcium salt of lactic acid, which means that it is formed at a
later stage of the fermentation.
It would appear that in the presence of calcium carbonate the
reducing sugars are used for the formation of acid. A chalk
culture which had been incubated for 12 days at 30" contained
the following ccmstituents per litre : —
Saccharose ... ... ... ... .. 12 £frms.
o
Mixed reducing sugars ... ... ... 18 ,,
Levan ., ... ... ... ... 32 ,,
The saccharose and levan are in the proportions and amount
which were found under ordinary conditions of cultivation both
* These Proceedings, 1901, Pt. iv., p. 605 et seq.
