BY R. GREIG SMITH. 235
Wort^'-gelatine. — The colonies are raised and like drops of whey.
When magnified they appear round and uniformly granular.
Sometimes the margin is striated as if from the growth flowing
down the dome-shaped colony. The deep and subsurface colonies
are small and coarsely granular.
Saccharose-gelatine plate. — The colonies are transparent and
hemispherical, like exuded drops of glycerine.
Nutrient agar plate. — The colonies are round, slightly raised,
translucent white and moist glistening. When magnified the}''
appear round with a smooth edge. There are granules around the
centre, but otherwise the structure appears homogeneous. The
deep colonies are rounded to elliptical, and contain large granules.
Saccharose-2jepto7ie-agar plate. — The colonies are hemispherical
and whitish, like drops of starch paste. When magnified they
appear rounded, and have a blistered surface; the margin is
apparently smooth.
Nutrient gelatine stab. — The stab is filiform and white; the
nail-head is round, flat, white and glistening. The medium is
slowly liquefied; in 14 days at 22^ the liquefied area is slightly
funicular, and at the top of the stab the medium has been con-
sumed, leaving an air-bubble.
Glucose-gelatine stab. — As with nutrient gelatine.
Saccharose-gelatine stab. — A filiform stab with an hemispherical
drop of transparent fluid as a nail-head. The fluid increases and
flows over the surface of the gelatine. As this occurs, the stab
develops lenticular and spherical pockets of almost transparent
gum. A liquefaction of the medium below the surface was noted
after a month.
Glucose-gelatine stroke.— The growth is rough and narrow, with
an expanded lower portion like the nail-head on nutrient gelatine.
The stroke becomes rough and ribbed, dry glistening and whitish.
Nutrient agar stroke. — A thin translucent white, almost trans-
parent, layer is formed. It is always scanty, and the condensed
water has a white sediment and no film.
The wort contained saccharose.
^c>V'
^Cq
^ ^.
