BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 269
sharply to head. Prothorax broader than long (5-3 x 6 mm.),
convex, not depressed along middle of base, a little narrower
(3-9 mm.) at base than at apex (4*2 ram.); sides strongly rounded,
hardly more gently posteriori}" than anteriorly; apex truncate:
anterior angles not marked, close to head; base roundly truncate;
basal angles not marked; border narrow, thick, a little wider
towards base; posterior marginal puncture on margin at basal
angle; median line light; lateral basal impressions wide, short.
Elytra oval (1-i x 7-8 mm.), convex; sides rounded; lateral apical
sinuosities light, wide; basal border joining lateral border at
shoulders without the slightest interruption ; lateral border
narrow; lateral channel giving off a ninth stria, and so forming
a well developed tenth interstice on posterior half of elytra.
Length 23, breadth 7-8 mm.
^a6.— N.S.W. : Mount Kosciusko (Fletcher).
Closely allied to and resembling N". gippsiensis, Casteln., but
more convex and differing by having the prothorax more strongly
and evenly rounded on the sides, the basal angles quite rounded
off, the posterior marginal puncture placed on the border, &c.
This is the species which Mr. Rainbow described as iV. montamcs,
but as that name was used in the genus Notonomus by Castelnau
it is necessary to change it, even although Castelnau's name has
sunk to the rank of a synonym.
Notonomus gippsiensis, Castelnau.
Feronia (Pterostichus) gippsiensis, Casteln., Trans. Roy. Soc.
Vict. 1868, p. 208 ; N. gippsiensis, Chaud., Ann. Mus. Civ.
Genova, 1874, p. 577.
9. Robust. Black, shining ; legs piceous-red. Head large
(4-5 mm. across eyes); eyes (with orbits) strongly protuberant.
Prothorax subdepressed, subcordate (5-8 x 6*8 mm.) ; base and
apex of equal width (4*8 mm.); sides rounded, lightly narrowed
to base; basal angles obtuse; posterior marginal puncture placed
at basal angle but not on border. Elytra oval (14 x 8-5 mm.),
subdepressed ; humeral angles rounded ; basal border joining
