270 EEVISION OF THE GENUS XOTOXO.VUS,
lateral border without interruption; strite strongly impressed;
interstices depressed, third 4-punctate. Intercoxal declivity of
prosternum narrowed and rounded in middle; of mesosternum
•concave. Length 25, breadth 8-5 mm.
Hab. — Victorian Mountains.
The description given is founded on a specimen given to me by
Mr. C. French which I compared with a specimen in the Howitt
Collection ticketed Feronia gippsiensis, Casteln., and found iden-
tical. Specimens (9) taken by me at Marysville, Victoria, have
a very faint metallic tinge on the prothorax, and seem conspecific
with A^. s.atrapa of Chaudoir's Supplement, but are evidentl}^ not
the iV. satrapa of Castelnau.
NoTONOMUS SATRAPA, Castcln. (var. *?).
Feronia {Pterostichus) satrapa, Casteln., Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict.
1868, p. 208; N. satrapa, Chaud., Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, 1874,
vi. p. 578.
Head large; prothorax cordate, posterior angles not marked:
elytra ovate, widest about posterior third, a little narrowed to
base; third, fifth and seventh interstices punctate. Legs piceous-
red; ^ with upper surface of a bronzy tint; 9 black with a faint
greenish tinge on upper surface.
5. Head large (4-8 mm. across eyes); vertex convex; front
depressed, declivous on each side to eyes; frontal impressions
distinct, wide; eyes (with orbits) convex, protuberant. Prothorax
cordate (5-2 x 6'3 mm.); sides rounded, strongly narrowed to base,
subsinuate posteriorly (at posterior marginal puncture) ; base
much narrower (3-6 mm.) than apex (4*8 mm.); border narrow,
narrower at basal angles; median line well marked; lateral basal
impressions wide, not long, reaching base ; posterior marginal
puncture in lateral channel, distant from base. Elytra lightly
convex, oboval (14x8-5 mm.), widest about posterior third, a
little narrowed to base; humeral angles not marked; basal border
joining lateral border without any interruption; striae strongly
impressed; interstices depressed, third with about five punctures,
