BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 271
fifth with two punctures on apical third (sometimes a third one
further forward), seventh with three or four punctures. Inter-
coxal declivity of prosternum narrowed and rounded in middle;
of mesosternum concave. (J with prothorax less narrowed to
base (apex 4*5, base 3*8 mm.); sides less ampliate at widest part,
not subsinuate posteriorly (5-2 x 6 mm.); elytra not ampliate at
posterior third, not narrowed to base (13 x 7*2 mm.); interstices
convex. Length 21-5-23, breadth 7"2-8-5 mm.
Hab. — Vic. : Eastern Gippsland (French).
This was one of the species taken by Mr. C. French during the
expedition of the Victorian Field Naturalists' Club to Mount
Goonmurk, in November, 1889. It seems to me to be N'. satrapa,
Casteln., (perhaps a variety differing by its submetallic lustre and
the presence of punctures on the fifth interstice of the elytra). I
cannot accept Chaudoir's treatment of ISf. satrapa in his 'Supple-
ment ' as satisfactory; he evidently had not the true Feronia
satrapa of Castelnau before him.
NoTONOMus ARTHURi, Sloane.
Proc. Linn. Soc. N.S.W. 1889 (2), iv. p. 1294.
Elliptical-oval. Head, prothorax and under surface black ;
elytra violaceous; legs piceous-red. Head not large; front strongly
biimpressed; eyes convex, prominent. Prothorax subcordate, a
little narrower at base than apex ; posterior angles rounded ;
posterior marginal puncture before basal angles on inner side of
marginal channel ; border narrow, hardly widened near base.
Elytra oval, strongly striate ; interstices convex, third 3- or
4-punctate, eighth wider than ninth on basal half, tenth well
developed on posterior third ; humeral angles rounded ; basal
border meeting lateral border without interruption. Intercoxal
declivity of prosternum rounded and narrowed in middle; of
mesosternum concave. Length 17-19, breadth 6'2-7*2 mm.
Z^a6.— N.S.W. : Mount Wilson (Olliff), Wentwqrth Falls and
Mount Tomah (Fletcher).
A distinct species, the true affinity of which seems to be towards
N. kosciuskianus, SI., and allies. In facies and appearance it is
