274 REVISION OF THE GENUS NOTONOMITS,
posterior marginal puncture on border at basal angle : elytra oval;
humeral angles rounded; striae deep; interstices convex, third 5-
or 6-punctate. Dark metallic copper colour with a rather purple
tinge, head more brassy, margin of elytra dark; under surface
black; legs piceous, excepting anterior pair piceous-red.
Head small (3-5 mm. across eyes); frontal impressions distinct,
narrow, divergent posteriori}^; eyes almost hemispherical, much
more prominent than orbits; posterior part of orbits protuberant,
sloping sharply to head. Prothorax broader than long (44 x
4-8 mm.), widest before middle, a little wider across base (3 -6 mm.)
than apex (3-4 mm.) ; sides lightly rounded, gently narrowed
without sinuosity to base; basal angles obtuse but marked; base
lightly emarginate; lateral border narrow anteriorly, much wider
and reflexed near base, thickened to receive posterior marginal
puncture at basal angles; median line well marked; lateral basal
impressions wide, deep, linear at bottom. El3'tra oval (9-5 x
5*8 mm.), lightly convex; lateral sinuosities of apex well marked;
basal border hardly raised at humeral angles, joining lateral border
with just the slightest interruption; ninth stria and tenth inter-
stice well developed. Intercoxal declivity of prosternum narrow
and rounded in middle; of mesosternum lightly concave. Length
18-5, breadth 5*8 mm.
Hab. — Victorian Mountains, Track from "Wood's Point to the
Yarra (Best; Coll. Sloane).
Allied to JV. macoyi, SL, but differing by colour; head smaller,
eyes more prominent. Compared with JV. gipjMandicus, Casteln.,
(as identified by me) the colour is different, the eyes more
prominent; the prothorax more transverse, with posterior angles
less marked, &c.
Note (1). — A specimen (9) given to me by Mr. C. French,
ticketed "Victoria," is larger (19-5x7 mm.); head larger; pro-
thorax more transverse (4-5 x 5-4 mm.), more roundly ampliate at
widest part; elytra more convex, interstices very lightly convex
except at apex. Elytra blackish-purple (not metallic); prothorax
and head gilded copper colour, otherwise agreeing in colour with
