BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 279
lightly rounded on sides; lateral apical sinuosities well developed;
basal border strongly raised and dentate at humeral angles; tenth
interstice feebly developed near apex. Intercoxal declivity of
prosternum narrow,, and rounded in middle ; of mesosternum
concave. Length 15-17'5; breadth 5-5-8 mm.
Hah. — Vic. : Baw Baw Mountain (sent to me by Mr. C.
French).
The following features in combination distinguish this species:
— {a) The posterior marginal puncture of prothorax distant from
basal angles; (6) the elytra with strongly dentate humeral angles,
and pluripunctate third interstice. These characters associate it
with N. eques, Casteln., from which it differs by its smaller size,
more convex elytra, prothorax more strongly narrowed to base,
prosternum with intercoxal declivity rounded, mesosternum
decidedly concave between coxae. The third elytral interstice is
wider than the others, and has the posterior puncture placed on
its outer side, which is swollen just at this puncture,
N. (Pterostichus) phillipsi, Casteln. This name is too near iV.
philipjn, Newm., a previously described species, though now a
synonym. The treatment of iV^. phillipsi by both Castelnau and
Chaudoir is unsatisfactory. Chaudoir's note suggests to my mind
that the specimen ((J) which he found in the Castelnau collection
was not that which had served Castelnau for his description,
where no mention is made of the green border of the elytra noted
by Chaudoir, and the measurement given is too large for the
specimen Chaudoir examined. A specimen ((J) of the size and
colour of that described by Chaudoir as J^, phillipsi, Casteln.,
has been given to me by Mr. C. French, who took it during the
trip of the Victorian Field Naturalists' Club to Eastern Gippsland
in the year 1889; this form differs from typical specimens of J\^.
strzeleckianus by its smaller head; elytra with a green margin,
interstices a little more convex, third not swollen where the
posterior puncture is placed — this punture, too, is not on the side
of the interstice but in the middle. I hardly think this form
can be considered as specifically distinct from iV. strzeleckianus,
so have placed it under that species, at least provisionally.
