282 EEVISION OF THE GENUS XOTONOMUS,
^. Elongate-oval. Green, nitid ; border of prothorax and
elytra black, suture and base of elytra blackish; under surface
and legs black, tibiae piceous.
Head small (3 mm. across eyes), vertex transversely impressed;
eyes prominent. Prothorax about as long as wide (4-2 x 4*2 mm.),
lightly narrowed to base; apex truncate, hardly as wide (2'7 mm.)
as base (2-8 mm.) ; sides lightly rounded, obliquely narrowed
without sinuosity to base; basal angles well marked, obtuse at
summit; posterior marginal puncture in lateral channel at basal
angle ; border narrow; median line lightly impressed ; lateral
basal impressions elongate, deep. Elytra oval (9-2 x 5-5 mm.),
lightly convex; sides lightly rounded; lateral sinuosities of apex
strongly developed ; shoulders rounded ; basal border a little
raised above lateral border at humeral angles (these not the least
dentiform) ; striae deep ; ninth distinct near apex ; interstices
lightly convex, third 3- or 4-punctate, tenth interstice only
shortly developed near apex. Intercoxal declivity of prosternum
rounded; of mesosternum concave. Length 16, breadth 5-5 mm»
Hab. — Vic. : Fernshaw (Sloane), Lillydale (W. Kershaw).
I ascribe the name N. gippslaiidicus, Casteln., to this species
from the applicability of the original description to it. Chaudoir
thought it only a local variety of N. opulentus, Casteln., but if I
am right in my identification of N. opulentus the species are
quite distinct.
]}^ote. — A specimen (9) from the mountains at the source of
the Ovens River, Victoria, has been sent to me by the Rev. Thos.
Blackburn. Compared with the species I take to be A^. gipps-
landicus, Casteln., it is duller coloured; prothorax smaller and
narrower (3-6 x 3*6 mm,); elytra more oval (8*5 x 5-3 mm.), and,
proportionately to the prothorax, wider ; humeral angles still
more obsolete. Length 15, breadth 5*3 mm. An examination of
a number of specimens of these two forms would be required to
determine if each is entitled to rank as a species.
