'284 REVISION OF THE GENUS yOTOXOMUS,
bordered ; base truncate, sloping forward a little on each side
from basal impressions to angles; basal angles rectangular, obtuse
at summit ; border narrow, thick, reflexed, not passing basal
angles; posterior marginal puncture distant from base in lateral
channel; lateral basal impressions long, narrow, turning lightly
outward anteriorly. Elytra narrowly oval (11 x 6*5 mm.); base
narrow; sides rounded; lateral apical sinuosities strong; basal
border strongly raised and obtusely prominent at humeral angles,
posterior margin forming an even curve between humeral angles;
lateral border narrow, reflexed, very narrow near base ; striae
deep; interstices convex, third 2-punctate, ninth convex towards
base, tenth not developed. Intercoxal declivity of prosternum
narrow and a little rounded in middle; of mesosternum very
lightly and widely concave. Legs long; posterior femora long,
narrow. Length 17 "5-2 1-5, breadth 5 -5-7 "3 mm.
Hah. — N.S.W. : Dunoon, Richmond River (Helms), Ourimbah
and Narrara (Sloane, in Juty).
Yar. ? Black ; wider ; prothorax not longer thp-n broad
{4-7 X 4-8 mm.); elytra wider and more oval (10*7 x 6-7 mm.).
Length 19 mm. This is perhaps a distinct species.
Hab. — Q. : Wallangarra (W. Kershaw).
The species to which I have given the name iV. angustibasis
is an isolated and very distinct species. It seems, from
Chaudoir's description, to be that which he regarded as
Neuropates pi^istofiychoides, Motsch., and I have seen it in the
Macleay Collection under the name iV. tvilcoxi, Casteln., l)ut it
certainly does not agree with Motschulsky's description of Neuro-
pates pristonyclwides, nor with Castelnau's description of N.
wUcoxi. To my mind Motschulsky's description of JV. pristony-
choides is not applicable to any form of N. angustibasis which I
have seen, nor have I seen any specimen so small as 7 x 2J lines,
nor with three punctures on the third interstice of the elytra;
but I identify without misgivings as JV. pristonychoides, Motsch.,
a Victorian species which I unhesitatingly refer to N. accedens,
Chaud., {vide supra, p. 265).
