"286 EEVISION OF THE GENUS NOTONOMUS,
Hah. — N.S.W. : Ourimbah (Sloane; in scrub, 3rd July).
A distinct species, resembling in facies and colour N. arthuri^
SI., but easily to be distinguished by the el3^tra having the third
interstice bipunctate (sometimes a third puncture is present),
•eighth interstice ver}^ narrow; lateral apical sinuosities strongly
developed, especially in the ^.
NoTONOMus KiNGi, Chaudoir.
Bull. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 86.
Elliptical-oval, convex. Black. Head moderate (3-2 mm. across
eyes), convex; frontal impressions light, narrow, divergent back-
wards; eyes, with orbits, reniform. Prothorax as long as broad
(4- 5 X 4-5 mm.), widest before middle; apex (3-4 mm.) wider than
base (3'1 mm.); sides lightly rounded, not sinuate before base;
basal angles rounded, hardly marked; posterior marginal puncture
just before basal angles, not on border; median line well marked;
lateral basal impressions narrow, rather long, reaching base in
full depth. Elytra oval (10 x 6 mm.); humeral angles not marked;
basal border joining lateral border Avithout any interruption at
humeral angles; lateral sinuosities of apex well developed; striae
deep; interstices convex, third 2-punctate (sometimes 3-punctate);
ninth stria and tenth interstice well developed. Intercoxal
declivity of presternum narrowed and a little rounded in middle;
of mesosternum vertical and very lightly concave. Length 15-18,
breadth 5-6 mm.
//a6.— N.S.W. : Maitland (Froggatt), Armidale (Lea), Glen
Innes (Sloane).
Chaudoir's note on ^V. kingi is so brief as to be unworthy of
the name of a description, being merely five lines of comparison
with N. variicollis, Chaud., in which the colour is not stated;
nothing is added under N. kingi in his 'Supplement,' except
that it was unknown to Castelnau ; but in his note in the
' Supplement ' on N. satanas, Casteln., he compares that species
with iV. kingi (which suggests the inference that N. kingi is a
black species), and, amongst other characters, notes that N.
satanas has the third intei'stice of the elytra punctate, the same
