BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 289
sides ; apex emarginate; basal angles obtuse, hardly marked;
border wide, especially towards base, passing round basal angles
on to sides of base; posterior marginal puncture on the border at
basal angle ; median line strongly impressed ; lateral basal
impressions rather long, deep, parallel. Elytra ovate (8x5 mm,),
depressed on disc, declivous in a gentle slope to apex, strongly
sinuate on each side of apex; basal border with posterior margin
arcuate and raised above plane of elytra, joining lateral border
without interruption at humeral angles ; lateral border widely
reflexed, carinate near base; eighth interstice convex, narrow (but
wider than ninth on basal half), ninth very narrow in ^, and
interrupted on inner side by the umbilicate punctures, tenth
feebly developed just in front of the apical sinuosities. Length
12-5-16, breadth 4-3-5-8 mm.
Hab. — N.S.W. : Manly (Fletcher), Narrara and Ourimbah
(Sloane; plentiful in heavily timbered brush land).
Allied to iV. marginatus, Casteln., of which it may be a variety
without the bright border to the elytra. Compared with what I
consider the typical form of A", marginatus. the 9 has the pro-
thorax proportionately longer and narrower at the base ; the
elytra more depressed with more convex interstices, the eighth
especially being narrower and more convex. I cannot differentiate
it from the species from Spring wood which I have placed under
N. 7yiarginatus as var. luculentus, except by the absence of the
bright cupreous lateral channel of the elytra, but I believe it to
be a distinct species.
NoTONOMus AUSTRALASIA, Dejeau.
Feronia australasice, Dej., Spec. iii. p. 277; Chaud., Bull. Mosc.
1865, ii. p. 87; Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, 1874, vi. p. 583: Feronia
(Oniaseus) mitchelli, Casteln., Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict. 1868, viii.
p. 216.
Oval, robust. Upper surface of a bronzy, or bronzy-black colour,
sometimes viridescent; under surface and legs black, or piceous-
black. Head large (3-3 mm. across eyes). Prothorax transverse
(4x5 mm.), lightly rounded on sides, wider at base (3*7 mm.)
19
