BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 291
iV. incrassatus is easily identified by prothorax with basal angle
marked; elytra with humeral angles dentate, eighth and ninth
interstices narrow, tenth interstice elongate. It differs from N.
australasice, Dej., by the features mentioned above, and also by
— ia) the border of the prothorax much narrower, less reflexed
and hardly developed on sides of base, (6) border of elytra much
narrower near the base. It is a species of variable width; the
form which I look upon as the typical one is that from the
vicinity of Sydney, which is wholly black, and has the border of
the prothorax subsinuate at the basal angles. Specimens from
Springwood and Appin have the border meeting the base without
any sinuosity, which causes the basal angles to be obtuse, though
marked. Specimens from Bulli (where it is common on the
heavily wooded mountain) have the elytra purple, and are of
narrower form than those found about Sydney. A specimen
from Wollongong is of still more elongate form (13-5 x 4-5 mm.),
and has the prothorax and head more elongate, eyes less pro-
tuberant and more strongly inclosed behind (the convexity and
prominence of the eyes differ in other species besides N. incras-
satus).
NOTONOMUS LEAI, n.sp.
Robust, convex, subparallel. Head thick (2*8 mm. across eyes),
convex; prothorax subquadrate, rounded on sides; basal angles
obtuse; posterior marginal puncture on border at basal angle;
lateral basal impressions wide, deep, foveiform; elytra truncate-
oval, lightly striate; interstices hardly convex, third 2-punctate,
eighth narrow and lightly convex, ninth very narrow and convex.
Black; elytra subnitid, often with a purple or greenish tinge,
hardly more opaque in 9 than in (J.
Head wide and convex between eyes; front lightly biimpressed
between antennae; eyes convex, not prominent. Prothorax convex,
broader than long (3*7 x 4*5 mm.), widest about middle; sides
lightly and evenly rounded, decidedly narrowed to apex, meeting
base without any sinuosity; apex hardly emarginate; anterior
-angles obtuse, not prominent; base (3*5 mm.) wider than apex
