292 REVISION OF THE GENUS NOTOXOMUS,
(3-2 mm.), truncate in middle, curving decided!)'- forward on each
side; basal angles very obtuse, hardly marked; border thick, very
narrow anteriorly, wider towards base; median line lightly im-
pressed ; lateral basal impressions wide, short, deep. Elytra
narrow ((S-5 x 4*8 mm.), convex; sides very lightly rounded; lateral
sinuosities of apex light; scutellar striole ver}'- short; basal border
truncate on posterior margin, obtuse and hardly the least raised
above the narrow lateral border at their point of junction; ninth
interstice very narrow, interrupted on inner margin by umbilicate
punctures; tenth interstice long, convex, extending forward to
basal third. Tntercoxal declivity of prosternum flat; of meso-
sternum widely and lightly concave. Length 13-17, breadth
4-5-5-5 mm.
Ilab. — N.S.W. : Blue Mountains [Katoomba and Mount Vic-
toria (Sloane), Wentworth Falls and Grose Valley (Fletcher)].
It probably comes nearest to iV. incrassatus, Chaud., amongst
described species, but differs by prothorax with basal angles
widely obtuse; lateral basal impressions deeper, wider, more oval;
elytra with interstices hardly convex, humeral angles not marked,
&c. From N. austi^alasice, Dej., it differs by its form narrower
and more convex; head smaller; prothorax shorter, less narrowed
to base, sides more rounded to apex and base, posterior angles
less marked, lateral basal impressions shorter and wider; elytra
less deeply striate, interstices flatter, eighth and ninth narrower,
humeral angles not marked, tkc. It may be distinguished from
N. lateralis, SI., by prothorax more transverse, with lateral channel
wider,lateral basal impressions deeper and wider, basal angles
more widely rounded; elytra with third interstice bipunctate (the
posterior puncture further from apex), eighth interstice narrower,
&c.
NOTONOMDS LATERALIS, SloanC.
Proc. Linn. Soc. KS.W, 1889 (2), iv. p. 1295.
One of my original type specimens (9) is before me; it has the
intercoxal declivity of the prosternum narrowed and a little
rounded in middle, of the mesosternum decidedl}^ concave; elytra
