BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 293
flat on disc and abruptly declivous on base and apex, tenth inter-
stice convex and very long — extending forward to the basal sixth
of the elytra — the margin wide and flat. A second specimen
(without anterior legs, but which seems from the quadripunctate
apical ventral segment to be the 9) has been given to me by Mr.
J. J. Fletcher as from Mount Tomah ; its dimensions are : —
16x5 mm., head 3*2 mm. across eyes, prothorax 4 x 4*65 mm.,
elytra 9x5 mm.; it has the elytra lightly convex, with eighth
interstice much wider than ninth on basal half, ninth very narrow
and convex, tenth strongly developed and extending forward to
basal sixth; lateral channel wide; border narrow, hardly reflexed,
lightly sinuate on each side of apex; intercoxal declivity of pro-
sternum flat, of mesosternum wide and not concave; ventral seg-
ments not transversely impressed laterally.
After seeing this specimen I conclude that the flattened elytra,
with sides abrupt, margin wide and non-sinuate laterally at apex,
as shown by the type specimen (9), may be merely characteristic
of an aberrant or deformed specimen.
ffab.—^.S.W.: Blue Mountains [Mount Wilson (Olliff),
Mount Tomah (Fletcher)].
«
NoTONOMUS TRiPLOGENioiDEs, Chaudoir.
Bull. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 85; Feronia {Pte.rostichiis) duca/is,
Casteln., Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict. 1868, viii. p. 207.
^. Large, robust, convex. Upper surface cupreous, prothorax
and lateral margin of elytra usually of a brighter and more fiery
copper colour; under surface and legs piceous-black. Head large
(4-7mm. across eyes). Prothorax transverse-cordate (5 -4 x 7'4mm.);
base and apex of equal width; sides lightly sinuate before base;
posterior angles obtuse but marked; posterior marginal puncture
at basal angle on inner side of border and outside lateral channel;
lateral basal impressions short, deep. Elytra truncate-oval
(13-5 X 8 mm.), convex; lateral apical sinuosities light; basal
border raised and dentate at humeral angles; strise deep, minutely
crenulate at bottom, ninth well marked towards apex; interstices
