BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 295
impressions deep, narrow, parallel. Elytra narrow, truncate-oval
(10 X 6 mm.), depressed; sides lightly and evenly rounded, lateral
apical sinuosities well developed; basal border raised and forming
a strong obtuse projection at humeral angles; lateral border wide,
reflexed, narrow just behind humeral angles; interstices sharply
raised, seventh wider, more convex than others and forming
lateral margin of disc, eighth and ninth narrow, convex, tenth
well developed in front of lateral sinuosities. Intercoxal declivity
of prosternum flat; of mesosternum hardly at all concave; meta-
sternum longitudinally channelled in middle from base to apex.
Lateral parts of abdomen and episterna of metasternum rugulose-
punctulate. Length 18, breadth 6 mm.
Hah. — N.S.W. : Port Macquarie (Sloane).
A distinct species ; it is perhaps nearest to N'. angustihasis,
Sloane, but dijffers decidedly by pro thorax less narrowed and
more shortly sinuate posteriorly, posterior marginal puncture at
the basal angle; elytra flatter, interstices more strongly convex,
ninth narrower; posterior femora wider and more dilate in middle.
NoTONOMUS suBiRiDESCENS, Chaudoir.
Bull. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 85; Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, 1874, vi.
p. 576.
Unknown to me. If it has the intercoxal declivity of the pro-
sternum flat its position would seem to be near N. liragp.rus, SI.;
if rounded, it would come near .V. kingi, Chaud., but this does
not appear to me likely to be its place. From Chaudoir's original
description and the note in his 'Supplement ' I select the following
characters as diagnostic of iV. sahiridescens : — Compared with N.
mneomicam — prothorax scarcely shorter than the breadth; upper
surface more convex; lateral margin evidently finer and narrower
anteriorly, and forming on the contrary a wider border as it
approaches the posterior angles : elytral interstices more convex
— particularly towards the apex — eighth and ninth decidedly
narrower throughout their whole length; third bipunctate.
Colour black. Length 23 mm.
Hah. — Southern Australia (Melbourne; Coll. Laferte).
