30O REVISION OF THE GENUS ^'OTONOMUS,
I have compared my specimens with the type specimens of /Y.
cyaneocinctus, Macl., and have considered it a distinct but closely
allied species on account of the juxtabasal sinuosity of the sides
of the prothorax; this, however, is a feature that requires more
study to determine its true value in the genus Notonomus. It is
nearly allied to N. nitidicollis, Chaud., with which it agrees
generally in shape of head, antennae, labrum, interstices of elytra,
ct:c., but differs by the shape of the prothorax (which is of wider
form with the sides less rounded, less narrowed to both apex and
base, much wider across base); the elytra more depressed, more
lightly declivous to apex, more lightly rounded on sides, less
deeply striate, interstices less convex.
NoTONOiMUS viRiDiLiMBATUS, Castelnau.
Feronia i^Pterostichus) viridilimbata, Casteln. , Trans. Roy. Soc.
Vict. 1868, viii. p. 215; F. (Pt.) viridimaryinata, Casteln., l.c.^
p. 216; N. viridilimbatus, Chaud., Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, 1874,
vi. p. 584 ; N. cyaneocincfus, Macl., Trans. Ent. Soc. N.S.W.,
1871, ii., p. 108.
I offer the following translation of Chaudoir's note on N. viri-
dilimbatus, Casteln., = iV. viridimarginatus, Casteln. : Length
12*5-15 mm. Resembling most closely N". nitidicollis, from which
it differs by the posterior angles of the prothorax which are sub-
obtuse, not preceded by a sinuosity, and not forming any lateral
prominence. Its habitat is the same, and perhaps it will be found
to be only a variety.
I have seen the types of J^. cyaneocinctus, Macl., in the Aus-
tralian Museum, Sydney, and have the following note, made with
these type specimens before me: — Differs from S. viridicinctusi
Macl., by the sides of the prothorax not the least sinuate before
the base; the elytra have the shoulders dentate; the form of the
prothorax is intermediate between A\ violaceomarginatus, Macl.,
and iV. viridicinctus, Macl., (=i\r. nitidicollis, Chaud.), being
more narrowed behind than in N. violaceomarginatus, and less so
than in N. viridicinctus.
