302 KEVISION OF THE GENUS A'OTOyOMUS.
marked, but obtuse; lateral border and lateral channel narrow;
posterior marginal puncture placed a little before base on inner
side of lateral channel; median line deep, with a subfoveiform
impression in its course a little before base; lateral basal impres-
sions rather short, wide, deep. Elj^tra truncate-oval (Tw x
4*3 mm.), lightly declivous to apex, sides lightly rounded; apex
sinuate on each side (strongly so in 9); basal border a little raised
and obtusely subdentate at humeral angles; lateral border narrow;
stride deep; interstices strongly convex in g, lightly so in 9, third
2-punctatej hardly wider than second, sixth narrowed at base,
eighth much wider than ninth on basal half, ninth narrow, convex,
interrupted on inner side by the umbilicate punctures, tenth well
developed, elongate (extending forward to about middle of elytra),
narrow, convex. Intercoxal declivity of prosternum flat ; of
mesosternum hardly concave. Length 13-5, breadth 4*3 mm.
Hab. — Clarence River (Lea).
Allied to iV. nitidicollis, Chaud., but differing, intej^ alia, by
its facies narrower, more elongate, more convex ; head more
-depressed . between eyes; prothorax less ampliate at widest part,
less emarginate at apex, sides without juxtabasal sinuosities; elytra
less strongly declivous to apex, less strongly dentate at humeral
angles, third interstice narrower at beginning of apical declivity,
eighth much wider on basal half, tenth well developed, lateral
border narrower. It differs from iV^. queenslandicus, SI., and iV^.
latibasis, SI., by the same characters.
j}^ote. — N. tvilcoxi, Casteln. (Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict. 1868, viii.
p. 211). Although Chaudoir has considered that JV. subopacus
could not be J\^. loUcoxi because Castelnau's description of the
prothorax of N. wilcoxi did not, in his opinion, at all agree with
the prothorax of N. subopacKs, yet I should say that the only
discrepancy is the " rather acute " posterior angles of i\^. wilcoxi^
which may mean that the prothorax should have the sides lightly
sinuate near the base, and this feature may not be of sufficient
importance to justify keeping the species distinct. I should
-expect that xY. subopacus might pro^•e to be only a variety of J\^.
