BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 305
This species has a superficial resemblance to iV. subopacus,
Chaud., but differs conspicuously, inter alia, hy the prothorax
rugulose-striolate and sinuate on the sides near the base. Its
position is intermediate between N. opacicoUis, Chaud., and iV^.
disco riniosus, SI. ; from JV. opacicoUis it differs greatly by its
smaller size, narrower form, less transverse prothorax, non-foveolate
elytral interstices, &c.; from iV^. discorimosus it differs by its
prothorax more elongate, with sides sinuate before the base,
posterior angles strongly marked; elytra with the eighth interstice
wide as in N. opacicoUis. From N. striaticoUis, Casteln., a species
not known to me in nature, I think it distinct, because the pro-
thorax has the sides sinuate before the base, and the basal angles
rectangular. It evidently cannot be iT. depressij^^mis, Chaud.,
from the description of which it offers conspicuous differences as
under : — (a) lateral basal impressions of prothorax longer and
quite as deep as in iV. opacicoUis; (b) elytra not flatter; (c) six
inner interstices not the least depressed (in (J); (d) eighth inter-
stice wide on basal half (not very narrow and convex).
NOTONOMUS DISCORIMOSUS, n.sp.
(J. Oval. Prothorax transverse, with sides strongly and evenly
rounded : elytra truncate-oval, deeply striate; interstices convex,
third 2-punctate, eighth narrow; humeral angles dentate. Head
black; prothorax opaque, black with a faint viridescent tinge on
disc, becoming metallic near sides; elytra subnitid, dark purple,
becoming aeneous near base and on lateral declivities, ninth inter-
stice and lateral margin of a bright brassy colour. (9 with elytra
not opaque, of a uniform bronzed purple with lateral channel
green. ) #
Head not large; eyes convex, prominent. Prothorax depressed,
transverse (3-3 x 4 mm.); wider across base (2*7 mm.) than apex
(2-5 mm.); upper surface transversely striolate and longitudinally
shagreened ; sides evenly rounded, narrowed posteriorly in an
even curve without any antebasal sinuosity; apex emarginate;
base lightly and widely emarginate in middle; basal angles obtuse;
20
