306 REVISION OF THE GENUS NOTOyOMUS,
lateral border and channel wide; posterior marginal puncture
foveiform, placed a little distance from basal angle on inner side
of marginal channel; median line strongly impressed, reaching
from base almost to apex; lateral basal impressions short, narrow,
deep, uniting with lateral channel at base. Elytra lightly convex,
oval (7 '5 X 4 mm.), evenly and decidedly rounded on sides, widely
sinuate on each side of apex; lateral channel and border wide.
Intercoxal declivity of prosternum flat; of mesosternum vertical
and lightly concave. Femora short, stout; posterior femora very
thick in middle. Length 13, breadth 4-6 mm.
Hab. — N.S.W. : Richmond River (Froggatt and Lea).
Var. A. Smaller: prothorax less strongly rounded on sides
and more narrowed to base; basal angles more marked: elytra
more depressed on disc; interstices opaque in both sexes: colour
duller; elytra purple-black, margined with green.
Hab. — Tweed River (Lea).
Differs evidently from N. depressijyennis, Chaud., by prothorax
shorter and without the juxtabasal sinuosities of sides. I have
thought that it could not be N. striaticoUis, Casteln., because of
its short, broad thorax, not " considerabl}' longer than broad."
jSTotgngmus opacicollis, Chaudoir.
Bull. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 88; Orbitus purpuripennis, Motsch.,
Ball. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 248; Feronia ( Pterostichus) purpureo-
limbata, Casteln., Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict. 1868, viii. p. 214 ;
Var. F. (Pi.) impressipennis, Casteln., I.e., p. 214.
Black, elytra with metallic border. Prothorax roughly
shagreened and transversely striolate, transverse (4-3 x 5-4 mm.),
much wider at base (4-2 mm.) than apex (3 5 mm.); posterior
angles rectangular ; posterior marginal puncture in marginal
channel at basal angle. Elytra deeply striolate; interstices nitid
and convex in ^ (sometimes rather metallic), depressed and opaque
in 9, third 2-punctate, second, fourth and sixth wide and foveolate
on apical third, eighth wider than seventh at basal third, ninth
narrow, convex, with inner side interrupted by large umbilicate
