BY THOMAS G. SLOANE. 309
reaching nearly to base; lateral basal impressions shallow, sulci-
form at bottom, parallel; lateral basal spaces flat near basal
margin. Elytra truncate-oval (7*2 x 4*7 mm.); basal border a
little raised above lateral border at point of junction; ninth stria
well marked; tenth interstice well developed posteriorly. Inter-
coxal declivity of prosternum flat; of mesosternum wide, very
lightly concave. Length 13, breadth 4*7 mm.
Hab. — Vic. : Dandenong Ranges (French), Ferntree Gully
(Sloane).
I place this species under N. sphodroides, Dej., because, except
for the absence of any purple tinge on the prothorax, a specimen
(9) from the Dandenong Ranges given to me by Mr. C. French,
differs from the species which I regard as A^. dyscoloides, Motsch.,
by similar characters to those which are said by Chaudoir to
differentiate N. sphodroides from N. dyscoloides. The following is
the substance of Chaudoir's note on these differences in his
* Supplement,' p. 587 : — Prothorax more rounded on the anterior
part of the sides, these hardly sinuate behind, and falling a little
obliquely on the base, forming with it an obtuse angle, the summit
of which is lightly rounded. The elytra are more oval, with the
shoulders rounded as well as the sides, the upper surface percep-
tibly more convex, not flattened on the disc; the intermediate
strise still more lightly marked; the elytra are not violet, but of
a greenish blue. I do not place much reliance on the slightly
more protuberant eyes, nor the form of the lateral basal spaces
of the prothorax mentioned by Chaudoir; his remark, that he
had confused this species with N. dyscoloides, indicates how closely
these species are allied, but I concur in thinking them distinct^
Only the 9 was known to Chaudoir; I have both ^ and 9; the
description I have given is founded on the (J.
XOTONOMUS DYSCOLOIDES, Motschulsky.
Neuropates dyscoloides, Motsch., Bull. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 263;
Feronia (Pterostichus) victorice, Casteln., Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict.
1868, viii. p. 210; F. (Pi.) semiviolacea, Casteln., I.e., p. 212; F.
(Pt.) subvilis, Casteln., I.e., p. 21 3; Feronia (A^otonomus) dyscoloides,
Chaud., Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, 1874, vi. p. 587.
