310 EEVISION OF THE GENUS NOTOyOMUS,
Elliptical, upper surface depressed. Head and prothorax black,
nitid; elytra violaceous, with sutural interstices dark. Head not
large (2*8 mm. across ej^es); eyes convex, prominent. Prothorax
broader than long (3-4x4 mm.), truncate-cordate, subdepressed;
sides sinuate posteriorly; basal angles rectangular; base (3'1 mm.)
hardly wider than apex (3 mm.); border narrow anteriorly, widely
reflexed towards base, extending on sides of base to lateral
impressions; posterior marginal puncture at basal angle on an
internal dilatation of border; lateral basal impressions long,
parallel; lateral basal spaces almost flat. Elytra truncate-oval
(8 "2 X 5 mm.), depressed on disc, strongly declivous to apex, deeply
striate; interstices lightly convex, third 3-punctate, eighth and
ninth convex, eighth wider than ninth on basal half; basal border
hardly raised above lateral border at point of junction. Inter-
coxal declivity of prosternum wide, flat; of mesosternum wide,
vertical, hardly at all concave. Length 14*5, breadth 5 mm.
Hah. — Victoria (W. Kershaw).
Judging by the synonymy given above (on the authority of
Chaudoir) N. dyscoloides is a very variable species. I take the
form on which my description is founded to be Feronia semivio-
lacea, Casteln., and I should have thought F. victories from des-
cription to have been synonymous Avith iV^. sphodroides, Dej. I
have not seen Motschulsky's description, but have identified the
species from Castelnau's diagnoses and Chaudoir's note.
NoTONOMUS siMULANS, Chaudoir.
Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, 1874, vi. p. 586.
I have not identified this species. The following is a translation
of the too brief description : — Length 12-5 mm. It much
resembles A^. dyscoloides in facies, but is differently coloured. Of
a very brilliant black as if polished; elytra coppery, with the
margin black; e3''es more prominent; elytra a little less oval, more
declivous to tlie apex, more strongly striate; interstices more
convex, with thrr.e ov four large punctures on the third.
Hah. — Southern Australia.
