BY THOMAS G. SLOANB. 313
lateral border reflexed, rather wide on middle of sides, very
narrow near base; striae deep; interstices convex, very strongly so
on apical declivity, third wide, usually 3-punctate (rarely a fourth
puncture present about basal fourth, rarely only 2-punctate),
eighth a little wider than ninth on basal half and reaching to
base, ninth narrow, interrupted on inner margin by the umbilicate
punctures, tenth well developed towards apex, short, narrow
(subcarinate). Intercoxal declivity of prosternum wide, flat; of
mesosternum flat, hardly concave. Fourth and fifth ventral
segments very lightly and widely transversely impressed; apical
segment in ^ 6-punctate. 9 with first joint of anterior tarsi
wide (not dilatate), clothed beneath with a thick brush of whitish
squamulse. Length 11-7-15-5, breadth 4-1-5 mm.
Hah. — Yic. : Upper Yarra (Best), South Gippsland (French).
• A distinct species varying greatly in size and appearance. Mr.
Masters has informed me that it is to his knowledge Fernnia
opuleiita, Casteln., and I had arrived at the same conclusion from
Castelnau's too brief description. I also think that Chaudoir's
description of JV. parallelomorpha is founded on a form of iV".
opulentus; one of the specimens in my collection agrees closely with
his description, even having three punctures on the third interstice
of one elytron and two on the other. If I am right in my identi-
fication of N. parallelomor'pha, Queensland is not its habitat. I
place Feronia auricollis, Casteln., as a synonym of N. opulentus
on Chaudoir's authority.
NoTONOMus .ENEOMiCANs, Chaudoir.
Bull. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 84; Feronia (^Pterosticlius) lapeyrousei,
Casteln., Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict. 1868, viii. p. 213.
9. Robust, convex. Prothorax cupreous (very dark on disc,
bright tov/ards sides); head black, with faint cupreous tinge;
elytra black, with faint metallic tinge, ninth interstice and margin
cupreous, inflexed margins with an aeneous tinge. Head large
(4-5 mm. across eyes). Prothorax truncate-cordate (5 -15 x 6-5 mm.),
a little wider across base (4*7 mm.) than apex (4-5 mm.); sides
