322 EEVISION OF THE GENUS yOTOXOMUS,
pressions wide, parallel ; a marginal channel extending from
posterior extremity of basal impressions and curving round the
basal angles at a little distance from the border. Elytra truncate-
oval (lO'O X 6'6 mm.), widest behind middle, a little narrowed to
base, feebly striate; striae obsolete towards sides (excepting eighth
and ninth;; third interstice 2-punctate on posterior half, ninth
seriate-punctate; basal border lightly arcuate on posterior margin,
not dentate at humeral angles; lateral border reflexed, lightly
carinate near base. Intercoxal declivity of presternum rounded;
of mesosternum concave. Length 17-21, breadth 5-7-7 "5 mm.
Hab. — Yic. : Dandenong (French), Ferntree Gull3^and Lilydale
( Sloan e).
Chaudoir is the authorit}^ for placing Feronia hipunctata^
Casteln., under N. ehalybeus, Dej., as a synonym, but I have never
seen any specimen so small as 13 mm., which Chaudoir gives as
the size of Dejean's type specimen. Judging from Newman's
description, I consider Feronia biptmctata, Casteln., to be con-
specific with Feronia philipjn, Newm.
Var. (?) otwaijensis. Specimens from the Otway Forest have
the elytra a beautiful golden green, and the stride quite obsolete
on the disc. It seems a variety that requires a name.
Hab. — Depths of the Otway Forest, between Cape Otway and
the mouth of the Gellibrand River (Sloane).
NoTONOMUs GRAVIS, Chaudoir.
Bull. Mosc. 1865, ii. p. 90; Feronia (^Percus) montana, Casteln.,
Trans. Roy. Soc. Vict. 1868, viii. p. 221.
Elongate-oval, robust, ver}^ convex. Black, nitid. Head
moderate; frontal impressions well marked, divergent posteriorly;
eyes prominent. Prothorax short, transverse (-4 x 4'6 mm.),
widest about middle; sides evenly rounded; base and apex of
equal width (3*2 mm.): basal angles roundly obtuse; lateral border
thick, lateral channel wide and explanate at basal angles; lateral
basal impression wide. Elytra oval (9*5 x 5-5 mm.), very faintly
striate; the stride usually obsolete towards the sides (excepting
