324 EEVISION OF THE GENUS SOTONOMCS,
middle, very lightly narrowed anteriorly, lightly and obliquely
(with short light prebasal sinuosity) narrowed posteriorly; apex
emarginate, anterior angles rather prominent, very close to head;
base (2-9 mm.) narrower than apex (3-1 mm.), hardly emarginate
in middle, curving forward on each side; border narrow, thick,
almost obsolete on sides of base; median line not deep, a subfovei-
form depression on its course between lateral basal impressions —
these oval, deep, wide at bottom; lateral basal spaces convex.
Elytra oval (8-5 x 4*8 mm.), widest about middle, narrowed to base,
lightly convex; lateral declivities not abrupt; lateral sinuosities
of apex strongly developed; basal border projecting strongly at
humeral angles,posterior margin raised and truncate; lateral border
narrow, thick, not reflexed on posterior part of sides; eighth stria
wide and deep; three inner interstices continuing to apex in full
width, third with two or three punctures on apical half, tenth
feebly and shortly developed near apex. Posterior femora com-
pressed, dilatate (slightly so in 9, strongl}' so in (J) on lower side
above apex of trochanters ; posterior tibiae slightl}^ arcuate ;
posterior tarsi thick, not long; joints much shorter than usual in
Notonomus. Length 13-16, breadth 4-3-5-2 mm.
^«5._N.S.W. : Kiama (Sloane).
An isolated species distinguished at once from all others of tlie
genus, except N. lesueuri, Casteln,, by its elongate metasternal
episterna. It is allied to N. lesueuri by all characters of a
generic nature, but is readily separated by its less cylindrical
shape, elytra strongly dentate at humeral angles, ttc. Six speci-
mens are before me, two of which have the third interstice of
each elytron 3-punctate ; this proves the presence of a third
puncture to be more than a mere accidental occurrence. The
eyes are more prominent in some specimens than in others. I
report this species as N. miles, Castelnau, on the authority of Mr.
Masters, who has informed me that his specimens so named were
received by him from Count de Castelnau. Chaiidoir evidently
overlooked the elongate mestasternal episterna when examining
N. miles.
[Printed off October 14th, 1902.1
