BY S. J. JOHNSTON. 329
Laurer's canal, a canal with muscular walls, opens on the
exterior about the middle of the dorsal surface, opposite the
middle of the ovary. It skirts round the right side of the ovary
and opens into the proximal end of the ootype. In its interior
a number of sperms can be seen. The canal is quite large enough
to be used in copulation.
The most characteristic features of the worm are its size, the
character and position of the suckers, the folded but unbranched
intestine, the ovoid shape of the ovary and testes and their
situation, the great length of the uterus, the grape-like vitelline
glands, and the well developed excretory system.
The simple nature of the intestine, the absence of hooks or
lobes from the suckers, the almost total obliteration of the
oesophagus, and the absence of a retractile telescopic tail part
indicate the position of this species to be in Dujardin's subgenus
Brachylaimus.
In external characters, as general shape, size, character and
position of the suckers and transversely striated appearance, it
closely resembles D. veliporlum, Creplin, found in the American
barn-door skate, Eaja kevis, in Prionodon milberti, and in Hexar-
chus g7'lseus. In its internal anatomy it shows a fairly close
resemblance to D. tereticolle, Rud. The excretory system is very
marked and very similar in each. The limbs of the intestine in
D. tereticolle are without the folds shown in D. irristio'pliori.
They both have the uterus long, slender and much folded, and a
similar structure, arrangement and amount of development in the
vitelline glands; in this new species the ovary and testes are
situated much nearer together.
The figures for the plate were drawn by my wife.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIIL
Distomum pristiophori.
Fig. 1. — View of the whole animal ( x 6).
Fig. 2. —Transverse section through the middle of the ventral sucker ( x 15)
Fig. .3. — Transverse section through posterior end showing the large excretory
vesicle ( x 20).
