332 • AUSTRALIAN RUOPALOCfJRA : LYC.ENID.E,
^. Upper side black, with white central areas. Foreiving
with costa almost straight, apex acute (much more so than in 9),
outer margin nearly straight (convex in ^) ; three subcostal
nervules, first subcostal entirely free from costal nervure, a black
costal margin, apex and outer margin, the medial conical white
patch extending obliquely from near middle to inner margin;
base brown. Hindwing coloured as in fore wing, except that the
central white patch extends from near middle to costa, forming a
continuation of the white patch of the fore wing.
Underside silvery-white, with light black lunular external
margins. Forewing, pale black costa and outer margin a pale
brown streak at end of cell, and four black costal spots. Hind-
ioing with black outer margin, three subbasal spots, an apical and
an anal black spot.
The distinction between the sexes is that the apex is more
acute, the outer margin of the forewing and the anal angle more
pronounced in the male than in the female; otherwise the sexes
are similar. This species should correctly be referred to the genus
Megisba, Moore, of which the type is J/, malaya, Horsf. The
insects of this genus, which probably contains a single very
variable species, may be anything from wholly black to white
with black margins on the upperside; while on the underside the
markings are much more constant, but are usually darker and
larger according as the white of the upperside decreases in size.
The species is represented by individuals with or without a tail
to the hindwing. The expanse in both sexes is about 20 mm.
Though convinced that the Australian species is only one of the
many forms of the type of the genus, I prefer, however, for the
present not to sink Miskin's name ; of all the forms which
de Niceville sinks under M. malaya ours is closest to M. albidisca,
Moore.*
Though the species is one of our blackest Lycaenids, yet it is the
tvhitest form of the genus, and the name nigra is rather out of
place. J/, malaya is recorded all through the Indo-Malayan
* Journ. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, Vol. liii. Pt. ii,, p. 21, 1884.
