BY WALTER W. FROGGATT. 359
Accordingly, in addition to notes on life-histories, I liave given
brief descriptions of some of the species, with remarks on habitats
and distribution.
BiTTACUS AUSTRALIS, Klug.
Klug, Abh. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 100, 11, 1836; B. corethrarncs,
Ramb., Hist. Nat. Ins. Neurop. 327, 1842.
This representative of a world-wide genus has an extensive
range over Australia and Tasmania. It is very common in the
neighbourhood of S3'^dney in early summer, frequenting Lepto-
spermum and Melaleuca bushes when in bloom, to the foliage of
which the insects cling by the two fore pairs of legs, letting the
long hind ones hang loosely down behind ready to strike at any
incautious insect that may come within kicking distance. In
general appearance they closely resemble thickset crane flies or
*' daddy longiegs "; and apparently, by mimicking these harmless
Diptera, they are enabled not only to catch them, but to beguile
other helpless creatures within reach of their deadly hind legs.
General colour reddish-brown marked with black; wings narrow,
fuscous, thickly covered with black nervures; stigma of the same
colour near the tips. Head long, slender, and turned downwards
in front, forming a regular beak furnished with two sharp jaws.
Legs long, cylindrical, lightly clothed with hairs, and of a
curious annular structure extending into the tarsi, the most
remarkable point, however, being the form of the hind legs.
Femora thickened like the hind leg of a grasshopper; the tibiae
long and slender, with two very long slender spines standing out
at the extremity; tarsi composed of five large joints fringed on
the undersurface with fine spines, the last joint curving round to
a sharp point (taking the place of the tarsal claw); in the living
insect the whole of the undersurface of the tarsi is covered with a
sticky sponge-like process. When the tarsi touch an insect they
curl round, the terminal claw closing over between the apical
spines of the tibiae.
I have frequently taken home specimens of Bittacus and
enclosed them in a glass jar into which house flies were introduced.
