364 AUSTRALIAN NEUROPTERA,
with lighter brown, the whole of the dorsal surface clothed with
fine, flattened, rosette-like tufts, with finer feather-like ones upon
the ventral surface, and the outer margins of the thoracic and
abdominal segments armed with spiny processes. Head deeply
arcuate in centre, with the side at the base of each mandible
swelling out and rounded to the back of the head, which is
flattened on the summit and arcuate behind. ^Mandibles very
large, curving round to the pointed extremities, with the outer
edge of the basal portion clothed with spiny tubercles, the inner
edges furnished with three stout spines, the anterior one largest,
the spaces between them covered with short blunt spines. Eyes
forming a rounded space containing six separate lenses covered
with spiny tubercles. Prothorax forming a regular neck enclosed
by the base of the head; dorsulum and mesonotum forming short
narrow folds behind. Abdomen swelling out on sides, tapering
at apex to a slender pointed tip. Legs long, stout, covered with
fine spines; tarsi long, furnished with stout claws.
8uPHALASCA FLAViPES, Leach.
Ascalaphus Jlavipes, Leach, Zool. Misc. i. 48, pi. xx,: Walk.,
Brit. Mus. Cat. Neurop, 420, 1853: Bubo Jlavipes, Ramb., Hist.
Nat. Ins. Neurop. 357, 1842; Suphalasca Jlavipes, Lefebvre, Mag.
Zool. 1842.
This insect is about the same size as the preceding species, but
differs in having the head and thorax yellow marked with brown,
and the thick tuft of hair clothing the front of the head black
instead of grey, though below and above it is grey. The legs are
bright yellow except the base of the thighs and the tarsi, which
are black. The wings are marked with a bright yellow blotch
that looks like a true stigma at the extremity of each wing,
running into the termination of the parallel nervures.
Leach and Walker give the locality as New Holland. My
.specimens were taken at Bathurst, N.S.W., clinging to a slender
branch of a scrub tree, with the wings folded down the 1)ack.
