366 AUSTRALIAN SEUROPTERA,
the inner edge, clothed with long fine hairs, shortest at extremi-
ties. Eyes small, composed of six rounded facets, projecting
beside the base of the jaws. Antennae standing out straight
above eyes, consisting of a short cylindrical basal joint and a long
filiform appendage. Thoracic neck finely granulated with little
star-like spots; prothorax in front produced into two lobes pro-
jecting on either side of the head, together with the rest of
the thorax forming a shield- shaped plate. Abdomen narrow at
base, elongate-oval, with a short pointed tubercule standing out
in centre of each segment. The whole of the dorsal surface
clothed with fine downy hairs, longest on the sides, with a fringe
of fine linger-like appendages, longest behind the head, shortest
at the tip of the abdomen, each fringed with fine hairs so that
they look like feathers. Ventral surface pale ochreous, flattened,
clothed with fine hairs, thickest on the abdominal segment.
Legs long, slender, hairy; tarsi stout, claws large.
PoRiSMUS STRiGATUs, Burm.
Osinylus strigatus, Burm., Handb. Ent. ii. 984; Ramb., Hist.
Nat. Ins. Neurop. 415 : Chrysopa macuUpennis, White, Eyre's
Travels, Vol. i. Appendix, p. 432, pi. iv., fig. 2.
This insect has a wide range over New South Wales and
Queensland, and in the early summer is not uncommon in the
neighbourhood of Sydney. I once took about two dozen at rest,
like a number of moths, upon the trunk of a large-white gum-tree.
Length of body h', expanse of wings 1^ inches.
Head red; palpi and antenna black, the latter composed of
about 75 joints, the first broad and oblong, the others small,
round and clothed with short spiny bristles; upper surface of
thoracic and abdominal segments black; undersurface and legs
brown, except the fore pair, which are yellow. Wings rich
])lackish-brown with bright metallic reflections; forewings mottled
and barred with pale yellow forming a row of four transverse
bars on the base, with smaller parallel lines, and several spots and
two curved lines at the apex ; hindwings with the basal half
and extreme tip yellow.
I
