BY D. McALPINE. 375
variously branched, curved, enveloped more or less by brown
h3"phae, may be swollen towards base and taper gradually towards
apex, or may be of equal diameter throughout, opening by minute
circular mouth. Pycnospores minute, oval, hyaline, 3 x 1^/*.
Richmond River, N.S.W. (Baker); on branches and branchlets
of Casuari7ia torulosa, Ait.; August, 1897.
5. Leptosph.eria cann.e, n.sp.
Perithecia scattered, minute, black, erumpent, depressed-
globose, membranaceous to coriaceous, with distinct apical pore,
100-120 n diam. Asci elongated-clavate, attenuated at base,
8-spored, 90 x 20-2 1 J /z; paraphyses as long as or longer than asci,
numerous, filiform. Sporidia distichous, olivaceous, fusoid, obtuse
at each end, with granular contents, 3-4 septate, usually slightly
curved and constricted at septa, 18 x 6J-8 /a.
Armadale, near Melbourne, Vic. ; on upper surface of pale
brown withered patches of leaves of Carina indica, L.; July, 1902.
It differs from L. musarum, Sacc. & Berl., in the perithecia
being scattered, the longer and broader asci, and the distinct and
numerous paraphyses. The leaves of Canna are often much torn
by the wind, and large patches become brown and withered, so
that the diseased appearance may not be caused by the fungus
which is comparatively rare. It was associated with Pleosjyora
herharum, Pers.
6. Macrosporium internUxM, n.sp.
Forming variously coloured, velvety patches covering the pulp
inside, while the skin of the Orange is healthy-looking. M3^celium
consisting of dense masses of hyphse, dark green collectively, but
passing through colourless and yellowish-green phases. Hyphse
generally closely septate, copiously branched, and branches often
at right angles, i\-'6\ jx broad. Conidia amber-coloured at first,
then olivaceous, stalked, clavate, 5-8 transverse septa, and usually
more or less constricted at septa, with longitudinal septa either
single or double in each segment, variable in size, 37-75 x 17-20 /x.
Sydney, N.S.W. C. French, Junr.); on Mandarin Oranges;
Sept., 1900.
