384 BACTERIAL ORIGIN OF GUMS OF ARABIN GROUP,
infection of the plant from without is thus indicated. In the
second place, every tree does not produce gum. This is, I think,
the strongest argument in favour of the mycological origin of the
substance. If gum acacia were a natural or even pathological
product of the plant itself, one would expect to find it more
uniforml3^ distributed than it is. It is not always even uniformly
distributed over the tree; some branches may be exuding gum
while others are not. The localised positions of gum-bearing
Acaciae are in accord with the theory that gum results from the
action of agents, such as bacteria, introduced by insects into the
tissues of the plant or by wind-borne dust, laden with bacteria,
lodging in a crack or wound.
A recently gathered specimen of wattle gum, which I obtained
from Mr. J. H. Maiden, Government Botanist, showed, when
examined microscopically, a number of granules which might
have been the plasmolysed remains of bacteria. These were not
evident in older gums.
Of interest also in this connection is the circumstance that
wattle gum has nutritive properties,* and that O'Sullivan found
a proteid in samples of Gedda gum. It is not at all improbable
that this proteid substance was the remains of bacterial cells.
It would be useless to attempt the isolation and cultivation of
bacteria from fragments of dry gum, because any micro-organisms
that had been there would, during the process of drying, have
been killed plasmolytically. Fresh material must be investigated,
and to obtain this I applied to Mr. Maiden, who referred me to
Prof. Liversidge, in whose paddock at Mittagong he had seen a
specimen of Acacia penninervis bearing <a quantity of gum. Prof.
Liversidge sent me a gum-bearing branch, and this was investi-
gated.
From the twigs small portions containing a drop of gum were
cut; from these the gum was removed and the part sterilised by
rapidly passing it through a bunsen flame. Smaller parts of these
Maiden, Proc. Roy. Soc. N.S. Wales, xxxv., 171.
