BY R. GREIG SMITH. . 385
portions were inserted into faintly acid saccharose-peptone media"*^
and incubated at 30°. From the tubes of media that became
turbid, tubes of saccharose-peptone agar were infected and plates
prepared in the usual manner. The media infected with frag-
ments of heart-wood were sterile, but in cases where the bark
had been taken, two kinds of colonies developed. One of these
was in the minority, and will be referred to again in dealing with
the insoluble gums. The prevailing bacterium was stroked upon
saccharose agar, and the growth was found to contain capsulated
bacteria together with slimy bacterial clumps. A bacterium had
therefore been isolated which promised well for the research.
A number of experimental cultures were then made with the
object of determining the constituents which might be employed
to construct a prescription for the manufacture of a medium that
would yield a maximum amount of slime and at the same time
enable one to trace the constituents from which the slime is
derived. The experiments, however, led to no useful result,
partly because too high a temperature (30°) was employed and
partly because a discrimination was not made between the
quantit}'^ of bacteria and the amount of slime. The question of
the slime-forming constituents will be discussed in a future paper.
On a peptone-saccharose agar medium, however, enough slime
was obtained to enable a few tests to be made.
The slime, which adhered to the surface of the medium, was
moistened with water, and after it had swelled it was removed
with a rubber spade, the greatest care being taken to avoid
removing portions of the agar.
The slimy emulsion was stirred with a few drops of dilute hydro-
chloric acid and precipitated with alcohol. The coagulum, on
treatment with water and then alcohol, produced an opalescent
solution from which the slime v/as precipitated by potassium
chloride. The watery emulsion was found to be free from
*'' An improvement upon this method of isolation would be to employ
ordinary gkicose gelatine, in which the bacteria grow very well. Tubes of
molten glucose gelatine should be infected with the fragments of wood and
plates formed from these at once and after an incubation of 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24
hours at .30^.
