BY R. GREIG SMITH. 391
presence of albuminoids secreted by or contained in the bacteria.
When the albuminoids are coagulated by treatment in the auto-
clave the slime is altered to a gum.
Having indicated the method for obtaining a solution of the
gum acids free from dead organisms, a word may be said about
the bacteria. The bacterium from Acacia penninervis was
identical with that separated from A. binervata, but while with
the former another bacterium was associated, the bacteria in the
latter were in pure culture. The bacteria, however, were of
different races — indicated only by the production of larger
colonies on nutritive media and more slime on tannin-saccharose-
potato agar. The stronger race (from Acacia binervata) was used
subsequently for the production of the artificial gum.
The medium upon which most slime was obtained consisted of
Potato extract 1,000 c.c.
Saccharose 50 grms.
Agar 20 ,,
Tannic acid 3 ,,
The potatoes were washed, pared, eyed, grated and finally
strained and pressed in a meat-press. The juice was then allowed
to stand overnight in a flask of such a size that the juice filled
the neck. The darkening of the fluid by contact with air was
thus minimised. In the morning the juice was siphoned off from
the starch and filtered. An equal volume of water was added to
the filtrate, which was then boiled to coagulate the albuminoids,
which were removed by filtration from the potato-extract. To the
extract thus obtained, the sugar was added and the solution
heated in the autoclave to three atmospheres' pressure"^ in order to
kill the spores of Bac. levaniformans, which are generally present in
commercial sugar. After removal from the autoclave, the chopped
agar was added and the solution was returned to the autoclave
and heated to one and a half atmospheres' pressure to bring the
agar into solution The tannin was then added and the medium
was steamed for an hour, after which it was cooled to 50° and
poured into sterilised (by flaming) large damp-chambers or small
* This would be unnecessary if dextrose were used.
