392 BACTERIAL ORIGIN OF GUMS OF ARABIN GROUP,
petri-dishes. The medium in the larger vessels was after congela-
tion infected with a suspension of the bacteria in 10 c.c. of normal
saline; the medium in the petri-dishes, by smearing with a loop
of the culture. The culture used for the purposes of infection
was obtained by growing the bacteria at 30째 in potato-saccharose
agar prepared in the same way, but without tannin. The incuba-
tion at 30째 on this medium gives a loose yellow growth with very
little slime; the culture therefore readily becomes distributed in
the normal saline. The plates were kept at the laboratory tem-
perature (about 15째) and the slime was removed with a rubber
spade on the third, fifth and seventh days. The slime is easily
removed, and there is no danger of agar being taken at the same
time. The first and second crops were preserved by the addition
of a few drops of dilute hydrochloric acid and of alcohol until all
the slime was obtained. The total slime was then treated with
an excess of strong spirit and worked up in the manner already
described. The difference in the amount of slime obtained by
adding tannin to the potato-saccharose agar is ver}'' marked.
Without tannin the growth is bright yellow and slightly gummy,
while with tannin it is pale buff, thick and slimy.
A portion of the gummy solution free from sugars was pre-
cipitated with alcohol and the precipitate treated with nitric acid,
sp.g. 1*1 '2. A white, sandy powder, difficultly soluble in cold
water but readily soluble in boiling water, was obtained. It had
an indefinite melting point over 210째 C, and had the same crys-
talline appearance, viz., colourless tables with a straight side, as
mucic acid obtained from commercial gum acacia. The mother
liquor contained oxalic acid. The oxidation products are thus
identical with those of gum acacia.
So far the identity of the bacterial gum with the natural gum
has been proved by the test-tube reactions, the presence of pen-
tosans and the oxidation products. There remained the optical
activity and the determination of the constituents of the gum
acids. The former, viz., the optical activit}', is of little con-
sequence in view of the researches of other investigators.
