BY R. GREIG SMITH. 393
O'SuUivan* has shown that fragments of the same gum contain
gum acids which rotate the ray of polarised light to dififerent
extents. He also showed that diiferent kinds of gum of the
arabin group have rotations in different directions; for example,
gum arabic is Isevo-rotatory, Gedda gum is generally dextro-
rotatory, and an Australian gum was optically inactive. It is
therefore probable that the gum acids of the natural gum and
those of the bacterial gum would differ in their optical activitj^,
since the conditions under which the gums had been produced
had been so very different. This proved to be the case. I pre-
pared the gum acids from the gum of A. hinervata and from
cultures of Bact. acacice and submitted them to Mr. T. U. Walton,
B.Sc, of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co., who found that the
natural gum acids had a specific rotation of [«]d = +0°-9 and
the bacterial gum acids had a rotation of [a]^, = + 43°. I do not
lay any stress upon the difference in the optical activities. In
the future I shall grow the bacterial gum in different ways and
from different materials, to see how the optical activity is thereb}'-
influenced.
A portion of the sugar-free gum acids was dissolved in 15 c.c.
of water, and to this 10 c.c. of 5 % sulphuric acid was added, thus
making a 2 % solution. This was heated on the water bath for
an hour to hydrolyse the combined arabinan. Subsequent work
showed that this heating might with advantage be prolonged for
three or four hours to hydrolyse the arabinan more completely.
After the digestion with the 2 % acid the solution was cooled
and the unaltered gum acids precipitated with alcohol. The
solution, after filtration, was distilled until most of the alcohol
had been removed; the residual fluid was, after the addition of
about 50 c.c. of water, neutralised with barium carbonate and
filtered. The filtrate was boiled down to one-half and clarified
with aluminium hydrate. The clear solution was used for the
preparation of the osazone.
* O'Sullivan, .Journ. Chem. Soc. 1891, 1029.
