394 BACTERIAL ORIGIN OF GUMS OF ARABIN GROUP,
The residual gum acids which did not hydrolyse by the 2 %
acid treatment were dissolved in 25 c.c. of 5 % sulphuric acid and
warmed to expel the traces of alcohol. The solution was then
made up to 25 c.c. with water and boiled under a reflux condenser,
at first gently and then vigorously after the foaming had ceased.
The boiling was continued for five hours. After cooling, the acid
solution was treated with alcohol and a very small quantity of
unaltered gum removed. The alcoholic solution was treated as
has been already described, and the final solution reserved for
the preparation of the osazone.
The solution supposed to contain arabinose was tested with
Fehling's solution, when a strong reduction was obtained. One-
half of the solution was set aside in case of accidents. The other
half was heated on the water bath and to it were added 2 c.c. of
a solution containing 40 c.c. phenylhydrazine, 40 c c. glacial
acetic acid and 20 c.c. water. The heating was continued for an
hour and the solution was cooled. The precipitated osazone was
filtered off, dried on porcelain, transferred to a small filter and
extracted with ether* to remove a black, tarry substance which
melted at about 98°. This was always found in the osazones
from the bacterial as well as the natural gums. It was never
obtained in working with pure sugars such as dextrose. The
precipitate was dried at 100° and the melting point determined.
This was 160°, which, together w^ith the appearance of the crystals,
showed it to be the osazone of arabinose.
The solution, which presumably contained galactose, reduced
Fehling's solution. One-half was treated with phenylhj^drazine-
acetic acid and the osazone extracted with ether. The dry osazone
melted at 182-183°, which show^ed it to be a mixture. The
mixed osazone was boiled with 10 c.c. of waterf and filtered
through a hot filter which had been moistened with boiling water.
"•' A preliminary moistening with alcohol is sometimes advantageous.
t In some cases the osazones could not be separated by water alone, but
by dissolving everything in dilute alcohol and slowly boiling off the alcohol,
the galactosazone precipitated out from the hot solution and was separated
by filtering through a hot, wetted filter.
I
