BY R. GREIG SMITH. 395
The filtrate on cooling deposited microscopic crystals which dried
as an Arabian-brown skin on porcelain and which melted at
157-159°, showing them to be the osazone of arabinose. The
portion insoluble in water melted at 187°. This was again treated
with 10 CO. of boiling water. The insoluble portion dried as a
yellow powder and melted at 192-193°, the melting point of
the osazone of galactose.
The bacterial gum acids had therefore yielded arabinose and
galactose on hydrolysis, from which we must conclude that they
contain the arabinan-galactan complex and are of the same nature
as the natural gums of the arabin group.
The gum which was found upon Acacia hinervata was of a very
pale yellowish-brown and of a dark brown colour. Portions of
the same mass showed both colours. It occurred in hemispherical
masses and in tears and had a tough gelatinous consistency which
enabled it to be cut without fracture. It dissolved readily in
water, and in the absence of particles of bark it formed a clear
solution with an acid reaction. The acidity of 100 grms. of gum
to litmus paper was equal to 3*27 c.c. of normal acid.
Although there could be no doubt that the gum contained the
arabinan-galactan complex, yet to complete the identity of the
bacterial with the natural gum acids the proof was needed.
Accordingly a portion of the natural gum was dissolved in water,
acidified with hydrochloric acid and treated with alcohol. The
gum acids were hydrolysed and the sugars tested by means of
their osazones in the manner already indicated, when arabin-
osazone and galactosazone were obtained. Furthermore, like the
bacterial acids, there is apparently a greater proportion of arabinan
than galactan in the complex.
Summary. — A bacterium was found in pure culture at the
place from which the natural gum was exuding. This bacterium
in the laboratory formed a gum which behaved to reagents, gave
the same oxidation products, and contained the same constituents,
viz., arabinan and galactan as the natural gum. The bacterium
is thus the producer of the natural gum.
