396 BACTERIAL ORIGIN OF GUMS OF ARABIX GROUP,
The bacterial origin of that variety of gum acacia exuding from
Acacia binervata having been proved, it is a just assumption that
all other gums of the arabin group are likewise bacterial products,
and not substances formed by the plants in a pathological con-
dition.
The formation of gum is, therefore, a bacterial disease, for the
parasitic bacteria obtain their nourishment from the plant juices
which they elaborate into gum, ^vhich is not required by the host
plant. It is still undecided what constituents they may alter.
Gum can be formed from saccharose and from dextrose, but I
will deal with this side of the subject in a future paper.
The bacteria that are parasitic in plants are usually found in
the feebly acid or neutral juices of the vessels, and probably
the gum bacteria are located in the sieve tubes of the soft bast,
as Kraus * has indicated, although the gum is not a true cell
content as he supposed.
Bacterium acacia, n.sp.
Shape, etc. — The bacteria appear as short rods with rounded
ends, and occur singly, in pairs, and in groups, sometimes within
a well-defined slime case (ascus). On nutrient agar the rods
measure 0'5 : 1 /x ; in bouillon 0*5 : 1-5-2 /x, pairs commonly
occur simulating a long rod ; on glycerine-saccharose agar the
bacteria vary from 0-5 : 0'5-l'5 fx, appearing as cocci and as short
rods; on saccharose-potato agar they measure 0-6:l-2'5/x and
average 0*6 : 1'5 /z. The cells stain well with the ordinary stains;
* "Herr G. Kraus has determined by observations on the exudation of
gum from Acacia melanoxylon that it is formed only in the bark and not in
the wood, and only in the bast layer, never in the parenchyma nor in any
more external portion that the bast fibres have no share in its formation ;
that it flows from the cells of the soft bast, and especially from the sieve
tubes, and that it is not a product of degradation of the cellulose but is a true
cell content flowing out unchanged through the unchanged cell walls."
Abstract in Journ. Roy. Micr. Soc. [ii.] vi. (1886), 90, from Ber. Sitz.
Naturf. Gesell. Halle, 1884, pp. 19-20.
