BY R. GREIG SMITH. 399
II. — The Insoluble (Metarabin) Wattle Gums.
(Bacterium metarahinum, n.sp.)
While the natural gum of Acacia binervata was, in the absence
of particles of bark, entirely soluble in water, the gum of Acacia
penninervis was only partly so. The bacteria associated with the
gum of the former were entirely JJact. acacice, while from the
latter this organism and another were found. As separated from
my culture solutions the other bacterium was in the minority,
but on considering the matter this can be accounted for by its
method of growth. Bad. acacice in peptone saccharose fluid
grows as single cells, while the other bacterium has a tendency
to grow in aggregates^*, and thus in plate culture the aggregate
comes out as if it had been a single cell.
I did not think that the plant would convert soluble gum to
the insoluble or meta modification, and expected that the
insolubility resulted from the further action of the organism, the
action of tannin, or that it was produced by quite another
bacterium. The first is unlikely, the second is quite possible, and
the last is most probable. Tannin is known to stiffen the gum,
and it would therefore be an easy thing to affirm that the
insolubility was entirely due to its action. But the gum of
Acacia binervata is formed in the presence of tannin bodies, and
although fragments of bark are imbedded in the solid exudate,
yet, when these are picked out, the gum is found to be entirely
soluble in w'ater. There is, therefore, strong reason to believe
that tannin has nothing to do with the production of the
insoluble portion of the gums.
The second bacterium from Acacia pennhiervis forms, in suit-
able media, slime masses similar to Bad. acacice^ and while the
latter forms gummy colonies on gelatine media, the colonies of
the former are dry and cohesive, so that the colonies are removed
from the medium by the inoculating needle f:n masse. There is
On this account the bacterium must be " plated " several times before a
pure culture is obtained.
