400 BACTERIAL ORIGIN OF GUMS OF ARABIN GROUP,
in this method of growth a strong indication that the slime is
more insoluble than that secreted by Bact. acacice. On saccharose-
potato agar with or without tannin Bact. acacice produces at 15°
a gummy slime that does not adhere firmly to the medium. The
other bacterium forms a thicker slime, and the portion in contact
with the medium adheres firmly and cannot be entirely removed
with a rubber spade. When the two slimes are carefully removed,
dried in the steam bath at 100° and then moistened with water,
the slime of Bact. acacice swells up, forming a diffusive slime very
similar to its original condition, while the slime of the other bac-
terium smells slightly and retains the shape in which it had
dried. There is thus a strong probability that the new bacterium
forms the insoluble gum (the meta-arabin) of wattle gum. That
the slime might eventually prove to be of the arabinan-galactan
class was indicated by the great similarity of the growth on
tannin-saccharose-potato agar with that produced by Bact. acacice.
The nature of the slime had now to be determined, and as with
Bact. acacice, large plates of tannin-saccharose-potato agar were
infected with a suspension of the bacteria in 10 c.c. of normal
saline, and these were kept at the laboratory temperature (15°).
The slimes wers collected, rendered more acid with a few drops
of dilute hydrochloric acid and treated with alcohol. A curdy
precipitate which became cohesive and an opalescent solution
were obtained. The precipitate was stirred repeatedl}' with
alcohol until no further opalescence was produced. The pre-
cipitate was treated with water and then with alcohol, when a
thin starch paste-like suspension was produced. This was
flocculated with barium chloride (potassium chloride did not act
so well as the barium salt), and a contractile curd separated from
an opalescent solution. The opalescent alcoholic solution was.
added to the opalescent solution previously obtained and the gum
in this was precipitated by the addition of barium hydrate and
reserved for future examination.
The contractile curd was treated with water, with which it
formed a thick paste. The lumps were broken up by passage
through a wire-gauze filter and the whole was warmed to cause
