BY R. GREIG SMITH. 401
a uniform swelling. It had an acid reaction to litmus paper.
By heating in the autoclave for ten minutes at 3-4 atmospheres a
slimy sediment (apparently gummy) and an almost clear, slightly %
acid, supernatant fluid was produced. The slimy sediment was
mixed with water treated with 2-3 drops dilute sulphuric acid
and again heated in the autoclave. This gave a curdy precipi-
tate and supernatant solution. The curdy precipitate was
apparently free from gum, and as it probably consisted of
coagulated bacteria it was not examined further. The faintly
acid solution from the first autocla\'e treatment was tested with
a few reagents. Lead acetate, barium hydrate and barium
chloride gave no precipitate. Basic lead acetate and ammoniacal
lead acetate gave precipitates. Fehling's solution gave no pre-
cipitate and no reduction on heating. Copper sulphate followed
by sodium hydrate gave a precipitate which coagulated on boiling
without change of colour. Alcohol gave an opalescent solution
which flocculated readily with potassium chloride.
The gum acids in the mixed solutions from the autoclave treat-
ment were precipitated with alcohol and potassium chloride and
kept over-night in contact with the alcohol. The precipitate
was very contractile, and on treatment with water it partly
dissolved and partly swelled up, forming a practically unfiltrable
suspension. A portion of this was preserved; it had not dissolved
at the time of reading this paper, i.e., in one month; the gela-
tinous lumps were still evident. We have in this insolubility of
the gum acids a condition identical with what occurs on treating
the semi-insoluble wattle gums with water, and confirms the
deduction made from other observations that this bacterium is
responsible for the production of the metarabin of these gums.
The gelatinous lumps of gum acids were insoluble in dilute acid,
but readily dissolved in dilute sodium hydrate, from which dilute
hydrochloric acid precipitated the gum acids.
The acids were dissolved in dilute sodium hydrate, neutralised
with sulphuric acid, and enough 5 % sulphuric acid was added to
make a 2 % solution. This was boiled under a reflux condenser
for two and a half hours. A white precijDitate which contained
