402 BACTERIAL ORIGIN OF GUMS OF ARABIN GROUP,
no o-um acids and proved to be barium sulphate was filtered from
the dilute sulphuric solution. Alcohol did not produce a pre-
cipitate in a portion of the filtrate, so that the gum acids appa-
rently had been completely hydrolysed by the treatment. The
solution was neutralised b}^ boiling with barium carbonate,
filtered and the filtrate clarified with aluminium hydrate. A
portion of the solution was treated with phenjdhydrazine acetate
solution, and a mixed osazone was obtained. When the consti-
tuents were separated in the manner indicated in the first portion
of this paper, they proved to be arabinosazone (m.p. 158-160°)
and galactosazone (m.p. 192-193°). The gum acids therefore
contained the arabinan-galactan complex, and the gum belonged
to the arabin group.
The opalescent alcoholic solution which coagulated on the
addition of barium hydrate was washed by suspension in alcohol
and finally treated with water, in which it formed a semi
solution. Dilute sulphuric acid was added until no further
white precipitate formed, and the suspension was heated in the
autoclave, when a sediment of barium sulphate and a supernatant
fluid was obtained. From this, alcohol threw down a small
quantity of a contractile precipitate which dissolved easily in
water. On testing the solution, which was acid to litmus paper,
precipitates were obtained wdth basic lead acetate, ammoniacal
lead acetate and barium hydrate. Copper sulphate followed by
potassium hj^drate gave a precipitate w^hich contracted but did
not darken on boiling. Barium chloride, sodium h3^drate, lead
acetate and Fehling's solution gave no precipitates. The reaction
with barium hydrate suggests the possibility that the compound
may be a pectin substance.* On hydrolysis with sulphuric acid
* The pectin substances are very indefinite and yield on hydrolysis various
sugars. Bourquelot found that gentian pectose hydrolysed to arabinose and
doubtful crystals of galactose. Hebert obtained arabinose from the pectic
bodies of ripe fruit and bulbs, but as they also yielded mucic acid on oxida-
tion, he considered that gaiactan had been present. Bauer hydrolysed apple
pectin to xylose and pear pectose to galactose. Herzfeld concluded that
parapectic acid contained arabinan and gaiactan.
