BY R. GRBIG SMITH. 405
in progress. Gum tragacanth will undoubtedly be shown to
have a bacterial origin.
The various gums of the arabin group are not found upon
Acacias only. This, however, does not militate against the
bacterial origin of all these gums. Thus the gums exuded by
certain Rosaceae*, e.g., cherry, peach, plum, are very similar to
wattle gum, and are probably the work of bacteria such as Bad.
acacice and metarabiuum. These fruit tree gums are being
investigated.
Bacterium metarabinum, n.sp.
Shape, etc. — The organism is a stout, motile, short rod, with
rounded ends. The dried and imbedded bacteria when taken
from cultures on saccharose-potato agar appear as oval cells,
measuring 0-8 : 1-2 /z, and as rods measuring 1 : 2 /^t. On the oval
cells the flagella are generally terminal, but as the cell grows
longer many peritrichous flagella can be seen, up to seven have
been counted; but as the growths on agar are cohesive many more
may occur on the cells. Staining by Gram's method is negative,
and spores are not formed.
Temperature, etc. — The optimum temperature is about 30°. At
37° the growth is less than at 22° or 15°. The bacterium is
aerobic, but grows slightly under anaerobic conditions.
Nutrient agar plate. — The colonies are dirty-white, raised and
rough. When magnified they appear rounded, irregular or
lobular, with a smooth edge and convoluted, puckered or crinkled
centre. The deep colonies appear moruloid or very irregular, as
if several colonies had fused together at different parts. As the
colony increases in size the colour deepens to a yellowish-bnff.
Glucose-gelatine plate. — The colonies are ivory-white, dry and
puckered, and have a very cohesive consistency; it is almost
* The slime-flux or mucilage-flux and the gum-flux of certain trees have
been ascribed to the action of certain Ascomycetes by Ludwig and by
Beijerinck. In view of my research it is possible that in some cases at least
these ascomycetes have appeared in the flux at a period subsequent to its
formation by bacteria.
27
