406 BACTERIAL ORIGIN OF GUxMS OF ARABIX GROUP,
impossible to pick up a fragment of the young colony with the
needle, the whole colony comes away. Microscopically, the colonies
are dark, very coarsely granular and crinkled. The margin is
indefinite on account of the consumption of the medium. The
deep colonies are granular and very irregular. The colour deepens
to a yellowish tint and the medium is slowly liquefied.
Nutrient gelatine plate. — As on glucose-gelatine, but the
growth is poorer.
Nutrient agar stroke. — A narrow, slightly raised, rough, dry,
glistening, lobular, yellowish-white growth forms at 30°; it
adheres firmly to the medium. The condensed water carries a
film from which the rough growth spreads upwards.
Glucose-gelatine stroke. — A translucent white, very wrinkled,
rough, dry, dull growth, with an irregular margin is formed at
22°. A pit forms at the base of the stroke owing to the con-
sumption of the gelatine at the place of strongest growth. The
medium slowly liquefies and gravitates, producing an appearance
like the clear condensed water of an agar tube. The culture
coheres as a wrinkled skin. On gelatine the colour is always
white or very pale yellow; while on agar it changes from white
to yellow or bufi".
Glucose-gelatine stab. — The stab becomes filiform-tuberculate.
The nail-head is sunken and a rough growth lines the surface of
the depression. Below the consumed medium the gelatine may
be slightly and locally liquefied. Gas bubbles are formed in the
medium; the gas formation is more pronounced in saccharose-
(^elatine, on plates of saccharose-potato agar, and in saccharose-
potato extract.
Nutrient gelatine stab. — As in glucose-gelatine but poorer.
Saccharose-potato agar stroke. — The appearance of the culture
depends upon the incubation temperature. At 30° in 24 hours
the growth is luxuriant and has spread over the greater portion
of the slope. It is undulating, much raised, glistening, granular
and apparently very slimy. The colour is the same as the
medium, viz., buff or very light oak. The condensed water has
been absorbed. In 48 hours the growth has spread entirely over
