BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 409
rather narrow; 211(1 just perceptibly longer than 3id or 4th and
(like them) drawn slightly backwards at the sides. Legs rather
short and stout; femora very feebly grooved, dentate, posterior
not passing elytra; tibiae feebly compressed, straight except at
extreme base; tarsi slightly shorter than tibiae, 1st and 4th joints
equal, 3rd wide and deeply bilobed. Oblong-elliptic, convex,
squamose, winged.
The above diagnosis is drawn up from European specimens of
the typical C. Lapathi, and with which the two species described
below are decidedly congeneric. Of the sixteen species referred
to Cryptorhynchus and standing* under that name in Masters'
^Catalogue' I am unacquainted with australis, corosus, teter, longi-
manus, rncestas and solidus, in all six species. Some of these six
species may belong to Cryptorhy7ichus, but the genus of each one
of them is very doubtful. Of the others stigmaticus is a true
Cryptorhynchus and is redescribed below; Uthodermus and suc-
cisits belong to Poropterus; ephippiger to Camptorrhinus^ alhicollis
to Metyrios, cariosus to Exithius, femoralis to Amydala, sirius and
antares to a new genus, and infulatus also to a new genus.
Elytra with six spots at summit of posterior declivity stigmaticus, Fasc.
Elytra f asciate at summit of declivity vems, n. sp.
Cryptorhynchus stigmaticus, Pasc; Mast. Cat. No. 5550.
Brownish-black, antennae dull red. Eather sparsel}'- clothed
(except on scutellum, where the clothing is dense and rather pale)
with small scales varying from a dingy whitish-grey to brown,
each elytron with three small spots about summit of posterior
declivity, the median ones slightly anterior to the two lateral ones
and which are on the 3rd and 5th interstices. Under surface
with not very sparse whitish scales; legs with thin whitish scales,
denser at apex of tibise than elsewhere. Head with sparse scales,
thin in front, rounded behind; sides (behind antennse) and base
of rostrum with thin scales.
* Except O. solidus, accidentally omitted.
