410 REVISION OF THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONIDiE,
Head with not very dense punctures. Rostrum the length of
prothorax, sides scarcely visibly incurved to middle; basal third
rather strongly punctate, sides elsewhere moderately strongly
punctate. Scape inserted slightly nearer apex than base of
rostrum: 1st joint of funicle stouter and slight^ shorter than 2nd.
Prothorax rather strongly transverse, apex less than half the
width of base; with a dense slightly shining seta bearing granules,
becomingveryindistinct anteriorly; with a narrow and distinct but
not quite continuous median carina. Elytra slightly wider than
prothorax; with series of large punctures, each of which is deep
only in its middle; interstices rather densely granulate, the
alternate ones scarcely visibly raised above but with denser
granules than the others. Under surface indistinctly punctate.
Femora thin and very feebly dentate. Length 9, rostrum 3;
width 4|; variation in length 8-9 mm.
Hah. — " Queensland " (Pascoe), Rockhampton (Macleay Mus.),
Upper Endeavour River (Mr. C. French).
Cryptorhynchus verus, n.sp.
Brownish-black, antennae dull red. Moderately densel}'- clothed
with scales mostly of an ochreous-fawn, but varying from white
to brown; scutellum with dense whitish scales; elytra with an
irregular whitish fascia at summit of posterior declivity. Under
surface with rounded scales varying from white to fawn; legs
with whitish scales. Head, base and sides of rostrum with
ochreous-fawn scales.
Head with dense concealed punctures. Rostrum rather wide,
feebly curved and scarcel}^ the length of prothorax; basal third
coarsely punctate, elsewhere shining and (except at sides) very
lightly punctate. Scape inserted slightly nearer apex than base
of rostrum; 1st joint of funicle slightly longer than 2nd. Pro-
thorax lightly transverse, apex more than half the width of base;
granules rather less numerous and the setae less distinct than in
C. stigmaticus; median carina continuous to base and almost to
apex. Elytra slightly wider than prothorax; with series of rather
large punctures; alternate interstices feebly raised and all with
