BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 411
series of very obtuse granules. TJndar surface with more distinct
punctures than in C stigmaticus; the femora stouter but just as
feebly dentate. Length 8J, rostrum 2|; width 4; variation in
length 8-9 mm.
Zrrt6.— Australia (Herr J. Faust); N.W. Australia (Mr. G.
Masters) — Q. : Cairns (Macleay Mus.).
Close to the preceding species, but considerably narrower, the
rostrum shorter and wider and the two basal joints of the funicle
differently proportioned. The granules also are different,
especially on the elytra. The clothing is much the same except
that it is denser and that the elytra are supplied with a fascia
instead of six spots at the summit of the posterior declivity.
Genus Tyrt^osus, Pascoe.
Trans. Ent. Soc. 1870, p. 479.
Head convex, ocular fovea indistinct. Eyes subtriangular,
rather large, coarsely faceted. Rostrum rather long and thin, but
sometimes comparatively short and stout, distinctly curved.
Antennce moderately stout; scape usually inserted nearer apex
than base of rostrum, shorter than funicle; 1st joint of funicle
stout but moderately long; club ovate. Prothorax subconical,
constriction feeble, sides rounded, base sinuate, ocular lobes pro-
minent. Scutellum subtriangular or subquadrate. Elytra more
than twice the length of prothorax and usually distinctly wider
at base, cordate or oblong-cordate. Pectoral canal deep and
narrow, terminated between four anterior coxae. Mesosternal
receptacle moderately raised, either semicircular or shaped like a
short Y, rather narrow at base, emargination usually distinctly
transverse; cavernous. Metasternum subequal in length to the
following segment; episterna rather wide. Abdomen with straight
distinct sutures ; 1st segment large, intercoxal process rather
narrow, 3rd and 4th conjoined as long as or slightly longer than
2nd or 5th. Legs moderately long; femora rather stout, dentate
(but occasionally edentate), with a more or less distinct lateral
groove to receive tibiae, posterior not extending to apex of abdo-
men; tibiae short, grooved their entire length, the grooves less
