414 REVISION OF THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULlONIDiE,
Eyes separated considerably less than width
of rostrum at base.
. Femora feebly dentate assimilis, n.s^.
Femora strongly dentate.
Elytral interstices with punctures along
middle imrdalU, Pasc.
Elytral interstices without such punc-
tures religiosns, n.sp.
TvRTiEOSUS MiCROTHORAX, Pasc. I l.c. No. 555
Black; antenn£e and claws dull piceous-red. Rather unevenly
clothed with scales of varying shades of brown and yellow; vary-
ing in shape from short, quadrate or spatulate, to elongate seta?.
Head with pale brown scales at base of rostrum and behind eyes;
prothorax with pale brown setose scales and a few shorter and
almost white at sides; disc with three feeble longitudinal stripes
of setose scales ; scutellum with brownish scales ; elytra with
rather small scales, a large very irregular patch of pale yellowish
scales near the sides and extending obliquely backwards to near
suture, then irregularly to apex, pale brown ones at base, along
suture and sides, a few small patches of dark brown ones scattered
about, short pale setse at apex and sides; sterna and legs with
long pale setose scales; metasternal episterna with embedded
scales at each end; abdomen with pale and rather setose scales
on 1st segment, 2nd with shorter sooty-brown scales and a few
pale ones scattered about, 3rd and 4th each with one distinct
row of sooty scales and a few smaller and paler ones scattered
about, their sides with paler and denser scales.
Head densely punctate; a shining distinct carina from base to
ocular fovea (which is partially concealed); a depression on each
side behind eyes. Rostrum shining; almost parallel to near apex
where it is distinctly widened; coarsely punctate at base, the
punctures decreasing in size and number to apex. Funicle with
lst-2nd joints equal, moderately elongate, the length of 4th-6th
combined, 6th-7th globular. Prothorax transverse, base bisinuate;.
a shining median carina continuous from base to apex, but partially
concealed by scales; densely punctate and with small shining.
