BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 415-
oblong or rounded granules. Elytra cordate, much wider than^
prothorax, and about four times its length ; base trisinuate ;
shoulders rounded; punctures almost concealed by scales and
apparently very shallow; interstices very narrow, shining, raised
and keel-like, ten on each elytron, the first appearing as a row of
elongate granules; apex with small shining granules. Mesosternal
receptacle slightly angular. Metasternum rather coarsely punctate;;
episterna with moderately large punctures at their bases and
fewer and smaller at their apices. Abdomen with moderately
dense punctures on 1st and 5th segments, fewer on 2nd, and
forming a transverse row across each of the 3rd and 4th, these
closely joined together but sutures distinct. Femora moderately
thick, posterior almost reaching apical segment, teeth in all dis-
tinct and rather sharp; tibiae short, grooved, base strongly curved,
the posterior widening to apex, apex itself obliquely truncate and
very thin. Length 8, rostrum 24; width 4jmm.
//a6.— S. Queensland (Mr. G. Masters).
This is a rather prettily marked species with very narrow
elytral interstices. The carina on the head is very distinct.
Tyrt.eosus vetustus, Pasc; I.e. No. 5560.
Black; antennae and claws dull piceous-red. Base of rostrum,,
between and behind eyes with short pale scales; prothorax with
dull brown scales embedded in punctures and seldom rising
above the general level, the sides with larger pale and broader
scales; scutellum with pale scales; elytra with two transverse
fascia3 of short pale scales interrupted towards and very irregular
about suture: one near apex and one near base; duller, smaller
and scarcely visible scales scattered elsewhere; metasternal epi-
sterna with embedded scales at each end; sterna and abdomen
with large embedded scales, pale but becoming darker on abdomen,
3rd and 4th segments each with one distinct row of dull scales
and a much feebler scarcely traceable row.
Head densely punctate, ocular fovea indistinct; eyes large, pro-
minent, subcontiguous. Rostrum feebly shining, parallel almost
to apex; base coarsely punctate, the punctures gradually decreas-
