416 REVISION OF THE AUSTRi^LIAN CUKCULIONIDA:,
ing in size to apex. Scape inserted slightly nearer apex than
base of rostrum; funicle rather thick, joints lst-2nd briefly obtri-
-angular, 3rd-7th transverse, their sutures indistinct. Prothorax
transverse; with dense round punctures; a shining, slightly inter-
rupted median carina continued from base to apex. Elytra
oblong-cordate, wider than prothorax and about thrice its length;
punctate-striate, punctures subquadrate and rather shallow: inter-
stices narrow, raised, and appearing as rows of oblong granules,
terminating at apex in bead-like granules. Metasternwrn as in
preceding. Abdomen with 1st, 2nd, and 5th segments rather
densely punctate; the 3rd and 4th with regular punctures, their
sutures wide. Femora more slender than in preceding, the teeth
(except posterior) smaller but sufficient!}' distinct ; posterior
reaching middle of apical segment; tibiae short, strongly curved
at base, the posterior slightly wider at their apices than the
anterior. Length 7, rostrum 1|; width 3| (vix) mm.
Hah. — Queensland, Victoria, S. Australia.
In this species the eyes are perhaps closer together, larger and
more coarsely faceted than in any other of the genus. One of
my specimens was received from Herr J. Faust and marked as
having been so named by Mr. Pascoe.
TYRTiEOSUS RELIGIOSUS, n.sp.
Black; antennae dull reddish-piceous, claws dull red. Head
and rostrum with pale scales, more distinct about eyes than else-
w^here; prothorax with pale ochreous setose scales rising above
punctures, more regular, shorter and slightly paler on sides than
on disc; scutellum v/ith very small pale scales; elytra with short
ochreous scales, unevenly distributed and denser towards apex
and base than elsewhere, seen from above with semi-nude spaces
forming an irregular Maltese cross; metasternal episterna with
embedded scales at each end; sterna and two basal segments of
abdomen with moderately elongate pale scales, 3rd and 4tli each
with two or more irregular rows of sooty and pale scales inter-
mingled together.
