BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 419
punctures marked by scales, interstices feebly raised, scarcely
distinguishable. Under surface moderately densely punctate;
abdominal segments with rather narrow sutures, the second with
about three rows of moderately regular punctures, each of the
3rd and 4th with two distinct and very regular rows. Posterior
femora scarcely extending to middle of 4th segment, the teeth in
all rather small; tibiae short, grooved, equal, parallel except at
base. Length 4, rostrum 1; width 2 mm.
ZTaS.— N.S.W.: Gosford.
On a first glance the elytral interstices appear to be wider than
the punctures, but this is not the case, although they are wider
than usual; from the following species (which it closely resembles)
its larger size, more convex form, and shining rostrum will
sufficiently distinguish it.
Tyrt.eosus usTULATUs, Pasc. ; Ix. No. 5559.
Piceous-black; antennae and tarsi dark reddish-brown. Ros-
trum with setose scales throughout; prothorax with three feeble
longitudinal stripes of pale setose scales; elytra with griseous
scales forming very ill-defined fascitis and variable in pattern,
sparser at base and behind the middle than elsewhere; meta-
sternal episterna with embedded scales at each end, each of the
3rd and 4th abdominal segments with elongate scales forming at
least two very irregular rows.
Head granulate and punctate; ocular fovea invisible; eyes
rather widely separated. Rostrum opaque, parallel to near apex,
coarsely punctate throughout. Prothorax feebly transverse, sides
feebly rounded; with deep round punctures giving the surface a
granulated appearance; median carina scarcely traceable. Scii-
tellum oblong, smooth, slightly raised. Elytra about once and
one-fourth the width of prothorax and not thrice its length;
slightly the widest behind middle; shoulders rounded; striate-
punctate, punctures rather large, sufficiently distinct; striae
apparently wider than interstices, these raised and appearing as
rows of oblong granules. Mesosternal rece'ptade rather wide.
Under surface coarsely punctate, punctures and scales of 3rd and
