420 REVISION OF THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONID.E,
4th abdominal segments very irregular. Femora rather thin,
feebly dentate, the posterior extending to middle of apical seg-
ment; tibia? grooved, equal. Length 4, rostrum f; width If mm.
Hah. — Tasmania.
The rostrum is coarsely punctate throughout; the femora are
long and rather thin, the anterior pair being very feebly dentate.
Tyrt.eosus iEMULUS, n.sp.
Differs from the preceding species in having elytral scales very
much sparser and slightly more elongate (and under a microscope
seen to be very different in shape); the scales on the intermediate
segments almost circular and forming one distinct and very regular
row ; rostrum slightly shorter, much less coarsely and more
regularly punctate, less densely squamose and with a shining
carina; the elytral punctures are coarser; the femora somewhat
stouter, and the posterior pair do not reach the apical segment.
Length 4, rostrum f ; width 1| mm.
^«6._N.S.W. : Galston, Forest Reefs (Dumbrell k Lea).
This species very strongly resembles ustulatuSj but the differ-
ences noted above appear to me to be incompatible with specific
identity. I have five specimens agreeing in all particulars except
size, and that variable to but a very slight extent (not half a milli-
metre between the two extremes). Of ustulatus I have under
examination two specimens kindly lent to me by Mr. Masters.
Tyrt^osus dolosus, n.sp. (Faust MS.).
Black, elytral interstices tinged with red; antennse dull reddish-
piceous; claws dull red. Head with pale ochreous-brown scales,
densest about eyes and base of rostrum; prothorax with three
feeble longitudinal rows of ochreous scales on disc, disc with sooty
black scales not rising to general level and scarcely visible, the
sides with sooty and white scales and large pale ochreous ones
near the apex; scutellum densely squamose, the scales pale; elytra
with sooty scarcely visible scales and others of an ochreous-red
colour and irregularly distributed; the darker spaces appearing
as a feeble Maltese cross; metasternal episterna with scales con-
