BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 421
tiiiuous throughout; sterna and abdomen with short uniformly
whitish scales; each of the 3rd and 4th abdominal segments with
a distinct row of scales as the rest of the abdomen, and a few
feeble ones about suture.
Head densely punctate and very feebly carinate in front; ocular
fovea concealed ; eyes large, subapproximate. Rostrum sub-
parallel, densely punctate, punctures naked towards apex, squa-
mose towards basC; a feeble carina extending from base almost to
apex. Antennae inserted slightly in advance of the middle; scape
short: basal joint of funicle obtriangular, longer than 2nd, 3rd-
7th transverse. Prothorax transverse; densely punctate, punc-
tures round and deep; a narrow median somewhat irregular
carina extending from base to apex. Sc^itellum oblong. Elytra
distinctly wider than prothorax and not thrice its length ;
shoulders slightly produced, rounded, granulate; punctures large,
shallow, separated by feeble transverse ridges; ten slightly raised
and rather wavy interstices on each elytron, becoming granulate
towards apex. Mesosternal receptacle semicircular. Metasteriial
episterna punctate throughout, the punctures forming double rows
at base and apex. Ahdoinen punctate, each of the 3rd and 4th
segments with one distinct row. Femora rather thick, posterior
extending to middle of apical segment; tibiae short, grooved, all
(but especially the posterior) dilating towards apex. Length 1\,
rostrum 2 (vix); width 4 mm.
[' Hab.—l^.Q.: Cooktown (Herr J. Faust).
Very strongly resembles T. religiosus, but besides the carinate
head it is of a shorter and broader build, with shorter and broader
rostrum and punctures of metasternal episterna different. A
specimen from the Northern Territory (probably Palmerston)
appears to belong to this species, but differs in being considerably
smaller (5 mm.), the clothing rather denser and paler and the
Maltese cross even less distinctly defined.
Tyrt^osus incallidus, Pasc; I.e. No. 5555.
Dark reddish-brown; prothorax and under surface darker,
antennae dull red. Head and base of rostrum with pale uniformly
28
