422 REVISION OF THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONID^,
distributed scales; prothorax densely clothed with rather elongate
pale scales all converging towards the middle; elytra with four
feeble much interrupted fasciae of pale scales, one at base, one
before and one behind middle, and one at apex; metasternal
episterna with scales continuous throughout; under surface with
moderately large and rather sparse pale scales; 3rd and 4th
abdominal segments each with one distinct row, a few small scales
in the prosternal portion of the pectoral canal.
Head punctate and granulate ; ocular fovea shallow ; eyes
moderately separated. Rostrum long, thin, rounded, extreme
base coarsely punctate, elsewhere highly polished and finely
punctate. Antennse slender; scape curved and inserted slightly
nearer base than apex; two basal joints of funicle elongate, 5th-
7th transverse; club rather small. Prothorax distinctly trans-
verse, sides feebly rounded, apex not much narrower than base,
base bisinuate; densely punctate, the punctures almost concealed.
Scutellum transverse. Elytra not much wider than prothorax
and about thrice its length, subparallel to near apex; shoulders
feebly rounded; punctures subquadrate, separated by transverse
ridges almost level with interstices; these feebly raised, rather
broad, in parts appearing as elongated granules and granulate
towards apex. Mesosternal receptacle longer than wide. Meta-
sternal episterna with one continuous row of punctures. Abdomen
moderately densely punctate, 2nd segment in about three rows,
each of the 3rd and 4th with one distinct and regular row.
Femora rather stout, teeth distinct ; posterior reaching apical
segment; tibiae grooved, anterior feebly bisinuate, four posterior
almost parallel (except at base). Length 5 (vix), rostrum If;
width 2^- mm.
Hab. — S. Queensland.
Tyrt^osus ichthyosomus, n.sp.
Dark reddish-brown; prothorax, under surface and rostrum
darker ; antennae dull red. Densely clothed with short pale
scales almost entirely concealing derm, those on prothorax larger
.than on elytra and all converging towards the middle, scutellar
