BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 423
scales very minute; each of the 3rd and 4th abdominal segments
with two irregular rows in the middle and more towards sides;
metasternal episterna with scales continuous throughout.
Head densely punctate; ocular fovea feeble. Rostrum long,
thin, densely punctate at base, feebly elsewhere, highly polished,
slightly increasing in width almost from base to apex. Antennae
slender; scape inserted in exact middle of rostrum; two basal
joints of funicle elongate, subcylindrical, as long as those follow-
ing combined, 7th transverse. Prothorax transverse; punctures
and median carina almost concealed. S cutellum covdia.tQ. EJytra
not much wider than prothorax and about thrice its length,
parallel-sided to near apex; each with about eight rows of punc-
tures marked by depressions, but the punctures themselves con-
cealed; interstices apparently rather broad, feebly raised and
punctate. Mesosternal receptacle longer than wide. Metasternal
episterna with punctures continuous throughout and forming two
rows at base and apex. Abdomen moderately densely punctate,
the 3rd and 4th segments each with two very irregular rows, the
sides more densely punctate. Femora almost linear, the grooving
and teeth very slight, posterior not reaching apical segment ;
tibiae thin, anterior feebly bisinuate and very feebly grooved, the
four posterior almost straight, somewhat wider and with more
distinct grooves. Length 6^, rostrum 1|; width 3 mm.
//a6.— N.S.W.: Tenterfield (Mr. G. Masters)— Queensland
(Mr. C. French).
An uniformly clothed and subparallel species, with longer
k mesosternal receptacle, legs and rostrum than is usual.
TYRT.E0SUS CARINATUS, n.sp.
. Dull brownish-black; legs dark reddish-brown, antenna3 dull
bed. Sparsely clothed with dingy setose scales ; metasternal
episterna with setose scales continuous throughout; each of the
3rd and 4th abdominal segments with long setose scales not
formed in rows.
Head rather densely punctate, a distinct carina continued from
summit to about the middle of rostrum, from its termination an
