424 REVISION OF THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONID^,
impunctate line to apex; eyes large, rather distant. Rostrum
parallel-sided, shining; densely punctate at base and sides, feebly
so elsewhere. Scape inserted much closer to apex than base of
rostrum; two basal joints of funicle rather stout, subequal, 3rd-7th
feebly transverse; club acuminate. Prothorax feebly transverse,
apex rather narrow, sides rounded, feebly decreasing to base;
median carina very distinct, continued from base to apex; densely
punctate, punctures deep and round. Scutelluni small, subtrian-
gular. Elytra wider than prothorax and not thrice its lengthy
elongate-cordate, base trisinuate, shoulders somewhat prominent,
rounded; interstices slightly raised, rather broad and punctate,
scarcely granulate at apex. Mesosternal recpptacle feebly trian-
gular. Metasternal episterna each with a narrow row of punc-
tures, continuous throughout. Abdomen densely punctate, 3rd
and 4th segments with dense and very irregular punctures.
Femora rather slender, teeth small but distinct; posterior extend-
ing beyond middle of apical segment; tibiae feebly grooved, thin,
parallel except at base. Length 4J, rostrum 4; width 2 mm.
^«5._N.S.W. : Glen Innes.
A small species which should be easily recognised on account
of its distinct carina continued from head on to rostrum and
which is not at all interrupted at the position of the ocular fovea.
Tyrt^osus castor, n.sp.
Piceous-black ; antennae and claws dull red. Moderately
densely clothed with ochreous-yellow scales mixed with paler and
sooty scales; head and base of rostrum densely squamose; a dis-
tinct median stripe on prothorax and a much more feeble one on
each side; each puncture bearing a scale varying from white to
ochreous; elytra more densely squamose towards apex than else-
where; usually with a small whitish macula on 4th interstice
before the middle. Under surface with paler and smaller scales
than above, a continuous row on each of the metasternal episterna
and one row on each of the 3rd and 4th abdominal segments.
Head punctate; ocular fovea absent, its place being occupied
by squamose punctures; eyes rather large, depressed and distant.
