BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 425
Rostrum shining, sides slightlj'' incurved to middle, base and sides
punctate, a shining impunctate line on basal third. Scape
inserted almost in exact middle of rostrum; 1st and 2nd joints
of funicle moderately long, subequal, as long as 3rd-7th combined.
Prothorax feebly transverse, sides rounded, feebly decreasing to
base; median carina very feeble; densely punctate, punctures
round and moderately deep. Scutellum oblong. Elytra slightly
granulate, sides decreasing to apex from about the middle; inter-
stices feebly elevated, somewhat flattened, as wide as punctures
at base and wider at apex, with depressed granules. Mesosternal
receptacle semicircular. Metasternum more densely punctate in
middle than sides; each episternumwithonedistinctand continuous
row of punctures. Abdomen (except apical segment) rather
sparsely punctate, the 3rd and 4th each with one regular row of
rather shallow punctures. Femora slightly thickened, posterior
scarcely reaching apical segment,' tooth in all rather small but
distinct; tibiae grooved, subequal. Length G (vix), rostrum 14;
width 3 mm.
Hah. — Q. : Endeavour River, Cairns (Macleay Mus.), Somerset
(Mr. C. French).
This species must be close to T. concretus^ also from North
(Queensland; the following passages in Mr. Pascoe's description,
however, would certainly not apply to the present insect, "Elytra
interstitiis valde elevatis; femora . . . mutica."
" The scales on the prothorax are embedded in the punctures,
both being of rather unusual size." He also says : — "Tibia:' anticse
sulcatse," thereby at least implying that the anterior tibiae are
more noticeably grooved than the four posterior; in the jDresent
insect the reverse is the case.
TvRTiEosus POLLUX, n.sp.
Piceous-black; elytra feebly tinged with red, rostrum piceous-
red, antennae and claws paler. Moderately squamose, scales
obscure ochreous and sooty; metasternal episterna with scales
continuous throughout ; abdomen (especially apical segment)
rather densely squamose, each of the intermediate segments with
two distinct rows.
