426 REVISION OP THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONIDiE,
Head densely punctate ; ocular fovea moderately distinct.
Rostrum feebly shining, subparallel, coarsely punctate except in
middle. Scape inserted distinctl}^ closer to apex than base; basal
joint of funicle subquadrate, slightly shorter than 2nd, 3rd-7th
transverse. Prothorax transverse, sides rounded, very feebl}'-
decreasing to base; median carina very feeble and appearing wavy
through interruptions by punctures, these dense and round.
Scutellum oblong. Elytra noticeably v/ider than prothorax and
about thrice its length, subparallel to near apex ; interstices
feebly elevated, somewhat flattened, slightly wider than punctures.
Mesosternal receptacle semicircular, thinner than in preceding
species. Metasiermal episterna with punctures continuous
throughout, and forming double rows at base and apex. Abdomen
rather densely punctate, 3rd and 4th segments each with two
very distinct and regular rows. Legs rather long ; posterior
femora not passing middle of 4th abdominal segment, all with
very feeble teeth; tibi?e shorter than usual, subparallel. Length
6, rostrum If; width 2| mm.
Rah. — N.S.W. : Clarence River.
Very close to the preceding, but besides colour and clothing
differs in being narrower, in the puncturation and shape of ros-
trum, in antennal insertion, shape and size of funicular joints,
shape of mesosternal receptacle and punctures of metasternum
and abdominal segments.
TYRT.E0SUS ASSIMILIS, n.sp.
Blackish-brown, elytra and legs somewhat paler, antennae of a
rather pale red. Prothorax with a sooty scale in each puncture,
but in addition a few larger and paler ones; elytra with dense
pale ochreous and whitish scales formed into very feeble spots
and fasciae, but a moderately distinct median fascia of dark scales.
Under surface with subelongate whitish scales, variegated with
darker embedded ones. Legs, head and base of rostrum with
obscure whitish scales.
Head coarsely punctate between and behind eyes, elsewhere
finely punctate; with a short median ridge separating a shallow
I
