430 REVISION OF THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONID.E,
Head with rather coarse punctures; shallow!}^ depressed behind
eyes, which are large and subapproximate. Rostrum scarcely
the length of prothorax, sides feebly incurved to middle; distinctly
punctate throughout, but punctures much coarser on basal than
on apical half; with a feeble median ridge behind antennae. Scape
inserted two-fifths from apex of rostrum and shorter than funicle;
1st joint of funicle slightly longer than 2nd, 4th-7th transverse.
Prothorax moderately transverse, sides strongly rounded; with
dense round clearly-cut punctures; with a continuous median
carina, which, however, becomes rather feeble anteriorly. Elytra
scarcely wider than and not thrice the length of prothorax, with
series of large, round, regular punctures; interstices (except the
suture) narrower than punctures and regular throughout. Punc-
tures of metasternal episterna not continuous throughout; those of
3rd and 4th abdominal segments somewhat irregular at sides but
in only one row on each across middle. Femora acutely, the
four posterior strongly dentate. Length 9, rostrum 2; width
5 mm.
Hah. — Q. : Cooktown (Mr. C. French).
Very close to vetustus, but distinguished by the larger size and
the almost jet-black antennae. It appears also to be close to
lateralis^ but the elytral punctures and clothing do not agree with
Mr. Pascoe's description. The elytral fasciae, though very dis-
tinct, are not sharply defined except on the sides : the first com-
mences on the side at the basal third, but at the 4th interstice
divides into two, of which one part touches the scutellum, the
other the suture before the middle; the enclosed space is some-
what diamond-shaped, but contains a few pale scales; the posterior
fascia is at the apical fourth and scarcely touches the suture.
Tyrt^osus cinerascens, n.sp.
Black, elytra almost black, antennae dull red. Upper surface
(including head and base of rostrum) moderately densely clothed
with whitish scales intermingled with mouse- coloured ones, the
whole having a speckled appearance. Under surface and legs
with dense whitish scales.
