BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 431
Head coarsely punctate; eyes moderately large and scarcely
approximate. Rostrum moderately long, sides incurved to middle,
but slightly swollen at insertion of antennae; distinctly punc-
tate throughout but coarsely so on basal half; without median
ridge. Scape inserted two-fifths from apex of rostrum and shorter
than funicle; 2nd joint of funicle slightly longer than 1st, 5th-7th
transverse. Prothorax rather strongly transverse, sides strongly
rounded; with dense round punctures; with a continuous but
rather feeble median carina. Elytra not much wider than pro-
thorax and about twice and one-half as long; sculpture as in the
preceding species. Punctures of under surjace dense, but on the
metasternal episterna not quite continuous. Femora strongly
and acutely dentate. Length 8J, rostrum 2; width 4| mm.
ZTaJ.— N.S.W. : Blue Mountains (Rev. T. Blackburn), Went-
worth Falls (Mr. A. Simson)— Tas. : Hobart (Mr. F. A. Rodway).
On one of the specimens under examination the dark scales
form four very feeble elytral fasciae.
Tyrt^osus urens, n.sp.
Black ; tarsi and antennae dull red. Moderately densely
clothed with blackish scales; prothorax with several indistinct
patches of pale scales; elytra with distinct but irregular and not
sharply defined fasciae; scutellum with dense pale scales. Under
surface, legs, head and rostrum obscurely clothed.
Head densely punctate ; eyes moderately widely separated.
Rostrum rather long and thin, sides very feebly incurved to
middle; with strong punctures throughout, but smaller in front
of antennae. Scape inserted one-fourth from apex of rostrum and
the length of funicle; 1st joint of funicle stouter and longer than
2nd, the others transverse. Prothorax feebly transverse, sides
moderately rounded; densety and coarsely punctate, median carina
traceable but nowhere distinct. Elytra narrow, not much wider
than and about twice and one-half the length of prothorax ;
striate-punctate, punctures large and distinct; interstices densely
punctate and the width of striae. Under surjace (including 3rd
and 4th abdominal segments) densely punctate; metasternal epi-
