BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 433
Head with moderately large punctures in front, becoming
smaller behind; a shallow impression between eyes; eyes widely
separated and much smallf^r than usual. Rostrum slightly shorter
than prothorax, rather wide and thick, sides increasing in width
to apex and not incurved to middle; with coarse punctures in
strong series throughout. KScape inserted two-fifths from apex of
rostrum and shorter than funicle; 1st joint of funicle stouter but
scarcely longer than 2nd, the others transverse. Prothorax
strongly transverse, sides strongly rounded; densely and moder-
ately strongly punctate, the punctures in places confluent; median
carina distinct and continuous. Elytra elongate-cordate, wider
than and about twice and one-half the length of prothorax ;
punctate-striate, striae deep and punctures indistinct; interstices
densely punctate and wider than striae. Under surface (including
3rd and ith abdominal segments) with dense (but on the meta-
sternal episterna not continuous) punctures. Femora edentate.
Length 6, rostrum IJ; width 3 mm.
Hab.—Q. : Somerset (Mr. C. French).
The rostrum and eyes in this and the following species are very
different from those of any other here described. In both also the
femora are feebly ridged beneath, but even on the posterior pair
these ridges do not become dentate.
Tyrt.^osus quadratolineatus, n.sp.
Dark reddish-brown, antennae and claw-joints paler. Clothing
as in the preceding species, but rather sparser.
Head and eyes as in the preceding species. Rostrum as in the
preceding species, except that the punctures though everywhere
coarse are not in distinct series. Antennae paler, but otherwise
as in the preceding. Prothorax feebly transverse, sides moder-
ately rounded ; densely and coarsely punctate, median carina
feeble but continuous. Elytra narrow, scarcely wider than and
not much more than twice the length of prothorax; striate-punc-
tate, punctures indistinct but not small; interstices the width of
striae, flat and all (but the lateral ones less noticeably so) in series
of small squares, each of which contains a rather large and more
