434 REVISION OP THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONID.E,
or less central puncture. Abdomen with two rows of punctures;
those on metasternal episterna not continuous. Femora edentate.
Length 5, rostrum 1 J; width 2J mm.
Hab.—l^.W. Australia (Macleay Mus.).
The elytral interstices are very peculiar; each appears (especially
towards the base) to be divided into series of squares each of
which contains a more or less central puncture. It is this char-
acter which renders it so distinct from the preceding species,
which otherwise it strongly resembles.
H Y P E R I s o M A, n.g.
Head rather large and feebly convex, not concealed. Fyes
large, ovate, not very distant, coarsely faceted. Rostrum moder-
ately long and not very thin, curved. Scape inserted nearer apex
than base of rostrum and the length of funicle; two basal joints
of the latter moderately long; club elliptic. Prothorax transverse,
sides rounded, base bisinuate, constriction feeble, ocular lobes
obtuse. SciUelluM distinct. Elytra oblong-subcordate, base
trisinuate and wider than prothorax. Pectoral canal terminated
between intermediate coxse. Mesosternal receptacle slightly raised,
crescent-shaped, emargination briefly U-shaped; cavernous. Meta-
sterniim shorter than the following segment; episterna distinct.
Basal segment of abdomen as long as the two following combined,
its apex incurved; 2nd-4th with their sides drawn slightly back-
wards, 2nd slightly longer than 3rd and 4th combined and dis-
tinctly longer than 5th. Legs rather short; femora stout, dentate,
not grooved, posterior not passing elytra; tibise compressed and
distinctly curved; tarsi normal. Subelliptic, convex, squamose,
winged.
This genus is not a very distinct one, but the combination of
characters is such as to forbid the species described below (and
which in shape and to a certain extent in clothing resembles the
European Hypera ])unctata) being placed in any other genus.
From Cryptorliynchus it is distinguished by the base of the elytra,
2nd abdominal segment and legs.
