BY ARTHUR M. LEA. 435
Hyperiosoma falcatum, n.sp.
Dark reddish-brown; antennse (club excepted) paler. Densely
clothed with soft muddy-brown scales, each elytron with a large
triangle of dingy whitish scales, its base on the sides and its apex
touching the 3rd interstice. Under surface, legs, head and
rostrum with paler scales than on pro thorax, and with rather
numerous whitish scales scattered about.
Head with dense concealed punctures. Rostrum the length of
prothorax and almost parallel-sided; basal half with strong con-
cealed punctures; apical half shining and lightly punctate. Scape
inserted two-fifths from apex of rostrum ; 1st joint of funicle
stouter and slightly longer than 2nd, 7th longer than 6th. Fro-
thorax moderately transverse, convex, apex more than half the
width of base and scarcely produced; with dense, round, regular,
concealed punctures. Elytra about once and one-third the width
and twice and one-half the length of prothorax, sides parallel to
apical third; with series of large and round but almost entirely
concealed punctures. Under surface with dense concealed punc-
tures. Femora stout, teeth of anterior pair rather small, of inter-
mediate large and of posterior very large, posterior extending
almost to apex of abdomen; tibiae equally and rather strongly
curved and diminishing in width to apex. Length 5|, rostrum
1^; width 3 mm.
Hah. — Q. : Cooktown (Herr J. Faust).
The elytral triangles of pale scales are very distinct; the teeth
of the posterior femora are very large and triangular.
SCLEROPOIDES, n.g.
Head moderately large and convex, not concealed. Eyes of
moderate size, distant, coarsely faceted. Ghib ovate. Mesosternal
receptacle distinctly and rather suddenly raised, sides incurved to
base, emargination briefly Y-shaped; cavernous. Femora edentate
and not very stout; tibiae compressed and straight except at base.
Other characters as in the preceding genus.
Elytral triangles of white scales not conjoined sqiiamicollis.
These triangles conjoined trianguliferus.
