436 REVISION OF THE AUSTRALIAN CURCULIONID.E,
SCLEROPOIDES SQUAMICOLLIS, n.sp.
X. Black; antennae and tarsi dull red. Densel}^ clothed with
large soft scales of an almost uniform and rather dingy shade of
brown; each elytron with an obscure triangle of pale scales about
the middle but not extending to suture. Legs with somewhat
paler scales than above, the sterna and abdomen with still paler
scales; pectoral canal distinctly squamose. Head and rostrum
(except near apex where the clothing is feeble) densely squamose.
Head with dense concealed punctures. Rostrum slightly longer
than prothorax, sides feebly incurved to middle; densely punctate,
punctures concealed behind antennae, but three narrow costae
traceable. Scape inserted at one-third from apex of rostrum; 1 st
joint of funicle slightly longer than 2nd, 2nd almost the length
of 3rd and 4th combined, 7th strongly transverse. Prothorax
lighth^ transverse, sides rather strongly incurved near apex, base
rather strongly bisinnate; punctures entirely concealed. Elytra
almost thrice the length of prothorax and at base not much (but
rather suddenly) wider, sides subparallel to near apex; seriate-
punctate, punctures concealed; interstices convex, the alternate
ones distinctly raised. Under surface with dense, rather strong,
and almost uniform but concealed punctures. Legs densely
punctate; femora linear, the posterior not extending to apical
segment. Length 7, rostrum 2; width 3|- mm.
Hah.—^.^ Wales (Sydney Mus.).
The scales on the prothorax are much larger than elsewhere,
are rounded and thick and entirely conceal the sculpture. The
outlines of this and the following species are very similar to those
of Sclerojms sticticus, Faust, from Borneo.
SCLEROPOIDES TRIANGULIFERUS, n.Sp.
^ (?). Black, antennae and tarsi darker. Densely clothed with
large soft scales of a rather dingy shade of brown; each elytron
with a large triangle of white scales which are conjoined at
suture. Under surface and legs with rather pale scales; pectoral
canal squamose. Head and basal third of rostrum densely
clothed.
