BY C. HEDLEY. 23
growth. It is 1-36 mm. in major diameter, and was taken })y
Mr. Brazier in 20 fathoms off Cape Grenville, Queensland.
On the genus Lippistes.
In examining the type shells of the Chevert Expedition* I had
occasion to re^'ise several species referred to Trichoti-opis, and
concluded that the genus SejjarcUista included four Australian
species, viz. : — S. sejyaratista, Dillwyn, S. gracile7ita, Brazier, .S'.
torcidaris, T. Woods, and S. gahrieli, Pritchard &l Gatliff.
A casual and inaccurate allusion to Lippistes by Melvill and
Standenf induced me to write to Mr. B. B. Woodv/ard for
information on Lipinstes and its relation to Sepai-atista. Mr.
Woodward in turn consulted Mr. E. A. Smith, and to these
gentlemen I am deeply indebted both for the following informa-
tion and for permission to publish it. Mr. Woodward writes : —
^'■Lippistes is a good genus; its type is the Aryonauta cornu,
Gmel., figured by Montfort,| and subsequently and better by
von Fichtel (Test. Micr., pi. i.). There are good specimens in
the British Museum collection, and it is very clear.
" As ^''ou say there are two Turbo helicoides, Gmel. ; and
Dillwyn selected the first and re-established Chemnitz's name for
it of Tui'ho separatista; but Chemnitz, not being at that time
binomial, the species must be attributed to Dillwyn.
"Gray, in 1847 (P.Z.S., p. 136), apparently ignorant of
Dillwyn's work, raised this species to generic rank as Separatista,
and, while quoting the reference to Chemnitz correctly, misquoted
Gmelin, and gave as type, ' Ttirho helicina, Gmelin,' meaning of
course ^ helicoides.^
'• Then Adams (P.Z.S., 1850, p. 45), seemingly knowing nothing
of Dillwyn's doings, and possibly recognising the double helicoides,
rechristened the beast ^Separatista chemnitzii,^ and made some
observations on Lippistes and cornu which are absolutely wide
of the mark.
"' Hedley, Records Aust. Museum, iv., 1901, p. 126.
t Melvill & Standen, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1901, p. 361.
X Montfort, Conch. Syst. ii,, 1810, pi. xxxiv., p. 217.
