BY H. LEIGHTOX KESTEVEN. 459
the fact that the apices of adult specimens from which the external
coating had been removed, were entirely demolished by the same
treatment. In none of the species studied has it been found
possible to define a nepionic stage; in every instance the sculpture
of the postembrj^onic structure, which immediately adjoins the
protoconch, is, in miniature, that of the adult; nor is there in any
of the species a varix formed of embryonic structure. In one or
two instances, however, the adult structure begins with a small
varix. It appears that a suggestion made by the writer in a
previous paper (19) applies particularly to the species of Lotoi'ium,
and that none of them have left a conchological record of the
nepionic stage. It might have been inferred that the protoconch
had been deposited inside an original corneous one. Judging by
those species which I have been able to study, the whole shell is
cast inside its epidermal coating. After a rest-period the epidermis
grows very quickly and extends beyond the shell (the writer has
seen as much as half an inch overhanging, with the merest
" stiffening " of lime inside it), and inside this the shell is
deposited. It may be worthy of note here that in Lotoriiim, at
least, a varix is indicative of a " period of growth " of the mollusc
rather than of a "period of rest" of the shell. After the
formation of a varix [the gutter which Reeve describes (I.e.)],
and while the shell anterior to the preceding varix is yet thin,
the mollusc does not fill the cavity nearly so much as when this
part of the shell is thickened. The shell is enlarged by periods,
faster than the mollusc grows, which while growing is employed
strengthening its shell, not enlarging it. Harris (15, p. xii.) speaks
of variation in the size of apices of the same species. Among
fossils the variation is plainly noticeable, but as far as my
experience goes, it is practically non-existent among recent species.
The following descriptions, like the figures on the plates, have
been arranged to show the perfect graduation from the tall apex
of L. exaratum to the very flat one of quoyi. The letter A
indicates that species so marked have been referred by Tryon to
Shnpulum; B indicates Gutturnium. It is worthy of note that
the Jii' St and last of the series are marked with a B. Contour is
