BY H. LEIGHTON KESTEVEN. 471
tortirostris and L. radiale in different genera. Considered as
varieties of one type, they may, for the convenience of the
monographer, be disregarded.
'*A number of species have a world-wide distribution, which
is doubtless due to their free-swimming or pelagic larvse " (Tryon,
op. cit. p. 7). I am inclined to carry this statement further, and
to say that the distribution of a species is largely decided by the
size of its protoconch. Most of the species with many-whorled
protoconchs have a very wide distribution, whilst those with
small protoconchs are rather local. There are exceptions to this.
L. cornutum, Perry, with a many-whorled apex ranges over a
small area, whilst if Tryon is correct in regarding L. loroisii,
Petit, as a synonym of L. labiosum, we are presented with a species
having a small protoconch and a practically world-wide distribu-
tion.
Conclusions o^ Part ii.
My conclusions are that the subgeneric names heretofore used
under " Triton " are redundant and altogether useless. To quote
them conveys no more than would the generic name alone. It
is impossible to treat them as full genera; to do so would create
confusion. References to several species would have to be sought
under two or three genera. After eliminating L. clandestinum,
all the species enumerated by Tryon under Simpulum, Cymatium
and Guturnium form one section, which it is impossible to divide
into groups, if such groups are to be regarded as nomenclatural
entities. If from Tryon's " Triton s.st" L. suhdistortum and L.
parkinsonianum are withdrawn, and L. ovoideum added, we have
a second section ; a third, as already stated, is formed by L.
jyarkinsonianum and some of the Australian Tertiary species.
Should it be decided advisable to give the sections quotable
names, the above are the three which must be first recognised;
any further subdivision is to be deprecated.
I am of the opinion that none of the sections are sufficiently
distinct to rank as subgenera, and submit the following arrange-
ment of the species of the genus.
