BY W. J. RAINBOW. 485
The eyes of the species are very varied, no two forms being
exactly alike, whilst in some instances the differences are striking.
The form described hereunder is no exception to the rule; it is
the first, however, that I have examined in which the eyes are of
equal size. The legs are also very variable in respect of their
relative lengths. They are as follows : (a) 4, 1, 2, 3; (b) 4, 1, 3, 2;
or (c) 4, 2, 3, 1. S. albomaculata conforms to the first of these.
A number of Australian species were described by L. Koch
under the generic name Habronestes, L. Koch. This has been
sunk by Simon as a synonym.
Genus S t o r e n a, Walck.
Storena albomaculata, sp.nov.
(Plate xviii., figs. 1, la.)
9- Cephalothorax 3 7 mm. long, 2*9 mm. broad; abdomen 5 -6 mm.
long, 3-5 mm. broad.
Ce2jhalothorax obovate, shining, black, relieved by patches of
white, scale-like hairs, and a margin or belt of the same; there
are also a few long black hairs scattered over the surface. Pars
cephalica strongly arched, somewhat obtusely truncated in front,
black, relieved on each side (near the margin) by a large and
prominent patch of white hairs; normal groove separating cephalic
from thoracic segment faintly visible. Clypeus broad, fringed
with a few rather long black bristles. Pars thoracica broad,
strongly arched, black, with lateral and posterior patches of white
hairs ; median and longitudinal groove distinct, lateral radial
grooves indistinct; sides and posterior angle declivitous. Mar-
ginal band broad, thickly clothed with short white hairs.
Eyes prominent, of equal size, and arranged in two procurved
rows of four each, of which the posterior is the most strongly
bent; those comprising the posterior row are closely set, and
nearly touch each other, whilst the four constituting the posterior
series are equidistant, each eye being separated from its neigh-
bour by a space equal to about once its own diameter.
Legs moderately long and tapering, robust, black, with patches
of white hairs, and throwing metallic scintillations at all the
32
