BY W. J. RAINBOW. 489
tlierefore, I prefer for the present to regard it as synonj^mous
with Cambridge's C. distincta, and to further elucidate the matter
by description and figures.
9. Cephalothorax 2*4 mm. long, 2-8 mm. broad; abdomen 5 mm.
long, 6*6 mm broad, 8-2 mm. high.
Ceph'dothorax broader than long, rounded laterally, granulated,
and marked with two lateral, parallel, longitudinal grooves;
yellowish-brown, densely clothed with short coarse hairs, and
having, in addition, two prominent brushes of long, thick, coarse
hairs running from the anterior region of the cephalic segment
to the posterior angle of the thoracic segment, and there, com-
mencing one on each side of the caput, incline inwards until near
the centre, where they meet, and from whence they again
gradually widen out, and do not terminate until the posterior
angle is attained. Pars cejyhalica arched, ascending, and termina-
ting in front with an obtuse projection or eminence, upon which
the four larger eyes are elevated; at the anterior extremity of the
caput there are two small projecting tubercles (fig. 4:d). Clypeus
broad, deep, sloping inwards. Pars thoracica broad, arched;
radial grooves indistinct.
Ut/es distributed in three series of 2, 4, 2; of these the median
group of four are much the largest, and arranged in a somewhat
trapezoidal form, the anterior being separated from each other
by a space equal to about three times their individual diameter,
and the posterior pair by about two diameters; the lateral eyes
are seated well back, and each pair is elevated upon a prominent
tubercle; they are minute and nearly contiguous; the lower one
is somewhat the smaller.
Legs laterigrade, yellowish-brown, clothed with short hairs,
and armed with spines; the first and second pairs are much the
longest, and are folded when at rest ; the femora are rough,
granulated, long, hairy, and each has on the underside a deep
groove for the reception of the lower joints which fit therein when
folded like the blade of a pocket-knife; the edges of the grooves
are armed with numerous short, sharp, strong, tooth-like spines;
the patellae are long, attenuated, elbowed at the base; the patella
