BY W. J. RAINBOW. 491
Family THOMISID^.
Subfamily STEPHANOPSIN^.
Genus S t e p h A N o P s i s, O. P. Cambr.
Stephanopsis obtusiprons, sp.nov.
(Plate xviii., figs 3, 3a, ?)b.)
9. Cephalothorax 4'1 mm. long. 3-5 mm. broad ; abdomen
5-9 mm. long, 5-3 mm. broad.
Cephahtho7'ax longer than broad, yellowish-brown, coarsely
rugose. Pars cephalica sloping gentl}'- forwards and upwards
until near the ocular eminence, where it makes a slight descent,
and from whence it rises almost perpendicularly, thereb}'- causing
a deep and sharpl}'- defined groove at the base of the latter; sides
gently rounded ; surface coarsely granulated and rugose ; the
ocular tubercular eminence is not so high as in altifrons (O. P.
Cambr.) or aspera (mihi); the summit is rounded off and obtuse,
and the sides and front are somewhat precipitous. Pcwa tlioracica
broad, gently arched, coarsel}' rugose and granulated ; radial
grooves unevenly directed.
Eyes arranged in a ring or corona around the ocular tubercular
eminence; the four seated at the rear form a slightly curved
series — the curvature directed downwards; they are of equal size
and equidistant; in front the two lower eyes are minute, and are
separated from each other by a space equal to rather more than once
their individual diameter, whilst the upper pair are not only widely
separated from each other, but are much the largest of the group.
Legs yellowish-brown, coarsely granulated and rugose; each is
armed with short strong spines, and thickly clothed with short
fine hairs. Relative lengths: 1, 2, 4, 3; the first and second
pairs are much the longestand strongest, and of nearly equal length.
Palpi short, similar in colour, clothing and armature to legs.
Falces concolorous, hairy, apices divergent.
Maxillce concolorous also, glabrous, punctated, apices inclining
inwards, thickly fringed with long yellowish hairs, surfaces
furnished sparingly with long hairs.
Labium dark brown, broad, slightly arched, apex narrow and
obtusely pointed; a few hairs scattered over its surface,
