2 CENSUS MUSCORUM AUSTRALIENSIUM,
had not been printed when, about 1898, I first made Mr.
Whitelegge's acquaintance. It was embodied, under a different
classification, in our conjoint Catalogue which, containing upwards
of 500 species, was accepted for publication in March, 1900, by
this Society.
My own ambition had been to prepare, in the course of a few
years, a Catalogue of the Mosses of Australia and Tasmania,
towards which I had been steadily accumulating material. It
soon became evident, however, that it would be impossible to get
such a w^ork printed by the Society in addition to the New South
Wales Catalogue; and the Council kindl}' allowed us to withdraw
the earlier work and substitute a Census of Australian Mosses,
so far, at any rate, as the species usually called Acrocarps were
concerned.
My colleague's pre-occupations in the Australian Museum
having prevented him from taking an active part in this larger
work, the responsibility for the collation and classification of the
material falls upon my shoulders alone.
It ca.nnot, unfortunately, be claimed that there are no synonyms,
nor nomina nuda, in this Census. The inaccessibility of speci-
mens, and even, in some cases, of descriptions, the differing
principles of determination ado^Dted by specialists, and the large
number of new species of which we know nothing except the
names, make an unchallengeable list of Australian Mosses imprac-
ticable at the present stage.
To illustrate one of our many perplexities. Mitten and Wilson
introduced an excessive number of European and Antarctic names
into our Moss Flora. Dr. Carl Mueller, on the other hand,
regarded all our species as endemic, so much so that, with him,
our Ficnaria hygrometrica was F. sphaerocarpa, our forms of
Bryum argenteum became Br. Bateanum and Br. HamjyeanKm, and
even our Ceratodon purimreus w^as only recognised by him as var.
australis. Dr. Brotherus, in his ' Bryales,' now in course of
publication, goes a long wa}'^ in the direction of Dr. Mueller's
views, but by no means regards all our species as endemic.
