BY REV. W. WALTER WATTS AND THOMAS WHITELEGGE. 3
The introduction of so many European names by the earlier
bryologists, and of so many new species by the late Dr. C.
Mueller (a number of which were due to the erroneous presuppo-
sition above mentioned), has created a series of difficult problems
for Australian students. It will be long years before our Moss
Flora is placed upon a satisfactory footing. It might be contended
that this Census should have awaited a complete investigation.
We entirely dissent from that view. Knowing, as we do, the
enormous task before the bryological student in this countr}^ we
have endeavoured to lay, in some manner, a foundation for the
labours of future builders; and, in this Census, we submit the
result of much patient toil, in the hope that it will be of service
to our fellow-bryologists.
It need scarcely be said that we do not profess to give an
exhaustive list of localities and collectors. Even if the informa-
tion had been available, space would have failed us. It is to be
hoped that students throughout the Commonwealth will develop
the bryology of the separate States, and build up detailed accounts
of the Moss flora of different districts.
To the works named in the appended list we desire to
acknowledge our great indebtedness, — to Jaeger and Sauerbeck's
' Adumbratio,' Paris' 'Index Bryologicus,' Mueller's 'Genera Mus-
corum,' Brotherus's ' Bryales,' and Warnstorf's ' Sphagnacese '
especially. Dr. Brotherus's kindness and his great services in
the study and determination of plants, as well as in his descrip-
tion of new species, deserve the sincerest gratitude of Australian
bryologists.
We desire very heartily to express our obligations for the
assistance received from Mr. Luehmann, Director of the IS'ational
Herbarium, Melbourne ; from the publications of Mr. F. M.
Bailey, Colonial Botanist of Queensland; from Mr. R. A. Bas tow's
Tasmanian records; from Mr. F. M. Reader, of Warracknabeal,
Victoria; Mr. C. T. Musson, of the Hawkesbury Agricultural
College; Mr. J. H. Maiden, Director of the National Herbarium,
Sydney (per Mr. Wm. Forsyth, Superintendent of the Centennial
Park); Mr. R. T. Baker, Curator of the Technological Museum,
