4 CENSUS MUSCORUM AUSTRALIEXSIUM,
Sydney; Mr. Wm. Bauerlen, of the same institution; Mr. Jas.
Stirling, late Government Geologist of Victoria; Mr. W. A.
Weymouth, and others. Mr. Reader was the first to respond to
our application for assistance by sending a list of all the records
known to him, thus rendering valuable service from the Victarian
side. Mr. Luehmann very kindly supplied a list of the records
in the Melbourne Herbarium, which, though containing no details
of localities, etc., gave the States in which the species had been
collected, confirming many of the records in our possession and
adding others. At the eleventh hour a valuable list arrived
from Mr. Stirling, who was absent in London when our applica-
tion for assistance reached Melbourne. Mr. Stirling has "for
many years collected specimens of the plants growing all over the
Australian Alps, from Mt. Baw Baw at the heads of the Yarra,
to Mt. Kosciusko," and during the years 1880-88 he "made
several collections of the cryptogamic florula of the highest
elevations," being accompanied on one of these excursions to Mt.
Kosciusko by Mr. D. Sullivan, of Moysten, since deceased.
Acknowledgment should also be made of the assistance received
from the Librarian and Assistant Librarian of the Public Library,
Sydney, by whom some valuable Papers, not previously known to
us, were brought within our reach.
Systems of classification in bryology have varied greatly. Dr.
Mueller adhered throughout to his principle of " centralisation,"
grouping the mosses of the world under large and bold generali-
sations. A principle of "decentralisation," represented in Jaeger
and Sauerbeck's 'Adumbratio,' has reigned for many years among
Continental bryologists, including Dr. Brotherus. Mitten
followed a scheme of his own, a scheme which, through the
influence of his Catalogue of Australian Mosses, has been in force,
for the most part, in this country. Dr. Brotherus, in his
' Bryales ' — a master work. Part i. of which has been received —
departs greatly from Jaeger's system, and follows an independent
course that brings him, to some extent, into line with Mitten.
We have adopted the following scheme, based upon many con-
siderations, but in large part upon Mr. H. N. Dixon's invaluable
