30
NOTES AND EXHIBITS.
Mr. C. T. Musson sent for exhibition a remarkable series of
specimens of garden plants exhibiting floral or vegetati\'e pro-
lification, from the Hawkesburj^ Agricultural College garden or
grounds at Richmond. As far as the records go the present
season is the driest known; and the apparently correlated tendency
on the part of so many species to develop monstrous groAvths
exceeds all previous experiences. Thirty-one species were rei^re-
sented in the collection exhibited, comprising Lima Bean, Lucerne,^
Eschscholtzia, Amarantus (two species), Solanum (two species),
Foxglove, Pentstemon, Rose, Quince, Dianthus, Phlox, Antirrhi-
num, Salpiglossis, Petunia, Geranium, Mignonette, Polygonum,
Squash, Leptosyne, Aster, Cosmos, Hypochoeris, Coreopsis, Gaillar-
dia, Zinnia, Marigold, Centaurea, Erigeron, and Scabious. Simi
lar examples of Zinnia and Delphinium were also furnished by
Mr. Henry Deane from his garden at Hunter's Hill; and of
Campanula and Hypochoeris by Mr. H.Selkirk f rom Marrickville
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30th, 1902.
The Ordinary Monthly Meeting of the Society was held in the
Linnean Hall, Ithaca Road, Elizabeth Bay, on AVednesday
evening, April 30th, 1902.
Mr. J. H. Maiden, F.L.S., etc.. President, in the Chair.
Messrs. W. L. May, Sandford, Tasm.; W. F. Petterd, Laun-
cestoni and A. Jefferis Turner, M.D., F.E.S., Brisbane, Q.,
were elected Ordinary Members of the Society.
ThePresident announced that under the provisions of Rule xxv.,
the Council had elected Professor David, B.A., F.R.S , F.G.S.,
Mr. Henry Deane, M.A., F.L.S., Arc, Dr. T. Storie Dixson, and the
Hon. James Norton, LL.D., M.L.C., to ])e Vice-Presidents; and
Mr. J. R. Garland, M.A., (56 EHzabeth Street), to be Hon.
Treasurer, for the current year.
The Donations and Exchanges for the month, amounting to 18
Vols., 35 Parts or Nos., 1 Bulletin, 3 Annual Reports (Admini-
strative), 7 Pamphlets, and 5 Miscellanea, received from 41
Societies, etc., and 2 Individuals, were laid upon the table.
