BV 11. GREIG SMITH. 33
however, enabled Cobb to recognise it as a new species, to w^iicli
he gave the name Bac. vascularum.
In an investigation into the pathogenicity of the organism
Cobb"^ inoculated five apparently healthy canes with the gum
and retained one as a control. Unfortunately the control cane
was lost, and of the others four were gummed and one died. In
the four stalks that were gummed, the gummosis was most marked
in the neighbourhood of the point of inoculation. But as all the
canes in the stools developed gummosis there is the probability
that the inoculated canes would also have become affected inde-
pendently of the inoculation. The fact that gummosis was most
marked in the neighbourhood of the site of inoculation indicates
that the gum probably set up gummosis; but like the majorit}^ of
plant infection experiments the result of Cobb's experiment is not
decisive. Even if the experiment had been most satisfactory it
would onl}^ have shown that cane-gum could produce gummosis,
and thus the pathogenicit}^ of the bacterium itself would remain
doubtful. In all infection experiments the recognised and legiti-
mate method is to purify the bacterium by growth in plates of
artificial media, and after it has been proved that the bacteria
are undoubtedly pure by their constant appearances of growth,
etc., upon one medium, to employ the pure culture for purposes
of inoculation.
The Method of Research.
The cause of the gummosis of the cane, therefore, appeared to
be sufficiently undecided to warrant a thorough investigation,
and I decided to attack the problem from the side of the gum
rather than the plant— a method that has not been previously
tried, and one which promised to give more conclusive results
than could be hoped for with infection experiments. If a gum
could be produced in the laboratory from a bacterium isolated
from the cane, and if it were identical with the gum obtained
from diseased canes, then the bacterial origin of the gum and the
Cobb, Agric. Gazette of N,S. Wales, 189i.
