34 THE GUMMOSIS OF THE SUGAR-CAN K,
identity of the organism would be placed beyond all doubt. The
question, then, as to the gum being a pathogenic secretion of the
plant itself would be answered conclusively in the negative.
The Isolation of the Organism.
To facilitate the investigation the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
offered me a portion of their small supply of cane-gum which had
been collected some years ago. Furthermore, one of their officers,
Mr. Morison, inoculated tubes of media in the cane fields with
gum exuded from diseased canes. As, however, I received several
specimens of gummed cane, the tube cultures w^hich did not con-
tain the desired organism need not be further noticed. The
specimens of diseased cane were the variety known as Rappoe,
and, on being cut across, small yellow viscid drops exuded from
the ends of the cut vessels. By using a lens of low power ( x 10)
minute portions from the centre of exuded drops of gum wei-e
abstracted and inoculated into various media, which were placed
under different conditions of culture. It need scarcely be said
that the cane was cut and the infections made with the usual
precautions as regards sterilising the outer surface of the cane,
knives, etc.
Under anaerobic conditions there was no growth either in tluid
or on solid media. On slices of cane and in acid fluids such as
wort and cane-juice no bacteria developed. In other neutral
fluids the bacteria grew scantily. On agar and gelatine in the
presence of cane or fruit sugar bacteria grew slowly at tempera-
tures of 30° C. and under; at 37° and over no growth coidd be
obtained under any condition whatsoe^'er. What appeared to
be the most suitable medium for the grow^th of the gum bacteria
was neutral cane-juice gelatine. The next best media were
ordinary glucose gelatine and slices of potato. From the growth
on cane gelatine a bacterium was separated in the pure state by
repeated cultivation upon plates of cane gelatine, and its cultural
characters were studied upon other media. The appearances of
the cultures are given at the end of this paper, and they will
serve to identify the organism.
