BY R. GREIG SMITH. 35
Compared with other bacteria the organism is of slow growth.
On suitable solid media it forms raised yellowish patches, which
have the appearance and consistency of softened yellow bees'-wax,
and when treated with water the culture slowly mixes, forming
what appears to be a partial suspension and partial solution.
In stroke culture on cane-gelatine the growth collects in places
along the stroke, and forms characteristic hanging drops (" tear-
drops "). The gelatine is very slowly liquefied, the liquefaction
being best seen by the disappearance of the gelatine under the
slime, which gradually collects as the culture grows, and gravitates
to the bottom of the sloping gelatine.
The Bacterial Gu3i or Slime.
When a pure culture of the bacterium is smeared over the
surface of neutral cane-gelatine or agar in a suitable vessel, and
incubated, a luxuriant growth is obtained after the lapse of about
a week. The culture is precisely similar in appearance and con-
sistency to cane-gum. Both have the same soft, buttery appear-
ance and gummy consistency, and both slowly mix with water to
form a pale yellow opalescent solution. The opalescence is due
to the suspended bacteria, from which it is rather difficult to
separate without at the same time removing the gum. The
separation cannot be effected by filtering through paper, and the
usual coagulating agents coagulate both gum and bacteria.
Aluminium hydrate, for example, forms an insoluble compound
with the gum. An attempt was made to clarify the suspension
by heating it up to three atmospheres in the autoclave, a pro-
ceeding which was successful with another gum-forming bacterium,
but the suspension was unaltered. Eventually the bacteria were
separated by filtration through porous porcelain. A clear solu-
tion of the gum was thus obtained, but at the same time it was
noted that a considerable amount of the gum remained on the
porcelain, adhering to the bacteria, even after the suspension had
been boiled for some time to diff'use the gum. The filtered and
clear solution was tested simultaneously with an opalescent
suspension, and it was found that the two behaved similarly on
the addition of the various reagents, from which we must con-
