BY PROFESSOR AV. A. HASWELL. 499
cyst of Cerca7'ia armata, also, nuclei are absent in the cuticle
according to Schwarze (12).
The germinal epithelium (fig. 8) lines the whole interior of the
Sporocyst. In the greater part of its extent in a mature Sporo-
cyst it is a thin layer of flattened cells, most of which are stellate,
the processes of neighbouring cells anastomosing to form a net-
work. At the anterior and posterior ends it is thickened, the
thickening consisting of a layer of vertically elongated cells. At
its outer end each cell of these thickened regions terminates
in one or several very fine processes, which are clearly
traceable through the layer of muscle, and are seen to
be continuous with the vertical striations of the cuticle. At
its opposite free end each cell projects into the cavity of the
Sporocyst. In the living specimen globules were seen to be given
off occasionally from the inner ends of these cells, becoming free
in the interior of the cavity, and often becoming collected in
masses. These globules were swallowed by the more mature
Cercaripe, in the intestine of which considerable numbers of them
were nearly always to be detected. It might be supposed that
this phenomenon is not a natural one, but brought about by the
pressure to which the living Sporoc3^st is naturally subjected in
order that its structure may be examined. But such an explana-
tion cannot be entertained in view of the results obtained from
the examination of sections of specimens fixed by various reagents.
In such sections the epithelium has the appearance represented in
in fig. 8, the cells presenting a variety of stages in the process of
formation of the globules; and many of the latter are to be found
free in the cavity of the Sporocyst and in the intestine of the
Cercaria3. Among the globules in the latter position entire
nucleated cells are frequently to be observed.
It thus appears to be almost certain that the germinal epithe-
lium has an important secondary function in providing nutriment
for the Cercarise with fully developed and functional digestive
canal. To nourish the many growing embryos which it contains,
the wall of the Sporocyst must absorb nutrient matter in large
quantity from the tissues of its host. This is taken in, un-
