.500 ON TWO REMARKABLE SPOROCYSTS,
doubtedly, by the cells of the germinal epithelium through the
pores of the cuticle, and most of it must be given off in a state of
solution into the fluid in which the developing embrj^os, in all but
their earliest stages, float freely. The special part played by the
nutriment provided in the form of globules is that it supplies a
store of sustenance which the Cercaria takes with it when it
leaves the Sporocyst and sets out in search of a second host.
I can find no mention in the literature accessible to me of this
giving off of globules by the cells of the germinal epithelium.
That the case is not an altogether isolated one, however, is shewn
by the fact that Reuss in a recently published preliminary
notice (H) mentions the presence in the Sporocysts of DidcnmLm
duplicatum of many "fat drops." It is at least possible that the
phenomenon is a general one, and that it is only owing to the
colourless character of the globules in most instances that it has
hitherto escaped notice. On the other hand, it has to be borne
in mind that in many Cercariie the digesti^ e canal does not become
suflicientiy well developed to be functional until after the larva
has escaped from the Redia or Sporocj^st. In such cases the
formation of the globules, except merely in order to be subsequently
dissolved in the nutrient fluid of the cyst, would evidentl}^ be
superfluous.
The occurrence of a pigment in the germinal epithelium appears
to be exceptional. I have met with only three recorded cases of
such a thing — by Wagener (14) in the Sporocyst of Cercaria cysto-
phora, by Pagenstecher (10) in the case of the Sporocyst of Cercaria
cotylocerca, and by Heckert (4) in that of Lencochhridnwi para-
doxiim.
The embryos are developed from a mass of specialised cells of
the germinal epithelium — the ovary (figs. 5-7). This is constant
in position, at the posterior end, and there is never more than
one. It projects as a free process into the cavity of the Sporo.
cyst. At its base every gradation is to be observed between the
ordinary cells of the posterior thickening of the germinal epithe-
lium and the cells destined to give rise to embryos. Towards its
free extremity the ova undergo segmentation which results in
