BY PROFESSOR W. A. HASWELL. 503
ance, due to the presence of the regular!}' arranged transverse
bundles of muscular fibres referred to below.
The body is enclosed in a cuticle 0-003 mm. in thickness.
Beneath this is a muscular layer consisting of external, longitudi-
nal, and internal circular fibres. The space between the body-wall
and the enteric canal is tilled with parenchyma, in which are
numerous large cells about 0*04 mm. in diameter — the cystogenic
cells. In young specimens these contain a coarse reticulum.
In mature specimens they appear more homogeneous. Their
ducts (processes of the cells) branch, and the branch ducts per-
forate the cuticle to open over the entire surface of the body.
There are no cystogenic cells in the tail. No rhabdites were
observed in any part.
The pharynx (fig. 10) is a relatively long cylinder. The region
of the digestive canal following upon this behind, commonly
known as the oesophagus, is very short. There is nothing special
to be noted with regard to the structure of the various parts of
the digestive system. The intestine is fully developed long before
the Cercaria becomes mature.
The tail (figs. 11 and 12) is a hollow cylinder with a thin wall,
tensely filled with a watery fluid. It has a thin cuticle, beneath
which is a single layer of circular muscular fibres of extreme
fineness. Internal to this are four bundles of longitudinal
muscular fibres, two dorsal and two ventral. On each side is a
fairly wide interval — the lateral line as it may conveniently be
termed — between the dorsal and the ventral bundle. Between
the dorsal and ventral bundles on each side run a number of
vertical (dorso-ventral) fibres for the most part in narrow strands
occasionally with nuclei. These are arranged at intervals along
the tail in such a way as to produce in some cases an appearance
of segmentation. Along each lateral line, immediately below the
cuticle and circular muscle, runs a delicate filament. This gives
off branches which run both dorsally and ventrally, frequently
dividing into finer threads. At several points in its course the
main filament presents a thickening. Accompanying this is a
very regular row of small, usually rounded, cells of a peculiarly
