504 ON TWO REMARKABLE SPOROCYSTS,
clear and bright appearance in the living condition, so that they
are very conspicuous even under a low power. These, which are
separated from one another by very regular intervals, are all
connected with the lateral filament, usually by means of side-
branches, sometimes (rarely) directly with the main filament itself,
which then seems to pass through them. There is no direct
evidence of the nature of these filaments of the lateral line; but
from the way in w^hich they branch I have very little doubt that
they ai-e nerves. If this should prove to be correct, the regularly-
arranged cells connected with them, though they have no processes
projecting on the exterior, are probably sense-cells of some sort.
Applied to the inner surfaces of the bundles of longitudinal
muscular fibres are a number of very large granular cells about
0-04 mm. in diameter, with vesicular nuclei O'Ol mm. in diameter.
As shown by their relations and their developmental history
these are the myoblasts of the longitudinal muscular fibres.
The branches of the tail resemble the tail proper in structure,
except that the transverse fibres are more irregularly arranged and
closer together. In the lobed disc at the proximal end of the
trunk the bundles of longitudinal fibres become spread out so
as to be inserted into the lobes. The dorso-ventral bundles are
here represented by thick columnar cells.
Not much attention appears to have been paid to the structure
of the tail in Cercaria; but, so far as I am able to judge, the
form at present under consideration would appear to be excep-
tional in this respect, especially with regard to the entire absence
of any axial strand. Thus Leuckart states (6, p. 512): "Unterhalb
der Cuticula erkennt man deutliche Rings- und Liingsmuskeln
und das nicht bios am Rumpfe, sondern auch am Schwanze, nur
dass sich letztere hier gewuhnlich rechts und links zu breiten
Bandern gruppiren, und somit eine Anordnung zeigen die man
bei aufmerksamerBetrachtung schon aus der entschieden seitlichen
Beweoungen des Schwanzes erschliessen konnte. Die Zellen des
Achsenstranges sind in eine glashelle Bindesubstanz verw^andelt
die nur noch einzelne spindelformige Korper erkennen lasst und
nach Art eines (unvollstiindig erhiirteten) Skelettes dazu dienen
