BY PROFESSOR AV. A. HASWELL. 505
mochte, den Schwanz elastisch zu machen und ihm einen gewissen
Grad von Rigiditat zu verleihen. Zwischen Muskeln und Achsen-
strang liegt eine Schicht von grossen platten Zellen, die bei
Cercaria macrocerca bei welcher der Achsenstrang zu eines
machtigen Entwickelung heranwiichst, sehr sonderbar veriistelte
Formen haben."
Here it will be observed the axial strand is described as being
composed of cells, which have become converted into a hyaline
connective tissue acting as the main support of the organ.
The structure of the tail in Bucephalus is described b}'' Ziegler
(18), but as this is by no means a typical Cercaria the statements
which he makes probably do not hold good generally; they are
certainly entirely inapplicable to the form Avhich I am now
describing.
Thiry (13) states that in Cercaria macrocerca the tail has an
external circular layer of muscle. The longitudinal fibres run in
two broad bands at the sides. Beneath this is a mass which
anteriorly consists of large cells, posteriorly appears homogeneous.
Schwarze's account (12) of the structure of the tail in Cercaria
armata is also not in any way in agreement with what is to be
observed in the Cercaria from Mytilus. He describes the con-
tractile substance of the tail as forming an axial strand surrounded
by a layer of cj'-stogenic cells, and these again by a further layer
of contractile substance, the outer layer being connected with the
axial strand by numerous radiating bundles.
Reuss (11, p. 378) states that in the Sporocyst of Distomum
duplicatum the tail has a layer of cells underlying the cuticle,
and the interior is traversed by transverse muscular fibres.
It does not seem to be possible to reconcile these various state-
ments, and, if they are correct, there must be considerable diversity
in the structure of the tail in different Cercariae.
In the posterior part of the body opening near the root of the
tail is the excretory bladder. This is broad behind, narrower in
front, where it becomes forked. Each of the branches terminates
anteriorly in a slight enlargement into which opens the corres-
