506 ON TWO REMARKABLE SPOROCYSTS,
ponding main excretory vessel, right or left as the case ma}^ be.
Each of these runs outwards and forwards to a point near the
margin of the body, where it divides into an anterior and a
posterior longitudinal trunk. The ciliated funnels are 0-0075 mm.
in diameter. There are always twelve of them in mature Cercariae,
and their arrangement is quite constant. One funnel terminates
each of the anterior and posterior longitudinal vessels ; the
remainder are situated at the ends of longer or shorter side-
branches in the way shown in fig. 10.
No funnels and no vessels were observed in the tail. In this
respect this Cercaria differs apparently from other described
forms. Wagener (17) states that in the Cercariee with forked tail
the excretory bladder extends into the tail and becomes bifurcate,
each branch opening at the end of the corresponding branch of
the tail; and Loos (7) describes and figures the extension into the
tail of the main excretory vessel in the Cercaria? of Amphistomum
suhclavatum.
The reproductive system is fairly well advanced in the mature
Cercaria. The ovary is a rounded mass of cells situated a little
behind the point of bifurcation of the intestine. From it the
oviduct proceeds as a narrow tube which runs forwards and
towards the left passing on the ventral side of the left ramus
of the intestine, and bending in again tow^ards the middle line to
open at the genital aperture immediately in front of the ventral
sucker. A rounded mass surrounding the oviduct shortly after
it leaves the ovary is evidently the shell-gland. The rudiments
of the testes are two small oval bodies situated between the rami
of the intestine some distance behind the ovary. The vitelline
glands are not yet distinguishable. A rounded bod}^ dorsal to
the anterior part of the ventral sucker is probably the vesicula
seminalis.
In the form and arrangement of the spines around the anterior
end, the series of lateral ridges in the region immediately follow-
ing, and the form of the phar3mx, this Cercaria resembles the
adult Distomum fasciatum, Rud., and probably is the larva of a
