508 ON TWO REMARKABLE SPOROCYSTS,
thin layer composed of a small number of flattened cells which
become completely united at their edges. This investment
persists to a comparatively late stage in the development of the
Cercaria, onl}' disappearing as the cuticle becomes formed.
Schwarze's account (13) of the development of the investing
layer in Cercaria armala agrees closely with what I have observed.
I cannot, however, follow him in his opinion that the embryonic
investment gives rise to the cuticle of the Cercaria. The invest-
ment in question is an excessively thin membrane which at no
time contains more than about half-a-dozen nuclei. As the
embryo grows, this simph'' becomes stretched, and in early tailed
stages appears quite loosely connected with the underlying la3^ers.
I have very little doubt that it is the laj^er of cells which, at the
period when the tail is being formed, becomes arranged in a regular
manner beneath the original investing layer, that secretes the
cuticle.
Heckert"^ states that in embryo Cercarise of a diameter of
0-075 mm. a second investment similar to the first appears beneath
it; and Loos (9) observed a similar phenomenon in the develop-
ment of Rediae (letter to Braun quoted in foot-note, 3, p. 818).
There is no appearance of this second investing layer in the case
of the Cercaria from Mytilus latus.
Small nuclei with deeplj^-staining, apparently homogeneous,'
plasma, similar to those described by Schwarze (10) in Cercaria
armata as giving rise to the rudiment of the reproductive system,
appear before the embryo leaves the ovary. But these have no
definite arrangement, occurring, frequently two together, here
and there, both near the surface and more deeply, instead of
forming a central mass as stated by Schwarze. They are most
probably merely phases in the histor}' of the ordinary meristem
nuclei, and have no special histogenetic significance.
* I only know this paper (' Untersuchungen iiber die Entwickelungs- und
Lebensgeschichte des Distomum macrostomum.' ' Bibliotheca Zoologica,'
Leuckart u. Chun, Heft 4), as quoted by Braun (3).
