BY PROFESSOR W. A. HASWELL. 509
As the embryo increases in size, it becomes somewhat oval, and
soon, when the long diameter is about 0-08 mm., the future
posterior end becomes marked by a slight depression, the anterior
end remaining rounded (Hg. 17). In this position a narrow cleft
appears running forwards towards the centre of the embryo.
This cleft does not open on the exterior, but is covered over by
the thin investing layer of cells. On either side of it is a mass
of cells from which the tail buds out; in front it terminates in a
slight transverse enlargement which partly separates off a dense
central mass of cells from two lateral masses. The enlargement
subsequently becomes the bladder of the excretory sj^stem. In
the lateral masses the rami of the intestine are developed at a
later stage.
The central mass of cells is distinguishable (figs. 18 and 19)
into an anterior and a posterior portion which are not sharply
marked off from one another. The posterior portion is the rudi-
ment of the reproductive system. Of the anterior portion the
more ventrally placed cells form the rudiment of the pharynx,
the more dorsally placed that of the brain. Of these two organs
the pharynx appears first as a cylindrical cord of cells soon
distinguishable (fig. 20) into an investing layer and a central
core. The cells of the investing layer are the myoblasts of the
wall of the organ. They become enlarged, and increase in
number, though never becoming very numerous. In their plasma
are developed the radial muscular fibres of the pharynx. The
enclosed row of cells do not persist. They at first, fill the entire
lumen, but spaces appear, and the cells gradually become absorbed
and eventually entirely disappear (fig. 22). Whether they give
rise to the thin cuticle lining the interior of the pharynx is
uncertain. It is difficult to understand by what other agency
that membrane could be formed.
At the anterior end, towards the ventral surface, when the
rudiment of the pharynx first becomes formed, a rounded group
of cells in all respects similar to the rest becomes enclosed by a
thin membrane formed of flattened cells. This is the rudiment
of the anterior sucker.
34
