510 ON TWO REMARKABLE SPOROCYSTS,
A continuation backwards of the cord of cells which forms the
rudiment of the pharynx constitutes the rudiment of the short
oesophagus. This soon bifurcates posteriorly to form the biramous
intestine. In the latter the central cells of the cord become
enclosed, as in the case of the pharynx, in a cylinder formed of
the peripheral cells. But the latter layer remains very thin,
developing into the thin layer of muscle of the wall of the
intestine, while the enclosed cells, few and irregularl}^ disposed
at first (fig. 23), multiply rapidly, at the same time becoming
disposed as a regular epithelial layer (figs. 24-26) bounding the
lumen. In the cesophagus the muscular investing laj'er also
remains thin, but the enclosed cells give rise to a layer devoid of
nuclei, but divided into numerous minute bodies somewhat smaller
than the cells of the epithelium of the intestine.
In Cercaria ao'mata, Schwarze does not refer to the formation
of a cleft at the anterior end preceding the development of the
unpaired part of the enteric cavity; but describes the latter as
appearing in the form of a solid process which only develops a
lumen at a later stage by the absorption of the axial cells. In
that Cercaria the full development of the forked intestine only
takes place after the Cercaria has become encysted, and the entire
enteric canal can be functional in the Cercaria stage only very
imperfectly, if at all.
The rudiment of the posterior sucker is distinguishable as a
rounded projection on the ventral surface, shortly after the tail
begins to be developed ; this consists, like the anterior sucker,
of a rounded mass of undifferentiated cells separated internally
from the rest of the body cells bj'- a thin membrane.
When the rami of the intestine first make their appearance, a
space — the origin of which has been already referred to — is
developed between them. This is the median bladder of the
excretory system. At first it has no definite wall, but, later,
cells become arranged to form a thin epithelium as in the adult.
When the cord of cells destined to give rise to the pharynx
first becomes differentiated, a mass of cells, as already stated, lies
on the dorsal side of it. From the central part of this the first
