BY J. H. MAIDEN. 519
" In many instances it is impossible to classify Eucalypts
on the shape of fruits, anthers, buds, and leaves, and in this con-
nection is mentioned the case of E. bicolor* and E. pendulaj of
A. Cunningham. It has been customar}- in recent times to
synonymise these species under the name of ^. largijlorens, F.v.M.
Now Cunningham, who was a field botanist, and who was familiar
with these trees, named the bastard box of Cabramatta E. hicolor*
a tree with a dark box bark on the stem, and with clear ivhite
limbs, and having a light brown-coloured timber, whilst the
" Coolabah " of the interior he named E. jjendula.i from its
drooping habit. This tree has a red-coloured timber, and a box-
bark extending to the ultimate branches. The oils of the two
trees are also quite distinct. The economic and systematic
materials of E. pendula have been obtained from many parts of
the colony, and show the usual constancy of specific characters
which the author has found to hold in almost all other Eucalyptus
species. This also applies to E. bicolor, and on these grounds it
is contended that the two trees should be regarded as distinct
species. The only resemblance is the venation of the lanceolate
form of leaf. If placed under' E. largiJlo7'ens,l then there would
be the anomaly of having under one species a tree with two kinds
of bark, two kinds of timber, two kinds of oil, and a variation in
leaves" (R. T. Baker, Proc. A.A. A.S. Melbourne, 1900, p. 230).
Again the same writer states : —
'' I am much indebted in this instance to the writings of the
late Dr. Woolls for finding the particular tree of E, bicolor.f In
his ' Contributions to the Flora of Australia ' (p. 232) he gives the
locality Cabramatta, where will be found trees that exactlj^
coincide with Cunningham's description of E. bicolor, and in no
way agree with E. largiflnrens, F.v.M. {E. pendula, A. Cunn.f),
of the interior. I and others have now seen both trees in the
field and agree that the two are quite distinct, and Cunningham
'' E. Bosistoaiia, F.v.M.
t E. bicolor, A. Cunn.
X E. bicolor, A. Cunn., is a synonym of E. largijlorens, F.v.M.
