BY R. GREIG SMITH. 37
The precipitate obtained on the addition of alcohol to a
suspension of the gum or slime in water is exceedingly
voluminous ; a precipitate which occupies a volume of about 50
CO. becomes, after squeezing out the dilute alcohol in a calico
strainer, a small pellet measuring about a quarter of a c.c. On
precipitating the aqueous suspension three or four times with
alcohol an opalescent alcoholic solution is obtained, from which
the gum can be precipitated by small quantities of neutral salts,
such as sodium chloride. This fact, together with the reactions
obtained with some of the albuminoid reagents, suggested the
similarity of the gum to the mucins. That the zooglcea slime of
, bacteria consists of mucin, or a substance nearly allied to it, has
already been suggested, but there are many points of difference
between the bacterial slime and the mucins. The crude gum
obtained by precipitating the cultures with alcohol contains 6'1%
of ash and 3*08% nitrogen in the ash-free, dry substance. Repeated
precipitation with alcohol, and also filtration of the gum from the
accompanying bacteria, would undoubtedly lower this percentage.
It is, therefore, apparent that the nitrogen content alone is
sufficient to distinguish the slime from mucin or the allied
mucinoids.
The identity of the bacterial slime with cane-gum proves con-
clusively that the isolated bacterium is the direct cause of the
gummosis of the plant, and also that the gum is no secretion of the
plant upon which the bacteria live saprophytically. Since this
applies to the gummosis of the sugar-cane, it probably also applies
to the gummosis of the vine and other plants, in which case
Mangin and Rathaj'- are wrong in considering that the action of the
bacteria in causing gummosis of the vine is very problematical.
Cane-gum is nitrogenous, and when a clear filtered solution is
exposed to the air it speedily produces a luxuriant growth of
foreign organisms. These undoubtedly feed upon the gum, and
it is possible that this observation gave rise to the idea that the
bacteria in the vessels of the plant live upon the gum.
