BY J. H. MAIDEN. 523
h. With E. liiicrotheca, F.v. M. — The foliage, bark and timber
of the two species are often very similar. The fruits are very
different; the valves of those of E. microtheca being exserted.
Both timbers are red, but where they grow together the timber
of E microtheca is reputed less durable, softer and more faulty
than that of E. hicolor.
c. With E. Behriana, F.v.M. — See my paper "On Eucalyptus
Behriana, F.v.M.," in Trans. R.S.S.A., 1902.
d. With E. iJopulifoUa, Hook. — Specimens from Cobham Lake
in the extreme north-west of the State (W. Biiuerlen) have verj'-
broad, shiny leaves, which resemble those of E. pajmlifolia a good
deal, as well as E. Behriana (as far as herbarium specimens are
concerned).
e. With E. hemiphloia, F.v.M. — The likeness of E. hicolor to
E. hemiphloia, F.v.M., var. ynicrocarpa, Maiden, when herbarium
specimens are alone available, is often very striking and some-
times deceived Mueller. The timbers at once separate them, that
of E. hemiphloia being pale and that of E. hicolor being red.
In this connection the following specimen is interesting.
E. odorata, var.Jioribunda, Benth. " Inflorescence occasionally
compound, connecting the species in some measure with E. hicolor,
but the foliage and shape of the flowers and fruits are rather
those of E. odorata. On the Yarra, Victoria (B.Fl. iii. 216)."
I have not seen the fruits, but from the specimens I have seen
I would suggest that it is referable to E. hemiphloia. The form
should, however, be further enquired into.
/. With E. crebra, F.v.M. — The similarity of this species to E.
hicolor is sometimes marked, particularly in Queensland specimens.
With typical crehra in the field the confusion could never arise
as it is an Ironbark, but as the tropics are approached Ironbarks
lose some of their characteristics and more closely approximate
to the Red Boxes such as E. hicolor.
g. With E. calycogona, Turcz. — E. hicolor shows affinity to E.
calycogona through the variety gracilis of the latter.
