528 ON EUCAl YPTUS POLYAXTHEMOS, SCHAUEK,
indifferent a.s to the use of the names " Slaty Gum or Red Box,"
applying them indiscriminately as a very general rule. More
than one timber worker told me they were the same tree, and all
the evidence I accumulated points in the same direction. As
the confusion in regard to "Red Box and Slaty Gum" has become
considerable, I have at pp. 531-535 given full notes made in the
field by my collector and by other observers, and add the follow-
ing report from him which was written in the field : —
" With reference to your instructions to collect all available
evidence in regard to Red Box and Slaty Gum, I respectfully
report that I went to Tallawang (some 6 miles from Gulgong)
out towards Cobborah, where it grows to fine tall trees, on the
ridgy ground near to the Reedy Creek; at Gulgong it grows all
around the district of a much more stunted growth. At Lue it
grows (large trees) about 5-6 miles in a western direction from
the railway line; the more stunted forms occur all around the
immediate district of Lue. There again at Rylstone, some 5
miles on the Ilford road, it again reaches to fine trees.
" From a personal conviction and from reliable information,
the Slaty Gum and Red Box are identical. The term ' Slaty
Gum' is applied to the more robust trees of the ' Red Box' from
the cleaner stems, for these trees have a greater tendency to
throw off the bark more regularly, falling in ribbons, and not in
' scales,' so to speak, as in the case of the less healthy trees; this
is not invariably the case, as exceptions do constantly occur.
This (April) seemingly is the season of the j^ear for shedding of
the bark A Mr. Taylor, native of Rylstone (a carpenter), says
there is no difference in the timbers or in the habit of the trees,
' Slaty Gum ' being only larger than ' Red Box.' Mr. James
Holmes, Gulgong, who pointed out to me the tree at Reedy
Creek, calls ' Red Gum ' and ' Slaty Gum ' one and the same.
Mr. Hatton, living at Coomber, says that ' Slaty Gum' is nothing
but ' Red Box.' "
Mr. Baker deals with the matter of Red Box and Slaty Gum
in these Proceedings (xxi. 448, 1896), and I think the conclusion
