530 ON EUCALYPTUS POLYANTHEMOS, SCHAUEE,
On the other hand, Mr. Baker's label saj^s — " E. ovalifolia,
R.T.B. Red Box Hard, red-coloured durable timber; bark
rough at base." This is a description of E. jjolyantheinos, Schauer.
I am therefore of opinion that, through inadvertence, E. ovali-
folia, K. T. Baker, has been parti}'- described from E. j)olyan-
thenios, Schauer, and partly from E. Bauerania, Schauer.
4. E. ovalifolia, R. T. Baker, var. lanceolata, R. T. Baker.
A specimen of timber from Rylstone labelled as above by Mr.
Baker, with the addition " Red Box," and kindh'' presented by
that gentleman, is E. j^olyanthe^nos, Schauer.
Affinities.
a. With E. Baueriana, Schauer. — This species has long been
confused with E. polyanthemos, which is the best evidence that
it is necessary to issue a caution on the subject. As regards
herbarium specimens, those of E. Baueriana are less glaucous and
often more slaty-looking than E. j^olyanthemos, the opercula less
pointed, and the fruits more conical and with thinner rims. The
forester would not confuse the trees for a moment. The bark of
E. Baueriana is, woolly up to the small branches,. that of E. 'poly-
anthemos being smooth or ribbon3^ The timber of E. Baueriana
is pale brown or brovrn, while that of E. jjolyanthemos is deep red.
I have seen E. polyanthemos with a true " box" bark, and am
of opinion that the use of the term "box" (other than "bastard
box") as applied to this tree, has arisen, in some measure, from
the long-continued confusion with E. Baueriana. See also these
Proceedings, 1899, p. 613.
6. With E. melliodora., A Cunn. — Sometimes these two species
from bark alone are hard to discriminate. They both may have
scaly-box bark at the butt for a considerable distance, thereafter
ribbony bark or a " White Gum " appearance.
The bark of E. melliodora is more persistent than that of E.
2)olijanthemos; the ribbony bark, however, never descending so
low down as in the latter. A man might readily be forgiven if
he called one polyanthemos tree a Box and another a Gum, and
as a matter of fact this is commonl}^ done.
