BY R. BROOM. 553
trabecular cornu, and any one who had only studied it in the
rudimentary condition in which it is found in the higher mammals
might readily come to that conclusion. The posterior attachment
of the cartilage, however, in the lizard and marsupial proves, I
believe, that the paraseptal is a true portion of the nasal capsule.
Whatever, however, be the morphological significance of the
paraseptal cartilage there is no doubt that it is in connection
with this cartilage that the so-called "vomer "of the lizard is
formed. On transverse section the cartilage is seen passing
downward and a little outwards from near the base of the septum,
and it is as a splint on the inner side of this cartilage that the
" vomer " first develops. It soon, however, passes outwards
round the lower border of the cartilage, and forms to some extent
a floor to the nasal capsule; but though it extends laterally
beyond the limits of the cartilage its length is determined b}^ the
length of the paraseptal.
In Ornithorhynchus and Minioi^teriis the paraseptals, being
retained, as in most mammals, only as supports to Jacobson's
organ, have their length determined by the length of the organ,
and are hence much shorter than the nasal capsule. On the
inner side of each cartilage a splint bone develops exactly as in
the lizard, and, as in the lizard, the length of these splints is
determined by the length of the cartilages. In both Ornitho-
rhynchus and Miniopterus these splints in their later development
become anchylosed, in the one case to form the dumbbell bone,
and in the other the little median bone which lies in front of the
vomer.
As the paraseptal cartilage in the marsupial is undoubtedly
the true homologue of the paraseptal cartilage in the lizard, the
paraseptal in Ornithorhynchus, even though somewhat rudimen-
tary, must also be homologous. It is, therefore, impossible to
doubt that the splint bones which form on their inner sides, and
whose lengths are determined by the cartilages, must also be
homologous. As the so-called " vomer " of the lizard is thus seen
to be the homologue of the dumbbell bone of Ornithorhynchus, it
can no longer be regarded as a true vomer, since the dumbbell
