BY R. BROOxM. 555
In the snake the " parasphenoid " is moderately well developed,
and extends far forwards. In its earliest stage of development
it is described by Parker (15) as "a lx)ng styloid tract of granular
tissue . . . wedged between the trabeculag " and reaching
*' the pituitary body by its broad hinder end."
It will thus be seen that in both amphibians and reptiles the
'' parasphenoid " is a median ossification which develops in the
neighbourhood of the pituitary space — occasionally arising behind
the space as in Sjyhenodon, and at other times, as in the snake,
having its entire development in front of the space.
Now, the mammalian vomer is developed as a median splint
bone along that part of the basicranial axis which in later
development becomes the presphenoid and mesethmoid regions;
and as this is exactl}^ the region in which the median splint bone
of the snake is developed, we are forced to conclude that the
"parasphenoid" of the snake is really the homologue of the
mammalian vomer. In the reptiles, no doubt the exact position
of the median bone varies considerably; but so in mammals does
the vomer vary greatly as regards its anterior and posterior
developments. In most mammals the vomer extends far forwards,
and in the Cetaceans extends practically to the end of the long
rostrum; but in Echidna, on the other hand, the anterior extremity
of the vomer is found in the posterior nasal region; and while in
many Rodents we find the vomer rudimentary, and posteriorly not
even reaching the presphenoid, in some Cetaceans the vomer
extends back even to the basioccipital.
The Phylogeny of the Vomerine Bones.
Having shown that the mammalian vomer has its homologue
in the " parasphenoid " of the reptiles and amphibians, and that
the so-called " vomers " of these lower forms are really homologous
to the dumbbell bone of Ornithorhynchus, it is now only necessary
to consider briefl}^ the steps b}' which the vomerine bones of the
higher forms have been derived from those of their Labyrinthodont
ancestors.
