556 MAMMALIAN AND REPTILIAN VOMERINE BONES,
In the extinct Labyrinthodonts, as in their degenerate descen-
dants, the Amphibia of to-day, we find the basicranial axis
supported by a powerful median vomer (parasphenoid), and in
front we have a pair of prev^omers supporting the nasal capsules.
In the most primitive reptilian order with which we are
acquainted — the Cotylosauria — we find that the palate differs
from the ancestral Labyrinthodont condition mainly in the greatly
increased development of the pterygoids, with a corresponding
decrease in the size of the median vomer. Howes has already
recently suggested that the reduction of the " parasphenoid " in
the ascending reptilian series has been brought about by the
increased development of the pterygoids; and it seems moderately
certain that this is the true explanation. It is more difficult to
assign a cause for the increased development of the pterygoids.
But it seems probable that as the descendants of the Labyrintho-
donts took to terrestrial habits a stronger palate than could be
formed by the median vomer became advantageous, and was
formed by the pterygoids, which, besides becoming greatly
increased in size, became dentigerous.
In the majority of more recent reptiles, we have a modification
of the condition found in Sphenodon where there is a small
median vomer and two moderately large prevomers.
In the Theriodonts, however, an interesting modification arises.
With the formation of a secondary palate a new function is given
to the median vomer, which becomes again well developed as a
support to the new palate. The prevomers, on the other hand,
being now no longer required to protect the nasal capsules, become
greatly reduced in size, and are retained only as supports to the
cartilages of Jacobson,
In the Dicynodonts the true vomer is greatly developed, while
the prevomers are completely lost owing to the enormous develop-
ment of the premaxillaries.
In the Chelonians we have a condition somewhat resembling
that of the Dicynodonts, and probably brought about by a
parallel development. The median vomer is developed as a
support to the palate, and the prevomers are lost.
