BY R. BROOM. 559
Fig. 4. — Transverse section of snout of ripe foetus of Miniopterus schreiberdi.
Showing the prevomers developing in connection with Jaeobson's
cartilage (the modified paraseptal). [In the adult the two
prevomers are found anchylosed together to form a median bone
which reaches from the one cartilage of Jacobson to the other.]
Plate XXV.
Fig. o.— Under view of skull of IchthyopMs glutinosus. Showing the large
median vomer (parasphenoid) and the large paired prevomers
(vomers). Enlarged.
Fig. 6. — Under view of skull of Amblystovia (after Parker), showing the
very large median vomer (parasphenoid) and the modified
paired prevomers (vomers).
Fig. 7— Under view of skull of ripe embryo of Sphenodon punctatm (after
Howes and Swinnerton). Showing the small median vomer
(parasphenoid) and the large prevomers (vomers). Enlarged.
Fig. 8. — Semidiagrammatic view of under side of skull of Plesiosaunis (after
Andrews). Showing the small median vomer and the paired
prevomers. Keduced.
Fig. 9. — Under view of skull of nearly ripe embryo of Zootoca (after Parker).
The median true vomer is very small, and the paired prevomers
large. Enlarged.
Fig. 10.— Under view of skull of young Tropidonotus (after Parker). The
median true vomer is almost entirely situated in the anterior
half of the skull.
Plate xxvi.
Fig. 11. — Under view of skull of Gomphognathus (partly restored behind).
Showing the median true vomer and the paired prevomers.
The dotted lines indicate the probable anterior limit of the
vomer. In a fragmentary specimen of the snout Seeley figures
a bone which he calls the vomer considerably further forward,
but the bone which he so regards is almost certainly the
ethmoid. The posterior extensions of the prevomers are
assumed. Esduced.
Fig. 12. — Under view of skull of Ornithorhynchus. Showing the prevomers
united to form the dumbbell-shaped bone. Slightly reduced.
Fig. 1,3. — Under view of skull of Ptyclwgnatlius. Here only the true median
vomer is developed, the great palatal development of the pre-
maxillary having led to the loss of the prevomers. The hinder
part of the skull is restored. Reduced.
Fig. 14. — Under view of skull of Testudo. Only the median vomer is
developed. The loss of the prevomer may be due to the fact
that the organs of Jacobson are imperfectly differentiated.
Nat. size.
