BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 563
westward of that of the Yarran, except on the plains to the west
of Grenfell, where the eastern limits of the two species nearly
coincide. A. pendiila does not, so far as I am aware, come east
of the Great Dividing Range at any point, though it may possibly
just do so in the region of the Liverpool Range. It is not
uncommon in the western districts to hear of Ringed or Curly
Yarran, and by some this tree is thought to be different from
ordinary Yarran. They are the same species, viz., A. homalo-
2)hylla occurring in two forms, one with the wood having a wavy
grain and the other a straight grain. From considerable obser-
vation it appears to me that Curly Yarran is not nearly so plenti-
ful as that with the straight grain, nor could I ever find any
outward sign by which to recognise a difference in the trees, but
an axe cut will at once settle the question. Curly Yarran pos-
sesses a very ornamental figure owing to the presence of this
waving in the grain of the wood.
Another western tree having a similar feature is A. Cambagei,
Baker, the Gidgea of the Bourke district, but in this case the
curly form seems to be the more general one, hence it is quite
common to find Ringed Gidgea. The cause of the rings in the
Gidgea is the same as in the Yarran. One of the ordinary uses
of these timbers, especially the former, is for stockwhip handles,
and this tapering form assists considerably in developing the
rings in the figure. The same result is obtained when the timber
is worked up into walking sticks or otherwise used in turnery.
Among stockmen's lore I have heard it stated that in order to
produce rings it was necessary that the stem of the trees should
grow in concentric rings of different colours, and that these were
seen alternately in the length of the tapering whip handle. I
was never able to find anything of this kind, and have no doubt
that the undulation in the grain is always sufficient to account
for the feature. In mature trees of Yarran the timber often has
flaws inside owing to the operations of some boring insect, and
this is the more annoying as these affected spots are often undis-
covered till the working up of the wood is well in progress.
Owing to this blemish the usefulness of the tree is considerably
