564 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
lessened. This species suffers in many western localities from
the attack of a mistletoe, usually Loranthus 'pendidus.
Near Eugowra this mistletoe was found growing on Eucalyptus
Gonica, and L. linojjhyllus, Fenzl., on Casuarina Luehma7ini.
Along the roadside, betw^een Eugow^ra and Cudal, the following
Eucalj'^pts were noticed : — E. Woollsiana, E. conica, E. rostrata,
E. melliodora, E. tereticornis, and its var. dealbata, the latter on
hills of Devonian sandstone, E. hejiiiphloia, var. alhens, E.
Bridgesiana (Apple, near Murga), and E. macrorhyncha (Stringy-
bark) on a ridge of Devonian sandstone.
E. Bridgesiana was mentioned in Part vi. (p. 202) as the New
South Wales apple tree which has been recognised for so many
years as E. Stitartiana.
E, conica ceases on this road near Toogong, the elevation
beyond this being too great for it.
E rostrata was not noticed after Cudal was passed, it also
preferring a warmer climate than is to be found near Orange.
From Cudal to Orange, a distance of 25 miles, the ascent is so
great that all the typical interior trees are left behind, and
replaced by others which are usually found in cold regions, the
effect of climatic influence being very pronounced. At about
half-way Casuarina Cunning hamiana is seen for the last time.
Sterculia diversifolia is noticed at intervals, and along the last
10 miles of the road Acacia dealhata^ the Silver Wattle, becomes
common. From the notes which follow it may be seen that this
is a very common "Wattle" on the highlands, and when flowering
in September it is a very beautiful tree.
As most of the country along the Cudal to Orange road has
been cleared, the flora is chiefly represented by the Eucalypts,
those passed being E. nielliodora, E. Bridgesiana, E. Woollsiana,
E. hemijyhloia var. albens, E. tereticornis, E. viminalis, Labill.
(White Gum), at about 17 miles from Orange, E. Cambagei
(Bastard Box, Apple or Bundy), near the 10-mile post, E. macro-
rhyncha (7-mile post), E. dives, Schauer (Peppermint), (6-m.) E.
stellulata, Sieb. (Sally, Black Sally, Sallow or Sally Butt), E.
