BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 565
macrorhyncha, E. vimiyialis, E. dives (-i-m.), E. melliodora, E.
Bridgesiana and E. viminalis.
E. Woollsiana ceases at about 20 miles from Orange, while E.
hemiphloia var. albens continues to within about 10 miles, their
eastern margins thus being only 10 miles apart. This is owing
to the great difference in elevation which takes place in the
comparatively short distance. Had the ascent been gradual, as
from Cootamundra to Harden, the difference might have amounted
to -iO or 50 miles instead of only 10. As var. albens does not
extend much to the westward of Forbes, it may be noticed that
it is neither an interior nor a mountain species, but occupies that
area which may be designated as the western slopes. It continues
much in this position north and south throughout New South
Wales.
E. viminalis is perhaps one of the best known white gum trees
of the cold regions. It generally grows as a somewhat spreading
tree with rather drooping foliage, and may often be found on
flats near large creeks, as well as on basaltic tablelands. Its
habitat seems to be regulated chiefly by climatic conditions, for
while around Orange and Bathurst it is seldom seen below an
altitude of 2,000 feet, yet, as southern latitudes are approached,
it is found at much lower levels, till in Tasmania and
Southern Victoria it is common right down to sea-level.
It may be pointed out that so far as is at present
known, none of the Eucalypts mentioned in previous papers
occur in Tasmania. E. viminalis is not a coast species, but
comes to within 20 or 30 miles of the ocean in the district
south of Moss Vale. It also occurs on a flat a mile or two above
the town of Picton. Though often a white tree of the ribbony
gum type, it not infrequently has a hard black bark near the
butt, arranged in very strong thick scales, and this rough bark
extends varying distances up the barrel, from a few feet in some
cases, to the whole length of the trunk in others, and in rare
instances even on the branches. Still above the rough bark the
general appearance of the tree remains the same, and it is to the
upper part of a tree that the bushman's eye wanders when in
