566 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
doubt about its identity. The timber of this species is considered
to be ver}^ inferior, both in or out of the ground, and has a porous
appearance, though I have heard of an instance where it has
lasted very well in a wet place, A reference to the inflorescence
shows that the flowers are usually arranged in threes, though this
is by no means a constant feature, for even where at first sight
there appears to be no departure from this arrangement, a careful
inspection will often reveal umbels of fours and fives, or even
more."^ On the other hand, there are some trees of this species
which show scarcely any threes, but these I should say are greatly
in the minority. I have collected specimens from a tree near
Orange with buds arranged in threes, but a little lower on the
same branch with as many as seven mature fruits in the umbel,
thus showing that the same tree does not necessarily produce an
equal number every season. E. viminalis is one of the gum trees
from which manna is often collected, and has been referred to
under the name E. mannifera, A. Cunn.
E. dives seems to be known everywhere as Peppermint, and
this name is suggested from the odour emitted by the leaves when
bruised. It is confined to the cold parts of New South Wales,
and may be generally separated from other Peppermints by its
broad stem-sucker f leaves. Usually it grows on ridges, and seems
to avoid alluvial flats. It has fibrous grey bark covering the
trunk and sometimes the larger branches, the older bark being
honey-combed in some cases, giving it a lace-like appearance.
The timber of this tree is not much prized.
* Vide remarks by Messrs. Deane and Maiden. These Proceedings, 1901,
Part i., 139.
t As the term "sucker" is strictly confined in botany to young plants
formed on underground rootstocks, while in Australia the same term is'
popularly applied to adventitious growths on various parts of the stem or
branches caused chiefly by that particular part of the tree being either cut
or bruised, it has been thought expedient in future to refer in these papers
to the latter form as " stem-suckers " by way of distinction, and to the former
as either " suckers" or " root-suckers."
