BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 567
E. stellulata is a well known tree on the highlands both north
and south, being usually found along damp flats and watercourses
in open grazing countr}^ The upper parts of the trunk and
branches are covered with a smooth greenish to slate-coloured
bark, while near the butt the bark is in rough thick flakes, often
deeply furrowed, and not unlike that sometimes found on the
lower part of E. viminalis. Its chief flowering time in the Orange
district is about March, and its flowers are arranged in numerous
star-like clusters. The venation of the leaves is of interest, the
veins being arranged longitudinally and almost parallel to the
midrib. The timber of this species is soft like that of most of the
cold country trees, and somewhat brittle.
From Orange to Ophir is a distance of about 16 miles north-
easterly, and the country falls gradually all the way. Along the
latter part of the road some of the low country forms reappear.
Various trees and shrubs noticed along the roadside were : —
Acacia dealhata most of the way, A. vestita, Ker, A. falcata (?),
Willd., A. linifolia (?), Willd., A. armata, Cassia Sojjhera, L.,
Casuarina Cunninghamiana, Poinade7'ris 'phillyrmoides^ Sieb.,
Grevillea 7'amosissima, Meissn., Sterculia diversifolia, Disca^'ia
australis, Hk., Callistemon salig7ius, DC, var. angusti/olia, along
the creek, and Exocaiyus cupressiformis (Native Cherry).
Acacia vestita was found only near Ophir. It grows in a very
graceful, spreading and pendulous form.
The Eucalypts noticed along this road were : — E. viminalis^ E,
Bridgesiana, E. [coriacea, A. Cunn., E. stellulata, E. melliodoray
E. tereticornis, E. rubidcc, Deane and Maiden, E. dives, E. macro-
rhyncha, E. Cambagei, E. hcemastoma, Sm., var. micrantha, E.
macidosa, Baker, E. polyanthema, Schau., and E. hemiphloia var.
alhens.
E. coriacea is another of the white gums of the cold country,
and although it may often be found in company with E. viminalis
it leaves that species behind in some of its ascents on our highest
mountains. This is the Eucalypt which may be found growing at
a higher elevation than any other Eucalypt in New South Wales,
or probably for that matter in the world {vide Mr. J. H. Maiden's
