568 BOTANY OF THE INTKRIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
^' Flora of Mount Kosciusko"). It is common along the highlands
of New South Wales, both north and south, extending also into
Victoria and Tasmania. It is the Snow Gum of the Kiandraand
Kosciusko districts, where it often grows in a stunted form. A
conspicuous feature in the general appearance of this tree is its
large coarse, longitudinally veined, and somewhat shining leaves,
which in times of drought are considered to be moderately good
fodder, and this in some places has earned for the tree the name
of Cattle-gum. Its fruits are fairly large, and in the Oberon
district the seeds are eaten by the Gang Gang Cockatoo {Callo-
cephalon galeatiim^ Latham). The bark of this tree is usually
smooth and white to the ground, also thin, and when growing
with E. viminalis bushmen can separate the two species on sight
by the bark and foliage. The timber of E. coriacea is one of the
best of the cold country gums, and is often used for fence posts.
This species is not restricted to any particular geological formation,
but seems to have a preference for igneous over sedimentary, and
is usually found growing in open forests. It shares wdth some
other trees the names of White Gum, Cabbage Gum, and Scribbly
Gum. The latter name is suggested by certain scribble marks
on the bark, and these are made by a small grub eating its way
along the outside of the inner bark, the eiFect being that the
" scribble " is left thereon; also on the inside of the outer bark,
the outside of which was perhaps previously operated upon while
it was yet inner bark, so that a piece of bark just falling off will
often have scribble marks on both sides, but in no w^ay connected
with each other. A casual examination once made of this little
grub in the Oberon district showed it to measure only two. lines
in length. E. lutmastoma is another white gum tree which also
has has scribble marks on the bark.
E. rubida is also one of the high country gums, and is some-
times found associated with E. viminalis, with which species it
is often confused by bushmen. Of the two species, E. ruhida
generally takes the drier land, being found on hillsides, while E.
viminalis is more plentiful in the valleys; but it is also quite
common to see them mingle on elevated land. As a rule E.
