BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 569
ruhida is neither so spreading nor so pendulous as E. vhninalis;
and its identification is further assisted by the glaucous appear-
ance of the foliage and fresh bark, as well as some red patches
on the outer bark just before it begins to peel off. The greatest
diiference is perhaps in the stem-sucker leaves, those of F.
vimiiialis being generall}^ narrow, while those of E. ruhida are
nearly round, even on the young shoots high up among the
branches. The flowers are usually arranged in threes like those
of E. viminalis, and in my collecting I have been unable to find
more than four in the uml^el, and that rarely, though this number
is recorded by other collectors as being exceeded at times. The
timber of U. ruhida is regarded as very inferior, and resembles
that of E. viminalis. The species has a considerable range in the
highlands, and extends into Victoria. It may often be found
growing on Silurian slate formation, though not usually in very
rocky situations, but it is also common on soil formed from
decomposed igneous rocks. This is another tree from which
manna has been collected.
E. hmmastoma var. micrantha is a well known white gum tree
both along the coast and on the highlands. Around Bathurst
and Orange it is known variously as Brittle Gum, Brittle Jack,
Cabbage Gum, Scribbly Gum, White Gum and Red Cabbage
Gum. Along the coast the timber of this tree is not much valued,
partly because it does not split well, and partly owing to the fact
that there is an abundance of other much finer timber available.
Still, on the highlands, it is often in request for fence posts, as it
has been proved to be durable in the ground. It is also con-
sidered to be moderately good fuel, but the wood of the cold
country is much inferior in this respect to that of the western
districts. Its timber when freshly cut is of a pale red colour,
with a very short grain. The bark, which is white and rather
thin, sheds off in short patches. The short or long grain in the
timber of the Eucalypts is usually manifested by a corresponding
feature in the bark, and there is consequently much truth in the
lines of Henry Kendall, where he writes of Jem the Splitter : —
His knowledge is this — he can tell in the dark,
What timber will split by the feel of the bark.
