570 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
The fruits of the Bathurst and Orange representatives of E.
hcemastoma are usually small and hemispherical, and, therefore,
more properly belong to var. micrantha, but they have the reddish
rim which gave rise to the botanical name of the species. In
shape, the fruits, with their rounded base, have often reminded
me of miniature wine glasses, and the similarit}"^ is increased by
the slenderness of the pedicels which support the fruit. In some
of the coast forms, where the fruits are larger, they are also more
conical, perhaps approaching those of E. Sieheriana, F.v.M., the
Mountain Ash.
E. hcemastoma var. micrantha is generally found growing on
poor soil, and undoubtedly prefers a geological formation of sedi-
mentary origin to that of an igneous, and will thrive better on
the top of a Silurian slate ridge among the rocks than on the
surrounding flats where the soil is infinitely better.
E. 'maculosa is another white orum tree ofenerallv found associated
with E. hcemastoma var. micrantha, and in habit as well as out-
ward appearance so much resembles it that by the casual observer
the two species are often confused. Both appear to flourish on
Silurian slate ridges, and may also be found on the Triassic
sandstone around Mount Victoria, but I have never seen the
former on the low coastal area between Wollongong and New-
castle where the latter is quite common. For a further comparison
of these two trees, see Mr, Maiden's remarks in these Proceedings
for 1901 (p. 582).
E. maculosa is generally a small tree, but in rare instances I
have seen it with a diameter of three feet six inches, though not
proportionately tall. In some parts on the highlands a feature
of the bark is that when young it often becomes covered with a
white powder, but this disappears from the old bark which is
shed in patches, thereby suggesting the name of Spotted Gum for
the tree. This is the name by which the trees are known between
Orange and Ophir, though at AViseman's Creek they are called
White Cabbage Gum to distinguish them from E. hcemastoma
var. micra?itha, which is there called Red Cabbage Gum, the
wood of the former being somewhat paler than that of the latter,
