BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 573
ascending the western slopes, passing right through the belt and
beyond the eastern limit of var. albeiis, and continuing upwards
to within a few miles of Orange, though above an altitude of
3,000 feet it seems rare. This distribution is important in view
of the probable future of this tree in regard to its bearing on the
Eucalyptus oil industry.
In going from Ophir to Mullion Creek Railway Station the
country again rises, and E. hemiphloia var. albens is soon left
behind. Other Eucalypts growing on the elevated parts are E.
viminaUs, E. Bridyesiana, E. mdliodora^ E. tereticoruis, E. maci'o-
7'hyncha, E. maculosa, E. Cambagei, E. hcemastoma var. Tnicrantha,
E. polyanthema, E. dives, E. amygdaJina, Labill. (Peppermint), E.
rubida and E. coriacea.
Other plants within sight of the road are Acacia dealbata, A.
tindidifolia, A. lanigera, A. Cunn., Cassinia Theodori, Daviesia^^.
Two other plants found in the district were Pidtencea ternata,
F.V.M., and F. styphelioides, A. Cunn.
Eucalyptus amyydalina is usualh^ known on the western high-
lands as Peppermint, but towards the coast where the trees have
greater proportions they are very often called Messmate. The
first name is suggested from the strong smell of the crushed leaves,
while the appellation of Messmate infers that these trees " mess-
mate " with or partake of the characters of other trees. The
trees showing outward affinities to E. aniygdalina, and which
suggest the name of Messmate are probably E. dives (Peppermint)
and one of the Stringybarks growing in the locality.
E. amygdalina usually grows with a grey bark not unlike that
of E. dives, but perhaps a little more fibrous in large trees. The
two species are easily separated on sight by the leaves, those of
the former being narrow, while those of the latter are fairly
broad, especially on the young shoots. The fruits of E. dives are
slightly the larger. The timber of E. amygdalina is not con-
sidered to be of much value, being soft and likely to decay when
used i]i exposed situations. This species is not very plentiful in
the Orange and southern Bathurst districts, and Mullion Creek
marks the most north-v/esterly locality in which I have ever found
