574 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
it. This is one of those species which seem to slightly prefer a
geological formation of sedimentary origin to that of an igneous,
but apparently it is more particular as a first consideration in
having a fairly cool climate, and ma}^ be found both north and
south on elevated Silurian slate areas, as well as on the Triassic
sandstone around Mount Victoria and elsewhere. From Goul-
burn and Moss Vale it continues eastward to the top of the
Illawarra Range at Macquarie Pass overlooking Albion Park, but
I have never found it down in the Illawarra district.
E. radiata, Sieb., is, however, found along man}' of the rivers
and creeks of the coastal area, though not absolutely confined to
these situations, and is known sometimes as Peppermint but often
as Ribbony Gum from the appearance of the streamers of decor-
ticating bark as they hang from the upper parts of the trees.
The trunks of E. radiata are covered at the base and for ^arj'ing
distances upwards with a grey bark very similar to that of E.
amygdalina^hMt the upper part is usuall}^ clean and fairly white.
In general appearance this is the chief difference noticed between
the two species except, of course, in habit, E. radiata showing a
preference for growing along creek banks and on flats. Still the
latter trees may be found on the hillsides in many localities, and
although they appear to grow at lower levels in Xew South AVales
than E. ainygdalina, they may sometimes be found at elevations
at least exceeding 2,000 feet above sea level. The fruits of E.
radiata have appeared to me to be uniformly rather more con-
stricted at the rim than are those of E. amygdalina, but undoubt-
edly the two species approach each other ver}' closely, and there
are instances where it is extremely difficult to separate them.
E. amyydaJiiia has an extensive range on the highlands in New
South Wales and Victoria, and is common in Tasmania, ]3ut under
the influence of southern latitudes may there be found practically
down to the sea level, although also at considerable elevations,
and apparently heedless of whether the formation is igneous or
sedimentary, being common on the former near Launceston and
on the latter around Hobart. In southern Victoria, also, it
appears to show that a suitable climate is its chief desideratum,
