BY R. H. CAMUAGE. 575
as it grows there at a much lower level than in the latitude of
Sydney.
At about 10 miles south-westerly from Orange there is a high
mountain of volcanic origin, exceeding 4,000 feet above sea level
and known as the Canoblas. It is of intense geological interest, for
in addition to the petrological study it affords of the various forms
of volcanic rock of which it is composed, and the probable remains
of an ancient crater on the top, just south of the Trig, station,
the original lava flow has covered and thereby protected older
sedimentary rocks of the Devonian and Silurian periods, and
these ma}^ be seen in places protruding from under the base of
the mountain. To the eastward, near Forest Reefs, Tertiary
fossil fruits may be found buried under a great thickness of basalt
which was possibly emitted from or contemporaneous with the
outflow^s from the Canoblas. Some rocks containing graptolites
of probably Lower Silurian origin may be found towards Diggers'
Creek near Cadia.
The road from Orange to Cargo passes the base of the mountain
on the western side at about 7 miles from Orange, and the
Eucalypts noticed between Orange and this point are E. dives,
E. viminalis, E. Br-idgesiana, E. r)iacrorhyncha and E. coriaceaj
On ascending the mountain from about the 7-miIe post the
following plants are noticed : — Eucalyptus macrorhyncha, E.
melliodoi'a, E. Bridyesiana, E. viminalis, E. Cambagei, E. dives,
Acacia dealbata, A. melanoxylon, ^.^v., Exocarpus ciqjressiformis,
Thysanotus fube?-osus, R.Br. (Fringed Violet), Veronica perfolio-
lata, R.Br., Calythrix tetragona, Stella7'ia 2Junge7is, Brong., Ery-
fh?rea australis, R.Br., Helichrysur)i apicidatum, DC, and Lepto-
spermum lanigevam (?), Sm.
Erythr(pa australis is a small plant which has been seen extend-
ing over most of the area described in these papers, and is to be
found in the coastal area as well. It was used by the aborigines
for medicinal purposes, and is not confined to this State.
Acacia melanoxylon is the same as the famous Tasmanian
Blackwood, but in New South Wales it does not grow into such
fine trees as may be found in Victoria and Tasmania. It is often
