576 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
known as Hickory from the toughness of the wood. Along parts
of the North Coast and Table Lands it is called Mudgerabah and
has various other local names. The species is very likely to be
confused b}^ the casual observer with A. implexa owing to a
general similarity in the bark and venation of the leaves. The
simplest test, if ripe pods are available, is to examine the funicle
which connects the seed to the pod, that of A. meJanoxylon being
red and carried round the seed twice, while that of A. imijlexa is
paler and folded at the hilum end of the seed.
The only Eucalj^pts growing on the top of the Canoblas are
E. coriacea and E. rubida, the others ceasing at about 500 feet
below the summit. Mr. J. H. Maiden has shown that this par-
ticular form of E. ruhida growing on the top of the Canoblas is
ver}^ little removed from typical E. Guniiii, Hook., of Tasmania
(these Proceedings, 1901, p. 581).
On the roadside between Canoblas and Cargo the following
Eucalypts were noticed : — E. riminalis, E. Eridgesiana, E. dives,
E. fereficoniis, E. meUiodora, E. macrorhyncha, E. Camhagei (18
mile post), and E. hemiphloia var. alhens.
Between Orange and Cargo, a distance of 23 miles, the country
falls almost continuously, and the climatic effect on the flora is
again very noticeable. E. coriacea is left behind at the 7-mile
post. Near the 15-mile post the last is seen of the Peppermint,
E. dives and of E. viminalis. At the 20-mile post E. macrorhyn-
cha ceases, the country below this being too hot for these species.
On the other hand, E. hemiphloia var. alhens does not appear till
the 18-mile post is reached, the country above that being too cold
for it.
Between the 15- and 16-mile posts and on the left hand side of
the road, specimens w^ere collected from a tree ^vhich about the
greater part of the trunk considerably resembled E. Bridgesiana,
but the upper part and branches were clean, giving the tree the
appearance of E. viminalis. The fruits and buds most resemble
those of the multiflowered form of E. viminalis, and in the
absence of stem-sucker leaves have been provisionally identified
