BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 577
as belonging to that species. One or two other similar looking
trees were seen in the locality.
From Cargo to Cowra via Canowindra the country still falls,
and the vegetation gradually assumes the western forms. On
the hills at Cargo is rather a glaucous form of E. Cambcu/ei, and
this is the last seen of the species in travelling towards the
Lachlan. It is here associated with JE. hemiphloia var. alhens, a
coalition which only takes place near the western or lowest level
of the former, and the eastern or highest part of the latter.
Growing with them is E. te7-eticornis var. dealbata.
The country is generally clear of shrubs, but the larger trees
noticed between Cargo and Canowindra were : — Eucalyptus melli-
odora, E. fereticornis, E. hemiphloia var. albens, E. Woollsiana,
Callitris 7'obusta, and Sterculia diversifolia. The re-appearance of
Eucalyptus Woollsia^ia and Callitris robusta denotes a return to
the low country.
Sterculia diversifolia (Currajong) is the well known fodder tree,
and there are few plants having a wider range over this State,
although it rarely grows in clusters but as isolated trees. It is
found over the whole of the area described in these papers, and
is dotted nearly all along the coastal districts. It grows on
various geological formations, but if it shows any partiality it is
first for limestone and then igneous over slate and sandstone.
Near Parramatta, at the Pennant Hills quarry, it it found on
basalt, while at Newcastle and West Dapto it grows on Permo-
Carboniferous formation. At Tillowrie near Milton it may be
found in limited quantities on an igneous rock extending only a
short distance among the sandstone, and was known as
Curranimai by the aborigines who used the young roots as
an article of food. The aborigines of the district had a
curious belief that to cut one of these trees would produce
rain, consequently they were often spoken of as Rain
trees. But they must not be confused with two trees of Euca-
lyptus macidata (Spotted Gum) which grow on the roadside a few
miles to the southward and are known to residents and regular
travellers as the " Water Trees," owing to the fact that they have
