578 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
small hollows in the base of the trunks which hold water nearly
all the year round. One in particular has been the means of
quenching many a thirst on this particularly dr}^ piece of road.
The name of Currajong or Kurrajong appears to be a settler's
name for the various trees which have a bark easily stripped and
containing a strong fibre, as is the case with the young shoots of
this species. In the Ulladulla district, sjDecies of Commersonia
and Pimelea are better known as Currajong than the Sterculia,
while in other places some of the Hibiscus family bear this name.
For other "Kurrajongs," see Mr. Maiden's 'Useful Native Plants
of Australia.'
In the western districts the young leaves are often divided into
three long lobes, and it is quite common to see divided leaves on
large trees, but this feature is much more unusual along the
coast. Seeds of the Currajong collected in the western districts,
and planted on the coast, produce plants with leaves more divided
than are those of the indigenous coastal trees. A plant grown
at Burwood from seed collected on the Upper Macleay in 1 889,
seldom has any divided leaves, and the divisions were very slight
on some young shoots recently produced by cutting back one of
the older branches. This particular tree, though now 13 years
old, has never flowered. A tree growing beside it from seed
collected on the Lachlan has the much divided leaves. Another
slight difference noticed between the coastal and interior Curra-
jongs is that the coast tree will sometimes shed all its leaves,
though this is not a constant feature, and is a matter which
requires further investigation, possibly only applying to old trees.
A tree at Milton was leafless during most of January, 1901. In
the interior I have noticed them partially shed their leaves, but ,
never wholly. During the year of heaviest flowering the Illawarra
Flame-tree, Sterculia aceri/olia, A. Cunn., is almost leafless just
before blooming in November and December, so that the feature
is not restricted to one species of this genus. These slight
differences are not sufficient to suggest a separation of the species,
but they may point to a possibilit}^ of some slow evolution being
in progress, perhaps the result of climatic influence.
