BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 579
Recentl}'' some prominence has been given to the fact that the
soft wood of the Queensland Bottle Tree, Sterculia rupestris,
Benth., after being sawn and put through a chaff cutter, is useful
as a fodder. The branches of the Currajong are little more than
bark and wood of a very pithy nature, and may yet be found
useful for the same purpose if treated in a similar manner. The
tree is a most valuable one to pastoralists, and its conservation
should receive every consideration at their hands. Near the 29-
mile post, on the Orange to Canowindra road, may be seen a
luxuriant growth of these trees on a hillside composed almost
wholly of limestone.
Along the creek banks and flats, near Canowindra, are Casua-
rina C iinninghamiana, Eucalyptus rostrata, and E. Bridgesiana.
After that the following may be noticed distributed along the
road to Cowra : — E. tereticoruis (not plentiful), E. melliodora, E.
hemiphloia var. cdhens, E. Woollsiana, Ccdlitris 7'obitsta, Acacia
implexa (Hickory), and Sterculia diver sif alia, while Eucalyptus
conica (Woolly-butt) may be seen on the flats near Cowra.
Morongle Creek is situated some few miles above Cowra, and
along its banks, as well as on the flats near the Laehlan, E.
conica is fairly plentiful. It is locally known under the names
of Box, Apple, and Woolly-butt, but there are strong grounds for
believing that it was known to the aborigines as Morongle. The
latter name, however, appears to have fallen into disuse, and I
could only hear of one person who had heard this name from an
aborigine.
From Cowra to Grenfell is about 34 miles westerly, and the
Eucal3^pts noticed along the roadside were : — E. rostrata, E.
melliodora, E. conica, E. Woollsiana, E. hemijMoia var. alhens,
E. tereticoruis, and var. dealhata, E. sideroxylon (Ironbark), E.
affinis (White Ironbark or Ironbark Box), E. macrorhyncha, E.
polyanthema and E. Bridgesiana. These were all seen before the
15-mile post was reached, and each species was again noticed
between that point and Grenfell.
Various shrubs and trees passed between Cowra and Grenfell
were : — Callitris robusta, C. calcarata, Sterculia diver sifolia,
