580 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Macrozamia secunda, C. Moore (a dwarf form of Cycad found in
various western areas chief!}" on sandstone ridges), Casitarina
quadrifcdvis, Acacia diffusa (sometimes called Pin Bush from the
shape of the rigid pointed leaves), Exocmyus cujiressiformi^, and
Pterostylis rpjiexa, R.Br.
Going north from Grenfell along the Goolagong road for about
nine miles, and then turning to the right for three miles, the
following trees and shrubs were noted : — Eucalyptus hemfiiphloia
var. alhens^ E. tereticornis and var. dealhata, E. raeUiodora^ E.
Woollsiana, E. macrorhyncha, E. sideroxylon, E. Bridgesiana, E.
couica, E. rostrata, E. affinis, E. polyanthema^ Callitrls calcarata,
C. robusta, Acacia doratoxylon (Currawong), A. dealhata (green
variety), A. hakeoides, Casuarina quadrivalvis (She Oak or
Mountain Oak), C. Luehmanni (Bull Oak), Lpptospermurti
scojmrium, Forst. (Tea Tree, the form with narrow pointed leaves),
StercuUa diversifolia, Pittosporum phillyroioides, Eusamis acumi-
natus (Quandong), Exocarpus cupressiformis , Eriostemon myopo-
rides, DC, and Cassinia sp.
The rabbits had eaten the bark off the roots of the Currawong
trees in many cases.
About four miles north-easterly from Grenfell, on the Newgrove
Road, are Eucalyptus hcemastoma var. micrantha, and Acacia
obtusata (I).
Between Orange and Cadia, a distance of about 15 miles, the
country is basaltic most of the way and for the greater part
elevated. The Eucalypts growing near the road w^ere : — E. vimi-
7ialis, E. rubida, E. Bridgesiana (3-m.), E. coi-iacea, E. stelhdata
(4-m.), E. aggy^egata, Deane and Maiden (5-m.), E. dives (8-m.), E.
vimiiialis, E. coriacea, E. macrorhyncha, E. stelhdata (12-m.), E.
Cambagei, E. melliodora and E. dives.
Other trees and shrubs were : — Acacia dealhata (Silver Wattle),
A. melauoxylon [T\ (7-m.), Banksia inargriiata, Cav. (Honeysuckle),
Exocaiyus c2ip7'essiJ'o7'inis, E. striata, R. Br., Leptospermum sp.,
and Casuarina Cunniughamiana, the latter growing along the
banks of the creek at Cadia. These River Oaks extend for some
miles along the creek above Cadia, as well as downwards to the
