BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 583
Many of these notes were made for purposes of personal refer-
ence only and not with the object of publication. The conditions
also under which they were taken did not permit of a thorough
investigation throughout a district, consequently they are not at
all exhaustive. The genus Eucalyptus is the only one which may
be considered approximately complete. So far as the Bathurst
district is concerned, a much more detailed list of plants may be
found in the ' Notes on the Flora of Bathurst ' of Mr. W. J.
Clunes Ross, B.Sc, F.G.S. (Kept. Assoc. Adv. Sci. vii., 1898, 467).
From Bathurst to Limekilns is northerly about 20 miles, and
the conspicuous trees growing along the roadside are Eucalyptus
tereticornis, E. Bridgesicina, E. melliodora, E. viminalis, E. ruhida
(9-m.), E. Camhagei, E. macrorhyncha, E. polyanthema^ E. inacu-
losa, E. pidverulenta^ Sims, Casuarina Cunni7ighamiana, Ango-
jjhora intermedia, DC, (Apple), Acacia vestita, A. dealbata, A,
diffusa, A. lanigera, A. linifolia, Willd., and Kunzea peduncular-is,
F.v.M.
Typical Devonian fossils may be found in some of the creeks
along this road, having been washed down from the hills to the
eastward.
The trees of AngopJiora intermedia are first met with just
beyond the 6-mile post, and this is the only locality within the
area described in these papers where a species of Angophora has
been noticed.
A. intermedia is a very common "Apple Tree" along the coast
and north-westerly districts, at least as far out as Gilgandra, but
over the Great Dividing Range it keeps practically to the northern
side of the Great Western Railway Line. Its timber is soft but
useful for some kinds of wheelwrights' work. Asa fuel it burns
well, and a dead tree lying on the ground will, after being lighted,
quietly burn right away, leaving in white ashes the imprint of
both trunk and branches. South of Bathurst (as intimated in
Part vi.) Eucalyptus Bridgesiana is usually known as Apple, but
when found growing in company with an Angophora it appears
to be either WooUybutt or Peppermint, though in Gippsland it
bears the native name of But But according to Mr. A. W. Howitt.
