584: BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
The trees growing near the 20-mile post at Limekihis and
mentioned as Eucalyi^tiis jnilverulenta, Sims, are the same as those
found in the Goulburn to Marulan district and known as Argyle
Apple. It has a fibrous short stringy bark and pale glaucous
leaves exactly similar to the Goulburn trees, while its timber has
the same reddish tint. In going southwards from Limekilns
towards Goulburn there seems to be a break of at least 70 or 80
miles before the species is again found. The question once more
comes up as to whether in such cases as this the growth was
formerly continuous, and has partly perished from climatic or
other causes, or whether the seeds were originally distributed
only at these wide intervals. A careful detailed geological survey
of the intervening area would be one necessary part of the
research required to assist in the determination of this interesting
question.
In going from Bathurst southwards to Rockley, a distance of
about 22 miles, various trees and shrubs noticed near the roadside
were : — Eucaly2)tus viminalis, E. Bridyesiana^ E. j^olyanfhema^ E.
melliodora, E. Camhagei, E. hcemastoma var. micrantha, E. macro-
rhyncha, E. tereticornis, E. cordata, Labill., var., E. ruhida, E.
coriacea, E. stellulata, E. dives, Acacia dealbata, A. lanigera, A.
discolor, A. diffusa, A. ohtusata, A. armata, A. lunata, Sieb.,
Casuarina 2)aludosa{X), Calythrix fetragona, and Oia:r stricta,^.^Y.
For about 10 miles the formation is granite, and the land being
cultivated, it follows that the trees are scarce. But about the
11- and 12-mile posts are hills of micaceous schist, slate and lime-
stone, w^here the flora changes entirely and the plants are fairly
numerous.
On a continuation of these hills towards Wiseman's Creek, the
Flannel Flower, Actinotus Helianthi, Labill., may be found, and
this is its most western locality in the Bathurst district known
to me.
In their * Research on the Eucalypts ' Messrs. Baker & Smith
express the opinion that the t3^pical E. pulveridenta, Sims, which
was described in 1819 from a seedling plant grown in a nursery
in England, was not the Argyle Apple as commonly supposed.
