BY R. H. CAM13AGE. 585
but a tree growing at Cow Flat near Bathurst and closely allied to
the Tasmanian E. cordata, Labill. From the drawings and the
description of the drooping stems, the similarit}' also seems to
me greater to what I shall term in these papers the Bathurst E.
cordata or E. cordata var. than to the Argyle Apple. The first
difficulty that presents itself is to settle upon the locality where
the original seeds were collected from which the plants in Eng-
land were grown. The locality is stated as New Holland, and if
this could at those early dates have sometimes erroneously
included Tasmania, it would seem possible the seeds were collected
there and were perhaps typical E. cordata, for it must be remem-
bered that the species {E. pidvericleuta) was described from culti-
vated specimens.
In the year 1822 Allan Cunningham collected near Cox's River
a shrubby species, which he named E. pidvlge7'a, and from his
general description this appears to be the same as the Bathurst
E. cordata. Curiously this form does not appear to have been
again collected till February of 1900, when I found it while
surveying on the hills near Cow Flat, opposite the old Apsley
Copper Mine, at about one mile west of the 11-mile post on the
road from Bathurst to Rockley. It was not until the year 1813
that the Blue Mountains were crossed, so that if the seeds of the
typical E. pulvei'identa were collected beyond that point, no time
was lost in having them bearing fruit in England by 1819, when
the description was published. Still a flowering plant of Euca-
lyptus glohidus, Labill., said to be only two years old, was
exhibited at the last meeting of the Australasian Association for
the Advancement of Science in Hobart, but this would seem to
be exceptionally young.
As there is some doubt from the information at present avail-
able as to which is the typical E. indveridenta, I shall continue
to refer it in these papers to the Argyle Apple. "^
* Mr. J. H. Maiden, F.L.S., &c,, refers to this matter in a paper on E.
pulverulenta (these Proceedings, 1901, p. 547).
