586 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
The question as to whether the Bathurst E. cordata differs from
the Tasmania!! one sufficiently to be regarded as a separate species
will probably remain to some extent a matter of opinion. There
is a noticeable difference in the shape and texture of the leaves,
those of the Bathurst trees being thicker and more leathery than
are those of the Tasmanian species, while the latter are often
crenulate and more acuminate. The amount of variation in the
length of peduncle appears to be about the same in both cases.
Some difference may also be noticed in the shape of the fruits, an
important point in botany, those of the Tasmanian trees having
a globular tendency. In both cases the fruits are sessile and
a.rranged in three-j. The Bathurst trees are growing near the
top of a rock}^ hill of micaceous schist formation, seldom exceed-
ing more than 20 feet high, and little more than 3 inches in
diameter, with the heads of the trees bending right over. The
buds commonly have a partially second operculum. The wood is
pale, the bark white and inclined to be ribbony. The whole of
the trees to be found cover very little more than an acre of
ground, and no others of the same species being known on the
mainland of Australia, it is difficult from this small area to make
a satisfactory comparison with the Tasmanian trees.
To the south of Ilobart E. cordata m^j be found on hills of
volcanic rock. From a bushman's point of view, they are very
like the Bathurst trees, except that they grow larger and are
usually much more erect, only two or three instances being
noticed on one hill where the heads showed a tendency to bend
over, though not to the extent which may be seen at Bathurst.
In bark and timber they appear identical. The Bathurst trees
are the toughest to be found among the hills on which they grow,
and the same may be said of these Hobart trees, except it be
some stunted forms of E. cocc{fcra, Hook., growing on Mount
Wellington. The Tasmanian or typical E. cordata also has the
partially double operculum, though this feature may be found at
times on other species of Eucalyptus. Considering the widely
different conditions, both geological and climatic, under which
the two trees grow, some difference at least in general appearance
