BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 587
might be expected. Still, in my experience, the differences found
among various trees in scattered localities have not always been
so great as expected, except perhaps those affected by extreme
cold, or by boisterous weather along the sea shore. In the
absence of other causes, the better soil in which the Hobart trees
are growing might, however, be sufficient to account for the
larger growths found there.
Altogether, the differences in herbarium specimens of these
two trees, so far as I know them, seem sufficient to enable a
botanist to separate them, while at the same time they have so
many points in common that I am disposed for the jDresent to
regard one as a variety of the other.
In view of the scarcity and the dwarfed form of the Bathurst
trees, together with the fact that they are growing on some of
our oldest rocks (a fact in itself not sufficient to prove much), I
am inclined to believe that the species was once more plentiful,
and that this patch is only a remnant of what previousl}^ extended
over a very much larger area, the limits of which it is impossible
to determine.
Oberon is situated about 32 miles south-easterly from Bathurst,
and, being higher, has a slightly different flora. The most con-
picuous difference, however, is in the size of the trees, those in
the Oberon district being often very tall, reminding one in this
respect of many spots along the coastal area.
In going easterly towards the Duckmaloi Creek for about seven
miles, partly along the Hampton Road, the following species may
be noticed : — Eucalyptus viminalis, E. aggregata, E. stellulata, E.
coriacea, E. rubida, E. dives, E. amygdalina, E. vitrea, Baker,
Exocarpus cupressiformis, Banksia marginata and Acacia penni-
nervis, Sieb. (Black Wattle).
The trees of E. vitrea were noticed between the 5- and 6-mile
posts on both sides of the road. They have the general appear-
ance of the Peppermint group, but are distinguishable from E.
dices and E. amggdalina, both of which may be found before the
4-mile post is reached. In this locality E. vitrea has fairly rough
grey peppermint bark on the trunk for a distance upwards of
