588 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
about 15 or 20 feet on a tree 50 feet high. Above 20 feet the
bark is smooth and a dirty white. The leaves, which have the
lateral veins almost parallel to the midrib, are somewhat shining,
and, even when dried, have a glassy appearance. The fruits seem
slightly larger than those of E. dives, which are again usually
larger than those of E. amygdalina.
The species had never been noticed by me before these Oberon
trees were found in February, 1900, at which time it was unde-
scribed, but shortly afterwards I recognised the same species on
the roadside between Marulan and Moss Vale. In both localities
the trees seemed to average about 50-60 feet high. In some forms,
owing to its shining leaves and the smoothness of the upper part
of the trunk and branches, it somewhat approaches E. coriacea
in general appearance, but its closest affinities seem to be the
Peppermints.
In going southerly for 18 miles from Oberon towards Swatch-
field the following Eucalypts may be seen : — E. steUidata, E.
Bridgesiana, E. coriacea, E. viminalis, E. fastiyata, Deane and
Maiden (5-m.), E. aygregata (7-m.), E. amygdalina, E. dives
(14-m.), E. coriacea, E, stellulata, E. aggregata, E. viminalis, E.
fastigata, and E. amygdalina.
Other trees are: — Acacia dealbata, Banksia marginata. Acacia
melanoxylon, and Goodenia ovata, Sm. (?), a shrub locally known
as Wild Hops.
Eucalyptus aggregata is fairly common on the southern side of
Oberon.
E. fastigata has something the appearance of the coast Black-
butt {E. pilularis), but the rough bark generally extends at least
up to and sometimes on the branches, though its terminal point
is variable. It occurs plentifully in the southern part of the
Oberon district and towards the Jenolan Caves, and appears to
be known throughout as Blackbutt, this name liaving probably
been applied to it by the early settlers because of its general
resemblance to the coast trees which bear that name. The trees
are among the largest in the Oberon district, and though the
