BY R. H. CAMBAGE. 589
fissile timber is freely used it is not considered to have any
special value.
Messrs. Deane and Maiden have expressed the opinion (these
Proceedings, 1901, p. 123) that E. vitrea is a form of E.fastigata.
The fruits of E. vitrea are usually rounder than those of E.
fastigata, which are somewhat pear-shaped and slightly domed.
Speaking with a somewhat limited acquaintance with these trees
they appear to me to be separable.
There appears to be some doubt as to whether E. fastiyata is
sufficiently distinct from E. regnans, F.v. M., as to warrant its
having specific rank. My own observations on the matter made
from specimens collected near Dandenong in Victoria, west of
Albion Park, west of Milton and at Oberon in jS'ew South Wales,
lead to the conclusion that the two trees are ver}' closely allied, and
it may yet be found that E.fastigata is only a variety or form of E.
regnans. Certainly the bark of E. regnans in Victoria is usually
smooth to perhaps within 10 or 15 feet from the ground or some-
times less, while in N.S. Wales that of E. fastigata is rough up
to and often on the branches, but this character in the variability
of bark is v^ery deceptive. Again, the fruits of E. regnans which
I collected at Dandenong are chiefly truncate, while at Oberon
those of E, fastigata are chiefly domed, with the valves often
slightly exserted, but those from Albion Park show forms both
truncate and slightly domed, though the rough somewhat stringy
bark on the trees (locally called Messmate) at the latter place
extends on to the branches. In all three cases the peduncles
may be found in pairs in the axils, as well as solitary. So far
as the rough- and smooth-barked trees are concerned those
characters are sufficient to enable the two to be separated, but
there are probably some forms that would present considerable
difficulty.
The following is a list of Eucalypts passed between Forbes and
Oberon : — E. 77ieUiodora, E. Woollsiana, E. hemiphloia var. alhens,
E. Gonica, E. rostrata, E. tereticornis and var. dealhata, E. Bridge-
siana, E. macrorhyncka, E. virninalis, E. Cambagei, E. dives, E.
stelhdata, E. coriacea, E. ruhida, E. hcemastoma var. micranthay
39
