590 BOTANY OF THE INTERIOR OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
E. maculosa, E. polyanthema, E. amygdalina, E. sideroxyhn
(only near Grenfell), E. affinis (only near Grenfell), E. aggregata,
E. pulverulenta (only near Limekilns), E. cordata var. (only near
Cow Flat), E. vitrea and E. fastigata.
About eighteen years ago the Native Bears (Phascola) cfus
cinereus) were fairly plentiful along parts of the road between
Bathurst and Rockley, and I noticed that although they might
at times be found on most kinds of Eucalypts, they seemed to
show a preference for E. melliodora, the Yellow Box. In AYestern
lllawarra, about twenty years ago, their favourite trees were the
White Box, since named E. quadrangulata, Deane and Maiden.
Around Bolivia, and towards Tenterfield, about fifteen years ago
some rather small Box-trees were constantly inhabited by the
Koala. Evidently they had some jDreference for the Box group,
and it was often remarked that they w^ere rarely seen in an
Angophora, and also were usually more numerous among the
Gums than the Stringybarks.
From the above remarks, and as the Native Bears live on the
leaves of trees, it may be gathered that the chemistry of our
Eucalypts had been investigated long before that branch of study
was taken up by man.
Many things to be met with in Nature command some affection,
but the amount varies according to different conditions. Our
vegetation, however, when it presents its greatest beauty, is
admired rather than loved. This is particularly the case with
our coastal scenery, which has much more to commend it than
the less favoured flora of the interior. Still there are many
evidences of admiration, and even veneration toward members of
the floral family in Western New South Wales, being partly
brought about because of their usefulness and partly from their
beauty. The result of some observations made on the matter
leads me to suggest that the species which commands the greatest]
affection over the area described in these papers is Acaeia pendiday
the Myall or Boree.
This paper concludes for the present the series of " Notes on
the Botany of the Interior."
