600 STUDIES ON AUSTRALIAN MOLLUSCA,
the prominent lyne, light orange within the aperture. Sculpture :
longitudinal ribs, about ten to a whorl, mount the spire obliquely,
are comparatively stronger on the earlier whorls, undulate the
suture, attain sudden prominence at the shoulder and vanish
towards the base. Crossing these, four prominent lyrse, two of
which ascend the spire, are produced into tubercles. Between
the lyrae are fine, densely squamose threads. An elevated fasciolei
winds round the canal. Protoconch of the sinusigera type, broad
with rounded whorls, brown, smooth and glossy. Aperture ovate,
the columella expanding laterally to a free edge and spreading
above into a broad sheet of callus. Inner lip with a few den-
ticules, variable in number and development. Length 33, breadth
16 mm.
Hah. — The species ranges from Sydney to Torres Straits; the
adult shell here figured is from Sydne}^ Harbour; the larva (fig. 5)
was collected at Caloundra, Queensland, by H. L Kesteven.
Type. — To be presented to the Australian Museum.
On a priori grounds it is improbable that Kiener knew the
shell here described as P. pseudamt/gdah', for he was unacquainted
with the Queensland fauna, but was well provided with material
from North-west Australia. Kiener did not know^ the locality of
his P. amygdala: his figure and description do not suit the East
coast shell with which the London writers have identified it. On
the contrary, Kiener's account agrees well with a West Australian
species related to, jjossibl}^ even a variety of, Buccnuwi avellana,
Reeve (Conch. Icon, iii., Buccinum, 1846, PL viii., sp 52), and
which has been obtained by Mr. A. U. Henn at Geraldton. W.A.
Purpura amygdala, as I recognise it, is easily distinguished from
the species above described by wanting the rough scabrous
sculpture, by being shorter and relativel}' broader, and liy having
fewer and stouter lyr?e within the lip.
Capulus austhalis, Lamarck.
Patella australis, Lamarck, An. s. Vert, vi., 1^19, pt. i., p. 335;
Delessert, Recueil, 1841, pi, xxiii., f. ll-a, 6, c. (Not Hipponyx
australis of Quoy ct Gaimard, and subsequent authors).
