BY C HEDLEY. 607
It seems clear that Triphoro., Blainville (1828), demands
recognition as the prior genus of the family. Certain reconstruc-
tion follows this deduction. The type of Triphora, T. tristoma,
is mentioned by Hervier (Journ. de Conch., xlv. 1898, p. 289) as
belonging to Inella, Bayle ( = Ino, Hinds). If this be right,
Tnella should disappear as a synonym of Triphora. I should,
however, have regarded T. tristoma as referable to Jousseaume's
genus Mastoni(mtrmis (Bull. Soc. Malac. France, i., 1884, p. 239).
The family Triphoridae is divided by Jousseaume into eleven
genera. Probabl}- none of the species I record from this State
fall into Triphora, sensu stricto. Though some, if not all, of
Jousseaume's genera are natural, they are so vaguely defined that
I prefer to wait before allotting the Australian species. Probably
at least a hundred species exist in Australian seas, and a better
knowledge of these is desirable before framing a classification,
especially as opinions are divided as to whether these eleven
sections are of generic or subgeneric value.
Passing from the consideration of genera to that of species, a
far larger number of Triphora are known to Australian collectors
than are named in literature. Some of these might already
have been dealt with, but a necessary preliminary to the descrip-
tion of new species is the distinction of old species, and here all
workers have encountered an insuperable obstacle.
Several new Australian Triphora unluckil}'- fell into the incom-
petent hands of Arthur Adams, who, in naming them, deliberately
omitted all measurements, neglected to figure species, and gave
scanty descriptions. Probably he never used a microscope, and
Smith has observed that he was colour blind.* In conchology
his work is of the same grade as that of his contemporary Francis
Walker in entomology.
Though enjoying a monopoly of the types, London writers have
made no effort to rehabilitate these species. In monographing
" Triforis,^^ Tryon simply excluded these species of Adams as
unintelligible. To ignore names which any day may be resur-
* Smith, Chall. Rep. Zool. xiii., 1885, p. 61.
