BY C. HEDLEV. 609
ture : on the base are two plain spiral keels; the latter whorls
with three gemmule rows, the median being much the smaller; as
it mounts the spire it diminishes, fading out about half way up.
The gemmules are about 18 to a whorl, large, prominent, and set
about half their diameter apart. A raised thread winds along
the suture. First whorl of the protoconch smooth, the rest with
a central keel and transverse bars. Aperture subquadrate, and
notch simple, spur of the lip crossing the pillar. Canal short,
straight. Length 4*8; breadth 1-4 mm.
Hab. — Sydney Harbour; one specimen (H. L. Kesteven).
Type. — To be presented to the Australian Museum.
Distinguishing features of this species are its small and slender
form, median row of small gemmules between two rows of large
ones and the five-whorled protoconch. A second specimen from
Mrs. Starkey's collection, of broader proportions, is also figured
(fig. 25).
Triphora albovittata, n.sp.
(Plate xxxii., figs. 26, 27.)
Shell conical, moderately broad. Whorls nine, plus a four-
whorled protoconch, parted by deep sutures. Colour pale yellow;
upper row of gemmules on each whorl white, beneath them a
narrow line of ochre, base and protoconch ochreous. Sculpture :
on the base are two plain spiral keels, above which are four rows
of gemmules; the four preceding whorls have three rows each,
and those above again two each. The gemmules are set their
own diameter apart, about twenty to a whorl, joined by a string
to their fellows in the same and their neighbour in the next row.
Protoconch : first and second whorls smooth, third and fourth
with a median keel and transverse bars. Aperture imperfect in
the examples seen. Length 4-8; breadth 1-5 mm.
Hah. — Balmoral Beach; in shell sand, rare.
Type. —To be presented to the Australian Museum.
The white subsutural gemmules underlined by ochre, aff'ord a
recognition mark for this species, which is nearly allied to T.
gi^anifera, Brazier, and may indeed ultimately prove only a variety
of that.
