614 STUDIES ON AUSTRALIAN MOLLUSCA,
and fourth with a median keel and transverse bars. Aperture
subquadrate, spur of the lip crossing the pillar; anal notch simple,
rather deep. Canal short, straight. Length 11; breadth 3 mm.
Hah. — Pearl Bay, Middle Harbour; alive under stones at low
tide, taken by myself.
Type. — To be prosented to the Australian Museum.
Among local species this is distinguished by its large size,
slender shape and uniform purple colour.
Triphora MACULOSA, n.sp.
(Plate xxxii., figs. 32, 33.)
Shell conical, rather broad and solid. Whorls ten, parted by
distinct and deep sutures. Colour : irregularly variegated with
opaque white, buff and chocolate, usually articulated with choco-
late and white beneath the sutures, base chocolate and apex
white. Sculpture : the base has two plain spiral keels, above
which are four rows of gemmules, the penultimate whorl and
those immediately above have each three rows of gemmules; on
the seventh the median row diminishes and on the whorls above
gradually disappears, leaving two rows only on the upper whorls.
The gemmules are round hemispherical bosses, set their own
diameter apart, about 25 to a whorl, linked by a string to their
fellows in the same and their neighbours in the next row. Apex
rather styliform, the second whorl has one keel, the third two,
after which the keels develop gemmules and assume the adult
sculpture. Aperture perpendicular, subquadrate, anal notch pro-
duced on the right into a spur which crosses the pillar; anal
notch simple, shallow. Canal short and straight. Length 6*7;
breadth 2*1 4mm.
Hah. — Balmoral Beach, Middle Harbour, Sydney; common as
dead shells on the beach.
Type. — To be presented to the Australian Museum.
Arthur Adams, the evil genius of Australian conchology,
applied the MS. name of Triphoris maculosus to a Sydney species.
An unfortunate entry of this name in the Catalogue of Angas
(P.Z.S. 1877, p. 184) is the sole record concerning it. As local
