616 STUDIES ON AUSTRALIAN MOLLUSCA,
ally a form of T. granifera^ under the name of T. fasciata. Thus
Brazier was misled into identifying (these Proceedings (2) ix.,
1894, p. 694) T. scitulus as from Sydney and as identical with
T.Jasciata. Tate tfe May have remarked that the two species
cannot be the same (these Proceedings, 1901, p. 457).
To digress an instant, I would hazard the conjecture that
Triphoris scihdus, A. Ad., (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1851, p. 278) from
Port Lincoln, S.A., is probably identical with T. pfeifferi, Crosse
and Fischer (Journ. de Conch. 1865, p. 47, pi. i., ff. 14, 15). It is
significant that T. 2?feifferi but not T. scitulus appeared in the
first South Australian list published by Angas, though he included
the latter in his supplement (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. ©67).
By its ornament T. fasciata recalls T. pfeifferi, Crosse and
Fischer, a longer, narrower shell in which the inequality of the
gemmule rows is further exaggerated. Indeed Tasmanian col-
lectors have sent me T. fasciata labelled T. pfeifferi; and accord-
ing to Woods' own shell in the Tasmanian Museum (kindly lent
to me for the purpose of this article by Mr. A. Morton) T. pfeifferi
itself was distinguished by Tenison- Woods as "7". tasmanica var.
It is only through the great kindness of the Rev. H. D.
Atkinson, who has lent to me part of the original series studied
by Tenison Woods, that I am now enabled to recognise and
rehabilitate the species. This authentic material shows that the
original diagnosis was obscure and confusing. I therefore add
here the figure and description I had prepared from material col-
lected in Sydney Harbour by the late Mrs. Starkey and by H. L.
Kesteven, an account I composed under the impression that I was
dealing with a new species.
Shell small, narrow, translucent, glossy. Colour white, base
and supersutural thread orange-brown. Whorls ten, plus a pro-
toconch of five and one-half whorls. Sculpture : base smooth, a
plain supersutural thread, followed by two rows of gemmules, the
* Ten. Woods, Proc. Eoy. Soc. Tas. 1S77 (lS7S),p.36; ? T.tasmanicav&x.
op. cit. 1876 (1877), p. lol.
