BY K. GREIG SMITH. 45
usually adheres more or less to the cells ; the blues stain but
feebly. B}^ using the night-blue method with the scanty
growth obtained on ordinary agar the flagella can be easily
stained. They are single and terminal. The bacteria are not
coloured by the Gram method of staining. Spores were not
obtained and are probably never formed.
Relations to oxygen and teinperature. — It is a strong aerobe^
and grows best at 30° ; at 37° there is no growth.
Ordinary glucose-gelatine plate, — The colonies develop slowly.
Tn 7 days at 22" they are 1 mm. in diameter, and appear as
small, raised, viscid drops. When magnified 60-fold they appear
round and uniformly granular, like a thin yeast colony ; the deep
colonies are like those upon the surface. Tn 20 days the colonies
reach a diameter of 4-8 mm,, and look like drops of yellow bees'-
wax. The medium shows no sign of liquefaction, but when the
colony is scraped or washed off a pit is revealed.
Ordinary gelatine plate. — The colonies grow as in the presence
of glucose, but much more slowly.
Ordinary gelatine stroke. — The growth is scanty, narrow, flat,
and ivory-white in colour. It slowlj^ gravitates to form a
yellowish- white mass. The medium under the stroke is depressed.
Neutral cane-gelatine stroke. — There is formed a characteristic
convex, deep yellow stroke, with waxy drops at intervals, and at
the base. The gelatine in contact with the culture is slightly
liquefied in three weeks. The colour, bloom, and general appear-
ance is that of yellow wax, or of a mixture of yellow vaseline and
paraffin. The " tear-drop " appearance of the stroke is character-
istic.
Neatral cane-gelatine stab. — The growth forms in the upper
portion of the stab only in a filiform manner, and forms a hemi-
spherical, deep yellow nail-head. No gas bubbles are produced.
Ordinary glucose-gelatine stab. — As cane-gelatine, but neither
so luxuriant nor so deeply coloured. ISTo gas formation was
observed.
Ordinary gelatine stab. — Filiform growth in upper portion of
stab, with small, raised, white, glistening nail-head.
c
/-
fc
