BY c. hedlp:y. 617
lower much the hirger. between which are intercalated on the
lower whorls a row of minute gemmules. The gemmules are 15
to a whorl; in transverse order they mount the spire obliquely;
those of the principal row are large, prominent, hemispherical
bosses. Protoconch of 5| whorls with a median keel and trans-
verse bars. Aperture subquadrate, anal notch simple, spur of lip
not reaching the pillai-. Canal short, straight. Length 5-5 ;
breadth 1*5 mm.
Triphora labiata, a. Adams.
(Plate xxxiii., figs. 42, 43, 44.)
This species was originally described (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1851,
p. 279) as follows: — "T. testa subulato-pyramidali, nigro-fusca,
in medio tumida, spira apice obtuso; anfractibus 10, planulatis,
triseriatim granuloso-carinatis, suturis concavo-impressis; labro
reflexo, dilato, albido; canali brevi, subrecurvo. Sydney, under
stones, low water (Mr. Strange). A small nearly black shell, with
the outer lip dirty white or pale fuscous." To this Angas added
(op. cit. 1867, p. 209) the important item, "Length 3 lines."
Tryon naturally included this in a list of lost species when he
monographed the genus. Though such scanty data are insufficient
to distinguish this among the host of known Trijohora, it is enough
to pick it out from the Triphora of Sydney Harbour. The only
Sydney shell which suits the description of Adams, and one
which has not hitherto been locally recognised, is here figured.
I have found it at Cape Banks alive at low water under stones.
I add the following description : —
Shell glossy, short, broad, swollen, apex slightly m.ammillate.
Whorls ten, separated by deep sutures. Colour : the lower
whorls are entirely dark chocolate; towards the apex the lower
half of each whorl becomes gradually paler, reaching a buff colour
at the apex, the chocolate persisting above as a narrow sutural
thread; outer lip dull white. Sculpture : on the base are three
plain spiral keels. The ultimate and penultimate whorls have
three equally spaced and sized keels bearing numerous (more than
twenty) small, close-set, ill-defined gemmules. In transverse
