BY H. LEIGHTON KESTEVEN. 625
The digestive tract (fig. 1) is esentially the same as in
Littorina. The buccal mass (figs. 1 and 6, hue.) is large; the
cartilaginous cushions on which the radula rides are shaped
like the quarters of an orange, the thin or lower end of the large
one on the right folding inside that on the left. There being no
introvert, the anterior oesophagus (fig. 6, ant. oes.) is very short.
It is provided with appendages (fig. 6, ajop.) similar to those
figured by Souleyet in Littorina (21). The crop (figs. 1 and 6,
cro-p) is the largest organ in the body cavity; it is of a brown
colour, and, as in Littorina^ the lumen is along its lower side;
the greater part of it is traversed and divided by thin partitions,
the attachment of which may be seen on the outside as slight
constrictions. The posterior oesophagus (figs. 1 and 6, j^ost.cts.)
passes along the axis of the visceral coil for about half its length,
when it enters the large, muscular-walled stomach (fig. 1, st.).
This latter is shaped like a segment of a circle an tero- posteriorly,
and flattened dorso-ventrally; its distal end is a little posterior
to the entrance of the oesophagus; anteriorly it tapers away to
the thin intestine. The intestine (fig. 1, int.) immediately rises
towards the superior face of the liver, and, having reached the
surface, traverses that face of it to which the nephridium is
attached, in the serpentine manner depicted in my figure; thence
the rectum passes along the right side of the pallial cavity, the
anus (fig. 1, an.) being situated well towards the end thereof.
The liver is dark green, and, as is usual, is the main constituent
of the visceral coil (fig. 1, liv.). The hepato-pancreatic ducts (fig.
1, h.-p.d.) are three in number — one at the extreme posterior end
of the stomach, one emptying into the centre on the superior
face, and the third situated well towards the anterior end, on the
axial side. The position of this last may sometimes be seen
from the outside. The salivary glands (figs. 1 and 6, sal.gl.) are
small; their ducts enter the buccal mass on either side of and
just anterior to the oesophagus. The radula (fig. 1, rad.) is
typically littorinoid, long (46 mm.) and narrow ; it leaves the
buccal mass on the underside and passes to the right of the body
cavity, where it is coiled up. The rachidian, as is stated in the
