BY H. LEIGHTON KESTEVEN. 627
surface on the axial side, a little distance posterior to the
nephridium (fig. 2, c). From here it may, without dissection,
be followed along the axis of the coil to the end, giving off
branches all the way (fig. 2, c.', c", c.'") ; those given off
superiorly are much the largest, and in some cases almost embrace
the coil; the finer branches of these reticulate throughout the
genital gland and liver.
There are only two veins, properly so called — the branchial
(fig. 2, fig. 5, br.v.) and nephridial (fig. 2, neph.v.); the former is
the larger, and enters the auricle almost immediately after leaving
the branchiae. The latter, although the smaller, is perhaps not
less important; its branches reticulate over, and collect the blood
absorbed through the wall of the nephridium, to discharge itself
into the branchial vein just outside the pericardium. It seems
probable that this vein supplies the new blood to the system.
My sections show venous sinuses between the inner and outer
wall of the mantle. Their presence was to be anticipated, con-
sidering the size of the artery- supplying the right side of the
manile. From the ventricle through the right pallial artery, and
pallial sinuses to the branchi^, and back to the auricle, is then
the shortest circuit. It was this that led me to suggest that the
so-called "filiforme prolongations" of some branchiae are really
venous sinuses.
Nervous systeiti (figs. 12, 13) : — The main ganglia and their
commissures onl}^ are here described and figured. So far as my
dissections have gone, the system is essentially the same as in
Littorina. It is hoped in a future paper to describe this part of
the anatomy of Risella in more detail, and to compare it with the
nervous systems of several of the other genera in the superfamily.
The difficulty attendant on getting material for such a comparison
has rendered it impossible to incorporate it in the present essay.
The cerebral ganglia (figs. 12, 13, e.g.) and their commissure
are not at right angles to the antero-posterior axis of the
mollusc, but at an angle to it of about 45°, the right ganglion
being the more anterior of the two. Anteriorly both ganglia
give off three or four nerves, but I have been unable to definitely
