628 NOTES ON PROSOBRANCHIATA,
identify any of them, the nervous system not being decipherable
in my serial sections. The two inner ones {c.h.con.) are believed
to be the cerebro-buccal connectives. It is also believed that the
labial circle described for Nassojysis by Moore (13) exists in this
genus also, but this is entirely uncertain. A nerve rising from
the posterior and inferior face of the right cerebral ganglion
(n.gen.) often comes away with the ganglion. After running a
rather short course it splits up into several fine branches. It has
not been seen in situ, but possibly innervates the genitalia on
the body wall. Inferiorly both cerebral ganglia are connected
by their respective commissures (c.pd.con.) to the pedal ganglia.
Posteriorly the cerebro-pleural commissures (c. pi. con.) are given
oflf, and connect the cerebral and pleural ganglia. The left
cerebro-pleural connective is longer than the right. The pleural
ganglia (pl.g.) are also connected directly with the pedal ganglia,
the pleuro-pedal connectives (pl.pd.con.) being stouter than the
cerebro-pedal connectives.
The left pleural ganglion is connected directly wdth the sub-
intestinal ganglion {sh.iiit.g.). Two other nerves arise from the
left pleural ganglion; one of these {dialxon.) passes just under
the floor of the body cavity in the direction of the left visceral
nerve {n.v.'), with which, although it has not been traced so far,
it possibly connects, causing a condition of dialoneury on the left
side. The third nerve rising from this ganglion is probably the
columellar nerve (n.coL). The right pleural ganglion, besides
being connected to its fellow pedal and cerebral ganglia, is also
connected by the supra-intestinal commissure (sp. int. con.) to the
ganglion of that name (sp.int.g.). The supra-intestinal commissure
is longer than is the subintestinal commissure. There are no
nerves taking rise from the right pleural ganglion, so that there
is no connection between that and the subintestinal ganglion.
Both supra- and subintestinal ganglia give rise to the respective
pallial (n.pal.) and visceral nerves (n.v.). The pedal ganglia
(pcl.g.), as in Littorina, are of a large size, and give rise inferiorly
to numerous nerves, none of which have I been able to identify.
A peculiar ganglionic knot (p.g.k.), partly divided from the
