BY H. LEIGHTON KESTEVEN. 629
inward inferior face of each ganglion, and giving rise to two stout
and two fine nerves, is worthy of note; they occur in Littoi-ina,
and are perhaps represented by slight swellings in the same
situation on the pedal ganglia of jS^assopsis (vide Moore, 13, pi. 20,
f. 7). _
Genitalia {^) (fig. 3). The gland (fig. 3, gl.) is situated on the
superior face of the visceral coil; its lobules are arranged around
several centres, each centre apparently communicating with the
vas deferens through one main canal. The vas deferens (fig. 3,
v.d.) is situate on the axis of the coil, and is very much convoluted.
Arrived at the anterior end of the liver it proceeds, parallel with
the rectum, straight along the mantle; a little posterior to the
anus it takes a sharp turn in towards the body, thence it con-
tinues, still as a closed vas deferens, along the bod}'- to the penis
(fig. 3, p.). This is situated on the right side, almost under
the snout. The seminal products pass through it, not along a
groove on its side, as in Littorina (fig. 8).
Genitalia (9) (fig- ^) '■ — The gland, macroscopically, is the same
as that of the male, except that it is larger and the centres of
arrangement are not so distinguishable; some of the lobes extend
round the outer side onto the inferior surface. The ovules
(tig. 9) may be seen to be arranged around the edges of the
lobules. The oviduct (fig. 4, ovid.) occupies the same position as
the vas deferens, and is convoluted as much. The uterus (fig. 4,
ut.) is placed on the mantle between the rectum and body; during
fecundity it is much enlarged, and at such times the rectum lies
in a groove on its inward side; at the posterior end, at the
junction of the oviduct, there is a single convolution. Its walls
are strengthened by muscular bands which may be seen from
outside to form slight constrictions. From its anterior end, at
the same position at which the vas deferens turns into the body,
the uterus may be seen to give off a short tube, which opens into
a groove (fig. 4, ovip.) running along the body; this groove
terminates in the same situation as the penis, by its two walls
dividing and becoming enlarged into flat attached lobes. Except
during the period of fecundity, the whole of both the male and
