630 NOTES ON PROSOBRANCHIATA,
female reproductive complex is very much shrunken, and the
parts are very difficult to dissect out. At such times the glands
are restricted to the main branches of the visceral arterial system,
these branches forming the centres around which the lobes are
grouped when fully developed. The extensions of the female
gland around the outer side and on to the inferior face are
invariably along the course of an artery. This variation in the
size of the gland is noted by R. J. Harvey Gibson (6) in Patella
vidgata ; it doubtless occurs in all molluscs. I have myself
noticed it in Lotoriura and Purpura.
The peculiar form of the genitalia is the character on which it
has been thought fit to found this family. In the male there is
no sperm-groove as in Liltorina, its place being taken by an
anterior prolongation of the vas deferens ; and, further, the
seminal fluid passes through the penis, not along a groove on its
side; nor are any glands to be detected on the penis. In the
female we have an equally important difference — namely, the
existence of an ovipositor C?) similar to that found in Stromhus
and Pterocera. The former of these differences is one of the
most important anatomic differences between the Lotoriidce and
Muricidai.
Moore has stated (12, p. 162) that he has found this
ovipositor (?) slightly developed in Littorina. This is an observa-
tion that needs contirmatiun. The most careful examination
of innumerable fresh and spirit specimens of L. scabra, Linn.,
(some of large size), and L. maurittaiia, Lamk., has proved to the
writer that it does not exist in either of these two species.
Moreover, Souleyet (21), in his excellent account of the anatomy
of L. littorale, Linn., does not mention its presence. If, therefore,
it does exist in one species of so-called Littorina^ I would suggest
that species of two genera are grouped under one name.
Tenison- Woods (23) has stated that although the species of
Riselia are organically hemaphrodite, functionally the sexes are
separate, and may be distinguished by the form of the shell.
Both these statements are at variance with facts; it is probable
that he mistook the ovipositor (i) for the male organ; of twenty
