BY W. A. HASWELL. 49
anterior. It will be iiecessar}-, therefore, to decide which of
these opposed views is to be adhered to in making this comparison.
Spencer's contribution to the subject was published at least a
3^ear before Lonnberg's; but the latter reached his conclusion
independently, and adduces several reasons of some weight in
support of his position. He alleges, in the first jDlace, that the
animal creeps in the direction of the end which bears the funnel.
On this point I am unable to make any statement, as I have not
had an opportunity of observing living specimens. But, in the
absence of other evidence, it is worthy of note that Wagener
states "Die Schwanzkrause bleibt meist ruhig wahrend der Kopf-
theil des Thieres sich langsam bewegt."
The direction of the spinules on the surface Lunnberg regards
as affording further evidence in favour of his view. If the end
with the funnel is posterior, then these spinules lie with their
points directed forwards. Further support Lonnberg conceives
to be derivable from the structure of the nervous system, nerve-
cells being more numerous in the commissure at the end which
he looks upon as anterior. Monticelli (5), however, states that the
contrar}^ is the case.
But a comparison of the reproductive apparatus of Gyrocotyle
with that of allied forms appears to me to place it beyond a doubt
that the sucker end is that which corresponds to the end usually
regarded as anterior. If we take the contrary view it is
impossible to trace any correspondence in the arrangement of the
parts : whereas a general unity of plan at once becomes apparent
on the position becoming reversed. When we bear in mind that,
though Gyrocotoyle is unsegmented, it possesses a number of
highly specialised Cestode features in its adult structure, and is
characterised, moreover, by the occurrence in its life-history of
the peculiar and characteristically Cestode hexacanth larva, the
necessity for tracing such a correspondence becomes manifest.
The end which bears the sucker is seen, as a result of such a
* Whether or not this cori-esponcis to the anterior end in other classes of
Flat-worms is a question outside the limited scope of the present paper.
4
