50 ON A GYROCOTYLE FROM C HIM. ERA,
comparison, to correspond to the scolex end* in the segmented
Cestodes, and to that at which the mobile organ is situated in
Caryophyllaeus. •''
Lonnberg has shown that G. urna is subject to verj' remark-
able variations in form. In its normal condition it has the lateral
borders and the characteristic posterior funnel-like organ thrown
into a number of complicated plaits. But in some examples the
plaits of the lateral borders, or of the funnel, or of both, may be
entirely absent; and in some the funnel becomes replaced b}^ a long
cylindrical tube. This modification of the funnel has not been
observed in G. rugosa ; but living specimens of that form have
not been studied : the degree of folding of the lateral l)orders
has been observed to be subject to variation
In view of these variations it becomes difficult to fix upon any
definite and constant differences between the form from Chimccra
monstrosa and that from CaUorhynchus antarcticus. Braun
suggests that the position of the reproductive apertures may
afford a means of distinguishing between them.
Spencer's account of these apertures in G. rugosa is somewhat
confusing owing to certain inconsistencies in the text, and has to
be interpreted with the aid of the figures. He describes the
presence on the "left" side ventrally of a well-marked somewhat
conical and muscular papilla. The male aperture is " on the
ventral side just at the base of the papilla, towards the middle
line." This statement is not borne out by an examination of the
only specimen of G. rugosa at my command at present, in which
the aperture is situated at the extremity of the papilla, and is
not consistent with Spencer's own figures, one of which (Plate ii.,
fig. 1) represents th". opening in question as situated on the mar-
gin or approximately so, and another (fig. 4) shows it on the
* That the rejection of Hinnberg's and Spencer's views on the orientation
of Gyrocotyle appears also to lead, as Benham (1) points out, to a reversal of
the usual view with regard to the position of the sucker in AmphUina need
only be mentioned here.
