BY W. A. IIASWELL. 53
The eggs (fig. 7) are elliptical, about 0-08 mm. in long diameter.
They are thus larger than those of most segmented Cestodes, l3ut
considerably smaller than those of G. ruyosa, which measure
0*1 mm., and are the largest Cestode eggs the dimensions of which
have been recorded. In G. nigrosetosa a circular area of the shell
at one pole is much thinner than the rest, and is probably
differentiated as an operculum. At the opposite pole there is
occasionally, though by no means frequently, a filament, usually
very short. Coalescence of two eggs by fusion between their
shells is by no means rare. No hooked embryos are present in
either of the specimens.
In my specimen of G. rugosa the eggs differ from those of G.
nigrosetosa not only in size, but in the appearance of the shell,
which does not appear to be provided with an operculum.
Hexacanth embryos are abundant, and are remarkable for their
large size and the comparatively colossal dimensions of their
hooks. These are disposed in pairs like those of hexacanth
embryos in general. In G. uima Lonnberg failed to find any
hooks, and this circumstance, when we take into account the fact
that the observer in question had abundance of material at his
disposal, would seem to jDoint to an important difference between
the two species with regard to the structure of the embryo.
LITEEATUEE.
1. — Benham, W. B. — " A Treatise on Zoology," edited by E. Ray Lankester.
Part iv. " The Platyhelmia, Mesozoa and Nemertini " (1901).
2. — Braun, M. — " Gyrocotyle, Amphiptyches u. Verwandte." Central-
blatt f. Bakteriologie u. Parasitenkunde. vi. Bd. (1889).
3. "Vermes" of Bronn's " Klassen u. Ordnungen des
Thierreiehs."
4. — LoENXBEKG, EixAR — " Anatomlsche Studien liber Skandinavische Ces-
toden." Kongl. Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar,
Bd. 24.
5. — MoNTicELLi, F. 8.— "Sul sistema nervosa dell' Amphiptyches urna."
Zool. Anz., 1889.
6, " Appunti sui Cestodaria." Atti della E. Accad. dell Scienze
lis. e nat. di Napoli, 1892.
