56 NOTES FROM THE BOTANIC GARDENS, NO. VIII.,
length of pedicels is easily explained b}^ the fact that Bentham
had seen no fruits, and the pedicels in this species are very
variable in length, and lengthen out with the maturing fruit. In
some of last year's fruiting-specimens from the Warrumbungle
Ranges, the pedicels are nearly 1 inch long, while some specimens,
collected two j^ears previously in the same locality, have the
young flowers on pedicels often under J of an inch long. The
discrepancy in the shape of the ovarium (Bentham describes
it as "rounded at the top") cannot be explained by simple
variation, and it is difficult to believe that a trained observer like
Bentham should have made such a mistake. Perhaps Bentham
had such young flowers under observation that the lobes were
scarcely formed. The ripe carpels of Mr. Forsyth's specimens
are beaked like those of A. correifolia, which proves that the
young carpels in the ovarium are also lobed.
Unfortunately the type specimens are not in Australia, so that
we can only surmise that Fraser's and Forsyth's specimens are
identical, Avithout being absolutely certain.
Mueller unites A. coi'i'ei folia, Benth., and A. MueUeri, Benth.,
under the name of Eriostemon correifolius. We propose now to
go a step further and include A. mollis in the variations of A.
correifolia. Bentham separates A. mollis from A. correifolia and
Muelleri on account of the lobed stigma and the rounded ovarium;
but we find both very unreliable characters in this section of the
genus. In A. mollis the stigma is distinctly lobed, while scarcely
lobed in A. correifolia; Ijut in A. Muelleri the stigma seems so
variable that we can onl}' describe it as " more or less distinctly,
lobed or almost entire." The true A. correifolia is so variable in
shape and size of leaves, indumentum, and length of pedicels that
both A. Muelleri and A. mollis cannot be maintained as separate
species if the character of stigma and ovarium are proved to be
variable.
The chief characteristics of the three forms of A. correifolia
are : —
Normal Form. — Leaves glabrous above. Floivers white.
Stigma entire, or nearly so.
