60 NOTES FROM THE BOTANIC GARDENS, NO. YIIL,
UMBELLIFER^.
ACTINOTLS FORSYTHII, Sp.llOV.
Blacklieath, Blue Mountains (W. Forsytli; February, 1902).
An ascending much-branched annual or biennial attaining
about 1 foot in height, with somewhat striate, terete, rather wir}^
stems, sparingly covered with appressed hairs. Leaves ^ to 1
inch long, glabrous on both sides or nearly so, generally twice
ternately divided, the segments often again lobed or toothed, the
ultimate lobes tending to linear-lanceolate, acute, with recurved
or thickened margins, the radical ones and lower stem-leaves on
petioles often above 1 inch long, the upper ones gradually more
sessile and less divided. Umbels on long slender peduncles.
Involucre radiating to I inch in diameter in the largest umbels
seen; the bracts lanceolate, acute, about 12 in number, densely
hairy inside with long white silky hairs, nearly glabrous outside,
often brownish and conspicuously 1- or 3-veined. Flowers
numerous, on slender glabrous pedicels, a few of the outer ones
often male, without any ovarium; rarely the males are in several
rows at the circumference. Calyx limb truncate or sinuate-lobed,
glabrous. Petals small, spathulate, on slender claws. Stamens
on slender filaments with violet anthers. Fruit densel}^ ciliate
on the edges with long white hairs, the flat sides glabrous and
dark brown when ripe, with a prominent rib along the centre.
In affinities it is more closely allied to the beautiful West
Australian A. leucocephalus than to an}^ of the East Australian
species of Actinotus, though its general ajDpearance is more like a
large flowered form of our modest A. minor. It is the only East
Australian Actinotus with petals, and has also a truncate calyx
in common with A. leucocephalus, but differs from this species
chiefly in the fruit, apart from the more striking but less essential
difference of size, length of involucral bracts, and indumentum.
Like A. Gihhonsii it has a peculiar fruit with densely ciliate edges
and glabrous carinate sides, but nothing else in common with this
species.
