BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 83
oval black ring, which represents the orbicular; reniform ante-
riorly brownish, posteriorly white, incompletely outlined with
black, and connected with costa by a white spot; claviform repre-
sented by a short thick black streak; a fine dentate black line
near base; a second outwardly curved dentate line before orbicu-
lar; a fine dentate line from costa at |, first outwardly then
inwardly curved to inner margin at |; a fine black terminal line:
cilia fuscous mixed with whitish. Hindmargin with termen
rounded, wav3^;dark fuscous; toward base whitish; with a fuscous
crescentic mark at end of cell, and a dark curved median line;
cilia fuscous mixed with whitish.
Gisborne, Vic; one specimen, in January, taken by Mr. G.
Lyell.
EUPLEXIA POLYCMETA, n.Sp.
(J. 36 mm. Head and palpi grey, irrorated with black.
Antennae dark fuscous; in male shortly pectinate (1), near apex
serrate. Thorax dark fuscous, with a strong bifid posterior crest.
Abdomen grey ; crests dark fuscous. Legs whitish, pinkish-
tinged, irrorated with dark fuscous. Forewings rather broadly
triangular, costa nearly straight, apex round-pointed, termen
crenate, well rounded, slightly oblique; grey, with whitish and
brownish irrorations and black lines; two black lines' from costa
near base to median vein; two linos from costa at J to inner
margin at J; disc internal to this densely irrorated with whitish;
orbicular and reniform whitish-grey, slenderl}'' outlined with*
black, and containing each a darker grey circle; a dentate line,
very fine except on costa, from costa at J to middle of inner
margin, passing between orbicular and reniform; two parallel
dentate lines describing a sigmoid curve from costa at ยง to inner
margin at f ; this is followed near inner margin by a crescentic
blackish shade, and above this by a narrow whitish irro ration;
inner marginal portion of mid-disc and a broad submarginal band
suffused with brownish; a series of black intervenal black streaks
cross this band to termen; a whitish irroration at tornus; a fine
black terminal line : cilia fuscous, irrorated with whitish. Hind-
