BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 85
not reaching vertex. All three genera differ in the structure of
vein 8 of hind wings from Frodenia, Gn., and Spodoptera, Gn., in
which vein 8 diverges very gradually from cell.
Synth ETA xylitis, n.sp.
(J. 34 mm. Head and palpi ochreous-whitish; face with an
indistinct blackish transverse line; palpi with a few blackish
scales. Antennse grey. Thorax whitish mixed with brownish
and dark fuscous; collar ochreous-whitish with a fine transverse
dark fuscous line. Abdomen grey; crests formed by loose whitish-
grey hairs; an ochreous-brown spot on dorsum of terminal segment;
tuft whitish-ochreous, towards apex pinkish-tinged. Legs whitish
mixed with pinkish and dark fuscous. Forewings elongate-
triangular, costa slightly rounded, apex rounded, termen rounded,
slightly oblique; pale brownish mixed with whitish, markings
dark fuscous; a short oblique line from costa near base to fold;
followed by a number of short costal transverse strigulee; orbicular
represented by a pale circular area preceded and followed by a
dark fuscous spot; reniform faintl}^ outlined, its lower end white;
immediately succeeding reniform is a fine incomplete wavy trans-
verse line; traces of a subterminal line; a well marked interrupted
terminal line : cilia pale brown-whitish, with a fine interrupted
dark fuscous median line. Hindwings with termen rounded,
slightly wavy; dark fuscous, towards base paler; cilia whitish, at
apex fuscous.
Townsville, Q.; in March; one specimen received from Mr. F.
P. Dodd.
E c P A T I A, n.g.
Face flat. Palpi ascending, reaching vertex ; second joint
loosely scaled; terminal joint stout, ascending. Thorax with a
strong posterior crest. Abdomen crested, crests strongly developed
on 4th and 5th segments. Forewings broadly triangular. Hind-
wings with vein 8 abruptly diverging from cell at base.
Allied to Magusa, Wlk., from which it differs in the broadly
triangular forewings, crested thorax, and more strongly crested
abdomen. Type Catephia didcistriga, Wlk. The resemblance of
