86 NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
this species to Catephia is merely superficial, the structure of vein
5 of hind wings being altogether different.
Caradrina chromoneura, n.sp.
(^. 29 mm. Head dark fuscous mixed with whitish. Pa.lpi
white with a few dark fuscous scales; basal J of second joint dark
fuscous. Antennae fuscous; in male simple. Thorax dark fuscous
mixed with whitish and ochreous, the ochreous scales being
especially developed on collar. Abdomen ochreous-f uscous. Legs
dark fuscous, annulated with whitish. Forewings narrowly elon-
gate-triangular, costa gently arched, apex round-pointed, termen
bowed between veins 3 and 4, oblique; white, irrorated sparsely
with dark fuscous, more densely in centre of disc; orbicular and
claviform obsolete; reniform obscurely indicated by an oblique
whitish loop from costa; an incomplete black line near base; a
finely dentate black line from costa at \ obliquely to inner margin
at f ; a third black dentate line from costa at f curved first out-
wardly then inwardly to inner margin at j ; base, an incomplete
transverse line before \^ and most of veins outlined with ochreous;
a blackish suffusion anterior and posterior to reniform; a series
of wedge-shaped blackish terminal dots : cilia dark fuscous barred
with white. Hindwings with termen slightly sinuate; dark grey,
towards base paler; cilia dark grey barred with white, on inner
margin whitish.
Ulverstone, Tas.; one specimen (Coll. Lyell).
E c c L E T A, n.g.
Head loosely scaled. Face not projecting. Eyes smooth.
Tongue well developed. Palpi rather large, upwardly curved,
reaching base of antennae, second joint loosely scaled towards
apex, terminal joint well developed, with appressed scales.
Antennae in male with long pectinations (10), shorter towards
apex, apical jy simple. Thorax with a slight posterior crest.
Abdomen smooth. Posterior tibiae with two pairs of spurs.
Forewings with vein 2 from middle of cell, 3 from angle, 6
separate, 7, 8, 9 stalked, 10 connected by a bar with 7, 8, 9.
Hindwings normal.
