BY A. JEFFERIS TURNKR. 89
Sarrothripinae.
Blesina metachrysa, n.sp.
(J. 40 mm. Head and palpi white, irrorated with dark fuscous.
Antennae dark fuscous, with a few whitish scales; in male slightly-
serrate, shortly ciliated (J). Thorax fuscous, irrorated with
whitish and ochreous-brown scales; central area paler. Abdomen
deep ochreous-yellow ; terminal segment fuscous; tuft whitish-
grey; dorsal crests whitish, irrorated with ochreous-brown and
whitish. Legs white, irrorated with fuscous. Forewings oblong,
costa arched at base, then straight, apex rectangular, termen
slightly rounded, hardly oblique; dark grey, with whitish and
ochreous-brown irroration, and black lines ; a small tuft of
ochreous-yellow hairs on base of inner margin ; an inwardly
oblique, acutely dentate line from costa at 1; a broad, nearly
straight streak, interrupted in disc from costa at ^ to tornus;
this gives off in disc a fine irregularly dentate line to inner
margin beyond middle; a fine irregularly dentate line from mid-
costa, curved first outwardly then inwardly to inner margin at f ;
a finely dentate subterminal line, interrupted by the oblique
streak; terminal part of disc densely irrorated with whitish; a
fine fuscous crenulate terminal line : cilia white, mixed with dark
fuscous towards base, and with a dark fuscous median line.
Hindwings with termen rounded, crenulate; deep ochreous-yellow;
a broad dark fuscous terminal band, narrowing to a point at
tornus; cilia white opposite veins 2 to 4, above this dark fuscous,
beneath deep ochreous-yellow.
Townsville, Q.; in February; two specimens received from Mr.
F. P. Dodd.
OCHTHOPHORA, n.g.
Face flat, with a fringe of projecting scales on forehead. Palpi
rather large, ascending; terminal joint nearly as long as second,
stout, obtuse. Antennae in male serrate. Tongue rudimentary.
Thorax with a large undivided posterior crest. Abdomen smooth.
Posterior tibiae with two pairs of spurs. Forewings with vein 2
from f ; 7, 8, 9 stalked, 10 connected by a bar with 8, 9 beyond
