96 NEW GKNERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
arched, apex rather acute, hindmargin slightl}^ rounded, wavy,
very oblique; dark fuscous, suffused with brown, with a few
scattered whitish scales, markings black; an acutely angulated
line from costa near base as far as fold: a similar line traceable
with diificulty from costa at ^ to inner margin at -|; an oblique
blackish line in disc followed by a whitish line representing
reniform; a line from middle of costa very obliquely outwards,
then bent parallel to termen, and again bent backwards beneath
reniform, and thence acutely dentate to inner margin at ยง; three
or four white dots on apical fourth of costa; a blackish subterminal
shade posteriorly dentate; a fine terminal line interrupted by
whitish dots, which are connected by fine blackish lines with sub-
terminal shade: cilia dark fuscous, apices dotted with whitish.
Hindwings with termen rounded, w^avy ; fuscous ; basal half
ochreous-whitish ; cilia whitish, barred with fuscous. Under
surface of fore- and hindwings with crescentic fuscous discal spots
and fuscous terminal bands.
Brisbane, Q. ; one specimen.
Closely allied to Crioa acronyctina, Butl., but fore wings much
darker, abdominal crest less developed, and hindwings sharply
divided between ochreous-whitish and fuscous.
Crioa leptochroma, n.sp.
(J9. 30 mm. Head whitish, mixed with pale greenish-fuscous;
face whitish. Palpi whitish, mixed with a few dark fuscous
scales; external surface of second joint dark fuscous at base.
Antennae grey; towards base whitish, with a few dark fuscous
transverse bars. Thorax with a strong erect crest extending
from middle to posterior edge: whitish, mixed with brownish;
posterior aspect of crest irrorated with dark fuscous. Abdomen
whitish-ochreous, mixed with grey. Legs dark fuscous, mixed
with whitish; tarsi annulated with whitish; posterior pair mostly
whitish. Forewings elongate-triangular, costa moderately arched,
apex round-pointed, hindmargin rounded, obliciue; white, suffused
with fuscous and greenish; a fine irregularly dentate line from
