BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 97
costa at J to inner margin at |; reniform represented by a fine
dark fuscous circular I'ing, enclosing a small pale fuscous spot;
second line from costa at | obliquely outwards, wavy, curved in disc,
and ending in inner margin at ยง; this is succeeded by a greenish
line, a fuscous shade, and a greenish subterminal shade; these are
interrupted by whitish veins dotted with dark fuscous : cilia
whitish-grey, bases grey, interrupted with whitish opposite veins.
Hindwings with termen rounded, slightly wavy; pale j^ellowish;
a broad fuscous terminal band narrowing to tornus; above tornus
is an elongate white spot, interrupted by a few dark fuscous scales;
cilia ochreous- whitish, with a fine median grey line; at tornus
dark fuscous.
Gympie, Q.; in January; two specimens received from Mr. R.
Illidge.
CORULA OCTOGESIMA, n.sp.
(J. 29 mm. Head, palpi, and thorax whitish-grey, irrorated
Avith darker grey; second joint of palpi with appressed scales.
Antennae ochreous-fuscous, towards base whitish-grey; in male
with fine bristles (1) and short ciliations (|) near base, thence
broadly laminate. Abdomen ochreous-whitish. Legs whitish,
irrorated with grey. Forewings elongate, posteriorly dilated,
costa slightly arched, apex rounded, termen sinuate, scarcely
oblique; gre}'', mixed with whitish, especially towards base and
termen, with a few scattered ochreous-brown scales, markings
dark fuscous; a suffused spot near base of costa representing basal
line; a transverse line from costa at ^ to dorsum at |, rather
broadly suffused near costa ; two adjacent fine circular rings
arranged transversely before middle of disc, and a third reniform
ring beyond centre; each ring contains a dark fuscous centre, and
the whole form the figure 80; a fine line from costa at |, at first
outwards, then parallel to termen and waved to dorsum at |; an
interrupted, thick, wavy line at f; a fine subterminal line : cilia
whitish. Hindwings with termen sinuate ; whitish ; faintly
suft'used with grey towards termen; cilia whitish.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen.
