98 NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
CoRULA DISPILA, 11. Sp.
(J. 27 mm. Head whitish-grey. Palpi whitish, external sur-
face irrorated with dark fuscous; second joint with long spreading
scales at apex. Antennse grey; in malew4th a pair of bristles on
each joint ("i) and evenly ciliated (1), towards apex simple.
Thorax grey, mixed with whitish and dark fuscous. Abdomen
grey. Legs grey; posterior pair white: anterior tarsi dark fuscous,
aniiulated with white. Forewings elongate-oblong, costa strongly
arched near base, thence nearl}^ straight, apex rectangular, termen
slightly rounded, hardly oblique; pale grey, mixed with white,
markings dark fuscous; a fine angulated basal line from costa to
dorsum; a line from costa at J to dorsum at J; a squarish ring
enclosing a whitish area represents the orbicular, a similar more
elongate dark-centred ring the reniform; a line from costa beyond
middle, bent outwards at a right angle beneath costa, and twice
again in disc, so as to partly enclose reniform, thence to dorsum
at J; an interrupted acutely dentate transverse line at f, ending
in a dark fuscous suffusion at tornus; a black interrupted sub-
terminal line, and a fine black terminal line: cilia whitish.
Hind wings with termen nearl}^ straight to vein 2, thence curved,
slightly wavy; grey, towards base paler; cilia whitish.
Brisbane, Q.; in November; one specimen.
COKULA METABLETA, n.sp.
(^9- 24-28 mm. Head grey, sometimes brownish. Palpi grey.
Antennae grey; in male shortly laminate, moderately ciliated (1),
with longer bristles (3). Thorax grey, mixed with fuscous.
Abdomen grey; rarely pinkish-tinged. Legs grey, irrorated, and
tarsi annulated, with dark fuscous. Forewings elongate-triangular,
costa moderately and evenl}^ arched, apex round-pointed, termen
rounded, slightly obli(j[ue; gre}', mixed with whitish-grey; lines
dark fuscous, varying in intensity in different specimens : an
outwardly curved line near base, usually distinct only near costa;
an outwardly curved line from I costa to J dorsum, sometimes
nearly obsolete, sometimes thickened and conspicuous; orbicular
