BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 99
and reniform spots whitish-grey, with fuscous margins and centres,
sometimes very distinct, sometimes partly obsolete; a posterior
outwardly curved line, with two slightly developed obtuse denta-
tions from ยง costa to | dorsum; followed by a fuscous shade
mixed with brownish, sometimes obsolete; an interrupted blackish
subterminal line: cilia grey. Hindwings with termen sigmoid;
grey, rarely brown-pinkish; with a broad fuscous terminal band-
cilia whitish-grey, rarely pinkish-tinged.
Brisbane, Q.; four specimens taken by Mr. R. lUidge.
A Variable species. It may be distinguished from Corula
dispila, which it closely resembles, by the proportionately longer
forewings, with costa not incurved towards base, and with
differently shaped posterior line, the more sigmoid termen of
hindwings, and the laminate antennae of the male.
Corula mesospila, n.sp.
(J9. 21-24 mm. Head, palpi, and thorax whitish, with a very
few scattered dark fuscous scales; second joint of palpi with
appressed scales. Antennae fuscous; in male with long bristles
(3), absent towards apex, and even ciliations (1). Abdomen
whitish-grey, or ochreous-whitish. Legs whitish, irrorated with
dark fuscous; posterior pair whitish; anterior tibiae annulated
with dark fuscous. Forewings elongate-triangular, costa gently
arched, apex rather acute, termen slightly rounded, slightly oblique;
whitish, mixed with pale ochreous-brown, with a few scattered
black scales, markings black; a very short streak from base; a
line from costa near base reaching as far as fold; a line from costa
atito dorsum at ^; orbicular and reniform spots faintly outlined,
the latter sometimes dark-centred; a posterior line from costa
beyond middle obliquely outwards, then sharply bent round so as
to form an obtuse projection, below which it is slightly inwardly
curved to dorsum at |; a whitish line incompletely margined with
blackish dots at |^; an interrupted subterminal, and a fine terminal
line: cilia whitish, bases mixed with grey. Hindwings with
termen nearly straight to vein 2, there strongly curved; grey;
cilia whitish.
