100 NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
Brisbane, Q.; in September; three specimens.
Allied to the preceding, from which it may be distinguished
by the different shape, brownish irroration, and differently formed
lines of fore wings.
CORULA STENOPHYLLA, n.Sp.
X. 22 mm. Head and palpi grey; second joint of palpi with
appressed scales. Antennae grey; male with long bristles (3),
absent towards apex, and even ciliations (1). Thorax grey, mixed
with whitish-grey; some dark fuscous scales at base of posterior
crest. Abdomen ochreous-whitish. Legs gre}', mixed with
whitish ; posterior pair whitish. Forewings narrow-elongate,
costa very slightly arched, apex round-pointed, termen slightly
rounded, moderately oblique; grey, mixed with whitish, with a
small amount of pale brownish suffusion in disc, lines dark fuscous;
a faint line from costa near base barely reaching fold; a better
marked line from costa at ^ to fold; a slightl}^ wavy line from
costa at J to dorsum at J, preceded by a whitish line; a line from
costa at |, slightly wavy, curved slightly outwards in disc, then
straight to dorsum at |, followed by a whitish line; an irregular
anteriorly dentate blackish line at i, followed by a whitish line;
orbicular and reniform obsolete; three fuscous dots on apical
third of costa; a blackish subterminal and a fine terminal line:
cilia whitish grey. Hind wings with termen sigmoid; ochreous-
whitish; a terminal grey band not reaching tornus; cilia whitish.
Brisbane, Q.; in December; one specimen.
CORULA EREMNA, U.sp.
(J. 23 mm. Head and palpi dark grey, irrorated with dark
fuscous; second joint of palpi much dilated with loose spreading
scales towards apex. Antennae fuscous; in male with long bristles
(3), absent towards apex, and even ciliations (^). Thorax dark
grey, irrorated with dark fuscous. Abdomen grey. Legs grey,
annulated with dark fuscous; posterior pair whitish, with a few
irrey scales. Forewings elongate-triangular, costa slightly arched,
apex round-pointed, termen rounded, moderatel}' oblique; grey,
