BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 103
Hyperlopha aridela, n.sp.
$. 52 mm. Head ochreous-grey, with a fine anteriorly- angled
white line between antenna?. Palpi pale grey, with a few
scattered black scales. Antennae white, towards apex grey.
Thorax pale grey, anteriorly ochreous-tinged, sparsely irrorated
with black scales. Abdomen whitish-grey, along centre ochreous-
tinged, with sparsely scattered black scales. Legs pale grey, with
sparsely scattered black scales. Forewings triangular, costa rather
strongly arched, apex rectangular, termen angled on vein 3, above
angle straight, beneath wavy and very oblique to tornus; pale
grey, somewhat purplish-tinged, with sparsely scattered black
scales; lines faint, ochreous-grey; first from i costa to J dorsum;
second from I costa to 1 dorsum; third from J costa obliquely
outwards, angled beneath costa, thence wavy to dorsum at |; a
subterminal shade, containing towards dorsum three snow-w^hite
spots arranged in line, margined with dark brown, and jDOsteriorly
with an outer margin of whitish-ochreous, followed by a small
dark fuscous suffusion: cilia pale grey, beneath angle fuscous-
brown. Hind wings with termen rounded; dark fuscous, basal
half pale ochreous; an elongate-oval dull white blotch from tornus
to opposite mid-termen; cilia white.
Brisbane, Q.; in December; two specimens.
Dnopheropis, n.g.
Face with small projecting cone of hairs. Palpi moderate,
obliquely ascending, scarcely reaching vertex ; second joint
thickened with loosely appressed hairs above and beneath ;
terminal joint short, stout, obtuse, partly concealed. Tongue
present. Antennae of male with a double row of pectinations
extending to apex. Thorax with a vertical anterior crest.
Abdomen with two tufts of hairs on dorsum of first segment, and
a small crest of loose hairs on second segment. Legs normal.
Forewings with vein 2 from ยง, 3 from near angle, 6 from upper
angle, 7, 8, 9 stalked, 10 connected by a bar with 7, 8, 9 to form
areole, 7 arising from 8, 9 well beyond areole. Hindwings with
