BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 105
pointed, termen aiigulated on ^ ein 4, slightly concave above angle
and slightly sinuate beneath; whitish-grey; a whitish streak along
costa, narrowing to a point at f , irrorated with a few dark fuscous
scales; in female a faint posterior line from a dark fuscous dot on
costa at |- to dorsum at J, obsolete in male: cilia whitish, slightly
pinkish-tinged, barred with dark fuscous, bases dark fuscous.
Hind wings with termen rounded, whitish-grey; cilia whitish.
Townsville, Q.; in January; four bred specimens received from
Mr. F. P. Dodd, who informs me that the larvae feed on the young-
foliage of IScyphiphora hydrojyhylacea.
Proscrana poliophylla, n.sp.
9. 36 mm. Head and palpi whitish-grey, irrorated with grey.
Antennae whitish-gre}'; pectinations in female 1^; a long bristle
arises from about the middle of the posterior aspect of each pectina-
tion. Thorax and abdomen whitish-grey. Legs whitish-grey.
Forewings triangular, costa moderately arched, apex acute, termen
angulated on vein 4, above angulation concave, beneath straight;
whitish-grey ; a posterior grey line from costa at | becoming
obsolete in disc: cilia whitish-grey, mixed with fuscous. Hind-
wings with termen bowed on vein 4; whitish-grey; cilia whitish,
with several dark fuscous interruptions.
Warwick, Q. ; in October, one specimen. When taken it
carried the wings erect, and had a very Geometrid appearance.
Very similar to the preceding, but shape of forewings is
diiferent, posterior line is nearer base, and antennie and forelegs
also differ.
A X I c T E T A, n.g.
Face with rounded projection. Palpi long (4-5); second joint
obliquely ascending, reaching level of vertex, clothed beneath
with long scales ; terminal joint well developed, down-curved,
obtuse. Tongue well developed. Thorax and abdomen without
crests. Posterior tibiae with two pairs of spurs. Forewings with
termen excavated beneath apex and acutely angled on vein 4;
vein 2 from |, 3 from before angle, 6 from below upper angle of
cell, 7, 8, 9 stalked, 10 anastomosing with 8, 9 from just beyond
