BY A. JEFFERIS TURNEK. 107
darker brown, somewhcat variable; a basal Kiie from i costa to \
dorsum; a suffused median line, sometimes expanded into a broad
fascia, immediately followed by a more or less "crescentic dark-
edged white discal dot; a suffused angulated subterminal line,
sometimes preceded by one or two finer lines; a row of small dark
fuscous terminal dots : cilia ochreous-brown, irrorated with dark
brown. Hind wings with termen rounded; whitish or grey; a
crescentic mark followed by a curved median line grey ; an
interrupted grey terminal line; cilia ochreous-whitisli or grey.
Brisbane, Q.; from September to December, not uncommon.
PrONOPIIORA TRITOSTICHA, n.Sp.
(J. 22 mm. Head pale brownish-ochreous, sides white. Palpi
pale brownish-ochreous; apex of second joint and terminal joint
white. Antennse whitish; in male bipectinate (2|), towards apex
simple, with a long bristle arising from stalk behind each pecti-
nation. Thorax whitish ; collar and bases of patagia pale
brownish-ochreous. Abdomen whitish. Legs whitish; anterior
pair grey on inner and lower surfaces. Fore wings narrow elon-
gate ; costa gently arched, apex rounded, termen obliquely
rounded; pale brownish-ochreous, with three shining snow-white
longitudinal streaks; first from base to apex, narrowly margined
with black beneath, near termen the marginal line separates from
streak; second from disc at ^, anteriorly acute, to termen at J;
third from base along fold not quite reaching tornus; a row of
black dots close to termen: cilia ochreous- whitish. Hindwing
with termen sinuate ; white, with a scanty grey suffusion ; a
narrow grey terminal line; cilia white.
Townsville and Bundaberg, Q.; two specimens.
^ T H A L I N A, n.g.
Face with projecting scales. Palpi long (3-4); second joint
with spreading loose scales above and below, obliquely upturned;
terminal joint well developed, stout, obtuse, porrect. Tongue
present. Thorax smooth. Abdomen with a basal crest. Posterior
tibite w^ith two pairs of spurs. Fore wings with vein 2 from |, 3
