110 NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
posterior line immediately followed by a whitish line; an inter-
rupted white line close to termen; cilia fuscous, apices whitish.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen received from Mr. F. P. Dodd.
Erastroides lichnomima, n.sp.
(J. 26 mm. Head and thorax white, mixed with dark fuscous
and green ; thorax with a small posterior crest. Palpi dark
fuscous, terminal joint and apex of second joint white. Antennse
whitish-ochreous, with a fe\v^ dark fuscous scales; in male simple.
Abdomen dark fuscous, sides and apex whitish-brown [crests
probably denuded]. Legs dark fuscous, irrorated and annulated
with white. Forewings narrow elongate-triangular, costa nearly
straight, apex round -pointed, termen rounded, oblique; whitish,
irrorated with greenish and dark fuscous, lines dark fuscous; a
line from costa near base to fold; a dentate line from costa at j
to dorsum at 4 ; a whitish mark from mid-costa, enclosing some
dark fuscous scales, and edged in disc with dark fuscous to
represent reniform; a longitudinal streak in terminal half of disc
interrupted by reniform; a dentate line from costa at | to dorsum
at |- slightly outwardly curved ; a whitish subterminal line
followed by some dark streaks between veins; veins in terminal
area outlined in greenish : cilia dark fuscous, mixed with white.
Hind wings with termen rounded; grey; cilia grey, with a few
whitish scales.
Brisbane, Q.; in March, one specimen.
HOMODES ERIZESTA, n.Sp.
^. 22-23 mm. Head, palpi, thorax, and abdomen reddish-
brown, tinged with purple; thorax smooth; abdomen crested on
3rd and 4th segments, crests dark purple-fuscous, with metallic
lustre. AntennLie ochreous-brown; in male slightly serrate, e\ enly
ciliated (1). Legs reddish-brown; posterior pair whitish-ochreous.
Forewings elongate-triangular, costa nearly straight, strongly
curved near apex, apex rounded, termen rounded, oblique ;
reddish-brown, tinged with purple, alternating in fine regular
strige with whitish; a line from costa at J to dorsum at J, a second
