114 NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
disc; a fuscous discal spot beneath mid-costa ; a slender dentate
fuscous posterior line from costa at 4 to dorsum at ยง; termen with
a narrow dark fuscous suffusion except at angles: cilia reddish-
purple, with a white median line and rosy apices; these are
interrupted by dark fuscous at angles. Hindwings with termen
slightly rounded; colour and markings as forevvings, but posterior
line better marked and double, and a fine subterminal line.
Brisbane, Q.; in October and November; two specimens.
This species and the preceding are allied to Corgatha drosera^
Meyr.
Metachrostis epichroma, n.sp.
(J. 21 mm. Head, palpi, and thorax dark gvQy. Antenna?
fuscous; in male simple, minutel}- ciliated {\). Abdomen pale
ochreous, irrorated with grey. Legs grey, irrorated with whitish;
posterior pair mostly whitish. Forewings elongate-triangular,
costa very slightly arched, apex round-pointed, termen slightly
rounded, oblique; grey, mixed towards base with whitish, towards
termen with pale brownish, markings dark fuscous; two fine wavy
parallel lines from costa at J to dorsum at \; a broad median
fascia, narrower towards costa, preceded by a minute discal dot,
its anterior edge straight, posterior edge angled in disc, towards
costa suffused; two fine parallel lines from costa at | obliquely
outwards, forming a rounded projection in disc, thence to dorsum
at f , preceded by a double discal dot; a fine crenate subterminal
line; a fine terminal line: cilia grey, with a few whitish scales.
Hindwings with termen slightly sinuate; deep yellow, with a
l)road dark fuscous terminal band; cilia fuscous.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen.
The forewings are very similarly marked to those of Metachrostis
punctigera, Wlk.
Metachrostis camptozona, n.sp.
^. 23 mm. Head brownish-gre}'. Palpi brownish-grey, irro-
rated with dark fuscous. Antennje dark fuscous, basal joint
whitish, purple-tinged. Thorax brownish-grey, apices of patagia
fuscous. Abdomen fuscous, mixed with whitish. Legs dark
