BY A. JfiFFERlS TURNER. 115
fuscous, annulated with whitish ; posterior pair, except tarsi,
whitish. Forewings elongate-triangular, costa nearly straight,
termen rounded, oblique; brownish-grey, slightly purplish-tinged,
markings fuscous; a spot on costa near base, and another beneath
it on fold; a fine dentate line from \ costa to ^ dorsum, near
dorsum preceded by a similar parallel line; a broad median fascia
from costa before middle obliquely outwards, abruptly bent in
disc, and continued as three wavy parallel lines to dorsum beyond
middle; a dot on costa beyond middle, with another beneath it in
disc; a straight ochreous-brown shade preceded by a darker line
from costa at 4 to before tornus; a terminal deep brown shade,
and some dark fuscous terminal dots : cilia fuscous, mixed with
brownish-grey and whitish. Hindwings with termen rounded,
veins 3 and 4 connate; dark grey; cilia dark grey, barred with
whitish.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen taken by Mr. R. lUidge.
]MlCRAESCHUS DIACAUSTUS, n.sp.
(J. 16 mm. Head, palpi, and thorax fuscous-brown. Antenna3
fuscous; in male simple, minutely ciliated (J). Abdomen pale
reddish-brown. Legs brownish-fuscous, mixed with whitish, tarsi
dark fuscous, annulated with whitish. Forewings elongate-
triangular, costa strongly arched, apex round-pointed, termen
moderately angled on vein 4, above angle concave, beneath
straight, pale reddish-brown; a paler spot on costa at J, from
which proceeds a fine dark dentate line to dorsum at J; a white
dark-edged dot in middle of disc; a second costal pale spot at |,
from which a dark line proceeds obliquely outwards, forming a
marked projection in disc, and continued as a dentate line to
dorsum at f ; a dark terminal line : cilia whitish-ochreous, inter-
rupted by fuscous-brown. Hindwings with termen rounded ;
ochreous-whitish, suffused with reddish-brown ; cilia whitish-
ochreous. On underside hindwings and margins of forewings are
suffused with dark fuscous.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen.
The type is not in the best condition.
