116 NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
E U B L E M M A, Hb.
Veins 3 and 4 of the hind wing are frequently stalked in this
genus. There is also considerable variation in the scaling of the
palpi, and length of the terminal joint; but these differences do
not appear to call for generic subdivision.
EUBLEMMA GLAUCOCHKOA, n.sp.
(J, 19 mm. Head, palpi, thorax, and abdomen whitish-gre}-.
Palpi rough-scaled, terminal joint short, reaching vertex.
Antennae gre}' : in male simple, ciliated (1). Legs whitish;
anterior and middle pairs irrorated with grey. Forewings elon-
gate-triangular, costa straight, apex rounded, termen rounded,
oblique: with a tuft of long scales on dorsal margin before middle;
pale grey, greenish-tinged, towards costa and termen sparsely
irrorated with dark fuscous; lines whitish; first from costa at ^
to dorsum at i, slightly outwardly curved: second from mid-costa
to mid dorsum with an obtuse median outward projection; third
from costa at f to dorsum at f with a prominent acute median
projection: cilia whitish, Hindwings with termen rounded;
veins 3 and 4 stalked; grey, towards base whitish; cilia whitish.
Townsville, Q.; in August; one specimen received from Mr. F.
P. Dodd.
EUBLEMMA SPHRAGIDOTA, n.Sp.
(J. 14 mm. Head, thorax, and abdomen whitish. Palpi
purplish-grey, terminal joint whitish; second joint with short
appressed scales, terminal joint short, obtuse, Imrely reaching
vertex. Antennae whitish; in male simple, ciliated (1). Legs
purplish-grey, irrorated, and tarsi annulated with white; posterior
pair white. Forewings elongate-triangular, costa nearly straight,
apex round-pointed, termen rounded, oblique; \vhitish-grey; a
broad transverse reddish-brown fascia before middle, its anterior
edge narrowh' dark fuscous, wavy, its posterior edge angled out-
wardl}-; just at angle is a large oblong dark fuscous discal spot;
a fine wavy grey posterior line from costa at ยง to dorsum at f ,
near costa reddish-brown; a small reddish-brown mark inclosino-
