120 NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA,
Zagira polycesta, n.-sp.
(J. 26 mm. Head purple-reddish, mixed with whitish, face
whitish. Palpi ochreous- whitish, base of second joint externally
reddish; second joint rather loosely scaled towards apex, terminal
joint short, obtuse. Antennae ochreous-whitish ; in male with
short ciliations (h) and longer bristles (IJ). Thorax purple-grey,
anterior third whitish. Abdomen purple-grey, mixed with
whitish. Legs whitish ; anterior pair fuscous. Forewings
elongate-triangular, costa straight, apex acute, termen crenate,
rounded, oblique ; purple-grey, suffused with pale brownish-
ochreous; a broad whitish streak along costa nearly to apex; two
or three fuscous dots on costal edge in terminal part of streak;
lines slender, white, not crossing streak; first transverse, slightly
angled at i, followed by a white, dark-edged discal dot nearer
costa than dorsum; a small fuscous suffusion above centre of disc;
second line dentate from beneath costa at #, first outwardl}' then
inwardly curved to dorsum at |; beyond it is a whitish blotch
before tornus; a similar subterminal line parallel to termen; a
series of dark fuscous terminal dots: cilia whitish, mixed with
purple-grey. Hindwings with termen crenate, rounded; colour
and markings as forewings, but basal line and dot absent.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen taken by Mr. R. Illidge.
A X I R a T a, n.g.
Face flat. Palpi recurved, ascending, not reaching or exceeding
vertex. Tongue well developed. AntenniB in male minutely
ciliated. Thorax and abdomen without crests. Forewings with
2 from |, 3 from angle, G from well below upper angle of cell,
7, 8, 9, 10 stalked, no areole. Hindwings with veins 3 and 4
stalked, o from middle of discocellulars, 6 and 7 stalked.
Besides the tj^pe described below this genus contains Acontht
tripartita, Butl., which is closely allied though with larger palpi.
Sir George Hampson referred these species to Hyela, Steph.,
but I do not think this can be maintained.
