BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 123^^
basal fascia; two deeper brown outwardly ciun ed wav}' parallel
lines from costa before middle to mid-dorsum, enclosing a fuscous
dot near costa; a fine brown dentate line from costa at J obliqueh^
outwards forming a prominent acute projection in disc, thence
obliquely inwards to dorsum at |; a large triangular dark fuscous
blotch on costa from |^ to apex; a paler fuscous suffusion on mid-
termen; a finely dentate pale subterminal line crossing costal
blotch, less distinct in disc; a fuscous terminal line: cilia pale
brown, bases barred with fuscous. Hind wings with termen
rounded, crenate; colour and markings as forewings, but without
basal, costal, and terminal fuscous blotches; a fuscous spot above
tornus from which a dark subterminal line runs to costa; a large
crest of scales at end of cell.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen.
E P I T R I PT A, n.g.
Face flat. Palpi long, obliquely ascending; second joint twice
breadth of eye, smooth-scaled; terminal joint more than one-half
second, slender, smooth, acute. Thorax and abdomen not crested.
Forewings with 7 from cell, 8, 9, 10 stalked, no areole. Hind-
wings with vein 3, 4 connate, 5 from near 4.-
Allied to Falcimala, Hmps., but veins 3 and 4 of hind wings
are not stalked, and 5 is approximated to them at base, and there-
is no abdominal crest. In neuration it agrees with Alelimma,
Hmps., but lacks the peculiar palpi.
Epitripta acosmopis, n.sp.
9. 23 mm. Head, thorax, and abdomen gre\^ Palpi fuscous..
Antennae grey. Legs pale grey ; posterior pair, except tarsi,
whitish. Forewings narrow elongate-triangular, costa gentl}^
arched, apex rectangular, termen rounded, slightly oblique; grey,
markings dark fuscous; a line from costa near base to fold, pro-
duced to base along fold; an irregularl}' dentate line from i costa
to ^ dorsum; a fuscous median shade l^roadly interrupted in disc,
followed by a whitish discal dot; a posterior line from ;| costa
obliquely outwards, very line in disc, forming a rounded projec-
