BY A. JEFFERIS TURNER. 125
^ costa to ^ dorsum, outwardly curved, a blackish discal dot
beneath mid-costa, transversely elongate and constricted in centre;
a wavy fuscous line from costa at 4 obliquely outwards, sharply
bent in disc, and thence inwardly oblique to dorsum at |; a
whitish oblique line preceded by a dark shade from apex to before
tornus: cilia whitish-grey, with two fine grey lines. Hindwings^
with termen rounded; whitish-grey; a fuscous dot or short line in
disc opposite i inner margin; a short white line preceded by a
darker shade from tornus, lost in disc; cilia as forewings.
Differs markedly from other members of the genus in the
structure of the male antennae.
Kuranda, Q.; in October, one specimen.
NODARIA ACKOSEMA, n.sp.
J$. 21-25 mm. Head, thorax, and abdomen pale grey; fore-
head with a tuft of hairs directed forwards. Palj^i very long,
loosely scaled; second joint five times breadth of eye, with a ridge
of loose hairs on discal | of upper edge; terminal joint well
developed ; grey. Antennae grey ; in male slightly laminate,
evenly ciliated (1), with longer bristles (3). Legs ochreous-
whitish, irrorated with grey. Forewings elongate-triangular,
costa straight to near apex, apex acute, termen slightly rounded,,
oblique; grey; traces of an anterior line; a faintly indicated discal
dot; a faint posterior line from costa at | obliquely outwards^
forming a rounded projection in disc, and ending in dorsum at |;
a dark fuscous spot at apex, preceded by a very short oblique
whitish mark, and that again by a fuscous dot on costa; a fine
dark fuscous terminal line: cilia grey, with a whitish basal line.
Hind wings with termen rounded; grey; a faintly darker line from
inner margin at |, and a faint pale line from tornus, both lost in
disc; terminal line and cilia as forewings.
Kuranda and Geraldton, Q. ; in October and November, three
specimens.
SiMPLICIA PHRICOZOXA, n.Sp.
(J 9. 34 mm. Head, palpi, antennae, and thorax dark brown.
Palpi in male with terminal joint enlarged and thickened, extend-
