126 NEW CEN'KRA AND SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTKRA,
ing backwards to edge of collar, and bearing an expansive tuft of
hairs internall}''. Antennae of male with rather long even cilia-
tions (2), and longer bristles (4). Abdomen brownish. Legs
brownish, mixed with dark fnscous. Forewings triangular, costa
slightly arched, apex rounded, termen' rounded, slightly oblique;
brow^n, with dark fuscous lines; a line near base not reaching
dorsum; a dot on costa at J;; a thick wavy line from costa at ^ to
dorsum at 4; a tine acutely dentate line from costa before ^ to
mid-dorsum, edged posteriorly with brown-whitish; an irregularly
dentate submarginal line, thickened towards costa and dorsum,
edged posteriorly with brown-whitish; some dark fuscous scales
on termen: cilia brown-whitish. Hindwings with termen rounded ;
brownish-fuscous, suffused more or less with w^hitish ; cilia
w^hitish.
Brisbane, Q. ; one specimen taken by Mr. R. Illidge ; there is
a second in the Museum of the Agricultural Department.
TiPASA MACROBELA, n.sp.
9. 18 mm. Head, thorax, antenna?, and abdomen ochreous-
whitish. Palpi ochreous- whitish,, sparsely irrorated with fuscous;
porrect, nearly as long as aV)domen, second joint excessively long,
twelve times breadth of eye, rough-haired above and beneath,
terminal joint slender, acute. Thorax and abdomen without
■crests. Legs ochreous-whitish. Forewings elongate-triangular,
costa moderately arched, apex acute, termen rounded, oblique;
ochreous-whitish, sparsely irrorated with fuscous; a whitish spot
containing two fuscous dots arranged transversely in mid-disc; a
short oblique fuscous streak at apex giving origin to a line of
fuscous dots to dorsum at t; an interrupted fuscous terminal line:
cilia ochreous-whitish. Hindwings rather broad, termen sinuate;
whitish: cilia whitish.
Brisbane, Q.; one specimen.
1 have also received from Mr. R. Illidge what is doul)tless the
male of this species. The antennae have very long, fine, slender
l)ipectinations. The forewings differ from the female type in
