88 GISBORNE. [June 9, 1856.
3. Survey of the Isthmus of Darien, between the Gulf of San Miguel
and Caledonia Bay. By Lionel Gisborne, m.a., c.e., f.r.g.s.
This is the second expedition to Darien, of which Mr. Gisborne has
had charge. The object of both was to examine the country between
San Miguel and Port Escoces, and the results of the first are published
in vol. 23 of the Royal Geographical Society's Journal. Owing to the
continued hostility of the native Indians, he believed that no party, since
the time of the Buccaneers, in 1684, had ever obtained a footing in the
country, with the exception of Milla's ; Patterson's ; and his own.
Mr. Gisborne's expedition was commenced with the co-operation of the
Governments of England, France, America, and New Granada, which
sent officers to report on the results of the survey, and stationed ships
to protect the explorers. A first attempt showed that success was im-
possible to the very large party with which Mr. Gisborne started ; he
returned to the ships, and then, accompanied by Lieut. St. John and
two sailors, and guided by Indians, he ascended the Caledonia River,
crossed the Cordilleras, went some distance down the Sucubdi River,
and then, striking N.W., reached Mr. Forde's head-quarters on the
opposite side of the isthmus. An attempt to recross by another route
proved unsuccessful. He relates the disasters that befell two parties
who started a very short time before his own, those of Capt. Prevost
and of Lieut. Strain. At the request of Mr. Gisborne, a boat was
despatched from H.M.S. ' Virago ' in search of the survivors of the
latter party, who were discovered, after five days, in a most deplorable
state of destitution.
The result of Mr. Gisborne's survey shows that the harbours of
Caledonia and Darien are excellent, and in every way adapted as the
termini of an inter-oceanic canal. The coast on the Atlantic side was
foimd to be seven miles wrongly laid down in longitude, and a range of
mountains, from 900 to 1600 feet high, was proved to form the parting
of the country at a distance of about five miles from the Atlantic. This
water parting is precipitous, being, at a distance of five miles westward,
only 200 feet above the mean level of the oceans. The distance between
tidal waters on opposite coasts is under 30 miles. A track chart of the
Chuqunaque has been made nearly as high as the Loma Deseada, at the
confluence of the Sucubdi, which agrees in a very remarkable manner
with the copy of the map made to show Milla's route in 1787-8, a tracing
of which was given to Mr. Gisborne by Colonel Codazzi. The result
of this last survey is demonstrative of the fact that canalization across,
without tunnelling, is here impracticable; but it also proves that a
railway might be constructed between excellent ports not above 12
