June 9, 1856.] GISBORNE. 89
leagues apart, with a summit level, to be crossed, not exceeding 300 yards
above the sea.*
Mr. Gisborne remarks, with reference to the practicability of a com-
plete survey of the isthmus, before deciding on a line for making an
inter-oceanic canal, that " wherever the best spot may be, two elements
must necessarily exist — good harbours (or the means of making them)
and a short distance. This limits the inquiry to a very few places, and
those can be reduced to two or three by a cursory examination. Two
surveying vessels on each coast could in a few months examine the un-
surveyed portions of Central America sufficiently to decide where good
harbours, or facilities for making them, exist. It is not probable that
many such places will be found opposite each other ; where such is the
case, a general examination of the interior would soon eliminate the
impossibles, leaving perhaps two or three places where a more careful
and detailed examination may be necessary."
Dr. Hodgkin begged to introduce to the Society, General Mercer, of the
United States, who had been the chairman of a committee for reporting on an
inter-oceanic communication through Central America.
General Mercer said that his friend Dr. Hodgkin had taken him entirely
by surprise in mentioning his name ; but being invited also by the Chairman
of the Meeting, however incompetent, for many reasons, to cast any addi-
tional light on the subject under debate, he would not resist the compli-
ment paid him. More than eighteen years had elapsed since the duty had
devolved on him, as a member of a standing committee of the House of
Eepresentatives of the United States of America, to make a report to that
body, on a memorial from certain citizens of New York and Philadelphia, on
the practicability and mode of providing for the construction of a navigable
ship canal between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.
He had despaired of obtaining, through any channel then accessible, the
facts necessary to guide even his own opinion upon a subject of the importance
of which he had long been aware, when he accidentally found, in a work on
Guatemala, by a British official agent, a table furnishing the distance, and a
series of levels taken at every hundred yards of the intervening high land
between Lake Nicaragua and the Pacific Ocean. From this it appeared that
the distance overland, was but 17 miles and 350 yards ; and the elevation of
the surface of the lake above the Pacific but 134 feet ; that for 9 miles
from the ocean, the ground regularly descended towards it from the level of the
lake, over a surface in all respects favourable for a canal of any dimensions.
For the 8 miles next to the lake, serious difficulties, although not insurmount-
able, were presented, in the elevation of the ground, often rock, above the level
of the lake, to heights averaging, for 6 miles, more than 60 feet ; for 2 miles of
that distance, 135 feet ; and for one-third of a mile, 150 feet.
General Mercer said, that the canal was designed by him, to have a depth of
26 feet, the draught of a large frigate ; but was enlarged, at the suggestion of
the United States engineers, to a depth of 30 feet, with a breadth sufficient to
permit two of the largest ships to pass each other.
The deep cutting from the lake to the Pacific, was not unexampled, even in
Mexico. But supposing a tunnel to be dispensed with, and its continued depth
extended for several miles more than that example warranted, yet it involved
only an additional cost. He did not hesitate, therefore, in inducing the com-
* See Map to accompany Capt. Prevost's paper, in vol. xxiv. p. 256. — Ed.
