90 ^ GISBORNE. [June 9, 185G.
niittee to report in favour of the practicability of uniting Lake Nicaragua with
the Pacific, and using the Lake as a feeder, if not embraced in the direct com-
munication with the river St. Juan, which was navigable to the Atlantic at
most seasons of the year, by vessels of shalloAv draught.
He did not believe, as the Lake was of great? dimensions — not less than
200 miles in circumference, and if shoal in some places, in others deep enough
for ships of any size — that it would fail of supplying a sufBcient quantity of
water for a constant navigation, by means of locks, from sea to sea. The use
of it for twenty-four hours would not, he believed, reduce the level of its sur-
face 2 inches, if in that time it received no supply from Lake Leon, which lies
N. of it, and disembogues the water, received from various streams, into Lake
Nicaragua, by a river of rapid current.
Assuming it as a universal truth, that wherever there is a perpetually
descending navigable river, supplying a sufficient quantity of water for a navi-
gable canal, such a canal can be made, the Committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives, without other data, deemed the whole line of navigation for the
largest ships, from the Pacific through, or by. Lake Nicaragua and down the
St. Juan to the Atlantic, practicable. Of the cost of such a work they could
pronounce no judgment. Of the quantity of materials of earth and rock to be
removed, in order to open that part of it, in which a line of levels had been
supplied by Thompson's work on Guatemala, they were furnished with a hasty
estimate by the Topographical Bureau of the War Department of the United
States, which made it with no other assistance, than from the cross-section of
the ground which the canal would pass on the line already surveyed. Those
materials exceeded 44 millions of cubic yards.
From the profile of the entire line, and information derived from the con-
struction of a canal of 186 miles, leading from the city of Washington, along
the river Potomac, through many lofty mountains, the Chairman of the
Committee, availing himself of further information as to the general aspect of
the country between the Lake and the Pacific, was led to compute the cost of
so much of the line of proposed navigation, at 20 millions of dollars, or about
4 millions of pounds sterling. This, he admits, was rather a guess than an
estimate ; but he entertained no doubt of the practicability of the construction
of the entire work, for a sum much less than its value, which is beyond all
computation.
General Mercer said, that he brought with him to Europe, near three years
ago, two copies of the Eeport of the Committee on Roads, Canals, and Internal
Navigation of the year 1838, on this subject. He despaired, on account of
the then existing war. Of being able to use it with any practical effect, although
the construction of the canal, with only one other object of public interest,
had led him, at a very advanced age, to make a seventh voyage across the
Atlantic since the commencement of the present century, having made his first
in 1802.
Great Britain had a much deeper interest than France, in uniting with
America, in constructing the proposed canal. It has been rumoured, not
without circumstantial evidence of its truth, that an effort is to be made, which,
if made, will doubtless be successful, to unite the Red Sea with the Mediter-
ranean, by a canal through the Isthmus of Suez, where, it is believed, a canal
formerly existed. If successful, one effect of it will be obvious, that France,
Austria, and Russia, Italy and Greece, will be on the water line of communi-
cation between England and her possessions, from 1500 to 2000 miles nearer to
those possessions, than she will herself be. It is therefore much to her interest
to shorten, if practicable, her distance from them, by way of the Atlantic
and Pacific, by uniting those oceans as now proposed.
In the Appendix to the Report of the Committee, occupying 160 pages,
reference was made to the history of several companies formed for the execution
of the Nicaragua and other lines of inter-oceanic communication across the
