June 23, 1856.] GISBORNE. 91
Isthmus of Central America. The Eeport recommended the survey of one of
them, near which a raih-oad has since been constructed. It furnished the Hol-
land contract for that through Lake Nicaragua, to which the King of Holland
subscribed half a million of guilders. This subsg-iption was abandoned, the sub-
sequent severance of Belgium from Holland having proved fatal to" the renewal
of the efforts of the Dutch to execute this work ; and at present it is pro-
bable that, without the interposition and some concurrent arrangement between
the Governments of those States most interested in its execution, it may yet
be long delayed, if ever executed. Before he concluded. General Mercer
begged to observe that he owed it to Mr. Kelley of New York to say, what we
must all think, that if, by an open cut from sea to sea, and the Atrato and
Truando rivers, a navigable canal of the dimensions which he proposes can
be constructed, it is greatly to be preferred to any communication between
those oceans by locks ; for, however they may be multiplied and provided with
intervening pools of water, of sufiScient dimensions to facilitate and hasten
the i^assage through them of very large ships, it may be questioned whether
there would not be very inconvenient delay often incurred, and the utility of
the entire line of intercommunication be impeded, by the number of vessels
seeking a passage through the locks. The only doubt that as yet appears to
hang over the Atrato route, arises from the possible insalubrity of the
country through which it is to pass.
A Visitor having asked General Mercer if the climate on the Nicaragua
route would be unhealthy, he answered, that it was probable that it would
not be so, as several considerable cities existed in its vicinity, and a road
through it to the Lake and the river St. Juan had been, for several years, used
for the transit of persons and property passing between the States of Oregon
and California, both to and from the United States, without a complaint or a
suggestion having been heard that the climate is unfavourable to health.
He acknowledged the inquiry to be most pertinent, as ill health would con-
stitute a very serious impediment to the progress of a work so laborious, and
would greatly enhance its cost. He had heard it said at New Orleans, that the
very beautiful road between that city and Lake Pontchartrain, was made of
oyster-shells and Irishmen.
The Chairman, in conclusion, said that these propositions of American
citizens, were in every way entitled to the consideration of the Society, espe-
cially that which had been made by Mr. Kelley, and to which General Mercer,
of the United States, gave the preference over the Nicaragua route, as examined
by himself. It was most important to bear in mind, that Mr. Kelley came
from America, chiefly for the purpose of inducing the English and French
Governments to unite with the American authorities in a great joint geo-
graphical survey of the whole of the Darieu territory, with the view of finally
determining upon the best line for the construction of a great canal without
locks, and by which the largest vessels might pass.
He heartily wished that Mr. Kelley might succeed in this great and philan-
thropic project, which so deeply interested all civilized nations.
Fourteenth Meeting, June 23, 1856 (last Meeting of the Session).
Rear- Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, President, in the Chair.
Messrs. W. Ferguson, John Torrance, and H. J. "Williams were
officially introduced upon their election.
Professor P. A. Munch, of the University of Christiania, was, upon
the recommendation of the Council, elected a Corresponding Member ;
