92 COOLEY. LIVINGSTON. [June 23, 1856.
and Messrs. Daniel Brown ; Samuel Brown ; A. Henderson ; P. C.
Lovet; A. Macgregor ; and W. R. O^ Byrne; C apt. John Shepherd,
R.N. ; Sir J. P. Kay Shuttleworth, Bart. ; Messrs. K. L. Sutherland,
R.N. ; G. C. Taylor ; and Lieut.- Colonel F. E. Wilmot, r.a., ivere
elected Fellows.
Messrs. J. B. Heath ; Arthur Hodgson, of Australia ; W. H. Hovell,
of Australia ; W. P. Andrew ; Capt. Cole ; Messrs. J. Entwisle and
G. K. Fairholme ; Colonel the Hon. A. H. Gordon, c.b. ; Sir Charles
Nicolson, of Sydney ; Commander Montagu O'Reilly, r.n. ; and Mr.
William Staniland, were proposed as candidates for election at the
opening meeting of the next session.
An ancient Atlas and Portulan of Spain were exhibited by Sir
Thomas Phillips, f.r.g.s. ; also the new edition of Baily's Map of
Central America, by Mr. Stanford, f.r.g.s.
The Papers read were —
1. Journey of Joachim Rodriguez Graga to the Muata ya Nvo. By
W. D. CoOLEY, Esq., F.R.G.S.
Mr. Cooley endeavours to establish the position of the Muropue's
(Muata ya Nvo) capital, and he collates the itinerary of Graga, who
travelled in 1843, with those of Lacerda, Texeira, and the Pombeiros,
or native travelling merchants. Finally, he examines critically into the
information collected by Dr. Livingston about the courses of the seve-
ral rivers which he crossed, and disagrees widely from him.* He
places the capital of the Muropue at about 8° S. lat. and 22° E. long.
2. Letter from Dr. Livingston, with a Sketch Map.
This letter was dated Cabango, Lunda country. May 17, 1855. Its
object was to make certain corrections in his first map of the country
adjacent to the Quango, through which he had passed in very cloudy
weather on his outward journey, which corrections of Dr. Livingston
had all been attended to by Mr. Arrowsmith in engraving the map
which accompanies his paper in the lately-issued volume of the Royal
Geographical Society's Journal, and it is, therefore, unnecessary to
notice them at length.
In reference to these papers Mr. Macqueen pointed out that the subject
of them was the same as that of the latter part of his paper of De-
cember 10, 1855, which was only partially read to the Society, but in
which he had arrived at very different conclusions from Mr. Cooley. He
had consulted everything he could find upon the subject, including the autho-
* At the time of writing his Paper, Mr. Cooley had not seen Dr. Livingston's
last communication. — Ed.
