94 SPRATT. BECHER. [June 23, 1856.
3. Routes between the Danube and the Black Sea at Kustendji. By
Captain Spratt, r.n., c.b., of H.M.S. ^ Spitfire.'
Communicated by Captain J. Washington, r.n., f.r.g.s.
This communication was written at the outbreak of the war, but has
been received only a few days since by the Society. Captain Spratt
considers the lakes along the Kara Su valley to be a mere backwater
of the Danube, and that they could be fitted for the navigation of barges
without much diflficulty. The remaining twenty-three miles, to the
Black Sea, might be traversed by carrying the barges on wheels along a
tram-way to the sea at Kustendji, where a breakwater would have to be
constructed to shelter them. The absence of any port at that place
would render an ordinary ship-canal between the Black Sea and the
Danube of little value. Captain Spratt gives itineraries of the routes as
they exist at present, and remarks on the value of Kustendji in a mili-
tary point of view.
4. The Landfall of Columbus, or the Land which was first reached
by him. By Captain A. B. Bechek, r.n., f.r.g.s.
Two islands have hitherto shared this honour — Cat Island, the claims
of which were urged by Washington Irving and subsequently supported
by Baron Humboldt; and Grand Turk Island, adopted by Senor
Navarrete, who has also published all that remains of Columbus' original
journal. It is by availing himself of this publication that Captain
Becher has come to the conclusion, suggested by Seiior Muiioz, that a
third island, Watling Island, was really the land in question. Co-
lumbus' own words are : " It is a tolerably large island, with fine trees
and a large lake in the middle of it ; it has no mountains, and is
covered with verdure, which is pleasing to the eye." Watling Island
is eaten out by a salt-water lake, its highest part is not more than 140
feet above the sea, and it is now called the Garden of the Bahamas.
Captain Becher shows that Columbus did not water his ships there,
though he must clearly have been in great want of water, and there-
fore that this lake must have been salt water and unfit to drink. From
this point he traces him step by step to the port of Nipe, in Cuba,
which appears to be identified beyond question.
5. The Secretary next read a letter from Captain J. Lort Stokes, r.n.,
P.R.G.S., communicating the opinion of Captain Richards, r.n., on the
expediency of despatching a vessel at once, in search of the relics of the
* Erebus ' and ' Terror/ Captain Richards, whose experience in Arctic
travelling is so well known, says : —
