96 PROPOSED ARCTIC EXPEDITION. [June 23, 1856.
" * I am really in doubt as to the preservation of human life. I well know
how glad I would have been, had my duty to others permitted me, to have
taken refuge among the Esquimaux of Smith Strait and Etah Bay. Strange
as it may seem to you, we regarded the coarse life of these people with eyes of
envy, and did not doubt but that we could have lived in comfort upon their
resources. It required all my powers, moral and physical, to prevent my men
from deserting to the Walrus Settlements, and it was my final intention to
have taken to Esquimaux life, had Providence not carried us through in our
hazardous escape.'
" But, passing from speculation, and confining ourselves alone to the question
of finding the missing ships or their records, we would observe that no land
expedition down the Back Kiver, like that which, with great difficulty, re-
cently reached Montreal Island, can satisfactorily accomplish the end we have
in view. The frail birch-bark canoes in which Mr. Anderson conducted his
search with so much ability, the dangers of the river, the sterile nature of the
track near its embouchure, and the necessary failure of provisions, prevented
the commencement even of such a search as can alone be satisfactorily and tho-
roughly accomplished by the crew of a man-of-war, to say nothing of the
moral influence of a strong armed party remaining in the vicinity of the spot
until the confidence of the natives be obtained.
" Many Arctic explorers, independent of those whose names are appended,
and who are now absent on service, have expressed their belief that there are
several routes by which a screw vessel could so closely approach the area in
question, as to clear up all doubt.
" In respect to one of these courses, or that by Behring Strait, along the coast
of North America, we know that a single sailing vessel passed to Cambridge
Bay, within 150 miles of the mouth of the Back Kiver, and returned home
unscathed ; its commander having expressed his conviction that the passage in
question is so constantly open, that ships can navigate it without difficulty in
one season. Other routes, whether by Regent Inlet, Peel Sound, or across
from Repulse Bay, are preferred by officers whose experience in Arctic matters
entitles them to every consideration ; whilst, in reference to two of these
routes, it is right to state that vast quantities of provisions have been left in
their vicinity.
" Without venturing to suggest which of these plans should be adopted, we
earnestly beg your Lordship to sanction without delay such an expedition as,
in the judgment of a committee of Arctic voyagers and geographers, may be
considered best adapted to secure the object.
" We would ask your Lordship to reflect upon the great difference between,
a clearly defined voyage to a narrow and circumscribed area, within which the
missing vessels or their remains must lie, and those former necessarily tenta-
tive explorations in various directions, the frequent allusions to the difficulty
of which, in regions far to the north of the voyage now contemplated, have
led the majority of persons, unacquainted v^th geography, to suppose that
such a modified and limited attempt as that which we propose involves further
risk, and may call for future researches. The very nature of the former expe-
ditions exposed them, it is true, to risk, since regions had to be traversed which
were totally unknown ; while the search we ask for is to be directed to a cir-
cumscribed area, the confines of which have been already reached without dif-
ficulty by one of Her Majesty's vessels.
** Now, inasmuch as France, after repeated fruitless efforts to ascertain the
fate of La Perouse, no sooner heard of the discovery of some relics of that
eminent navigator than she sent out a searching expedition to collect every
fragment pertaining to his vessels, so we trust that those Arctic researches
which have reflected much honour upon our country, may not be abandoned at
the very moment, when an explanation of the wanderings and fate of our last
navigators, seems to be within our grasp.
