100 THE CHINESE AND THEIR REBELLIONS. [June 23, 1856.
grown by the natives). From October, 1854, to April, 1855, the exports were
as follows, according to official returns : — Palm-oil, 35,803^ gallons ; camwood,
19i tons ; rice, 1177 croos (1 croo = ^ bushel) ; cash, 7725 dollars. The
imports consist chiefly in salt provisions, flour, fancy articles, and the various
commodities in demand by the natives. The entire value of imports during
the above period has been 29,963 dollars 39 cents ; yielding a customs revenue
of 2242 dollars 33 cents.
Note. — The foregoing communication was written by Ph. Schdnlein but a
short time before his death, which was announced in a former number of the
Proceeedings. The late President of Liberia, J. J. Eoberts, has since arrived
in this country, and brings the information that the death of this excellent
young man was occasioned not by the ordinary fever of the country, but by
exposure to the sun whilst engaged in botanical researches. Baron Humboldt,
in a letter addressed to Dr. Hodgkin, speaks of him as feeling towards him the
afi'ection of a near relation, and asked aid in obtaining information regarding
him as the greatest favour which could be rendered to the oldest traveller on
the banks of the Oronoco and over the Steppes of Siberia.
2. The Chinese and their Behellions, Sec. By T. T. Meadows, Esq.,
Chinese Interpreter to Her Majesty's Government in China. 8vo.
In this analysis the Preface and the chapter — rather a long one — on Civili-
zation, we leave to the consideration of readers who are fond of theorising.
The first chapter furnishes a geographical account of China, showing the
important distinction between China Proper and the far more extensive and
comparatively independent countries included under the Empire ; giving also
an explanation of the military and civil government.
Ch. ii. — The Emperor is absolute, as being the Teen-tze, the Son of Heaven,
or chosen servant of the Most High ; certainly not so by birth. The idea
of hereditary monarchy existing in China is a fallacy, and when disasters
of war, pestilence, and famine, or other unusual evils occur, the Divine
commission may be withdrawn, unless the monarch repent him of his evil
ways and promptly " return to conformity with Heaven's laws." In fact,
"the pure theory of succession is, that the best and wisest man in the
empire should be nominated," and the principle of primogeniture seems
to be wholly disallowed. " The worthy and talented," the " good and
able," were the persons to be chosen for all appointments, high or low.
The author insists on the system of examinations for de^crees in political
science, ethics, history, and law, which, being indispensai)le in China, he
recommends to the notice of the British Grovernment. The Chinese, though
autocratically governed, have always maintained the right of rebellion, as
the only mode of stopping vicious legislation and administration (Ch. iii.).
The Mongol, and after them the Manchoo dynasties, have for many centuries
oppressed the Chinese and governed the country on principles diametrically
opposite to those established by the fundamental principles of the empire.
Under their misrule " the sale of government posts was most extensively
carried on ; and corruption, tyranny, disaffection, robbery, piracy, local insur-
rections — misgovernment, in short — prevailed up to 1850, when the * Kwang-
se rebellion' broke out" (p. 33); which may haply result in the entire
emancipation of China from the tyranny of the Manchoos, and the establish-
ment either of Christianity, or the old and long-cherished Con-foot-see faith,
under the dominion of a native Chinese sovereign.*
* Hue's work is criticised in Ch. v.
