Jvm 23, 1856.] THE CHINESE AND THElli KEBELLIONS. 101
The rebellion was decidedly religious, and there is ground for believing
that it derived its origin from Christianity. The originator of the movement
was one Hung-sew-tseuen, a poor peasant of the Hwa district, about 30
miles from Canton, who exhibited such early talent, that his parents gave
him an education which enabled him to compete for the degrees at Canton,
though without success, owing probably to the greater interest of more
wealthy candidates ; for every post, degree, or rank, high or low, of late
years, went by money in China. The young Luther of China, however,
destined to be its Napoleon, was not to be daunted. He met with Protestant
missionaries, heard certain startling, consolatory truths, and obtained books
that wholly altered his character, and prepared him for his grand mission,
and appointment by God " to restore the world — that is, China — to the
worship of the true God." (p. 81.) His first converts were humble like
himself, village schoolmasters ; the most important of whom, for future
events, was Fung-yun-san. These two travelled about the mountain pro-
vinces, propagating the new faith, and eventually formed congregations, '
known as the " Society of God- worshippers," which became the strength of
the religious-political rebellion that now shakes the imperial throne, (p. 85.)
From 1840 to 1847 this sect remained in comparative obscurity, gradually
acquiring Christian knowledge under missionaries from Canton ; nor was it
till 1850 that the God- worshippers were brought into collision with the
local authorities, and forced to a movement of a purely political character.
(p. 105.)
Eebellions, however, were no new thing in China. The dynasty of the
Mings was overthrown in the seventeenth century not by the Manchoo
Tartars, but by a native rebel, one Le-tze-ching. Forty years later. Woo-
san-kwei and three other native princes threw off their allegiance from the
Manchoos, and were only subdued, after a war of seven years, by the
Manchoo Emperor Kang-he. From 1683, also, to the present day, South-
eastern China has been the great seat of a formidable political society, best
known as the San-ho-whuy, or Triad Society, the express object of which
has been the expulsion of the barbarian conquerors of their country. Passive,
peaceable opposition to the tyranny of the mandarins, by the way of strikes
among the productive and distributive classes, has been of frequent occur-
rence ; and occasionally companies of bandits or rebels openly defied the
authorities, pillaged the local custom-houses and treasuries, levying black-
mail on the wealthier inhabitants. These, in fact, have become more common
in recent years, owing to the growing corruptions and increasing financial
difficulties of the state ; and in 1849 Mr. Meadows confidently foretold the
downward career and fall of the Manchoo dynasty, (p. 122.)
The formal rising of the God-worshippers occurred in Oct. 1850, with the
view of finally expelling the Manchoos and establishing the new and native
dynasty of Tae-ping, or Universal Peace. These religious insurrectionists
inspired an alarm far greater than any caused by the Triad Society ; and in
July, 1851, an imperial army was organised under Shae-hang-ha to oppose
the rebel troops, who were gradually advancing northward, joined by two
female rebel chiefs, at the head of 4000 followers, and eight chiefs belonging
to the Triad Society, who were allowed to join only on condition that they
would conform to the worship of the true God. (p. 151.) In the autumn of
1851, the Tae-pings left the Seang district and established themselves in
Yung-gan, the capital of which they occupied ; then forming an army of
16,000 against 30,000 of the Imperialists, the latter, however, being any-
thing but efficient troops. It was about this time, too, that Hung-sew-tseuen
assumed the title of " Heavenly," or " Divine Prince." In the following
March the Tae-pings appeared before Nanking, and though a force of 20,000
Manchoos was there to defend that imperial city, they did not strike a blow,
and both soldiers and people were indiscriminately massacred, (p. 170.)
