102 THE CHINESE AND THEIR REBELLIONS. [June 23, 1856.
Three other large and important cities, also, on the Yang-tsc river, were
taken and occupied without resistance ; and the rehel army now amounted to
about 70,000 men.
From the taking of Nanking commences a new era in the history of the
Tae-ping rebels ; for henceforth, instead of moving from place to place in one
united body, they permanently occupy an extensive position in the heart of
the coimtry, and send out separate armies in different directions. In May,
1853, a detached army landed on the north side of the Great liiver, defeated
two bodies of Tartars, and took Fung-yang, whence they advanced to Kae-
fung, the capital of Honan ; but here, as well as at Hwae-king, they were
unsuccessful. In the course of the autumn, however, they captured upwards
of twenty cities, and advanced so far towards Pekin, as greatly to alarm the
court and capital. Loo-chow was taken Jan. 14, 1854 ; -Luh-gan, Feb. 17 ;
and Ling-sing, April 1 ; thus taking city after city as they progressed north-
wards. Another army, meanwhile, was despatched up the Great Eiver to
Nan-chang, the capital of Keang-se, to which they laid siege in June, 1853,
but without success, though detached forces took two other cities to the west-
ward, and pillaged several others. Yo-cliow, Chang- ti, and Tao-yuen were
taken during the summer ; and Woo-chang, the capital of Hoo-pih, sur-
rendered after a siege of 80 days. They shortly after withdrew, but returned
in greater force the ensuing year, when they took Han-kow, and again took
Woo-chang by storm. Such is a brief sketch of the successes effected by the
Tae-pings till the spring of 1855 ; and now the valley of the Great lliver has
again become the exclusive scene of war, on a much more extensive scale
than when they first fought their way through it to Nanking ; in fact,
hundreds of thousands of men, both in the far-east and the near-east, are
engaged in deadly strife for the highest earthly prizes, (p. 189.)
In Chapters xv., xvi., and xvii., are detailed and interesting accounts of the
intercourse of the Tae-pings with the Western foreigners, including Mr.
Meadows's diary of an excursion on the Grand Canal in quest of information
respecting the rebels ; the result of the whole being, that while the author
condemns all foreign intervention whatever, either for or against the Tae-
pings, he considers their establishment in China will contribute essentially to
the peaceable extension of free intercourse and commercial privileges ; whereas
from the present dynasty they can only be obtained by disastrous wars,
calculated to engender long national hatred, and to destroy that very industry
which alone makes commercial intercourse valuable, (p. 325.)
Chapter xviii. contains a very elaborate account of " the philosophy,
morality, and polity of the Chinese, as well as of the religion of the governing
class." There are three great prevailing systems of philosophy in China —
Taouism, Buddhism, and Confucianism ; but the last, more ancient by
centuries than either of the others, has always succeeded in maintaining the
chief ascendency, and is now deemed the orthodox creed throughout the
country. Confucius, or Kung-tsze, however (who was born B.C. 551), was
by no means the originator of Chinese learning, for both metaphysical and
ethical doctrines can be traced more than 2000 years prior to the Christian
era, Fuh-he being considered the founder of Chinese civilization generally.
Confucius, indeed, was rather a commentator and expounder of more ancient
systems than the founder of a new one ; but by him and Mencius, or
Mang-tse (b.c. 317), the whole was amalgamated. After this period the
study of philosophy seems to have been almost dormant, till the invention
of printing in China (a.d. 932), by causing a circulation of the sacred
works, led to a revival of literature and philosophy. Hence we date a
second philosophic epoch, commencing with Chow-tze, a.d. 1034, and closing
with Choo-tze, who died a.d. 1200 ; the last of whom is " the fashioner
of the Chinese mental life as it now exists, and, in virtue of the vast
practical eifect of his labours, may fairly claim to be considered one of
