108 NOTES ON THE ARCTIC EXPEDITIONS. [June 23, 1856.
Island immediately. After a day's chase I caught them, having had the
honour at any rate of being the last to leave the search to the N.W. Captain
Eichards's journey back from Bridport Inlet had been a marvellous one — his
average daily journeys had been 15 miles in straight lines, and at a season of
the year when the labour of wading through snow water and sludge was ex-
cessive. In crossing the head of liyam Martin Channel, his position must
have been most trying. The Strait is nearly 36 miles wide at that point, and
that covered with melted snow, varying from 1 to 3 feet in depth, a ripple
over its surface giving it quite the appearance of open sea, whilst the hum-
mocks, which stood up through it, might be taken for loose driving pack.
It required some confidence and nerve to push on under such circumstances ;
but foreseeing this, or even an early disruption of the ice, we had taken a boat
all the way to Melville Sound ; it only weighed 300 lbs. com]3lete, and gave
some assurance of safety in case of need.
The chart shows the result of the united labours of our division of sledges.
AVith respect to what took place to the N.E., I am as ignorant now as the
public generally must be. A ravine was found, giving promise to a future
traveller of being able to reach the Northern Sea easily out of Alfred Bay in
Wellington Channel. Such ravines are common throughout those Arctic
lands. Water was seen as early as the 28th May, extending to the N.E.
This Sir Edward Belcher, I fancy, believes to be Jones Sound or Strait — it
very probably is so. Bringing back his boat and a large quantity of provisions,
all the N.E. division returned after a 52 days' journey.
North Cornwall had not been revisited by his parties, and I therefore feel
myself at liberty to carry its western coast into 100° long., where, from the
Sisters, I distinctly saw some land bearing N. (true). Of its eastern shore all
I could glean was from Dr. Lyall, who went with Sir Edward Belcher to his
extreme N., an island then called after the Duke of Buckingham. He con-
firmed what I had imagined from my view of it in 1852, that it extended
away to the N.E. far beyond our ken.
I have now brought up our labours to the commencement of a retrograde
movement ; and although after that we had many long months of suffering
and hard work, it was, I may say, more in connexion with preserving the
centralisation of our squadron and certain postal arrangements, than that of
the search for Franklin's squadron.
Whilst vre completed the work from Queen Channel to Hecla and Fury
Gulf, Captain Kellett's crews were working admirably to the W. and N.W. of
the last meridian. Commander M'Clintock and Lieutenant Mecham each
made enormous journeys of about 1100 or 1200 miles. They explored the
shores of two islands, Eglinton and Prince Patrick, the terminal ones of the
Parry group, and thus set at rest any questions as to the ' Erebus ' or ' Terror '
being anywhere upon those shores ; whilst upon the western coast, ice of such
extraordinary thickness was found as to hold out no prospect of a navigable
sea in those latitudes.
In 1852 Captain Kellett's squadron, then falling back with the crew of the
' Investigator ' as passengers, was caught by the winter, and spent a season in
the pack, driving with it about 80 miles nearer home before it became perma-
nently fixed. In 1853 Captain Kellett, keeping in view the service he went
to execute, sent off his available officers and men to leave infoi-mation for
Captain Collinson of Captain M'Clure's safety. That summer, after one of
the most rapid sledge journeys upon record, we learned from Lieutenant Mecham
the intelligence of Captain Collinson's having, a year after M'Clure, visited
Prince of Wales Land, and that he had gone on to the eastward by Dolphin
and Union Strait.
Of the rest of our achievements I refrain from speaking, and beg now to
touch upon the results of our labours, as affecting that science to which this
Society is devoted.
