( 111 )
PRESENTATION
ROYAL AWARDS
TO ELI^HA KENT KANE, M.D. ; TO HEINRICH BARTH, PH.D.,
AND TO CORPORAL CHURCH, of the Ilmjal Sajipers and Mi7iers,
His Excellency G. M. Dallas, Minister of the United States of
America, Raving consented to receive the Gold Medal awarded to
Dr. Kane, the President addressed him as follows : —
" Sir, — The Founder's Gold Medal, the highest honour this Society-
has in its power to bestow, has been awarded to Dr. Kane, of the
United States of America, for his distinguished services and important
discoveries in the Polar regions, while in charge of the expedition
fitted out in America to search for Sir John Franklin ; and for his
valuable Memoir and Charts, commimicated through the Admiralty.
" In the absence of Dr. Kane himself, I could desire no greater
privilege than that of confiding the award, Dr. Kane has so justly
deserved, to the hands of the distinguished representative of the
nation to which he belongs ; in order that the feeling of this Society,
and I may say of the country at large, may go forth in its fullest
extent to the land which enrols the name of Dr. Kane among her
citizens. Sir, I cannot discharge this duty without passing a remark
on the peculiarity of the circumstances attending this occasion.
" It seldom happens that nations so distantly situated, sponta-
neously unite in such acts of humanity as those which have charac-
terized the late search for Sir J. Franklin. More rarely still do
we find the sympathies of individuals so enlisted in the fate of
foreigners, as to manifest themselves in acts of philanthropy of such
a truly liberal and substantial character as have here occurred ; and
this act of the United States, together with the names of Grinnell
and Peabody, will long be remembered in this country, even after
the spirit of Arctic enterprise Fhall have passed away. But, Sir, if
the feelings of nations have been deeply enlisted in this search, how
much more so must have been the feelings of individuals, who enjoyed
the friendship of the object of it ? Sir, there are persons now present
who were early associated with our lamented countryman, who
shared with him his first perilous encounter with that icy element
which was afterwaids to become his tomb, and who enjoyed his
friendship through life.
M
