112 DR. KANE— ROYAL AWARDS. [May 26, 185G.
" As one of these, you may imagine that it is with no small degree
of interest that I find myself now, in my official capacity, conveying
this award of the Society, to the officer who so strenuously endea-
voured to determine the fate of him, whom we all so deeply deplore.
" These sympathies, however, have had no share in the decision
of the Council. Dr. Kane's merits alone, have won for him this testi-
mony of the Society ; and I trust that these reciprocal acts of good
feeling between nations and individuals may tend to bind in lasting
ties of amity these two great nations, whose sympathies have been
shown to be so closely identified."
His Excellency the, American Minister, having received the Medal,
replied : —
. " Mr. President,— On behalf of my fellow- citizen, Dr. Elisha Kent
Kane, I receive, with equal pride and pleasure, this testimonial,
awarded by your learned body, to his ability and services in that
branch of human knowledge, to which you are specially devoted.
" His country also, even now engaged in expressing her high
sense of his deserts, will be gratified to learn that her judgment,
which might, possibly, be ascribed to partiality, has been thus
sanctioned.
" Young as he yet is, and fairly entitled to count upon many years
of zealous intellectual activity, he can never achieve a prouder recog-
nition, considered in all its aspects, than this Medal of the Koyal
Geographical Society of London.
" Dr. Kane, as is personally known to me, entered upon his career
of Arctic exploration under the influence of sentiments which were
strengthened, rather than shaken, by its depicted terrors. In the
medical department of the navy of the United States, on a remote
station, his Government scarcely intimated a disposition to join in
the search for Sir John Franklin, before he hurried forward to volun-
teer an enlistment for that noble purpose. There was a voice upon
the breeze that had caught his ear ; an ardent fondness for scientific
studies impelled him to a fresh field of research ; a daring and irre-
pressible spirit of enterprise co-operated with much experience and
peculiar attainments. He went — he went twice; and, though he
vainly offered his own life to rescue another's, he brought back with
him observations, verifications, discoveries, and delineations, worthy
to bo accepted by the masters of geographical science. If, as I
believe was the case, he penetrated to and actually beheld the ice-
encircled yet open sea, whose existence had been predicated of the
periodical northern flight of aquatic birds, of certain currents, and
of other indicia, he. may justly feel that the practical solution of an
interesting problem has earned the honour of your approbation.
" I do not wish, Mr. President, to eulogise my countryman. You
are far more competent than myself to appreciate the exact value of
what he has eff'ected. Your Council have affixed to his record this
tljoir Great Seal ; and at your invitation, and with alacrity, I assume
the grateful task of transmitting it safely to his hands."
