May 2G, 1856.] DR. BARTH— ROYAL AWARDS. 113
Tho President then addressed Dr. Barth, who was present, in the
following words : —
" Sir, — The Patron's Gold Medal of this Society has been awarded
to you ' for your successful and extensive explorations in Central
Africa, your numerous excursions about Lake Chad, your discovery
of the great river Bmue, and for your hazardous and adventurous
journey to and from Timbuctii,' by which you have aiforded to us
tho first really authentic information respecting that important
locality.
" In conveying to you this testimony of the high sense entertained
by this Society of the merit of 3"our performances, I cannot overlook
the important fact that it is just thirty-three years since I found
assembled upon the shores of Africa, whence you started, the dis-
tinguished but lamented travellers Oudney, Clapperton, Denham,
and Tyrwhitt, all bent upon the same great enterprise of opening
out the interior of that continent ; and although Laing, one of our
countrymen, did afterwards succeed in reaching the famed Timbuctii,
yet of all this party, and of those who attempted that great exploit,
you alone stand upon our shores as the successful accomplisher of
the entei-prise.
" If, Sir, the service performed be measured by the difficulty of
accomplishment, evidenced by the lapse of time and by the loss of
life that has occurred in this adventurous attempt, the award of our
Medal must be acknowledged to be justly merited. But you have
other performances to strengthen your claim ; for we are informed
that your labours have been so extensive, that the account of them
will reach over five volumes of matter, which, collected in such a
country, must prove of the highest import.
" Sir, I congratulate you on tho successful accomplishment of your
undertaking, and trust that this high tribute will stimulate you to
future enterprises."
Dr. Barth replied : —
" Mr. President, — It is with great pride and satisfaction that I am
here to receive, at your hands, the Medal which the Council of the
Eoyal Geographical Society has awarded to me ; for nothing can bo
more gratifying to a man who, from love of science, has thrown
himself into a dangerous and adventurous career, like that of a tra-
veller in the inhospitable and turbulent regions of Central Africa,
than the acknowledgment of such a distinguished body of learned
and eminent men as the Council of the Eoyal Geographical Society.
But it is not alone on my own behalf that I thank you ; as a member
of a foreign nation, who will be honoured by the distinction which
to-day you have conferred upon me, I oifer you also their acknow-
ledgments as well as my own grateful thanks.
" I shall say nothing on the extent and purport of my discoveries,
which have been fully appreciated by competent men, and will
shortly bo laid before the public in a full accoimt of my Travels.
May I only be allowed to express the hope that, after a great and
M 2
