118 REAIl-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 185G.
appeared the work on which his fame chiefly rests — the Memoirs
of the Life and Writings of Camoens, the merits of which have been
appreciated at home and abroad. In 1836 he printed for private
circulation, under the title of ' Bibliotheca Lusitana,' a catalogue of
the books in his library relating to Portugal — an interesting piece
of bibliogi'aphy.
Mr. Adamson's last literary work was a labour of love. He
ushered into the world the first five cantos of the ' Lusiad,' trans-
lated by his friend Mr. Quillinan, whose lamented death prevented
him from completing the task he had imposed upon himself. He
was also the editor of several of the publications issued by the Typo-
graphical Society of Newcastle. His literary correspondence ex-
tends over half a century, and includes letters from geographers,
antiquaries, numismatists, naturalists, poets, men of letters and
science, and other distinguished persons in various parts of the
world. He was a corresponding member of the Royal Society of
Northern Antiquaries at Copenhagen, of the Literary Society of
Iceland, of the Royal Academy of Inscriptions, Belles Lettres, &c.,
at Stockholm, of the Royal Society of Literature of Courland, of
the Royal Academy of Sciences of Lisbon, of the Archaeological
Academy of Madrid, a member of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, as well as a Fellow of the Royal Geo-
graphical, the Linnean, and the Antiquarian Societies.
Barclay, Charles, Esq., f.s.a., formerly of Bury Hill, was the head
of the world-known firm of Barclay, Perkins, and Co.
In 1815 Mr. Barclay was elected a member of Parliament fur the
borough of Southwark. He possessed a liberal and enlightened
mind and a benevolent disposition. He was an active and intelli-
gent magistrate for the county of Surrey, and a generous promoter
of education. His death was occasioned by a fall from his horse.
Buckingham, James Silk, Esq., was born near Falmouth, in 1786.
In his youth, he passed several years at sea, and also in a variety of
occupations on shore ; among which, his woiking as a compositor in
printing ofiices proved of most influence on his career through life.
He first became known in public affairs, by his attempts to open up
the journalism of India. Mr, Buckingham first went to Calcutta
about the year 1815, and always retained much interest in Indian
affairs, and hailed with warm satisfaction the removal of the restric-
tions on the press in India, which the wise and liberal policy of
Lords Metcalfe and William Bentinck at length effected. In 1825 he
established in London a paper, the ' Oriental Herald,' the pre-
