May 26, 1856.] OBITUARY. 119
cursor of the ' Athenaeum,' and of various other journals. On his
way to and from India, Mr. Buckingham travelled through different
countries, and afterwards published narratives of his travels. In
1822 appeared 'Travels in Palestine;' in 1825, 'Arabia;' in 1827,
' Mesopotamia and adjacent Countries;' and in 1830, 'Assyria and
Media.' At a later period, he made tours in various parts t)f Europe
and North America, his account of the latter occupying no fewer
than ten volumes, three devoted to the Northern States of the Union,
three to the Slave States, three to the Eastern and Western States,
and one to Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick. The Eu-
ropean travels are described in two volumes on Belgium, the Ehine,
and Switzerland. All these contain much valuable descriptive and
statistical matter, the author having paid more attention than is
usual with tourists, to the social condition of the countries which he
visited. Mr. Buckingham was one of the most pleasing and instruc-
tive popular lecturers, especially in describing places which he had
visited. In 1832, he was elected M.P. for Sheffield in the first
reformed Parliament, and retained his seat till 1837. In his politi-
cal life, he chiefly took an active part in questions affecting social
reforms ; and the temperance movement had in him a zealous advo-
cate. In 1849, he published a volume, entitled ' National Evils and
Piactical Eemedies,' in which he expounded his views on a variety
of topics of public interest. Mr. Buckingham died on the 30th of
June last, aged 69. His last work, published a few months before
his death, was his ' Autobiography.'
Carr, Commander Washington, entered the navy in 1811, and in
May, 1843, was appointed to the command, in the West Indies, of
the ' Hermes ' steam-sloop. Commander Carr was known as an
amiable man and a sincere friend.
Chattertox, Sir William A., Bart., an early Fellow of this Society,
died in August last, at KoUs Park, Essex. He was born in 1787,
and was the second Baronet, a Deputy-Lieutenant of the county of
Cork, a Vice-President of the Koyal Literary Fund, a Fellow of
the Zoological Society, and a member of the Imperial Academy of
Sciences of St. Petersburg.
CoLQUHOUN, the Chevalier James de, ll.d., &c., one of the earliest
Fellows of this Society, was the only son of Dr. Patrick Colquhoun,
late Lord Provost of Glasgow, one of the first who applied him-
self to the development of the statistics of the British empire.
He founded and carried out the present system of Thames Police,
whereby the mercantile interest is now so bfSciently protected ; and
