120 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 20, 1856.
suggested in his work on the Metropolitan Police, the adoption of
an improved system for the protection of public property and of
personal safety, subsequently carried out by the late Sir Eobert Peel.
In 1800, he became the private secretary of Mr. Dundas, then the
Secretary of State for the War Department ; three years later, he
received the appointment of Deputy Agent-General for the payment
of volunteers. In 1817, the Hanseatic republics constituted him their
representative here, and the legislatures of St. Yincent, Dominica,
St. Christopher, Tortola, Tobago, Nevis, and the Virgin Islands, at
diiferent times nominated him to watch over their interests. In
1827, he was appointed Consul-General of the King of Saxony ; and
in 1848, his Eoyal Highness the late Grand Duke of Oldenburg
appointed him his Charge d'AfFaires. He was Knight Commander
of the first class of the Royal Saxon Order of Civil Merit. On the
signature by Reshid Pasha, of a treaty of recognition between the
Hanseatic republics, as their Plenipotentiary he received the Order
of Iftihar of the first class fiom the Sultan ; and the Hanseatic re-
publics conferred on him the honorary diploma of citizenship, to
which the Senate of Liibeck and Hamburg added their honorary
medal. The University of Glasgow also conferred on him the
honorary degree of LL.D. ; and the Royal Antiquarian Society of
Athens constituted him an honorary fellow. As Hanseatic Plenipo-
tentiary he signed the commercial treaties with Great Britain, the
Ottoman Porte, Mexico, and Liberia ; and he also signed a treaty,
as Saxon Plenipotentiary, with Mexico. He died on the 23rd of
July, 1855, in the 76th year of his age.
EsTCOURT, Major-General J. B. Bucknall, died before Sebastopol
last June, of that disease — cholera — which carried off so many of our
brave countrymen, in his 53rd year.
General Estcoru*t, educated at Plarrow, entered the army as an
ensign, and served in the expedition to the River Euphrates from
1836 to 1837 ; he went out in 1854 on the staff of Lord Raglan ; and
served as Adjutant-General of the Forces, from the first landing in
the Crimea, sharing the glories and dangers of Alma, Balaclava,
and Inkermann. In 1848 he was elected a member of parliament
for Devizes.
Eraser, James Baillie, Esq., of Reelick, Inverness, a Deputy-
Lieutenant of that county, died in January last, in his seventy-
second year. He was bom in June, 1783, and was the eldest of
four brothers, all remarkable men, sons of the late Edward S.
Fraser. James Baillie went early in life to the West Indies ; but
