May 26, 1856.] . OBITUAKV. 121
after a short residence there he resolved, like his brothers, to pro-
ceed to the East, whence he returned to this country, about the year
J 822. Mr. Eraser again went to India, and was employed in a
diplomatic mission, in the course of which he rode on horseback
from Constantinople to Ispahan, the fatigues and hardships of which
gave the first shock to his vigorous constitution. When the Per-
sian princes visited this country, he was requested by Government
to accompany and take charge of them ; and on their return, he went
with them as far as Constantinople. Latterly, Mr. Eraser became a
zealous improver of his Highland estate, which is almost unequalled
for its magnificent woods and romantic bum scenery.
In 1820, Mr. Eraser published a ' Tour through the Snowy Eange
of the Himalaya Mountains ; ' in 1825, a ' Narrative of a Joumcy
into Khorasan in the Years 1821 and 1822, including an Accoimt
of the Countries to the North-East of Persia ; ' and in 1826, ' Travels
and Adventures in the Persian Provinces.' In 1838, appeared his
work, *A Winter Journey from Constantinople to Tehran, with
Travels through various parts of Persia.' He wrote also a History
of Persia, contributed various pieces to the Annuals, and ventured
once more into the regions of fiction by a Scottish story, ' The
Highland Smugglers.' His last work was a military memoir of
Colonel Skinner, a distinguished Indian officer, who died at Delhi
in 1 841 , and was buried by the side of his friend William Eraser.
Mr. Eraser was as accomplished as an artist, as he was as an
author. He was an exquisite painter in water-colours, and several
of his drawings of Eastern scenes have been engraved.
Hall, Dr. George, was well known as an accomplished traveller.
Elected, in 1822, a Radcliffe Travelling Eellow of Oxford, he went
abroad, and, after visiting the greater part of Europe, joined the
Count Alexander de la Borde, who, with his son Count Leon and
the Duke de Eichelieu, were about to travel in the East. Dr. Hall
accompanied that distinguished party throughout the whole of their
well-known journey through Egypt and Asia Minor, which gave
him opportunities of visiting some parts of those countries then
little known.
Whilst at Jericho he made an excursion to the ruins of the cities
of Geraza and Amman, in the country E. of the Jordan, of, which he
printed an account in 1851, for private .circulation. It is to be
regretted that with the exception of a description of Azani, which
appears in Colonel Keppel's 'Journey across the Balkan,' no other
portions of his travels have as yet been published.
