122 BEAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
His varied and extensive knowledge and a most amiable disposi-
tion made his society always mncli sought after, and endeared him
to a large circle of friends who will long deplore his loss.
Hammond, William, Esq., was elected a Fellow in the year 1838.
Harris, Captain Fortescne William, was born in 1821, edu-
cated at the Eoyal Naval School, and afterwards entered the mer-
chant service. After many voyages to China, the East and West
Indies, he was appointed to the command of the ' Madagascar ' in
1852 ; went to Calcutta and back, and sailed on the 6th of March,
1853, for Melbourne, Victoria. He left Melbourne homeward-
bound on the 12th of August the same year, since which time no-
thing has been heard of the crew or ship, which is supposed to have
foundered while coming round Cape Horn.
Irving, Edward George, m.d., r.n., was born 1st April, 1816, in
the parish of Hoddam, Dumfriesshire, where he commenced his edu-
cation and continued his studies for several years. He then went
to the University of Edinburgh, and remained there until he ob-
tained the degree of M.D. In 1840, he entered her Majesty's navy,
and joined H.M.S. * Britannia.' On the 14th October, 1840, he
wa-s appointed to H.M.S. ' Bellerophon,' Captain C. Austen, and
was present at the siege of Acre. In August, 1841, he joined
H.M.S. ' Isis,' Captain Sir John Marshall, on the Cape of Good Hope
station, and remained in her three years. His next appointment
was in 1845, to H.M.S. ' Tortoise,' for sei*vice on the Island of
Ascension. He continued on the African coast until June, 1848,
during which time fever prevailed to a great extent, and his own
health suffered severely. He remained in England until May,
1850, when he again returned to the West Coast of Africa in H.M.
steam-sloop ' Prometheus,' Captain Henry Foote : that officer having
been ordered to proceed on a mission to Abbeokuta, Dr. Irving
accompanied him thither ; and on his return to England, in January,
1853, he wrote an account of their journey, which was published
in the ' Church Missionary Intelligencer. '*
The testimony of Captain Foote and Dr. Ii-ving proved that the
natives of Abbeokuta and the Yoruba tribe generally, are an enter-
prising, industrious, and tractable people, and that the effect of
missionary labour had been, to turn their thoughts from war and
kidnapping to peace and the pursuits of lawful commerce. They
* Vide 'Church Missionary Intelligencer,' June, August, and October, 1853.
-Ed.
