May 26, 1856.] ^OBITUARY. 123
had also entered into treaty with the English Government, and
friendly relations had been established with the British consuls on
the coast, as well as with her Majesty's cruisers engaged in the sup-
pression of the slave trade..
In this state of things the missionaries were the only persons
able to give the natives advice upon their political and commercial
affairs ; yet it was obviously desirable that, as religious teachers *
they should be relieved as far as possible from such temporal cares ;
and for this purpose the Committee of the Church Missionary
Society determined to send out a lay agent, who, while on friendly
and confidential terms with the missionaries, might also be autho-
rised to communicate Avith the Consul and naval officers, as well as
with the Home Government, upon matters which may tend to
promote British interests and commercial relations with the native
tribes.
Dr. Irving's experience of nine years upon the West Africa coast,
and the interest which he had taken in native civilisation and Chris-
tianity, pointed him out as a most eligible person for such an office.
It was, therefore, proposed to him to go out for three years on this
mission, and he readily acceded to the proposal. The Lords Com-
missioners of the Admiralty having granted the leave of absence,
Lord Clarendon, as her Majesty's Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
gave his sanction to the arrangement, and furnished Dr. Irving with
letters of introduction to the consuls. Furnished by the Hydro-
graphic Office and by this Society with instruments, with the use
of which he had made himself perfectly acquainted, Dr. Irving
proceeded to Africa in January, 1854, and diligently improved eveiy
opportunity for gaining the confidence of the natives, for promoting
internal peace, and for inducing the chiefs to open and protect roads
from various towns in the interior, to the coast. His period of
labour was very short. He fell a victim to the climate after fifteen
months' residence, and his death was deplored by all the native
chiefs as a national calamity. His botanical collections have been
sent to our learned associate. Sir William Hooker, at Kew.
King, Philip Parker, Rear-xidmiral of the Blue, f.r.s. — Admiral
King, the son of Philip Gidley King, Esq., Post-Captain in the Royal
Kavy, was born at Norfolk Island on the 13th of December, 1793, and
was consequently in the 63rd year of his age. In early life, when only
in his sixteenth year, his gallant conduct in boat actions, had ob-
tained the favourable notice of the officers in command. In later
years, he conducted a survey of the coasts of Australia, and subse-
