124 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECH EY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 185(5.
quently of the southern coasts of America. In Febmaiy, 1817, he
was entrusted with the conduct of an expedition having for its
object a survey of the coasts of Australia, a service on which he
continued employed in the ' Mermaid,' cutter, and ' Bathurst,' sloop
—to the command of which he was promoted by commission, dated
17th July, 1821— until his return to England in 1823. The results
of the undertaking are contained in a Narrative of the Survey of the
Inter- tropical and Western Coasts of Australia, and in an Atlas, both
compiled by Captain King, and published, the former by Murray,
and the latter by the Hydrographic Office of the Admiralty. In
September, 1825, from the feeling of confidence with which he had
impressed the Admiralty, in the discharge of his late duties, he was
appointed to the 'Adventure,' sloop, and ordered to survey the
southern coast of America, from the entrance of the Eio de la Plata
round to Chiloe, and that of Tierra del Fuego. He was paid off on
his arrival in England, 16th November, 1830, and has not been since
employed. His post commission bears date 25th February, 1830.
In 1832, Captain King published, as the partial fruit of his recent
voyage, a Volume entitled, ' Sailing Directions to the Coasts of
Eastern and Western Patagonia, including the Straits of Magellan,
and the Sea Coast of Tierra del Fuego.' ,
On his retirement from active service. Captain King returned to
Australia, and shortly after his arrival, succeeded Sir Edward Parry
as manager of the aifairs of the Australian Agricultural Society, the
duties of which office he discharged with characteristic and exem-
plary ability and attention for several years. He was appointed a
nominee member of the Legislative Council by the governor. Sir
Charles FitzRoy ; but latterly he held his seat in the House in the
more honourable capacity of a representative member, having, at the
general elections of 1851, offered himself as a candidate for the con-
stituency of Gloucester and ]\Iacquarie, and on that occasion was
returned by a large majority over his opponent, Mr. Joseph Sim-
mons. During the last session of Council, he strongly supported, in
particular, the proposition for the establishment of a nautical school.
For some time past he held the office of chairman of the Denomi-
national Board of Education, and was consequently regarded as the
representative of that body in the Council.
His was the first instance of a native of Australia rising to so
distinguished a rank in the British navy, and every one must feel
a deep regret that his enjoyment of the honour was for so brief a
period.
