May 26, 185G.] OBITUARY. 125
Both in public and in private^ life, Admiral King merited, as he
obtained, the cordial regard and high respect of all to whom he was
known, whether personally or by repute.
Lawrence, the Hon. Abbott, who died at the age of 63, was the
fifth son of Samuel Lawrence, and was born in Groton, Massa-
chusetts, became a member of the Common Council of Boston in
1831, and in 1834 was elected to Congress, and served the term.
He declined a re-election, but consented in 1839 to be a candidate
to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Eichard Fletcher,
was elected, and took his seat in the House in December of that
year. Upon his entrance into Congress he was put on the Com-
mittee of Waj^s and Means.
Mr. Lawrence, in 1842, was appointed a commissioner on the
part of Massachusetts, to arrange the North-Eastern Boundary
Question, and rendered most efficient service. In 1849, he was
invited by General Taylor to take a seat in his Cabinet. He de-
clined the offer, but accepted the appointment of Minister to Great
Britain, the duties of which office he performed honourably to him-
self, satisfactorily to this, and advantageously to his own country.
Mr. Lawrence was public spirited, liberal, charitable, and benevo-
lent. In all schemes of public improvement he took a deep interest,
and aided them with his hand and purse. His foundation of the
Lawrence Scientific School, at Cambridge, by a gift of 60,000 dol-
lars, and the bequest of an additional 50,000 dollars in his will,
his establishing prizes for the deserving scholars of the public
schools, and the aid always "generously given by him to churches
and to religious and charitable associations, are well known.
Loch, James, Esq., died last July at his residence in Albemarle-
street, aged 75. He was an Advocate and Barrister-at-Law, and
Fellow of the Koyal Geographical, Geological, Statistical, and
Zoological Societies of London ; formerly M.P. for the Kirkwall and
Wick district of burghs.
Mr. Loch was the author of a 'Memoir of George Granville, lato
Duke of Sutherland,' 4to. 1834; and his second son was the late
Captain G. G. Loch, r.n., f.r.g.s.. Surveyor of the Eiver San
Juan de Nicaragua, and author of ' The Closing Events of the
Campaign in China,' 1843, 8vo.
Mitchell, Colonel Sir Thomas L., d.c.l., f.r.s., Suiveyor- General
of New South Wales, and one of the earliest members of this Society,
died in October last, aged 63. He joined the army in the Peninsula
when only sixteen, served on Wellington's slaff to the close of
