2 BELLOT. [Nov. 12, 1855.
of 1853, over which I had the honour to preside, let me inform you
that through the hearty co-operation of Her Majesty's Government and
partiality of the Admiralty, and the good will of the Governors of
Greenwich Hospital, a site was obtained which testifies at once our
gratitude and admiration ; for the obelisk, designed by Mr. P. Hard-
wick, is erected on the bank of the river from which the young French
officer sailed, in the ' Phosnix,' commanded by Captain Inglefield, and
bears on its sides, which face the river and our great Naval Hospital,
the honoured name of * Bellot.'
" It having been resolved that a Cenotaph to the memory of Franklin
and his companions is to be placed in the hall of Greenwich Hospital
— which is held to be sacred to the memory of the noblest of our sea-
men — I am sure you will unite with me in rejoicing that the memorial
to the young French officer should thus be raised in proximity to the
tribute of national regard which is paid to our lamented Polar heroes.
" It must further be highly gratifying to all members of the Poyal
Geographical Society to see that our efforts to do justice to a French
officer have been duly appreciated in his native country, as testified by
the presence on this occasion of Count de Persigny, the Ambassador
who worthily represents a Sovereign gifted with extensive geographical
knowledge, and who has himself taken a deep interest in British
Polar expeditions. If Englishmen, to their credit, willingly came for-
ward to manifest their sense of the noble bearing of a young French-
man, let them remember that France, ever prompt to reward her own
brave sons, had also her testimonial ; and that the Emperor Louis
Napoleon assigned from his own purse a pension to the family of
Bellot.
" May, then, the monument, which was erected at the call of the
Royal Geographical Society in honour of the young Frenchman, be, for
ages to come, a symbol of the union of the two countries in the cause of
humanity, and for the advancement of our science."
The Count de Persigny, the French Ambassador, then rose and
replied —
'* Monsieur le President, — Permettez moi de remercier Sir Roderick
Murchison de ce qu'il vient de dire en faveur de I'Empereur et de la
France. Le sujet dont il vient de vous entretenir m'a vivement inte-
resse. Ce que j'admire dans cette circonstance ce n'est pas seulement
le devouement de M. Bellot au milieu des plus rudes epreuves, mais
c*est par-dessus tout, la sympathie que sa mort a excitee dans toute
r Angieterre. Le spectacle extraordinaire d'une grande nation pleurant
sur la tombe d'un simple officier Fran^ais a profondement touche les
cocurs du peuple Fran9ais ; cette circonstance a plus fait pour fortifier
I'alliance des deux pays que les calculs de la politique ; et c'est un grand
honneur pour votreSociete d'avoirainsi provoqueune demonstration qui
a si fort contribuee a Tunion des deux peuples."
Captain Washington, r.n., Hydrographer to the Admiralty, said —
" I need hardly say with what gratification, in common I am sure
