126 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
tlie war, and was subsequently sent back to survey the battle-fields
of the Peninsula. His model of the Lower Pyrenees is in the
United Service Museum. In 1827, he was sent to survey Eastern
Australia, having the appointment of Deputy Surveyor-Geneial. A
rejiort of all his surveys is to be published by the Australian Legis-
lature. Sir T. Mitchell made several exploring expeditions into the
interior of the country, of which valuable narratives have been
published.
In Australia, the name of Sir Thomas Mitchell will be remembered
with respect, as one of the earliest and most useful explorers of these
rapidly-rising colonies.
MoLESWORTH, the Eight Hon. Sir William, Bart., m.p., f.r.s., died in
October last, at his residence in Eaton-place, in his forty-sixth year.
Sir William was the eighth baronet of Pencarrow, Cornwall, her
Majesty's principal Secretary of State for the Colonies, and M.P. for
Southwark, a deputy -lieutenant and magistrate of Cornwall, &c.
On his entry into public life, Sir William joined with that section
of philosophical Radicals , who were for a period united by subscrip-
tion to the doctrines of Bentham; he contributed to the 'West-
minster Review,' and published at his own cost an elaborate edition
of the works of Ilobbes. He took office, with a seat in the Cabinet,
some three years ago ; and, last spring, was raised to that paiticular
office, the Colonial Secretaryship, for which universal consent pro-
nounced him to be so eminently fitted. Sir William, on the recom-
mendation of Sir Roderick Murchison, appointed our Associate, Dr.
C. P. Sutherland, who had previously accompanied Captain Penny
and Captain Inglefield to the Arctic regions, as Government Geolo-
gist and Surveyor at Port Natal, a post for which his abilities emi-
nently qualified him.
Neeld, Joseph, Esq., m.p., f.s.a., f.l.s., died, at his residence in
Grosvenor-square, last March, aged C7. Mr. Keeld was a Deputy-
Lieutenant of Wiltshire, M.P. for Chippenham, and High Steward of
Malmesbury.
OuTRAM, Sir Benjamin Fonseca, m.d., r.n., c.b., f.r.s., also one
of the earlier Fellows of this Society, died at Brighton in February
last, aged 82. He was the son of Captain W. Outram, was first
employed in the medical naval service in 1794, and rose to the rank
of surgeon in 179G. He graduated at the University of Edinburgh
in 1809, became a licentiate of the College of Physicians in 1810,
and was a few years since elected a Fellow. During the long
war he was actively engaged in his professional duties, and received
