May 26, 1856.] ' 0BITIJAR7. 127
a medal and clasps for the actions in the ' Nymphe,' the ' Boadicea,'
and the ' Superb.' Ho was appointed Inspector of Fleets and Hos-
pitals in 1841, and in 1850 nominated a Companion of the Bath and
a Knight Bachelor. Sir Benjamin took a lively interest in the
pursuits of this Society, and constantly attended its evening ,
meetings. He was a true friend and a kindhearted man, and
in his will bequeathed various sums to several charitable institu-»
tions.
Parry, Kear- Admiral Sir William Edward, Kt.,^ d.c.l., f.r.s., &c.
&c. — It is now my melancholy duty to pay a tribute of respect and
regard to our great Arctic navigator, Sir Edward Parry, whose
memory will ever be coupled with the records of Arctic adventure
of the nineteenth century. Early associated with Sir E. Parry as a
messmate, afterwards his first lieutenant during the memorable
voyage to Melville Island, and his friend through life, I shall, I
am sure, be excused for dwelling on his distinguished career. He
was born at Bath in the year 1790, and entered the Eoyal Kavy at
the age of twelve, under the patronage of Lord Cornwallis. Zealous
in his profession, intelligent and ambitious. Parry soon recom-
mended himself to notice, and in January, 1810, he was promoted
to the rank of Lieutenant and appointed to the ' Alexander,' em-
ployed in protecting the Spitzbergen whale fishery. It was here
that he first became acquainted with that frozen ocean, amidst whose
dangers and difficulties he was destined to earn celebrity. Subse-
quently serving in the ' Hogue,' he assisted in destroying twenty-
seven of the enemy's vessels, three of which were heavy privateers.
This, and a few skirmishes with the Danish gunboats, are the only
actions with the enemy which fell to his lot.
On his return to England in 1817, the extraordinary changes
reported to have taken place in the state of the Polar Sea, determined
the Government to equip an expedition for Arctic discovery. Then
was the turning-point in Parry's life. Like most men of enterprise,
he seized the occasion and determined to devote himself to Arctic
adventure. There are but few who have not, at some time, the
chance of distinction, and Parry took advantage of his. We accord-
ingly find him in command of the ' Alexander/ and, under the orders
of Sir John Ross, leaving England in quest of the North-West Pas-
sage, by way of Davis Strait ; the result of this expedition, it is well
known, was the restoration to our map of the outline of Baffin Bay,
and the re-discovery of the famed Lancaster Sound.
Dissatisfied, however, with the account which had been given of
N
