128 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [Mat 2G, 1856.
the result of this voyage, and anxious to remove an erroneous imprcs-
sion conveyed by Sir John Eoss on the subject of Lancaster Sound,
he made such representations to the Admiralty as induced Govern-
ment to send another expedition to the same place. Of this expedi-
tion Sir E. Parry was appointed chief. During the voyage, an
opportunity occurred for displaying that vigour and determination
in overcoming difficulties, which, though they might daunt the
generality of men, were unable to turn him from his purpose. In the
upper part of Baffin Bay there presented itself what appeared to be
an impenetrable barrier of ice; undismayed by the dangers that
threatened, he dashed into the midst of it, accomplished his purpose,
and entering Lancaster Sound in safety, succeeded in passing over
that imaginary chain of mountains with which Ross had closed the
strait.
The demolition of these phantom mountains, and the discovery of
the opening into the Polar Sea on the west, of Prince Pegent Inlet
on the south, and of Wellington Channel on tlie north, together with
Parry Islands (the Ultima Thule of Arctic discovery) and Banks
Land, the terminating points of Sir E. Parry's and Sir R. M'Clure's ex-
plorations from opposite directions, were the consequences of the first
summer of this expedition. Having passed the meridian 110° W.,
the Commander and his associates became entitled to the award of
5000/. offered by Government for the encouragement of Arctic enter-
prise. The winter they were destined to pass in this dreary region
afforded another opportunity for Parry to display those qualities
which so eminently fitted him for the work he had selected, since,
by his admirable arrangements for the health, comfort, and amuse-
ment of his men, he was enabled to keep the crews in vigour,
mental and bodily, while, by the vast number of observations he
carried on, he determined his geographical position with a precision
worthy of a better object.
In the following spring, by an overland journey, he discovered
Liddon Gulf, where his broken cart remained to be seen by M'Clin-
tock, thirty years afterwards. Finding any farther advance with
his ship impossible, he determined in the latter part of the summer
of 1820 to return to England, where he arrived in safety, and received,
on all sides, a most enthusiastic greeting. He had but little rest,
however, for in the May following he was again appointed to com-
mand another expedition, which was to proceed by way of Hudson
Strait and Sir T. Rowe's Welcome. Although this voyage, like the
last, failed in its main object, much valuable geographical know-
