ilAY 26, 1856.] OBITUARY. 129
ledge resulted from it, and considerable information as to the Esqui-
maux tribes of that region was obtained. On returning to England
Tarry was promoted to the rank of Captain, and in another year
found himself once more on his way to the frozen North, in order, if
possible, to co-operate with an overland expedition under Franklin.
This was the last of Parry's North- Western voyages. The subject of
our memoir was now confirmed in the office of Hydrographer to the
Admiralty, which had before been temporarily held by him ; still,
however, directing his attention to Arctic research, he offered to
carry out a scheme, which had been proposed in 1818 by Franklin
and myself: namely, to attempt reaching a high northern latitude by
travelling over the Spitzbergen ice. He accordingly sailed in 1827
for Hammerfest, and doubtless would have succeeded in his object,
but that an unexpected impediment presented itself; for the ice
over which he travelled was found to move southward at almost
the same rate he advanced northward, and he was most unwillingly
compelled to retrace his journey, having proceeded to 82° 45' N.
lat. — farther towards the Pole than any of his predecessors.
In 1829, Parry was appointed Commissioner for the management of
the affairs of the Australian Agricultural Company, and, in pursuance
of the duties of the office, took up his residence at Port Stephen,
GO miles to the north of Sydney. Before leaving England, he re-
ceived the order of knighthood, and was created D.C.L. of Oxford.
Eeturning once more to England, after an absence of five years, he
was made Poor Law Commissioner in the county of Norfolk, but did
not long hold an appointment which was uncongenial to lits tastes.
Soon after this. Sir E. Parry was selected to organize and conduct a
newly-created department of the Admiralty, under the title of Comp-
troller of Steam Machinery, and it was during the time that ho
remained in this office, that the screw-propeller, now indispensable
to our fleets, was introduced into the navy.
In 1847, in consequence of failing health from over- work, he re-
signed this also, and became Captain-Superintendent of Haslar
HoS|)ital ; and, in 1853, the Lieutenant-Go vemorship of Greenwich
Hospital falling vacant, he accepted it.
Disease, however, had begun its ravages, and, under the direction
of his medical advisers, he determined to try the waters of Ems.
On his way to these baths he was detained by exhaustion at Coblentz,
and only reached Ems to die.
Thus ended the career of one of the most distinguished officers of
his age, who had spent his days in active usefulness, and whose life
n2
