rSO REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
was remarkable not only for its varied character, but also for the
genuine and unaffected piety which pervaded it.
Among the works which Sir E. Parry left behind him, we may
enumerate a small volume on ' Astronomy by Night,' another on the
* Parental Character of God,' and an ' Address to the Sailor,' besides
the narrative of his voyages, which, in value, compete almost with
those of Cook. We find him also associated with three papers in the
Transactions of the Koyal Society.
Phillimore, Joseph, Esq., d.c.l., was the eldest son of the Eev.
Joseph Phillimore. He graduated in Civil Law, becoming B.C.L.
in 1800, and D.C.L. in 1804. He had been distinguished for his
scholarship, and especially for the talent for composition which he
displayed, as well at Westminster, as after his removal to Christ
Church, where he gained the College prize for Latin verse. In 1798
he obtained also the University prize, which was adjudged, to his
English essay on * Chivalry.' After some residence in foreign parts,
he settled in London, and was admitted an advocate in Doctors'
Commons 1804. On the death of Dr. Lawrence, in 1809, he was
nominated judge of the Cinque Ports by Lord Hawkesbury ; Chan-
cellor of the Diocese of Oxford by Bishop Moss ; and Eegius Pro-
fessor of Civil Law at Oxford — an office upon the reputation of which
his classical taste and language have shed additional lustre.
On the installation of the Marquis Camden as Chancellor of the
University of Cambridge in 1834, Dr. Phillimore was invited to
Cambridge, to receive an honorary degree from the sister University.
PxjsEY, Philip, Esq., d.c.l., f.r.s., of Pusey Park, Berkshire, died
July last, at his brother's residence in Christ Church, Oxford, aged
56. He succeeded to the family estates on the death of his father
in 1828, and entered parliament in 1830, as one of the members
for Chippenham.
As a practical agriculturist, Mr. Pusey was highly distinguished.
He was the President of the Eoyal Agricultural Society in 1853,
and he edited and largely contributed to the Journal of that Society.
He was universally beloved, for there was a natural frankness and
warm-heartedness with him, that developed themselves in every
relation of life ; and among his tenantry it was impossible for any
one to be more highly esteemed.
Santarem, le Vicomte de, Manoel Francisco de Barros e Sousa
da Mosquita de Macedo, Leitao e Carvalhaza, Corresponding member
of this Society.
This learned Portuguese, bom at Lisbon in 1792, was a member
