132 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1850.
completed his studies, and being then little more than 20 years of
age, he entered the regiment of Saragossa, and was made prisoner by
the French in 1808. He continued in the military profession till
the'year 1820, when he left it, having attained the rank of Captain,
and dedicated himself, with all the ardour of a studious mind and a
lively imagination, to the pursuit of literature ; writing and trans-
lating various works in prose and verse. These works gained for
him the distinction of being nominated a Corresponding member of
this Society; of the Geographical Society of Paris; andof Eio
Janeiro. In the year 1822, when secretary to the Captain-General,
he married the eldest daughter of Mr. Kichard Allen, the English
Consul at Corunna ; and the Consul dying soon after, he proceeded
with his wife and family to establish himself in the city of Oporto,
but was obliged to emigrate to England in the following year in
consequence of political disturbances. He returned to Oporto in
1827, and was appointed manager of the Fiscal Department of the
Eoyal Tobacco Contract, and subsequently Administrator of the
Commercial Press of Oporto. In the same year he was appointed
Consul of the Republic of Peru at Oporto. In 1847 he returned
to Oporto from Puerto de Sta. Maria ; and in 1850, at the request of
a private friend, resident in Bilboa, he went to that city to open
and direct a college for superior education, which undertaking he
carried out with the most praiseworthy success. Finding, how-
ever, himself in ill health, he returned in 1851 to the bosom of his
family, and, after long and severe suffering, he died, much lamented
by his relatives and friends, by whom he had been always esteemed
for his many virtues and high character. He was buried in the
cemetery of Nostra Senhora da Lapa, in the city of Oporto.
Wharncliffe, John Stuart, Lord, f.r.s., second Baron Whamcliffe
of Wortley, county of York, died in October last, at his residence,
Wortley, Sheffield, at the age of 54.
His Lordship was greatly attached to agriculture, seeking all the
newest modes to improve the culture of the land. He addressed a
letter to Philip Pusey, Esq., on Drainage, published in the Journal
of the Royal Agricultural Society.
WiDDRiNGTON, Captain Samuel E., e.n., f.r.s., died January last,
at his residence, Newton Hall, near Felton, Northumberland. He was
the eldest son of the Rev. Joseph Cook, m.a., of Newton. In October,
1829, Captain Cook went to Spain, and having subsequently resided
for three years in that country, he published, in 1834, in two
volumes octavo, ' Sketches in Spain during the years 1829-30-31
