May 26, 1856.] OBITUARY. 133
and 32, containing Notices of some Districts very little known ; of
the Manners of the People, Government, recent Changes, Commerce,
Fine Arts, and Natural History.' This work, which was dedicated
to Lord Prudhoe (afterwards Duke of Northumberland), was the
most complete account in our language.
In 1843 (having then assumed the name of Widdrington) ho
repaired to Spain again, and, in the following, year, published
another book, entitled * Spain and the Spaniards in 1843,' in 2 vols. ;
also dedicated to the Duke of Northumberland.
Captain Widdrington was a magistrate and deputy-lieutenant of
Northumberland.
WiELHORSKi, the Count de, who died in the Crimea, whither he had
been despatched by the Empress of Russia upon a charitable mission
of relief to the sick and wounded of the Russian army. This amiable
young nobleman was well known to this Society in connection with
his kind services in procuring the necessary letters of introduction to
the governors of Russian America for various Arctic commanders,
as well as for his presentation to our library of the ' Agricultural
and Statistical Atlas of European Russia,' with a translation into
good English, made by himself at the request of our Secretary.
Yates, Joseph Brook, Esq., f.s.a., the last name on our list,
and one of the earlier Fellows of this Society, died in December
last at Liverpool, aged 75.
Mr. Yates was educated at Eton, and subsequently became actively
engaged in commercial pursuits, which however in no wise dimi-
nished his taste for literary and scientific subjects. In 1812, he and
Dr. Traill, now of Edinburgh, mainly contributed to the foundation
of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool.
In 1839, Mr. Yates drew attention to a subject of great local im-
portance — the rapid changes which take place in the mouth of the
Mersey ; and noticed the possible difficulties which might hereafter
be experienced in the commerce of the port. These had attracted
the attention of the marine surveyor and of many ordinary observers,
but it was not easy to discover a cure for an admitted evil. At the
meeting of the British Association at Liverpool in 1854, Mr. Yates,
in a paper read before the Geographical section, again directed atten-
tion to the subject, and a committee was appointed to inquire into
the whole matter, which has held its sittings in the house of the
Royal Geographical Society, and which is still pursuing its labours.
In the pursuits of geographers and travellers he took a deep
interest, and ho possessed some curious mediaeval maps and charts.
