134 EEAR-xVDMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
In February, 1838, he read a paper on the State of Geographical
Knowledge and the Construction of Maps in the Dark Ages, with
an account of their revival in the sixteenth century. He was a
Fellow of this, of the Antiquarian, and of several other learned
Societies.
Geographical Progress.
The great military events in which the country has been engaged
during the past year, and the objects to which the energies of the
nation have necessarily been directed, may naturally be supposed to
have diverted attention from those pursuits of science which are not
of a military character. Although this may be true in some respects,
yet much has been accomplished in the branch of science which we
cultivate, and but few of the meetings of the Society have passed
without some addition to our store of geographical knowledge.
Europe.
Great Britain — Ordnance Survey. — The present year will be marked
as a great epoch in the history of the geography of our own country.
The Trigonometrical Survey, which commenced, in 1784, under
General Eoy, r.e., has just been brought to a close under Lieut.-
Colonel James, r.e., the present zealous superintendent of the
Ordnance Survey. The principal object which the Government had
in view when the Trigonometrical Survey was commenced, was the
determination of the difference of longitude between the observa-
tories of Greenwich and Paris ; and for this purpose a base line
was measured on Hounslow Heath, from which a series of tri-
angles, including the Observatory of Greenwich as one of the
points, was carried to Dover and the opposite coast of France.
The French geometricians at the same time extended their ope-
rations also to the coast, and the connection between the triangu-
lations of the two kingdoms was made by conjoint simultaneous
observations.
This chain of triangles from Hounslow to Dover was then made
the basis of the Topographical Survey, which was also in progress
at that time under the Master-General of the Ordnance ; and from
Hounslow as a starting point, the triangulation has been carried
over the whole extent of the United Kingdom. Lieut.-Colonel
James has recently communicated to the Eoyal Society the principal
results of the Trigonometrical Survey, in a paper ' on the Figure,
