136 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 2G, 185G.
close, and a full detailed accotint of them is in the press, and
wdll be shortly published. The latitudes and longitudes are now
being engraved on the marginal lines of all the first published sheets
of the Survey of Great Britain. The progress of the detailed
Survey of Scotland and the northern counties of England has fre-
quently been brought to the notice of this Society, and much dis-
satisfaction has been expressed at the slow progress which has been
made. Since 1851, when the Committee of the House of Commons,
of which Lord Elcho was chairman, reported upon the subject, the
question as to the scale upon which the MS. plans should be drawn
may be said to have been under constant discussion ; and for two
yeara of this period, the officers engaged in the survey, in consequenxto
of the frequent change of orders and the long period during which
they were without any orders whatever, made scarcely any progress
at all. Another Committee of the House of Commons has recently
reported upon the subject. They had before them, the written
•opinions of the most able professional and scientific men in the
kingdom ; and, continues Col. James, it is to be hoped that the re-
commendations of that Committee will now be finally adopted for
the future guidance of the officers on the survey. They are, as nearly
as possible, having reference to the difference in the standards of
measure in the two countries, conformable to the instructions for
the survey of France, viz. —
1. For the cultivated distiHcts the original plans are to be drawn on
the scale of ^-Jo s of the linear measure of the ground, or 25-334 inches
to a mile, which is sensibly the same as one square inch to one acre.
2. The uncultivated districts are to be drawn on the scale of 6
inches to a mile, and the 25-inch plans are also to be reduced to this
scale, previous to the whole being reduced to the scale of one inch to
a mile, to complete the general map of the kingdom on that scale.*
The object which the Government now has in view is, to make the
National Survey the basis for the valuation and registration of the
sales of property, to facilitate the transfer of property, and for all
general or local engineering purposes, including the Hydrographical
and Geological Surveys, and every purpose for which an accurate,
authentic plan or map is required. This gives an importance to the
!^urvey which it never before possessed ; and with the ample funds
which the Government appear disposed to grant, it is expected that
* An ai-rangeraeut wliich will, I am sure, be gratifying to our excellent ci-dcvant
President, Sir R. Murchison, who so strenuously advocated it in his last Address
. to this Society.— ^c'c Vol. XXIII.
