138 KEAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
been done by Commander AUdridge, whom I have the pleasure to
acknowledge as a pupil of my own, in the river Dee, and in other
places; by Mr. E. K. Calver in the Orwell and Tyne; and by
Captain Williams in the Fal ; while at the same time the progress
of the tide wave, marked by the successive times of high water,
has been carefully recorded, and the results have been of much
assistance to the civil engineer.
England. — I learn from our able and zealous hydrographer, Capt.
Washington, r.n., that on the south of England, Lieutenant Cox and
Mr.Usborne have mapped the coast from the Bill of Portland westward
to Golden Head, including the remarkable shingle beaches of Abbots-
bury and the Chesil Bank, and have made a detailed plan of the
harbour of Bridport. They have now begun a careful examination
of Plymouth Sound, the result of which must be looked forward to
with much interest, as it will show what eifect the breakwater has
had upon that anchorage, during the forty years that have elapsed
since the stone of that structure first raised its head above the level
of low water.
In Cornwall, Captain G. Williams and Mr, Wells have completed
the thirty miles of coast between Fowey and Falmouth, with plans
on a large scale of the harbours of Pentuan and Mevagissey, the
latter so valuable to our pilchard fishery.
In the Bristol Channel, Commander AUdridge and Mr. D. Hall
have produced an excellent plan of the rivers Taw and Torridge,
leading up to Barnstaple and Bideford on the north coast of Devon.
Their last year's work, namely, the plans of Milford Haven, with
Pembroke Beach, on the scales, respectively^ of 4 inches and 12
inches to a mile, have been published at the Admiralty.
Farther north the channels and shoals at the entrance of the Sol way
Firth have been re-examined, and the charts have been corrected
for the material changes, which have occurred during the last twenty
years, since this Firth was originally surveyed.
A new edition of Part I. of the Channel Pilot, comprising the
entrance of the Channel and the coast of England as far as the
Downs, has been compiled by Mr. J. W. King, Master r.n., and
published at the Admiralty. Part II., which will contain the north
coast of France, from Grisnez to Ushant, is well advanced.
Scotland, — The remarkably broken outline and indented shores of
the Western Highlands of Scotland, embracing picturesque fiords
and lochs, afford constant occupation for a large force of survejors.
Commanders Bedford and Creyke are employed in Argyllshire ; and
