May 26, 1856.] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS. 139
parts of Jura, of Loch Spelve in Mull, and Loch Feochan, have been
mapped during the past season.
More to the north Commander Wood, and Messrs. Jeffery and Tay-
lor, are engaged on the shores of Skye, and have recently examined
its northern coast from Loch Sligachan to Kyle Akin and Kyle Ehea.
The nautical survey of these coasts, however, can only proceed
slowly, as the coast surveyors have to do not alone their own legiti-
mate work, but that of the Ordnance also, as the land survey has
not yet reached the Western Highlands and islands of Scotland.
With the exception of part of the isle of Lewis, the Hebrides are
yet unsurveyed ; but a strong force, under Captain Otter, has again
broken ground there, and there is reason to believe that this out-
lying portion of the realm of Scotland will not much longer remain
the opprobrium of our maps and charts.
The Orkneys and Shetland have been revisited, during the past
summer, by Mr. E. K. Calver, in order to revise and prepare for
immediate publication the sailing directions of those intricate groups.
This work has been very satisfactorily executed, and the Directions
are now passing through the press.
In the Firth of Forth, Lieutenant Thomas and his assistants have
examined the coast of Fife as far as Fifeness ; they have filled in
the deep-water soundings to the eastward of the isle of May ; and if
the season prove favourable, they will this year complete the survey
of the Firth of Forth as far as St. Abb's Head, its natural southern
limit.
Ireland. — Captain Washington, continuing his report, observes,
in the county of Antrim, on the north-eastern shore of Ireland,
Messrs. Hoskyn, Aird, and Yule have mapped the coast from Carrick-
a-Rede southwards to Garron Point, a distance of about 40 miles ;
they have also connected by soundings Eathlin Island with the
Main. The same party is now employed in recording the remark-
able improvements that public spirit and good engineering have
within the last few years effected in the harbour of Belfast.
On the coast of Donegal Captain Bedford and Lieutenant Horner
have completed an elaborate and admirable plan of Lough Swilly,
which shows all the striking features of that fine inlet of the sea,
which has often proved a harbour of refuge to the toil-worn mariner
in the hour of need.
On the south-west coast of Ireland, in the county of Kerry, Com-
manders Beechey and Edye, with Mr. W. B. Calver, have made
a beautiful plan of Castlemaine harbour and bay, and are now ad-
