140 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECIIEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 185G.
vancing along the northern shore of the peninsula which forms the
southern limit of Tralee Bay.
A little farther to the southward, on the same coast, Commander
Church and Lieutenant Veitch have mapped the shore of Keiiy,
from Ballinskelligs Bay to Port Magee, and for the first time laid
down correctly and given us the soundings around those striking
schistose rocks, the Skelligs, which rise, almost precipitously, to a
height of 700 feet above the level of the water, and on which bursts
the whole force of the Atlantic ocean swell. This was a labour of
no common kind, and required for its accomplishment a combination
of skill, seamanship, and persevering energy that falls to the lot of
few.*
Baltic. — A time of warfare, at first sight, would not seem favour-
able to the advancement of hydrographical knowledge, or at
least to the more peaceful branches of science, yet, observes
Captain Washington, we are enabled to state that at the close of
the struggle now happily terminated our acquaintance with the
Baltic, and the Gulfs of Finland and Bothnia, is considerably in
advance of what it was when the campaign opened ; but it is to the
Danish, Swedish, and Russian charts of those seas that we owe the
fact of our ships being enabled to pass the Kattegat, the Belts, and
the Sound without hesitation, and to navigate the inner gulfs of the
Baltic without danger. Notwithstanding all the vague assertions to
the contrary, it does not admit of a question, that no fleet ever left
the shores of Great Britain so well provided with charts as the
Baltic fleet. It is but an act of justice to the eminent hydrographers
of Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Russia (with w^hose charts the
fleet was furnished), that their fame should be vindicated. The
names of Zahrtmann, Klint, Vibe, and liutke are of European repu-
tation, and afford ample guarantee for the accuracy of the charts
published under their superintendence. That opportunities have
since been aflbrded for making additions to them is only what might
* It is with extreme regret that I have to add that this was the last labour of
Commander Church. On his way to Ireland, after depositing his charts at the
Admiralty, he was suddenly taken ill at Bristol, and in three days was no more. His
worn-out frame, which had toiled for many years under an African sun, and had
bravely buffeted with the Atlantic surge while mapping the coasts of Cork and
Kerry, sunk under the attack, and thus deprived H.M. service of one of the best of
its sui-veyors. Skilful, energetic, zealous, of unbending integrity, and a thorough
seaman, he combined all the qualities of an accomplished surveyor; and so long
as the Fastnet Rock and Cape Clear continue to be the landfall of vessels crossing
the Atlantic from America, the mariner will have cause to bless the skilful hand
that, by accurately defining the dangers of that iron-bound coast, has converted
them into friendly landmarks for which the sailor may safely steer.
