May 20, 1856.] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS. 141
hfive been expected. A fleet rmmbering occasionally 1 00 sail could
not be cruising for two summers in a narrow sea without taking
soundings ; and it is highly to the credit of the masters of that fleet
generally that they availed themselves of every occasion of adding
to the charts all the information they obtained. Our special sur-
veyors, Captains Sulivan and Otter, and their assistants, Com-
manders Cudlip, Creyke, and Burstal, and Lieutenant Ward, E.N.,
were enabled to make plans of Led Sound in the Aland Isles, and
the approaches to Bomarsund ; of Baro and Hiist Sounds, with the
southern access to Sweaborg ; of Wormso Sound on the south side of
the Gulf of Finland, with various tracks ais far as Tornea and Hapa-
landa, at the head of the Gulf of Bothnia.
It is worthy of special remark that the magnetic variation
throughout these seas was found to be sensibly decreasing ; indeed
such proves to be the case all over the Xorth Sea, the Iiish Sea,
and the Channel, and probably extends throughout the greater part
of Europe ; and the mariner cannot be too much on his guard
against the amount of variation he finds marked on charts professing
to be corrected up to the present year. The westerly variation in
the British Isles appears to have reached its maximum in the year
183G, since which time it has been decreasing at an average rate of
about six minutes yearty.
Black Sea. — As in the Baltic, so in the Black Sea, our cruisers
have added materially to the charts. To Manganari's atlas of that
sea, completed in 1836, several details have been added by Captain
Spratt, E.N., C.B., and the surveying staff under his directions.
Lieutenants Mansell, Wilkinson, and Brooker, who have discovered
several rocks, especially near the Strait of Kertch, and off Anapa
on the Circassian coast, which had escaped former examinations.
They have also sounded around Kinburn Spit and the estuary of
the Dnieper and Bug, leading up to the towns of Kherson and
Kicolaief, charts of which rivers, on a large scale, have been pub-
lished. An elaborate and beautiful plan of the Khersonese penin-
sula, including Kazach and Kamiesh Bays, and showing-the position
of the Allied camps and batteries, has been completed by Lieutenant
W^ilkinson, and is a work that does him the highest credit.
Captain Spratt's reconnaissance of the country between Kustenji
and the Danube at Chernavoda, a sketch of much interest in the
discussion of the various projects, either of a railway or a canal, to
unite the Danube and the Black Sea, has just been published, as also
his chart of the Narrows of the Dardanelles, which includes the
