142 REAR-ADMIRAL F, W. BEECHErS ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
site of the new hospital at Aren-kieui, in Asia Minor, a few miles
from the Plain of Troy.
On the coast of Egypt, Commander Mansell, in the ' Tartarus,' has
commenced the examination of the north shore, from the Damietta
mouth of the Nile eastwards, with a view to ascertain whether it
affords a suitable site, for the entrance of a ship-canal, which has
been proposed to connect the Mediterranean and Red Sea by the
Isthmus of Suez.
South Africa. — The survey of the shores of the Cape Colony
advances slowly ; yet, notwithstanding the scanty means placed at
the disposal of Lieutenants Dayman and Simpson, the officers em-
ployed in the survey, they have been enabled to map the coast from
Hangklip to Cape Agulhas and the intermediate dangers, on the
scale of one inch to a mile, which will be immediately published for
the benefit of the mariner. They have also surveyed Algoa Bay and
Port Natal. Whatever has been done has been carefully done, and
is based on the triangulation carried on by Mr. Maclear, Astronomer
at the Cape, from the Observatory as far as Cape Agulhas. Much,
however, remains to be effected. Both the land survey of the colony
and that of the coasts ought to be pressed forward ; every year that
they are delayed bars the progress of the settlers, hinders the de-
velopment of the resources of the district, and is attended with loss
to the colonial exchequer.
The Cape Colony has the advantage of possessing a number of
accurately fixed points, extending over a surface of more than 400
miles on its western seaboard, and comprising the whole country
between Cape Agulhas and the mouth of the Orange River; these
were obtained, at the expense of the Home Treasury, in the mea-
surement of an arc of the meridian by Mr. Maclear, her Majesty's
astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope ; and the only use to which
they have yet been put in improving the defective geographic and
hydrographic knowledge of this part of the world, has been in the
construction of the chart before noticed, of about 70 miles of coast-
line between Capes Hangklip and Agulhas, by Lieutenant Dayman
of the Royal Navy.
We owe this small contribution to hydrography to a catastrophe
which will not soon be forgotten — the loss of H. M. troopship
* Birkenhead ' and 656 lives, near Point Danger.
Algoa Bay has been lately surveyed by the same officer on a large
scale, but the existing chart of the intermediate line of coast westward
to Cape Agulhas is most unsatisfactory. This may be quickly re-
