May 26, 185G.] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS. 143
medied, and at small expense, by extending Mr. Maclear's arc of
meridian triangles (tlie last of whicli terminates near the Breede
Eiver) along the coast to Cape Eecife, and it is to be hoped that the
colony, under the ml6 of its present enlightened Governor, Sir
George Grey, will perform this necessary duty for its own benefit.
A surveying vessel might then find ample field for laborious, but
highly useful, employment in these seas.
Indian Ocean. — A chart of the Indian Ocean in two sheets has
been recently published by the Admiralty, in which the curves of
equal variation have been carefully laid down for the year 1855, by
Mr. Frederick J. Evans, chief of the Compass Observatory. It
forms a valuable contribution to physical geography. A similar
chart of the Pacific Ocean is in progress.
Siam. — A tolerably accurate chart of the Gulf of Siam has lately
been published by the Admiralty, in which some of the grosser
errors of former maps and charts are corrected. It is still, however,
very imperfect ; but Messrs. Eichards and Inskip, surveying officers
on the China station, have been despatched to Siam; and there
seems ground for hope, not only from their labours, but from the
facilities offered by the present enlightened King of that country, that
in the course of the present year the chart of the Gulf will be rendered
sufficiently accurate for all the common purposes of navigation.
Japan. — The accidents of the late war have led to a slight im-
provement in our acquaintance with the coasts of the islands of
Niphon and Yesso, and especially as to the Strait of Matsumae, or
Tsugar (hitherto improperly named Sangar in all our maps and
charts), which lies between them. This Strait has been examined
by Mr. Eichards, as well as a portion of the west coast of Niphon,
which proves to be laid down in all our charts some 10 miles to the
eastward of its true position.
Tartary. — Farther north, in the Gulf of Tartary — a quarter not
visited by any ship of war since Broughton, in 1797 — our cruisers
have, during the last year, partially traced the western shore of the
island of Saghalin, where coal in situ and fallen timber, from the
wooded land above, are to be found in abundance along the shores.
They have examined Castries Bay on the mainland, and traced a
deep-water channel, carrying 3 fathoms throughout, towards, but
not into the mouth of the Amur. Farther to the south-west, in the
parallel of 43° N., bays, harbours, and gulfs, which have received
the names of Yictoria, Eugenie, Napoleon, and D'Anville, have been
explored and surveyed by the officers of the Allied squadrons, and
