M4 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 185G.
especially by MM. Bouchez, Hill, Wilder, Johnson, and May, who
have completed a chart which is highly creditable to these yoimg
officers. Some useful information has also been obtained respecting
the great river Amiir, and of the harbour of Aian and other points
in the Sea of Okhotsk.
China. — A slight break has been made in our ignorance of the
Gulfs of Pecheli and Leotung, by the visit of Captain Edward Van-
sittart, R.N., who, in H. M. S. ' Bittern,' chased a fleet of Chinese
pirates to the head of the Gulf, where the greater part of them were
destroyed. In this dashing affair he boldly took his ship into waters
hitherto unexplored, obtained numerous soundings, and corrected
approximatively the outline of the eastern shore of the Gulf.
The chart of the island of Palawan and its oif-lying reefs, the
result of the elaborate survey of Commander Bate, in the 'Eoyalist,'
between the years 1851-5, has just been published at the Admiralty,
accompanied by full sailing-directions. We understand that this
skilful officer has returned to China to take command of a ship ;
may we hope that he will be employed on some service better
adapted to his abilities than the usual routine of cruising or carrying
despatches. There is "ample room and verge enough" in that
region for the labours of several surveyors ; large tracts of coast
are yet unexplored, and dangerous reefs yet unexamined ; and of
this latter class perhaps none calling more loudly for immediate
examination and marking, both by beacons by day and a light by
night, than the extensive coral lagoon-reef of the Pratas, barely
rising above the level of the sea, lying only 60 leagues to the
E.S.E. of our own colony at Hong Kong, and directly bordering on
the track of vessels approaching Canton in that direction, either by
Dampier Strait or the Gillolo Passage.
JSfew Zealand. — A general chart of this group, comprising the
whole of the recent surveys under Captains Stokes and Drmj, on
the scale of y^ of an inch to a mile, or -^oooxi-u- of the natural scale,
has recently been published at the Admiralty, together with plans
of Cook Strait and Port Nicholson, which are important features of
the group, as they include the settlements of Wellington and
Nelson. The whole is accompanied by a complete set of sailing-
directions, compiled by Captain George Eichards and Mr. F. J.
Evans, r.n. (both assistants on the survey), from the various
Admiralty surveys which have been carried on since the year 1848,
and are now brought to a close by the return to England of the
' Pandora,' Commander Drury, who brings away with him gratifying
