May 26, 1856] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS. 145
testimonials from the colony as to the value of his services in those
regions, increased by the promptitude with which he made them
available to the navigator, by furnishing accurate accounts of the
result of his surveys througL the medium of the *New Zealand
Gazette.'
Pacific Ocean. — Capt. Denham still pursues his useful labours in
the Western Pacific. Within the past year he has surveyed and
fixed the position of Norfolk Island, to which place much interest
attaches in consequence of some of the Pitcaim islanders being in
course of removal to that spot, as their future dwelling. Pie has
determined the position of Conway Reef, an extensive sandbank
only 6 feet above the level of high water, and has planted cocoa-
nuts upon it, with a view to render it more conspicuous hereafter,
a practice which all navigators will do well to follow for the gene-
ral benefit of the mariner. On his route to the Fiji Islands, Capt.
Denham obtained soundings and brought up bottom from a depth
of 1020 fathoms, containing thirty distinct genera of /oramzni/erd, most
of which belong to existing forms in the Pacific, though only trace-
able as fossils in the northern hemisphere. Plans of Levuka har-
bour and island and of the Embau waters in the Fiji group complete
his work for the past season.
Farther to the east, in the North Pacific, Fanning Island has been
visited by Capt. Morshead, and its true position found to be in lat.
3° 49' N., long. 159° 19', or 32 miles to the westward of that
usually assigned to it in our charts^
Nova Scotia. — Plans of Halifax harbour and of the coast to the
eastward as far as Shut-in-Island, resulting from the surveys of
Capt. Bayfield and his party, have been published at the Admiralty
during the past year on the respective scales of three inches and one
inch to a mile. Their recent labours during the past season have com-
prised a detailed survey of the coast and harbours from Cape Canso
westward to Country Harbour — a laborious and very creditable work.
In the Bay of Fundy, Commander Shortland has completed the
survey of the Grand Manan' islands at the entrance of the Bay, and
a portion of the south-western coast of Nova Scotia. Both the
above-named officers are now lending their aid and pointing out the
best track for laying the submarine cable that is to connect Cape
Pay, the south-west point of Newfoundland, with the island of Cape
Breton, a strait only 60 miles in width with a depth of about 200
fathoms. When this connexion is made, there will, we believe, be
uninterrupted communication by electric telegraph from New Orleans
02
