4 MULLER. [Nov. 12, 1855.
was instituted during the afternoon, about three o'clock. On both these
mountains mighty masses of snow lay far below the summits, lodging
chiefly in the ravines, and these never melt entirely under the heat of the
summer sun.
Considering that mountains of such altitude, probably the two highest in
the Australian continent, deserve distinctive names, I solicit his Excellency's
permission to name the grandest of both Mount Hotham, and the second in
height Mount Latrobe, — as I trust to be entitled to the great honour of
being the first man who ever reached these commanding summits of the
Australian highland. The sky being fortunately clear during the ascent of
Mount Hotham, I enjoyed a most extensive and unrestricted view over the
Alps, and I did not lose this opportunity of taking bearings over to some of
the principal mountains already included in the trigonometrical survey of
Australia. From Mount Hotham bore Mount Aberdeen (the southern peak
in the Buffalo Ranges) W. 10° N., the most northern peak of the same range
W. 30° N., Mount Buller W. 35° S., Mount M'Millan (of Townsend, or
Castel Hill of Tyers) due S., the Cobboras mountains (between Omeo and
Maneroo) E. 12° N., Mount Wellington S. 10° W., Mount Latrobe (distant
about 8 miles) S. 25° E. Farther bearings were made to Mount Leichhardt
E. 30° N., to Mitchell's Plateau (in about equal distance with Mount Buller)
S. 40° W., to Kennedy's Height (a rocky hill in the snowy table-land, and
about 6 miles distant) E. 5° S., to Hooker's Plateau (about L5 miles distant)
N. 25° E. The bearings from Mount Latrobe were as follow : — Mitchell's
Plateau S.15° W., Mount Aberdeen W. 5° S., Clarke's Peak (between Mitchell's
Plateau and the Buffalo Ranges) S. 30° W., Mount Hotham N. 25° W.
Mounts Buller, Wellington, M'Millan, and other mountains, were concealed
in clouds. I hope that these bearings, although only taken with a simple
pocket compass, will be found sufficient and correct enough to fix the position
of these mountains until an exact survey of this interesting part of the
country shall be performed. The signification " Bogong Range" ought to be
abandoned, as the natives apply it to any of the lofty mountains when in
the fissures of the rocks, chiefly when covered with the spreading Alp pine
(Podocarpus montana), the Bogong moth occurs. One of the main branches
of the Mitta Mitta has its sources at Mount Latrobe, and those of another,
as well as those of the Ovens and Mitchell, lie in a lower range not far
distant. This snowy highland is in many places well grassed, and the lower
parts of it will be doubtless occupied as cattle runs as soon as the discovery
of a workable gold-field opens this part of the colony. The prevailing rock
is sandstone, often accompanied by slate and quartz. Granite is compara-
tively rare.
After extending my journeys over several mountains in the neighbour-
hood, and an exploration of the Upper Mitta Mitta, I went over a generally
fertile country to Omeo.
The amount of additional plants for the Flora of Victoria, obtained during
this part of my expedition, is nearly sixty species. Several of them are per-
fectly unknown, and nine of the genera and one natural order (Asteliaceas)
were previously also not represented in this colony.
It is my intention to proceed without delay from here to the Cobboras,
thence to Maneroo and the Mungang Mountains, by which excursions the
botanical examination of the Australian Alps will be completed.
