146 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
on the Mississippi to St. John's, Newfoundland, a distance of about
2000 miles.
West Indies. — A plan of Port Escoces and Caledonia harbour, sur-
veyed by Messrs. Parsons and Dillon, has been published by the
Admiralty during the past year. These officers have recently been
engaged in the examination of the islands of Santa Cruz and St.
Lucia, the former of which is finished and the latter far advanced.
South America. — On the coast of Brazil the dangerous shoal known
by the Portuguese name of As Roccas^ lying about 120 miles west of
Tristan d'Acunha, has been visited by Lieut. Parish, in II.M.S.
' Sharpshooter,' and, at the suggestion of the British Consul at
Pemambuco, cocoa-nuts have been planted in the sand, with the hope
that at no distant day they may by their growth serve to warn the
mariner of his approach to a danger on which doubtless many a
vessel has met its fate.
Rio de la Plata. — In this river, above Buenos Ayres, Lieut. Sidney,
with slight means at his command, has re-examined the approach
to the river Parana, and re-sounded the shoals in the vicinity of
Martin Garcia. The whole of this vast estuary requires a care-
ful survey. During the past year a sketch-chart of the river Para-
guay from Corrientes upwards to Asuncion, by Lieut. Day, e.n., on
the scale of one inch to a mile, has been published by the Admiralty ;
and, on a much smaller scale, the upper part of the river as high as
Coimbra, from Portugixese authorities.
In the Falkland Islands a plan of Port Egmont, one of the many
safe harbours in that group, surveyed by Capt. Sulivan, c.b., in
1849, has recently been published on a large scale, and may prove
useful to the numerous whalers and other vessels which occasionally
resort to those islands.
France. — I learn from my zealous and intelligent correspondent,
Mr. J. B. Pentland, that the Depot General de la Guerre has continued
the publication of its great Map of France, 9 sheets of which hayc
been published during the past year. This magnificent work will
consist of 258 sheets, of which 175 have been already engraved.
The geodesic operations of this work being concluded, it is proposed
to determine astronomically the longitudes or meridian distances of
the several trigonometrical stations by means of the electric tele-
graph ; a body of officers appointed for that purpose, under Com-
mandant Koget, are now engaged in the preliminary researches at
the Imperial Observatory of Paris.
