May 26, 1856.] FRENCH MARITIME SURVEYS. 147.
The beautiful survey, by the officers of the French Etat-Major, of
the environs of Rome has been completed, but only one sheet has
as yet been published ; the remaining ones will, however, shortly
be in the hands of the public.
French Maritime Surveys. — The maritime surveyors of France have
conducted their surveys along the coasts of Italy and of the Strait
of Gibraltar. M. Darondeau has completed the remainder of the
survey of Western Liguria ; and the whole coast of Italy may now,
be said to be completed from the Yar to the mouths of the Tiber,
and is in course of publication. M. Darondeau is now occupied in
conducting operations in the Neapolitan dominions, and has
already connected the islands of the Ponza group, with his triangu-
lation of the continent.
The hydrographic expedition despatched by the French Govern-
ment to survey the Strait of Gibraltar and the adjoining coasts of
Morocco and Spain, has most satisfactorily completed its laborious
task, thanks to the zeal of Captain Kerhallet, well known by his
works on the Currents of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and of
M. Vincendon Dumoulin, one of the most eminent of the corps of
Ingenieurs Hydrographes of France. The survey, based on an accu-
rate triangulation, extends from Cape St. Lucar on one side, and Cape
Spartel on the other, to Gibraltar, and on the northern coast of Mo-
rocco as far east as the Zafarina Islands. This excellent survey, I am
told, is now in the hands of the engravers. The most important results
of the operations of MM. Kerhallet and Dumoulin are the discovery
of several new shoals off the Spanish coast ; of an extensive rocky
plateau, from 15 to 18 miles in length, off Cape Trafalgar; and the
correction of various dangerous reefs between Cape Trafalgar and
Cadiz. But by no means the least important part of this survey, is the
determination of the depth of the Strait of Gibraltar, in olden times
supposed to be unfathomable, and continued so until the assumption
was dispelled by our able Mediterranean surveyor. Admiral Smyth.
The depth of this Strait has been considerably overrated in the
Spanish and English surveys, as it has been found in many parts to
average from 380 to 490 fathoms only ; the greatest depth being 503
fathoms (1010 metres) about mid-channel, at one mile east of the line
extending from Europa Point to Almina, at Ceuta. Numerous obser-
vations were made on the set of the currents in the Strait and on the
temperature of the sea at different depths, which dispel the belief in
an undercurrent setting out of the Strait. We must acknowledge with
gratitude to MM. Kerhallet and Vincendon Dumoulin this great addi-
tion to our store of improved hydrography and physical geogi'aphy.
