148 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
In the catalogue published by the Depot de la Marine will be
found many new charts of great interest and importance ; amongst
others, surveys of the French establishments on the coasts of New
Caledonia.
Spain. — The Spanish Government has caused a survey of that
kingdom to be commenced upon an uniform system, and a part of
the preliminary triangulation has been completed. A series of
triangles, in a meridional direction, has been carried on from Pico,
E. of Malaga, on the coast of the Mediterranean, to Santander, on
the Bay of Biscay, and on the direction of the parallels from the
Portuguese frontier to Aragon, where it has been connected with
the operations of MM. Biot and Arago for the measure of the
arc of the meridian between Dunkirk and Formeutera. An im-
portant addition to Spanish geography has appeared in a work
entitled ' Atlas de Espaiia y sus Posesiones Ultramar,' of which
25 sheets have already been published, constructed by our much-
esteemed Corresponding member, Colonel Coello. These comprise
Cuba, Porto Eico, the Philippine, Marian, and Balearic Isles, the
Canaries, African possessions, and part of her continental provinces.
In addition to these separate maps of the departments of Spain
and of her foreign possessions, the Atlas contains enlarged plans
of the principal cities and towns, and notices of the statistics,
administration, and history of each division, contributed by an-
other of our distinguished Corresponding members, occupying an
eminent position as both statesman and geographer, Don Pascual
de Madoz.
M. de Vemeuil, the eminent French geologist, whose name has
often been alluded to by my predecessors, has continued, during
the past year, his geological survey of Spain and his barometric
levellings. His late researches have extended over the desolate
province of La Mancha, where he has fixed the height above the sea
of several hundred points.
Italy. — The Piedmontese Government has continued, the publica-
tion of the map of its continental possessions, on a scale of y^-Lo^j,
and it is expected that the whole will be completed next year.
The Abbe Poncet has published the number of 360 measured
heights in Northern Savoy — an interesting addition to those already
given by De Candolle and Professors Chaix and Favre. Mr. Borson
has contributed an extract of the geometrical measurements of the
Sardinian Staff, which adds the positions and heights of sixty more
places to the above.
