MAy 26, 1856.] SWITZERLAND. 149
The Austrian Geographical Institute of Vienna has given the
public the last sheets of its great Map of Central Italy, alluded to
in previous Addresses of the Presidents of this Society. The map
is now accompanied by statistical data of considerable interest con-
cerning Tuscany and the Papal States, and the work, as a whole,
is a most useful and important contribution to geographical science.
As to Naples, I am not aware that any progress has been made
in the publication of the survey commenced by the late General
Visconti, often alluded to by my predecessors.
Switzerland. — From our Corresponding member, M. J. Ziegler, we
learn that the geodetical and topographical operations of Switzer-
land have been continued in the north of the Canton of Tessin and
in the chain of the Alps, crossed by the passes of Lukmanier,
of Bernhardin, and Splugen. The principal labours which have
been executed in the past season were commenced chiefly in a
geological point of view, such as that by Dr. Heusser in Valais,
which was undertaken in order to make some observations in the
environs of Visp, the centre of commotion of the destructive earth-
quakes which, even to this day, make themselves felt.
Professor Heusser, of the University of Zurich, has visited these
places, and has given the results of his personal observations in
a little work which the Society of Natural History at Zurich
has published. M. Kiou has published an account of the earth-
quakes which were felt in 1855, in the months of July and
November. Meteorological observations have also been made
during the past winter throughout the whole extent of the central
Alps.
By the uninterrupted railway works throughout Switzerland the
number of hypsometrical data is increasing, and the interest in
hypsometry is becoming greater. Hypsometrical charts are more
numerous, and the use of them is becoming general in proportion
as we can compare with exactitude the elevation of different
countries. I may particularly allude to Mr. Ziegier's Hypsome-
trical Atlas, in course of publication.
Our learned Associate, Professor Chaix, of Geneva, informs us of
the expected return of Messrs. H. de Saussure and IT. Peyrot from
their journey to Mexico, and that Professor De Candolle has pub-
lished, in two volumes, a comprehensive treatise on Botanical Geo-
graphy. From the same high authority our Secretary has just
received an interesting communication on the Hydrography of the
