150 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
A^alley of the Arve, whicli will be laid before the Society at an eaily
period.
Norway. — Our Associate, Professor Munch, of Christiania, has en-
riched our collection with several recent maps and charts of the
Coast Survey of Northern Norway, forming a series, beginning
about the 64th parallel and extending to the Eussian frontier.
The Coast Survey Charts of Southern Norway have also been
received, as well as Professor Munch' s Map of Southern Norway,
Northern Norway with Finmarken, 1852, and Norway, published at
Christiania in 1854 ; also the Amt Maps, by Captains Eamm and
Murthe.
Major Yibe, of the Norwegian Engineers, informs our Secretary
that, in addition to the Coast Surveys already mentioned as having
been lately published, others, by Munch, Giessing, &c., are in
course of preparation.
Denmark. — The Eoyal Society of. Northern Antiquaries has just
held its anniversary meeting at the Palace of Christiansborg ; its
President, Frederick the Seventh, King of Denmark, in the chair.
Prof. Ch. Rafn, our Associate, communicated an account of the
proceedings of the Society during the past year, and exhibited
the new volume of the ' Annales ' of Northern Archoeology and
History; the new number of the Society's Review, and of the
* Memoires des Antiquaires du Nord.' He also laid before the
Society the second part of the * Lexicon Poeticum ' of the Icelandic
language, compiled by Sweinjorn. Among the articles in the ' An-
nales ' may be especially noticed ' King Oswald hin Helliges (the
holy) Saga,' with a preface by Jon Sigurdsson, and translations by
Thorl. G. Eepp ; also a notice on Virdaland's Ancient History, by
Prof. A. Cronholm, of Lund ; and a Grammar of the Faeroe Lan-
guage, by the Eev. V. U. Hammershaimb, of North Streeamey. In
the Antiquarian ' Tidsskrift ' are found papers on the OZ(i-English
and 0/J-Norsk, by Gisle Brynjulfsson ; on the Ancient Languages
of the North, by G. E. Lund; Old-Norsk Eemains among the
Orkneys, by G. Petrie, Esq., of Kirkwall; Antiquarian Contribu-
tions from Sclavic Lands and Monuments of the Bosphorus, by
Edwin M. Thorson ; Eeport on the Cabinet of American Antiquities,
by Ch. Eafn. In the number just published of the ' Memoires ' are
papers on Eunic Inscriptions in Sodor and Man, with a Geographical
elucidation of the Irish and Scotch names occurring in the Sagas, by
