May 26, 1856.] ARCTIC. lol
P. A. Munch. The Saga of St. Edward the King, with an Introduc-
tion by Rafn and Sigurdsson ; Remarks on a Danish Runic Stone
from the Eleventh Century, lately discovered in the centre of London,
with Runic inscriptions, alluding to the Western Countries, by Rafn ;
and, finally, one by Brynjulfsson, entitled ' De I'Ancien Roman
Francois et de I'lnfluence exercee sur son Developpement par les
Kormands.* The King communicated to the Meeting the results of
the researches which he had carried out among the ancient royal
sepulchres at the Cathedral at Ringsted in Seeland ; upon which
the Vice-President, C. P. Wegener, read a Memoir on the Tombs of
King Waldemar the Great, and his Queen Sophia, daughter of Valo-
dimir of Russia. The Secretary read a statement of the progress
made during the last year in deciphering the Runic inscriptions so
numerous in Scandinavia, — an account of which he is preparing for
publication.
Portugal. — We have received, through the polite attention of Count
Lavradio, several numbers of a periodical, published by the Portu-
guese Government, entitled ' Boletim e Annaes do Conselho Ultra-
marino,' which contains rich contributions to African geography.
Germany. — It is with great pleasure I have to notice the establish-
ment of a Geographical Society at Vienna.
We continue to receive Herr Gumprecht's valuable ' Geographical
Journal,' containing the proceedings of the Berlin Geographical
Society, in addition to other material.
Hungat^. — The ethnographical studies, by M. Valeric, of the
various races forming the population of Hungary, have been pub-
lished, with numerous illustrations.
Greece. — A work on the Peloponnesus, by M. Beule, appears to form
an excellent guide to the Morea, and is worthy of being translated.
Arctic.
At the opening pf the Address of last year by my noble predecessor,
the return of Dr. Rae was announced, bearing with him evidence of
the fate of the long missing expedition under the lamented Sir John
Franklin ; and I have now to notice amongst the papers read at the
meetings of the Society, the expedition consequent upon the informa-
tion furnished by him. You will remember that Mr. Anderson, who
conducted this expedition, pursued his route down the river Back,
