152 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 185G,
bearing testimony to the great accuracy with which the distinguished
navigator, from whom it derives its name, had described and laid
down the features of that dangerous river. Among much valuable
information which Mr. Anderson collected, will be found the deeply
interesting fact of his having discovered upon Montreal Island the
remains of a boat, upon part of which was cut the word ' Terror,' and
upon the frame of a snow shoe the name of ' Stanley,' the surgeon
of the ' Erebus,' leaving no doubt as to the fate of those unfortunate
vessels, viz. that they had either been wrecked or inextricably fixed and
abandoned ; and confirming in all essential particulars the informa-
tion brought home by Dr. Eae.* The great interest which attaches
to this journey of Mr. Anderson, intimately connected as it is with
the fate of our countrymen, the sufferings and privations endured b}^
himself and his party, will render this volume of our Journal of
deep and general interest.
Scarcely had the breath of novelty passed over this sad but too
certain history, when the announcement of the return of our medallist,
Dr. Kane, completed the page of past adventure in search of our
missing countrymen. The important discoveries of this gallant
officer consist of an elongation of Smith Sound to a higher northern
latitude than that of any other known land in the Arctic regions,
and to a higher parallel than had ever been reached by any navi-
gator, except Parry ; and of the discovery of a vast ocean beyond,
apparently free from ice, with which it commmiicated. The patient
endurance under hardship, sickness, and privation, the zeal dis-
played in the execution of this arduous service, and important disco-
veries in those inhospitable regions, have earned for Dr. Kane the
unqualified approbation of this country ; and the highest honour
this Society has to bestow, has been awarded to him ; while the mo-
desty with which he has related his perilous adventures, and the
merit he bestows upon all his party, will place his narrative amongst
the most fascinating papers in our Journal.
Contemporaneously with the notice of Dr. Kane we announced
the return of Commodore Rogers of the United States Navy from
the seas to the northward of Behring Strait. He records having
ascended Herald Island, from which he could see no land whatever ;
and having sailed over Plover Island, which he removes from the
chart ; as also the islands reported to have been seen to the north of
* Dr. Rae and his companions have now received the award of 10,000/. offered
I'y the Admiiuilty for the first clue to the remains of the expedition.
