May 2G, 1856.] ARCTIC. 153
Cape Yakan. He discovered a vast barrier of ice on ilie north, so
solid as to lead him to declare that no keel has ever divided those
waters.
During the last year our indefatigable Captain Collinson has
3-etumed to our shores from Behring Strait, rich in Arctic enter-
prise, and enjoying the distinguished honour of having, by skill,
energy, and patient endurance, brought his vessel, the ' Enter-
prise,' safely back from her perilous adventures, and returned
her to the shores, whence he departed with her; an act which
should not be overlooked in the catalogue of the meritorious deeds
of that highly scientific navigator. About the same period ap-
peared ' The Last of the Arctic Voj^ages,' by our associate, Sir
Edward Belcher ; in which he gives an account of his pro-
ceedings, and of the many land and boat journeys undertaken by
himself and oificers under his command ; completing, through their
instrumentality, the northern coast of the Parry group, and adding
Victoria Land and other geographical features to the cartography of
those regions. Then, as if to swell the mention of Arctic enterprise,
at this time appeared a reprint, by the HakJuyt Society, of the quaint
but interesting documents of old voyages ; and also a voluminous
summary, entitled ' Scoperte Artiche,' compiled for the enlighten-
ment of the Italians, by Conte Francisco M. Erizzo. Lastly, I have
to notice among the events of the past year, as connected with
Arctic enterprise, the bestowal of the honour of Jcnighthood upon
Sir Eobert M'Clure (our medallist), the gallant officer who virtually
accomplished the North- West passage — a justly-merited tribute of
the nation, and a token of the high sense it entertains of the worthy
deeds of those navigators who had so laboriously pursued their
perilous researches in those ice-encumbered seas.*
At this period of Arctic discovery it will perhaps be expected that
I should offer some remarks upon the results and the benefits which
have been derived from it by the country.
It is now nearly forty years since the revival of our Polar voyages,
during which period they have been prosecuted with more or less
success, until, at length, the great problem has been solved. Besides
this grand solution of the question, these voyages have in various
ways been beneficial ; and Science at least has reaped her harvest.
They have brought us acquainted with a portion of the globe before
* The sum of 10,000/. was also voted to liim and his gallant companions by the
House of Commons. . ^
