loi REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. []\rAY 26, 1856.
unknown. They have acquired for ns a vast addition to onr store of
knowledge — in magnetism, so important an element in the safe con-
duct of our ships; in meteorology ; in geograph}^, natural and physical;
and which has led to the prosecution of like discoveries in the regions
of the Antarctic Pole. They have shown us what the human frame
is capable of undergoing and of accomplishing under great severity
of climate and privation. They have opened out various sources of
curious inquiry as to the existence at some remote period of tropical
plants and tropical animals in those now icy regions, and of other
matters interesting and useful to man. They have, in short, ex-
punged the blot of obscurity which would otherwise have hung over
and disfigured the page of the history of this enlightened age ; and,
if we except the lamentable fate which befel the expedition under
Sir John Franklin, we shall find that they have been attended with
as little if not less average loss of life than that of the ordinary course
of mankind. And if any one should be disposed to weigh their ad-
vantages in the scale of pecuniary profit, they will find that there also
they have yielded fruit, if not to us, at least to a sister nation in whose
welfare we are greatly interested, and whose generous sympathy in
the fate of our countrj^men endears her to us, and would render it
impossible that we should begrudge her this portion of the advan-
tage of our labours. I need hardly remind you of the Eeport from
the Secretaiy of the United States Navy to the Senate, to the effect
that in consequence of information derived from one of our Arctic
expeditions to Behring Strait, a trade had spmng up in America by
the capture of whales to the north of that Strait, of more value
to the States, than all their commerce with what is called the East !
and that in two years, there had been added to the national wealth
of America, from^this source alone, more than eight millions of
dollars.
Africa.
I would next direct your attention to a region widely different in
its physical character to the last, but one in which we have alike
pushed our discoveries, with slow and occasionally painful progress,
it is true, but upon the whole with steady success— the region of
Africa. It is from this country I have to congratulate the Society
on the safe return of that distinguished traveller Dr. Earth, the suc-
cessful explorer of a large portion of Central Africa, and of the
filmed city of Timbuctii. An account of this expedition is now pre-
paring by Dr. Barth for publication, in five volumes, with maps;
