May 26, 185G.] AFRICA. 155
and, from the extent of the work and the care bestowed upon it, we
may expect to derive an enlarged knowledge of the country through
which he passed.
From letters communicated by the Foreign Office, we learn that
Dr. Vogel was at Gujeba in January last, and had thence proceeded
to Yakoba. His last letter is from Gomb^. It appears that, in
attempting to reach Adamaua, he had crossed the Binue, at a point
where the steamer under Dr. Baikie had stopped, and that he there
left letters in expectation that another steamer would be despatched
up the Chadda. We learn with regret from Dr. Vogel that his
health had suffered, but, on the other hand, we have cause to be
thankful that his life had been saved through an accident, which
prevented his joining a party of fifty persons going to Yola, all of
whom, except two, were murdered the same day.
Our associate, Dr. Baikie, has recently published an interesting
and instructive description of the voyage of the * Pleiad ' steamer up
the Niger and Chadda, including a map from the original survey by
Mr. May, r.n., and much general information respecting the nations
and countries of that important part of Africa. In the mention of
this work, which reflects credit upon its author, I must not omit to
notice an oversight which I am sure Dr. Baikie will, with his u&ual
candour, acknowledge. In alluding to the origin of the Expedition,
Dr. Baikie does not mention the persevering part taken by the
Council of this Society, and particularly by Sir Eoderick Murchison,
in promoting it ; and he has entirely omitted to connect the name
of M'Leod with the great and novel feature of the plan which
rendered this Expedition so successful in all respects, and will
govern the operations, in regard to season, of all future expe-
ditions. It will be seen in our Journal that, early in 1852, a pro-
ject for ascending the Niger with the rising waters, was laid before
the Council by Lieut. Lyons M'Leod, who had been employed for
some years on the African coast. Having been referred to the
Expedition Committee, attention was directed to a clause in Mr.
Laird's mail contract with the Admiralty, which provided for the
ascent of one of the African rivers, by steam, at a small expense ;
and the Committee recommended Lieut. M'Leod to communicate
with Mr. Laird and adapt his plan to this arrangement. Other steps
were also taken and communicated to the Society by Sir Eoderick
Murchison, in his Presidential Address of that year. In 1853 the
Expedition having been brought under the notice of the Govern-
ment by Sir Eoderick, as President of the Society, some progress
