lo8 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 2G, 185G.
was made, but a change in the Cabinet caused delay ; and in the
mean time the arrival of Dr. Barth on the banks of the Upper
Chadda, directed attention to that branch of the Niger, and turned
the proposed course of the Expedition towards it. The plan re-
ceived the warmest encouragement from Lord Clarendon, but the
favourable season being past, it was necessar}'- to defer proceedings
till the ensuing year. These circumstances were also laid before
the Society in the Presidential Address for 1853. In 1854 the
Expedition started, and- it was intended that the veteran African
explorer, our late member, Mr. Consul Bee croft, then residing at
Fernando Po, should take the command ; but his lamented decease
having occurred a few days before the arrival of the party from
England, the command devolved upon Dr. Baikie, with whom Mr.
May, of her Majesty's ship ' Crane,' was associated as surveyor,
through the kindness of Captain Miller, r.n., f.r.g.s., then chief
of^cer on the station.
I have felt it to be due to the persevering efforts of this Society
in promoting this Expedition, and to the individuals whose names
are so honourably connected with it, to insert in some detail these
facts connected with its origin ; of which, I am sure, Dr. Baikie
will acknowledge the justice and propriety.
The spirit of adventure is again revived : Dr. Baikie, the suc-
cessful explorer of the Chadda, has offered his services to con-
duct an expedition up the Niger, and, leaving a trading party at
Kabba, to pursue his route thence by land to Sokatu, the residence
of the Sultan, whose influence is said to bp so great, that could it
only be obtained, an impulse would be given to commerce, and
slavery would be annihilated.
A communication from Governor O'Connor, describing a visit to
the Island of Bulama, in the Bisagos gi'oup, and a voyage up the river
Casamance, informs us of the present condition of those places, and
the state of the settlements there.
Captain Skene, r.n., of the ' Philomel,' is about to return from the
West Coast, where he has ascended the Bonny, the Congo, and the
river of Lagos, and from whose journals we may expect some in-
teresting infonnation.
We learn tliat Commander Lynch, of the United States Navy, has
examined a large part of the coast of Liberia, and several of its
rivers, as a preliminary to an exploration of the interior. Sickness,
however, obliged him to discontinue his labours.*
* Of the death of Dr. Schonlein, at Cape Palmas, mention has already been
