May26, 185G.] AFRICA. 157
We may mention here that M. Eaifenel has at length published
an account of his failure to penetrate to the interior of Africa from
the French settlements on the Senegal.
Comte d'Escayrac de Lauture has presented the Society with a
copy of his Memoir on Soudan, accompanied by a map, in which the
positions of the principal towns and the courses of the rivers in
Central Africa are discussed with great ability and research, and
the habits of the people are also described. The Count has just
proposed to attempt, with the assistance of the Egyptian Govern-
ment, the ascent of the Nile to its sources.
The enterprising Sardinian trader, M. Brun-Eollet, whose esta-
blishment on the White Nile was mentioned in my noble prede-
cessor's last Address, having returned to his outpost of exploration
and commerce in that region, has since penetrated for a considerable
distance along the Misselad ; and we are indebted to our Corre-
sponding member, M. le Chev. Negri, of Turin, for the following
account of M. Brun's proceedings, dated from the banks of the
Misselad, Feb. 1, 1856:—
" After a month's research M. Brun-RoUet came to reconnoitre
the lake, by which the waters of the Misselad and of the Modj or
Liit communicate with the Bahr el Abiad. He found it about
50 leagues in length from north to south, and discovered the
entrance of the Misselad into the lake. He entered the Misselad
with three boats (barques), and an escort of 23 soldiers, obtained
from an Egyptian post recently established at the confluence of the
Sanbat, in the Bahr el Abiad ; and the intrepid traveller had already
ascended the river for nearly 40 leagues, with the determination to
push his exploration as far as possible. The Misselad appears to be
so large and deep that M. Brun-RoUet, who has previously visited
the Blue Nile, or Bahr el Azrek, as well as the White Nile, or Bahr
el Abiad, declares that he has no doubt of the Misselad being the true
Nile. It appears that during the rainy season this river inundates
an immense extent of country. The vegetation of this region is
magnificent, and the reception offered by the inhabitants, although
not always favourable, had not been hostile. M. Brun-Rollet and
his companions, among whom is Madame Brun-Rollet, a young
Marseillaise, continued to enjoy excellent health."
made in the Third number of the Proceedings of the Society ; and it is with ranch
regret that I now hear of the decease of a young French explorer, M. Couturier,
which took place at Brezina, an oasis in the Sahara, where he had stopped some
time in order to acquire a knowledge of some of the native dialects.
