May 26, 1856.] AFRICA. 159
remain unanswered, nor this vast inland region contimie almost a
blank upon our maps. There are not' wanting, in this and other
countries, men both willing and able to undertake the task.
The gallant Commajider of the expedition from Zayla to Harar,
Captain Burton, has volunteered to proceed from Zanzibar inland
towards the famed Sea of Niassa, and, after exploring its locality, to
turn northward towards the Bahr el Abiad ; and I will here mention
that the Council are now in communication with the Foreign Office
and the East India Company, on the subject of the means for
sending out an expedition in this direction, a deputation having
already had interviews with the Earl of Clarendon.
In Southern Africa, our medallist, Dr. Livingston, is still prose-
cuting his indefatigable researches. At the last Anniversary, we learnt
that he reached Loanda in an exhausted condition, labouring under
the effect of fever. His journey thither will be found most interest-
ing, and will well repay the perusal. He then announced his inten-
tion of returning to the interior, and of visiting the great chief Muata
ya Nvo, or Matiamvo, and of ultimately descending the Leeambye to
Quilimane, on the east coast of Africa. By a letter from him at
Cassange, we learn that he had so far carried out the first portion of
his plan ; but from other sources we are informed that he left Cas-
sang6 in February last, crossed the Quango, and pushed on for a
trading station, named Cobango, on the river Chihombo, with a view
of carrying out his before-mentioned intention of putting himself in
communication with Matiamvo. On reaching this place his health
was found to have suffered much, from having slept several nights
upon a vast plain entirely covered with water ; and he was compelled
to abandon his intention of visiting Matiamvo, and obliged to strike
off southward towards the country of his companions, which he
appears to have reached in safety, and in excellent health. Dr.
Livingston's observations have been communicated to the Society
by Mr. Maclear, the astronomer at the Cape, by whom they have
been recalculated and found to be of the most satisfactory cha-
racter — a feature, in the qualification of a traveller, of the first mo-
ment, and which this Society will do well to encourage.
In connection with discovery in the south-east part of Africa, Mr.
Moffat, the father-in-law of Dr. Livingston, anxious to learn his fate
and to forward supplies for him, had proceeded to Moselekatse*s
country, the full accounts of which interesting visit have been
kindly forwarded to us, by the London Missionary Society,
and will be printed in the Journal.
P
