160 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
On the South- West, Mr. Hahn, the Ehenish missionary, had left
Cape Town for Walfisch Bay, for the purpose of proceeding thence
overland to Mossamedes. It was the intention of Mr. Hahn to
settle near the mouth of the river Nourse, or Cunene, north of the
Ovampo Country, and thence to make expeditions inland along its
course. This river appears to be the shortest and most healthy
road to this part of the interior.
That persevering and hardy explorer, Mr. Charles John Andersson,
to whom the Council adjudged, last year, one of the Eoyal awards for
his journey to Lake Ngami, has published an excellent account of
his labours in South Africa, with a map, and many striking illustra-
tions. Mr. Andersson has again started to renew his pursuit of
African enterprise, and he also intends directing his attention to the
Cunene River.
Lastly, I have to mention M. Lesseps' very interesting pamphlet
and map of the Isthmus of Suez, showing the line of a canal which
it is proposed to make between the Mediterranean and the Eed Sea.
The importance of a ship canal from the Mediterranean to the Red
Sea cannot be overrated in a commercial point of view, and especially
to this country, when considered in connection with its Indian pos-
sessions and colonies. M. Lesseps has shown its importance in other
respects, by opening out fresh sources of trade along the shores of
the Red Sea itself, and otherwise ; and we can only hope that the
project, if undertaken, will realize the expectations it has created.
The map is a good specimen of chromolithography.
If to these prospects, we add results which may be expected from
our indefatigable Associate, Dr. Sutherland, who is a resident at
Natal ; and from the projected expedition of the United States, vid
Liberia on the west — from the continuation of Livingston's labours
in the south — from the appointment of Mr. M'Leod as consul at
Mozambique, and from the encouragement offered by the French
Geographical Society in the shape of rewards for discoveries in
Africa — we may hope to see discovery pushed forward in that conti-
nent with vigour ; and posterity may possibly witness the resources
of this vast continent, brought under the influence of European civili-
zation, its geography known, and its inhabitants emerge from bar-
barism and slavery.
Asia.
India. — By far the most important work in this quarter of the globe
that has been laid before the Council in the past session, is that of
