May 26, 1856.] ASIA. 161
the Trigonometrical Sui-vey of a large portion of India, by Lient.-
Colonel Waugh, the Surveyor-General of India.
This work consists of geodetical operations of the highest order,
carried on through countries for the most part unexplored, and,
until lately, inaccessible to Europeans, or, in the words of the
Society's motto, " Terrce Heclusce."
The first series of this important work is mentioned by my noble
predecessor in his Address, as extending from the Seronj base to
Karachi ; and I gather from a paper laid before the Council by our
Vice-President, Colonel Sykes, that the second series of operations
branches off to the north-west, from the great meridional arc at
Banog and Amsot, through the plains of the Punjab, and along
the southern face of the Sub-Himalaya ranges to Attock and to
Peshawur. At Attock, a base of verification was measured. This
series extends over seven degrees of longitude, and over a space of
more than 100 miles in width. The third series consists of meri-
dional arcs passing through Sind and the Punjab from Karachi to
Attock, thereby uniting the before-mentioned bases of verification at
those places ; and the whole completes a gigantic geodetical quad-
rilateral, of which the great arc, between Seronj and Banog, forms
the western side, and corresponds with a similar grand quad-
rilateral on the eastern side, begun and partially completed by
our Associate, Colonel Everest, &c.
Too much praise cannot be bestowed upon this most elaborate
and important work, carried on as it has been with such precision
through countries almost wholly unexplored and injurious to the
health of Europeans.
From Mr. J. Walker, the Hydrographer to the East India Com-
pany, we learn, that after the measurement of the base of verifica-
tion near Karachi, a party remained to observe the latitudes, and
to compute and register tidal observations; while another party
was detached to build towers, to facilitate the triangulation of the
Great Indus series. Another party also has been engaged on the North-
West Himalaya series, the operations of which were carried, on in
the region of perpetual snow, and it required all the energy and
determination of the parties to accomplish the work assigned to
them. The Assam longitudinal series had proceeded eastward, as
far as longitude 89° 30' 29'', when the party was obliged precipitately
to withdraw for the season on account of the floods. The South-Coasl
series has been extended to Kuttack ; its farther progress, however,
was retarded by the whole party having been prostrated by fever.
r 2
