162 REARrADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
Topographical. — The Survey of the Plains of the Punjab advances
satisfactorily. The work, we are informed, will be executed in a
style not inferior to that portion which has already been submitted
to the inspection of the members of this Society. The Ganjam
Survey continues to progress. As it is now being carried on in a
country hitherto almost a blank in our maps, and through a number
of petty states, the names of which were hardly known, its com-
pletion is looked forward to with much interest.
Revenue. — These surveys are proceeding steadily. The districts
of Kajeshaye, Goalpara, and the Julindher Dooab have recently
been completed.
Fifty sheets of the ' Indian Atlas ' are now published. Several
others will be finished during the ensuing season.
Marine. — A new and elaborate survey of the harbour and outer
roads of Karachi, has been executed on a large scale by Lieut.
Grieve, i.n., and is now being engraved. This harbour, in connec-
tion with the railway and electric telegraph, will no doubt become
one of the most important stations on the western coast of India.
Another sheet of the Survey of the Malacca Strait, extending from
Cape Eachado to Mount Formosa, by Lieut. Ward; i.n., has recently
been sent home. The Survey of the North Preparis Channel, in
the Bay of Bengal, extending from Preparis Island to Cape Negrais,
by Lieut. Ward, has also lately been published.
Turkey in Asia. — I have next to notice a memoir on the Map of
Damascus, the Hauran, and mountains of Lebanon, from personal
survey, by our associate, the Eev. J. L. Porter, containing various
journeys in Syria, in the performance of which he corrected many
errors in the received geography of that country. About Damascus,
he finds that the Bahr el Merj is not one lake, but three distinct lakes,
and that the plain around Damascus contains many villages, none of
which appear on the map. Balbeck is in error in its bearing from
Damascus ; the Antilibanus chain requires correction. Thus the
author proceeds, pointing out numerous errors in the topography of
the country, and concludes by observing that the present Ard-el-
Bathauzel is the ancient Batanea.
Mr. Arrowsmith is preparing a beautiful map of Syria and Palestine,
in three sheets, for the Foreign Office.
We have next an important paper, comprising notes of a journey
from Busrah to Bagdad, with descriptions of some Chaldean re-
mains, by Mr. William Kennett Loftus.
In this paper the author furnishes a highly interesting description
of the country through which he passed, both in a geographical
