May 26, 185G.] ASIA. 163
and antiquarian point of view. Ho visited the sites of some of tho
most ancient cities upon record, comprising those of Babel, Erech,
Accad, and Calneh, mentioned in the Bible ; and, as Sir Henry Eaw-
linson has observed, Mr. Loftus may be considered as the discoverer
of Wurka, perhaps the Erech of the Bible. Mr. Loftus gives minute
details of the country and of the various modes of irrigation. He
particularly directs attention to the effect of the Hindieh Canal, a
branch of the Euphrates, v^hich diverts the main stream from its
proper channel, thereby occasioning drought and causing the inha-
bitants of the villages, in the interior of Mesopotamia, to desert their
lands. The Hindieh passes through the Bahr el Nedjef, and forms
the Semava branch of the Euphrates. The paper contains much
important and valuable information.
It will be remembered that in 1848 a Commission was formed for
the purpose of determining the boundary line between the Turkish
and Persian empires. Its members were appointed by the English,
Russian, Turkish, and Persian Governments, and designated the
Turco-Persian Frontier Commission. The chief of the English -party
was Colonel Williams, the present celebrated Sir William Williams
of Kars, under whom Lieutenant Glascott, r.n., acted as chief sur-
veyor, and Mr. Loftus as geologist. We learn from Mr. Loftus,
that the surveys extended from Mohammerah to Mount Ararat, a
direct distance of about 600 m. ; the operations being trigonometri-
cal on an astrcmomical basis. The opportunities which occurred for
extending the examination of the country enabled careful route
surveys, corrected by nightly observations, to be extended as far as
Shiraz on the S. ; along the plains of the Euphrates and Tigris to
Zobeir, Meshid Ali, and Mosul on the W. ; and across the mountains
on the E., along the high plains of Persia, as far as the tomb of
Cyrus, Ispahan, Hamadan, Lake Urumia, and Bayazid. The Com-
mission had returned to Constantinople, and were engaged in
elaborating the results of their labours when the late war broke out,
and a separation of the parties constituting the Commission took
place ; the Russians taking with them that portion of the observa-
tions which they were contributing.
The accuracy of Lieutenant Glascott's labours has been remarkably
exhibited in working out the triangulation of this survey, and the
Society has already been indebted to that officer for his map of
Kurdistan on a scale of 6 inches to a degree, accompanied by a list
of his astronomical positions, which appeared in the sixth volume
of the Journal.
