May 26, 1856.] NORTH AMERICA. 165
tion of the inhabitants, productions, and commercial resources of a
country of which we had before but a very imperfect knowledge.
Chinese Empire. — Having already alluded to Mr. Meadows' work
on China, I have only to mention the publication of a new map of
Corea by Andrew Kim, edited by M. Jomard ; and to allude to the
want of a better knowledge of the northern seaboard of China and
of North-eastern Asia generally, including particularly its navigable
rivers, which recent events have proved to be so little known.
America.
North America. — During the present session, the United States
Government has presented to the Society, the reports, plans, and
sections of the several important expeditions despatched by order
of Congress to discover the best route for a railway from the
Mississippi to the Pacific, between the 32nd and 49th parallels.
These expeditions, organized by the Secretary of War under
various leaders, have contributed very largely to American geo-
graphy, observations having been made from the Mississippi to
the Pacific, between the 49tli and 47th parallels — the 41st and
43rd — also near the 38th, the 35th, and the 32nd — touching
upon the ocean at Puget Sound, San Francisco, S. Pedro, and S.
Diego. The report of the Secretary of War, on the results of these
labours, concludes, " that the route of the 32nd parallel is, of those
surveyed, the most practicable and economical route for a railroad
from the Mississippi Eiver to the Pacific Ocean." Other important
additions to a knowledge of the North American continent have been
communicated in the Ninth Eeport of the Smithsonian Institution.
Lieut. Beale, superintendent of Indian Affairs in California, accom-
panied by Mr. G. H. Heap, travelled from W^estport, Missouri, to
Los Angelos, on the Pacific, in 100 days, following the route, near
the 38th parallel, to the Little Salt Lake, then tuining south-
westerly, across the Mohave desert, to the Pacific.
Our gallant medallist. Colonel Fremont, also made a special
journey, along the same route, to test the depth of winter snow in the
mountainous region. He reached the Huerfano on December 3rd,
passed the Coochetope Pass on December 14th, where he found only
four inches of snow, and reached the Little Salt Lake settlements on
February 9 th.
Under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, an examination
of Northern Wisconsin has been made by Mr. Baird, in regions
