6 LIVINGSTON. [Nov. 12, 1855.
drainage formed the rivers of North Australia. The expedition, passing
eastward, would probably skirt the northern limits of Sturt's Central
Desert, and reach the head waters of the streams that flow into the
Gulf of Carpentaria ; from thence it was hoped that it would be in a
condition to penetrate southwards, to the great bend of the Barcoo
River ; which was the northernmost point reached by Sir Thomas
Mitchell and Mr. Kennedy on their journeys from Sydney towards the
Gulf of Carpentaria. These operations would greatly extend our
knowledge of Northern Australia, and tend to open up communication
between it and the Southern colonies.
4. Letters from Africa^ accompanied by a new Map of the Interior.
By Dr. Livingston.
Communicated by Sir Eoderick Murchison.
These letters of Dr. Livingston, including his observations and map,
will be found printed at length in vol. xxv. p. 217, of the forthcoming
Journal of the Royal Geographical Society. A short abstract will
therefore suffice : — He left the confluence of the Leeba and Leeambye,
lat. 14° 11' S. and long. 23° 40' E., to travel to the west coast of Africa.
Sekeletu, the king of that country (under whose protection he had been
long exploring), furnished him with 27 men and with oxen ; and Dr. Liv-
ingston proceeded by the way of Londa, whose king, Matiamvo, is well
known to the Portuguese. Many flooded rivers and plains were crossed
by the party, and at lat. 10° 17' S. they forded the Casai River, having
entered upon a new river system. The Londa country is forest land,
alternating with sward. The trees are interlaced with creepers, and
covered with mosses and lichens. Everything indicated a humid climate.
Thence they passed to an elevated table-land, overgrown with Cape
heaths and rhododendrons, and finally arrived at a sudden descent of
2000 feet, at the foot of which lay the wonderfully fertile valley of the
Cassange and the river Quango : 90 or 100 miles to the W. of this
descent appeared the edge of a similar table-land, but looking in the far
distance like a range of mountains. The tribes were found to alter for
the worse as the Portuguese territories were approached, and heavy fines
were levied on the Doctor's p^rty upon the most frivolous pretences,
but actual collision was avoided. Once within the Portuguese territories,
he pays full tribute to the courtesy and kindness he experienced at the
hands of the authorities and others. He arrived at Loanda labouring
under severe illness, having suffered very frequently from intermittent
fever. He adds that tlie Casai and Quango are reported by intelligent
i^atives, who profess knowledge of the country and who are believed by
