166 ' REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
almost unknown before, and several lakes and rivers have been dis-
covered and named by bim.
Captain Marcy has explored the head waters of tbe Brazos and
Big Witcbita Eivers, in Texas, a region never before trodden by
white men ; and a survey of the United States and Mexican boundary
was also commenced by Major Emory.
Lieutenant Couch, of the United States' Army, has made a scien-
tific journey into Mexico, at his own expense, leave of absence
having been granted to him, at the instigation of the Smithsonian
Institute. He went to Matamoros and Monterey, examining the
adjacent sierras; thence he proceeded to Parras, the plains of
Mapimi, and the Caves of Durango. Among other motives for this
journey, was the acquirement of a large collection of manuscripts,
maps, and natural objects, made by Luis Berlandier, a Swiss, and a
member of the Academy of Geneva, who had resided in Mexico,
and devoted himself to Mexican research from 1826 to 1851, when
he died. This collection was found very valuable, and purchased
from the widow. A catalogue is appended to the Smithsonian Eeport.
Among various works which have appeared, and which throw
light upon, the geography and ethnography of America, I notice a
* Memoire sur les Anciennes Populations Mexicaines,' by M. Lude-
wig ; a treatise on the Hydrography of the Ohio, by Charles Ellet ;
a notice and map of the projected canal between the Pacific an<jl
Atlantic through Nicaragua, by M. Dupuy. Mr. J. H. Coffin has
written upon the distribution of winds in the northern hemisphere ;
and great light has been cast on the comparative philology of the
American languages by the labours of the Eev. R. S. Eiggs, and
his acquirement of the Dakota language. Mr. Julius Froebel has
furnished a work on the Physical Geography of North America ;
and I notice an excursion to the ruins of Abo, Quarra, and Gran
Quivira in New Mexico, by Major J. H. Carleton, u.s.A.
Central America. — In Central America, Mr. E. G. Squier, formerly
Charge d' Affaires of the United States to the republics of the
Isthmus, has pursued his indefatigable researches so far, as to
cause a survey to be made of the country lying between Puerto
Caballos in the Bay of Honduras, and the Gulf of Fonseca on the
Pacific. • The results of this investigation have been stated in a
Eeport, advocating the construction of the Honduras Interoceanic
Eailway ; and also in a volume by Mr. Squier, entitled ' Notes
on Central America, particularly the States of Honduras and San
Salvador, their Geography, Topography, Climate, Productions, Po-
