May 26, 1856.] SOUTH AMERICA. 167
pulation, &o. ;' with an original map and sections, which the author
has presented to our library.
Our active associate Mr. Power, of Panama, has recently pre-
sented to the Society an important addition to the geography of
Central America, in a tracing of an original manuscript map of the
province of David, on the frontiers of New Granada and Costa
Eica, made from a new survey by Colonel Codazzi. This survey
has enabled an interesting portion of the Isthmus to be delineated
which was previously a blank on our maps.
West Indies. — The Geography of Cuba has been published by
Don Esteban Pichardo, under the auspices of the Eoyal Junto of
Fomento.
Among the Papers of this Session, I notice the I^andfall of Co-
lumbus, by Captain A. B. Becher, e.n. The first land in the New
World that was seen by the great Genoese adventurer is a point of
considerable historical interest. Hitherto, in this country, the sub-
ject has been treated in works of biography and history ; but it has
now been taken up by a really practical hydrographer, and the re-
cords of the Spanish archives compared step by step with the confi-
guration of accurate modem charts. In like manner, the spot where
Julius Caesar first planted his foot upon British ground was treated
of by the most eminent geographers of their day^ — D'Anville,
HpUey, Kennell, and others ; but it has been left for the enlight-
ened Astronomer Royal, from an investigation of certain phenomena
which modern science had brought to our knowledge, to prove, with
almost mathematical certainty, the precise spot in dispute ; * and
thus, by assiduous research and comparison, has our Assistant Hydro-
grapher arrived at conclusions by means of modern delineations
with respect to the Landfall of Columbus, which seem to be worthy
of equal attention.
South America. — The progress of geographical research in South
America has been scarcely less active than in the northern and
central parts of the great Western continent.
JVew Granada. — The course of the navigable river Atrato, which
falls into the Gulf of Darien, has been subjected (along with its west-
em affluents and the adjacent streams flowing to the Pacific) to the
investigations of several surveying expeditions, despatched by Mr.
F. M. Kelley, of New York, at his own expense. For more than fifty
years, Baron Humboldt had continued to direct attention to the
facilities, which the Atrato was reported to present, for establishing
♦ See ' Archseologia,' vol. xxxiv.
