168 RE;AR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S address. [May 26, 1856.
water-communication between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
Actuated by the writings of the veteran geographer, Mr. Kelley has
caused the whole course of the Atrato, from its mouth to its head-
waters, to be surveyed ; and having discovered a route, by way of
the Truando, which he deems to be favourable for a ship-canal, he
has considered the subject to be of so much importance to the great
maritime powers, as to invite an international investigation before
any further steps are taken. The scrutiny of the project, which
Mr. Kelley has invited from geographers and from civil engineers
in this country, has, upon the whole, been favourable to his plan ;
and his proposal to make a more perfect examination of the locality,
seems to be a project well deserving of encouragement.
Lieutenant Gilliss, of the United States' Navy, has presented to the
Society two quarto volumes, published by order of Congress, com-
prising a portion of the results of " the Astronomical Expedition to the
Southern Hemisphere " under his orders in the years 1849 to 1852.
Chile. — The first of these volumes, besides a summary of the scien-
tific observations made by Lieutenant Gilliss and the officers under his
command in Chile, contains a personal narrative of their journeys in
that Republic, and many interesting particulars regarding its present
political state. In describing its physical geography Lieutenant
Gilliss has frankly acknowledged his obligations to the scientific indi-
viduals who, under the patronage of the Chilean Government, have
been for some years engaged in investigating, surveying, and de-
scribing the geology, topography, and natural resources of the Re-
public, especially Messrs. Claude Gay, Professor Domeyko, and
Messrs. Pissis and Allan Campbell, whose labours have been long
known to us in Europe.
It was a source of great satisfaction to Lieutenant Gilliss, upon the
completion of his own astronomical observations, to find that the
Government of Chile was desirous to purchase the valuable instru-
ments he had with him, as well as the observatory which he had set
up. These were handed over to them ; and thus Chile may boast of
a national observatory, in addition to the various other scientific
institutions, already founded by the liberality and enlightened
policy of her rulers.
The second volume contains the results of a journey made by
Lieutenant MacRae, the next officer of the expedition, across the
Cumbre and Uspallata Passes of the Andes, and from Mendoza to
Buenos Ayres, his instructions being to make a series of observa-
tions for elevation, latitude, and longitude, as well as magnetical and
meteorological, for each 3000 feet of elevation on the slopes of the
