May 26, 1856.] SOUTH AMERICA. 169
Andes, and for each 100 miles of longitude on the line of road across
the Pampas, — a task which he completed in 60 days.
The results, which are given in a tabular form, constitute an im-
portant collection of authentic data for geographers. It is satisfac-
tory to observe how they corroborate the accuracy of the labours of
the old Spanish officers, Bauza and Espinosa, whose map of the same
line of country over the Pampas was published in the Hydro-
graphic Office at Madrid in 1810. A copious appendix gives a
particular account, drawn up by various learned individuals in the
United States, of the Indian antiquities, and of the zoological, bota-
nical, and mineralogical collections made by the officers in the
course of their travels.
These volumes are beautifully embellished by well-executed
plates, especially the natural history part; and the work reflects
great credit not only upon the scientific attainments of the offices
employed in carrying out the great astronomical and geodesical
work entrusted to them, but also on the industry and ability with
which they have brought together a large and varied mass of in-
formation regarding the countries they passed through; and the
Government of the United States has done but justice to their
labours in publishing the results of this important survey in the
most liberal manner at the expense of the State.
Brazil. — The labours of our Honorary Member, Dr. Martins, in
Brazil have come before us recently under a new form, in a volume
presented to us by the author, containing fifty beautiful views illus-
trating the vegetation of Brazil.
Paraguay. — From Lieut. Page, commanding the U. S. Steamer
* Water Witch,' we learn, under date " Buenos Ayres, Dec. 26,
1855," that " the embarrassments arising from the jealous prohi-
bition of the Government of Paraguay have, to such a degree, con-
tracted the field of operations, as to deprive this expedition of the
privilege of making contributions to geographical science and
natural history to the extent that I had anticipated. I neverthe-
less hope that our labours will prove not to have been in vain in
either of those fields, and that the result may give rise to com-
mercial intercourse with countries fruitful in natural products and
susceptible of extended and varied cultivation, but whose resources
as yet lie dormant, waiting for the hand of energy and industry to
awaken them to life. I allude particularly to those provinces most
directly interested in the navigation of the river Salado, a river
rising in the Cordillera, in the western part of the province of Salta,
and discharging itself into the Parana at tlie town of Santa Fe.
