170 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
" By our exploration of this river we have sliQwn that the Salado
is navigable to within the province of Santiago, without presenting
an obstacle, and that, with the 'expenditure of a little labour, it
could, in the course of a few months, be made navigable to with-
in the province of Salta, a distance of not less than 900 miles by
land.
" The navigation of this river will open to the provinces Jujui,
Salta, Tucuman, Catamarca, Santiago del Estero, parts of Cordova
and Santa Fe, an easy way by which to transport their products and
merchandise, which now, under the most disadvantageous circum-
stances, are conveyed in ox carts of the most unwield}^ construction,
involving an expenditure of time and money, and prohibiting the
exportation of many valuable articles of commerce which could easily
and profitably be transported by the river.
" The river was ascended in a small steamer from its mouth, the
distance of 150 m. in a right line, aad 350 by the river. This being
in July (the season of low water), the steamer could not ascend
higher. The river was then entered from its upper waters ; its diffi-
culties, its obstacles to immediate navigation throughout the above
extent, carefully examined ; its rise and fall considered ; and the
result showed no obstacle that may not easily be removed ; and none
of those obstacles, such as shoals and banks, which, when removed
from one place, reproduce themselves in another.
" We have recently discovered also a new channel between the
island Martin Garcia and the coast of the Banda Oriental, of 2 ft.
more water than the old channel contains. The importance attached
to this discovery is not confined to the greater depth of water in
the new channel, but it assumes a political character. It deprives
Martin Garcia of that important geographical position which is
attached to it by the Government of Buenos Ayres, in whose hands
it is at this time. Instead of Buenos Ayres possessing, as she now
claims, exclusive jurisdiction over the old channel, leading into the
rivers Parana and Uruguay, on the ground that her temtory is on
both sides, over the new channel, she has only conciirrent juris-
diction with the Banda Oriental. The new channel is more easily
entered, and in it vessels are not obliged to pass nearer to Martin
Garcia than 11 m.; thus taking from this island the perfect com-
mand it formerly had over the entrance to the rivers Parana and
Uruguay."
M. Francis de Castelnau continues the publication of his important
journey in South America.
