May 26, 1856.] AUSTRALIA. ]7l
M. Delaporte has published an account of his journey in the
country of the Araucanians.
Benjamin Vicuna Mackenna has reported upon the agriculture of
Chile and upon European migration to that country.
M. Isambert and M. de Angelis, and Lieut. Maury, u.s.N., have
written upon the free navigation of the Amazon.
AUSTEALIA.
By far the most important information we have had communicated
to us with regard to this country is the progress which has been made
by the North Australian Expedition under Mr. Augustus Gregory.
From this enterprising explorer, whose exploits in Western Aus-
tralia are well known, by a letter communicated through the Colonial
Office, we learn that the Expedition left Moreton Island on 13th
September, 1855, in the ship 'Monarch' and the 'Tom Tough'
schooner, and after nearly encountering shipwreck at the entrance
of Port Patterson, was landed at Point Pearce.
At the time of the last despatch the stock had suffered from the
voyage, and the horses were in a weak condition ; but the Expe-
dition was in all other respects in an efficient state, and the
officers and men were all in good health and full of ardour. The
horses having been landed from the ship, were to proceed round
the head of the Fitzmaurice, making their way to the Kangaroo
Point in Victoria Kiver, whence the Expedition would take its
final departure for the interior. No natives had been seen, but it
was evident by many fires and other traces that they were numerous
on that part of the coast. Through Sir Eoderick Murchison some
information has been received from Mr. Wilson, the geologist to
the Expedition ; and Mr. Baines, the artist, has illustrated the
country about Moreton Bay by the sketches which have been laid
on our table.
The importance of this Expedition in opening out to our know-
ledge the interior of the northern portion of Australia, in bringing
us acquainted with the physical and geographical features of the
country, by which we may hope to forward the progress of that
most important and desirable object, the settlement of this portion
of the continent; the determination of the watersheds of those
important rivers, the Victoria and Albert, supposed to have their
rise in an extensive range of mountains in the locality to be explored,
and of the facilities or otherwise of connecting Carpentaria with
