172 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
the southern ports, loy which the dangerous navigation of the coast
and of Torres Strait and the delays from monsoons will he avoided ;
— the importance, I say, of all this information, which we may
expect to derive from this Expedition, cannot he too highly esti-
mated, whether as regards the welfare of the people, or the vast
interests which are involved in this country, with respect to that
portion of our colonies.
I cannot quit the subject of this Expedition without mentioning
an instance of rare liberality in the cause of geographical science
which was communicated at one of our evening meetings, during
this session, by Count Strzelecki. When the North Australian Ex-
pedition was first _ planned, and when, owing to the length of
time which had elapsed before it started, it was supposed that funds
were wanting to carry it out, an associate of this Society, Mr.
M. Uzielli, generously offered to place the munificent sum of 10,000/.
at its disposal. Another of our Associates, Mr. W. S. Lindsay, m.p.,
had also previously offered to contribute largely towards the outfit of
the Expedition. As, however, the Government have taken the matter
into their own hands, these gentlemen have not been called upon
to fulfil their promises ; but we must still look upon the offers as
proofs, that the labours of the Geographical Society are fully appre-
ciated by practical men, and of the zeal that exists among us for the
advancement of geographical knowledge.
In connection with this part of my subject, I next mention a paper
by our Associate Captain Stokes of the Eoyal Navy, on steam com-
munication between our settlements in Australia and this country,
India, and China, and on the establishment of a Penal Settlement in
connection with a colony in the vicinity of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
In this he proposes a new route through Torres Strait, and to render
its various passages safe by the erection of lighthouses and the
establishment of pilots.
The necessity for improving the navigation of Torres Strait was
some months ago brought prominently forward by the great body
of the shipping interests in Australia, in a memorial transmitted to
this country, and communicated to Lloyd's ; and there can be no
doubt that the vast interests involved, demand our serious attention ;
for whether or not the proposed means of communication ultimately
become the direct routes to and from those colonies, Torres Strait
will still remain the high road of communication between India and
the South Pacific Ocean, and between our Southern Australian
colonies, India, and China.
