May 26, 1856.] AUSTRALIA. 173
New Caledonia. — From the ' Annales de la Marine et des Colo-
nies,' we learn that the French have made a complete investigation
of New Caledonia, and have taken possession of the whole island,
and caused the sovereignty of France to be acknowledged.
The loss of a Chinese junk upon D'Entrecasteaux Eeef, New
Caledonia, has been the occasion of bringing us better acquainted
with that most dangerous reef, and with its vast extent and correct
geographical position, by Lieutenant Chimmo, r.n., and with its
formation and natural history by Dr. McDonald, the assistant-
surgeon of H.M.S. ' Torch,' under Lieutenant Chimmo's command.
Norfolk Island. — You will have learned from our ' Proceedings ' that
Norfolk Island, in a complete state of preparation, and with all its
buildings, has been appropriated to the use of the Pitcaim Islanders,
who have all consented to be transferred there. The planting a
colony consisting of persons of such exemplary moral conduct, and
of such uniform piety, may perhaps exercise a beneficial effect
upon the other islands of the Pacific within their influence.
Bonin Isles. — The Benin Islands have obtained some notoriety
lately, from the mention which has been made of them by Commo-
dore Perry of the United States' Navy, who considers them to be of
great importance from their geographical position, and that they may
be looked upon as offering to a maritime nation a most *' valuable
acquisition." In an early stage of the question this ofiicer claimed
them as the property of the United States, under the impression that
the group had been visited by an American citizen before the islands
were formally taken possession of by myself in 1 827. But having since
learned from the Address of our late President, the Earl of EUesmere,
that the individual in right of whom he claimed them, was an
Englishman, he has generously acknowledged that he was probably
misinformed. And here I would leave the matter, except that I
think it due to myself to reply to his remark, " that in naming these
islands I had very unjustly overlooked the name of Coffin, who had
visited the southern part of the group before I had." To this I have
only to plead entire ignorance of Captain Coffin ever having visited
these islands at all, until I read the remarks of Commodore Perry.
The right of possession from priority of discovery is a question of
which nations are naturally jealous ; but I trust that not only in re-
spect of these islands, but in all other cases, our relations will be
such, that our ports will be mutually open for the general benefit of
navigation and commerce.
