174 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
New Publications.
Numerous donations have been presented to the Society, includ-
ing 4 atlases, upwards of 350 maps and charts, and 663 volumes and
pamphlets ; affording an excellent proof of the desire to bring its
members acquainted with the publications of the day, and denoting
a sense of the Society's usefulness. A complete list of these will
be printed as usual in the Journal, and many have been specially
alluded to in the course of the Address. Among the donations con-
tributed by our own countrymen, though not at present associated
with us, may be mentioned the learned work on the Chinese and
their Eebellions, by Mr. Meadows, which will receive further
notice in the ' Proceedings.'
Our associate, Mr. Alexander Keith Johnston, has completed the
new edition of his superb Physical Atlas. The publication of the
first edition of this great work, ten years since, had the effect of
introducing in this country almost a new era in the popular study
of geography, through its attractive and instructive illustration of
the prominent features of the science. This second edition is to
some extent an entirely new work, owing to the additions and
improvements which have been introduced. I have only to refer
to the names of Murchison, Forbes, Brewster, Ami Boue, and Berg-
haus, to stamp the high character of the work ; but I must not
omit to mention, among new contributions, the Geological Map of
Europe, by Sir Eoderick Murchison and Professor Nicol ; that of
America, by Professor Rogers ; General Sabine's Map of Terrestrial
Magnetism ; the Distribution of Marine Animals, by the lamented
Professor Edward Forbes ; and the addition of a large general Index
adds materially to the utility of this extensive compendium of
Natural Geography.
The Imperial Atlas of Modem Geography, edited by our associate,
Dr. Blackie, of Glasgow, has reached its twelfth number. The
maps are very neatly and correctly executed by some of our best
cartographers.
The Eoyal Illustrated Atlas, with an introductory notice on
the existing literature of geography, by Dr. Shaw, is also in
course of publication by Messrs. FuUarton, and has reached its
eighth part. The design of this atlas goes beyond the ordinary
scope of unadorned cartography, in combining with the maps, pic-
turesque vignettes and illustrations of the countries and their in-
habitants. The maps are prettily drawn according to the latest
