May 26, 1856.] NEW PUBLICATIONS. 175
authorities, and the pictures, which form an unusual, though instruc-
tive feature of the work, are neatly engraved.
I may include in this notice of our own labours, a beautiful Map
of Madeira, published in London, in the English language, and
dedicated, by permission, to this Society, by our Corresponding mem-
ber M. Ziegler of Winterthuf. The physical features of this island, -
including the distribution of its vegetation, are skilfully portrayed ;
and in addition to his own observations, Mr. Ziegler acknowledges
the assistance he has derived from the labours of Captain Vidal,
R.N., and Sir Charles Lyell ; and especially from the communications
of Mr. Hartung, whose portfolios are rich with the researches of six
winters. Such a map cannot fail to prove valuable to the geo-
grapher, and an interesting companion to those who seek in Madeira,
for a milder climate than our own.
The successful researches which have been prosecuted among the
mounds of Mesopotamia have led to the production of a series of
three beautiful Maps for the Government of India, by Commander
Jones, I.N., delineating the remains of Khorsabad, Nineveh, Sela-
miyeh, and Nimrud.
One of the latest communications received from our lamented Cor-
responding member, Vicomte de Santarem, contained the donation of
a copy of the fac-simile published by the Vicomte of the large Map
of the World drawn by Fra Mauro in 1459. This fac-simile is of
the same size as the original, and published on six sheets.
Among our members who have contributed to Crimean geography
may be now mentioned Mr. G. Cavendish Taylor, who has recently
published a Journal of Adventures with the British Army, in two
volumes.
One of our earliest members, General Monteith, whose Map of
Georgia and the Caucasus was engraved several years since by the
Society, and still remains in repute, has lately published a volume
on Kars and Erzeroum, ^ith an accoimt of the Campaigns of Prince
Taskiewitch and of the Russian Conquests beyond the Caucasus.
Mr. William Ferguson, our associate, has published his journal of
a visit, entitled ' America by River and Bail, or Notes by the Way
on the New World and its People.*
Dr. J. D. Hooker and our associate Dr. Thompson have published,
separately, their Introductory Essay to the Flora Indica, including
outlines of the Physical Geography and Botany of the Provinces of
India.
A fine Map has been published lately by Mr. Stanford, con-
Q
