Nov. 26, 1855.] PORTER. 7
Portuguese traders, to join somewhere N. of Cassange, and to form the
Congo or Zaire of Capt. Tuckey. Dr. Livingston announced his inten-
tion of returning to the interior and of visiting King Matiamvo, and
subsequently of descending to Quillimane, on the E. coast of Africa,
by the Leeambye Eiver (which, he entertains no doubt, is identical witli
the Zambesi)* Dr. Livingston did so return, and writes from Cassange,
describing the province of Angola, through which he had then passed
twice.
After some remarks from Mr. Macqueen, and a few words from Sir
R. Murchison, Mr. Consul Brand, and Mr. Galton, the Meeting was
adjourned till November 26.
Second Meeting, November 26, 1855.
Sir RODERICK MURCHISON, V.P., in the Chair.
George Peabody, Esq. ; Captain E. G. Fanshawe^ r.n. ; Colonel
C. G. Fagan ; Dr. Christopher Elliott, m.d. ; Captain E. Palmer,
R.A. ; the Hev. J. L. Porter, a.m. ; Edward Cheshire ; Edmund
Gabriel, Her Majesty* s Arbitrator at St. Paul de Loanda ; G. F.
Leslie; W. E. Shaw^n.^. ; W. Spottiswoode, F.n.s. ; George Milner
Stephen, f.g.s. ; and James Vavasseur, Esqrs., were elected Fellows.
The Papers read were —
1 . Memoir on the Map of Damascus, the Hauran, and the Mountains
of Lebanon, constructed from Personal Survey. By the Rev.
J. L. Porter, a.m.
Communicated by John Hogg, Esq., m.a., f.r.s., f.r.g.s.
This paper contains the account of a great many journeys, taken by
the author, in various directions about Syria, during which he made a
large number of observations with rough surveying instruments, and
records many gross errors which he is satisfied that he has detected in
the received geography of that country. The environs of Damascus he
finds to be very untruly delineated : thus the Bahr el Merj is not one single
lake, but three distinct ones, and the plain surrounding the city is studded
with large villages, none of which appear on the maps. Balbeck is io
the eastward of N. from Damascus, and not considerably to the west-
ward of N. The end of the Antilibanus chain requires a correction of
half a degree In longitude and a quarter of a degree in latitude. The
