May 26, 1856.] PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. I77
Of late, various papers have appeared on the circulation of the
waters of the ocean ; and as new facts are received, the interest of
the subject increases. The labours of America have in this respect
been very fruitful ; Lieutenant Maury, our able and newly elected
Corresponding member, has laboured deeply in this field, and has
shown us with what accuracy he has determined the course and
velocity of the Gulf Stream, by the remarkable agreement between
the real and calculated position in which the unfortunate ' San Fran-
cisco' was found, after being disabled and drifting many days in the
strength of the current.
The American Surveying Expedition, under Lieutenant Lee, has
also contributed to the subject ; and, while pursuing its observa-
tions upon the streams of the ocean, has largely added to our store of
ocean temperatures at various depths, and has furnished us with a
most interesting section of the basin of the Atlantic, which will
throw considerable light upon the practicability of the project of
connecting the two great continents of Europe and America by a
telegraphic wire.
Mr. Findlay, our Associate, has added to his former contribu-
tions on the subject of ocean streams ; and Captain Trminger, of the
Danish Royal Navy, has supplied us with information as to a new
course of the stream on the coast of Greenland.
It has been the practice of my predecessors to notice the progress
of magnetic science from the natural connection between the com-
pass and topographical operations. During the past year a committee
has been formed at Liverpool for the purpose of inquiring into that
subtle subject, the disturbance of the compass in iron vessels. They
have made a report of their labours, up to the end of the year, to
the Board of Trade, which presents some curious and interesting
results, and they are still continuing their investigations. The Board
of Trade encourages this inquiry, so manifestly advantageous to the
shipping interest, by an annual grant of money.
The question of local attraction in ships has also engaged the at-
tention of our learned and indefatigable Astronomer-Royal, who
has recently furnished a valuable paper on the subject to the Royal
Society.
Various papers on this subject by other authors also have been
published since the last anniversary, of which some have been
read before the British Association at Glasgow, particularly those
by Dr. Scoresby, and by Mr. Towson.
It will be interesting to know that Mr. Piazzi Smyth, the Astro-
Q 2
