178 REAR-ADMIRAL F. W. BEECHEY'S ADDRESS. [May 26, 1856.
nomer-Royal at Edinburgh, is about to proceed to Teneriffe, to make
astronomical observations on the summit of the famed Peak of Teyde.
The distinguished author of the ' Law of Storms,* Sir William
Reid, has published a notice of the motion of winds and storms in
the Mediterranean, and drawn a comparison between the gales and
forces of the winds of Malta and of Bermuda. The work embodies
a memorandum by our valued associate. Captain Graves, k.n., on the
advantages which sliipping will derive from pursuing a certain
course in the Mediterranean, with respect to prevailing winds at
certain seasons of the year.
I am happy to be able to announce the completion of an important
series of observations upon the tidal streams of the seas around our
own shores, which have been carried on for several years in a small
vessel, which the Admiralty liberally placed at my disposal. These
observations are of great importance as regards this particular branch
of science, as they satisfactorily establish, in tidal waves of a
peculiar character, the existence of a simultaneous turn of stream
throughout the wave, notwithstanding the remarkable fact of there
being a progressively increasing tidal establishment. This theory
was advocated in two papers under my own hand, printed in the
* Transactions' of the Royal Society ; and it has now been further
confirmed by numerous observations. The result will facilitate and
simplify the navigation of our channels, and will aifect much that
has been written upon the subject of tides.
In connection with this branch of physics, I mention a work by
Mr. F. A. Keller, an able hydrographical engineer of the French navy,
entitled, ' Expos^ du Regime des Courants dans la Manche et la Mer
AUemagne.' The author has endeavoured to arrange the results
derived from the first series of the observations, published, as before
mentioned, in the Philosophical Transactions, in a manner which, he
is of opinion, will render them more generally useful to mariners.
Lieutenant Maury has furnished a pamphlet on ' Lanes for
Steamers,' or upon the routes which he would have steamers
follow, when passing between England and America, in order to
render this much frequented route more safe, by diminishing the
chance of collision. In addition to lessening the danger of these
passages, Lieutenant Maury points out several other advantages
which would attend the adoption of his plan, and gives much useful
information on the course of the Gulf Stream, as well as on districts
where fogs and gales are most frequent, and the times when they
most prevail.
