May 26, 1856.] CONCLUSION. 179
Conclusion.
I liave now laid before you as nmcli of tlie general outline of the
state and progress of Geographical science during the past year, as
may be conveniently comprised within the limits of an Address,
and I feel satisfied that there is much upon which the Society may
be congratulated. The numerous communications made to the
Society during the Session from all parts of the globe — the animated
and enlightened discussions upon them, which are recorded in our
useful periodical, the ' Proceedings,* which has been so successfully
started, and the enlarged dimensions which our Journal has attained
under the careful editorship of our zealous Secretary, Dr. Norton
Shaw — are proofe of the many and fruitful sources whence informa-
tion flows to us ; and when we recollect how few of our evening
meetings have been passed within these walls without some positive
addition to the science we cultivate, we shall be able to comprehend
the progress that is continually being made in Geographical research,
and the great increase of the general interest which it excites. But
it is not in the pages of our records alone, that the full benefits of
the Society are seen — the mere facts added, year by year, to our store
of knowledge, are but the promise of the successes before us, and of
benefits to be derived from our labours. It is impossible to read
the list of names enrolled as members of this Society without
feeling convinced that its labours are considered valuable to every
interest and to men of all professions ; for it is not the geographer
alone who will be found thus supporting our efforts : side by side
with him stand the politician and the merchant, who regard with
deep interest new enterprises opened out for commerce ; and next
to him the divine, who foresees in the extension of our science, fresh
means of spreading the blessings of Christianity, and its attendant,
the civilization of man. And so I might pass on to other professions,
all concurring in the same sentiments and interests. In this union
of views we cannot but foresee the enlarged success of the Society ;
and feel that it is with no exaggerated hopes we may look for-
ward to its steady and satisfactory progress, and to its increasing
importance and usefulness.
