PROCEEDINGS
OF
THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY
OF LONDON.
SESSION 1856-7.
First Meeting, Nov, 10, 1856.
Rear-Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, President, in the Chair.
Elections. — Capt. Cole; Colonel the Hon. A, H. Gordon, c.B. ; Sir
Cfuirles Nicholson ; Commander Montagu F, O'Reilly, e.n. ; and W, P.
Andrew I J. Fntwistle ; G. K. Fairholme ; J. B. Heath; W. H. Hovell; A.
Hodgson ; and William Staniland, Fsqrs., were elected Fellows.
Donations. — Among the more important donations presented to
the Society, since the last meeting, were the Ordnance Maps of
England and Wales, so far as published, on the scale of one inch to
a mile ; also the Ordnance Maps of Lancashire, Edinburghshire,
Haddingtonshire, Kirkcudbrightshire, Lewis Island in Eoss-shire,
and Wigtonshire, all on the six-inch scale ; Admiralty Charts ;
Robinson's ' Biblical Researches;' Commodore Perry's ' Narrative
of an Expedition to the China Seas and Japan,' etc. ; Fullarton's
' Gazetteer of the World ;' Quartermaster- General's Map of the S.W.
Crimea ; Crawfurd's ' Dictionary of the Indian Islands ;' Light-
house Map of the British Isles by the Board of Trade; Burton's
' Harar ;' Sir R. McClure's ' Discovery of the North- West Passage *
by Sherard Osborn ; Becher's ' Landfall of Columbus ;' Fleming's
' Southern Africa ;' Charts of the French ' Depot de la Marine ; '
Hughes's ' Geography;' Maps of Ireland and of Scotland, from Mr.
Stanford ; Transactions of various Societies, etc.
Announcements. — The President announced to the Meeting that
since they last separated, the Expedition to Eastern Africa had been
despatched under the command of Captain Richard F. Burton,
who, he hoped, would be joined at Bombay by an officer of the
Indian Navy, and at Zanzibar by the Church Missionary, Mr. Reb-
mann. From the enterprising character and experience of these
individuals, the most favourable results might be expected.
Despatches had also been received from Dr. Livingston, an-
nouncing his arrival at Tete, and subsequently at the Mauritius,
