182 LIVINGSTON— BAIKIE— KANE. [Nov. 10, 1856.
after the successful and unprecedented journey across the continent
of Africa, from west to east. The President paid a high compliment
to this enterprising traveller, and as he was shortly expected in
England, he had postponed the reading of his papers until the Society
should have the advantage of his presence.
The President next adverted to the offer which had been made
by Dr. Baikie, f.r.g.s., to ascend the Niger, and as there was reason
to expect this enterprise would shortly be undertaken, he would
ask Sir Koderick Murchison to say how it stood at present.
Sir Roderick Murchison said that it would be very gratifying to
the Geographical Society to learn that Lord Clarendon had, from
the first, expressed his desire to promote the expedition in every
way ; and he hoped it might soon be authoritatively announced to the
Society, that the expedition would have the support of her Majesty's
Government, and be conducted by the same officer who had led
the former expedition up the Chadda.
The President then addressed the Society upon the subject of a
letter, which the Secretary had received from that distinguished
Arctic traveller, Dr. E. K. Kane, who had expressed deep regret
at being prevented by illness from being present at the Meeting.
The President had deferred answering this letter in the ordinary
routine, as it afforded ah opportunity which he was sure the Meet-
ing would wish to avail themselves of — that of communicating to Dr.
Kane, their sentiments on the occasion.
Sir Roderick Murchison said, that with the permission of the Presi-
dent he would make a motion to that effect. It had always been their
custom to welcome travellers of distinction to this country, but he
was sure that on no occasion whatever, had any traveller from another
land come to England, who had done so much to advance an object
that was dear to Britain ; who had gone so far to rescue the lives
of persons in a great expedition, in which they, as geographers,
had a great interest. There was no person who had ever come
to this country, who ought to be received with a warmer welcome
than Dr. Kane. His energies had been directed towards the
attainment of an object in a manner which had called forth
the approbation of every man of science, who had attended to the
progress of his search, and read the remarkable book he had
recently published. Dr. Kane had gone farther to the north than
any Arctic explorer except Parry ; and when he said that this
remarkable man came with the intention of assisting Lady Frank-
lin, in the endeavour to carry out by his own enterprise, the
object that was at the heart of that noble-minded woman, and
that he was prevented from doing so, by illness alone — when he
