Nov. 10, 1856.] NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 183
said iihis, he was sure Dr. Kane was entitled to the additional
sympathy of all the geographers there present. Therefore he was
proud to be the person who should make the motion ; and without
occupying more of their time he would read the Kesolution : —
*' That, on the occasion of the arrival in this country of the eminent
Arctic explorer, Dr. E. K. Kane, of the United States,— who, for his
arduous and zealous endeavours, under the auspices of Messrs.
Grinnell and Peabody, to rescue Franklin, and the important addi-
tions he had made to geographical knowledge, had received the Gold
Medal of the Society : — the President do communicate on the part
of the Fellows, the expression of their sincere regret, upon learning
that this distinguished man should have been prevented by ill
health, from appearing at this meeting, to receive the unanimous
and hearty welcome which awaited him."
Captain Sherard Osborn, r.n., c.b., begged to second the motion.
He ventured to do so, as one conversant with Arctic matters, and
having examined Dr. Kane's reports, he was sure that never did
Arctic traveller go through more extraordinary trials, or meet them
with more courage and energy.
The President heartily concurred in the motion. He hardly
knew whether to admire more in Dr. Kane, his great enterprise and
perseverance, or his extraordinary modesty and generosity ; but that
he possessed these qualities, and everything that would fit him for
a traveller, there could be no question. He deeply regretted that
indisposition prevented Dr. Kane from following tip the course
which he had so successfully begun.
The resolution, having been put to the Meeting, was unanimously
passed, amidst an expression of general sympathy.
The following papers were then read : —
1. Report of the Progress of the North Australian Expedition. By Mr.
A. 0. Gregory.
Communicated by the Right Hon. H. Labouchebe, Colonial OflBce.
Victoria River, 14th June, 1856.
Sir, — Circumstaiices having arisen which render it necessary that
the vessel, attached to the North Australian Expedition, should pro-
ceed to Timor for supplies, I avail myself of the opportunity to
transmit a brief account of the operations of the Expedition to the
present time, and its prospective movements.
In my letter of the 23rd September, 1855, I detailed the pro-
r2
