184 NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Nov. 10, 1856.
ceedings of the Expedition to that date, the ' Monarch ' sailing the
next morning.*
Having organized a party to proceed by land with the horses to
the upper part of the Victoria, consisting of myself, Mr. H. Gregory,
Dr. Miiller, Overseer Phibbs, and six men, the remainder of the
party embarked in the ' Tom Tough ' schooner, to which the sheep
had been removed from the ' Monarch,' Mr. Wilson being instructed
to ascend the Victoria and form a camp at some suitable spot for
disembarking the sheep, if practicable, near Kangaroo Point ; and
in accordance, the schooner sailed from Point Pearce on the 25th
September.
On the 28th, I started from the camp at Providence Hill with the
horses, which had been reduced to forty-one, and many of these
scarcely able to travel, pursuing an easterly course through level
forest country of indifferent quality, till the 3rd October, when we
ascended MacAdam Range, which proved to be only the deeply
serrated edge of the vast sandstone table-land, which occupies so
much of this N.W. coast of Australia.
On the 4th October, one of the horses was seized with sudden
illness, and died in four hours ; and on the 10th, a second horse was
lost under similar circumstances.
On the 11th, the party reached the Fitzmaurice Eiver and camped
on a small dry creek ; but the tide rising in the night, the alligators
ascended the creek from the river and attacked the horses which
were feeding on the land, severely wounding three. On the same
day a horse had been abandoned, being too weak to travel.
Crossing the Fitzmaurice on the 13th, at the lowest point at which
it was fordable — the water being fresh, 20 yards wide and 2 feet deep,
with a rapid current — we steered southward, and traversed some
fine grassy valleys during this day ; but soon reaching the stony hills
beyond, we were compelled to leave two more horses, as they were
completely exhausted, having been for some days so weak that they
could not rise without assistance.
The country now became more rocky, so that we did not reach
the banks of the Victoria till the 18th, when after a difficult descent
from Sea Range, we camped, one mile north of the " Dome."
The two following days were occupied in travelling up the Victoria,
the distance being greatly increased by having to head a deep salt-
water creek, which joined the river opposite Kangaroo Point. On
the 20th we reached the camp, which had been established by the
party from the schooner, on the left bank of the river, in lat. 1 5° 34' S.
- » See Proceedings, No. I., p. 5 ; No. II., p. 32, 33, 49 ; No. IV., p. 79.— Ed.
