8 ERHARDT. [Nov. 26, 1855.
authdr traversed the whole region between the Hadj road and the
borders of the desert in such a way as to enable him to cover it with a
network of compass bearings, embracing all the more important towns
and villages ; and these he connected with the well-defined summits of
Hermon and Mania.
Several minor faults in Burckhardt are pointed out, and some conclu-
sions of M. de Saulcy contended against. Allusion is made to a recent
map of the Hauran by a Turkish officer of Engineers, Fezzy Bey, which
was found to contain nmch useful matter, though not strictly accurate
as a survey.
Mr. Porter conceives that the whole range of Gebel Hauran, and not
the single peak of Kuleib, is the ancient Alsadamus Mons ; and as the
district which comprehends this mountain range is now called ^' Ard el
Bathanyeh," and for other reasons, he considers that this province is
identical with the ancient Batanea.
2. Reports respecting Central Africa, as collected in Mamhara and
on the East Coast, with a new Map of the Country. By the Rev.
James Erhardt.
Communicated by the Church Missionary Society.
Vague reports have long since been heard by the missionaries in
Eastern Africa^ of lakes ; of mountains, isolated and in masses ; and of
a country whose slope and drainage was towards the interior.
At Mombas, few opportunities offered themselves of meeting with tra-
velled natives ; but it was quite otherwise both at Faga and at Tanga.
At both of these places the missionaries stayed many months, and made
acquaintance with caravan leaders, Arabs j Suahelis, ivory -merchants,
and slave-dealers, whose reports corrected and corroborated what had
been told to them before.
There are three main sets of routes from the coast to the interior, all
of which pass over a flat country, iand finally lead to an immense lake of
fresh water. Mr, Erhardt calls tliis the " Sea of Uniamesi," from the
country that affords the greatest extent of its eastern shores. But the
Waniamesi, the inhabitants of that country, call it '*Ukerewe;" else-
where it is called " Ni^ndja," and its southernmost extremity " Niassa."
Very full geographical details are given in Mr. Erhardt's paper about
each part of these routes. He gives us also an account of its ferries,
where it is narrow, and of two voyages across it, where it is very broad ;
one of these is tiiat of an Arab, who also coasted along a large part of
4ts northern shores.
The routes are as follows, and all of them run westerly and in the
*<lifeiBtiu'ns drawn by him on the accompanying diagram-map.
