186 NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Nov. 10, 1856^
I therefore attempted to ascend the river in the gntta-percha boat,
but soon after passing "Palm Island" the dry banks became so
extensive that I relinquished the attempt, and returned to the camp,
the heat of the sun having so completely destroyed the water-
proofed canvas, of which the boat was constructed, that it was
scarcely kept afloat during the latter part of the return voyagfe.
A few showers of rain having somewhat refreshed the grass, the
horses showed some improvement. I therefore selected seven of the
strongest, and on the 24th proceeded up the Victoria with a party
consisting of Mr. H. Gregory, Mr. Wilson, and Dr. Miiller.
Leaving the river a short distance below "Steep Head" we
made a detour to the southward, and traversing a fine grassy country
which extended to Beagle Valley, struck the river a few miles above
the highest point examined by Captain Stokes.
Following the river upwards, we passed to the east of FitzEoy
Range, and entered a deep gorge or ravine, bounded by cliffs of sand-
stone from 50 to 300 feet high. Through this ravine the river wound,
forming deep reaches, sometimes several miles in length, and only
separated by narrow banks of shingle or rock. The average course
being nearly south, we soon reached lat, 16° S , when the valley
suddenly expanded into a vast plain covered with excellent grass.
In this plain were several isolated hills of trap or basalt, the decom-
position of which adds much to the fertility of the soil.
Having traced the Victoria to lat. 16° 26' S., long. 131° 10' E.,
we returned to the camp, which was reached on the 13th December.
During our absence, such of the men as could be spared from the
general duties of the camp, had been employed in cutting timber for
strengthening the frame of the schooner.
The wet season had now set in, and the surface of the country
became so soft, that the horses could scarcely be collected together
at the camp.
The rugged character of the precipitous sandstone ranges which
intersect the country, and the boggy condition of the plains, combined
with the fact that the greater part of the horses, suited for draught,
had been comprised in the number of those who had died, precluding
the employment of the drays, it became necessary to explore the
country with packhorses. Accordingly a party was organised, con-
sisting of Mr. H. Gregory, Mr. Baines, Dr. Miiller, and Messrs. Flood,
Phibbs, Bowman, Deane and Fahey, thirty packhorses, and six
saddle-horses.
With this party I started on the 3rd January, 1856, to explore the
interior, south of the Victoria.
The flooded st-ate of the country near the Victoria, compelled us to
