Nov. 10, 1856.] NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION, 187
traverse the rocky ranges to the westward of the river. The rugged
nature of the country, the intense heat of the atmosphere, loaded
with moisture, conjoined with the ordinary difficulties which attend
exploration in a new country, rendered our progress extremely slow ;
many of the horses were lamed, though shod before starting, and
two had died before we reached lat. 17° S.
I therefore selected a suitable spot for a depot in lat. 17° 3' S.,
long. 130° 35' E., and on the 31st 'January proceeded with Mr.
H, Gregory, Dr. Miiller, and Charles Deane, seven pack and four
saddle horses, leaving the remainder of the party in charge of Mr.
Baines.
Steering a southerly course, on the 7th February we reached the'
southernmost waters of the Victoria in lat. 18° 12', long. 130° 39',
and crossed the dividing ridge between the waters flowing to the
N.W. coast and those which fall into the interior ; the elevation by
barometric measurement being only 1300 feet above the level of the
sea.* Continuing our route we descended into a nearly level and
depressed country, and struck a small water- course trending to the
S.E. On its banks there was abundance of grass, and a little water
was found in the deeper portions of the channel.
This creek was followed to lat. 18° 22' S., long. 130° 49' E.,
where it was lost on a wide grassy plain, surrounded by level sandy
Gountry covered with triodia and stunted trees.
On the 9th, lat. 18° 31', long. 130' 44', was attained, but further
progress was evidently impracticable, as we had reached a sandy
desert country extending far to the south, in which neither water
nor grass existed, little or no rain having fallen during the wet
season ; to the south of the dividing ridge, the elevation of this point
was 1000 feet above the sea.
I now determined on following the northern limits of this desert
to the westward, in hope of finding some creek or river, which,
descending from the ranges to the north, might enable us to cross
or at least penetrate this inhospitable region. Keeping therefore
to the west along the foot of the sandstone range, on the 13th wc
came to the head of a creek in lat. 18°, long. 130°. This creek first
trended N.W., but soon turned to the S.W.
For the first hundred miles, the country on the right bank con-
sisted of vast level plains of rich soil, covered with beautiful grass ;
but the left bank presented a striking contrast in its low sandstone
ranges, producing little besides triodia and scrub-trees.
The country on both banks now changed gradually to a sandy
* See Capt. Stokes's remarks at p. 191.— Ed.
