188 NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Nov. 10, 1856.
desert, with low, barren sandstone hills, and long parallel ridges of
red drifting sand, straight, equal in height, and with a direction
exactly east and west. This desert country was not altogether
destitute of vegetation, but thinly covered with triodia (the spinifex
of Australian explorers), and a few scattered bushes of eucalyptus,
acacia, and hakea.
After following this stream -bed, which I named Sturt's Creek, for
nearly 300 miles, its channel terminated in a series of dry salt
lakes, which occupied the lower portion of a large depression in the
desert, the centre being in lat. 20^ 16' S., long. 127° 36' E., and 900
feet above sea-level.
No outlet for the waters of these lakes could be discovered, though
carefully sought for, and the great height at which the inundations
of the country had remained for considerable periods, was evident
from the abundance of mussel shells which remained in their
natural position, embedded in the soil 20 feet above the dry bed
of the lake, and more than a mile beyond its ordinary limits.
Surrounded on all sides by a sandy desert, in which it was hope-
less to look for water or grass, and deprived of these essentials
which the creek had afforded in sufficient quantity to enable us to
proceed thus far into this inhospitable region, it was useless to
attempt to penetrate the country to the southward, and no alter-
native remained but to retrace our steps while it continued prac-
ticable; for as no regular rains had fallen in this part of the
country for at least twelve months, our supply had been generally
derived from small muddy puddles, which resulted from heavy
thunder showers which had fallen in the early part of the month.
Most of these water-holes had now dried up, and I am doubtful
whether our horses could have performed the long stages between
the remaining watering-places, had not the open character of the
country enabled us to travel at night, and thus avoid the scorching
rays of an intertropical sun.
On the 11th March, we commenced retracing our steps up Sturt's
Creek, and on the 24th, having reached the head of the creek, struck
off to the N.E. to avoid the waterless country traversed on the out-
ward route. In lat. 17° 42', long. 129° 58', we crossed the dividing
ridge between the northern and southern waters, the elevation being
1660 feet above the sea, and, descending into a valley, came on a
small dry creek trending N.AV. This we followed for 30 miles, and
then steered E.N.E. for 50 miles, over level grassy country, destitute
of water, and reached the depot camp, in the valley of the Victoria,
on the 28th, found the party in good health and the horses much
improved in condition.
