Nov. 10, 1856.] NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 189
As the horses I had employed on the excui'sion into the interior
required a few days' rest, I selected six from those at the depot, and
on the 2nd April, accompanied by Mr. H. Gregory, Mr. Baines, and
John Fahey, proceeded to the eastward to examine the country in
that direction. Traversing for 60 miles a splendid grassy country
of trap formation, well watered by numerous creeks, we reached the
eastern boundary of the valley of the Victoria, then turning north-
wards traced the river down to 16° 26', and connected this route with
that in December, 1855. Ee turning to the dep6t by a more direct
route, we reached that camp on the 17th.
On the 21st, I broke up the depot camp and proceeded towards
the lower part of the Victoria river, examining such portions of the
right bank as had not been previously traversed, in order to ascer-
tain if any considerable tributaries joined from the eastward, and on
the 9th May reached the main camp.
The party at the main camp were all in good health except Hemy
Eichards, who had lost the use of his right hand from falling down
among some sharp reeds, one of which had pierced his wrist. The
crew of the ' Tom Tough ' had not escaped so well. The carpenter,
John Finlay, had died on the 22nd April, and three of the seamen
had been left on shore at the camp, that they might be under the
immediate medical care of Mr. Elsey, the schooner having been
moved down the river on the 2nd April.
Although this great amount of sickness is, in some degree, attri-
butable to the re-development of previous disease, yet it more
directly results from the bad quality and improper description of
the provisions with which the vessel is supplied, and it has been
absolutely necessary to furnish provisions from the stores of the
Expedition for the use of the schooner's crew, their only remaining
provisions consisting of salt beef of indiiferent quality, biscuit much
damaged by cockroaches, and tea.
The ' Tom Tough' was now moored below the shoals at Musquito
Flats, and had been so far repaired by the unceasing energy of
Captain Gourlay, that she was nearly ready for sea ; a strong frame
having been fixed inside the timbers, the seams caulked, and the
buts secured. She now only makes 10 inches water per diem,
whereas that was previously the usual quantity per hour. Great
credit is due to the captain for the manner in which this work has
been performed, having done all the smith's work and much of the
carpentry with his own hands.
It is now my intention to proceed with the exploration of the
country towards the Gulf of Carpentaria, and I have accordingly
instructed the master of the ' Tom Tough ' to proceed to Coepang for
