190 NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Nov. 10, 1856.
supplies, and thence to the Albert River to co-operate with the land
expedition.
The greatlj^ reduced number of horses, and the impracticability
of employing the drays for the conveyance of stores, have rendered
necessary a modification in the manner and arrangement of the ex-
ploring parties, and on the present occasion I shall employ a party of
seven persons, as it is desirable that the party should not be entirely
dependent on the assistance of the vessel at the Albert Eiver.
The remainder of the exploring party will proceed in the schooner
to the Gulf of Carpentaria, and on the junction at the Albert River of
the two sections of the Expedition, the party will be reorganised,
and, if practicable, continue the overland route to Moreton Bay.
Enclosed I transmit a sketch * of the country traversed by the
Expedition to the present time, and, as it may render it more
intelligible, append a few remarks on the physical character of the
country.
It may be considered to be a table-land of sandstone rising ab-
ruptly from the low land on the coast ; it attains an average level of
700 feet on the banks of the Victoria in lat. 11° S. ; 900 feet in lat.
16°; 1600 feet in lat. 18°, which is the maximum, as the country
falls to 1300 in 19°, and 1100 feet in lat. 20©.
The upper bed of sandstone is about 300 feet thick, and rests on
soft white, green, and red shales, which are superincumbent on a
coarse cherty limestone, and jasper. Large tracts of these two upper
strata have been removed, and left large valleys and plains through
which the rivers run. South of lat. 16° 30' trap or basalt has been
poured out into these valleys and formed plains or table-topped hills,
sometimes isolated, but more commonly grouped together. «.
The sandstone, by its decomposition, usually forms a poor sandy
soil, but occasionally fine grassy plains. The limestones, which
occupy large extents of the valleys, are generally covered with a
light loamy soil, producing abundance of grass ; but the richest soil
results from the decomposition of the trap rocks, which are so largely
developed in the upper valleys of the Victoria, that at a moderate
computation, they occupy a million of acres. This, added to the good
country on the head of Sturt Creek, the lower part of the Victoria,
and the Fitzmaurice, would make an aggregate of three million acres
of available grazing land, already traversed by the Expedition.
Except iron ore, which is frequent, minerals are rare, only few
traces of copper and slight indications of coal being observed.
Of the vegetable productions, little favourable can be said, for
however interesting many of the plants may be to the scientific
* In the Map-room of the Society.^— E©.
