Nov. 10, 1856.] NOKTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 191
botanist, yet, with the exception of the grasses, which are very
numerous, there is scarcely a single vegetable production which can
be rendered practically useful. Timber is scarce, the best growing
near Point Pearoe.
In conclusion, it gives me pleasure to record the ready co-opera-
tion and assistance I have experienced on the part of the officers,
and the exemplary conduct of the men attached to the Expedition,
and that, under circumstances of privation, which few, who have
not experience, ever fully appreciate.
I have, &c.
(Signed) A. C. Gregory,
Commanding N. A. Expedition.
To his ExceUency Col. Sir W. T. Denison^ r.e., f.r.g.s., ^c,
Governor-General of Australia,
Mr. Merivale, f.e.g.s., said he would only detain the Meeting a moment
while he stated one or two facts concerning the Expedition, which had been
received by Her Majesty's Government, but too late for communication to the
Society. They had been received from Mr. M'Lean, H. M. Consul at Surabaya,
in a report dated Sept. 3rd last. The account which had been read, left Mr.
Gregory intending to despatch his schooner, the ' Tom Tough,' for repairs to
Timor. It appeared that the schooner went to Timor, and she arrived in
such a condition that some of the men considered their lives were unsafe,
and they insisted upon the vessel being taken to Surabaya. She was
accordingly taken there, and, having been examined, it was said that she
could have got back from Timor, but that having come so far, and having
to return agairst a strong head-wind, she would require much repair. Mr.
Baines, with great ]iromptitude, obtained another vessel, an English schooner,
the 'Messenger,' which was at Surabaya, and on the 30th of August he
left that place for the Gulf of Carpentaria, hoi)ing to meet Mr. Gregory
on its shores. Mr. Baines, however, expressed considerable alarm lest he
should arrive too late, and Mr. Gregory should be reduced to straits. He
hoped that these fears might prove unfounded, for it was believed that supplies
had been sent by Sir W. Denison from New South AVales in a vessel called the
* Torch,' which would probably reach the Gulf before Mr. Baines arrived.
Captain Stokes, f.r.g.s., said no one could listen to the despatch just read
with greater interest than himself, as he was one of the party that first dis-
covered and explored the Victoria. It appeared that Mr. Gregory had examined
one branch of the Victoria about 350 miles ; or twice the distance, roughly
speaking, that it was explored by the ' Beagle's ' party. About 100 miles below
the source of this branch, there was another coming from the south-east, which
only appeared to have been traced down some 20 miles ; but Captain Stokes
believed that it led more into the interior, and was of greater consequence than
the branch which Mr. Gregory had followed.* No doubt his instructions carried
him to the south-west, and he naturally took the branch that led in that direc-
tion. His further journey, about 350 miles to the south-west, was one of great
geographical interest, inasmuch as it showed the north-west boundary of the
desert and the limits of the area drained by the rivers west of the Victoria.
His account of the red drift sand, so exactly corresponded with what Captain
Sturt met with some 400 or 500 miles eastward, that they might conclude that
the whole of the intervening country was of the same character — a sandy
* See p. 187.— Ed.
