192 NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Nov. 10, 1856.
desert, impassable, and fatal to any hopes of overland communication between
South Australia and the North-west Coast. In support of this idea. Captain
Stokes referred to Mr. Austin's expedition from Western Australia, where,
about the parallel 2(J5° and meridian 117°, he discovered the south-westerly-
boundary, evidently of the same sandy desert. It was an accumulation of
lakes in rainy reasons, and of dry mud and arid sands in the hot seasons.
Another indication of the extent of the desert, was the character of the central
part of the North-west Coast, which Captain Stokes was the first to visit in
the year 1841, when he was quite satisfied, from its singular resemblance to
the Pampas of South America, that all within was a desert ; and this would
give a fair idea of its westerly limit. Going back to Mr. Gregory's exploration
of the upper part of the Victoria, it appeared that he had met with a consider-
able extent of good country, which proved that the Victoria had not been
overrated. Australia was, it was well known, deficient in navigable rivers,
and when the Victoria was discovered and found navigable, it was regarded as
an important stream ; and, compared with the Murray in the south, it was
called the great river of North Australia. The Victoria has this advantage
Over the Murray, that it always had a navigable entrance, while the mouth of
the Murray was almost impassable. Mr. Gregory's discovery of so much good
country on the Victoria, favoured the proposal to establish penal settlements
in North Australia. He alluded to this, because the every-day police reports
convinced him that the ticket-of-leave system was a failure, and transportation
the only remedy. He would, in conclusion, express the hope that the same
success would attend Mr. Gregory in the further and more important part of
his expedition between the Victoria and the Albert. He should have much,
preferred that Mr. Gregory's instructions had confined him to tracing the chief
sources of the Victoria, especially towards the south-east, and then proceeding
eastwards to Carpentaria. If these had been his orders, what might have been
the result ? Instead of hearing of him still on the Victoria river, we would
have heard of his arrival on the Albert.
The President said they were much indebted to Captain Stokes for his ob-
servations. When they remembered that Captain Stokes was present at the
discovery of that river himself, and had traced it on foot for some distance inland,
every word which fell from him must be of interest.
Mb. Lateobe, p.r.g.s., congratulated the Society upon the success which
had thus far attended this effort. He considered that it had been conducted
upon the only principles which could induce them to look for good results,
and if, as Sir Roderick Murchison said, the expeditionary party hugged the
coast, they might really hope for great results. As to the interior, it appeared
now to be a perfect blank on the map ; he was afraid it would remain so, and
that they might write upon it " Sahara Australis,"
The peculiar character of the winds which proceeded from the great N.W.
interior to that part of New Holland with v hicli he was acquainted, showed
that this interior must be a desert — an arid waste, throwing off an intense
heat in summer, and, during the period of the winter rains, originating a
chilly wind, possessing many of the peculiar characteristics of the hot winds.
Like these, it appeared to move on a plane parallel to the earth's surface. It
exercised a similar influence upon vegetation, causing plants to drooi;> and the
leaves of the acacia to close, although the winds from southward, bringing
with them a far greater degree of cold, might produce no such effect. He
hoped that they would remain satisfied with the attempts already made to
penetrate directly into the interior beyond the head waters of known streams,
and not risk the loss of life and tempt the fate of Leichhardt.
Sib Koderick Murchison, in reply to a question of the President regarding
the geology of North Australia, said he had little or no information to give
respecting it, since no details had yet arrived. There were, ir.dced, a few
