Nov. 10, 1856.] WALLACE ON BORNEO. 193
observations in the despatch of Mr. Gregory, and portions of a letter he had
received from Mr. Wilson, the gentleman selected as geologist of the expedition,
which w^ould at a future meeting, be brought before the Society. The success
which had already attended the expedition was highly gratifying to him, for
he was one of its earliest advocates when the Duke of Newcastle was in office ;
and it was that statesman who first gave attention to the representations of the
Geographical Society on the subject. What had fallen from Captain Stokes
explained very clearly that object of the expedition which was considered of
the greatest importance, i. e. not merely to discover the extent of the great
interior saline desert, or whether there might or might not be a practicable route
from Northern to Southern Australia ; but to determine first the true water-
parting, and having ascertained the source of the Victoria, then without further
delay to travel along that high-land, and proceed at once to the Gulf of Car-
pentaria before the resources of the expedition were exhausted. He should,
therefore, exceedingly regret, in conjunction with Captain Stokes, if through
the exhaustion of their resources the leading objects of the expedition were not
attained, by opening out that great line of intercourse which he hoped to see
established between Sydney on the south and the Gulf of Carpentaria on the
north. He hoped, however, that Mr. Gregory would have ample provision to
enable him to effect that object. They must, at all events, give that gentle-
man all credit for having overcome great difficulties, and for having already
solved a curious geographical problem. If he should demonstrate the practi-
cability of the other suggestion, he will have achieved a most important result.
2. Notes of a Journey up the Sadong River, in North - West Borneo.
By A. R. Wallace, f.r.g.s.*
The Sadong is the first considerable river east of Sarawak, from
whicli it is distant about 25 miles, and forms a portion of tlie terri-
tory lately ceded in perpetuity by the Sultan of Borneo to Sir James
Brooke.
About 20 miles up this river, a small stream, the Simunjon, enters
from the east, a few miles up which, on an isolated mountain, coal
of good quality has been discovered, and is now being worked. At
this place I spent the whole of the dry season of 1855, engaged in
making collections of birds and insects, and more particularly in
hunting the great orang-utan or " mias," which is there particu-
larly abundant. I succeeded in shooting 13 of these extraordi-
nary animals, and in accumulating a mass of information about
them, which will, I trust, tend to clear up many obscure and doubt-
ful points in their natural history. I had intended to devote the
latter part of the dry season to a somewhat extended journey into
the interior, but an unfortunate wound in my foot rendered me in-
capable of leaving the house for three months of the very finest
weather, and it was not till the rains had begun that I was enabled
to walk. As the time which I had fixed for leaving Borneo, was
* See Proceedings, R. G. S., No. IV. p. 97.— Ed.
