194 WALLACE ON BORNEO. [Nov. 10, 1856.
now drawing near, I determined to return to Sarawak, by crossing
the country between the head waters of the Sadong and Sarawak
rivers ; and as I am not aware of any account of this district or of
its inhabitants having been published, or indeed of the whole of it
having been previously visited by any European, I beg leave to
submit my notes to the Eoyal Geographical Society.
The whole of the lower part of the Sadong valley is a forest plain,
with scarcely a single spot of dry ground, except where a few isolated
hills rise abruptly from it. It is a vast morass of a black vegetable
mud, resting on a yellow clay. The surface is as nearly as possible
on a level with the sea at high water. In such a country it may be
supposed that the lower part of the river is monotonous enough.
The banks are cultivated as, paddy fields by the Dyaks and Malays ;
and their little thatch huts alone break the unpicturesque line of
muddy banks, crowned with tall grasses and sedges, and backed by
the tops of the forest trees behind the cultivated ground. It took
me a day and a half from the mines to reach the Malay village of
Gudong, where I stayed an hour to make some purchases of fruit
and provisions, and called upon the Datu Bandar, or Malay governor
of the place. His house was very spacious, but very dirty both out-
side and in. He was particular in his inquiries about the coal, the
use of which the natives cannot realize. They are besides quite
puzzled at the extensive and costly preparations made for work-
ing it. At the village of Jahi I found the stream so swift on account
of a slight flood, that my heavy boat could make no way against
it, and I was obliged to remain a day to obtain a smaller one, and
fresh men to take me up to the first village of Hill Dyaks.
I succeeded here in meeting with a Malay boy, named Bujon,
who wanted to return to Sarawak, and agreed to accompany me, and
who, as he knew the language of the Sadong Dyaks, having traded
among them, was a very important acquisition. Leaving Jahi in a
very small open boat, we proceeded more pleasantly, and in a few
hours got beyond the cultivated country to where the virgin forests
come down to the water's edge. At night we had some difficulty in
finding dry ground to sleep on, the river's banks being generally
flooded. Early in the morning we reached Empugnan, a small
Malay village, situate at the foot of a mountain of the same name,
which had been visible from the mouth of the Simunjon river, and
is apparently isolated. In the dry season the tide reaches this
place. From here the vegetation becomes much finer. Large trees
stretch out their arms across the stream, and the high earthy banks
are clothed with ferns and scitamineous plants.
