Nov. 10, 1856.] WALLACE ON BOKNEO. 196
Early in the afternoon we arrived at Tabokan, the first village of
the Senankan Dyaks. On an open space near the river about
twenty boys were playing at a game, something like what we call
' prisoner's base ;' their ornaments of beads and brass wire, and their
gay coloured kerchiefs and waist-cloths, showing to much advantage
and forming a very pleasing sight. Being called by Bujon, they im-
mediately left their game to carry my things up to the round head-
house, which is attached to most Dyak houses, and serves as the
lodging for strangers, the place for trade, the sleeping-room for the
unmarried youths, and the general council-chamber. It is generally
elevated on very lofty posts, has a large fireplace in the middle, and
windows in the roof all round, and forms a very pleasant and com-
fortable abode. In the evening, after dusk, the house was crowded
with young men and boys who came to look at me. They were
mostly fine young fellows, and I could not help admiring the sim-
plicity and elegance of their costume. Their only dress is the long
" chawat " or waist-cloth, the ends of which hang down before and
behind. It is generally of blue cotton, ending in broad bands of
red, blue, and white. Those who can afford it, wear a handkerchief
on the head, which is either red with a narrow border of gold lace,
or red, blue, and white like the " chawat." The large, flat, moon-
shaped brass earrings, the masses of white or black beads round
the neck, brass rings on the arms and legs, and armlets formed of
sections of a great, white conical shell, all serve to relieve and set off'
the pure reddish brown skin and jet black hair. Add to this the
little pouch containing materials for betel-cfitewing, and a long slen-
der knife, both invariably worn at the side, and you have the every-
day dress of the j'Oung Dyak gentleman.
The " orang-kaya," or rich man, as the chiefof the tribe is called,
now came in with several of the older men ; and the " bitchdra," or
council, commenced about getting me men to go on the next morn-
ing. As I could not understand a word of their language, which is
very diff'erent from the Malay, I took no part in the proceedings,
but was represented by my boy Bujon. A Chinese trader was in
the house, and he too wanted men the next day ; but, on his hinting
the same to the orang-kaya, he was sternly told that a white man's
business was now being discussed, and he must wait another day
before his could be thought about.
The next morning we started in a boat, about 30 feet long and 2
feet 4 inches wide. At this point, the stream abruptly changes its
character. Hithei-to it had been deep and smooth, though swiftly
flowing, and confined by steep banks covered with vegetation. Kow
it rushed and rippled over a pebbly, sandy, or rocky bed, here and
