Nov. 26, 1855.] ERHARDT. 9
1st. That of the ivory traders from Tanga, who, threading various
isolated masses of hills, of which Kilimandjaro and Doenyo Engai are
snow-capped, passes through the level pastoral country of Masai to a
pla6e called Burgenei. This route (taking the average of four journeys,
the particulars of which are given) occupies 55 days, the rate of tl*avel
being about seven hours a day. His informants travelled 8 days farther
from Burgenei, through a tract peopled densely with Waniamesi, and
then came suddenly upon the lake. The Masai are fierce and pastoral,
the Waniamesi kind-hearted and agricultural.
2nd. That from Mboa Maji to Ujigi, a town of Uniamesi. This is Mii
of equal length to the first route, and is travelled leisurely by numerous
caravans, with horses, donkeys, &c., for slaves, ivory, and copper ore.
The country passed over is perfectly level, with the exception only of a
mass of hills, the Ngu, which has to be crossed about a quarter of the
way from the coast.
3rd. Those from Kiloa or Kirimba, to the ferries Gnombo and
Mdenga. They are travelled by Portuguese slave dealers as well as
by Arabs.
In tracing the contour of the lake, he begins from the South ; he
speaks of people who come up from its shores two days' journey to the
southwards of the ferry Mdenga (which is stated to be due west of
Wuibu), in order to cross the lake, for they know nothing of its southern i
termination. From Mdenga to Gnombo is 5 days — 2 hard days far-
ther to Sigono, a " heel." Here the shore of the lake makes a great
heel and turns to the westward of North, for 7 days, when a wild
elephant-country is reached. The shore now runs due west for 6 days
to the Waniamesi. Among them for 12 days farther, the shores run
due E. and W., and in another 12 days farther, a tribe, the Wafipa, is
reached, in whose country is a small salt-water stream, of which much
notice is taken and which is spoken of as running westwards frotu the
Wafipa to the Wapogo.
A traveller from Ujigi, going due south along the shores of the lake,
reached the salt river in the Wapogo country in 7 days ; here, he says,
the sea made " quite a round bend." This great bend is confirmed by
fishermen of the Lake. From Ujigi northwards to the great river of
the Wadusi, was sailed by an Arab, but detailed itineraries are
wanting. A considerable portion of its southern and western shores is
traced out on similar evidence.
Ujigi is the startirjg point for large row-boats to cross the lake to
the opposite shore ; in 5 days' rowing they reach a mountainous island,
Kavogo. 25 more days takes them to the opposite shore, where they
buy copper. The abovementioned Arab sailed across the sea in 12
or 1 5 days, and was 9 days in returning.
