190 ^ WALLACE ON BORNEO. [Nov. 10, 1856.
there forming miniature cascades and rapids, and throwing up on
one side or the other, extensive banks of finely-coloured pebbles.
No paddling could make way against it, but the Dyaks with bamboo
poles, propelled us along with great dexterity and swiftness, never
losing their balance, though standing up and exerting much force in
such a narrow and unsteady vessel. It was a brilliant day, and
the cheerful exertions of the men, the rushing of the sparkling
waters, with the bright and varied foliage, which, from either bank,
stretched over our heads, produced an exhilarating sensation, which
I had not felt since leaving the grander waters of South America.
Early in the afternoon we reached the village of Borotoi ; and,
though it would have been easy to reach the next one before the
evening, I was obliged to stay, as my men wanted to return, and
others could not possibly go on with me without the preliminary
talking. Besides, a white man was too great a rarity to be allowed
to escape, and their wives would never have forgiven them, if, when
they returned from the fields, they found that such a curiosity had
not been kept for their examination.
Walking out to a small hill near, cultivated as paddy fields, I had
a fine view of the country, which was becoming quite hilly, and
toward the south, mountainous. I took bearings and sketches of all
that were visible, which much astonished the Dyaks, who accompa-
nied me, and produced much conversation when we returned, with
a request to exhibit the compass.
The next morning we proceeded as before ; but the river had
become so shallow and rapid, and the boats were all so small, that
though I had nothing with me but a change of clothes and a gun,
with the scantiest possible hatterie de cuisine, two were required with
five men to take me on. The rock, which appeared occasionally on
the river's banks, was an indurated clay-slate, sometimes highly
crystalline, and thrown up nearly vertical. To the right and left of
us were isolated mountains, which I knew to be limestone by their
peculiar outlines, and by the whiteness of the numerous precipices
they presented, no doubt an extension to the eastward of the lime-
stone of the Sarawak river. The river bed was a mass of pebbles,
mostly pure white quartz, with, however, abundance of jasper and
veined quartz, which often presented a beautiful appearance. It was
only 10 in the morning when we arrived at Budw ; and though there
were plenty of people about, I could not induce them to allow me to
go on to the next village, only three hours farther.
I walked out to the paddy fields, which are here very extensive,
covering a number of the little hills and valleys into which the
whole country seems broken up, and obtained a beautiful view of
