Nov. 10, 1856.] V/ALLACE ON BORNEO. 197
hills and mountains in every direction. In the evening the '* orang-
kaya " came in full dress (a spangled Yelvet jacket, but no trousers),
and invited me over to his house, where he gave me a seat of
honour, under a canopy of virhite calico and coloured handkerchiefs.
The great verandah was crowded with people, and large plates of
rice, with cooked and fresh eggs, were placed on the ground as pre-
sents for me.
The costume of the Dyaks on ordinary occasions, though scanty,
is highly becoming, but when they attempt to make themselves
extremely fine on state occasions, they only succeed in becoming
ridiculous. In civilized countries it is the same.
The river was now so shallow, that boats could ascend only with
much trouble: I therefore preferred walking to the next village,
first presenting the orang-kaya with some tobacco and a pickle-
bottle, which latter he greatly esteemed. I had expected io see the
country in this walk, but the path lay almost entirely through
thickets of bamboo, which here springs up wherever the forest
has been cleared away. The Dyaks get two crops off the ground
in succession — one of paddy and one of sugar-cane, maize, and
vegetables. The ground then remains eight or ten years before
it is again cultivated — and soon becomes covered with bamboos, or
grasses and shrubs, which often arch over the path and shut out
everything from the view. At half-past nine we reached the village
of Senankan, where I was again obliged to remain the whole day,
which I at length agreed to do on the promise of the orang-kaya
that his men should take me through two other villages across to
Senna, on the Upper Sarawak Eiver. I therefore amused myself as
I best could, by walking about to the high grounds near, to get
views of the country round till the evening, when another public
audience, with gifts of rice and eggs, and drinking of rice-beer, took
place. These Dyaks cultivate much ground, and supply a good deal
of rice to Sarawak. They are rich in gongs, brass trays, wire, silver
coins, and all such articles in which a Dyak's wealth consists, and
their women and children were all highly ornamented. Here, as
among most uncivilized people, there seems no gradual transition in
the women between youth and age. From the pleasing and often
elegantly formed girl of twelve or fourteen, a very few years of married
life and hard labour, transforms them into coarse middle-aged women.
In the morning, after waiting some time, and the men that were
to accompany me not making their appearance, I sent for the orang-
kaya, and found that both he and another head man had gone out
for the day, and on inquiring the reason of this extraordinary pro-
ceeding, was informed that they could not persuade any of their
