198 WALLACE ON BORNEO. [Nov. 10, 1856.
men to go with me, as I afterwards found, because the journey was
long and fatiguing. As I was determined to get on that day,
I told the few men that remained, that the chiefs had behaved very
badly, and I should acquaint the Eajah with their conduct, and that
I insisted on proceeding at once. Every man present made some
excuse, but after much trouble and two hours' delay, we succeeded
in getting off. For the first few miles, our path lay over a country
of a very singular character, cleared for paddy fields. It consisted
of abrupt hills and valleys, very steep, but of very slight elevation,
all terminating in sharp ridges and hillocks, with not a patch of
level ground. It was a mountain region in miniature. After crossing
the Kaj^an River, a fine stream, which is in fact a larger branch of
the Sadong than the one I ascended, we were on the lower slopes
of the Seboran Mountain, and the path lay along a sharp ridge which
led up to the mountain, and afforded an excellent view of the country
round. The features were exactly those of the Himalaya in minia-
ture, as described by Dr. Hooker, and might be considered as a
natural model of some part of those vast mountains, on a scale of
about one-tenth, thousands of feet being here represented by
hundreds. I now found the source of the beautiful pebbles which
had so pleased me all up the river. The slaty rocks had ceased,
and all these mountains appeared to be a conglomerate sandstone,
in some places a mere mass of pebbles cemented together. I ought
to have known before that such a small stream could not produce
such vast quantities of well-rounded fragments of quartz and agate.
They had been produced in past ages by the action of some large
continental stream, before the great island of Borneo had risen from
the ocean.
About mid-day we reached the village of Menyerry, beautifully
situated on a spur of the mountain, about COO feet above the valley,
and affording a delightful view of the mountain i egion of this part of
Borneo. I here first got a view of the Penrhissen Mountain, at the
head of the Sarawak Eiver, and one of the highest, if not the highest
in this district, rising probably to near 6000 feet above the sea-level.
The Eowen Mountain to the south, seemed nearly equally lofty. It
is situated near Sikyam, on a tributary of the Pontianak Eiver ; and
in the same direction, but much more distant, appeared the lofty
mountain Nutowan.
Descending from MenyeiTy we again crossed the Kayan, which
bends round the foot of the spur ; and ascended to the pass which
separates the valleys of the Sadong and Sarawak Eivers, and forms
the boundary of the Sarawak district. The height of this point
must be about 2000 feet. The descent from here was veiy fine. A
