Nov. 10, 185'3.] WALLACE ON BORNEO, 199
deep rocky stream rxislied on each side of us, down to one of which
we gradually descended over numerous bamboo bridges, over the
gulleys, or along the faces of precipices. Some of these were several
hundred feet long, and fifty or sixty feet high, a single smooth
bamboo 3 inches in diameter forming the only pathway, and a very
shaky handrail of the same material, rendering the passage almost
as perilous as that of the aerial bridge by which the followers of the
Prophet are said to enter paradise.
Late in the afternoon we reached Sodos, situated on a space
between two streams, but so surrounded by fruit-trees that little could
be seen of the country. We stayed here for the night, and found
the house very spacious, clean, and comfortable, and the people very
civil and obliging.
In the morning early, we continued our descent to Senna, along
a fine valley, with mountains rising 2000 or 3000 feet on every side.
The stream rapidly increased in size till, when we reached Senna,
it had become as large as the Sadong, above Tabokan, with the same
abundance of sand and pebbles. Here too, the upheaved slaty rock
again appeared, with the same dip and direction as in the Sadong.
At Senna, I remained for the day, as the river was now navigable
for boats to Sarawak. An unexpected difficulty however presented
itself. The Senna Dyaks had no boats, they did not know how^ to
make them, and never used them. It seemed strange to see people
living by the side of such a fine stream without making use of it ;
but I found that they were true mountaineers, who had only come
down the valley about twenty years ago, and had not yet got into
new habits.
The people of Menyerry and Sodos are all of the same tribe.
They make excellent paths and bridges, and cultivate a great extent
of mountain land. Their district has therefore a more pleasing and
civilized appearance, than in those places where the people move
about only in boats, and confine their cultivation to the banks of
the streams.
With some difficulty, I hired a boat from a Malay trader, to take
me down to the next village, and found three Dyaks who had been
several times with Malays to Sarawak, and thought they could
manage a boat very well. They were, however, very awkward,
constantly running aground, knocking up against rocks, losing their
balance, and almost upsetting themselves and the boat, offering a
striking contrast to the consummate skill in boatwork of most other
Dyaks. At length we came to a really dangerous rapid where boats
were often lost, and the men, conscious of their incapacity, were
afraid to go on. Some Malays, with a boat-load of rice, here over-
s 2
