200 WALLACE ON BORNEO. [Nov. 10, 1856.
took US, and, after passing down with great skill, kindly sent back
one of their men to assist me. This he did very well, for my
Dyaks, in the critical part of the passage, lost their balance, and had
they been alone, would certainly have upset the boat. The river
was exceedingly picturesque, the ground on each side being cleared
at intervals for paddy-fields, affording a view of the country.
Numerous little farm-houses were built high up in trees overhanging
the river. They were reached from the bank by a bamboo bridge,
and had a most curious appearance. At intervals, too, were hanging
bridges crossing the stream, and suspended from trees on either
side. One of them is well figured in Mr. Low's work on ' Sarawak.*
Reaching the village of the Sebungo Dyaks, I remained there
that day, and the next proceeded to Sarawak, passing through a
most beautiful country, where limestone mountains, with their fan-
tastic forms, white precipices, and rich vegetation, shoot up on every
side. In one of them is a cave which I visited, and which, except
that it passes completely through the spur of a lofty mountain, offers
nothing remarkable. The banks of the Sarawak river are every-
where covered with fruit-trees, the most numerous being the.durian,
a magnificent forest-tree, bearing a terrifically spiny fruit, the size
of a melon, and which deserves to be ranked as the king of fruits.
No tropical fi-uit, I have yet seen, can bear any comparison with it.
They were ripe, and we enjoyed them to perfection.
I shall now proceed to a few general observations on the geo-
graphy and geology of the country I passed through, and on the
characteristics of its inhabitants.
Geography, ^c. — Taking the latest map of Borneo as professing to
represent the geography of the country, according to the best
authorities, I will point out a few alterations which seem to me to
be required. First then, the territory of Sarawak must be consi-
derably extended ; the boundaiy line passing rather south-east from
Penrhissen Mountain, which exactly agrees in position with Mount
Sebahu of the maps, and which will increase its area at least one-
third. The mountain group at the head of the Sarawak and Sadong
Rivers, is completely separated from the Cape Datu Mountain, which
terminates in the Poey Mountain in lat. 1° 35' N. South of this
an extensive plain occurs, over which a fine view as far as the
coast of Sambas, is obtained from the Serambo Mountain, near
Sardwak. In the position occupied by Mount Raja on the map, no hills
const. Farther east, all the hills must be placed more to the south,
and it seems probable from all the information I can obtain, that
they soon cease altogether ; a gently inclined divide, only, existing
between the tributaries of the Batanglupar and those of the Kapuas
