Nov. 10, 1856.J WALLACE ON BORNEO. 201
or Pontianak River. The Linga Eiver, the first branch of the
Batanglupar from the south, flows through a flat and swampy
country almost from its source, near the Klingkang Mountain ; and
the passage from the higher part of the Batanglupar to the great
lakes of the Upper Kapuas, is described as being over a scarcely
elevated, certainly not a mountainous country. I am inclined,
therefore, to believe that the little mountain district, from which
flow the Sarawak and Sadong Eivers on the north, and the Sikyam
and Landak on the south side, forms the central nucleus of the
north-western end of Borneo. These rivers, in their upper part,
are true mountain streams, flowing swiftly over gi'avelly beds, or
rushing over rocky ledges, and forming so many little rapids and
falls, that we cannot put their descent at less than 25 to 30 feet a-
mile, probably much more. Now, on the Sadong, more than 30
miles of the river has this character, while 20 more is a deep and
swift-flowing stream. This would give an elevation of a thousand
feet for the base of this mountain region, showing that it differs
essentially in character from those mountains nearer the coast,
which, though of equal elevation, rise abruptly from a flat and
marshy country which is scarcely elevated above the level of the
high tides.
Geology. — The geology of the country is exceedingly difficult
to elucidate, owing to its great complication, to the difficulty of
obtaining sections, and the excessive rarity of organic remains. Tn
no case have I been able to ascertain, by direct observation, the
order of superposition of any of the formations. The most extensive
formation in the country is a ferruginous sandstone conglomerate.
This composes most of the mountains near the coast, and also the
whole of the central mountain region. Between these and often in
contact with them, occur limestone and porphyritic or trappean
rocks, and a hard slaty rock, which is sometimes highly crystalline.
The sandstone rocks are generally inclined at an angle of from 7 to
20 degrees with the horizon, while the slaty rocks are always nearly
vertical. No distinct stratification is observable in the limestone,
which forms abrupt and fantastically formed isolated mountains, often
presenting mural precipices of much grandeur, and it is in these that
the hirundo esculenta forms the gelatinous nests, which are so great
an article of luxury with the Chinese. On my sketch-map* the
dip and direction of the strata are noted, wherever I observed them.
It is in the sandstone and the clayey beds which alternate with it,
that the coal occurs, and there seems little reason to doubt that it is of
* In the Map-room of the Society. — Ed.
