202 WALLACE ON BORNEO. [Nov. 10, 1856.
the tertiary formation, as the most abundant fossils are impressions of
exogenous foliage, exactly similar in character to that of the trees
which now cover the surface. I have also seen what appear to be
leguminous fruits, and the shells found in the Labuan coal-field,
were all of an extremely recent type. Now as the sandstone of the
interior almost exactly corresponds with that of the coal formation,
we may conclude that it also is tertiary, the principal difference
being, that some beds of it contain a greater quantity of quartz and
limestone pebbles. The presence of volcanic rocks with contorted
limestone, sufficiently explains the vertically-upheaved stratified
rocks, which appear to underlay the sandstone. The limestone is
highly crystalline, and is probably an ancient formation, as it contains
slender-stemmed encrinites ; and the slaty rocks which occur in all
the river beds between the coal mountains and those of the interior,
are probably of equal or greater antiquity. A considerable tract of
country between the limestone hills, is covered with an alluvium of
gravel and clays, the surface of which is very imdulating, and in
this the gold-washing is principally carried on. It seems to rest
upon the limestone, which often pierces through it in strange water-
worn peaks, which resemble ruined buildings, or ancient monumentp.
It is in cavities of the limestone also, that the antimony ore is
found ; and near the junction of the trap-rock with the limestone,
a fine hot spring has recently been discovered.
We may therefore, in general terms, describe the Sarawak district
as consisting of ancient limestone and slaty rocks and of modem
sandstone with coal. In the interval between these deposits, violent
volcanic action has taken place, which has resulted in the trappean
mountains ; and this action has been renewed since the most recent
rocks have been foimed. With the very scanty information we yet
possess on the subject, more detail than this would be out of place.
Ethnology. — The manners and customs of the Aborigines of Borneo
have been so often described, that I shall only now make a few
observations on what has been less generally noticed — their physical,
mental, and moral characteristics. The Dyak is closely allied
ethnographically to the Malay, more remotely to the Chinese and
to the Indians of South America, who are all united by so many
similarities, that we must consider them as branches of one great
division of mankind, the Mongolian race. All are characterised
by a reddish brown skin of various shades, by jet-black straight
hair, by the scanty or totally absent beard, by the rather small and
broad nose, and high cheek-bones. In one character only is there
any disagreement among them ; — in the Chinese and Tartar races
the eyes are oblique, while in the Americans and Malays this
