Nov. 10, 1856.] WALLACE ON BORNEO. 203
peculiarity either does not exist, or is very slightly developed. The
average stature of the Dyaks, seems intermediate between the Malaj^s
and Chinese, being rather greater than the former and less than the
latter, though the local differences are in all very great. Their
whole forms are well proportioned, their hands and feet small, and
they are seldom so stout as either the Chinese or Malays, while the
coronal region of the head, is better developed than in the latter races.
It is highly curious that countries so distant as Borneo and the
valley of the Amazon, between which we can by no possibility
imagine any direct communication to have ever taken place, should
yet contain indigenes so similar to each other ; for between some
tribes of Dyaks and of Amazon Indians, I can call to mind no one
physical distinction. We can only explain the circumstance by
supposing both to have had a common origin, and shall thus have
additional reason for supporting the views of Dr. Latham and others,
who consider the Americans as Mongols who have emigrated direct
from Eastern Asia. We may also suppose that similarity of climate
and other physical conditions, have tended to produce the remarkable
resemblance I have alluded to, both tribes inhabiting districts under
the Equator, where the surface is everywhere covered with virgin
forests, and where excessive heat and moisture constantly prevail.
In mental capacity it is probable that the Dyaks would be fully
equal to the Malays or Chinese, while in moral character they are
undoubtedly supeiior to either. They may be said to bear the same
relation to the Malays, that the Tartars do to the Chinese. They
are simple and honest, and become the prey of the Malay traders
and chiefs, who cheat and oppress them whenever they have the
opportunity. The Dyak languages are very various, and differ very
considerably from each other. In some, nearly half the words are
pure or modified Malay, while in others, there is scarcely a word
exactly the same in the two languages. In some of the names of
places, there is a strange similarity to the Celtic; thus, Penrhissen,
Lundu, Siniawen, Senna, are most of them true Welsh names, and as
the Celtic languages have an Eastern origin, and there is a con-
siderable Sanscrit element in the Malay, and as besides there is
reason to believe that Hindoos were once settled in Borneo, it
seems possible that these are not mere accidental coincidences, but
indications of a common origin of the former inhabitants or lan-
guages of Britain and Borneo — countries which we can now only
place in juxtaposition, as representing nearly the extreme points
on the scale of civilization.
Having compared the Dyaks with some of the indigenes of South
America as to their physical characters, it may be as well to extend
