20-1 WALLACE ON BORNEO. [Nov. 10, 1856.
the comparison to their mental qimlities as exhibited by their
sports, their weapons, and their general habits. In these too there
is a very considerable general resemblance, though much difference
in the details. The Dyaks are more lively, more talkative, and less
diffident than the Americans, and therefore pleasanter companions.
They have more amusements and are more social, while at the same
time they have less variety of weapons, and are less skilful in their
methods of obtaining game and fish. Both these circumstances will
lead us to place them one degree higher in the scale of civilization.
Among the Indian boys of the Amazons, I never observed any other
amusements, than imitations of the more serious occupations of the
men. The bow and spear, the blowpipe or the canoe, were employed
in their sports and games, which were thus the school in which they
became qualified for the duties of manhood. This is a characteristic
of the truly savage state. The Dyak youths, on the other hand,
have their social games, their trials of strength and of skill. They
amuse themselves with pegtops like our English schoolboys, and 1
was surprised to find them fully initiated in all the mysteries of the
in-doors game of " scratch-cradle," of which they had modifications
unknown to us. They possess besides numerous puzzles and tricks
of great ingenuity, with which they amuse themselves on dull
evenings or during wet weather. These apparently trifling matters
are yet of some importance, in arriving at a true estimation of their
social state. They show that these people have passed beyond that
first stage of savage life, in which the stniggle for existence absorbs
their whole faculties, in which every thought and every idea is
connected with war or hunting or the provision for their immediate
necessities. It shows too an advanced capability of civilization, an
aptitude to enjoy other than mere sensual pleasures, which, properly
taken advantage of, may be of great use in an attempt to raise their
social and mental condition.
The moral character of the Dyaks is undoubtedly high. They are
truthful and honest to a remarkable degree. It is often impossible
from this cause to get an opinion from them, for the}^ say, " If I
were to tell you what I don't know, I might tell a lie ;" and if they
relate any thing voluntarily, you may be sure that they are speak-
ing the truth. The fruit-trees about their houses have each their
owner, and it has often happened that on asking a Dyak to gather
me some fruit from a tree, he has replied, " I can't do that, for the
owner of the tree is not here ;" never seeming to contemplate the
possibility of acting otherwise. Neither will they take the smallest
thing belonging to a European, without asking permission. They
will pick up scraps of torn newspapers or crooked pins, and ask as a
