Nov. 10, 1856.] DE CRESPIGNY ON BORNEO. 205
great favour whether they may have them. In other moral qualities
they are also above most uncivilized, and perhaps also above most
civilized, nations. They are temperate in food and drink, and the
gross sensuality of the Chinese and Malays is unknown among them.
They have but one fault — a fault common to all nations in a half-
savage state, except perhaps the African races — an apathy and
dilatoriness, which, however annoying to the Europeans who come
into contact with them, cannot be considered a very grave oifence,
or be held to outbalance the many excellent qualities they possess.
Few subjects are of greater interest, or of more vital importance to
the welfare of a people, than the state of the population, its increase
or decrease, and the causes by which it is affected. In my visits to
the Hill Dyaks, I was much struck by the apparent absence of those
causes, which are generally supposed to check the increase of popu-
lation, coupled with the evidence of a population almost stationary
or very slightly increasing. The conditions generally supposed
most favourable for the increase of population, are an abundance of
food, the absence of polygamy, and .early marriages. Here these
conditions all exist. The people produce far more food than they
consume, and exchange the surplus for ornaments, gongs, and small
cannon, which constitute their wealth. On the whole, they appear
remarkably free from disease ; marriages take place early, though
not too early, and old bachelors and old maids are alike unknown.
The number of births is, however, below the usual ratio, and a suffi-
cient cause may be found in the fatiguing occupations to which the
women are subjected.
3. Proposed Exploration of Borneo. By Lieut. C. A. C. De Ceespigny,
R.N., F.R.G.S.
Lieut. De Crespigny, r.n., submitted his proposition for the more
thorough exploration of Borneo. He reasoned that Borneo ought
to be better known, on account of its riches, its fertility, and above
all, its position, situated as it is, in the direct route between China
and Australia, between which two countries, it is not difficult to
foresee, that there will be as great a trade as now exists between
Europe and Australia. In addition to this, Lieut. De Crespigny was
anxious to discover the ruins of a large stone city said to exist in
Koti, in the east of Borneo, and the truth of a rumour of a tribe of
fair people, living in the mountainous region of Kinibalu, with
light hair and blue eyes. In reply to a question Lieut. De Cres-
pigny said he had been employed in the survey of the north-west
coast in 1848, and had taken that opportunity to learn the Malay
language, and to gain infoimation of the manners of the people.
