10 KENT. [Dec. 10, 1855.
The Lake appears to be remarkable for its low, sandy, and reedy
shores, except only at its southern extremity, where it runs along the
base of a steep range of hills. Its waves run very high, and an entirely
calm day is rare. Its water is sweet and good, and abounds with fish ;
there are very few islands visible anywhere from the coast, and the
abovementioned Arab, who twice crossed it, saw none. A large part of
its shores teems with a population " like an ant-hill." Its northern ex-
tremity is unknown, but it may be at the foot of a range of mountains
which stretch westward to the north of Burgenei. The river of the
Wadusi, on the northern part of its east coast, is an enormous river, but
very sluggish ; the other principal tributaries which have been heard
of, are laid down on the accompanying map.
Third Meeting, December 10, 1855.
Rear- Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, President, in the Chair.
John Alger, A. Cumming, A. Gillespie, D. McGregor , and
C. White, Esqrs., were elected Fellows.
The President stated that the Secretary had received a communica-
tion from Mr. Haidinger, of Vienna, announcing the proposed formation
of a Geographical Society in Austria.
The Papers read were —
1. Extracts from a Letter from John Kent, Esq., f.r.g.s., to Dr.
Shaw, dated Sydney, Aug. 12, 1855, giving information respecting
the North Australian Expedition.
" I left Moreton Bay on the 4th inst., at which time the expedition was lying
at the bar of the river, waiting for the tide to proceed to sea. It consisted
of Mr. A. C. Gregory and his brother, Messrs. Baines and Wilson, Mr. Elsey,
the surgeon, Dr. Miiller, Mr. Flood, and 14 men, with 50 horses and 200
sheep, embarked on board the ' Monarch ' barque and schooner ' Tom Tough.'
Mr. G-. Windsor Earl is also a passenger on board the former vessel, and his
experience in tropical Australia will be of great value to the expedition. The
* Monarch,' after landing the horses and stores, proceeds to Singapore, from
whence you will next hear of its movements. The ' Tom Tough ' is engaged
to wait in attendance on the expedition so long as Mr. Gregory shall require
her to do so. Provisions and stores for two years have been provided, and all
Mr. Gregory has demanded supplied. The men have been engaged at 8s. per
diem.
" There has been, in my opinion, one grave departure from the original plan,
namely, the omission of bullocks and bullock drays, which I hold to be essen-
tially necessary ; but Mr. Gregory acts from his experience in West Australia,
setting at nought the practice of Sturt, Mitchell, Leichhardt, and former ex-
plorers. Apart from this determination, which I hold to be an error, I deem
^im a most competent leader for such an expedition. Sparc and active in
