208 DE CRESPIGNY.— KANE. [Nov. 24, 1856.
The President said Mr. Crawfurd had given a very interesting and instruc-
tive description of the country which Lieut. De Crespigny was about to
explore. He was sure all would join with Mr. Crawfurd in his hearty wishes
for his success. The Council of the Society had expressed its desire that day
that the Admiralty should be moved to grant Mr. De Crespigny's re-
quest. They could only hope that the Government would promote his views
in every way, as he was sure the Society, judging from the expression of the
sentiments of those present, w^ould be disposed to do. Before the President
adjourned, he directed the attention of the Meeting to an application of one of
the many valuable productions of Borneo, in the shape of the gutta percha
forming part of the submarine cable about to be stretched between this country
and America ; and adverted to the admirable section upon the walls of the
room, of that part of the Atlantic in which the cable would lie, as delineated by
Mr. Cyrus Field, from the survey of Lieutenant Berryman, of the U.S. Navy.
Second Meeting, Nov. 24, 1866.
Sib EODERICK I. MURCHISON, Yice-Peesident, in the Chair.
Elections. — Captain E. A. Acheson ; Br. Phil. H. Barth; Lieutenant
L. Brine, e.n. ; Captain W. Brook ; Captain E. Cooper ; and Messrs. J. W.
Childers ; J. A. Beaumont ; J. D. C. Ewing ; G. M. Harrison; A. B. Hill;
J. R. Langler ; J. Palliser ; H. S. Reid; J. M. Share, r.n. ; E. H. Stanley ;
J. L. Statham; and James Vaughan, m.d., were elected Fellows.
Donations. — Among donations received since the previous meeting
were ' Le Moniteur des Indes, Orientales et Occidentales,' 3 vols.
4to., presented by Mr. J. Crawfurd, f.r.g.s. ; Eedhouse's ' English
and Turkish Dictionary,' presented by Mr. Quaritch ; * Treasury of
Geography,' by Mr. Wm. Hughes, f.r.g.s. ; ' Series of Twelve Views
in the ^Black Sea and the Bosphorus,' by Commander Montagu
O'Reilly, b.n., f.r.g.s. ; Reports of Explorations and Surveys in the
United States; the Transactions of the Smithsonian Institution of
Washington, of the Boston Society of Natural History, the German
Oriental Society, the Imperial Geological Society of Vienna ; the
Royal Institute of Dutch India, &c.
Objects exhibited. — Various articles, relics of Sir John Frank-
lin's expedition, obtained from the Esquimaux at Repulse Bay by Dr.
Rae ; and others, sent home by Mr. Anderson, from Montreal Island,
were exhibited through the kindness of Mr. Tonna, f.r.g.s., Secre-
tary of the United Service Institution, and excited much interest.
Announcements. — The Chairman stated that the members would be aware
that, at their last meeting, a resolution was unanimously passed, to express
their deep regret that their distinguished medallist, Ur. Kane, was prevented by
