Nov. 24, 1856.] KANE.— DE CRESPIGNY".— BAIKIE.— PIM. 209
illness from attending in person to receive those gratulations which they were
all ready to offer him. The President of the Society, Admiral Beechey, who he
regretted to say had been prevented by ill health from taking the chair, had
requested him to state the gratification he had experienced in waiting upon
Dr. Kane, and in expressing the feelings of admiration entertained by the
Geographical Society towards that eminent traveller. The reply which Ad-
miral Beechey received was as follows : —
Champion Hill, Camberwell, Nov. 16, 1856.
My dear Sib, — May I avail myself of your kindness to convey to the Society
over which you preside, my sense of the high honour which, in the form of
a resolution of welcome, was this day conveyed to me by you in person.
I regret that my extreme illness compels me to devolve this grateful duty
upon another hand, but I know that you will make the necessary explanations
to the Society.
I am, my dear Sir, with great regard.
Your obedient servant,
E. K. Kane, U.S. Navy.
Rear- Admiral F. W. Beechey, President R.G.S.
It was only necessary on his part to explain that Dr. Kane had, by order of
his physicians, already proceeded on a voyage to the Havanna, and to add
that it was no doubt the hearty wish of every British geographer that this
distinguished man might be soon restored to health.
He, the Chairman, had also to announce that, since the last meeting, the
Admiralty had acceded to the wish expressed, by the President — a favour not
granted on ordinary occasions — that Lieut. De Crespigny, f.k.g.s., the adven-
turous young officer who had volunteered to survey in various directions the
extensive island of Borneo, should be allowed to proceed on the proposed
expedition. The Admiralty received, it appears, the proposition very favour-
ably, and had not only granted leave to Lieut. De Crespigny, but also a
free passage in H.M.S. ' Act£eon.' Upon the application of another naval
officer, they were so liberal that they also granted permission to him to
accompany Lieut. De Crespigny. He mentioned this circumstance with great
satisfaction, as it showed that the Admiralty were fully aware of the position
in public estimation which the Royal Geographical Society justly occupied.
In fact, all the departments of the Government seemed anxious to attend to
the recommendations and wishes of this Society.
He might further announce that the wishes of the deputation which waited
upon the Earl of Clarendon, to urge his Lordship to sanction an annual
expedition to the Niger and Chadda, like that successful one under Dr. Baikie,
in order to bring us into sj'-stematic communication with the people of that
portion of Africa, had met with the entire concurrence of her Majesty's
Foreign Secretary. He felt confident, from what he heard on that occasion,
that the Government would carry out the wishes, which had been long enter-
tained by geographers. These were very gratifying results, and he need
scarcely say the Society was flourishing, seeing so many new members added
to it at every meeting.
The papers read were : —
1. Plan for a farther Search after the Remains of the Franklin Expedition,
By Lieut. Bedford Pim, r.n., f.r.g.s.
Lieut. Pim stated that as a decisive clue of the missing expedition
had been obtained, in the shape of the relics purchased by Dr. Eae
