210 PIM ON ARCTIC SEARCH. [Nov. 24, 1856.
from tlie Esquiaiaux during his survey of part of Boothia, it was
natural to look for the solution of the mystery to the locality of
King William Land. He ascribed the failure of the last expedition
sent out by the Hudson Bay Company to follow up the traces of
Franklin discovered by Dr. Eae, to various causes, but chiefly to
the lateness of the period of the year when they started and to the
absence of an interpreter ; and denied the existence of any evidence
proving that the party had perished, since no vestige of human
remains had been found, which would otherwise have been the case.
The scheme he proposed was, that a screw steamer, with a comple-
ment of twenty men, should penetrate as far down Peel Sound as
possible, take up winter quarters, and, assisted by teams of dogs,
purchased at the Danish settlements of Greenland, extend the search
down both sides of the Sound. Another steamer should push through
Behring Strait and winter at King William Land ; and a third
party should descend the Great Fish River. Lieut. Pim particularly
desired the use of small steamers, supplied with dogs for travelling
purposes. Who could doubt that, had Sir John Franklin had the
command of 20 men only, instead of 138, but he would have escaped
from his icy prison as easily as Sir John Ross had done? The
smaller number would enjoy abundance, while the larger number
were perishing with hunger. The superiority of dogs over men for
sledging purposes had, in Lieutenant Pim's opinion, been abundantly
proved— frost being the most dreaded enemy of the men, whilst
dogs are exposed to the severest inclemency of the weather with
impunity. The most interesting locality for the search, was un-
doubtedly. King William Land ; which, situated at the mouth of the
Great Fish River, was, on account of its proximity to the magnetic
pole, and the number of Esquimaux inhabiting its vicinity, who
beyond a doubt were the depositaries of the Franklin secret, of
the greatest importance. Having pointed out the field of search,
Lieutenant Pim described the eastern road to it, or that by Lancaster
Sound, as comparatively uncertain; while the western, or that
through Behring Strait, he believed could be coasted by ships sooner
or later in each year, along the northern shores of the American
Continent. Captain Collinson had engaged to take a ship to
Simpson Bay in ten months, and, indeed, had given it as his opinion
to him, that he could take through the ' Marlborough,' the largest
ship in the British navy.*
* Lieat. Pim exhibited the fac-simile of a Chart drawn by an Esquimaux, on
board the * Enterprise,' pointing out the locality of two ships ; but which Capt.
Collinson, at the time, supposed to refer to the * Victory,' abandoned by Sir
John Ross in 1831.— Ed.
