Nov. 24, 1856.] PIM ON ARCTIC SEARCH. 211
Sir Roderick Murchison, f.b.g.s., was sure the members would return their
thanks to Lieutenant Pirn for his communication, inasmuch as they would re-
collect the efforts made by that officer in the search after our missing navigators.
No one could forget the bold enterprise which Lieutenant Pim formerly pro-
jected, the vigorous manner in which he set about it, with the full determina-
tion to reach, by a land journey over the wilds of Siberia, those distant regions
in which Franklin and his associates were supposed to be fast bound in ice.
Lieutenant Pim's antecedents were indeed an earnest that what he now pro-
posed was worthy of the serious consideration of the Society. He, the Chair-
man, had been alluded to as having been one of the individuals, who had
zealously advocated a final search for the relics of the ' Erebus ' and ' Terror.*
He, certainly, did take a very deep interest in the memorial which he himself
presented to the First Minister of the Crown upon this subject ; and lie must
say, that this document, signed as it was by many men eminent in science, as
well as by experienced Arctic explorers, met with the full and entire favour
of Lord Palmerston, who paid a very marked attention to it. Though he. Sir
Roderick, had no right to hold out any prospect upon authority, it might
still be hoped that Her Majesty's Government would think it due to the
honour of a great country like Britain, which had spent so many thousands of
pounds in the search after Franklin, not to abandon a last effort to detect the
relics of the ships, and probably to find the log-books, and such records of
those six years' wanderings in the far-off Arctic regions, as might well he pre-
served in the ice, and might be found by a survey in a circumscribed area.
The Society would recollect, that this proposed expedition differed entirely from
all former efforts to discover the direction even, in which the bold and gallant
Franklin had sailed. Through the discoveries of Dr. Eae, we now know that
within a very limited space indeed, the ships and their relics must lie. Again,
that the spot could be easily reached, had been set at rest by Captain CoUinson,
who in a sailing ship passed to within one hundred and fifty miles of the area
to which he adverted, along the north coast of America, and returned un-
scathed and without the loss of a man. If a screw vessel were propelled in
that same course, there could not be the remotest doubt that one portion of
the proposed scheme might be accomplished. Not being a naval man himself,
he did not pretend to enter into the relative merits of an expedition by the
east or the west. These were points which might be considered hereafter ;
but he did sincerely hope that a last effort might be made for the honour of
our country. Our neighbours, the French, as stated in the memorial alluded
to, in the case of the unfortunate catastrophe that befell La Perouse, had set
an example, which, for the credit of our country, we ought to imitate. The
moment our allies procured the first information respecting that ill-starred ex-
pedition, they sent out a considerable force to collect every remnant and record
connected with it. 1'hese they had justly hung up as trophies in Paris, and
such conduct was well worthy of imitation by other nations. In the event of
the Government declining to send out an expedition, he M^as authorized to
state that Lady Franklin, who had already expended so much in fitting out
expeditions in the search after the missing navigators, would, though there
might now be no chance of finding a living man of the party, spend her
last farthing in making this effort. He still hoped that the Government
would give to that noble-minded woman every possible support, and fur-
nish the expedition with provisions and instruments, and with a well-found
vessel.
Dr. Rae, F.R.G.S., said he had done, as no doubt others had when employed for
the purpose, all he could to find traces of the missing expedition ; but Lieut.
Pim was perfectly right in saying that his discovery of relics in the region
named was unexpected. He thought Sir John Franklin had gone in another
direction ; because on a former expedition Sir John had lost half his party in
