212 PIM ON ARCTIC SEARCH. [Nov. 24, 1856,
travelling over a short extent of the American continent. He concluded that
Sir John Franklin would have followed the route taken by Sir John Ross in
escaping from Regent Inlet ; and this opinion induced him to think that he
was not to he found in the neighbourhood where relics had been met with.
He did not think, with many other authorities, tliat documents were to be
found. The documents, whatever they were, would have been carried to the
point where the last survivors rested. That was his opinion. The Esquimaux
told him that they had found eight or ten books where the dead bodies were ;
that those books had " markings" upon them, but they could not tell whether
they were in print or manuscript. On being asked what they had done with
them, they said they had given them to their children, who had torn them up
as playthings. This was such an answer as the Esquimaux would scarcely
have formed from mere invention ; it was just what children would do in this
country or anywhere else. But wherever the vessels were left, there it was
barely possible that remnants of books might be found ; still it was clear that
those books could give no account of the fate of the party seen near the Fish
River. There was only one point connected with the discoveries made by Mr.
Anderson, which at first appeared to him inconclusive, and that was the not
finding traces of bodies. Upon considering the subject, and consulting Sir
George Back's book, he came to the conclusion that they had been washed
away or covered up with mud. On the low ground where the party en-
camped, the tide flowed nearly over the whole of it, in gales of wind from
certain directions. There was a large river flowing down, and all who have
lived in the northern parts of America, know the effect of such a river filled
with ice flowing over a flat tract of country ; that it carried away remains
of much greater resistance than any that mere bodies could offer. He
might also refer to Captain Penny in confirmation of this view of the case.
When Captain Penny wintered up Northumberland Inlet, he found that
whales' carcases and bones, Avhich he had left nearly high and dry the previous
season, had been removed by a process he could not account for ; there was not
a bone to be seen. With respect to the expedition proposed by Lieutenant
Pim, he wished it might be carried out, because he thought that the informa-
tion obtained, if any ^ would confirm the statements he had himself brought
home. He would not at present say exactly what his plans were, but he
wished to complete the survey of the north coast of America, which he had
twice endeavoured to accomplish. It was said that the third time was lucky,
and he should probably try the third time.
Mr. John Brown, f.r.g.s., wished to make an observation with reference
to Peel Sound. He would caution geographers against the adoption of it as a
Strait. It was not known to be a Strait. If they referred to the Blue Books
they would find that Lieut. Browne, of Austin and Ommaney's expedition, went
some distance down that Sound, and in his report pronounced it to all appear-
ance "rarely if ever open for navigation ;" in fact, he said, in parts it was frozen
to the bottom, A little farther south, at Creswell Bay, by reference to Sir
John Ross's trip down Prince Regent Inlet, they would find, looking west,
a range of mountains — the Union Mountains — these must be some distance to
the westward ; they were very high ; this again offered an obstacle to the sup-
position that Peel Sound was a strait. Again, farther south, at the western
entrance of Bellot Strait, Capt. Kennedy and Bellot describe a " con-
tinuous barrier of land" from Cape Bird round to the north and west, forming
a deep bay ; this would shut out all idea then of Peel Soimd being a strait.
He would be sorry to see another failure by a search in that direction, after
the many they had had. Probably the best place to put the ships would be
down Prince Regent Inlet, but not so far south as to be locked up as Ixoss
was, — say about Creswell Bay. But, after all, where, he would ask, did the
party said to have perished at Montreal Island come from ? He did not think
