Nov. 24, 1856.] PIM ON ARCTIC SEARCH. 213
they came down Peel Sound at all ; had they done so, we should have expected
to have found traces of them from its vicinity to Fury Beach. He thought
Franklin, in his endeavours to carry out his instructions, had attained large
westing from Capo Walker, as far west as 105° or 110*^, and had got entangled
by the heavy ice in the deep bay of Melville Sound, and that he endeavoured
to escape south by a strait which he (Mr. Brown) thought existed at tlie
bottom of Melville Sound, between it and Gateshead Island, in King William
Land. In 1854, he expressed to Captain Collinson, just then arrived, his opinion
as regarded that particular part being a Strait. The heavy fixed ice on the
eastern side of Melville Sound, found by Captain Ommaney and Captain
Osborn, the currents and other reasons, too long to be entered upon then, had
led him to that conclusion. Captain Collinson said, he " thought it probable,
and yet the thought never occurred to him when he was on the spot." He
mentioned this to prevent future failure. At any rate the fate of Franklin
and his followers could not rest where it was, and he thought if they
went down Prince Regent Inlet, and then crossed over as Kennedy and
Bellot did, and in the direction he (Mr. Brown) had indicated, that they might
obtain traces of the relics at least, of the long absent expedition. The way
by Behring Strait was an excellent one, but he feared it took too long a
time from England.
Captain Maguire, r.n., said, he had been to Behring Strait four times, and
as to the possibility of communicating with the mouth of Back River by the
western route, he might state that he had been round Point Barrow three
times, and he thought it was a navigation which might be undertaken without
the slightest danger. Captain Collinson was of the same opinion. The ad-
vantages of the western route were threefold : 1st, the certainty of the ships
arriving at the spot where the search has to be made ; 2nd, in the event of
any accident occurring to the vessel, the crew will be sure to reach the Hudson
Bay settlements ; 3rdly, that a travelling party (coming from. the east) could
not remain sufficiently long upon the spot so as to render the search complete
and final. By this route, notice of the ship's progress can be conveyed by the Rat
Indians from the Colville, and from Barter Island to Fort Youcon, and her
safe arrival at her destination can be made known in England by the January
following. Thus there would be no anxiety with regard to her safety. A
vessel could get round by September ; but by the eastern route it would be
the spring following, before parties could reach there by travelling. This was
a point of some importance, because information could not be got from the
Esquimaux in a day or two. It took weeks, and it was very difficult to get
correct information from them. By the western route, the passage from Eng-
land to the mouth of Back River, could be undertaken with very little chance
of stoppage. Captain Collinson had made the passage in one year, and Captain
M'Clure in another, and they each could have got there by the month of Sep-
tember. A ship having arrived there, it would be very easy in the following
spring, when the crews would not be employed about anything else, to try
and find a way out by the eastward instead of returning as they went. But
ships going in by the east, did not know how far they could get, and it was
well known that Arctic travelling was a very laborious thing. People arriving
at a place after a long journey, were not in a state to make a search with the
same vigour they would exert if they were quite fresh.
Sir Roderick Murchison said, it was interesting to find that the remarks
made by Lieut. Pim had been confirmed by so experienced an Arctic navi-
gator as Captain Maguire, whose observations were quite in unison with
those of Captain Collinson — both of these officers who had " gone and done the
thing." The public must therefore not imagine that the search that the me-
morialists and Lieut. Pim advocated, was attended by those dangers which
were connected with former indefinite searches. With reference to the cha-
