Nov. 24, 1856.] VOGEL ON THE IVORY-TRADE OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 215
pelled them to take higher ground. He did not think they could attribute
the fact of no vestiges being found to the nature of the ground. He (Lieut.
Pim) stated this on his own experience, for having travelled after Dr. Eae's
simple and excellent manner, without tents or superfluities of any sort, also
after the tentative manner of a Government expedition, as well as making
overland journeys, he might be considered a competent judge of causes and
effects in the Arctic Regions.
Dr. Rae observed that the Esquimaux travelled in sledges and en-
camped on low ground. He also always pitched on low ground, because the
snow was best there for building. The Esquimaux did the same. He had been
accustomed to the Esquimaux from Mackenzie Eiver round to York Fort, a
small space excepted, and had lived among them with perfect safety. He
had left three of his people at Repulse Bay, and on his return he found
twelve native families living with them. Some of these were relatives or ac-
quaintances of the men who were supposed to have murdered Franklin's
party. They were a gossiping people, not a quiet people like the Indian,
and they would have told him at once if any of the party had been alive. If
the party had got up the Back River, they would have been perfectly safe, be-
cause the native Indians would have fed them and brought them to the Hud-
son Bay posts. Lieut. Pim said he had travelled in the west, but travelling
in the west could give no idea of travelling in the east. He (Dr. Rae) tra-
velled there as the Esquimaux did, and encamped as they generally did in the
low flat country. Every one agreed that they would rather encamp on low
ground than haul their sledges through the snow to higher ground above the
water-line. The party of whites, who starved near the Fish River, had tra-
velled thither on the ice, not by water, because the natives followed the sledge
marks on the ice, and the bodies were found before the ice broke up. He
had gone over a considerable extent of coast, about 2000 miles, and conse-
quently could speak from his own experience ; but he would not venture to
express any opinion of what Dr. Kane or Lieut. Pim had experienced JOOO
miles or so to the north and west.
Sir Roderick Murchison had no doubt every member of the Geographical
Society was aware of the great merits of Dr. Rae's researches ; and he was
happy to have elicited from the Meeting a very general participation in the
views of the gentlemen who signed the requisition to the Government, urging
that another search, worthy of .the country, ought to be made to discover the
remnants of the Franklin expedition. He was also happy to hear that Dr.
Rae himself intended to come forward, and he was not surprised at such an
offer from so gallant and successful an Arctic traveller.
2. Dr. YoGEL on the Ivory-trade of Central Africa,
Communicated by the Earl of Clarendon.
The African ivory which reaches the Mediterranean ports comes
chiefly from Adamawa and AHmshe, south of the river Chadda.
From Bu-Manda and Shubbun on the Chadda it passes northward
through Jacoba to Kano, whence it is transmitted across the desert
by Ghadamsi merchants. The quantity thus obtained is said to be
50 tons annually. Bomu and Wadai also contribute a small supply.
Dr. Vogel found the people on the Chadda refusing to supply the
usual buyers from the north, as Dr. Baikie's expedition up the
Chadda had led them to hope for the arrival of English ships. Dr.
T 2
