Dkc. 10, 1855.] GABlilEL. 11
person, quiet and reserved in manner, with great firmness of purpose, he is
well adapted to conciliate the Aborigines, and, what is more essential, the
elements composing his own party. 1 think it would be difficult to find four
men better adapted for undergoing fatigue than the brothers Gregory, Wilson
and Baines. Of the others I cannot speak so confidently ; but the patience and
resignation of Dr. Miiller have been tested by a seat for three days up a gum
tree, waiting the subsidence of a flood. He is a German botanical enthusiast,
which will account for this incident in his experience.
" Authentic information has been received within a few weeks, which sets at
rest the question of Leichhardt being alive. Several mules have been found
which belonged to the party, and the remains of pack-saddles, broken and
destroyed by the natives. There is no doubt, therefore, that he and his party
have been cut off by the natives."
Sir Roderick Murchisori, recapitulating what he had stated on previ-
ous occurrences, reminded the Meeting of the origin of this Expedition,
as suggested by the Royal Geographical Society, and of the deep inte-
rest taken in it by the Duke of Newcastle, its first patron. He
congratulated those who had united with himself in originating it, on
the safe arrival and prosperous landing of the party under the able con-
duct of Mr, Gregory ; and felt assured that every member of the expe-
dition, as well as his geological correspondent, Mr. Wilson, was well
qualified to perform the arduous task set before them, and the plan of
which had been so ably matured by Captain Sturt.
2. A communication from Edmund Gabriel, Esq., Her Majesty's
Arbitrator at Loanda, to the Earl of Clarendon.
Transmitted to the Society by Lord Wodehouse.
A letter to the same eflfect, dated August 28, had also been received
through Consul Brand, announcing the receipt of a letter from Dr.
Livingston, describing his further progress in the interior after leaving
Cassange. Dr. Livingston crossed the boundary of the province on
the 18th of May last, intending to visit Matiamvo, the paramount chief
of the Londa country, and to ascertain if the river Casai be navigable
there. After crossing the river Chikapa and the river Maomba he
arrived at Cobango, a large trading station on the river Chihombo,
from whence Matiamovo is 100 miles E.N.E. At this place Dr.
Livingston's native companions expressed an anxious wish to turn south
towards their homes on the Leeambye ; and circumstances rendered it
necessary to adopt that course.
