216 FIELD ON THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH. [Nov. 24, 1856.
Vogel recommends small trading establishments to be formed at Bu-
Mauda and Shubbun. Those markets are in healthy situations, well
supplied with all kinds of food, and intercept the trade to the north.
Eegular periodical communication is essential, as the unexpected
arrival of vessels might find the people unprepared to trade, and
cause disappointment. A legitimate and active trade would soon
spring up in those parts, and be preferred by the natives to dealing
in slaves, a traffic whicih would then be abandoned.*
Sir Roderick Murchison observed that in the early part of the evening
allusion was made to the thanks of the Society to Dr. Kane for his expedi-
tion — an expedition which was more remarkable than any ever undertaken,
inasmuch as it was done at the expense of two individuals of a kindred nation,
or, as he might call them, our American brethren. That expedition having
terminated, they had expressed their gi-ateful thanks to those excellent
Americans, who, in the search for Franklin, had distinguished themselves
above all individual Englishmen. No one had acted the part of such pure
philanthropists as Messrs. Grinnell and Peabody, both of whom, he was glad
to say, were associated on the lists of the Royal Geographical Society.
He was happy to observe present, a gentleman who had taken part in the
great survey across the Atlantic, for measuring the depths, and ascertaining the
nature of the bottom of the sea, by which that gigantic scheme had been devised,
which would unite the two nations in bonds, which he hoped never would
be severed. Mr. Cyrus W. Field, the expositor, and in fact the promoter,
of this great affair, was in the room, with some of the very materials with
which the great connection was to be made. He thought he might call
upon Mr. Cyrus Field to give a brief account of the remarkable manner in
which the completion of the Atlantic telegraph was to be carried out.
3. The Atlantic Telegraph, By Cyrus W. Field, Esq., of the United
States.
Mr. Cyrus W. Field said, that the remarks which the Chairman had just
made (alluding to some distinguished Americans) to men whom he was proud
to call his friends, had struck a chord in his heart. The Americans, their
brethren on the other side of the Atlantic, wished to get nearer to their father-
land. They were jealous of the earlier acquired knowledge of the English, and
were determined to obtain it. When the Atlantic cable is laid, they will
know in New York what is to be done in London, before it is even done there,
the difference in time being five hours.
Mr. Field then said, if they would allow him, he would present a profile of
the Atlantic Ocean between Newfoundland and Ireland, which was made by
order of the United States Government, under the direction of that distinguished
man. Lieutenant Maury, of the navy of the United States. The commander of
the expedition was Captain Berryman, of the United States steamer ' Arctic'
* According to the last accounts received by the Society from Dr. Vogel, dated
Kuka, December 4, 1855, he intended then to visit Wadai, and afterwards to re-
turn to England early in 1857, by way of Adamawa, the Niger, and Fernando Po.
Through H. M. Consul at Tripoli full supplies, both of money and articles of
merchandise, had been sent to him.
The continuation of Dr. Vogel's important astronomical observations — the first
portion of which were published in the 25ih Journal of the Society — have not yet
arrived,— Ep.
