Dec. 8, 1856.] DEATH OF ADMIRAL BEECHEY. 217
Mr. Field here exhibited the profile of the Atlantic ; and the bed of the ocean
was so level throughout the whole course, that, in making the Map, they had
to exaggerate the vertical scale so that the depth appeared ten times greater
than it actually was in proportion to the distances. The soundings were made
according to the weather, not actually at so many miles apart, but as near
as they could be made at stated distances. The deepest part was 2^ miles, or
2070 fathoms. This is nearly in the centre. When the plateau was discovered
by Lieutenant Maury, he denominated it the " telegraphic plateau." Mr. Field
here exhibited a portion of the cable. It was estimated that communications
could be transmitted through this cable, with the improved code, at the rate
of 30,000 words in 24 hours. The line was completed from New York to St.
John's, Newfoundland, a distance of 1710 miles as the line was laid ; and the-
president of that company had written to say that he had sent a message
through it, and had received a reply within 15 minutes.
Mr. Field also exhibited specimens of the bottom of the Atlantic, brought up
from over two miles in depth. There were no rocks to injure the cable, for
the bottom of the ocean, throughout the whole distance, was composed of minute
shells, so small that to the naked eye they appeared like sand, but when
examined with a powerful microscope, they were seen to be most perfect in their
formation. This plateau was evidently formed by the great Gulf-stream, which
swept the Atlantic coast of the United States, and this being met by the cold
currents from the north, the minute marine animals of tropical origin were
probably killed, and their shells sunk to the bottom.
In conclusion, Mr. Field said he would only repeat an observation which he
had made to a friend, that as on July 4th, 1776, the Americans had declared
their independence of Great Britain, before July 4th,. 1857, he hoped that they
would again be armexed.
Third Meeting, Dec. 8, Session 1856-57.
Sir RODERICK I. MURCHISON, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Elections. — The Hon. W, F, Campbell ; Rear'Admiral the Hon. J,
Gordon ; Colonel Luke S. 0' Connor ; Lord Oranmore ; Sir William Stuart,
Bart,; and Robert Benson^ William Benson, Walter Bryant, J. George
Cooke, and John Costerton, Esqrs. were elected Fellows.
The Chairman read the following letter, addressed to the Secre-
tary, from the brother of their late President, Rear- Admiral F. W,
Beechey : —
8, We»tboume Crescent, Dec. 2, 1856.
Sm, — It is my painful duty to record the death of your President, my
brother, Eear- Admiral Frederick William Beechey, on the 29th ultimo.
I remain. Sir,
Your obedient servant,
S. Vincent Beechey, M.A.
The Secretary, Geographical Society.
Sir R. Murchison next read the following notice on the subject of
Admiral Beechey's death : —
