218 ELECTION OF SIR R. I. MURCHISON. [Dec. 8, 1856.
Gentlemen, — Before we proceed to transact the business of this evening's
meeting, it is my painful duty to advert to the great loss we have sustained
since Ave last assenabled, by the demise of our excellent and distinguished
President.
On the last day of meeting, Admiral Beechey attended in the morning at
these apartments, and, feeling himself indisposed, requested me to act for him.
On the Saturday afternoon following, alas ! he was no more !
It is not in my power to record at this moment (nor is this the fitting occa-
sion) all the deeds and merits of that gallant, good, and eminent man. His
conduct throughout a well spent life, will doubtless be done justice to at our
next Anniversary, by whomever may then occupy this chair.
Let me however say, in deploring his loss, that, associated as I have been
with the Royal Geographical Society since its foundation, it has never fallen
to my lot to see it presided over by one who more honestly, efficiently, and
successfully devoted himself to the promotion of its interests, than Admiral
Beechey.
So strong was the habit implanted in him, of leaving no business unfinished
with which he was concerned, that his very last ofiBcial act within these walls,
and when evidently struggling under the disease which carried him off, was to
hand over to me his written suggestions respecting the proceedings of the
Council and the evening meeting ; requesting me at the same time to dwell
si^ecially, in any observations from the Chair, on the support which the Society
was receiving from Her Majesty's Government, and particularly from the Ad-
miralty.
In truth, I feel convinced that our lamented President accelerated his demise
by the indefatigable performance of his public duties, at a time when a fatal
disease was overpowering him. Since the sad event, I have heard it indeed
from the lips of the Minister of the Crown, under whom he officiated at the
Board of Trade, that his conduct in that department was, in all respects, so
commendable, that it would be a task of extraordinary difficulty to replace so
valuable a public servant.
We here have also tested his value, for we have seen with what good sense,
and kind, and courteous manners, our late President has kept us united in
friendly bonds, and how, under his guidance, the Society has risen to a pitch of
prosperity unexampled in its annals.
The following resolution was next proposed by Mr. W. J. Hamil-
ton, seconded by Colonel W. H. Sykes, and unanimously carried : — •
" That the Chairman be requested to express the deep sorrow of the
Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society on the demise of their distinguished
President, Rear-Admiral F. W. Beechey, and to communicate their sincere
condolences to his widow and family."
Sir Roderick Murchtson had now to announce from the Chair that it had
pleased the Council, seeing the abeyance in which the office of President had
fallen, for the first time since the Geographical Society had existed, to ask him
to occupy the post. As that motion was passed unanimously, he would not
shrink from his duty, provided the firoposition met with the concun-ence of
the Society. But he must remind them that he was no longer what he had
been. He was older than his departed friend, and it was not in the nature of
things that he should carry out as vigorously and efficiently, as he did formerly,
the duties thus imposed upon him. But, such as his powers might be, he
could assure them that they would be devoted honestly, and, as fai- as prac-
ticable, exclusively to the interests of the Royal Geographical Society. He
must at the same time say that it would be quite impossible for him to con-
