Dec. 8, 1856.] LIVINGSTON.— HARTSTENE.—LOFTUS. 219
tinue these duties beyond the ensuing Anniversary ; and if it were the pleasure
of the Society that he should occupy the office till that time, he would endea-
vour to support their interests now, as he had done formerly.
Mr. W. J. Hamilton, f.b.g.s., said, as a member of the Council, having been
present when this subject, which was necessarily brought under their considera-
tion, was discussed, he had great pleasure in rising to state that it was the unani-
mous wish of the Council of the Koyal Geogi-aphical Society that Sir Eoderick
Murchison should undertake for the j^eriod he had mentioned, the duties which
had hitherto been performed by their late lamented President. He begged
leave, therefore, to propose that Sir Roderick Murchison do occupy the Chair of
the Society until the ensuing Anniversary.
Colonel Sykes, f.r.g.s., said that, if he had been present at the Meeting of the
Council, he should have joined most readily in the proposition now submitted.
The Society was under a great obligation to Sir Roderick Murchison for con-
senting to undertake the office, which was no sinecure, requiring, as it did, no
ordinary ability, zeal, or leisure, to be carried out efficiently. He most heartily
seconded the proposition.
Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, f.r.g.s., observed that, as the worthy Chairman
could not put the resolution himself, he begged to do so, and hoj^ed it would be
unanimously adopted, " that Sir Roderick Murchison do occupy the office of Pre-
sident until the next Anniversary." The resolution was carried unanimously.
JDr. Livingston. — The Chairman then announced his regret at the
non-arrival of their expected guest, the celebrated explorer of Africa,
Dr. Ijivingston, owing to the breaking down of the Peninsular and
Oriental steamer, ' Candia,' after leaving Malta. He hoped, how-
ever, to have an opportunity very shortly of presenting him to the
Society.
Arrival of the Resolute. — The expected arrival of the ' Eesolute,'
under the command of the American Arctic explorer, Captain Hart-
stene, as a present to her Majesty from the United States Government,
was then announced from the Chair, as having been communicated
that day by his Excellency the American Minister, Mr. Dallas.
The papers read were : —
1. On the Determination of the River " Eulaeus^' of tlie Greek Historians.
By William Kennett Loftus, Esq*
Professor Long has remarked that the question as to the site of
Susa is inseparable from that of its rivers. General Williams
having made certain discoveries in the ruins of Shush, near Dizfiil,
in Western Persia, in the following year tbe sum of 500/. was
voted by Parliament, and, at the request of Colonel Rawlinson,
Mr. Loftus undertook the excavations. The remains of two ancient
palaces were uncovered. In the Journals of the Eoyal Geogra-
phical Society, the modern Kerkhah is correctly given as the
Choaspes, the river of Diz as the Coprales, and the Kuran as the
Pasitigris. Professor Long and Mr. Layard believe the Eulaeus to
be the Shapiir, but Mr. Loftus considers that there was a bifurcation
