220 LOFTUS ON THE " EULAEUS." [Dec. 8, 1856.
of the modem Kerkhah ; one brancli of which, passing on the east of
Susa, eventually joined the Kuran below Bender-ghil. Thus the
name Choaspes properly applied to the western, while that of Eulaeus
referred to the eastern branch; and the name " Eulaeus " was also
given to the united streams and the Pasitigris.
Sir E. Murchison remarked that the subject was not new to them — at
least, the geographical portion of it — for the volumes of the Society contained
references to this river, on the part of Col. Chesney, Lieut. Selby, and
others. He — Sir Roderick — had no decided opinion to offer upon a subject
which involved so much classical learning ; but he would say that the paper —
and this was the highest commendation he could give it — had met with the entire
approbation of one of their most able comparative geographers, Col. Leake, and
if he and Sir H. Eawlinson had been present, they would no doubt have spoken
in the highest terms of its merits.
CoL. Sykes, F.R.G.S., asked whether there was any appearance of such a
physical alteration of the face of the country a-s might lead to the belief that
the discrepancies, which existed between the present state of tlie country and
the descriptions given of it by the Ancients, could be accounted for by any
convulsions of nature, such, for instance, as earthquakes ? In that view of
the subject there seemed some value in the study of comparative geography ;
because, supposing these discrepancies to exist, we might infer that there
must have been some great effort of nature to alter the courses of rivers and
the forms of mountains. Thus there would appear to be a relation between
comparative geography and geology.
Mr. Loftus replied that there was no proof of any volcanic action ever
having taken place in that region. He had been there four years, and never
experienced any shock ; but there had been a change in the course of these
rivers. The Tigris and Euphrates had changed their courses continually;
and it was the same with other rivers. The soil is alluvial, and as far up
as Bussorah he found tertiary fossils — a species now existing in the Persian
Gulf.
In answer to Colonel Sykes —
Mr. Loftus said that Susa was 300 feet above the level of the sea, and
that there are hills at the back ; also that there is a great fall in the river,
and that at the lower part it is called " Kuran." Mr. Loftus pointed to the
copies of inscriptions from Susa and also to the plans of the palace upon the
table.
General Monteith, f.r.g.s., said it was so many years since he made a survey
of these rivers, that he must make an apology for offering any observations upon
the subject under discussion. Had the Society then existed, a vast deal of
information, which was now lost, would certainly have been preserved. He
passed from Mohammerah to Ahwaz, and thence to Shuster, taking a survey
of the river with the best means in his power, and he was not deficient in
instruments. In the neighbourhood of Ahwaz there was a bund, which was
drawn across the river, for the purposes of both navigation and irrigation.
There was a bed of an apimrently large river passing round Ahwaz, which he was
informed was the Kuran, turned off in that direction artificially, to enable the
natives to build the bund. There was a bridge over it. After the bund was
established, the river was again turned into its old channel. This apparent
bed of the river was about 100 or 150 yards in breadth, and he was led to
suppose that it was the bed of another river. At Shuster there was another bund,
which was perhaps the greatest work executed at the present time. He thought
there was a mistake in the late survey where a canal had been given for the
bed of the river. The canal was crossed by a bridge of thirty-two arches, and
