Dec. 8, 1856.] POOLE ON THE SHORES OF THE DEAD SEA. 221
he was requested by the Persian authorities to offer any suggestion he could
for the repair of this bund. He could only say that no engineer in Europe
or elsewhere could have made a more beautiful work. The bunds were
principally intended for irrigation. After leaving Shuster he proceeded to
Kam-Hormuz, a distance of 90 miles, where there were signs of the bed of a
river that came from the mountains which he crossed. On the other side of
the mountains was an immense plain, extending, he might say, to Bagdad,
which was crossed by two or three large rivers. But whether there had been
any channels cut from these rivers he could not say. A river turned from its
course for a short time would soon work for itself a new channel through the
light soil of the country. Shuster never could have been a town of any im-
portance ; but the ruins of Susa, which he thought had been erroneously
denied to be Susa, were 20 miles in circumference. It differed from every
city that he had seen, by the streets being laid at perfectly right angles.
There was one very large street, leading to the palace, which was an immense
mound, little inferior to that of Babylon. In this was the reported tomb of
Daniel. It was evidently an artificial mound, and well worthy of being
opened ; for greater discoveries might be met with in Susa, than in any other
part of the world with which he was acquainted.
Ck)L0NEL Sykes said that General Monteith had offered a solution of diffi-
culties which had caused a vast deal of discussion. The rivers having been
turned from their beds in the shifting soil described, it would be difficult to
determine where they had run before.
General Monteith observed that it was 70 miles, bj the shortest route, from
the river to Eam-Hormuz, across a desert, and it was 90 miles from Susa.
Sir R. Murchison stated that, with reference to these Eastern countries,
Humboldt had called attention to the changes which had taken place in large
rivers within the historical era. The Oxus, the largest of all these rivers,
manifestly flowed into the Caspian Sea in the time of Herodotus. There was
no doubt that the course of that river had been changed ; but he would not
pretend to decide, after what had been stated, whether this had been produced
by natural causes, as Colonel Sykes suggested, or by the erection of bunds, as
General Monteith had remarked. There were gentlemen present who could
tell them that large rivers had been changed by the works of the natives.
Colonel Sykes. — The Indus had apparently changed its course since the
time of Alexander. . .
The President announced that the Secretary would read a short communi-
cation from Mr. Henry Poole, who was sent out by the Foreign Office to make
a survey in the East for coal. He was not fortunate in finding coal of a good
quality, and he was then directed to proceed to the Dead Sea in search of nitre.
In searching the Dead Sea Mr. Poole fell in with some other phenomena, a
short account of which would be given in the twenty-sixth volume of the
Society's Journal : —
2, Note on the Exploration of the Shores of tlie Dead Sea. By-
Mr. Henry Poole.
Sir, — As my letter to the Earl of Clarendon, containing a report of
my journey in Asia Minor and on the shores of the Dead Sea, has
been forw^arded by his Lordship to the Society, I take the liberty of
expressing a hope that farther inquiries may be made on the shores
of the Dead Sea, and I would beg to draw your attention to several
points which I consider require verifiication, viz. : —
