Dec. 8, 1856.] POOLE ON THE SHORES OF THE DEAD SEA. 223
during the day from 90° to 100°, and at night about 8CP. By the
imperfect mode of wetting the bulb of the thermometer, the dew-
point was far below the extreme cases calculated in psychometrical
tables. The evaporation was rapid, and the dryness very great, on
the shores of ihe Dead Sea. My aneroid (I had no other barometer)
showed a pressure of 31-50 inches and upwards, which is higher
than the ordinary barometers are graduated to read.
The small fish which I caught close to the shore of the Dead Sea,
in a brine spring flowing into that sea near Usdum Mountain, at a
temperature of 90°, and presented to the British Museum, have been
named by Sir John Richardson, to whom they were submitted,
as " Lebias," or Cyprinodon Hammonis of Cuvier, and which had
been previously found in the Red Sea. He considers it would be
of great interest to prove the fact if these fish live in the Dead Sea.
At the time when I caught them, I believed them to be the young
fry, and not full-grown fish, and therefore I kept all I caught, and
never thought of putting any into the Dead Sea to see if they would
swim in it. Similar, but larger, fish (about three inches long)
were afterwards seen, but not caught, at Ain Terabeh, near the
north end of the Dead Sea. The fish called minnows, caught by
Lieut. Lynch in the Jordan, may also belong to the same class. If
so, may not these fish have come down with the floods of spring,
when the waters of the Sea would be less salt, and thus have been
able to pass to the south end of the Sea, even supposing that they
could not live in it at other periods of the year ?
Lieut. Lynch states that the water is at an uniform temperature
of 59° at a depth of 10 fathoms, while he found the surface tempera-
ture to average 76°. It would therefore be of great interest to
obtain the specific gravities, as well as temperatures, of that Sea
at different depths.
I observed three different kinds of wild-fowl swimming and
diving in the Dead Sea, evidently feeding, and it would be of im-
portance if some could be shot at such a time, so as to examine their
crops and see the nature of their food. In theory, it would be as
difficult for ducks to dive as fishes to swim in the Dead Sea, and
therefore that objection must now fall to the ground.
Lieut. Lynch speaks of a phosphorescent appearance in the Sea,
but I did not observe any : if water were obtained at such a time,
it should contain animalcules*
The difference in the suiface-level of the Dead Sea should also be
noted at different seasons of the year.
As I have lately seen the report of some most interesting me-
teorological observations having been made at a considerable height
