'224 POOLE ON THE SHORES OF THE DEAD SEA. [Dec. 8, 1856.
at Teneriffe, I have thought if similar observations could be made
on the shore of the Dead Sea (which is upwards of 1300 feet below
the level of the Mediterranean), they would considerably enlarge the
scale of observations ; and data could be obtained to that depth for
proving or correcting, in a descending scale, the formula respecting
radiation, specific gravity, and other subjects of observation recorded
by Professor Piazzi Smyth.
The President called attention to one or two points in tBe memoir, par-
ticularly to the one with respect to the species of fish mentioned — a remarkable
little fish, which Mr. Poole had caught in a marshy spot on the shore of the
Dead Sea. It had been submitted to Sir John Eichardson, whom everybody
knew was a high authority on ichthyology, and he had determined that it was
a species which existed in the Eed Sea, and also in all the fresh Avaters of
Syria. The question of establishing a communication between the Mediter-
ranean and the Red Sea was thus once more brought before them, and this
little fish seemed to confirm the theory that there had formerly been a com-
munication.
Sir John Richardson said the fish in question was described by Ruppell,
and was known to Cuvier. It was a species of Cyprinodon, and was at
one time confounded with the carps.. He did not know 'how far the fish
would go to prove the theory alluded to by the President. This species, now
known as the Cyprinodon Hammonis^ was first discovered in the oasis of
Jupiter Ammon. It exists all over Syria in almost every pool, and Mr. Poole
found it on the supposed site of Sodom, close to the Dead Sea, witliin a few feet
of the shore, where the sea at certain times rose. Mr. Poole at first thought
it came out of the Dead Sea ; but it was found in a marsh fed by a salt spring.
He had deposited specimens of the water of that salt spring, and also of the
marsh in which he found the fish, in the Museum of Practical Geology; and if
that office were to ascertain the specific gravity of these specimens, they might
at once determine whether the water of the marsh approached to the Dead Sea
in the quantity of salt it contained.* It was a fish which lived both in fresh
and salt water, and it was abundantly found in the Red Sea. With respect to
the ducks seen by Mr. Poole in the Dead Sea, it did not appear that he had
shot any, or he would, probably, have found what they were feeding upon. It
was an old notion that birds could not fly over the Dead Sea ; but Mr. Poole
had shown that they could not only fly over it, but live upon it.
In reply to Colonel Sykes, Sir John Richardson said that the specific gravity
of the Dead Sea had been determined; it was about 1'227 to distilled water at
1-000.
* Museum of Practical Geology, Jermyn-street..
Goi^y of a Note from Dr, Hofmann to Sir Eoderick MurcMson.
No. 1. Brine spring near Usdum with Fish. Temp.^
90° Fahr., Spec. Grav. 1-035.
No. 2. North end of Dead Sea, near Jordan. Temp.
&3° Fahr., Spec. Grav. 1-196.
No. 3. Dead Sea, Usdum, South end. Temp. 83°
Fahr., Spec. Grav. 1*204.
No. 4. Peninsula, EI Lisan, North end, Spec. Grav.
1-200,
According to Lynch — The specific gravity of the Dead Sea, at a temperature of
60° Fahr., and at a depth of 185 fathoms, is 1-2274, and that of the River Jordan
is r00183w
Mean of Dead Sea at sur-
face, Spec. Grav. 1-200.
