Dec. 8, 1856.] WILSON ON THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 225
The President stated that he had received a commimication from Mr.
Wilson, geologist of the North Australian expedition. A large portion of the
letter related to details not absolutely connected with the Physical Geography
of the region, but with the arrangements of the expedition. Mr. Wilson had,
however, made an exjjloration of some importance in the neighbourhood, and
had sent home a tracing of this part, which might be seen in the map-room.
There were moreover some geological details in the communication, and those
portions of the paper which related to the geography of the district would be
printed in the " Proceedings " of the Society. Owing to the lateness of the
hour, he would only direct the title of the paper to be read.
3. Extracts from Notes on the North Australian Expedition,* By
Mr. J. S. Wilson.
Communicated by Sir Roderick I. Murchison.
Victoria River, July 11, 1856.
Dear Sir, — As I am to accompany the vessel to Timor, I shall take
the opportunity to convey to you a concise account of the North
Australian expedition since its arrival at Point Pearce. The horses
were landed and encamped at a swamp by Mount Providence, and
the sheep were put on board the schooner. Mr. Gregory arranged
that himself and brother, accompanied by Dr. Miiller, our botanist,
and six men, should proceed with the horses round the head of the
Fitzmaurice, across the Macadam and Sea Eanges, to Kangaroo
Point on the Victoria River, while I was to take charge of the
vessel, proceed up the river, and encamp where I should find it
most suitable, at or above Kangaroo Point. I was accompanied by
Mr. Elsey, surgeon and naturalist; Mr. Baines, artist and store-
keeper ; Mr. Flood, collector of natural history ; and four men. We
left Treachery Bay on the 25th of September, and got on well till
we came to the shoals in front of the Musquito Flats ; and here,
through not knowing the passage sufficiently, the vessel grounded
at high-water and high spring-tide, and could not be got off. The
great danger at this place, in going up the river, results from the
singular fact that the tide falls a foot to eighteen inches, while there
is still a strong current running upward. This arises from the dis-
tance which the tide flows upward, as it does not reach the end of
its course before the ebb has commenced at the mouth of the river.
A vessel, therefore, going up the river, and groimding on one of these
banks, cannot be got off until a higher tide carries her right over the
bank. The spring-tides were declining at the time we thus got
fixed, and we were within 12 miles of Kangaroo Point, but the
river nearly all that distance is choked with sandbanks. There was
only one cask of water on board for the sheep and people. I had
* See Proceedings R. G. S., No. I., pp. 5, 10 : No. II., pp. 31, 32, 33, 49.— Ed,
