12 MACQUEEN. [Dec. 10, 1855.
3. Notes on the Geography of Central Africa from the researches of
Livingston, Monteiro, Garcia, and other authorities. By James
Macqueen, Esq., f.r.g.s.
Mr. Macqueen called in question the conclusions of Mr. Erhardt.
In Mr. Macqueen's paper, of which only a small portion was read,
he contended that there were two lakes, and not a single large one ;
that there was a general slope of Africa from the interior towards the
coast of Zanzibar; that the river crossed by Dr. Livingstoti, and called
by him the Casai or Cassabe, was not, as he had heard, an affluent of the
Congo, but that it was identical with the Cassabe River, which joined
witli the Lualaba River and ran into the northernmost lake. That a
river issued on the opposite side of this lake, and reached the sea under
the name of the Lufia, or the Lufigi ; that the Luapula River, passing
near to Luenda, ran between the two lakes without touching either,
and then joined the Lufia ; and, finally, that the northernmost Jake and
the southernmost were distinguished by the names of the Greater and
the Lesser Niandja.
Mr. Erhardt premised that, during his residence of six years on the
coast, he had become familiarly acquainted with three of the native
languages, and had derived his information from a vast number of
persons, and from independent sources. He then recapitulated the con-
clusions he had arrived at, based on the evidence mentioned in his
paper read at the last Meeting: —
That a ridge of considerable elevation, but not quite continuous,
runs from N. to S., at no great distance from the coast, and forms the
watershed of that part of Africa.
That the region to the E. of this ridge is drained by several short
streams, e. g. the Rufu, rising in the Faga country ; the Mufuma,
and others.
That he himself had ascended the Lvfigi river for a few miles, and
found it to be a small and insignificant stream. Mr. Macqueen's de-
scription of its length and breadth corresponded to no river at all in
East Africa.
That the country W. of this ridge consists of extensive plains with
isolated hills, the plains being for the most part level, and presenting
from the heights the appearance of a vast sea.
That beyond these there is an immense lake or inland sea, of
which only the approximate size can be given, since the measurements
are determined exclusively by the journeys made by natives along parts
of its shores and across it. Only the E. and part of the S. coasts can
be laid down with anything like an approach to accuracy.
He then mentioned the reports of natives and traders which connected
