226 WILSON ON THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Dec. 8, 1856.
already succeeded in finding a creek, with an abundance of water in
pools ; but we were then 3 miles past the place, and the nearest
pool was half a mile from the river- side. I might have sent the
sheep there, but my party was too weak to be divided between two
camps and the vessel, the latter requiring all the assistance that
could be afforded. The allowance of water to the sheep was stopped
until more could be obtained, and we had but ten days to have a
camp selected and ready to receive Mr. Gregory and party. To
meet both these ends, I organized a party to proceed up the river
to Steep Head, or such other place where we might find fresh
water, and, at the same time, to look out the most convenient place
for a camp. We had an India-rubber double boat, composed of four
large air-tight bags ; these we proposed to fill with fresh-water and
tow them down the river. My party included Mr. Elsey, Mr. Baines,
and two sailors. With the exception of a spring between Sandy
Island and Steep Head, we found no fresh- water imtil we reached
Palm Island, which we did with considerable difficulty, having to
haul the boat over the stony shoals at Steep Head. On the evening
of the sixth day, we got back to the vessel, and, on the following
morning, the water was got on board, amounting to upwards of
500 gallons. On the morning of the 8th of October, I started, with
Mr. Elsey and a sailor, in the small boat, to determine the place for
our camp. I examined the slope of Sea Range for a distance of
about 5 miles in a fruitless search for water, then returned to the
boat and proceeded up the river after sundown, and reached a stony
spit within a mile of Sandy Island, and stopped there the remainder
of the night. In the morning we hurried up to where we had found
the springs, dug two wells that promised an abundant supply, filled
a small cask, and hurried to get back to the vessel. On our way
back, we remembered indications of a large creek running eastward
in front of Sea Range, and determined to look into it more particu-
larly as we passed down. As we did so, we were astonished to find
a river broad and deep enough to warrant our anticipating its
having a long course. Being of a nature to turn Mr. Gregory out of
the line he should follow, and delay him on his way to the camp, I ran
the boat up its circuitous course till we were 6 miles in a straight
line from the entrance ; here we were stopped by a flat ledge of
rock, over which the water was too shallow to pass with the boat
except at high tide. Leaving the man in charge of the boat, we
started on foot to trace the river up to a place where it might be
supposed the horses would cross, and where they might find fresh
water. We effected this at a distance of about 6 or 7 miles, where I
marked some trees, and left a notice for Mr. Gregory, informing him
