Dec. 8, 1856.] WILSON ON THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 227
where to find the camp. We then returned with all haste, and reached
the schooner by noon on the next day. It was my intention to have
sent a boat on the next day, with some of the sheep and a party to
encamp at the springs, but the night-tide rose high and carried the
vessel nearly over the bank, and there was a prospect of getting her
off next tide, to effect which the help of all hands might be required.
Having failed in this, I despatched a boat on the morning of the
14th, putting on board twenty sheep and some provisions, and
appointing Mr. Elsey, with two men, to take charge of the camp,
and Mr. Baines and Mr. Flood to return with the boat for another
load. The boat returned on the 16th, and started again on the
17th with eighteen more sheep. Unfortunately they grounded on a
bank near the Dome, and being delayed there nearly two days, some
of the sheep died. They arrived at the camp, however, a few
minutes after Mr. Gregory had been taken across the river to it in
the dingy. Meanwhile, as I endeavoured to remove the sheep to
the camp, the fate of the vessel became most critical. Being laid
across the stream, the current washed away the sand from under
both ends, leaving her supported only in the middle. The result
was, the kelson, some of the floor-timbers, and two of the beams
were broken, and there was every probability of her parting in two
had she remained in that position much longer ; but when the tide
rose we succeeded in getting her shifted a little ahead into the
hollow that had been washed out there. We soon after dis-
covered that there were four feet depth of water in the hold, and it
required the pumps to be kept at work all the time the tide was up
to keep the water below that mark. During the time of low tide
some of the principal leaks were found, and temporarily stopped.
The spring-tides were increasing, with which we expected to get
off. The boat sent to the camp being absent two days beyond the
calculated time, much uneasiness was felt in consequence, and
another boat was being prepared to send to the camp, when the
former appeared with Mr. Gregory on board. Mr. Gregory in-
formed us that his party had gone round by Steep Head to come to
the camp. On the 24th of October the vessel was got off, but
settled again on another bank near Alligator Point. I was next
day sent ashore with the remaining sheep to be kept at water
behind the Dome, which Mr. Gregory had found when passing there
with the horses ; Dr. Miiller and two men were sent with me. The
vessel was got off, and anchored opposite the camp on the 28th,
and on the 30 th two boats * arrived to take the sheep and party
* Through the leakiness of one of these boats we lost 1 1 sheep.
