228 WILSON ON THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Dec. 8, 1856.
■under my cliarge to the camp. On the day after my arrival at the
camp, I was appointed to superintend the arrangement of the stores,
and to inspect and cooper the damaged provisions.
After an nnsnccessful endeavour to pursue the ascent of the river
in boats, on the 24th of November, the Messrs. Gregory, Dr. Miiller,
and myself, with four riding horses and three with packs, left the
camp on a preliminary journey, taking provisions for three weeks.
We proceeded along the river to Timber Creek (so called from
having found timber there to repair the schooner), and travelled
along the creek upward, the course being generally south. The
first 7 or 8 miles was through a beautiful valley, principally of a
rich alluvial soil, covered with a dense growth of long grass and
thinly timbered. The sandstone hills, rising abruptly on each side,
were, in many places, picturesque. In the npper part of the valley
cherty limestone rocks came to the surface in a broken state, which
rendered travelling very difficult for the horses; 18 miles up this
creek brought us to a dividing ridge 500 feet above the level of the
sea. We were disappointed at not being able to see a range of hills
southward. A range to the eastward rose high and distinctly, and
seemed to strike toward the river. We travelled eastward, down a
creek, until we found water, then struck oif, in a N.E. course, along
Beagle Valley and parallel with the range, which we supposed to be
Fitzroy Eange, until we came to the river at Emu Plains. There was
abundance of grass, and the greater portion of the soil in the valley
was excellent. From the last point we took an easterly course,
leaving a range of hills between us and the river, which, however,
we struck again after five hours' travelling. The river continued
eastward for 7 miles more, and then turned to the S., all the way
passing along a narrow valley, enclosed between walls of sand-
stone, but, after being followed 20 miles southward, it opened into a
large plain. Being then on the W. side of the river, we were led
oif by a branch that came from the S.W. We followed it several
miles, and then struck off to a range of hills from which apparently
this river came. We ascended a hill at the eastern end of the
range. After taking a hasty glance at the country beyond, I took
advantage of the opportunity to examine the jasper rock forming
the top of the hill. While thus employed, Mr. Gregory drew my
attention to the ranges which struck off to the westward, and
seemed to enclose the plains at a distance between 20 and 30
miles. I had maintained an opinion that the stream we had lately
been tracing, was not the main body of the Victoria. Looking as
he now desired me, I said the Victoria was certainly cut off in that
direction ; but, turning to the eastward, I said it would be found
