230 WILSON ON THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [Dec. 8, 1856.
of the river, 10 miles beyond, which enabled me to lay down its
course for a distance of 40 miles, and its probable course full 20
- miles farther in the same general direction. 1 could also see the
Newcastle Eange, extending unbroken until the view was cut off by
a projection of the Murchison Eange. I hurried back to my com-
panions, and by walking at intervals during the night, though
travelling was very difficult, I reached the boat after twenty hours'
absence. We returned to the camp on the 28th of May, having been
just ten days away.
The table-land over which Leichhardt passed at the heads of the
Koper and South Alligator rivers, I feel satisfied is similar, in every
respect, to the table-lands of the Victoria, and is, in fact, the eastern
extremity of the same continuous and extensive sandstone formation.
He gives an estimate of its elevation in his journal on the I7th of
November, when he says, *' We stood, with our whole train, on the
brink of a deep precipice, of perhaps 1800 feet descent." This I
suspect to be a typographical error ; what he wrote may have been
800 to 1 000 feet, which would correspond very well with the ranges of
the Victoria. Capt. Stokes remarks (Vol. II. page 141), that he was
forcibly struck with the resemblance between Moresby's Eange on
the west coast, 2 So 60' S., Sea Eange at the Victoria, Cape Flattery
on the north-east coast, 15° S. ; and he adds Flinders' description of
the coast-range at the head of the Australian bight. They exhibit
great similarity in elevation, all being between 500 and 700 feet ;
and I may add my conviction that the table-land of the South Alligator
is no more than 800 to 1000 feet, or corresponding to that of the
Upper Victoria. Mr, Gregory found it as difficult to descend
from Sea Eange as Leichhardt did from the ranges of the South
Alligator.
On the 21st of June, Mr. Gregory started on his journey to the
Albert, taking with him, besides his brother. Dr. Mtiller, Mr. Elsey,
and three stockmen. The schooner was ordered to be taken to
Timor, to get a supply of fresh provisions for the ship's people, and,
if possible, to leave the sick in hospital before sailing to the Gulf.
Mr. Baines is in command of the expedition people on board, and
takes with him Mr. Flood, myself, and seven men, with instructions
to assist in taking the vessel there.
After Mr. Gregory and party left, ten days were necessary to take
the camp-fittings, &c., down the river to the schooner. Finding
myself unoccupied for that time, I determined to extend my investi-
gations, and started next morning alone and on foot to go to Duke
Mount. Two objects I had in view were, first to discover the
source from whence a recent but extensive calcareous formation in
