Dec. 8, 1856.] WILSON ON THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 231
the lo-wer side of the plains was derived ; and next, to obtain a
more extended view of the plains westward, in both of which I was
successful. In approaching Duke Mount, I saw a hill that projected
farther into the plains a few miles distant. This hill I ascended,
and was then enabled to see the extreme western end of Murchison
Range, adding thereby 25 miles to my previous views on that side
of the plains. I was also enabled to trace to a considerable extent
a branch of the western river which Mr. Baines had seen, but did
not follow ; I have given the name of " Baines " to that branch, but
the river itself I claim as my own discovery, and have named it.
The western end of the Murchison Eange terminates in extensive
plains. The most prominent hill in front of the range I have named
" Mount Victoria ;" it is not of itself worthy of such distinction,
but the circumstance of my having ascended it on the anniversary
of her Majesty's birthday, and obtained my most distant view of a
western branch of the river that bears her Majesty's name, induced
me so to name it. I enclose the leaf from my note-book on which I
drew a sketch of the hill, when about one mile distant on the E.
side. The Newcastle Range extends much farther than I have laid
it down, and the EUesmere Range I suppose to join the table-land to
the eastward. The river Fitzmaurice most probably has its source
in this range.
Arctic Squadron. — Captain Sheeaed Osboen next informed the Meeting
that he had heard a few days since that Captain Penny, who wintered in
Northumberland Sound last year, had received information which corroborated
the intelligence brought home by Dr. Eae. Whalers generally kept dark the
•places they wintered in, as it was a question of money, but he knew pretty
well where Captain Penny wintered, and he naturally inquired how, at that
distance from where Dr. Eae obtained intelligence of the missing ships,
he could have acquired his information. It puzzled him very much ; the
more so as Captain Penny spoke of the wreck of a ship. It struck him, how-
ever, that what Captain Penny had heard of, was the wreck of one of our
deserted ships. He followed up the evidence as far as he could, and wrote to
Captain Cator, e.n., who had commanded a vessel in an Arctic voyage, and
who was now the conservator of the Humber at Hull, and consequently well
acquainted with the captains of whaling vessels. He sent to him a series of
questions, and asked him to procure answers. Through these inquiries he
traced out what he believed was a fact — that two more of the abandoned
ships had reached the shores of Davis Strait. Captain Penny observed that
the Esquimaux had a great deal of ship-wood and treenails. After some trouble
he found out that there were two ships near them, and that they were breaking
them up and getting the wood out.
The Resolute. — The President next called attention to the fact that in a
very short time they might expect the arrival in this country of their old ship
the ' Kesolute,' as purchased, fitted out, and sent home to us by the American
Government. It was very desirable that all parties, who felt as lively an
interest as he did in the subject, should testify their deep sense of this act of
courtesy on the part of the American Government.
u 2
