234 LIVINGSTON. [Dec. 15, 1856.
butiiig much to our knowledge of the habits of the people, have
scarcely made any addition to the science of physical geography ; but
as the pioneer of sound knowledge, who, by astronomical observa-
tions, has determined the site of numerous places, hills, rivers, and
lakes, nearly all hithei-to unknown to us.
In obtaining these results. Dr. Livingston has farther seized upon
every opportunity of describing to us the physical features, clima-
tology, and geological stracture of the coimtries he has explored, and
has made known their natural productions, including vast breadths
of sugar-cane and vine-producing lands. Pointing out many new
sources of commerce, as yet unknown to the enterprise of the British
merchant, he gives us a clear insight into the language, manners,
and habits* of numerous tribes, and explains to us the difi'erent dis-
eases of the people, demonstrating how their maladies vary with
different conditions of physical geography and atmospheric causes.
Let me also say that he has realised, by positive research, that
which was necfessarily a bare hypothesis, and has proved the inte-
rior of Southern Africa to be a plateau traversed by a network of
lakes and rivers, the waters of which, deflected in various direc-
tions by slight elevations, escape to the eastern and western
oceans, by passing through deep rents in the hilly, flanking tracts.
He teaches us that these last high grounds, differing essentially from
the elevated central region, as well as from the rich alluvial deltas
of the coasts, are really salubrious, or, to use his own language, are
perfect sanatoria.
I have thus alluded, in the briefest manner, to the leading addi-
tions to our knowledge, which have been brought before you by
Dr. Livingston. The reading of the last letters, addressed to myself,
was, by the direction of my lamented predecessor. Admiral Beechey,
deferred until the arrival of the great traveller ; in order that the
just curiosity of my associates might be gratified by having it in
their power to interrogate him upon subjects of such deep import-
ance ; and, above all, that we might commit no mistakes in hastily
constructing maps from immature data ; certain sketch maps having
been sent to us, before it was possible to calculate his observations
and reduce them to order.
Passing then from this meagre outline of the results to science,
what must be our feelings as men, when we mark the fidelity with
which Dr. Livingston kept his promise to the natives who, having
accompanied him to St. Paul de Loando, were reconducted by him
from that city to their homes ? On this head my predecessors and
myself have not failed, whenever an opportunity occurred, to testify
our deep respect for such noble conduct. Bare fortitude and viiiue
