Dec. 15, 185G.] LIVINGSTON. 28.'i
must our Medallist have possessed, when — having struggled at the
imminent risk of life through such obstacles, and escaping from the
interior, he had been received with true kindness by our old allies
the Portuguese at Angola — he nobly resolved to redeem his pro-
mise, and retrace his steps to the interior of the vast continent.
How much, indeed, must the moral influence of the British name
be enhanced throughout Africa, where it has been promulgated that
our missionary has thus kept his plighted word to the poor natives
who faithfully stood by him !
Turning to Dr. Livingston, the President then said — Dr. Living-
ston, it is now my pleasing duty to present to 3^011 tl is our Patron's
or Victoria Medal, as a testimony of our highest esteem. I rejoice
to see on this occasion, such a numerous assemblage of geographers
and distinguished persons, and that our Meeting is attended by the
Ministers of foreign nations.* Above all, I rejoice to welcome
the Representative of that nation whose governors and subjects,
in the distant regions of Africa, have treated you as a brother, and
without whose aid many of your most important results could not
have been achieved. Gladdened must be the hearts of all the geo-
graphers present, when they see you attended by men, who accom-
panied and aided you in your earliest labours. I allude particularly
to our own Fellows, Colonel Steele, Mr. Cotton Oswell, and Captain
Vardon, who are now with us. As these and other distinguished
African travellers are in this room, and among them Dr. Earth,
who alone of living men, has reached Timbuctu and returned,
may not the Geographical Society be proud of such achievements ?
I therefore, heartily congratulate you. Sir, on being surrounded
by men, who certainly are the best judges of jour merits, and I
present to you this Medal, as a testimony of the high admiration
with which we all regard your great labours.
Dr. Livingston replied : — Sir, I have spoken so little in my own
tongue for the last sixteen years, and so much in strange languages,
that you must kindly bear with my imperfections in the way of
speech-making. I beg to return my warmest thanks for the distin-
guished honour you have now conferred upon me, and also for the
kind and encouraging expressions with which the gift of the Gold
Medal has been accompanied. As a Christian missionary, I onl}^ did
my duty, in attempting to open up part of southern intei'-tropical
Africa to the sj^mpathy of Christendom ; and I am very much gra-
tified by finding in the interest, which you and many others express,
a pledge that the true negro family, whose country I traversed, will
* The Ministers of Russia and Sardinia were also present.
X 2
