Dec. 10, 1855.] PARKES. 13
diiFerent points in succession along the entire nnargin of this Lake, and
asserted that he was well acquainted with the names given by Mr.
Macqueen, and ascribed by him to different lakes, but that they simply
refei*red to two reaches at the very southernmost extremity of the same
lake : the lesser one, which ran N. and S., being usually ferried across by
traders ; and the greater one, running E. by W., seldom if ever crossed
by them, because of its greater breadth, and because the direct routes
of the caravans ran alongside of it.
4. Geographical Notes on Siam, with a new map of the lower part
of the Mencim River. By Harry Parkes, f.r.g.s., H.B.MJ's
Consul at Amoy.
Mr. Parkes commenced by alluding to the treaty lately concluded
by Sir John Bowring with Siam, which has brought that country into
prominent notice, and entered at length into the history, political divi-
sions, and geography of Siam. For the map which accompanied the
description he was indebted to the kindness of Dr. S. R. House and
his colleagues of the United States mission.
The kingdom of Siam may be described generally as lying between
5° and 21° N. lat. and 98° and 105° E. long., but its eastern boundary
is almost entirely unknown. It comprises —
1. Siam proper, divided into 41 provinces, each governed by a
mandarin of the first class.
2. Tributary Malayan States on the south, whose submission is rather
loose, and consists in sending an embassy once in three years to the
Siamese Court with a tribute composed of a gold or silver tree, and
in being bound to furnish men, money, and provisions when Siam is
at war.
3. Conquered territory of Camboja and Korat on the east.
4. Tributary Lao states on the north and north-east.
Camboja, three or four centuries ago, was much more powerful than
either Siam or Cochin China, but it has gradually been encroached
upon, so that it is now reduced to a mere shadow of its former great-
ness, containing only half a million of inhabitants, while the son of
their king is a hostage at Bankok, and the Cochin Chinese possess
the exclusive navigation of the river of Camboja, the Mekong.
The Lao states furnish a very interesting people, w^hose ancestors
appear to have formed the parent stock of the Siamese. Thus, the
Laos call themselves the *' Elder Tai ;" and the Siamese the '' Younger
Tair Lao is a Chinese word, and means " Ancient^ When the
Siamese separated themselves from the Laos, they became a tributary
province to Camboja.
