Dec. 15, 1856.] LIVINGSTON. 237
closely connected with everything that relates to a better knowledge of Africa.
There is none, I believe, which has taken a faster hold on the people of
Britain than, not only to put a stop to the horrible traffic in slaves, which
was once the disgrace of our land as much, if not more than of any other ;
but also, as far as possible, to repay to Africa the debt which we owe her,
by promoting in every manner, with regard to her inhabitants, the interests
of civilization and commerce. We must feel how important a better know-
ledge of the internal resources and of the condition of Africa must be, in all
the efforts which Parliament or Statesmen can make in that direction. I will
not trespass longer upon your time, but conclude by reading the Resolution
which has been placed in my hands, and which is one that I am sure will
meet from you, a very cordial reception : —
** That the grateful thanks of the Eoyal Geographical Society be
conveyed, through his Excellency Count de Lavradio, the Minister
of the King of Portugal, to His Majesty's Authorities in Africa,
for the» hospitality and friendly assistance they afforded to Dr.
Livingston, in his unparalleled travels from St. Paul de Loanda to
Tete and Quilimane, across that continent."
Sir Henry Rawlinsoi^, f.r.g.s., then said — Sir, I could have wished that
the task of seconding the Resolution had been confided to abler hands ; but
since the President has issued his orders — orders which are equivalent to the
laws of the Medes and the Persians, with which I am tolerably well acquainted, —
I am obliged humbly to bow to the task. After the eloquent description you
have heard of the merits of the Portuguese nation, it would ill become me to
intrude long upon your time ; but 1 would wish to call your attention to the
really great obligations which science is generally under to the Portuguese,
especially with regard to the geography of Africa. We are too apt to forget the
debt of gratitude which we owe to them for our knowledge of the interior of
Africa, almost up to the present time, when Dr. Livingston has completed the
chain of their discoveries. We must remember that it was Vasco de Gama, a
Portuguese, in the first instance, who doubled the Cape of Good Hope. The
Portuguese have established settlements throughout Southern Africa from the
earliest times down to the present, and until Dr. Livingston has laid down all
his discoveries upon the map, the old Portuguese maps of the interior of
Africa, especially the southern portion, are the best available. It is singularly
interesting and gratifying to find, that it should be to the Portuguese Governors,
that we are indebted for the hospitable reception, which they gave to our dis-
tinguished traveller, Dr. Livingston, and which has enabled him to return
home in safety, and acquaint us with the results of all his discoveries. As you
are about to hear from Dr. Livingston some brief account of his travels, I will
not longer trespass on your time, but merely second the Resolution which has
been submitted to your notice.
The Eesolution having been put from the Chair, was carried
unanimously.
The Count de Lavradio then rose, and after a brief apology in
English for his want of fluency in our language, thus spoke in
French : —
M. le President, — Je ne m'attendais pas a avoir I'honneur de parler devant
vous ; ce fut done avec hesitation que je me suis lev^ et c'est avec timidity
que je vais avoir I'honneur de vous adresser quelques paroles, pour vous ex-
