Dec. 1 5, 1856.] LIVINGSTON". 241
the mother. If a young man falls in love with a young woman of another
village, he must leave his own village and live with her ; and he is obliged to
keep his motlier-in-law, in firewood. If he goes into her presence, he must
go in a decent way, clapping his hands in a supplicatory manner ; and if he
sits, he must not put out his feet towards her — he must bend his knees hack,
and sit in a half-bent position. I was so astonished at this, that 1 could
scarcely believe their own statements as to the high estimation in which they
held the ladies, until I asked the Portuguese, if they understood the same, as I
did. They said, exactly the same ; they had been accustomed to the natives
for many years, and they say that the women are really held in very great
estimation. I believe they deserve it ; for the whole way through the centre
of the country, we were most kindly treated by them. When I went up the
Zambesi, I proceeded as far as the 14th degree, and then returned to Linyanti.
I found the country abounding in all the larger game. I know all the country
througli which Mr. Gordon Cumming and others have hunted, and I never
saw anything before like the numbers of game that are to be found along the
Zambesi. There are elephants all the way toTete, in prodigious numbers, and
all the other large game, buffaloes, zebras, giraffes, and a great variety of ante-
lopes. There are three new species of antelope that have never been brought
to Europe.
. Seeing the country was well supplied with game, I thought it was of little use
burdening my men with other provisions ; I thought I could easily supply our
wants with the gun, and 1 did not wish to tire them and make them desire to return
before we had accomplished our journey ; so we went with scarcely anything.
All the way up the river we had abundance of food, and any one who is anything
of a shot, may go out and kill as much in two or three hours, as will serve for
three or four days. The animals do not know the gun, and they stand still, at
bowshot distance. We got on very well in this way, imtil we came to
Shinte. There we found that the people, having guns, had destroyed all the
game in the district, and that there was nothing left, iDut mice ; you see the
little boys and girls digging out the mice. I did not try to eat them, but we
were there obliged to live entirely u];on what the people gave us. We found the
women remarkably kind to all of us ; the same in going down the Zambesi.
Whatever they gave, they always did it most gracefully, ver}- often with an
apology for its being so little. Then, when coming to the eastward, we found
it just the same, 'i'hey supplied us liberally with food wherever we went, all the
way down, till we came near to the settlements of the Portuguese. In the centre
of the country, we found the people generally remarkably civil and kind ; but as
we came near to the confines of civilization, then they did not improve. We
had a good deal of difficulty with different tribes, as they tried to make us pay
for leave to pass. It so happened that we had nothing to pay with. 1'hey
wanted cither an ox, a gun, or a man. I told them that my men had just
as good a right to give me, as I had to give one of them, because we were in
the same position — we were all free men. Then they wanted an ox, and we
objected to it, saying, " These oxen are our legs, and we cannot travel without
them ; why should we pay for leave to tread upon the ground of God, our
common Father?" They agreed it was not right to ask payment for that,
but said it had always been the custom of the slave-traders, wlien they came
in, to give a slave or an ox, and we ouyht to do the same. But 1 said, " We
are not slave-dealers, we never buy nor sell slaves." *' But you may as well
give us an ox," they replied, " it will show your friendship ; we will give joii
some of our food, if you give us some of yours." If we gave them an ox, they very
often gave us back two or three pounds of our own food : this is the generous way
they paid us back. But with the women we never found any difficulty
Let me mention the punishment which women inflict upon their husbands in
some parts. It is the custom of the country for each woman to have her own
