Dec. 15, 1856.] LIVINGSTON. 243
chiefs go into the lion, and consequently when they meet a lion they salute
and honour it. In travelling, the natives never sleep on the ground ; they
always make little huts up in the trees. We had a good many difficulties
of the nature I have described, with the different tribes on the confines of
civilisation. The people in the centre of the country seem totally different
from the fringe of population near the coast. Those in the centre are very
anxious to have trade. You may understand their anxiety in this respect
when I inform you, that the chief of the Makololo furnished me with 27
men and 15 oxen, canoes, and provisions, in order to endeavour to form a
path to tlie West Coast; and on another occasion the same man furnished
110 men, to try and make another path to the East Coast. We had found
the country so full of forest, and abounding with so many rivers and so
much marsh, that it was impossible to make a path to the west, and so we
came back and endeavoured to find one to the east. In going that way, we
never carried water a single day. Any one who has travelled in South Africa,
knows the difficulty of procuring water, but we were never without water a
single day. We slept near water, passed by water several times during the day,
and slept near it again. The western route being impracticable for waggons,
we came back, and my companions returned to their friends and relatives. I
did not require to communicate anything about our journey, or speak even a
word about wliat we had seen ; as my men got up in all the meetings which were
held, and told the people of what had passed. One of the great stories they told
was, " We have been to the end of the world. Our forefathers used to tell us
that the world has no end, but we have been to the end of the world. We
went marching along, thinking that what the ancients had told us was true,
that the Avorld had no end ; but all at once the world said to us, ' I am finished ;
there is no more of me ; there is only sea in front.' " All my goods were gone
when I got down into the Barotse valley, among the Makololo, and then they
supplied me for three months ; and in forming the eastern path, which I hojDe
will be the permanent one into the interior of the country, the chief furnished
me with twelve oxen for slaughter and abundance of other provisions, without
promise or expectation of payment. At one time it was thought, instead of
going down the way we came, we should go on the other or south side of the
river. But this river forms a line of defence against the Matabele, where my
father-in-law, Mr. Moffat, went. I was persuaded by some to go in that direc-
tion. But when I had heard the opinions of all who knew the country, and
those who had lived in that direction, I resolved to go north-east, and strike the
Zambesi there.
In passing up towards Loanda, we saw that the face of the country was
different, that it was covered with Cajje heaths, rhododendrons, and Alpine
roses, showing that we must be on elevated ground. Then we came to
a sudden descent of 1000 feet, in which the river Coango seemed to have
formed a large valley. I hoped to receive an aneroid barometer from Colonel
Steele, but he had gone to the Crimea. In going back, therefore, I began
to try the boiling point of water, and I found a gradual elevation from
the west coast until we got up to the point, where we saw the Cape heaths
and rhododendrons ; then, passing down inland, we saw the rivers running
towards the centre of the country, and the boiling point of water showed
a descent of the surface in that direction too. This elevated ridge is formed
of clay slate. In going north-east, towards the Zambesi, Ave found many
rivulets, running back towards the centre of the country. Having gone
thither, we found the elevation the same as it was on the western ridge, and the
other rivers, as described by the natives, flowing from the sides into the centre,
showing that the centre country is a valley — not a valley compared to the sea,
but a valley with respect to the lateral ridges. There were no large mountains
in that valley ; but the mountains outside the valley, although they appeared
