244 LIVINGSTON. [Dec. 15, 1856.
high, yet, actually, when tried by the boiling point of water, were not so high
as the ridges, and not much higher than the valley.
The President. — Will you describe the White Mountains ?
Dr. Livingston. — They lie to the north-east of the Great Falls. They are
masses of white rock somewhat like quartz, and one of them is called *' Taba-
cheu," which means " white mountain." From the description I got of its
glistening whiteness, I imagined that it was snow ; but when I observed the
height of the hill, I saw that snow could not lie upon it.
The President. — The Society will observe that this fact has an important
apphcation.
Dr. Livingston. — I observed to them, " What is that stuff upon the top of
the hill ?'' They said it was stone, which was also affirmed to me while I was
at Linyanti, and I have obtained pieces of it. Most of the hills have this
coping of white quartz-looking rock. Outside the ridges the rocks are composed
of mica and mica-slate, and crystalhne gneiss at the bottom. Below we have
the coalfield, which commences at Zumbo. Higher up there are very large
fossil trees, of which I have brought specimens.
The President. — The point to which I called your attention with reference
to the white rocks, is important, as it may apply to the moimtains towards the
eastern coast of Africa, which have been supposed to be covered with snow, and
are commonly called the " Mountains of the Moon." It seems that the range
of white-capped hills, which Dr. Livingston examined, trended towards those
so called mountains, and it may prove that the missionaries, who believe that
they saw snowy mountains under the equator, have been deceived by the
glittering aspect of the rocks under a tropical sun. I would also ask Dr. Living-
ston if he has formed any idea of that great interior lake, which is said to be
600 or 700 miles long ; and whether the natives gave him any information
respecting it ?
Dr. Livingston. — When I was on my Avay from Linyanti to Loando, I met
with an Arab, who was going to return home towards Zanzibar across the
southern end of the lake " Tanganyenko," and who informed me that in the
country of the Banyassa (Wun' Yassa?) there is an elevated ridge which trends
towards the N.N.E. The lake lies west of it, and in the northern part is
called Kalague. They cross the southern end of it, and when crossing they
punt the canoe the whole way, and go from one island to another, spending
three days in crossing. It seems, from the description I got from him, to be a
collection of shallow water, exactly like Lake Ngami, which is not deep either,
as I have seen men punting their canoes over it. It seems to be the rem-
nant of a large lake, which existed in this part, before the fissure was made to
allow the Zambesi to flow out. That part of the country is described by
many natives as being exceedingly marshy. The Makoloko went up to the
Shuia Lake and found all the country exceedingly marshy, and a large lake
seems to be actually in existence, or a large marsh with islands in it. But it
can scarcely be so extensive as has been represented, as in that case I nmst
have crossed part of it or heard more of it.
Mr.F.Galton, f.r.g.s. — I should be glad to ask Dr.Livingston,whether,in his
route across Africa, he fell in with any members of the Hottentot race. In old
maps the northern limit of the Hottentot race is i)laced but a short distance
beyond the Orange River ; later information has greatly advanced their boundary,
and, in my own travels, I found what appeared to be an important head-
quarters of that people, at latitude 18° S. There they were firmly established
in the land, and were on intimate terms with their negro neighbours, tlic
Ovampo. These Hottentots asserted that their race was equally numerous
still farther to the northward of the most distant point I was able to reach, and
I have been unable as yet, to obtain any information by which any northern
limit to the extension of the Hottentot race can, with certainty, be laid down.
