Pec. 15, 1856.] LIVINGSTON. 245
Dr. Livingston. — When I went up to discover Lake Ngami with Mr. Oswell,
I found people who have the "click" in their language, and who seem to be
Hottentots ; they had formerly large quantities of cattle, and intermarry with
the Bushmen. Again, two Portuguese of Loanda described to me a people in
12° S. as Bushmen, but I did not see them.
Mr. GrALTON. — I might mention in corroboration of Dr. Livingston's report
of a gradual desiccation of the Bechuana country, that the Damaras entertain
a precisely similar belief. They say that within the existing generation, their
country has become dried up to a marked extent ; hence, without doubt, this
same physical phenomenon affects the entire breadth of Southern Africa.
Dr. Livingston. — You not only see remains of ancient rivers all through the
country, but you find actually the remains of fountains ; you see holes n^.ade in
the solid rock, where the water has fallen, when flowing out of these fountains,
and you find in the sides of some of the holes, pieces of calcareous tufa, that
have been deposited from the flowing of the water.
Professor Owen : I have listened with very intense interest to the sketches
of those magnificent scenes of animal life, that my old and most esteemed
friend. Dr. Livingston, has given us. It recalls to my mind the conversation
I had the pleasure to enjoy with him in the Museum of the College of Surgeons,
seventeen years ago. 1 must say, that the instalment which he has given us
of his observations on animal life this evening, more than fulfils the highest
expectations that I indulged of the fruit that science would receive from his in-
tended expedition. It has, so far, exceeded all our expectations ; but it is not
only in reference to those magnificent pictures of mammalian life, — that reference
is to those new forms of that peculiar family of ruminants, the antelopes ; but
it is to those indications of the evidence of extinct forms of animal life which
interest me still more. I hope some fragments will yet come to us of those
accumulated petrified remains of animals, which it has been Dr. Livingston's
good fortune, among many very wonderful and unique opportunities of
observing nature, to have seen.
Mr. J. Macqueen, F.R.G.S., observed — Lacerda does not give either the longi-
tude or the latitude of Tete. He gives the latitude of Maxenga to the north of
Tete, L5° 19' s., the estimated distance to which from Tete, according to the rate
of time in travelling, places Te'te, by my calculation, in 16*^ 20' s. lat. Dr.
Lacerda gives the latitude of the Isle of Mozambique, at the western entrance
of the Lupala, 16° 31' s. Dr. Livingston gives it 16° 34', a concordance which
proves the accuracy of both. Dr. Lacerda's accuracy, thus established, is of
great importance, because he gives us two important astronomical observations
far to the northward. The first, at Mazavamba, 12° 33' s. lat., and 32° 18' e.
long., and 20 miles south of the Arroanga of the north, 260 miles from Te'te,
which is the same river as that designated the Loangua by Dr. Livingston, at
its junction with the Zambesi. The second observation was made at Muiro
Achinto, now called Chama, lat. 10° 20' s., and long. 30° 2' e., from which
point Gamitto's daily bearings and distances enable us to fix the capital of
Cazembe with sufficient accuracy. Westward of Mazavamba, about 60 mih s,
is the gi'eat mountainous chain of Maxinga, or Muchinga, rising from 16,000
to 17,000 feet above the level of the sea. A branch of it runs n.e., another
to the westward, and a third to the s.s.w., by the Zumbo, stretching southward
to the mountains of Chidam and those called Mushome.
The accounts of the Embarah are fully substantiated by Brocheda and the
journeys of Ladislaus. Embarah is the Aimbara, or the chief tribe and niler
of the great province of Quanhama, situated to the westward of the great river
Cubango. ''Phis river rises in Nanno, near the sources of the Cunene, but
instead of joining that river, as hitherto supposed, it pursues its way on the
westward of Bih^ to the s.e., and joins the Leambye, and is doubtless the
parent stream of the Chob^. This may give a great water communication from
