14 PARKES. [Dec. la, 1855.
Mr. Parkes notices especially two of the Laos races, viz, the wJiite-
hellied Laos, who do not tattoo ; and the black-hellied Laos, so called
because they tattoo themselves with figures of tigers, dragons, and all
kinds of monsters.
The rivers are the highways in many parts of Siam, and canals are
very numerous in the S. portion. A large part of the country is inun-
dated in the wet season, and then boats do not confine themselves to
the canals, but sail over the rice-fields. The productions of Siam are
very various, but the chief are rice, indigo, maize, sugar, cotton, pepper,
lac, gums, &c.
Bankok, the capital, is situated on the lower part of the river. The
houses are mostly built of teak, and the temples are very numerous.
Several of them are very large, containing from 50 to 100 priests in
each. Ayuttaya, the former capital, was situated on an island 14*^ 20'
N. lat. It covered the whole island. There were formerly many
colossal idols, the cost of which may be estimated when it is stated
that 25,000 lbs. of copper, a large quantity of silver, and 400 lbs. of
gold were consumed in making one idol. The modern town contains
floating houses, like those at Bankok. The population of Bankok is
variously estimated from 350,(X)0 to 400,000, and of these about one-
third are Chinese. The city extends about 7 miles along both banks,
having a breadth almost as great in one part. There are walls round
portions of it, 30 feet high and 10 feet thick. Its temples are covered
with coloured tiles, and are profusely gilded. Fruit-trees may be seen
in every direction. The floating houses extend some distance from the
banks of the stream.
Mr. Crawfurd expressed his satisfaction at the notes Mr. Parkes had
put together. He said that a large part of Siam was a mere wilderness,
and that not more than one-fifth of the whole territory was cultivated.
The inundations referred to by Mr. Parkes might be very well com-
pared to those of the Ganges ; except that in the case of the Menam the
lower valley was not inundated more than 10 leagues counting from the
sea, as the ground was high. Bankok, the capital, stood on this high
ground. The bar at the mouth of the Menam was 10 miles broad,
having 2 feet of water upon it at low water, and 14 feet at high water.
The climate of Siam was very good, and that of the S. part extremely
healthy. Siam is emphatically a sugar-producing country ; it is also
the only country that produces gamboge, which derives its name from
Camboja. Some kinds of fruit which grow here luxuriantly Can scarcely
be grown in any other part of Asia.
Mr. Simmonds, in confirmation of what Mr. Crawfurd had just stated,
said that in 1845 no less than 340,000 cwt. of sugar were exported.
"The list of valuable products of Siam might be very greatly extended^
