246 Livingston; [dec. 15, i856.
the western portion of Bihe to the Indian Ocean, which is important. The
land to the east of Bilie is very high. It is, properly speaking, the Lihale.
In July and August, the hills are reported to be covered with snow, and the
lakes and rivers to be completely frozen over. This degree of cold so near the
equator (14° to 15*^ s. lat.) gives a very high elevation. Ladislaus in his
southern journey penetrated to 20° 5' s. lat., and 22° 43' e. long., at which
point he must have been at one time only aWit three days' journey distant
from the point where Dr. Livingston was at that time, and who was probably
the white man of a party described as riding on an ox. Ladislaus has also
penetrated northwards and north eastwards around the Cassaby to 4° 41' s.
lat., and 25° 43' e. long.
It affords me great pleasure to see Dr. Livingston among us. I have
closely followed his journeys since I heard of him on the top of the volcanic
Bakkaluka hills riding on the ox, convinced that he would soon send us most
important information. Dr. Livingston has travelled more in Africa than any
other traveller ancient or modern, while he has laid down with geographic
accuracy every point over which he travelled from sea to sea — the Atlantic to
the Indian Ocean.
Captain Vaedon, f.r.g.s. — I beg to supply an omission which my friend,
Dr. Livingston, has made this evening. He has expatiated at great length on
the amiability of the African ladies ; but there is one lady whom I met in
South Africa, and from whom, I believe, many South African travellers,
whom I see in this room, experienced the greatest kindness and hospitality.
Dr. Livingston has not made any allusion to her, and I rise to do so. This
lady, I need scarcely say, is his own wife. I observe here Colonel Steele, Mr.
Oswell, Mr. Gordon Gumming, and others, who will bear me out in saying
that we received the greatest kindness from Dr. and Mrs. Livingston ; their
hospitality was unbounded, and I am glad of having this opportunity of
publicly thanking them before the Royal Geographical Society. Dr. Livingston
has said, with his usual modesty, that he has not done much, that any
of us might have done as much. I beg to differ from him. As to my own
small excursion on the Limpopo, after what I have heard to-day, I feel so
ashamed of myself, that I fancy I have only just returned from Blackheath.
Colonel Steele, f.r.g.s. — My travels in South Africa were much like Cap-
tain Vardon's. Dr. Livingston was my earliest companion in Africa, but we tra-
velled such a short distance in company, that I am afraid any remarks I could
offer, beyond again returning my best thanks to Dr. and Mrs. Livingston for
their hospitality, would be of no importance to the Society.
The President. — Colonel Steele's modesty has prevented him from stating
that without the instruments with which he had provided Dr. Livingston,
he could not have made the excellent observations which have been obtained.
Mr. Gordon Gumming begged to confirm what Captain Vardon had said
with respect to the kindness with which Dr. Livingston received all parties
who visited him. He was not aware that Dr. Livingston had alluded to the
insect (the tsetse) whose bite is fatal to cattle. One year, while hunting in
the mountains, he, Mr. Gumming, lost all his horses and oxen from the bites of
this fly, and if it had not been for the kindness of Dr. Livingston in at once
sending him his own cattle, he would scarcely have been able to have extricated
himself from his dilemma and returned to Europe.
Mr. J. Crawfurd, f.r.g.s. — Perhaps Dr. Livingston will have the goodness
to give us some notion of the state of society among these people, especially
among the tribes that inhabit the plateau valley. That ought to be a place
in which there is a considerable civilization with a decent form of government.
They seem to have many advantages, an excellent climate, excellent soil, and
an excellent supply of water. What is the state of the arts among those
people ? Do they understand the art of making malleable iron or steel ? Do
