Dec. 15, 185f).] LIVINGSTON. 247
they know the use of any other metal, or the use of alloys, as those of
copper ? Can they weave, or make bread ? What plants do they cultivate ? And
what are they likely to produce in exchange for our merchandise ? I strongly
suspect, from what Dr. Livingston has said respecting the women, that the
great portion of the labour, even of the field, is left to them, and is not
performed by the men, otherwise how could the women be able to feed the
men ? They must work in order to procure that with which the men are
fed. I expect the men are idle and the women laborious. Some men would
appear to have as many as five wives. How come they to monopolise so
many?
Dr. Livingston said : The new articles of commerce that I observed are chiefly
fibrous substances, some of them excessively strong, and like flax. They abound
in great quantities on the north bank of the Zambesi. There are also great
quantities of a tree, the bark of the root of which is used by the Portuguese and
natives as the Cinchona. It has been employed in fever by the aborigines of the
country from time immemorial, and both the Portuguese and my companions
and myself found it very efficacious. It is remarkable that where the fever most
prevails, there the tree, which I believe to be a cinchona, abounds. It seems
the remedy is provided for the disease, where it prevails most. Now, in con-
nection with the opening up of this river and the fever, I have seen on the
banks of the Zambesi whole forests of this Cinchonaceous tree, particularly near
Senna. A decoction of the bark of the root has been found to act exactly as
quinine : it is excessively bitter, and may prove a good substitute. There is
also Calumba root, which the Americans purchase, to be used as a dye, and it is
found in large quantities. A species of Sarsaparilla is to be found throughout
the whole country. The sugar-cane grows abundantly, but the natives have
no idea of sugar, although they have cultivated the cane from time imme-
morial. The chief of the Makololo sent about thirty elephant tusks down
to the coast, and gave me a long list of articles, which I was to buy for him
in the white man's country. As I had been entirely supported by him for
several months, I thought it my duty to accept his commission, and I intend
to obtain these articles for him. Among other things he ordered a sugar-
mill. When he found that we could produce sugar from the cane, he said,
" If you bring the thing that makes sugar, then I will plant plenty of cane,
and be glad." Then, again, indigo grows all over the country in abundance.
The town of Tete has acres of it ; in fact, it is quite a weed, and seems to be
like that which grows in India, for before the slave trade became so brisk
indigo was exported from Tete. The country also produces the leaves of senna,
and, as far as I could ascertain, exactly like that which we import from
Egypt. There is plenty of beeswax through the whole country ; and we were
everywhere invited by the honey-bird to come to the hives. Any one who
has travelled in Africa knows the call of the honey-bird. It invites travellers
to come and enjoy the honey, and if you follow it, you are sure to be led to
the honey. Some natives have given it a bad character. Sometimes, when a
man follows the bird, he comes in contact with a lion or a serpent, and he
says, '* It is a false bird, it has brought me to the lion." But if he had gone
beyond the lion, he would have come to the honey. The natives eat the honey
and throw the wax away. In Angola it is different. There, a large trade in
wax is carried on, and the bees are not so numerous as in the eastern parts
of the country ; but here they have no market. It was the same with
ivory when Lake Ngami was discovered. They will not throw away an
ounce of it now. Then, again, there are different metals found. There is a
very fine kind of iron ore ; and at Cazembe there is much malachite, from
which the natives extract copper. Then there is gold round about the coal-
field, and gold has been procured by washing from time immemorial. In
former times the Portuguese w^ent to different places for gold with large
