248 LIVINGSTON. [Deo. 15, 1H56.
numbers of slaves.. It was before the time of the great exiX)rtation of slaves
began. The chiefs had no objection to their washing for gold, provided they
gave a small present first. Then there is coal near Tete ; no fewer than eleven
seams exist, one of which I found to be 58 inches in diameter. The coal
has been lifted up by volcanic action. There is also a hot spring there. The
thermometer stands at 160°. The coal from two of these seams could be
easily exported, as they are situated on a small river, about two miles below
Tete, and the coal could with very little trouble be brought down. When
you go up the Luabo, or largest branch, the river is rather naiTow, but as you
ascend it gets much broader. The Mutu is another river that joins the
Zambesi. At the point of junction of the Mutu or Quilimane river with the
Zambesi, the beginning of the Delta, that river is three-quarters of a mile
broad. When I passed down to that point it was a deep, large river, as it
was then full. The Portuguese tell me there is always a large body of water
in the river, during certain months in the year. This gi-eat body of water,
spread over a large space, is in the dry season shallow, except in the channel,
which is rather winding. At some seasons the channel changes its course.
There are many reedy islands in it, and these are sometimes washed away.
During five months of the year there is plenty of water for navigation, and
during the whole year there is water enough for canoes. A vessel of light
draught like the Portuguese launches, could go up to about 20 miles beyond Tete
with the greatest ease, during those months. At Kebrabassa in Chicova, there
are rapids, caused by certain rocks jutting out of the stream. I did not see
them, as we were obliged in our descent to leave the river, on account of the
rivulets being filled by the large river coming into flood, and to pass down by
land all the way from the hill Pinkue to Vunga, and thence to Tete. There
is another rapid called Kansala. Beyond that the river is smooth again, until
you come to the " Great Falls of Victoria," where it would be quite impossible
for any one to go up, as it is a deep fissure or cleft.
Mr. Consul Brand, f.r.g.s. — 1 am unwilling to be altogether silent on the
present interesting occasion, having resided a good many years in that part of
the West Coast of Africa which Dr. Livingston visited, and where our Associate
Mr. E. Gabriel still resides. I had been obliged by ill health to leave the
country shortly before Dr. Livingston's arrival ; but the Doctor could not have
fallen into better hands than into those of Mr. Gabriel. It was from a letter
addressed by Mr. Gabriel to Lord Ellesmere, that this Society first heard of Dr.
Livingston's arrival at Cassange. Mr. Gabriel immediately sent an invitation to
the Doctor to take up his abode with him, during his stay at Loanda, and at his
house the Doctor and his faithful companions found a home. The Doctor's first
Eeport from Loanda to the London Missionary Society, was written at his sick-bed
by Mr. Gabriel's own hand. He accompanied the Doctor part of the way on
his return journey through Angola, and from that time up to the present, I have
been in the habit of receiving from him letters manifesting the deepest interest
in the Doctor's progress in the intei'ior of Africa. I wish to mention these facts
in justice to Mr. Gabriel, because on my arrival the other day in England, I
received a letter from him simultaneously with Dr. Livingston's arrival, in which
he expresses the utmost anxiety for the Doctor's safety. I have written, and a
letter is now on its way to Loanda, announcing the Doctor's safe arrival among
us. But it is not only to Mr. Gabriel that I would allude ; for when Dr. Living-
ston arrived at Loanda, I was delighted to hear how he had been received by the
Portuguese. I resided nearly nine years among this people, and 1 can testify
that I never received gi'eater acts of kindness from any other nation, than from
them. I had among them some of my best friends, whose friendship was
unequivocally tested under trials and in sickness, and I was delighted to hear
that the same kindness which I had experienced at their hands had been
experienced by Dr. Livingston. I am glad to have this opportunity of testifying,
