Dec. 15, 1856.] LIVINGSTON. 249
in tho presence of the PortuguesG Minister, my gratiljftde for the kindness I
received from liis countrymen during my residence in'Tlie Province of Angola.
But the consequences resulting from Dr. Livingston's journey, are calculated
to contribute so much to the interests of the Portuguese African Colonies, that
I am sure in time, they will be more than repaid for the kindness they showed
him. Dr. Livingston's arrival at Angola I look upon, as one of those opportune
events, which sometimes have an important influence on the destinies of a
country ; at no period could such a visit have been more fortunate. The minds
of men were unsettled in consequence of the depressed condition of the peculiar
traffic Avhich had so long been paramount, and the attention of thinking persons
was turned to legitimate trade and the development of the resources of the
country. Farther, the Portuguese Government had passed a measure for regis-
tering and gradually emancipating the slaves in their colonies. Those who take
an interest in the "progress of the African race will be glad to hear of this fact.
Dr. Livingston arrived about this time, and showed that by opening up a
communication with the interior of Africa, a rich trade might be carried on, that
would more than compensate for the loss the colony was likely to sustain from
the abolition of the slave trade. The Doctor prophesied that, very soon after his
journey had become generally known, an attempt would be made on the part of
the tribes in the interior, to communicate with the coast. This propliecy has
been fulfilled ; for 1 learn from a communication from Mr. Gabriel that a caravan
of negroes, fitted out by Sekeletu and led by one of the Arabs, who crossed from
the coast of Zanzibar to Benguela in 1851, had arrived at Loando by way of
Bihe. This expedition has not, it would seem, been very profitable, owing to
causes incident, I should hope, only to first attempts ; but I trust that expe-
rience will render the next more successful. I shal! not, at this late hour, read
Mr. Gabriel's very interesting communication, but limit myself to stating the
fact it announces, which proves that the inland tribes are anxious to open up a
communication with the coast, and shows how correctly Dr. Livingston calcu-
lated the result.
I wish to mention another result of Dr. Livingston's visit. At Loanda we had
but one small newspaper ; the Doctor wrote a series of articles for it, which
appears to have stimulated a literary tiibe, and you here see the ' Loando
Aurora, a Literary Journal,' printed at the Government press, and, I believe,
one of the fruits of Dr. Livingston's visit to that city.
The President. — I have now only to congratulate the Meeting upon having
received so much instruction from Dr. Livingston. I may well say he has
communicated to us the outlines of a book, which I hope will soon be published
for the information of the British public. I am glad to add that there is
no person fuller of gratitude to the Portuguese than Dr. Livingston himself.
If he has not hei"e expatiated upon that subject, I can testify that in private
letters which he has addressed to me, he has uniformly dwelt upon the very
kind and liberal conduct of the Portuguese Authorities, officers, and people to
himself and party, lie was also most kindly received by General Hay, com-
manding Her Majesty's forces in the Mauritius, and restored to health by the
hospitality of our countryman.
The Resolute. — The President finally announced to the Meeting that, at the
request of the Council, he had invited Captain Hartstene and the American
officers of the ' Hesolute ' to dine with the Society prior to their departure from
this country. The day had not been appointed as yet,"as Captain Hartstene had
been suddenly called to his ship— Her Majesty the Queen having signified her
intention to visit the ' Resolute ' on the next day.
