250 HARTSTENE. [Jan. 12, 1857.
Fifth Meeting, Jan. 12, 1857.
Sir RODERICK I. MURCHISON, President, in the Chair.
Presentations. — Cofo/ie^ Smyth O'Connor, John Palliser and J. D.
Cram Ewing, Esqrs., were officially introduced upon their election.
Elections. — Captain G, H. Richards, r.n. ; Captain D, J. Hea^d ;
Lieutenant Fairholme, r.n. ; Clarence Braddyll ; James Crawford ; E.
Aachmuty Glover ; Charles L. Gruneisen; Edw. Terrick Hamilton ; Francis
Nares ; George JSfelthropp ; Henry Neshitt ; William Peters ; W. G. Smith ;
John M. Teesdale ; and Henry Tudor, Esqrs., were elected Fellows.
Donations. — Among the more important donations presented to the
Society since the last meeting, were ' The Atlas of the Government of
Tver,' executed under the superintendence of General Major Mendt,
and presented by the Imperial Geographical Society of St. Petersburg ;
Papers containing historical and other information relative to ports
and places in and about the Persian Gulf, presented by the East India
Company ; the * Red River of Louisiana,' by Lieut. Marcy, U.S.
Navy ; Sitgreave's * Expedition to the Zuni and Colorado Rivers,'
presented by General Mercer ; * Supplement to Dr. Blackie's Imperial
Dictionary ; ' the Transactions of various Societies, &c. ; Stanford's
Maps of London, with New Postal Sub-Divisions, &c.
The Livingston Testimonial-Fund Papers were laid on the table.
Announcements. — The President said, with reference to the
dinner offered to Captain Hartstene and the American officers who
brought home the ' Resolute,' if it had been possible for those gentle-
men to have accepted the invitation, he had every reason to believe,
from the spirit shown by the Fellows of the Geographical Society
and their numerous friends, that it would have been one of the most
effective and numerously attended meetings, ever given in the
Metropolis by any Scientific Body. He regretted that it did not
comport with the arrangements of Captain Hartstene and his brother
officers, who had expressed themselves quite overcome by English
hospitalities, to accept the invitation which emanated from the
Geographical Society.
Capt. Hartstene. — After the ballot had been taken, the President
said, he held in his hand twenty-seven proposals for the admission
of Candidates into the Society. It was a remarkable event; one
which had scarcely occurred in any Scientific Society in the metro-
polis. The first on the list was an Honorary member ; and he was
sure the members would agree with him that the Council had done
