Jan. 12, 1857.] PKOPOSED EXPLORATION OF THE ORINOCO. 251
right in proposing that Captain Hartstene, of the United States
Navy, should bo an Honorary member.
The papers read were —
1. Proposed Exploration of the River Orinoco, cj-c. By Eear- Admiral
Sir Charles Elliot, late Governor of Trinidad.
Communicated by Sir Roderick I. Mubchison.
An officer administering the government of a British colony, situated
within a few hours' steaming of the mouth of the Orinoco, would
naturally recur with interest to Humboldt's account of his explora-
tions in that liver, of its intersection with the majestic Amazon, by the
confluence of the waters of the Cassiaquare and the Rio Negro, a great
affluent of the Amazon, and of the still shorter means of connecting
these two stupendous river systems, comprising, accoiding to that
great authority, a surface of 190,000 square leagues, by the easy
opening of a canal of 7 or 8 miles long, at the Isthmus of Tuamini,
situated between the headwaters of the river of that name, falling
into the Orinoco, and the Eio Negro into the Amazon. In that
voyage of 75 days and 1500 miles, in a pirogue of scarcely three feet
breadth, which had its commencement at San Fernando on the
Apure, and closed at Angostura on the lower Orinoco, Humboldt
and Bonpland collected not merely a body of scientific observations,
which in point of amount, variety, and value, have never been ex-
ceeded by any travellers, but Humboldt enriched the narration
with reflections and indications of unsurpassable practical im-
portance.
No investigations could be more worthy of the reputation of this
great country, or more conducive to its vast commercial interests,
than those to which Humboldt has called attention in that part of
his narrative, in which he describes his voyage, setting out at San
Fernando on the Apure, to its confluence with the Orinoco ; up that
stream, from that point, as high as San Fernando de Atabapo, across
the short portage from the Tuamini to the Rio Negro, occupying
four days-journeying in the forest ; down that noble affluent of the
Amazon to the Brazilian frontier at St. Carlos ; thence retracing their
course to San Fernando de Atabapo by the way of the Cassiaquare
and Orinoco, thus establishing the connection of these two great
river basins : —
" Depuis que j'ai quitte les bords de I'Orinoque et de I'Amazon," says
Humboldt, writing in 1812 or 1813, " une nouvelle ere se prepare pour I'etat
social dcs peuples de I'Occideut. Au fureur de dissensions civiles succe'deront
les bienfaits de la paix, nn d^veloppcment plus libre des arts industriels.
Cette bifurcation de I'Orinoque, cette isthme de Tuamini si facile a franchir
Y 2
