252 ELUOT'S PROPOSED EXPLORATION [Jan. 12, 1857.
par un canal artificiel, fixeront les yeiix de I'Europe commercialc. Le Cassi-
aqiiare, large comnie le lihin, et dont lecours a 180 mi lies de long, ne formera
plus en vain un ligne navigable entre deux bassins des rivieres qui ont une
surface de 190,000 lieues carrees. Les grains de la Nouvelle Grenade seront
port 6s aux bords de Rio Negro ; des sources de Napo, et de I'Ucayle, des
Andes de Quito, et du Haute Pe'ru, on descendra en bateau aux bouches de
I'Orinoque, sur une distance qui egale celle de Timbuctu a Marseilles ; un paj^s
neuf, a dix fois plus grand que I'Espagne, et enrichi des productions les plus
varices, navigable dans tons les sens par I'intermede du canal naturel du
Cassiaquare, et du bifurcation des rivieres. Un phenomene, qui sera un jour
si important pour les relations j)olitiques des peuples, me'rite, sans doute, d'etre
examine avec soin."
In the Atlas accompanying the narrative, pnblislied by Humboldt
at Paris in 1814, lie gives a map of tlie course of the Apnre, from
its headwaters to its confluence with the Orinoco, and it is impossible
to peruse his account of the countries, and the rich and varied
products attainable through that line of navigation, without re-
cognizing the force of his reiterated notice of the prospective value
of that stream of trade and intercourse. But he presses still more
urgently on the importance of the navigation of the Meta, which he
compares with the Danube not in length, but in volume of water ;
and he also furnishes a map of this river in the Atlas. He describes
it to have a navigation of at least 400 miles from its confluence with
the Orinoco to its connection with the streams which descend from
the table-lands of Santa Fe de Bogota, and all the richest regions of
New Grenada. From the Embarcadero on the river San Juan,
falling into the Meta, the distance to Bogota by the valle^^s of
Apiay and Caqueza does not exceed 10 leagues. In point of short-
ness of land-travel, between navigation and the tableland and all
other conveniences of trade, there seems reason to think that the
route to Bogota by the Meta would soon displace that by the
Magdalena, the basin of which is comparatively of very inferior
importance.
When the Orinoco and its affluents, especially the Meta, are well
opened up by steam navigation, it is in the highest degree probable
that Humboldt's view respecting the wheat supply of the continental
shores and the islands of the Caribean Sea will prove to be correct.
They will easily draw that supply from Cundinamarca and the
rich tablelands of New Grenada. Indeed, in years of comparative
scarcity in Europe and the northern parts of America, these great
streams may be freighted with heavy supplies of corn destined for
these shores, and for those of the United States of America. In
those surprisingly fertile soils and genial climates, men reap at the
seasons when we sow, taking off two crops annually, of weight per
acre almost, if not quite equal, to the best cornlands of Europe ;
