Jan. 12, 1857.] OF THE RIVER ORINOCO. 263
returns, it should be said, to cultivation, whicli would hardly deserve
the name in this country.
Nothing can be more certain, than that judicious steam navigation
on the Orinoco and its affluents, would soon show steadily increasing
returns to capital. The regions drained by that system are in-
calculably rich in vegetable and mineral resources. The lower
lands teem with tropical products and cattle; the valleys of the
mountainous districts, and the table-lands, have the climate of
temperate regions with the vigour of a tropical sun, and a soil of sui-
passing fertility. I asked Mr. Clay, many years since, in a voyage
which we made together on the Mississippi, what he thought it would
be reasonable to compute steam navigation had done in accelerat-
ing the settlement of that basin. He replied that he had often
reflected on that subject, and he considered it scarcely an exaggeration
to say that if it had pleased God to create those vast regions with all
their present productive powers, but with no great watercourses
rolling through them until many hundred years after they had been
partially inhabited, the consequences could hardly have been more
wonderful than those which had followed within his own short scope
of observation, since the first establishment of steam navigation on the
Mississippi and its affluents. But what is the basin of the Mississippi
and its affluents, to the united basins of the Orinoco and the Amazon ?
Insignificant indeed, in every respect of area, and variety and value
of natural resource.
It has often occurred to me, during my residence at Trinidad,
that when the enthusiastic and heroic Ealeigh sought, or feigned to
seek, his El Dorado up the Orinoco, it could hardly have failed
to strike that brilliant imagination, that he was upon the track of
an El Dorado of far deeper significance, and more inexhaustible
streams of wealth, in the truest sense of that word, than those
mountains of gold, and cities and palaces paved with precious stones.
The realisation of all the promise of that wondrous tale, would be
poor indeed in comparison with the results of those grand and wise
plans of Humboldt, founded, not upon impulses of cupidity, or
visions of conquest, but on the sober deductions of exact knowledge,
and the sure consequences to flow from the dissemination of the arts
of peace, of commerce, and the endless train of civilization and
improvement. " Eivers," says Pascal, " are roads that run, and
lead us where we will ;" and when we consider that this amazing
network of waterpaths, longer by thousands of miles than the cir-
cumference of the globe, has its nearest exit to the shores of Europe,
almost within sight of a British possession, it is certainly an abashing
reflection that more has not been done to avail ourselves of these
