254 ELLIOT'S PROPOSED EXPLORATION [Jan. 12, 1857.
advantages. Speaking as a professional man and with some experi-
ence of the spirit and purpose of a great maritime rival, I am per-
suaded it is a sound opinion, that the Government of this Empire
cannot too constantly encourage the enterprise of travel in outlying
regions, and most especially waterborne travel. A former President
of the United States is reported to have said with more roughness
than reverence, that if there were a bag of coffee in the mouth of
an unmentionable place, there would be found a countryman of his
to go and trade for it. It would not be recommendable to follow
any leading to that destination for coffee or any other commodity ;
but in all rational and honourable maritime undertaking on the face
of this planet in the pursuit of knowledge, it is a matter of high
policy that this nation should lead, and strive to pass beyond the
rest of mankind. Most honourable is it to the successive Boards of
Admiralty, since the close of the long war, that we have done so
both in the Arctic and Antarctic, for assuredly we had better have
lost ten sail of the line in battle, than that any other nation should
have vanquished us in those perilous investigations. Their priceless
result has been the maintenance of the spirit and genius of the Navy.
The practical preliminary step which has suggested itself to me,
is that Her Majesty's Government should be led to move the
Governments of New Grenada and Venezuela, on the part of the
Koyal Geographical Society, to authorise and second the resumption
of Humboldt's scientific investigations on the Orinoco and its
affluents. With that permission granted, I would submit that the
expedition should be assembled at Trinidad, in two or more vessels
of suitably light draught and power, and set out from that island at
the right time of year ; regard being had to the rains, rise of rivers,
&c. Immediately below the mouth of the Meta there are rapids.
It is possible, however, although there is plenty of water in the
narrow channels between the rocks, and Humboldt represents that
there is no real danger with a good pilot, that it might be desirable
for the permanent navigation of the Meta, that the line of boats
should bo separate, so as to avoid the rapids, unless indeed they
could be easily turned by a slack water navigation.
Our situation at Trinidad, lying at the very threshold of this
mightiest highway for the transit of commerce and civilisation,
would greatly facilitate the steady prosecution of these deeply in-
teresting explorations.
Colonel Smyth O'Connor, f.r.g.s., said he had resided many years in
Trinidad, and had been up the Orinoco. The views of Admiral Elliot were
of the greatest consequence to the British colony. He had no doubt that
Trinidad, Tobago, and the other islands off the Spanish Main, originally
formed part of the South American Continent, but had been torn from it by
