256 CHIMMO ON THE [J ah. 12, 1857.
crammed with 150 tons of coal, or 70 more than Bhe had ever carried
before; for which reason the Inner Eonte to Torres Strait was
chosen, where, at all events, smooth water was certain.
On July 17th I went as close as prudent to the coast about Albany-
Island and Cape York, to view a spot on which I hoped soon to see an
English flag. It was impossible to pass it without feeling how well
adapted the island seemed for a preparatory penal establishment, or
until our knowledge of the effect of the climate on European consti-
tutions, was more truly and generally known in the depths of the
Gulfs of Carpentaria and Cambridge.
Albany Island. — We first passed a bold and regular land of about
400 feet in elevation, nearly three miles long by one broad, lying in
a N.W. and S.E. direction, having smooth grassy slopes with valleys
of trees, terminating on the S.W. side in rocky cliffs and bold head-
lands, having on its N.E. side a pretty group of small islets. Here
we saw but one canoe, with seven men in it.
Should an establishment ever be decided on, and which has been
some time in contemplation, on account of the increased traffic
through Torres Strait, for coal depots for steam communication, as
well as a refuge for the shipwrecked mariner, which latter has
become so necessary, I have not seen any spot better adapted than
this, particularly in a geographical point of view, a commanding
position, and exposed to a healthy brisk S.E. trade for half the year.
How the N.W. monsoon affects it, I know not. Many would be the
benefits arising from an establishment at Cape York or Albany
Island, particularly as Port Essington, from its unhealthy site, has
been abandoned.
It would benefit the natives, who may bo made tractable, as at
Port Curtis, Wide Bay, &c., a home or refuge for the shipwrecked
sailor could be established. At present he proceeds to Booby Island,
where, if his patience be exhausted, he makes a desperate efibrt to
reach Copang. Stores of various sorts for shipping would find
many a purchaser, as scarcely a vessel comes through the Barrier
without loss of anchors or spars.
Cape York is not so attractive as Albany Island, and is objection-
able from being partly surrounded by shoal-water bays. It is
particularly barren in appearance. Fresh water is abundant in
Evans Bay, two miles from Albany Island.
On arriving at Booby Island on the 18th of July, and searching
all the documents in the Post Office there, it was ascertained that
Gregory and his party had not passed that way on their return to
Sydney. After rating the chronometers and leaving notices for any
of his party who might call there, the ' Torch ' sailed for the bottom
