Jan. 12, 1857.] NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 257
of the Gulf of Carpentaria, passing through its centre. The bar of
the Albert River not allowing the * Torch ' to pass, I proceeded in
her boats on the 2nd of August to ascend the river, and after a
minute search of six days, came to the conclusion that neither
Gregory, nor any of his party, nor the vessel in attendance on them,
had, as yet, arrived there.
On arriving at the source of the river, 54 miles from the ship, we
all took a searching stroll to the " plains and lands of promise,"
which di(^ not present to me that boundless luxuriance I was led to
expect, the whole country being parched and arid. The long grass
had been recently destroyed by fire ; the large gum and acacia trees,
except those overhanging the river, wore quite an autumnal aspect ;
the land was furrowed and torn away by the deluge of rains
during the N.W. monsoon ; huge trees were torn up by the roots,
depositing the finest of the soil in the river, and leaving on
the surface a few flattened porphyritic stones, with quantities of
small perfectly sound ironstone particles. Whether the fires which
destroy the grass, and eventually the trees, are accidental or
intentional, I cannot tell ; but I believe the natives frequently set
fire to the grass to seize their prey, such as kangaroos, snakes, &c.
In fine, I was not very favourably impressed with either the
importance of the stream or the richness of the country, although I
saw it under the most favourable circumstances, the winter and S.E.
trades. "What it must be in the summer, during the north-west
monsoon, during hot winds and changeable weather, I would hardly
venture to say; the thermometer in the shade was max. 72°, min.
6C°, in the sun 134° 5 ; the amount of ozone was 1 to 3.
I placed notices on every conspicuous portion of the banks of the
river, to inform Mr. Gregory that he was not forgotten, and that we
were in search of him to give him a fresh supply of provisions and
ascertain his wants.
We had but one interview with the natives. On descending the
river, in turning one of its bends, up started eighteen, whose num-
bers soon increased to twenty-eight. They were all armed with
spears, boomerangs, waddies, and shields, and were exceedingly
noisy and clamorous ; so much so that I expected every moment to
see a boomerang, which the chief or spokesman held in his hand,
whirled at us. I ordered two muskets to be held in readiness, in
case he should have temerity enough to throw it. They endea-
voured by the most exciting gestures to persuade us to land, but
this I would not permit, fearing a collision in their angry moments.
I, however, made signs to them to retire a short distance, except
the chief, when I would land and speak to him. This they did.
