258 CHIMMO ON THE [Jan. 12, 1857.
and they all sat down on a small elevated spot and watched most
intently onr proceedings. I then backed the boat in, and gave the
chief, biscuits, pipes, tobacco, and fish-hooks. He also obtained a
large coloured pocket handkerchief, which nearly distracted him
with joy ; wrapping it round his head and waist, and dancing most
vigorously on his heels in the mud, sinking at every jump up to
his knees. Their anger had now subsided, and they appeared
pleased. I cannot tell what this demonstration of violence could
be owing to, and I dreaded any act of hostility for t^ie sake of
those coming after us. In some of these natives I observed the
loss of the eye-tooth, which indicates that they had arrived at the
age of puberty, generally 16 to 17. Horizontal scars, along the
body, were also seen, 5 to 6 inches in length, gradually decreasing
from the chest downwards. Circumcision was also general. There
were no women among them, which was a sure sign that their visit
was not intended to be friendly. They followed us for 15 miles
along the banks, until a creek prevented any further communication.
We gave them some parting presents, including another coloured
handkerchief, and they brought their weapons to barter freely and
eagerly. I was glad when they turned their backs on us, evidently
pleased at the meeting. Every expedition that had visited these
shores had suffered from the treachery of the aborigines, and I
should have exceedingly regretted if any circumstance had occurred
which would have left a bad impression or kept up any spirit of re-
venge on those so soon to follow in our footsteps.
For 12 miles, on first entering the river, nothing can be seen but
a dense mangrove bush on either side, growing on soft mud. Be-
yond this, the monotony is slightly changed by the elevated appear-
ance of some gum and acacia trees. Then, where the river is
deflected in a south and south-west direction, bare patches of cliff
from 10 to 30 feet in height, separate the mangroves and diversify
the scene. Small mangi-ove islets with sandy spits, at low water,
appear. When nearly 40 miles up the river, a change is altogether
met with; the mangroves are separated by various gums and
acacias, with an occasional palm-tree. On the borders of the river,
bamboos, rushes, creepers, and long grasses form altogether a
dense and diversified foliage. The river is, in general, tortuous,
and presents when low, a far different aspect to that at high water.
Snags, sand and mud banks, embryo islets, forming round sunken
logs, are, at high water, all covered, and an unbroken surface is
presented.
I visited the Bountiful Island and Sweers Island of Flinders.
At the former wc found turtle abounding on the beach and in the
