Jan. 12, 1857.] NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 259
lagoons among the coral reefs, GO of which were taken upwards of
3 cwt. each. In my notices, I informed Mr. Gregory of this fact,
and recommended his sending the vessel there, if in want of fresh
provisions. I also found in a hard, sandy patch, on nearly the
centre of this island, the bones of five persons, who had either died
of starvation or had been buried there. They all lay in the same
position with heads to the north ; I do not think a grave had been
dug, but that the drift sands had accumulated about the bodies, and
formed one grave. They had no spears, arms, or any implements near
them. A few turtle-bones, shells of the haliotus and helix, were in
heaps around. There was not a jaw to be seen with the upper
tooth extracted, which is the custom among the North Australians
when they arrive at puberty. This circumstance made me conclude
they were not aboriginals, but probably a portion of the crew of
the Malay proa we had found wrecked on Sweers Island. The
North Australians generally bury their dead on trees, or in caves,
wrapped in bark or matting, and with their heads to the east, and
have always some of their war or fishing implements near them.
No indications of these funeral ceremonies were near these skeletons,
of which I have preserved one head for examination.
On Sweers Island, the fresh-water well of Flinders was destroyed
by the natives ; not, I believe, intentionally, but accidentally, from
constantly running in and out to draw water. The well dug by
Captain Stokes of the ' Beagle,' was also destroyed, but proving to
be in the best position, I had it redug and cleared, and we obtained
five tons of water from it, and left a notice also to show the Australian
expedition where they would find it ; planting near and about it
pumpkin-seed, onions, and Indian com. The natives were few and
very shy. If they, who were watching us most intently from Bentinck
Island, were surprised at seeing a ship under sail like the ' Beagle,'
what must have been their wonder when they saw the ' Torch ' move
through the water by smoke? There was not a native seen on
Sweers Island, although there were many there, and their not
coming near us may be possibly attributable to fear at so wonderful
a structure, moving without the aid of sails or wind.
About a mile east of this well, we found the remains of the
* Investigator's ' well, completely blocked up, having only a slight
undulation to mark its spot. We halted under the *' tree," which
still plainly bore the. inscriptions of the * Investigator ' and ' Beagle,'
the former carved 54 years since and the latter 15. Fortunately I
had a bottle in my bag, and I made all heave-to under the tree
and join in drinking with a glass of the "Queen's own" to the
memory of the adventurous and intrepid Flinders, and to the health
