260 CHIMMO ON THE [Jan. 12, 1857.
of the next follower of his footsteps, Captain Stokes, r.n., to which
was added, as a matter of course, " three cheers."
On our return to "the well, we picked up a piece of a lower-deck
mess-plate (china), and also a metal tray or inkstand, of European
manufacture, the lid of which was gone. It is about 9 inches long,
by 5 wide and 3 deep, figured on the outside with leaves of a tree
that would puzzle a botanist. Such a thing could scarcely have
been left there by the ' Beagle ;' and if in the hands of the natives
for fifty-four years would have been destroyed if left there by
the * Investigator,' The well, for which we are indebted to the
* Beagle's ' visit fifteen years since, we found to be 25 feet deep,
the water dripping into it through a rock of concreted lime, sand,
shells, and pebbles. Sweers Island is low, thickly wooded with
gums, acacias, and a straggling pandanus, and dense grass ; the soil
is capable of producing Indian corn, yams, cotton, &c. This, with
Bountiful Island, would make good headquarters for an exploring
party, and I hope Gregory will find it out.
I again passed out of the Gulf of Carpentaria, the greatest depth
of which is 46 fathoms, with a soft, adhesive mud, gradually
decreasing its depth from the centre to the low, muddy mangiove
shores which border the east and south of the Gulf. The only
phenomenon worthy of remark was the difference of the density of
the sea- water at the depth of the Gnlf and at its entrance in lat. 13o,
amounting to 7° 1'.
On the 26th of August, we entered the Victoria River, after care-
fully and anxiously, but unsuccessfully, searching the north coast
between the Gulfs, more particularly Treachery Bay, where the
expedition first landed, and where Captain Stokes was speared and
so nearly lost his life. On my first anchoring in the river, I
observed a mark erected on Entrance Island, and near it a bottle
containing a notice that the portion of the expedition in charge of
Mr. Gregory had left for the Albert Eiver on the 21st of June, and
that the schooner * Tom Tough ' had gone to Coepang, in Timor, for
repairs.
It was now very evident that my detention for two months at
Sydney, might be seriously felt by the expedition. Had I set out
on my first anival, I should have been in sufiicient time not only
to supply the party with provisions, stores, and despatches, but also
to have discharged the schooner and have acted in concert with
Gregory, in a steamer, until the completion of his mission.
I proceeded 60 miles up the river in the ' Torch,' and then 40
miles farther in the boats, to Gregory's abandoned camp, where I
found another notice of his movements.
