Jan. 12, 1857.] NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 201
After replacing these notices, and leaving one of my intended
movements, for Gregory or any of his party, I retraced my steps to the
ship, and found that while the crew were watering ship they beheld
an interesting relic of the ' Beagle.' Inscribed in large letters on a
tree nearest the well, were these words : —
" This river was discovered, by the officers of H.M.S. * Beagle,'
on the 18th Oct., 1839, and was named the ' Victoria,' in honour of
Her Majesty, the Queen of England."
Here I had the good fortune to find the rare and interesting
bower-bird's nest (Chlamydera nuchalis) among the mangroves, and
scarcely above high- water mark at springs.
On arrival at Gregory's camp, 6 miles below Steep Head, we
found it looking like an English farmyard, with thatched houses,
huts, sheep-pens, horse-sheds, forge, oven, &c. The spot was well
selected. We landed on a pier formed of large stones and pigs of
ballast. In our road lay iron hoops, rope, tubs, buckets, old
clothes, Indian com, old boots and shoes, pieces of harness ; and wo
came to the oven, in the interior of which, protected by four pigs of
iron ballast, was a bottle, containing a notice to the following
effect : —
" Camp, Victoria River.
"On Saturday, 21st June, 1856, the exploring party of the N. A.
Expedition, consisting of seven persons, left this camp, on their way
to the Albert Eiver, in the Gulf of Carpentaria ; and on Wednesday,
July the 2nd, the remainder finally abandoned the camp and pro-
ceeded down the river to join the schooner • Tom Tough,' which
had dropped down to Shoal Eeach about three months previously.
The vessel will sail, as speedily as possible, to Timor, whence, after
obtaining supplies, she would proceed to the Albert Kiver, and the
detachment of the Expedition on board will fonn camp and await
the arrival of Mr. Gregory. Subsequent information will be left on
Entrance Island.
*' John Finlay, carpenter of the schooner, died April 22nd, 1856,
and is buried near a gouty-stem tree, marked, with the dome, bearing
W.N.W. i a mile (Tuesday evening the 1st of July).
" The finder of this document will greatly oblige the Expedition
by giving it every publicity, and, if possible, by forwarding it to his
Excellency, the Governor of New South Wales, or to any other of the
Australian colonies.
(Signed) " T. Baines."
After perusing this, we went to the forge, where another paper
was buried, containing a similar notice. We returned to Mr. Gre-
gory's hut, and, having drank success to his expedition, read all the
interesting notices over and over again.
I passed an hour at the camp, admiring all the arrangements. It
