262 CHIMMO ON THE [Jan. 12, 1857.
consisted of seven thatched houses, three huts, some sheds for cattle
and sheep-pens, two deep and good wells, and an entrenchment all
round. No natives had been near the camp since Gregory's party
left. A road was cut several miles, in a S.S.E, direction, as straight
as an arrow. I sat down at Gregory's table, and penned a notice,
after placing which, and while the men were getting their dinners
under a shed, I amused myself by sketching the camp from Baines's
window, as it was too hot to venture out to do so. The boat's crew,
having found a small pot of black paint, inscribed some amusing
notices outside the doorways. On the door of Mr. Baines's hut, after
I came out, I saw hanging on a board, — " Victoria Hotel. Good
Beds, &c. Ginger Beer and Eefreshments."
The evaporation in this river is very excessive, amounting to 13°
between the wet and dry thermometers. The backs of all our books
parched and curled in every shape and form. A boxwood ruler, on
my table, warped 3-8ths of an inch in 24. A boxwood thermometer,
3-8tlis of an inch, wai-ped 1-1 0th, threatening to break the glass
tube.
Coming out of the Victoria Eiver, the ' Torch ' struck on a bank,
where at low-water her keel was 7 feet above the low-water line.
This bank has accumulated from the strength of the tide, consequent
on a rise and fall of 24 feet, since Captain Stokes's survey in 1839,
when he found ^ fathom at low-water springs.
I had intended to make a few remarks during my week's visit to
the Victoria Eiver, but Captain Stokes gives so excellent a descrip-
tion of it, that it is unnecessary for me to do so.
Finding that the schooner had only left six weeks since for Coe-
pang, I made all haste after her, but, on ariival there, found that
she had been sent to Surabaya for docking and repairs.
At Coepang, I received a request from Mr. Baines to proceed to
the Albert Eiver, but as at the same moment Mr. Baines might be
starting from Surabaya in another chartered vessel, and we should
consequently be sailing side by side until anchoring o& the mouth
of the river, and then find that two vessels were performing one and
the same service, I, the next morning, started for Surabaya, still
with a hope of communicating with him. On my arrival there,
however, I found that this section of the Expedition had started in
a new chartered schooner on the 31st of August ; and, from her
being a well-found, substantial vessel, she would reach the Albert
Eiver about the end of October, long before the Expedition could
suffer any privation from hunger.
The President returned the thanks of the Society to Lieut. Chimmo. He
rejoiced that they had among them a gentleman who had come back from fol-
