264 BANISTER'S PROPOSED COMMUNICATION [Jan. 12, 1857.
Francisco. Third. Route of the 38th parallel, or Benton's. Fourth,
Route of the 35th parallel (Rusk's) to San Pedro, on the Pacific.
Fifth. Route of the 32nd parallel, or the extreme southern route,
via Texas and New Mexico, to the Pacific. The third and fourth
routes are considered next to impracticable ; while the three others
are attended with great difficulties and expense. Mr. Banister con-
siders that the routes through British North America are not only
the most practicable, but also, in a national point of view, the most
important. He proposes starting from Fort York on Hudson Bay,
and proceeding westward as far as Puget Sound, opposite Vancouver
Island. The Hudson Bay Company have certain interests, but the
Crown has never abandoned its sovereign rights over these territo-
ries. The Company deserves credit for its conduct, and for impor-
tant things it has carried out; but the time has arrived for the
Government to consider, whether the interests of the empire do not
demand a reconsideration of the whole subject of the colonisation,
&c., of the regions on the west coast of America from Hudson
Bay.
Mr. Banister had derived information from a gentleman who had been
many years in the employ of the Hudson Bay Company, and had passed along
the line, as well as from others acquainted with the country. He had been
induced to make the proposition by the great demand for a passage across
North America, evinced by the efforts made by the Government of the United
States to find such a passage in their own territory ; and he looked at the ques-
tion as it affected British interests. The late jDroceedings in Canada, the open-
ing of the Grand Trunk Eailway, the passage into Lake Superior and Lake
Michigan, the rise of Chicago, a city of yesterday, with a population of 100,000
inhabitants — all showed the rapid advance of those regions. The evidence was
all in favour of the northern country becoming habitable. The travels of Sir
George Simpson, Sir John Franklin, and others, were conclusive as to tlie
riclmess of the country in mineral as well as agricultural produce. A gentle-
man, Mr. Low, had informed him that the natives on the eastward of these
mountains possessed horses, and lived out in the open prairie in winter.
Horses would not exist on the east coast, and that was a proof of the mildness
of the climate in the interior. He was satisfied that the evidence was in favour
of the necessity of the line he had proposed ; and he brought it forward with
the view of the Society inducing the Government first to take measures to
ascertain the practicability of the country ; secondly, if practicable, to decide
upon establishing the line of communication ; and thirdly, to devise the mode
of carrying the scheme out.
The President was of opinion that the communication opened out very
broad and important views for the consideration of geographers and statesmen.
The meeting was, fortunately, attended by gentlemen who were well acquaiiited
with these portions of North America ; and with reference to the boundary
line, the 49th degree, they had recently brought before them a project from
Mr. Palliser, which had already been approved by the Council, for an exami-
nation of all the region from that line to the Saskatchewan, as well as the
rocky and elevated region to the west of the Prairies, in order to see whether it
be practicable to form a good road for British subjects without deflecting into
the American territory. Mr. Palliser was in the room ; and, having lived a
