Jan. 12, 1857.] THROUGH NORTH AMERICA. 265
good deal in the country, mnst be able to speak to the practicability of the
proposed route, as well as of forming railroads. They had also present Colonel
Lefroy, who was twelve years in Canada ; he had enriched science by magnetic
and other observations, was an admirable geographer, and well acquainted with
these regions. It was seldom they had the opportunity of having a subject
better discussed.
Colonel Lefroy, f.r.g.s., said, that Mr. Banister's scheme proceeded on the
assumption that whatever was not physically impossible, was commercially
possible. There was certainly not a physical impossibility in the formation of
this railway ; but it was under conditions entirely different from those which
attended the formation of railways in this country. Mr. Banister began by
pointing out the analogy of Hudson Bay with the Baltic. The Baltic had its
inlet on the south, Hudson Bay on the north, which made an important dif-
ference. Hudson Bay could only be entered two or three months in the year, the
Baltic at all times. In ascending between Fort York and Lake Winnipeg, the
traveller passed over a rugged and difficult country, of a spongy nature, 900 or
1000 feet high, until he came to Lake Winnipeg, which was itself 800 feet
above the level of the sea. He had then to go through a region without inha-
bitants — for the whole population of this vast internal region did not amount
to 100,000 souls — and then to pass over the Rocky Mountains. The general
character of the country up to the Bocky Mountains was a plain, ascending
gradually, intersected by extremely deep rivers. Tliere would be some tre-
mendous bridging required. A part of the district, which must necessarily
be passed, was a mere spongy, elevated table-land, from which rivers took
their source in all directions. It was not physically impossible to carry a rail-
road there, but it would not be commercially possible. Passing over the
Rocky Mountains, the traveller arrived at Fort M'Leod, considerably on the
west side of the mountains. That fort was the nearest station to the Hudson
Bay Company's line on the Pacific ; and such was the difficulty of communi-
cation, that the hardy traders in the employ of the Company, though they had
been trying several years to establish a communication with Fort M'Leod
from the west, had never, down to the period in which he visited the country,
— 1843-4,— succeeded in doing so. All these were reasons why he thought
this railroad, which had been urged on general grounds as a great necessity,
was not likely to be realised in our days.
The Rev. Mr. Nicolay, f.r.g.s., agreed with what Colonel Lefroy had
said with regard to the northern and western portions of the country near the
sea. Although a railroad would be scarcely desirable in the direction indicated,
there was no reason why, in the time of our children, if not in our own, one
should not be carried across the plains to the south of the river Saskatchewan.
As far as he was aware, he believed no Englishman had ever crossed those
plains to the north of 49" directly to the Rocky Mountains. He hoped Mr.
PaUiser would be the first to do so. Supposing there should be no imjiedimcnt
in that direction, there would be no difficulty in crossing the Rocky Mountains.
The pass indicated by Mr. Banister had been more than once traversed by the
officers of the Hudson Bay Company, and he believed there were some in the
room, who had traversed it themselves ; it was not the best. From the ac-
count of his journey, given by Sir George Simpson, there seemed to be two
distinct ranges between which the river Kutani flowed to the south. There
was a pass to the south, leading into the valley between the two ranges, over
which the emigrants mentioned by him crossed — whether to the south or
north of 49" he was not prepared to say ; but that there was an easy pass in
that direction was well known. The difficulty in crossing from the northern
of these passes to the Pacific, as Colonel Lefroy remarked, was no doubt very
great. All this country was covered with small lakes — a network of lakes and
rivers, which at certain seasons must be untraversable, and it must be centuries
