16 VOGKL. BAIKIE. MAURY. [Jan. 14, 1856.
June 5, 1855. Dr. Vogel and Maguire had l)oth been very unwell in
the neighbourhood of Yakoba, a town larger than East and West Kuka
together, situated on a rocky plateau in a bare and stony district. He
had thence endeavoured to penetrate to Adamaiia, and in doing so crossed
the Benue at the point where the steamer had /anchored ; of which fact
" numberless empty pickle-jars and brandy-bottles gave unmistakeable
proof." Next he arrived at Tindang, where the accident of a pack-
horse being hurt fortunately prevented him joining a party of 50, who
endeavoured to force the road to Yola, which had been stopped by
the Bashama. All but two of these were killed the same day.
Thence he returned to Gombe. He has left letters, in case another
steamer should be despatched up the Tshadda.
At the request of the President Sir R. Murchison introduced to the
Meeting a proposal of Dr. Baikie's to extend discovery up the Niger
and Chadda. He said that, being as zealous as ever in the cause of
African discovery, it gave him pleasure to be the means of bringing a
proposal before the Society which embraced not only the extension of
commerce, but of Christian philanthropy and of scientific knowledge.
It was believed that the powerful Sultan of Sakatoo, whose influence
extended over all the Fellatah tribes, would give his cordial assistance
to an annual or triennial expedition sent for these purposes, and that,
if recommended by the Society, Her Majesty's Government, and espe-
cially Lord Clarendon, would, it was hoped, countenance and support it.
2. Abstract of a Letter from Lieutenant Maury, U.S.N. Observatory,
Washington, December Srd, 1855, addressed to the President.
Lieutenant Maury encloses a tracing of the track of the U.S.S.
' Virjcennes,' under Commodore John Rogers, commanding the sur-
veying expedition to the North Pacific Ocean. That officer states that
he visited and ascended Herald Island in 1854, and thence sailed either
over or in the immediate neighbourhood of several localities where land
had been reported to be seen, but without finding any. Of these he
specifies as follows, — that, by Captain Kellett, to the eastward and in
the neighbourhood of Herald Island, the northern portion of that land
mentioned in Arctic Papers 1847-51, p. 41 ; and the so-called Plover
Islands ; also that land which has been reported by Admiral Wrangel
on native authority to lie to the N. of Cape Jakan.
Full oflficial reports are expected from the Commodore, who is now
at San Francisco.
The President remarked that Captain Kellett had not spoken of an
island, but of appearance of land.
