206 BANISTER'S PROPOSED COMMUNICATION [Jan. 12, 1857.
before it could be inhabited. But the country to the south and east of the
northern branch of the Columbia was, he apprehended, of a very different
character. "Whether it was a country through which a railroad would be
carried in our time, was another question. As to the desirableness of opening
up a communication with Vancouver Island all would agree, especially as the
Canadians began to feel cooped up, and wanted a way to the west. The value
of Vancouver Island was becoming better known, and he anticipated great
advantages, commercial and otherwise, to result from Mr. Palhser's explora-
tions. The plains to the south of the Saskatchewan might supply Europe with
corn, brought down to Hudson Bay. A home voyage once a year was quite
another thing to keeping up a constant communication.
Colonel Lefroy said with reference to the exportation of articles from the
Saskatchewan, there was a considerable amount of import and export going
along that line, inasmuch as all the goods brought in by the Hudson Bay
Company were carried by that route, as well as the furs which they obtained
in exchange. The price of the inland freight from York-Factory to the Red-
River Settlement, was 181. per ton, when he was in the country.
Mr. J. Palliser, f.b.g.s., was inclined to think there was no pass known
within the English territory, except the Athabasca portage, which was con-
siderably to the north. There were two passes to the south which he believed
were both in the American frontier. Even Sir George Simpson himself, who
took the more northerly of the two, passed within the American frontier. Still
he had heard from conversation with the hunters and trappers — Red River
people — that there was a pass in the English teiTitory ; but he had only their
word for it. He crossed the frontier when he was at White-earth River,
the most northern part of the Missouri. But with that exception his
wanderings and hunting adventures were on the American side. Still, all the
nations in that part of the country might be said to belong to both English
and United States territory. For instance, the Assineboins, the people
he had most dealings with, wandered on both sides of the line. Also the
Black Feet and the Minatorees wandered backwards and forwards, though
their country was strictly speaking confined to the American side. The
Indians seemed to have a very greart; respect for the English. Whenever he
was pointed out as an Englishman, they used to pay him a sort of additional
respect.
Mr. Banister, in reply, said that early last year he had been appointed
agent to parties in Vancouver Island, which brought him in connection with a
great number of persons who were intimately acquainted with the interior.
The natives on the coast of Queen Charlotte Islands were a very superior class
of people, in proof of which he would put into the hands of the President a piece
of sculpture cut from the tooth of a walrus or something of that sort. The
men of these islands were almost white. They were very robust. They made
fine sailors, as good as the New Zealanders. On one occasion they brought
down a vessel commanded by an Englishman. With regard to a pass being
found for the transit of merchandise within British territory, it was a matter of
great importance, and might throw the carrying trade between California and
the Atlantic States into our hands. The trade depended on the termini of the
route, rather than on the country through which it passed. At all events the
inquiry was well worthy of being made. A gentleman in a letter to him stated
that there was a pass up the Eraser River, where the mountains fell away,
that it was a very narrow passage without any obstructions, and led into the
valley of the Peace River. The communication, he proposed, might not be
entirely by railroad as in England, but partly by railroad and partly by
other means. In order to carry out the work, he did not see why the Govern-
ment should not employ criminals, and thus make them the pioneers of
civilization.
Mr. Palliser thought it must depend upon astronomical observation to
