Jan. 2G, 1857.] THROUGH NORTH AMERICA. 2G7
determine the position of the passes adjacent to the frontier. There were two
passes close to one another, and the question was whether they were not lx)th
within the American frontier, or whether one might not be within the English
territory. It was a very nice point to determine. As to what had been said
about the natives of Vancouver Island, he thought the people of the western
coast were very different from those on the eastern side, and resembling more
the Polynesian race.
The President said they had to thank Mr. Banister for having brought the
subject forward. It had given rise to an excellent discussion, that had thrown
much light upon a subject of the greatest importance to every Englishman.
The practicability of railroads was a subject incidental and collateral. Their
first great point was to determine the physical geography of the region — therefore
the projected exploration would be of considerable value, as it would set at rest
whether there was a practicable route across the Rocky Mountains or not. He
was glad to see Mr. Palliser, who from his acquaintance with the country,
his skill as a sportsman and the good use he made of his opportunities, was
capable of exploring these difficult regions — he was delighted to see him sitting
next to the great explorer of Africa, Dr. Livingston. These were the gentle-
men who found out the paths, by which civilization could be advanced in these
distant and difficult regions. Railroads, however, must fall in afterwards. In
the first instance they had to determine the geography of the Rocky Mountains,
with which the world had made little or no progress since the days of
Mackenzie.
Sixth Meeting^ Jan, 26, 1857.
Sir EODEEICK MUECHISON, President, in the Chair.
Presentations. — Robert Benson, William Benson, C. L. Gruneisen,
John Costerton, and /. L. Statham, Esqrs., were officially introduced upon
their election.
Elections. — Capt. Hartstene, of the United States Navy, recently in
command of H. M. S. * Resolute^ was elected an Honorary Member ; and
Dr. Alexander Armstrong, r.n. ; Capt. John Baillie, Bengal JV.I. ;
Capt. Thomas Blakiston, R.A. ,• the Marquis of Blandford, m.p. ; Dr.
W. F. Gumming ; Dr. A. T. Chalmers; Capt. L. R. Elliot; Lieut.-
Col. P. Faddy, R.A. ; Hon. G. Fitzclarence, r.n. ; Thomson Hanhey,
Esq., M.P. ; Capt. W. A. Pope; the Hon. Stephen E. Spring Rice; Sir
Macdonald Stephenson, c.e. ; Capt. B. J. Sulivan, r.n., c.b. ; Col.
J. Temple West ; the Right Hon. J. Stuart Worthy, m.p. ; Capt. Henry
J. P. Woodhead ; and C. T. Arbuthnot ; Richard Blanshard ; John
Utlay Ellis ; F. L. Evans ; T. H. Farrer ; Z. D. Hunt ; George Lee ;
Edward Sullivan, and Richard H. S. Vyvyan, Esqrs., were elected
Fellows.
Donations. — Among the principal donations received since the
former Meeting were, several Russian maps, and the Sardinian Staff
maps of the Crimea, presented by Felix Wakefield, Esq. ; the Ord-
z 2
