208 MACLEAR'S REDUCTION OF [Jan. 26, 1857.
nance maps of all the counties of Ireland, on the scale of six inches
to the mile ; together with general maps of Ireland ; Black's Atlas
of North America, presented by the publisher ; Atlases of heights,
by J. M. Ziegler, Corresp. f.r.g.s. ; with the Transactions of the
Darmstadt Geographical Society, of the Hakluyt Society, &c.
Announcements. — The Sixth Number of the ' Proceedings,' pub-
lished that day, would be distributed to the Fellows by Mr. Stan-
ford, of 6, Charing Cross.
The Papers read were : —
1. Extract frmn a Letter addressed hy Th. Maclear, Esq., H. M.
Astronomer at the Capet to the Secretary/
" Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
Nov. 3, 1856.
" The object of this letter is to report progress in the reduction of
the astronomical observations, which that remarkable and excellent
man Dr. Livingston, made for geographical positions, on his track from
Loanda across the continent to Quilimane. He has sent them to me
for reduction, and I am anxious that they should be in Sir E. Mur-
chison's hands, according to Livingston's request, with the least pos-
sible delay : or rather, I am anxious that they should meet him in
England at the right time — the time when the Society and the public
at large, will be doing him due honour for services without a
parallel.
1. To expedite the reductions, I had skeleton forms printed for
the computation of ^/me /rom altitudes ; for altitudes /rom ^wie; and
for Greenwich time from the lunar distances.
2. His observed lunar distances were compared (roughly) wilh
tabular lunar distances, in order to detect errors of date as to the
day of observation — a common source of error where civil clashes
with astronomical reckoning.
3. The watch error was computed from each altitude, whether
observed for watch-error or for the calculation of parallax and
refraction, to detect errors of entry or of transcribing ; and while
this tvas going on, another computer was following closely, cal-
culating the parallaxes and altitudes for the times of lunar distance
measures.
The total number of altitudes computed for time is 214, exclusive
of repetitions or checks.
To this point the reductions w^ere brought up on Saturday. To-
day we commence the lunar distances, which will be computed by
the rigorous trigonometrical process, viz. the final computation;
