Jan. 26, 1857.] DK. LIVINGSTON'S ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 269
for I find they must be repeated, as the assumed longitude some-
times is a degree in error ; therefore at least two, but generally
three, approximations will be needed.
Thus you will perceive that the only residual errors will be
chargeable to the eccentricity or index-errors of the sextant, and to
the errors of the lunar tables ; and as Livingston unfortunately
did not visit the Cape, I have had no chance or opportunity for
examining the instniraent.
I do hope that Livingston's merit will be acknowledged by the
Crown in a substantial form He is a poorer man than he was
fourteen years back, when he landed in Africa. Without reference
to higher motives, he has rendered services to science, and perhaps
to commerce, such as few men have rendered. His constitution has
been seriously injured by thirty-one attacks of fever. In fact, it
would be difficult to find another whose claims on public gratitude
are so strong."
Yours, dear Sir, truly,
T. Maclear.
Dr. Shaw, Secretary of the Eoyal Geographical Society.
2. Notes on the Geography of Burma, in illustration of a Map of that
Country » By Capt. Yule, of the Bengal Engineers, f.r.g.s.
In 1855, Capt. Yule had been sent by the Government of India to
Amarapura, as secretary to Major Arthur Phayre, then j>roceeding
on a mission to that Court. In drawing up a report of the mission
and of the information collected by its members, he had found a new
map of the country to be much wanted in illustration of his subject,
and this had led him to undertake the compilation in question.
The paper gave some account of the history of the geography of
those countries, to which shape was first given by the mission of
Col. Symes in 1795 ; and especially by the collections of Dr.
Francis Buchanan, who accompanied that mission. The most im-
portant additions to our knowledge were made by the journeys and
surveys of various officers, especially of Wilcox, Grant, Pemberton,
Eichardson, Hannay, and Macleod, between 1826 and 1837. The
revolution at Ava, in the latter year, interrupted all such acquisi-
tions for many years.
Some of the chief materials used in the new map, were, a survey
of the new British province of Pegu, undertaken by Lieut. Wil-
liams, of the Bengal Engineers, and still in progress ; a new survey
of the province of Martaban, by Mr. Hobday ; a survey of the river
Irawady to Ava, by Capt. Eennie and Lieut. Heathcote of the
