270 YULE ON THE GEOGRAPHY OF BURMA. [Jan. 26, 1857.
Indian Navy ; a sketch of part of tlie Aracan Yoma range and its
passes, by Capt. Yule ; and a re-arrangement of the Chinese frontier
and the Shan (or Laos) states, east of Burma, from the route-
surveys of Dr. Kichardson and Capt. Macleod, with additions from
other sources.
A considerable error in the longitude of the Irawady at Prome and
upwards, as assigned in previous maps, was pointed out. The exist-
ence of this error had first been indicated as probable by Capt. Yule,
in a memoir on the Passes of the Yoma, submitted to the Govern-
ment of India in 1853. The surveys since made, have confirmed
this indication.
A sketch was given of the political division of the Burmese
countries at four remarkable epochs, viz., circa 1500, 1580, 1824,
1854, illustrated by four comparative diagrams. In the first, these
regions were shown as divided into numerous kingdoms and princi-
palities, of which the chief were Ava, Pegu, Aracan, Tonngu. In
the second, Pegu was shown as predominant over nearly all. In
the third, Ava had reached the climax of its power, and reigned
over a territory, extending from the British district of Kungpur, on
the Brahmaputra, to the great river of Cambodia eastward, and to
the island of Junk-Ceylon southward, with a seaboard of 1200 miles.
In the fourth, Ava was shown again contracted, and cut off from the
sea in all directions, by many leagues of British territory.
After a sketch of the natural mountain-boundaries of Burma, the
paper proceeded to the detailed descriptive geography of the
country, from the upper course of the Irawady downwards to the
8ea, including the British province of Pegu and the passes of the
Aracan Mountains.
An attempt was then made, from various data, to estimate the
population ,of the Burmese empire. The general conclusion was,
that the population of Burma proper, say from lat. 24° down to our
Pegu frontier, is about 1,200,000, or less than 25 to the square mile ;
and that the population of the whole Burmese empire now probably
does not exceed three millions. This does not differ materially
from the estimate formed by the sagacity of Mr. Crawfurd, on the
more imperfect data which were available to him in 1827.
An additional section of the paper gave a detailed sketch of the
Shan principalities, on the eastern frontier of Burma, respecting
which it is believed that no very lucid statement has yet been
brought together in print. The chief authorities for this sketch
were the journals of Dr. Richardson and Capt. Macleod, in the
records of the Foreign department at Calcutta. These have never
been published in full, as they meiited to have been.
