Jan. 26, 1857.] YULE ON THE GEOGRAPHY OF BURMA. 271
A selection of excellent photographs of Burmese buildings and
scenery, by Capt. Tripe, of the Madras army, was exhibited in
illustration of the paper.
The President said the FelloAvs would agree with him in thinking tiais a
most valuable contribution. Captain Yule had brought before them a very
large, graphic, and at the same time, he presumed, a very exact view of this
country. Capt. Yule had examined considerable portions of the country, and had
combined together and collated, as he thought, with singular ability and
acumen, all the valuable documents of his precursors. He expressed in his
concluding paragraph, that it was much to the credit of the Burmese, with so
small a population, to have maintained their empire there, and he might add
that it was much to the credit of an eminent geographer present (Mr. Craw-
furd), that he should have made such a just estimate, so many years ago, as
to the population of the country. No person he knew had a higher opinion
of the talents displayed by Mr. Crawfurd in his work upon Ava, than Captain
Yule ; and it was gratifying to know that Mr. Crawfurd was present to testify
to the accuracy of the statements before them. Not only had Captain Yule
corrected a great number of erroneous views with respect to the longitude of
different tracts, and given the general features of the physical geography of
the country, but he had also given some very interesting comparative views of
the condition of those vast regions at different periods of history. Captain
Yule could have brought before them much more that would have been
amusing. There was on the table a portrait of his Majesty the King of
Burma, who received the English Mission eating " pawn," a substance which
his Majesty continually put into his mouth, and chewed so continuously that
it was difficult on the part of the Mission to understand what he addressed to
them. There was also a view of the celebrated white elephant, which had an
entire district assigned for his maintenance. Another view represented the
king, with his queen smoking a cheroot in her chair of state, and the British
Mission at a respectful distance. Captain Yule had called attention merely to
the great geographical features of this region, and to its history, and he
had done so with singular ability. He was very glad that his short absence
from his post in India, where he was actively employed, had enabled him to
communicate so much knowledge to the Eoyal Geographical Society.
Mr. J. Crawfurd, f.r.g.s. — By the favour of the President he had had
the pleasure of reading Captain Yule's Eeport of the Mission to Burma. It
seemed to be printed, but not published. Why, he really did not know, for it
did great credit and great honour to everybody concerned — to the nobleman who
made such an excellent selection of persons to fulfil that mission, and above all
to Captain Yule, who was the principal writer of the volume, assisted by a very
able geologist, Mr. Oldham. That book ought to have been published. It
was public property ; the public had a right to have it : and he hoped it would
be published. Major Phayre and Captain Yule had gone over the ground, that
he went over himself thirty years ago. They had done great justice to all the
parties that went before them, to himself more than justice in most respects,
although he had a few trifling comments to make upon some portions of the
volume. He held in his hand a passage which, perhaps, they would permit
him to read : — " Mr. Crawfurd appears to have been rendered weary, hopeless,
and disgusted, by the arrogance and impracticability of the Burmese ministers,
and excepting on one point — the payment of indemnity money — made deplorable
concessions." Now, he was not aware that he made any concessions at all,
deplorable or otherwise. In his own humble opinion he maintained a meri-
torious amount of obstinacy. He yielded nothing, absolutely nothing. Very
great demands were made upon him. The Burmese negotiators demanded
