Jan. 26, 1857.] YULE ON THE GEOGRAPHY OF BURMA. 273
The President called attention to the geological portion of the work, as
communicated by Mr. Oldham, the superintendent of the Geological Survey of
our dominions in India. He was associated with Captain Yaile in surveying
the country, and the concluding part of the volume contained a great deal of
important information with respect to the structure of the country, the rocks,
and all their relations. The work was rendered additionally valuable from its
observations on the statistics of the productions of the country, includino- the
mineral productions with the observations of Mr. Oldham.
Mr. Crawfurd. — He ought, in justice to the nobleman who obtained this
annexation of Aracan and Pegu, to mention an important fact respecting them.
It was well known that Bengal — rice-producing Bengal — was a densely peopled
country. The consequence was that the price of rice had been constantly
rising. Aracan and Pegu were countries of a totally different description.
They were un^ieopled. Captain Yule did not estimate the population at above
25 inhabitants to the mile, whereas there were some portions of Bengal which
contained 600 to the square mile. There was a great abundance of fertile land
in the valley of Aracan. The price of corn and rice was regulated by the
quantity of land of the first quality, capable of producing it. All the land at
]H'esent in use in Aracan for the production of rice, was of the first quality.
The result was that the export of rice from Aracan alone, though a country of
but 10,000 miles in extent, was greater than the exports from all Bengal toge-
ther. In former times the settlements to the eastward — Penang, Singapore,
and all the countries in that direction — used to be supplied by Java. The
policy of the Dutch, by displacing rice and encouraging other productions less
profitable to, the people, had been such as to enhance tlie price of rice to such
an extent that these districts were now supplied from Aracan. A very large
amount of the rice of Aracan was also exported to Europe, to the value of one
million sterling annually, as he had been informed by a merchant connected
with the trade. These facts showed that our Burmese possessions were likely
to become important countries.
3. Journey across the Kuen-luen from Laddk to Khotan. By the
Brothers Sghlagintweit.
Communicated by Col. W. H. Sykes, v.p.r.g.s., etc.
PiiocEEDiNG from Ladak, throngh Nnbra, to the Pass of Karakoriim,
we were able to pass the frontier of Ladak, and to extend our
observations over very nearly the whole breadth of the Kuen-luen
Mountains. We estimate (not yet having reduced our astronomical
observations of latitudes and longitudes) the distance we travelled
in Turkistan, before returning again into Ladak, to be very nearly
300 English miles.
We left Ladak July 24th, 1856, went by Laoche Pass (17,600
feet *) to the valley of the Shayuk and Nubra ; from Kubra we
crossed the Sassar Pass, about 17,500 feet. W^e stayed two days on
the Pass itself to make magnetic observations and to enable us to
* All the heights in this Report are only approximately correct. Very good
corresponding observations were taken at I^adak, but we have not yet found time
to make the necessary calculations.
