274 SCHLAGINTWEITS' JOURNEY [Jan. 26, 1857.
reacli the summit of the Sassar La — 20,000 feet — from which we
had, as we anticipated, a very extensive and interesting view of the
large groups of glaciers surrounding the Pass, one of the largest
accumulations of glaciers in the Kuen-luen.
From the Sassar Pass, our route brought us to the large plateau to
the south of Karakorum, the mean elevation of which reaches 17,000
feet. On the 9th August we crossed, without any difficulty, the
frontier of Turkistan.*
We were accompanied by Mani, the Putwaree of Nilum ; by
Marshoot, a former servant of Moorcroft ; and by Mahomed Amir,
an aged Turkistani, whom we found particularly useful on account
of his general knowledge of the country.
We had besides, six horses for ourselves and servants, thirteen for
baggage, five Yarkandis, and some fifteen sheep and goats.
The Yarkandis, with horses and provisions, we sent on, and we
only met them by chance at Nubra.
Our servants from the plain, accompanied us as far as Sassar, from
w^hence we travelled dressed as Yarkandis.
The day before we passed the Karakorum, at 18,300 feet, we met
a large caravan of merchants from Yarkand, to whom we gave out
that we intended to march on the Yarkand road, but, as soon as we
had passed Karakorum, we left this road and went to the east of
Kizilkorum, 17,400 feet, the high-water parting between Yarkand
and the Karakash river. In one day we crossed four passes, ex-
ceeding 17,000 feet above the sea, but only slightly elevated above
the surrounding plateaus.
From Kizilkorum, we followed the direction of the principal
chain of the Kuen-luen, now turning to the south-south-east, till we
reached a lake, Kiuk-kiul, slightly salt, situated at the northern foot
of the Chanchcumo.
Up to this point, our route had chiefly led us over extensive
plateaus 16,000 to 17,000 feet above the level of the sea, of a
much greater extent than those to the south of Karakorum ; but from
the lake we followed the valley of the Karakash river, to the right
of which there are no plateaus, while to the left they extend as far
as Suget.
The sterility of the plateaus to the north of Karakorum, as well
as of the Karakash Valley, is quite surprising ; and without the
frequent, though not very abundant showers, chiefly caused by the
* See Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, No. IV., 1856, p. 344, for
Travels in 1852 from Cashmere through Yarkand, Kokan, Bokhara, and Cabul,
iu search of Mr. Wyburd. — Ed.
