Jan. 26, 1857.] FROM LADAK TO KHOTAN. 276
great elevation of the ridges, these plateaus would be complete
deserts.
In a'^march of 18 miles, we only met with four species of plants ;
for many days grass was exceedingly scarce, while for several days
we had absolutely none, the grass round the Kiuk-kiul Lake being
the only exception. We had taken comparatively a small supply of
grain, anticipating in some degree the sterility we met with, which
saved our horses from absolute starvation; nevertheless they
suffered dreadfully, the more so as the scarcity of grass compelled
us to make long marches of 20 to 24 miles a day. Close to the
Kiuk-kiul we met with a very interesting group of more than fifty
hot springs, chiefly containing muriate of soda and a great quantity
of carbonic acid ; their temperature varied from 77" to 120° Fahr.
We had already met, in the Valley of the Nubra, with two other
groups: the one near Panimik (hottest spring), 78'1° (==172-6
F.), the other near Changlung, 74-1° (= 165-4 F.).
After a march of 70 miles in four days, we came to Pumgal, where
a route branches off by the Valley of Bushia to Elchi, the capital of
Khotan.
From Pumgal a road branches off, as mentioned above, to Bushia
and Elchi ; and as there was some hope of procuring at these places
fresh horses or yaks, as well as food, our men were easily persuaded
to proceed towards them. We started August the 22nd, with only
two laden horses, and had to cross a glacier pass of 17,000 feet,
where, at 10 a.m., we were overtaken by a violent snow-storm,
lasting till 6 p.m. The road was extremely difficult for the horses,
on account of the number of fissures in the glaciers.
In Bushia, which we reached two days later, on the 25th August,
we met with a very cordial reception from the inhabitants, and got
horses, yaks, sheep, and provisions, on the promise of payment in
Pumgal.
These people — half-nomadic Tartars — appeared very honest, and
the prices they asked were certainly moderate. They inhabit caves,
fitted up like houses in the cold season, and tents during the rest of
the year. The height of Bushia is 9200 feet. We had taken the
precaution of dressing ourselves like the inhabitants, and had also
learned the necessary forms of salutation, for the people here are far
from being savages, but are, on the contrary, very ceremonious.
They took us — never having seen any Europeans — for what we
represented ourselves to be— merchants from Delhi. Elchi, the
capital of Khotan, was only two days' journey distant, but we found
the people very reluctant to accompany us thither (for they feared
the Chinese soldiery stationed not far from Bushia) ; besides the
