276 SCHLAGINTWEITS' JOURNEY [Jan. 26, 1857.
time was far advanced for our intended tour in Caslimir. The dis-
tance from the northern foot of the Kuen-luen was one and a half
day's journey. Already at Bushia the Alpine character of the
central Kuen-luen had disappeared, the height in the environs of
Bushia not exceeding 11,000 feet. We left Pumgal on August 29th,
and followed, for three marches, the valley of the Karakash river,
which flows from Pumgal to Sugetin a westerly direction, then takes
a sharp turn to the north, and then flows for the most part in an east-
north-easterly direction. We met on this road with very large
quarries and mines, from which is dug the Yashen stone, and which
are resorted to by people living at great distances. We were
enabled to procure, for future analysis, a good supply of this stone,
which is very much valued throughout Central Asia.
Suget, a halting-place on the winter-road to Yarkand, is six
ordinary marches distant from Karakorum ; from Suget to Karakash,
another town of Khotan, is six marches.
After due deliberation, we started, on the 1st of September, with
Mohamed Amir and only two laden horses, leaving everything we
could do without, including our little tent.
Some instruments, blankets, furs, and provisions were all our
baggage.
We succeeded in making in twelve days about 220 English miles
across the central parts of the Kuen-luen (25 marches of the Russian
itinerary route from Yarkand to Leh). We reached Leh in the
evening of the 12th of September. The countiy between Suget
and the Karakash Pass was new to us ; we had here a very good
opportunity of examining the plateaus above mentioned and de-
termining the mean elevation. We had also, before we reached
the Pass, a very extensive view of the highest central peaks,
which we tried to draw on the scale of 1 degree to 1 centi-
metre.
From this point we wished to follow the Shayuk river, as the
route would have taken us through country new to us. We also
met, amongst many others, a caravan with fourteen dromedaries,
not unfrequently used for carrying loads on the Yarkand road ; they
are the produce of a singular cross between yaks and kiangs (sic)^
and inhabit heights of 1 6,000 to 1 8,000 feet. We succeeded in getting
two of them (remarkably docile animals), expecting to find them
particularly useful in crossing the frequent rapids in the Shayuk
river, as well as the glaciers and rocks so common in these parts.
But, notwithstanding the height and power of these animals, wo
found it impossible to go down the Shayuk valley. The river had
much subsided, compared with its height when we crossed in the
