Jan. 26, 1857.] FROM LADAK TO KHOTAN. 277
beginning of August, but it was still far from passable, as it is from
the end of October to the end of March.
We were obliged, therefore, to leave the road down the Shaynk
valley at Sultan-Chushun, and go up the valley to Sassar, and from
thence follow our old route. We had to cross the Shayuk river,
not without difficulty, five times in one day before we reached
Sassar. During our absence from Leh, our native doctor Shir-
kishin had made meteorological observations, and — what was espe-
cially valuable to us — detailed barometric and magnetic observa-
tions ; had completed a plan of Leh, 11,000 feet, the chief points of
which had been laid down before our departure ; and had sent col-
lectors to different parts of Ladak to complete botanical and geo-
graphical distributions. We found all our orders had been carefully
executed.
Our horses and luggage left behind at Suget, not arriving for
thirteen days after us, Sept. 25th, we had time, besides finishing
our plans and drawings, to make numerous casts in plaster of
Paris * of individuals of different tribes, as we had already done in
different parts of India and the Himalayas.
The Prestdent expressed the thanks of the Society to Colonel Sykes.
The brothers Schlagintweit were well known to geographers and natu-
ralists for having distinguished themselves in the survey of the Alps, and in
various communications published in Germany. Baron Humboldt had always
had the highest estimation of their capacity and talents. They were now
employed in surveying, under the patronage of the East India Company, those
distant regions into which few travellers had been. The paper contained evi-
dence of talent, and he had no doubt there were some valuable observations
with respect to the mineral springs of the country, an important point in the
geographical feature of that region. It was a point to which Baron Humboldt
called attention that the Kuen-luen was of volcanic origin, of which these hot-
springs were the only active remains.
Mr. W. J. Hamilton, f.r.g.s. — Although he had no knowledge of the country
itself, he could not resist rising to express the satisfaction with which he had
listened to the communication. He had the pleasure of knowing these distin-
guished German brothers previous to their departure from this country, and it
was with the greatest satisfaction he had listened to the statement of the pro-
gress they were making in the investigation of the physical features of this
interesting district. From the opportunity which he /md many members of
the Geological Society had of appreciating the talents, energy, and zeal of
these travellers, he was sure they might look forward to recoiving much valu-
able and interesting information from them. The extracts which had been
read contained but a small portion of the information which they had sent
home. When the whole paper was published, he had no doubt it would be
found to enter into many interesting details on other points.
* We were obliged to H. Longden, Esq., superintendent of the * Secundra
Press ' at Agra, for a very precious supply of plaster of Paris when our own stock
was nearly exhausted.
