278 O'CONNOR ON TRINIDAD AND THE ORINOCO. [Jan. 26, 18^.
4. On Trinidad and the Orinoco. By Lieut.-Col. J. Smyth O'Connor,
F.R.G.S., Governor of tlie Gambia.
After a brief sketcli of the history of Trinidad, alluding to its
discovery by Columbus, to its conquest by an English force under
Abercrombie in 1798, and to the most distinguished of its subse-
quent Governors, the natural features, products, and resources of
the island were described. The commanding situation of Trinidad,
with reference to the navigation of the great river Orinoco, and the
productive character of the countries on the banks of that stream,
rendered it remarkable that no efforts had been made to establish
steam-communication through that important channel between
Trinidad and the interior of the South American continent. Horses,
cattle, wheat, and produce of all kinds and of the finest quality, can
be raised on its banks; while its navigable waters offer great
facilities for disposing of English manufactures in the interior,
reaching westward nearly to the capital city of Bogota, and south-
wards within a short distance of the navigable Eio Negro, a branch
of the Amazon.
In conclusion, the proposal of Admiral Elliot to explore the
Orinoco, to ascertain the extent of its navigable waters and the
means of connecting them with the navigation of the Amazon, was
strongly urged by the author, as a matter of great importance to
English commerce, particularly in connection with Trinidad.
The President thanked Colonel O'Connor for his communication respecting
the advantages to be derived from a farther exploration of the Orinoco, vrith
reference to the very fine colony which he had described in such a graphic
manner. Colonel O'Connor had followed up the proposition of Admiral Elliot,
and he was sure if the recommendation of the Geographical Society was com-
municated to her Majesty's Government, that something would accrue to the
advantage of science, and he should hope to the eventual interests of the
country. He had hoped also to have received a communication from Baron
Humboldt, to whom he wrote about ten days ago, explaining that the Society
had had one communication, and were about to have another, on the import-
ance of opening up the navigation of the Orinoco. Perhaps the communica-
tion would come on a later day, and that he should be able to read it at a sub-
sequent meeting. Th'e Government had decided to make a mineral survey of
the West India isles. As Superintendent of the Geological Survey of England,
he liad been directed by Her Majesty's Government to appoint two gentlemen
to make this survey. Trinidad would be the first, and he trusted the result
would show the importance and value of that colony.
