280 RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. [Feb. 9, 1857.
traversed and examined them. No doubt there were many and
serious difficulties to be met with in the shape of deficiency in
quantity, and indifference in quality, of the water in many places,
the difficulty in crossing the ravines, and such-like obstacles ; but
he thought that in neither of the two great Passes were there insur-
mountable obstacles to conveying an army through them. There Were
a number of tribes in the various districts along these Passes ; but
he believed upon the whole they were rather friendly inclined than
otherwise. The great force of the province of Fars consisted of the
ancient Persian tribes, the assembling of whom by the Government
would be attended with considerable danger, as it would be uncer-
tain which side they would take.
The President, in returning thanks to General Monteith for his communi-
cation, reminded the Society that General Monteith was one of their earliest
Associates. He might tell them that in the year 1831, almost immediately
after the establishment of the Society, General Monteith produced before
them a map, which had been subsequently published, relating to the north-
western districts of Persia, and particularly to the Caucasus and Armenia.
As this distinguished officer accompanied Sir John Malcolm in 1810, and was
nearly twenty years in the country, and as he had been an eye-witness of all
that he related, he (the President) need not say that his account was to
be relied on. His recent work on Erivan and Kars was well known. He
had been with both the Persian and Russian armies in the campaign of 1824 ;
and also with Prince Paskievitch in the Erivan campaign. He, the Presi-
dent, was happy to observe among the Fellows present so able a commentator
on Persia, as Sir Henry Rawlinson, — one who was so capable of giving a lucid
explanation of the geographical features of Southern Persia, and who he hoped
would be induced to extend his observations also to other parts of those re-
gions, and to diversify the subject by allusions to the great historical events
of antiquity.
2. Observations on the Geography of Southern Persia^ with reference to the
pending Military Operations. By Col. Sir Henry C. Rawlinson,
K.C.B., F.E.G.S., etc.
Sir H. Rawlinsoj^. — Before proceeding to offer any observations
on the geography of Southern Persia, I think it proper to ex-
plain that I wish these observations to be understood as applying
to a purely scientific and geographical subject. This is not the
place nor the occasion, to enter into any political disquisition. I
beg it to be understood, that in describing the geography of the
country, in which the now pending military operations are being
carried on, T offer no opinion as to the justice or the expediency of
the Persian war. As a geographer, I am content to take the com-
mencement of that war as a "feiit accompli;" and I hope soon to
be able to include the termination of it in the same category. The
expedition, as you are aware, on leaving Bombay, proceeded first to
