Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 281
the Persian Gulf. This Gulf in olden times was called the Ery-
thraean Sea. I shall not fatigue you by going into the details of the
ancient history of the country ; but I may just mention that this
name of Erythraean Sea recalls many associations of great interest.
The Eed Sea of Egypt and the Persian Gulf were both called the
Erythraean Sea, or Eed Sea, not in allusion to the colour of the water,
as has been sometimes supposed, but rather as *' the sea of the Red
Men ;" for those Erythreeans, or " Eed Men," who inhabited equally
the shores of Abyssinia and of the Persian Gulf, were a great Hammite
race — the same which founded the kingdom of Nimrod in Babylonia,
and to which belonged the Ethiopians of both Africa and Asia.
These people, wherever they were found, were called " Eed Men,"
having thus the name of Erythrceans in the Persian and Arabian
Gulfs, of Phoenicians on the shores of the Mediterranean, of Idu-
means in the valley of the Euphrates, and of Homerites in the south
of the Peninsula ; for all these names have the same signification
of " Eed ; " and thus the tradition is explained, that Phoenicia was
colonised by the Erythraeans : they are, in fact, the same people.
We have indeed many proofs of this identity, which I shall be able
perhaps to notice as I proceed to explain the actual geography of
this famous sea. Probably the first point which will interest you, is
a notice of the scenes of the recent ex})edition from Bombay. I have
here a small plan— an amplification of a chart of Bushir and the sur-
rounding country — for which I am indebted to Colonel Sykes. This
chart shows you the country where the troops landed, and through
which they marched from Hallila Bay to Bushir. The most inter-
esting and curious matter connected with the march is this, that
the very point where the British troops first came into collision
with the Persians — a place which will ever be remembered as the
scene of a great victory of our troops, and where so many gallant
officers fell — that spot happens to be the most important in point of
antiquarian and historical interest of any place in the whole Persian
Gulf. At this very spot indeed existed in antiquity, the great capital
of the race which ruled in the Erythraean Sea. The remains of a city
are still to be seen there ; and from its ruins I produce here an
actual fragment, a brick from the Temple of Tirhakeh, the great
king of Ethiopia, who was contemporary with Sennacherib. There
are many specimens of the same class in the British Museum ; and
this particular brick was sent to Col. Sykes. I have written a few
notes upon this place, Eishir, which probably you will allow me to
read : —
" In remote antiquity it must have been a place of much import-
ance, for numbers of bricks, impressed with cuneiform legends, have
2 a2
