282 RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. [Feb. 9, 1857.
been dug up in the immediate vicinity, belonging to the Cusbite or
Ethiopian race, wbo also beld the neighbouring province of Khuz-
istan, and whose bricks are commonly found at Susa. Upon these
bricks are found the legends of Sutur Nakhunta^ contemporary with
Sargon of Assyria, and Kudixr Nakhunta and Tirhakeh, contemporary
with Sennacherib. There are so many points of connexion at this
period between the Ethiopians of Africa and the -Ethiopians of
Asia, that is, between Meroe and Susa (such as the identity of the
traditions referring to the two countries, the double Memnon, double
Cepheus, &c.), that I think it by no means impossible the Tirhakeh
of the Erythraean Sea, whose bricks are found at Rishir and Susa,
may be the very king of that name, who is mentioned in the Bible
and in the cuneiform annals of Sennacherib, as having invaded
Syria from Egypt, and having fought with Sennacherib, while that
monarch was engaged in his famous campaign against Hezekiah of
Judaea. At any rate, the kings had the same names ; they belong
to the same period of history, and ruled over divisions of the same
race. And if the geographical distance of Meroe from Susa and Eishir
be thought to be fatal to the identification of the two Tirhakehs, I
would quote the nearly parallel case of the Imaum of Muscat, who
at the present day holds Kishm in the Persian Gulf, and Zanzibar
on the coast of Africa.
" Under the Achaemenians we are unable to ascertain the name
of Eishir. The metropolitan city of this period, in the vicinity,
was Taoke, or Dalakee, where there was a royal palace of the Per-
sian kings, mentioned by Strabo, Arrian, and Ptolemy; and the
port of this city was at the mouth of the Granis, either at Bunder-
Eig, or at what is now called Eohilla Point, extensive ruins being
found at both of these spots at the present day. ( Yacut notices these
ruins south of Genava, and applies to them the name of Shiniz,
which, however, generally denotes a place at the mouth of the
Tab.)
" Under the Sassanians, in about a.d. 230, Ardeshir Babegan re-
built the two cities of Taoke, or Toug, and Eishir, and called the
one ' Earn Ardeshir ' and the other ' Eiv Ardeshir' — that is, ' the r6st
of Ardeshir,' and ' the delight of Ardeshir.' Eiv Ardeshir became
corrupted into Eishir, which has applied to the ruins of the city
ever since.
" During the third and fourth centuries, Eiv Ardeshir was the seat
of the Christian metropolitan of Persia ; and Johannes of Eishir,
who sat at the Nicene Council in 325, is said to have had ecclesias-
tical jurisdiction over all the churches both of Persia and of India.
*' At the time of the Prophet, Shahrek, the Marzaban or ' Lord of
