Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 283
the Marches/ a Magian chief, held all this part of the country ; and
the Arab historians describe his conquest by El Hakam el Thakafi,
who was sent by Omar from Bahrein, to reduce the sea coast of
Persia. The two battles, by which Shahrek lost Toug and Eishir,
are described in detail ; and the latter engagement is said to have
been not less bloody than the famous field of Kadissieh."
Now, that is the history of Rishir in antiquity — of a ruin which
has passed almost unnoticed up to the present day, and has only been
called into prominence by the recent operations. I have given you a
brief, though continued history of it from the time of Tirhakeh, the
great ^Ethiopian King, down to the Mahommedan conquest. After
that period, the place fell into ruin, and it is rarely mentioned by
geographers, until about the year 1500. In 1520, I believe, it
was repaired and rebuilt by the Portuguese. The fort which the
enemy occupied on the recent occasion, and which is called the
Portuguese fort by us, is, I believe, one of the very old works. It
is called in the country, generally, " the Fort of Nebuchadnezzar,"
and it is always noticed in the Persian gazettes as the " Fort of
Bahmen," who was a King of the old Dynasty.* The Portuguese
restored this fort, but the name they gave to it, I have never been
able to discover ; it was probably, however, a real Portuguese name ;
at the present day it has recovered its old name of Eishir (or Eiv
Ardeshir), and perhaps dates from the time of Tirhakeh, the ^Ethiopian
King.
I must now return to the more important subject of the actual
geography of the gulf. From the earliest times, the Persian Gulf
has been of much consequence, owing to its position upon the
great line of communication between the east and west; that is
between India and Europe. There have thus been in the Persian
Gulf, a succession of emporia, places where the commerce of the gulf
was concentrated, and which varied in situation according to cir-
cumstances. The earliest port, as far as I have been able to discover,
was situated at the mouth of the Euphrates. That was probably
anterior to the Persian Empire, before, I mean, the Empire of Cyrus
the Great. When the empire of Cyrus was instituted, and Persepolis
became a great capital, then the city at the mouth of the river
* By the name of Bahmen the Persians indicate Bahmen Ardeshir, or Artaxerxes
Longimanus ; but it is probable that in adopting this nomenclature they have con-
founded the two Ardeshirs, referring the tradition of Ardeshir Babegan, who really
rebuilt Eishir in about a.d. 240, and named it Biv-Ardeshir, to the more ancient
Bahmen Ardeshir or Artaxerxes Longimanus, who lived in the fifth century b.c.
An instance of the very same confusion occurs in the vicinity of Mohamrah, where
the city known to the Greeks as Xa^a^ 2?ra(r/v8, and rebuilt by Ardeshir Babegan,
who gave it the name of Asterabad, or Kerkh-i-Misdn, received after the Arab
conquest, the title of Bakmen Ardeshir, now corrupted to Bahmishir.
