284 RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. [Feb. 9, 1857.
Granis soon rose into importance, as the port from which all the
supplies of merchandise came into the country.* At the time of
Alexander's eastern campaign, we find mention made of Mesambria,
which is probably Bushir, and of the river Ehogonis, which is the
same as the Genava.f There were emporia probably at both of
these spots. In later times, the time of the Mahommedan conquest,
the great place was Siraf. This place, Siraf, continued to be the
emporium of the Gulf for a long period, — indeed, probably four or
five hundred years, — but the site has been improperly laid down in
the maps.f Then, the emporium was moved to the island of Keis or
Kenn. After Keis was ruined, the great emporium was at Ormuz
on the main land ; and when that was destroyed, it was removed to
the island of Ormuz. This place, the island Ormuz, was taken
possession of by the Portuguese in 1519, and for above 100 years
it was the entrepot of all the commerce between the east and
west. § In 1625, the East India Company sent three officers,
Captains Bligh, Weddell, and Monoxe, with a considerable fleet to
assist Shah Abbas in driving out the Portuguese. It was during
this expedition that the famous navigator Baffin, the discoverer of
Baffin Bay, was killed at the bombardment or siege of a place on
the neighbouring island, the town of Kishm, from which the island
♦ The name of the city at the mouth of the Granis is not given by Arrian ; but
Tct'ox-n is mentioned some way up the stream, as the site of one of the royal palaces ;
and both Strabo and Ptolemy confirm this statement. Now Taoke is of course the
Toug or Touj ( c-S J» ^^ ;?• J ) ^^ ^^® Arabic geographers, immediately at the foot
of the mountains on the road fi om Shiraz to Genava ; thus exactly answering to
tiie position of the modern Ddlaki,^ and leading to the inevitable inference, that the
mound on which the present fort is built, covers the ruins of the old Achsemeniau
palace. The Ddlaki river, or Granis, formed of two arms, which unite before it
leaves the mountains, again bifurcates as it approaches the sea, one arm falling
in at Bohilla Point, and the other at Bunder-Rig. There are extensive ruins at
both of these places, probably of the vEthiopian period ; but it is at Bunder-Rig,
I think, that we must look for the Shiniz of Yacut, a very ancient site south of
Genava.
f Aru-gtma (t. e. Vuyuvii) in Hamite Chaldee, and Gundva in old Persian, signify
the same thing, " the river of Guna." The Arab geographers usually write the
name ^j1,i„^ Jenaheh; but the old pronunciation of Gonava is now alone known in
the country. It is just opposite to the island of Kharg, or Karrack.
X The error of placing Sirdf to the south, near Cape Sertes, originated with Sir
W. Ouseley, who confounded the name with that of Shinds. The real Sirdf is now
called Skilau (an older form of the same name, probably meaning *' a torrent" or
" full stream") and is close to Taurie (properly Tdhiri, from its founder Tdhir),
and not many miles from Congoon. Morier describes the antiquities of the
place, and its cuneiform bricks, on the authority of a naval officer who had visited
the ruins. It should be well examined during the present expedition.
§ The 'Opftovtriu. of Arrian is Ormuz, on the mainland. The island he calls
'Ooydvu, which is probably the same as Germ, altered by the Arabs to Jerun
