Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 285
has its modem name.* The Portuguese after a short siege were
obliged to capitulate, and Ormuz was taken possession of by the
united British and Persian force. In consequence of this exploit,
Shah Abbas gave privileges to the British government which we
retain to the present day; in fact, it is owing to the assistance
rendered by us in the taking of Ormuz, that we have the right of
possessing a residency at Bushir. Shah Abbas, in the first instance,
permitted us to have a factory at Gombrun, or Bunder Abbas, oppo-
site Ormuz ; and this remained until about 100 years ago, when the
establishment was transferred from Gombrun to Bushir, and early
in the present century, the Factory was exchanged for a Eesidency.
It is quite impossible to give now a detailed description of every
place along the coast from Ormuz up to Bushir. All I can do
is to explain generally that the sea-board of the Persian Gulf
consists of a belt of low land, with mountains at a short distance
from the coast, varying from ten to thirty miles, seldom more than
thirty, and seldom less than ten. At Bushir, the distance is about
twenty-five miles. This low land between the mountains and the
sea is arid, badly-watered, containing no trees, except date-trees,
and inhabited by Arabs. It is altogether a very unpromising country.
The hills ascend abruptly at about thirty miles inland, and are in-
tersected by numerous valleys watered by mountain streams. These
valleys are beautiful spots, filled with lovely gardens, and inhabited
by fine mountain tribes, who are probably the best class of men
among the whole Persian nation, whether considered in regard to
bravery, honour, or fidelity. At the northern extremity of the
Persian Gulf, the mountains recede more to the northward, leaving
a large tract of country which is entirely plain, and which was
formed originally by the alluvial deposit of the large rivers that here
descend from the mountains. This tract of country is extraordi-
narily rich, and quite different in character from the belt of low
land in the neighbourhood of Bushir. It is an alluvial soil, admi-
rably adapted to cultivation, while the other tract is a mere barren,
sandy desert. If it should be necessary — w^hich of course we all
* Arrian names this island, which was said to contain the tomb of the Epony-
mous hero, King Erythras, Oa^axra ; and the title remains to the present day,
under the scarcely altered form of Vroct. The name is, I suspect, Hamite Chal-
dee, signifying " the separated/' or " broken off," in allusion to the natural con-
vulsion which divided the island from the main in remote antiquity, and the tra-
dition of which has been preserved by Justin (from Trogus Pompeius) in his
description of the migration of the Erythrgeans from the Persian Gulf to colonize
Phoenicia. The Arabs named the island Laft, from a town of that name which
still exists at the back of the island, and Ibn Gdwan, -.4»l£ .j^ from the tribe
which settled there.
