18 KANE. [Jan. 14, 1856.
pedestals cemented by ice. The longitude was based on moon culmi-
nations, corroborated by occultations of planets and the solar eclipse of
May, 1855. The position of the observatory was found to be in lat.
78° 37' and long. 70° 40' 6". Magnetic observations, both absolute and
relative, were also kept up.
Spasmodic disease occasioned the chief difficulty, but scurvy was com-
pletely subjugated. In the form of tetanus, the spasms attacked the
dogs, and 57 died, with symptoms not unlike hydrophobia. The loss of
these animals seriously affected Dr. Kane's plans ; new arrangements
had to be formed, which, owing to the smallness of the party, deprived
of the dogs, were necessarily restricted.
A passage to the north over the distorted ice, crowded with bergs,
was resolved on. A party sent in advance under Mr. Brooks endured
great suffering, and barely escaped with the loss of two lives. Another
effort in the same direction was made under Dr. Kane's personal
guidance during April and May, and journeys by other parties were
carried on till July 10. The addition of four dogs, contributed by
Esquimaux, permitted the operations to be considerably extended. Out
of nearly 3000 miles traversed, no less than 1 100 were made with the
dog-sledge ; and during the following year, 1854-55, Dr. Kane himself
travelled 1400 miles with a single team.
Three expeditions crossed the bay. The great glacier in lat. 79° 12'
was surveyed by Dr. Kane in 1855. Another party went to the S. W. ;
and the shores of the new channel northward were explored by the
third. Open waters washed the shores of the channel and terminated
in a sea, the heavy surf of which checked farther progress.
The farthest point attained is a precipitous headland, named Cape
Independence, in lat. 81° 22' N., and long. 65° 35' W. From it the
Western Coast was seen stretching to the north with an iceless horizon
and a heavy swell rolling on with white caps. Two islands on the
eastern threshold of this sea have been named after our lost countrymen.
Sir John Franklin and his companion. Captain Crozier. On the west,
the coast was observed to be mountainous, and the farthest distinctly
sighted point was a lofty mountain, bearing N. 5° E. (solar), estimated
to be in lat. 82° 30', and long. 66° W. (approximate), which Dr. Kane
proposes to name after Sir Edward Parry, who, he says, "as he has
carried his name to the most northern latitude yet reached, should
have in this, the highest known northern land, a recognition of his
pre-eminent position among Arctic explorers."
The winter of 1854 passed with many trials, and in the following
summer it became necessary to abandon the brig and retreat. On
May 17, Dr. Kane commenced his return in sledge boats ; on August 6,
in 83 days after leaving the ship, through many perils and escapes, he
