Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 287
in tlie time of Sennacherib, named Billat* It was an island even
up to the time of Alexander, being mentioned in the history of that
period under the names of Aphle and Apollogos. As Obollah on the
sea coast, it became the great entrepot, nnder the Sassanians and the
early Arabs, of the commerce running up the Euphrates. Now, it is
sixty miles from the embouchure of the river, and we can trace a
succession of cities below it, along the river, down to the sea. It
would seem indeed, that every two or three hundred years, a new
city was foimded on the sea shore, that it was then left dry, and the
people were obliged to desert it and form another port lower down.
In continuation of this subject, I may mention that along the whole
of the sea coast, from the mouth of the Euphrates to the mouth of
the Tab, there is a series of extensive sandbanks, which will all
become dry land in the course of a few years. The reason of this
change is again quite evident. It is not merely the simple physical
process that we observe in other countries, namely, that the river
water coming down charged with alluvium, and meeting the tide,
deposits the matter that it holds in solution ; but there is in the
Persian Gulf an additional cause of deposit. There are indeed but
two winds, either the north-west blowing down the valley of the
Euphrates, or a strong south-easter blowing up in the face of it.
When the wind blows down, there is of course no deposit ; but
when it blows up, which it often does for days together and with
great violence, it then brings the whole force of the sea directly
against the current of the Euphrates, and an enormous deposit
naturally takes place. That deposit is going on yearly ; and,
undoubtedly, in a few hundred years, the mouth of the river will
have extended out very much farther than at present. According
to my calculation, the increase is about a mile in thiiiy-five, or
in less than forty years. It is very doubtful if, what is now called
the mouth of the Euphrates, be the true mouth of the river. The
true mouth of the Euphrates, I myself believe to be, what is now
called, the Bahmishir, and that which is at present, the mouth of the
* The ruins of Obollah, which was a place of great importance at the time of
the Arab conquest, and which may very well be supposed to represent not only the
Billat (the t is the mere feminine termination, and was probably dropped in pro-
nunciation) of the cuneiform inscriptions, but the Aphle and Apollogos also of the
Greeks, are to be seen on the right bank of the Euphrates, about two miles above
the mouth of what our sailors call the Haffar or Mohamrah Creek. The name,
however, of Obollah is now lost. The site is of much interest to Indians, as the
place whence the Chaldeo-Persian colony emigrated on the approach of the
Arabs under Khaled, and sailed for India, cai-rying with them books, like the
Bundehesh, written in a language that we call Pehlevi, but which is in reality the
vernacular dialect of Southern Chaldtea in the seventh century. The colony
landed at Sindah, in Guzerat, now called St. John ; and the Parsees of Western
India are their direct descendants.
