288 RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. [Feb. 9, 1857.
Kariin. You have lately heard from Mr. Loftus, some interesting
disquisitions upon that river. I have only to observe, in refer-
ence to it, that, if we were to occupy Mohamrah, and if there was any
occasion to press farther upon Persia, then the natural course would
be, to ascend the Kariin into the open country of Susiana, instead of
attempting to mount the impracticable passes between Bushir and
Shiraz, which have been described in General Monteith's paper, and
which I venture to say, are not to be forced by any army in front of
an enemy. With respect to the physical geography of these passes, I
consider General Monteith's description to be very accurate. When
I saw them first, and still more when I first ascended them, I
thought they were quite impracticable to any army ; but after
having been a good deal about Persia, and having taken guns up
passes still more difficult, both there and in Affghanistan, I was
satisfied as to the possibility of conveying artillery anywhere —
provided there is no opposition. By putting a regiment to a gun,
you may drag it anywhere by sheer force — up the Himalaya or the
Andes ; — and you may thus, of course, take it up these Persian passes ;
but the operation is not to be attempted in front of an enemy. I
observe that Mr. Eich, a very good geographer, has the same idea
that I have, as to the passes on the route to Shiraz. He says the
roads in Persia are bad, but not nearly so bad as in Kurdistan ;
that the passes between Bushir and Shiraz are bad, but the passes
between Senna and Sulimanieh are much worse. There is no occasion,
however, I conceive, to attempt to force these passes. Another mode
of attack would be far less difficult and equally, if not more, effective.
The whole country to the north of the Gulf is perfectly open. The
river Kariin from Mohamrah is navigable almost up to Shuster ;
one of our steamers, indeed, has already made the ascent. Of
course, at that time the steamer went up for the mere prosecution
of geographic science, and without the slightest expectation that
the knowledge obtained would ever be turned to political account ;
but I see that we do not get credit for disinterestedness; on the
contrary, in a paper which was published in the last number of the
" Revm des Deux Mondes,^' there are statements from which it would
really appear, that the continental nations are disposed to think,
that all our previous explorations, and travels, and wanderings in
Persia, have been undertaken for the express purpose of preparing
for this present war. I find it stated, indeed, that a friend of mine,
whom I am glad to see present (Mr. Layard), and who at that time
was travelling about the Persian Mountains for the purpose of
copying inscriptions and acquiring geographical knowledge — I find
it stated that his travels were carried on at the expense of Govern-
