Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 289
ment, and for the express purpose of maturing the plans which
are now heing carried out. He is not mentioned by name, but
is described in a manner which leaves no doubt of his identity.
Now it so happened that while this gentleman was exploring the
Bakhtij^ari mountains, a steamer was going up the Karun at the
same time, for the purpose of executing a survey of the river, and
accordingly these two facts are put together in the paper alluded to,
and it is inferred that this country must have been laying those
plans fifteen years ago, of which we have the consummation in the
present Persian war. Such is the consolation we get for our geo-
graphical ardour, and our desire to communicate our knowledge to
the world.
To return, however, more particularly to the Karun :~the
passage of our steamer up the river was no doubt of great use in
showing us the navigability of the stream ; but if it ever should be
necessary to pass up the river into the interior, it is not to be
supposed that one steamer, or two steamers, or half-a-dozen steamers
will be sufficient to meet the requirements of the expedition — the
invading army must, of course, march along the banks of the river,
merely trusting to the flotilla for the conveyance of its stores and
ammunition, and in ten days' march from Mohamrah it would
reach the town of Shuster, which is situated in one of the best
supplied districts in the whole of Asia. The town of Shuster
moreover is extraordinarily strong in a military point of view,
being defended on two sides by a great river, and with a wall and
ditch at the base of the triangle leading from one river to the other.
It is altogether one of the strongest military positions that I
remember to have seen anywhere. The whole tract of country
between the two rivers, is farther admirably irrigated, and is in fact
one vast expanse of garden and cultivation. The only drawback
that would be met with is the heat. In summer time the place is
almost as hot as Bushir itself, although by no means so unhealthy,
since at Bushir, it is not so much the heat as the humidity which
creates unhealthiness, while at Shuster the climate is singularly
dry. Should a British army, however, be encamped at Shuster, it
must be understood that they will merely have the command of the
country below the mountains. That alone is an important position.
It would certainly be of great political importance to hold a province
of this extent and richness at our command ; still we must be careful
not to run away with the idea that, because an army has advanced
to Shuster, it is in a more favourable position for operating on
Tehran, than it was in at Bushir. It is in fact, all but impossible to
penetrate into the interior of the country from Shuster, that is —
