Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 291
senni are the principal people, and they have hitherto been parti-
cular friends of the British. Bdkir KKan, son of Walee Khan, the old
chief of Kileh Sufid, has often been the guest of the Eesident at
Bushir. He is, I believe, at present the head chief of the Mame-
senni, and in that capacity king of all the mountains, and accustomed
to look to the English for assistance and protection against the
Persian government. I once passed a day with Bdkir Khan among
the ruins of Shapiir, and was greatly pleased with him; he was
indeed a general favourite with all Europeans who ever met him.
He had been moreover in former days imprisoned by the Persian
government, and consequently bore no good will towards them.
Almost all these tribes, Persian as well as Arab, that is, the Mame-
senni, the Dashti, the Tangistuni, are governed by chiefs who
have been in habits of friendly commerce with us, and whom we
know and esteem exceedingly ; and I can never persuade myself to
bring such men into the same category of national hostility with
the officers of the Persian government ; they have, in fact, no sort
of feeling in common with the court of Tehran. They are brave,
honourable, independent men; and I do hope they will not be
driven by the force of circumstances to become our blood enemies,
like the chiefs of Affghanistan.* Above the mountains these war-
like chiefs are to be met with in all directions ; the chiefs of the
Bakhtiyari, for instance, who are rough, wild fellows, but still much
superior to the courtiers, artisans, and peasants whom you meet in the
towns and villages. Some of them are very like the old Highland
lairds, being able to bring into the field as many as four or five
thousand men. Taken as a class they are, I should say, most esti-
mable people. In the plains of Susiana the permanent inhabitants
are Arabs ; but the Liirs come down also in the winter from the
mountains to feed their flocks in the rich pastures of the Kerkha and
Karun. The tribes to the north of Susiana, are wilder than the
tribes to the south, and even more addicted to brigandage ; but even
they have their good qualities. I have not ventured to enter upon
any details of physical geography, because, although there is a good
deal to be said on that subject, the question of immediate interest
refers rather to political geography. I may notice, however, before
* One instance of this change has already occurred which is greatly to he re-
gretted, and which is ominous of future trouble. Bdkir Khan, the old chief of the
Tangistunies, was always on terms of intimacy with the British resident, and not
unfrequently did good service to the British Government. His son, Ahmed Khan,
however, on the occasion of the present invasion was driven into the ranks of our
enemies, and fell at the head of his Tangistunies, when we stormed the old fort of
Rishir. We are now, therefore, blood-enemies with this powerful tribe, for all
time to come.
