292 RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. [Feb. 9, 1857.
sitting down, that all the rivers running through the country of
Susiana have at one time or other changed their courses. It was
suggested, I think, by Mr. Loftus, on a previous occasion, that some
of these rivers seemed to have formerly run in different beds ; but
I would go much farther, and undertake to prove historically
that one and all the rivers have changed their courses, and that
these physical changes have given rise to much political confusion.
For instance, the original course of the river Kariin was through
Guhan to the sea, and it was mainly owing to a great dam being
erected at Sabla to raise the water of the river for the pui-pose of
irrigation, that it came across and joined the Bahmishir. I am now
speaking of later times ; but Alexander is said, in antiquity, to have
dug a canal from the Pasitigris to the Euphrates, along the line which
has again recently become the river bed. The course of the Kariin
through Guban, was the original frontier between Persia and Turkey ;
but the river, having changed its course, is still regarded as the
frontier, and the Persians, in consequence, have got a large acces-
sion of territory, to which they have no political right. If you refer
indeed to the old maps, you will see that Persia has no right either
to the Guban territory or to the Island of Abadan. I do not re-
member that I have anything further to state on the geography of
this part of the country. I see many gentlemen present who have
travelled over the same regions, and who possess, no doubt, much
information on the subject. I shall be happy both to listen to
them, and, if required, to answer any questions.
General Monteith, f.r.g.s. — I am not by any means so well informed on
the subject as Sir Henry Eawlinson, but I was directed by Sir John Malcolm,
in the fii'st instance, to proceed to Shuster, to trace the river Karun, and par-
ticularly to visit the ruins of Susa. We marched by land along the shores of
the Persian Gulf to Bassorah by Rohilla, Rig Gunnowa, Hissar, Delim,
Shebulsha, Endecan Mashur, and Darak, the capital of the Chab Sheik's
territories ; from thence traced the Karun to Shuster, and visited Desfnl
and the ruins of Susa. Another object was to see by what routes the
French, who were then expected to make the attempt, might advance on
India. The principal route is that which Alexander is supposed to have fol-
lowed. It leads from Shuster, through the valley of Hormuz, to Persepolis.
There is a desert destitute of water for about eighty miles from the Karun to
Ram-Hormuz, The people of the country have"a tradition that a settlement
from this place established themselves on the island of Ormuz, at the mouth
of the Persian Gulf, which afterwards became so renowned for its wealth and
commerce. I cannot say much for the road up the valley of Hormuz, leading
through rice swamps, but the valley is beautifully cultivated. The passes
there would be practicable for artillery with very little trouble, being only
separated from the plain of Babahoon by a low range of hills. Ihe celebrated
pass, which was forced by Alexander, can be distinctly recognised about 10 or
12 miles from the Kalai-sefid. That Kalai-sefid I ascended, and remained
there for two or three days. . It is the most singular place I ever saw, and rises
1500 feet above the level, and abounds in springs all round it. An artificial
