Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 293
path has been cut, but it is so easily defended, that a small body of men could
easily repel a large force. It was, however, taken by the Persians about twenty
years ago. That was the last attempt made by the Persians to bring the tribes
into some sort of order, for they are the greatest thieves in the world, plunder-
ing caravans, and everybody they possibly can. We were not robbed by them,
owing to our strong escort of Persian troops. From this point there is a pass
which would require to be repaired, and which would be forced without any
great difficulty. Between this pass and Shiraz there is no great obstacle to be
encountered. On returning from Bushir to Tehran in 1820, I spent a month
in examining the passes leading from Bushir to Shiraz, and thought them
less formidable than they appeared to be. I had a good number of men with
me, and I sent them up to the right and left to see whether these rocks,
apparently inaccessible, could be gained, and I saw them in a short time
crowning both sides of the pass. I took up twelve pieces of artillery ; but with
500 men, and it took us three weeks to get them up. The plan I adopted,
was to dismount the guns entirely and put them upon cradles made with
trees. Twenty-four men to each gun, could only convey it a short distance ;
then they were relieved by others, and by that means we forced a way up the
pass : of course that could not be done, if opposed, until you had crowned the
heights. After passing the worst part of the first pass you could, by throwing
a bridge across the ravine, reach a tract of country of much less diflSculty.
After passing through Konar-Tukht there is another pass, which descends
towards Kazerun : here there is nothing but stones, which could be blasted or
removed. From Kazerun you have a very strong pass, the Virgin's pass,
which is carried almost up the perpendicular face of a steep hill ; and the
dilapidated condition of the parapet scarcely prevents cattle tumbling over. I
followed the salt marsh down for about a mile, and saw a gap in the moun-
tains which would require a bridge over the marsh. From that you get to
the last pass, the Old Woman's pass, which is very steep but not very rocky,
and a road could be made without any impediment. After that there is no
further obstacle to Shiraz. I have only one thing to say as regards Chab, the
country to the right of the Kariin. In my day it was governed by a chief
who was nominally subject to Persia. His predecessor cut a canal for the
purpose not only of irrigation, but of turning the navigation, and bringing the
commerce of that part of the country into his own territory. Some creek or
channel must have been navigable, for I saw within the walls of the city
some of the largest vessels, although there was not more than three inches of
water at the time, but it could be augmented by returning the water of the
irrigation canals into its natural bed. The vessels were about 300 or 400 tons
burden.
Mr. a. H. Layard, m.p., f.r.g.s. — Mr. President, as you have done me the
honour to call upon me, I may perhaps say a few words, more to verify what
Sir Henry Eawlinson has stated, than to advance anything new on the subject.
I quite agree with him, that if this war is unhappily to be continued, the site
of our operations, at least of the position which our army must hold, must be
transferred from Bushir to the upper country, on the banks of the Karun, in
the neighbourhood of Shuster. It is a very rich, fertile province, perhaps the
richest of the whole of Persia. I am pretty well acquainted with the whole
of that country, having resided there nearly two years ; and as Sir Henry
Rawlinson stated, I was not there with any evil designs. Indeed, I had not
the remotest idea at that period that we should ever be engaged in warfare with
Persia. The origin of my entering that country is principally attributable to
the Memoir of my friend upon the site of the ancient city of Susa. Perhaps
the best account I can give of it is to state shortly how I got there, which was
not very easy at that time. My first intention was to penetrate through the
centre of Asia ; but at that period wars had broken out, and the roads were
