Jan. 14, 1856.] KANE. 19
arrived at Upernavik, where the Danish authorities gave them a cordial
welcome.
The President said that the small vessel in which Dr. Kane sailed
brought to mind the voyages of Hudson, Baffin, and other Arctic
worthies ; and he praised the unostentatious tone of Dr. Kane's report,
which touched upon hardships more with reference to those under him
than to himself.
He then pointed out the peculiar difficulties and sufferings of the
expedition owing to the appearance of tetanus — a complaint almost
unheard of in Arctic travel — which had carried off some of the men,
and almost all the dogs.
He acknowledged the impartiality with which Dr. Kane had named
the farthest points of discovery — which might be called the posts of
honour — without national distinction ; and said that the zeal and
ability displayed in the conduct of the expedition, and the generosity
with which Dr. Kane bestowed the praise due to it, upon those associated
with him, did credit alike to his head and his heart, and must endear
the man himself to all who had, that night, heard the account of his
proceedings.
Sir E. Belcher said that, on 17th May, from an elevation of 1500
feet, he had seen the sea open to the distant horizon, or as far as the eye
could see, studded with small loose ice, and had no doubt that this was
the same icy sea seen in motion by Parry and Kane.
Captain Sherard Osborn having made some observations upon the
relics of Franklin's expedition ; —
Dr. Rae agreed in the main with Captain Osborn, but wished to
remark that the descriptions given by the Esquimaux were distinct and
clear.
In the spring of 1850, a party, of at least 40 in number, had been
met N. of King William Land, who, travelling southwards, had
pitched tents to rest in, and were found dead on a low flat country near
Point Ogle. Mr. Anderson had found, on Montreal Island, part of a
boat marked " Terror," and the valuables obtained by him were similar
to those saved by Sir J. Ross. The account of the Esquimaux was no
doubt true in all material points.
He thought Dr. Kane's party would have suffered less had they
built snow-houses as he had done, instead of using tents when travel-
ling; he had only two blankets and two skins for every four men, and
scarcely suffered from cold. A difference of 15° or 20° in the external
temperature made little difference in a snow-house. The position of the
ships was supposed to be between Victoria Land and N. Somerset.
The President said he had not wished to bring on a discussion on
points which would naturally be raised at the next Meeting, and re-
c2
