298 RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. [Feb. 9, 1857.
wall, yon will find Herat most accurately, scientifically, and clearly laid down,
for the position was determined by Colonel Sanders, of the Bengal Engineei s,
by chronometer, by observation, and by triangulation, from the Indian base.
The question as to whether it belongs to Affghanistan or Persia I will answer
in a few words. Persia has belonged to Herat, but Herat has never belonged
to Persia, as an integral portion of her territory. After the death of Timour
(or Tamerlane), his son. Shah Eokh Mirza, established his capital in Herat,
and during his reign the whole kingdom of Persia was thus in dependence on
the city. After that time, Herat was generally an independent country.
During the time, however, of the Seffevis, for a short period the Persians
obtained forcible possession of Herat, as they also did of Bagdad, and so far
as a right by conquest is concerned, they have as good a claim to one city as
the other. The Seffevis were succeeded by Nadir Shah, who first placed the
Dorani tribes in Herat. At his death Ahmed Shah instituted the Affghan
monarchy, and from that time to the present Herat has always been an inde-
pendent Afifghan principality, so that the Persians cannot possibly lay any
territorial claim to Herat. Having thus cursorily noticed the political charac-
ter of the country, I will now say a few words with regard to its geography.
It is frequently said that all the great lines of route through Asia centre at
Herat, and that it derives its importance from this circumstance, but this is
not by any means the case. Herat is of importance for the following reasons.
Firstly, because it lies upon the high road from Persia to the Indies ; there
being no other route. Every caravan, indeed, army, or anything else, coming
from the west, must necessarily march by Herat to enter Affghanistan. Then,
again, the district round Herat is probably the richest in Asia ; and there is
this further peculiarity, which is a great military advantage, that in the same
line there happens to be at a convenient distance another district of almost
equal fertility. Herat is the first station, and Nishapore is the second. These
two are situated at a convenient distance from each other, and cauv furnish
supplies to an almost unlimited extent. To obtain a just idea of the fertility
of the district, we have only to remember that the army of Mahomed Shah in
1838, from fifty to sixty thousand strong, remained in the neighbourhood of
Herat for more than ten months, drawing supplies from the villages around
without experiencing any scarcity. In that district there are four or five hun-
dred rich villages with abundance of water, and the plain is one continued sheet
of cultivation for 50 or 60 miles in extent. Lastly, the city itself is of extra-
ordinary military strength, being surrounded by a great mound of earth, such
as we call a " fausse-braie," of enormous height (80 or 90 feet high), and at a
considerable slope. Upon the slope also is a double line of trenches with
traverses to protect them from an enfilade fire. The place is thus quite strong
enough to protect itself from any coup de main on the part of Oriental assail-
ants ; and if improved by a few scientific additions, such as flanking defences,
escarpment of the ditch, &c., it would present a sufficiently formidable front
even to a European army. In the recent affair, it must be remembered, it
was not taken by the Persians, but it capitulated for want of provisions. The
siege might have been protracted six months longer, without much risk of
danger, if the garrison had been only furnished with supplies. From Herat to
Candahar the country is quite open and sufficiently easy ; there would in-
deed, to use a familiar illustration, be no difficulty in driving a four-in-hand the
whole way. The mistake that we are in the habit of making in considering
Herat, is that we put it in the same category with Cabul ; but this is altogether
wrong. It is an error that has obtained a general belief without any reason
whatever. Herat has, in fact, no connexion with Cabul, either geographically,
politically, or physically. The Cabul line to India is no doubt extremely diffi-
cult, almost impracticable for armies ; whereas the country from Herat to
Candahar, below the hills and so on to the plains of Sinde, is perfectly open.
