Feb. 9, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON SOUTHERN PERSIA. 299
and practicable for troops in every direction. Tt should be remembered,
indeed, that during the whole of the Affghan war we never had a reverse or
even a check in Western Affghanistan, with tlie exception of that single affair
of Sir Richard England's at Hykelzye ; so that it is hardly fair to place Herat
and Candahar in the same category with Cabul. At present the Persians are
in occnpation of Herat, and we are at war with Persia for the purpose of
compelling her to evacuate the city and restore it to the A Afghans. It is to
be hoj)ed, and I confidently expect, that the war will have that effect. But if
it be otherwise, if the Persians do not evacuate Herat, then comes the ques-
tion, what are we to do ? It is very currently believed that the forces sent
up the Gulf, are for the purpose of marching on Herat ; but that is an absurd
idea, that could never have entered into the imagination of any person ac-
quainted with the country. The country between Shiraz and Herat, being
for the most part a salt desert, is perfectly impracticable to an army ; but I
am not prepared to say that, in a geographical, physical, or military point of
view, there would be any difficulty in marching a force from our own Indian
frontiers to Herat, in order to expel the Persians from the city. I should be
sorry to see such a campaign undertaken, because of the expense ; but the
movement is perfectly practicable, and w^ould almost certainly be successful, if
we were content with the one definite object of recapturing Herat. In the
former Affghan war, all our disasters arose, it might be remembered, from
alterations of the original plan. Having marched through Affghanistan and
placed Shah Shuja on the throne, our work was accomplished, and we should
have retired, but, instead of returning, we remained in the country, and
thus exposed ourselves to disaster. In the same way, if we were now to march
upon Herat, and, having expelled the Persians, were to insist on remaining
in military occupation of the place, we might be subjected to great difficulties
on account of the exceptional position of the country. In England, we are apt
to forget that the social condition of Affghanistan, is different from that of any
other eastern country. Throughout Candahar and Herat, and partially in
Cabul, the lands are in possession of a privileged class, the Dorani aristocracy.
These chiefs possess great power, and are, in fact, the lords of the country,
holding their vast estates on a sort of feudal tenure, and having the peasantry
under them. Now the Doranis would necessarily be put on one side, if
we were to assume the government of the country ; and foreseeing their
fate, they would thus be predisposed to become our enemies. It would be
vain indeed to attempt to hold the country, unless the Doranis were removed ;
and although the Persians might not scruple to undertake such a work of
depopulation, the English of course could not accept its responsibility. In
the times of Sennacherib and Tiglathpaleser, such things were often clone, —
whole nations were transported fr m one country to another, and similar
means are still occasionally resorted to in the East, for taming a turbulent
population. But the British Government, in the nineteenth century, could not
of course be a party to any such proceeding. I repeat, therefore, in con-
clusion, that if we are content to march on Herat, expel the Persians, and
return to India, there is no difficulty or danger in the enterprise ; but that,
if we attempt to retain a permanent footing in the country, we shall inevitably
incur disaster.
The President, in conveying the expression of the thanks of the meeting
to Sir Henry Rawlinson, regretted that the lateness of the hour alone (it being
near eleven o'clock) prevented a more lengthy discussion on the subject then
under notice. He saw present several travellers wlio, from their personal
knowledge of the country, could no doubt have afforded them very valuable
information. He must, however, adjourn the meeting until the 23rd instant.
