300 LAUTURE'S EXPEDITION UP THE NILE. [Feb. 23, 1857.
Eighth Meeting, Feb. 23, 1857.
Sir RODEKICK I. MURCHISON, President, in the Chair.
Presentations. — Walter Bryant ; John Gilchrist ; and Z, D. Hunt^
Esqrs., were officially introduced upon their election.
Elections. — The Hon. A. Kinnaird, m.p. ; Capt. W. A. Willis, r.n. ;
Lieut. J. H. Glover, r.n. ; and H. M. Add&y ; E. Coghlan ; D. Stewart
Dykes; T. K. Fletcher; S. L. Howard; and J. S. Sherrin, ll.d., Esqrs.,
were elected Fellows.
Donations. — The following were among the donations since the
former meeting : — The ' Atlas Geografico Estadistico 6 Historico de
la Eepublica Mexicana,' par Antonio Garcia y Cubas, presented by
the author, through General Almonte, the Mexican Minister ; the
* Map of Scinde,' in four sheets, by the Quartermaster-General
(Bombay) Colonel Neil Campbell, presented by Lieut. Watson ; a
copy of ' Meteorological Observations made during the progress of
the Survey of Ireland,' by order of the Secretary for War, and
further contributions from the Ordnance Map Office, consisting of
274 sheets of Yorkshire, on the scale of six inches to a mile ; the
6-inch maps of Fife, Kinross-shire, and Linlithgowshire ; plans
of several towns on the 5-feet scale, extending to 1360 sheets;
maps of Aldershot, &c., presented through Colonel James; No. 18
of Dr. Blackie's Imperial Atlas ; MS. Maps of ' Bahia de Todos
OS Santos,' presented by E. Porter, Esq., f.r.g.s., &c.
Announcements. — It was announced that a letter had been received
from Sir J. C. Melvill, Secretary to the Honourable East India Com-
pany, informing the Council that the Society would be furnished
with a complete set of the Company's charts, together with nautical
directions and other maps and works relating to geography.
Exhibitions. — The President called attention to the bust of Dr.
Livingston, by Mr. Miller.
Auditors. — Thomas H. Brooking and E. Osborne Smith, Esqrs.,
on the part of the Council; and H. Paper, r.n., and Francis Le
Breton, Esqrs., on the part of the Society, were appointed Auditors.
The papers read were : —
1. The Secretary read extracts from notes on the Expedition
up the Nile, communicated to him by M. Le Comte d'Escayrac de
Lauture. The naval portion of the expedition under the command
