Feb. 23, 1857.] LAUTUKE'S EXPEDITION UP THE NILE. 301
of our countryman, Mr. Twyford, although with great difficulty,
had ascended for the first time with steamers the celebrated cataracts
of the Nile, and early in January had arrived in the town of New
Dongola. The Count, however, had been obliged to suspend ope-
rations until the next season.
Colonel Sykes, v.-p.e.g.s., said he held in his hand a letter from the
Comte d'Escayrac de Lauture to the Secretary. In it he complained that the
Germans attached to the expedition threw impediments in the way. He also
said that the Austrians had a mission at Khartum, on the White Nile ; and
when the Pasha sent troops for the safety of the traders up the river, he
found that the Austrian missionaries had distributed little Austrian flags,
which had produced a great effect in Egypt, as if they were going to act
the part of the Spaniards in South America. The Comte adds—" I am very
glad that it was an Englishman who achieved this first success in thus ascend-
ing the cataracts of the Nile. With respect to Twyford, I have thought it
right to increase his salary." Then, he continues, he had no doubt this great
enterprise would experience very great obstacles ; " but with the two people,
the English and French — France bold, and urged on by the love of glory ;
England patiently indifferent to obstacles, and always looking to the future —
there can be no doubt about the ultimate results of the expedition."
The President said that M. d'Escayrac had already distinguished himself
by the excursions he had made in Africa. He was a French gentleman who
had devoted himself to the cause of geography, and was therefore entitled to
the consideration of that Society. He had, at the request of the Pasha, invited
gentlemen of different countries to accompany him in this expedition, and it
was gratifying to find that with none of his companions had he been more
satisfied than with Mr. Twyford, the young English sailor.
2. Proposed Communication in Asia Minor, between the Lake of Sahanja,
the River Sakaria, and the Gulf of JVicomedia. By General Jochmus.
Cemmunicated by Sir Eoderick I. Murchison.
History establishes that in ancient times the utility had been already
recognised of a communication between the Black Sea and the Gulf
of Nicomedia, by means of canals which should connect, on the one
hand, the river Sakaria with the lake of Sabanja, and on the other,
this lake with the Gulf of Nicomedia, directly, or by way of the
little river Kara-su.
Down to the end of the last century, the question of this system
of canalization had been seven times agitated ; first in the time of
the kings of Bithynia ; next under the Emperor Trajan ; tJien under
two Byzantine Emperors — Anastasius and Alexis ; and again during
the reigns of the Sultans Bajazid II., Mohammed IV., and Mus-
tapha III.
In ancient times there were technical objections to the execution
of this great enterprise ; a magnificent Eoman bridge 800 feet in
length, however, still exists, which, in the environs of Ada-bazar,
