302 JOOHMUS'S PROPOSED COMMUNICATION [Feb. 23, 1857.
thrown across one of the natural outlets of the lake Sabauja into
the Sakaria, attests the importance which the imperial (Roman)
government attached to the means of communication in the rich
province of Nicomedia. At a later period, under the Ottoman
Emperors, measurements and levels had already made known the
facility and the incontestable advantages of the hydraulic works
then projected.
The Grand Vizier in the year 909 of the Hegira (a.d. 1503)
caused the following facts to be made known.
The distance from the river Sakaria to the lake of Sabanja is
9600 siraas (or 19,200 French feet, or about 3| miles). The
distance from the lake to the Gulf of Nicomedia is 22,000 siraas (or
44,000 French feet, or scarcely 9 miles). The difference of level
nowhere interposes a difficulty.
Between the Sakaria and the lake there already exists a natural
communication by the little river of Sari-dere ; and according to the
report of Sinan Pasha, it was intended to form a direct canal
there, — or rather merely to deepen the bed of the Sari-dere, and to
cut a canal throughout the distance of only 2200 feet. To effect
the more important communication, that between the lake and the
gulf, Sinan Pasha wished to cut a direct canal between Nicomedia
and the lake; but it must be observed that the Roman governor
Pliny proposed to the Emperor Trajan, either a direct canal, or
one considerably deviating from a direct line, which he projected to
communicate with the river at present called the Kara-su.
In the year 1172 of the Hegira (a.d. 1758), the Grand Vizier,
Raghib Pasha, revived the same enterprise, in order to give occu-
pation to the poor of Constantinople, then threatened with famine
by the failure of arrivals of corn from the Black Sea ; and he gave
the direction of the works to an Hungarian, the celebrated General
de Tott, who was at that time in the service of the Sublime Porte.
The Memoirs of the Baron de Tott* prove that there exists no
technical difficulty to oppose the execution of these hydraulic
works ; but the project was nevertheless abandoned, because, the
famine having been stayed, popular commotions at Constantinople
were no longer feared. The historiographer, Wassif Effendi, however,
has related that some individuals, interested in hindering the projected
canalisation, found means to bribe certain influential public officers,
who caused the works to be discontinued, the traces of which are
still to be seen.
Raghib Pasha had it especially in contemplation, to insure for
Set Von Hammer.
