Veu. 23, 1857.] IN ASIA MINOR. 303
the capital, in time of peace, as well as of war, by means of an
internal communication, plentiful supplies of corn, provisions, and
wood, independently of the customary arrivals from the Black Sea
and the Mediterranean.
The idea of connecting the Black Sea and the Gulf of Nicomedia
through the lake Sabanja was again taken into consideration during
the reign of Sultan Mahmoud, of glorious memory ; but it seems
that a certain Osman Effendi represented that the establishment of
this system of canals might facilitate the entrance of a hostile
fleet from the Black Sea into the Sea of Marmora, or even
military operations against the capital; and these considerations
were amongst the principal causes of the last abandonment of this
great and noble enterprise.
The danger is altogether imaginary. The undersigned has
travelled through the provinces of Niceea, Nicomedia, &c., and he is
firmly convinced that no hazard to Constantinople can arise from
the canalisation in question. It is not intended to establish a
water communication for ships of the line and frigates, but rather
for coasting vessels and small steamboats ; and thus to provide for
the capital all the advantages of an extensive internal navigation,
and a means for the continual and eheap supply of wheat, barley,
straw ; wood for fuel, carpentry, and shipbuilding ; charcoal, and
other articles of daily consumption.
The country around the Lake of Sabanja, and all along the river
Sakaria both upwards and downwards, is remarkably rich in timber
and vegetation, and is capable of the highest culture. Though even
at present in a very satisfactory and prosperous condition, its pro-
ductive powers are susceptible of very great augmentation. It is
superfluous to add, that the city of Nicomedia, and the public
establishments already existing or to be founded there, would
derive considerable advantages from the canals indicated. It may,
besides, be considered certain that the tolls to be paid by vessels,
as well as the augmentation of the public revenues, and of the value
of the forests and other state property in the province of Nicomedia
alone, would pay the most liberal interest for the capital expended
on the hydraulic works.
What has been stated as to the advantages off'ered to Constanti-
nople and the province of Nicomedia, relative to the supply of
provisions to the capital by means of an internal communication,
will also apply nearly in an equal degree to the country around the
Lake of Nicasa. The distance from the Lake of Nicaea to the Gulf
of Gemlik is nearly the same as that from Lake Sabanja to the
Gulf of Nicomedia, with the difference, however, that there already
