304 JOCHMUS'S PROPOSED COMMUNICATION. [Feb. 23, 1857.
exists a natural communication between the waters of the Lake of
Nicaea and those of the sea. It would, then, only be necessary to
form into a canal this channel, by which water from the lake is
discharged into the sea, to secure a way for the water-transport of
the products of its shores, scarcely a fourth part of which are
cultivated.
On the two great Lakes of Nicasa and Sabanja there does not
exist at present a single vessel of transport, whilst there are a
hundred and sixty small vessels on the Lake of ApoUonia, which
carry on a lucrative commerce with Constantinople by way of the
river of Muhalitch ; although the banks of this lake are not nearly
so rich or important as those of the Lake of Nicaea, or especially as
those of the Lake of Sabanja.*
Constantinople, 25th May, 1846.
The President said this was one of several communicatioHS, most of them
of greater length, on the comparative geography and ancient encampments in
Greece and Asia Minor, prepared by the General and sent to the Society.
These would in time be laid before the Fellows in the publications of the
Society.
Mr. W. J. Hamilton, f.r.g.s., said, that although he had not visited
the particular district alluded to by General Jochmus, he was acquainted
with some of the physical features of the country almost immediately con-
nected with it. As far as he had been able to follow the paper, it appeared,
with regard to the canalisation between the lake Sabanja, the river Sakaria,
and the Gulf of Nicomedia, that General Jochmus proposed that the lake
Sabanja should be the principal source whence the water would be derived for
the purpose of canalizing the district and supplying the different sluices. He
imagined that the bed of the river Sakaria, flowing as it did between a moun-
tainous region and the Black Sea, must be at a higher level than the lake
Sabanja ; consequently the water would flow from the river into the lake. He
did not mean to say that that would offer any great difficulty. The district
was one of the best watered in Asia Minor. The Sakaria rose in the interior,
and had a very abundant supply of water ; and, therefore, if the river Sakaria
was higher than the lake Sabanja, would not offer any material obstacle. But
the country between that district, and extending northward to the Black Sea,
* Constantinople, 31st May, 1847.
. M. Hommaire de Hell, to whom I communicated this memoir, addressed a note
to his Excellency the Grand Vizier, Reshid Pasha. His levels are founded merely
on approximative data ; and although it might be less expensive to make a railroad
between the Lake of Sabanja and Nicomedia, an inspection of the ground between
the Lake and the Black Sea, which down to the present time has not been ex-
amined by M. de Hell, will probably prove that the establishment, in thatpart, of a
canal would be more practicable and perhaps also less costly. There still remains the
consideration of the double or triple embarkation and shifting of goods, necessarily
expensive, if a railway were to form a part of the line, and the transport were to
be effected partly by the Lake of Sabanja, then by land, and lastly by sea. M. de
Hell is in error if he believes himself to be the first person who has taken the ele-
vation of the ground in question, as Von Hammer has indicated the exact levels,
twice estimated in 1503, by order of the Turkish government, between the Lake of
Sabanja and the Sea of Marmora, as well as between this lake and the Sakaria j
but there is a great difference between the results obtained in 1503 and in 1847.
