Feb. 23, 1857.] IN ASIA MINOR. 305
was very mountainous ; and the probability was that the river must flow at a
considerably higher level than the Sabanja. Between the lake and the Gulf of
Nicomedia there was no great difference of level. The country also being a
mountainous one was not likely to offer any of those facilities for navigation
which it Appeared the Turks contemplated at a former period, and which was
one of the reasons why they objected to give any sanction to the undertaking.
The other lake mentioned by General Jochmus he was not acquainted with.
The lake Apollonia certainly had a communication with the Sea of Marmora,
but from what he saw in the neighbourhood of the town of Apollonia, he should
not have imagined there was anything like the number of vessels mentioned
by General Jochmus. It might be so. The country, particularly to the
northward, was very fertile ; vineyards and silk abound ; and the trade with
Constantinople was very considerable. There could be no doubt that the
opening out of this system of canals between Sabanja and Sakaria would very
materially facilitate commercial transactions from the Sea of Marmora to the
Black Sea.
3. On the Geography of the Sea of Azov, the Putrid Sea, and the adjacent
Coasts, with Remarks on their Commercial Future, By Capt. Sherard
OSBORN, R.N., C.B., F.R.G.S. [AhstrO/it J]
Among the hydrographical features of the Sea of Azov, the author
alluded to the configuration of its bottom, which, at the greatest
depth, seldom exceeding 40 feet, forms a flat in the centre of the
basin, extending about 55 miles east and west, and 35 miles north
and south. Between this flat and the coast the bottom slopes for
the most part gradually, the inclination being generally one foot in
a mile between the depths of 30 and 40 feet, and rather more abruptly
in shallower water. The regularity of this slope is, however, occa-
sionally interrupted by banks, adjacent to some of the remarkable
sandy spits which, characterise the coasts of this sea. The Obitochna
Banks, S.E. of the spit bearing that name, are attributed to volcanic
action, the effects of which in this sea were distinctly exhibited in
the occurrence of a submarine eruption in Temriuk Bay, in 1799,
described by Pallas. Volcanic phenomena in various forms also
occur on the peninsulas of Kertch and Taman. The only rock
known to exist within the whole extent of this sea was discovered
near the north coast, eastward of Berdiansk, and has been called
after H.M.S. Vesuvius.
The sandy spits are constantly extending, and present a steep
face, rising out of deep water, against the current from the east ;
while towards the west they form shoals which are always in-
creasing. These spits are inhabited by fishermen employed by
wealthy companies, and wild fowl abound on them. The constant
extension of the spits appears to be accompanied by a general
diminution of depth, which is said to have amounted to 6 feet in
127 years. This result is hastened by the discharge of ballast from
