306 OSBORX ON THE SEA OF AZOV. [Feb. 23, 1857.
trading vessels, which the author observed in the form of knolls, all
over the bottom near Taganrog, and in the bights oflf Berdiansk
and Mariopol. These knolls form nuclei for fresh alluvial deposits.
The author also described at some length the winds and currents
of this sea. He pointed out the influence of the wiads on the depth
of the water, which strong breezes had the efifect of blowing away
on the one side and heaping up on the other. The spits afford a
shelter against easterly winds, but there is no protection in any
part of the sea against the westerly gales. With reference to the
currents, the author differs from M. Taitbout de Marigny, who
asserts that there is little current in the Sea of Azov. This is
maintained to be an error, and the influence of the winds on the
motion of the water is regarded as a sufficient indication of the
existence of currents, and various examples were given on this
point. The rivers also contribute to produce currents from three
quarters, viz. the delta of the Don, the Sivash, and the rivers
between Taman and Kamisheva. From the entrance of the Gulf of
the Don the current passes in three branches : — Ist, along the north
coast, as indicated by the direction of the spits, at the rate of a knot
or a knot and a half per hour ; 2ndly, through the centre of the sea,
on a S.S.W. course, with a velocity of about one knot per hour;
and 3rdly, in a direction nearly due south to Kamisheva Point,
curving round from thence to the Jelezin Bank, where it connects
itself with the outflow from the deltas of the Kuban, Protok,
Beysough, and runs out through the straits of Yenikali.
The physical features of the Spit of Arabat and of the Sivash or
Putrid Sea were described from observations made during the late
campaign, and the author also dilated upon various topics relating
to the surroundiag regions, dwelling considerably upon the im-
portance of the Ciscausian Eegion, both geographically and com-
mercially, and pointing out that it forms the natural highway to
Persia and Northern India from Central Europe. Captain Osbom
said that a traveller might yet go from Vienna to Asterabad, vid the
Danube, Black Sea, Valley of the Kuban, and Caspian, in a fortnight.
The Pbesident returned thanks to Captain Sherard Osbom for his commn-
nication, so remarkable for the variety of subjects touched upon. It embraced,
in fact, the history of the southern regions of Russia. But there were some
points connected with the Sea of Azov to which he should like to recall atten-
tion. For example, the title of the pai)er was upon the commercial future of
the Sea of Azov ; but Captain Osbom had not told them how many hundreds
of years would elapse before the whole of the Sea of Azov was filled up. He —
the President — ^had been along the northern edge of that sea, and could bear
testimony to the fidelity and accuracy which Captain Osbom had displayed
in his description as to the great mass of matter brought down the Don, and
the way in which it accumulated on one side of the spit and edged round to
