308 OSBORN ON THE SEA OF AZOV. [Feb. 23, 1857.
or black soil peculiar to the country, might produce fine corn, but it was
wonderful how little corn could be seen in crossing the country. He saw
plenty of dried-up grass.
The President. — In what season ?
Mr. Oliphant. — In October ; but still he did not see evidences of cultiva-
tion. The idea which forced itself on the mind, in considering this fertile
country teeming with resources, was, not that it was improving rapidly, but
that it should have improved more rapidly. The country between the Kuban
and the Caucasus was one of the most magnificent in the world. It consisted
really of savannahs ; the grass in the valleys grew six or eight feet long. The
character of the country of the Don Cossacks was quite different ; there the
steppes were undulating, like a sea in a heavy swell. There was no nation, he
believed, that understood less the development of the resources of a fertile
region than the Kussian. If it had been in the hands of the Americans,
the aspect of afiairs would have been very different. Were they to possess
it for twenty years, the harbours, instead of being choked up, would be used
as the natural outlets for the produce of the country, if they were available
for the purpose, nor would places be chosen for ports which were the very worst
that could be selected. Taganrog, Kertch, Gheisk, ought not to be ports at
all. He would explain why Kaffa was the natural outlet of the country.
At Taganrog, vessels had to anchor several miles off the coast, and the com
which was brought down the Don, had to be reshipped four times before it was
finally deposited in the hold of the vessel, after it had passed through the straits
of Kertch. Whereas, if Kafia, was the emporium, lighters could come right
down even from Tcherkask without ever taking out their cargo, and the whole
commerce of the country would be concentrated there. He believed Kertch
was a pet place of Prince Woronzoff, and Taganrog was created by the Emperor
Alexander ; these places had been selected not because they were the natural
outlets for the country, but because certain individuals took a fancy to them.
The President. — It is the fact that the natural tilling up of the sea has
occasioned them to move ports farther towards the water.
Mr. Oliphant. — Just so. The anchorage at Taganrog is 20 miles off.
Captain Osborn. — There is an anchorage about 6 miles off straight south
of Taganrog.
Mr. Oliphant. — The merchant vessels were at anchor an immense distance
off when I was there.
Ninth Meeting^ March 9, 1857.
Sm RODERICK I. MURCHISON, President, in the Chair.
Presentations. — Capt. W. A. Willis, r.n. ; Lieut. William Chimmo,
R.N. ; Dr. J. S. Sherrin ; and D. S, Dykes, T. K. Fletclier, and S. M.
Howard, Esqrs., were officially introduced upon their election.
Elections. — Col. P. Anstruther, c.b. ; Capt. W. J. Eastwich; the Rev.
Dr. Elder; the Right Hon. Lord Falkland; Commander F. K. Hawkins,
R.N. ; Dr. E. Hamilton, m.d. ; Capt. Jenkin Jones ; Col. the Hon. W. L.
Pakenham ; the Lord Bishop of St. David's ; Sir Justin Sheil, k.c.b. ; the
Earl of Shelburne ; Sir W. Femcick Williams of Kars, Bart. ; and
R. Sinclair Aytoun, E. G. Culling Eardley, Thomas Gillespy, W. B. Green-
