MARCU9, 1857.] MURCHISON. 309
fields G. W. Lennox, W. B. Long, J. C. Marshman, and A. Sicanzy,
Esqrs., were elected Fellows,
Donations. — Among the principal donations received since the
last Meeting, were Plans and Sections, published by the War
Department; 'Percement de I'lsthme de Suez, etc.,' by M. F. de
Lesseps; and the Journals of the Scientific Bodies of France,
Prussia, the United States, and Canada.
Exhibitions.— Lieut. W. Chimmo, r.n., f.r.g.s., exhibited certain
relics connected with the search for the North Australian Expedi-
tion under Mr. Gregory, found on the coast of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria and on the banks of the Victoria Eiver, and referred to in his
Paper in the ' Proceedings.'
Announcements. — 1. The President said that a letter had been
just received from Captain Richard Burton, announcing his arrival
at Zanzibar, on the east coast of Africa, and his intention to pro-
ceed, as speedily as possible, for the interior, in search of the Great
Lake.
2. The Twenty-sixth Volume of the * Journal,' and the Seventh
Number of the ' Proceedings ' of the Society, were next announced
as having been published that day.
3. It was then announced that a letter had been received from
the Earl of Shelbume, enclosing, by direction of the Earl of
Clarendon, a copy of a despatch from Her Majesty's Minister at
Lisbon, stating that the Viscount de Sa da Bandeira had, by order
of the King of Portugal, transmitted the vote of thanks, passed at
the Special Meeting of the Royal Geographical Society on the 15th
of December, to the Portuguese Authorities of East and West Africa,
for their kind reception of the intrepid Dr. Livingston.
Address hy Sir Roderick Murchison on Opening the Meetirig of the
Royal Geographical Society, March 9, 1857.
Gentlemen, — An attachment resulting from and cemented hy an intercourse
of nearly thirty years' duration would naturally have led me at our last meet-
ing to express to you my grief upon the occasion of the decease of my valued
friend the Earl of Ellesmere ; but the grave had not then closed over his
remains.
Now, that the sad ceremony has been performed, in the presence of many
a true mourner and amid the wail of a devoted tenantry, I cannot allow this
the first opportunity presented to me to pass, without giving utterance to the
feelings of sincere sorrow which I experience, in common, I am sure, with all
members of the Royal Geographical Society, upon the loss of such a man.
Of him, I may well say that his whole career was as honourable to himself
as it was useful to his country ; for his knowledge of our pursuits was one
only of the many accomplishments in science, letters, and arts, which his
