Mar. 9, 1857.] CAMPBELL'S REMARKS ON SOUTH-WESTERN AFRICA. 311
justly conclude that its source, or at least tlie parent stream — should
a confluent really exist to the north — is within a few degrees south
of the latitude of its mouth, but at a great distance inland. This
hypothesis is strengthened by the recent exploration and traverse
of Southern Africa by Dr. Livingston, who saw a large river in
lat. 11° 17' S., and between the 22° and 23° E. long. He has
mapped it under the names Casai, or Loke, and describes it as
about 120 yards broad at the above position. The stream was
forded at the same place, and was described by intelligent natives
to form the Zaire or Congo river. It was flowing to the N.E. lie
also forded another large stream called the Coango or Quango, " the
Tortuous," in the valley of Cassange, the width of which was about
150 yards, and flows nearly north. This river was forded in
9° 51' 28" S. lat., and about the 19° of E. long. The inhabitants
and Portuguese traders described it as flowing into the Congo.
I apprehend this traveller's data will decide the geographical
position of the source of the River Congo.
TTie hydrographical features of this river have been displa^'ed by
Captains Owen and Vidal in their survey of its entrance ; but they
and others appear to have omitted two peculiarities connected with
its seaboard and bed : —
First. — That the crescentic portion of land extending from a little
to the southward of Point Padron to Shark Point, is evidently due
to the reproductive effects of marine and fluviatile action. On the
river-side, the large Bay of Diegos skirts the annexed land, and in
some places dips into it in the form of creeks. This portion is
densely covered with the trees and bushes usually seen at \he)
entiance of tropical tidal rivers, and has a black loam with fine sand
for a soil. It is very little elevated above the sea, and is flat. This
bay is of little depth, has a muddy bottom, and I believe will, at no
distant era, be reclaimed from the river by the silting up of this
part of its bed. The sea bordering portion, on the contrary, is more
sparingly covered with A^egetation ; there are none of the giant
mangroves to be seen, and its trees are of much less altitude. The
soil is composed of attrited shell, mixed with sand, and is con-
siderably elevated — about 1 5 feet — above the sea ; so that in
crossing the narrow belt from seaward it forms a miniature hill
before reaching the alluvial detritus on the river-bank. Having
had my attention called, whilst serving on the Newfoundland coast,
to the action of the sea in raising a sand}^ spit between and joining
the French island Miquelon, I feel confident that the ridge or ridges'
— for a succession of them can be detected — have been thrown up
by the heavy surf, which occasionally sets heavily on shore. The
2 c
