312 PARKER ON THE QUILIMANE AND ZAMBESI RIVERS. [Mar. 9, 1857.
extremity of Shark Point and its projecting slioal have evidently
extended since I saw them in 1845. It is, moreover, an universal
rule on the sonth coast of Africa for headlands or rivers to have a
spit or reef off their southern or left bank; but the majority, no
doubt, owe the sandbank to the continual action of the South
African current.
Second. — That on the right bank, or rather off Eed Point, there
are a number of holes in the sea-bottom, which, I imagine, are pro-
duced from the tearing away of the soil by the violence of the
current, as it is there it flows with greatest force and frequency.
2. On the Quilimane and Zambesi Rivers. From the Journal of the
late Capt. Hyde Parker, r.n., H. M. Brig ' Pantaloon.'
Communicated by Captain J. Washington, r.n., f.r.g.s.
The Luabo is the main outlet of the Great Zambesi. In the rainy
season — January and February principally — the whole country is
overflowed, and the water escapes by the different rivers as far up
as Quilimane ; but in the dry season neither Quilimane nor Olinda
communicates with it. The position of the river is rather incorrect
in the Admiralty chart, being 6 miles too much to the southward
and also considerably to the westward. Indeed, the coast from
here up to Tongamiara seems too far to the westward. The entrance
to the Luabo River is about 2 miles broad, and is easily distinguish-
able, when abreast of it, by a bluff (if I may so term it) of high
straight trees, very close together, on the western side of the
entrance. The bar may be said to be formed by two series of sand-
banks, — that running from the eastern point runs diagonally across
the entrance and nearly across it. Its western extremity is about 2
miles outside the west point.
The bank running out from the west point projects to the south-
ward 3^ miles, passing not one quarter of a mile from the eastern
or cross bank. This narrow passage is the har passage. It breaks
completely across at low water, except under very extraordinary
circumstances. At this time — low-water — a gieat portion of the
banks are uncovered ; in some places they are 7 or 8 feet above
water.
On these banks there is a break at all times, but in fine weather,
at high water, a boat may cross near the east point. There is very
little water, and, in places, a nasty race and bubble, so that caution
is requisite. The best directions for going in over the regular bar-
passage, according to my experience, are as follows : Steer down
