314 PARKER ON TEE QUILIMANE AND ZAMBESI RIVERS. [Mar. 9, 1857.
and plantain trees, a great quantit}'- of excellent peas are cultivated,
also cabbages, tomatos, onions, &c. Above this tbere are not many
inhabitants on the left or v^^est bank, although it is much the finest
country, being higher and abounding in cocoa-nut palms ; the eastern
bank being sandy and barren. The reason is, that some 3- ears back
the Lanelines, or Caffres, ravaged all this country, killing the men
and taking the women as slaves, but they have never crossed the
river ; hence the natives are afraid to settle on the west bank, and
the Portuguese owners of the different " prasos " have virtually lost
them. The banks of the river continue mostly sandy, with few
trees, except some cocoa-nut pahns, until the southern end of the
large P. of Nyangue, formed by the river about 20 miles from
Maruru. Here the country is more populous and better cultivated,
the natives a finer race, and the huts larger and better constructed.
Maruru belongs to Senor Aseredo, of Quilimane, well known to all
English officers on the east coast for his hospitality.
The climate here is much cooler than nearer the sea, and Aseredo
has successfully cultivated most European as well as tropical vege-
tables. The sugar-cane thrives, as also coffee and cotton, and
indigo also is a weed. Cattle here are beautiful, and some of them
might show with credit in England. The natives are intelligent,
and under a good government this fine country might become very
valuable. Three miles from Maruru is Mesan, a very pretty village
among palm and mango trees. There is here a good house belonging
to a Senor Ferrao ; close by is the canal of communication between
the Quilimane and Zambesi rivers, which in the rainy season is
navigable. I visited it in the month of October, which is about
the dryest time of the year ; it was then a dry canal, about 30 or
40 yards wide, overgrown with trees and grass, and, at the bottom,
at least 16 or 17 feet above the level of the Zambesi, which was
running beneath. In the rains, by the marks I saw, the entrance
rise of the river must be very nearly 30 feet, and the volume of
water discharged by it enormous.
Above Maruru the country begins to become more hilly, and the
high mountains of Borui-u are in sight ; the first view of these is
obtained below Nyangu^, and they must be of considerable height,
as from them they are distant above 40 miles. They are reported
to contain great mineral wealth ; gold and copper being found in
the range, as also coal. The natives are a bold^ independent race,
who do not acknowledge the Portuguese authority, and even make
them pay for leave to pass unmolested. Throughout the whole
course of the river, hippopotami were very abundant, and at one
village, a chase by the natives was witnessed. They harpoon the
