Jan. 28, 1856.] ANDERSON. FINDLAY. 21
Fifth Meeting, January 28, 1856.
Rear- Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, President, in the Chair.
The Marquis of Lansdowne^i^.G,', Major Vincent Eyre ; F.Dillon
Croker ; John Anthony Rucker ; W. F. de Gex ; and H. JR. Williams,
Esqrs., were elected Fellotvs.
The Papers read were —
1. Copy of a Letter from Chief Factor James Anderson to Sir
George Simpson, Governor-in- Chief of Rupert Land, dated Fort
Resolution, September 17, 1855.
Communicated by the Hudson Bay Company.
After enumerating the almost insurmountable difficulties experienced
during the journey, owing to the ice and other obstructions, and giving
an account of the twenty-five portages over which the expedition had
to pass, Mr. Anderson announced that his party had reached Montreal
Island, in the neighbourhood of which undoubted traces of Franklin's
people had been found, namely, tin oval boilers, bars of iron, chain-
hooks, an iron shovel, and other articles in the possession of the
Esquimaux. He also learnt by signs, that they had belonged to white
men who had arrived with a boat, and who had died of starvation. He
could find no traces of papers or books. At another place some pieces
of wood were found, on one of which was cut " Stanley, surgeon of
Erebus." Some chips were also discovered, on one of which was the
word Terror. There was no Esquimaux interpreter in Mr. Anderson's
party.
The region visited is described as most inhospitable ; there is no
wood ; few or no deer pass by ; while wind and rain are almost con-
stant : so that in the opinion of the author no party could possibly
pass a winter there, and any papers or books would speedily be destroyed
by the weather or ice.
In reply to a question from the Chair as to the cause of Mr. Ander-
son being without an interpreter. Dr. Rae explained that the interpreter
had been left by him in 1854 at Fort Churchill, and was retained there
in the pay of the Company, but in the winter, longing to see his friends,
he left, and did not return in time for the express. An old man was
sent in his place, but the difficulties of the journey prevented his
reaching the expedition, and no other could be obtained.
2. A Paper " On the probable Course pursued by Sir John Franklin^ s
Expedition'' By A. G. Findlay, f.r.g.s.
Allusion was made to a former paper read by him before the British
Association, which showed that there was a constant circulation of the
