316 PARKER ON THE QUILIMANE AND ZAMBESI RIVERS. [Mak. 9, 1857.
scriptions on its top. It was famed for its salubrity and the pnrity of its
waters, and the Jesuits, accordingly, had a settlement there. Below that
point the river was capable of bearing a very large vessel, but as he had only
seen it at its height, he could not be supposed to know its capabilities at any
other time of the year. He had lately received a note from Lieutenant
Hoskins, who served under Captain Parker, and this gentleman stated that
he perfectly agreed with what he. Dr. Livingston, said in reference to the
Quilimane river not being the Zambesi at all : —
" The Zambesi appears to have five principal mouths, of which the Luabo is
the most southern and most navigable ; Cumana, and two whose names I do
not know, not having myself visited it, lying between it and the Quilimane,
and the rise and fall at spring-tides on the bar of the Luabo is 22 feet ; and, as
in the passage, there is never less than 4 feet (I having crossed it at dead
low-water — s])rings), this would give an average depth sufficient for any
commercial purposes. The- rise and fall is 6 feet greater, the passages
narrower and more defined, consequently deeper and more easily found than
that of the Quilimane river. The river above the bar is very tortuous, but
deep ; and it is observable that the influence of the tide is felt much higher
in this branch than in the others ; for whereas in the Catinna and Cumana I
have obtained drinkable water a very short distance from the mouth, in the
Luabo I have ascended 70 miles without finding the saltness perceptibly
diminished. This would facilitate navigation, and I have no hesitation in
saying that little difficulty would be experienced in conveying a steam-vessel
of the size and cajlabilities of the gunboat I lately commanded as high as the
branching off of the Quilimane river, which, in the dry season, is observed
many yards above the Luabo ; though I have been told by the Portuguese that
the freshes which come down in December and March fill it temporarily.
These freshes deepen the river considerably at that time of the year, and
freshen the water many miles from the coast. The population of the delta,
except in the immediate neighbourhood of the Portuguese, appeared to be very
sparse. Antelope and hippopotami, the former tame and easily shot. I
inquired frequently of both natives and Portuguese if slavers were in the
habit of watering there to ship their cargoes, but could not ascertain that they
have ever done so in any except the Quilimane. With common precaution
the rivers are not unhealthy ; for, during the whole time I was employed in
them (off and on during eighteen months), in open boats and at all times of
the year, frequently absent from the ship for a month or six weeks at a time,
I had not, in my boat's crew of 14 men, more than two, and those mild, cases
of fever. Too much importance cannot be ascribed to the use of quinine, to
which I attribute our comparative immunity, and with which our judicious
commander. Commodore Wyvill, kept us amply supplied. I hope these few
remarks may be of some little use in confirming your views of the utility of
that magnificent river.
" A. H. H. Hoskins."
It appeared to him. Dr. Livingston, from all the information he could obtain,
that this branch of the Zambesi was navigable for ships of some burden, j^ro-
vided they entered at spring tides, but he should not recommend a gunboat
to be sent up the river. Although a large vessel might go up without any
difficulty, as far as Tete, for some months when the river was full, it would
be advisable, in any attentpt to ascertain its navigability, to send a vessel of
the very lightest draught, otherwise it might get stuck on some bank in a
very unhealthy part of the river, and the whole attempt might be frustrated
by disease.
In answer to an inquiry from Mr. Galton, Dr. Livingston stated that
there were no obstructions in the river lower down than 20 miles above
