Mar. 9, 1857.] PARKER ON THE QUILIMANE AND ZAMBESI RIVERS. 317
Tete. There are many reedy islands, bnt open spaces between them, in which
the deep channel is always found. At a range of mountains called Lopata, the
river was narrowed, but very deep, and it was at least 300 yards broad at the
narrowest part. Twenty miles above Tete, there was a rapid, which he, unfor-
tunately, did not see, as he was obliged to leave the course of the river at that
part, in consequence of numerous rivulets which, filling with the rising river,
interfered with his progress. The rapids consisted of a number of rocks, jutting
out of the stream, which were very dangerous when the water was low. Higher
up, was a crack or fissure made through a high ridge of land for about 30
miles, through which the river ran, forming the most wonderful sight he had
ever seen. He thought the fissure must have prevented the Portuguese of old
from going up by way of the river, and he believed they never went into the
valley in that neighbourhood, which should be regarded as an English dis-
covery. On an island there, called Kalai, he saw the grave of a chief with 70
elephants' tusks planted round it, rotting in the sun and rain, and 30 tusks on
the graves of his relatives ; and all through the country elephants' tusks were
similarly used as gravestones — a use to which he believed they would not
have been applied, even in the case of the chief, if they could have found a
market for them. It was the same as at Lake Ngami, where the tusks were
allowed to rot for want of a market. A trader who accompanied him on the
occasion of the discovery of the lake, purchased 10 tusks for a musket worth 15s.
A market having been established, the tusks would no longer be allowed to rot ;
in fact, so fond were these people of traffic, that he believed they would rob
their fathers' graves, if they could get a penny by it. Wax, also, was often
thrown away, because no market was found for it. As soon as the opportunity of
selling it presented itself, there could be no doubt that the natives would collect
and dispose of it as they did in the west. One great object which he proposed
to himself in going back, was to endeavour to make the Zambesi a permanent
path for commerce. He had no doubt that if the people on both sides found
there was a certainty of getting their goods purchased, they would cultivate
and collect the produce of the country most willingly, for one remark-
able feature in African tribes was their great desire for barter. He often
found great difficulty in passing through some of their villages, the natives
trying to stop him and his party, so that they might remain long enough to
be compelled to buy their supper. If they only remained to supper, they
could get off pleasantly enough the next morning. Several Englishmen and
Frenchmen had formerly asked for liberty to go up the Zambesi, but they had
been always refused permission to ascend. We had been guilty of that sort
of dog in the manger policy ourselves, and were not therefore in a position to
look down upon the Portuguese for acting in the same manner. He had been
told, however, that they had lately made all the ports on the east coast of
Africa perfectly free to commerce.
Mr. J. Crawfurd, f.r.g.s., asked the distance from the mouth of the Luabo
to the fissure described by Dr. Livingston .?^
Dr. Livingston" replied that the distance was between four and five hundred
miles by way of the river.
Mr. Crawfurd. — And do you consider the river navigable for four or five
hundred miles ?
Dr. Livingston. — With the exception of those first rapids. It is nearly
300 miles up to the first rapid, and the fissure is 150 miles past that.
Mr. Crawfurd said if the river was navigable, he could not understand
how the Portuguese, who were so close to it, should have always preferred the
Quilimane. They had been in the neighbourhood almost from the time of
Vasco de Gama, and he could not conceive how they could have been so
absolutely stupid as not to have discovered that there was a superior branch
of the river close to them. But if the river really was navigable to the extent
