March 23, 1857.] HUMBOLDT. 319
having the peculiar copper mark, which the best indigo was said to possess.
Whatever its character however might be, it certainly dyed blue, and some
of the natives called it the " changer." He did not hold out any great ex-
pectations of much gain to be realised immediately. He did not suppose
that a great trade would spring up at once, but he had such confidence in the
resources of the country, that he intended to devote a portion of his life to
their development. If legitimate commerce could be established in that large
tract of country, it would be the best means of putting a stop to the slave-
trade.
Major Vardon, f.r.g.s., said it would appear from statements that had
been made, that the hippopotamus was very easily speared ; but he had always
been under the contrary impression.
Captain Nolloth explained that where vessels had got over the bar, to
which allusion had been made, they could ride in perfect safety inside.
Tenth Meeting, March 23, 1867.
SiE RODERICK I. MURCHISON, President, in the Chair.
Presentations. — Capt, W. /. Eastwick, of the Bombay Army ; Lieut.
/. H. Glover, r.n. ; and W. B. Greenfield^ Esq., were officially introduced
upon their election.
Elections. — T. W. Bramston, Esq., m.p. ; Dr. James Campbell, r.n. ;
Major- General W. G. Moore; the Earl of Munster ; Captain Laurence
Trent Cave ; and William Reed ; George R. Smith ; Robert Sweeting ; and
John Vincent, Esqrs., were elected Fellows.
Donations. — Among the donations since the former Meeting, were
— Map of the country of Cape May, State of New Jersey, U.S., pre-
sented by E. L. Viele, Esq. ; Geometrical Projection of two-thirds
of a Sphere, by Colonel James, r.e. ; Transactions of the Madras
Literary Society ; the Bengal Asiatic Society ; the Franklin Insti-
tute of Pennsylvania, etc.
Announcements. — In opening the business of the Meeting, the Pre-
sident announced the receipt of a letter from the eminent Prussian
geographer, Carl Ritter, in answer to an anxious inquiry of his own
respecting the health of his illustrious friend, Baron Humboldt ; and
he was truly happy to state that that great man had completely re-
covered from a momentary attack which had not in the slightest
degree impaired his brilliant mind, the continued application of
which was of such vast importance to the progress of science. He
was happy to see how truly the merits of Dr. Livingston were appre-
ciated by so competent a judge as M. Ritter, who speaks of our country-
man as one of the noblest and greatest characters the black race has
ever seen.
The President next stated that the Astronomical Observations by
