320 AFRICA. [Maucu 23, 1857.
Dr. Vogel and Corporal Maguiro, in Central Africa, had been received
from the Foreign Office, through the kindness of the Earl of Claren-
don ; also a copj of a Despatch from Her Majesty's Consul at Tripoli,
enclosing a copy of a letter from Corporal Maguire, dated Kuka,
November, 1856, announcing the reported assassination of Dr. Vogel
at Wadai. Sir Koderick remarked that this v^^as a mere report, and
cautioned the members against placing much faith in it, reminding
them that similar statements had gained circulation of the death of
several other African travellers, who had afterwards, and as he hoped
would be the case with Dr. Vogel, returned to this country alive and
well.
In quitting the subject of Africa, he had farther to announce that
the renewed maritime expedition to the Niger, as advocated by the
Society, would soon quit our shores, commanded by the same compe-
tent observer and naturalist, Dr. Baikie, f.r.g.s., who had formerly
succeeded so well ; and he had great pleasure in recording the praise-
worthy and efficient manner in which the Earl of Clarendon had
again countenanced this important national enterprise.
Sir Koderick then stated that he had received a communication
from Sir J. Herschel, enclosing a portion of a letter from Mr. Maclear,
Her Majesty's Astronomer at the Cape, in which he remarks that
*' Dr. Livingston's obsei-vations had been reduced and sent to Eng-
land. The exploit of crossing the African continent from west to
east, and of perseveringly fixing, by astronomical observations, the
interesting features of the path, combined in placing the poor
missionary pre-eminently in the front rank of the most celebrated
explorers."
In connection with this subject, the Chairman informed the Meet-
ing that the Government of Portugal had sent out orders to Mozam-
bique to support Dr. Livingston's late companions at the public
expense of that province, until his return to claim them.
The Chairman next alluded to the energy displayed by Mr. H.
Babbage, at the imminent risk of his life, in overcoming great diffi-
culties when deserted and alone, and to the talent with which he
had endeavoured to detect gold-bearing rocks in the vicinity of
Lake Torrens, in Australia, and in tracts unknown to Europeans.*
Lastly, he had the satisfaction to state that the expedition under
Mr. Palliser would proceed in a fortnight to its starting point on
Lake Superior, with the view of surveying vast tracts of British
North America, as yet most imperfectly known, particularly the
country watered by the affluents of the Saskatchevan, and with the
* See ' Adelaide Observer,' Nov. 22, 1856.
