March 23, 1857.] NORTH AMERICA. ' 321
ulterior view of examining the southern portion of the Eocky
Mountains in our territories, and possibly of discovering a new prac-
ticable passage through them, to Vancouver Island.
He farther stated that Dr. Hector had, on his recommendation,
been appointed the geologist, naturalist, and medical man to the
expedition, whilst Lieut. Blakiston, r.a., f.r.g.s., was to make mag-
netical observations, as instructed by General Sabine, and the bota-
nical collection as recommended by Sir W. Hooker and Dr. Hooker.
Under these circumstances, the President hoped that an expedition
which had originated in the recommendation of the Council of the
Royal Geographical Society to Her Majesty's Government, would be
very efficiently and successfully completed under the direction of the
Colonial Office, and especially of Mr. John Ball, the Under-Secretary,
who had undertaken the task with such zeal and knowledge of the
subject.
The Rev. C. G. Nicolay, f.r.g.s., understood that one summer was to be
spent in examining the district between Lake Superior and Lake Winnipeg.
With due deference to those who had made this alteration in the original plan
of the expedition, he thought this would be a mere waste of time. Amid such
a network of waters as lay between these two lakes, nothing definite could be
done in one summer, and the route itself was already sufficiently well known
through the officers of the Hudson's Bay Company and others. He also under-
stood that the first winter was to be spent at Fort Charlton, which was several
hundred miles out of the line originally recommended by the Society to be ex-
plored. Before the expedition started, he really hoped the instructions would
be reconsidered. The great object should be to press across the plains to the
south of the Saskatchevan, and get to the Rocky Mountains as soon as possible.
The President said Mr. Nicolay had really expressed his own opinions and
the opinions of the Council of the Society. The Government, however, ap-
peared to have other objects in view besides mere geographical discovery ; he
hoped, therefore, that Mr. Nicolay would not press the subject farther at
present.
The papers read were : —
1. Notes of a Journey eastwards from Shiraz to Fessa and Darab, and thence
westwards hy Jehrum to Kazeran in 1850. By Mr. Consul Keith
E. Abbott.
Communicated by the Earl of Clarendon.
[This paper will be printed in full in the Journal.]
General Monteith, f.r.g.s., said it was a considerable number of years since
he visited this country. He was directed to survey the Passes from Bushir to
Shiraz and the plain of Kazeran ; and the route was so minutely surveyed that
he thought there was no geographical feature that remained to be ascertained.
Kazeran he considered a great military point, as it commanded the entrances of
the valleys. It was a beautiful region, well watered, and, if cultivated, would
be highly productive. He saw there the largest orange-tree he had ever met
with, it being 40 feet in height. From Kazeran commenced the most difficult
