322 SIDNEY'S PROPOSED SEARCH FOR [Mauch 23, 1857-
passes. About niue miles from Shiraz was the pass called the Yirgin's Pass,
■which was, in fact, a flight of steps, protected by a very low parapet wall, yet
exceedingly dangerous to pass. It was constructed at the private expense of a
merchant, who said he had lost more of his mules in one year than the road
cost. To the right of it a good road, liowever, might be made, without great
difficulty, as it was but two niiles over, altogether. From this point the route^
descended into a fine wooded valley, and proceeded along till it reached the Old
Woman's Pass, which was about four miles in length. This pass was neither
so steep nor so rocky as the other. Beyond this came a succession of well-
watered and well-cultivated valleys. The cultivation of the plain of Shiraz
itself was limited, owing to the want of water, as the small stream which passed
the town was used to water the gardens and fields in the vicinity. Sculptured
rocks of the kind alluded to by Mr. Abbott, were to be found in every part of
the province. At Kazeran there is a stalactite cave, 100 feet deep, and at the
bottom there was a statue which had been thrown down, and the water which
formed the stalactite had attached it to the bottom of the cave.
2. Proposed Search for Dr. Leichhardfs Missing Parti/. By Samuel
Sidney, Esq. — (Author of ' The Three Colonies of Australia').
Mr, Sidnp:y said the paper had been transmitted to him from
Australia, by one of the squatters in the most northern district of the
province of New South Wales, who had resided fourteen years in
the wildest part of the colony, who had himself conducted exploring
expeditions in search of " Euns," into districts never before trodden
by white men, and who therefore was entitled to speak with all the
authority of experience on the subject of the evening - the probable
fate of Dr. Leichhardt. > The last intelligence received of Leichhardt
was contained in a letter dated Cogoon, April, 1848. At that time
he expected to reach Swan Eiver, in about three years. The gi*eat
length of time which had elapsed since Leichhardt's departure, was
no proof of his death, because if supported by hunting, which he
must be, he could only proceed at the rate of three or four miles a
day, and would not leave any place where game was plentiful, as
there are many in the oases of the interior. Dr. Leichhardt had,
on former occasions, lived on friendly terms with the aborigines and
been fed by them, when they were at the same time at war with neigh-
bouring stockowners. The northern Bushmen do not believe the
story brought by Mr. Hovenden Hely, that Leichhardt was murdered
on a creek 150 miles from Wandaigumbal, on the Condamine. They
say that the remains of pack saddles, found by Mr. Hely, were not
those of Leichhardt's party, but of two squatters, who were lost in the
Bush. They observe that although it is well known that cattle will
return 600 miles to their homes, especially if attacked and dispersed
by blacks, not one of Leichhardt's large lot has ever been seen — a
positive proof that he had penetrated too far for them to return.
