Mauch 23, 1857.] DR. LEICHHARDT'S MISSING PARTY. 323
They maintain tliat the route which Leichhardt took on his last
expedition, was in all probability on Sir Thomas Mitchell's track, as
far as that officer reached to the North. From thence, in his
attempt to proceed westward, he was too practical a Bushman to
attempt a desert so fearfully illustrated by Stnrt ; that he would
be sure to follow on one side of the coast range or backbone
of the colony, to make sure of water and the greatest probability of
food ; — that he probably reached the longitude of Port Essington,
and in endeavouring to push on south-west from thence, has got
into some difficulty — perhaps depending on some friendly tribe for
food. The south-west being in all probability badly watered, no
prudent man would attempt to cross it, except in a wet season, and
therefore Leichhardt might be stuck fast with a desert between
him and water, waiting for a wet season to travel. That the wild
blacks, less ferocious than those on the borders of the pastoral
districts, would be likely to retain him among them as a curiosity
or deity ; — ot that he may be gradually winding his way back, hunting
for food, at the rate of three or four miles a day ; — that therefore if it
took him three years to reach the spot where he had to turn back, it
would take double that period to return to the point of his departure.
Mr. Sidney's correspondent concludes by suggesting an Expe-
dition in search of Leichhardt, which has been planned by practical
northern Bushmen. It should consist of fifteen disciplined abori-
ginal troopers of the native police force, under the command of
Frederick Walker, the late Commandant of that force, who had volun-
teered to serve without pay or remuneration of any kind, with 60
horses, 45 of which to be laden with supplies — meat rations to be
obtained by the hunting blacks. The expedition should start from
the farthest station in the Port Curtis district, and get upon Leich-
hardt's tracks, which would be plain for twelve or fourteen years in a
country unoccupied by cattle. As Leichhardt always marked trees
at his camp, and his cattle would travel in single file and denote
his route, the black troopers would follow these like blood-hounds,
and infallibly find Leichhardt's party or bring back his papers,
the brands of his cattle, or other complete solution of the mystery
that now hung over his fate.
The expedition should be met by a coasting vessel at some con-
venient point, and provided with supplies for a second year.
Mr. Sidney concluded by observing that nothing was to be ex-
pected from the Home Government ; or from the Kew South Wales
or Sydney citizens, with whom explorers and explonng expeditions
were alike unpopular. It rested with men of science and wealth to
subscribe the three or four thousand pounds needful for ascertaining
