324 GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [March 23, 1857.
the fate of, and perliaps rescuing, the man who had sacrificed every-
thing to the cause of geographical science.
3. Return of the North Australian Expedition^ under Mr. A. C. Gregory.
Communicated by G. F. Leslie, Esq., f.r.g.s.
Burnett District, 2nd December, 1856.
Sir, — I have the honour to inform you of the arrival of the North
Australian Expedition within the limits of the settled parts of New
South Wales, and transmit for the information of his Excellency the
Governor-General a brief outline of the proceedings of the ex-
pedition.
From the time of landing the horses at Point Pearce in September,
1855, to the 9th May, 1856, the party was employed in preliminary
details, and the exploration of the country to the south of the
Victoria River, having penetrated the interior deserts to latitude
18° 20' south, and longitude 127° 30' east; a detail of which I forwarded
by the ' Tom Tough' schooner, via Copang, and which doubtless has
already come to hand.
The schooner ' Tom Tough ' having been seriously damaged in
ascending the Victoria River, and a quantity of stores and provisions
thereby destroyed, I instructed Mr. Baines to embark that portion
of the expedition which was not required to form the land party,
and to proceed to Copang for supplies, and thence to the Albert
River in the Gulf of Carpentaria, to co-operate with the land
expedition.
On the 21st June I left the encampment on the Victoria River,
with a party of six persons, viz., Mr. H. Gregory, Mr. Elsey, Dr.
Muller, and three men — Dean, Bowman, and Melville.
The arid nature of the country in the interior of Northern Aus-
tralia compelled us to increase our latitude to 15° S. in order to
pass the central parts of Arnheim-land, after which we kept parallel
to the coast as far inland as water could be found in the rivers, the
greatest distance from the sea not exceeding 100 miles.
Reaching the appointed rendezvous at the Albert River on the
30th August, the schooner had not arrived, and from some marked
trees, it appeared that Her Majesty's Ship ' Torch ' had sent a boat
up the River a few weeks previous, but it was evident that this
visit had no reference to the expedition, as the only marks left con-
sisted of the names of some of the crew, which they had amused
themselves by carving on the trees and stumps ; and the ashes of
their fire.
Under these circumstances, I deemed it not advisable to wait the
