March 23, 1857.] DR. LEICHHARDT. 325
arrival of the schooner, and having niarked trees, and buried in-
stnictions for Mr. Baines at a spot which had been previously agreed
npon, we left the Albert on the 3rd September, and made some in-
effectual attempts to proceed to the south-east, but want of water
compelled me to pursue a route parallel to the coast to latitude
17-20 S., when the Gilbert Eiver enabled a S.E. course to be again
pursued.
Crossing the Heads of the Lynd in 18*40, we reached the Burdekin
on the 16th October. Our route was then along the right bank of
that river to the junction of the Suttor Eiver, which was followed
up to the Belyando Eiver. Tracing that river to latitude 22°, we
then pursued a south-east course to the junction of the Comet and
Mackenzie Elvers, and thence our course to the Dawson brought us
to Messrs. Connor and Pitt's station, on the 22nd November.
I am now en route to Brisbane, where I purpose to leave the
horses until arrangements can be made for their disposal, and proceed
direct to Sydney.
(Signed) A. C. Gregory,
Commander N. A. Expedition.
To His Excellency the Governor-General.
The President remarked that this was but an outline sketch of
the journey ; doubtless a much more detailed account would be
shortly received.
Lieut. Chimmo, r.n., f.r.g.s., said no person could take a greater interest
in the paper than himself, as lie was sent out in the ' Torch ' to leave supplies
for Mr. Gregory and his party. But there was one portion of it which he
could not allow to pass unnoticed, as it appeared to reflect on the arrangements
made by him for the search of that party. Mr. Gregory stated that although
he found marks and indications of a party having been in the Albert Eiver, yet he
could not ascertain that they came there in search of him. Mr. Gregory's visit
must have been rather short, or he would have discovered some of the nume-
rous indications that were left for his guidance. One whole evening — and the
evenings were rather long in Australia — two boats' crews were employed cutting
marks on trees, hanging up bottles with notices in them on diiferent branches,
and one man cHmbed a cocoanut-tree, the only cocoanut-tree on the river, 63
feet high, and hung a bottle in a conspicuous place. He did not regret that
Mr. Gregory's visit was short, because, as it was about the change of the
monsoon, his people might have suffered from the serious effects of the climate
at that period, on the uninviting and barren shores of Northern Australia.
Mr. Robert Wood said he should be exceedingly sorry to say one word that
could discourage the interesting endeavour to search for the remains of Dr.
Leichhardt. But the accidental circumstance of the Doctor having paid him
a short visit at his house at Belmaine, near Sydney, a very few days before
starting on the expedition, had put him in possession of Dr. Leichhardt's in-
tentions as to the route he proposed to follow. That route differed materially
from the one suggested in Mr. Sidney's paper, and he, therefore, thought it his
duty to lay it before the Society. He conceived it necessary to do so, because
