326 GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [March 23, 1857.
he believed that Dr. Leichhardt would under all circumstances follow out tins
route. He assigned as a special reason for doing so, that it would probably,
bring him to a tangent with the route formerly taken by Captain Sturt from
the southern coast, and he expected to intersect that line at almost right angles
by crossing from the east to the west of the continent of Australia. He pro-
posed to start from Moreton Bay, and to diverge slightly to the northwards iti
penetrating the interior ; then, after reaching Sturt's line, to go on to Perth on
the west coast. He was accompanied by Mr. Lynd, Avhose name had been
given to one of the rivers on the east coast.
The President asked Mr. Wood whether it was his opinion that, in adven-
turing westward. Dr. Leichhardt had got lost in some of the sahne deserts in
the interior ?
Mr. Wood was sorry to say that this was his opinion.
Mr. Haug said that the deep interest which he took in the fate of Dr.
Leichhardt gave rise to the project which he had the honour to lay before the
Council three years ago. If Leichhardt had crossed the track of b^turt, or even
advanced more into the interior, it might have been supposed that Mr. Gregory
would have come u] )on some indications of the direction taken by Dr. Leich-
hardt. Still Mr. Gregory had not mentioned having heard from the natives
anything about Dr. Leichhardt. All who cherished geographical enterprise
would feel indebted to Mr. Sidney for the plan he had proposed, and he hoped
the Council would not be wanting in starting a new expedition for the purpose
of discovering something more of the fate of Dr. Leichhardt.
Mr. p. L. Simmonds observed that he had, during some years past, paid
attention to this subject. He well remembered that, in his first expedition.
Dr. Leichhardt was given up ; and, as in the case of African travellers, he
was a httle sceptical about the fate of Leichhardt, until more satisfactory proof
of his fate had been obtained. Supposing that he did make his way to the
westward in the direction he intended, circumstances might have occurred to
cause him to diverge in some degree to the northward or the southward of the
proposed line of route. Travellers could hot always adhere to the plan they
laid down for themselves. With regard to the interior of Australia, the means
of support were not so hopeless as was supposed, for it was well known that
the aborigines lived on a variety of things produced by the soil. He was glad
to see the subject revived, and he could only hope that the Society would not let
it drop, without an effort to obtain some definite information as to the fate of the
missing party. Taking into consideration the vast extent of Australia, and the
slow progress that the party must make, having to find their own sustenance,
he did not think the time which had elapsed since the expedition started, should
lead to the conclusion that Leichhardt was hopelessly lost.
Mr. W. J. Hamilton, f.r.g.s., rose with considerable reluctance, but
having taken a very great interest in the progress of Dr. Leichhardt, and be-
lieving that it was now almost hopeless to exjiect any satisfactory result from the
exploration proposed, he should wish — although most unwilling to throw cold
water upon any expedition likely to prove useful — before the Society was led away
by the hopeful expectations thrown out by Mr. Sidney, to ask a few questions.
In the first place, it had always been understood that Dr. Leichhardt would
proceed almost in a due west direction fi'om the parallel of Sydney or Moreton
Bay. With regard to that point he should like to ask Mr. Sidney where was
the point at which the ship was to meet the expedition after one year had
elapsed ? Next, he wished to know, how it was proposed that the parties
com})Osing the expedition, should carry provisions for themselves and fodder
for the horses through those arid districts, which constituted the princifial
feature of the interior? The nature of the country had been sufficiently
ascertained to lead to the conviction that, without carrying a very large supply
of provisions, both for the men and for the beasts, which would form tb.e staple
