March 23, 1857.] ' DR. LEICHHARDT. 327
of this expedition, it would be impossible to penetrate to any great distance
through the sterile regions of Central Australia.
Mr. Sidney said that they had just learned from Lieut. Chimmo, that Mr.
Gregory had even missed the traces of the ' Torch ' party, which preceded him
a very short time. Therefore, they had very fair reason to conclude that many
traces of Leichhardt would also have escaped him, and that up to the present
time, no search had been made <&,t all. With respect to the manner in which
the proposed expedition should be conducted, he observed that the plan of pro-
ceeding was drawn up by gentlemen practically acquainted with the subject,
and who were as great authorities on Australian travel, as Kit Carson and Col.
Fremont were on travelling in America. As to the point on the coast where
the ship ought to meet the party sent in search, it should be selected by the
leader of the party. It would be better to leave that to him than to settle it
here at home. The blacks, it was well known, could live upon lizards and
grubs, and with a pound of flour to each man per day, there would be no diffi-
culty with regard to the support of the party.
Mr. Galton, f.r.g.s. — ** Having devoted considerable attention to what I
have termed the * Art of Travel,' I must beg to express my opinion that the
arrangements which I have heard proposed this night for an expedition in search
of Dr. Leichhardt, and towards the equipment of which the English public is
asked to subscribe, do not appear to me to offer any probability of success. I
am very willing to grant that the gentlemen who have planned this expedition,
may personally be well-qualified explorers, but I cannot think otherwise than
that they are far too sanguine and enthusiastic in their estimate of what might
be accomplished by the means they propose. In the first instance, they expect
to reach in six months a distance which they assume Dr. Leichhardt to have
required three years to accomplish. This I think very unlikely. Again, it
is proposed to take a caravan of some sixty horses — a number that I believe
is very difficult for 15 men to manage efficiently in a broken country. Their
estimate, moreover, only professes to allow 1 lb. of solid food (flour) per diem
for each man. Human life cannot subsist on 1 lb. of flour per day. Those
who are interested in this subject may consult with great advantage the ex-
cellent paper by Dr. Chfistison in the Appendix to the Report of the Crimean
Commissioners, where questions of diet are thoroughly gone into and esta-
blished on a positive basis. By the facts adduced in that paper, it will be seen
that at least double the weight of solid food, that it is here proposed to carry, is
absolutely essential. Lastly, it is assumed that the track of Dr. Leichhardt
still remains so clearly defined, that the proposed party could follow it straight
onwards without difficulty or delay. Such might possibly be the case in cer-
tain woodland districts, but across most sandy tracts, it is clear that the clue
would be entirely broken, and that a pursuing party must, under these circum-
stances, be prepared to devote considerable time towards recovering it. They
would be like hounds slowly hunting on a cold scent, and coming perpetually
to fault, while, farther, it must be recollected, that questions of water and of
fodder do not admit of prolonged and careful search in desert districts. For
these reasons alone, and without entering deeper into the subject, it seems to
me, as I said before, that the means proposed for following up the tracks of
Dr. Leichhardt are entirely incommensurate with the difficulties of the case."
Mr. Sidney said that the black men of the party would pick up food by the
way, and partly support themselves.
Mr. Galton. — They would not be able to pick up much sustejiance, as they
travelled quickly on through a desert.
Mr. T. Saunders, in reply to Lieut. Chimmo's assertion, that North
Australia was arid, barren, and unfit for human habitation, quoted the opinions
of Flinders, Stokes, and Leichhardt, to show that it was just the reverse.
He then reviewed at some length the course of Mr. Gregory's expedition, and
2 D
