332 DAVIS ON CANTON AND HONGKONG, [April 27, 1857.
appearance at least, are extremely formidable. But they have been
three times taken — in 1841, by Sir Gordon Bremer; in 1847, by
the expedition which I took np myself; and again, in 1856, by Sir
Michael Seymour. A little higher to the left is a long battery on
Tiger Island, to which all ships are obliged to pass very close, on
account of the shoals on the left bank of the river. No other
defence occurs until the one called the First-bar Battery, on the
left bank, erected about the time when Sir Thomas Herbert's light
squadron routed the Chinese force in 1841. The principal defences
towards Canton are at the point called the Barrier, where the two
divided channels of the river unite, and where a barrier of stakes
has been long constructed. Here are about six batteries, and the
position would be impregnable were it not for the absurd manner
in which the forts are built, upon perfectly square plans ; so that if
you advance on an angle scarcely a gun can be brought to bear.
The embrasures, or rather windows, are almost large enough for a
lord mayor's coach, and furnished with folding-doors of wood, by
way of supplying plenty of splinters for the garrison. I have found
no reason to change the explanation which I gave in a work on
China, twenty-one years ago, of the unimproved condition of the
military resources of the country. First, that pride and conceit
which is a bar to all improvement in the arts, and, among the rest,
the art of war. Secondly, that jealousy of the Chinese population
which has prevented the Tartar Government from making of it
such efficient troops as it might ; for during the war we always found
the greatest possible difference between the Tartars and Chinese.
Thirdly, that overwhelming superiority which the empire has pos-
sessed over the petty and barbarous states on its frontiers, and
which has precluded any serious calls on its exertions.
The remaining defences occur on reaching Canton. First, the
French Folly (the origin of the name altogether unknown), which
was on the east of the city, but which has been blown up and
demolished by Sir Michael Seymour ; the Dutch Folly, on an island
in the river, which was lately occupied by our force, and from
which the Viceroy's palace was bombarded and destroyed ; a thing
opposite the Foreign Quarter, very like a goose-pie, but named the
Red Fort ; and what is called the Shameen Fort, a little above the
Foreign Quarter. Since our discovery and navigation of Blenheim
Eeach, a fort or two have been there erected. In the continuation
of the same passage towards Canton is the Macao or Teatotum Fort
on an island (so called, perhaps, from its square or octagonal sides),
and the Bird's-n est Battery, a little higher up on the left bank. Sir
Michael Seymour, in temporarily leaving the Foreign Garden, as a
