April 27, 1857.] AND THE EAST COAST OF CHINA. 333
less strong position, has very wisely occupied the Macao Fort,
which is easily defended by co-operation with his ships. Having
determined on keeping the river open pending the arrival of rein-
forcements, the admiral has placed his ships within signal distance
of each other all down the river, so as to co-operate in case of
necessity, and prevent the channel being blocked up by the Chinese.
The difficulties of this plan are considerably increased by the
numerous creeks and side-channels on each bank of the river, where
the flat-bottomed junks can lurk and send out fire-rafts and other
annoyances upon our ships, without the possibility of being fol-
lowed and cut off in return. The fire-rafts, however, are not so
dangerous as might be apprehended, since they can be taken in tow
by rowboats, and driven on shore to burn at their leisure. The
species of vessel most wanted by the last accounts were gunboats of
light draft to follow up the junks into these creeks and destroy
them ; and, with the assistance of such, no doubt a good account
will be given of the enemy. Almost every Chinese afloat in the
neighbourhood of Canton is a pirate, whenever he can turn his hand
that way ; and perhaps one of the best results of the proposed naval
expedition would be the extinction of piracy about Hongkong and
the coast (interfering so seriously as it does with our trade) by dis-
arming, and, if necessary, destroying, every armed junk fallen in
with. The excuse for carrying arms is " self-defence against
pirates ;" but they are, in fact, all pirates in turn, and if all are
disai-med equally this pretence will be annihilated.
In the mean while, both the internal and the external troubles of
China seem to have conspired to favour the progress of our own
colony of Hongkong. More than thirty years ago I remember
sailing round it in a yacht, and occasionally landing to shoot,
when it was nearly uninhabited, and now it contains 70,000 Chinese
inhabitants, with occasionally as many as a hundred European ships
in the harbour. This harbour is one of the finest in the world, and,
according to the testimony of Admiral Cecille, of the French navy,
superior to that of Eio Janeiro, which, I believe, has ranked as the
first. All these circumstances combined, together with the accommo-
dation for troops on shore, must tend to give the present expedition
an immense advantage over the first one. The unhealthiness of
Hongkong was experienced on the first occupation (I believe a very
frequent occurrence), and this was much aggravated by the effects
of Chinese spirits on our troops ; for while the prisoners in gaol
were quite healthy (without the luxuries which prisoners in gaol
enjoy in this country), the soldiers in barracks, who had access to
liquor, were dying at the rate of 10 in a week. I was rejoiced to
