334 DAVIS ON CANTON AND HONGKONG, [April 27, 1857.
find, by ' The Times,' that his Eoyal Highness the Commander-in-
Chief had himself addressed very seriously on this subject a corps
of artillery at Woolwich previous to their embarkation. There is
not only the inherent mischief of these unwholesome Chinese
spirits (bad enough in themselves), but the additional danger of
their being poisoned.
Quitting Hongkong, we may now proceed along the coast to the
new ports in succession, where it is to be hoped the peacefully
trading inhabitants (so different from the Cantonese) may not be
disturbed by war, as most of them had plenty of it on the former
occasion. If they can only experience our moderation for a time,
they may perhaps at last get rid of the idea which in China attaches
everywhere to an Englishman, viz. that of a hipes implumis who
goes about surveying and map-making, with a view to ultimate
occupation.
Leaving Hongkong, we proceed about 260 miles N.E. to Amoy,
the first of the four new ports, and the first which felt the force of
an armament in 1841. Here an immense range of stone-wall had
been erected and mounted with cannon for our reception; but
though the lower-deck guns of the Liners had little effect on it, the
place w^as easily taken by escalade on the left flank of the wall.
The harbour of Amoy and approach to it are extremely commodious
for trade, which can be carried on close to the shipping. The small
island of Koolangsoo forms the south of the harbour, and was
retained by us, together with Chusan, as a guarantee for the pay-
ment of the indemnity ; but on account of its extreme insignificance
and the unhealthiness of our troops there, I was authorized to give
it up to the Chinese government, according to instructions from
home, before the expiration of the full period. Here are some
curious vestiges of our former intercourse with China, in the shape
of tombstones in an extraordinary state of preservation. The chief
objection to Amoy as a place of commerce is the small trading
capital of the native merchants. They have but few exports ; and
the imports which find most favour there are not our manufactures,
but the productions of the Malay archipelago, which go under the
name of Straits produce. The people of this province of Fokien
are the most maritime of the Chinese population. Their voyages
have long taken them to the islands of the above-named archipelago,
where they need seldom be out of sight of land, and where they
have familiarized themselves to the commerce of that region.
About 150 geographical miles to the north of Amoy lies Foo-
chow-foo, the next of the new ports. This place escaped a visita-
tion from the expedition in 1841, and would have been all the
