April 27, 1857.] AND THE EAST COAST OF CHINA. 335
better for some experience of our power ; for in consequence of those
obstacles to the spread of intelligence already adverted to, the
people retain some of their original ignorance regarding foreigners,
and have besides much of the turbulence and ferocity of character
attaching to their neighbours the Cantonese ; to whom, however,
they bear a deadly dislike, and with whom they have a perpetual
feud. It was here that an attempt was made to persuade me that
our Consul at Foo-chow-foo must be excluded from the interior of
the city, as he was at Canton ; but I treated it as a mere pretence —
which it really was — and had the satisfaction of establishing him in
a good position within the city, soon after the opening of the port.
This place was not promising at first as a port of trade. The river,
which is picturesque and beautiful as a natural object (being rapid
and rocky like the Ehine, but much more shallow), is on that
account of difficult and dangerous navigation, and the anchorage
besides is 10 miles below the city. The natural advantages, how-
ever, as a mart for black teas (being so near the place of their pro-
duction), have conquered other disadvantages, and the exports of
tea from Foo-chow-foo have of late years become considerable.
Ningpo-foo, the next of the new ports, lies as far as 270 miles to
the north of this, and afforded winter-quarters to our invading force
in 1841. The union of power and clemency, which the people of
this place experienced from us at that time, has been followed by the
best effects, and at no spot have foreigners enjoyed more comfoi't
and liberty in their movements than here. As a place of trade,
however, it has failed. This must be attributed to the near vicinity
of Shanghae, by far the best port of all, which by its superior advan-
tages and attractions has drawn away nearly all commerce from
Ningpo. The embroidered silks of K ingpo, and the ingenious works
in inlaid wood, constitute the principal native productions.
Opposite to the river's mouth, at the distance of some 50 miles,
lies the island of Chusan, with its chief town Tinghae. It is well
known that we had possession of this fine island for about five years
in all, during four of which it was retained as a security for the
payment of the war indemnity of 21,000,000 dollars. It was my
fate to resign it with some regret, on the payment of the last instal-
ment in 1846 ; and as this Society has done me the honour to place
a Memoir and Map of the island in its 23rd Volume, there is the less
need to say anything more concerning it on the present occasion.
Chapoo, a port pertaining to the famous city of Hang-chow-foo,
was visited by our war-expedition ; but the tides and eddies of the
dangerous estuary prevented the squadron going up to "the town.
We lastly come to the very important and flourishing port of
