Jan. 28, 1856.] FINDLAY. 23
recorded loss of ships to which they can be referred. The description
g-iven exactly agrees with the ' Erebus' and ' Terror/ The possibility
of their being those ships was demonstrated by numerous parallel cases
of the drifting of vessels. Of these several cases were cited, as occurring
between 1777 and 1836; after that, the particulars of the drift of Sir
James Ross in 1849, and especially of the American vessels under
Capt. De Haven, from September, 1850, to June, 1851 ; and the drift
of H.M.S. ' Resolute,' abandoned in May, 1854, and found in October,
1855, were gone into. A calculation was made from the data afforded
by these, that the two abandoned ships seen on the Newfoundland Banks
would pass down Barrow Strait and Lancaster Sound after Sir James
Ross left in 1849, and before the Austin squadron arrived there in 1850,
a period exactly agreeing with the appearance of the survivors on Point
Ogle and Montreal Island in the spring of 1850. The progress of the
Franklin Expedition may thus be briefly summed up : — They left the
Orkney Islands June 4, 1845 ; their last letters sent from Godhavn on
the W. coast of Greenland, July 11, 1845 ; were last seen in the middle
of Baffin Bay, July 26, 1845. They wintered at Beechey Island, and
when the ice broke up in 1846, went either northwards or westward,
the which cannot now be decided, and ultimately became imbedded,
and probably crushed, as stated to Dr. Rae, by the ice in Melville
Sound, from whence, slowly drifting eastward, in the autumn or winter
of 1849 they dismantled the ships and took to their boats, passing down
Peel Sound and Victoria Strait, and found their last resting-place at
the mouth of the Back River, where their relics were found in 1854 by
Pr. Rae, and in 1855 by Messrs. Anderson and Stewart. The aban-
doned ships, borne along by the constant circulating current-system,
imbedded in the heaped-up ice, ultimately reached the Bank of New-
foundland, and, being crushed, were, as soon as liberated by the thaw,
waterlogged, and sunk directly. No traces will ever be found to show
how the dreary period between 1846 and 1849-50 was passed, unless
at some future period any of their journals or papers may be recovered. .
The President having remarked on the numerous subjects of interest
opened by Mr. Findlay's paper, said he hoped Captain Collinson would
favour the Meeting with his opinion on the probable site of the loss of
Sir J. Franklin.
Captain Collinson said he thought the paper just read threw much
light on the subject, and, on the whole, agreed with Mr. Findlay ; he
thought the evidence strong that boats had reached the American
shore ; and that the search should be continued, on account of those
who had lost their lives iu solving this geographical problem, and
of our national honour, which would be stained if their relics
were discovered by another nation. The search might, by means of
