336 DAVIS ON OANTON AND HONGKONG, [April 27, 1857.
Shangliae, something more than 100 miles to the north of Ningpo,
and as much as 800 from Hongkong. Here it was that the Tartar go-
vernment took serious alarm at the progress of our armament in 1842,
after it had issued from its winter-quai-ters at Ningpo. An immense
line of stone batteries had been constructed at Woosung, the mouth
of the Shanghae river, but these were can-ied in about two hours,
and the force found Shanghae itself not only deserted but a prey to
hosts of Chinese plunderers. The natives showed so little patriotism
here that they very merrily lent their aid to drag our guns against
the town, the mandarins being all dispersed. In fact, the conduct
of our force in winter-quarters at Kingpo had diffused such an
opinion of our invincibility in the field, as well as of our clemency
and good faith, that the people showed not the slightest objection to
our approach, and this (as already observed) was one of those omens
which opened the eyes of the Tartar government, and induced them
to hurry the conclusion of a peace. The Treaty for this was shortly
afterwards signed on board the Cornwallis flag-ship, opposite that
very gate of Nanking where I myself in 1806 saw an act of
incivility attempted to our Ambassador, the late Lord Amherst, in
shutting the doors against him ; though on a strong remonstrance
being made the rudeness was atoned for, and the gates re-opened.
Shanghae, as a place of trade, has more than answered expectation,
having far outstripped Canton during even the few years that have
intervened since 1842, and notwithstanding the troubles that ensued
there from its capture by the rebels about four years ago. Circum-
stances here have contributed to make our condition very different
from what it has been at Canton, and, instead of obtaining less than
our Treaty rights, we have almost obtained more. In lieu of a mere
Consulate^ we obtained almost a Settlement of above a hundred acres
on the river, which the neighbourhood of the rebels afterwards
obliged us to fortify. Whenever the necessity for this ceases, the
fortification should cease, if it were only to convince the Chinese
that we do not want their territory, but only their commerce and
friendly intercourse. It would not be right to conclude these
observations without adverting to that splendid river^ the Yang-tse-
keang, on which Nanking stands, and which seems to have been
specially adapted by nature to steam navigation. Lord Colchester,
an ex-president of this Society, can bear me witness to its mag-
nificent character, for we were travellers in the same boat along a
great portion of its course, as far inland as the Poyang Lake. Pope
says of the Thames,
* Search not its bottom, but survey its shore.'
Lord Colchester did both ; for he took soundings from Nanking to
