April 27, 1857.] AND THE EAST COAST OF CHINA. 337
the Poyang Lake, and with that and the compass constructed a
chart which, if it is not already, ought to be, in the archives of the
Society. From Nanking downwards an excellent survey has been
made by Captain CoUinson, r.n.
The President returned the thanks of the Society to Sir John Davis for his
most instructive communication. They could not make a better comparison
between the Chinese and ourselves, than by comparing the map of that country
drawn by Mr. Arrowsmith, with the remarkable Chinese map presented to the
Society by Consul Parkes. The subject of China could only be well discussed
by those who were acquainted with the country ; and he was glad to see pre-
sent Mr. J. Crawfurd, and also that distinguished General, Sir Colin Campbell,
who could illustrate how the Canton forts might easily be taken.
Mr. J. Crawfurd, f.r.g.s. — It was not very easy to speak with any eifect
after the best-informed man in Europe, and one, he believed, better informed
than the Chinese themselves, respecting the empire of China. He had himself
never gone farther than Cochin-China ; but he had had a great deal of inter-
course with the Chinese. He had lived among them, and had some authority
over them, for twelve or fourteen years ; and, on the whole, he was pretty well
acquainted with them. He knew the emigrants tolerably well. It was well
known that China was a populous country, and a country of vast extent ; but
mistakes prevailed respecting its population. It was said to be the most
populous country in the world. This was not the case, as it was not even so
densely peopled as Great Britain and Ireland. The whole area of China was
1,300,000 miles — about twelve times the extent of Great Britain. Its popula-
tion was supposed to be 360,000,000, according to the census taken forty-five
years ago. In Great Britain we had 300 inhabitants to the square mile, the
Chinese 277. The population was most unequally distributed. In some pro-
vinces — the province of Yun-nan, for example — there were not above 50 inha-
bitants to the square mile, and that province is about the extent of Great
Britain and Ireland put together. Then, there were some provinces which
contained 600 or 700 inhabitants to the square mile, as in Che-kiang, a great
silk country. The first subject he would bring under notice was the emigra*
tion from China. When Europeans were first acquainted with China 350
years ago, there were no emigrants ; but the protection afforded by European
governments, especially by our own, had encouraged the Chinese to emigrate
and to settle in the neighbouring islands. The emigrants were all of the
working classes, and they were all adult males. The women never emigrated,
and the consequence was that the men were a little turbulent and ill-conducted.
He estimated the number of Chinese emigrants in the eastern islands, including
the Philippines, at about 350,000 : there was, besides, a considerable number
in Cochin-China, and a far greater number in Siam, which contained, he
believed, not less than 1,000,000. All that was most valuable in Siam
depended, indeed, upon the industry of the Chinese. The Chinese settlers
generally were an exceedingly industrious, well-doing people, and he had never
himself experienced the least inconvenience from misconduct on their part.
When he was at Singapore, at the head of the civil administration, fears were
at one time entertained of the Malays, and the chiefs of the Chinese came, and,
in the handsomest manner possible, offered their assistance to put down the
expected disturbance. He mentioned this, because it was said the Chinese
were conspiring against us throughout the whole of our insular possessions.
He believed there was no foundation whatever for that allegation, for he had
never known them to be turbulent or disorderly. In our settlements they were
upon the same footing as British subjects. They sat on petty juries, on grand
juries, and some two or three of them were justices of the peace in otir prin-
