338 DAVIS ON CANTON AND HONGKONG, [April 27, 1857.
cipal settlements ; they were shipowners, and tliey traded far and wide — to
the Cape of Good Hope, to the Mauritius, and to every port in India. There
were many wealthy people among them, and he was certain a people in their
condition would not be disposed to insurrection ; they knew, moreover, that
they were better off under our government than any other. Our trade with
China was a most important subject. The exports and imports, including the
trade between India and China, could not be less than 15,000,000Z. each, which
approached the largest branch of our foreign commerce — the trade with the
United States. Complaints had been made of the quantity of silver sent out
of this country to the East. The cause was obvious enough. We received an
immense supply of productions from China, and, of course, were obliged to
pay for it in silver. With resjiect to the opium trade, he approved of it
entirely. He thought the use of opium as innocuous as the use of any descrip-
tion of wine, and a good deal more so than that of brandy or other ardent
spirit. He had the authority of Sir Benjamin Brodie for this. That eminent
medical authority said that opium soothed the nervous system, while brandy
and all alcoholic spirits irritated it exceedingly. Both were, of course, liable to
abuse ; but he conscientiously believed that opium was much more rarely
abused than ardent spirits. Some people fancied that the Malays took opium
for the express purpose of running a-muck. Now, when the Malays and
Chinese took opium, they smoked it in the form of a little ball, not much
larger than a swan-shot ; half a dozen whiffs sent them fast asleep, and when
asleep, they dreamed they were in a Mahommedan paradise making love to
houris. That was surely not the condition for a man to run a-muck in. The
Indian government received about 3,000,000Z. a-year from the opium trade —
about one-seventh of their entire revenue. It was not our business to put a
stop to the trade. So long as the traffic was x^rohibited by the Chinese, smug-
gling must take place ; and that could only be put a stop to by the Chinese
legahsing the traffic and imposing a moderate duty upon the article. It was
argued that it was the duty of the Indian government to suppress the growth
of the poppy, in order to favour an absurd and ridiculous prejudice on the part
of the Chinese. The ' Edinburgh Review,' in its last number, proposed that
we should enter into a treaty with the Chinese, and bind ourselves to put an
end " progressively " to the growth of the poppy in India for the production
of opium for exportation. We could not do that without " progressively "
putting an end at the same time to our Indian empire ; for, without the
3,000,000?. revenue derived from opium, it would be impossible to carry on
the Indian government. There were other articles of import into China of
some importance. The raw cotton of India was sent in considerable quantities
to China ; and that was one reason why (the gentlemen of Manchester should
understand) it did not come to England. The cotton- wool imported into China
was of the value of 500,000Z. sterling, whereas the opium taken annually was
of the value of 5,000,000?. To ask us to put a stop to the growth of the
poppy, would be just as reasonable as to ask the French to put an end to
the growth of the vine, because spirits and wine were sometimes productive
of drunkenness in this country. Among other imports into China were the
swallows' nests, a gelatinous substance, almost tasteless, but in much repute
for making soup. There was another article of commerce, the sea-cucumber,
of which specimens might be seen in the Gardens of the Zoological Society.
Several thousand tons were imported into China annually. The Malays pro-
ceeded as far as the Gulf of Carpentaria in search of this article, and there
Captain Flinders found them fifty years ago. Another article of import he
might mention, was camphor, not the common camphor, but concrete camphor,
obtained from a certain tree ; it was valued for its supposed restorative pro-
perties, as are the other articles just named. With respect to the exports of
€hina, he would only touch ujxDn two — tea and raw silk. It was not until the
