April 27, 1857.] NORTH AUSTEALIAN EXPEDITION, 341
the last place we took, and the city which commands the entrance of the
canal northwards. The rebels are, or were until very lately, in possession of
Chin-ldang-foo.
Sib Colin Campbell rose to say that Mr. Bowring, a young friend of his,
son of Sir John Bowring, mentioned to him, a morning or two ago, that,
within the last two years, two vessels had been sent up to Nanking by his
father to ascertain what the insurgents were about, their numbers, and the
manner in which they were occupying the country. That object was com-
pletely obtained, for he found the rebels at Nanking, but they had not come
down so far as Chin-kiang-foo.
Sir John Davis. — Mr. Meadows, in 1853, saw the rebels there, and con-
ferred with them.
Sir C. Campbell. — They were not in possession of Chin-kiang-foo, accord-
ing to Mr. Bowring, when he was there ; and without actual possession of that
point you do not command the canal.
The Earl Albemarle. — It is the point of junction.
Sir C. Campbell. — It is. He remembered, when he went up there in com-
mand of a regiment, imder Lord Saltoun, they were placed outside the town. One
of the officers found a house where there was a number of papers, and brought
the bundle to him as a curiosity ; and it turned out to be a despatch from the
officer who commanded the Chinese troops. It was translated by Mr. Thorn,
and described this officer's movements. It was addressed to the Emperor, and
it mentioned his route, his march downwards, in obedience to the orders of
the war department there, and stated that, instead of carrying out the farther
orders of his Majesty, he had stopped at this place, which he called " the very
throat between the north and south." He described that point, Chin-kiang-
foo, as the " throat." And the English were at that throat.
Sir J. Davis. — Mr. Meadows, who was despatched by the British Pleni-
potentiary to communicate with the rebels, actually had his audience at
Chin-kiang-foo with the leaders, and describes it in his book. Possibly they
had abandoned the point since.
Sir C. Campbell. — It appeared strange that they should be in force at
Nanking, and not in possession of Chin-kiang-foo.
2. North Australian Expedition.
The following letter, from the Commander of the expedition to
North Australia, was read by the Secretary : —
Burnett District, 2nd December, 1856.
Sir, — I have the honour to inform you of the arrival of the North
Australian Expedition within the limits of the settled parts of New
South Wales.
From the time of landing the horses at Point Pearce in September,
1855, to the 9th May, 1856, the party was employed in preliminary
details, and the exploration of the country to the south of the
Victoria Eiver, having penetrated the interior deserts to latitude
18° 20' south, and longitude 127° 30' east; a detail of which I forwarded
by the ' Tom Tough' schooner, vi& Copang, and which doubtless has
already come to hand.
The schooner ♦ Tom Tough ' having been seriously damaged in
