342 NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [April 27, 1857.
ascending the Victoria Eiver, and a quantity of stores and provisions
thereby destroyed, I instructed Mr. Baines to embark that portion
of the expedition which was not required to form the land party,
and to proceed to Copang for supplies, and thence to the Albert
Eiver in the Gulf of Carpentaria, to co-operate with the land
expedition.
On the 21st June I left the encampment on the Victoria 'Eiver,
with a party of six persons, viz. Mr. H. Gregory, Mr. Elsey, Dr.
Miiller, and three men — Dean, Bowman, and Melville.
The arid nature of the country in the interior of Northern Aus-
tralia compelled us to increase our latitude to 15° S. in order to
pass the central parts of Arnheim-land, after which we kept parallel
to the coast as far inland as water could be found in the rivers, the
greatest distance from the sea not exceeding 100 miles.
Eeaching the appointed rendezvous at the Albert Eiver on the
30th August, the schooner had not arrived, but, from some marked
trees, it appeared that Her Majesty's Ship ' Torch ' had sent a boat
up the river a few weeks previous, but it was evident that this
visit had no reference to the expedition, as the only marks left con-
sisted of the names of some of the crew, which they had amused
themselves by carving on the trees and stumps ; and the ashes of
their fire.
Under these circumstances, I deemed it not advisable to wait the
arrival of the schooner ; and having marked trees, and buried in-
structions for Mr. Baines at a spot which had been previously agreed
upon, we left the Albert on the 3rd September, and made some in-
effectual attempts to proceed to the south-east, but want of water
compelled me to pursue a route parallel to the coast to latitude
17° 20' S., when the Gilbert Eiver enabled a S.E. course to be again
pursued.
Crossing the heads of the Lynd in 18° 40', we reached the Burdekin
on the 16th October. Our route was then along the right bank of
that river to the junction of the Suttor Eiver, which was followed
up to the Belyando Eiver, Tracing that river to latitude 22°, we
then pursued a south-east course to the junction of the Comet and
Mackenzie Eivers, and from thence to the Dawson brought us to
Messrs. Connor and Pitt's station on the 22nd November.
I am now on my way to Brisbane, where I purpose to leave the
horses until arrangements can be made for their disposal, and proceed
direct to Sydney.
(Signed) A. C. Gregory,
Commander N. A. Expedition.
