April 27, 1857.] NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 34S
The President said he held in his hand a letter from this distinguished
explorer himself. The Society would he delighted to know that the Council
had that day awarded one of its Gold Medals to Mr- Gregory, for there was
scarcely any exploration in his time which seemed more worthy of the com-
mendation of Geographers, than this exploit of Mr. Gregory. It would he
recollected that the expedition was really undertaken hy her Majesty's Govern-
ment at the suggestion of the Geographical Society. In the course of his
journey Mr. Gregory penetrated into the interior, in order to ascertain whether
it was a vast saline desert, and he tested it on two or three points before he
retraced his steps to the Victoria. He came to a valley which, according to
his letter, far surpassed the best parts of Western Australia, both in fertility
and extent, and also for settlement.
Mr. J. Crawfurd, f.r.g.s., believed Mr. Gregory to be an admirable
explorer. He had told the whole truth, and that truth amounted to this
• — that the country he had explored was totally unfit for European settlements.
He could not see how any country lying between 11° and 16° of latitude could
be fit for the settlement of the Anglo-Saxon race. The heat must be intense.
The grassy plains would fatten bullocks, but who were to eat the bullocks
when they were fattened ?
The President. — Mr. Gregory does not think so.
Mr. Crawfurd. — Mr. Gregory knew less than he did of countries so near
the equator. He was perfectly certain the Anglo-Saxon race would never
settle there.
Lieut. Chimmo, f.r.g.s., hoped these recent accounts would convince the
public of the worthlessness of the country about the Gulf of Carpentaria.
The President. — That is quite another region, and differs from the valley
of the Victoria.
Lieut. Chimmo read an extract or two from Mr. Gregory's communications
respecting the climate and soil of the Gulf of Carpentaria, and said it was
exceedingly gratifying to him that Mr. Gregory had corroborated the views
that he had, on more than one occasion expressed, that the country along the
Gulf of Carpentaria was entirely unfit for European occupation.
Mr. Crawfurd observed that the Victoria seemed to be the only consider-
able stream that existed in that part of Australia. He placed no reliance on
the two to three hundred rivers that one gentleman spoke about, as falling into
the Gulf of Carpentaria. If they all ran in one channel and formed one river,
they would be more serviceable. With regard to the navigability of the
Victoria, the schooner only ascended it fifty miles.
Mr. T. Saunders said, that if Mr. Gregory had pursued the same system
of investigation, at the Gulf of Carpentaria, which he had pursued on the
Victoria, his evidence as to the character of the country about the Gulf would
have been worth as much as his evidence respecting the Victoria. But instead
of following the streams up to their sources, as he had done with the Victoria,
whereby he discovered the nature of the country far into the interior, he, on
the Gulf, merely intersected the rivers a little distance farther towards the
interior, than Leichardt had already done. Had he pursued the courses of
the streams, he would probably have found all that Leichardt said he had
experienced, with respect to the salubrity of the climate and the fertility of the
soil in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
The President, before adjourning the meeting, announced that a com-
munication had been received through the Foreign Office from our consul at
Tripoli, stating that he heard no confirmation of the report that Dr. Vogel,
the African traveller, had been assassinated. There was no foundation for the
statement except the African report, and he, for one, would not believe it
before it had been proved.
