344 HIMALAYA AND MOUNT EVEREST. [May 11, 1857.
Twelfth Meeting, May ll^A, 1857.
Sir KODEKICK I. MURCHISON, President, in the Chair.
Elections. — Major the Hon, Wenman Coke ; Lord Dufferin ; Commander
C. Rundel Egerton, r.n. ; Sir A. H. Elton, Bart., m.p. ; Captain M, S.
Nolloth, R.N. ; Viscount St. Vincent ; and J, Bartholomew, jun. ; li. C.
Marsden ; Arthur Mills ; L. R. Meid ; John Boss ; and J. W. Willcock,
Q.C., Esqrs.t were elected Fellows.
Donations. — The following were among the donations to the
Library and Map-Eooms received since the former meeting: — A
Chart, framed, showing the intended telegraph communication
between Newfoundland and Ireland, &c., presented by Mr. Brook-
ing, F.R.G.s, ; Maps of Moldavia and Bessarabia, by Consul Gardner^
of Jassy; the Transactions of the Lombardo-Veneto Institute of
Milan ; of the Imperial Geological Institute of Vienna ; and the
Academy of Sciences, Paris; Barth's Travels in Central Africa;
Lessep's Isthmus of Suez, &c.
Exhibitions. — Among the articles exhibited were Eeeder's Patent
Mariner's Compass ; Sheets of the original drawings of some of the
Admiralty Surveys during the past season of Sheephaven, Mulray,
Donegal, Dingle, and Ventry Harbours, and the Frith of Forth, by
Captain Bedford, f.r.g.s., Mr. M'Dougal, and Lieutenant Thomas,
R.N. ; Map of the World, on the Homalographic Projection of the
Sphere, by J. Babinet ; with Maps of the Crimea and other places,
engraved on a new principle on stone, by Erhard, and published by
E. Bourdin, of Paris.
Announcements. — The President informed the Meeting of the
departure of the Niger expedition under Dr. Baikie, f.r.g.s. ; and
stated that the report in circulation of the death of the enterprising
and intrepid African traveller, Mr. C. J. Andersson, was happily
without foundation. He was sorry, however, to add that another
Swedish traveller. Dr. Wahlberg, had perished in an encounter with
an elephant to the northward of Lake Ngami. A letter from Mr.
K. L. Sutherland, f.r.g.s., was then read, suggesting the advisability
of a Naturalist being on board the ' Agamemnon ' in sounding the
Atlantic and laying down the Telegraph cable. The Chairman next
mentioned that, owing to the inadequacy of the Meeting Room to
accommodate the rapidly increasing numbers of Fellows and Visitors
who — as he was glad to see — were in the habit of attending, a
Eesolution had been passed at the Council that day, that he should
represent the case to the President of the Council-Board of Educa-
