May 11, 1857.] HIMALAYA AND MOUNT EVEREST. 345
tion, and request permission to hold their meetings, next session, in
the Theatre of the Government School of Mines, in Jermyn-street.
The President finally drew the attention of the Society to the
approaching Anniversary Meeting, on Monday, the 25th inst., at
one o'clock, when the Annual Address would be delivered, and the
Gold Medals for the year awarded to Mr. A. C. Gregory, Com-
mander of the North Australian Expedition, and to Lieutenant-
Colonel A. S. Waugh, Surveyor-General of India ; and likewise to
the Dinner, which would take place at the Freemasons' Tavern, at
seven o'clock, when he hoped to see the Chair well supported by
the Fellows and their friends.
The papers read were : — •
1. Papers relating to the Himalaya and Mount Everest.
A. By Lieutenant-Colonel A. S. Waugh, Surveyor-General of India,
dated Dehra, March 1st, 1856 ; and
B. By B. H. HoDGSOX, Esq., dated Darjiling, Oct. 27th, 1856.
{A.)
Sir, —With my letter No. 99, of 18th December, 1855, I trans-
mitted a Geographical Memorandum on the identification and
revision of height of the famous mountain of Dwalagiri, originally
measured by Captain W. S. Webbe, and at one time supposed to be the
highest mountain in the world, though my operation in 1847 proved
Kunchinginga to be much higher.*
You aie aware that the computations of the positions and eleva-
tions of all the principal peaks of the stupendous Himalaya, com-
prising 18 J degrees of longitude, from Assam to the SafedKho, have
been provisionally completed, and I intend to make this subject one
of special report for publication.
Previous to publication, however, it is essential that the com-
putations should be scrupulously revised and every refinement of
correction introduced. This I do not expect will materially modify
the results.
The revision has proceeded to some extent, and I am now in
possession of the final values for the peak designated XV in the list
in the Office of the Surveyor-General of India.
We have for some years known that this mountain is higher than
any other hitherto measured in India, and most probably it is the
highest in the whole world.
I was taught by my respected chief and predecessor. Colonel
* See Asiatic Researches, vol. xii.
2f
