34G
PAPERS RELATING TO THE
[May 11, 1857.
Geo. Everest, to assign to every geographical object its true local
or native appellation. I have always scrupulously adhered to
this rule, as I have in fact to all other principles laid down by that
eminent graduist.
But here is a mountain, most probably the highest in the world,
without any local name that we can discover, or whose native appel-
lation, if it have any, will not very likely be ascertained before we
are allowed to penetrate into Nepal and to approach close to this
stupendous snowy mass.
In the mean time the privilege, as well as the duty, devolves on
me to assign to this lofty pinnacle of our globe, a name whereby it
may be known among geographers and become a household word
among civilized nations.
In virtue of this privilege, in testimony of my affectionate respect
for a revered chief, in conformity with what I believe to be the wish
of all the Members of the scientific department, over which I have
the honour to preside, and to perpetuate the memory of that illus-
trious master of accurate geographical research, I have determined
to name this noble peak of the Himalayas ' Mont Everest.'
The final values of the co-ordinates of geographical position for
this mountain are as follows, viz. : —
Mont Everest, or Himalaya Peak XV.
Latitude N.
27 59 16-7
Longitude E. of
Greenwich.
86 58 5-9
Height above
Sea-level.
Feet.
29,002
As it will be interesting to you to see the independent results for
all our observations to this mountain, and to contrast them with
those of other celebrated peaks, I herewith append an attested
statement of the geographical positions and elevations of Dwalagiri,
Mont Everest, Kunchinginga, and Choomalari.
You will perceive that the results are all satisfactorily accordant.
In the case of Mont Everest the accordance of the independent
heights is closer than could have been anticipated, because the
mountain, though lofty and massive, is not a sharp well-defined peak
and was observed from great distances.
You are at liberty to make use of these results, in anticipation of
my forthcoming report on the positions and elevations of all the
principal peaks of the Himalaya range.
In justice to my able assistant J. Hennessey, Esq., it is proper to
acknowledge, that I am greatly indebted to him for his cordial
co-operation in revising these computations.
