348 PAPERS RELATING TO THE [May 11, 1857.
very able Surveyor-General, Colonel Waugh, to be upwards of
29,000 feet high, and consequently to be the loftiest, yet known,
peak of the Himalaya.
Agreeing as I do with Colonel Waugh in the propriety of adopt-
ing native names, and cordially sympathising with the sentiment
which gave rise to the name Mount Everest, I trust I may be per-
mitted, without offence, to state, in justice to my friends the
Kepalese and to myself, who have been so long connected with
them, that the mountain in question does not lack a native and
ascertained name ; that that name is Devadhunga, Holy hill, or
Mons Sacer ; and that it is expressly referred to under that name in
our Journal. To the paper styled ' Eoute from Kathmandu to
Darjiling,' there is appended a ' Memorandum relative to the seven
Cosis.' In the latter occurred the following words : " The Bhotia
Cosi " has its source at Deodhiinga, a vast Himalayan peak situated
60 to 70 miles east of Gosainthan, and which Colonel Waugh con-
jectures may rival Kunchenginga in height." In the rude sketch
map which accompanied that paper,, Deodhiinga was set down in
the position indicated, and that that position tallies with the site
of Mount Everest, is clear from the words above quoted, since
"60 to 70 miles east of Gosainthan," answers precisely to east
longitude 87°, Gosainthan being in 86° east longitude.
Other indications equally correspond, and at the same time show
why such an object could not remain unnamed or unascertained.
Thus Devadhunga and Mount Everest are both " about 100 miles
N.E. of Kathmandu ;" both are midway between Gosainthan and
Kangchan ; and, lastly, both are by their position and by the
absence of any like mass of snow in all the intervals between those
peaks, identifiable with the so-sailed Kiitighat, or the great Gatey
which annually for half the year is closed by Winter upon the
Eastern highway of Nepalese commerce and intercourse with Tibet
and China.
A few words more may be given to this last point, as being the
matter which chiefly fixed my attention, as a political officer in
Nepal, on the site of Mount Everest, and enabled me at once, when
I heard in after years surmises of the great height of a peak in that
direction, to fix on Devadhunga, or Bhairavthan (both names are
used) as being the " enormous snow mass " in question ; and I have
often of late repeated this here, very recently to Mr. Blanford.
Round the shoulder of Devadhunga runs, as above intimated, the
great Eastern highway (the western being round the shoulder of
Gosainthan) of the merchants and envoys of Nepal proceeding to
Lassa and Pekin ; and this passage along the shoulder of the huge.
