May 11,1857.] HIMALAYA AND MOUNT EVEREST: 349
jsnowy mass of Devadhiinga is denominated the Kntighat by the
Hindoos and the people of the plains of India, as the passage
round the huge snowy mass of Gosainthan is denominated by
them the Kerung, or Western Ghat. But Kiiti and Kerung are
names of towns, the one situated considerably within, and the
other considerably beyond, the respective ghats ; and, moreover, the
word ghat is never used by the highlanders (Parbattias) of Nepal
for a snow-pass. Their word is " langiir," and the especial langiir in
question is named Bhairava langiir, or the pass of Bhairava, just as
the mass above it, is called Bhairavthan, or abode of Bhairava :
Bhairava being the terrific form of the God Siva. Every merchant
and statesman at Kathmandu talks familiarly of the Bhairav langiir,
owing to its fonnidable character, its obstructiveness (it bars the
road to the North for half the year), and its strange contrast with
that very extensive and very level tract of country in Tibet, called
the Tingri Maidan, on which the Bhairav langiir immediately opens.
And this marked character of the ghat, added to the unmarked
character of the peak above it, may be one reason why the two are
often confounded under the same appellation. But Devadhiinga and
Bhairavthan are nevertheless sufficiently familiar and correct names
for this peak, or snowy mass rather ; and it were indeed a strange
circumstance, if so remarkable a natural object had escaped the
notice of the people of the country and thus remained unnamed.
Nor would it have been very creditable to me after 20 years' lesi-
dence in Nepal, had I been unable to identify that object. The
two papers herewith submitted, together with those formerly sub-
mitted to the Asiatic Society of Bengal,* or to Government, will, I
trust, show that I have given as much attention to the general
subject of Nepalese Geography as my opportunities and training
admitted and my duty required, whilst the foregone remarks must
satisfy every one that this special object, supposed to have been
heretofore utterly unheeded, was one so situated and circumstanced
that no reasonable excuse for ignorance cf it on my part could be
made, it being clear that personal approximation was no more a
* 1 . Military road throughout the centre of Nepal fiom Kamaon to Sikira ; to the
Government.
2. Route from Kathmandu to Tazedo on Chinese fiontier, to llie Society, and
published in its Researches.
3. l^oute from Kathmandu to Darjiling, to the Society, and published in its
Journal.
4. Physical Geography of Himalaya, to the Society, and published in its Journal.
5. Visit to Nagakote, with n«>tice of the rivers flowing into it. Printed in the
Journal.
6. Various routes through Nepal, from and to places specified. Sent to Govern-
ment, and deposited in its archives.
7 and 8. Two Journals of embassies from Nepal to Chita, now sent.
