MavII, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. 351
and the natives could not pronounce it. It would be confounded with that of
O'Brien, and the hill people would probably call this mountain Ob'ron. As
another instance of the difficulty which the natives experienced in pronouncing
English names, he might, among others, mention that the name of the
*' Hon. Mr. Cavendish" was pronounced by them '• Humbel go mundee."
2. Notes on Mdharnrah and the Chaab Arabs, etc. By Col. Sir Henry
EaWLINSON, K.C.B., F.R.G.S., etc.
Sir H. Rawlinson said he held in his hand a report upon
Moham'rah and the Chaab Arabs, which he had prepared for
the information of Her Majesty's Government about thirteen
years ago, when the dependency of the first-named place was
contested between the governments of Persia and Turkey, and
when those powers had accepted the arbitration of England and
Russia in the settlement of the dispute. Although this report, treat-
ing almost exclusively of political geography, might, perhaps, with
some alterations and additions, be made fit for publication in the
Journal of the Geographical Society, still he thought the Meeting,
instead of having inflicted upon them a dry catalogue of barbarous
names, and a still drier disquisition on the nationality of disputed
territory, would prefer hearing something of the actual position and
history of Moham'rah, a name which had now become, as it were, a
household word in our annals. Therefore, instead of reading the
official report, he proposed to divide his address into three parts. In
the first place, he would trace upon the map the configuration of the
adjoining country and explain something of the actual geography of
Moham'rah. In the second place, as the ancient history of
.Moham'rah was of considerable interest, he would read a few notes
which he had drawn up upon the comparative geography of the
region in which it was situated from the earliest times. And,
.thirdly, if time permitted, he would offer a few observations upon
the place, as connected with our recent military operations ; that is
in reference to the Persian war which had just been brought to a
conclusion by Sir James Outram,
Moham'rah, as the meeting was aware, was the scene of our
latest, and he hoped he might say, our last, military exploit against
the Persians. It had thus become a place of very great interest ;
but he believed that at the present hour (as the town was not
marked upon any of the standard published maps), there were very
few people who were acquainted with its exact position. He pro-
posed therefore, in the first place, to show exactly where it was, and
to trace the geography of the surrounding country. The map before
the Meeting exhibited the Avhole of the northern coast of the Persian
