May 11, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. 353
how he supposed the attack to have taken place, judging from his
personal knowledge of the country, and from the accounts he had
received from the spot, of the commander's intentions. At present
it was of more importance that he should explain the particular
geographical configuration of the place, in reference to its national
dependency: one of the questions constantly asked being, " AVhere
is Moham'rah ? is it in Persia or in Turkey ? or is it on the frontier
between the two countries ? " Kow there was a little map hanging
on the wall, which had been drawn up by the Turco-Persian Frontier
Commission, presided over on our part by our associate Sir Wm. Fen-
wick Williams, and which showed the exact frontier between the two
countries the whole way from Ararat to the Persian Gulf. This survey
he might say, en passant, was one of the most valuable and important
geographical works which had been undertaken for a very long time
past. The whole line of frontier stretching from Ararat to the
Persian Gulf, together with a considerable extent of teriitory on
either side, had been minutely and scientifically surveyed by English
and Russian officers, under the direction of Sir Fenwick Williams
on the part of the English government, and of General Tcherikoif
on the part of the Russian government. The sketch-map hanging
on the wall merely exhibited the result of that great survey, the
details of which were, he believed, now being again put together at
Constantinople, after an interruption of some years caused by the
war which took place between Turkey and Russia. The line of
frontier, they would perceive, ran down here, from the extremity
of the mountain-range to the sea. He must explain that the
physical law which was held to regulate teriitorial distribution
between Persia and Turkey in this quarter was, that the country
watered by the Euphrates belonged to Turkey, and the country
watered by the Karun belonged to Persia. Moham'rah was here.
The great Persian river Karun came down in that direction from the
north-east, while the Sha,t-el-Arab, formed of the Tigris and Euphrates
joined together, came down in this direction from the north-west.
The question was, then, whether Moham'rah was on the Euphrates or
on the Kariin ? If on the Karun it was Persian ; but if on the
Euphrates it was Turkish. After a great deal of discussion, all the
prvs and cons bein^ given in the report which he held in his hand, it
was decided that it should be Persian. This decision he believed
to be contrary to geographical propriety ; but nevertheless it might
have been a proper decision in a political point of view ; in fact, if
it had not been so ruled, and Persia had not been encouraged to
consolidate her position on the lower Euphrates, we should not have
been able at the present day to have exerted that pressure Tipon her
