854 RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. [May 11, 1857.
in the occupation of Mohara'rah whicli it might be hoped would now
definitively put an end to the war. If we took geographical prece-^
dent, he believed it could be shown that Moham'rah was certainly
on the Euphrates ; and if on the Euphrates, it most unquestionably
belonged to Turkey : the reasons for this geographical distribution
he should be able to show when he read his notes on the ancient
history of Moham'rah. Extracts, which he should give from Arab
geographers, who were perfectly well acquainted with the country,
would demonstrate that the Euphrates came to this point and
bifurcated here ; that this was the eastern branch of the river, called
the Bahmeshire ; tliat this, up which the fleet passed, was the
western branch : that, in fact, the Euphrates discharged itself into
the sea by a delta, formed of these two channels ; and that the Kariin
was afterwards brought in through an artificial bed and joined the
Euphrates at this point. However, it had been ruled by the Treaty of
Erzerum, that Moham'rah was in Persia, and so it would now remain
to the end of time. The reason for this settlement assigned at the
Conference, was that Moham'rah had been occupied by the Persians
for some fifteen or twenty years previously, and that it would be
inconvenient to disturb the existing distribution of territory. He
might further observe, although it was more a political than a
geographical question, that the Turkish government had never been
satisfied with this adjudication. In fact, within the last six weeks,
when it was knovni that a British expedition was preparing to
attack Moham'rah, the Turkish government entered a formal protest
against the movement, stating that although they had agreed to the
treaty of Erzerum, which required them to surrender the left bank
of the lower Euphrates, yet, as other geographical conditions of
that treaty (referring probably to Zohab and Kotur) had not been
carried out, they did not consider that they had in the mean time
lost their territorial claim to Moham'rah ; and that, until that claim
w^as waived, no foreign power had a right to attack the place. A
troublesome discussion might have arisen on this point had not the
Persians who were in possession of Moham'rah fired on one of our
steamers, the 'Comet,' whilst passing up the Euphrates; and thus
disposed at once of the protest and the pretended neutrality ; because
if the Turks had any claim upon the place, they ought to liaA^e been
able to prevent parties in possession of it from taking the initiative
in an attack upon us. The last accounts stated that an answer to
the above eff'ect had been given in to the Turkish government, and
that, immediately afterwards, the expedition entered the river, sailed
up, and attacked Moham'rah.
. Having thus given a popular account of the geographical position
