May 11, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. 355
of Moham'rah, and of the respective claims upon it by Persia and
Turkey, he thought he might pass on to the second portion of his
subject, and read his notes on the ancient history of the place ; after
which he should feel himself more at liberty to discuss any general
matters relating to it. He might explain that these notes, written
off hurriedly, and merely referring to the ancient geography of the
country, could not be expected to excite much interest ; but (here
were two points contained in them to which he particularly wished
to direct attention. One was the evidence they afforded of the
whole of the country at the mouth of the Euphrates being new. He
should be able to show that the great capitals of the countiy at the
commencement of history were far up the river, about here
and that century after century, with a fresh accretion of land,
a fresh emporium was formed lower down the Euphrates, until
we descended to the present day, and ^ saw successive villages
rising, one after the other, as the sea receded, and new lands were
available for cultivation. That was one point. Another matter to
which he desired to draw attention was, that this particular district
of Moham'rah was, some 2000 years ago, the seat of a very famous
Greek, or quasi-Greek kingdom. Although the present village of
Moham'rah might not exactly occupy the site of the old capital,
still the country dependent on it formed the kingdom of Characene,
which was of much political impoi^tance in its day, and the Greek
coins of which were still in great request among antiquarians.*
If the meeting would allow him he would say a few words with
regard to the modern question, and endeavour to introduce them to
a better acquaintance with Moham'rah under its present aspect, and
with the surrounding country. They knew exactly where Moham'rah
was situated, and before he proceeded farther, he would give them
some information as to ihe condition and appearance of the modern
town.
Sir Henrj'- then read an account of the fort from his notes,
and explained the reasons which influenced Sir James Outram
in selecting Moham'rah as his point of attack. So long as he re-
mained at Bushir he could only act on the defensive. He could
not proceed inland or adopt any offensive measures for two very
sufficient reasons ; firstly, because he had no carriage, and secondly,
because the passes which barred his progress were impracticable to
an army. To have remained therefore in position at Bushir would
have been a mere idle demonstration, leading to no result; yet Sir
James Outram, it must be remembered, had no reason to suppose
♦ Sir H. Kawlinson here read his notes on the Comparative Geography of Moham'rah
and the -vicinity, which will be published in due course in the Journal. — Ed.
