Jan. 28, 1856.] FINDLAY. 25
mouth of Peel Sound had been well examined by Lieut. Browne and Sir
James Ross ; and if the boats from deserted ships had touched on either
side, some traces would have been found. The discovery of the shovel
belonging, as he supposed, to the ship's forge, convinced him that the
ship itself could not be far off, and therefore he had changed his former
opinion that the expedition went down Prince Regent's Inlet, and con-
cluded that one vessel at least must be near the mouth of Back River.
He thought the author of the paper had not taken the changes of the
seasons sufficiently into consideration ; his hypothesis involved an open
season. In some cases the ice had been known to travel north ; portions
of the ' Breadalbane ' transport, nipped to the eastward of Beechey Island
on the 22nd of August, were found alongside of the ' Assistance,' 52
miles N. of Beechey Island, on the 5th of September, and the ice had
travelled as far as Hamilton Island. The effect of the main current
was to force some things up Wellington Channel and press others on
the E. shore. He thought the diagram proved the vessels were not
the * Erebus ' and ' Terror ;' he felt sure the spars would not have
been left standing, and indeed he had private information before leaving
England that he need not make search for those vessels on the banks.
Icebergs, when they got on the tail of the banks, under the influence
of increased temperature, would expand and explode, turn into sludge,
and soon disappear.
Dr. Rae differed from Sir E. Belcher. He believed that the ships
had been abandoned to the N. of Back River, although the natives
had not seen them, and saw no reason to doubt the information given
by the Esquimaux ; thirty of them had been questioned ; they pointed
out the place where Sir J. Ross had wintered, and near the N. point
of King William Land as the spot where they saw the party dragging
sledges and boat ; that they had afterwards followed their tracks to the
W. of an island that lay to the N. of a large river, where they had turned
to the rising sun between the shore and the island, towards the mouth
of the river, on low flat ground : there they had found bodies, and a boat
turned over, painted white, — and one or two tents ; and thought that
some had lived until the wild fowl appeared. These Esquimaux he
had known in 1846-7. They had also found books which had been
given to the children, and toifH up by them. One leaf had been pre-
served, and was now in Greenwich Hospital with the other relics.
The truth or falsehood of Esquimaux stories was easily to be ascer-
tained by cross-examination. Their knowledge of the geography of
their country had been remarked by every one. Of this he would give
two instances. The country he (Dr. Rae) had surveyed had been
accurately described to Sir E. Parry when 300 miles off, and on his
return to Repulse Bay they had described to him the position of caches
opened by him at nearly as great a distance from that place, which he
knew to be the same from their contents and appearance.
D
