356 RAWLINSON ON MOHASi'RAH. [May 11, 1857.
that a treaty would be concluded at Paris, or that the war would
speedily finish. Anticipating a sustained resistance on the part of
Persia, his object was to obtain a certain position, which would
enable him to carry on the war with vigour and effect hereafter ;
and for that object it was absolutely necessary that he should, in
the fii'st instance, secure a strategic base. Such a base then he
rightly judged to be only obtainable at Moham'rah, where the
obstacles which impeded operations at Bushir would no longer
require to be encountered. At Bushir, there were not only the
passes to contend with but there was also a deficiency of carriage,
and the latter difficulty appeared insuperable, for there were no
camels in that part of the country, and if mules were obtained in
sufficient quantities, they would require a corresponding amount of
forage, which the district about Bushir was quite inadequate to
supply. But at Moham'rah the General would be able to draw
camels to any extent from Turkish Arabia, for the whole country
teemed with them, and, moreover, in regard to the physical cha-
racter of the region, the army could ascend the country up to the
foot of the mountains without any difficulty whatever. He did not
know what Sir James Outram's ultimate intentions had been, but
that commander, he thought, probably saw that by obtaining com-
mand of the country up to Shuster, or to the base of the mountains,
he would really make a great impression upon Persia — such an im-
pression indeed as in all probability would bring the Persian govein-
ment to reason. If this expectation had not been realized — if the
Persians had still held out, whether Sir James Outram, in prosecu-
tion of the war, would have attempted to penetrate still further into
the interior, was a matter which there was fortunately no occasion
to investigate. His own idea was, that Sir James Outram would
have found it extremely difficult to advance beyond Shuster and
Dizfiil. But in Oriental countries experience had shown that we
might always safely count on the enemy succumbing to moral
pressure before there was any real necessity, and the result of the
Persian war afforded no exception to the rule. At the same time
it should be understood that it was not absolutely impossible to
enter Persia from Moham'rah. There were several caravan routes
leading to the interior of more or less difficulty. One route which
had been traversed by many Europeans, led from Khuzistan, by
Earn Hiirmuz and Bebahan, through the mountains to Shiraz. It
involved of course an enormous circuit, instead of passing direct
from Bushir to Shiraz, to go by sea in the first instance from
Bushir to Moham'rah, and then by land from Moham'rah to Shiraz.
But still the line in question had been considered as a possible
