May U, 1857.] KAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. 357
means of entry into Persia, being the same which was followed by
Alexander in his march from Snsa to Persepolis. The direct road
across the mountains from Shuster to Ispahan, he pronounced to be
absolutely impassable for our armies, encumbered as they were with
" materiel" of war; it was with difficulty that a laden mule could
traverse the ranges ; therefore to talk of transporting our artillery
and ammunition, stores and baggage from one point to the other, was
simply absurd. Again, there was a line running due north from
Dizful to Biirujird, passing along the precipitous banks of the
Dizful river, but that was still more difficult than the Ispahan route,
and was in fact little better than a sheep track. Then there were
two other lines which he had himself followed, leading from Dizful
into the interior. One went direct over the hills to Khorremabad
— it was badly supplied, and was, he thought, impassable for troops.
The other line led up the valley of the Kerkha to a certain point
called Jaeedur, where it bifurcated, one route branching oif to the
east to Khorremabad, and the other proceeding due north to Kerman-
shah. The last named line was just passable : it was difficult, but
still it could be traversed by troops ; and if the war had been pro-
longed, and General Outram had desired to penetrate into the interior
from Khuzistan, he would in all probability have been obliged to
follow up this difficult and circuitous line to Kermanshah.
The observations he had thus made referred however only to con-
tingencies ; he had merely been speculating on what might have
happened if the war had been continued. At present it would be
more interesting perhaps to explain wliat had actually taken place,
or, at any rate, what might be supposed to have taken place in
regard to the movements of the expedition. He had explained that
General Outram left Bushir on the 19th, and that he attacked
Moham'rah a week afterwards, on the 26th of March. Upon the
plan suspended on the wall were marked the exact positions of all
the Persian batteries, showing how the enemy had proposed to
defend the entrance into the Moham'rah creek. One battery was at
this coraer, another was placed a little further on ; and a third
occupied the opposite corner ; the fire of the three batteries concen-
trating at one point. Here, in the middle of the Euphrates, was a
shoal which prevented a vessel of any size from clinging to the right
bank of the river, and thus passing to the north of the creek. But
the ships of the expedition, with their heavy guns, must have de-
stroyed the batteries in a veiy short time, and as the information
previously received from the spot stated the Persian troops to be all
ready to retire, immediately the guns were dismounted and our troops
were prepared to land, he inferred that such had been the actual result
