358 RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAII. [May 11, 1857.
of tlie attack. The Persians appeared to have retired as fast as they
were able from Mohani'rah immediately we landed, and to have
never halted till they reached Ahwaz, where they were overtaken
by a flotilla of small steamers and again dispersed.
Now the object of General Outram in taking Mohani'rah was, as
he had before stated, to obtain a strategic base, in order to be
enabled to advance with safety into the country. His reasons for
thus desiring to advance into the interior were three-fold. In the
first place a general had to provide, as far as he was able, for the
health of his troops. A consideration of not less importance was to
make arrangements for feeding them, and in the third place it was
desirable to locate the troops in a strong military position. These
three objects then could only be obtained by advancing up the river
from Moham'rah. Had General Outram remained at Bushir he
could not have fed his troops at all ; the cavalry at any rate must
have starved ; and again, if he had remained at Moham'rah after
taking it, the troops would have suffered dreadfully from the
climate, for notwithstanding that the place was supposed by some
to be the site of Paradise, it was in reality about the most pesti-
lential spot in the whole Eastern world. When the Frontier Com-
missioners, General Williams and General Tchirikoff, were en-
camped at Moham'rah in the spring of 1851, there was not, he
believed, a single individual of their party who was not put hors de
combat at one time or another from fever. Three years ago he
remembered that the Persians had sent 500 men to garrison Mo-
ham'rah during the summer, and when relieved in the autumn only
100 men had marched out of Ihe place. That, however, it must
be admitted, was considered a bad season, but under ordinary cir-
cumstances the yearly mortality was about 50 per cent. The cause
of this unhealthiness was the marsh malaria produced by the decom-
position of vegetable matters under a burning sun, added to the
great humidity of the atmosphere in the immediate neighbourhood
of the sea. But on proceeding up the river, although the heat con-
tinued to be great, the climate was comparatively healthy. The
heat, he must repeat, was extreme in this country of Susiana, and
always had been so. Strabo mentioned on the authority of one
of Alexander's generals, who had visited Susa, that the snakes and
lizards could not pass across the streets from one side to the other
without being burnt up. That story, whether intended to be taken
literally or not, would at any rate give an idea of what the Greeks
thought of the heat of Susa. He could not say that he had ex-
perienced quite the same degree of heat, but still it was undoubtedly
"very trying ; he had remained in Susiana up to the end of May, or
