jyiAY 11, 1857.] RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. 359,
about a fortnight after the great heats had fairly set iu, and at that
time the thermometer used to rise daily to 130° in the up-stair
rooms, obliging him, in common with the rest of the inhabitants, to
take refuge in subterranean caverns excavated in the solid rock 40
or 50 feet below the surface. The population of Shuster and Dizful,
during the great heats, thus lived almost entirely under ground. But
from that place (Dizful), in two days, he got upon the snowy moun-
tains and enjoyed a most delightful climate. As our troops would
have to remain in Persia through the summer, the treaty providing
that they should not retire until three months after the ratification,
which would take place early in the month of June — and June,
July, and August being the three worst months in the year — he
could only hope that the General would not remain at Moham'rah,
but would take up a position in the interior of the country, either at
Ahwaz itself, or at any rate half-way between Moham'rah and
Ahwaz, beyond the reach of the malaria. In such a position, if the
troops were well hutted, and the huts were suirounded with camel
thorn, the temperature could be reduced to quite a bearable point.
In fact when the thermometer at Baghdad in the shade had been
125° or 130°, he had seen in houses of this sort, surrounded with
camel thorn, and constantly watered to produce evaporation, the
temperature reduced as low as 80°, and with ordinary care the ther-
mometer would never rise above 90°. He, accordingly, hoped that
General Outram would take these precautions and canton his troops
on the river, either at Sabla or Ahwaz, where the dryness of the
atmosphere was peculiarly favourable to evaporation, such as he had
described. With regard to food also, the whole of this province of
Susiana at the present time was one mass of the most luxuriant
vegetation. There was probably no country in the world richer
than the neighbourhood of Shuster. The river Karun, above
Shuster, was divided into two branches, which joined again about
thirty miles below, and the country between the two arms re-
ticulated with canals, and cultivated throughout, presented the
aspect of one continuous garden, and yielded all sorts of tropical
productions, some of which he might enumerate. In the first place
there was a vast quantity of sugar-cane, and the manufacture of
sugar had always been carried on, it would seem, to a great
extent in the province, one of the classical epithets of the article
in Persian poetry being derived from a city in the vicinity of
Shuster.* Then there was a considerable cultivation both of opium
* The allusion is to the Kend-i-Asken, or " Sugar of Asker," so called from
the city of Asker-i-Mokrim, of which the ruins are to be seen on the left arm of
the Karun (the Masrukdn of the geographers), a few miles to the north of
Bend-i-Kir.
