360 RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. [May 11, 1857.
and indigo, the latter of whicli products it had been stated not
long ago in that room, would only grow in India; he would not
say that the Shuster and Dizful indigo was of first-rate quality,
but it was sufficiently good for the ordinary uses of the country ;
and he might add that one-fourth of the opium used in Persia
was said to be grown at Shuster and Dizful. There were also
produced in Khuzistan and the adjacent districts, rice, cotton,
madder, cherry-sticks, gall-nuts, and especially mules and horses
and wool. So that it would be seen that the province of Khuzistan
was not only valuable in a military point of view, but also in a
commercial one, and although at the present time there was no idea,
he believed, of our retaining permanent occupation of the province,
still the Persian government must be equally aware with us, of its
value, as well as of its being entirely open to our arms, and these
combined considerations would, of course, act as an inducement for
them to get us out of the country as quickly as possible by agreeing
to our terms.
He had only further to point out that the province in which
Moham'rah was situated was so oppressively hot in summer that
the governors never ventured to remain there during that season.
All the provinces of Persia were under the rule of Prince governors,
members of the Royal Family being sent from the court of Teheran
to administer the several divisions of the empire, but no special
governor was ever appointed to this province to remain there per-
manently. Khuzistan (or Arabistan, as it was now generally
called) was placed under the rule of the governor of some other
province. It was sometimes attached to Kermanshah, sometimes to
Ispahan, and occasionally to the subordinate governments of Khor-
remabad or Biiriijird. At present it formed a part of the govern-
ment presided over by Khanler Mirza, the Prince who had been
defeated by our troops at Moham'rah, but he merely came down to
collect the revenues, and inspect the government of the countiy
during the winter, and immediately the heats came on, which was
generally by the end of April, he ascended the mountains again to
his capital city of Biiriijird, where he enjoyed an agreeable climate
throughout the summer. Our troops would not be able, probably,
as he had before explained, to ascend the mountains, but they could
at any rate obtain healthy quarters at Ahwaz. There was a i-idge
of sandstone stretching across the desert for above 1000 miles, which
struck the river Karun at this point, making it impossible for a
steamer to ascend higher without very considerable difficulty. He
imagined that General Outram would canton his troops below this
bundj as it was called, in order to keep up an uninterrupted river.
