^^2 RAWLINSON ON MOHAM'RAH. [May U, 1857.
to believe that Greeks would thrive with the thermometer at 130° in the
shade ?
Sib H. Rawlinson replied that the Greek settlement at the mouth of the
Euphrates was a well known historical fact. Alexander not only planted a
colony at the head of the Delta, but he gave to the surrounding tract of
country the name of Pellseum, after his native village Pella, in Macedonia.
He presumed the object to have been one of national glory rather than a mere
consideration for the comfort of the Greek soldiers ; Alexander cared little
perhaps whether the settlement throve or not, but that he did fix a colony in the
vicinity of the modern town of Moham'rah was certain. We had further the
evidence of the coins, struck in Characene with Greek legends and Greek
dates, to prove that the colony must have continued, under Arab or Partho-
Arab kings, to exist at the mouth of the Euphrates for several hundred years.
As to the doubt expressed whether Greek colonies could thrive in the great
heat of that country, he could not help referring to the remarkable case
of Seleucia, where the heat must have been fully equal to that of Moham'rah,
the town being situated on the upper part of the Tigris, about 20 miles below
Baghdad, but which, nevertheless, contained a Greek population of 100,000
souls, among whom Greek arts and literature were cultivated almost as
ardently as in Europe. Some of the most interesting descriptions that we
possessed of Greek society occurred in Plutarch's notice of Seleucia, under the
Parthians (after the defeat of Crassus), with reference to the acting of the
plays of Euripides in that city before an audience composed of Greeks and
Parthians. It was well known indeed that the Greek cities of the East flourished
quite irrespective of climate or of European comforts. He supposed that the
Greeks did deteriorate, as Englishmen also deteriorated in India. But whilst
we had an Indian empire, administered by resident Englishmen, we need not
wonder at the establishment and maintenance of Greek colonies in the countries
situated on the Tigris and Euphrates.
Mr. Montgomery Martin, f.r.g.s., said it would be interesting to know
the declination of the country from Moham'rah to the northward ? what was
the nature of the soil, as regarded its salubrity ? and how far Sir Henry Piaw-
linson thought our gallant soldiers would be able to sustain four or five
months' residence in that country, without the loss that would arise from the
extreme heat? Because the extreme heat was not always destructive of life.
When he was at Aden, where the heat was intense, the mortality in the 1 7th
was only 3 per cent.
Sir Henry Rawlinson could only make a few general remarks upon the
sanatory question, because he had not examined the country between Mo-
ham'rah and the mountains with that especial view. He only knew the
sanatory effects practically and from general observation. Near the sea there
was an extensive marshy region, where the climate was most deadly, oMnng to
the malaria which was engendered, he supposed, by the constant decomposition
of vegetable matter in a tropical sun. But when this marshy region was once
passed, the country was perfectly dry, the rivers remaining in deep beds in
their course, and never flooding the adjacent lands. No rain fell except in
the spring, at which period the whole country was covered with a most
luxuriant and wholesome vegetation, principally rich, thick grass, which he
had no doubt would be mowed by our troops and turned into serviceable hay.
In April and May the grass on the banks of the Kerkha and Shawer rivers was
so thick that it was difficult to force a horse through it ; and such was the case
all the way up to Shuster and Dizful. There was comparatively little irriga-
tion in the plains of Susiana. The desert was chiefly watered by the rains of
heaven. All this country was, of course, originally formed by alluvium, that
is, by detritus from the mountains. The rise from the sea to Shuster, near
the foot of the hills, was probably 1^ foot per mile, so that the base of
