Ma\^ 11, 1857.] RE-ELECTION OF SIR R. MURCHISON AS PRESIDENT. 363
the mountains might be about 400 feet above the level of the sea. But from
that point the mountains rose abruptly, and, as he had already mentioned, on the
second day after leaving Dizful he entered into the region of snow. The whole
of the upper country, that is, between the marshy belt to the south and the
mountains to the north, was healthy, although there was a good deal of heat
during the summer months. But we had had experience of this heat in our
former expedition to the Gulf when we occupied Karak. At first there had
been great mortality, because the European soldiers were lodged in tents and
were placed on sentry in the sun equally with the natives. It thus not unfre-
quently happened that a European soldier on guard was struck down by a
Coup de soleil, and that the party from the regiment sent out to bring in the
man and place another sentry, lost two or three men from the same cause before
they returned. The European authorities accordingly soon came to the con-
elusion that it was necessary to place natives only on sentry ; and as the
Europeans were shortly after lodged in huts of palm-mats and otherwise well
cared for, it was found, before we had been a year on the island, that the mor-
tality was not greater in Karak than it was in any of the warm stations of
India, such as those in the north-west provinces. He felt satisfied if the same
precautions were now adopted at Ahwaz, with the additional advantage of
using wet screens made of camel-thorn facing the hot wind, which naturally
produced evaporation, that the troops would not suffer more from the heat
than in the north-west provinces of India.
A Visitor, in reply to Mr. Crawfurd's statement that Bengal and Guatemala
were the only countries which produced indigo, stated that Guatemala did not
produce an ounce of indigo ; it produced only cochineal.
Mr. Crawfurd presumed that indigo must have been manufactured in
Guatemala, because it went under that name. He did not know into what
particular parts of America the manufacture had been extended.
The President, in closing the discussion, reminded the Society that the
next meeting would be their Anniversary. The Society had so rapidly increased
— numbering at present nearly a thousand Fellows — that the Council had to look
out for a larger place of meeting. Various propositions had been made, among
which was one that he, the President, should represent the case to the Earl of
Granville, as the head of the Board of Education, and request permission to
hold the meetings of this Society during next session in the theatre of the
Government School of Mines, in Jermyn Street. If it should be the pleasure
of the Society, as it was that of the Council, he was quite ready, as Director
of that establishment, to apply to the proper authorities on behalf of the Eoyal
Geographical Society.
The resolution was unanimously passed.
Sir George Back next said that the Geographical Society had now arrived
at that period when it was customary to make some changes in the Council.
Those changes had been proposed that day in the Council, but one important
omission had occurred — that of nominating the President for the ensuing year.
They would all remember that Sir Roderick Murchison, on the demise of the
late lamented President, Admiral Beechey, accepted the office with an under-
standing that it should not extend beyond the regular time, and the able
manner in which he had fulfilled the duties was patent to all. Everyone
knew his courtesy, and most of them had partaken of his hospitality. Indeed,
he knew no gentleman who could have conducted the affairs of the Society
more efiiciently than Sir Roderick Murchison had. He apj^eared to be in such
admirable health, and to have thriven so much upon the work, that with their
permission, he would propose that Sir Roderick Murchison be President for the
ensuing two years.
Colonel Everest having seconded the proposition, it was carried unani-
mously.
2 G 2
