26 FINDLAY. [Jan. 28, 1856.
Captain CoUinson said, with reference to the liope of finding documents,
that Sir J. Ross had found a MS. note-book, written by himself in
pencil at Fury Beach, when he returned there with his uncle after eight
years* absence, unhurt in the pocket of the tent where he had left it.
Sir E. Belcher added that portions of the papers left by Sir J. Franklin
in 1846, were found by him in 1850 quite legible, though they had been
exposed to the weather.
He then explained that the Northern Sea, of which he had spoken at
the last Meeting, was not to be confounded with Mr. Petermann's
Polynia. The sea along the northern lands was always in motion, and
therefore ice would pass along the shore.
"With reference to the shovel found, he remarked that all H. M.'s
ships were provided with the customary shovels with wooden handles,
which would invariably be used in sledge travel. The iron blacksmith's
shovel was not only too small in the blade to be useful, but the iron
handle would invariably bite the hands.
Sir R. Murchison was glad to see that, though there was so much
difference between Arctic travellers, yet that all who had taken part in
the discussion had openly or tacitly agreed that a small expedition ought
to be fitted out to follow up the clue which had been obtained. Sir
G. Back was, at least, willing to allow that a more extended search
would have been more satisfactory. Capt. Collinson, who had trended
the whole of the North American coast from Behring's Strait to within
a short distance of the mouth of the Back River, stated that a search by
this line could be accomplished without risk and with an almost perfect
certainty of success in a small screw- vessel, and was very decided in
favour of a further search. Sir E. Belcher, adverting to the heavy utensils
which the survivors of the Franklin Expedition had brought with them,
had expressed it as his belief that the remains of the ships were probably
not very distant from the mouth of the Back River. Dr. Rae had first
given us the clue, and he (Sir R. Murchison) maintained that it would
be inglorious on the part of Britain, possessing such a clue and the
opinions of such experienced men, to abandon this one small and final
effort. He then read extracts from a letter from Capt. Sherard Osborn,
expressing his conviction that the ships were still in the ice ; that the
search should not be discontinued ; and Ihat many competent naval men
would be happy to serve in the expedition.
Dr. Hodgkin said that long attention to the subject had convinced
him of the accuracy of the opinion several years since published by
Dr. R. King, that, comparing the results obtained with the expenditure
of life and property, the land expeditions of moderate size very far
surpassed the ship expeditions, but that of these the employment of
strong small screw steamers appeared to have the preference.
