366 MR. GREGORY— ROYAL AWARDS. [May 25, 1857.
land in the latitude of Champion Bay, and, if possible, to penetrate
to the Gascoyne river, which falls into the northern part of Shark
Bay. Crossing the Moore and Arrowsmith rivers, he ascended the
Murchison, for 50 miles towards its source, and found some rich
soil on its banks. Determining everywhere his positions astro-
nomically, he proceeded to the affluents of that stream and made
ineffectual efforts to force his way through the dense brush or
scrub of the waterless, arid plains south of Shark Bay ; when the
exhaustion of his horses, great heat, and the sterile sandy soil
proved to him that the interior of the colony could only be explored
in the moist winter months. He therefore returned to Perth,
having travelled about 1500 miles without detecting any notable
quantity of good land, and having failed in reaching the Gascoyne
river, from the want of fresh water and the impenetrable thickets
of scrub.
Most of the ofScers of the last and great expedition, which
we had so long advocated, having been sent from England to
Sydney, the expedition was there placed under the orders of Mr.
Gregory. Being properly fitted out under the directions of our
associate Sir William Denison, the Governor of New South
Wales, and proceeding thence by sea through Torres Strait and
along the north coast of the continent, it reached the great bay,
first made known to us by Capt. P. King in 1819, the eastern
gulf of which, or Queen Strait, and its stream the Victoria, were
explored by W^ickham and Stokes in 1839.
Having ascended the Victoria, with the schooner Tom Tough,
as far as was practicable, Mr. Gregory established a camp on the
right bank of this stream, at about 80 miles from its mouth. With
his brother, Mr. H. Gregory, Mr. J. S. Wilson the geologist, and
Dr. Ferdinand Mueller the botanist, he then explored the Victoria
to Jasper Creek, determining the geological nature of the country,
and ascertaining that the river made a great southward bend.
Again taking with him his brother, and Dr. Mueller, together
with the artist, Mr. T. Baines, he marched southwards to ascer-
tain if the saline desert, which Sturt had discovered in proceed-
ing inland from the southern regions of Australia, and which he
had himself found to prevail in Western Australia, was also to be
met with in a journey southwards from the north coast.
For this purpose he ascended the Victoria to its source, and
found the hilly or dividing range to have an altitude of 1660 feet
above the sea. Traversing this watershed, he descended by a
