May 25, 1857.] MR. GREGORY— ROYAL AWARDS. 367
stream flowing south, whicli he named Sturt Creek, and which,
bending to the S.S.W., terminates in a desiccated salt lake near
Mount Wilson, in S. lat. 20° 2' and E. long. 127° 5'. Whilst the
south-eastern and southern slopes of the dividing range were thus
proved to be everywhere dry and sterile sands, the whole of the
territory to the north of the same presented the most striking con-
trast, being generally fertile in grasses, particularly the extensive
grounds named Hutt Plains and Eoe Downs.
In this first effort, therefore, made specially by the advice of our
medallist Sturt, the grand geographical and statistical feature, which
was suspected to exist, was brought to the test ; and we may now
fairly infer, that all the central portion of this continent, as well
as the long southern coast line examined by our associate Eyre,
and a considerable maritime frontier of Western Australia, constitute
an uninhabitable desert, probably the dried-up bottom of a sea,
and that hence all future intercourse between our Australian colo-
nies must take place either along the fertile coast ranges, or by sea.
Eeturning to his camp, which he had left under the charge of
Mr. Wilson, who had in the mean time examined the adjacent
countr}'-, of which he sent home a sketch map to this Society, Mr.
Gregory sent away Mr. Baines, with Mr. Wilson, and the larger
number of his party, in the schooner ; and after giving directions
that the vessel should meet him at the head of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, he set out on his chief mission, accompanied by his brother,
Mr. Elsey the surgeon, Dr. Mueller, and three men.
Quitting the basin of the Victoria, and passing over, a broad
table-land of sandstone, he entered a valley watered by a tributary
of Leichhardt's river, the Eoper, which he named Elsey Creek, in
S. lat. 15° 15' and E. long. 133° 10'. He next took a south-south-
easterly direction to the west of Leichhardt's route, or about 70 miles
distant from the western shore of the Gulf of Carpentaria, and tra-
versed the various rivers discovered by his adventurous precursor (but
nearer to their sources) until he reached the Albert, which empties
itself into the head of the Gulf. Not meeting there with the party
sent by sea, under the orders of Mr. Baines, he left the ' Plains of
Promise ' of Stokes, and crossed the river Flinders at about 80 miles
distance from the Albert, and, journeying to the north-east, fixed a
position on the Gilbert Eiver at S. lat. 18^ 0' and E. long. 140° 40'.
Ascending that stream, Mr. Gregory left behind the drainage into
the Gulf of Carpentaria, and traversed the high basaltic plateau
which separates the waters flowing into that gulf, from those which
2 h2
