May 25, 1857.] COLONEL WAUGH— ROYAL AWARDS. 369
The President, having read the preceding grounds of the award,
rose, and thus addressed the Eight Hon. Henry Labouchere : —
*' Mr. Labouchere, — Having taken for many years the liveliest
interest in the exploration of North Australia, it has been peculiarly
gratifying to me to see this very difficult operation eftectually car-
ried out by a surveyor of ihe Australian colonies, so admirably
qualified to ensure success as Mr. A. C. Gregory.
" On this memorable occasion I rejoice that you. Sir, her Majesty's
Secretary for the Colonies, under whom this great task has been
happity terminated, should have honoured us b}" attending here to
receive for the explorer of North Australia the Founder's Medal of
our Society, which I request you to transmit to Mr. Gregory with
the expression of our entire and hearty approbation of his conduct."
Mr. Labouchere replied : —
" Sir, — It affords me sincere pleasure on this occasion to receive,
on the part of Mr. Gregory, this well-merited mark of approbation
of the Royal Geographical Society. That gentleman had been
selected by the Government for the arduous and important task of
exploring the vast regions yet unknown to civilized man in North
Australia, and the manner in which he has performed it has amply
justified the selection.
"Of Mr. Gregory's scientific qualifications it would ill befit me
to speak before such an audience, but I may advert to those moral
qualities which were not less necessary to an explorer of those vast
solitudes. Sir William Denison, in a despatch which rendered a
high testimony to the merits of Mr. Gregory, observed that it was
to his prudence and courage that the safe return of the entire party
was probably due.
" You have called attention. Sir, to the description which Mr.
Gregory gives of the soil and climate on the banks of the Victoria
river ; and, indeed, it is of such a nature that it is no extravagant
supposition that some of us may live to hear of that hitherto un^-
known region becoming the home of a prosperous English settle-
ment.
*' Such anticipations have always been a source of great gratifica-
tion to my mind ; for I believe that, among the many blessings and
advantages which have been permitted to this country, none ought
to be ranked higher than, that she should have been enabled to
scatter so widely over the globe the manners, the freedom, the
civilization, and the religion of Englishmen."
Mr. Labouchere concluded by assuring the Meeting that he would
transmit the medal which he had received from the hands of their
distinguished President to Mr. Gregory, who, he was sure, would
highly value such an honour.
The President then continued : —
The Council has adjudicated the Victoria or Patron's Gold Medal
