370 COLONEL WAUGH— ROYAL AWARDS. [May 25, 1857.
to Lt.-Colonel Andrew Scott Waiigli for his valuable and able ex-
tensions of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India, and particu-
larly for his recent triangulation carried on through Eajputana,
the Panjab, and the Himalayan Mountains, thereby adding to our
geography an accurate and intimate knowledge of a paf t of the globe
most interesting to mankind at large, and of vital importance to
Great Britain in particular.
This Trigonometrical Survey of India was commenced by Colonel
Lambton in 1803, and continued by him till his death in January
1823. During that period he measured an arc of the meridian from
Punnse in 8° 9' 35" near Cape Comorin to Damargidda in lat.
18° 3' 16", being about ten degrees of latitude, and extended a net
of triangles over the south part of the Peninsula of India, reaching
on the east side of the principal meridian to the 19th parallel.
Colonel Everest, who had been his chief assistant since 1817, and
succeeded him at his death, completed the section commenced by
Lambton, and extended the arc to Seronj, lat. 24°, near which place
he measured a base of verification. This is the most important
base in the Trigonometrical Survey of India, as all the work to the
north, east, and west is dependent upon it. Colonel Everest carried
on the measurement of the meridional arc to its completion in the
Dehra Diin, lat. 30° 19'; the whole extent from Cape Comorin
being 22^° of latitude. He also extended a longitudinal series
from the Seronj base to Calcutta, in the neighbourhood of which he
measured a base of verification. From points selected on this series
originate distinct sets of meridional series, the northern limits of
which are united by a longitudinal series running along the foot of
the great mountain chain, which thus completes the triangulation
of that vast tract, comprising about 223,000 square miles.
When this distinguished officer left India, Colonel, then Captain
Waugh, who had been his chief assistant since 1832, was appointed
his successor in December 1843, and following up the admirable
plan of survey laid down by his predecessor, the principles and
methods of which have been described by Everest,* he worked out
the several series left unfinished between the meridional arc and
that of Calcutta. Finally he measured a base of verification at
Sonakoda, lat. 25° 18', long. 88° 18', and also completed the trian-
gulation of the south coast series from Calcutta to Ganjam.
Colonel Waugh then commenced operations on the west of the
great meridional arc, and measured a longitudinal series from the
* Account of the Measurement of the Arc of India. 2 vols. 4to., 1847.
