May 25, 1857.] COLONEL WAUGH— ROYAL AWARDS. 371
base at Seronj, passing through Rajputana and the sandy desert to
Karachi, upwards of 700 miles in extent, where a base of veri-
fication was measured, whilst the triangulation of the Bombay
meridian was connected with this series. He further extended
another series in a north-west direction from the stations of the
meridional arc, Banog and Amsot, through the plains of the Panjab
and a great portion of the mountainous tract to Peshawar. Again, a
base of verification was measured near Attock, the series embracing
an area of about 67,000 square miles. A meridional series is far
advanced from the base at Karachi, along the Indus, to that near
Attock. This operation will complete a gigantic geodetical quad-
rilateral, of which the great arc series forms the eastern side.
Simultaneously with these trigonometrical operations, most minute
and elaborate topographical surveys have been executed under the
superintendence of Colonel Waugh throughout the greater portion of
these tracts.
Lastly, having determined that of all the mountains whence the
affluents of the Ganges run, the loftiest summit is situated about
midway along the Himalayan chain, and finding that this culmi-
nating point (N. lat. 27° 56', E. long. 86° 53') was 29,002 English
feet above the sea, and consequently 846 feet loftier than the famous
Kinchinjanga of Nipal, Colonel Waugh has gratefully and appro-
priately named this, the highest known elevation in the world,
Mount Everest, after his valued geographical instructor.
These great results appear to come peculiarly within the scope of
the Society, which takes for its motto '* Ob Terras Eeclusas ;" for
eight years ago, the mere exploration of the tracts in question would
have been deemed impracticable, whereas under the direction of
our Medallist, a vast portion of these countries is now accurately
delineated, on the basis of astronomical observations, connected by
the highest appliances of modern geodetical science and art.
The President rising thus addressed Colonel Everest : —
" Colonel Everest, — The reasons which induced the Council to
adjudicate the Patron's Gold Medal to Lt.-Colonel Waugh having been
made manifest by the document I have just read, I now place this
our tribute to his ability and success in your hands, requesting you
to convey it to your eminent associate, with the assurance that we
deeply appreciate the importance of his labours.
" By transmitting this Medal, through your medium, to the officer
who learnt his lessons under jonr able guidance, the Eoyal Geo-
graphical Society recognises the right of your predecessor Lambton
and yourself to have had similar distinctions : and I rejoice that by
