372 COLONEL WAUGH— ROYAL AWARDS. [May 25, 1857.
tliis one act, the grand Trigonometrical Survey of India should now
receive a reward which it so long ago merited."
Colonel Everest replied : —
" Mr. President, — I beg to return my acknowledgments for the
complimentary terms in which you have been pleased to advert to
the labours of my honoured predecessor and myself, and on behalf
of my esteemed successor Lieutenant- Colonel Waugh to expiess the
warmest thanks to yourself and the Eo3^al Geographical Society for
the very proud mark of distinction which has just been conferred
on him, by the award of the Patron's Medal of this j^ear.
" The applause of our fellow men is naturally prized by us all,
and nothing is more cheering to a person engaged in an arduous
undertaking, replete with privations and hardships, than the per-
suasion that, if he endures to the end, his labours will not be unre-
quited. Colonel Waugh, however, is not of that stamp to need such
a motive to induce him to persevere in the strict performance of his
duty, and having no precedent which could hold out the prospect of
such a distinction as the present, it will come on him altogether as
an unexpected boon, and as such, will be additionally acceptable. I
am certain that this Medal will be received by Colonel Waugh with
the deepest and most sincere feelings of gratitude and respect for
those who selected him for the proud honour of possessing it, and not
only by himself, but bj^ all the members of the department of which
he is the chief, will this adjudication be hailed as an earnest that
there is a body of gentlemen most qualified by their talents and
knowledge to form a judgment, and as willing, as able to act accord-
ing thereto, with right singleness of purpose. Sir, if anything
could enhance the value of this mark of distinction, it is the
circumstance that it has been conferred during the presidency of a
gentleman of wide renown — known wherever civilization reaches —
acknowledged even by our antipodes as one of the first geologists of
the age, and not more distinguished by his scientific attainments
than by his courtesy, urbanity, and kindness of heart.
*' The Trigonometrical Survey of India has been in progress ever
since 1803, a period of 54 years, and will in its entirety, embrace a
tract which exceeds the area of Great Britain and Ireland in the
ratio of about 12^ to 1. Of course a vast deal still remains to be
accomplished before so gigantic an undertaking can be pronounced
complete ; and as Colonel Waugh has now been engaged in this
arduous task for 25 years, it is needless to expect much prospective
effect from the present award as far as he is concerned, for his
career in India must be drawing towards its close ; but the memory
of the present graceful act of this Society will assuredly not be lost
on his eventual successor, or on India in general. He is still in the
prime of life, and though he has suffered lately from more than one
severe attack of illness, yet it is to be hoped that the injury which
his constitution may have thereby sustained, is not greater than
can be restored by a return to his native country, and that he will
some day arrive to return his thanks in person to the Eoyal Geo-
