May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 375
after active employment in the expedition to New Orleans in 1815,
he soon attained the rank of Lieutenant.
In 1818, public attention was again attracted to Polar exploration,
which had been neglected during a lapse of forty-five years, chiefly
through the exertion and energetic writings of our associate, the late
Sir John Barrow. Lt. Beechey then served in the expedition under
Buchan, and was appointed to the Trent, commanded by Franklin,
who was also accompanied by Back. Having coasted the west side
of Spitzbergen, they were finally arrested by heavy floe-ice in lat.
80O 36' N. From some mistaken feeling on the subject, no account
of the proceeding was published till 1843, when Beechey, remem-
bering old Hakluyt's imputation on some of our early writers, who
he says " should have used more care in preserving the memoires
of the worthy actes of our nation," brought out, under the authority
of the Admiralty, a most interesting narrative of the voyage.
Subsequently our adventurous young officer joined the Hecla,
and assisted the first great effort of the celebrated William Edward
Parry (his former shipmate) to cut through the barrier of ice into
Barrow Strait, beyond the 110th degree of west longitude, for
which these officers and their companions justly receiv^ed a parlia-
mentary reward. In 1821-2 he had the good fortune to serve
under the orders of our former esteemed President, Admiral
W. H. Smyth, then surveying the Mediterranean, in co-operation
with whose ship, the Adventure, he explored a considerable portion
of the north shore of Africa.
During the three and a half succeeding years the sands of
Cyrenaic Africa were exchanged for Pacific and Arctic researches,
when, commanding the Blossom, Captain Beechey made accurate
surveys of many islands in the Pacific, of the coasts of Eussian
America aud of Behring Strait, of all of which he has left an admi-
rable record in the work entitled ' Narrative of a Voyage to the
Pacific and Behring Strait, to co-operate with the Polar Expedi-
tion.' In this publication, our respected President has left a record
of scientific knowledge which places him high among the standard
authors of our time.
To one portion of this work, which describes the exhumation of
such vast quantities of bones of mammoths and other extinct mam-
malia from the cliffs of Escholtz Bay, in Eussian North America,
the late Dr. Buckland has rendered full justice.
At a later period, Captain Beechey surveyed the west coast of
South America, and determined many points of high geographical
