376 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
importance. Lastly, examining ilie shores of the Irish Channel,
and performing much severe and valuable service to the detriment
of his health, he produced many highly useful charts, and threw
much light on the nature of the Channel tides. The result of these,
his last labours afloat, was the publication of two very able and
valuable memoirs in the ' Philosophical Transactions.' The first of
these (in 1848) was entitled ' A Keport of Observations made
upon the Tides in the Irish Sea, and upon the similarity of the
Tidal Phenomena of the English and Irish Channels,' &c. The
principal object of the author was to point out the independ-
ence of the set of the tide-current in those seas, on the actual state
of the tide as ebbing or flowing; and he showed, by a masterly
exhibition of the facts, that there is no apparent connection between
the direction of the stream and the rising or falling of the water.
In addition to this, he laid down instructions for ascertaining the
state of the tide, the value of which was much enhanced by two
explanatory charts and many smaller diagrams.
This memoir, addressed to Sir F. Beaufort, was followed in 1851
by another letter to the same eminent hydrographer, which was
written with the hope that its contents, when sufficiently known
and circulated, would be the means of diminishing the number of
those losses of both life and property, with which the annals of
Lloyd's abound, and of advancing our knowledge of the tides, by
the practical illustration of the phenomena of the tidal streams of
straits under the influence of a combined wave.*
After the cessation of his arduous maritime exertions, Captain
Beechey was appointed to the important post of Superintendent of
the Marine branch of the Board of Trade, the duties of which he
executed to the day of his death in a manner which drew from every
successive Minister of the Department, the warmest acknowledg-
ments of that clearness and precision of thought, and that skilful
perfonnance of official duty, which characterized our late President
throughout his whole career.
Obtaining the rank of Rear-Admiral in 1854, he succeeded the
Earl of Ellesmere in this Chair in 1856, and we all know with what
sincerity he devoted his energies to the advancement of geography,
how ably he directed our proceedings, and with what urbanity he
presided over our meetings. Alas ! I have too much reason to
believe that the zealous endeavours he made to serve us, combined
* Phil, Trans., 1851, p. 717.
