May 25, 1857.J OBITUARY. 377
with the important duties of his office in regulating and improving
the scientific instruction of the mercantile marine, acting on a
constitution which had been sorely tried in many a clime, hastened
that catastrophe which we so deeply lament.
Not long after his election to the post of President he was
attacked by a severe illness, from which he only partially reco-
vered during a summer's voyage in the yacht of the Trinity House.
To that malady he feelingly alluded in the opening part of his
excellent Anniversary Address — the only one he was permitted
to deliver — when he thanked the other officers of our body for
the eifective manner in which they had conducted the affairs of
the Society during his absence. On coming with his family to
Tunbridge Wells in the autumn, where I happened to reside, I
found that our zealous President was suffering from a disease of the
heart. His affectionate wife and daughters then felt indeed, as well
as myself, that the utmost tranquillity was essential to the preserva-
tion of his valuable existence ; but he persisted in struggling with
unflinching spirit to ti-ansact business both at the Boaid of Trade
and in our Society. So dominant was this feeling that on Monday
the 24th November, Admiral Beechey attended the rooms of this
Society, and gave me, as the Vice-President he had selected to
represent him, precise directions for conducting the business of the
Council and of the evening meeting of that day. On Saturday,
the 29th, alas ! he was no more ; thus exhibiting that firm resolve
to do his duty to the last, which has ever been the glory of those
British seamen among whom Admiral Beechoy stood pre-eminent.
Pie had long been a distinguished Fellow of the Royal Society, and
was a member of the Council of that body at the period of his
decease.
Francis, Earl of Ellesmere, a Knight of the Garter, Lord-Lieu-
tenant of Lancashire, and our President during the years 1854-5,
was the second son of the first Duke of Sutherland, and that gifted
lady the Duchess Countess of Sutherland. He was born in 1800,
and died on the 18th of February, 1857.
In endeavouring, with the approval of the Council, to induce
this accomplished nobleman to succeed me in occupying the Chair
of this Society in the year 1854, 1 felt certain, from an acquaintance
of thirty years' standing, that through his varied knowledge,
generous nature, and love of geography, he would render us right
good service. His conduct, in directing our affairs has indeed
met with your hearty approval ; and as we lamented that our
