378 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
rules, limiting the presidential duties to two years, led to liis retire-
ment, so we have now to grieve over his demise, at the com-
paratively early age of 57.
Educated at Eton, and distinguished at Oxford, Lord Francis
Egerton soon took a high place in the House of Commons, and
served with ability both as Secretary for Ireland and Secretary at
War. As he advanced in years he seemed to care less and less for
political distinction ; and as it is not my calling to dwell on his
ministerial or parliamentary career, let me briefly remind you how
he occupied many hours of his well spent life in cultivating and
cherishing letters, science, and art.
I will first speak of those anonymous writings which, as they
have exercised a salutary influence on society, ought to be made
known, both to render justice to the man, and to indicate the great
variety of his acquiremei#s.
My auditors, who may have only known Lord Ellesmere as a
member of either House of Parliament, or as our President, may
not be aware that between the ^^ears 1834 and 1854 he was the
contributor of not less than fifteen articles to the ' Quarterly Ee-
view ;' and that about one-half of them were connected with the
development of geographical research. Eschewing the troubled
arena of party strife, he left no trace behind him of political
acrimony even in those essays which touched upon disputed ques-
tions; whilst all of them, which did not bear upon the science
we cultivate, were devoted to the fine arts, of which he was a true
connoisseur, or to biography, and those military exploits which
have raised the glories of Britain.
On geographical subjects he began by such attractive accounts of
the works of the Dutch authors Meiglan, Fischer, andDoefl', that any
one who will peruse his ' Sketches of the Manners and Usages of the
Japanese ' will find in them a most vivid picture of the life of that
curious people, who, inhabiting a region separated from either con-
tinent, are apparently destined to remain longer an unbroken unit
than the colossal empire of China. Of the Japanese he humorously
wrote that he " left them to the complacent enjoyment of the con-
viction that they are the first of nations, and the eldest descendants
of the Deity."*
Turning to the Eastern Archipelago, he has consigned to us a
* Quarterly Review, vol. lii. p. 317 ; vol. Ivi. p. 438.
In his recent translation for the Hakluyt Society, of the P^re d'Orle'ans' * History
of the Tartar Conquerors who subdued China,' Lord Ellesmere was largely assisted
by his accomplished daughters.
