May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 379
memorial of the lively interest he took in that chivalrous expedi-
tion of our old associate, Sir James Brooke. After a preliminary
sketch of the preceding wretched condition of Borneo, condensed
from the descriptions of Sir Stamford Eaffles, he painted, with the
hand of a skilful master and a warm friend, all that the adventurous
Irish gentleman was accomplishing. Every old memher of the
Ealeigh Club and of this Society, recollecting the deep interest
we felt in the successful voyage of the little schooner of the Yacht
Club, fitted out by Mr. Brooke, will re-peruse with gratification the
lines, which indicated that the young explorer of that day was des-
tined to become the Eajah of Sarawak, and to receive not only our
gold medal, but his due reward at the hands of his Sovereign.
Then, in his analysis of Arctic and Antarctic researches, Lord
Francis Egerton gave long ago earnest that he was worthy to
become our leader. In his review of the narrative of discoveries on
the north coast of America, made by the officers of the Hudson
Bay Company, in which the enterprising Simpson lost his life, we
find him evincing those large views and kindly feelings which led
him invariably, in subsequent years, to countenance and support
those expeditions in the search after Franklin, which have shed so
much lustre upon our country.
Again, when commenting in 1847 upon the memorable Antarctic
discoveries of Sir James Boss and the natural history collections of
Dr. J. Hooker, we see how emphatically he dwelt upon the exploits
which he anticipated from our Arctic heroes when he penned these
lines : —
" With interest which accumulates by the hour do we watch for
the return of those two vessels, which are perhaps even now
working their way through Behring Strait into the Pacific. Should
the happiness be yet allowed us of witnessing that return, we are
of opinion that the Erebus and Terror should be moored hence-
forth on either side the Victory, floating monuments of what the
Nelsons of discovery can dare and do, at the call of their country in
the service of the world." *
This was one only of the many soul-stirring paragraphs indited
by my noble friend on a subject so near to his heart — one on
which he never abandoned hope, as proved not only by his signing,
with many of us, last year that petition to the Government, which
is printed in our Proceedings,t praying for the final search of a
* Quarterly Review, vol. Ixxxi. p. 167.
f Proc. Roy. Geogr. Soc, No. iv., p. 95, June, 1856.
