380 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
limited Arctic area, but also by bis willingly undertaking to make
that appeal to the House of Lords in the last session of Parliament,
which, in his unavoidable absence, was effectively made by Lord
Wrottesley, the President of the Eoyal Society.
Among the last of Lord Ellesmere's anonymous contributions on
geographical subjects, immediately preceding his two eloquent
addresses to this Society,* I may advert to his lively account of
Castren's Travels among the Lapps, in which he justly eulogised that
enterprising Finn and his learned countryman AYallin, the successful
explorer of Arabia. In other fragments of periodical literature he
indicated his admiration and right estimation of engineering works
in the article on the Skerryvore Light-House, and again in a very
instructive Eeview of the progress in canalization, proceeding as it
did from the inheritor of the great Bridgewater Canal.
Of his thorough acquaintance with the fine arts, Lord Ellesmere
has left pregnant evidences in the pages devoted to his estimate
of English artists, and to the elucidation of fresco painting.
Liberally employing his wealth in making well-chosen additions to
the gallery of paintings he inherited, he reared for their preservation,
and for the residence of his family, that palatial structure designed
by Sir C. Barry, which has scarcely a rival in our metropolis.
A distinctive feature in the character of Lord Ellesmere was his
deep admiration of martial deeds. His veneration for the Duke of
AA'ellington-, founded upon a study of his campaigns, was matured
by a personal intimacy of many years, during which the great
Captain himself furnished the materials, which enabled our deceased
President to give to the world a clear and well-condensed account
of the battle of ^Vaterloo.
The spirited sketch of the life of Blucher, the ' Marshall Yor-
warts ' of the Prussian soldiery, written in 1842,'|" was followed in
1845 by a luminous analysis of the French and English versions of
the battle which decided the fate of Napoleon. J On these writings,
coming as the chief matter in them did /rom Wellington himself, im-
plicit reliance may be placed ; and few historians, I venture to
say, will improve upon the style in which the reminiscences of
the illustrious Commander were conveyed to the public by our
deceased Associate. In all such writings, whether he went back to
the days of Wallenstein,ยง or traced the struggling career of the old
* See Journal Roy. Geogr. Sec, vols, xxiii., xxiv.
t Quarterly Review, vol. Ixx. J lb., vol. Ixxvi.
ยง lb., vol. Ixi., p. 105.
