May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 381
Scotcli General Patrick Gordon,* who fouglit so well for the Czar
Peter, or entered with the lamented Cathcart into the Russian and
German campaigns of the first Kapoleon,"]" or stood forth in the hour
of trial as the champion of his dear friend the brave Lord Eaglan,
we invariably applaud the generous sentiments and true apprecia-
tion of merit which ever guided the pen in his portraiture of a hero.
The versatility of the talents of Lord Ellesmere was displayed in
numerous other works published under his own name. A poet by
nature, verses, whether martial, plaintive, or jocose, flowed freely
from his heart, and the principal of these being collected under the
title of the 'Pilgrimage and other Poems,' the author, with his
habitual modesty, spoke of them in his preface as being a collection
of the least unpopular of his works.
A master of several languages, he frequently put before his coun-
trymen in good racy English, the thoughts of eminent foreign
authors, and of these eiforts, the translations of Goethe's ' Faust '
and Schiller's ' Wallenstein ' are prominent examples. The num-
ber of foreign works which he translated may well surprise us,
when we reflect upon his numerous occupations, and among them I
may enumerate Clausewitz's ' Campaigns of Eussia,' the ' Sieges of
Vienna by the Turks,' and the * Last Military Events in Italy.'
Returning to my noble friend's connection with science, let me
ask any old member of the British Association if he ever heard from
the President of the year a more inciting appeal than was made by
Lord Francis Egerton at the Manchester Meeting of the year 1842.
Ranging from science to letters and art, he proved that he truly
merited the application of that line with which he honoured his
predecessor, Dr. Whewell —
" Through each mode of the lyre, and was master of all."
It was then that I rejoiced in being one of those assembled at
Manchester, to bear witness that this distinguished nobleman, the
possessor of large domains, was as truly esteemed by every artisan
of that vast hive of industry, as he was beloved by his tenantry and
agricultural labourers.
If it was specially when surrounded by his family and friends
that the genuine heartiness and wit of the man came out most
strikingly, every public act of his life was carried out with such.
stedfast sincerity and true liberality, that, whether he presided over a
Royal commission, a literary or scientific society, or a parish vestry,
he did his duty with his whole heart. Philanthropy and generosity
* Quarterly Review, vol. xc, p. 314. t I^'> "^^1. xc. p. 1.
2 I
