382 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
were to be discerned, indeed, in all his actions by tliose wbo knew
how quietly and unostentatiously he sustained with his purse men
of genius, who were labouring under difficulties, and who, but for
his timely aid, could never have produced works which have taken
a high place in science and letters.* These acts were well crowned
by that full-handed munificence with which he strove to succour
our famishing and ill-clad soldiers in the Crimeac
In addition to the stores of varied knowledge which he could at
all times playfully and instructively draw forth from his capacious
mind, there was in Lord Ellesmere a fund of cheerful benevolence
which bound to him affectionately every one who enjoyed his
friendship. I cannot therefore better sum up the leading merits of
our former President than in the expressive words of one of his
most intimate and valued companions : —
" His calm exterior and tranquil manner covered a deep-seated
enthusiasm for the honour of his country, for the progress and ame-
lioration of his species, and for all that was grand and noble in senti-
ment or in action.
" They can bear testimony to this truth who have seen him kindle
over the recital of some great battle of the Great Duke, or some less
famous deed of individual heroism, — who have witnessed the eager
interest with which he watched the bold enterprises of modern
navigation, — or who have heard his lucid and animated explanations
of the mechanical inventions for diminishing labour, or perfecting
manufactures, in the vast workshops connected with his canal
propert}^. While his ardent spirit rejoiced in every discovery
achieved by science, and every new phase of beauty elicited by art,
his accumulated knowledge and cultivated taste enabled him to
appreciate the merit and calculate the consequences of each ; and
he was ever ready to employ the influence of his position, the vigour
and liveliness of his pen, and the princely contributions of his purse
for the furtherance of such purposes.
" His high estimation and assiduous study of the science to which
the Geographical Society is especially devoted, were the result of
that large range of knowledge which opened his mind to its infinite
relations — moral and material, social and political — with the future
destinies of mankind. In him the geographer was blended with
the statesman and the philanthropist, not in wild and Utopian spe-
* Let me cite one of several cases known to myself. When the eminent natu-
ralist Agassiz was likely to have the publication of his great work * Les Poissons
Fossiles' stopped for want of means, Lord Ellesmere gave 500/. for the original
drawings, which he immediately presented to the Geological Society. — E. I. M.
