May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 383
culations (for the poet's imagination was controlled by a sober
judgment and a jealous love of truth), but in those prescient views
which result from extensive acquaintance with the physical circum-
stances of remote regions, and from well-reasoned calculations of
their several capacities for the advancement of civilization and the
increase of human happiness." *
Suffering from complaints with which he had long struggled, and
aware that the climate of Lancashire was hostile to his frame, Lord
Ellesmere still persisted in residing during a portion of the year in
that district where he felt he had, by the will of Providence, a respon-
sible task to perform. Eaising, therefore, a beautiful edifice near
the entrance of his own great Bridge water Canal, and little distant
from the town of Manchester, expending large sums in building
churches or founding schools, and ardently pursuing every plan
for the bettering of the moral and social condition of the people,
he braved the moisture of the climate, and only succumbed when,
amidst the blessings of all to whom his influence extended, he
had effected the main objects for which he lived. Well might
the clergyman,! who preached the funeral sermon over his bier,
point, not merely to the exalted character of the statesman, the
orator, and the scholar, but specially to the true Christian, the
lamented Lord of Worsley Hall, in whom all the surrounding inha-
bitants felt that they had lost the generous patron, the liberal,
indulgent master, the charitable and tender-hearted soother of
distress and poverty.
In short, as it was impossible to know him well and not to love
him, so the deep sorrow which his death called forth is the noblest
monument to the memory of the good Earl of Ellesmere. Such,
doubtless, is the real consolation of the high-minded and devoted
widow, who, cordially participating in all his acts of beneficence, is
left to encourage her children to imitate so bright an example.
Dr. Wm. Buckland. — Lost to the world and to his numerous
admirers for several years through an impaired state of the mental
faculties, caused by a diseased state of the bones at the base of the
skull and of the neck, my valued friend. Dr. Buckland, the Dean
of Westminster, expired on the 14th August, 1856, at the age of 73.
The principal merits of this eminent man and the leading events
of his life having recently been brought before the Geological So-
ciety, J of which he was one of the early members, as well as before
* Extract of a letter from Mr. Ralph Sneyd to myself,
t The Rev. St. Vincent Beeehey, m.a., brother of our last President.
X See Address of the President, Col. Portlock, b.e., f.r.s,, Quart. Journ. Geol.
Soc. 1857.
2 I 2
