384 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
the Royal Society, whose chief honour * he had received, it does not
become me to attempt any analysis of those writings upon the struc-
ture of the globe or its former inhabitants, which have been justly
regarded as among the chief stepping-stones to the present state of
geological science. I. will, therefore, confine myself to a brief
sketch of a few points in his character, which may convey to those
who knew him not, some idea of the powers and habits of this great
geologist.
Educated at Tiverton and Winchester, he obtained from the latter
school a scholarship in Corpus Christi College, Oxford. There it
was that, after he had become a tutor in classics, a youth came
to the University (Oriel College), who, having already attained
an acquaintance with fossil organic remains, was destined through
that knowledge to influence the future career of many of his asso-
ciates who had similar tastes. This was William John Broderip,
afterwards my colleague during five years as joint secretary of the
Geological Society, and now well known as one of the eminent
naturalists of our age.
The study of the collection made by this juvenile companion,
including the jaw of a marsupial quadruped found in the Stones-
field slate, first awakened the dormant talent of Buckland. Culti-
vating the friendship of the precocious fossilist, he soon developed
that peculiar power, which characterized him through life, of
catching up and assimilating with marvellous rapidity everything
that illustrated the new science of fossil organic remains, then just
coming into vogue through the work of Parkinson. So strongly
did Buckland feel in after years the deep obligations he was under
to young Broderip, that I have myself heard him speak of the
latter as his " tutor in geology."
Admiring the original efforts of William Smith, who, in identify-
ing strata by their organic remains and by his geological maps,
has worthily acquired the title of Father of English Geology, Mr.
Buckland made numerous excursions to examine the. rocks in
various districts, and in so doing sought out the few promoters of
the rising science. The kindred scientific spirits of his Alma Mater,
whether older men or of about his own age, were Pegge, Kidd,
and John and William Conybeare, the last mentioned, now the
Dean of Llandaff, rising afterwards to be the rival of our deceased
member as the celebrated author of the ' Outlines of the Geology
of England and Wales.' Thus working onwards he qualified him-
* The Copley Medal.
