May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 385
self to obtain that post of Eeader in Mineralogy and Geology, in
performing the duties of which, he had the great merit of rousing
the University of Oxford from its lethargy in respect to the natural
history sciences, and in rendering attractive the study of primeval
nature.
It is true that his predecessor, Dr. Kidd, had opened out some
good paths in the science of mineral geology; but it was reserved
for Buckland to create by his native eloquence and his illustrations,
a real and solid taste for geology properly so called, whether as
based upon the records of lost races of animals, or on physical
geography and the mineral composition of rocks.
Those persons who, like myself, can go back to the days when
our deceased member was an inmate of Corpus Christi College, can
never forget the impression made upon his visitors, when with diffi-
culty they discovered him in the recess of a long collegiate room,
seated on the only spare chair, and buried, as it were, amidst fossil
bones and shells. So strange was this conduct considered by the
graver classicists, and so alarmed were they lest these amoenitates
acadeiniccB should become dangerous innovations, that when he made
one of his early foreign tours to the Alps and parts of Italy, which
enabled him to produce one of the boldest and most effective
of his writings, an authoritative elder is said to have exclaimed,
" Well, Buckland is gone to Italy, so, thank God, we shall hear no
more of this geology I " Augmenting his class of students, however,
Dr. Buckland persevered successfully in spite of the opposition of
the pedagogues of the old school, and certain narrow-minded theo-
logians, who, ignorant of the imperishable records which the Creator
has set before us in the book of Nature, endeavoured to destroy the
moral influence, if not the character, of any clergyman who boldly
taught those undeniable truths. Success happily attended his
efforts, and if Buckland had done nothing more than educate a
Lyell, a Daubeny, and an Egerton, he would justly have been placed
among the most successful instructors of our contemporaries.
Marking the progress which has been made in this branch of
science in. the few years which have elapsed since it was publicly
taught, we may indeed well look back with pity on its feeble
opponents, and rejoice that the alumni of the Buckland school have
become such strong men, and that the chair, which owed its
origin to my illustrious friend, should now be filled by that sound
geologist, John Phillips, the nephew of AYilliam Smith, who has
added to the genius of that geological lawgiver, the richest accom-
