380 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
plisliments of modern science. The publication of his first remark-
able work, the ' Reliqniaa Diluvianae,' natnrallj secured for Buck-
land honours and advancement, and through the patronage of Lord
Grenville he obtained a canonry in Christ Church. Shortly after-
wards Sir Robert Peel, with the appreciation of true merit which
characterised him, sought out and cultivated his intimacy, and
then came forth that ' Bridgewater Treatise ' with which his name
will be long identified. For to whatever extent new data have
since been obtained, this volume will ever remain a proof of the
fertility of illustration with which he could reconstruct and set be-
fore us the forms of bygone periods,* and thus make evident to
all, the prescience of the Almighty as exhibited in former epochs
of creation. In a subsequent year we find Sir Robert Peel, to his
great honour, presenting Buckland to the Deanery of Westminster,
in which position, notwithstanding his hospitality and important
occupations, he still found time to travel to and from his Alma
Mater, and lecture on his favourite science, till he was stricken
down with the illness from which he never recovered.
But let no one imagine that, whilst some of his leisure hours were
thus occupied, including arduous efforts to improve the agriculture
of our country. Dean Buckland was inattentive to his duties as
the Head of an important Ecclesiastical Body. Not only do his
surviving colleagues advert with marked respect and gratitude to
his judicious efforts and his honourable conduct in improving their
establishment, but the public owe to him their real thanks for the
energy and determination with which, in a brief space of time, he
effected the reform of abuses which had crept into the ancient
school of Westminster. In that Foundation, education could no
longer be obtained except at costly charges, and even where these
were paid, the youths were ill fed and worse lodged. All these
defects were speedily rectified by the vigour and perseverance of
Dean Buckland. The charges were reduced, good diet was pro-
'vided, the rooms were well ventilated, and the building properly
underdrained ; so that, these physical ameliorations accompanying
a really sound and good system of tuition, the fame and credit of
this venerable Seminary were soon restored.
As it must be my effort when occupying this chair to connect
every deceased member with geographical science, let me assure
you, from long personal acquaintance with Dr. Buckland, and hav-
* This work, which was rendered much more valuable by the recent discoveries
of Professor Owen, was revised by Mr. Broderip.
