May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 387
ing, indeed, received some of my first lessons in the field from liim,
that he was really a good physical geographer. No one who followed
him even from the valley of the Isis to the summit of Shotover
Hill, can ever forget how forcibly he impressed upon the minds of
his auditors, the causes which had operated in producing the outlines
of the ground — how well he made his pupils comprehend Avhy water
rose in wells at certain spots and levels, and why other tracts were
dry, or how he taught the young agriculturists the elements of
draining, and showed them where the vegetation changed as de-
pendent on the nature of the subsoil.
To whatever realm he travelled, whether over the undulations of
Germany or the heights and glaciers of the Alps, he adroitly applied
and extended these views, and everywhere exemplified (what I
have endeavoured to imitate in my own walk) that union of geology
with geography, without which the latter science is deprived of its
firmest foundation.
While Dr. Buckland evinced enthusiastic zeal and great ability
in the development of any phenomena connected with natural
history which he could detect, whether in the organization of
animals or of plants, he also often sought to apply his science
practically. Thus, the most remarkable of these efforts, which I can
now call to mind, proceeded from one of his own discoveries. Per-
ceiving that certain fossil convoluted bodies, when extracted from
their ^native bed in the lias of Gloucestershire, presented the appear-
ance oifcBces, which had assumed that form from passing through
the intestines of reptiles or fishes, he submitted the substances to
analysis, and when they were pronounced by the late Dr. Prout to
be chiefly composed of phosphate of lime derived from the bones of
animals, and that even fragments of the bones were detected in
them, he assigned to these bodies the name of " Coprolites." With
a fervid anticipation he was afterwards led to hope that these fossil
bodies would prove of real use to agriculture ; and one of the many
regrets I have experienced since his bright intellect was clouded,
was that my friend had not been able to appreciate the truly valu-
able results that have followed from this his own discovery, which,
at the time it was made, was treated as a curious but unimportant
subject, and almost scouted as being too mean for investigation.
The hundreds of tons of these phosphatic coprolites and animal
substances which are now extracted to the great profit of the pro-
prietors of Cambridgeshire and the adjacent counties, for the eniich-
ment of their lands, is a warning commentary to those persons of
