388 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
tlie **ciubono" scliool, wlio are ever despising the first germs of
scientific discovery.
The full and true character of Dean Buckland is not, however,
to be measured by reference to his works only, including his
records of those extinct Saurians of which he was the great his-
torian, or his chief work, the ' Bridge water Treatise,' nor even by
his discoveries in a new science. The indelible impression he
made upon all who listened to his instructive lectures — lectures like
those which may still happily be heard at Cambridge from the lips
of his illustrious contemporary, my old friend and coadjutor Sedg-
wick — and the general influence he exercised over society by the
energetic and telling manner in which he inculcated his doctrines,
as founded on observation of the progi'ess of nature from the earliest
periods to that icy epoch which preceded the era of his own cavern
animals ; these are the appeals which have procured for him a name
which will last as. long as the school of British geologists, of which
he was so eminent a leader, shall be remembered !
In closing these few sentences, which, if I were addressing a
kindred Society, might be expanded into a volume descriptive of
the merits of one to whom I was sincerely attached, let me add that
in his accomplished relict, our lamented member has left behind
him a truly intellectual and excellent woman, who, aiding him in
several of his most difficult researches, has laboured well in her
vocation to render her children worthy of their father's name.
Dr. Buckland was a member of many European and American
Academies, and a Correspondent of the Institute of France. Every
where abroad, as at all great British meetings, and in every social
party, he was invariably welcomed as the most cheerful and most
successful contributor to the advancement of natural knowledge.
Lieut.-Col. Neil Campbell, who recently died in Paris on his
return from Bombay, was an officer on the Quartermaster General's
Staff of the East India Company's service, in which he was dis-
tinguished for his zeal and intelligence. He was best known
to us as the author of the large Military Sketch-map of Scinde.
During his stay in this country on leave of absence, he was one
of the officers of th« Indian Army who attended the funeral of the
Duke of Wellington, and was always a welcome and agreeable
attendant at our Club and Evening Meetings.
Captain Thomas Graves, e.n., who recently fell imder the knife
of a Maltese assassin, was the son of a gallant officer of the same
name and rank. Entering the navy in 181G, and serving in several
