May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 389
vessels on foreign stations, he was chosen, tlirougli his merits, to form
one of the scientific complement of the Adventure, in which ship
young Graves played so able a part, that his Captain, now Admiral
W. H. Smyth, and other officers strongly urged his promotion. During
the next five years, he was a companion of that excellent officer the
late Eear-Admiral Philip P. King, in his extensive surveys of the
Straits of Magellan and the adjacent shores of South America, and
it was only during that difficult service, and in the year 1827, that
he: was appointed a Lieutenant, i. e., after ten years of arduous pro-
bation.
After performing, in conjunction with the Eoyal Engineers, a
survey of Lough Neagh in Ireland, the next ten years of the life of
Captain Graves were spent in surveying the Greek Archipelago,
first in command of the Beacon, and next of the Volage corvette.
These surveys were suddenly put a stop to by an order of the
Admiralty, which both Sir F. Beaufort and Admiral Smyth con-
sidered to be an " inscrutable measure," and a heavy blow inflicted
on this important branch of the naval service.
Whilst compiling about one hundred charts and plans of the Gre-
cian Archipelago — as interesting to the antiquary and historian as
they are valuable to the navigator — Captain Graves had the singular
merit of attracting to his little ship the Beacon, as his friend
and companion, that young naturalist Edward Forbes, then rising
in the estimation of his contemporaries, and who, after passing
nearly two years in dredging the JSgean Sea, and in develop-
ing the conditions of life and habits of submarine animals at
various depths, threw a broad new light upon geological science.
The name of Graves must therefore ever be associated with that
of Edward Forbes ! Even to Captain Graves himself geologists are
much indebted, for his numerous contributions of fossils from distant
parts. That these were very important all my contemporaries are
aware, and particularly those still living, who, like myself, fre-
quented the rooms of that remarkable naturalist Charles Stokes,
whose merits I attempted to place on record for the late Lord EUes-
mere when he last occupied this chair. To this Society Captain
Graves communicated a description of Skyros, and was the cause of
our Journal being enriched by the instructive papers of his assistants
Spratt and Leycester.
Ever zealous in advancing knowledge, he also aiforded to Sir
Charles Fellows assistance in the investigation of the antiquities
of Lycia, that was duly acknowledged. Such conduct surely called
