390 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
for some mark of public approbation ; bnt althongb the Sultan
and the King of Greece specially thanked Captain Graves for
services important to humanity, this meritorious officer never
received any honour from his own country. Yet who can place in
comparison with the anxious, untiring energy and science displayed
during life by such nautical surveys as those of Thomas Graves,
the lucky accident of a few months' war service in the Baltic or
the Black Sea, in which perchance the individual decorated may
not have accomplished any one feat of arms ? Honour then to
the Governor of Malta, Sir W. Eeid, whose warm sympathy was
offered to the neglected and really eminent scientific sailor. The
offer of the post of Superintendent of the ports of Malta was willingly
accepted, and the gallant Graves had zealously performed the duties
of it during three years, when he received a mortal stab from a
revengeful boatman, that deprived our coiintry of his services.
His kind, open-hearted and friendly disposition had long endeared
him to every one who knew him ; and from a personal intercourse
of many years' date, I can well realize to my mind's eye the gloom,
as attested by the public journals, which spread over the inha-
bitants of Malta on the occasion of his sad fate. Captain Graves
was an old Fellow of the Royal Society, having been elected in
1826, and he was also one of the original members of the Eoyal
Geographical Society.
Lieut.-Colonel Thomas Best Jervis, of the Engineers, in the
East India Company's Service, who died recently in London, at the
age of 60, was formerly well known for his numerous important
works in the Bombay Presidency, including Indian Metrology,
and an elaborate treatise on the primitive universal Standard of
Weights and Measures, &c. When a lieutenant, he served as the
engineer in 1821 of the field force under Sir L. Smith sent to the
Persian Gulf. On that occasion the Arab pirates were subdued,
and the Fort of Beni-bu-Ali was taken after a vigorous resistance ;
operations in which he was distinguished. After repairing and
putting in order many forts he was employed as a captain for ten
years in making the trigonometrical survey of the Southern Konkan,
a fertile country at the foot of the Ghauts. This Survey, when
adjusted by the Grand Trigonometrical Survey, was incorporated
into the Atlas of India, of which it formed several sheets. Fertile
in resources, he devoted his residuary leisure to various useful pur-
poses, such as building a suspension-bridge or opening out slate
quarries in his Eastern abode. In 1838 he was provisionally
