May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 391
appointed by the Court of Directors to be Surveyor-General of
India; but the appointment never really toolc place, as Colonel
Everest had not resigned.
Colonel Jervis was the successful translator of Baron Hugel's
Travels in Cashmir, and he had, I understand, translated other
voyages and travels, which were never printed. Being well known
for his untiring energy and his accomplishments as well as for his
acquaintance with foreign languages, and having shown his fore-
sight by the publication of a translation of the Eussian map of the
Crimea, and the rapid transference by the anastatic process of the
Austrian military map of Turkey and the adjacent countries, he
was proposed to the Treasury, and was appointed during the late
war, to organize and conduct a topographical sub-department of the
Government, in which he prepared numerous maps and plans. He
had been a Fellow of the Eoyal Society since the year 1838, and
was a frequent contributor to the library and map office of this
Society.
The Eev. Thomas Halford, m.a,, Oxford, who died in the 68th
year of his age, was a well educated gentleman, and ever desirous
of promoting art and science. Being partial to the Geographical
Society, and a constant attendant at our anniversaries, we shall this
day mark with regret his absence from our festive board.
Sir James Meek was a highly respected and useful public servant,
who, for his administrative talents in the victualling department
of the Navy Board, was knighted and honoured with the Com-
panionship of the Bath. An old member of this Society, he served
on our Council for several years, and alwaj^s supported our cause
as long as he remained in London. Eetiring from public life, he
lived during the last few years at Ilfracombe in Devonshire. Being
gifted with a kind heart, and possessing the most gentle manners,
Sir James Meek was much beloved by all who knew him.
James Meadows Eendel, the celebrated engineer, has had such
ample justice done to his merits by those who can best appreciate
them, whether at the Eoyal Society, or the Institution of Civil
Engineers, that it would not become me to weaken such descrip-
tions by any panegyric of my own. The skill and decision which he
displayed in many works, such as a cast-iron floating or suspension
bridge, and numerous piers and docks, besides innumerable hydrau-
lic operations, were crowned by his two great achievements, the
harbours of refuge of Holyhead and Portland. These, in the estima-
tion of his associates, are alone sufficient to hand down his name to
