392 SIR RODERICK I. MURCIIISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
posterity with a Smeaton, a Eennie, and a Telford. Consulted also
by various foreign Governments, he was associated with M. Lesseps
and Mr. Charles Manby as one of the International Commission for
the construction of the Canal of Suez. Mr. Eendel was born in
1799, was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1843, and was,
during two years. President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.
His death, which occurred on the 21st of November, 1856, was
deeply lamented by all his friends and associates.
Mr. John Kenyon, who died in December last, was born in 1784
or 1785. He was, for some years, at Mr. Seyer's school, at the
Fort, Bristol, several of his companions from which seminary have
since won for themselves fame and honour in the service of litera-
ture and science. Amongst his favourite playmates were John
Eagles, known in later days as the author of ' The Sketcher ;'
Broderip, the naturalist ; and Andrew Crosse, the electrician. These
schoolday friendships remained through life, unclouded by a
shadow.
After Mr. Kenyon quitted the University of Cambridge, he spent
some time on the Continent, but, returning to England, he formed
friendships with Wordsworth, Southey, and Davy. He was not
only the friend of poets, but was himself a poet; having pub-
lished, a few years since, at intervals, two volumes which show
considerable originality, as well as a refined and cultivated taste.
These poems breathe the spirit of a mild and tolerant man, wishing
well to his fellow-creatures, with a liberality something more than
orthodox, and seeing all things in the sunny hue of his own gene-
rous nature.
Mr. Kenyon's appreciation of genius and talent drew around him
many savans and literati of the day, among whom his genial socia-
bility seemed to have the power of amalgamating the most dissimilar
natures, and of softening asperities between individuals. He was a
person to whom no man volunteered to tell the worst he knew of
his neighbour. He liked to see, talk, and hear of pleasant things ;
but he was one who feelingly shared the sorrows of his friends.
His heart was ever full of true sympathj'-, and his hand ever ready
to assist those who required his aid. In one year he spent four
thousand pounds in acts oi private charity !
Mr. Kenyon died on the 3rd of December, 1850. All those who
know him well, feel what they have lost ; those who knew him
but slightly will not soon forget his ever kind and bland manners.
By his noble and generous will he divided his large fortune amongst
