May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 393
his numerous living friends, and the children of such of his old
friends who had before him " gone to the many."
Vice- Admiral Lord Radstock, c.b., has very recently been taken
from us. Born in 1786, and entering into the profession of his
father, the well-known admiral, who won the battle off Lagos in
1797, he distinguished himself in several engagements in the Medi-
terranean, in the last as Captain Waldegrave, and off the Italian
coast, in destroying the batteries at the mouth of the Ehone. He
was afterwards made naval aide-de-camp to the Queen. Although
the death of Lord Eadstock seemed appallingly sudden to those
who had seen him sitting at the General Meeting of the London
University a few days before, yet others who, like myself, had
watched with grief the rapid change in his health during the pre-
ceding months, were not unprepared for the sad event. A'aluing
Lord Radstock highly for his personal qualities, I can truly say that
the death of this brave officer and excellent man created a very
general feeling of real sorrow, as deep among his friends and
acquaintances as in all those public bodies, and numerous cha-
ritable institutions, in the welfare of which he took a warm interest.
Robert Anderson, Surgeon, r.n., who died in June, 185G, at the
early age of 38, was born in the parish of Fettercairn, Kincardine-
shire. Receiving his early education at the Academy of Montrose,
his medical studies were carried on and completed in the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh. Entering the Royal Navy, as an assistant-
surgeon, in 1838, he served successively in the Royal Adelaide,
the Princess Charlotte flag-ship, and in the Powerful, being on
board the last-mentioned ship when commanded by Sir C. Napier at
the siege of Acre and during other operations on the coast of Syria.
Afterwards serving upon the East India and China station in the
Agincourt, Spiteful, and Dasdalus, and obtaining the rank of
surgeon, he again passed to the Spiteful, in which he returned
from India in 1847. In the following year Mr. Anderson was
appointed surgeon of H. M. S. Investigator, Captain Bird, which
shared in the expedition of Sir James Clark Ross to the Arctic
Seas; and in 1849, he was again selected for similar service as
surgeon of H.M.S. Enterprise, Capt. Collinson, in which he con-
tinued to serve till the return of that vessel to England. With
the exception of scarcely 9 months, Mr. Anderson was constantly
employed afloat for a period of nearly 17 years, of which 7 were
spent in Arctic service.
Besides writing extended journals, Mr. Anderson made a large
