394 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
collection of specimens illustrative of the natural history of the
Arctic regions. Of this collection the zoological specimens were
deposited in the British Museum, the dried plants being sent to Sir
William Jackson Hooker at Kew, and the fossil remains to the
Geological Society.
Frank, generous, and warm-hearted, esteemed alike for his pro-
fessional abilities, scientific attainments, and private worth, his
conduct through life exemplified a high-toned sense of honour and
manly independence of character, and his premature death has
caused real sorrow to his numerous friends.
Charles Elliott, Esq., who died in May, 1856, at the age of 80,
was a sagacious and esteemed Civil Servant of the East India Com-
pany. He always strove to promote the advancement of know-
ledge and geographical science, and was much beloved for his
social qualities. Acting in various important capacities in Hindostan,
he eventually rose to be the senior member of the Board of Revenue
in Bengal, and agent to the Governor-General in the western pro-
vinces, in which capacity he proved a worthy successor of Sir
Charles, afterwards Lord, Metcalfe.
Mr. Elliott had been, since the year 1832, a Fellow of the Eoyal
Society, by whose members, as by our own, he was much esteemed ;
but it is specially in the Asiatic Society, of which he had been
some years the Treasurer, that his loss is most felt, as e^ddenced by
the Annual Eeport of that body, in which the soundness of his
judgment, the integrity of his character, and the discrimination of
his taste are justly extolled.
Lewis H. J. ToNNA was a praiseworthy person, who formerly
serving as a purser in the Eoyal Navy, became Secretary of the
United Service Institution, and continued to carry on the business
of our neighbouring establishment for many years with much
efficiency and most obliging manners.
W. H. Pepys, a native of this metropolis, was born in 1775.
He succeeded to his father's trade in the Poultry as cutler and
maker of surgical instruments. From his earliest years he de-
voted himself zealously, disinterestedly, and uninterruptedly to the
advancement of science. It is now exactly half a century since
Allen and Pepys communicated to the Eoyal Society the memorable
experiment by which the identity of diamond with other known
forms of the element carbon was confirmed. It was, however, as the
contriver of ingenious modifications of chemical apparatus, that
Mr. Pepys rendered the most signal service to scientific men.
