llAY 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 395
During every phase of the rapid progress of chemistry, the gas-holder
which bears his name, has maintained its place as well in the
lecture-theatre, as in the laboratory of research. I have reason to
believe that the arrangement of the magnificent voltaic battery, by
which Davy decomposed the alkalies at the Eoyal Institution, was,
more or less, confided to Mr. Pepys : hence, probably, originated the
friendly regard in which he was held by that eminent philosopher.
In the Philosophical Transactions for 1823 there is a description of
a voltaic apparatus, consisting of two elements only, for electro-
magnetic research, made under Mr. Pepys' directions for the London
Institution.
Let me add that Mr. Pepys was always anxious to associate
with those who, like himself, desired to cultivate science for its
own sake. He joined our Society at its commencement. He was
one of the early promoters of the London Institution, and an
original Member of the Geological Society. He was also a Member,
and an office-bearer in the Eoyal Institution, where he received
the honour of one of the ten Gold Medals awarded for chemical
discovery. He died at his house, Earl's Terrace, Kensington,
August 17th, 1856, aged 81.
A Foreign Associate whose loss we have to deplore during
the past year is Baron von Hammer-Purgstall, the distinguished
Oriental scholar, poet, and historian. Attracted from his earliest
childhood towards the East and Eastern literature, no one has done
more good, in spreading the knowledge of Oriental History and
Literature amongst the literary circles of Western Europe, than the
learned author of the * History of the Ottoman Empire.* Born at
Gratz, in Styria, in 1774, he entered the Oriental Academy at
Vienna in 1788, where he attracted the attention of the celebrated
Jenisch, whom he assisted in the preparation of his edition of
'Meninski's Lexicon.' He subsequently entered the Austrian
diplomatic service as Interpreter at Constantinople, he then served
in the same capacity to the British army during Abercrombie's
campaign, and after acting as Attache to the Austrian Embassy at
Constantinople and as Consul in Moldavia, he was appointed Inter-
preter to the Vienna Chancery in 1811. From this time devotion to
Oriental Literature became the leading object of his laborious life ;
and when he subsequently quitted the public service he pursued his
favourite studies on his estates in Styi'ia.
Some opinion of his active energy may be foimed from the long
