398 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857-
with me, that in the whole series of literature there is no work,
which more feelingly developes the struggles of humanity under
the most intense sufferings, or which demonstrates more strikingly,
how the most appalling difficulties can be o^vercome by the union
of a firm resolve with the never-failing resources of a bright
intellect. In all these heart- rending pages there is no passage
which comes more home to the Englishmen who are still advo-
cating the search for the relics of the Erebus and Terror, than
that in which, after judging from the experience of his own com-
panions, how men of our lineage may be brought to bear intense
cold and trail on their existence among the Esquimaux, he thus
soliloquises: — " My mind never realizes the complete catastrophe,
the destruction of all Franklin's crews. I picture these to myself
broken into detachments, and my mind fixes itself on one little
group of some thirt}?-, who have found the open spot of some tidal
eddy, and under the teachings of an Esquimaux, or perhaps one
of their own Greenland whalers, have set bravely to work and
trapped the fox, speared the bear, and killed the seal, the walrus,
and the whale. — / think of tltsm ever with hope. I sicken not to he able to
reach them."* These generous and lofty sentiments, as I shall after-
wards point out in dwelling on Lady Franklin's final search, are
shared by that distinguished Aictic officer, our associate Captain
Hartstene, of the United States' Navy; and they have justly awakened
the hope in the breasts of many of my countrymen as well as myself,
that some of the fine young fellows who sailed with Franklin may
still be alive — the conviction that they must, for the honour of
our country, be sought for, as well as the debris and records of the
Erebus and Terror.
It was, indeed, a subject of great regret to me that when Dr.
Kane visited England last autumn, this metropolis (as is usual at
that season) was deserted by many of those persons who most valued
his character, and that none of those attentions could then be paid
to him which, had his stay amongst us been prolonged, would
doubtless have been showered upon him from the Sovereign down-
wards. But, alas ! the stroke of death was already upon him, and
when I first shook his hand, I at once saw that his eagle-
eye beamed forth from a wasted and all but expiring body. As
geographers we were not, however, remiss in our endeavours to
honour him ; and although his malady prevented his attendance at
our apartments to receive our heartiest welcome, I then proposed
* Kane's Arctic Expedition, vol. i. pp. 243-G.
