May 25, 1857.] OBITUARY. 399
the Eesolution expressive of our admiration of his conduct, which
you passed with acclamation, and which was communicated to him
personally by our lamented late President, Admiral Beechey.*
Hurrying away to the Havannah to seek a milder clime, Dr. Kane
there terminated his noble and brilliant career. If on the subject
of Arctic research our meed of praise has justly been offered to
such pure philanthropists as Grinnell and Peabody, let me say that
there never has been an occasion in which the people of the United
States have done greater honour to themselves than by the manner
in which they sought to testify their respect for the memory of their
young hero Kane, when his mortal remains reached his native city of
Philadelphia. *' The long procession of mourners (as is recorded in
the 'Philadelphia Evening Journal ' of March 12), the crowded yet
silent streets through which they move, the roll of muffled drums,
the booming of minute guns, the tolling of passing bells, the craped
flags at half mast, and all the solemn pageantry of the scene proclaim
that it is no ordinary occasion which has called forth these impres-
sive demonstrations of public respect." Agreeing entirely with
this eloquent writer, that few men have ever lived, who have earned
a better title to the esteem and admiration of his race, and also
warmly commending to your notice the sentiment proceeding from
a great commercial city of our kinsmen, " that we are not to look
to the mere utilitarian value of Dr. Kane's labours and adventures, to
the claim for that bright and unfading glory which must ever sur-
round his name," let me say that, by re-echoing the voice of America
on this occasion, England can best cherish the memory of one who
dared and did such heroic deeds to rescue our lost navigators.
Having thus imperfectly glanced at the feats which our deceased
Medallist had accomplished in the short life-time of thirty-five
years under the impulses of humanity and science, I cannot better
sum up his virtues than in the words of the divine who preached
his funeral sermon j" — " He has traversed the planet in its most in-
accessible places, has gathered here and there a laurel from every
walk of physical research in which he strayed, has gone into the
thick of perilous adventure, abstracting in the spirit of philosophy,
yet seeing and loving in the spirit of poesy, has returned to invest
the very story of his escape with the charms of literature and art,
and dying at length in the morning of his fame, is now lamented
with mingled affection and pride by his country and the world."
* See Geographical Proceedings, Jan. 1856.
t The Rev. C. W, Shields.
2 k2
