400 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857
Geographical Progress.
Admiralty Surveys. — The Maritime Surveys of Britain have been
steadily carried forward during the past year. I am informed
by Captain Washington, r.n., Hydrographer to the Navy, the
worthy successor of Admiral Sir F. Beaufort, that twenty different
surveying parties are in active service, about one-half of which are
employed on our own coasts, the remainder in the Colonies, the
Mediterranean, the Eiver Plate, the South-western Pacific, and the
coast of China.
England. — To begin with operations at home. Sanitary measures
connected with the metropolis have necessitated a fresh survey of
the upper portion of the River Thames. At the instance of the First
Commissioner of Works, Commanders Burstal and Cudlip, in August
last, began a minute survey of the river from London Bridge upwards
to Putney, a distance of about 7^ miles, running again the identical
lines of sections, at about 700 feet apart, taken by Giles in 1823, in
order to institute a comparison as to the change in the bed of the
river. These soundings have been laid down on the sheets of the
Ordnance Survey of London on a scale of 60 inches to a statute mile,
a scale sufficiently large to show minutely every feature.
The result, as shown in Commander Burstal's Eeport and Trans-
verse Sections, is that since the year 1823 the average deepening of
the bed has been about 4 feet from Putney to Westminster Bridge,
and about 6 feet from Westminster to London Bridge; but this
average by no means shows the extent of the scour consequent on
the removal of Old London Bridge in 1832, as, for instance, near the
Grosvenor Canal there are places where the deepening has been
13 feet; at Westminster Bridge 10 feet; at Hungerford ll^^feet;
and above South wark Bridge 14 feet. These figures are highly
instructive, as showing the improvement which might be expected
in other rivers in this country, if the old fashioned bridges which
now act as dams were removed, as in the Tyne, the Slaney, and the
Liffey ; and if Newcastle, Wexford, and Cork Bridges were rebuilt
with proper openings.
The sounding of the upper part of the Thames will be continued
in sections of 150 feet apart from Putney to near the Thames Tunnel,
about 1^ miles below London Bridge. At that point it has been
taken up by Commander Cudlip, who is now engaged sounding
Greenwich, Blackwall, and Woolwich Peaches, the plans of which,
it may be hoped, will foim the foundation for a systematic and ex-
