May 25, 1857.] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS— SCOTLAND. 401
tensive dredging of all the upper part of the river so soon as the
Thames Conservancy Board can be brought into action.
On the East Coast of England, Mr. E. K. Calver has revised all the
charts during the past year, and inserted the changes that have taken
place during the last ten years, and especially in the frequented
anchorages of Yarmouth and Lowestoft Eoads. He has also pre-
pared the Sailing Directions for this coast and for the opposite shore
of Belgium, Holland, and Jutland up to the Skaw, which will form
Parts III. and IV. of the ' Korth Sea Pilot ' now in preparation.
On the South Coast of England, the surveying party under Com-
mander Cox and Messrs. Usborne and Davis have just completed a
careful examination of Plymouth Sound, whence it appears that that
well-known roadstead has not silted up in any appreciable degree
since the breakwater was placed across its entrance — an interval of
five and forty years — the first stone having been deposited in
August, 1812.
In Cornwall, Captain Williams and Mr. ^^'ells have completed the
survey of the Fowey River, from Lostwithiel to the sea, and a portion
of the coast from Fowey to the Dodman.
In the Bristol Channel, Commander Aldridge and Mr. Hall have
surveyed Caldy and Tenby Eoads, where they have discovered and
mapped several new rocks and shoals not before pointed out.
Scotland. — In the Frith of Forth, Lieut. Thomas and Mr. Sutton
have surveyed the coast of Haddington by Dunbar and St. Abb's
Head to Coldingham, and have completed the outer soundings to the
eastward of the Isle of May, which mark the approach to this ex-
tensive estuary.
Farther north, a detailed plan of the Bay and Harbour of Wick
and Pulteney Town has recently been published at the Admiralty,
preparatory, we trust, to the laying out of a Harbour of Eefuge on
that exposed coast, where in an easterly gale the 1000 herring-boats
that annually fish out of AVick have no shelter to run for. The
numbers of valuable lives at stake in these important fisheries im-
peratively demand that a suitable harbour in the most appropriate
spot should be constructed without further loss of time.*
The Sailiug Directions for the Orkneys and Shetland, originally
drawn up by the late Commander Thomas, and revised and corrected
by Mr. E. K. Calver, have been published during the past year, and
* A subject of considerable importance to physical geographers as connected
with the harbour of Wick will presently be discussed {sec Physical Geography).
