402 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
they form Part I. of the four parts of tlie ' North Sea Pilot,' the whole
of which work will, we trust, be in the hands of the mariner before
the close of the present year.
On the noi-th-west coast of Scotland, Commander Wood has sur-
veyed a small portion of Skye, while Mr. Jeffery has mapped Loch
Kevis. Several detached Charts also of these coasts have been
published during the past year, as lochs Broom, Ewe, Hourn,
Gairloch, Edrachilles Bay, including the lochs, Eaasay and Inner
Sound, Sounds of Seil, Mull, Sleat and Kyle Ehea.
In Argyleshire, Commanders Bedford and Creyke, and Mr. Bour-
chier, have added to our knowledge of the north shores of the isle
of Mull, and have re-examined Oban bay.
In the Hebrides some soundings off the isle of Lewis have been
obtained by Captain Otter and his staff in the Porcupine ; and
during the present season a survey of the Sound of Harris will, it is
hoped, prove to the mariner whether, in case of need, he may safely
run for that strait.
Ireland. — On the north-eastern shore of Ireland, Messrs. Hosk}^,
Aird, and Yule, have completed the examination of Belfast Harbour,
and made patent the improvements that public spirit, combined with
good engineering, has within the last few j'ears effected in that
port. They have also mapped a portion of the coast of Antrim,
from Garrow Point to Ballygally Head, the fine natural harbour of
Lough Lame, and the artificial packet-station of Donaghadee.
In Wexford, on the south-eastern coast. Captain Frazer and Lieut.
Bullock have re-examined the channels and banks at the entrance of
that harbour, where some remarkable changes have taken place, and
made a detailed survey of the Eiver Slaney up to the town of Ennis-
corthy, preparatory, we trust, to some extensive improvements in the
channel — a measure which could not fail to be attended with corre-
sponding benefit to the fertile country which that river drains.
In Donegal, on the north-west coast. Captain Bedford and Lieut.
Homer have completed elaborate plans of Sheep Haven and Mulross
Bay. By permission of the Admiralty, these plans have been ex-
hibited at our evening meetings, and I am sure you will all willingly
join with me in acknowledging the apparent fidelity and beauty with
which the features of these natural inlets have been portrayed.
In Kerry, on the south-western coast, Commanders Beechey and
Edye, with Mr. W. B. Calver, have mapped a portion of Tralee and
Brandon bays, while Mr. McDougall has surveyed Dingle and Ventry
harbours, which lie on the southern side of the same bold projecting
