May 25, 1857.] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS— BLACK SEA. 403
peninsula of Kerry, and which, having twice examined myself, I can
testify to be the most interesting part of Ireland, in showing certain
relations of the Silurian to the Devonian rocks, which can nowhere
else be seen in the sister island.
The neighbourhood of this immediate coast, on the south side of
Dingle Bay, is about to become a site of much interest and import-
ance, the small island of Valentia having been selected as the Eastern
or European terminus of that Atlantic Electric Telegraph Cable,
on which I shall presently enlarge, as destined to unite the two
continents in stricter bonds of amity and good fellowship.
It must interest my hearers to know that Lieut. Dayman, r.n.,
who was a companion of Sir James Eoss in his voyage to the
Antarctic regions, will leave England in a few days in command of
the Cyclops steamer, to carry a line of deep sea soundings across
the Atlantic, from Valentia to Trinity Bay in Newfoundland. The
vessel is furnished with some 20,000 fathoms of line of different
sizes, a portion being of silk, with an abundant supply of sounding
machines, and a steam-engine on deck on purpose to heave in and
reel up the line, and we may fairly hope, ere long, to have a second
continuous line of soundings across the Atlantic, and know the
nature of the bed on which the Telegraph Cable will have to repose.
With the authority of our Council, I took advantage of the an-
nouncement of this expedition, so deeply interesting to naturalists,
and suggested to the Hydro grapher that, the opportunity being one
which might never recur of obtaining an accurate acquaintance
with submarine life at great depths, a competent naturalist might
be allowed to accompany the survey, or that in any case the medical
officer of the Cyclops might be so instructed as to record accurately
the phenomena.
BlacTi Sea. — In quitting our home for foreign shores, the survey of
the Delta of the Danube claims precedence, and is entitled, in the
opinion of my eminent friend Captain Washington, to our warmest
acknowledgments for the admirable manner in which it has been
carried out by Lieut. Wilkinson, r.n., under the orders of Captain
Spratt, E.N., C.B., whose report on Fidonisi, or Serpent Island, has
been communicated to the Society by the Admiralty. This recent
survey of the streams which form the delta of the Danube is com-
prised in several charts, filled almost to overflowing with soundings
of the three principal branches, Ochakov or Kilia to the north, the
Siilina in the centre, and the St. George or Khedriliz to the
south. These plans are now lying on the table before us, and
