404 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
they bespeak for themselves our admiration of the beauty of their
execution and of the unflinching perseverance with which these
sei-vices were accomplished in the short period of a few months of
last autumn.
Sea of Azov. — During the present session, we have received from
our associate, Captain Sherard Osborn, k.n. (so honourably known
to us by his Arctic explorations and writings), an interesting com-
munication on the geography of the Sea of Azov, the Putrid Sea,
and the adjacent coasts, with remarks on their commercial capabili-
ties. As the hydrographical features of this area are peculiarly
deserving of notice, I naturally treat of them under the head of the
British Naval Surveys. In no part deeper than 40 feet, the centre
of this sea forms a flat basin 55 miles in extent from east to west,
and 35 from north to south, with an inclination from the edge of
this level to the coast of about a foot per mile, increasing some-
what in abruptness as the water shallows.
The sandy spits, which are so remarkable, and are attributed by
the author to volcanic action, afford a shelter against easterly winds,
but there is no protection in any part of the sea against those
from the west. When this communication was read, I confirmed,
from personal observation, the accuracy of Captain Osborn's re-
marks upon the rapid accumulation of sand on these spits ; and
the fact of their being precipitous on the east side and shelving
on the west is a good addition to our knowledge. There can be
no doubt, however, that the base of some of them, near the ports,
consists of knolls formed by the discharge of ballast from trading-
vessels, thus forming nuclei for fresh alluvial deposits, which, after
a short time, become connected together; and unless means bo
adopted for checking this system of accumulation, the Sea will,
before long, be hardly navigable in certain places.
The assertion of M. Taitbout de Marigny, that there is little cur-
rent in the Sea of Azov, is shown by Captain Osborn to be an error ;
the existence of currents being indicated, not only by the influ-
ence of the winds on the motion of the water, but also being
plainly manifested by the outflow fiom the delta of the Don, the
Sivash, and the rivers between Taman and Kamisheva. The phy-
sical features of the Spit of Arabat, and of the Sivash or Putrid
Sea, are described from observations made, under very difficult
circumstances, during the late war.
Mediterranean and Archipelago. — On a recent route from Malta to
the Dardanelles, Captain Spratt had an opportunity of obtaining a
