May 25, 1857.] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS— AFRICA—CHINA SEAS. 405
line of deep sea soundings between that island and Candia, in
whicli tlie greatest depth was 2170 fathoms. The section is very-
striking ; for a distance of 50 miles to the eastward of Malta the
depth does not exceed 100 fathoms, after which it drops almost
suddenly to 1500 and 2000 fathoms, and continues near that level
lelow the surface of the sea until within 20 miles of the east end of
Candia or Crete, where the White Mountains and Mount Ida rise up
to a nearly equal height above the level of the sea. Between Crete
and the Dardanelles the greatest depth is 1110 fathoms.
Africa. — On the North Coast of Egypt, Commander Mansell in the
Tartarus, with his assistants, Lieut. Brooker and Mr. Skead, have
completed a survey of the coast from Damietta eastward to El
Araish, an admirable plan of the port of Alexandria, and a survey of
the bay of Suez, a place daily becoming of more importance as our
direct mail communication extends to India, China, and Australia.
Taking advantage of fine weather and a calm sea. Captain Mansell
has lately run a line of soundings between Alexandria and the island
of Rhodes. From the coast of Egypt the depths gradually increase
until at 70 miles oif they reach 1000 fathoms, at 110 miles 1600
fathoms, which is the maximum depth of this portion of the basin
of the Levant. The above soundings are of great interest to the
geologist as well as the geographer, and do much credit to the
officers who, overcoming many difficulties, have succeeded in carrying
them out.
While on this subject I should mention that, in October 1856,
Messrs. Delamanche and Ploix, Ingenieurs Hydrographes of the
French Imperial Marine, carried a line of soundings across the
Mediterranean between Poit Vendres in France to Algiers, in which
the greatest depth was about the same as in the Levant, namely
1600 fathoms.
South Africa. — In the Cape Colony the only addition we have to
record is the completion by Mr. Francis Skead of the survey of Port
Natal, begun by Lieut. Dayman, e.n., in 1855. I cannot here but
repeat the words of my predecessor in this Chair, that both the land
survey of the colony and that of the coasts ought to be pressed for-
ward. Every year that they are delayed bars the progress of the
settlers, hinders the development of the resources of the district, and
is attended with loss to the colonial exchequer.
China Seas. — In the last anniversary Address a hope was expressed
that Captain Bate, the surveyor of the island of Palawan, might be
more usefully employed in China than in merely commanding a
