28 WHITE. [Feb. 11, 1856.
ocean, a fearful and magnificent spectacle," and that of Sir Edward
Parry, were adduced in corroboration.
Reference was also made to the Gulf Stream, which, passing Great
Britain and Norway, enters the Polar Basin ; and, having made its entire
circuit, returns by Davis' Strait to the Atlantic Ocean ; and the evidence
through which its course could be ascertained, was gone into.
The President : As a small volume from my pen has been quoted by
Mr. White in support of his opinions about a Polar basin, 1 cannot avoid
offering a few remarks upon the subject before us, lest I may be supposed to
assent to the speculative notion of there being a permanent fluid oasis amidst
the great frozen desert of the North. . And first as to the eflect of the sun's
rays at the Pole, it is not easy to attach any other meaning to Mr. White's
remarks about the sun's shining continually ^^ npon one point ^^ and ^Hn one
direct line^'' than that the motion of the earth at the Pole is not sensible, and
that the same surface is always presented to the sun. If such is the meaning
of the writer, his arguments have been founded upon false premises ; for in
no part of the globe is the sun's azimuthal motion more apparent than at
the Pole.
Arguments in favour of a Polar basin have been founded upon the data of
Dove, which show that the point of maximum cold upon the globe does not
coincide with that of the maximum of latitude. But admitting this to be
true, i'f the cold at the Pole is sufficient to freeze the sea, and to keep it at
such a mean temperature that the summer influence has but a comparatively
trifling eflect upon the ice formed upon it, it is surely a suflicient contradiction
to such arguments ; audit has been shown by the same great authority, Dove,
that the mean annual temperature at the Pole is upwards of 30° below the
freezing point ; that the mean temperature of the coldest month is 58 6° below
the freezing point ; and that the mean temperature of the warmest month is
still more than a degree below the freezing point. Who can read these tem-
peratures and then turn to Parry's voyage, and, at a distance of 16° from the
Pole, contemplate the mean temperatures registered in the following months
by him, viz. —
o
July . . 10 below freezing point.
Aug. ..0
Sept. ..10
Oct. ..36
Nov. .. 52 „
Dec. .. 54
— who, I say, can read these terrible mean temperatures of the several months,
both by Dove and by Parry, and believe that the sea remains navigable, ex-
cept perhaps in the very limited space between the broken floes of ice, and
that only for a very limited period ?
Mr. White quotes Sir Edward Parry in favour of his theory of a Polar
Basin, and triumphantly remarks : " In Captain Parry's journey, at his
farthest point, there was nothing more to impede a vessel's course than was
met with near the margin."
I really do not know what stronger proof can be required than this of
the Polar Sea being covered with an enormous mass of impenetrable ice.
Captain Parry, after travelling ^660 miles over this mass of ice, declares it
Jan.
o
.. 62
below freezing point.
Feb.
. 64
March
. 50
April
. 40
May
. 15
June
. 4
