406 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [xMay 25, 1857.
cruizing ship. It is gratifying to be able to state, that a thoroughly
equipped surveying vessel, the Actaeon, accompanied by a small
steam tender the Dove, under command of Lieut. Bullock, has
sailed for those seas, and as soon as the present unfortunate difier-
ences with China are settled, Captain Bate will resume his survey
on such parts of the coast as most require it. In the meantime,
Messrs. Richards and Inskip in the Saracen will proceed forth-
with to make a detailed survey of the dangerous shoal As Pratas
(lying only 60 leagues to the e.s.e. of our own colony at Hong
Kong), with a view to the construction of a lighthouse upon that
extensive coral reef which has caused the wreck of so many vessels.
Siam. — The chart of the Gulf of Siam has been materially improved
during the past year. Messrs. Eichards and Inskip have visited
Bangkok, where they experienced great attention and assistance
from the enlightened ruler of that country ; they have rectified the
positions of several islands and of many of the headlands and capes
on the western as well as on the eastern shore of the gulf.
Tartary. — Farther north on the coast of Tartary the officers of one
of our cruizing vessels, the Barracouta, have examined a harbour,
which they have named after that ship, and in which the Russian
frigate Pallas had taken refuge. This capacious harbour is the
same as that called Imperadorski Gavan, or Port Imperial, by the
Russians, and lies about 130 miles south of Castries Bay.
In the Admiralty chart of these regions the whole course of the
Amur has been laid down from the astronomical observations made
by Peschurof in 1855, which render the river quite a new feature in
our maps. The details of these observations are given in the
' Morskoi Sbornik,' or Russian Nautical Magazine, for March and
May, 1857. They are also to be found in that excellent geographical
periodical, ' Mittheilungen,' edited by Dr. A. Petermann at Gotha.
New Zealand. — The publication of the detailed charts of the coasts
and harbours of this group of islands advances rapidly ; the past
year has produced four coast charts, on the scale of 4 miles to an
inch, and 11 plans of harbours and rivers, including Auckland,
Waitemata, Taupanaa, Whangaroa, Hokianga, &c., being a portion
of the ten years' labour of Captains Stokes and Drury, with Messrs.
G. Richards, Frederick J. 0. Evans, J. II. Kerr, &c., and we
trust that before the close of the next year every item of infor-
mation we possess of these islands will be in the hands of the
mariner.
Pacific Ocean. — Captain Denham in the Herald continues his
