May 25, 1857.] ADMIRALTY SURVEYS— AMERICA— W. INDIES. 407
useful labours in tlie south-western Pacific. During tlie past year
he has surveyed several islands of the Fiji group, as Angau, Matuka,
Mbatiki, Moala, and has swept from the charts the imaginary Under-
wood and Kosaretta reefs. Assistant-Surgeon Macdonald of the
Herald has made a journey into the interior of the island Viti Levu,
which, with a track chart of the route, has been communicated to
the Society by the Admiralty. Various views of headlands and
characteristic sketches of the scenery and of the natives have been
made by Mr. Glen Wilson, artist to the expedition.
A chart of the Pacific Ocean, in 12 sheets, on the scale of -j^oths
of an inch to a degree, has recently been published by the Ad-
miralty, in which the curves of equal variation have been carefully
laid down for the year 1855, by Mr. Frederick J. O. Evans, chief of
the Compass Observatory. The whole forms a valuable contribution
to hydrography, and physical geography.
America. — Pursuing our imaginary eastern route, we have the
gratification to announce that a well organized expedition, under
the command of Captain George Eichards, e.n., favourably known
as a fellow-labourer with Captain Stokes in the survey of New
Zealand, has sailed for Vancouver Island, to determine, in con-
junction with the United States Commissioners, the boundary, as
laid down by treaty, between the British and American possessions.
This expedition cannot but be productive of a good harvest of geo-
graphical information.
In the Eio de la Plata, Lieut. Sidney, with slight means at his
command, has fixed the position of the north edge of the English
Bank, lying some 10 miles south of Monte Video ; he has com-
pleted a detailed plan of the river and outer roadstead of Buenos
Ayres, and has partially examined the lower course of the Uruguay.
On the coast of Brazil, Lieut. Parish, r.n., has furnished plans of
several small harbours and otherwise improved our charts, while a
more complete Sailing Directory, founded on the labours of Baron
Eoussin, is in course of preparation by Eear- Admiral FitzEoy.
West Indies. — The additions to geography in the West Indies con-
sist in a survey of the island of Santa Cruz, and the harbour of
Christianstadt, by Messrs. Parsons and Dillon; a re-examination
of the harbour of Grey Town by Mr. Scott, master of H.M.S.
Imperieuse, and some new coral patches discovered among the
Pearl Cays.
Nova Scotia. — In the Bay of Fundy, Commander Shortland, with
Lieut. Scott and Mr. Scarnell, has completed the soundings in the
