408 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
vicinity of the Grand Manan islands at tlie entrance of the Bay, and
has mapped a further portion of the south-western coast of Nova
Scotia.
Gulf of St. Lawrence. — Eear-Admiral Bayfield, in succeeding to
his flag, retires from the command of the survey of the Gulf and
River St. Lawrence, on which extensive work he has been engaged
upwards of a quarter of a century. It has fallen to the lot of few
officers to originate and bring to a close, after so many years, so
extended and laborious a work, where the Surveyor had to contend
with a rigorous climate in winter and fogs in the spring and autumn,
leaving but a short season in which outdoor work could be executed.
It has, however, been done in a masterly manner, as more than 100
published charts and plans, complete sailing directions, and a
valuable table of Geographical Positions connected with Quebec,
Halifax, and Boston, most fully testify. I am sure you will all join
cordially with me in wishing many years of honourable repose to
the gallant Admiral whose labours have bestowed so valuable a
boon on the mariner, and whose previous observations, let me add,
on various glacial phenomena, including the transport of blocks by
the ices of the St. Lawrence, have been of signal service to geolo-
gical science.
Commander Orlebar, the former chief assistant, succeeds to the
charge of the survey, which will be continued along the eastern
shores of the peninsula of Nova Scotia.
Ordnance Survey of Great Britain. — No change, as I am informed
by the able superintendent of the Ordnance Map Office, Lieut.-
Colonel James, has been made in the orders relative to the survey
during the last year, and the progress in the north of England and
Scotland for the twelve months ending on the 31st of March has
been very great, amounting to 1,394,409 acres, finished in every
respect for publication.
The publication of the following counties has been finished within
the last year, viz. Yorkshire, Fifeshire, Kinross, and Linlithgowshire.
The publication of the following counties is in progress, viz.
Durham, Ayrshire, Dumfriesshire, Renfrewshire, and Berwickshire.
The survey of the following counties has been finished during the
last year, viz. Berwickshire and Selkirkshire (nearly).
The Survey is in progress in the following counties — Northum-
berland, Westmoreland, Lanarkshire, Roxburghshire, Forfarshire,
and Perthshire.
