May 25, 1857.] GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. 409
The surveys of tlie large towns of Glasgow and Dundee and many
others have also been finished in the last year.
An outline map of London, on the scale of 6 inches to a mile, has
also been made within the last few months. The one-inch map
"proceeds pat^i passu with the maps on the larger scale, and great ad-
vantage is derived from the system of making all the reductions
from the larger to the smaller scales by the aid of photography ;
indeed, Lieut.-Colonel James expects to be able to get the ground
sketched on the 6-inch impressions in such a way that, when reduced
by photography, the reduced drawing will be the fac-simile of w^hat
the engraver is to produce.
The general reduction in the estimates of the AVar Department
consequent upon the return of peace, has led to the reduction of the
proposed grant for the survey for the present year to the extent of
27,000?., and, as a consequence, the surveying force has been reduced
to the extent of 3 officers and 600 men, the parties destined for the
surveys of Cumberland, Stirlingshire, and the Western Hebrides,
having been broken up.
Geological Survey of the United Kingdom. — Having directed the Geo-
logical Survey of the United Kingdom during the last two years, it
becomes me to say a few words on the progress of a branch of the
public service so intimately connected with geographical science.
The first object contemplated by my predecessor. Sir Henry de la
Beche, in founding this establishment, was so to colour the Ordnance
or Geographical Maps as to convey a clear idea of the rocks beneath
the surface in all parts of the kingdom, and further to illustrate
such structural character by coloured sections, both vertical and
horizontal. In this way, not only the order and succession of the
strata are delineated, but the dislocations they have undergone are
marked ; whilst all the rocks of igneous origin which had been in-
truded among them are clearly defined.
As the work advanced, it became desirable, that these surveys and
sections should be accompanied by volumes explanatory of the
nature of the rocks, and their mineral and zoological distinctions,
with descriptions and figures of the imbedded organic remains.
To render the whole subject intelligible, it further became re-
quisite so to expose the fossils collected by the surveyors, that
the public might be led to understand the rationale upon which
the maps, sections, and descriptions were founded. Thus, a
