May 25, 1857.] GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. 411
registered on the maps of the 6-inch scale, so as to be ready to be
published, when the maps of the districts nnder review shall have
been completed.
I have great satisfaction in informing you that, as the Geological
Surve}^ proceeds, the public is rapidly becoming aware of its value.
The sale of the maps and sections has recently been doubled ; so
that, if the present demand should continue, the sale of this year
will exceed 5000 sheets.
As no men of science are more directly concerned with the suc-
cessful progress of the Ordnance Survey of the country, than the
geologists who have to work out the subterranean phenomena upon
the geographical features there laid down, so it may naturally be
expected, that I should express my opinion on the questio vexata
which has been so much agitated in Parliament, viz. the best scale
for publication.
Most persons will agree with me in what I have long contended
for, that a 1-inch scale * is large enough for the purposes of a
general map, and any one who doubts it should visit the Museum
in Jermyn-street, and there see how vast a portion of a lofty hall
is required to exhibit at one view that portion only which is geo-
logically finished, or Wales and the half of England. But, whilst
for the general purposes of the public, this scale (which is larger
than that of the published maps of France and other foreign coun-
tries) is quite sufficient, it is my duty to say, that for several objects
of the geological surveyor the 6-inch map is often of higher value.
This latter scale was applied to Ireland, because it was supposed to
be the smallest measure on which every essential feature of a tract,
whether natural or artificial, could be laid down. It follows there-
fore that, in availing himself of this map, the field geologist has at
hand a datum-point for every observation; particularly if it be
furnished with contour lines marking the relative altitudes. In
short, he can register, with an accuracy unattainable, except on
such a scale, every outcrop, fold, or break of the beds ; and hence,
* See Memorial resulting from a resolution which I moved at the fourth or
Edinburgh Meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1834) and presented to the Chancellor of the Exchequer (now Lord Monteagle)
in May, 1835. Report of the British Association, Proceedings of the Meeting,
p. xxxvi. This document, which showed the deplorable state of the Geography
of ray native country at that time, was also printed by order of the House of
Commons. Subsequently, when President of this Society in 1853, I again made
a strong appeal touching the neglect of Scottish Geography. — Journal of the
Royal Geog. Soc, Vol. XXIII. , President's Addi-ess, p. Ixxxix.
