May 25, 1857.] PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 413
above the sea. Here, above all tbe clouds, except a few scirri,
which appeared about one day in five, he mounted the five-feet
Sheepshanks equatorial, which revealed test objects of three magni-
tudes smaller than it had ever shown before. In the apparatus
supplied by Prof. Stokes, the increase of black lines was remarkable
as the sun's zenith distance increased, and there was a growth of
the red end of the spectrum. The dryness was so great, that while
the country below was covered by a dense bed of clouds, the ave-
rage of the dew point was 40°. The sun's radiation exceeded the
graduation of the instruments, the temperature reading 180° -}- x.
The moon's radiation became perfectly sensible to Mr. Gassiot's
thermo-multiplier, showing it to amount to one-third of the heat of
a candle at the distance of 15 feet.
The second station was at Alta Vista, 10,710 feet above the sea;
and there the twelve feet Pattinson equatorial was finally mounted,
and by its space-penetrating power, stars of the sixteenth magnitude
were easily seen, and the fractions of a second in the distance of
double stars were defined. The colour also was observed. Only
on one occasion could red prominences in the sun be suspected.
Many other branches of observation were included, and minutely
reported to the Admiralty. The breaking up of the season, after
the middle of September, rendered a hasty retreat necessary, but
with the conviction of a yet higher station being desirable in future,
if only to get above the persecuting dust, a convenient site was
marked at the height of 11,700 feet above the sea, still accessible
to mules, if a little money were spent in removing some rugged
blocks of lava.
Specific Gravity of Sea-water. — Our attention was recently called to
the condition of the sea- water on the West Coast of Africa, when it
was rendered more or less turbid to the distance of many miles from
the mouth of the great river Congo or Zaire. Dr. James Campbell,
F.R.G.S., of H. M. ship Plumper, observing this phenomenon, had the
precaution to collect and send home, with a notice, various samples
of sea-water taken at various distances from the shore, noting the
day of collection, the latitude and longitude, and the temperature
of the water and air at each of these spots. It became therefore a
subject of interest to determine, if possible, the nature of the dis-
colouring matter, and the relative specific gravity of the water in
the diff'erent localities. Mr. Henry M. Witt, of the Government
School of Mines, has had the goodness to examine, at my request,
these samples of water, and his account of them will be publiKshed in
2l
