May 25, 1857.] PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 415
Consulting Mr. A. Keith Jolinston, of Edinburgh, who had
devoted many years to the accumulation of such data, Mr. Cleghorn
found that his view of the prevailing south-west wind was correct,
as respected all the region of the globe north of N. lat. 30° ; and
hence he is naturally disposed to generalize the application of facts
which are not only curious, but of value to the practical civil
engineer.
An acquaintance with these data may, indeed, stimulate physical
geographers to look into the general eflects which have resulted
from the continuance during a very long period of the same great
dynamic force. In the mean time much inquiry seems to be called
for. Mr. Findlay, to whom we are so much indebted for a per-
spicuous collection of all observations on tides and currents, whilst
agreeing to the chief datum of Mr. Cleghorn, that the north-eastern
shore ought, in our latitudes, to be the deepest, and the south-west
shore the shallower, as due to the south-west wind governing the
direction of waves which frequently have their origin at a distance
of 1000 to 1800 miles from their effects, is not yet convinced of the
truth of the other portion of the inference of Mr. Cleghorn, that
the debris of the worn side is translated by a counter current
towards the south-west. He reminds me, in a letter to myself, that
the two circulating tidal systems, demonstrated by Dr. Whewell to
exist in the North Sea, seem to explain the drift of silt from the
extreme eastern shores of Britain to the Goodwin Sands and the
Flemish Banks ; whilst the debris abstracted from the south-west
coast finds its way to the heads of the flow-beds in Morecambe Bay
and the Straits of Dover, as shown by the tidal diagrams of Admiral
Beechey.
As there is evidently conflicting evidence on this obscure part of
the subject, and as the " Flot du Fond " of M. Emy * has been much
disputed (M. Givry contending that wind affects the sea to no
greater a depth than 10 fathoms, whilst Captain M. A^'hite extends
that influence to 60 or 70 fathoms), we see how much additional
observation is required before we can definitely judge the question
with precision. If, by the examination of many other localities,
the views of Mr. Cleghorn should be sustained, the generalization
will be essentially serviceable in its practical application, and we
may then be able to define the origin and progress of many large
collections of drifted and alluvial matter, whether accumulated in
* Du Mouvement des Eaux, &c. Par le Colonel A. 11, Emy. Paris, 1831.
2l2
