Feb. 11, 1856.] PQLAR BASIN. 29
to be of the same character as that at the margin, that is to say, of a cha-
racter which had resisted every efi'ort to penetrate it. There was no sign
whatever of its terminating : it seemed immeasurably spread, and might have
extended to the Pole.
Mr. White admits that there is a barrier of ice to the N.W. of Spitzbergen,
but, he says, no such barrier exists on the Nova Zembla side of that island.
A similar assertion to this has been made more than once in the rooms of
this Society, but I am sure it has been done without consideration of what has
been recordetl by various navigators who have attempted to penetrate the sea
in that direction.
Extracts were then read by the President from Barentz's Journal, by which
it was clear that the ice was traced all the way from Cherry Island to Nova
Zembla. Hulson, he remarked, was also foiled in this same direction, sO
were Wood and Flawes, Bafhii and Fotherley. Lastly, in 1819 and in 1824,
Liitke, a distinguished Russian ofiicer, made two successive attempts to
proceed in a northern direction, and to get round the north end of Nova
Zembla : in both of these he failed, after tracing the ice nearly all the way
from Spitzbergen to that island.
As to Barentz's voyage authorising a belief that there is no ice about Nov«,
Zembla, the President read further extracts from the above-mentioned voyage
to precisely an opposite effect, and went on to state that between Nova Zembla
auvd Cape Taimena lies the sea of Kara, which no person has been able to
navigate excejit towards the Waigatz, where the strong tides break up the ice.
The difficulty of passing Cape Taimena is given by Baron Wrangell. To the
eastward of Cape Taimena we have numerous attempts to navigate both east
and west from the Lena and Kolyma, in Miiller, every one of which failed by
reason of insurmountable impediments from ice.
Since these voyages were attempted. Baron Wrangell and Lieutenant Anjou
have visited the coast about Siberia, and the Baron has successfully accom-
plished a journey from the Lena to Kamschatka.
Li these voyages the sea is stated to have been free from ice to the north^
but it is to be observed that the shore from which these reiparks were made
was scarcely above the water. The utmost extent of the horizon of the
observer could not have been more than ten miles ; so that we are not surprised
to liear that a few miles beyond Wrangell's sphere of vision the ' Vincennes,'
only last year, found a wall of impenetrable ioe. Such statements are but
proof of the imprudence of drawing such wide conclusions from so narrow a
field of observation. It may be that the great, rivers near this part of the coast
kept the ice off the shore ; but that it was not far off the shore may be inferred
from the very thin ice which fringed the north shore of Siberia. Had there
been any considerable space of clear water, the sea that would have arisen
would have annihilated such ice. It appears that when the wind blew from
the west, the Polar ice set down upon these islands, visited by Lieutenant
Anjou, and that the officer assisting him could not get round the land in that
direction. These occasional openings only show that the ice, yielding to an
enormous pressure of gales at sea, ocxjasionally moves off to a short distance
from the shore ; whilst the return of the ice to the shore, on the cessation of
the wind, effectually proves that the sea is covered with a mass, which yields
to the prevailing pressure of. the elements. From these remarkable facts, and
indeed from all the Polar voyages, the only rational conclusion is, that near the
land there are occasionally large sjjaces of open water, which, whenever they
may be followed up, will be fomid to terminate in ice, and to arrest the progress
of a vessel.
How dangerous it is to found an argument from appearances limited to the
narrow sphere commanded even by a mast-head view, may be gathered from the
many contradictions which have of late been given to the most promising appear-
E 2
