416 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
remote periods, or now in progress. Once let tlie two points of this
simple view be established, and we may extend the reasoning to
those periods of change in the surface of the globe when, after the
former sea-bottoms were raised up to constitute the mass of the
present continents, great lines of cliff were formed in given direc-
tions, facing, as it were, broad, low tracts, covered by marine
drift.
" How is it," said a native of the country to me, when I w^as
formerly travelling in Eussia, "that the Volga has always its right
bank lofty and precipitous, and its left bank low ? " The question
was startling ; but, in examining the rocks of the mightiest of
European streams, I found that it was true, though the course of
the stream varied more than the fourth of a circle in the two
main directions which it followed. Descending along the high or
right bank from Nijny Xovogorod to Kazan, I did, indeed, speculate
upon its having been the ancient shore of a sea which covered the
lower country to the north ; and if we adopt the law that the pre-
cipitous face was the side exposed to the waves, the prevalent
wind in that region, at a period antecedent to the creation of the
human race, must have proceeded from the north.
This phenomenon, of a precipitous face exposed to the north, con-
tinues from the confluence of the Oka and Volga on the west, to
Kazan on the east, a distance of upwards of 200 miles. Throughout
that space, headlands of red sandstone and marls stand out on the
right bank, opposed, in a striking manner, to the low country on
the left or northern shore. Again, whilst not a single northern
erratic block is to be found to the south of this portion of the Volga,
the low country, at a little distance to the north, is covered by those
great erratics, all of which, as geologists know, were transported
by ice-floes from the north, and dropped upon the bottom of a
former sea. We may, therefore, naturally infer, that this east and
west line of cliffs was formed during the icy period, when the gi-eat
northern currents prevailed, the waves of which lashed against the
hills extending from Nijny Novogorod by Tcheboksar and Sviask
to Kazan.
On the other hand, when the same great stream turns abruptly
to the S., and trends even to the S.S.W., a line of cliffs, still on the
right bank, ranges from the bold headland of Carboniferous Lime-
stone near Samara, and extends for about 550 miles to near Tzaritzin,
facing the E.S.E. and S.E. Now, it is to be noted that, in front
of this line of cliff, the low country on the opposite bank of the
