May 25, 1857.] PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 417
stream was unquestionably occupied, at a very modem date, by
a great internal sea, the desiccated shells of which, now lying on
the steppes,* are of the same species as those still living in the
Caspian.
In these dried-up bottoms of a vaster Caspian, or what I termed
" Aralo-Caspian," * the erratic blocks of the north are no longer to
be seen, and we are in a region where the right bank of the Yolga
has been fashioned into cliffs by the agency of winds and currents
proceeding from a point of the compass very different indeed from
that whence the winds and waves proceeded, when the cliffs ranging
from Nijny to Kazan were formed.
In thus cautiously reasoning from data which are absolutely in
our possession, and by extending the application of existing causes,
we may be capable of determining the direction of the prevailing
winds in different epochs of the earth's formation, and even in very
remote geological periods ; for many of the escarpments of ancient
stratified rocks have doubtless liad their prevalent direction of
cliffs formed by the breakers and atmospheric agency of by-gone
periods, f
Again, as we know that the ripples on the surface of the sands of
the present shores indicate the direction of the waves, so when a
sufficient number of observations shall have been made by Mr. Sorby
and others if upon the ripple-marks which have been preserved in
the successive surfaces of stone, we shall be enabled to infer the
direction in which the prevailing winds blew during each former
geological period !
But I am now, perhaps, realizing too demonstratively for all my
hearers, the truth of the incontrovertible axiom, that physical geo-
graphy and geology are inseparable scientific twins.
* See • Russia in Europe and the Ural Mountains,' p. 299, and the Geological
Map, on -which are noted the two points here contrasted, viz. — the southern
range of the northern erratic blocks and the western boundary of the Aralo-
Caspian Deposit.
+ See the account of the formation of the * Straits of Malvern,' in Murchison's
'Silurian System,' p. 530; and consult Professor Ramsaj's writings on this point
in his ' Memoir on the Denudation of England and Wales,' * Memoirs of the
Geological Survey of England and Wales,' vol. i. p. 333.
X See ' Edinburgh Phil. Mag.,' New Series, vol. iii., p. 112, 1856. Mr. Sorby
has particularly distinguished himself by his numerous observations on this
subject, and has also explained his views by ingeniously contrived instruments
of his own invention.
