418 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
Useful Inventions.
The Atlantic Telegraph. — At the liead of the list of useful inventions
in the course of application, must unquestionably be placed the
Great Atlantic Electric Telegraph.
The series of nautical observations recommended for statistical
purposes, in reference to the meteorology and physical geography
of the sea, by the Maritime Congress held in Brussels in 1853,
followed by the co-operation therein of the mercantile and govern-
mental navies of the countries there represented ; the subsequent
writings and investigations of Lieut. Maury, u.s.N., founded largely
upon those observations, and the soundings of Lieut. Berryman and
others in the Atlantic Ocean, have determined the path which
seems at present to be the only practicable one for successfully
submerging a telegraphic cable beneath that sea, and so uniting
Britain and America.
This path would appear to lie, in a straight line, nearly due east
and west, between 48° and 55° N. latitude from the coast of Ire-
land to that of Newfoundland, along the course of which the depth
of water is believed to be nowhere greater than 12,000 feet.
The depth descends in gradual inclinations to that maximum, free
from sudden chasms or subaqueous promontories ; and upon a plateau
at the bottom of the sea there is formed an agglomeration by the
constant current of the Gulf stream, which proves, under micro-
scopic observation, to be composed of the minute shells of Fora-
miniferaj and Diatomaceae, and which, it is believed, will, in time,
form a complete incrustation over the outer metal of the telegraphic
cable.
It is singular that in no other part of the Atlantic than across
this broad belt do conditions exist which, according to our present
knowledge, would justify an attempt involving so much scientific
interest, and so large a cost, as that of such a submergence of
telegraphic wires.
To the southward of the Great Bank of Newfoundland, the bottom
of the ocean suddenly recedes into vast and uncertain depths, due
to some great former depression of the earth's crust, in many places
unfathomed, which leave a channel for the Gulf-stream, along the
whole of its course to the northward of the Gulf of Mexico. These
depths continue, with intervals of abrupt and almost precipitous
