May 25, 1857.] ATLANTIC TELEGRAPPI. 419
breaks of elevation and depression, for lialf tlie distance eastward
from the seaboard of the United States towards the coast of Por-
tugal, and for as great a length in a north-easterly direction towards
the coasts of England and Ireland. They are succeeded, in a direc-
tion due east, by the region of the Azores, where submarine
volcanic action is constant, and where, owing to the deep soundings
inshore and the absence of suitable bays or coasts in those islands,
the secure landing and subsequent maintenance of the telegraphic
cable would be very difficult and problematical.
With regard to the distance, it may be mentioned that a line
from the nearest j)oint on the coast of the United States, if taken
direct, without touching at the Azores, would consume nearly 4000
miles of cable, and absorb considerably more than half a million of
capital, and, that when laid, it would, in all probability, be soon
abraded and destroyed, owing to the many and deep valleys it
would necessarily have to bridge over along its course ; while its
great length would increase the difficulties and delay experienced
in transmitting a current of electricity through very long circuits.
Moreover, if carried by way of the Azores, using one of the islands
as a relay station, the physical inequalities of the bed of the ocean
would in no way be lessened in the western part of that route, and
it would have the disadvantage of passing over a broader sub-
marine volcanic region.
North oi the coast of Newfoundland and Labrador, great diffi-
culties also (obviously present themselves. Vast masses of floating
ice would, at all times, render the operation of laying a cable a
most difficult, if not an impossible, undertaking, and even if landed, it
would be liable to perpetual abrasion. The long and dreary tract
of inhospitable country that would have to be traversed by land-
wires, to complete its connection with the civilised portions of the
Amencan continent, would alone be sufficient to prevent its adoption.
Th3se then are the considerations which led to the adoption of
the Dute for laying the telegraphic wires across the Atlantic.
Wd now come to the means by which the electric current is to be
traiBmitted. It is quite obvious that the great bulk and enormous
we^ht of all previously manufactured submarine cables would pre-
c^ide their use for a distance so great as that to which, it is hoped,
tie Atlantic Company are about to extend a successful operation.
i form of cable had therefore to be devised, which should combine
A maximum of strength with a minimum of weight, great flexibility
with sufficient rigidity to allow of its l>eing laid in a straight line,
