May 25, 1857.] FRANCE— SPAIN. 423
of all tracts, coasts, and bays to whicli the influence of France
extends.
Through the obliging communication of Eear-Admiral Mathieu,
the Director of the Charts and Plans of the Imperial Navy, a cata-
logue has been transmitted to us of all the works of that nature
which have been published, or are in the course of execution, during
the years 1856-57. Referring you to this list which will be pub-
lished in the Appendix to our Volume, I may now simply state,
that it comprises four charts of the rivers Gironde, Loire, and
Seine, in France ; seven of the coasts of Italy, from Genoa to the
Tiber ; three of the Black Sea and environs, one of which is a
detailed plan of the Bosphorus, in three sheets ; and no less than
fifteen charts and plans relating to various parts of the Mediter-
ranean, both on the African and Spanish shores, even up to Ceuta,
Algesiras, and the Straits of Gibraltar. In the sequel, and in
speaking of the absence of good maps of Southern Italy, it will
appear that in her occupation of the Papal States, France has
effectually supplied that desideratum.
If we turn to the far west, we perceive that our active allies
have been vigorously surveying the coasts of that central region
of America which now justly occupies public attention, and that
Haiti, Bahia, and New Grenada have also come in for their share
of exploration ; whilst of Newfoundland, not less than ten plans of
bays, havens, and islands have been completed. From Iceland on
the north to China and New Caledonia on the south-east, we have
numerous examples of that zeal and precision of geographical
survey which has characterized the French geographers from the
days of d'Anville and Cassini.
To five new plans of the ports and bays of New Caledonia, a chart
of the Archipelago of Pomatou, and six charts and plans of portions
of the coast of China, are to be added numerous works included
under the head of "Nautical Instructions," which are of great
value to all seamen. In the present list we meet with Illustrations
of the Sea of Azov, Nautical Description of the North Coast of
Morocco, Instructions for entering the Port of Alexandria, Manual
of the Navigation of La Plata, Description of Passages between
Lu^on and the Main Islands of Japan, together with General Con-
siderations on the Pacific, &c.
Spain. — This ancient kingdom, so renowned in history, has hitherto
remained without a Trigonometrical Survey, though its surface is,
