424 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS—EUROPE. [May 25, 1857.
perhaps, more diversij&ed and offers more attractions to the phy-
sical geographer than any area of similar extent in Enrope. The
Spanish Government is now, however, removing this opprobrium,
through the agency of a commission composed of officers of the
Engineers, Artillery, Staff, and Navy.
In 1854 the preparatory works were commenced for laying down
the Trigonometrical Survey of Spain. The principal base line was
measured on the plain near Madridejos, in the province of Toledo,
and on the road to Andalusia, about 100 kilometres from Madrid.
Its length is 1.4,480 metres. The first reconnaissances for several
systems of triangles were made in the same year 1854, and in 1855
and 1856. One of these follows the direction of the meridian of
Madrid, near which the primary base line is situated, and ends
northwards in the neighbourhood of Motril, resting on the great
mountain range the Sierra Nevada, and comprising in its network
the towns of Ciudad-Eeal, Jaen, and Granada. Towards the north
it is prolonged to Santander, including Segovia and Burgos. This
chain is extended eastward, following the coast till it joins that of
the triangles of the French Etat-Major on the Pyrenees, at the
stations of Biarritz and Baigorry. This portion comprises the
capitals of Bilboa and San Sebastian.
Another series is extended in the direction of the parallel of
Madrid, and runs eastwards to the Mediterranean, resting on several
points of the French triangulation made by Mechain and Delambre,
and subsequently by Biot and Arago, for the prolongation of the
meridian of Dunkirk, and taking in the chief towns of Teruel and
Castellon de la Plana. Towards the west, this series passes by
x\vila, and for the most part following the direction of the Sierra de
los Gredos, terminating in the interior of Portugal, on stations of
the triangulation already made in that kingdom.
Another secondary series, leaving the last mentioned, has a north-
ward course, terminating in the Cape Di Peiias, taking in Salamanca,
Zamora, Leon, and Oviedo, all capitals of provinces. This chain is
intersected perpendicularly by another which commences from that
of the meridian of Madrid, to the south of Burgos, and runs
westward, taking in Palencia, and following nearly the northern
boundary of Portugal, until it reaches the sea near Vigo.
Another secondary chain of triangles has been similarly pro-
jected, which rests on that of the parallel of Madrid eastward, and
stretches northward to Pampeluna, to connect itself with the French
triangulation of the Pyrenees, passing by the Moncayo and between
