May 25, 1857.] SPAIN— NEW SURVEYS. 425
Saragossa and Soria. This chain has a branch which runs westward
between the towns of Soria and Logroiio.
In the early part of this year (1857) the instruments arrived for
the definitive measurement of the fundamental base line, which
will probably be effected immediately. Of late years, the Corps
of Engineers has continued the survey of the fortifications and their
environs with great minuteness and precision, whilst the Etat-
Major has executed military reconnaissances of the principal lines
of communication and of the battle-fields of Spain. The works
carried out by the engineers of " Fonts et Chaussees " and other
persons concerned in projecting roads, and especially railroads,
have produced some interesting geographical details, especially
with reference to the inequalities of the surface.
The commission formed for making the geological map of the
Province of Madrid has zealously continued its labours in it and
in the surrounding districts. Some of its Members, moreover,
have made some interesting reconnaissances and surveys in the
mountains of the provinces of Palencia, Santander, and Leon,
which will be continued throughout the length of that great
mountain range.
In the course of 1856 our correspondent Colonel Coello published
maps of Almeria, Orense, and Ponteviedra, and. the supplements of
Leon, Cageres, and Badajoz. The engraving of the maps of other
provinces, by the same accomplished geographer, is far advanced,
and in 1857 the remaining reconnaissances may, it is hoped, be
finished.
Some memoirs and articles bearing upon the geography of Spain
have also been published, both in separate papers and in the
scientific journals, the 'Eevista Minera,' the 'Memorial de In-
genieros,' &c.
M. A. de Linera has completed a small work upon the Sierra
Nevada. M. Eojas Clemente had, half a century ago, fixed the
height of the peak of Mulahacen at 3555 metres, an altitude which
has been adopted by the Bureau des Longitudes of Paris. From
new measurements it appears that this peak is only 3399 metres
high ; and hence the peak of Nethou, in the mountains of Venasque,
in the Pyrenees, and near the French frontier (3405 metres), would
seem to be the highest point in Spain.
Between the Pyrenees and the Sierra Nevada there are three
other very considerable mountain groups. 1st. The Sierra de los
Credos, the highest peak of which, or Plaza de Almanzor, reaches to
2630 metres, according to the trigonometrical measurements of M.
