426 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS— EUROPE. [May 25,1857.
Subercase. 2nd. The Torre de Cerredo, one of tlie celebrated
* Picos de Europa * between the Astiirias and Leon. According to
the observations of M. Casiano de Prado the monntain is 2668
metres high, and is composed of Carboniferous Limestone. 3rd.
La Sierra Sagra de Huescar, on the borders of Andalusia and the
kingdom of Murcia. According to the observations of MM. de
Vemeuil and CoUomb, * this lofty mountain (2400 metres) is com-
posed of Jurassic Limestone.
That indefatigable explorer and sound geologist, M. Casiano de
Prado, aware that he could not adequately express those geological
discoveries which he is continually making in his native land, if
unprovided with good geographical data, has himself surveyed the
province of Palencia, of which, in the course of the year, a map
will be published exhibiting all the geological as well as geogra-
phical features of that interesting tract. M. Casiano is also con-
tinuing his researches in a more southern region, and is preparing
a map of the province of Leon.
M. Vezean, a young student of Montpellier, has, it appears, pub-
lished a geological map of the environs of Barcelona, the data of
which are spoken of favourably by M. de Yerneuil, as having been
laid down on a local survey, which contains many corrections of
pre-existing maps.
I cannot conclude this notice of the progress of geography in the
Peninsula, without reminding you of the great value of the researches
of my dear friend and old companion in Eussia, Sweden, and
Germany, M. Edouard de Yerneuil, one of the most distinguished
members of the French Institute. t During several consecutive
years this eminent geologist and paleeontologist has so laboured,
entirely at his own cost and unaided by any government, that he
has not only throvm a new light upon the internal structure of
large regions of Spain, but has, by careful barometrical measure-
ments, determined the heights of many of the most lofty mountains,
and of localities equally important to the geographer and naturalist
as to the geologist, all of which were previously unknown.
Switzerland. — The very able notices on the progress of Swiss
geography, which have been received by the Secretary from our
* See Tableaux Orograpliiques par MM. de Vemeuil, E. Collonib, et de Loriere,
Bull. Soc. Geol. de France, 1854, and Comptes Rendus, torn. xl. 1855.
t The account of the progress of geography in Spain I owe to M. de Yerneuil,
who obtained the details of the Government Surveys from Colonel Coello, whose
maps, above alluded to, are to be added to the great statistical work of M. Madoz.
