May 25, 1857.] ITALY— ROME. 427
distinguished correspondents Cliaix and Ziegier, will be noticed in
an early publication, and reviewed at the next Anniversary.
Italy. — The most important contributions to geography during the
past year have been the continued publications of the great Govern-
ment Surveys in Piedmont and Central Italy.* The Piedmontese
survey, on a scale of -go^ooj is nearly completed, and upwards of
forty sheets have been already given to the public.
My predecessors in this Chair and myself have had occasion to
allude to the Austrian Survey of Central Italy, perhaps the most
important work of the kind connected with Italian topography. I
am happy to announce that this great work is now completed —
the last sheets embracing the mountainous region of the Marcii,
Hernici, Volscii, and Sabines, on the Eoman and Neapolitan
frontier. The Carta Topografica dell' Italia Centrale, in fifty-two
sheets, embraces the whole of the Tuscan and Eoman States, on a
scale of -e-B-uuirj ^^^ forms a suite to the elaborate surveys of the
Lombardo-Venetian kingdom, and of the Duchies of Modena, Massa,
Carrara, Parma, and Piacenza, published some years before by the
same Government. A reduction of the Italia Centrale, in four sheets,
is now in progress at Vienna.
Rome, — The wish so long felt by every antiquary, geographer,
and geologist, to possess a good map of the environs of Pome, has
been at length satisfied by the publication of the elaborate survey, un-
dertaken by the officers attached to the French Army of Occupation,
and of the last sheets of the Austrian map of Central Italy. The
French map, in four large sheets, has just been completed, and is in
every respect worthy of the Depot de la Guerre, from which it has
been issued. The scale is the same as that of the great Trigono-
metrical Map of France, -g-nHo > i* embraces all the Eoman territory
between the parallels of 41° 30' and 42° 20', and as far east as the
meridian of 12° 55' east of Greenwich, consequently the most in-
teresting parts of Southern Etruria, of the Sabine territory, and of
Latium, in the vicinity of the capital of the Eoman world. The topo-
graphical details are beautifully laid down ; those of the volcanic
group of the Alban range are in this respect remarkable. Two advan-
tages of the French Survey over the Austrian, consist in having the
heights of the principal localities marked, and their ancient names
annexed. The Eoman Government is now preparing a map of the
* For these details respecting the geography of Italy, T am indebted to my
gifted friend Mr. Pentland.
