428 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS— EUROPE. [May 25,1857.
environs of Rome, nearly upon the same scale^ajs the French Survey,
upon which will be laid down the principal estates of the great
landowners ; and M. Rosa, a very laborious topographer, who has
already surveyed in great detail many of the most interesting
districts around the Eternal City, has just completed a very beau-
tiful map of the Alban hills, on the eve of publication by the Roman
Topographical Office (Za Direzzione del Censo).
In the posthumous work of the late eminent Antiquary, Architect,
and Topographer, Commander Canina, are contained several maps
and plans of considerable interest in a geographical point of view,
amongst which the revised edition of his great map, in six sheets,
of the Campagna of Rome, of the Upper Valley of the Anio, with
detailed plans of the most remarkable ancient towns and classical
sites of the Alban Lakes, and the ancient ports of Centumcellae,
Portus Trajani, Ostia, Antium, &c. &c. Connected with our pur-
suits may be mentioned the detailed statistics of the Roman States^
(Statistica della Popolazione dello Stato Pontijicd), just published by the
Papal Government.
Naples. — I am not aware that any progress has been made by the
Government of this country in the great Survey of the kingdom,
inaugurated by our late Associate, General Visconti.
The French Depot de la Marine, having obtained the consent of
the King of Naples to prolong its hydrographic survey of the West
Coasts of Italy, beyond the Neapolitan frontier, M. Darondeau has
been able, during the past year, to complete it as far south, and
including the Bay of Naples, the Ponza Islands, &c. This, with
the survey of the Roman Coast, is terminated, as my friend
Mr. Pcntland tells me, and will form a worthy complement to the
great survey of the coasts of Italy, commenced in 1841, and which
extends from the mouth of the Var to the Island of Capri. M.
Darondeau is now engaged in rectifying the charts of the Lipari
Islands, in the position of some of which errors of importance have
recently been pointed out.
Island of Sardinia. — General A. della Marmora has completed his
labours on the Physical Geography and Geology of this interesting
island, by publishing the last volume of his great work, containing
geology and descriptions of the fossils, by the eminent palaeontologist,
Professor Meneghini, of Pisa. As General Alberto della Marmora
(brother of the Sardinian commander-in-chief in the Crimea) has
devoted the best years of his life to the accomplishment of this ar-
