May 25, 1857.] GERMANY. 429
duous task, I have sincere pleasure iu recording my hearty approval
of a work, in which he has united the powers of a skilful physical
geographer with those of an indefatigable geologist.
Germany.
The progress of geographical science is now so well promulgated
through Germany by the ' Mittheilungen ' of Dr. Petermann, that
it is unnecessary I should do more than call attention to the value
of this methodical and well-illustrated monthly Periodical. In it
are to be found accounts not only of what is written or recprded in
the Geographical Societies of Berlin, Vienna, and other cities,
under the guidance of a Humboldt, a Eitter, and a Haidinger,
but also reports of descriptions of newly-explored countries in
various distant regions, accompanied by well-executed maps.
Aware that a certain amount of discontent has sometimes been
expressed, at the appearance for the first time in this German
work of the voyages and travels of individuals who have been, or
are in the pay and service of Britain, I would beg my associates to
consider, how natural is the feeling of any foreign traveller en-
gaged in the British service, to wish to see the outline of his
researches first made known in his native land, and how his coun-
trymen on their part should feel a just pride whether in perusing
or in publishing the writings sent home to them in their vernacular
freshness from remote comers of the earth, with which they are
necessarily less familiar than the people of a maritime country like
our own.
Whilst then there have occurred examples of the publication of
the outline of travels of English agents for the first time in German,
which might have been previously noted in the Proceedings of our
Society, as coming from the Secretaries of State who are our Asso-
ciates, and who usually send to us their earliest communications
respecting foreign travels, I would earnestly deprecate anything
approaching to a feeling of uneasiness upon this subject.
Contented with the reflection, that knowledge cannot be too
widely diffused, let us hope that our German friends, clearly recog-
nizing and honouring the British channels through which their
information is obtained, will always work harmoniously and in
unison with us. Banishing therefore all jealousy, and admiring
the perseverance and skill of such contemporaries, I am bound in
fairness to say, that the * Mittheilungen ' is exercising a powerful and
salutary influence on the progress of our science ; and as the spi-
2 M
