430 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS-EUROPE. [May 25, 1857.
rited proprietor of this Periodical, M. Justus Perthes of Gotha, has
spared no expense in bringing out the work in an attractive form,
so I rejoice to hear that its sale is becoming very large — upwaids,
as I am told, of 3000 copies being in monthly circulation.
The advancement of our science in Prussia has, I am sorry to
say, received a serious check in the recent decease of Dr. Gum-
precht, the Editor of the ' Monats-Berichte ' of the Geographical
Society of Berlin, who, after successfully prosecuting some branches
of geology, had devoted himself with great energy to the extension of
our acquaintance with the geography of Southern Africa. But what
is most deeply to be regretted is, that he was suddenly carried off
when engaged in a great and important work on the geography of
Germany, a subject, on which I hope, through the assistance of my
friend M. Bitter, to be better enabled to speak at our next Anni-
versary.
In this brief and very imperfect notice of the progress of geo-
graphy in Northern and Central Germany, I have great pleasure in
specially acknowledging the accession to our collection of many
valuable maps publishe'd by the Bavarian Government, which have
been communicated to us through His Excellency Baron de Cetto.
Of the distinguished travellers Schlagintweit it is my province
to speak in a notice of Asiatic discoveries.
Austria. — Endowed with various noble establishments for the
advancement of science, possessing many good geographers, and
publishing most admirable maps of the different parts of her
empire, Austria was without a Geographical Society until the 21st
of September of last year. It was then that my valued friend
William Haidinger, long known as an eminent mineralogist and geo-
logist, and much esteemed by his contemporaries in every land as
well as in his own, uniting with a few zealous friends, and obtain-
ing the consent and protection of the Government, established the
Imperial Geographical Society of Vienna. To a great extent this
body, like that of St. Petersburg, is founded on the model of our
own Society, though the regulations and interior management ne-
cessarily vary with the different form of the Government of the
country.
In speaking of the Proceedings of this Society, I cannot avoid
specially alluding to one point of the proceedings of our Aus-
trian friends ; namely, the recent departure of the Imperial frigate
the Novara on a voyage of scientific exploration round the
world. When this expedition was decided upon, and a number
