May 25, 1857.] RUSSIA. 431
of able men were chosen, to form its scientific staff, the Presi-
dent of the Imperial Geographical Society having applied to me,
and explained its object, I had real gratification in writing letters of
introduction to all the authorities, with whom I was acquainted, at
the places which this frigate might visit. Admirably organised, the
expedition has enjoyed the great advantage of having had its officers
furnished (as M. Haidinger informs me) with the minutest instruc-
tions of the venerable Humboldt, whether upon the magnetic
equator, the magnetic curves in the different oceans, the lines of no
deviation and equal intensity, or on cold and warm currents, parti-
cularly those along the Peruvian coast, and on the tropical East and
West counter-currents. The great traveller has also enjoined the
cutting of marks on the rocks, to register the actual mean level of
the sea, the same practice which he had formerly recommended
for adoption on the shores of the Caspian ; and he has especially
urged the collection of specimens from the active volcanos of South
America, which he has enumerated seriatim, with a view to a correct
classification of such igneous products, which he believes will be
found to exhibit an arrangement in separate linear masses.
If I may judge of Dr. Scherzer and the other gentlemen who ac-
company him by the encouraging example of his associate Dr. Ploch-
stetter, the geologist, who visited this country to obtain from General
Sabine information and instruction in making magnetical observ-
ations, I can have no hesitation in saying that this first effort of
Austria to circumnavigate the globe will produce a harvest worthy
of that ancient empire, and will reflect the highest credit on the
new-born Geographical Society of Yienna.
Russia. — With the return of peace, which has happily taken place
since our last Anniversary, it is most gratifying to one who has
been so long connected with the science of Russia as myself, and
who has been so heartily welcomed in that Empire by all persons,
from the Emperor to the peasant, to be enabled to recur to the
geographical labours of those old allies of our country, to whom I
am naturally much attached.
Whilst the late war impeded all scientific communication with
the countries of the West, Eussia was steadily advancing re-
searches of the highest importance to physical geography in her
distant and slightly known territories, and particularly on the north
and east. The great expedition to the northern part of the Ural
Mountains, under the conduct of Colonel Ploffmann, had indeed
obtained, before the war, the active support of the Imperial Geo-
2 M 2
