432 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS— EUROPE. [Mat 25, 1857.
graphical Society, and of its President tlie Grand Duke Constan-
tino.
The second volume of the work descriptive of this long and labo-
rious enterprise has recently been published; the first part, by
Krusenstern, having already been made known to geographers.
This second volume specially relates to the * Pae-Khoe,' or Eocky
Mountains, and has completely satisfied the expectation of natura-
lists, physicists, and geologists. The historical and geological por-
tion by Hoffmann ; the classification and description of the fossil
organic remains by Count A. von Keyserling, my distinguished
coadjutor in earlier days; and the descriptions of the minerals
by Gustaf Eose ; of the animals by my colleague of the Imperial
Academy, Brandt, and of the flora by Euprecht, together with
meteorological, physical, and hypsometrical observations, are all
of a high order of merit. The exploring parties examined the prin-
cipal chain of the Ural, north of Petropaulovsk, from the sources of
the river Petchora up to the highest northern peak (6Si^ n. lat. and
66^° E. long.), which, hitherto nameless, had been termed by this ex-
pedition Konstantinov Kamen, in honour of their geographical presi-
dent, his Imperial Highness the Grand Duke Constantino. West-
ward from this point runs another mountainous ridge, the Pae-Khoe,
continuing in a w.n.w. direction, and running parallel to the northern
coast as far as Yaigats Strait. The highest point of it is the Pue-
daia, and the geological structure proves that the Pae-Khoe is not, as
hitherto supposed, a continuation of the Ural.
The average height of the northern Ural is about 3000 (the Toll
Poss " and Sablja are above 5000) feet. Patches only of snow "are
visible on some mountains, but no lasting covering of it is seen at
68° N. lat. ; although, as Leopold von Buch remarks, snow is found
in Norway at 67°, and at a height of 3800 feet only. The
volumes in which these important explorations are described, are
characterized by a minuteness of detail, on all branches of science
within the scope of the undertaking, which entitles the work to
rank as one of the most valuable scientific publications that Eussia
has ever produced. The accompanying map is of great use to
practical geographers, and a marked addition to the pre-existing
geography of Europe.
The efforts of the Imperial Geographical Society to diffuse an
adequate acquaintance with our science throughout the interior of
Eussia have been most commendable. Thus, this body not only
publishes volumes and bulletins like our own, but also translates
