May 25, 1857.] RUSSIA. 433
into Russian, useful standard works, including those of the cele-
brated Carl Eitter, and brings out catalogues of the geographical
maps of Russia, as well as reviews of geographical, statistical, and
ethnographical labours. Even the commerce of the interior comes
within the scope of our vigilant rivals, whose Society was founded
on the model of our own.
The most extensive scientific exploration which the Society has
ever undertaken, is one which is still in progress, or that of Eastern
Siberia. Its object is to examine and determine, by astronomical
and trigonometrical observations, the geographical features of the
vast region between the Lena and the Vitima, and also of the south-
eastern tracts beyond the Lake Baikal. The chief astronomer,
M. Schwartz, has under his direction MM. Oussoltzoif and Sminia-
guine, and is accompanied by the artist and academician Meyer, and
by M. Eadde the naturalist.
The results of the first year's labours are given in the ' Compte
Eendu ' of 1855, edited by M. Lamansky, and there can be no
doubt that geographers will soon possess not only a correct deli-
neation of these remote regions, but also striking and characteristic
sketches of the scenery of all the border frontier regions of Siberia
—a map of the river Amur having been already published.
Among the great feats of our contemporaries, I leam that MM.
Semenoif and Wasiljin have made known the existence of an
extinct volcano near Mergen, in Manchuria, which was in activity
in the year 1721 ; and that the mountain of Demavend has been
ascended by M. Khanikoff.
In writing to me of these explorations, and of a remarkable expe-
dition to the Lake Issingul, my illustrious friend Humboldt thus
expresses himself: — ■" On the northern side of the great volcanic
chain of Thian-Chan, they have, it is true, discovered plutonic
rocks only, such as granite and gneiss, and along the edges of the great
bitter lake of Central Asia (Issingul) no trachytes (volcanic rocks)
have been seen ; but it must not be forgotten, that from the eastern
shore of that lake to the Yolcano Peschan (the most western of the
volcanos of the Thian-Chan, or Celestial Mountains) the distance,
in a straight line, is not less than 250 English miles."
In reference to Eastern Siberia and those vast tracts of Central
Asia which lie between the defined boundaries of the Eussian and
Chinese Empires, let me say that the English public will soon have
presented to them a work containing the most vivid and remarkable
