434 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1867.
pictorial representations from the pencil of their conntryman, Mr.
J. W. Atkinson.
Under the patronage of the Emperor Nicholas, Mr. Atkinson
devoted seven years of his life to the exploration and delineation of
a region, of the greater part of v^rhich no European had hitherto
obtained the slightest knowledge. Let my associates inspect the
large original water-colour landscapes by this artist, represent-
ing the marvellously tinted and wild rocky countries of Mongolia,
the great Steppes of the Khirgis and Chinese Tartary, including
views of even the snowy Thian-Ghan, of which reduced engrav-
ings will soon be published, and they will readily admit, that if
such sterile, igneous, rocky masses, should not afford gold or silver,
they can prove of little value to any civilized country.
Among the subjects treated by the Kussian geographers during
the year 1856, the mere enumeration of the following works, which
constitute a very few only of the communications to the Imperial
Society, will show the importance of its labours : — The Geography
of Vegetables, in four vols., by M. Beketoff ; the Fauna of the Mouth
of the river Amur,* by Schrenck ; a new Ethnographical Map of
Europe, by Koeppen; the Geographical and Ethnographical Ter-
minology of Central Asia, by Stchoukine ; Eeport of Lieutenant
Oussoltzoff of a Voyage to the Sources of the Eiver Vitima ; and an
account of those Volcanos of Central Asia, by Semenoff and Was-
iljin, to which allusion has just been made.
Asia Minor. — In February of this year, I had the pleasure of com-
municating to the Society a memoir, which I had received from
General Jochmus, relative to a proposed communication in Asia
Minor between the Lake of Sabanja, the Eiver Sakaria, and the Gulf
of Nicomedia. The utility of this project had been fully recognized
in ancient times, and the question has been several times agitated,
at widely different periods, up to the close of the last century. The
distance from the Eiver Sakaria to the Lake of Sabanja, between
which there already exists a natural communication by the little
river of Sari-der6, is not much more than three miles and a half ; and
from the Lake to the Gulf of Nicomedia it is scarcely nine miles,
whilst no difficulty exists on the score of difference of level. There
can be no doubt that such a system of canals, of sufficient width
* See p. 406 ante, for a notice of the hydrography of the river.
