May 25, 1857.] PERSIA. 435
and depth to admit of tlie passage of coasting-vessels and small
steam-boats, would open up valuable internal communication for
tbe ready supply to Constantinople of wood, cbarcoal, and the most
necessary articles of daily consumption.
Persia. — During the present session, whilst our country has been
temporarily engaged in hostilities with Persia, it has been our
good fortune to have present amongst us our distinguished medallist
Sir Henry Eawlinson, who has enlivened our meetings by his
agreeable and instructive lessons on the geography of countries
with which he has made himself so intimately acquainted. By
his extensive personal knowledge of the East, united with those
varied attainments in classical and Oriental literature, which have
made his name distinguished throughout the world, Sir Henry
has been enabled not only to communicate to us information of the
most important nature with respect to the modem geography of
Southern Persia, but also to illustrate that information from the
rarer resources of his own especial studies in ancient history; With
respect, moreover, to the recent movements of our army in Persia,
the strategical knowledge of Sir Henry has added a peculiar interest
to his observations on the country where they have taken place.
I cannot refrain from congratulating you, at the same time, on
having had the advantage of two such able and experienced com-
mentators on these interesting and important subjects as General
Monteith and Mr. Layard.
In summing up the results of the information we have thus
gained, I will here confine my remarks to that which is essentially
geographical. The most striking points to which our attention has
been drawn, in this respect, are the changes produced in the
channels of the rivers and on the coasts immediately proximate to
their embouchures. These important facts are worthy of especial
notice, both in a prospective and a retrospective sense, since they will
materially modify our calculations in the more doubtful reading of
early history, and our judgment as to calculations with respect to
the future condition of these coasts. The" agents of these changes
are clearly intelligible. There are but two winds which prevail in
the Persian Gulf — the north-west and the south-east, and, when the
latter sets in, the whole force of the Sea is brought to bear directly
against the current of the Euphrates, and hence an enormous
deposit of the alluvium brought down by the stream is effected,
thus barring up its mouth. This deposit, constantly on the in-
crease, progresses, by Sir Henry's calculation, at the rate of a mile
