Feb. 11, 1856.] ^ LANDOR. 31
26th parallel, in long. 116° and 115° E. ; and lastly, back to the coast
by way of the Murchison River.
The country traversed by Mr. Austin was very indifferent, and to
the westward it appeared to change for the worse.
The salt-water lake above-mentioned pours its waters at the time of
heavy rains through Lake Moore, discovered by Mr. Gregory, and
thence through Cow-cow-ing Lake into the Swan Eiver. But the
river beds to the north of the salt-water lake run towards the Murchison
River, and Mr. Austin thinks that his route led him near the N.W.
border of the basin which supplies the Murchison.
-Large numbers of natives come down these river beds at the latter
end of the dry season, and red kangaroos, emus, and turkeys were very
numerous in their neighbourhood.
3. Notes on the Probable Condition of the Interior of Australia. By
H. Landor.
If you take a map of Australia, the first most striking feature is the absence
of large rivers debouching on the coast, from the mouth of the Murray west-
wards and northwards imtil the Yictoria River is reached. I put out of
the question the rivers of Western Australia, all of which, except one, are
mere surface drains. I have myself headed the sources of every one of them,
and know that they only contain running water in the summer, and have
their origin within 200 miles of the coast. The exception is the Blackwood,
which falls into the sea near Cape Lewin : this river has communication with
a chain of shallow lakes, that extends towards the interior farther than my
knowledge.
Now on continuing our examination of the map, we find numerous rivers
on the northern coast and in the Gulf of Carpentaria. It is obvious that
the watershed that throws these streams to the north and north-west has
also another side which throws its waters towards the south and the interior.
Why then do they never reach the coast ? They spread themselves out on the
flat surface of the interior, which is very little above the level of the sea,
and they collect into large shallow lakes, which have outlets in very wet
seasons by Shark Bay, the Blackwood, Spencer Gulf, and Eyre Lake into the
Darling. What proof is there of this ? I will name many proofs. First I
have passed over many miles of country of a hard clay formation, with small
prickly scrub on it, and coarse marshy grass, and marks of water-drift all
over it, small weeds and sticks lodged high in the scrub, on banks a little
higher than the general level of the plains ; and this over many hundred
square miles of country, which must be one vast lake in the winter or wet
season. The absence of animals of the burrowing marsupials, and of reptiles
that always swarm on such plains when they are not subject to periodical floods.
The want of kangaroos, which dare not venture too far into the country, lest
the waters of winter overtake them. The marks of the abrasion of the surface
by the trickling stream as it gradually runs away, when the rains are over.
All these signs indicate a state of things that cannot be mistaken ; but there
are meteorological reasons that make this condition of the interior an absolute
certainty, and these are the conditions of the hot winds that prevail in every
