436 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS— ASIA. [May 25, 1857.
in the lapse of tliirty-five to forty years. An example of the effect
of this agency in by-gone times is adduced in the fact, that a great
city, of which the ruins are to be seen above Mohammerah, was an
island in the time of Sennacherib, named Billat, and can be shown
to have been still an island in the time of Alexander. At the present
time it is sixty miles from the embouchure of the river, and a suc-
cession of cities can be traced upon the desiccated delta below it,
along the river, down to the sea.
A question of essential moment has also been explained by Eaw-
linson as to the frontier line between Turkey and Persia, — a point
upon which our maps have been greatly wanting in correctness.
The real line of frontier — as determined by the Commission of
Delimitation, appointed under the provisions of the Treaty of
Erzenim — comes down to Mohammerah, and then follows the
course of the Euphrates to the sea. It was agreed that the country
watered by the Euphrates belonged to Turkey, and the country
watered by the Karun to Persia ; but the question was, whether
Mohammerah was on the Euphrates or on the Karun. It was
decided that the place should be considered to belong to Persia, but
as according to Sir Henry's belief it is situated on the Eu-
phrates, this decision would seem to be contrary to geographical
accuracy.
Thibet. — Early in this year some extracts were read to the Society
from the memoir of a journey across the Kuen-luen from Ladak to
Khotan, communicated by Colonel Sykes from the brothers Schlag-
intweit, already so well known to geographers and naturalists by
their labours on the physical geography and geology of the Alps.
These accomplished gentlemen, who travel by the desire of the
King of Prussia, and at the suggestion of Baron Humboldt, have
been employed, under the patronage of the East India Company,
in the physical survey of the distant trans-Himalayan regions.
The extracts communicated to us, form a small portion only of the
information they have sent home, but from some brief allusions to
the groups of hot springs near the Kiook-Kiul Lake and the Valley
of the Nubra, we may feel assured that, when all their memoirs
are published, they will be found replete with curious observations
on many subjects ; and specially on those mineral springs to which
Humboldt long ago invited attention, as proofs that the Kuen-luen
was of volcanic origin.
The brothers Schlagintweit have laid down the entire orography
of Kemaun. M. Adolf Schlagintweit, after visiting the glaciers of
