May 25, 1857.] THIBET. 437
Pindari, was joined "by his brother Eobert; and they examined
together the glacier of Mihim, which surpasses in extent all those
of Switzerland. It is from 8 to 10 miles in length, and 3000 feet
broad. The mountains which surround this glacier consist of
crystalline schist, covered by fossiliferous strata of the Silurian
age. The two brothers have also measured the height of Nanda
Devi, an insulated peak surrounded by deep precipices, at the foot
of which is the glacier of Pachou.
But rather than attempt, on my own part, any sketch of what
these distinguished German travellers have accomplished, I will
here quote to you, from the pen of Humboldt himself,* a short
summary, which he has sent me, of their remarkable explorations.
" Hermann and Eobert Schlagintweit," says the Baron, " have had
the proud satisfaction of passing in August, 1856, the chain of
the Kuen-luen mountains, and of reaching Eltschi in the province
of Khotan. As I am vain enough to believe that my map of Central
Asia (the result of five months' labour, in bringing together the
detailed accounts of the Buddhist priests Fahian and Stenan-thiang,
with those of Marco Polo, Wood the explorer of the Pamir,
Burnes, Yigne, together with the excellent sources of information
supplied by Klaproth and Stanislas Julien) represents more faith-
fully the formation of the ground than the other maps in your pos-
session, the range of which beyond the Himalaya is mythologically
doubtful, I invite you to examine it before you read or rather try
to decipher these lines. A botanist of the highest merit, Dr.
Thomas Thomson, who, conjointly with my excellent friend Joseph
Hooker, published in 1855 the 'Flora Indica,' says in the Intro-
duction Statistique, p. 215, 'The chain of the Kuen-luen, where it
foims the northern boundary of Western Thibet (where Dr. Thomson
resided a considerable time), is as lofty as the Himalaya.' Its axis
has not been crossed by any European traveller^ but has been reached by
Dr. Thomson, who visited the Kara-korum pass, elevated 18,300 feet.
This testimony will show you the importance of the success of the
brothers Schlagintweit. On the morning of the day, on which they
crossed by the Kara-korum pass, they met a caravan coming from
Yarkand, and near the salt lake of Kiook-Kiul they found the hot
springs of Panamik and Tchanglung, with a Centigrade temperature
of 74° 2' and 78°, and on an immense plateau at altitudes of from
* For the letters of the brothers Schlagintweit, communicated by Baron von
Humboldt, see also the Berlin 'Zeitschrift der Allgemeiner Erdkunde' for 1856,
pp. 532, 551.
