438 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS— ASIA. [May 25, 1857.
16,800 to 18,000 feet, they had to endure a degree of cold at their
nightly bivouac of 11° 4' Cent, below freezing point. Fahian, at
the close of the 4th century, writing of Bushia south of Eltschi,
the capital of the province of Khotan, praises its high cultiva-
tion; its elevation being not more than 9200 feet. 'We were
at a day and a half s journey,' say the Schlagintweits, ' from the
northern part of the high chain of Kuen-luen. After leaving
Sumgal, we travelled for three days along the banks of the Kara-
gash, which gave us an opportunity of inspecting the famous quar-
ries of stone called Yaschem, which people come from a great
distance to visit. Between Kara-korum and the Valley of the Nubra
we measured several mountain peaks above 24,000 feet of absolute
elevation. The dip of the magnetic needle between July and
September is registered in j&gures.' The geological excursions
of Adolf and Eobert Schlagintweit in Eastern Thibet by Niti and
Gertope, to the glacier of Ibi Gamin, have also been very important.
The travellers reached it on the 19th of August, 1855, and trusting
to the corresponding observations in Agra, fixed the height they
attained on Ibi Gamin at 22,260 feet = 20,886 French feet. This
is not only higher than I reached at Chimborazo (18,096 French feet)
in 1802, and which Boussingault made (18,480 feet) in 1831, but
it is also higher than the summit of Chimborazo itself, which I
found by trigonometrical observation to be 20,100 French feet in
height. As the Schlagintweits were the first who reached the
top of Monte Eosa, they are accustomed to this kind of expedition.
A portion of their magnetic observations of the Himalaya has been
printed separately at Calcutta, and my respected friend General
Sabine will doubtless give them due credit for their assiduity. They
have also made some interesting and delicate observations on the
influence of great heights on the variation of the magnetic needle.
They will bring back to England some beautiful geological col-
lections, perhaps even in the course of this autumn ; for you are
aware that by the munificence of the East India Company and the
generous kindness of Colonel Sykes, who is a noble advocate of
every thing which appertains to the sciences, the brothers Schlagint-
weit have received every encouragement."
When I reflect that these brothers have penetrated farther into
Thibet and Tartary from the plains of India on the south, than
any other European, that their physical, geological, and geogra-
phical observations are of the highest value, and that they have
even made i^hotographic sketches at heights of 20,000 feet above
