May 25, 1857.] BORNEO. 439
the sea, I cannot but rejoice, that these Aleves of the great
traveller of the age, should have performed journeys, which have
elicited from that illustrious man, now in his eighty-seventh year,
the expression which I have read to you, reminding us of the best
days of the explorer of the Andes and Siberia.
Borneo, Burmah, and China.
Borneo. — Our Associate Mr. A. R. Wallace has supplied us with
some important corrections of the north-west portion of the map of
Borneo, derived from his observations in a journey up the Sadong
Eiver. From his account we gain valuable additions to our informa-
tion respecting the physical geography of that vast island, together
with some very interesting comparisons, bearing on the ethnological
similarity between some tribes of the Dyaks and the Indigenes of
the valley of the Amazon. Amid the uncertainty which hangs over
the history of the migrations of various branches of the human
family in remoter periods, these notices of distinct resemblance are
of especial moment ; and in the present instance the observations
of Mr. Wallace are confirmatory of the views of Dr. Latham and
others, who regard the Americans as Mongols who have emigrated
direct from Eastern Asia.
A further exploration of this important island has been set on
foot during the past year by Lieut. C. A. C. de Crespigny, r.n.
Great importance must be attached to the investigation of the
resources of this vast country, which is already known to be largely
productive of some of the choicest desiderata for the advancement
of civilisation. As a mineral country it is, according to Mr. John
Crawfurd, perhaps the richest in the East. Gold, coal, antimony,
iron, caoutchouc, and gutta-percha, have already been derived from
it in abundance ; and who shall say what further discoveries may
lie open to the search of a skilful explorer? The geographical
position of the island moreover, lying, as it does, in the direct
route between China and Australia, presents an additional stimulus
to the development of its unknown resources.
It is satisfactory to know that our Medallist, Eajah Brooke, has
been anxiously occupied in developing various branches of industry
within the range of his jurisdiction at Sarawak, among the most
important of which must be classed the opening of coal-mines ; and
it is indeed a matter of sincere congratulation that he should re-
cently have escaped from the imminent danger in which he was
placed by the late insurrection of the Chinese settlers.
