440 SIR EODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS— ASIA. [May 25, 1857.
Burmah. — "We are indebted to Captain Yule, of tlie Bengal En-
gineers, who had been sent by the Indian Government to Amaru-
pura as secretary to Major Arthur Phayre, for a most valuable
communication on the geography of Burmah, with an illustrative map
of that country. Captain Yule has compared and brought together
with great ability the various valuable surveys of several of his
precursors in different parts of this extensive field of operations. His
principal materials were a Survey of the new British Province of
Pegu, by Lieut. Williams of the Bengal Engineers, still in progress ;
a New Survey of the Province of Martaban, by Mr. Hobday; a
Survey of the Irawady to Ava, by Captain Eennie and Lieut. Heath-
cote of the Indian navy. Besides these data, Captain Yule con-
tributes his own sketch of part of the Aracan Yoma range and
its passes, and a rearrangement of the Chinese frontier and the
Laos States east of Burmah, as taken from the Eoute Surveys of
Dr. Richardson and Captain McLeod. A considerable error in the
longitude of the Irawady at Prome, and the higher parts of the
stream, as assigned in previous maps, is pointed out. This error,
which, in 1853, Captain Yule had indicated as probable, in a
Memoir on the Passes of the Yoma, has been confirmed by the
surveys since made. The geological portion of the work by Mr.
Oldham, the Superintendent of the Geological Survey of India,
affords much important information respecting the structure of the
country, the rocks, and their relations ; and renders the publication
additionally valuable by the observations it contains on the statis-
tics of the productions of the country, including certain mineral sub-
stances described by that good geologist. This work, which was
printed for limited circulation at Calcutta, by order of the Governor-
General, is now in the course of publication by the East India
Company, accompanied by a map, engraved by Mr. Arrowsmith ; and
Mr. John Crawfurd, who, from his acquaintance with the Burmese
empire, is most competent to express an opinion, has spoken of it
with marked approbation.
China. — Believing that our members would gladly receive in-
formation relating to China from so competent an authority, I induced
our distinguished member Sir John Davis to read at one of our
meetings a Paper of great value, and which many of you heard
with pleasure.* Certainly no living Englishman, and indeed no
living European, was so competent to such a task. He is among
* See Proceedings, No. IX.
