May 25, 1857.] AFRICA— BARTH. 441
the few of our countrymen who have acquired the difficult language
of China, and he long filled the highest offices which an English-
man can discharge in relation to that singular country. The fruits
of his literary labours have been several works, which have the rare
merit of being at once popular and scientific. As one of the most
important of these, his ' China and the Chinese,' is by far the best
account of the empire in any language, T am glad to find that a
third edition of it has just been published.
Africa.
The additions to our acquaintance with the interior of Africa
since the last anniversary, when my predecessor delivered the
Patron's Gold Medal to Dr. Earth, have been considerable. That
meritorious explorer of vast regions has since issued to the public
three volumes, which, recording his earlier wanderings, are to be
followed by two others, completing a woik which will doubtless
be considered the worthy termination of so many years of patient
research under great privations. The maps which accompany the
narrative have been executed by Mr. Petermann, from the careful
itineraries of Earth, the astronomical determinations by Yogel of
the positions of Murzuk, Kuka, and Zinder having formed the base.
Dr. Overweg's determinations of latitude have been made use of
as regards the route from Tripoli to Tintellust and the route to
Musgu ; and I learn from Dr. Earth that all these points will be
discussed at the close of the work. I reserve, therefore, my full
observations on the whole of the labours of the only Eritish traveller
who ever returned from Timbuctoo, until we have before us the
concluding description of his arduous journeys. In the mean time,
however, it may be truly said, that the volumes already published
contain much valuable information, and show that Dr. Earth was so
completely at home among the natives, with seven of whose lan-
guages he was familiar, and made such very diligent inquiries, that
the information thus gathered, is far more ample and minute than
that of his precursors ; the itineraries, which have been compiled
from hearsay evidence, being entitled to especial weight. It is
particularly worthy of notice that the tracts which this traveller ex-
plored to the south of Lake Chad were found to be level, and abound-
ing with lagoons, swamps, and long flooded tracts, analogous to those
which Livingstone found to the south of the Equator, whilst the
watershed between the affluents of Lake Chad and the river Benue,
would seem to be little more marked, than that between the Zam-
