442 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS— AFRICA. [May 25, 1857.
besi and Lake Ngami of S. Africa. So much is this the case, that
Barth suggests how boats may reach the lake in ascending from the
sea.*
Independently of the impediments which the climate and its
diseases offer to the research of Europeans, the other great obstacles
presented to the enterprise of Barth and his companions have not,
I apprehend, been sufficiently appreciated. All along the broad
zone stretching across Central Africa, between 11° and 5° of n. lat.,
there prevails more or less a continuous and merciless warfare be-
tween the Mahomedans and the Pagans, which presents the most
appalling checks to the traveller proceeding from the territory of
any Mahomedan prince to whom he may be accredited. For whilst
Livingstone has demonstrated the practicability of traversing vast
tracts of Southern Africa, occupied by people speaking various dialects
of the same language (none of them being Mahomedans), such facility
of intercourse is forbidden through the region north of the equator.
There, a solitary traveller, scantily supplied with means, has to
cross this belt by proceeding through hostile tribes engaged in san-
guinary warfare, and is at the mercy of every petty tribe and
barbarous chief whose district he has to traverse.
AVhilst in regard to Overweg, who, it appears, kept very few
notes, we have to regret that nearly all the important information
he had accumulated perished with him, I am bound to record that
Dr. Barth deserves all praise for making and preserving detailed
records, when struggling against depressing illnesses and great
poverty.
From what we know of the efforts made by himself and his asso-
ciate, it is, indeed, too manifest that the progress of discovery in
Africa, south of Lake Chad, can be only very slow and gradual.
Such, then, are the difficulties from which Barth has escaped, and
of which he is now rendering us a vivid and detailed account — such
is the country in which Vogel and his faithful attendant. Corporal
Maguire, were left. My predecessor has recorded in his last and
only Address, what progress Vogel had made after leaving Barth in
1854. Foiled in his attempt to reach Adamawa, the route between
Hamarrawa and Yole being occupied by warlike bodies. Dr. Vogel
had already determined by astronomical observations the real site
of the important town of Yakoba, situated on a rocky plateau 2500
feet above the sea. Eetuming from Hamarrawa to Gombe, through
* Vol. iii. pp. 202, 221.
