May 25, 1857.] AFRICA— VOGEL. 443
mountains inhabited by Pagan tribes, he left Corporal Maguiro
there, and turned westward himself to determine the watershed be-
tween the so-called Yeou, the river which joins the lake Chad from
the west, and the smaller and eastern branches of the Kwara or Niger.
It was then that he discovered in a very hilly tract a northern or
important branch of the Benue, named Gongola, and proceeded as
far as Zuriga, the capital of Zeg-Zeg, the erroneous position of
which in previous maps he corrected. Proceeding to Bebeji, the
site of which he also fixed, he arrived at Kano, a place then afflicted
by cholera, and, returning to Yakoba, again descended into the
valley of the Benue at Zhibu of Dr. Baikie (Chunbum of Vogel).
Visiting several places on the river, he observed a large cetaceous
animal called Ayu, to which his attention had been directed by
Barth, and since named by Professor Owen Manatus Vogelii. Having
rejoined Maguire, who had suifered much in the mean time from
sickness, they returned in December, 1854, to their head-quarters
at Kuka. Procuring there fresh supplies he intended to proceed
to the E. and s.e., and started for Waday on the 1st of January
of last year, leaving Maguire in Kuka, since which time we have had
no reliable tidings of his progress.
Dr. Barth suspects, however, that he must have made some stay
at Loga or Logone, visited by both Denham and Barth, and also at
Bagirmi, where the latter traveller spent some months, as described
in the third volume of his work.
Whether the order ever reached Vogel to direct his steps towards
the Nile is unknown, but at all events it is certain that he was pro-
ceeding in that direction, when, as it is reported, he fell a sacrifice
to the orders of the savage King of Waday, such being the news
brought by the natives to Corporal Maguire,* and reported to the
Foreign Office by Colonel Hermann, H. M.'s Consul at Tripoli.
There is, indeed, too much reason to apprehend that this report
may prove true, seeing that the King of Waday, a violent and re-
vengeful man, may have taken the life of Vogel, because some of
his sable majesty's property had unfortunately been seized and con-
fiscated in the port of Bene-Ghazi to satisfy the claims of British
merchants, and at the very time when an English agent was travel-
ling in Waday.
On the other hand, knowing that both Dr. Barth himself and our
other African Medallists, Galton and Livingstone, were reported to
* Corporal Maguire is coming home with the observations and instruments.
