444 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS- AFRICA. [Mat 25, 1857.
be dead, and are now happily among us, I still entertain some hope,
that the able and accomplished young Vogel may have escaped with
rough treatment and detention only, and that he may return to re-
ceive the highest reward which this Society can offer for deter-
mining the true position of so many important sites of Central
Africa.
Renewed Expedition to the Niger.— Yvovn the explorations in Central
Africa, which have been progressing from the time of Mungo Park
to the present day, let us now turn to the consideration of the ex-
pedition which has just been sent out to explore those central
parts of Africa, watered by the Niger or Kwara * and its tributaries,
and which, recommended to the attention of H. M.'s Government
by the Eoyal Geographical Society and the British Association for
the Advancement of Science, is commanded by our associate, Dr.
Baikie, who so successfully led the party on the former occasion.
Our members will also be glad to hear that this officer is accom-
panied by the same intelligent surveyor, Mr. May, r.n., who was
his companion during the previous voyage up the Chadda or
Benue ; by Lieut. Glover, e.n., well acquainted with surveying
and astronomical observation ; by Assistant-Surgeon Davis, r.n.,
and by collectors of natural history specimens ; whilst it is expected
that the well-known Church Missionary, the Eev. Samuel Crowther,
may also join the expedition on the coast.
The vessel for ascending the rivers is the Day-Spring, an iron
screw steamer of 170 tons burthen, prepared by Mr. Macgregor
Laird, combining 30-horse power with less than 5 feet draught
of water, and arranged to carry three months' provisions and coals
for 20 days. The main objects of the expedition as contemplated by
the Earl of Clarendon, who has specially patronised and sanctioned
it, and as organized by the Admiralty, are to explore the river Niger
and its tributaries, to ascertain the natural productions and capa-
bilities of the countries through which they flow, to enter into
friendly relations with the native chiefs, to facilitate the return of
liberated Africans to their homes, and practically to show the
advantages of legitimate trade over the debasing and demoralising
traffic in slaves.
Ascending the Kwara to Eabbat, and leaving the steamer there,
the party will, in the first instance, proceed by land to visit Sakatu,
* Spelt Kwara by Barth and by the Admiralty ; Kwora by Baikie, and Quorra
by old travellers.
