May 25, 1857.] AFRICA— NIGER EXPEDITION. 445
where poor Clapperton died, and there present to the Mahomedan
Sultan, to whom they are accredited, a firman from the Porte. After
a short stay at Sakatu it is proposed that they should march
westerly to Isai on the Kwara, a populous town visited by Barth
in 1854, and thence descend the river by Busah in canoes and rejoin
the vessel at Eabbat, a tract which may, I apprehend, prove rich in
mineral contents. Now, whilst parts of this region have before
been traversed by the travellers Park, Clapperton, Lander, and
Barth, the first of whom was killed at Busah, the country is still
much too imperfectly known to be accurately mapped, though, as
we have just seen, Yogel has fixed the site of some adjacent places.
Still less are we acquainted with its mineral constitution.
As this expedition, well equipped and well found in provisions,
medicines, and presents for the natives, will consist of 12 Europeans
and 40 liberated black seamen, opportunities will be afforded of
dividing the force and of exploring regions on either bank of the
great river. Thus, the Government attaches great importance to
the ascertainment of a safe route from Lagos and Abeokuta
to Eabbat on the Niger, by which the liberated Africans can return
to their homes, and extend their commercial habits to the places of
their birth. During the period of the next year, when the river is
low and the heat great, the party is to seek high and healthy ground
near the confluence of the Benue or Chadda and the Kwara,
where it is understood that Mr. Macgregor Laird will establish a
commercial station.
When in the interior, however, the leader of the expedition is
specially charged to impress upon the natives that the British Go-
vernment is far from having any desire to establish colonies or
settlements which might give umbrage and provoke quarrels, but is
solely desirous of promoting such legitimate trade as, in enriching the
natives and our own merchants, may effectually check the slave-trade.
A second rainy season will be devoted to the exploration and
ascent of the Chadda or Benue, and, as the Day-Spring draws
less water than the Pleiad did, it is hoped she may reach a higher
point than was attained on the former occasion. It is possible that
the fertile region of Adamawa, on the one hand, and Hamarrawa, on
the other, may be explored, and even, if opportunity offers, that the
higher part of the Old Calabar river in a more westerly meridian
may be reached at some point above that to which Oldfield ascended
in a steamer in 1836.
Heartily must this Society wish success to such a well-planned
2n
