32 GKEGOKY. [Feb. 11, 1856.
colony in Australia. Now in whatever (Australian) colony * one may live (and
I have been in them all), the hot wind always comes from the interior ; that
is, in Western Australia it is an east wind, in New South Wales it is a west
wind, and in South Australia it is a north wind. Must not then the cause of
its temperature be sought in the interior ? The reason is that when the water
is evaporated from the surface of the interior, the powerful sun converts the
shallow winter lakes into parched and burning plains, which are to the traveller
like hot ovens. To Capt. Sturt they showed a temperature of 130° in the shade
of his tent. I have seen the thermometer at 120° in these plains for days
togetlier, and not falling ten degrees in the night. The air of the whole country
dances and glistens like a burning brickfield. The winds that pass over this
heated country, convey a temperature which is well called a hot wind, towards
whatever colony they may be blowing. Again, the very wind that is in the
summer so hot, is in the winter the coldest, (that is, the wind from the interior
is the coldest wind that blows in the winter,) and the reason is, that it then
passes over an immense evaporating surface ; the interior country being then
covered with shallow water, the air passing over it is cooled much below its
natural temperature, and arrives at the colony a cold wind. I believe this
reasoning to prove that the vast majority of the interior is as I have assumed
it to be, and that it never can be made available for habitation or for
commerce, excepting only on or about the dividing ridge or slight elevation
(for it can be no mountain) which gives origin to the northern rivers.
4. Progress of the North Australian Expedition. By A. C.
Gregory, Commander.
Communicated by the Colonial Office.
Victoria River, N.W. Australia, 24th September, 1855.
Gn the 12th of August the Expedition left Moreton Island, and on the 13th
entered the inner passage to Torres Straits. After a somewhat tedious passage
we reached Albany Island on the 26th, sighted Port Essington on the 1st
September, and cleared Clarence Strait at noon the following day ; but owing
to the great indraught of the deep indentations of the coast, the ' Monarch ' so
greatly deviated from the direct course, that at 10 p.m. she grounded on the
Northern reef in the entrance of Port Patterson, and with some difficulty the
* Tom Tough * was extricated from the reefs as she was following the bark.
Unfortunately this occurred at the time of high spring- tide, and it was not
till the 10th that endeavours to get the vessel afloat were successful.
The reef being dry at low water, we were enabled to examine the vessel ;
but she did not appear to have suffered any material injury except the loss of
about 30 feet of the false keel, nor did she make even so much w^ater, after
being got off the reef, as when at Moreton Bay.
On the same day that the ' Monarch ' was got afloat, we sailed for the
Victoria Kiver, but owing to strong tides an 1 calm weather the vessels sepa-
rated on the night of the 12th, and I arrived at Point Pearce in the schooner
on the 14th. Not finding the bark in Treachery Bay, I proceeded to Blunder
Bay, where we arrived the following evening. Finding both water and grass
scarce at this point, and the shore ill suited for landing the stock, I returned
to Treachery Bay on the 18th, and found the bark had been delayed for three
days off Cape Hay by a calm, which I had escaped in the schooner by keeping
within the influence of the land-winds.
* In North-Eastern Australia, which is still unsettled, Lcichhardt remarked the
absence of the hot winds from the interior. — Ed.
