446 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRES&- AFRICA. [May 25, 1857.
renewal of our intercourse witli the more civilised and Mahomedan
tracts of Central Africa, which, in addition to the acquirement of
important geographical and natural history knowledge, has in view
the object so dear to all philanthropists, of encouraging the natives
to exchange their natural productions for the manufactures of Europe,
and in abandoning their warlike predatory habits to take to the
pursuits of agriculture and commerce.
Having taken a deep interest in that former expedition, which,
under the command of the same meritorious officer, returned without
the loss of a man, I have on this occasion prepared instructions for
the geological examination of a region which I apprehend may be
found to contain much mineral wealth.
In fact, if the survey be completed in the manner devised, tho
whole western side of Central Africa will have been so traversed, as
to yield two important sections, which cannot fail to give us the
knowledge we desire. The Niger, or Kwara, flows in a gorge
across such thick ribs of rock as must surely enable the travellers to
read off a clear lesson ; whilst an excursion from the upper part of
tho Chadda to the sources of the Calabar on the one hand, and to
tho heights of Aed Hamarrawa on the other, will also afford an
instructive parallel traverse of no less importance.
Eejoicing that Mr. May, the Master, of the Eoyal Navy, who laid
down the soundings and defined the banks of the Chadda, should
have returned from Canton, where he has been serving, during the
capture of the forts under Admiral Sir Michael Seymour, to rejoin
his old companion Dr. Baikie, and confident that they will both of
them do all in their power to make geological observations, I must
express my regret that there should not have been some one person
in this expedition, whose special duty it was to ascertain the true
condition of the substrata. For, inasmuch as one great feature of tho
enterprise is the discovery of sources for future trade, so surely must
it be of paramount value to be made acquainted with sites of coal,
iron, copper, lead, and gold.
Hoping, however, that the zeal and ability of the explorers may
remedy the only deficiency which is observable in the project,
I cannot terminate the subject without reminding you of our deep
obligations to the Earl of Clarendon for his judicious and liberal
support of an exploration which, carried out as it will be by the
efficient orders of the Admiralty, must not only advance our favour-
ite science, but will also, I trust, prove a blessing to the natives,
and a boon to the commercial world.
