May 25, 1857.] AFRICA— THE NILE. 447
The White Nile, — M. Ferdinand de Lesseps has collected, during a
recent visit to Khartum, some information on the present state of
the several European settlements along the upper course of tho
White Nile.
It appears, from his account, that the missionary station of Don
Ignacio Knoblecher has attained considerable importance. It is
situated about lat. N. 4P 35', and is above the highest point reached
by M. d'Arnaud. A trading establishment has been formed by M.
de Malzao among the Djours, at 300 miles west of the river, and
between the 6th and 7th parallels of N. latitude, where he collects
ivory, and sends it down to the Nile on men's shoulders, the country
being too marshy to admit of the employment of beasts of burden.
It will be recollected that, in the Address of our late President, it
was mentioned that, according to the opinion of M. Brun Eollet, so
long a settler in these parts, the Misselad was entitled to be con-
sidered as the main branch of the Upper Nile ; but M. de Malzac
dissents from this opinion, and regards the Misselad as a tributary,
and not as the main river. The question must, therefore, remain
an open one, until we shall have received far more accurate hydro-
graphical data about these regions, than we now possess.
Nile Expedition. — I have to notice with regret the failure of an
expedition whose object was to explore the still mysterious sources
of the White Nile. Organised with method, it was liberally paid
for by the Viceroy of Egypt, and placed under the charge of the
Count Escayrac do Lauture, a French geographer, previously known
to us by his exploration of Soudan. But disunion and want of zeal
among many members of his party becoming painfully apparent,
that gentleman was unable to proceed beyond Cairo. In the mean
time, however, the flotilla was ordered on in advance, and placed
under the direction of our countryman Mr. Anthony Twyford, an
able and adventurous young seaman, who, overcoming all obstacles,
had the singular merit of carrying two steamers, upwards of 50
feet in length, and four sailing-boats, over the first, second, and
third cataracts, to beyond Dongola ! * Having laid in abundance of
cordage at Alexandria, and commanding, through a firman of the
Pasha, a vast number of the natives (at one time upwards of 3000
men), Mr. Twyford so skilfully applied his ropes to the projecting
* The flotilla was manned by sixty-six native soldiers and sailors, whilst
Dr. Ponchet, a physician, and Mr. Clauge, a photographer, were of the party.
The largest of the two steamers was left at Assouan.
2n2
