448 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRES&-AFRICA. [May 25, 1857.
rocks, and so energetically urged on the men, that he reached Don-
gola in ten weeks from Cairo.
When all the difficulties had been overcome, a messenger reached
Mr. Twyford, and, to his great annoyance, ordered him to return,
which he did, without loss.
lAvingstone's * JResearches. — Passing liow to South Africa, let us see
what immense strides have been made since our last Anniversary.
Our late President, then speaking of the previous achievements of
Livingstone, told us that the undaunted traveller was proceeding to
the East to reach the Indian Ocean at Quilimane. But how appre-
hensive were we that, after all his marvellous escapes, this extraor-
dinary man might still fall a victim to the climate in which so
many of our countrymen had succumbed ! Great, therefore, was
the rejoicing, when those letters arrived | in which he narrated his
passage from the interior low country, across the high grounds, and
along the gorges of the Zambesi, and the great falls of that river,
and announced his safe arrival at the Portuguese settlement of
Tete!
Still greater was our joy when he landed on his native shore to
receive that hearty welcome which was sure to attend a traveller
who, having accomplished such feats, brought us back so much
fresh knowledge respecting the interior and flanks of that part of
the great continent of which we were previously ignorant.
The outline of the travels of Livingstone is now so generally
known to the public, and has been so graphically presented by him-
self to various assemblies of his countrymen, that any rehearsal of
it on my part is wholly uncalled for ; the more so, as at the Special
Meeting we held on the 15th of December last, in honour of his
arrival, I offered those observations which were printed in your
Proceedings. Whilst the public is anxiously looking forward to
the publication of the details of these journeys, which I have
reason to believe will take place in about three months, I will briefly
advert to one or two leading features only of them.
The hypothesis I ventured to throw out in what I termed a
*' Comparative View of Africa in Primeval and Modern Times,"
when I presided over you in 1852, J that the central regions of
* Since liis return to England this traveller has changed the spelling of his
name, adopting the form used by his father, and adding the e to Livingston.
t Addressed to myself.
X Journal Royal Geog. Soc, vol. xxii., Prel. Discourse, p. cxxi.
