May 25, 1857.] SOUTH AFRICA— LIVINGSTONE. 449
Africa would be found to be a comparatively low, watery expanse,
tbe rivers issuing from wbich escaped to the east or to the west
through gorges or rents in the subtending higher chains, was proved
to demonstration by Livingstone, as respects that vast African river,
the Zambesi.
The observations of this great traveller afford also the proof
that several of the principal rivers of Africa south of the equator
have their sources in comparatively level tracts of no great altitude.
Just as the great rivers of Russia are separated at their sources by
water-partings of such slight altitude, that Peter the Great connected
these diverging streams by canals, so Dr. Livingstone has observed
analogous phenomena in the heart of Africa. The African case is,
indeed, still more remarkable. In this region Nature herself has
made the connecting canal ; for flat boats and canoes can pass north-
wards by the Dilolo river into the affluents of the Congo or Zaire
on the west, and into the Zambesi on the east.
These humid regions, particularly towards the west side of the
continent, are covered by lofty forest trees, abundance of ferns, mosses,
and other plants requiring much moisture. Hence the explorations
of Livingstone, opening out such new and unexpected data, induce
me to put a question for solution by physical geographers. Why
does it happen, that whilst moisture so prevails in lats. 10° to 15°
south of the equator, the same districts equally distant from that
line upon the north (as touched upon by Earth) should be arid and
comparatively dry ? After such positive data as those collected by
Livingstone, we have indeed no longer occasion to stretch the ima-
gination and suppose the existence of great snowy mountains from
which the waters of the Nile take their rise ; since we now see that
the Zambesi and the Congo are supplied from marshes at lower
levels than the chains through which those streams escape. The
simple fact is, that in Central Africa there are two copious rainy
seasons due to the periodical influence of the sun, the passage of
which is accompanied by copious torrents. By the first of these
rains the boggy lands become to a great degree saturated, but the
water not overflowing, finds no exit in the absence of an adequate
declivity. It is only when the whole spongeous mass becomes
supersaturated by the second rains, that the waters rising to a great
height, furnish the Zambesi with its annual flood.
In like manner the Nile may owe its annual flood to a similar
cause — a point which, can only be determined when our bold ex-
