May 25, 1857.] SOUTH AFRICA— LIVINGSTONE. 451
used is the most appropriate and truest eulogy which can be applied
to our Medallist.*
Having observed in the character of my friend Dr. Livingstone
a happy union of simplicity, patience, unruffled temper, and kind-
ness, with the quickest perception, and the most undaunted reso-
lution, I feel persuaded that, vast as have been his achievements,
he is still destined to confer great advantages upon South Africa
and his own country. His aim, when he returns to Quilimane and
Tete, in the spring of 1858, or the first period of the healthy
season, and after he has rejoined his old companions the Makololo,
who are anxiously waiting for him, will be to endeavour to establish
marts or stations beyond the Portuguese colony, to which the in-
habitants of the interior may bring their goods for sale, and where
they may interchange them for British produce. At these stations,
which will be in those flanking, high grounds of the African con-
tinent that he has described as perfect sanatoria, he will endeavour
to extend the growth of cotton, as well as to teach the natives how
to till their lands, taking out with him for these intents cotton-seed,
gins, ploughs, &c. He will further endeavour to bring to the English
market a vegetable called Buaze, wliich possesses so tough and fibrous
a tissue as to render it of great value even to the natives in their rude
manufactures. Specimens of this plant, which grows in profusion
on the north bank of the Zambesi, have been converted into a
substance that has been pronounced by a leading manufacturer to
be worth, when prepared, between fifty and sixty pounds per ton,
and applicable to all purposes for which flax is employed. In
this material, therefore, alone, to say nothing of indigo, cottonj-f
beeswax, ivory, and the ores of iron, with much good coal, we have
sufficient indication that no time should be lost in establishing a
regular intercourse with the natives of so prolific a region.
Thus, acting as the pioneer of civilisation, Dr. Livingstone will
first engage the good will of the natives through their love of barter,
and, having secured their confidence by honesty of purpose, he will
the more readily be able to lead them to adopt the truths of that
religion of which he is a minister, and of the value of which his
whole life is a practical illustration.
Fortunate is it for our country that we have in the Earl of
* See Proceedings, No. vii. p. 2G8.
t I learn with pleasure that great success has already attended the endeavours
of the philanthropists who have introduced the culture of cotton near Abeokuta,
in West Africa, and its preparation for export.
