452 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
Clarendon a Minister of Foreign Affairs, wlio not less than the noble
Premier has been the consistent and ■vigorons supporter of every
measure tending to root out the trade in slaves ; and impressed as
our Government is vdth the desire to sow those seeds of civilisation
among the natives, and probably realise the cheering prospect of a
great production of the raw material necessary for our manufactures
by the independent nations of Africa, let us hope that, whilst the
Niger or Kwara Expedition under Baikie, to which I have adverted,
is working towards that good end upon the West, the benevolent
and enterprising Livingstone, already so dear to the natives, maybe
sent back to reside among his friends the Makololo, as the " Agent of
the Queen of the people who love the Black Man."
AUSTEALIA.
Although there are grounds for believing that in the sixteenth
century the Portuguese descried lands which, from their position in
old MS. maps, must have been Australia, our own great navigator
Cook was really the first to discover, examine, and describe large
portions of the coast of this vast continent.*
Afterwards remaining for along time among the " terras reclusae "
of the world, this vast region, the interior of which proves to be a
worthless desert,f now offers to the world the glorious spectacle of
four great British colonies or separate governments on its eastern,
western, and southern shores, whilst it pours forth on the old
countries of Europe a shower of mineral wealth far exceeding in
amount anything hitherto recorded in the history of mankind.
Thirteen years have elapsed since, as your President, I dwelt at
some length upon an Australian topic, which seemed to me of para-
mount importance — the retention of Port Essington, and the esta-
blishment of other settlements in Northern Australia. Having lived
to re-occupy this Chair, I will revert to the same theme ; whilst I
crave your indulgence if I previously engage your thoughts for a
few moments on another Australian subject to which I have also
given some attention — the gold produce of those countries. J
* An ingenious paper or two have been written to show that the discoveries of
Cook may have been based upon a knowledge of those early documents^ but in a
forthcoming volume of the Hakluyt Society, our Associate, Mr. Major, will demon-
strate that such suggestions are entirely fallacious.
t See Award of the Patron's Medal, p. 367.
X For the first printed documents relating to Australian gold, see the following
Memoirs, viz. — Journal Royal Geographical Sodety, 1844, President's Address ;
Letter from myself to Sir C. Lemon, Transactions Roy. Geol. Soc. Cornwall,
1846 ; Letter to the Secretary for the Colonies, 1848; Report of the Nineteenth
