May 25, 1857.] AUSTRALIA— GOLD PEODUCE. 453
If New South Wales has exhibited a diminished supply from
most of those tracts which first gave forth their golden abundance,
and has only recently been enriched by a small additional quantity
derived from a part of Bathurst county, the great coast-chain,
bending to the west, and passing from the high level of the
Mount Kosciusko of Strzelecki to Victoria, has proved to be charged
in certain spots with an amount of gold quite unheard of in any other
part of the world.*
The extraordinary rise of the flourishing colony of Yictoria is the
necessary result of such a vast auriferous produce, and the simple
fact, that upwards of 125 tons of gold were sent to Britain in the
preceding year, exclusive of local use and exportation to other
countries, is so astounding, that a few years ago the mind would
have been incapable of measuring the effects which such an enormous
addition to the symbol of material wealth might produce upon the
destinies of the human race.
Without pretending to statistical acquirements, I formerly ven-
tured to contend that, as the scarcity of the precious metals through-
out vast portions of the civilized world had long been a growing
evil, and that the hoarding of a substance so easily hidden as gold
would continue, and even increase, in countries having unsettled
governments, so it seemed to me | that, great as the supply might
be, it would not be more than sufficient to meet the demand. The
dry river-beds of the old world had, in fact, to be filled up with the
golden stream ; and experience has now shown us how long it has
taken to fill them, and how inadequately they are yet supplied.
But then comes this question. If the present annual amount of
supply from Victoria and California should continue, must not a
great depreciation of the precious metal follow ? Now the answer
must be shaped in accordance with unquestionable geological and
statistical evidence. Judging from experience, all gold-veins in
the solid crust of the earth diminish and deteriorate downwards.
Meeting Brit. Assoc. Adv. of Science, 1849, &c., Trans, of Sections, p. 60;
Quarterly Review, vol. Ixxxvii. (1850), p. 429.
* The total produce of New South Wales in 1856 was 138,823 ozs., whilst the
returns from Melbourne for the same year give the enormous amount of
125 tons 6 cwt. 6 lbs., or a money value of upwards of 12 millions. My distin-
guished friend Sir Charles Nicholson, formerly Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives at Sydney, informs me that there can be no doubt that gold is surrep-
titiously disposed of to a considerable extent (by the Chinese especially) ; so that
the actual quantity of the precious metal produced is probably in great excess of
that specified in the official tables.
t Quarterly Review, supra.
