454 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [>Iay 25, 1857-
and can rarely be followed to any great depth except at a loss in
working them. Again, as the richest portions of gold ore have
been aggregated near the upper part of the original veinstones, so
the heaps of gravel or detritus resulting either from former powerful
abrasion or from the diurnal wear and tear of ages, and derived from
the surface of such gold-bearing roclvs, are, with rare exceptions,
the only materials from which gold has been or can be extracted to
great profit. These postulates, on which I have long insisted, in spite
of the opposition of theorists and schemers, have every year re-
ceived further confirmation, and seem, on the whole, to be so
well sustained as matters of fact, that the real problem we have
now to solve is. How much time will elapse before the gold of
Australia is finally riddled out of these heaps or basins, or extracted
from a few superficial veinstones ?
It would indeed be presumptuous in any one who had not closely
surveyed the rich auriferous tract of Victoria to pretend to answer this
question ; but I beg my associates to understand, that there is a wide
distinction between the measurable capacity of the contents of these
broken heaps, or rare thin veinstones in situ, and those imaginary
mountains with bowels of gold of the theorist, the very thought of
which has shaken the nerves of so many fundholders. For, it must be
remembered, that all the accumulations of broken golden materials,
or the great sources of supply, have well-defined bottoms. They are,
in fact, troughs filled in with gravel or shingle, the cubical contents
of which, when the country has been thoroughly surveyed, can be com-
puted ; and though it may never be possible to predicate the amount
of ore contained in all parts of such slopes or hollows, yet, judging
from the rate of excavation now going on, a good geologist like Mr.
Selwyn, who is conducting the survey in Victoria, may well be
able to give us approximate data as to the probable number of years
required to empty out the metalliferous fragments from all those
troughs or basins in which they have been detected.*
The other sources to which I have alluded, I learn from Mr. West-
garth, an intelligent resident of the colony, have however of late
been worked to some profit. These are the narrow veinstones of
quartz rock, two or three feet thick, which at the surface are rich in
* A certain amount of the gold of Melbourne, whether occurring in drift or finely-
levigated clay, is reached by sinking shafts through basaltic coulees, which have
evidently flowed in recent times, since they cover woody substances, including
cones which, though in a charred or brown-coal condition, have been recognized
by Mr. Robert Brown, as belonging to the remarkable Australian living genus, the
Banksia, which that great botanist was the first to find and describe.
