Feb. 11, 1856.] GKEGOKY. WILSON. 33
The water and forage for the stock on board the bark* having been consumed,
and the condition of the horses rendering it imperative that they should be
disembarked without delay^ I deemed it advisable to land the horses at Point
Pearce as the only means of saving the majority of them.
The strength of the tide, however, rendered this a very tedious work, and it
was not till the morning of the 21st llixt they were all landed and removed to
a swamp near Providence Hill of Captain Stokes, where both water and gi'ass
are abundant. Only 42 horses are now at the camp, and few of them are at
present in a serviceable condition, having suffered greatly from the delays at
Moreton Bay and Port Patterson. The casualties have been as follows : — Two
horses died on the passage, five were lost in landing through exhaustion, and
one has escaped to the bush, but may perhaps be recovered. Of the sheep, only
six were lost to the time of reaching Point Pearce, since which nearly thirty
more have died from various causes, but principally by drinking salt water on
landing.
It is now my intention to proceed by land with the horses, as soon as they
are capable of travelling, to the Victoria Eiver at Kangaroo Point, and to send
the sheep by the schooner to that spot as a rendezvous for the party ; but I do
not expect to be able to commence any distant explorations till the end of
October, as the stock will require a month's rest to recruit their strength.
I have observed nothing to render it desirable to deviate from the proposed
direct route into the" interior of the country, though, from the general features
of the Victoria Eiver near the mouth, I have reason to expect that it will
prove but an insignificant stream after ascending beyond the tidal influence.
Not having any cause for delaying the ' Monarch ' beyond this date, I have
informed the master of her to that effect, and have given certificates of the
performance of the charter-party.
I have transmitted directly to the Secretary of State for the- Colonies, with
the exception of one set, all the botanical specimens collected by Dr. Miiller,
which, from their perishable nature, it is desirable should reach England as
soon as possible.
Should the schooner move from the Victoria Eiver, in can-ying out the
objects of the Expedition, I intend to place conspicuous marks and leave some
records of intended movements of the Expedition on the Northern end of
Entrance Island in the Victoria Eiver.
Up to the present time none of the Aborigines have been seen, though many
fires and other traces show them to be numerous on this part of the coast. I
am therefore unable- to ascertain whether their intentions are hostile or
otherwise.
5. A Letter from Mr. J. Wilson, Geologist to the North Australian
Expedition.
Communicated by Sir K. Murchison.
Board Ship ' Tom Tough,' Point Pearce, 23rd September, 1855.
You will feel pleased to know that we have, at length arrived at the Victoria,
and that our explorations will soon commence. We have had some little
mishaps, v/hich we are all willing enough to attribute to the captain of the
* Monarch.' .... We ran up during the night with perfect safety, and
anchored in Blunder Bay. The ' Monarch ' not having arrived, Mr. Gregory
took the opportunity to go ashore and look out a landing-place for the horses,
and for water, and we were successful in our search for both. I happened to be
the first to find the water. The discovery at that moment was fortunate, as one
of our men had an attack of sunstroke. Applications of the cold water restored
* See p. 49 for particulars of the outfit of the Expedition.
