456 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS., [May 25, 1857.
know that no valuable amount of gold is to be found tbere, either
in the loose debris or in the solid rocks. Independently, however,
of gold, the northern progress of civilization, as far as skill and
energy can aid it, will assuredly be secured upon a solid basis by
the present enlightened Governor-General Sir W. Denison.
The exploration of that eastern Cordillera, so long ago undertaken
by our enterprising associate Count Strzelecki, to which I specially
directed your attention in 1844, and which has since been carried
further out by Leichhardt, Kennedy, and Mitchell, has recently had
its noiihem and north-western offsets brought more definitely into
notice by Gregoiy and his associates.* The advanced guard of the
colonists has now even crept on so far beyond Moreton Bay, as to
be already within abgut 560 miles of the head of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria ; and judging from the fertile nature of most of the unoccupied
lands, the period is doubtless not very distant when our country-
men will reach that great haven, which, penetrating for 500 miles
into the continent, will surely, in future ages, be crowded with ships
carrying on a great commercial intercourse between Australia and
the Eastern Archipelago, Hindostan, and China.
Looking to that future, and even to our present interests, it was
a subject of regret to many of us, that it should have been thought
expedient to discontinue the occupation of Port Essington, and to
abandon all intention of holding any other station along the north-
em coast of this vast continent. Unable now to enter upon a
consideration of what bay of the eastern side of the Gulf of Car-
pentaria may be selected as an "entrepot," I have little doubt
that the time will soon come, when all minor difficulties will disap-
pear before the energy of British colonists, in their endeavours to
connect their Australian possessions with the rich marts of the
Eastern hemisphere.
In treating this subject there is, however, another point
which seems to me of such incalculable national importance, that I
must beg your permission to say a few words upon it. If the idea
of forming settlements through convict labour is to be discarded as
respects the Gulf of Carpentaria, because the free population of
New South Wales is advancing towards that great haven, then let
us turn to that noble bay upon the north coast, of which Cam-
bridge Gulf forms the western side, and whose eastern side receives
the waters of the Victoria River. First explored by Philip King in
* Award of the Gold Medals, ante. No auriferous tract appears to have been
discovered by Mr. Gregory's party.
