May 25, 1857.J CLIMATE AND SOIL OF NORTH AUSTRALIA. 457
1819,* and by Wickham and Stokes in 1839, the basin of the Vic-
toria was recently the scene of the encampment of Gregory, whence
he extended his researches southwards to the saline desert, and
eastwards to the Gulf of Carpentaria. The real opinion of such
an experienced colonist and geographer (whose merits have been
already dwelt upon in conferring upon him our Founder's Gold
Medal) is of infinitely greater value than those speculations
which would describe the whole of that region, on account of its
latitude, as unfit for the settlement of the Anglo-Saxon race ! The
plain answer to this view is, that on the banks of the navigable river
Victoria, the party of Wickham and Stokes were perfectly healthy
in 1839; and that recently our countrymen were stationed there
for nine months without the loss of a man. . Our medallist Mr.
Gregory, after a residence of many years in AVestern Australia, has
thus written to his friend, the former Governor of that province :f
"This portion of Australia far surpasses the western coast both in
its fertility and extent, and its capabilities for settlement. Good
harbours are numerous along the coast, and there is abundance of
fine country for stock and cultivation." Again, he says : " The
valley of the Victoria far exceeds the best parts of Western Australia
both in fertility and extent."
Let us also hear what Dr. Ferdinand Mueller, the botanist of
the last expedition, says. This gentleman, who, by his Australian
researches, has, according to Sir W. Hooker, placed himself in the
front rank of botanists, having collected in tropical Australia about
1500 species of plants, of which 500 are new, thus writes to his
friend Mr. C. Latrobe, the former Lieut. -Governor of Victoria: —
*' North Australia, with the exception of the east coast, pos-
sesses essentially a dry Australian, and not a moist Indian climate.
Fevers do not therefore exist, and we escaped such jungles and swamps
as those in which Kennedy's party exhausted their strength. There
* As these pages are passing through the press, my valued friend Dr. Fitton
called my attention to his Appendix to the Voyages of that admirable surveyor
the e'leve of Flinders, Capt. Philip P. King, along " Intertropical and Western
Australia" (182G). I have communicated the letter of this eminent geologist to
the Society, and the readers of our Journal will see in it an able eiFort to derive
generalizations from the examination of specimens collected by King and the
trend of the rock masses.
These descriptions of King and Fitton should be compared with those of Grey
and Lushington, who in 1837 examined that portion of the north coast between
Prince Regent River and the Glenelg, and also with the more recent observations
of Mr. J. Beete Jukes, as given in his work entitled 'Sketch of the Physical
Structure of Australia' (1847).
t Captain Fitz Gerald, b.n.
