468 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857-
is abundance of good country in North Australia, and, with access
for vessels to the lower part of the Victoria, full scope for the
formation of a new colony. But as a new settlement can scarcely
be formed in such a remote and certainly hot part of the globe
without prison labour, against which the public mind is turned
with such decision, and as, without great inducements, the squatters
will find it for a long time unprofitable to migrate in this direction,
I fear that the pastures of North Australia will yet be left flockless
for a long time." *
With such facts before them, it is possible that our Government
may see that this prolific and healthy region, so remote and so
entirely cut off hy the great interior saline desert from all our established
colonies, that no intercommunication can possibly take place, "j* is, notwith-
standing its summer heats, a perfectly fit and proper receptacle
for our convicts, whose labour there would completely repay
their cost of maintenance. When our prisons are crowded, and
crime is rapidly augmenting with our increasing population, it does
indeed seem desirable to seize upon such a zone of exile as is here
oifered, and, by removing worthless characters from our land, render
them really useful in occupying the only coast of that continent
on which the British flag does not now fly, though it has been
there twice unfurled. But I forbear to press this feature of a topic
which can be better handled by politicians ; and all I venture to
urge is, that, whether by forced | or free labour, North Australia
should be colonised.
When presiding over you in 1844, and in then expressing an
opinion from the best authority ยง that, if our Government would
* Mr. Elsey, the surgeon of the expedition, who has reached London -whilst
this Address is passing through the press, completely conj&rms this view of the
productiveness and healthiness of the region.
t See Grounds of the Award of the Patron's Gold Medal to Mr. Gregory, and a
description of these tracts.
X It has indeed been stated, that the inhabitants of the free colonies of Australia
protest agauist any further transportation to that continent. Now, a resident of
Victoria in S. Australia might with as much consistency declare, that there should
be no penal settlement in any part of the world, as that the Victoria of North
Australia should not be so first settled through convict labour; for the great
interior saline desert more completely separates the northern from the southern
region of Australia than any sea. That desert is utterly impassable by human
efibrts, and any convict who should escape from Victoria River or Cambridge
Gulf would have to find his way by upwards of 4000 miles of sea voyage before
he could reach Melbourne ! It is indeed extraordinary that in the debates upon
this subject, no allusion has been yet made to Cambridge Gulf and the rich basin of
the Victoria river. See Debates H. of Commons, May 15, 1857, when Mr. Baxter
quoted the Melbourne Correspondent of * The Times.'
ยง Journal Roy. Geogr. Soc, vol. xiv., President's Address, p. xcvii.
