460 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
North Australian expedition, now happily completed under the di-
rection of Her Majesty's Government, was a child of the Eoyal
Geographical Society.
North America.
British Possessions. — The gradual advance of civilized man to-
wards the remoter regions of North-western America, has long
drawn the attention of geographers to those extensive tracts, still
distant from the settled country, which afford an almost undisturbed
asylum to the aboriginal population of the continent. It would
scarcely be credited, that within the limits of British America, a
region including at least 112,000 square miles, extending from the
head waters of the Assiniboine Eiver to the foot of the Eocky
Mountains, and from the northern branch of the Saskatchewan to the
49th parallel of latitude, our boundary with the United States, has
remained almost completely unexplored.
The comparative scarcity of fur-bearing animals in this portion of
the territory of the Hudson Bay Company, the warlike character
of the Indians, and other causes, have alike contributed to prolong
our ignorance of lands which may, at no distant time, become the
home of thousands of our countrymen.
Mr. Palliser, a traveller, who had already spent a considerable
time in the neighbouring districts of the Upper Missouri, and whose
adventures as a sportsman form the subject of a popular work,
conceived the project of employing two years in the exploration of
the tract to which I have referred, along with the adjoining portion
of the Eocky Mountains.
Mr. Palliser's original intention was, as I have understood, to
undertake this journey at his own expense and with no other com-
panions than those whom he might engage as voyageurs and hunters
to join him in traversing the Indian territory. Having, however,
addressed himself to our Secretary, his proposal was at once brought
before the notice of the Council, by the direction of which it was
referred to our Expedition Committee and fully discussed. In con-
sequence of this a letter was directed by myself on the 6th of
January to the Eight Hon. Henry Labouchere, the Secretary of the
Colonies, in which the Council strongly advocated the exploration
of that portion of British North America between the parallels of
49° and 53° N. latitude and 100° to 115° W. longitude. The chief
objects of the exploration were then stated to be —
]st. To survey the water-parting between the basins of the
