May 25, 1857.] NORTH AMERICA— PALLISER'S EXPEDITION. 461
Missouri and Saskatchewan ; also tlie course of the south branch of
the Saskatchewan and its tributaries,
2nd. To explore the Eocky Mountains, for the purpose of ascer-
taining the most southerly pass across to the Pacific, within the
British territory.
3rd. To report on the natural features and general capabilities of
the country, and to construct a map of the routes.
Mr. Palliser's experience, his success in conciliating the good will
and respect of the Indians, and his anxiety to make his journey con-
ducive to the increase of scientific knowledge, pointed him out as
well fitted to be the leader ; but it was evident that without the aid
of fellow travellers trained to accurate research and accustomed to
the use of scientific instruments, no very accurate results could be
expected from the expedition.
After considerable discussion, the Lords of the Treasury con-
sented, on the recommendation of the. Secretary for the Colonies, to
submit to Parliament a vote of oOOOZ. for this purpose, on the under-
standing that all the collections and results of the expedition should
be placed at the disposal of Government.
Three scientific gentlemen have been since appointed to the
expedition —Lieutenant Blakiston, of the Eoyal Artillery, on the
recommendation of the President of the Eoyal Society, to conduct
the astronomical and physical observations ; Mr. Bourgeau, an
experienced and successful botanical collector, selected by Sir
William Hooker, the Director of the Eoyal Garden at Kew; and
Dr. Hector, a medical gentleman recommended by myself on the
score of his geological and zoological acquirements, as well as for
his general fitness to contribute to the objects of the expedition.*
Mr. Palliser is, moreover, himself conversant with the use of the
instruments which have been supplied by Government, and has
the advantage of an experienced assistant as his Secretary ; so that
the important object of determining the geographical position of the
points visited by the expedition has been amply secured.
The instructions given to Mr. Palliser by H.M. Secretary of State
direct, that the journals of the expedition, together with the records
of the observations, shall be made out in duplicate, and that one
copy shall be transmitted to England, from time to time, as oppor-
* General Sabine has instructed Lieutenant Blakiston in making magnetical
observations, a Committee of the Royal Society furnished the necessary instruc-
tions in physical science, and the geological suggestions were supplied by
myself.— R. I. M.
2 o
