462 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
tunities may occur. An assurance was also given that tlie journal
of the expedition shall be regularly communicated to this Society,
according as it shall be received at the Colonial Office.
The departure of the expedition was somewhat delayed by the
sevare illness of Mr. Palliser, but he sailed with his companions on
the 9th of May, and information has been received of their arrival at
New York in good health and with their instruments in working
order.
During the present season it is intended that they should proceed
fi-om Fort William on Lake Superior to Lake Winnipeg and Fort
Garry, examining en route some portion of the watershed between
Lake Superior and Eainy Lake. From Fort Garry the expedition
will proceed westward to the head waters of the Assiniboine Eiver,
and will explore some portion of the country between the southern
branch of the Saskatchewan and the boundary of the United States,
turning to the northward to winter at Carlton House Fort.
The summer of 1858 is to be employed in traversing the country
of the Blackfeet and Blood Indians, between the two branches of the
Saskatchewan, tracing the southern branch to the foot of the Rocky
Mountains, and in endeavouring to settle the disputed question as to
the existence of a practicable pass in the chain, between the Kootaine
Pass south of the 49th parallel, and the Pass between Mount Brown
and Mount Hooker, more frequently used by the servants of the
Hudson Bay Company.
Apart from the public interest which belongs to the exploration
of a large and important portion of British territory, it is impossible
not to anticipate valuable additions to natural science from the
united labours of the members of this expedition, and to feel propor-
tional satisfaction, that Government should have seen the propriety
of complying with our recommendation by fitting it out in an
efficient manner.
Let me add, that the establishment of a direct line of intercourse
between our Canadian possessions and Vancouver Island, which
being 250 miles in length, contains good ports and valuable coal-
seams, is not the least important of the national interests connected
with this survey.
United States. — The omission at our last anniversary of the pro-
gress made in the Coast Surveys of the United States, was owing to
the circumstance that the Reports of it had not been received.
Since that date, however, the Society has received from Professor
A. D. Bache, the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, the Report
