May 25, 1857.] UNITED STATES -GEOGRAPHICAL PROGRESS. 463
for 1854 of the progress of the department tinder his very able
guidance. This great work has been so often mentioned with
praise in former Addresses from this chair, that it is unnecessary
for me to do more than direct the attention of all geographers to
the continued activity and effective practical efforts of Professor
Bache and his assistants.
The report on the United States Coast Survey for 1855, has, I
regret to say, not yet been received. I hope, however, at our next
Anniversary, to be enabled to do full justice to the advances in this
department, and the other branches of geographical science which
are in progress in the United States.
The eighth volume of the excellent ' Contributions to Knowledge *
published by the Smithsonian Society has been received, and com-
prises most valuable papers by Mr. S. F. Haven, Professor 01m-
stead, Major Alvord, Dr. Jones, and Mr. Torce, to which I beg par-
ticularly to refer.
The American Geographical and Statistical Society — established
at New York in 1854, under the presidency of the celebrated histo-
rian Bancroft — has now become a numerous and important body.
I refer with gratification to one of the pamphlets which this Society
has recently published, entitled ' A Report on Eecent Discoveries
in Sub-Oceanic Geography.' Eeferring to the data gathered by
our Associate, Lieutenant Maury, in the Hydrographical Department
at Washington, this Report as put forth by Mr. W. H. C. Waddell,
U.S.N., points to the observations of Commander Eodgers, on the
temperature and specific gravity of the waters of the Arctic
Ocean at various depths ; showing that near the surface the water
is warm and light, at mid-depths cold, and at the bottom warm and
heavy. This discovery, it is infeiTed, furnishes the only link that
seems to have been wanting to complete by facts, the theory of
open water in a really polar sea, as originally suggested by General
Sabine, and as since supported by De Haven, Kane, and other
Arctic voyagers.
Then, again, the deep-sea soundings of Lieutenant Brookes de-
monstrate that the most profound repose prevails at vast depths,
the bottom being found to be of a down-like softness, and composed
in most parts of the skeletons and casts of microscopic shells and
infusoria.*
* The details of the zoological results afforded by these operations between
America and England, as conducted by Lieutenant Berryman, are reserved for
future publication.
2 o 2
