404 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
These observations, so important to the physical geographer,
mariner, and naturalist, when combined with the experiments of
Professor Morse, led the way to the formation of a company to con-
struct that wonderful telegraphic cable of which I have elsewhere
spoken, whilst the wind and current charts as registered in the
IJnited States have enabled speculators to select the best line for
paying out the electric cord, which, scarcely thicker than a finger,
is to connect the New World with the Old.
I must further refer you to the Eeport of the American Geogra-
phical Society for most curious information, as derived from the
microscopic examination by Professor Bailey of West Point, of
certain unabraded particles brought up from vast depths, which
being ashes of volcanic origin, afford fine scope for the speculations
of the geographer and geologist respecting the currents by which
such materials may have been carried to their present tranquil
abode.
One of the most striking works which the American Government
has published in the last year is Commodore Perry's ' Narrative of
the Voyage of the Squadron under his orders to China and Japan.*
This work is replete with valuable geographical and ethnographical
notices of the tracts visited, and is illustrated by many explana-
tory maps and lithographs. It was transmitted to us by that
eminent scholar of the United States my friend Mr. Edward Everett,
so justly valued by every man of science and letters in our country.
The question of the priority of discovery of the Benin Islands, so
amicably discussed between Commodore Perry and my predecessors
the Earl of EUesmere and Admiral Beechey, has, I trust, at length
been settled by the memoir on those islands published in the last
volume of our Transactions.
Geographical progress in the United States has been farther
marked by the production of two maps of North America by the
distinguished geologist Professor Henry Eogers, as brought out by
Mr. Keith Johnston, of Edinburgh. One of these is purely a geogra-
phical map, on which the strait boundary lines of the different States,
as marked by strong colours, necessarily interfere with the natural
features of the country. The other, on the contrary, being a geolo-
gical map, is a representation of ancient nature, in which the author's
peculiar talents shine forth ; and the masses of land, independent
of the shackles which the interests of man have imposed upon them,
stand out in all their simplicity.
Our library has also been enriched since the last Meeting with
