466 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
of tlie illustrious Humboldt. I can only say that no exertion on my
part as tlie President of this Society shall be wanting, to support
any proposal which may be made to bring about such a simultaneous
and conjoint Geographical Survey made by the Governments of
Britain, France, and the United States, as shall definitively settle
the points at issue, and demonstrate whether or not it be practicable
to execute a great inter-oceanic canal.
South America.
I^ew Granada. — Captain Battersby, who has been lately travelling
in New Granada, strongly advocates the superior commercial
advantages of the Eiver Atrato over the Magdalena as a channel of
communication, not only with the people on the upper waters of
that stream, but with those of the extensive districts bordering the
Cuenca, and of the cities of Antioquia and of Cartajo, the population
of which alone he estimates at 30,000 ; expressing his belief that
ere long the traific on the Atrato must be carried on by steamers,
and that then the Gulf of Darien will become the centre of nearly
all the commerce of New Granada.
It appears that, in the course of the last year, two steamers,
drawing 7 feet water, did ascend the river as high as Quibdo, the
capital of Choco. British goods destined for that place are now sent
round Cape Horn to the Bay of Buenaventura, and have to be
carried thence on mules across the Andes.
CMk. — M. Plessis has completed his map of the province of
Santiago de Chile, coloured geologically, a copy of which has been
received by the Society, through the kindness of Mr. Bartholomew,
who has engraved it.
Those who wish for the latest data on the geographical and other
statistics of that section of South America will find them in the An-
niiario Chileno, a yearly publication which contains much useful local
information, and in the Anales de la Universidad, another periodical,
principally edited by M. Domeyko, a well-known geologist and
good observer.
Peru and Bolivia. — Mr. Bollaert, our associate, has drawn attention
to the existence of a statistical account of Peru^ published in Lima
by Don J. M. Cordova y Urrutia ; as well as to a similar work on
Bolivia by Don Jose Maria Dalence of Chuquisaca ; both of which,
if translated, he thinks might be useful to parties interested in
those countries.
Rio de la Plata. — Lieut. Page's preliminary Eeport has been pub-
