May 25, 1857.] SOUTH AMERICA. 467
lished * On the Exploration and Survey of the Rio de la Plata and its
Tributaries,' noticed in Admiral Beechey's Address last year.
The United States' steamer Waterwitch was employed on the
service -in question for more than three years, during which the
Parana and Uruguay, the principal affluents of the Plata, were
explored, and the river Paraguay ascended as high as the Brazilian
fort of Coramba, in lat. 19° S. From that point the further progress
of the vessel was not permitted by the ruling powers, much to the
disappointment of Lieut. Page, who hoped to have led the way in
opening a communication by steam for the first time with the rich
provinces of Matto Grosso and Cuyaba, on the higher waters of this
magnificent river.
There must, doubtless, be a great mass of new information to be
collected respecting those countries which, under the Colonial rule
of their old masters, were closed to all the rest of the world ; and
we cannot, therefore, but join in anticipating a rich harvest of
interesting matter respecting them whenever the further details of
the expedition shall be published in extenso, as no doubt they will
be ere long, conformably to the liberal and enlightened practice of
the Government of the United States.
It is, however, but due to others, when treating of this subject,
to mention that the rivers Parana and Uruguay have been already
very carefully surveyed by our own officers, and that Captain
Sulivan's admirable charts of them, upon a large scale, were long
ago published by the Admiralty under the superintendence of that
eminent hydrographer Sir Francis Beaufort.
Those rivers, as well as the Paraguay throughout its course, had
been also previously mapped (and, it may be inferred, with some
accuracy) by commissioners eminently qualified for the purpose,
who had been chosen by the Courts of Spain and Portugal to settle
and define their respective rights and limits, in virtue of the
treaties of 1750 and 1777, and whose labours on the last occasion
extended over a period of no less than twenty years.
The portion of them best known, perhaps, is that connected with
Paraguay, in which every place of any importance was fixed by
astronomical observation, as may be seen in the well-known work of
Azara, who was one of the Spanish commissioners.
Copies of many of the maps of that part of this grand survey
were purchased some time ago by the British Museum, and may bo
referred to in the MS. Department.
The most important result of Lieut. Page's expedition as yet
