468 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
made known, is the exploration of tlie Eiver Salado, a tributary of
the Parana, with the evidence adduced of its being navigable in the
greater part of its course through the upper provinces of the Argen-
tine Confederation. This has been since verified to a considerable
extent by the passage down the river of a boat from Matara,* in the
province of Cordova, to Santa Fe, on the Parana, under the per-
sonal guidance of Don Antonio Taboada, a brother of the Governor.
M. Amedee Jaques, a French gentleman, who joined Lieut.
Page in his journey into the interior, to explore the course of this
river, has published in the ' Eevue de Paris ' {last March) a highly
gi'aphic account of the personal adventures of the party, and of a
bloody conflict they had with the wild Indians in the Chaco.
Coast of Patagonia. — Mr. Bragg, an English engineer employed at
Buenos Ayres, has discovered and surveyed a good port and road-
stead near the old settlement of the Jesuits, in the vicinity of Cape
Corrientes, to the south of Buenos Ayres, which had hitherto escaped
notice, but which is likely to be of some importance as a place of
export for the produce of the adjoining districts. The details
respecting it have been forwarded to the Hydrographer of the
Admiralty.
Orinoco. — At the commentjement of the present year, a proposition
was laid before the Society by Admiral Sir Charles Elliot, late
Governor of Trinidad, for the resumption of Humboldt's scientific
investigations on the Orinoco and its affluents.
The prospective estimate formed by the illustrious philosopher of
the advantages to be anticipated from the junction of the Tuamini,
a branch of the Orinoco, with the Rio Negro, which falls into the
Amazon, together with his more earnest advocacy of the importance
of the navigation of the Meta, unquestionably place this suggestion
in a very favourable light. The region drained by the vast water-
system of the Orinoco is described by Humboldt as " enrichi des
productions les plus variees ;" and though we may no longer look
for the fabled El Dorado of the adventurous Raleigh, the hope may
yet be indulged that, by exploratory enterprise and the judicious
application of steam navigation, a real El Dorado may yet be
founded in this fertile portion of the western world. Nor can I
here refrain from an allusion to the valuable edition by our dis-
* Sir Woodbine Parish, in the first edition of his work on those countries
eighteen years ago, mentioned that the Salado was known to be navigable as high
as that place (Matard), and that if it were used, there would be an enormous
saving of land carriage in the conveyance of goods from Buenos Ayres to Santiago
in the interior.
