May 25, 1857.] SOUTH AMERICA—GEOGRAPHICAL CORRECTIONS. 469
tinguished medallist Sir Robert Sdiomburgk, formerly her Ma-
jesty's Commissioner to survey the boundaries of British Guiana, of
the " Discovery of the Empire of Guyana by Sir Walter Ealeigh,"
printed for the Hakluyt Society in 1848. Having himself explored
what he describes as " the wondrous delta of the Orinoco," Sir
Eobert was able to enter, with the fullest intelligence and zeal, into
the reproduction of those elegant descriptions by Ealeigh which he
had read with so much delight. These early narratives not only
charm us by the quaint and nervous language in which the manly
exploits of our ancestors are related, but frequently record dis-
coveries or assert important truths which, from those distant times,
lie dormant or are regarded as fictions, until accident or science
unfolds anew, to the adventurer of the present day, the secret of
their existence. I may mention, by way of illustration, an in-
stance of the manner in which a fact of the greatest moment to
the interests of the world may thus lie buried for more than two
centuries and a half after its distinct announcement by one of our
most distinguished early travellers. In the " World encompassed
by Sir Francis Drake," edited for the Hakluyt Society by our asso-
ciate Mr. Yaux, we find it said of California, which then received
from Drake the name of Nova Albion, " There is no part of earth
here to be taken up wherein there is not some speciall likelihood of
gold or silver." This voyage of Drake's was made in 1578, and it
was not till 1848 that the whole world was astounded by the dis-
covery of the Californian goldfields.
Observatory of Santiago. — " The astronomical geography of posi-
tions (Baron Humboldt writes to me) has made progress through
the useful establishment of the observatory of Santiago de Chile,
founded during the residence of the able astronomer Lieut. Gilliss,
of Washington. The Director of the Observatory of Santiago,
M. Moesta, has found the difference of longitude between Santiago
and Greenwich 4h. 42' 32''-4 in time, probable error 3"-2.
" M. Moesta thinks, that all the west coast of South America is
17" too much to the west on the best maps. I had found that Callao
de Lima was 5h. 18' 16" west of Paris by the passage of Mercury
over the solar disc ; now Admiral FitzEoy finds the difference of
longitude between Valparaiso and Paris 4h. 50' 6''*6 ; and that between
Callao and Valparaiso by means of chronometers Oh. 22' 8"-4; so
that Callao would be 5h. 18' 15" west of Paris, which coincides to
within one second of time with the result of the observation of the
passage of Mercury observed by me — an accuracy probably acci-
dental. Admiral Beechey has repeated the calculations of Heiz and
