May 25, 1857.] FINAL ARCTIC SEARCH. 471
Final Arctic Search.
When I last addressed you as your President in 1853, it was still
my hopeful task, as in the previous year, to urge the Government
and the country to send out another expedition in search of my
old and honoured friend Franklin and his crews. I then con-
gratulated you upon fresh expectations having been raised by the
successful voyage of Lady Franklin's little vessel, the Isabel, under
Inglefield, and also in anticipation of good results from the large
public expedition under Belcher and Kellett. Alas, we know too
well what fatalities interfered with the solution of the great problem,
so clearly recorded last year by my lamented predecessor. Since this
Address was delivered, the light which had been thrown upon the
subject, whether by the information and memorials brought home by
Dr. Eae, or the exploration down the Back Eiver by Dr. Anderson,
has rendered me still more anxious to ascertain the real fate of the
Erebus and Terror, and their gallant crews. Through the un-
expected tidings communicated by our medallist Eae, we were no
longer allowed to speculate on the course followed by Franklin ;
the " whereabouts " of the journeyings of some, at least, of our
missing countrymen being for the first time made known. Had
these traces been discovered two years sooner, what efforts would
not have been saved to Great Britain and America ! All the endea-
vours of Belcher and De Haven to penetrate northwards by Wel-
lington Channel, as well as those of Kellett to communicate by a
north-western course with Collinson and McClure, and the almost
superhuman struggles of Kane to reach a Polar basin — all these might
have been averted! The daring efforts to penetrate with ships
through the intricate channels which separate the great islands of
the Arctic Archipelago, would have been stopped by that one fact,
and the Government would have known how to dissipate at once
the mystery which still hangs over the fate of the missing vessels
and a large portion of their crews.
Is it, therefore, to be wondered at that many men of science wil-
lingly signed a memorial,* beseeching the Government to make a
final endeavour to search efficiently the area, at the edges of which
* This document, which was prepared by myself, the list of subscribers being
headed by Admiral Sir F.Beaufort and General Sabine, was most kindly received
by Lord Palmerston in June, 1856, a month after the last Anniversary of this
Society. My pi'edecessors, Lord Ellesmere and Admiral Beechey, were among
the subscribers, as well as Lord Wrottesley, who in his last Anniversary Address to
the Eoyal Society handled the subject with great effect. See Proc. Roy. Soc, No. IV.
