May 25, 1857.] FINAL ARCTIC SEARCH. 473
currents are delineated, has sustained tlie idea whicli I once thonght
possible, but aftei-wards abandoned, that the two ships seen floating
on an iceberg on the Newfoundland Banks may have been the
Erebus and Terror. The same author has recently published an
Appendix, in which, supporting his view by letters from parties
well acquainted with the seaman who made the observation, he also
gives a letter from Captain Ommaney, expressing his concurrence
in the same view. With every respect for the opinions of such
contemporaries, I cannot yet admit, that the vessels seen floating
southwards may have been the Erebus and Terror ; nor can I see
why they m.a,j not have been other vessels. But even if it be granted
that the question is to be thus disposed of as respects the ships, it is
consolatory to find, that both Captain Ommaney and Mr. Eindlay
strongly advocate a renewed search, to dispel our ignorance of the
only region, whose exploration can solve the great Franklin mystery.
Whatever may be thought of Mr. Findlay's view of Peel Sound being
closed to the south, his suggestion, that the unexplored tract between
the south end of Melville Sound and Victoria Strait is the area, which
ought specially to be searched, is entitled to the serious consideration
of all those who continue, like myself, to take a lively interest in the
solution of this problem, and who are bent upon ascertaining, by
positive survey, whether no traces of the ships or their records can
be found, and also to satisfy us that no survivors are eking out their
existence among the Esquimaux. On this last point I can never
forget what I heard from the lips of Captain Hartstene himself.
After our Sovereign had in December last visited the Eesolute, that
token of the good- will of the American people, the British Queen
inquired, with the right feeling which is her characteristic, if he
thought that any of her poor sailors might be still alive, and the
gallant officer assured Her Majesty that, in his opinion, such might
well be the case.
A strong tendency towards this belief, has indeed gained much
ground since the publication of the admirable volumes of Dr. Kane.
One passage from that work has been already cited in the brief tri-
bute I have paid to the eminent man, who, when he was himself in
dire want and had unexpectedly procured some fresh supplies of
animals, thus exclaims : " How can my thoughts turn despairingly
to poor Franklin and his crew ? . . . . Can they have sur-
vived ? No man can answer with certainty, but no man, without pre-
sumption, can answer in the negative.^' . . . . "Of the one hundred
and thirty-six picked men of Sir John Franklin in 1 846, Northern
