Feb. 11, 1856.] AUSTRALIA. 35
offer a satisfactory solution of the problem. His own study of the pheno-
mena during five years in Australia, as explained in the * Physical Descrip-
tion of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land,' and the 107,000 numerical
elements which he comjiuted from registers of simultaneous observations kept
in several stations over 14P of latitude, gave him only^an insight into the
character, but not into the causes, of the hot wind. These numerical elements
showed that the wind—
1. Impedes the calorific effects of solar rays.
2. Decreases their intensity.
3. Increases the temperature of the ambient air.
4. Increases the atmospheric pressure.
5. And finally, as to its hygrometric condition, that it is endowed not
with a capacity for moisture, but with a power of dissolving it in
whatsoever form it is collected.
Besides these results, the examinations showed that this wind raises in the
air, clouds of impalpable particles of earthy constituents, which, by their con-
tact, friction, pressure, and caloric, impart to it the character of a huge electric
apparatus, highly acting upon the whole economy of nature. But how this
huge electric machine is set in fiiotion — how far the declination of the sun,
the violence of the monsoons which encircle the Australian continent, and the
probable depression of its centre, exert an influence upon it, is as yet impos-
sible to determine. Moreover, the Australian hot wind is not a local and
exceptional phenomenon, but belongs to a series of identical phenomena which
are observed in Egypt, Abyssinia, Syria, Arabia, Bombay, Persia, California,
and Atacama ; so that a theory advanced to explain the causes of the hot
wind of one country, in order to prove of value and soundness, must be appli-
cable with equal force to explain the remainder of the series, in which range
the theory promulgated by Mr. Landor seems to be deficient.
As to the importance of the North Australian expedition, and the imperative
necessity for the occupation and settlement of Northern Australia, he concurred
entirely in the opinion expressed by Sir E. Murchison upon this important
subject. He then complimented the Society for having urged on the notice of
Government so desirable an undertaking, and remarked that so much import-
ance was attached to it in a commercial, as well as in other points of view, by
many of the City merchants,, that Mr. Matthew Uzielli, a member of the Society,
placed at his disposal 10,000?. to be applied by him, in the event of the Govern-
ment refusing to send out the expedition, for the purpose of carrying out the
object in question. In conclusion. Count Strzelecki passed an eulogium on
the fine spirit which actuated the member alluded to, and said that he felt
assured that this Society and the public at large would join him heartily in
tendering a vote of thanks to Mr. Uzielli, for his munificent and disinterested
offer.
Mr. Uzielli, responding to the call made upon him by the President, said
that he was taken unawares by the reference made to his ofi"er to advance
lOjOOOZ. towards defraying the expenses of the North Australian Exploring Expe-
dition ; he in the m^ean time felt it his duty to say, that although not aufait
in a scientific sense to the great advantages of the survey, he felt sufficiently
as a commercial man, the great importance that must be derived by this
country from the undertaking. That the commercial advantages of the expe-
dition, and the desirability of securing ourselves there, and thus preventing
others from taking possession of a country so valuable as a protection to our
East Indian colonies, weighed with him a great deal at the time he made the
offer alluded to by Count Strzelecki. He nevertheless was very glad to find
that our Government had decided on making the expedition a national and
not a private one.
