476 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
services, tinder tlie command of M'Clintock, but has actually snb-
scribed 500/. towards the expense of the expedition in wbich he
sails. * May God, therefore, crown their efforts with success ! and
may M'Clintock and his companions gather the laurels they so
well merit, in their noble endeavour to dissipate the mystery which
shrouds the fate of the Erebus and Terror and their crews !
If, however, this last effort which, in the absence of other aid save
that of her friends, Lady Franklin is now making, should fail in
rescuing from a dreary existence any one of our countrymen, and
should not even a plank of the Erebus and Terror be discovered
— still, for her devotion in carrying out this examination of the
unvisited tracts wherein, we have every reason to believe, the ships
were finally encompassed, every British seaman will bless the relict
of the great explorer, who has thus striven to honour the memory
of her husband and his brave companions.
My earnest hope is, that this expedition of Lady Franklin may
afford clear proofs that her husband's party came down with a
boat to the mouth of the Back Eiver in the spring of 1850, as
reported on Esquimaux evidence by Dr. Eae, and thus demonstrate
that which I have contended for, in common with Sir Francis Beau-
fort, Captain Washington, and some Arctic authorities, that Franklin,
who in his previous explorations had trended the American coast
from the Back Eiver westward to Barrow Point, was really the
discoverer of the North- West passage !
In wishing then Godspeed to this private expedition, as I did to
all the previous efforts of Lady Franklin, far be it from me to under-
rate the zealous endeavours which successive Administrations have
made during a series of years, whether to extend geographical know-
ledge and determine a north-west passage, or more recently to rescue
Franklin and his crews — endeavours which will be recorded as among
the great glories of Britain, in having brought forth in striking
relief the characters of some of the ablest of our seamen, who,
formed in that school of severe trial, have proved to be leading
men in the late war. These British worthies have now been
* I am happy to announce that, whilst these pages were passing through the
press, Petersen, the Esquimaux interpreter, well known to all the readers of the
Yoyages of Penny and Kane, having returned from Greenland to Copenhagen, has,
through the instrumentality of our distinguished foreign member Captain Irminger,
Koyal Danish Navy, and a telegraphic communication from myself, travelled
through London and reached Aberdeen in time to join Captain M'Clintock. The
Fox sailed from that port under Lady Franklin's eye on the 1st July, the whole
party on board in the highest spirits. — July 4, 1857.
