May 25, 1857.] CONCLUSION. 477
appropriately rewarded by having had conferred on them their hard-
earned Arctic medals; and I only regret that their noble feats
should not, for the honour of the nation, have been terminated by
one exhaustive public effort.
My admiration of these voyagers has indeed been recently en-
hanced, by the ardour and sincerity with which so many of them
have offered their services, to continue the search after the relics
of the Erebus and Terror. Such men are truly worthy of any
distinction which their country can bestow, and all geographers
must agree with me in regarding the Arctic medal which they wear,
as an honour second to none which the Sovereign can confer.
Conclusion.
In bringing this discourse to a close I have now only to congra-
tulate my associates on the steady rise which this Society has made
in the estimation of the public, and on the vast accession to its
members in the last few years. Commencing in a striking manner
under the guidance of Admiral Smyth, and increasing during the
successive Presidencies of myself, the Earl of Ellesmere, and Admiral
Beechey, the augmentation has so continued, that we now nearly
double the number of members at which we stood during many years.
Besides the vast augmentation of our Map Office, another dis-
tinctive feature in our recent progress has been the periodical publi-
cation of our Proceedings, which, whilst they record the doings and
sayings at our evening meetings, sustain the spirit of the Society,
and serve to keep the members, who have been unable to attend
our meetings, well acquainted with the passing events.
Putting forth the substance of what is spoken as well as read, these
periodical reports impart vitality to our Society, and will in future
times be consulted with interest, as expressing the current opinions
of British geographers and travellers " de die in diem;" a result
for which we are mainly indebted to our able and zealous Secretary,
Dr. Norton Shaw, who, in addition to the editorship of our Journal,
has recently taken upon himself the whole of the editorial duties
connected with this new publication.
Whilst the masses of our countrymen, it must be admitted, are
better pleased with the news of the day, than with scientific discus-
sions, many of the topics of which we treat are so popular, as well as
important, that an enlightened portion of the press merits our best
thanks for endeavouring to do justice to the promotion of those
geographical researches in which we are embarked. It would
be truly surprising if this were not so amongst Englishmen, whose
2p
