478 SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [May 25, 1857.
colonies extend to the Antipodes ; and who have, therefore, more
grounds than any other nation, for making themselves well ac-
quainted with the surface of the earth, its productions, and
inhabitants. I rejoice then to see that our numbers have so in-
creased since my last Presidency, that adequate as we then thought
the present apartments would prove for our wants, we already find
that they will not by any means contain our members. Assisted,
however, by Her Majesty's Government with an annual grant for
keeping up a public Map Office, and enjoying a good balance at
the banker's, there can be no difficulty in remedying this temporary
inconvenience ; and when the next Anniversary arrives, I trust
that we shall be assembled in halls well adapted to accommodate
us, including those ladies also who, following the example of their
illustrious countrywoman, Mrs. Somerville,* take a deep interest
in geographical science ; for there is nothing more encouraging
than to see the fair sex gathering information amongst us, to be
by them communicated to the sons of England.
At the same time, whilst we maintain our popularity, we must
render our annual Journal as far as practicable, not merely the
exponent of interesting travels, but also the index of the progress of
physical and comparative geography strictly so called, since we
reckon amongst our associates, men who are competent to realize
every wish to which the scientific geographer can aspire.
In thanking you, Gentlemen, for your friendly support, let me
say, in conclusion, that when I undertook to stand in the breach
occasioned by the death of my gallant friend Admiral Beechey, I
did so under the persuasion that I could not execute more than
one session of labour, considering that I had other scientific and
official duties to perform. Feeling, however, that I may still be
able to serve you for another year, I have, in compliance with your
flattering request, consented to retain that which I consider to be
as distinguished and useful a post as a man of science can occupy.
* In announcing that a new edition of Mrs. Somerville's remarkable work on
Physical Geography is nbout to appear, I am happy to be able to state, that whilst
we are taking measures to secure a permanent meeting-room, the Senate of the
University of London and the Council of the Koyal Society have acceded to the
request of the Council of our Society, and have granted us the use of the large
rooms at Burlington House for our ordinary meetings during the ensuing Session. —
July 12, 1857.
