480 PRESENTATIONS, &c. [June 8, 1857.
produced by the retirement of Lord Colcliester, Sir Charles Fellows,
Bear- Admiral FitzEoy, William J. Hamilton, Esq., the Earl of Har-
rowby, Colonel J. E. Portlock, and the Earl of Sheffield, to be filled
by Lord Broughton, Captain CoUinson, r,n., John Crawfurd, Esq.,
H. Raper, Esq., r.n., Colonel Sir H. Rawlinson, and Major-General
Sabine, r.a.
The Thanks of the Meeting having been voted to the President,
Vice-Presidents, Members of the Council, Auditors, and Scrutineers,
the President finally directed the attention of the Meeting to the
usual Anniversary Dinner, and the Meeting adjourned at half-past
3 P.M.
Fourteenth Meeting^ June Sth^ 1857.
Sir RODERICK I. MURCHISON, President, in the Chair.
Presentations. — Major-General A. Alexander, Mr. W, H. Hovell, and
Mr. R. Sweeting, were presented on their election.
Elections. — Commander R. D. Aldrich, r.n. ; Rev. G. R. Gleig ; Capt.
F. Hughes, Madras Cavalry ; Colonel the Hon. J. Lindsay ; Capt. A. P.
Ryder, r.n. ; Capt. Allen Young ; and Messrs. A . C. Blackstone ; Cornwallis
R. Cartwright ; John Dobie, Surgeon, r.n. ; Edward John Eyre, JJeut.-
Governor of St. Vincent'' s ; Samuel Gurney, m.p. ; Abel Smith ; Horace
Smith ; Philip Smith ; and Henry White, were elected Fellows.
Donations. — The following were among the donations to the
Library and Map-Rooms received since the previous meeting : — ' Maps
of the Crimea, Erzrum, Khiva, &c.,' published by the Topographical
and Statistical Depot of the War Department ; eight sheets of the
Admiralty charts of the Delta of the Danube ; Sir John Davis'
'China;' The Transactions of the Franklin Institute of Phila-
delphia ; of the Academy of Sciences of Paris ; of the Zurich Na-
tural History Society, &c.
Exhibitions.— Among the articles exhibited were fragments of
ancient pottery found on Serpent Island by Capt. Spratt, r.n. ; an
original plan of Alexandria, by Capt. Mansell, r.n. ; and maps of
St. Miguel and Caledonia Bays, &c., by Mr. Lionel Gisborne,
F.R.G.S.
Announcements. — The President announced the return of Dr.
Elsey, F.R.G.S., the surgeon of the North Australian Expedition ; of
Mr. A. W. Twyford, recently attached to the Egyptian Nile Expe-
dition ; and also of Sir Robert Schomburgk, f.r.g.s., from the Con-
sulate of Samana, in St. Domingo, en route to that of Siam.
