UNE 8, 1857.] JOCHMUS ON THE BATTLES OF SELLASIA, &c. 481
The Papers read, were : —
1. On the Battles of Sellasia^ Maratlwn, and Thermm. By Lt. -General
JoCHMUS.
General Jochmus explained that these papers had been written
in Greece, between the years 1830 and 1834, when he was Aide-
de-camp to General Sir Eichard Church, Commander-in-chief of
the armies during the war of Greek independence ; or later, when
he was employed as a captain in the Greco-Bavarian service, at
Athens. The above manuscripts had been presented to the Royal
Geographical Society in 1853, together with others,* written in
English, which have already been published by the Society ; but the
present manuscripts required translations from the French and other
preparations prior to being printed. In referring to, and commenting
on the eight maps which accompany the above manuscripts, General
Jochmus pointed out how the ancient geography of some districts in
Greece was elucidated by commentaries like these on the old mili-
tary operations in those countries, and vice versa, how the study on
the spot of those military operations had assisted him in determin-
ing, amongst others, the sites of Thermus and of Metapa (Polybius,
lib. 5), the site of Marathon (already identified before him with the
position of modem Vrana by Colonel Leake), the probable exten-
sion of the Greek and the Persian lines of battle, and the number
of troops engaged at Marathon (Herodotus, Plutarch, Thucydides,
&c.). General Jochmus further showed how he had determined the
sites of the ruins of Sellasia, its subterranean spring mentioned by
Pausanias, and of the battle-field t between Antigonus and Cleomenes
in its immediate neighbourhood. It was also stated how he hap-
pened to discover in 1834 the sites of all the places and monuments
mentioned by Pausanias in his description of the road from Argos to
Sparta, viz. the Ruins of Caryae, the Trophy of Hercules, the Temple
of Jupiter Scotitas, the Statue of Apollo at Thornax, &c. Finally,
General Jochmus, by referring to the eighth map representing a part
of Laconia and Cynuria, showed how he had been enabled to trace
thereon the following military positions and operations : — 1st.
The Camp of Epaminondas advancing against Sparta after the battle
of Leuctra ; 2nd. Philip in order of battle opposed to the Spartan
army, after the fight on the Menelaion ; 3rd. Battle field of Sellasia ;
4th. Philopoemen in ambuscade in the forest of Scotitas ; 5th. Philo-
* A Journey into the Balkan, and Comparative Commentaries on the Marches
of Darius, Alexander, and Marshal Diebitch, between the Danube and the neigh-
bourhood of Constantinople ; also, Notes on the Water Communication in Asia
Minor.
t B.C. 221.
2 Q 2
