482 JOCHMUS ON THE BATTLES OF SELLASIA, &c. [June 8, 1857.
poemen encamped at Barbosthenes before the battle against Nabis,
A.c. 192; 6th. Titus Qninctins encamped at Caryae, a.c. 195; 7tli.
Philopoemen at Caryae, A.c. 192. (^See Pausanias, Xenophon,
Livy.)
The President expressed the thanks of the Society to General Joctmus
for his communication. Although a period of twenty-five years had elapsed
since the General visited these spots, yet he had described them with all the
freshness of his youth, and had given such a clear account of them that, with
the aid of the large and graphic charts exhibited, every one might have followed
him. They were much obliged to General Jochmus for having, as a practical
soldier, described these ancient positions. It should not be forgotten that we
were glad to receive such valuable contributions on comparative geography ; as
the objects of the Society were not confined to the cultivation of physical
geography and the exploration of unknown countries.
The Bishop of St. Asaph, f.r.g.s., said there was one point of view in
which he thought communications of this kind peculiarly valuable — and that
was that they verified history. In this instance, after nearly 1500 years, a
military man, an able judge of the matter, went upon the ground and found
all the details such as they were described in history. The value of that fact,
to his mind, was this — that it gave a person a confidence in history which
nothing else could provide. This was peculiarly the case with respect to the
Holy Land. The investigations that had taken place in that land had every one
of them proved the truth of sacred history. It was so many years since he had
studied these matters, that he was not able to speak to the details of General
Jochmus's communication ; but he was fully aware of the extreme value of a
soldier's investigating military matters, and reporting them to scholars, who
were able by comparison with ancient history to prove that history true.
Mb. George Brent, f.r.g.s., said that, as he had been entrusted by the
Secretary with the duty of revising the translation of General Jochmus's
paj)ers, it might be proper that he should say a few words. He had found the
task one of pleasure ; the papers were written with learning and taste, and,
moreover, in excellent French. One thing which forcibly impressed him was
the great advantage there was in examining localities mentioned by ancient
authors with the book of the author in one's hand, as had been done by General
Joclunus in this instance. The advantage was most obvious. Had the same
plan been pursued by modern authors, instead of theorising at a distance, with
the aid of very imperfect maps, many doubts and difficulties would not have
existed with reference to the writings of ancient authors, which did exist in
the present day. In going through the manuscripts, another circumstance
which struck him was the correct appreciation the General had of the labours
of Colonel Leake, whose researches in Greece had placed him in the first rank
of comparative geographers. Wherever General Jochmus had found occasion
to dissent from Colonel Leake, he had stated his views and opinions with so
niuch candour and exactness, that they could not be without their weight
upon the mind of the Colonel himself. Another idea which had forced itself
upon his attention was, the great advantage which would accrue if any of the
Fellows of the Society, who had leisure at their command, would in the same
way examine localities in our owu country having reference to military actions
which took place in dark periods of our history, of which we had only obscure
notices, and ascertain the real truth of the matter — which could only be done
by observations upon the spot. If it were true that the earth was interesting
as the abode of man, surely those spots on its surface which had been the
scenes of events that had materially affected the destinies of our race, must be
among the most interesting portions.
