484 CALDWELL'S EXPLORATION OF DARIEN. [June 8, 1857
The fourth Paper read was —
4. A Notice of a late Exploration of Darien. By Dr. H. 0. Caldwell,
of the u. s. frigate Independence.
CoDimimicated by John Power, Esq., f.e.g.s., of Panama.
During an oificial expedition made towards the end of last year
to the Gulf of San Miguel, for the purpose of reporting on the
facilities of obtaining lumber suitable for ship building, Dr. H. C.
Caldwell, surgeon, U. S. ship Independence, who accompanied it,
met with Mr. Andrew Hoseac of Chepigana, from whom he learned
the particulars of the explorations made by Dr. Cullen, Mr. Gis-
borne, Capt. Prevost, r.n., and Lieut. Strain, of u.s.n., in 1853,
and also that, in Mr. Hoseac's opinion, based upon information de-
rived from the Indians, there existed a comparatively level tract of
land between Fort Principe, on the Savanna river, and Caledonia
Bay, on the Atlantic, in a direction more northerly than that followed
by Capt. Prevost, of H. B. M.'s ship Virago, in 1853.
On his return to Panama, Dr. Caldwell obtained from Commodore
Mervine leave of absence for three weeks, and, accompanied by a
sailor from the Independence named Parker, set out with the in-
tention of exploring this new route. Having reached Chepigana,
every assistance was rendered to him by Mr. Hoseac, but the greatest
difficulty was experienced in procuring men to accompany him ; all
giving as an excuse their dread of the Indians, &c., &c. At last, an
Indian to act as interpreter, his nephew, a lad of fourteen, and
a negro, were prevailed upon to go ; and on the 5th of April the party
started from Chepigana and reached Principe on the morning of
the 6th.
The next day, the party started in a northerly direction, cutting
their way through a thick undergrowth of palms, vines, and thorny
bushes ; the bed of the river was crossed during the day four or
five times — an insignificant stream running in a watercourse 20 to
30 yards wide. Captain Provost's track was also crossed, the cutting
through the bush being still distinguishable ; and on a tree was
found cut the words, W. Jones, Virago, Dec. 1853. The distance
travelled this day was estimated at about six or seven miles, and an
elevation was reached of about 160 feet, as near as it was possible
to judge without measurement. For the next three days the country
crossed still continued to be thickly wooded, of a gently undulating
or almost level character, intersected in diiferent directions by
numerous watercourses, and in some parts the ground seemed to be
swampy during the rainy season. On the fourth day two shots
were heard, apparently quite near, and said to be from some of the
