June 8, 1857.] CALDWELL'S EXPLORATION OF DARIEN. 485
Indians on tlie Atlantic side ; marks of a trail were also seen, and
also a tree recently cut. The whole party suffered much for want
of water, which was very scarce, and in hunting for which much
delay was caused. The negro peon, being in fear of the Indians,
persuaded the Indian interpreter and boy to return, and neither
threats nor promises could induce him to proceed. At evening on
this the fourth day the Atlantic was seen from the top of a tree,
through a gap in the hills, in a n.e. direction, apparently about 10
miles distant. The following morning (the fifth day) the Indians
and negro retraced their steps, and Dr. Caldwell and Parker con-
tinued their route, cutting their way with much difficulty through
the bush, and suffering still from want of water. Two more shots
were heard in the woods this day.
Towards evening, on ascending a tree, the gap in the Atlantic
range was again distinctly visible, distant about five or six miles ;
but the want of water and provisions compelled the Doctor to re-
turn, and on the morning of the eighth day he reached Principe,
where he fortunately found the Indians and negro with the canoe,
they having, in the mean time, returned to Chepigana, whence they
had been compelled by Mr. Iloseac to go back and await the arrival
of the party.
Dr. Caldwell believes that the summit between the two oceans
was crossed on the first day's march near Principe, and that thence
to the Atlantic there was a gradual descent. This agrees with the
accounts furnished to him by various Indians in Chepigana and
Yavizo, especially with regard to the gap through which the Atlantic
was so distinctly visible.
This route Dr. Caldwell considers well worthy of being scientifically
examined, and he expresses no doubt of his being able, by following
the path he has cut, to reach the Atlantic from Principe in four days
at the outside. Not having taken any instruments with him, Dr.
Caldwell does not profess to give more than an approximation to the
heights and distances.
Mr. L. Gisbornb, f.r.g.s., had been twice to the Isthmus of Darien, and
he had heard the paper with great interest, because it showed that the author
had fallen into the same error that he (Mr. Gisborne) had, on his first visit.
The only difference was that he did not fall in with Indians. Dr. Caldwell
stated that, on the fourth day, he saw the Atlantic. The Society had in their
archives his own report on the last expedition to the isthmus of Darien. It
was undertaken at the request of the three Governments of France, England,
and America, and with the consent of the Government of New Granada, and
he might, therefore, call it an official survey. They found out for the first
time that the whole coast on the Atlantic was eight miles out of longitude —
an error so important, that another explorer of Darien, Captain Prevost, who,
he believed, was the first that went so far into the interior, starting from the
