486 CALDWELL'S EXPLORATION OF DARIEN. [June 22, 1857.
same place that Dr. Caldwell did, with the best Admiralty maps before him,
and intending to proceed to the east coast, found that he was steering towards
a point really 25 miles to the north of it; the geographical error in the position
of Caledonia having misled him that mnch. This error was corrected by the
surveys which were undertaken in 1853. With respect to Dr. Caldwell's
paper, all the information he had collected was evidently wrong. The summit
of the range was within five or six miles of the Atlantic ; and that range con-
sisted of mountains from 900 to 1000 feet high. There was a map upon the
table, the official map sent there from the Admiralty, which showed the dif-
ferent heights taken by instrumental observations, with spirit levels, or moun-
tain barometers. As to a ship-canal across this portion of the isthmus, he
(Mr. Gisbome) really considered it to be an absurdity. The ridge was like a
backbone. He had walked along the top of it for miles and miles together, and
it was so narrow that few men could walk along it abreast.
The President. — Is there not any point of depression ?
Mr. Gisborne. — There is none. The sources of all the rivers were from 500
to 700 feet above the level of the sea ; it was, therefore, impossible to suppose
that there could be any break in the mountains below 700 feet. That alone
would render the question of a canal in this spot impossible. He had levelled
the range instrumentally and barometrically, and there was no point in it
that was less than 900 feet high. This might be taken as an established fact.
He had also made a survey of the Caledonia, with the object of following the
traces of the Americans, who, under Lieut. Strain, were upon that river in a
state of starvation. He had with him a copy of a map of the river, made by
a Spanish officer 130 years ago, and the survey made by himself placed a
position within a short distance of the spot where the Spaniards had placed it
so many years before. Now that his own surveys had been completed, and
the report placed in the possession of the Society, he hoped they would let it
go forth to the world that a ship-canal across the Isthmus of Darien, as far
as geographical difficulties were concerned, was perfectly impossible.
Fifteenth Meeting, June 22nd, 1857. — \_Final Meeting of the SessionJ]
Sm EODERICK I. MURCHISON, President, in the Chair.
Presentations. — Horace and Philip Smith, Esqrs., were presented upon
their election.
Elections. — M. de la Roquette, Vice-President of the Geographical
Society of Paris, as an Efonorai'y Member, and M. Malte-Brun, Secretary of
the Geographical Society of Paris, as a Corresponding Member. Commander
E. Burstal, r.n. ; Capt. H. Caldwell, r.n. ; the Rev. H. J. Hose, Warden
of St. Paul's College, Sydney ; the Right Hon. H. Labouchere, m.p. ; and
Messrs. J. W. Brett; G. M. M. Esmeade; William Evans, m.p.; F. P.
B. Martin; T. A. Noddall, r.n. ; and A. D. White, were elected Fellows.
Donations. — The folio vising were among the donations received
since the former meeting : — ' Index to the Ordnance Survey of Lan-
cashire;' * Blackie's Imperial Atlas of Modern Geography;' 'Ob-
servations made at the Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory
