June 22, 1857.] GRANT'S DESCRIPTION OF VANCOUVER ISLAND. 487
at Toronto,' 4to. ; Transactions of the German Oriental Society ; the
Darmstadt Geological Society ; the Academy of Sciences of Paris ;
and the Statistical Society of London.
Exhibitions. — Three very beautiful sketches of Eastern and
Western Siberia, by Mr. T. W. Atkinson, made during his Seven
Years' Journey in those regions, were exhibited at the meeting.
Announcement. — The President announced that through the ac-
tivity and zeal of their Corresponding member at Copenhagen,
Captain Irminger, of the Royal Danish Navy, the services of
the well-known Esquimaux interpreter, Carl Petersen, had been
secured for the Arctic Expedition under the command of Captain
M'Clintock, r.n., which would sail immediately on the arrival of the
interpreter at Aberdeen.
The Papers read were : —
1. Description of Vancouver Island. By Lt.-Col. W. C. Grant, f.r.g.s.
The position of Vancouver Island is between 48** 20' and 51** N.
lat., and between 123^ and 128° 20' W. long. It is situated on the
western coast of North America, within a short distance of the
mainland, the Straits of Fuca, which separate the island from the
mainland on the south, forming the boundary in those parts between
the British territories and those of the United States. The extreme
length of Vancouver Island from north to south is 270 miles, with a
general breadth of from 40 to 50 miles. The general aspect of the
island is that of a broken rocky country densely covered with
timber. The proportion which the available land bears to that
which is totally incapable of cultivation is extremely small. The
whole centre of the island as far as it has yet been explored consists
of a barren rocky waste, the timber with which it is covered being,
as well from its nature as from its position, unavailable for any
useful purpose. Along the sea- coast a few patches of level land
are to be met with, where the timber is extremely fine, and suit-
able either for masts and spars or for being sawn into planks.
Small spots of open land, clear of trees, occasionally intervene, but
seldom of more than a few hundred acres in extent ; on these spots
the soil is almost invariably extremely rich, and will produce
abundantly every description of crop grown in Great Britain. The
climate is agreeable and healthy, the summer is warm and dry ; no
rain falls from March till November ; the remainder of the year is
rather a rainy season than a severe winter ; some snow falls, but
does not generally lie long on the ground ; and the frosts are neither
hard nor of long duration.
