490 ■ GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [June 22, 1857.
The President, inclosing the discussion, said it was evident that the island
was destined to become a valuable possession of the British crown. The posi-
tion it occupied, and the mineral riches it contained, with the probability of
finding more, all tended to indicate its future value to our country.
The second Paper read was — ■
2. Continuation of the Report of the North Australian Expedition*
Communicated by the Right Hon. H. Labouchere, f.r.g.s., h. m. Secretary
of State for the Colonies.
Sydney, 7th January, 1857.
Sir — I have the honour to transmit, for the information of his
Excellency the Governor-General, an outline of the proceedings of
the North Australian Expedition, from the period of leaving the
Victoria, on the 2 1 st June, to the IGth December, 1856, when the
expedition reached Brisbane.
2. The exploration of the interior, beyond the sources of the Vic-
toria River, having been carried to the full extent that the resources
of the expedition would admit, I made preparations for carrying out
that part of the instructions relating to the exploration of the country
between the Victoria and Albert Riveis.
3. In making these arrangements it was desirable to provide
against any contingencies which might prevent the land party ob-
taining supplies from the Tom Tough at the Albert River, which I
had appointed as a rendezvous for the expedition ; and it thus be-
came necessary to reduce the land party to such a number that the
horses now remaining could convey a sufficient supply of provisions
for the whole journey to the out-stations in New South Wales, should
we be compelled to do so, without further assistance.
4. I therefore organized a party of seven persons, consisting
of myself, Mr. H. Gregory, Mr. Elsey, Dr. Mueller, 0. Dean,
R. Bowman, and J. Melville.
5. For the transport of this party and its equipment, only thirty-
four horses remained out of the fifty originally embarked at Moreton
Bay. Of these, seven were appropriated as saddle horses, and the
remaining twenty-seven for the conveyance of the stores, &c., which
comprised 1060 lbs. flour; 872 lbs. pork; 350 lbs. sugar; 380 lbs.
meat; — biscuit; 100 lbs. rice; 30 lbs. sago; 32 lbs. tea; 30 lbs.
coffee; 2000 rounds of ammunition; instruments; clothing; spare
harness, &c., — the whole weighing about 2 tons, exclusive of packages.
6. Having instructed Mr. Baines to embark the remainder of the
exploring party and stores in the Tom Tough, and proceed to
* See former Nos. of the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society.
