June 22, 1857.] GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 493
hy a small creek from the S., forming a fine reach of water, which
we recognized as the Albert Eiver of Captain Stokes, and Beam
Brook of Dr. Leichhardt.
21. As the junction of these two branches of the Albert had been
appointed as the rendezvous of the two sections of the expedition, it
was with some anxiety we approached the spot, though our journey
from the Victoria had been so rapid that I could scarcely hope to
find Mr. Baines had arrived before us. Our hopes were raised
almost to certainty, when in the distance a tree, with an inscription
recently cut in the bark, was seen in the exact place appointed, but
a closer inspection showed that it was not the work of any individual
belonging to the expedition.
22. The following was the inscription, which, cut in large charac-
ters, extended round the tree : —
CHUMMLUT +
ORE
ECH TO
1856.
t
- 23. The remains of a large fire, the names of some of the boat's
crew, and the word " Torch," were cut and scratched on the small
trees and stumps around, but nothing to guide us in the search for
any papers which would throw light on the subject of the visit.
24. Having marked a tree with the date, initials of the expedition,
and instnictions for finding a tin canister containing memoranda,
which was buried near the tree, I moved the party down to the
right bank of the river, half a mile lower down, with the intention
of proceeding downwards to the entrance of the Albert ; but finding
the water salt, I marked a second tree, and buried a tin with a memo-
randum of the proceedings of the expedition, prospective movements,
and instructions for the guidance of Mr. Baines, should he arrive
after our departure, as it was not prudent, under existing circum-
stances, to await the arrival of the vessel.
25. On the 3rd September left the Albert Eiver, and traversed a
level open country, thinly clothed with indifferent grass, the soil a
brown clay loam. Two days' journey S.E. brought us to a river 100
yards wide, in detached pools. (Latitude IS"" 12', longitude 139^
55'.) This river was mistaken for the Albert by Dr. Leichhardt, and
I therefore named it after that enterprising explorer.
26. Soon after we encamped a small party of natives approached,
and assumed a somewhat threatening tone, but shortly after retired.
On the following morning about twenty came up to us, well armed,
and, while we were crossing a deep ravine, made a rush forward to
