494 GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [June 22, 1857.
attack us, but when in the act of throwing their spears were
checked by a discharge of small shot, and were quickly dispersed
with the loss of their leader.
27. From the Leichhardt our course was nearly E., the country
consisting of low sandstone ridges, very thinly timbered, and nearly
destitute of grass. A few inconsiderable watercourses trended to
the N., in which direction extensive grassy plains appeared to exist.
Water was very scarce.
28. The country improved again as the Flinders Eiver was ap-
proached, and where we crossed it, in latitude 18^ 8', longitude 140^
50', the grassy plains extended nearly 20 miles back from the river
on both banks.
29. Beyond this again we encountered a worthless country, per-
fectly level, covered with small trees and melaleuca scrubs. The
scarcity of water repulsed us several times in the attempt to pursue an
easterly course, and forced the party N. on the meridian of 141^ 30',
to latitude 17^ 15', when we reached a broad sandy river bed, which
is probably the Gilbert of Leichhardt.
30. The approach of the rainy season, which would prevent us
from drying the flesh of our horses, should we require to replenish
our stock of provisions, and the general health of the party rendering
it desirable that fresh meat for a time be substituted for the salt
pork, which had suffered much from the heat of the climate, both in
quantity and quality, on the 18th we killed one of the horses, which
had become otherwise unserviceable. The meat was cut into thin
slices, and dried in the sun. The process occupied two days ; the
meat was tough, but by long stewing became very palatable, and
scarcely distinguishable from beef.
31. The general course of the Gilbert was from the S.E., and this
enabled us to resume our course, as a sufficient supply of water
existed in its channel, though several miles often intervened between
the pools. The country along this river was extremely level : only
one ridge of hills was seen till we reached latitude 18^ 20', longitude
143° (27th September), though the bed of the river rose to about
700 feet above the sea level. Grassy flats extended along its banks,
from one to two miles wide ; beyond which the country was very
poor, with patches of melaleuca scrub.
32. Low ranges of hills now rose abruptly from the plain, — the
prevailing rocks, slate, porphyry, gneiss, and granite. A decided
improvement was also observed in the vegetation.
33. On the 5th October reached the head waters of the eastern
branch of the Gilbert, and as it was necessary to reconnoitre the
country before moving the party across the ranges, I proceeded
