Feb. 25, 1856.] PARISH. GARDNER. 37
nothing approaching to a cyclone in their movement. In the upper regions
of the atmosphere there is usually a counter-current in an opposite direction
to that of the trade-winds beneath ; so that although no horizontal rotatory
motion takes place, there may be a vertical one.
In higher latitudes, as before said, the prevailing winds are westerly ; there
is thus a general movement of the atmosphere in all parts of the world, to
which cyclones form exceptions like eddies.
Captain Parish, in his paper, does not allude to the complete change in the
character of the wind which takes place in every storm in high latitudes.
In the latitude of the British Islands storms usually begin with a S. wind, that
brings thick and dirty weather. It then veers round to S.W. and W., and
finally clears up with a N.W. or N. wind. Now if the winds went round in
a circle, according to the common theory of cyclones, there is no reason why
the character of the weather brought by the storm should not be always alike,
no matter from what quarter the Avind came. He (Captain FitzEoy) would
rather ascribe these so-called circular movements to two bodies of air coming
from different directions and meeting together — the one which has the
greater momentum overcoming the other.
In the IS. hemisphere we find an exact converse to the above. Dirty
weather is brought by the wind from N. and N.E., and it is cleared away
by a wind from th^ S.W. and S. The remainder of the circle is not in any of
these cases filled up. There is nothing like a continued rotation round a
centre.
The cyclone theory applies completely to the hurricanes of the Atlantic and
Indian Oceans, and also to those storms which in Eastern seas are called
tj^foons ; but as far as general experience goes, that theory is not so satis-
factory in the explanation of those phenomena which accompany the winds of
high latitudes.
There is no doubt that many storms are connected with the progress of
atmospheric waves, ^. e., with those undulations of the atmosphere which are
shown by variations in the height of the barometer. These waves at their
height cause a pressure which must give rise to a horizontal movement of the
air more or less strong according to the height of the waves on each sidB of the
trough.
Le Yerrier, in investigating the storm of Nov. 1854, that was so severely felt
at Balaklava, has shown that it was connected with' the progress of an atmo-
spheric wave moving from England across the continent of Europe to the Black
Sea, — (See Cmnjotes liendus, No. 27, Dec. 1855.)
2. Notes on the Condition of the Gipsy Population of Moldavia. By
Samuel, Gardner, Esq., H.M. Consul at Jassy.
Communicated by the Earl of Clarendon.
Mr. Gardner enclosed with his paper the Moldavian Gazette of
Nov. 29th, containing a message of the Hospodar to the Council of
State relative to the manumission of the Tzigan (Zigani) or Gipsy
population, which has been hitherto condemned to praedial slavery in
Moldavia. He remarks that the condition of those who have been
manumitted, has not yet been much benefited by the change. They
have been placed on the list of " contribuables," or tax-payers, and
have still their former burden of villenage, and much other service im-
