June 22, 1857.] GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 497
advantage of the watercourses which there take their rise, and
originate the numerous small rivers crossed by Dr. Leichhardt in his
journey along the coast of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
50. I was desirous, had the nature of the country justified the
attempt, of talcing a more inland course than that traversed ; but the
absence of tributaries on the easterly side of the upper valley of the
Victoria had warned me that the country in that direction was
impracticable at the period of the year, as the wet season had
terminated before the return from the exploration of the interior.
51. The route of the expedition was perhaps that which will tend
more to develop the physical character of the northern portion of
the continent, as the distance to which the rivers extend from the
coast has now been approximately ascertained, and as none of the
watercourses could extend any considerable distance into the
interior beyond the line traversed by the party.
52. The insignificant size of the watercourses crossed between the
Victoria and Albert Elvers is almost a proof that no country
available for the purposes of settlement, exists to the south of the
line traversed, while the small quantity of available land seen to the
north, and the unfavourable account given by Leichhardt of the
parallel line on which he travelled near the coast, render it im-
probable that any considerable tract of land suitable for settlement
exists on the S.W. shore of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
53. On the western shores of the Gulf, the extensive development
of basaltic rocks results in the formation of a fine tract of pastoral
country, in which the upper river takes its rise.
54. The " Plains of Promise," which occupy the south shore of the
Gulf between the meridians of 139° and 141°, extend little beyond
latitude 18^ 10', south of which we always met with miserable sand-
stone ridges, except on the banks of the Flinders and Leichhardt
Rivers, and the whole of these plains seem to result from the gradual
recession of the waters of the Gulf. The grass was generally
inferior, both in quantity and quality, to that on the Victoria or the
eastem coast. Water is scarce during the dry season, and the
surface is so level that it is excessively wet and boggy during
the rains.
55. Had the vessel reached the Albert in time to co-operate with
the land party, my intention was to have explored the courses of the
Leichhardt and Flinders Rivers, which are now the onl}^ rivers in
Northern Australia, the sources of which have not been ascertained,
though from their size there is reason to think that they do not
extend more than 100, or at the most 150 miles from their mouths.
56. East of the Gulf, after receding 30 miles from its shores, the
2 R 2
