498 GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [June 22, 1857-
level country is covered with worthless scrubs of melaleuca, and
triodia covers the more open country. Even along the course of the
Gilbert, the extent of available country is by no means great.
57. Crossing from the western to the eastern waters, a marked
change was observed, after travelling over nearly 13° of longitude
in a country where the same geological and physical characters were
almost constant. The sandstones were completely superseded by
slates and primary rocks, climate and vegetation seemed to change
in the space of a few miles, and it was only where wide spread
plains of basaltic lava, with their peculiar vegetation, occurred, that
any semblance of the western country remained.
58. Although large tracts of inferior country exist on the upper
portion of the Burdekin, yet there are many fine patches of country
well adapted for stock, while the never-failing supply of water in
its channel, the hilly and varying character of the district, by pro-
tecting it from the serious consequences which attend long droughts
in more level portions of Australia, will render it eventually one of
the important districts of the colony.
59. South of the Burdekin we encountered the first brigalow
scrub, which formed a broad belt, widening as it receded from the
coast, and it separates the fine country just referred to, from the
valleys of the Mackenzie, and other tributaries of the FitzKoy
River.
60. So large an extent of this latter district has already been
tendered for as stock runs, and reported upon by the Commissioner
of Crown Lands, that it would be useless for me to attempt a further
description, which would necessarily be imperfect.
61. With reference to the capabilities for settlement, the portion
of Australia traversed by the expedition may be divided into three
sections, each with its distinct character, climate, and geographical
position, viz., the N.W. Coast, the Gulf of Carpentaria, and the
Eastern Coast.
62. The first of these oifers considerable facilities, the Victoria
giving access to the interior ; the navigation is by no means diffi-
cult, if due precaution be observed. That the country is suited for
stock, is shown by the excellent condition of our horses and sheep,
which recovered rapidly from a state of extreme exhaustion, con-
sequent on the protracted sea voyage, while there is reason to believe
that large tracts of good country extend as far to the S.W. as the
EitzRoy, beyond which the desert appears to come down to the
coast.
63. Considering its position within the tropic, it is well watered by
the rivers ; and though the climate is extremely hot during three
