June 22, 1857.] GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. 499
months of tlie year, the dryness of the atmosphere seems to counter-
act that "unhealthiness which is usnally inseparable from these
latitudes.
64. The country around the Gulf does not oifer any great induce-
ment to the settler, being devoid of good harbours ; the rivers are
only accessible for small vessels, while the available country bears
but small proportion to that which is utterly worthless. Its relative
position causes its climate to participate in some degree with that of
the Australian interior, and appears to be subject to drought.
65. On the eastern coast a large proportion of good country exists
along the course of the Burdekin River and its tributaries. It forms
a continuation of the tract which extends north from Moreton Bay,
over which the stations are extending with such rapidity, that a few
years will probably suffice for the settlement of the country to lati-
tude 18^
66. Judging from the character of the vegetation, the climate of
this part of Australia is cooler and more humid than that of the Gulf
or N.W. Coast ; the rainy season is not confined to any particular
period of the year, being situated between the intertropical and
extratropical climates, the wet season of the former occurring from
November to March, and the latter from May to September.
67. With reference to the aborigines of Northern Australia, I
have been able to collect little information. Except in the im-
mediate vicinity of the sea coast at the mouth of the Victoria, and
on the southern shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria, their numbers are
apparently small, though the recent traces in every part of the
country visited, showed them to be diffused over the whole, and small
parties were often seen.
68. Except on the few occasions detailed in the journal, our inter-
views were of a friendly nature, though twenty-six years' constant
intercourse with the aboriginal Australians has convinced me how
little their professions are to be relied on ; and I therefore never
relaxed those precautionary measures which, though they somewhat
interfered with the collection of information regarding their habits
and customs, has, with one exception, enabled us to avoid collision
in which life had been unavoidably sacrificed.
69. In no part did I observe any marked difference in race or form
of weapons from the aborigines of the western coast, except such
variations in the latter as were requisite from the difference of the
materials from which they were constructed. The language differed
from either that of Moreton Bay or Western Australia. Circumcision,
and the removal of the front teeth, are practised by some of the
tribes, but others did not practise either rite.
