500 GREGORY'S NORTH AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION. [June 22, 1857.
70. Circumstances over whicli I had no control compelled me to
impose many duties on the scientific officers of the expedition,
which, of course, greatly circumscribed their opportunities for col-
lecting specimens and notes relative to the departments specially in
charge. A large collection had, however, been made before I left
the Victoria, to which the unabated zeal of Mr. Elsey and Dr.
Mueller has enabled them to make many valuable additions during
the last journey ; and it gives me pleasure to record my thanks to
those gentlemen, and also to Mr. H. Gregory (to whose unwearied
care and judgment in conducting the transport service of the ex-
pedition, the extraordinary rapidity and success of the several jour-
neys are mainly attributable), for the cheerful assistance and support
they afforded me in carrying out the objects of the expedition. To
Mr. Baines I am also particularly indebted, and can only regret that
I have been compelled to detain him on service which, while it
almost precludes his devoting his time to his artistic pursuits, im-
poses duties of a peculiarly harassing nature.
71. I would also bring under his Excellency's favourable notice
the excellent conduct of Charles Dean, Eobert Bowman, and John
Melville, who accompanied me from the Victoria to Moreton Bay,
and whose constant attention to their several duties, and cheer-
fulness under privations of no ordinary nature, merit the highest
commendation.
72. I am now preparing a map of the route of the expedition from
the Victoria River towards Moreton Bay, and will transmit the same
on its completion.
73. All the documents relative to the exjpedition, previous to the
21st June last, are now on board the Messenger, which vessel was
employed on the service of the expedition after the Tom Tough be-
came unfit for further service ; and I daily expect her arrival in
Sydney, with the remainder of the party in charge of Mr. Baines.
I have the honour to be. Sir,
Your obedient servant,
A. C. Greoory,
Commanding N. A. Expedition.
The Honourahle the Colonial Secretary,
&c,, cfcc, &c.y Sydney.
Mr. J. E. Elsey, f.r.g.s., surgeon to the North Australian expedition,
made a few remarks on some of the physical features of the country traversed
hy the expedition. He brought forward a short report which he had furnished
to Mr. Gregory, of the climate of the country, and its sanitary effect upon the
party. He hoped before the next meeting of the Society to have corrected and
completed a meteorological journal kept by him at the Victoria Elver, during
