June 22, 1857.] FITTON ON NORTH-WESTERN AUSTRALIA. 501
nine months, which was at present, with other more detailed notes, on hoard
the Messenger.
The President asked whether it was discovered that the Newcastle range
divided the waters that fell into the Gulf of Carpentaria from those that flowed
into the ocean ?
Mr. Elsey replied that the Newcastle range did not divide them. It was a
peculiar feature of the range that the Gilbert river ran through it.
The President said the Meeting would agree with him that the exploration
of Mr. Gregory and his associates had been one of the most remarkable ever
undertaken by the explorers of Austraha. The Society had already honoured
the chief of the expedition with their Gold Medal; and he was sure, from
what had fallen from Mr. Elsey, that a whole evening might still be profitably
devoted to the consideration of the subject.
The third Paper read was —
3. On the Structure of North- Western Australia. ByWM. H. Fitton, Esq.,
M.D., F.R.G.S., &c.
Addressed to Sir Eoderick I. Murchison.
Having undertaken so long ago as in 1825 to examine and describe
some specimens brought from the coast of Australia by Captain
Philip Parker King, R.n., I ascertained the disposition of the strata
on the part of the north-western coast which that officer has de-
scribed ; and finding in Captain Flinders, an account of the chains
of islands, where he closed one division of his survey, I was led to
connect his observations at the N.W. of the Gulf of Carpentaria with
what I had learned from Captain King— the distance between the
two stations and the extreme points of this region being not less
than 18° of longitude, — about 1250 English miles.
The following is an extract from Captain Flinders's description of
a part of the N.W. coast :* —
" A third chain of islands commences here, which, like Bromby's and the
English Company's Islands, extends out north-eastward from the coast. I
have frequently observed a great similarity, both in the ground plans and
elevations of hills and of islands, in the vicinity of each other ; but do not re-
collect another instance of such a likeness in the arrangements of clusters of
islands. This third chain is doubtless what is marked in the Dutch chart as
one long island, and in some charts is called ' Wessel's Eylandt,' which name
I retain, with a slight modification, calling them WesseVs Islands. They had
been seen from the N. end of Cotton's Island to reach as far as thirty miles out
from the main coast ; but this is not more than half their extent, if the Dutch
chart be at all correct."
These observations from a geographer of such talents and experi-
ence as Captain Flinders, coinciding with what I had learned from
the maps and specimens of Captain King, led me to the speculations
* Flinders's ' Voyage to Terra Australis (vol. ii. p. 24), prosecuted in the years
1801 to 1803 '—with an Atlas. London. Two vols. 4to. Not published till 1814.
