502 FITTON ON NORTH-WESTERN AUSTRALIA. [June 22, 1857.
given in the paper, whicli form a part of the Appendix to the voyage
of Captain King,* and which have been confirmed by more recent
observation ; so that it is now ascertained as matter of fact that the
whole of the N.W. coast, from the Gulf of Carpentaria to the scene
of Captain King's observations, and those of the French voyages on
the W., — may be regarded as one great deposit of ancient sandstone,
extending to more than 14° of longitude (about 973 English miles),
and forming, apparently, a great natural division of the country.
This view, which is given as a speculation in the Appendix to
Captain King's work, published in 1825, has been confirmed by
the more recent observations of Leichhardt,| and especially by
the valuable discoveries of Captain Stokes in the years 1837 to
1840. J It is further confirmed by the observations obtained during
a recent expedition of Mr. Gregory, of which an account has been
published in the Geographical Journal, and a sketch given in
Arrowsmith's map of 1856; — and by the tracings of Mr. Wilson,
the geologist connected with that expedition, which represent several
remarkable ranges of sandstone, named Stokes, Newcastle, Elles-
mere, and Murchison Eanges ; all of them according in direction and
composition with what was to have been expected.
A copy of Arrowsmith's map, which I now send, with lines rudely
marked upon it, will sufficiently explain these views ; representing
first, the remarkable ranges on the N.W. coast, described by Captain
Flinders ; secondly, the course of Leiehhardt's journey, which ex-
hibits two portions — first, a line parallel to the coast at the bottom
of the Gulf of Carpentaria, and, secondly, a continuation, nearly in
the same direction, of streams connecting that gulf with Van Die-
men Gulf, and passing through a remarkable group of mountains,
which form what is called in the map a high table-land, 3000 or 400{)
feet high ; thirdly, a portion of Yictoria Eiver, discovered by Cap-
tain Stokes ; and fourthly, the remarkable group of islands, extending
from Dampier Land to Cape Londonderry, and exhibiting numer-
ous instances of the peculiar form resulting from the sunimit of trap-
rocks, described by Captain Stokes and represented by Captain
King, — with long straight fissures, of which Prince Eegent Eiver
is a remarkable example. §
* * Narrative of a Survey of the Inter-tropical and Western Coasts of Australia.*
Two vols. London : 1826. Appendix, vol. ii, pp. 556 and 600.
t ' Journal of an Overland Expedition in Australia from Moreton Bay to Port
Essington,'— a distance of upwards of 300 miles, 1844 to 1845. London: 1847.
X ' Discoveries in Australia, with an Account of the Coast and Rivers explored
and surveyed during the Voyages of H.M.S. Beagle, in the years 1837 to 1842.'
By John Lort Stokes, Capt. r.n. Two vols. London, 1846.
§ See the Plate, given by Captain King, of a portion of strata, consisting of
reddish sandstone, on Prince Regent River. Vol. ii. p. 40.
