June 22, 1857.] TVVYFOKD ON THE SOURCES OF THE WHITE NILE. 503
It may be remarked that the general outline of the island of
Timor, at the distance of about 250 miles, is nearly parallel to the
direction of the strata in this portion of Australia.* And, perhaps,
it may not be carrying speculation too far to observe that the lines
of direction of the strata, in several points in the northern hemi-
sphere, nearly coincide with that above mentioned, the pre-
dominant ranges in North America and in England having a direc-
tion nearly from N.E. to S.W.
The points of resemblance of a large portion of the S.W. of this
part of Australia to the old red sandstone (Devonian) of England, are
obvious ; and the analogy is increased by the trappean rocks, which,
in many instances, are found, especially on the N.W. coast, capping,
or alternating with, red sandrock; but no fossils have yet come
to my hands.
The relations of the sandstone in the S. of Australia, and in Van
Diemen Land, are now interesting subjects for inquiry.
The President pointed out the vakie of this memoir to geologists, and
warmly commended the speculations of his old and eminent friend Dr. Fitton.
The fourth Paper read was —
4. Notes relative to the late proposed Expedition to discover the Sources
of the White Nile. By Mr. A. W. Twyford.
This expedition was organised in the autumn of last year, through
the direction of the Pasha of Egypt, by M. le Comte d'Escayrac
de Lauture, who, in accordance with the wishes of the Pasha, col-
lected for the purpose twelve gentlemen from different European
countries. Through the kind introduction I received from your
Secretary, Dr. Shaw, to the Count d'Escayrac, I had the honour of
receiving •'one of the appointments with a view of assisting in
navigating the boats up the Nile.
As communications respecting the objects of the expedition have
already been made to the Society by Count d'Escayrac, I feel it
only necessary under the circumstances to explain what part I
myself took in the expedition. As every one knows the route from
Marseilles to Cairo, I will not dwell upon that part of my trip,
but at once begin by stating that we arrived at Cairo on the 27th of
September, 1856, and after consuming a good deal of time, through
want of preparation before my arrival, I managed to start with the
* The line which includes the gi'eat volcanoes of Symbaua has a direction
nearly from east to west, making a considerable angle with that of Australia, &c.,
a change not impossibly connected with volcanic action. I find in Mrs. Somer-
ville's Physical Geography that the line of direction of Wessel and the other
islands is continued in New Guinea, but the authority is not mentioned.
