504 TWYFORD ON THE SOURCES OF THE WHITE NILE. [June 22, 1857.
boats on the 19tli of the following month ; it having been arranged
at Cairo, that with M. Pouchet the doctor, and Mr. Clagne the pho-
tographer, I should proceed with my flotilla to Berber, up the river,
there to be joined by M. d'Escayrac de Lauture and the rest of
the party.
Under instnictions from the Government I had collected at Cairo
one steamer of 30 horse-power, one of 15, and four of the large-sized
coTintry boats heavily laden with waggons, which were considered
necessary for the expedition, with four ordinary ship-boats.
I was furnished with a guard of sixty soldiers and sailors, and
invested with the command of this— the nautical— part of the
expedition.
Having left Cairo on the 19th of October, 1856, we were towed
by two large steamers as far as the first cataract, where we aiiived
on the 31st of same month.
As so many country boats now pass over this cataract eveiy year,
the difficulty is greatly diminished as regards that sort of craft, but,
as far as steamers are concerned, it is very different, for with the
exception, I believe, of the two steamers that conveyed Mahomet Ali
and his suite to Korosko, about the year 1820, the steamer under
my charge is the only one that has been cari'ied over.* The chief
difficulties I encountered here arose from the dislike that the sailors
had to pass over the cataracts in the steamers, and the terror with
which the natives viewed the proceeding altogether.
Nothing short of my immediate presence in each boat, as it went
over, would induce any of them to work at all. It took about a day
to pass each boat over, having frequently upwards of 600 men all
pulling or pretending to pull at once. It was entirely owing to
my being there too late in the year that I failed in getting the large
steamer over, for I am persuaded that it would be comparatively
easy to pass any vessel, not drawing more than 10 feet of water,
over the first cataract in the months of July and August. For this
reason we left the largest steamer behind, as when once the Nile
has commenced falling it does so with amazing rapidity.
The first cataract is nothing more than a very narrow and shallow
succession of channels, through which the water pours with great
rapidity at the rate of 6 or 8 miles an hour. About 3 miles from
* With reference to a paragraph that appeared in * The Papers ' that I had lost
one of the steamers under my charge in ascending the first cataract, I beg to state
that this assertion was incorrect. The facts of the case were these: — Finding
I was not able to get my second (the largest of the two) steamer up the cataract,
I left it at Assouan ; but a steamer belonging to the Pasha, that was at Assouan
at the same time, was lost in an attempt to ascend the cataract, which probably
led to the above mistake.
