June 22, 1857.] TWYFORD ON THE SOURCES OF THE WHITE NILE. 505
Assouan I came to the first ridge of rocks, which stretches, with the
exception of a very narrow channel, right across the river. The
water pours through this channel at great speed, but the engines
were powerful, and we got through in safety. From Assouan up to
this part of the catara<3t there were 10 to 20 feet of water. After
getting over this, you go through quiet waters for about three-
quarters of a mile or so, when you come to the second ridge, which
is a repetition of the first, with the exception that the higher you go
the greater is the difficulty, as the water then runs with greater
rapidity and the channel becomes more shallow. The steamer
passed through the second rapid ; but on coming to the third, the
engines were not able to hold their own, and began to go astern, on
seeing which there was a universal yell set up by the rais or boat-
swain of the cataracts and his men— as they were told that if any-
thing happened to the boats they would have their heads cut ofi" by
Said Pasha, the Viceroy. Overboard they all went, and in a few
minutes we had about 800 men pulling awa}^ on the ropes, and after
an immense struggle with the water, we passed over. Another ten
minutes brought us to a comer round which the water ran more
rapid than ever. Here we again went astern, although the engines
were going at full power. Here the steamer struck on the rocks,
and although the boat had no hole made in her, I was in momentary
fear of losing the screw or the rudder. The Governor of Assouan and
his numerous attendants got into a fright here, and began to count
their beads. The women and children were driven out of the neigh-
bouring hovels and made to catch hold of the ropes, and at last we
succeeded in hauling the steamer off.
We next reached the fourth ridge, where the steamer struck
violently on the rocks.* She was then on the west side of the channel,
but we got her off again and tried her in the middle channel, and
there she struck again, and continued bumping violently. I then
saw that it was quite impossible to get her over the rapids, and after
taking counsel with the Governor, I determined to take her back to
Assouan, at which place we arrived in the evening.
The following day I went over the cataracts with the rais, and got
capsized out of my boat ; but I am of opinion that the large steamer
might have been taken over if I had received proper assistance.
On the following day I determined to make another attempt with
the steamer over the cataracts, but as the rais refused to lend me
assistance I was obliged to give up the attempt.
On Wednesday, 12th of November, I got my last boat over the
* This Channel, after December, is quite dry.
