38 GARDNER. [Feb. 25, 1856.
posed oil them. The number of families, according to the Prince, does
not exceed 20,000.
" The Gipsies, or Tzigans, whose numbers are great, amounting to
120,000 souls, are an intelligent and industrious race, and in their
general condition of prsedial slavery (for few are in reality emancipated)
are a reproach to the country and to the Government. Many of them
are taught arts. They are the blacksmiths, locksmiths, bricklayers,
masons, farriers, musicians, and cooks especially, of the whole country.
A short time since Mr. Willis, of Bombay, nephew of Mr. Young, the
celebrated husbandman, who held large estates near Theodosia in the
Crimea, which, after his decease, Mr. Willis was proceeding to sell, passed
through Jassy on his route to Odessa. On a friendly visit to me the con-
versation fell on thi,s singular people, and I sent for one who had a forge
near the consulate, and whom I had often employed. I had often thought
them to be of distant Indian origin, but they give themselves the Egyptian
appellative of Pharaon. Mr. Willis, who spoke Hindostanee, found
that he could hold converse with them in that language. The glare of
wild surprise in the eyes of the Gipsy at finding a stranger speaking a
common language, made a strong impression on both of us. In a work
on the frescoes of Thebes, the Egyptian task-master is represented as
overlooking the Jews making bricks, and the observations on the latter
are that the same features are to be met with at present at Rag Fair, in
London. It is the case with the poor Tzigan or Gipsy. His features are
quite Egyptian, but, poor fellow, he is become the brickmaker under
harder masters than his fathers had ever been to the Jews. The period of
the immigration of the Gipsies into Moldavia, I could never learn from
the Moldavians. Their numbers during the former reigns of their princes
or rulers excited alarm, and they were distributed as serfs amongst the
Boyards, treated as the brute beasts of the field, and disposed of by sale
or by transfer. A late order of the Assembly-General emancipated the
Gipsies in the church domains, and Prince Michael Stourdza emanci-
pated his own, but the Boyards composing the Assembly did not permit
the Gipsies on their own estates to partake of the same benefit; and it
is a measure which has never had any real execution with the others.
Tliey remain in their condition of prsedial slavery, and are employed for
every servile or menial ofliice. They dwell in winter in subterranean
excavations, the roof alone appearing above ground, and in summer in
brown serge tents of their own fabric. The Russians in their winter
campaigns in Turkey, and in these provinces, have imitated these exca-
vations in lieu of encampments, and they seem admirably adapted for it.
The idea may also have originated from the castrum of the Roman
legions in Dacia, during the winter. The children, to the age of 10
or 12, are in a complete state of nudity, but the men and women, the
