506 TWYFORD ON THE SOURCES OF THE WHITE NILE. [June 22, 1857.
cataracts, and on Thursday the 13th started at daylight with all the
boats before me. About 8 a.m. came to a village named " Koulou-
tout," where two of the rais or pilots had their country-houses of
mud, and where at their request I stopped for ten minutes to allow
them to get some food that their families had prepared for them.
The whole population ran out to say " Good bye " to their relations,
crying bitterly ; for they all thought that we would never return.
The wife of one of the pilots made her appearance with a sheep
as a present to me. As long as the villagers could walk along the
shore they kept the boats in company, wailing and screaming fear-
fully ; and when the shore came to an abrupt termination, they all
set to work throwing water at us for good luck.
The morning that the first of my boats tried to get over, the rais
of the cataracts sacrificed a sheep to some saint's tomb or another, to
persuade him to get the boats over safely ; and when the steamer
struck on the rocks, he swore by Mahomed that he would never
waste another sheep. One of my cawasses also told my interpreter
that as he had to go over the cataracts next day, he had sacrificed a
sheep the night before.
On Sunday the 23rd we reached the village of Wadi Halfeh. As
soon as possible I went up to the foot of the second cataract in the
steamer, and we then took to a little cutter and went over the
cataracts. These deserve the name of cataracts, though the first do
not.
There are two channels, one easier than the other, both passable
at high Nile ; but I arrived too late for the easy and safe passage,
and had to wait until the large passage became passable. The water
rushes through with the greatest violence, and there is a 2 or 3 feet
fall.
The cataracts are a succession of rapids, each one as you ascend
being worse than the former.
I took the efiendi and the sheik of the village with me in the
cutter, who were both in a great fright. They had neither of them
been over the cataracts, and never would have gone of their own
free will. The cataracts do not present such a fine view to the eye
as one would expect, but they are much more extensive and more
dangerous than the cataracts at Assouan.
No one can conceive the rapidity with which the water pours
down. For instance, it took me, in a small boat pulled by ropes and
fifty men, eight hours to ascend, and one to come down ; and in
ascending one rapid, it was as much as I could do to sit still without
going head over heels into the water, the boat's bow was so much
above the stern.
