June 22, 1857.] TWYFOKD ON THE SOURCES OF THE WHITE NILE. 507
Monday, 24tli November. — From the date of my arrival at Wadi
Halfeh till my departure, it blew a strong gale from the N.AV. and
was very cold.*
T was 16 days in passing the steamer and dahabiahs (boats) over
these cataracts, during which time I kept 3500 men fully employed.
Some of the men I took from Assouan and the villages as I came
along, and the rest were sent all the way from Dongola.
The cataracts are 12 miles in length by 3, and are interspersed
with rocks and islands, t some a mile in length, and the channels
alter according to the time of year at which boats happen to arrive.
In some places I found a fall of water of 3 or 4 feet, and in others
the rapids had to be passed over a straight piece of water of 300 or
400 yards.
On the morning of the 1 5th of December, after great difficulty and
contention with the natives, and much anxiety on my part, we got
clear of the Wadi Halfeh or cataract, and on the following morning
started early for Dongola. On our way we found four more cataracts :
the names of these are Ambercole, Tangiir, Dal, and Hannek.
After having with difficulty surmounted them, we proceeded up the
river and arrived at Dongola on Sunday the 4th of January, 1857.
Here I waited a fortnight to repair the boats.
On the morning of the 28th I started towards Meroe, or the fourth
cataract; and on reaching the village of Ambercole received a
letter from his Highness the Viceroy, informing me that the
expedition was broken up, and ordering me to return, but to wait
for him at the village of Abdiim, where he would join me in a few
days from Khartum.
On Friday, 6th of February, the Pasha with his suite and troops
arrived, and we all returned to Dongola. I was then informed of
the particulars which led to the breaking up of the expedition, and
received orders to return overland to Cairo, at which place I arrived,
after a veiy fatiguing journey, on Sunday the 19th of April.
I cannot submit these few hurried notes without making a few
concluding remarks. When I accepted my appointment from the
Count d'Escayrac, I was not aware that I should have held the
responsible situation I did. A French naval officer was to have had
the command of the boats ; but as he did not make his appearance in
time, I was obliged to take his place. I was determined, however,
not to shrink from the responsibility — the pride of being the only
Englishman in the expedition, the confidence I had in my own
* The meteorological and other observations I made, I will take another oppor-
tunity of communicating to the Royal Geographical Society.
t These islands are barren, though at high Nile they are mostly under water.
