508 WITT'S REPORT ON SEA-WATER. [June 22, 1857.
determination to do my best, and the hope of distinguishing myself,
bore me up. I very much regretted that boats especially adapted
for the purpose had not been built in England. If this had been
done, the great and almost insurmountable difficulties I sustained at
Wadi Half eh would have been in a great measure obviated ; and had
I left Cairo at the proper season I should have experienced much
less trouble altogether. When I heard that this expedition was
abandoned, it was a great source of satisfaction to me to know that
my conduct had been appreciated by the Eoyal Geographical
Society.
The President said, they must all feel proud of the prowess of their
young couatryman. He must remind them that M. d'Escayrac, the head of
the expedition, was the author of a valuable work on the geography of Sudan,
and he only regretted that the dissensions which had broken out in his camp,
had prevented him from joining Mr. Twyford at the cataracts of the Upper
Nile, and thus carrying the expedition towards its ultimate destination.
The fifth Paper read was —
5. Report of the Expedition for the Exploration of the Rewa River and
its Tributaries, Na tite Levie', Fiji Islands. By Dr. Macdonald, k.n.
Communicated by the Admiralty.
[This Paper will be published in full in the next Journal.]
The sixth Paper read was —
6. Report on the Specific Gravity of the Sea- Water on the West Coast of
Africa. By Henry M. Witt, f.c.s.
Koyal College of Chemistry, April 17, 1857.
Sir, — The samples of sea-water collected on the western coast of
Africa by Dr. Campbell, and placed in my hands by you, were, I
regret to say, far too small to admit of chemical analysis.
The colour which the sea had acquired by the influx of a large
river you mentioned as being peculiar, and were desirous of informa-
tion as to the nature and amount of the colouring matter : all that I
have been enabled to ascertain on the subject is, that it was evi-
dently a suspended yellow substance which modified the usual green
colour of the sea ; this suspended matter had separated from the
water in the samples submitted to me, and appeared curiously light
and flocculent, so that it would suggest for itself a more or less or-
ganic origin ; but its amount was really small, in some of the samples
only just visible : so that to have made a chemical examination of it
