510 WITT'S REPORT ON SEA-WATER. [June 22, 1857.
SO that it would appesTr probable that the Atlantic has a higher
specific gravity than the Pacific, and it would be interesting to con-
firm this by further observations, or more correctly by actual deter-
minations of the quantity of saline matter.
Of course the density of inland seas, as the Mediterranean, &c., is
higher than that of the Atlantic or Pacific Oceans.
Although the fact of the diminution of the specific gravity of sea-
water by the influx of large rivers is an observation which we should
anticipate a priori^ I find only two other recorded sets of experiments
on the point. Mulder * states that the specific gravity of the At-
lantic falls, in the North Sea, where several large rivers enter
it, to 1-0255 ; and Dr. John Davy j found that at the mouth of the
Demerara the density of the water was 1-0036, w^hilst that of the sea
eighty miles distant was 1*0266; and my own experiments show a
similar diminution, the sample taken nearest the Loando coast (viz.
in long. 8° 27' E.) having a specific gravity of 1*02520, whilst in
the long. 3° 37' E., or 4° 50' further from the coast, the specific
gravity of the sea-water rose to 1-02786.
I have, &c.,
Heney M. AVitt, F.C.S., Assistant Chemist.
To Sir Roderick Impey Murch'son, president r.g.s., &c., &c.
The President next announced the titles of other papers which, for want
of time, had not yet been read.
He had also to call their attention to a series of remarkable water-colour
sketches of the mountains of porphyry, basalt, and other igneous rocks in
the interior of Asia, extending into China— countries of which they had
hitherto possessed little knowledge. The explorer of this region, Mr. Atkinson,
was present, and was about to produce a beautifully illustrated work which
would throw new light upon the structure of the interior of Asia.
The President then gave some information respecting the expedition which
was about to proceed to the Arctic regions under Captain M'Clintock, Great
importance was attached to the acquisition of an interpreter, and they knew
that an Esquimaux interpreter was not easily obtained. The Secretary had
long ago been in correspondence with Captain Irminger, of the Danish navy, to
procure the services of that excellent man Petersen, who had lived among the
Esquimaux in Greenland a long time, and who had already served as inter-
preter with Penny and Kane. That person had arrived from Greenland at
Copenhagen a few days ago, and intelligence of the fact having been received
on Saturday, he (the President) had immediately telegraphed to Captain Irminger,
requesting him to send off Petersen at once. He was happy to say that an
answer had been received, stating that Petersen would be in I^ondon on
Wednesday, and proceed on Thursday to Aberdeen. The expedition would
sail immediately on his arrival.
In concluding the business of the meeting, and at the same time closing the
session of 1856-57, the President said he was sure his associates would admit
* Poggeudorf s Annalen, xxxix. 513.
t Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, xliv. 43. »
