June 22, 1857.] FLEMING ON THE RIVERS OF KAFRARIA, &c. 511
that there never had been a session of the Geographical Society more pro-
ductive of valuable results than the one which had just transpired. Lastly,
he had the pleasure to announce that having applied to the University of
London, and to the Royal Society, for permission to assemble in their great
room at Burlington House during the ensuing season, the request had been
willingly conceded. They would thus have a spacious place of meeting, where
ladies as well as gentlemen might assemble, without being exposed to the
inconvenience which had been felt in their present small apartments.
The President then formally declared the Session to be closed.
ADDITIONAL NOTICES.
1. A short Account of a Journey across the Rivers of British Kafraria,
thence from the Great Kei to the Gnabaha River, with a Description and
Sketches of Fossil Remains near the mouth of the Gnabaha. By the Rev.
Francis Fleming, m.a., f.e.g.s.
I LEFT King William Town at 5 a.m. on Monday, Nov. 21, 1853, and having
heard of some gigantic fossil remains lying somewhere near -the mouth of the
Gnabaka, I determined to visit them, and likewise see something of the country
lying near that river and the Basliee. Having but six days' leave, I conse-
quently felt that I had undertaken no easy week's work, as these rivers rise
about 150 miles to the n.e, of King William Town, and in the centre of Kreli's
Kafirs, among whom the rebel Hottentots had been dispersed. 1 put my full
confidence, however, in the savage honour of the Kafirs, and determined to go
nowhere without one, from whom I would first exact a promise to guide me
safely. This I found to answer admirably, as during my trip I had on different
occasions, and in different localities, six Kafir guides, who all fulfilled strictly
their engagements with me, conducted me safely, prevented interruptions and
inquiries from the Hottentots, and brought me back to the point whence we
started. From the English traders who are located in that wild country I
also received the greatest hospitality and aid, was everywhere received gladly,
given the best of all they possessed, and procured the Kafir guides when I
required them.
I travelled rapidly during the six days I was in the saddle. In the upper
parts of the country there are of course no roads. I crossed the Great Kei
river about 25 miles from its mouth, and found there that the Butterworth
river is not the Coga, as laid down on some maps, but the Goa, which runs
into the Great Kei about 20 miles from its mouth. The Coga is then the next
river. East of this it runs near Butterworth, and falls into the sea at Mazeppa
Bay.
The next river that I crossed was the Gwaninga, which runs nearly parallel
to the Coga, about 20 miles n.e., and also empties itself into the sea. It is
not more than 40 miles long from its source to its mouth. The Ixixini was
the next. This is a larger river, and rises about 60 miles from the coast, in
three sources, which join about half way down, and then flow into the ocean
through one mouth, about 20 miles n.e. of the Gwaninga.
We next reached the Gnabaka. This is a much larger river than it is repre-
sented to be. It rises in the hills which formerly belonged to the great Kafir
chief Hintza, who was slain in single combat by Sir Harry Smith. It has five
distinct heads to the Little Gnabaka, and three to the Great Gnabaka. These
flow into one course, each about 10 miles below the other : the first, which rises
in the Great Gnabaka, about 85 miles from the coast ; the smaller Gnabaka,
2 s
