June 22, 1857.] HEWETT ON THE JOLLOFFS OF WEST AFIUCA. 515
ment, lend to the place the appearance of an extensive rickyard, until the tra-
veller, arriving at a square, beholds the tenements unmasked.
The houses are built of clay burnt hard by the sun, and are very neat in
aspect, and consist of a circular w^all, built of mud, two to four feet higli,
pierced with ornamented loop-holes as windows, and a doorless entrance, the
lintel of which is sometimes modelled into pillars, which last, like all primitive
ornamental architecture, is imitative of the prevailing vegetable feature of the
country, in this instance the palm. "Within this inclosure is another and a higher
circular wall, like a tower, having a lofty doorway, and the rafters for the roof
are laid resting on this wall and on the lower one ; these are thatched over, and
then the hut is finished off as before described. The doorway of the inner chamber
opens in the opposite direction to the low entrance, and this apartment, not-
withstanding its utter want of ventilation, is that of the master and his favour-
ite sultana, while the exterior gallery is the dormitory of the slaves, domestics,
and children, and is also the kitchen, where in the evenings the fires are
kindled against the inner wall, which is thus burnt like brick. Each house
possesses a rectangular inclosed yard, in which is a shed having a mat on the
ground, where the master performs his devotions and religious ablutions, and
the sides of these inclosures form the previously-mentioned linings to the
streets. I may here remark that each one of these huts is a small castle in
itself, and is so admirably adapted for defence, that one man might evade his
pursuer or defend it some time against numerous assailants.
The squares generally contain, besides other dwellings, the mosque; the
school, over which a Marabou presides, expounding the Koran, teaching the
youth, and preparing some of them for the priesthood ; and the residence of
the Marabou, where may be seen the JoUoff books, which consist of wooden
tablets whitened and superscribed with Arabic characters.
The principal square is distinguished by a lofty tree in the centre, and is
called the "penang" or market-place, and here the caravanserai is situated,
the horses and camels belonging to halted caravans picketed, palavers held,
and, beneath the spreading branches of the tree, the women meet to dance, the
men to hold festival, and the children assemble to celebrate certain Olympic
games.
The granaries, wherein they deposit their ground-nuts, «&:c. are cane edifices
erected on posts of palm-trunks, and the doors are merely bolted ; while to the
bolt is affixed a gree-gree or charm, which, the people being afraid to touch lest
some mischief should befal them, serves as a lock.
The JoUoff cattle are very similar to the small short- horned Highland breed ;
but the sheep are the most remarkable animals, being long-legged, as tall as a
small calf, marked piebald, yellow, brown, or black, and long-tailed. At first
I mistook them for calves, and, as I said before, I do not recollect ever having
seen them gathered in flocks. The horses are small, symmetrical, spirited, and
tireless ; but, being ridden with cruelly sharp bits, are not pleasant to the hand
of an Englishman, and certainly are most incommodiously accoutred.
The JoUoffs are very superstitious, and are covered with amulets consisting
of beads ; pieces of cut, embossed, stamped, and enamelled leather, in number
and beauty proportionate to the wearer's wealth ; and snake-like necklaces of
polished leather, in quantity and weight sufficient to bend the neck. The
beads are either fancy beads or the Mahomedan rosary, and the others, amulets
both decorative and useful, are called gree-grees. They consist of illuminated
extracts from the Koran, enveloped in leather and beautifully ornamented-—
sometimes twenty on a string, and sometimes the whole Koran itself. These
talismen are supposed to defend the bearer from certain terrestrial evils; to
possess curative power ; and even to ensure a passport to, and safe reception in
Paradise.
These charms vary in value according to the price paid for them, and this
