516 HEWETT ON THE JOLLOFFS OF WEST AFRICA. [June 22, 1857.
depends up(m the degree of fame for sanctity the transcriber of the enclosed
verse enjoys. Again, the value increases as the Marabou's sanctity increases ;
and vice versa. The production of a youthful saint might only avail against
rheumatism or lesser maladies ; thus a man afflicted with that disease will so
load the part affected as to impede the free use of the limb ; and the little
children rolling in the sand, though utterly naked, are laden with strings' of
cheap gree-grees, sometimes even crossed over the body like the belts of a
soldier, protecting, as it is beheved, the infant from the bites of insects, and
lesser evils incidental to childhood. The people do not object to part with
a gree-gree for a consideration ; and the case, if opened, will be found to
enclose a MS. exceedingly skilfully executed in illuminated Arabic characters.
Prompted by curiosity, I uncased a crescent-shaped amulet. The exterior
covering was of leather, very neatly sewn, enveloping a goat's horn, the orifice
of which was sealed by what had been an aromatic composition ; beneath which
coating lay two pages (superscribed with texts from the Koran), yellow with
time and worm-drilled — two pages of a printed English tract or sermon dated
thirty years back ! Little did the author and distributor anticipate the use
to which the tract would be devoted.
The Jolloff religion is a mild form of Moslem, devoid of the intolerant
bigotry that disgraces the creed of their neighbours the Moors of Ludamar ;
wherefore, few but the Marabous scruple to drink intoxicating liquors, and
few entertain the orthodox animosity to Christians.
Notwithstanding the credulous superstition of the race, the Jolloff worship
is pure Mahomedan, unsullied by any admixture of idolatry or paganism, but
inculcating rigid observance of the various feasts, fasts, and ablutions, and pro-
selytisation both by sword and by missionaries.
At Bathurst I met a Moor, — a bishop, I suppose, — who, surrounded by dis-
ciples, was on his travels, confirming and strengthening the faith of the waver-
ing, and adding new converts to his religion. The Mahomedan religion
consequently increases rapidly among the Kafir (infidel) tribes, while, from
the comparatively attractive nature of that creed, few belonging to it are con-
verted to Christianity — excepting the females, who, when dwelling in European
colonies, and finding that in the Christian creed they enjoy equal rights with
the men, are often converted.
The Jolloff is a musical race, possessing numerous musical instruments;
and a synod of bards, which, T understand, confers degrees in music on the
minstrels, one of whom, attached to the train of each eminent man, extols his
patron's greatness, generosity, and deeds in arms, and, relating his pedigree,
and eulogising each distinguished warrior who passes in review, stimulates the
auditory to emulate the fame of those celebrated. The others are the his-
torians of the country, who, roaming from place to place, from festival to
funeral, celebrate whoever and whatever desired ; reciting the history, martial
achievements, and ancient traditions of the people ; and, when occasion demands,
inciting the populace, by heroic strains, to maintain the warlike renown of
their sires.
Some of the airs are simple and pretty, others are wild and undistinguish-
able ; and one of the most popular is almost the same as the Persian national
air, which is called by the Hindoos " Taza-ba-Taza."
The males dress, as do the Arabs, in a loose toga-like garment of striped
and coloured homespun cloth, and wear on their heads either an embroidered
white cap, something similar to a Glengarry bonnet, or a turban formed of a
white wrapper, which, in the evening and morning when the atmosphere is
chilly, is worn like a plaid, and as a turban at midday, when the head requires
protection from the burning sun. Their feet are shod with red sandals, the
straps of which are neatly sewn and embroidered, and they are armed with
swords and daggers encased in handsome red leather sheaths, stamped, em-
