JusiE 22, 1857.] HEWETT ON THE JOLLOFFS OF WEST AFRICA. 617
broidered, and enamelled ; with spears of curious workmanship, and muskets.
The chiefs possess robes of coloured cloth, embroidered with gold, and their
everyday garments are well and tastefully embroidered with coloured cotton
or silk.
They are armed with muskets, with curiously wrought spears, swords, and
daggers ; and their sandals, bridles, and saddles, are generally tastefully deco-
rated. The pieces are procured from the French merchants at Senegal and the
English of Gambia, the silk for embroidery from the Moors, and the iron
weapons and leathern articles they either fashion themselves or procure from
their neighbours the Mandingoes, a race peculiarly skilful in such work ; in
barter for gold and silver trinkets, in winch the Jolloflfs much delight, and
which appear to constitute their chief wealth. These leathern articles are
also given to the Jolloffs in payment for working rough gold, as in the gold-
smith's trade they much excel ; and the cunning with which they fashion the
precious metals, even with their clumsy tools, is wonderful, almost rivalling
the celebrated Maltese work in ingenuity and minuteness.
All business is conducted through the alcade of a town, who, on application
being made, orders his men to procure whatever may be wanted; receives
whatever payment he himself has fixed ; discharges the claim of the artisan,
and of course reserves a commission for himself. Regular trading caravans are
received and dispatched to all quarters — to St. Louis and Mogador, to the Arabs,
to the Mandingoes, westward and southward, and even to the banks of the
Gambia. Owing, however, to the number of petty independent townsliips which,
ever at war with one another, intercept and plunder these caravans laden with
slaves, tobacco, baft, cloth, gold, and ivory, on the journey to or from a hostile
tribe— less frequently to the last than to the other places — wars are too often
declared on a frivolous pretext, either with the Mandingoes or with the Kafir
(infidel) tribes, for the purpose of collecting slaves ; but now that the slave-
trade of the Senegal and Gambia rivers has been abolished, these raids are
undertaken with the ultimate view of selling to the Moors the unfortunate
prisoners captured. These predatory forays among the infidels have another
object, viz., the conversion — in obedience to the injunctions of the Koran — by
fire and sword, to the Moslem religion : thus, as interest is made to accord
with duty, and those who fall in these crusades are preferred in Paradise above
all others, the wars are frequent, and the tribes gathered to the fold of the
" true believers " increase daily.
The JoUofif people are mild, hospitable, possessing no sanguinary laws ; and,
in hope of opening a trade, always welcome a " tobaubo," or white man, towards
whom, notwithstanding his creed — especially repugnant to Mussulmans — they
are invariably gentle, accommodating, and inoffensive. A European may
traverse their country in perfect safety, and even by himself, if he possess a
knowledge of Arabic, and provides himself with a few colar-mits for distribu-
tion ; as the presentation and acceptance of a colar seals a friendly compact, the
breach of which would be esteemed a crime of the blackest dye. The colar is
a bitter pink kernel, brought from Sierra Leone. It is an excellent tonic, and is
so preventive of thirst, that a JoUoff having one in his mouth will walk 30 miles
without drinking water ; and on this account, in a country where fresh water
is only procurable at the city wells, the colar must be highly prized.
In conclusion : the recollection of the journey my mind now retains is that of
galloping over an immense unenclosed plain, threading tangled jungles, and pass-
ing through dark forests ; of seeing expanses of tall grass, eight or nine feet high,
which seemed to bar the way, but when approached, a small opening, a dark
green cave through which the path winds, would appear. I would dart in,
the grass waved and whispered as it closed around me, and my knees brushed
the stems, arched over my head and obscuring the sky from my view ; but
wild as was the scene, it is one of indescribable beauty, and having been once
presented to the eye, has over after an irresistible fascination and attraction.
