40 RAWLINSON; the gipsies. • [Feb. 25, 185G.
chief were those named by the Greeks, the Geta3 and the Sacee, or as they
.termed themselves, giving a plural ending to the nouns, Jatdn and Sagdn.*
They were famous as musicians and workers in iron, but were also notorious
for their turbulent and depraved habits. Bahram Gur, in the fourth century,
first moved a colony of them into Persia, and settled them in the modern pro-
vince of Kennan. Eastern writers, in describing this settlement, usually call
the colonists Lulls, or Luris (which is the same name as the Indian Lodi,
whence Lodiana, &c. &c., the Lodis being a branch of the Jats) ; bat the more
authentic historians, such as Ihn Mukaffd, &c., have preserved the name of_
Zatdn. Parties of these Indian Jats were still in the Kerman mountains when
the Kufs and Behis (modern Kooch and Belooch) first settled there, about the
time of the Hejrah. Other parties of them, however, had migrated westward
and established themselves in Susiana, where they gave their name of Zat to
a district in the vicinity of Ahtudz.
During the first century of Islam, the Zats or Jatdn of Susiana were joined
by large parties of their countrymen from the mouths of the Indus, who came
to the Persian Gulf as buccaneers and pirates, and subsequently settled in the
Ghaldsean marshes. Here they increased and multiplied, and all the Arabic
writers of the second century of Islam, speak of the Zats about the confluence
of the Tigris and Euphrates, as living in a state of almost complete indepen-
dence, defying the authority of the Caliph, and extending their depredations on
all sides. They were also notorious heretics, still apparently clinging to their
old Indian idolatry.
At length in a.h. 220, their turbulence becoming intoleralJ.e, Moatesem, son
of Mamun and grandson of Earun al liasMd, sent his famous general AJif
with an overwhelming force to subdue the Zats and remove them from the
country. Ten thousand of them perished in their attempt to resist the Caliph's
troops, and the remainder, with their wives and children, were forcibly deported
and brought to Baghdad. From hence, in the first instance, they were marched
to Kliannikin, on the Persian border ; but still continuing unmanageable, they
were in the sequel transplanted in a body to the Cilician frontier to be employed
as a defence against the Greeks, who were then constantly at war with the
Mohammedans along the skirts of Taurus. The Jatdn and Sagdn thus re-
mained encamped about the pass of Adana, between the cities of Tarsus,
Mopsuesta, and Anazarba, for above one hundred years. It was in a.h. 351
(a.d. 962) that the Greeks recovered for a brief period their footing in Cilicia,
and one of their first acts was to remove into the interior, about Iconium and
Cesarea, the fierce tribes who had so long harassed them on the frontier. As
the Seljukians pressed forward into Asia Minor from the eastward during the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries, it is probable that the Jatdn and Sagdn fell back
before them towards the Bosphorns, and that at the beginning of the fourteenth
century they crossed into Thrace. Shortly afterwards they first historically
appear in Bohemia.
When it is considered that we are thus able to trace a large body of Indian
colonists from the banks of the Indus to the shores of the Bosphorus, in an
almost continuous series of movements ; that the names of these colonists are
everywhere given as Jatdn and Sagdn, which so nearly correspond with the
terms Oitano and Tsigani, by which (under various corruptions) the Gipsies
are universally known both in Europe and Asia ; and that tlie Gipsies, wherever
they are found, exhibit all those characteristic signs of language, colour, coun-
tenance, and habit which should belong to the Jatdn and Sagdn of history, it
* The Jats are well known to all Indian ethnographers ; they form at tlie pre-
sent day the great mass of the population of the Punjab. The name of the Saca>,
or Sd.jdii, is als) prese ved in Sagistd'i, now called Sclst<tn,, in Dch Z rngi of the Paro-
pamisus, and in the various Zinjdns of Persia.
