Feb. 25, 185.6.] THE GIPSIES. 41
is hardly too much to say that the argument is complete, and that a very inte-
resting ethnographical problem is thus fairly solved. Whether the large Gipsy
population of Europe and Asia, now estimated at between three and four mil-
lions, can really have sprung from Bahram Gur's original colony, or whether we
may not rather suppose that that deportation, giving a direction to colonization,
was followed by the movement of large successive bodies of immigrants, is a
question that may be left for future consideration. It is only further of inte-
rest to note that the ethnic name of Boom or Romania by which alone the
European Gipsies designate themselves, arises from the long sojourn of the
race in Asia Minor, the title of Romn being applied by the Mohammedans of
that age expressly to the Asiatic possessions of the Greek Emperor. The
name is unknown to the Gipsies of Syria, of Turkish Arabia, and of Persia,
these communities being descended from parties who must have broken off
from the great body of the Jatdn and Sagdn in their progress from the East to
the West, and before they reached the Cilician frontiers or came into contact
with the Greeks.
General Monteith stated that he had met with very numerous bodies of
Gipsies both in Persia and India. He had at one time one hundred and fifty
families of them under his orders, but they proved to be most intractable. He
believed that one word in every thirty in their language was Hindostanee.
Their faces much resembled those of European Gipsies.
The Gipsies of Madras are vagabonds in every sense of the word. Many of
these were workers in small forges on the mountains between Arcot and Ban-
galore. They go out each with a small furnace, and bring home 10 lbs. or
12 lbs. of metal and sell it. They would then go off to some other trade ;
and when not occupied in this way, would spend their time in catching birds.
He had seen twenty forges at work at once between Arcot and Bangalore,
worked by the same body of men who afterwards went out bird-catching and
hunting.
The Gipsies wander in black tents, from which they are called Karatchi in
Persia and Turkey. General Monteith only saw three of their permanent vil-
lages ; one at Erivan, Dokhergan, and in the Koflan Koh, near Miana, in
Azerbijan. In the latter was said to be the Chief, recognised generally by
all who came in contact with him. A few only remain in the villages during
the summer.
With regard to the Gipsies in Persia, he would mention that a king of
Persia, one of the Sassanian dynasty, had bi'ought over 12,000 of them from
Moultan into the empire, over which they were now spread. He thought
that their numbers in Persia did not now exceed 3000 families. Altogether
he believed them a most incorrigible race : they got lands without paying
taxes for them.
Mr. Crawfurd, after remarking on the speech of Sir H. Eawlinson as to the
origin and language of the Gipsies, went on to say that the large number of the
Gipsy ]Dopulation was not surprising. He would compare them with the Jews,
of whom from four to five millions were scattered over Europe — a much larger
number than Palestine could ever have contained, even at its most flourishing
period. He thought it important to remark that Gipsies are totally unknown
between India and China. Their whole progress from Hindostan had been
westward. The account which Sir Henry Pawlinson had given of their origin
and history, he observed, was by far the most satisfactory he had ever
heard.*
* iee Anti-Slavery Keporter, April, 1856, p. ?6; also, 'Frontier Lands of
Christian and Turk,' vol. i., p. 318. See also Dr. A. F. Pott's work, 'Die
Zigeunerin Europa und Asien,' Halle, 1844, for a mass of information upon works
alluding to the Gipsies, and for a copious vocabulary of their language.— Ed.
