42 O'CONNOR. [Feb. 25, 1856.
3. Despatches from Governor O'Connor, dated May 22, 1855 re-
porting his Visit to the Island of Bulama, on the W. Coast of
Africa.
Communicated by the Colonial Office.
The island of Kanabak, or Canabec, situated in lat. 11° 16' N., long.
15° 38' 30" W., has been and is the most important of the group forming the
Bissago or Bijuga islands. In 1792 Mr. Dalrymple and a party of adventurers
from England landed in Bulama, and induced the kings of Kanahak,
" Jaborem," and "Bellehore" to cede the island to the British; but the
natives of Kanabak attacked the settlers, carried off some women and
Grumittas (blacks), and Mr. Dalrymple and the greater portion of his party
returned to England.
Captain Beaver then took charge ; but after struggling with many diffi-
culties, having a weak and miserable material as colonists, and being under
constant apprehension of invasion from his warlike neighbours, the Kanabaks,
he abandoned the island, and sailed for Sierra Leone towards the close of
1793, 10,000Z. having been expended in the attempt to colonise Bulama.
, After this, the island became a principal depot for slaves carried down the
Jeba, Compance, Nuilez, and other rivers, and finally fell under the imme-
diate control of a Senhor Gaetano Nazzalini, a notorious slave-dealer, whose
family retains the remains of his property, houses and stores, which I found in
charge of a Portuguese Jew. The British and Portuguese have from time to
time disputed the sovereignty of Bulama, and played a singularly unprofitable
game, the British and Portuguese ensign being hoisted alternately. The im-
pression of the Captain-General of the Cape de Verde Islands and the officials of
Bissao at the present time is, " that Bulama belongs to the Crown of Portugal
by the prior claim of cession and settlement."
The island is about 15 miles in length by 5 in breadth, clothed with
timber trees, but not densely wooded ; a belt of palms extends along the sea
beach for several miles, which is composed of hard, firm, red sand, and trench-
ing gradually up towards the land.
The king only had a strip of cloth on him ; the chiefs and people wore
a clout of dressed deer or goat skin, the women using nothing but a cincture
of grass or palm fibre over their hips. The natives are tall, athletic, with
high regular features — the women particularly so ; the colour a jet black ;
their bodies variously tattooed ; but few wore charms or gre-gris on their
persons.
A walk of 2 miles through a. rich, open, arable country, with fine forest
trees, and among many beautiful flowering shrubs and plants, novel to me,
brought us to three of the principal kraals or settlements.
As is always the case in Western Africa, the king's chief village was placed
beneath the shade of stupendous silk cotton, pullam, and other lofty trees :
the huts were circular, larger, far better built, and neater thatched than any
I had yet seen in Africa. A piazza enclosed each hut : the entrances were
numerous, and singular devices were painted on the walls in blue, red, black,
and yellow colours.
The Kanabaks are said to be descended from the fierce Giagas, and are Pagans ;
they rule over all the adjacent islands, have large war canoes, and are armed
with bows and arrows, spears, swords, and muskets — the last of foreign and
very old manufacture.
Kanabak is capable of yielding wax, hides, honey, rice, com, ground nuts,
and other produce in abundance. The cattle are of the finest kind among
the Bijugas ; and there is an inexhaustible material in palm oil. An adjacent
island is prolific in cocoa-nut trees.
