Feb. 25, 1856.] LOFT US. 45
6. Notes of a Journey from Baghdad to Basrah, with Descriptions of
several ChaldcPMn Remains. Accompanied by a Map. By William
Kennett LoiTus, Esq., f.g.s.
Communicated by the Earl of Clarendon.
Mb. Loftus travelled in 1849-50, in company with Mr. Churchill,
from Baghdad to Busrah, while attached to the staff of Colonel (now
General) Williams, on the Turko-Persian frontier. Their route lay
east of the Euphrates, through a tract, of which only the N. part was
at all known to Europeans. Their map is based on prismatic compass-
bearings, carefully made, and then squared in between specified points
on the banks of the river ; these had already been fixed by the oflficers
of the Pvuphrates Expedition, Minute details are given of the country
they travelled over, and the various canals which are used for irrigation,
are noticed. Attention is particularly drawn to the great eflfect pro-
duced by the Hindieh canal, a branch of the river, in diverting the
main stream from its natural channel, depriving the country on
the E. of the Euphrates of its due share of irrigation, and frequerjtly
causing the inhabitants of the villages in the interior of Mesopotamia
to abandon their lands. The Hindieh passes through the Bahr el
Nedjef, supplies what are believed to have been the Paludes Bahylonice,
and forms the Semava branch of the Euphrates. When greatly
flooded, the Euphrates is liable to force for itself a wide mouth into
the Hindieh ; to prevent which dams are constantly being con-
structed by the Pashas of Baghdad, and as constantly broken through
by the stream, or else destroyed by the rebellious Arabs of the Khezail.
Mr. Loftus visited the following sites of ruins, which he describes : — ■
Niffar ; Hammam ; Tel Ede ; Wurka, to which he subsequently re-
turned, in charge of an expedition sent out by the Assyrian Excavation
Fund ; and Mugeyer, since excavated by Mr. Taylor. He looked
carefully for the Pallacopas, the canal of Alexander the Great, but, so
far as he was able to extend his researches, without finding any trace
of it.*
Sir Henry Rawlinson bore testimony to the merits of the paper: it
was equally interesting both in a geographical and also an antiquarian
point of view, and to do it justice in either respect would require a whole
evening. He thought that Mr. Loftus possessed excellent qualifica-
* Mr. Loftus, in 1854, visited the marshes of the Khezail Arabs, and succeeded
in making a careful map of the Western Euphrates from Semava to the Bahr el
Nedjef. At the S.E. extremity of this great inland sea he observed traces of an
ancient channel, which he believes to have been the Pallacopas. It must have
flowed through the Khezail marshes, and passed considerably to the W. of the
Mugeyer. The Arabs describe a deep river bed and several ruins upon its course.
f2
