46 LOFTUS. " [Feb. 25, 1856.
tions both as a traveller and explorer, as shown not on this occasion
only, but on many others. In fact Mr. Loftus might be called the
discoverer of Wurka. He was the first to visit those remains, and
he succeeded in exploring them more thoroughly after the French expe-
dition, which had been supplied by their Government with every
assistance, had pronounced success to be impossible. It was riglit to
say that it was mainly owing to his character and abilities that Mr.
Loftus was enabled, with no such advantages, to accomplish what he
had done.
The best existing maps give a very imperfect representation of the
ancient condition of the country about the Tigris and Euphrates. The
land consists of a soft soil, and the rivers consequently are always chang-
ing their beds. The cliannels of the Tigris and Euphrates are now very
different from what they were anciently, and thus it is that all the ancient
cities are now at some distance from the rivers. The population of the
country was in former times almost entirely dependent upon the canals.
He then called attention to a verse in the Bible (Gen. x. 25) which was
translated so as to convey a false impression. " In his days was the earth
divided " simply means that the land of Babylon was then first divided
by canals, i. e., civilisation was first instituted, for cities could only
exist after the vi^ater of the river had been distributed over their neigh-
bourhoods by means of canals. The word " Peleg " is never applied to
the division of one country from another, but almost always to the cut-
ting of canals. It is certain that the whole country was once com-
pletely reticulated by canals. The Tigris and Euphrates supplied great
branches, which in this way were made so to intersect the country that
it became a complete garden ; and although it is now an absolute desert,
it might be restored by a system of canals, so as to become as fertile as
it was in former times.
Sir Henry Rawlinson then proceeded to make a few remarks on some
of the sites visited by Mr. Loftus. These, he said, were the sites of
the earliest cities that we know of in the world. Four cities are men-
tioned in Gen. x. 10, viz., Babel, Erech, Accad, and Calneh ; and it is
mainly owing to bricks obtained by Mr. Loftus, that great discoveries
with respect to these cities have recently been made. From bricks
obtained at Niffar and other sites, it would appear that during the early
period of history, i. e., about the twenty-fifth century before the Chris-
tian era, and from that period to the taking of Babylon, the country
was inhabited not by a Semitic, but by a Hamite race — a race desig-
nated in the Bible by the name of Nimroud. Their language was cognate
with the Scythian on one side, and with the African on the other. The
people were, in fact, Cushite ; their temples, language, &c. belong to
the Accadian race. All the memorials obtained are Cushite, in a Ian-
