Feb. 25, 1856.] LOFTUS. 47
guage more like Mongolian than anything else, and which has nothing
to do with the languages commonly called Semitic.
The four cities of Genesis x. are the four recently described by Mr.
Loftus. NifFar, which was probably the earliest capital of the country,
was the ancient Calneh ; Babel, of course, is Babylon ; and Wurka
was the ancient Erech. Accad is used in the inscriptions for the name
of the people.
NifFar, in the centre of Babylonia, seems to have been the primitive
capital of the whole country; it was dedicated to Belus, and was
called the city of Belus by the Hamites. The name NifFar was given
by Semites. When the Talmud was written, the old names were re-
tained ; its writers say that Calneh was Niffar, and they call the place
Nineveh, but the Nineveh of Assyria was certainly at Mosul.
NifFar must be regarded as the most ancient city in the world. It was
built by the earliest king of whom we have any monuments, but whose
name cannot be read with certainty. In later times Babylon took the
place of NifFar.
In the bricks of Wurka the name is not phonetically given : this,
however, as before stated, is most probably the Erech of the Bible.
Mugeyer, described by Mr. Loftus, is a very interesting spot ; it is
most probably the Ur of the Chaldees of Gen. xi., from which Abram
came out. There was a palace here, on the bricks of which occurs the
name Chedorlaomer. Some of these bricks are now in the British
Museum. Mugeyer gives the meaning to the word Hebrew, as applied
to the Hebrew nation. One particular parish of this place was called
Ibra, and probably from this spot Abraham came. No derivation of the
word " Hebrew " is given in the Bible : it is said to come from a word
meaning " over," because Abraham passed over the Euphrates : this
cannot be true, as Mugeyer, i. e. Ur, was on the same side of the
Euphrates as Palestine.
Sinkara is called Sarsa in inscriptions, and Hamman, visited by Mr.
Loftus, is probably the Gulaba of inscriptions.
Mr. Loftus is almost the only European who has traversed that part
of the country in wluch Hamman is situated. At Sinkara Mr. Loftus
opened a temple of the Sun, from which he obtained some very inte-
resting bricks.
A set of inscriptions from Mugeyer tells us who Belshazzar was.
He was the son of Nabonadius, and was in command of the city of
Babylon when his father Nabonadius was attacked by Cyrus. Nabo-
nadius was defeated, and took refuge at Birs Nimroud, and hence
when Cyrus attacked Babylon he met Belshazzar.
Mr. Loftus apologised for the minute and uninteresting details of
his paper, but said that he felt, as every point is of value to the tra-
