48 LOFTUS. [Feb. 25, 1856.
veller on a perfectly level desert, that nothing could be well omitted.
A few additional words on Wurka he thought might be interesting, as
it ranks amongst the largest ruins in the country. The walls of the
city are 5^ miles in circumference, but many important mounds stand
beyond the enclosure. There are at present three temples existing,
one of which is perfect to the height of 25 feet, and exhibits on one of
its facades some very remarkable peculiarities previously unknown in
any style of architecture, so rude as to indicate their early origin.
Wurka is moreover the most extensive Necropolis extant. Coffins and
sepulchral remains occupy the whole of the central platform, piled up
to the height of 30 feet ; and he believed that, if excavations were made,
they would be found to extend to the depth of 60 feet. The tablets
from the ruins, which Sir H. Rawlinson has deciphered, are of the
age of Seleucus and Antiochus the Great, 200 B.C. They are very
interesting, as being the last known records with cuneiform inscriptions,
and as having Greek names written in those early characters.
He desired to make a few remarks on the regions marked " Inunda-
tions" in the map. Those on the left bank of the Euphrates were
owing to the construction of a dam which the Pasha of Baghdad had
recently built at the mouth of the Hindieh Cayial. The inundation of
Keffil, to which this canal leads on the W. of "' the great river," is con-
tinued, after traversing the Bahr i Nedjef, to the S.E. through very
large marshes, constituting what is strictly the main branch of the
Euphrates. It is the one which is always used, and the only one which
can be used at all seasons. Strange to say, this line of water com-
munication is omitted in all our maps ! It is always navigable, except
when its entrance is dammed up by the Pasha of Baghdad.
Mr. Loftus, in answer to a question from Mr. Hamilton, remarked
that the modes of burial were several : the earliest is that in which the
bodies were placed in large pots, which were then covered with lids, and
these were cemented down. Three or four bodies were often found in
one coffin. About the time of our Saviour, the slipper-bath coffins pro-
bably came into fashion at Wurka. These were baked before the bodies
were deposited in them. The dead were then placed on mounds and
exposed. Drift sand covered them, and afterwards a new layer of
coffins was placed above. This was the only way to account for these
coffins being found piled one above another to so great a height.
The coffins are very heavy, and it is most probable that they were
brought to the mound before the bodies were placed within them.
Sib Henry Rawlinson said, in reference to these modes of burial,
that the age of the different forms of coffins could be most easily traced.
He should describe the earliest mode as one in which the body was
