Feb. 25, 1856.] VIENNA GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY. 51
for 18 months, including only 50 of the sheep, which are so precarious a
supply that they cannot wholly be relied on ; but any consequent saving of
salt meat could be carried to the credit of the expedition on the sale of the
surplus stores.
I have never found kangaroo or other game to more than compensate for
the ordinary losses contingent on accidents of a trifling character.
Land Conveyance. — Experience in Western Australia has shown that it
requires two packborses to carry the stores and provisions for each person com-
prised in an exploring party for the period of three months. The employment
of drays, should the country be practicable for them, and the saving in weight
of salt provisions, should the sheep prove available, would enable the party to
carry on operations for a lengthened period without having recourse to the
principal depdt for supplies.
Although bullocks would be less expensive than horses, and are preferable
as a source of food, yet as they are incapable of supporting the same depriva-
tion of food and water, and should any of the poisonous plants common in
Western Australia be encountered, their loss would be inevitable, while horses
are seldom if ever affected by it, 1 do not consider it would bo judicious to
employ bullocks on this occasion.
The form of pack-saddle generally used is unsuited for journeys of- long con-
tinuance. The construction proposed to be employed is more simple, light,
and durable, and is the only description I have employed to advantage.
Arms and Ammunition. — In the proportion that a party is prepared to resist
aggression there is less probability of having to resort to extreme measures for
defence. The principal portion of th« lead would be carried in the form of
shot, which is easily cast into balls when required.
Camp Furniture. — Light calico tents, though not very durable, are suffi-
ciently so for the purposes of the expedition. The best form is a quadrangular
pyramid, with one central pole ; they contain 30 yards each.
Instruments. — Chronometers seldom prove of any service when carried on
horseback ; a good duplex watch is preferable.
A forge is required to shoe the horses on landing. A few bars of iron and
steel can be formed into articles which must otherwise be carried in duplicate.
Conveyance of Party to Victoria Biver. — 14 lbs. per diem of forage for each
horse, and 2 feet 2 inches clear width of stall. The employment of the ' Tom
Tough,' 150 tons, will enable the ' Monarch ' to be dismissed as soon as, she
has landed the horses.
VIENNA GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY.
The first meeting preparatory to the foundation of this new Society
was held on December 1, 1855, at which Professor Haidinger de-
livered an introductory address.
He remarked that the French have a proverb " L'homme est fie
marin" by which they express a sentiment that is deeply rooted in
human nature, but which few are able to indulge in after-life.
The learning of the scholar has no bearing upon tales of adventure
or descriptions of remote countries ; it takes scanty cognizance even of
matters which immediately surround him ; and the narrow cares and
exigencies of practical life encroach more and more closely upon
G
