52 VIENNA GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY. [Feb. 25, 1856.
his natural tastes. But in countries where intellectual life is highly
developed, many tilings may be accomplished by means of associated
exertions which afe totally beyond the reach of single individuals.
Hence it is that the Imperial motto " Viribus unitas " has become a
magic spell by which so many great and salutary measures have been
recently called to light in Austria. Among these is the Imperial
Academy of Sciences at Vienna. By its establishment a period is left
behind, in which few scientific labourers are alone to be found, isolated
and scattered here and there like so many oases over the face of a desert.
There is now a greatly-increased activity both in Geography and
Geology, — so much so that it has become incumbent on Austria to take
steps for extending her connections as far as possible, and in every
direction. It is true that there already exist in Vienna a Military Geo-
grapl deal Institute for making Maps, and a Director-General of a depart-
ment for the Survey of Lands subject to Taxes. Levelling operations are
going on for the construction of railroads, roads, and canals. Astro-
nomical observations are spread over the whole empire. A special
Institute is ramified in every direction, which takes care of Meteorology
and Terrestrial Magnetism; and thelmperial Academy of Sciences is the
centre of the whole scientific movement within the Austrian monarchy.
But there remains a special aiin for the Vienna Geographical Society,
namely, to take notice of the progress of geographical discovery in
general, and particularly to keep alive the well-deserved interest for their
compatriots who, constantly or temporarily, live in remote regions —
whether for commercial enterprise, scientific progress, or in propagating
the sacred tenets of Christian faith.
No sphere of action is more extended than that of a traveller ; and
he may justly expect to find within his country a centre from which his
exertions are attentively followed, his successes cheerfully hailed, and
his connections at home kept alive, to be renewed again on his return.
Professor Haidinger subsequently defines the object of the new Society
as being " a voluntary centre of union for Geographical Interests" —
voluntary as being open to all who are willing to declare their adhesion,
and including under the term Geographical Interests every branch of
natural science so far as they are connected with Geography, or may be
subservient to the clearing up of Geographical questions.
Subsequently to the address, matters of business were proceeded with.
The yearly contribution to the new Society was fixed at ten shillings
(five florins), and preparatory meetings were arranged on the first
Saturdays of the four ensuing months, to discuss rules and to receive
communications upon Geographical subjects.
In the course of his address. Professor Haidinger showed at con-
siderable length, the very favourable results that had followed the forma-
