Feb. 25, 1856.] ANIMAL LIFE IN THE ARCTIC REGIONS. 53
tion of Geographical Societies in other countries. At the same time he
disclaimed all intention of a blind imitation of their proceedings, or any
attempt at rivalry with them. , ''
Abstract of a Paper on Animal Life in the Arctic Begions. By
P. L. SiMMONDS.*
Read 1852.
Mr. Simmonds's object is to show that the coasts of Greenland, the islands and
shores of Baffin's Bay, the shores of the mainland, and islands to the north
of the continent of America, abound v/ith animal life.
At Whalefish Islands, Sir John Ross's officers used in the evening to shoot
enough sea-fowl to supply all hands. In Melville Bay, Mr. Snow, in his
account of the voyage of the ' Prince Albert,' says that in August there were
innumerable quantities of birds. Mr. Penny filled two whaleboats with eggs
from an island at the head of the baj''. Wolstenholme Sodnd was found to' be
frequented by deer, bears, foxes, hares, lemmings, wolverines, and many .
varieties of sea-fowl. At Carey's Islands, 1000 loon were obtained in two
days by the boats of the 'Assistance.' Dovekies and rotges were also
abundant.
In Regent Inlet, and on Boothia Peninsula, Sir J. Eoss, from 1829 to 1833,
obtained quantities of animal food almost throughout the year. Whales,
seals, and narwhals were numerous. The Esquimaux caught 18 or 20 seals
in a couple of days. Two musk-oxen, and very many bears of large size,
were killed. Hares and foxes were common food. Grouse, ducks, &c. were
easily obtained. Salmon of one and two pounds weight were taken in the
lakes by 4000 and 5000 at a time ; and animals were equally plentiful at all
parts of the Inlet.
While at Port Leopold in the winter of 1848-49, shooting parties of two
men, from both the ' Enterprise ' and ' Investigator,' were stationed at Whaler
Point, and so. plentiful were dovekies and loon, that a bird per man was
served out regularly to the ships' crews : 4000 birds, yielding 2500 lbs. of
meat, were shot, and more than 100 foxes caught. Between Cape York and
Cape Cater, Captain Parker, of the ' Truelove,' caught 28 and lost 15 whales.
He found the sea there literally swarming with life. The number of the
larger animals excited unmixed amazement, while innumerable birds covered
the water.
In Repulse Bay, Dr. Rae shot 162 deer, 200 partridges, besides taking two
seals and some salmon, in the winter of 1846-47. He took with him four
months' provisions, was absent 14 months and 23 days, and had at his
return two-thirds of his original stock.
On the mainland, Sir J. Richardson, in the winter of 1848-49, collected
5191 fish, 13,810 lbs. of venison, 9220 of half-dry venison, 360 lbs. of
pounded meat, 253 lbs. of reindeer fat, and 625 reindeer tongues. Mr. Isbister
found no difficulty in supporting a large party near the mouth of the Mackenzie
River from the fisheries only. In the barren grounds between Fort Enterprise
and the mouth of the Coppermine River, Sir J. Franklin's party shot more
than 200 deer in a very short time, and large flocks of way veis were met with.
The fishery at Fort Enterprise yielded 1200 white fish, weighing from two to
three pounds each, and 40 excellent salmon and white fish were taken at a
draught near the Bloody Falls. Geese and ducks were abundant, and about
two dozen musk-oxen and a bear or two were also killed.
* This may be considered supplementary to a paper on the same subject,
printed in the * Journal of the Royal Geographical Society/ 1852.
