PROCEEDINGS
OF
THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIEXy
OF LONDON.
SESSION 1856.
Eighth Meeting, April 14, 1856.
Rear-Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, President, in the Chair.
Mr. James Hogg, Jun., was elected a Fellow.
Announcements. — The President announced the appointment of
Mr. Andres Poey as director of the Meteorological Observatory at the
Havanna, and read a letter from Mr. Frere on the progress of Mr.
Hahn. Mr. Hahn, the Rhenish missionary, had left Cape Town for
Walfisch Bay, with the intention of proceeding thence, overland, to
Mossamedes. Letters had been written to the Portuguese governor of
that province, recommending Mr. Hahn to his Excellency's care and
protection.
Mr. Galton remarked that the embouchure of that river, which forms the
northern boundary of the Ovampo, had recently been explored ; and it was Mr.
Hahn's desire to settle near it, and thence to make such expeditions along its
course as might be found practicable. This river appears to offer the shortest
and healthiest high road to the interior, the whole coast on either side of its
mouth being entirely free from fever. Mr. Halm had been a missionary among
the Damaras and Namaquas for about ten years, and there is perhaps no one
person in South-West Africa, who has had more personal influence over the
natives, or who has done more to repress their barbarous outbreaks than he.
Dr. Hodgkin announced the death of Philip Schonlein, Ph. Dr., the only
son of the physician to the King of Prussia, one of the most distinguished
Professors of Medicine in Europe. The young man was devoted to travel ; his
chief object was to explore the eastern part of Africa, but having come to this
country to further this object, he thought it might be well to take advantage
of an opportunity which arose of visiting the West coast. He therefore went
to Cape Palmas, a colony of the Maryland Colonization Society, where he died
on the 8th of January of the present year. He had been there a few months,
and has sent an interesting account of the state of the colony.
The Papers read were —
1. Letter from Dr. Sutherland to the Secretary.
Dr. Sutherland remarks that he had visited the whole district of
Natal while employed as Government geologist ; that he has for ten
months been fulfilling the duties of surveyor-general ; that the S. W.
