56 GABRIEL. [April 14, 1856.
boundary of the district is about to be surveyed, and that the N. W. is
under consideration. He has established three meteorological stations,
and is engaged in forming two others, and he relates some of the many
inquiries in which he has found time to occupy himself. " There are
few ridges in Natal on which the mountain barometer, lent me by the
Society, has not been read in connection with geological sections and
astronomical observations ; but, alas ! it has been my fate hitherto only
to look at a pile of unfinished work and unreduced data, which are
every day on the increase."
Sib Eoderick Murchison referred to the excellent qualifications of Dr.
Sutherland for the oflfice of Surveyor-General of Natal, which he now holds
in the place of the late Dr. Stanger, of the Niger Expedition ; having been
appointed to that post by Sir W. Moles worth on his, Sir H. Murchison's,
recommendation. Dr. Sutherland is well known to geographers through his
voyages and his work on the Arctic regions. Much may be expected from his
researches, and there can be no doubt that he will effectively develope the very
remarkable natural features and products of the region in which he is now
placed.
2. Letter from Mr. Gabriel, H.JB.M. Arbitrator at Loanda,
reporting the Progress of Dr. Livingston.
Communicated by the Earl of Clarendon.
" I HAVE just received a letter from Dr. Livingston, dated the 12th
of August last, announcing his safe arrival at Naliek, in the Borots^
country, distant from this place about 800 miles, and, according to the
map which he was good enough to give me, showing his route from
the Zambesi to Loanda, lying in latitude about 14° 30' S., and longi-
tude 24° E.
" This letter, the only one which Dr. Livingston wrote from Naliek, .//m/j
was entrusted to the care of some native traders whom he met at that
place, and by them delivered at Pongo Andongo, a Portuguese
settlement in the interior of this province, whence it was immediately
forwarded to me by the Portuguese authorities. It conveys the pleas-
ing intelligence that, after having surmounted all the perils and hard-
ships which presented themselves in his progress through the hostile
tribes of the Chiboque and Balonda, and overcome the opposition of
a native chief in crossing the river Casai, he was, to use his own words,
* at home, received with enthusiasm at all the different towns and vil-
lages through which he passed, and wanted for nothing the people had
to give.'
*' He had been detained ten days at Naliek, waiting the construction
of canoes with which to descend the Zambesi, but was to start the day
after the date of his letter to me ; and, having the stream of the river in
his favour, he expected to arrive at the Chob^ in fifteen or twenty days.
