April 14, 1856.] TROTTER. ' 57
" Notwithstanding all the sufferings which he }»ad undergone in the
earlier part of his journey, Dr. Livingston, I am rejoiced to say, in-
forms me that, on the date of his letter, he was, through the merciful
providence of God, in as good health as he ever enjoyed in his life,
adding, * You will be pleased to learn that my men are all in high
spirits, and quite prepared for another trip, although, as we have had to
sell almost everything for food, they have but little to show after their
long absence from home.' "
3. Letter from Commodore Trotter to the Secretary of the Admu
ralty, on the Result of Inquiries made at Quilimane respecting
Dr. Livingston.
Communicated by the Admiralty.
" In reference to your letter of the 5th March last. No. 25, conveying
to me their Lordships* directions to order the commanding officers of
any cruisers, in the Mozambique Channel, to make inquiries at Quili-
mane respecting the Rev. Dr. Livingston, who was expected at that
place in November last from across the continent of Africa, I request
you will inform their Lordships that H. M. S. ' Frolic,' during her late
cruise in the Mozambique, called twice at Quilimane, in October and
December, but that Commander Nollotli was not successful in obtaining
intelligence of this enterprising traveller.
" H. M. Brigantine ' Dart' (tender to ' Castor'), under the com-
mand of Mr. James P. M'Clune, second master, now on the eve of
departure from this port for the Mozambique, is ordered to proceed to
Quilimane, to afford the Rev. Dr. Livingston all the assistance he
may require, should he have reached that place ; but in the event of his
not having arrived, the ' Dart ' is to cruise for tiie suppression of the
slave trade and the protection of commerce, the Commander leaving a
letter for Dr. Livingston, stating when he will be back, and taking care
not to be absent from Quilimane more than three weeks at any one time.
" Dr. Livingston is to be offered a passage to the Cape of Good
Hope in the ' Dart ' if he wishes it.
" Commander Nolloth, of H. M. S. * Frolic,' reports that his Excel-
lency the Governor of Quilimane has caused every arrangement to be
made to ensure the comfort of Dr. Livingston and his safe arrival on
the coast, whenever he may place his foot within the Portuguese ter-
ritory."
h2
