58 NOLLOTH. HOPKINS. [April 14, 1856.
4. Letter from Commander Nolloth to Commodore Trotter, with
Enclosures.
Communicated by the Admiralty.
" . . . . The Governor assured me that he had given ample
directions, providing for Dr. Livingston's welfare, should he make his
appearance at Tet6 ; and that he had ordered his own dwellings at that
place, and at Senna, to be placed at his disposal ; and he was good
enough to say that he would send still further directions."
Commander Nolloth encloses a detailed statement of the time occu-
pied in voyages and Journeys between Quiliniane and Tete at different
times of the year. The most favourable voyage down river occupies
three days, and the most unfavourable voyage up river forty days.
He also sends a translation of the Mozambique Government Gazette
of March 17th, 1855, containing a few of the names of the places through
which the Moors passed, who journeyed from Zanzibar to Benguela and
back again to the East Coast by a different route. They left Benguela
June 7th, 1853, and arrived at Mozambique November 12th, 1854.*
5. On the Causes of Dryness in certain Arid Districts. By
Thomas Hopkins, Esq., of Manchester.
Mr. Hopkins examines into the nature and causes of those winds which
blow in regular directions. He argues against the principle of the
Hadleian theory, and disputes many facts commonly advanced to sustain
it. He denies any general and obvious movement of the atmosphere
from the polar to the tropical regions, and asserts, on the other hand,
that all regular winds blow to one or other of the following places — they
being the great mountainous districts of the globe, which arrest vapour
and produce heavy rains, and which he calls " areas of condensation :" —
the Andes, the Himalaya, the lofty islands of the E. Archipelago, and
the snow mountains of Tropical Africa. Other mountains produce
similar effects, but of secondary importance.
Mr. Hopkins' hypothesis is that mountains condense vapour from
the air that surrounds them — that this process of condensation liberates
heat which raises the temperature of the air — that a partial vacuum
results from this condensation and heating, which is filled by indraughts
of air from all sides. These create ascending vortices, and cause a
boiling up and an overflowing of large masses of the atmosphere in the
higher regions ; here they diffuse themselves, and in time descend, per-
haps in far distant places, or they may press upon and put in motion the
air that lies beneath them. As the wind passes from colder latitudes
♦ For ftirther particulars about their journey, See p. 75. — Ed.
