April 14, 1856.] HOPKINS. 59
to any one of the above-mentioned " areas of condensation," which
happen all to be in the tropics, it acquires, from that cause alone, a greater
capacity for dissolving vapour, and becomes a drier wind. If it passes
over the sea, it supplies itself with moisture in its passage; but if over
a continent which yields little evaporation, the farther it travels the drier
does it become.
The mountainous and rainy promontories of South America, South
Africa, and Van Diemen's Land, have a special influence upon the
dryness of the winds which blow over them to the northwards, for they
abstract a large portion of the vapour which they would otherwise have
carried along with them.
From this reasoning Mr. Hopkins would conclude that every country
which lies between the above-mentioned " areas of condensation," and
any great extent of continent stretching towards colder latitudes, is ne-
cessarily traversed by a dry wind, and thereby becomes arid and desert.
It is thus that he accounts for the deserts in either hemisphere.
He concludes by hoping that future travellers will not omit to observe
the force, direction, and moisture of the wind in the various countries
they visit. Observations made at sunrise, and again at the hottest time
of the day, say between one and two o'clock, would be of value.
Mr. Hopkins' paper is of considerable length, and enters minutely
into details respecting the physical features that influence the aridity of
each desert tract.
Captain FitzRoy said that the subject of the paper was too difficult to
be dealt with in a short space of time. He could wish that the paper had
been divided into distinct heads, so that each might be more easily referred to.
With the main argument of the paper he should take issue at the very
outset. That argument was based on the assertion that " condensation of
vapour causes a vacuum.'''' Now, some of the ablest men who had studied
the effect of the presence of aqueous vapour upon the weight of the atmo-
sphere, had come to entirely different conclusions respecting it. Whether
therefore aqueous vapour adds to or diminishes the weight of the atmosphere,
is a disputed point. Some add a correction to the weight of a column of
air, on account of the vapour included within it ; while others (and a very
large number) contend that this very correction ought to be suhti^acted from
the weight of the given column. That no vacuum is produced by the con-
densation of aqueous vapour in the atmosphere is shown by the barometer,
which does not sink after a fall of rain, but, on the contrary, rises, showing
that the atmosphere has become heavier. Where moving masses of air meet
with high lands, there is no doubt that their moisture is condensed : therefore
it is that the windward side of mountains is usually clothed with forest, and
abounds with water, its fertility being consequent upon its rainy climate, while
the opposite side is characterized by dryness and by a clear sky. Among
many examples that might be given, he would instance the Galapagos Islands
(a group in which the evidence of volcanic agency was very abundant) ; here
the wind is perennial, from the eastward ; consequently, the windward sides
of the mountains on these islands are covered with forests to their summits,
while, on the opposite sides, the lava is still as sharply edged as it ever was,
cutting the shoes of those who walk over it. The whole subject of atmospheric
