60 HOPKINS. [April 14, 1856.
circulation is, as has been said, very difficult ; it is yet " an overwhelming
mass of detail, which we have not sufficient light to penetrate sufficiently."
Mr. Galton objected to certain data, regarding South Africa, upon which
Mr. Hopkins had argued. He described that continent, up to the 6th degree
of S. lat., as being low and arid, whereas the fact is the very reverse. The
height of the • table-land of South Africa was great: at Lake Ngami it was
3800 feet, and at the sources of the river that fed it from the north it was neces-
sarily greater ; in Damara-land it far exceeded 4000 feet. Again, the Karri-
harri desert and those portions which lie S. of a line joining Delagoa Bay and
Great Fish Bay are undoubtedly arid, but, to the northward of that line, such
enormous quantities of rain fall that the country is at times impassable.
Lobale and the Borotse Valley are deluged with water, and their villages are
built upon mounds to preserve them from floods. The streams of different
water-sheds are described as interlacing, and, even in Damara-land, the
country suffers more from excessive alternations of seasons than from actual
drought. Thus, during a rainy season, an hippopotamus has actually travelled
overland from Omanbonde to the Swakop, across a tract which, in the dry
time of the year, was utterly destitute of water except in a few wells and
scanty springs. Farther to the N. we find the great lake Nyassi, to which so
much attention has been recently drawn ; and, he would add, in corroboration
of its extent, and especially of the great bend from E, to W. which Mr. Erhardt
believes to exist, and which appears upon his map, that in a route of Arab
traders * across the continent, out of about 100 stages, whose name they record,
17 have the prefix of Niassa, by which we may roughly infer that that propor-
tion of their entire route from E. to W. lay alongside this bend of the lake.
Mr. Hopkins explained that he had stated in his paper that South Africa
was not so dry as Patagonia or Peru, and that in this respect its character was
not so strongly marked as that of the other continents of the S. hemisphere.
He thought that an elevation of 2000 feet, or even 4000 feet, for the table-
land, would not be sufficient to arrest the vapour so as to produce a large
amount of condensati(>n ; much of it, therefore, passed on to the mountains
near the equator, which are, say, 15,000 feet high.
6. Me moval of Pitcairn Islanders.
The President (Rear-Adm. Beechey) remarked upon the interest
which the English have taken in these islanders, and upon their recent
removal to Norfolk Island. He thought they would exercise a most
beneficial influence upon the inhabitants of the neighbouring islands of
the Pacific, who have but recently, if at all, emerged from a state of
barbarism and even of cannibalism, j"
The Bishop of Oxford, f.r.g.s., quite agreed with the President as to the great
importance of this removal of these people to Norfolk Island, and trusted that
it might be productive of all the good he anticipated. He called attention to
the remarkable manner in which the work of self-purification had proceeded
among them, although all external influences seemed adverse. Their chastity,
and their strictness with regard to property, were points worthy of the deepest
admiration, subjected as they had always been to the evil influences arising
from ships' crews landing on their island. Seeing that they had gone on
so favourably under such adverse circumstances, it could not but be hoped
that they would exercise a very beneficial effect upon others around them,
when they were countenanced and helped by the British Government. By
* See p. 75. t See p. 77.
