April 28, 1856.] IRMINGEK. 61
their removal, a new centre of religion and civilization would be placed in
that quarter of the world ; at the same time it was an experiment attended
with no little risk. Their present virtues were connected with a certainly
child-like cast of character, and in a fertile island, and under new circum-
stances, they would be exposed to a wholly new set of temptations.
Sib Thomas Fremantle, f.r.g.s., stated that he had received some very in-
teresting accounts of the Pitcairn Islanders from his brother Captain Fremantle,
B.N., of H.M.S. ' Juno.' His brother, who was the chief officer on the Australian
station, had been directed by the Admiralty to send a ship to Pitcaim's
Island, to propose to the inhabitants, from the Government, that they should
be removed to Norfolk Island. Having nothing to engage him particularly,
he went himself in the ' Juno.' The account he gives of the people quite
comes up to all that had previously been said of them. They were especially
remarkable for their simplicity of manners and for moral and religious prin-
ciples. On his arrival, Captain Fremantle assembled in their church the
whole population of the island, amounting to about 180, in number, of both
sexes, and read the proposal to them. They listened with respectful atten-
tion, and discussed the matter with great good sense among themselves.
Being convinced that their own island was no longer large enough to support
them, they determined to accept the offer, cordially thanking the Government.
Some few, who hesitated at first, signed the paper next morning. There was
one remarkable condition which they had asked, but which it would probably
be extremely difficult to accede to : it was, that as they had always lived
happily without the access of strangers, the British Government would grant
them the privilege of keeping exclusively to themselves the possession of
Norfolk Island. Sir T. Fremantle regretted that he was not prepared to
ajSbrd more detailed information to the Meeting from the interesting letters of
his brother, but some months had elapsed since he had read them, and he
was not aware that the subject would be adverted to at the Meeting.
Ninth Meeting, April 28, 1856.
Rear- Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, President, in the Chair.
Mr. Josiah Berry ; Rev. A. Clive ; Lieut. C. A. C. De Crespigny,
R.N. ; the Chevalier A. Duprat {of the Cape of Good Hope) ; Mr.
William Fergicson ; Mr. Alfred L. Halloran, r.n. ; Mr. A. R. John-
ston, F.R.s. ; Mr. Charles Lee; Dr. Macpherson, m.d. (^Inspector-
General of Hospitals, KertcK) ; Mr. Frederick North, m.p. ; and Mr.
Joseph Hall Worthington, were elected Fellows.
The Papers read were —
1. On the Current along the Coast of Greenland. By Commodore
C. Irminger, of the Royal Danish Navy.
He argues that the current which leaves Spitzbergen and runs along
the coast of East Greenland, does not travel thence, in a straight line,
towards the banks of Newfoundland, but that it turns round Cape Fare-
well and runs north to the 64th, or even 67th, degree of lat.; then,
passing, westward, to the opposite side of Davis Straits, it falls into
