62 QUIN. [April 28, 1856.
the current from Baffin Bay, that runs southwards along the coast
of Labrador. Commodore Irminger bases his arguments upon quota-
tions from the logs of twenty voyages ; by which he determines the limits
of the ice carried by the current. He also remarks that the existence
of this ice is well known to the captains of Danish vessels, who habitually
shape their course so as to avoid it.
Mr. a. G. FiNDf-AY, F.R.G.S., Said, that the only traveller who had given any
information as to the currents on the S.E. coast of Greenland, from personal
observation, was Captain Graah, of the Danish Nav}^, in 1829-30. He particu-
larly mentions* that no current is observable on the shore, but that outside the
vast accumulation of ice which is pressed on to it, there is a set to the S.W. :
this, however, he states from other authority. That there is a set from the
N.E. towards Cape Farewell can scarcely be doubted, from the facts of the
drift of the wreck from the Dutch fleet in 1777 f and other vessels in that
direction ; but this may be caused by a temporary and not a permanent cur-
rent between Iceland and Greenland.
There are one or two circumstances which bear strongly on the subject, and
corroborate the views of Commodore Irminger. A plank of mahogany was
drifted to Disco many years ago, and was formed into a table for the Danish
governor of Greenland at Holsteinborg.t Admiral Lowenbrn also picked up a
worm-eaten mahogany log off the S.E. coast of Greenland. The inference is that
these came from the S.W., from the West Indies ; and their course will con-
firm the facts quoted by the author. This current round Cape Farewell to the
W. and N. has been described by Sir James Ross, § Dr. Kane, and other later
voyagers, but the present paper threw great light on its character.
2. Letter upon the Bonin Islands, from Captain Quin, r.n., f.r.g.s.,
to the Admiral in command of the India Station.
Captain Quin visited these islands, in command of H.M.S. ' Raleigh/
in 1837. He found the inscription left in 1827 by the President (then
Captain Beechey, in command of H.M.S. ' Blossom ') on Peel Island,
when he took formal possession of the group. Captain Quin's letter
gives a succinct account of what had befallen the islands since that time.
In 1830, they were first settled under the British flag ; and, up to Captain
Quin's visit, nine vessels (seven of which were English) had touched at
them, and lost a few deserters out of their crews. In 1837, Captain Quin
erected a substantial flag-staff on Peel Island. He found there much
cultivation of all kinds of produce. There was an abundance of pigs,
and some of these, as well as goats and poultry, had run wild and mul-
tiplied in the woods. The island was well timbered, and free from snakes
and other noxious animals. Not the least vestige of previous occupa-
tion had been discovered by the settlers.
* Narrative, &c., pp. 113, 114.
t Capt. W. Scoresby, ' An Account,' &c., pp. 216, 217. [Commodore Irminger
quotes the ' Accounts of the Whalers in 1777, by Larens Hansen, Director of the
School of Vibe,' — a town in Denmark. — Ed.]
X ' Quarterly Review,' No. 36.
§ Vide Captain Graah's Narrative, p. 24, &c.
