April 28, 1856.] KELLEY. 63
The President said that this group of islands was interesting from the
growing importance of steam navigation in the Pacific Ocean. The islands
themselves are insignificant, hut, from their situation, they may become very
important as a coaling-station for vessels trading between America and
China. Commodore Perry had pointed out their importance in this respect.
The priority of discovery is, according to that gentleman, a matter of question
between Great Britain and America. The Commodore had blamed him for not
giving the credit of discovery to a (supposed) American captain, who is said to
have seen the southern group of the Bonin Islands ; but the islands, referred to
in this statement, were situated to the S. of the Bonin Islands, and some of
them, especially Sulphur Island, had teen seen by Captain Cook, and others,
before the Americans became an independent nation. When Admiral Beechey
took possession of these islands in 1827, he had no knowledge that Captain
Coffin had seen any of them.* At that time, he found only two seamen upon
them ; the population has since considerably increased.
3. On the Connection between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, via
the Atrato and Truando Rivers. By Mr. F. M. Keixey, of New
York.
In describing various routes for effecting the long-desired junction of
the Atlantic and Pacific, through the great American isthmus, Baron
Humboldt had, fifty years ago, pointed to the river Atrato, and to the
depressions said to exist in the mountain range between that river and
the Pacific. Captain FitzRoy and others had also contributed more
recent information on the same subject in the Journal of the Society ;
but, up to the year 1852, no actual surveys had been attempted. In that
year, Mr. Kelley of New York, and other gentlemen, despatched a sur-
veying party, under Mr. Trautwine, c.e., to survey and level the
Atrato to its sources, and to pursue the work across the dividing ridge,
and along the most practicable waters, to the Pacific, with a view to the
construction of a ship canal. Mr. Trautwine, with his party, surveyed
the mouths and course of the Atrato, and extended his inquiries along its
western branch, the Quito, and across the dividing ridge, along the Baudo
and the San Juan, to the Pacific. The Raspadura Canal, which was
said to connect the Atrato and the San Juan, was unknown, and, if it
ever existed, could have been nothing more than a canoe-slide between
two streams. During the journey '* astronomical observations for lati-
tude were made as often as the usually obscured state of the heavens
would allow. Altitudes were taken by the spirit-level and barometer ;
the width of the river, by angles from a measured base ; and dis-
tances along the streams, by repeated observations of the rate of the
boats' passages." This survey was immediately followed by two others,
despatched at Mr. Kelley's sole expense, under Mr. Porter and Mr.
Lane, civil engineers, accompanied by assistants, and fully equipped.
♦ See R. G. See. Journal, vol. xxv. p. cxiv.
