64 KELLEir. [April 28, 1856.
These expeditions confirmed the observations of Mr. Trantwine, and
proved that no ship canal could be constructed from the head-waters of
the Atrato to the Pacific ; but the information acquired, induced Mr.
Kelley to despatch Mr.Lane on a fourth expedition, to survey theTruando.
Mr. Lane ascended that river and reported favourably, but sickness pre-
vented him from crossing to the Pacific. Mr. Kelley, therefore, sent a
fifth expedition, under Captain Kennish, an English engineer, accom-
panied by Mr. Rude and Dr. Jameson, with others, to proceed to the
Pacific, and trace the coast from the Bay of Panama southward to 7° north
latitude. If a harbour could be found, the interior was to be explored ;
and if the mountain range presented sufficient depression for a canal, the
expedition was to carry its surveys through to the Atrato. Captain
Kennish found a harbour in the bay, terminated on the south by Cape
Marzo ; and here, also, he observed the Cordillera to be diminished in
height from thousands to, only, hundreds of feet. On crossing the water
parting he struck the Nerqua, a tributary of the Truando, and from thence
the party descended in boats to the Atrato. His survey and levellings
have resulted in a plan for a ship canal, without a lock or any other im-
pediment. After crossing the bar, which must be removed, the Atrato
maintains a depth of 47 feet up to the Truando, and a width of 750 to
1000 feet. The Truando is navigable for thirty-eight miles from the
confluence; and the remaining twenty-five miles to the Pacific will
require cutting and a tunnel of three-and-a-quarter miles. Mr. Kelley
regards the connection of the two oceans as a work of too great import-
ance to be undertaken without full and authoritative investigation of an
international character. Having carried the investigation thus far, he
is now desirous that the question of uniting the two oceans, which has
been discussed ever since the Spanish occupation of America, should be
settled. The immense increase of commerce between the Atlantic and
Pacific, following the discovery of gold, renders the subject now of
pressing importance. The United States Government is willing alone
to proceed with the survey ; but European 'interests ought also to be
represented. The English Government is not unwilling toco-operate;
and all that is required, to insure the national survey of the practicable
routes between the oceans, is the establishment of cordial relations
between the Governments of the United States and Great Britain.
The President, in inviting discussion on this paper, observed that several
plans had been proposed to establish lines of traiSc between the two great-
oceans, but that all had as yet been found too difficult of execution, with
the single exception of the Panama Pailway. The route for a ship canal, which
Mr. Kelley had proposed, appeared to possess so many advantages, that that
gentleman had come over from America in order to make it known. There
were three questions which the subject naturally suggested: — the financial;
the engineering ; and the hydraulic, as to whether a sufficient depth of water
could be obtained for ships to pass from the Pacific, down the Atrato, into
the Atlantic Ocean ; and he would call especial attention to the last point.
