April 28, 1856.] KELLEY. 65
Captain FitzKoy, f.r.g.s., said that the snbject of the connexion of the two
oceans was one of the most important that could be brought before the Society,
as it involved the interests not only of Europe and America, but of the whole
world. To discover the means of effecting it, so as to aOord a passage for the
largest ships, was the most practically useful problem in geography in the
present day. It had occupied attention from time to time during the last
three hundred years, but especially during the last half-century ; so that now
it was easy to obtain a mass of details, respecting most portions of the isthmus
of Central America, without leaving one's own country. In former discussions
before the Society, two projects for canals had been mentioned. One of these
was from the Gulf of San Miguel to Port Escoces ; the other from the mouth
of the Atrato to Cupica Bay. Humboldt had pointed out the advantages of
Cupica Bay, and the comparatively easy line of communication between it and
the Napipi Kiver. Since then, Cupica Bay had been surveyed, and had been
found to be one of the best harbours on that part of the coast. Commander
Wood, F.R.G.S., who surveyed it, stated that he landed from his ship in
Cupica Bay after breakfast, walked from the coast across the ridge, bathed in
the Napipi, and returned before 12 o'clock. In his opinion, the dividing ridge
was not more than 400 feet above the sea level. The communication, therefore,
in this part would be comparatively easy ; but whether this route or that be-
tween Humboldt Bay and the Truando, as pointed out by Mr. Kelley, be the
more practicable, can only be determined by an accurate survey of each. The
difficulty resulting from the climate, would apply equally to all the proposed
plans. It is excessively wet nearly all the year round. Only two or three
months are free from excessive rain ; yet those who have been much exposed
to it have suffered but little, as the experience of Mr. Kelley's exploring
parties testifies. Those who have crossed the isthmus in various places
also report favourably of the comparative healthiness of the climate. The
two precautions necessary to be taken, are, to provide abundant shelter
and wholesome food for those engaged in it. The settlers at Port Escoces
failed, entirely on account of their neglect of these two simple precautions.
Humboldt, who is the best authority on the whole of this region, and who
collated all the trustworthy accounts of it which he could find, is of opinion
that the route from Cupica Bay, along the Napipi, is the one offering the
greatest facility for a ship-canal. The fact that three lines, each offering a
probability of success, are now proi)osed to the world, furnishes a strong argu-
ment that an expedition should be undertaken to effect a more complete
survey. The matter is one that affects, in a greater degree, the rising gene-
ration, as the work would take a great many years to carry out ; but a
beginning should be made by ourselves. Like the Panama railway, it would
probably be found, eventually, a much more practicable undertaking than it is
generally thought to be. That railway now pays well ; ten years ago, the
attempt to construct it was by many deemed chimerical. In conclusion,
he considered it most desirable that an expedition should be sent out,
to explore thoroughly the three lines that had been indicated, that their rela-
tive merits might be compared.
Mb. James Walker, c.e., f.r.g.s., said that the height of the water level
above the mean level of both oceans, was an important element of consideration,
and until this was determined accurately, it would be impossible to enter into the
hydrographical question. Again, the proposed diversion of part of the waters
of the Atrato into the Truando, would tend to diminish the stream of the
Atrato below its confluence with the Truando, its sectional area might be con-
siderably decreased, and the river might be thus unfitted for the navigation
of large vessels. A work of this description appeared to him to be impossible
without the use of locks, and the construction of the required tunnel would
be a very formidable work ; but, as the object to be attained was a great and
national one, the best thing that could be done would be to have a good
