66 KELLEY. [April 28, 1856.
survey made. The vast quantity of water in the rainy season had been com-
plained of. A large quantity of rain, he thought, would most of all favour
Mr. Kelley's project, as it would serve to maintain the streams of the rivers.
Mr. Walker referred to the Caledonian Canal, of which the great repairs
and improvements made after its original formation were done under his
direction, as in some degree a parallel case to that of the Atrato and Truando,
and also to the proposed junction of the Pacific and Atlantic through the Lake
of Nicaragua, on which he had, with Colonel Aldrich, r.e., reported to the
British Government.
Mb. Kelley, in answer to some questions proposed by Mr. Walker, re-
marked that an excavation of only 120 feet in height, or 90 feet above high
water, would be required for the tunnel, as vessels would strike their topmasts ;
also, that the mean inclination of the Truando was 3 inches per mile, and not
a foot, as had been stated. The sectional area of the Atrato, at the junction
of the Truando, was 350 yards broad and 58 feet deep. He proposed to
deepen the bed of the Truando 15 feet, and to convert it into a canal to run
into the Pacific. In his plans he had calculated that all the water for the canal
might be derived from the Atrato, although the valley of the Truando abounds
in lagoons and swamps from which much water might be obtained.
Mr. Peacock, f.r.g.s., had met at Buenaventura, Admiral lllingworth, of
the Bolivian Navy, who had travelled on the San Juan. He had ascertained
that the " Arrastadera" (Raspadura) Canal, said to have been formed by
a curate at the end of the last century (who died in the " Inquisition "
at Carthagena), really did exist, and that goods had been sent by it from
one ocean to the other. This gentleman had also stated that the Napipi
could be reached from the Pacific after crossing a small elevation, probably
not more than 100 feet, by following the windings of the valleys between the
mountains ; and that, in the Atrato, there was plenty of water for the largest
ships. The bar, at the mouth of the river, might be easily removed, or, what
would be still better, a canal might be cut from deep water to deep water, as,
if the bar were removed, the mouth would probably soon silt up again.
He thought that the importance of the work could not be over-estimated. In
his opinion, the climate was the only great obstacle to success : the valley of
the Atrato had been called the Valley of Death, so far as Europeans were con-
cerned. Panama is comparatively healthy, yet very many had lost their lives
in the construction of the railroad.
Mr. Webster, f.r.s., thought that there had been some misunderstanding
with regard to the levelling. The level from Humboldt Bay to the Truando
had been ascertained by means of a spirit-level. In answer to Mr. Walker, as
to whether this route were intended to exclude the Nicaragua scheme, he
would say. No ; Mr. Kelley had not brought it into contrast with other
routes such as those of Panama and Nicaragua. The route Mr. Kelley had
proposed was essentially a canal route, and the important question is
whether any better route can be devised. The mouth of the Napipi ap-
pears to be about 70 miles farther up the Atrato than the mouth of the
Truando. Now, it would plainly be desirable, in order to secure the greatest
depth of water, not to ascend the river too far. Therefore, at first sight, the
proposed route is the most practicable. The tunnel required had been objected
to ; yet, what was a tunnel of 3 miles, compared with the tunnels on some of
our railroads? It is not quite fair to contrast this scheme with railway
schemes ; but the comparison of work to be done was favourable to Mr. Kelley's
route, as that would involve a removal of only 147,000,000 cubic feet of
earth, whereas the Panama railroad required the removal of 226,000,000 cubic
feet. The Nicaragua route, again, required several locks, and the works on
that would be truly gigantic when compared with the route he proposed. He
thought that the alarm at the drying up of the Atrato might serve for an
objection by the engineer of a rival railway ; but when it is knosvn what such
