April 28, 1856.] KELLEY. 67
engineers as Walker, Telford, and others have done in the fen districts with
such simple means, he saw no reason why something equally effective might
not be done here.
Dr. l^LACK said, that though no engineer, he saw plenty of difiGculties to
be overcome ; but the question now was not as to difficulties — it was as to the
discovery of a practicable route for a ship-way between the two oceans. He
thought that the repeated examinations made under Mr. Kelley's direction, and
at his sole expense, reflected the greatest credit upon him. The route thus
indicated looked as though it might be carried out. He concurred with the
opinion so ably expressed by Captain FitzRoy, as to the world-wide im-
portance of this subject, which no difficulties should prevent us from pursuing.
The whole of that part of the barrier between the two oceans, which is now
unknown, should be thoroughly investigated by the great maritime nations,
that the world might know what were the obstacles to be overcome, and what
would be the cost of overcoming them. The question would then be — has the
commerce of the world arrived at a point which would justify the necessary
outlay of capital to execute the work ? The time, if not arrived, is rapidly
approaching Avhen this great work must be done in spite of all obstacles and
any cost. He fully believed that the benefits to be derived would quite repay
any amount of capital that it would be necessary to lay out. If commerce goes
on increasing at the rate it has done for the last twenty years, it would be hard
to say how much capital might not be laid out so as to yield a prospect of a fair
return. Allusion had been made to the unhealthiness of the district : no
doubt this was a difficulty ; but from strict investigations which had been
made, it had been ascertained that the chief mortality in the construction of
the Panama railroad was not owing to the climate. The men were of a very
mixed class ; no care was taken to house or feed them ; good water Avas not
provided for them, and they were allowed to buy spirits as they pleased.
Like navvies, they were allowed to do what they wished, and when they died,
others were put into their places. If the men who may be employed on the
isthmus, hereafter, are attended to and protected as they should be, the mor-
tality will doubtless be much less among them. Allusion had also been made
to railways on the isthmus. He was sure that Mr. Kelley had no jealousy
against railways, but would be the more delighted the more there were that
crossed the isthmus, as the increase of commerce thus indicated would require
a corresponding increase of ships. Commerce arises from two causes : —
first, from the variety of natural or artificial products in diiferent parts of
the world ; and secondly, from an instinctive love of gain and the desire to
supply new wants. When different countries became acquainted with the
difference of their products, they were sure to trade with each other, whether
separated by mountains, deserts, or oceans. He thought that we were much
indebted to Mr. Kelley for his liberality and his boldness in bringing forward
his proposal ; and he hoped that the commercial nations of the world, the
United States, France, and Great Britain, and even Russia, would combine
in causing the barrier between the two oceans to be no longer unknown to us.
M. DE Lesseps : M. le Capitaine FitzRoy, parlant d'un projet de canalisa-
tion de ITsthme de Darien, vous a dit tout a I'heure, dans un langage eloquent,
que beaucoup de grandes entre[)rises, paraissant d'abord chimeriques avant
d'avoir ete etudi^es, deviennent r^alisables aux yeux de tout le monde, lors-
qu'elles ont ete serieusement examinees sur les lieux ; j'espere qu'il en sera
ainsi pour le Canal Interoce'anique dont il vient d'etre question, et je fais des
vceux pour sa realisation. Quant au percement de ITsthme de Suez, sur lequel
M. le President a bien voulu m'inviter a dire quelques mots, je puis vous
assurer que I'entreprise est tout a fait praticable. J'ai reun^, il y a pen de
mois, une commission composee des plus celebres ingenieurs de I'Europe dans
les travaux des ports ou de canalisation, et dont font partie MM. Rendel et
