May 12, 1856.J HUMBOLDT. 69
J'aurai I'honneur de faire hommage h la Societe de Geographic de ma publi-
cation : elle fera suite a celle qui a paru a Londres I'ann^e derniere, et que la
Socie'te' a bien voulu accueillir favorablemeiit»
The Meeting adjourned to the 12tli of May,
Tenth Meeting, May 12, 1856.
Rear- Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, President, in the Chair.
Lieut. M. F. Maury, of the United States' Navy, and Commodore
C. Irminger, of the Royal Danish Navy, were elected Corresponding
Members ; and Charles Churchill, Esq. ; Robert Ferguson, Fsq.,
M.D. ; James Hewitt, Fsq. ; and Rear-Admiral G. F. Rich, were
elected Fellows.
The discussion on Mr. Kelley's paper on the Atrato Inter-Oceanic
Canal, which had been adjourned at the preceding Meeting, was re-
opened by the reading of the following letter by the Secretary ; —
Letter o/" Baron von Humboldt to Mr. Frederick M. Kelley.
{Translation.)
Berlin, 27th January, 1856,
It is with the most lively satisfaction that I have taken notice, during
your too short visit to Berlin, of the great and solid operations which
you have caused lo be executed since the beginning of January, 1855,
by Mr. William Kennish, a skilful engineer, in surveying and levelling
the course of the great river Atrato and its affluents from the W.
My learned friend Mr. Alexander Bache, superintendent of the coast
survey of the United States, had already drawn my attention to the
previous investigations which you had caused to be made ; and these
researches are the more deserving of regar(i in consequence of your
proposal to extend the investigation, with equal precision, to the
passage between Port Cupica and the river Napipi, as well as to
other points situated above the confluence of the Truando — positions
of great importance in the solution of the vast problem of an oceanic
canal.
The great number of maps and sections on large scales, which you
possess, furnish all the necessary elements for judging of the possibility
of communication through the mouths of the Atrato, the Truando, and
a canal leading from the latter to the South Sea. It is owing to such
a complete examination not having been efl^ected of the mountainous
country between the Gulf of San Miguel and Caledonia Bay, that
Mr. Lionel Gisborne's project in 1852 has not been executed, Igno-
