72 KELLEY. [May 12, 1856.
that a fall of 3 inches in a mile, whicli was that estimated in the present case,
was not unusual in artificial canals ; and that the supply of water would be
amply sufficient to maintain the canal at a proper elevation.
Sib Roderick Murchison, f.r.g.s,, begged to observe that the discussion of
this question had naturally assumed very much of an engineering character, and
acknowledged that the Society was much indebted to the eminent engineers
who had already spoken this evening and on a former occasion. He sug-
gested, however, that no true inductions could be arrived at, nor any sound
attempt made to realize the grand idea of Humboldt, until a general and
accurate geodeslcal survey of the whole region alluded to had been completed.
In this praiseworthy cause Mr. Kelley had done more than any other person,
and he now asks this Society to exercise its influence with the British Govern-
ment to assist, with other powers, in carrying out this great and essential pre-
liminary survey, in the absence of which he did not pretend to say that the
line he had suggested was the best which could be chosen.
Mr. G. Rennie, f.r.g.s., said that this was (to use the words of the President)
emphatically a water question ; for in the valley through which a canal would
have to pass, rain fell almost incessantly for nine months in the year, and such
rain was rarely seen in any other part of the world. It was therefore one of
the most important elements, or rather aliments, of the question. With regard
to the effect of admitting water into the canal either from the Pacific Ocean
or from the Atrato, he had no apprehensions ; for the length of the canal between
its junction with the Pacific at Paracuchici and with the Atrato was so great,
and the oscillation of the tide at either end so small (notwithstanding they
were high and low at different periods), that before the water of a spring tide
in the Pacific could have any efiect on the water in the canal, the velocity of
the water would be so retarded by the friction and resistance of the sides and
bottom of the canal, as to reduce the inclination of the surface of the water (in
the canal) to three inches per mile over the whole distance of the Truandcfpart ;
but before the water of the Pacific reached the farther extremity, the tide
would have fallen, and thus the two opposing forces of the pressure of the water
without, and the canal within, would be reduced to an equilibrium. At 3 inches
per mile, the motion of the water is scarcely perceptible. As regards the
effect of the passage of the water-flow of the Atrato, no fear need be enter-
tained ; the area of the section of the Atrato at the junction, being from nine
to ten times greater than that of the canal of the Truando, will afford an
abundant supply of water to the canal. The Atrato is as wide as the river
Thames at Waterloo Bridge, and 47 feet deep, so that there is ample width
and depth for the largest merchant vessels, and even vessels of war. The
objections to navigating it were considerable, as its channel was difficult to
define, when passing through the many lagoons or lakes which overflowed its
banks in many places, particularly at its junction with the Truando, which is
described by Mr. Kelley to be usually covered by a vast lagoon or lake at the
entrance, and thus very difficult to find ; so that the course of the river or
canal will have to be buoyed and staked, and pilots would be necessary.
With regard to the other parts of the canal there were difficulties of no
ordinary kind. The Truando was one of them. The entrance into the Gulf
of Darien was exposed to the N. and N. E. winds, but their effect did not
seem to influence the mouths of the Delta, behind which there was shelter.
It had been proposed to convert the Coquito branch into the main entrance
into the Atrato, by blocking up the branches and turning all their channels
into the Coquito. There were other difficulties at the entrance into the canal
from the Pacific, as at Paracuchici, where the surf beat strongly on the shore,
although the water was calm inside. It would be a question between an
entrance with an open mouth on that part of the shore, or into Humboldt Bay.
It would also be reasonable to put down- half a million as the cost of each
harbour, in addition to the cost of the canal, estimated at thirty millions, say
