May 12, 1856.] KELLEY. 73
thirty-one millions. The sum was great, but the object was still greater ; and
considering that the distance round the vast peninsula of South America was
estimated at nineteen thousand miles from New York to San Francisco, and
that by the canal it would be reduced to 5700 miles — considering also that
the passage round Cape Horn was seldom less than one hundred and fifty days^
and often above two hundred and fifty days ; that the passage by the caiial
would be made in one hundred and five days ; that the cost of maintaining the
ship and crew of a fast vessel, including insurance and all charges, would be
10,475 dollars, not including the extreme contingencies of shipwrecks and loss
of human life, Mr. Rennie was of opinion that the vast advantages which
would accrue to the world at' large were well worth the sacrifice.
Mr. Beaedmore, f.r.g.s., remarked that there were one or two facts and
first principles of science which might be laid down as axioms.
The first was the relative level of the two oceans : he believed it to be a
consequence of the law of gravitation that the mean level of the ocean was
substantially the same at all parts of the globe, and would be so as long as a
pound of sea water everywhere occupied the same space, and was composed of
the same constituents. He had investigated every kind of available observa-
tion on the level of the ocean, including the Ordnance Survey of Great Bri-
tain, and the testing levels taken at the instance of the British Association
between the English and Bristol Channels, and connected with the admirable
surveys of the President (Admiral Beechey), and had in his own professional
experience made numerous minute surveys, all of which c6nfirmed this view^
Where surveys showed difierent results, it was because the mean tide level had
not been ascertained with sufficient accuracy.
He had also investigated the facts presented by Mr. Kelley, which appeared
to him to prove incontestably that the junction of the Atrato and Truando
could not vary materially from the stated height of fifteen feet above the
mean sea level. With these facts, combined with the rise of twelve feet tide
in the Pacific, the questions before the Meeting were —
Firstly. Whether a free communication between the waters of the Pacific
and the Atrato, at the point in question, would be practicable for navigation ?
Secondly. Whether such a communication would be likely to reduce the
level of the Atrato to a serious or injurious extent ? and
Thirdly. Would it cause any tidal action of a prejudicial nature on that
river ?
1. The first question might be answered in the affiimative without any hesi-
tation ; for the extreme fall could not possibly create a current greater than
from two to three miles per hour, where beyond the tidal action ; within it
there would be the usual flow and ebb, to be found in a somewhat sluggish
tidal river which has no great interior basin to fill or empty.
2. The second question might be dealt with in a familiar way, by assuming,
for instance, that the Atrato had at present as much as four inches fall in any
or every mile of its course. Now the river was evidently one of very large
volume, and liable, from the character of the mountains draining into it, and
from the excessive rainfall of the climate, to heavy floods ; its width was
therefore great, and its depth varied from 45 to 85 feet. Assuming, then,
that it were possible to abstract sufficient water to reduce the surface fall to a
minimum of one inch per mile (a flatness rarely to be found), the depth at the
junction would only be reduced about ten feet, and the power of discharging
its waters would be reduced 50 per cent. ; or, in other words, one-half of its
entire volume would be available to fall through the new cut towards the
Pacific. But it must be remembered that, as the height of the Atrato at the
point of junction was reduced, so would the velocity down the new cut be
decreased, and therefore it would not in reality carry off any such proportion
of the volume. These statements are matters of well-known fact in the science
i2
