May 12, 1856.] BENGUELA TO MOZAMBIQUE, 75
ADDITIONAL NOTICES.
1. Journey from Benguela to Mozambique. Translated from the
Portuguese * Boletim e Annaes do Conselho UltramarinoJ
On the 12th of November, 1854, some Moorish traders arrived at the capital
of the Portuguese province of Mozambique, on the S.E. coast of Africa,
bearing a despatch from the Governor of Angola, on the West Coast. They
left Benguela on the 9th of June, 1853, and were accompanied by Antonio
Francisco da Silva Porta as far as Cutonge, where they an-ived in 107 days.
It is to be lamented that no instructed person had joined the party, for very
little information could be obtained from them. They found large towns and
dwellings in every part ; they had to pass four large rivers on rafts ; they
came to inhabited places where ivory was of very little value, and this was
more or less the case throughout the journey, principally at Chamopa, on the
right bank of the Chamoriro, a great river without fords. Provisions abounded
everywhere, and the inhabitants were docile, and rich in good cattle. The
following itinerary gives all the information which could be obtained from the
travellers.
On the 9th of June, 1853, they left Benguela, and proceeding in a southerly
direction, arrived at Cutonge, which they left on September 22, 1853. They
passed the river Nambuate, travelling along the side of a thick forest on its
left bank, through a fertile country. At Evianda they spent three days, and
passing through the small town of Namelio, they reached the deep river
Namecaque, 100 fathoms (brafas) wide, running from north to south through
cultivated plains. The following small places, with few inhabitants, were
reached in succession, viz., Inane, Metondo, Ohontongo, Molonde, Nuhete-
Cassilura, and Luana ; and then the fordable river Tuanhete, and the small places
called Poinge, Mussangue, Cambira, Hate, and Macomba, the last having only
a few people. The Moors then penetrated through a forest called Mulugane,
where they suffered from a scarcity of water ; and at Ohcoingo they found the
great river Chamoriro, running southward, with the large town of Chamopa
on its right bank, abounding with provisions, the country being cultivated.
The track proceeds to the town of Ilaycolom, and across the small rivers
Pacapi90 and Mecomalache to the small towns of Tagumbe and Pasmube, and
the forest of Xambia. Several towns were now passed in the following order : —
Cartacorbo, Ococalhe, Hohambe, Coguem, Ponhina, Laquie, Muiasse, Vicicu,
Pacacello, Capane, Rumbue, Guiner, the large town of Coimba, with culti-
vated lands ^and no' lack of food, Cocussilmba, Oramba, Rupachasse, and
Pansuanrba, the last-named town having sufficient cultivated land, but its
inhabitants are great thieves. After crossing the fordable river Corimba and
Sund, they came to a town of the Muizas, called Paringa, where they could
find nothing to eat ; but several places were afterwards passed, all of which
were inhabited and cultivated by the Muizas, and contained many people,
who were generally hospitable and good. The names of these places are
Semda, Pacalem, Chuma, Musambe, Quelebia, Rusanga, Mataracuens, Mus-
sana, Timbore, and Pararo. The great river Ruanga appears to be the
boundary of the Muizas territory. The next towns, Runga and Cambille,
were followed by the forest of Muito, the town of Quicusse, with many
people, and the forest of Tumbuca. Three towns were now successively
reached, named Utura, Patuama, and Tagumc, having many people and
much cattle ; then the small town of Uamache, and other small towns with
few inhabitants, named Tabia, Tambuca, Muache, Cocassura, Moache, and
