May 12, 1856.] STOKES. 81
in dealing with the inhabitants of New Caledonia, who were a stout, savage,
negro race, and rather warlike, inhabiting a tropical region little adapted to
the European constitution, and he could not suppose the Gulf of Carpentaria
had a climate suitable to European constitutions, nor could he see anything
to induce English settlers to select that locality. It was within 18° of the
Equator ; and in his opinion, had neither climate, soil, nor water to recom-
mend it. Wheat could certainly not be grown upon it, and it was totally
unfit for sheep.
Captain Hoseason, e.n., cordially concurred in Capt. Stokes' opinions on the
navigation of Torres Strait. He had steamed through the strait himself, and
had no doubt of its being the best route from Sydney to Singapore. But for
postal communication he preferred the Panama line.
Captain FitzRoy, e.n., f.e.g.s., hoped that the discussion would be con-
fined to the question of the most suitable postal route to Australia. This was
a matter for the present time, but no one could expect to see a canal cut
through the Isthmus of Darien in less than 10 years.
He thought that the sketch map which had been used to illustrate the
paper, should have shown the direct route from the Eed Sea and Cape Leeuwin
by the Chagos Islands, as well as the two other lines. This direct track had
been objected to on account of hurricanes, but ships were not now deterred
from crossing those seas on that account. To steam ships of 2000 or 3000
tons, occasional hurricanes were a mere bugbear. Many years ago we used to
hear often of ships being lost in hurricanes, but the improvement in building
and fitting ships, and our knowledge of the rotatory motion of these storms,
had divested them of much of their danger. This direct route lies across an
open sea, through which ships may run, if they please, 20 miles an hour by
night as well as by day, and the winds by no means so strong as in the Atlan-
tic. The chief difficulty in making sailing passages from Cape Leeuwin to the
Mauritius, is found in the light winds, and returning in the opposing S.E.
trades, which, however, he thought, might be considerably lessened by a slight
alteration in the course taken.
The route through Torres Strait might be smooth and pleasant in summer,
but could Captain Stokes say what it is in winter? Captain Lihou had
told him, five and twenty years ago, that he had tried to work his ship
through, against the westerly monsoon, that he had got her aground fre-
quently, and that nothing should tempt him to try that passage again
in winter. This had made a great impression on him at the time, and
since then evidence on the navigation of Torres Strait in winter had been
unattainable. It is almost, if not altogether w^anting. All our information
related to the summer season, and even then vessels would be obliged to
anchor during the night, for several nights in succession. This route was not,
in his opinion, fit for large steamers, and the passages would necessarily be
slow on account of many stoppages and delays. Long runs are required for
speed. In an economical point of view it would not do to stop often.
But in his opinion two or three lines would be required — one round the
Cape of Good Hope, as well as that through the Eed Sea ; and both these
would open important branch lines, but these branches must not be considered
when rapid passages are desired from end to end. There would be immediate
ample support, as there was unquestionable necessity, for two lines at least ;
and the quicker those could be made, the more numerous would be the branch
lines which — as we know by experience on railroads — would immediately be
opened. Until Captain Stokes could show that the climate of Torres Strait
offered no great obstacle in winter, he should prefer the Chagos route for the
mails, and for those passengers who preferred the shorter, though more ex-
pensive route ; other lines would of course be cheai)er for the generality of
passengers and for cargoes.
For the wants of North Australia, connection with Singajwre was required.
k2
