82, STOKES. [May 26, 185G.
One route would undoubtedly help out another, and both lines would— in
his opinion — be soon in operation if the Government would give its attention
to so important a subject.
After some remarks and questions from the Bishop of Oxford having
reference to a penal settlement in Carpentaria, the discussion on Captain Stokes'
paper was adjourned to the next ordinary Meeting.
Twelfth Meeting (Anniversary), 1 p.m., May 26, 1856.
The President, Rear- Admiral F. W. BEECHEY, in the Chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting- were read and confirmed. The
Regulations respecting the Anniversary Meetings were next read, when
the President appointed Dr. W. B. Baikie and John Brown, Esqrs.,
Scrutineers for the Ballot.
Blackett Botcherby^ Esq., was proposed as a Candidate for Elec-
tion at the next Meeting.
The Report of the Council, with the Balance-sheet for 1855 and the
Estimate foi" 1856, was then read and adopted.
The President next delivered the Founder's Gold Medal to his Ex-
cellency G. M. Dallas, the American Minister, on behalf of Elisha
Kent Kane, m.d., of the United States, for his discoveries in the Polar
Regions while in command of the American expedition in search of Sir
John Franklin and his companions, and for his Memoir and Chart.
The Patron's Gold Medal was presented to Heinrich Barth, ph. dr.
of Hamburg, " for his Explorations in Central Africa ; his numerous
Excursions about Lake Chad ; his discovery of the River Binue ; and
his Journey to and from Timbuctii."
A Silver Watch and Chain was then presented to Corporal Church,
of the Royal Sappers and Miners, for his meritorious and intelligent
services in connection with the Central African Expedition.
Corporal Church having been introduced to the Meeting by Lieut.-
General Sir John Burgoyne, r.e., received the Watch and Chain
through his hands.
The President then read his Anniversary Address, for which a
unanimous Vote of Thanks was passed, with a request that he would
allow it to be printed. The Ballot being concluded, the Scrutineers
reported that the changes advised by the Council had been adopted ;
and the President announced that Colonel W. H. Sykes was elected
to succeed Rear- Admiral W. H. Smyth as Vice-President ; and the
Right Hon. E. Cardwell, m.p., Captain R. FitzRoy, r.n., Lieut.-Gen.
C. R. Fox, the Earl of Harrowby, Lieut.-Gen. Sir G. Pollock,
H. D. Seymour, Esq., m.p., and Captain J. L. Stokes, r.n., were elected
to fill the vacancies in the number of the ordinary Councillors occa-
sioned by the retirement of Rear- Admiral Sir F. Beaufort, W. Cotton
