84 STOKES. [June 9, 1856.
sea or land, it was seldom oppressive." This evidence is confirmed by observa-
tions taken daily, at sunrise, noon, and sunset, during the months of Novem-
ber and December, in Weymouth Bay, York Peninsula, by Mr. Carron.
For the temperature of the remaining part of the year, or from April to
November, there is the evidence of Dr. Leichhardt, who was engaged with a
party during three months in traversing the southern shores of Carpentaria.
He speaks very highly of the country, and describes the influence of the climate
on himself and his companions in these words : — " The state of our health
showed how congenial the climate was to the human constitution, for without
- comforts, without flour or salt, and miserably clothed, we were yet all in
health." (Page 299.) As to his cattle, he states that they were in capital
condition while passing round the gulf ; and further, that cattle, driven by
easy stages from the Darling Downs to the Gulf, would fatten on the road.
Captain Stokes' own surveys in Carpentaria, which led to his discovery of
the fine country which he named the Plains of Promise, were made during the
months of July and August, and were perfectly confirmed by Leichhardt's
subsequent journey. The thermometer in those months was observed as low
as 50° ; and Leichhardt, in drawing the special attention of his readers to the
frequent complaints made by his party of cold nights, says, " in fact, we
found the air so bracing that we are all in good health." Captain Stokes ex-
pressed the opinion that a selected class of convicts might be employed on a
system of dispersion, with great advantage, in forming a new settlement in the
Gulf of Carpentaria.
With regard to the thick, rainy, and boisterous weather, which Captain
FitzRoy seems to fear would impede the navigation of Torres Strait during the
western monsoon, it does not appear, from all the evidence Captain Stokes had
been able to collect, that there was any cause of apprehension. Thunder
squalls occur with rain, but the strongest winds. Flinders found during the
season of the westerly monsoon, were from the eastward.
It would almost appear that, perfect as our charts now are along the pro-
posed route, there must be some motive in continuing the brand of great danger
to the navigation of Torres Strait. The losses that have occurred on the
Barrier Eeefs may be attributed to hazardous attempts to make Eaine's Islet
and similar narrow passages, where there are no soundings to guide the navi-
gator, and the currents are generally strong.
Captain Hoseason is the only naval officer who has taken a steamer through
Torres Strait. He was delighted with the passage, and compared the reefs
and islets to so many natural beacons, as he steamed H.M.S. * Inflexible '
through them at the rate of 10 knots an hour.
An increase has been made in the subsidy from Melbourne, raising it to
75,000?., since this subject was brought on at the last Meeting ; rendering it
still more apparent that there should be two lines, as already stated ; one to
Melbourne by the S. coast, and the other to Sydney by Torres Strait. This
would allay agitation, and meet the wants as well as gratify the wishes
of all the colonists.
Captain the Hon. H, A. MtiKEAT, k.n., f.r.g.s., next read a letter from
Captain J. C. Hoseason, r.n., who was u.navoidably absent, and who expressed
himself in favour of Captain Stokes' route via Torres Strait, not as being the
best line of communication from England to Australia, but as being the best
line across the Indian Seas, supposing that it was determined, in the first in-
stance, to send the mails by way of Suez. As a means of direct communication
between England and Australia he gave a decided preference to the route via
Panama, using the railroad, such as it now existed, across the Isthmus ; but
if hereafter an inter-oceanic canal should be constructed free from locks, and
navigable for large steamers, that route would in his estimation be incompa-
rably superior to all others.
Captain Hoseason mentioned that he had been for three years Nautical
