HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES. 3
the presence of some field of force surrounding the body. The first
method promises detection at a greater range than the second since
the intensity of radiant energy varies as the inverse square of the
distance from the source while the strength of a field of force sur-
rounding a polarized body varies as the inverse cube of the distance.
Both methods are applicable to the case of a moving submarine.
The steel shell of the submarine must be surrounded by a magnetic
field, due to polarization induced by the earth's magnetic field and
also due to such permanent polarization as it may have taken on dur-
ing construction. Also a certain amount of sound must radiate from
the motors and propellers and other moving parts of the submarine.
Magnetic Methods Unsatisfactory Because of Limited
Range.
The intensity of polarization which a submarine takes on through
the action of the earth's magnetic field can be predicted with some
accuracy and, as a result, the range at which it can be detected by
magnetic methods foretold. Both theory and practice show this
range to be about Yz the length of the submarine. This range, which
is too slight to be helpful in searching or avoiding an operating sub-
marine, is hardly sufficient for detecting any but the largest sub-
marine when lying at rest on the bottom at maximum depth. No
satisfactory method for determining the presence of a submarine
lying at rest at considerable depth, say from lOO to 150 feet, has yet
been perfected, but one or two promising methods are in the process
of development.
Sound Methods Promise Greater Range.
Water is an excellent medium for transmitting sound. Its homo-
geneity and low viscosity makes the dissipation due to reflection, re-
fraction, and transformation into heat comparatively slight.
The relation between intensity and distance is more favorable
than that given by the inverse square law, because of the fact that
the surface and bottom reflect the sounds and tend to keep them
within two dimensional motion, much as the speaking tube confines
sound to motion of one dimension. Because of this fact, sounds can
be heard farther than they could if they were not confined.
