152 MacDOUGAL and SPOEHR— COMPONENTS AND
tions given. Their hydration is but Httle affected by the presence
of the common sugars in the water of suspension or dispersion.
X. The albumins and their derivatives are amphoteric, being
capable of dissociating both as acids or as bases. Hydration in the
presence of hydrogen ions may be much greater than in water and
may reach the possible maximum, while that in the presence of
hydroxyl ions and of various cations may also be in excess of that
in water. Gelatine as an example of this group shows such behavior
but has a restricted hydration capacity in amino-acids such as gly-
cocoll. On the other hand, the swelling is proportional to the high
hydrogen ion concentration of such amino-acids as aspartic acid,
which is diabasic.
XI. Variations in the hydration total or volume may be ascribed
to changes in the colloidal components of a plasma, to products of
the resident metabolism, to the action of substances absorbed during
hydration or to fluctuations in temperature.
XII. The changes in volume of a mass of colloidal material are
usually not iso-diametrical during hydration. Such alterations are
determined by the structure of the jelly which may be so dift'er-
entiated as to show expansion and contraction along one axis almost
wholly.
XIII. The analysis of the implied facts has also demonstrated
that growth is so essentially as to its nature, and so largely as to
volume, a matter of hydration that the compounds which facilitate
the sweUing of phytocolloids and of cell-masses, facilitate or accel-
erate growth.^
1 MacDougal, D. T., " Hydration and Growth," Publ. 297 Carnegie Inst,
of Wash., 1920, and " Hydration Effects of Amino-compounds," Proc. Soc.
for Exper. Biol and Med., 17: 35-36. 1919.
Schreiner, O., and Skinner, J. J., " Experimental Study of the Effect of
Some Nitrogenous Soil Constituents on Growth. Nucleic Acid and Its De-
composition Products," Plant World, 16: 45-60. 1913.
Schreiner, O., and Skinner, J. J., " Specific Action of Organic Compounds
in Modifying Plant Characteristics; Methyl GlycocoU versus Glycocoll," Bot.
Gac, 59: 445-463- 1915-
Skinner, J. J., and Beattie, J. H., " Effect of Asparagin on Absorption and
Growth in Wheat," Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, 2,9: 429-437- IQIP-,
Borovicow, G. A., " On the Action of Different Substances on the Veloc-
ity of Growth of Vegetables," Publ. of the Soc. Nat. of New Russia, 41 :
15-194. 1916.
