COLLOIDAL BEHAVIOR OF PLANT PROTOPLASM. 153
Conclusions Founded on Newly Obtained Results.
The further development of our knowledge on this subject has
been attempted by experiments arranged to obtain evidence upon
four topics, viz: (i) the proportions of carbohydrate and albu-
minous matter in a colloid of the highest hydration capacity; (2)
the substances or ions of biological significance which would raise
the hydration capacity of these phytocolloids to the highest limit ;
(3) measurement of the relative efifects of some metallic bases upon
a carbohydrate colloid ; and (4) determination of the amplitude and
continuance of alternating or repeated effects of renewed or replaced
solutions.
1. By the use of the pentosan, agar, as representing the acid car-
bohydrate and of gelatine for the amphoteric albuminous component
trials were made to ascertain what proportions of these substances
would show hydration capacities of a range comparable to that of
living matter. A mixture containing one part carbohydrate and
three parts albuminous matter shows the highest general hydration
capacity under the influence of hydrogen, hydroxyl ions and the
ions which may be derived from amino-acids. Biocolloids high in
albuminous matter swell most under the action of the hydrogen ion.
Biocolloids containing 40 per cent, or more carbohydrates swell most
in amino-compounds. Balanced biocolloids swell most in the pres-
ence of hydroxyl ions. These reactions are parallel to those of
living and dried cell-masses of plants, and follow through the sea-
sonal variations determined by chemical analyses.
2. Biocolloids of which more than a fourth is carbohydrate are
highly sensitive to the action of hydrogen ions, which restrict
hydration.
3. The basic histidine and glycocoll which is slightly on the acid
side of neutral increase hydration in biocolloids containing more
than 40 per cent, carbohydrate. Maximum swellings of 4300 per
cent, by a mixture of i part agar and 3 parts gelatine in acid repre-
senting a high concentration for plant juices, and of 3930 per cent,
by a mixture of 2 parts agar and 3 of gelatine in histidine are of
great physiological interest. But little information concerning the
presence or action of the basic amino-compounds in plants is avail-
able.
