154 MacDOUGAL and SPOEHR— COMPONENTS AND
4. Glycocoll and glycocoll ester increase the swelling of agar.
Glycocoll lessons swelling of gelatine, while glycocoll ester, glycocoll
ester hydrochloride and glycocoll hydrochloride increase it beyond
that shown in distilled water.
5. The hydroxides of the strong metallic bases limit the hydra-
tion of agar according to their position in the electromotive series,
the least swelling taking place under the action of the strongest base
at concentrations of o.oi A'^ with the apparent exception of rubidium.
Beginning with the strongest the series runs K (Rb) Na Li.
6. The various effects of barium, calcium and strontium are not
so clearly determined and the quantitative relations of these metals
are not known definitely. Hydration values of agar at o.oi A^ were
Sr(OH), = 8i5, Ca(OH), = 86o, Ba(0H), = 900.
7. Hydration of agar in calcium hydroxide exceeds that in water
at o.oooi N of the hydroxide and this effect is also produced at
o.ooooi A^. Increase of hydration beyond that of water by dilute
solutions of hydroxides of calcium, potassium, rubidium, potassium
sodium and lithium is an effect we have hitherto ascribed to amino-
compounds only. Excess values for aniline and ammonium hy-
droxide are given.
8. The incorporation of bases in agar lessens its hydration ca-
pacity in any concentration yet tested, and this is also true of biocol-
loids of which carbohydrates constitute more than half. In mix-
tures containing more gelatine hydration capacity in acids and in
hydroxides may be increased by included bases. The inclusion of
a metallic base and its presentation in a hydrating solution would
give different results in a colloidal or plasmatic body such as 3.
nucleus or chromosome.
9. The data in this article were secured chiefly by the swelling
of trios of sections with a total volume of 4 to 8 cu. mm. under the
auxograph in dishes into which 25 to 30 cc. of solution was placed
and renewed at intervals of 12 and 24 hours. Such renewals were
attended by accelerations in the rate and increases in the total swell-
ing. Agar and biocolloids of agar and gelatine showed this action
in a marked manner. Sections of equal parts of these two com-
ponents exhibited reactions in which the exaggerated swelling re-
sulting from renewals were partly retracted very slowly on the third
