COLLOIDAL BEHAVIOR OF PLANT PROTOPLASM. 155
day. After this the exag-geration slowly decreased and the retrac-
tion increased until the two balanced about the eighth day. The two
movements continued for a total period of 67 days. It is suggested
that the exaggerated swelling following a renewal of the solutions
may be due to the formation of glycocoll agarate, the bulk of which
might be greater than that of the agar. Diffusion of this material
from the section would result in a retraction or shrinkage.
10. Plates of colloids cast on glass and prevented from shrink-
ing in area take on a heterotropic structure which varies in agar,
gelatine and in mixtures of the two. The swelling of an agar plate
is almost wholly in thickness so that the increase of a hydrated sec-
tion is denoted directly by the thickness reached. Gelatine plates
prepared in the same manner may increase as much as 60 per cent,
in length and width while swelling. Plates of mixtures of the two
swell from 6 to 16 per cent, in length and width, this amount being
modified by the character of the hydrating solution. These effects
which may play an important part in morphological procedure in the
cell, seem to indicate a meshwork structure of biocolloids as it does
not seem possible for emulsions to be differentiated in the manner
implied.
Hydration Tests of Various Biocolloids.
In the effort to ascertain the character of the biocolloids which
might show hydration reactions of the range and variety of proto-
plasm, empirical mixtures of agar and gelatine were made up and
cast into plates which were dried and then swelled under the auxo-
graph. Eight colloidal preparations were hydrated in water, hydro-
chloric acid, potassium hydroxide and glycocoll at 15° C. Trios of
sections were swelled under the auxograph in the usual manner, the
increases being calculated in percentages of original thickness by the
left hand number of each couple. Strips of the same material 50
to 80 mm. in length were placed in test tubes of' similar solutions.
The resulting increases ranged from 2 to 12 per cent, in length and
width in the different colloids. These ratios were applied to the
increases in thickness to obtain the total volumes expressed in the
right-hand number of each pair in Table I.
