180 ADAAIS— THE EINSTEIN THEORY.
the distance between any two points shall be expressed as the sum
of the squares of the relative coordinates of the two points. In the
generalized space of Riemann this cannot be done. An analogy will
make this distinction clear. A plane in three-dimensional space
may be regarded as Euclidean space of two dimensions, for by
choosing any rectangular coordinates in it it is possible to express
the square of the distance between two points as the sum of the
squares of the relative coordinates of the points. A curved surface
in three dimensions, however, is non-Euclidean space of two dimen-
sions, for the distance between two points on the surface measured
along the surface cannot be expressed in the same way as on a plane.
The geometry of curved surfaces in three-dimensional space was
developed by Gauss, and Riemann's geometry is an extension of the
Gaussian methods to surfaces of a greater number of dimensions.
In this way the conception of curvature of space arose, as a per-
fectly logical development of the easily conceived curvature of a
surface. Space of zero curvature is Euclidean space ; if the curva-
ture is different from zero, whether constant or varying from point
to point, space is non-Euclidean. Measurements on a two-dimen-
sional surface will tell whether the surface is plane or curved — that
is, whether it is Euclidean space or not. For by measuring the
circumference of a circle drawn on the surface with a known
radius, if the circumference is 27r times the radius, the surface is
plane. If the surface is curved the result will in general be dif-
ferent. So it might be thought that measurements in our actual
three-dimensional space would tell whether our space is Euclidean
or not. In fact. Gauss did attempt to test this question by carefully
measuring the angles between three distant points, but needless to
say he found no departure from Euclidean space.
We must now consider the question of time. Until Lorentz in-
troduced what he called the " local time " in his theory of electrical
and optical phenomena in moving bodies, and thus laid the founda-
tion for the theory of relativity, time and space were regarded as
wholly independent concepts, at least for the purpose of describing
physical phenomena. Our knowledge of the physical universe we
obtain by experience, and it is certainly true that no one ever de-
termined a position in space except at a definite time, nor noted a
