4 HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES.
A submarine sound having an amplitude of /4o^° inches is near
the limit of audibility. This represents a movement of the particles
of the medium through a distance less than %o the diameter of the
smallest atom.
The fact that water transmits sound energy with slight loss and
that the relation between intensity and distance is more favorable
than the inverse square law makes it appear reasonable that sounds
can be heard at great distances in water if the energy of sound waves
of such minute amplitude can be efficiently collected and brought to
the ear.
General Nature of Sound.
Sound is a longitudinal wave motion having some vibrating body
as a source. It travels through any material medium with a definite
velocity depending upon the physical properties of the medium. The
ratio of the velocity of sound in air to the velocity in water at a tem-
perature of 60 degrees Fahr. is about ^Moo-
A sustained sound or tone has three physical characteristics :
loudness, pitch and quality. Loudness or intensity depends upon
the amplitude, (the distance the particles of the medium vibrate
back and forth) ; pitch, the highness or lowness of the tone, depends
upon the frequency or number of waves which pass a fixed point per
second ; quality depends upon the number and intensity of overtones
or harmonics present in the sound. It is the quality of a sound that
enables a listener to name the instrument upon which it is produced.
A sound which varies from moment to moment, as it does when
produced by an engine or rotating propeller on a boat, has other
characteristics, the most important of which is rhythm. Rhythm is
more or less a characteristic of each type of boat. A trained listener
can detect the faint rhythm of a distant boat through a mass of
louder confusing noises and can tell the type of boat and judge its
speed by the character and the period of the rhythm.
The general laws of reflection, refraction, and interference of
light hold for sound, but there are certain practical differences be-
cause the wave-length of sound is much greater than the wave-
length of light. As a result of this greater wave-length, sound has a
greater tendency than light to bend around the edges of obstacles
and not travel in straight lines. It results also from this that mir-
