182 ADAMS— THE EINSTEIN THEORY.
extension by Weyl of the Einstein theory, which is really a logical
extension of the Riemann geometry. In Riemann's geometry the
scale of measurement is fixed ; a line element at one place can be
compared directly with a line element at a distance. But in a system
of geometry to remain true to the idea of direct action as opposed
to action at a distance this assumption appears unwarranted. And
so Weyl assumes that the scale of measurement varies from point to
point in the four-dimensional universe. This hypothesis results in
another differential form which characterizes the metrical proper-
ties of space — this time a linear differential form — and Weyl shows
how the electric and magnetic state of space can be interpreted in
terms of the coefficients which enter into this expression.
All that I have attempted to do in the foregoing is to show what
kind of a theory the Einstein theory is ; how radically it differs in
principle from what we are accustomed to ask for in a physical
theory. This theory opens up to the study of natural phenomena a
new universe, a universe in which geometry and physics cannot be
regarded as independent sciences. This universe is a four-dimen-
sional metrical manifold ; physical phenomena are determined by
the metrical properties of this universe. There is no reason that
I can see why this generalized space of the Einstein theory should
not be named " the ether." But giving it a name does not help in
understanding its properties, and it is a wholly different ether from
that to which we have grown accustomed.
It is interesting to note that the possibility of space having a
dynamical property was suggested by Riemann, although it was
left for Einstein to develop the consequences of such a conception.
In fact, Riemann went farther, and suggested the possibility of
space being a discrete manifold instead of a continuum, and this
suggestion is of particular interest at the present time in view o'f
the growing importance of the quantum theory which is founded
on the idea of discreteness somewhere as opposed to continuity.
The difficulties in understanding the Einstein theory are not so
much mathematical difficulties ; they arise from the vain attempt to
picture to our minds the kind of space required by the theory. We
instinctively try to form a model of some mechanism which will
