PRINCE— SLAV AND CELT. 185
It is the thesis of this paper to set forth how Slavs and Celts,
although speaking widely varying branches of the Indo-European
linguistic family, are nonetheless strikingly similar to each other
in habits of mind and expression.
The Slav, in spite of his prominence in the great war, is even yet
but little understood by the West. In fact, the majority of Amer-
icans do not even know who these people are, nor whence they
come. The Slavonic family is essentially a linguistic division. In-
deed, the very word " Slav " probably means * he who can speak
intelligibly ' from the same root as slovo ' word,' in distinction from
non-Slavs, who are known as njemcy ' dumb ones,' i.e., unintelligible
speakers, a term originally applied by Slavs to all foreigners, but
now exclusively to the Germans. The derivation of " Slav " from
slava 'glory' is unimportant, as slaz'a itself is probably but a
variant of the slov-slav-root meaning ' speak, proclaim.' The
Slavonic tribes are much more numerous to-day than their con-
geners the modern Celts.
There are six linguistic divisions of Slavonic speaking nationali-
ties, viz., Russians, who are subdivided into Great Russians, White
Russians and Ukrainians (Little Russians) ; Poles (with Kashu-
bians) ; Slovaks, who extend across the entire northern border of
what was Hungary, from the Ukrainian language-line on the east
to the Bohemian border on the west; Bohemians (Czechs) embrac-
ing also the Moravian population to the south of them, both tribes
speaking a distinctly western Slavonic idiom ; Serbs and Croats on
the south, who differ only in that they write their common speech,
the Serbs in the Cyrillic (Russian) and the Croats in the Latin
alphabet ; and finally the Bulgarians who speak a simplified form of
Slavonic and whose dialects extend, not only through political
Bulgaria, but also through a large part of Macedonia. To the
Serbo-Croats must be added the Montenegrins and also the Slovenes,
inhabiting the district just behind Trieste, and, strangely enough, the
little linguistic island of Wends in Saxony and Prussia, who,
although separated by centuries of isolation from their southern
Slavonic cousins, still use a distinctly Serbo-Slavonic form of
speech (Sorbian).
These then are the Slavs, and it will at once be observed that
