186 PRINCE— SLAV AND CELT.
the distinction between them and also their common bond is one
of language and not of race. It may be predicated that language
really carries with it a well-marked aura of influence which perme-
ates a people to the very marrow. While language is in one sense
merely a vehicle of expression, it also aids thought and directs
trends of mind. It would be difficult otherwise to explain the
striking similarity of these various Slavonic nationalities to one
another, because they come racially from many stocks.
For example, the Bulgarians are really Huns, whose parent
tribe in the latter days of the Byzantine empire, swept across
southern Russia like a storm and either drove out or dominated the
Serbo-Slavs of the Balkan peninsula. The invaders soon lost their
original speech and adopted a modified and corrupted form of the
local Slavonic idiom which has since developed into the modern
Bulgarian language. The Bulgarian is the enfant terrible among
these nations, selfishly bound up in his own tribe and hating bitterly
his neighbors, the Serbs and Croats. The Bulgarian is to this day
in his trends and habit of thought, in short, in all but his speech,
more of a Hun than a Slav. The Serbs and Croats are also of
fairly mixed race, although they are chiefly descended from original
Slavonic speaking tribes which came from the north into the Balkans
in the sixth Christian century. This clan has always been a strong
warrior nation distinguished by its love of reasonable freedom.
The Bohemians and Moravians have a very strong Germanic ad-
mixture of blood, for which reason they are politically the most
stable-minded of the entire family. The Hungarian Slovaks cannot
boast of a pure Slavonic speaking origin, as they became mixed in
early times with Tatar^ (Turkic) tribes and more recently with
their Finno-Ugric Magyar neighbors and former overlords, a
double admixture which has given to the Slovak the low forehead
and broad features suggestive of non-Indo-European origin. These
Slovaks are essentially a laboring class, highly industrious, but
rather addicted to drink.
The Poles assert that they are the only pure Slavonic stock,
but even among them appears the blond Scandinavian and North
1 Cf. J. D. Prince, "Tartar Material in Old Russian," Proc. Amer.
Philos. Soc, 1919, pp. 74-88.
