PRINCE— SLAV AND CELT. 189
made under circumstances of enforced privation, similar to the self-
inflicted tortures of the Hindu devotees, may be compared with the
Celtic fasts and semi-monastic ideals. Mysticism in general is a
common bond between the Slav and Celt. Slav and Celt alike seem
careless of their success or even survival, so strong is the impelling
discontent with the present world. Renan wrote of the unending
quest of the Celt the following words which apply equally well to
the Slav : " This race desires the infinite, it thirsts for it, and pursues
it at all costs, beyond the tomb — beyond Hell itself."* The Celtic
legend of the quest of the Holy Grail, the mysterious chalice of the
Last Supper which was regarded as a physical link between Man
and God should be mentioned here. It is highly significant that the
Celtic Grail-cup could be found only by a physically sex-pure man,
an idea which gave the world the later character of Sir Galahad,
unknown in the earlier Grail accounts, a man who " never felt the
kiss of love, nor maiden's hand in his."^ This conception of the
necessity of absolute sex-purity exists so strongly among the Slavs
that an entire sect, the Russian Skopcy have devoted themselves to
this ideal by an ordinance requiring voluntary sterilization, which
is still rigidly observed. The Celts, apparently, have not been '
guilty of such a caricature, although some of their ancient monks
may have resorted to this method of ensuring continence. The
Slavs seem to have nothing so definite in their lore as the quest of
the Grail, which the Celts not only sought, but actually found.
{b) Accomplishment is not a necessary adjunct to Slavonic
" success " and this principle constitutes the second point of resem-
blance between the Slavonic and Celtic characteristics ; a morbid
delight in sorrow and especially in failure.
The first thing which strikes the student of modern Russian
literature is that scarcely a tale emphasizes the qualities which make
for success in the formation of human character. Hardly anywhere
in these productions do we find the hero battling his way through
difficulties to an eventual success due to his own efforts. Stephen
4Cf. "The Celt and the World," by Shane Leslie, N. Y., 1917. The
entire work deals with the character of the Celt.
5 Cf. " King Arthur in History and Legend," W. Lewis Jones, Cambridge
University Press, 191 1, p. 107.
