190 PRINCE— SLAV AND CELT.
Graham in his recent work on this point (" The Way of Martha and
the Way of Mary," London, 191 5) is certainly correct in emphasiz-
ing the prevalence of this Russian " Gospel of Incompetence." It
would seem as if public sympathy has been at all times, but more
especially of recent years, with the unsuccessful, rather than with
the successful, hero. Even in the old Russian literature, as ex-
emplified in the "Tale of the Armament of Igor" (1185 A.D.), we
find a glorification of the defeat of this prince by the Tatar hordes
of the Polovtsy. That there was, however, a healthier tone in Old
Russian is evident from such a work as Zadonscina, where the great
victory of Dimitri Donskoi over the Tatar chieftain Mamai is well
sung. Of late years, particularly in the Russian literature of the
later nineteenth and twentieth centuries, this same tendency is chiefly
conspicuous by its absence. This Russian morbid pleasure in
failure is seen also among the other Slavs, although to a less marked
extent, as exemplified in such Polish songs as Nasze skiby nasze
lany or the beautiful Czech dirge Haidicek and also in many Serbo-
Croatian poems of the sadder style.
The Celts, especially the Irish and Scotch, are remarkable for
their delight in a "lost cause" which is expressed in such well-
known songs as " Patrick Sarsfield " or the " Wearing of the Green "
and the many Jacobite ditties of Scotland. It should be noted,
however, that many songs of this style breathe a spirit of defiance
or at least of obstinacy which always implies remote hope. No such
implication of hope is usual in the corresponding Slavonic poetry.
The Celtic morbid pleasure in death and its appurtenances such as
funerals and wakes is well recognized. Wakes, known as pominki
is Russian, are observed all over Slavia in much the same manner
as among the Celts. From the purely literary point of view, it is
a matter of regret that modern Welsh poetical productions have
nearly all been case-hardened by the stereotyped soul-deadening
form of the twenty-four meters, a system which inclines to sacrifice
everything to alliteration and rhyme. The modern Welsh people
have been very largely denaturalized as Celts, so far as their power
of expression is concerned, by the rigid forms of Protestantism
prevalent in Wales which have tinged the whole of recent Welsh
literature with a dull conventionalism, thus driving out almost
