PRINCE— SLAV AND CELT. 191
entirely the spirit of ancient Welsh poetry. In spite of this fact, the
Welsh and Bretons still love grief as much 'as any Irishman, but
differ widely from the Irish Celt in lacking humor, a lack which
is shared by the gloomy temper of the Scotch Gaels. The Slav,
on the other hand, does not lack humor entirely, — witness such
modern wits as the exquisite Russian Czechov and the Polish
authoress Eugenja Zmijevska, but this quality is commonly re-
garded as an evidence of lightmindedness and absence of mental
poise. The vast mass of Slavs are temperamental extremists, either
bathed in a delicious gloom, or else given over for brief periods to
slapstick wit and mad dances which, very temporarily, draw the
sad Slav out of his habitual introspection. A perfect parallel to
these ebullitions may be seen in the wild riot of Irish, Scotch and
Brenton jigs and reels, a form of music not much countenanced at
present by the artificially sobered Welsh.
Old Slavonic literature*' is full of tales of mythical heroes who
performed deeds of daring and feats of supernatural strength,
strongly reminiscent of the Irish Finn McCoul. Such hero-tales
are of course common to all the Indo-European peoples and are
not a point of particular resemblance between Slavs and Celts.
It is interesting that both the easternmost and westernmost
divisions of the peoples who speak Indo-European still retain the
ancient strain of unworldliness and mysticism which so noticeably
characterizes the religious devotees of the nations who still use the
oriental forms of Indo-European. The stern practicality of the
Teuton which has spread abroad through all the Germanic speaking
lands and appears in a special form among the Latin speaking
Franks is bounded east and west by a cloud of " unreal " thinkers
who turn with delight to pessimism and reject success as a mere
material benefit. Upon neither the Slav nor the Celt has the sun
of success ever risen, because both Slav and Celt contemn success.
There was a brief period, while Russia was an empire outwardly
mighty under largely Germanic direction but rotten at the core
with Slavonic apathy, when it appeared as if there might have been
an intellectual union between Russia and the lesser Salvonic peoples.
6Cf. I. Porfirieff, "History of Russian Literature" (in Russian), Part
I, pp. 49 fif.
