192 PRINCE— SLAV AND CELT.
This was in fact fostered by the Pan-Slavonic movement which
sought to teach the non-Russian Slavs to look to Petrograd and
Moscow for their national stimuli. What might have come of such
a movement no one can judge to-day, for with disaster the Russian
character crumbled and the great mass of unthinking sheeplike
peasantry fell into the hands of those who profess equality but
practise cooperative slavery, while the lesser Slavonic peoples have
been left to their own devices under the AlHed plan of self-determi-
nation. It would be rash to prophesy the future of these newly
formed states of Poland, Czecho-Slovakia and Serbo-Croatia.
Poland alone has a great tradition upon which to build and her
people may have developed, as indicated above, a spirit of sufficient
Solidarity to insure their national life.
Judging the future by the past, however, it would seem as if the
Slavs would again" be compelled eventually to seek the guiding hand
of the stranger, for Slavs and Celts have ever been politically im-
possible when left to themselves. The temperamental discontent
just discussed, common to both peoples, has made them supremely
jealous and consequently litigious and fractious in all matters of
government. Their tendency is to refuse obedience to leaders of
their own nationality and to break up into small partisan groups.
Among Russians especially debate is difficult. The Irish " Kil-
kenny Cats " are as Slavonic as they are Celtic ! The fact is that
Slavs and Celts are both Oriental. When Sergius N. Syromiatnikofif
hinted that Russia had made her great error in turning westward
instead of eastward for her ultimate culture, he was fundamentally
right.^ The same idea was frequently expressed by Dostoievsky,
'' The early Slavs of Russia is summoned the Scandinavian hero Rurik
(Hrorekr) and his brothers to rule over them, as they confessed that they
could not govern themselves. From the Rurik family were descended the
princes of Russia during the first historical period. The Russians have
always required force, both under the Kingdom of Moscovy, the most
fiotable figure of which was Ivan the Terrible, and under the subsequent
Empire. The present Bolshevik government is one of open force, drafting
the people to work at the point of the bayonets of the admirably disciplined
and organized " Red " army.
8 Sergius Nikolayevich SyromiatnikofF, " Experiments in Russian
Thought" (in Russian), Book i, St. Petersburg, 1901. This work is a most
interesting exposition of the eastward trend in Russian thought. It has un-
fortunately not been translated.
