PRODUCTS OF DETONATION OF TNT.^
By CHARLES E. MUNROE and SPENCER P. HOWELL.
(Read April 23, 1920.)
The behavior of an explosive and the uses to which it may
properly be put depend in a large measure on the form of the reac-
tion or reactions it undergoes on explosion and the character of the
products of these reactions. Its suitability for use as a propellant,
as a bursting charge for shell, or as a blasting charge in demolitions,
in land clearing, in mining and in other engineering operations is
largely determined by the composition of its products, the rate at
w^hich they are evolved, and the temperature they acquire.
Among the explosives used largely during the recent war none
more completely demonstrated its value and efficiency for use in
H.E. shell, depth and drop bombs, mines and torpedoes, and for
demolitions than TNT, either per se or, for fragmentation purposes,
w^hen mixed with ammonium nitrate or sodium nitrate to form the
explosives styled amatol and sodatol. The authors from their in-
vestigations of the properties of the various surplus military ex-
plosives, which were assembled and being produced in large quan-
tities as the armistice was declared, with a view to their utilization
in civil undertakings, gave it as their opinion^ that TNT, when used
as directed, was especially suitable for use in the open. Returns
from the National Park Service, Alaskan Engineering Commission,
Reclamation Service, Bureau of Public Roads and the College of
Agriculture of the University of Wisconsin, to each of which
allotments of TNT have been made, and by whom it has been ex-
tensively used over a wide extent of area and under most varying
climatic conditions, in quarrying, boulder breaking, ditch digging,
land clearing and analogous operations, confirm this opinion. It
1 Published by permission of the Director of the Bureau of Mines.
2 U. S. Department of Agriculture Circular 94, of 1920: "TNT as a
blasting explosive." Charles E. Munroe and Spencer P. Howell.
194
