MUNROE-HOWELL— PRODUCTS OF DETONATION OF TNT. 195
should however be stated that notwithstanding its excellent quali-
ties the cost of manufacture will probably prevent TNT per se
being used as a commercial explosive and that its use under the
conditions noted above would not have been advised except for the
necessity of promptly disposing of it and the lack of available funds
to devote to its conversion into a more useful form.
As is pretty generally known, TNT is produced by the nitration
of toluene but by such nitration, according to the way it is carried
out, a large number of mono-, di- and tri-nitrotoluenes are pro-
duced. The existence of six different isomeric trinitrotoluenes is
recognized as possible. By the methods now in commercial use the
material which is produced in the largest quantity and in a pure, or
nearly pure, condition is the a- or symmetric trinitrotoluene, and '
it is this material that was adopted as a military explosive and to
which the distinctive name of TNT has been given. The criterion
used for ascertaining the purity of TNT is its setting point after
having been melted. Our War Department specifies for acceptance
a S.P. of 80° C. for Grade I; of 79.5° C. for Grade II; and of
^6° C. for Grade III. Grade I was produced in but small quantity
especially for use in booster charges, though some was, perhaps
unwisely, specified for demolition purposes.
The chemical reactions which TNT may undergo when ex-
ploded will differ with the circumstances under which it is exploded.
When TNT is completely detonated unconfined much black smoke
is given off, for not only are gases, and perhaps vapors, formed but
carbon is set free. A theoretical expression for the reaction of the
TNT per se is
(1) 2QH,(NO,)3 ^ 12CO + 5H, + 3N, + 2C.
When TNT is completely burned with oxygen the reaction may
run as follows
(2) 4C,H5(NO,)3 + 21O, -^ 28CO, -f loH.O + 6N..
From the presence of the easily ignitible and readily combustible
gases, carbon monoxide and hydrogen, and of free carbon in ex-
pression (i) it is apparent that when these substances, in the highly
heated condition they must be in at the time of explosion, come in
