200 MUNROE-HOWELI^PRODUCTS OF DETONATION OF TNT.
or not until later, we will leave undecided. When analyzing the gas one natu-
rally has to absorb these hydrocarbons first by means of bromine and fuming
sulphuric acid, for otherwise the methane determination will be incorrect. If
the explosion gases are lead off through ammoniacal silver solution, a small
precipitate is obtained which we claim to be acetylide. Moreover, the explo-
sion gases contain in small quality products of the incomplete combustion,
which probably account for their disagreeable sharp odor. We presume, on
account of the color of fuchsine sulphurous acid, unsaturated aldehyde.
We found further, in the explosion gases of trinitrotoluol significant
quantities of ammonia, about 6 per cent. We ascertained this while we were
introducing the gases and the ammonia set free from the residue of the ex-
plosion by potash-lye, into standardized muriatic acid. The ammonia could
have been formed, as Kast assumes, by direct combination of nitrogen and
hydrogen. We are not willing to subscribe to this opinion, for then we
should not be able to explain why only insignificant small quantities of am-
monia are formed when picric acid is detonated. We are much more of
the opinion, supported by Sabatier's experiments, that the ammonia is formed
from nitric oxide and hydrogen. The nitric oxide must be formed in quan-
tities which correspond to the equilibrium between oxygen and nitrogen.
According to Sabatier^ 2NO -f- 2H2 = No + 2H0O (I). But in the case of
greater hydrogen concentration, ammonia is formed, 2NO -\- 5H2 := 2H2O
-I-2NH3 (II). In the case of picric acid only small quantities of hydrogen
are contained in the explosion gases, therefore equation I is substantially real-
ized. But in the case of trinitrotoluol the nitrogen present is converted into
ammonia. These reactions occur with great speed; whether or not they are
to be considered in arriving at the disintegration equation, later experiments
will have to prove.
Bichel in his "Table III. of 1904" definitely states that the data
presented there is given in percentages by weight. Smith in report-
ing the analyses of the different products of these experiments treats
them as if they were stated all in the same terms whereas the re-
sults in the second and third experiments he cites appear to be stated
in percentages by volume. Poppenberg and Stephan do not state
the terms in which they report their results, evidently assuming
that the results of the analysis of a gas will be understood as being
given in percentages by volume since this is the usual custom, and
an examination of the data justifies this opinion.
Taking the data of Bichel's experiment and subtracting the solid
C the percentage by volume of the residual permanent gases under
normal conditions may be found. The following result is thus
obtained :
8 Ann. de phys. et chem., 1905, 319.
