202 MUNROE-HOWELL— PRODUCTS OF DETONATION OF TNT.
fact that the Bureau of Mines Experiment Station possesses a Bichel
Pressure Gage equipment with proper laboratory accessories which
it has long made use of in its tests of explosives to determine their
" Permissibility " and for other purposes, and a force experienced
in their use ; and that TNT is now readily accessible and possesses a
special interest, it has been deemed proper to make a special investi-
gation of the products of detonation of TNT. As the investigation
will necessarily be somewhat prolonged we are presenting here prac-
tically a progress report giving the preliminary results.
The TNT at command from the war surplus gave a solidification
point of 80.2°, and a nitrogen percentage by the Orndorfif method of
18.14 and by the Dumas method of 18.32 both S.P. and N-content
being used as criterions of purity, and the N-content being also used
as a ready check on the completeness of the recovery of the products.
The Orndorff method of determining nitrogen devised by Prof.
Orndorff of Cornell University and as yet unpublished, is briefly a
modification of the Kjeldahl method in which red phosphorus and
hydrogen iodide, together in some instances with iodine, is used as
the reducing agent, and cupric sulphate, sodium sulphate and sul-
phuric acid as the digestion agent. This method has been quite
generally used during and since the war and is much approved.
The method gives quite concurrent results on explosive substances
and from general considerations of all the circumstances it is be-
lieved to give results to about the same degree below the truth that
the Dumas method does above.
The Bichel Pressure Gage equipment of the Bureau of Mines is
described, with illustrations, on pages 103-109 of Bureau of Mines
Bulletin 15^" and the procedure followed in its use on pages 30-32 of
Bureau of Mines Technical Paper 186.^^ In early tests of explosives
detonations were made in lead bombs enclosed in the gage after the
manner described by Poppenberg and Stephan but this was found to
injure the gage and alter its volume, hence the method was long
since abandoned. A recent recalibration of both the 15- and 20-liter
10 " Investigations of Explosives Used in Coal Mines," Clarence Hall, W.
O. Snelling, and S. P. Howell. 1912.
11 " Method for Routine Work in the Explosives Physical Laboratory of
the Bureau of Mines," S. P. Howell and J. E. Tiffany. 1918.
