MUNROE-HOWELL— PRODUCTS OF DETONATION OF TNT. 203
gages showed their volumes to be 15.3 and 20.6 liters respectively
and these latter volumes are made use of here in ascertaining the
loading or charging density. It is to be noted that the pressure in the
gage is reduced to 50 d= 5 millimeters before the explosive is fired.
Unless otherwise stated a No. 8 electric detonator, containing in
its copper capsule 2 grams of composition consisting of mercuric
fulminate 80 per cent, and potassium chlorate 20 per cent., was used
to detonate each charge of TNT.
As before stated the explosive used was Grade I TNT prepared
for the Ordnance Department of the U. S. Army. The material
was received in bulk and in preparing it for the gage the weighed
charge was packed in a tinfoil wrapper. This tinfoil varied in
weight from 1.5 grams on the 25 gram charge to 9 grams for the
400 gram charge of TNT.
The pressure of the permanent gases in the gage was measured
on a calibrated Schaefifer and Buddenberg gage 5 minutes after
firing the shot, and a differential sample of the gases drawn oi¥ over
mercury for analysis one half hour after firing the shot, the tem-
perature of the gage and the gases being read at the same time.
In those tests where a charge of 250 grams or more was used,
the pressure of the gases was greater than the capacity of the
Schaefifer and Buddenberg gage. Accordingly, in order to be able
to make a reading, immediately after firing the shot, the gases were
allowed to equalize in pressure between the 15-liter gage and a 20-
liter gage previously evacuated at 50 millimeter pressure, connected
together for that purpose. The observed pressure reading in those
tests is the pressure obtained in the two gages after equalization.
The gases were analyzed in the Burrell modification of the Orsat
apparatus described as to its construction and operation by Burrell
and OberfalP' being determined in the order CO„, O, CO, H, CH^
and N, and the results of the analyses are presented as determined
in percentages by volume.
12 "The Use of Copper Oxide for Fractionation Combustion of Hydrogen
and Carbon Monoxide in Gas Mixtures," G. A. Burrell and G. G. Oberfall.
Jour. Ind. Eng. Chem., 8, 228-31. 1916.
