6 HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES.
sound is lost and, as has been stated, it is the quahty of a sound
that enables the listener to name the instrument on which it is pro-
duced. Secondly, resonant receivers do not faithfully reproduce
phase and therefore are not well suited for use with devices operat-
ing on the binaural principle or which employ multiple receivers.
In this country emphasis has been laid on the development of
non-resonant receivers. Such receivers are of the pressure type and
though they are not so sensitive as the resonant type, and as a result
can not give as great range when entirely free from disturbing
noises, yet they do give a faithful reproduction of the sound thus
making it possible for a trained listener to distinguish a submarine
from other boats or water noises or noise from his own engines by
the quality of the sound. Such receivers are suitable for use in bi-
naural and multiple unit devices.
These receivers consist of a flexible chamber or a rigid chamber
carrying a flexible diaphragm, preferably rubber. Since the volume
of the receiver changes readily under variation of hydrostatic pres-
sure, the water in the neighborhood of the receiver will be subject to
less or greater pressure than at other points in the wave front, de-
pending upon whether the volume change in the receiver is positive
or negative. In order to establish pressure equilibrium the particles
of the highly incompressible medium will be forced toward or from
the receiver for a considerable distance beyond its surface. The re-
ceiver therefore absorbs the sound energy from a comparatively
large volume of water which fact accounts for its rather high
sensitivity.
Types of Submarine Receivers.
Five types of submarine receivers have thus far been developed.
Plate I shows the principle of each of these five types.
The Acoustic Receiver consists of a flexible chamber connected
through a tube to the ear. The walls of the chamber are made of
rubber or thin metal.
The Geophone consists of two metallic plates between which is
compressed a flexible rubber ring. The upper plate is made massive
to give it inertia while the lower one is made lighter in order that its
inertia may not seriously interfere with its motion. The intervening
air space connects by tube through the inert plate to the ear. Such a
