HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES. 9
passes in through the rubber housing and attaches to the aluminum
strip and a second lead in a similar way is attached to the tin-foil.
These rubber-covered electric leads are both vulcanized to the
rubber condenser-housing so as to give water-tight joints. The elec-
tric charge held by the condenser, when a" battery is connected to the
' two leads, depends, among other things on the separation between
the tin-foil and the aluminum strip. The variation in hydrostatic
pressure in a submarine sound-wave causes this distance to vary
slightly when the condenser is placed in the water, thereby pro-
ducing slight current fluctuations through the battery and leads.
These current fluctuations can be carried through a telephone re-
. ceiver and converted into sound at the listener's ear.
The magnetophone and the electrostatic condenser give a more
faithful reproduction of the sound than does the microphone, but
they have the disadvantage of requiring an amplifier to increase
their sensitivity. As a result only two types of receivers have been
generally used — the microphone and the acoustic receivers.
Requirements of a Submarine Detector.
The requirements of a listening apparatus which embodies all
that is desired may be stated as follows : It must be able to detect a
submarine at considerable distance without interference, from noise
produced by other shipping, or by wave noise, or by noise produced
by the boat upon which it is installed. It should be able to give the
distance and direction of the submarine accurately. It should be sea-
worthy, of robust mechanical construction, convenient and rapid of
operation.
No instrument has been devised that satisfies all of these re-
quirements. In fact no single instrument can give the distance of
the submarine. The other requirements have been fairly satis-
factorily met. These instruments are being continually improved,
but even in their present state they give results far beyond what was
considered probable or even possible at the time the developmental
work was first started.
Determination of Direction.
Maximum and Minimum. — A submarine receiver can be made
more sensitive to sound coming from certain directions with respect
