226 MAYOR— THE REEFS OF TUTUILA, SAMOA.
ancient harbors although such would have been the case were coral
reefs growing along the shores at the time when this emerged bench
was at sea level. Moreover, in places as at Fagatoga this old shore
bench was partially covered by talus sHding down from the cliffs,
but upon digging this talus away no elevated corals or limestones
were found. We are thus forced to conclude that during the time
when the sea was at its highest level and cut the now emerged
shore-bench, there were no coral reefs growing around Tutuila.
The fringing reef which is now growing outward from the
sihores around Tutuila, in places where the slope is not too steep,
is of modern origin. It is 300 to 1,000 feet wide in places where the
underlying volcanic slope is gentle, and is narrow, or absent in
places where the submarine slopes are steep as ofif the seaward ends
of the basaltic promontories. Thus the reefs now growing out-
ward over the gentle, wave-worn slopes of the drowned valleys are
wider than those off the cliffed promontories at the mouths of the
harbors, and everywhere the width of the reef is a factor of the
steepness of its underlying volcanic substratum.
The fact that narrow reefs are found on steep submarine slopes
and wide ones on gentle slopes was pointed out iby Darwin in " Nat-
uralist's Voyage around the World," 1873, p. 472; also A. Agassiz,
1903, Proc. Royal Soc, Vol. 71, p. 414, says that the absence of
coral reefs in the Marquesas Islands is due to the steepness of their
slopes.
Tutuila is very ancient according to Daly, who has made a
survey of its lithology (Year Book of the Carnegie Institution No.
18, 1919). Indeed it shows clear evidence of considerable subsi-
dence, the harbors of its northern coast such as Fagasa, Vatia,
Afono, Massefau and Aoa being typical drowned valleys, while
Pago Pago Harbor, according to Daly, shows characteristics of a
drowned valley but has had a complex history.
W. M. Davis (1918, Bulletin U. S. Geological Survey, p. 523)
observed that the data for the unpublished Hydrographic Ofifice
Chart of Tutuila " reveals the existence of a submerged platform
from one to three miles in width and from 30 to 50 or more fathoms
in depth," and also that " the outer part of the platform is usually
somewhat shallower than at half distance ofif shore as if a poorly
developed barrier reef enclosed it."
