230 MAYOR— THE REEFS OF TUTUILA, SAMOA.
corals are slow to gain a foothold except in the immediate vicinity
of densely clustered living coral heads.
The inner ends of the bays of Tutuila were partially filled in by
delta-plains when the sea stood higher than at present, but these
have shared in the general emergence of about eight feet, and thus
their swamps were drained, only a few small recent mangrove
swamps being now found as at Massefau, Leone, Vatia, and several
places along the shore of Pago Pago Harbor, as at Aua and Utelei.
During the past fifty years or more, no severe hurricanes have
passed over Tutuila, but there is abundant geologic evidence of their
presence in recent times. Thus the reef flats near the mouth of
Pago Pago Harbor bear many large erratic coral masses which have
been torn off from the edges and tossed up upon the platform of
the reef. One of these fragments at the edge of the reef off the
southern end of Aua village in Pago Pago Harbor is so large that
the Harbor chart records it as " Coral Block 3 ft." Also at Vatia,
Laulii, and many other places, there are masses of recently broken
coral driven up 10 feet above high tide level and now lying cov-
ered with moss under the dense shade of the largest forest trees
which have grown over them since the hurricane tossed them up
as wreckage upon the desolated shore. In ancient times we see
that Tutuila was partially surrounded by a barrier reef which
had grown upward along the seaward edges of a platform of
marine erosion which had become submerged by the subsidence
of the island itself. Fringing reefs were at the same time grow-
ing outward from the shore and in many places, especially along
the northern coast had fused with the barrier reef. Then due
to a rising of the sea level combined with continued subsidence of
the land mass these old reefs were drowned, and for a long period
we find the island unprotected by any reefs while the sea cliffed the
shores not only at the promontories but well within the drowned
valleys. Finally the sea level sank about 20 feet below its highest
level and after this, in modern times, a fringing reef began to grow
outward from the 'shores and has now attained a maximum width
of not over 1,000 feet. Also in modern times coral patches began
to grow upward upon the Taenia and Nafanua Banks in places
which were probably islands well above sea level at the time when
