10 HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES.
to the orientation of the receiver than from other directions by
means of screening, etc. By rotating such a receiver about a ver-
tical axis, the direction of a sound source can be roughly determined
by judging the position of the receiver for maximum or minimum
sound intensity. Such a receiver is shown in principle in Fig. i,
Plate II. The receiver, represented by the small circle, is placed
within a heavy lead cone. The English have utilized this principle
in all of their listening devices.
Binaural Principle. — Experiment proves that the direction of a
sound can not be judged with any degree of accuracy by one ear
alone, unless the pitch of the sound is fairly high (above 800 or
1000), but by using both ears the listener can locate the direction
with considerable accuracy for any pitch within the range of the
audible and the accuracy proves to be greatest when the direction
of the sound is about normal to a line joining the two ears.
Suppose the sound source is to the right of the listener. The
sound received by the left ear will differ in two respects from that
received by the right ear. First, the left ear receives the sound later
than does the right ear and secondly, the intensity of the sound is
somewhat less in the left ear because of the sound shadow cast by
the head. The difference of intensity in the two ears is very slight
for sounds of low frequency but becomes greater as the pitch is
raised, due to the fact that the dimensions of the head are such that
it only serves as an efficient screen for sounds of short wave-length.
A single ear therefore becomes a screened receiver for high pitch
sounds. The determination of direction, when both ears are used,
depends largely on the difference in the time between reception at
the two ears. This is especially true for sounds of low frequency,
although the fact that intensity is slightly different at the two ears
may also be of some help. Whenever a sound reaches the two ears
at the same time, it appears to come from a direction perpendicular
to the line joining the ears and the listener judges the sound to be
somewhere in the plane which is the perpendicular bisector of this
line. If the sound source is to the right of this plane, the sound
reaches the right ear first and the listener judges the sound to come
from this direction. Sound is judged as coming from the right or
left, depending whether it reaches the right or left ear first re-
spectively.
