MAYOR— THE REEFS OF TUTUILA, SAMOA. 231
the ancient barrier reef was formed and were thus covered with
less than 20 fathoms of water when reefs began again to grow
around Tutuila. These reef patches have now approached to within
6 or 7 fathoms of the surface in a few places. The average width
of the old drowned barrier reef was quite 2,500 feet, and thus, if
the growth rate of corals has remained unchanged, it probably ex-
isted around the island for a longer time than has sufficed to form
the present fringing reefs of Tutuila. The ancient drowned reefs
around Tutuila indicate that fringing reefs did not become trans-
formed into barrier reefs in the manner postulated in Darwin's
Theory but contemporary fringing reefs grew outward and fused
with the barriers which were formed in situ along the seaward edges
of the submerged platform.
In formulating his subsidence theory of the supposed sequence
of fringing reefs, barrier reefs and atolls, Darwin failed to consider
certain factors which are now well recognized. For example, his
theory, as he advanced it, presupposes subsidence of the land rather
than an elevation of sea level, nor did he consider the effects of
cliffing of shores, the making of platforms of marine planation,
or the drowning of valleys upon which Davis lays constant emphasis.
To his mind coral growth was probably continuous throughout long
periods. Just what relations if any existed between periods of gla-
ciation and periods of poor development of coral reefs is as yet ob-
scure even in the Atlantic. Thus Vaughan ( 1919. U. S. National Mu-
seum Bulletin No. 103, p. 226, etc. ; also, igi8,BuU. Geol. Soc. America,
Vol. 29, p. 629) shows that in the West Indian-Florida region there
was a maximum development of coral reefs in the middle Oligocene,
which was a period of maximal submergence in this region, and at
which time the Atlantic and Pacific were connected. In the Mio-
cene and Pliocene only poor reefs were developed, no Pliocene reefs
being known from the West Indian Islands. Later in Pleistocene
and recent times there has been an extensive growth of coral reefs.
According to Vaughan in the Oligocene fifteen genera of corals
found at present only in the Pacific and Indian region were growing
in the West Indies. Such genera were Pocillopora, Pavona, Fa-
vites, Goniopora, Goniastrea, Galaxca, Stylophora, and Alveopora,
and seven others ; but they disappeared from the West Indian reefs
