232 MAYOR— THE REEFS OF TUTUILA, SAMOA.
before Pliocene times (Vaughan, T. W., 1917, U. S. Geological Sur-
vey, Professional Papers, 98 T, pp. 355-376). According to Daly,
coral growth was retarded during periods of lowered sea level and
coincide with periods of glaciation when water was taken out of the
oceans to constitute the continental ice sheets ; but in Tutuila we
have evidence that at the time of highest ocean level coral reefs did
not grow around the island.
However, Ulrich (1920, Journal IVashington Acad. Sci., Vol.
10, pp. 57-78) states that the pressure of an ice sheet may depress
the level of the interior of a continent, and this movement tends to
be compensated by an elevation in the strand-line. Thus the rise
in the continental shelf and of the coastal waters may more than
compensate for the water taken out of the ocean to form the ice
sheet, and there may even be a rise of sea level at a time when con-
tinental land areas are glaciated.
Unfortunately we as yet know practically nothing of the geologic
ages of the ancient elevated reefs of the Pacific and have as yet no
means for ascertaining their relation in time to those of the tropical
Atlantic.
Guppy (1890, Trans. Victoria Institute, Vol. 23, p. 60) held the
opinion that the corals of the Great Barrier reef were growing on
the seaward edges of a submarine plateau, and Andrews (1902,
Proc. Linnean Soc. New South Wales, Part 2, pp. 145-185) shows
that the submerged continental shelf along the coast of Queensland
extends southward into the temperate regions, and that the more or
less detached coral patches which form the Great Barrier Reef
could not have formed the platform but merely grew here and there
along its seaward edge after the platform was submerged, and con-
ditions became favorable for coral growth. Indeed as I observed
in 191 3 the Barrier Reef ceases at the Murray Islands, while the
platform upon which it is growing extends northward to the shores
of New Guinea, but corals cannot grow in this region due to the
mud discharged from the Fly and other great rivers of Papua.
Thus this platform extends both northward and southward beyond
the limits of coral reef growth. Alexander Agassiz held the opin-
ion that the modern reefs of the Pacific were growing unconform-
ally upon the ancient limestone platforms and ledges.
