MAYOR— THE REEFS OF TUTUILA, SAMOA. 233
Vaughan (1914, Journal Washington Acad. Sci., Vol. 4, pp. 26-
34) showed that the platform upon the seaward edges of which the
Florida reef is now growing, extends northward into a region too
cold for coral growth. Moreover, the disconnected coral patches
which rim the seaward edges of the Great Bahama Bank are many
of them growing not at the extreme edge of the bank but at an
appreciable distance inward from its seaward margin. The hard-
rocky floor of this bank is covered with a layer of flocculent cal-
careous mud which when the water is agitated becomes churned into
a milky mass fatal to coral growth Thus coral heads can very rarely
attain a foothold excepting near the seaward edges of the bank
where pure ocean water in large measure replaces the silt laden
waters of the bank.
In other words, the coral patches which rim the Bahama Bank
have merely grown in modern times near the seaward edges of a
submerged flat, the extraordinarily level character of which can
only be explained by assuming it to have been formed in conformity
with sea level. Only a water-level could be so flat.
Daly's (1915, Pi'oc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., Vol. 51, pp. 157-
251) opinion that the cooling of tropical seas in glacial epochs had
much to do with determining the relative abundance of corals, has
opened an interesting field for research, but according to Vaughan
(1919, U. S. National Museum Bulletin No. 109, p. 256), the West
Indian fossil reefs do not- support this idea, for corals grew exten-
sively in this region in Pleistocene times.
W. M. Davis, in numerous papers,^ has called prominent atten-
tion to the following well-established facts : That under still-stand
conditions, if the land be not surrounded by reefs, the sea will cut
into the clifTs faster than the valleys can be excavated by subaerial
erosion, and thus the streams will cascade into the sea. Then if the
island subsides, or the sea level rises, and drowns the valleys, the
submarine slopes at the spur-ends will be steeper than the slopes of
the submerged sides of the drowned valleys. Also silt will be
largely pocketed at the stream mouths in the inner ends of the
drowned valleys, and will settle to the bottom before it reaches the
1 A good resume is given in Davis, 1919, Trans. New Zealand Inst., Vol.
51, pp. 6-30.
