234 MAYOR— THE REEFS OF TUTUILA, SAMOA.
shores along which corals are growing. I find, for example, that
the coarse brown bottom mud of the mid-channel line of Pago Pago
Harbor near the inner end of the harbor between Blacklock's Wharf
and Pago Pago Stream consists, by weight, of 67 per cent, of vol-
canic material insoluble in hydrochloric acid and 33 per cent, of
calcareous elements composed of shells, Halimeda, etc. At moor-
ing buoy " B " about one third the distance from the inner end to
the mouth of the harbor the bottom mud is finely divided, brown in
color, and 51 per cent, volcanic. At mooring buoy " C," however,
which is only 300 meters outward beyond buoy " B," the bottom
mud is brown-gray in color and contains only 18.5 per cent, of vol-
canic elements. While at the mouth of the harbor the mud is a
finely divided light gray deposit and contains only 6 per cent, of vol-
canic material. Thus the bulk of the volcanic silt is deposited on
the harbor bottom before it goes more than one-third the distance
from the inner end of the harbor to the mouth.
Thus, as Davis shows, coral reefs could form more readily
around an emerged or a still-stand shore-line. Davis is the most
active defender of Darwin's coral reef theory, yet the sequence of
fringing reefs being converted into barrier reefs through subsi-
dence of the land or by rise of sea level, and finally the conversion
of these barrier reefs into atoll rims has not been proven even in a
single instance, although it is the crux of Darwin's theory. As
Davis admits we have not been able to read the history of the atolls,
for there is no central island whose shore line can be interpreted.
There is on the contrary evidence that barrier reefs have in many
places arisen as barriers along the seaward edges of submerged pla-
teaus and remained such throughout their history, or have fused in
places with fringing reefs which grew contemporaneously outward
from the shores. Thus we have Vaughan's evidence that the old
elevated reef of Florida which now constitutes the islands from
Soldier's Key to the southern end of Big Pine Key is not a mere
elevated part of the limestone platform upon which it grew for the
platform is of oolitic formation and contains very few corals.
As has been pointed out by Daly, Darwin's theory does not ex-
plain the nearly uniform depth of about 20 fathoms, and the re-
