240 HAUPT— GOLGOTHA.
Holy Sepulcher. But the Dome of the Rock, also misnamed the
Mosque of Omar, was erected by Abd-al-Malik in 691, and the
mosaic map discovered at Medeba in 1896 shows the Church of
the Holy Sepulcher in its present location. This map formed the
floor of a basilica built in the fifth or sixth centuries.
I believe that the Crucifixion took place at the Topheth in the
Valley of Hinnom, south of the Harsith Gate in the southeastern
corner of Jerusalem. This gate was also called Ashpoth Gate
which is generally mistranslated Dung Gate ; but Ashpoth is the
Hebrew form of Topheth, i.e., Aram, tcfdth with the vowels of
bosheth, shame, because the Jews did not pronounce the objection-
able word Topheth, but substituted for it bosheth, shame (JBL 37,
233). In the same way the names of Astarte and Melech, the god
of the Ammonites, appear in the Hebrew Bible as Ashtoreth and
Molech, respectively. Also the name of the valley (now filled up
with rubbish) between the eastern and western hills, which led to
the Topheth in the Valley of Hinnom, was Topheth valley. The
name Tyropccon (EB" 15. 332) valley, given by Josephus, is due
to a misunderstanding of the original Hebrew name ge-hash-
shephoth, in which shcphoth (cf. Neh. 3, 13) is the Hebrew form
of the Aramaic tephdth, Topheth, but it was misinterpreted as
cheeses (Tyropoeon, twv rupoTroiaiv means of the cheesemakers) on
the basis of 2 Sam. 17, 29 (EB 3091. 2423, n. 4). According to
Wetzstein (ZAT 3, 276) shcphoth in 2 Sam. 17, 29 denotes thick
cream of cow's milk (not ewe's milk) in small wooden cylinders
(see cut in RB 1742). In Damascus, cream is called shifd-'l halibi,
top of the milk {cf. Austrian Obcrs). The word in 2 Sam. 17, 29
should be spelled with Shi (not Shin).
Topheth (more correctly Tephdth, Heb. Shcphoth or Ashpoth)
means fire-place, cremator, incinerator. Refuse and rubbish were
deposited there, especially potsherds. Harsith (i.e., potsherd-dump)
corresponds to the Roman Monte Testaccio (Lat. Mons Testaceus)
on the left bank of the Tiber in the southwestern corner of Rome.
This accumulation of potsherds is about 2,500 feet in circumference,
and about 115 feet high. The Mons Testaceus of Jerusalem was
also called Potter's Field, and afterwards Field of Blood, because
