242 HAUPT— GOLGOTHA.
round and skull-like contours of the place. The eminence above the
Grotto of Jeremiah, not far from the Damascus Gate in the north,
has a strong resemblance to a skull. Others believed that the site
of the Crucifixion received this name because it was full of skulls.
The Jews did not crucify persons alive, and even when they gibbeted
criminals after their execution, they interred them by nightfall, so
that there could be no accumulation of skulls and dead bones ; but
the Romans allowed the bodies of crucified malefactors to decay on
the cross. Horace {Ep. i, i6, 48) says: Non pasces in criice
corvos; cf. Byron's rcz/£'«jfon^ = German Rabenstein (stein = roc]<.,
eminence, hill). Golgotha may be the prototype of our gallows
(AS gealga, OHG galgo, Goth, galga) which denotes originally the
cross on which Christ was crucified, so that Mount Golgotha cor-
responds in some respects to our Gallows Hill (German Galgen-
bcrg). The cross was the Roman gallows. Galloivs is generally
identified with Lithuanian saiga, pole, Lat. pertica. The gallows at
Montfaucon near Paris had pits beneath, into which the bodies fell
after disarticulation by exposure to the weather (EB^^ 11, 422).
After the massacre of St. Bartholomew on August 24, 1572, the
beheaded body of Coligny was gibbeted for several days at Mont-
faucon (RE^ 4, 227, i). The bodies suspended on gibbets were
often smeared with pitch to prevent too rapid decomposition.
After the fall of Jerusalem in 70 a.d. Titus is said to have
crucified so many Jews that there was neither timber for the crosses
nor place to set them up (DB i, 528^). The upright stake of the
cross was firmly planted in the ground and remained there as a
permanent fixture (RE^ 11, 91, 38). The condemned criminal
carried only the crosspiece or transverse beam (Lat. patibuliim) to
the place of execution (RE^ 11, 91, 31 ; DB i, 528''). The upright
stake was not more than nine feet high ; the feet of the crucified
malefactor were but slightly elevated above the ground {Pur. 6,
24; BL 102, *). The Romans may have called the accumulation
of potsherds and other rubbish, which was used as a place of
execution, Mons Testaceus, and this may afterwards have been
interpreted to mean Mound of Skulls, because Lat. testa means both
potsherd and skull, so that Golgotha (=Aram. giilgultd) instead of
the original qilqitd would represent a popular etymology which was
