HAUPT— GOLGOTHA. 243
favored by the fact that the Semitic q is often pronounced as g;
even k rnay become g under the influence of an I, r, or n: Assyr.
Tukulti-pal-esharra appear in the Old Testament as Tiglath-pileser
(JBL 36, 141, n. 3) and Sharru-kcnu as Sargon; the Hebrew name
of the Sea of Galilee, Chinnereth (Josh. 13, 27; OC 23, 199) became
Gennereth, and with transposition and .y instead of th: Genneser or,
with a instead of e owing to the final r, Gennesar (i Mac. 11, 67).
The correct translation of the Hebrew name Sha'r Ashpoth is
not Dung Gate, but Topheth Gate (JBL 37, 233). The other name
of this gate, Harsith Gate (Jer. 19, 2) is mistranslated in AV :
East Gate, and in the margin : Sun Gate ; RV retains the Hebrew
word: the gate Harsith, but adds in the margin: the gate of pot-
sherds. In certain parts of England shard is used not only for pot-
sherd, but also for dung, ordure. St. Jerome describes Topheth as a
pleasant spot in the Valley of Hinnom with trees and gardens
watered from Siloam, i.e., in the gardens below Siloam at the junc-
tion of the Valleys of Hinnom and Kidron (DB 2, 386^. 387^; 4,
798^ below).
Both Hinnom and Kidron mean resting-place: Heb. hinnom- is
the infinitive of the reflexive-passive stem of mhn, to slumber, and
qidron is a transposition of riqdon, from raqad which means in
Arabic to sleep. Arab, rdqdah denotes the time between death and
resurrection ; mdrqad signifies resting-place, grave. The Valley of
Hinnom and the Kidron ravine seem to have been ancient burial-
grounds. The Greek Bible has for the Valley of Hinnom the term
polydndrion, a burial place for many, and according to Jer. 31, 40,
not only dead bodies were deposited there, but also ofTal (JBL 38,
45). Heb. gc-hinnom, the valley of Hinnom, is the prototype of
Gehenna. According to 2 Kings 23, 6 the graves of the children of
the people {i.e., the common people) were in the Kidron valley. In
the pre-Exilic period heathen images and altars were repeatedly
cast into the Kidron valley and burned there. The flaming pyres
with the dead bodies of the apostate Jews, on which the Maccabees
feasted their eyes when they went to worship Jhvh in the Temple,
were in the Kidron valley between the Temple and Mount Olivet.
There were plenty of corpses to feed the w^orms and the fires, so
their zvorm died not, and their fire zvas not quenched (JHUC, No.
