244 HAUPT— GOLGOTHA.
306, p. 13). The last two verses of the Book of Isaiah represent
an appendix which was added about 153 b.c. (AJSL 19, 135). The
Kidron valley is also called the Valley of Jehoshaphat (JAOS 34,
412). The Jews as well as the Christians and the Mohammedans
of Palestine believe that the Last Judgment will be held in the
Kidron valley, and it is the dearest wish of every Jew to find a
grave there. The whole of the left bank of the Kidron opposite
the Temple area is covered with the white tomb-stones of the Jews
(EB 2662). Some Jewish teachers believe that the bodies of the
righteous will roll back under the ground to Palestine to obtain a
share in the resurrection preceding the Messiah's reign on earth
(DB 2, 562^). The two valleys have often been confounded: e.g.,
the great Moslem traveler Ibn Batfitah (1204-1378) says that the
valley of Gehenna was east of Jerusalem.
Golgotha is identical with Topheth in the Valley of Hinnom,
south of the Harsith Gate in the southeastern corner of Jerusalem.
It was a rubbish-heap like the Roman Monte Testaccio, formed of
potsherds and other refusej^ It was therefore known also as
Potter's Field, and afterwards it was called Field of Blood, because
it was used by the Romans as a place of public execution. The
original form of Golgotha was qilqilta, refuse. The form Golgotha,
which is also the prototype of our gallozi's, represents a popular
etymology. The Romans may have called the Harsith Mons Testa-
ceus, and since testa means both potsherd and skull, this name may
have been interpreted as Place of Skulls. After the Harsith had
been used by the Romans as the place of crucifixion for a number
of years, skulls may have been more in evidence there than pot-
sherds. Jeremy Taylor, whose Life of Christ was published in 1649,
calls the scene of the greatest event in Jerusalem's history a hill of
death and dead hones, impure and polluted (EB 1753). The Mo-
hammedans sometimes give the Church of the Holy Sepulcher the
nickname Kamsat-al-Quniamah, Church of Rubbish (RB 540*^) in-
stead of Kanlsat-al-Qiyamah, Church of the Resurrection.
~ In Corfu the people at a given signal on Easter Eve throw vast quanti-
ties of crockery from their windows and roofs into the streets. This is inter-
preted as an imaginary stoning of Judas Iscariot. Descendants of the traitor
were supposed to be among the Jews of Corfu (EB^^iS, 536^).
