WHITEHEAD— HIGH VOLTAGE CORONA IN AIR. 247
send has proposed an interesting explanation of the fundamental
law of corona formation in terms of the theory of ionization by col-
lision, but this theory is based entirely on experiments at very low
pressures, quite outside the range in which the first definitely marked
corona phenomena lie. So far as the writer is aware, Townsend's
is the only attempt to coordinate corona phenomena with modern
physical theory.
In two particular aspects the corona presents difficulties for the
electrcial engineer : first, the presence of corona is always accom-
panied by a loss or waste of energy ; and second, in the presence of
corona insulation deteriorates rapidly and the insulating properties
of the neighboring air are lowered. In either case the probability of
sparkover and shortcircuit is greatly increased.
The energy loss attendant upon corona introduces important
limitations in the design of long distance electric transmission lines.
The voltage of such lines is made high in order to reduce the
magnitude of the current to be carried, and therefore the size of the
conductors, the cost of the conductors being a principal item in the
total cost of the transmission line. The tendency therefore is to
higher and higher values of voltage. As the voltage is increased,
however, the corona forming point is reached, and in order to pre-
vent the presence of corona the distance between the transmission
wires must be increased.
It is especially important to keep the voltage well below the
corona forming value, for above it the loss increases very rapidly.
According to F. W. Peek, from measurements made on a section of
a modern transmission line, the power loss may be expressed
tv = kf{e~e,y (i)
where iv is in watts, / is the frequency, e is the maximum value of
the voltage and e^ the voltage at which corona first begins ; that is
to say, the loss increases with the square of the excess of voltage
above the corona forming value. (See Fig. 2.)
The above formula applies to alternating voltage. No complete
study has been made of the loss at continuous voltage, probably
because little use is made of high continuous voltage in the field of
