250 WHITEHEAD— HIGH VOLTAGE CORONA IN AIR.
air, the current also increases. The power loss being the product
of voltage and the current increasing with the excess of voltage
above a certain critical value, we should therefore expect the loss
to increase as some power of the voltage higher than the first but
that it should be as the second power of the excess voltage in not
evident.
Further studies of the nature of the power loss and of ^^the
exact law governing it are greatly needed. It seems probable that
the observations which have already been made on transmission lines
are about as satisfactory as can be obtained in this way. Since it is
important to adopt a voltage well below that at which corona forms,
and since the values at which corona will start on clean wires are
now accurately known, it does not appear likely that transmission
engineers will go very far in further investigation. There is here,
however, again an admirable opportunity for laboratory study.
It will be seen therefore that it is important to know accurately
the laws connecting the physical constants of an electric circuit and
the voltage at which corona begins. A number of experimental
studies of this question have been made and some of the earlier of
these were reported to this society by the present writer several
years ago. Since then the law of corona formation has been well
established and it is the purpose of this paper to give the results
of some of the more accurate measurements. These measurements
have been made with the assistance of an instrument in which the
otherwise troublesome corona pheonmena have been turned to use-
ful account as a means for the accurate measurement of high alter-
nating voltage. The accurate measurements referred to were made
on this instrument, which is called the " corona voltmeter."
The Corona Voltmeter. — The corona voltmeter makes use of the
fact that corona forms on a clean round wire in air at a sharply
marked definite value of voltage, dependent in a simple relation on
the density of the air. The range of the instrument is extended
to wide limits by enclosing the wire and cylinder and varying the
density of the air.
The essential elements of the instrument are a central rod, or
wire, on which corona forms, another concentric cylinder forming
