STATION IN FRESH-WATER MUSSELS. 277
of West Virginia (below Clarksville) is polluted, and its fauna is
destroyed. I have older material, however, from one locality in
the Monongahela proper; farther up, I collected some near the
mouth of Cheat River, just at the state line; and at one locality in
the headwaters (West Fork Riz^er) . The measurements are as
follows.
Loc. No. Max. Min. Av.
Monongahela, Charleroi 13 61 48 53 suhrot. (kirtl.)
Cheat, Cheat Haven 2 52 40 46 kirtl. (subrot.)
West Fork, Lynch Mines 2 44 41 42.5 kirtl.
This material is rather scanty ; nevertheless the decrease in
obesity in the upstream direction is clearly seen. The locality
Charleroi has a higher percentage (63) than the next localities below
in the Ohio (47 and 48 at Industry and Coraopolis), but agrees with
that of Cooks Ferry. This, probably, is again due to the age of the
shells. In the Ohio below Pittsburgh, giant specimens, with the
length over 100 mm., are not uncommon, while among the shells
from Charleroi there is not a single one over 100 mm. (largest
91 mm.).
Very probably, this law holds good also in other tributaries of
the Ohio. I have not enough material to demonstrate this. In one
case, that of the Ttiscaraivas River in Ohio, I have rather abundant
material from the Holland collection, but, unfortunately, no exact
localities are given ; both forms, however, are represented in this
river. .From the Levisa Fork Big Sandy River, Prestonsburg,
Floyd Co., Ky., I have a single specimen, the diameter of which is
50 per cent., that is to say, it is a subrotunda standing just at the
lower limit, and close to kirtlandiana, and this would correspond
to the station well up the river. From Little Kanazvha River,
Grantsville, Calhoun Co., W. Va., I have one specimen, the diameter
of which is 43 per cent, this is the typical kirtlandiana, correspond-
ing to the small size of this river.
All this serves to show that our contention is upheld, that F.
subrotunda and kirtlandiana are forms of the same species, differ-
ing only in obesity. The former is the swollen form of the large
rivers ; the latter is the compressed form of the small streams. Both
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, VOL. T IX, R, AUGUST 20, I92O.
