STATION IN FRESH-WATER MUSSELS. 281
These tables do not need any further comment : barring certain
local irregularities, which can be accounted for by scarcity of ma-
terial, the law is clearly shown, that in the upstream direction the
diameter decreases, and that it decreases very gradually. The con-
ditions in the Holston, and chiefly in the Clinch and Powell are,
indeed, classical.
It should be added that I have seen a single individual from
Little Tennessee River, Coytee, Loudon Co., Tenn., which has the
diameter of 58 per cent. (= pilaris). Little Tennessee goes into
the Tennessee below Knoxville, and thus this agrees well with the
figure for specimens from Knoxville (57 per cent.).
I further collected a large number of sipecimens in French Broad
River, at Boyd Creek, Sevier Co., Tenn. This river unites with
the Holston to form the Tennessee just above Knoxville. I have
measured 16 specimens ; the max. is 64 per cent. ; the min. 47 per
cent. ; the av. 56 per cent. Also these figures are exactly what we
should expect.
There is no question that all these shells are one and the same
species, for which the name pilaris, as the oldest, should be used,
and which changes in obesity from the large rivers towards the
headwaters. Since Lea distinguished, at the same time, two forms
which dififer chiefly in being more or less swollen, the two names
given by him {pilaris and lesueiiriana) should be preserved in a
varietal sense, and a third variety of great compression should be
added, described much later by Wright as bursa-pastoris.
As pilaris corresponds to sitbrotunda, bursa-pastoris corresponds
to kirtlandiana of the upper Ohio drainage. In fact, it is so close to
it that Pilsbry and Rhoads^" have identified specimens from Wa-
tauga River as kirtlandiana. I have serious doubts that the two
forms can be kept apart, when the locality is unknown. In my
large material I can see only one difference, that is, that bnrsa-
pastoris is a smaller shell than kirtlandiana, and reaches a greater
degree of compression. This opens a very pertinent question as to
nomenclature, since also pilaris (and lesueiiriana) apparently repre-
sent only a small race of sitbrotunda. I shall not go any further
12 Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci., Philad., 48, 1896, p. 502.
