HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES. 13
either arrow 3 or arrow 4 it reaches the left ear first and will there-
fore appear to the listener to come from his left. It is readily seen
from the diagram that a rotation of the receivers in an anti-clock-
wise direction will make the sound appear binaiirally centered when
the small arrow at the center of the line of receivers points in the
direction of these sounds respectively.
In order to make this rule effective, the importance of attaching
the proper receiver to the proper ear is obvious.
A device that depends upon rotation for determining direction
has two distinct disadvantages : first, it cannot be operated when the
boat is running and second, it must be lowered before taking a
bearing and hoisted before the boat can again get under way, thus
causing considerable labor and loss of time. This defect was early,
recognized and overcome by the workers at the Naval Experimental
Station who developed a method whereby the binaural principle for
determining direction could be employed without the inconvenience
of rotating the two receivers. This development opened up a wide
field for research which has resulted in the most serviceable types
of submarine detectors.
The Principle of Binaural Compensation is readily understood
by referring to Fig. i, Plate III. Suppose the two receivers R and
L are connected to the right and left ear respectively and sound
comes from the direction indicated by arrow i. This sound reaches
R first and as a result appears to the listener to be located on his
right. If the tube leading to the right ear is lengthened by an
amount equal to -/4oo the distance from R to C, the impulses from
receiver R will be delayed so that the impulses from both receivers
reach their respective ears simultaneously and the sound will appear
to the listener to be binaurally centered. The same result could
obviously be accomplished by shortening the sound path to the left
ear or by lengthening the path from R half the amount and at the
same time shortening the path L by the same amount, the only re-
quirement for binaural centering being that the path difference be
made equal to -/4oo of the distance R io C (-%oo being the ratio of
the velocity of sound in air to the velocity in water).
The path difference between the two receivers is directly de-
pendent on the angular separation between the line of the receivers
