290 ORTMANN— CORRELATION OF SHAPE AND
mixture of some specimens of barnesiana. From Sevierville, I have
ten specimens, ranging from 45 to 38 per cent., the average being
42 per cent., thus representing barnesiana with an interspersing of a
few bigbycnsis. I have no doubt, however, that, if there was any
material from farther up stream, pure bigbyensis would appear.
Finally, the same conditions obtain in the Tennessee drainage in
northern Alabama. In the Tennessee River at Florence is a form
•
(12 specimens measured) in which the diameter ranges from 64 to
50 per cent., with the average at 56 per cent. This is pure tumes-
ceiis. In the tributaries we find mostly the more compressed forms
of the barnesiana- and bigbyensis-type, so, for instance, in Elk
River, at Fayetteville (i specimen), a form with the diameter of
44 per cent, (barnesiana), and farther up, at Estill Springs (8
specimens), a form ranging from 40 to 35 per cent., with the average
of 38 per cent., which corresponds to bigbyensis.
Thus the contention is substantiated, that tuvnescens of the large
rivers passes through barnesiana into bigbyensis of the headwaters.
Group of Amblema peruviana (Lamarck).
The extremes of this group of forms are marked by Amblema
peruviana (Lam.) (= Quadrula plicata Simpson, '14, p. 814) and
Amblema costata (Raf.) (= Quadrula undidata (Barn.) Simpson,
p. 819). But there are other described "species" which fall into
this group.
Wilson and Clark (1914) and Utterback (1916) have referred to
these as showing the same phenomenon of a swollen form inhabit-
ing the large rivers, and a flat one in the smaller streams (Cumber-
land and Osage River systems). I have no doubt that this is
correct, and that it applies also to other rivers.
According to my experience, there is no question that specimens
of A. costata in the Ohio River below Pittsburgh are more obese
than the greatly compressed specimens found, for instance, in the
Beaver and upper Allegheny drainages. However, I do not possess
sufficient material from the middle and lower Ohio, to show the
actual transition into peruviana. Also in the Tennessee-system, I
did not go far enough down to reach the range of the latter : what I
