292 ORTMANN— CORRELATION OF SHAPE AND
The true metanevra is restricted mainly to larger rivers. But
occasionally it goes into smaller rivers, but hardly ever into the
headwaters. It has been reported repeatedly from rather small
streams, but then it was generally represented by the var. wardi.
The original localities of the latter are Walhond'mg River, Ohio
(tributary to Tuscarawas); Wapsipinicon' River (Wassepinicon),
Iowa; and Coal River, Logan Co., Va. (Coal River is now in
Kanawha and Boone Cos., W. Va.). Three specimens from the
latter locality were in the Hartman collection, and are now in the
Carnegie Museum.
Sterki^'^ reports zvardi from Sugar Creek, another tributary of
Tuscarawas River.
Aside from the types of zvardi from Coal River, the Carnegie
Museum possesses this form from the Ohio, Monongahela and Alle-
gheny Rivers in the vicinity of Pittsburgh. But these specimens
are not very typical, are rare, and intergrade with the normal
metanevra. They are found, however, at and near the upstream
limit of the distribution of the species. A rather good specimen of
zvardi comes from the Little Kanazvha River at Burnsville. This
again is a smaller stream.
Thus the tendency is observed, when the species enters smaller
streams, to develop a compressed variety. But, in addition, this
variety inclines to obliterate a peculiar sculpture, very character-
istic for the main species, that of large knobs upon the surface of
the shell. This should be kept in mind.
QuADRULA CYLiNDRiCA (Say). Simpson, '14, p. 832.
This widely distributed species ordinarily is strongly nodulous,
with great knobs upon the posterior ridge, and the shell is generally
much swollen. Its characters are rather uniform over the range.
However in the headwaters of the Ohio River, in Ohio and
Pennsylvania, and in the upper Tennessee-region, two peculiar small-
stream-races have developed. In the Tuscarawas River, in Beaver
River, and French Creek, there is a remarkably compressed form,
which, in addition, is practically smooth, having lost not only the
^^ Proc. Ohio Acad. Sci., 4, 1907.
