308 ORTMANN— CORRELATION OF SHAPE AND
This can be tested, of course, only in such forms which have a
wide distribution, and are found both in large and small rivers. I
have measured a number of such, but did not find any evidence for
our law in the following cases.
Elliptio dilatatiis (Raf.). — Distribution tremendous, equally
abundant in large rivers and small streams : but no trace of the law
observed.
Strophitiis edentiilus (Say). — The same wide distribution in all
kmds of streams, but no evidence of the law.
(It should be noted that no species belonging to the subfamily
Anodontinas has shown, so far, any evidence of submitting to this
law.)
Ptychohranchus fasciolare (Raf.). — The same holds good for
this species as for the two preceding ones.
Actinonaias carinata (Barn.) {= Nephronaias ligamentina). —
Although not going into the smallest headwaters, this species is
found in smaller and larger rivers, but no change of obesity is
observed.
Eurynia recta latissima (Raf.). — Has a very wide distribution
from the large rivers well vip into the headwaters, but is remarkably
uniform in obesity.
Lampsilis siliqiioidca (Barn.) (= luteola). — Practically ubiqui-
tous in the interior drainage (although missing in the upper Ten-
nessee). No relation observed between size of stream and obesity,
although the shell is very variable.
Lampsilis fasciola Raf. (= mttltiradiata) . — Practically every-
where in the interior drainage, but obesity not responding to station.
TrunciUa triqiictra Raf.— Of wide distribution, and in streams
of various size, but without marked change in obesity.
TrunciUa capsceformis (Lea). — Widely distributed and common
in the upper Tennessee region, found in small creeks and large
rivers, but uniform in the convexity of the valves.
In addition it should be remarked that in none of the species be-
longing to the Atlantic drainage this law has been observed to exist.
This is most evident in the common Elliptio complanatus (Dillw.).
This is found practically everywhere, in large rivers as well as in
