HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES. 15
variation in angle requires but slight change in air path and as a
result a very slight error in determining the difference d in air path
lengths will result in a large error in determining the angle. Sec-
ondly, the direction so determined will be ambiguous.
Fig. I shows that the time difference between the reception of
the sound at receivers R and L will, from conditions of symmetry,
be the same whether the sound comes from the direction indicated
by arrow i or that indicated by arrow 2. It is, then, impossible to
tell from the value oi d whether the sound comes from the direction
of 9 or from the direction 2Tr—d.
Both of these weaknesses are readily overcome, as will be seen
by a consideration of Fig. 2, Plate III. Suppose the line connecting
the two receivers R and L is perpendicular to the direction from
which is measured and suppose the sound is proceeding from the
same angle 6 that is represented by arrow i in Fig. i. The time dif-
ference between the reception of the sound at the two receivers R
and L is represented by the water path R-C, Fig. 2. But sound pro-
ceeding from the direction represented by arrow 2, would, from con-
ditions of symmetry, give a time interval between reception at the
two receivers represented by the same length of water path. It
will be impossible then to tell from the value of d whether the sound
comes from the direction 6 or ir-O.
The direction of the sound as determined by two receivers ori-
ented as in Fig. i is determined as being either 6 or 2Tr-9 whi;lel
the direction as determined from a pair of receivers oriented as in
Fig. 2 is determined as 6 or -n-d. It must follow that the angle
common to the two determinations, viz., 6, gives the true direction
and thus the ambiguity is removed. Moreover, it is to be noticed
that the angular range within which the determination of direction
is subject to most error when the two receivers are oriented as in
Fig. I is the region wherein direction is determined with greatest
accuracy when the receivers are oriented as in Fig. 2. It therefore
becomes possible to determine direction accurately at all angles pro-
vided that reliance is placed on the proper pair of receivers.
The line connecting the second pair of receivers need not neces-
sarily be at right angles to that connecting the first pair, and the
second pair of receivers may utilize one receiver of the first pair.
