STATION IN FRESH-WATER MUSSELS. 309
small streams, and varies greatly in obesity. But no correlation
between the diameter of the shell and the size of the stream has
been discovered.
In the tables given above, one character has been brought out
preeminently, that is obesity, or diameter of the shell as related to
length.
But, in addition, another fact has been discovered, which is the
following. A shell which decreases in diameter in the headzvaters,
makes up, so to speak, for the loss by a gain in size, that is to say,
in circumference, and this is best expressed by the total length of
the shell. The latter not having been given in the tables, I supple-
ment this here for the several species discussed.
The following maxima of length have been observed (the large
river form is given first; the headwaters form in the second place).
Fusconaia subrotunda: 107 mm. ; F. sitbr. kirtlandiana: 133 mm.
Fusconaia pilaris: 70 mm. ; F. pil, lesneiiriana: 84 mm. ; F. pil. bursa-
pastoris: 100 mm. (Simpson gives even no mm. for the last
one).
Fusconaia flava trigona: Gy mm. ; F. flava: 90 mm. (This is not
everywhere so striking, for locally the typical flava appears as a
dwarfed race, as for instance in Crooked Creek in Pa., where
the largest specimen is only 74 mm. long, but longer yet than the
largest trigona.)
Fusconaia cuneolus appressa: 63 mm. ; F. cuneolus: 68 mm.
Fusconaia edgariana: 63 mm. ; F. edg. analoga: 70 mm.
Fusconaia barnesiana tumescens: 67 mm. ; F. barnesiana: yy mm. ;
F. barn, bigbyensis: 86 mm.
Lexingtonia dolabelloides: 56 mm. ; L. dol. conradi: 68 mm.
Pleurobema oviforme holstonense: 58 mm.; P. oviforme: 68 mm.;
P. ovif. argenteum: 96 mm.
Obovaria subrotunda: 59 mm. ; O. subr. lens: 67 mm.
Only in Pleurobema cordatum catillus and P. cord, coccineum
this phenomenon is not evident, and it could not be established in the
case of Dromus dromas and caperatus. For the others, as may be
seen by the above figures, it stands out as a striking fact, and cannot
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, VOL. LIX, T, AUGUST 20, I92O.
