310 ORTMANN— CORRELATION OF SHAPE AND
be clue, by any means, to accident. Thus we must accept it as
demonstrated, that in most shells which shozv a decrease in diameter
in the upstream direction, this decrease is compensated, to a degree,
by the greater sise of the shell as expressed by its length.
Further, we have seen in certain forms (Quadrnla metanevra
and Qu. cylindrica, Dromus dramas), that a pecuHar kind of sur-
face sculpture, namely large knobs and tubercles, tend to disappear
in the headwaters. This is also connected, more or less distinctly,
with a flattening of the shell. It would be interesting to discover
additional cases of this kind, and may be found in Truncilla toridosa
and gubernacnhim of the upper Tennessee. But it surely is not a
general law, since there are other shells, which show no change in
sculpture along the course of a river, and since there are other in-
stances, where the opposite seems to be the case. The group of
Amblema plicata seems to belong here, w4iere a strongly sculptured
and flat form (A. costata) belongs to the headwaters, while a
smoother and more swollen form (peruviana) is in the largest
rivers.-"
In this connection it should be pointed out, that a similar case is
known in the freshwater Gastropod lo. The facts have been posi-
tively established by C. C. Adams-'^ ; a tuberculated or spinose form
(lo spinosa Lea) is found in the larger streams; a smooth form (lo
fluvialis Say) in the headwaters. The present writer is able to con-
firm this by his own observations. The smoothness of the speci-
mens of lo in the upper Powell, Clinch, and Holston in Virginia is
very striking ; tuberculate individuals begin to appear farther down,
and real spiny ones not till the state line of Tennessee is reached.
The transition is quite gradual.
Conclusions.
Certain Naiades change their shape along the course of one and
the same river in such a way, that
/. the more obese (szvollen) form is found farther dozvn in the
-- See Wilson and Clark, '14, p. 63; Utterback, '16, p. 41.
^^Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., 12, 1915.
