STATION IN FRESH-WATER MUSSELS. 311
large rivers, and passes gradually, in the upstream direction, into a
less obese (compressed) form in the Jieadzvaters;
2. zuith the decrease in obesity often an increase in size {length)
is correlated;
J. a feiu shells zvhich have, in the larger rivers, a pecidiar sculp-
ture of large tubercles, lose these tubercles in the Jieadzvaters.
The question arises : zvhat is the meaning of these changes in
shape? No positive conclusion is as yet possible, chiefly for two
reasons: first, that there are only some species (and comparatively
few^), in which this law is observed, while others positively do not
show it ; and in the second place, that, although the size of the stream
undoubtedly is connected with this phenomenon, we do not know,
whether size alone is the essential factor, or whether additional
factors belonging to those constituting the small-stream-community
are responsible.
A few points, however, should be mentioned, which might finally
lead to or help in the proper understanding of the facts.
1. Practically all of the shells which show this phenomenon are
of a rather primitive structure. The genera Fusconaia, Amblema,
Quadrula, Lexingtonia, and Pleurobema, belong to the most primi-
tive types of North American Naiades ; and Dromus and Obovaria
are comparatively primitive among the subfamily Lampsilincr. No
Naiades which stand on a high stage of dififerentiation have given
any distinct evidence for our law.
2. It must not be forgotten that dispersal of almost all our
Naiades is accomplished in the larval stage, when the larvse live
parasitic upon fishes, and that certain species of shells are re-
stricted to certain species of fishes as hosts. Thus the distribution
of the fish-host, and the ecological peculiarities of it, must largely
influence the distribution of the Naiades. Since we have fishes
which are migratory, while others are more stationary, it might be
that Naiades living parasitic upon the latter kind have a smaller
chance to be carried far away from their native grounds, while
others, parasitic upon migratory fishes, are promiscuously scattered
over the whole river-system, being often deposited far from their
place of birth. In the first case, development of local races, in
