316 REID— THE DISTRIBUTION OF LAND
There are three main land masses in the water hemisphere:
Australia, with some of the large islands north of it ; the Antarctic
continent, and the southern end of South America ; to these may be
added the much smaller area of New Zealand. Fig. 3 shows that
Australia projects against the North Atlantic Ocean ; and some of
the adjacent islands against the northern part of South America;
the southern part of South America projects almost entirely against
China ; the Antarctic continent projects partly against the Arctic
Ocean and partly against the lands surrounding it. New Zealand
projects partly against Spain and partly against the adjacent sea.
The total area of the lands in the water hemisphere is about one
eleventh of the area of the hemisphere. A little less than one half
this land projects against water and a little more than one half
against land, and this is almost exactly the proportion we should
expect if the land in the water hemisphere were distributed without
any definite relation to the water in the land hemisphere. For in the
latter the ratio of the land to the water is 1:1.1; i.e., practically one
half the hemisphere is water and one half is land. So far then as the
antipodal relation of land and water is not explained by the exist-
ence of a land and a water hemisphere, it is purely accidental ; and
there is no necessity to look for a special explanation for it.
3. The fact that the center of the land hemisphere is pretty
far north, being a little more than half way from the equator to the
north pole, places the arctic regions well within this hemisphere and
therefore naturally surrounds them with land. And similarly the
antarctic regions being well within the water hemisphere is nat-
urally surrounded by water.
4. If you draw on a sheet of paper the outline of any fairly
compact area and then divide it up by deep indentations, you will
have left a figure with projections pointing roughly away from the
center. Now this is exactly the characteristic of the land area of
the world. The projections of South America, Africa, and Aus-
tralia are said to point towards the south. Our predilection for
referring everything to the earth's axis of rotation has blinded us
to the fact that these projections of the land area point equally well
towards the antipodes of the center of the land hemisphere, i.e., in
