AND WATER ON THE EARTH. 317
a general way, away from the land mass ; a relation which is a
natural consequence of the concentration of the land in one general
mass. The strong lines in Fig i are great circles extending the
directions of the three projections.
But why should there be just three such masses? I can give
no definite answer to this question and I am not sure that there is
a real answer to it.- In a dissected land area, such as we find on
the earth, there must be some number of projections, and the num-
ber will depend upon how broadly or how minutely the land is
dissected ; and their importance on how much we are impressed by
the shape of the projections. Japan and Mexico, for instance, are
quite as far from the center of the land hemisphere as the south
end of Africa (see map. Fig. i) ; but in their neighborhood the
outline of the land maintains its distance from the center and we are
not impressed by this distance.
5. The triangular shape of the continents and oceans is far too
rough an approximation to have any real importance. A glance at
special maps in a good atlas will show how far from triangular
they are. South America is distinctly triangular; North America
is not; Eurasia is not. Africa has more the shape of a carpenter's
square. The northern part of the Pacific Ocean is bounded nearly
by a great circle, that is the boundary is as nearly a straight line
as can be drawn on the globe. Here again the maps made on a
Mercator projection have suggested the idea of an ocean narrowing
towards the north. The boundary of the Indian Ocean on the
north is nearly a small circle, not in the least a corner of a triangle.
Nor do the North and South Atlantic Oceans at all follow a tri-
angular shape. I think the suggestion of a triangular shape for the
oceans and continents is too vague to have any meaning or any
value and may be abandoned.
6. Is this of real significance? South America is certainly well
separated from North America; and Australia from Asia; but
Australia is really a very big island and is only a continent by
courtesy. The separation of Africa from Europe is quite insignifi-
cant. It has been suggested that the mediterraneans are the indica-
tions of a zone of weakness lying along what was once the earth's
2 See, however, a few pages further on.
