318 REID— THE DISTRIBUTIOxN OF LAND
equator, with the pole in Behring's sea ; that the southern hemi-
sphere contracted more than the northern and thus tended to in-
crease its rate of rotation, producing stresses which caused fractures
along the then equator. Aside from dynamical objections to such
a process, we note that Africa is not offset along the Mediterranean ;
only its southern part is offset. So that the explanation offered
does not apply to the conditions in attempts to explain. Here again
our predilection for the geographical north and south line brings its
influence to bear, and we think that the continents should naturally
lie north and south, and that any deviation from that direction needs
an explanation. But this is not so. In this particular case, how-
ever, the southern ends of -the three land projections lie all three
somewhat to the east of the northern parts, and this uniformity is
striking. But notice this : if these southern ends do not lie directly
south of the northern parts, two of them must be apparently dis-
placed in one direction ; the third might be displaced in the same or
in the opposite direction ; that it should happen to be in the same
direction is not remarkable.
I think, therefore, we may agree that the main characteristics of
the distribution of land and water on the globe is contained in the
statement given in italics near the beginning of this paper.
Why should we have a land hemisphere and a water hemisphere ?
The answer given by Herschel, about 60 years ago, is the true
answer, though to be sure, it only points the direction in which
further knowledge should be sought. Herschel's explanation was
that the center of mass of the earth and its center of figure do not
coincide.
Let us examine this a little more closely. If the material of the
earth were distributed with perfect symmetry about the center of
mass the ocean would cover the whole earth to a uniform depth.
But if one hemisphere were slightly denser than the other the water
would be drawn to that side and make a deeper ocean there.
How can we explain this lack of symmetry? We could easily
imagine that the earth, in whatever manner it may have developed,
might be lacking in symmetry sufficient to bring about the small
separation, about a mile and a half, between its center of mass and
