AND WATER ON THE EARTH. 319
its center of figure. This would infer the permanence of the Pacific
Ocean, still a moot question among geologists ; and we must also
remember that Hayford and Bowie have shown that under the con-
tinent of North America, and, in a less convincing degree, under
the adjoining oceans, isostatic adjustment is complete at a very
small depth ; and it is only in this surface skin therefore that the
density of the earth is different in the two hemispheres. In many
parts of the known continental areas the rock has undergone changes
of density, wnth correcponding changes of level ; whether such
changes have extended over very large areas so as materially to
change the distribution of land and water on the globe is the still
unanswered problem of the permanence of the ocean basins.
Imagine an earth, spherically symmetrical in density ; now imagine
that the crust in one hemisphere to a depth of lOO miles contracts
so as to shorten the central radius by 3 miles and that this shortening
gradually diminishes to zero along the edge of the hemisphere. A
simple calculation shows that the crust to a depth of 100 miles would
be increased in density about 3 per cent. ; that the center of mass of
the earth would be displaced only about 70 feet, so that the level
surfaces would remain practically unchanged ; and therefore the
ocean in the center of the contracted hemisphere would be about 3
miles deeper than in the antipodal region. This apparently is what
has occurred, but why the contraction should be especially marked
and so general over one hemisphere is still unknown.
The only attempt to explain the hemispherical distribution of
density is that of Osmond Fisher." He suggests that the material
that formed the moon, according to George H. Darwin's theory,
was collected from the superficial part of the region which is now
the Pacific Ocean, and was therefore of comparatively small density.
The scar was healed, to a large extent, by denser material from
below, and the two Americas were, at the time of separation of the
moon, cracked ofif from Europe and Africa, and floated to the west,
leaving the Atlantic basin underlaid by the denser material below.
This hypothesis is purely speculative. It runs counter to other geo-
^ Nature, 1882, XXV., 243; also "Physics of the Earth's Crust," 2d ed.,
1889, XXV. W. H. Pickering offered the same explanation. " The Place of
Origin of the Moon," Jour. Geo]., 1907, XV., 23-38.
