AND WATER ON THE EARTH. 321
perature gradient at i° C. per 33 m. the temperature under the land
at the same level as the sea bottom would be 16° 4- — — = 140°.
33
Trabert^ carried Faye's idea a step farther. He assumes a land
surface temperature of 10° C, a temperature gradient of 3° per
100 meters, and a mean ocean depth of 4300 meters, with a bottom
temperature of 0° ; and thus gets a difference of 140°. He then
calculates what would be the difference of average temperature of
two cones, extending to the earth's center, one under the land and
one under the sea, sufificient to account for a difference in length of
5000 meters, which he gets roughly by adding the mean height of
the land to the mean depth of the ocean. He finds the relation
oi^r^ 5000 m., where a = .00001 is the coefficient of expansion of
the rock, R the radius of the earth, and T the average dift'erence of
temperature of the two cones. This gives ^^78°, which, in view
of the difference of temperature of the sea bottom and the same
level under the land, he considers a very reasonable figure ; and
therefore thinks the ocean basins are entirely due to low tempera-
ture of the underlying rock.
But it is quite impossible for the two cones to differ by anything
like 78° in mean temperature. Both Faye and Trabert were m.isled
by comparing the temperatures at the sea bottom level. This dif-
ference has no bearing whatever on the difference in the mean tem-
peratures of the two cones. To illustrate : Suppose we have two
cones of exactly the same size, and with a similar distribution of
temperature ; for simplicity, suppose the temperature is diminishing
continuously from the apex to the base. Now let one of these cones
expand uniformly, each of its elements keeping its temperature.
Its mean temperature will not have changed at all ; it will still be the
same as that of the other cone ; but at the same distance from the
apex it will have a higher temperature than the other cone. It is
easy to imagine a distribution of temperature which would yield a
great difference between the two cones at the level of the base of the
unchanged one ; though the mean temperatures of the two cones
9 " Eine mogliche Ursache der Vertiefung der Meere," Sit:;. Kais. Ak.
Wiss. Wien, Math. Nat. Kl, 191 1, Bd. 120, Abt. 2 A, 175-180.
