322 REID— THE DISTRIBUTION OF LAND
remain the same. All that is necessary is that the temperatures
should change rapidly near the bases of the cones.
Let us calculate the difference of mean temperature of the land
and sea cones under some simple distributions of temperature.
Suppose the apices of the cones to have the same temperature and
the bases to differ by i6° C. ; and suppose the temperature gradient
to be uniform in each cone from the apex to the base. An easy
calculation shows that the difference of the mean temperature of
the cones would be three quarters of i6°, or 12°. And with the
coefficient of expansion adopted by Trabert, this would account for
a difference of level of the bases of 770 meters, or about one seventh
of the actual amount. A constant temperature gradient in the
earth is of course impossible. With a gradient of 1° per 100 meters,
which is rertainly smaller than that observed at the surface, we
should have a central temperature of over 127,000°.
As a second example let us suppose that the earth has cooled in
accordance with Lord Kelvin's theory. We shall take the original
temperature at 1170°, the present land surface temperature at 16°,
the sea bottom at 0°. For the sake of making the difference as
great as possible, we shall assume an age for the earth of 500 mil-
lion years. We find that below a depth of one tenth of the radius
the two cones have practically the same temperature and that the
mean difference in the two shells above this depth is somewhat less
than 4°, accounting for a diff'erence of level of the bases of the two
cones of about 25 meters.
If we ascribe the earth's heat to radioactive substances, we are
confronted with our ignorance of the relative quantities under the
land and under the sea. They seem to be somewhat more abundant
in the more siliceous rocks of continental areas, though the red clay
of the deep sea seems to have a high content ; on the other hand the
less siliceous rocks of the oceanic areas have a lower conductivity
for heat. We may then as a rough approximation assume that the
temperature curve has the same form under the two regions,
differing, however, by 16° in temperature at the same depth below
the surface. This would only hold for moderate depths, say, for a
few hundred miles. Farther than this there would be a diminution
