The American Philosophical Society
anuQVinc^K Miiitian award will be made in the year 1921 of the
HENRY M. PHILLIPS PRIZE
V
The subject upon which essays are to be submitted is
The Control of the Foreign Relations of the United States :
The Relative Rights, Duties, and Responsibilities of the Presi-
dent, of the Senate and the House, and of the Judiciary, in
Theory and in Practice.
The Essay shall contain not more than one hundred thousand words,
exclusive of notes, and must be in the possession of the Society on or
before December 31, 1920.
The Prize for the crowned essay will be Two Thousand Dollars, in
gold coin of the United States, to be paid as soon as may be after the
award.
Attention is called to the following regulations governing the award
of the Prize:
Competitors for the prize shall affix to their essays some motto or name
(not the proper name of the author, however) and when the essay is forwarded
to the Society it shall be accompanied by a sealed envelope containing within
the proper name and address of the author and on the outside thereof the
motto or name adopted for the essay.
At a stated meeting of the Society in pursuance of the advertisement, all
essays received up to that time shall be referred to a Committe of Judges, to
consist of five persons, who shall be selected by the Society from nominations
made by the Committee on the Henry M. Phillips Prize.
Essays may be written in any language, but, if not in English, must be
accompanied by an English translation.
No essay which has been already published or printed, or for which the
author has received any prize or profit of any nature whatsoever, shall be
accepted in competition for the prize.
Essays must be typewritten on only one side of the paper, and six copies
must be furnished by their respective authors for the use of the Committee
of Judges.
The literary property of such essays shall be in their author, subject to
the right of the Society to publish the crowned essay in its "Transactions "
or "Proceedings."
The Society reserves the right not to award the prize if none of the com-
peting essays is deemed worthy of it.
John Bassett Moore,
David Jayne Hill,
Simeon E. Baldwin,
John Cadwalader,
W. W. Keen,
William B. Scott,
President ex-officio.
Committee.
The essays must be sent, addressed to the
President of the American Philosophical
Society, No. 104 South Fifth Street, Phila^
delphia, U. S, A.
