326 KENNELLY-NABESHIMA— ESTABLISHING A
upon the circuit. A permanent or steady electromagnetic state can-
not therefore contain transients to any appreciable extent; although
transients will probably have been involved in the production of
that state. It is true that transient phenomena persist with pro-
gressive attentuation for an indefinitely long period, and, in that
sense, never completely disappear. From an engineering point of
view, however, transients diminish into practical negligibility in a
period of time that is ordinarily measured in milliseconds ; so that
they may be regarded as having vanished, when the steady state is
accepted as having been attained.
For the purposes of discussion, transients are subdivided as
shown in Table I.
Class A includes transients of all kinds, mechanical and elec-
trical. Thus, a kick of the pen of a recording ammeter pointer
might represent a mechanical transient due to an electrical transient.
Prominent among transients are electromagnetic-wave transient
disturbances, or zvave transients.
An important class of wave transients are those which accom-
pany the establishment of an alternating current over a line. These
may be classed collectively as initiating a.-c. transients. This is the
principal class of transients discussed in this paper.
Initiating alternating-current wave transients occur, in general,
whenever a switch is closed at the generating end of an a.-c, line.
If the switch could be closed in such a manner as to produce no
electric " splash," the outgoing wave transient would be the " regu-
lar " transient, which accompanies the regular formation of the
final alternating-current state.
Infinite Distortionless Line Closed at Zero E.m.f. {No Tran-
sients). — If we assume, for simplicity, a perfectly regulated sine-
wave generator, of negligible internal impedance, connected as in
Fig. I to an indefinitely long uniform distortionless line,^ then if the
switch S is closed at some instant when the alternating e.m.f. is
passing through zero, the initial outgoing waves of e.m.f. and cur-
2 A distortionless line was originally defined by Heaviside as a line in
which l/r = c/g. In such a line, the surge impedance s^ must have zero
slope at all frequencies, or becomes reactanceless. See Bibliography (i),
page 126, Vol. II.; also Bibliography (30), page 154.
