STEADILY ALTERNATING CURRENT ON A LONG LINE. 333
O^ records the initial current waves entering the line for the first
few cycles after the switch 5 is closed. The voltage-recording
oscillograph 0^ records simultaneously the wave form of the im-
pressed e.m.f. The distant or receiving end B, is freed in Fig. 3,
except that it is connected to ground through the high non-inductive
resistance, ordinarily of 9900 ohms, in order to permit of operating
the voltage-recording oscillograph 0^'. All three oscillographs are
set into operation simultaneously, on closing the phase-selecting
switch S, during about 8 cycles from the 60 /-' generator G, or for
a duration of about %5 second ; and all three are recorded on the
same photographic film 8.25 cm. (3^ inches) wide. In this manner,
the voltage at each end of the line, and the current at the entering
end, are recorded immediately after closing the line switch S.
Alternating-Current Generator. — The a.-c. generator G, Fig. 3,
was a 6-pole lo-k.v.a. alternator of the Lauffen type, designed by
Prof. C. A. Adams, for the delivery of a nearly pure sine-wave
e.m.f. At the time these tests were made, no other load was con-
nected to the machine. It was driven by a directly coupled d.-c.
iio-volt motor, of approximately 10 kw. continuous rating, rotating
at approximately 1200 r.p.m. The current in the d.-c. motor field
magnet was adjusted in the testing room, so as to maintain constant
frequency. The frequency was measured in the testing room by
mounting a stroboscopic disk on the shaft of the small synchronous
motor, and observing this revolving disk, illuminated by a fixed
incandescent lamp, through shts in the prongs of a stroboscopies
fork on a telescope. Unless in such measurement, the frequency is
held constant, the results are of little value.
Oscillograph. — The oscillograph had three vibrators, in an elec-
tromagnetic field common to all. The instrument was designed and
constructed by Mr. H. G. Crane, at Harvard University. The
bifilar vibrators had a working length of 12.5 mm., and were damped
in castor oil. As the currents observed were of low frequency, the
correction factors for frequency of the vibrators^ are insignificant at
60'— ', and are omitted.
'^ Bibliography 7.
s Bibliography 39.
