STEADILY ALTERNATING CURRENT ON A LONG LINE. 343
at the crests of successive alternations. In such instances, the
waves will change abruptly from one sinusoid to another of dif-
ferent amplitude. The resulting waves may therefore appear to be
distorted, or nonsinusoidal, until they are analyzed. An example
of this kind is presented in Fig. 13 (Film No. loi). Here the full-
length artificial line (1255 km.) is freed at the distant end, and the
recording oscillographs of e.m.f. and current are connected to the
line at the half-way point (627.5 km. from each end). It will be
seen that the impressed e.m.f. eg is applied near an instant of zero
voltage, and without perceptible splash. The voltage wave ^390 at
the midlength point, commencing about 2 milliseconds later, rises
also without splash, along an approximately sinusoidal curve. Just
about the crest of this wave, the first reflection (positive) has had time
to return from the distant free end. This reflected wave adds itself
to the first arriving wave at the midway point, and so apparently
distorts the wave form. These distortions can be noticed for several
alternations in ^390, and are due almost wholly, if not entirely, to the
superposition of new reflections. The same considerations apply
to the current /'390 in the line, at the midway point. The electrical
connections are indicated in Fig. 14. The first reflected wave of
o 628 km _^ 6 26 km
H @>-
A ^1 B
0=
Fig. 14. Electrical Connections of Oscillograph and its Leak, half-way along
the Artificial Line freed at B.
current arriving at P, 4.3 milliseconds after the first arrival at P,
is in the negative direction from the distant free end B, and so
produces a more marked apparent distortion in ^90, than occurs in
^39o> where the first reflection is positive. Similar distortions due
to further incoming reflections are noticeable in the curve ^go for
several alternations. At the end of the oscillogram, 125 milli-
seconds from the start, the waves of ^390 and j'390 have very nearly
attained their final steady and practically sinusoidal values.
