STEADILY ALTERNATING CURRENT ON A LONG LINE. 345
age at A, owing to the fact that the hne AB is nearly of quarter-
wave length.''
In a similar manner, the successive currents and reflections at A
are indicated by the vectors OA, AB, BC, etc., together with the
successive vector sums OA, OB, OC, etc., as far as the thirteenth
wave inclusive, when the final steady state is nearly reached.
We should therefore expect that the voltage at B would, in
the first wave, attain the crest value Oa, in the next reflection the
crest value Oh, in the next following reflection Oc, and so on. A
comparison between the observed and computed waves is given
graphically in Fig. i6. Here the upper line of waves deals with the
sending-end current, the middle series with the impressed voltage,
and the lowest series with the voltage at B. Referring to the latter
series, the successive reflected voltage waves Oa, ah, he, etc., of Fig.
15, are marked with the numerals I., II., III., etc., in Fig. 16, and
these are superposed, by point to point addition, in the heavy wavy
line No. i. No. 2, No. 3, etc. This heavy wave is the computed
resultant regular transient of c,-. If there were no errors in the
assumptions or mode of computation, the oscillogram of er should
coincide with this line. The oscillogram of e,- in Fig. 9 actually
does coincide very nearly with this theoretical line, the small deriva-
tions therefrom being indicated at the crests of the first few waves.
Thus, at the crest of wave No. 3, the computed maximum value is
531.9 volts; whereas the oscillograph shows 539 volts, a deviation of
1.3 per cent. This is the largest discrepancy detected between the
observed and computed values of er. We are, therefore, entitled to
conclude that in the case of this artificial line, with the switch closed
splashlessly, the lumpiness of the line had very little effect upon
the voltage at the distant free end.
Referring to the upper line of waves is in Fig, 16, the same
procedure has been followed. The heavy line is the sum of the
reflected waves, according to the vector sums OA, OB, OC, of Fig.
15. This heavy wavy line is, therefore, the theoretical summation
9 If the line had been freed at B, instead of being grounded through the
oscillograph of 9900 ohms, the final voltage £ at 5 would have been in-
creased from E X 5-63Viio° 36' to E X 6.82^7116° 20', and the transient
e.m.f. waves would also have been materially modified.
