HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE. 373
lem of transporting our troops back again arose it was suggested
that this device, if installed on transports, might prove to be of
value in safeguarding the lives of these men during fog or other
conditions of low visibility. This suggestion was strongly backed
by Rear Admiral B. C. Decker, U.S.N., then Senior Member of the
Special Board on Anti-Submarine Devices, and by Captain J. R.
Defrees, U.S.N., Secretary of the Board, and led to the equipping
of the U. S. S. Von Steuben with an electrical MV hydrophone for
the purpose of ascertaining whether or not such a device could effec-
tively serve as an aid and safeguard to navigation.
Experimental Results Obtained on the U. S. S. Von Steuben.
The writer was fortunate in having charge of the hydrophone
installation on the Von Steuben during the first trip from Hoboken
to Brest and return, a trip which in his opinion will come to be re-
garded as epoch-making in the annals of navigation.
The Von Steuben proceeded at one third speed while leaving New-
York harbor. During this period neighboring tugboats and ferries
were readily located by determining the direction of their propeller
sounds. Arrangements had been made to have the lightships along
the approach to New York harbor sound their submarine bells and
the signals from all these lightships (Ambrose, Fire Island, Cardinal,
and Finch) were picked up in turn by the hydrophone and the ves-
sels located before they could be seen. Several times signals from
two or three of the lightships could be heard and located at the same
time and the position of the Von Steuben determined by cross-
bearings.
It was not expected that the bell signals from the Nantucket
lightship could be heard as the course of the Von Steuben lay well
to the southward of this vessel and the listeners turned in for the
night. The writer's assistant. Ensign D. W. McElroy, U.S.N.R.F.,
having awakened at about i A.M., decided to listen on the hydro-
phone and heard the bell signals from this vessel coming in clearly
and distinctly. The Von Steuben at this time was steaming at full
speed. The bell was followed for two hours, during which time the
light on the Nantucket lightship was not sighted. The range and
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC. , VOL. 1 IX., X, DEC. I5, I9 20.
