374 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
position of this vessel relative to the Von Steuben were determined
later by triangulation, using the distance covered during the two
hours as a base-line. These results checked closely with determi-
nations made by dead reckoning and showed that the lightship was
never approached closer than 32 nautical miles and that the greatest
range at which the bell signals were heard was about 40 miles.
Thus within a few hours after leaving Hoboken, it was appar-
ently demonstrated that navigation could be effectively safeguarded
by the MV hydrophone, since by its aid the direction of submarine
bell signals was accurately determined at ranges varying from 15
to 40 miles and the propeller sounds of near-by vessels heard and the
vessels located thereby at ranges sufficient for avoiding collisions.
With such information at his disposal, the navigator should be able
to take his vessel into or out of port during fog or other conditions
of low visibility.
The next day it was a matter of disappointment to find that the
propeller sounds of the Von Steuben could not be heard in depths
much greater than 500 fathoms. This result led to the important
discovery that the MV hydrophone is able to give a reliable and con-
tinuous record of the depth of water beneath a vessel, steaming at
any speed, up to depths of approximately three times the length of
the vessel and that this record becomes more and more accurate as
the depth of water becomes less.
Only Sound Reflected from t^e Sea-Bottom is Heard on
Hydrophones Locatej> Near the Surface.
The fact that propeller sounds of the Von Steuben could not be
heard in deep water led at once to the conclusion that the hydro-
phone is affected only by sound that has been reflected from the
sea-bottom. Two explanations of this fact are offered.
Referring to Fig. i, sound from a source such as a propeller (S)
reaches the hydrophone receiver (H) by three different paths,
namely: 5 — P — H, S — R — H, and S — O — H respectively. If the
distance ^S" — H is great with respect to the distance P — R, that is, if
the separation of source and receiver is great compared to their
submersion below the surface, then the two paths 5' — P — H and
