HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES. 21
Perrin Microphone, see Fig. i, Plate II., consists of a sensitive micro-
phone mounted within a massive conical-shaped shield. Like the
Mark I. it determines direction by the maximum-minimum principle
and is not capable of giving accurate bearings for the reason that
neither the maximum nor minimum is well defined.
Some idea of the construction and operation of the Walser Plate
detector can be gained from Plate VI. The plate proper forms a
portion of the ship's skin. The surface is convex outward, the cur-
vature being such that a sound wave passing from the water through
the plate is brought to a focus within the boat. The plate is per-
forated with numerous holes, each of which is closed by a thin metal
diaphragm, in order that the sound may pass more freely. One such
plate is installed on each side of the boat.
Each plate really serves as a sound lens and the direction of the
sound source is determined from the position of the sound focus
within the ship. The position of this focus is located by means of a
movable trumpet which connects with the listener's ears. The frame-
work upon which the trumpet arm is pivoted is suspended fore and
aft on gimbals and counterbalanced so that the trumpet remains in
the same horizontal plane that contains the focus.
In many respects the Walser Plate is a superior device. Due to
its focusing effect the disturbance from local and other undesirable
sounds is greatly reduced while desirable sounds are concentrated
and intensified. The device can be operated while moving at con-
siderable speed and good results both as regards range and bearing
are claimed. It has, however, the double disadvantage that it is ex-
pensive and difficult to install. In fact its dimensions are such that
it cannot be installed on many types of boats.
Submarine Detectors Developed in the United States,
Plate VII. shows the principle of two types of submarine sound
detectors which were developed by the Submarine Signal Company
for locating submarine bell signals installed on light-ships. Each of
the small tanks attached to the ship's skin carries a microphone re-
ceiver tuned to the submarine bells. These microphones each con-
nect with a single telephone receiver on the ship's bridge. These
tanks are filled with oil or water. By comparing the intensity of a
