376 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
and dense portions of the sound waves will not remain perpendicu-
lar to this surface. If the sound travels from left to right the wave
front will be distorted to the left as shown by the full curved lines.
This distortion becomes greater as the sound travels farther from
the source, and at considerable distance it is conceivable that all
sound reaching the surface is travelling in a direction nearly perpen-
dicular to it and thus will be reflected nearly vertically downward.
If this distortion extends to a sufficient depth, neither the direct nor
the surface-reflected sound ray will reach the distant receiver placed
near the surface. Under such conditions only sound reflected from
the sea-bottom will be heard.
Experiments for determining which of the above explanations is
valid have not been undertaken to date. However, when listening
to bell and oscillator signals, it has been noticed that the harmonics
are more prominent relative to the fundamental at the first instant
of response than during the rest of the signal. This fact tends to
substantiate the first explanation. The slight difference in path
length between the direct and surface-reflected sound introduces
more phase difference between the high-pitched components of the
sound than in the case of the fundamental and therefore the har-
monics are less perfectly neutralized by interference at the receiver
than is the fundamental. The sound at the receiver resulting from
these two paths consists largely of harmonics and this is heard an
instant before the sound which is reflected from the sea-bottom as
the latter has travelled a somewhat longer path,
A New Method of Sounding.
Since the only propeller sound heard by a hydrophone located
at a distance and near the surface is the component reflected from
the sea-bottom, it follows that the depth of water can be determined
from the angle which the reflected sound makes with a fixed line in
a plane determined by the sound source and the reflected ray — pro-
vided the distance between the hydrophone and sound-source is
known. Conversely, the distance between the hydrophone and the
sound-source can be determined if the depth of water is known.
