HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE. 381
Moreover, the angle a which the sea-bottom makes with the keel
of the vessel, assumed to be horizontal, is given by the relation
2a = <I>2 — $1.
If <I>j = <?>., the formula reduces to the sounding equation, viz.:
Z) = C-f Ltan$.
In practice it has been found that shelving of the sea-bottom is
seldom rapid enough to cause any great error in the determination
of depth, especially for depths within 15 or 20 fathoms, and for
purposes of navigation a single hydrophone located in the bow of
the vessel and a sound-source located near the stern have been con-
sidered sufficient. Such an installation tends to err by giving too
great depths when approaching shallow water and too small when
approaching deep water. This error has been checked by taking
soundings out and in on same course and found to be negligible in
the most cases.
Soundings taken on a shelving bottom with any of the various
types of sounding machines err in the some direction as do soundings
given by the simple hydrophone installation described, if the. sound-
ing weight is launched from the stern of the vessel. Since the lead
reaches bottom some distance behind the vessel, it will register too
great depths when approaching shoal water and too small depths
when entering deeper water. The hydrophone method has the
advantage that the error is independent of the speed of the vessel
while in case of the sounding machine the error increases with the
speed.
Errors Introduced by Incorrect Determination of Sounding
Angle.
The MV hydrophone determines direction by measuring the dif-
ference in time between reception of the sound by the two groups
of receivers which connect with the two ears respectively ; or, what
amounts to the same thing, by determining the path difference be-
tween the sound-source and the two groups of receivers. This time
difference or path difference is measured by introducing sufficient
compensation into the paths connecting the receivers to the ears to
