384 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
mining depths and the determination then becomes progressively
more accurate as the water becomes shallower.
The addition of a separate line of receivers does not complicate
or materially increase the cost of the installation, since by means of
a multiple-pole switch the same compensator can be used on all the
receiver lines. The electrical compensator is provided with such a
switch.
Another method of reducing the sounding error in shoal water,
which is applicable to larger vessels, is as follows: If an artificial
sound-source is placed near the center of the vessel, as shown at (S)
in Fig. 3, it is evident that accurate shoal soundings can be taken
without the addition of a line of receivers inclined to the horizontal.
The reflected sound from this source does not approach parallelism
with the line of receivers except for extremely shallow water. With
such an arrangement an operator in taking deep soundings will make
use of the stern sound-source (the propeller), while for soundings
in shallow water he will utilize the centrally located sound-source.
It is evident, from a consideration of the sounding equation, that
the error in the determination of the depth (D) resulting from the
error in the determination of the sounding angle $ will become ab-
normal when the depth is sufficiently great to cause this angle to
approach 90°, since the value of the tangent then varies rapidly with
change of angle. This weakness can be partially overcome by sepa-
rating the sound-source and the hydrophone as far as possible.
When the hydrophone and the sound-source are placed in opposite
ends of the vessel, reliable soundings are given for depths as great
as three times the length of the vessel.
Graphical Representation of Errors Introduced by Incorrect
Determination of Sounding Angle.
In order that the nature and magnitude of the errors in sounding,
due to incorrect determination of the sounding angle $, may be more
clearly understood, these determining factors will be illustrated
graphically.
In Fig. 8, the full line in the center of the shaded area gives the
relation between depth and sounding angle $ when the sounding
equation
