386 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
ascertain the corresponding limits of error as a function of the depth
by plotting the curves represented by the equation :
d ± 0.2
D (fathoms) = i -|- 22.6 tan cos"^ — q~~q~'
taking for the binaural arm (C) its value 28.98 inches in air (the
water path is 126 inches) and for the variable (d) the net compen-
sation of the line corresponding to various values of the sounding
angle <^.
These curves have been drawn, one on either side of the true
sounding curve. Due to this personal error in determining <E>, the
maximum limits of which are set as ±0.2 air inches, it is evident
that a given sounding is liable to fall anywhere within the shaded
area bounded by these two curves. It is to be noticed that this area
widens in a vertical direction at both ends of the curve, i.e., the error
for very shallow and for great depths is greater than for inter-
mediate depths. The hydrophone installation in question has the
receivers installed along a horizontal line parallel to the ship's keel,.
as shown in the left-hand diagram of Fig. 7.
In Fig. 9 the maximum error is plotted against depth as abscisssfr
and shows how the error is reduced for small depths when the line
of receivers is inclined to the ship's keel. The full line curve shows
the maximum error for various depths when the line of receivers is
parallel to the center line of the ship. The error increases rapidly
for depths below 10 fathoms. The broken line curve made of long-
dashes gives the maximum error when the line of receivers is inclined
30° to the horizontal in the manner shown in the right-hand diagram
of Fig. 7. Here the error at great depths is not materially increased.
The third curve gives the error when the line of receivers is inclined
60°. This arrangement further reduces the errors slightly in shallow
depths but clearly at the expense of increasing it considerably at
greater depths.
It has been found that best results are given when the line of
receivers is inclined about 30° to the keel. Such an arrangement
reduces the error in shallow water sufficiently for all practical pur-
poses and at the same time does not materially increase the error for
greater depths.
