388 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
This method of sounding, which is very simple in principle, is
not new. It differs from the first method described in that it depends
upon the accurate measurement of a tune interval (a difficult opera-
tion in practice), whereas the new method depends upon the meas-
urement of an angle (a comparatively easy operation). Moreover,
the error in soundings due to incorrect determination of the time
interval is as great for shallow as for deep water, whereas the error
due to incorrect determination of the sounding angle becomes very
small for shallow water.
The velocity of sound in sea water at the ordinary temperatures
met in practice is roughly 4,4CX) feet per second. This velocity is so
great that stop-watch methods are not sufficiently accurate for meas-
uring the time intervals, since an error of one fifth second results in
a discrepancy of over 70 fathoms in the determining of depth. The
various laboratory methods of measuring time intervals with a high
degree of accuracy require a skilled operator and in general can not
be "employed on board ships. Several devices designed for marine
use in connection with this problem have been perfected but have all
proven to be too complicated to be successfully operated by a ship's
personnel.
The writer is at present developing a new method which looks
very promising and by which the time interval between two signals
can be determined with a high degree of accuracy on shipboard.
The perfection of such a device will make possible the taking of
soundings with a fair degree of accuracy in water of any depth
while the vessel is steaming at full speed.
Determination of the Range of a Sound-Source.
If both a radio and an underwater sound signal are sent simul-
taneously from one point, the distance to the same can be determined
by measuring the time interval which elapses between reception of
the two signals at a distant point. In this way lightships or other
points provided with underwater navigation signals can be accurately
located. This procedure has been tried by stop-watch methods with
mediocre success, but it is believed that the device mentioned above
will make it possible to determine the range of a sound-source with
