HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE. 391
manner the South-West Ledge at the entrance of New London
harbor.
Since ice forms an excellent reflecting medium for submarine
sounds, as does also the hollow hull of a vessel, it seems certain that
high-pitched oscillator signals should reflect from such surfaces with
sufficient intensity to be heard on the hydrophone. In practice the
listener would focus the hydrophone dead ahead and send intermit-
tent sound signals with the oscillator. If at any time the signal ap-
pears binaurally centered, the sound is then being reflected from a
surface dead ahead and collision with the same may readily be
avoided.
Several years ago attempts were made to locate icebergs by the
echo method but failed for want of a device that could give the
direction of the reflected sounds. The MV hydrophone supplies
this want and with its aid it is believed that the experiments when
repeated will prove successful and introduce a means of preventing
such appalling disasters as befell the ill-fated Titanic.
Character of the Sea-Bottom — Hydrographic Surveys.
The hand lead and the sounding machine not only give the depth
of water but also the character of the sea-bottom. The latter infor-
mation oftentimes is as valuable as the former in locating the posi-
tion of a vessel. The question, therefore, naturally arises, " Can the
hydrophone give any information concerning the character of the
sea-bottom ? "
The answer to this question is " Yes." The character of the
reflected propeller sounds varies with change in the character of
the sea-bottom both as to intensity and to quality. These variations
are so marked that a trained listener needs only to travel back and
forth over the same course but a few times before he is able to rec-
ognize various regions en route by the character of the propeller
sounds.
While experimenting in Long Island Sound the writer has often
noticed a decided change in the intensity of the propeller sounds
when the listening vessel was off Saybrook. This change is doubt-
less due to the fact that the sea-bottom in this region is covered
