392 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
with sediment brought down by the Connecticut River. Other re-
gions in the Sound were also easily recognized but thus far no
attempts have been made to identify any particular sound character-
istic with a particular kind of sea-bottom. Doubtless experiments
along this line will prove interesting and valuable.
The hydrophone is destined to be of great aid in accurate, rapid,
and detailed hydrographic surveys, affording as it does a continuous
sounding curve over any desired course, at the same time giving an
indication of the character of the bottom. For such researches a
special design of hydrophone having an extended and variable base-
line would probably be used. Thanks to the extensive labors of the
hydrographic bureaus the coastal waters of this and several other
nations are well surveyed, but the advent of the hydrophone into this
field will facilitate the checking and extension of this information so
vital to navigation.
The Hydrophone as an Auxiliary to the Radio.
Another field in which the hydrophone will doubtless serve as
an aid to navigation is that of auxiliary to the radio. It has been
clearly demonstrated that by the use of a proper sound-source and
hydrophone, code messages may be exchanged up to ranges of from
15 to 20 miles by vessels under way, so that this equipment may be
advantageously used for handling the " short traffic " communica-
tions between adjacent vessels or from vessel to shore. With the
rapid growth and expansion of radio science the problem of inter-
ference becomes more vital every year so that the relief which may
be afforded by hydrophone communication will, no doubt, be very
welcome.
The use of powerful sound-sources, designed to be located off
promontories, at harbor entrances, etc., and operated by power ob-
tained from shore or installed upon light vessels will very mate-
rially increase the range at which such communication can be carried
on or guiding bearings obtained, thus introducing the hydrophone
into the field now occupied by the radio compass. One does not
have to make many trips on the " trackless main " to appreciate the
very positive value of each such additional source of information in
situations of uncertainty and doubt.
