396 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
the base-line (2L) of the vessel Accurate hydrophone soundings
could be made at all times and these, as will be shown, were a very
great aid in navigating.
During the first day's run from New London to Provincetown
through the Cape Cod Canal, the weather was clear so that a close
check upon the progress of the vessel could be kept by observation
of beacons along the shore. Hydrophone soundings were made
from time to time and these were seen to agree closely with the
depths given on the chart, thus affording a check upon the computed
scale. The same procedure was carried out during the second day
when the trip was made across Massachusetts Bay to the port of
Salem.
Departure from Salem was made in a heavy fog. After clearing
Cape Anne a compass course was set for Boon Island, off the coast
of York, Maine. This small island is rather peculiar hydrograph-
ically in that it consists of a small peak rising abruptly in a sea of
fairly deep water. A continuous sounding watch was maintained
until the hydrophone suddenly showed a very rapid shoaling of the
water in the position marked (i). Warning was given just in time
to enable the navigator to make out a buoy off the island which was
passed at close range. Had it not been for these hydrophone sound-
ings the locating of this small island would have been a more tedious
and hazardous project in the thick weather prevailing. A course
was then set for the Portland lightship; soundings were taken en
route to check the progress of the submarine. The submarine bell
on this lightship was picked up and located at position (2), some-
thing over a mile before reaching it. Further aid was also afforded
by the hydrophone while passing Cape Elizabeth and entering the
harbor.
The submarine left Portland two days later in a settled spell of
thick weather. Taking a departure from the lightship a course was
laid almost wholly by compass and hydrophone soundings. At many
points along this route, such as are indicated by (4) and (5), sudden
changes in the depth of water were very readily noted and afforded
excellent checks upon the progress being made by the vessel — in this
manner serving the purpose of the log. The shoaling water off the
