HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE. 397
tip of the cape was detected at position (6). The course around the
cape was then easily followed until the submarine bell on the Polluck
Rip Slue lightship was picked up at position (7), range 4 miles, and
contact made with it.
Darkness had now fallen and with it an extremely heavy fog, so
thick that the bow of the submarine could hardly be seen from the
conning tower. It would, without doubt, have been possible to
navigate the vessel through Nantucket and Vineyard Sounds, as
was originally planned, with no great difficulty — as sounding and
lightship bells would have given sufficient aid. However, it was
thought that numbers of silent fishing boats might be anchored in
these waters, offering a risk of collision. Accordingly it was decided
to go out around these islands. The numerous and extensive shoals
to the south of Nantucket are well charted so that a course was laid
out beforehand with certain turning and checking points at various
well-defined shoals — (9), (10), (11), (12), (13), and (14).
Taking a departure from the Slue lightship, which was the last
beacon to be seen during the night, this predetermined course was
readily followed. Hydrophone soundings proved to be thoroughly
reliable ; the various points indicated were located with ease, so that
the navigator, cruising at full speed through the fog and darkness,
was certain of his position at all times and proceeded with complete
confidence. When the last shoal, (14), was reached in the early
morning the hydrophone watch was interrupted and a compass
course was set for (15), a buoy off No Man's Land, nearly 40 miles
distant. About 9:00 A.M. the fog suddenly hfted; the island of
No Man's Land was seen on the starboard bow, and a few hundred
yards ahead was the buoy in question — less than a point off the
course. .' ■ i
While this precise locating of the buoy after such a lengthy run
from the Slue lightship out around the islands was perhaps to be
partially attributed to the element of luck, nevertheless, all on board
considered that this result showed conclusively the aid to navigation
which a hydrophone equipment of this type is capable of furnishing,
due to its ability to give reliable soundings while the vessel continues
undelayed on her course. The trip, in spite of — or perhaps because
of — the bad weather, was voted a complete success.
