398 HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
U. S. S. Blakeley.
The U. S. Destroyer Blakeley is equipped with an " acoustic-
blister" type of MV hydrophone which has been used continuously
for navigational purposes during the past year and has proved to
be very reliable and advantageous. Two instances will be cited :
In June, 1919, the Blakeley was ordered to leave Philadelphia
and to rendezvous with four other destroyers five miles south of
Nantucket lightship. Upon clearing the Delaware Capes a heavy
fog was encountered which held during the entire run to the Nan-
tucket lightship. Difficulty was encountered in attempting to ob-
tain "fixes" by means of radio compass bearings from shore sta-
tions, but at a distance of 12 miles the Nantucket lightship submarine
bell was located and, by virtue of hydrophone bearings taken on this
bell, an accurate position 3 miles south of the lightship was reached
and a departure made for the Azores without sighting the lightship.
During the fog and while in the vicinity of Nantucket, the propeller
sounds of another vessel were picked up by the hydrophone at a
bearing dead ahead. The course of the Blakeley was changed and
the shift in bearing of the other vessel, which was not sighted, was
followed until the assurance was given that she was well clear.
While en route from Pensacola to New York the B/a^^/^y passed
Hatteras during a certain forenoon in December, 1919, and laid a
course to make a landfall on Barnegat Light. Before reaching this
light, however, the vessel ran into a heavy fog and nothing was
sighted until the Ambrose lightship was picked up about 8 : 00 A.M.
the following morning. From the time the fog was first encoun-
tered the position of the Blakeley was checked by constant hydro-
phone soundings. A definite " fix " for latitude was obtained in
crossing the deep water gulley off the entrance to New York harbor
and the submarine bell of Ambrose lightship was picked up at a dis-
tance of about 7 miles, whence the ship's course was laid from bear-
ings obtained on the hydrophone until the lightship was brought
within sighting distance close abeam. The hydrophone could be
relied upon to give warning of the approach of steamers from
ahead and 15 knots speed was therefore maintained through the fog.
