HAYES— U. S. NAVY MV TYPE OF HYDROPHONE.
® 7-63
fathom curve and back again into Newport Harbor, give some idea
of the accuracy with which the MV hydrophone gives soundings
over a favorable sea-bottom. (This course is laid off on the chart
of Fig. lo.) Unfortunately the sounding machine broke down at
the start, so the comparison data is not as complete as that taken on
board the Breckinridge. The deep sea lead, however, was provided
with a sounding tube which operated on the Kelvin principle and
for depths beyond lo fathoms the soundings were taken from this
tube and not from the amount of line let out.
It is to be noticed that the hydrophone sounding curve (repre-
sented by the heavy full line) agrees very closely with the curve
representing charted depths (light full line) except for the shoal
area near Block Island. Here, however, the agreement with the
soundings taken by the hand lead is almost perfect. The hand lead
soundings in this region were taken with great care and there is no
doubt in the minds of the experimenters but that the charted depths
are about 2 fathoms too small.
The sounding tube seemed to function badly for depths beyond
50 or 60 fathoms and indicated little or no change for depths be-
yond 80 fathoms. At first it was suspected that the charted values
were in error at the greater depths but the fact that the hydrophone
soundings agreed closely with the charted depths and that the sup-
posed position of the Blakeley checked perfectly on the return trip
led, all concerned to the belief that the charted depths are correct
and that, on the whole, the soundings taken by the hydrophone are
more reliable than those given by either the sounding tube or the
chart.
Conclusion,
The MV hydrophone is the result of two years of intensive re-
search work carried out by the Navy. It was developed as an
instrument of warfare at a considerable cost and those best qualified
to make such estimates claim that this expenditure is but a small
per cent, of the saving to the Allied Powers which the hydrophone
affected during the period of the war.
During the past year the Navy has discovered that the same
qualities that enabled the MV hydrophone to detect and accurately
