STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 407
and shales, contains remains of reed-like plants with fragments of
silicified wood in the sandstones and shales ; black shale with highly-
carbonaceous bands was seen at one locality, but no coal was dis-
covered anywhere. The Middle or marine Bowen, composed of
yellow to gray sandstone, with blue to yellow-gray shales and some
ferruginous bands, is remarkably rich in moUusks, some of which
belong to Permian types. Vertical rootlets in shales and sand-
stones are taken by Jack to indicate occasional recurrence of land
surfaces. Silicified trunks of trees, prostrate, were seen in sand-
stone at several localities. Only two coal seams were recognized ,*;
the Kennedy, of merely local importance, is about 2 feet thick,,
double or triple, and rests on a floor containing vertical rootlets ; the
Garrick, higher in the formation, and 4 feet 9 inches thick, shows
near the bottom a light lustrous coal in nodules of 3 to 4 inches
diameter. The coal in the main portion of the seam yields a bright,
hard coke but coke from the nodules is spongy. The floor is soft
sandstone and contains rootlets; the prevailing plants are Sphenop-
teris and Glossopteris. The Upper Bowen, including many sheets
and dikes of diorite, consists of gray shales and greenish-gray sand-
stones with some conglomerate. The Daintree coal seam, near base
of the formation, is exposed in the bed of Bowen River, where it is
less than 10 feet below a mass of diorite. The section is (i) Burnt
coal, partly columnar, contains Glossopteris, 3 feet 7 inches; (2)
black shale, i inch; (3) burnt coal, 3 inches; (4) stony burnt coal
with silky plant debris, 6 inches; (5) light, porous, crumbling coal,,
with concretionary nodules of better coal, 8 inches ; (6) blue-black
shale, 2 feet 3 inches; (7) light brownish-black, laminated coal, with
laminae of oil-shale, 7 feet; (8) blue-black shale, 2 feet 3 inches;
(9) good coal, 3 inches; total, 17 feet 5 inches. The influence of
the diorite sheet disappears at about 15 feet. The McArthur seam,
higher in the section, is in 5 benches with a total thickness of 12
feet 3 inches, but the coal is only 5 feet and has 32 per cent, of ash.
The sandstones above this coal contain large stems of drifted conif-
erous trees, which are silicified and, at times, retain some of their
roots. A third seam, unimportant, is near the top of the formation
and only a few feet below red sandstone with a marine fauna.
The Bowen coals are inferior; thof if the Aliddle have from 11
