STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 409
roof is sandstone, marine fossils are present at a little way above
the coal. Locally, owing to increase of the alga, Reinschia anstralis,
it passes over to cannel or even to Kerosene shale. The coal seams
of this series divide toward the north, which David takes to be
wholly normal ; the Carboniferous had been elevated to form high-
lands on that side, so that the quantity of transported material in-
creased in that direction. The Tomago Series, sandstones, conglom-
erates and coal seams with beds of iron ore, has six workable seams,
which yield excellent coal but too friable for shipment, being infe-
rior in that respect to coal from the Greta and Newcastle. The
Newcastle Series has many coal seams of high grade and great per-
sistence. This series is notable because of abounding V ertehraria
in the floor and of in situ tree-stems in the roof of coal seams.
Wilkinson,^ many years ago, separated the deposits into Upper
and Lower Carboniferous. The latter has marine fossils in many
beds, while in others Lepidodendron, Sigillaria and Calainites
abound, but workable coal seams are unknown. This is equivalent
to the Lower Marine Series of the Hunter River field. The Upper
Carboniferous has, below, the important seams at Greta and East
Maitland, separating the two Marine Series. The plants are spe-
cies of Glossopteris, Phyllotheca, Noeggerathia and Annularia.
Phyllotheca and Glossopteris occur on slabs, associated with char-
acteristic fossils, which McCoy, de Konninck and others have recog-
nized as Carboniferous. The Upper Carboniferous had been
referred to the Permian, but Wilkinson accepted this as only a pro-
visional reference. The characteristic plants are Glossopteris, Gan-
gamopteris, Vertehraria, Phyllotheca and Sphenopteris, but marine
shells appear to be wanting. This upper division is evidently equiv-
alent to David's Tomago, Dempsey and Newcastle. The Glossop-
teris of New South Wales is of interest because of the memorable
controversy between McCoy and Clarke,* in which the former main-
tained that the presence of this plant proved Mesozoic age for the
deposits, because in India it occurs in Oolitic rocks, whereas the
3 C. S. Wilkinson, " Notes on the Geology of New South Wales," Sydney,
1882, pp. 44, 45, 51.
*W. B. Clarke,. "Remarks on the Sedimentary Formations of New
South Wales," in Mines and Min. Statistics of New South Wales, 1875, con-
tains a history of this dispute, pp. 161 et seq.
