410 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
former asserted that the fauna was absolute proof of Paleozoic age.
It may be well to recall that this fauna reappears in Queensland at
top of the Bowen formation.
According to Mackenzie,^ the coal seams of the upper measures
are much broken by partings, usually thin. The seams, at times, are
thick, 8 to 26 feet, but much of the coal is poor. A faux-toit, con-
sisting of coarse coal and "coal and bands," 4 to 12 feet thick, is
present at many localities. The benches frequently differ in char-
acter of the coal. The roof and floor are usually shaly clay and in
most cases the roof is plant-bearing. The coal seams of the lower
coal group are much divided and show great difference in the several
benches. Occasionally the underclay is crowded with Vertebraria.
The lens shape of coal seams is a by no means rare feature. The
important seam at Greta suffices for illustration.^ At the Greta
mine, it has 6 benches, including one of Kerosene shale, and is. 26
feet thick, inclusive of 6 feet of partings and inferior coal ; but
within 32 chains it becomes only 17 feet 6 inches, while at three
miles north it is but 7 feet 6 inches and the Kerosene shale is want-
ing. That shale occurs as lenticular deposits 'with the seams, and
bears close resemblance to cannel in mode of occurrence. Liver-
sidge^ states that at Joadja Creek this mineral contains Glossopteris
and Vertebraria. The fronds of the former usually are spread be-
tween the laminae but the latter crosses them.
David^ says that the Stony Creek and Greta coal measures, under-
lying the Upper Marine Series, are thin at the south but become
thicker northward, the increase being due to splitting of an impor-
tant coal seam into several thinner ones. At East Maitland, he saw
in the East Maitland (Tomago) series a coal seam, consisting of an
upper division, clays and coal, 4 feet, and a lower division, coal and
thin partings, 4 feet. At little way northward, the divisions have
become distinctly separate seams and, at another locality farther
north, the interval between them is 140 feet. In a later report, he
^ J. Mackenzie, " Mines and Mineral Statistics," pp. 209-243.
6 Annual Rep. Department of Mines, 1883, p. 149.
''' A Liversidge, " Description of the Minerals of New South Wales,"
Sydnej% 1882, p. 160.
ST. W. E. David, Ann. Rept. Dept. of Mines for 1887, pp. 147, 149, 151;
the same for 1890, p. 229.
