412 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
I'his upper bench of the lower Pilot is a network of long straight
roots radiating from the stumps. David recognizes that the tufifs
must, have accumulated rapidly as, otherwise, the stems would have
rotted away. This roof forest is well shown on French Bay of
Lake Macquarie. The tree stems are chalcedony above the coal, but
in the coal they are a hydrocarbon. They are lo to 15 inches thick
and are about 5 yards apart. Drops of resinous matter, distilled
from the broken branches, are present in tuff surrounding the stems,
such as one finds in recent tuffs within the Andes region. The lower
bench of the bed has numerous stems and vertical roots, which David
conceives may be the remains of another fossil forest. The under
clays of both Pilot seams have abundant Vertehraria, while some
partings have Vertehraria and Sporangia.
The Burwood seam, 13 feet thick inclusive of partings, gives evi-
dence of contemporaneous erosion before or during deposition of
the overlying shale. The conglomerate above has rounded pebbles
of coal, one to three inches diameter. David is inclined to believe
that these came from the Burwood seam, though he grants that the
source may have been one of the Greta seams. . They are proof that
when the conglomerate was deposited coal, already hard, existed.
Vertehraria abounds in underclays of coals in the lower division and
stumps, in situ, were seen in the roof of several seams. A gravel
bank, 70 feet thick and one fourth to one half mile wide, marks the
course of an ancient erosion. The vertical stems, in all cases, are
conifers.
In summing up the facts, David state that the floor of each seam
contains abundance of Vertehraria (the root of Glossopteris), while
the roof shows more or less well preserved stumps of in situ trees.
The lower part of stumps and roots, where they form part of the
coal seam, still retain a large proportion of the original carbon and
only the upper part has become slightly silicified. But the tree
stump, where extending a few feet above the coal seam, is com-
pletely silicified, changed into chalcedony, but the minute tissue is
usually preserved. Where the woody portions are replaced with
carbonate of iron, retaining the woody structure, the bark, one or
two inches thick, has become brittle, bright bituminous coal. This
leads him to suggest that the bright laminae of the coal were made
