STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 413
from bark of coniferous trees and that the dull, splinty laminae, con-
taining a notable proportion of mineral charcoal, were derived from
Glossopteris stems and leaves. Sporangia abound but not in quan-
tity to give spore coal.
The prevalence of V ertehraria makes probable that the peaty
swamps, now represented by the coal seams, began as fern brakes
with reeds. He had never seen a tree stump in the underclay.
The swamps at length became Waldmoors, covered with Dadoxylon
forests. These, at several horizons, were overwhelmed by showers
of volcanic dust and drops of resin were preserved in considerable
quantity within this dust.
Cannel occurs as lenses within the thick Greta seam ; the oil
shale or Hartley mineral occurs in like manner as lenses within the
coal, These, at times, are of considerable lateral extent and occa-
sionally that mineral forms a more or less persistent bench, in which
the richness varies greatly. The character of coal is rarely the same
throughout a seam, cannel, splint and bright bituminous being found
frequently in the section of a single seam.
India.
The Permo-Carboniferous of India is exposed in isolated fields,
large or small, within a strip, crossing Hindostan between parallels
19 and 24. These deposits, belonging to the Lower Gondwana, are
divided into the Panchet, Raniganj, Barakar and Talchir, of which
Panchet has been referred to the Trias. The Raniganj and Barakar
are equivalent to the Upper and Lower Damuda and, in much of
the region, are separated by a mass of clayey to sandy and carbo-
naceous shale, holding much clay iron stone. Coal is confined prac-
tically to the Damuda beds, there being only occasional carbonaceous
shale and local seams in the Talchir. This lowest member consists
of greenish, at times sandy or gravelly muds, frequently containing
pebbles and large blocks of rock, so that, in places, there is a distinct
bowlder bed. The variations of the Permo-Carboniferous can be
made clear by examination of several fields from east to west.
The Rajmahal fields is northeast from Calcutta between the
