414 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
Ganges and Dwarka Rivers. Ball^° reports that the Talchir has
no coal but has Gangamopteris. The Barakar, in the northern part
of the area, consists of coarse, friable, feldspathic grits with white
argillaceous shales and a few seams of inferior coal. False-bedded
sandstones occur near the coals.
The Jheria field^^ is on the northerly side of the Daniuda River
and its easterly boundary is about 170 miles above Calcutta in Ben-
gal. The Damuda and Talchir are not far from 6,800 feet thick.
The Raniganj, largely sandstone, seems to be without coal, and the
same condition marks the Talchir. Some carbonaceous shale in the
latter has ill-preserved remains of plants, among which is a form
closely allied to Glossopteris. The Barakar, consisting of clayey,
sandy or carbonaceous shales and shaly sandstones, with grits and
sandstones in the basal portion, has coal seams in all portions; but
these are thickest in the coarse lower part. At all horizons, these
are variable in thickness of coal and of partings ; pyrite is abundant
and the quantity of mineral matter renders the coal almost worthless.
On the Chat Kurree Jour, some seams are very thick; Hughes
noted thicknesses of 50, 6, 5, 8, 13 feet. The thickest deposit is at
the base and is a mass of shale and bad coal ; but there is one seam,
almost 5 feet thick, which is fairly good bituminous coal with only
II per cent, of ash. Concretionary nodules were seen at several
localities ; the laminae of the enclosing coal cross the concentric
laminae ; the nodular coal is better than the enclosing material. The
characteristic plants are Glossopteris and Vertehraria; no marine
fossils were observed but there are freshwater limestones with
Melania, Paludina and Planorbis. The seams are extremely irregu-
lar and appear to be of limited horizontal extent. Hughes is confi-
dent that the absence in so many places cannot be due to faulting
and that the only explanation is that they are merely local deposits.
The Raniganj field is west from the Jheria and 120 to 160 miles
northwest from Calcutta. There Blanford^^ found the Talchir rest-
10 V. Ball, "Geology of the Rajmahal Hills," Mem. Geol. Survey of
India, Vol. XIII, 1877, pp. 155-248.
11 T. Hughes, "The Jheria Coal-Field," Memoirs, Vol. V., 1866, pp.
227-236.
12 W. T. Blanford, "On the Geological Structure and Relations of the
Raniganj Coal-Fields," Memoirs, Vol. III., 1865, pp. 1-195.
