418 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
the interval. Talchir, without coal, has the same features as in
eastern fields ; Feistmantel found fronds and seed vessels of Ganga-
inopteris, which he separated from Glossopteris. This plant occurs
also in the Barakar.
The Barakar is only 250 feet thick, whereas in the Jheria field it
is 3,300. Coal is confined to a band near the top. At one locality,
a boring pierced a seam, 48 feet thick, with 3 benches of coal, 30
feet, and 4 benches of coal and shale; coal taken from a bench 15
feet thick, proved to be good as fuel, but it splits on exposure and
when wetted it crumbles. At another locality, the seam is almost
59 feet, with 44 feet of coal, but ash is almost 23 per cent., though
there is some "less bad" coal in one portion with only 18. At still
another locality, the seam is 81 feet, in two main benches, 37 and
32 feet. A specimen yielded 14.5 per cent, of ash. This mass,
though generally thick, shows extreme irregularity and in many
borings no trace of it exists. Hughes was not prepared to decide
whether the explanation is to be found in erosion or in non-deposi-
tion, but was inclined to accept non-deposition, for many outcrops
show the attenuated border of deposition, containing only shale with
ho disintegrated coal. The Barakar coal is bituminous, but, as a
rule, it is inferior because high in ash and sulphur. No coal has
been seen in the Kamti. No marine fossils have been discovered.
The southern part of the Sdtpura-Gondwdna Basin is about 140
miles north from the last and about 50 miles farther west. Accord-
ing to Jones,^'' the Talchir here is as in the fields at the east. Bara-
kar coals are present in the numerous petty basins and the seams
vary from a few inches to 1 1 feet ; but the thicker ones are divided
by clay partings. Occasionally, the coal has a sandstone roof.'
Mining is insignificant and there is nothing in the character of the
coal to justify exploitation; analyses from six localities showed 17
to almost 49 per cent, of ash and only one specimen caked.
The Narbudda River reaches the Gulf of Cambay on the west
coast of Hindostan near the 22d parallel ; the Narbudda District is
on the lower part of the river and is west from the Satpura region.
16 E. A. Jones, " Southern Coal-Fields of the Satpura Godwana Basin,"
Memoirs, Vol. XXIV., 1887, pp. 1-58.
