STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 419
Ir the central part of the district, MedHcott^' grouped the Permo-
Carboniferous into Talchir, Lower and Upper Damuda. The Tal-
chir has the famihar features and at most is about 600 feet thick.
The Lower Damuda (Barakar and Ironstone shales) has an ex-
treme thickness of not far from 11 50 "feet. The rocks are mostly
sandstone and sandy shale, but there is a considerable proportion
of black shales. At times, the sandstones are rippled and often are
crossbedded. The deposition was irregular; sandstones pass to
shale abruptly. Glossopteris, V ertehraria and Phyllotheca are abun-
dant at several horizons. The coal seams, for the most part are
thin and, with one exception, are without value, while, at best, they
are mere lenses. The Upper Damuda (Raniganj), about 150 feet
thick, is composed of irregularly bedded clays and clayey sand-
stones. The coals are thin and of indefinite extent. A section ob-
tained at the junction of the Machariva and Sher Rivers and ex-
tending 150 yards, illustrates the conditions:
(i) Sandstone not measured; (2) good coal, 3 inches; (3) soft
sandstone, 3 feet ; (4) coal seam, consisting of black micaceous shale,
6 inches, coal 2 feet, shaly coal, 6 inches, in all 3 feet; (5) hard
sandstone, 3 feet; (6) blue clay, 4 feet. The black shale of (4) is
cut out quickly by (3) and the shaly coal of (4) disappears within
a few feet, while (2) and (3) are replaced with clay before the end
of the exposure has been reached. Glossopteris is wanting in the
Upper Damuda, its place being taken by cycads. The coal seams
are wholly unimportant.
The Talchir beds in the Thilniille coal field of Serguja have a
thin seam of coal ; but as a rule this formation is distinguished by
absence of coal and even of carbonaceous shale. The Kharharbari
coal group was included originally in the Barakar, but it was placed
in Talchir by Medlicott and Blanford^^ because of the intimate rela-
tion of the flora.
Li studying reports on the several coal fields one cannot fail to
be impressed by the thinning of Raniganj, Barakar and Talchir from
^'^ J. G. Medlicott, " On the Geological Structure of the Central Portion
of the Narbudda District," Memoirs, Vol. XIII., 1877, pp. 155-248.
18 H. B. Medlicott and W. T. Blanford, "Geology of India," Calcutta,
1S79, pp. 109-112.
