420 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
east to west ; the apparent exception in the Narbudda district is only
apparent, for Raniganj and Barakar are counted as one and the
Panchet or Trias is the Upper Damuda. Equally noteworthy are
the great irregularity and evidently local character of the coal
seams, which are hardly less striking than the small proportion of
high-grade coal in all of the fields.
Siberia.
Carboniferous deposits are exposed in broad areas within the
Kirghiz Steppes of western Siberia." There, according to the
synopsis published by the Comite Geologique, the Lower Carbonifer-
ous rests at times on the Devonian, at others on the metamorphics.
The lower portion is mainly limestone, but higher in the section the
prevailing rocks are gray or green calcareous sandstone, with marine
fossils similar to those of the limestone. This portion, however,
varies greatly ; in some localities it is chiefly shaly sandstone while
in others it is mainly black clay shale.
Directly overlying the Lower Carboniferous is the Coal series,
consisting of alternating white, gray to black, more or less sandy
shale, with yellow to green and white clayey sandstones and some
seams of coal. The white to gray sandstones occasionally become
conglomerate, but only in limited areas. The only fossils are plants,
which occur abundantly in the roof or near the coal ; but these are
ill-preserved and, in large part, only the genus can be determined ;
the flora, however, is distinctly Upper Carboniferous.
The coal-bearing rocks are in valleys, enclosed by older deposits
and in most localities are greatly disturbed, though the disturbance
is comparatively slight in a few areas. The variation in thickness of
coal seams is almost as notable as in those of India. Borings made
near Ekibas-touz, under supervision of the government geologists,
revealed the presence of two seams, 23 and 40 meters along a line
of 7 versts ; but elsewhere the total of coal rarely exceeds 6 meters
and, too often, the seams are merely alternating thin layers of coal
and coaly shale, practically worthless for industrial purposes. The
district between the Irtych and Ichim Rivers, south and west from
19 Apergu des Explorations Geologiques et Minieres le long du Trans-
siberien," le Comite geologique de Russie, 1900, pp. 27-32, 52, 83-88.
