STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 421
Pavlodar on the Irtycli, is marked by great irregularity in the seams ;
at Tyn-koudruk, one, 2 meters thick, thins away like a wedge, while
another near by has coal charged with sand and thins away rapidly.
Generally speaking, the seams are inconstant, at times swelling
abruptly and at others disappearing. The variations do not appear
due to the disturbance. The coal horizons, of which many were
examined, occupy very limited areas. Some clean coal was seen,
but there is little of it.
Eastward from the Ob River, one is beyond the Kirghiz Steppes.
In the space between that river and the city of Atchinsk, the Lower
Carboniferous is exposed frequently with, in general, the same fea-
tures as farther west, except that some of molluscan forms found
in the Ural region are wanting. The coal formation is triple and
the seams are in the middle division, which consists of clays, shales
and sandstones, with many remains of Neuropteris and Cordaites
as well as Anthracosia, Posidomya, Carhonicola and other mollusks.
The basin has an area of not far from 15,000 square kilometers and
has many seams of coal but no attempt to develop them has been
made.
An important basin is crossed by the railroad in the Jenessei
region. Near Soudjenka, 130 kilometers from the city of Tomsk,
this is 5 kilometers wide. It extends many miles northward, nar-
rowing to disappearance ; but it was followed for a much longer dis-
tance toward the south, with constantly increasing width. The dip
is high, rarely as low as 10° and frequently as much as 60° to 90°.
Nineteen seams of coal were seen, more than 0.75 meter thick, one
of them II meters. The coal, mined somewhat extensively near
Soudjenka, is much the same at all horizons; by some it would be
classified with anthracite, while others would call it caking coal.
Seams were seen at many localities on the Upper and Lower Angara
River, north from Irkoutsk, everywhere characterized by irregu-
larity of occurrence. The coal of this central region is much better
than that of the Kirghiz Steppes, samples from Soudjenka and the
Angara yielding only 3 to 6 per cent, of ash.
Cannel, 0.5 meter thick, was seen on the Ichim River, 60 miles
north from the railroad.
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, VOL. LIX, AA, D C. , I92O.
