422 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
Carboniferous deposits seem to be wanting in the region east
from Lake Baikal.
Russia in Europe.
Murchison^° believed the Carboniferous System of northern and
central Russia to be equivalent to the Mountain Limestone and un-
derlying deposits of Great Britain, while, on the western slope of the
Urals, he recognized the Millstone Grit and Permian. In the Valdai
Hills, Province of Novgorod, the Lower Carboniferous consists of,
ascending,
Lower Limestone, with Productus gigantea, associated with
sands and some coal beds ; Moscow Limestone with Spirifer mos-
quensis; it has no coal in northern and central Russia, but there are
seams in the southern Steppes ; Upper Limestone, with Fusulina
cylindrical containing coal only in the southern Steppes.
The sands at base of the Lower Limestone have many pyritized
plants, among them Stigmaria ficoides; bituminous shales associated
with the sands contain coal. Those on the Pritchka River are 40
feet thick and contain 4 coal seams in the upper portion. The coal
is extremely imperfect and is from 10 inches to 4 feet thick. Hel-
mersen had described this as Moorkohle; it is impure, pyritous,
slightly consolidated and is inferior to some Tertiary coals mined in
portions of Germany. The cover is largely loose sands and varie-
gated marls.
Nikitin^^ states that the lignite occurs in the Toula District near
the Volga. The coal group, at same horizon as in the Valdai Hills,
consists of alternating clays and sandstones with more or less con-
siderable seams of coal. He thinks it strange that this material, in
spite of its great age, has chemical and physical character so closely
allied to that of lignite. Boghead, rich in oil, is present at several
horizons. At one locality, several thin coals were seen at the base
of the Lower Carboniferous, but they have insignificant lateral
extent.
20 R. I. Murchison, " Geology of Russia in Europe and the Ural Moun-
tains," London, 1845, Vol. I., pp. 69-71, 78, 126.
21 S. Nikitin, " De Moskau a Koursk," Guide des Excursions, XIV., St.
Petersburg, 1897, pp. 4-7.
