424 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
to 300 meters, is the most important coal-bearing portion. Of the
II seams reported in the section, 8 have a maximum of 0.7 to 1.75
meter inclusive of partings. Marine fossils were observed in the
roof of 5 seams.
Cg, about 2,000 meters thick, contains workable coal only in the
lower horizons. The fauna changes gradually ; forms of the middle
division disappear and new forms appear, which are characteristic
of the Upper Carboniferous in Timan and in North America. The
lowest subdivision has 10 seams, but all are thin and the coal is poor.
In one case, the roof contains marine fossils. Red to green shales
are in the upper part of the section. The second is separated from
the first subdivision by 1 1 meters of marine limestone and contains
2 or 3 coal seams, which are wholly unimportant. Arkose near the
base has fragments of Araucaria and the section shows some green
and red shale. The third subdivision has only thin streaks of coal
and thin beds of red shale. The fauna and the flora are distinctly
Upper Carboniferous.
The number of coal seams, which, at some place, attain workable
thickness, is not more than 30; but the variability both in thickness
and in quality is extreme ; some disappear, others become thin and
worthless while new ones appear. The coal loses volatile in the
direction of increasing dip. At mines in the Almazny seam, along
a northwest-southeast line, only 20 miles long, the volatile is 35, 30,
25, 18, 15 or less per cent. The proportion of volatile has no rela-
tion to nature of the roof or floor. The authors regard the Donetz
coals as allochthonous, the convincing argument being the presence
of marine fossils in the immediate roof of coal seams.
Permo-Carboniferous deposits are confined to the western side
of the Donetz Basin, where they rest directly on the limestone
closing-Cg. Deposition was continuous from Carboniferous to Per-
mian and there is no evidence of unconformity anywhere. The
deposits are regarded as Lower Permian and the abundant marine
fossils are in greatest part forms characterizing the C3, the Upper
Carboniferous ; the change in fauna is as gradual as that in passing
from Co to C3. The lower portion consists of clayey shales and
gray, green or red limestones with some streaks of coal near the
base. The upper portion consists mostly of red and green marls
