428 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
the western side but thence, northward and eastward, the changes
are as interesting as those in the Anthracite region of the United
States. Five seams are mined at Zabrze; but just west from Beu-
then, one finds that the thick parting between numbers i and 2 and
the interval rocks between 4 and 5 have disappeared; at Konigs-
hiitte, the 3d seam has become united to 4 and 5, so that now there
are but the Upper seam, representing i and 2, and the Lower seam,
representing 3, 4 and 5. But, at a short distance farther west, near
Kattonitz, these two seams are so near together that they are mined
as one. At the west, the coal of Sattelflotz beds is to the other rocks
as one to nineteen, but at the eastern border it is thicker than the
other rocks. Whether or not the newer seams overlap the older
ones after union does not appear from the reports.
The same features are shown by the Saarbriick complex, which
is present chiefly in the central portion of the field. Near Nikolai,
Sohrau and Pless, it is 2,667 meters thick, with at least 253 coal
seams, 45 being workable with about 75 meters of coal ; but near
Beuthen, 20 miles north, the Ruda beds, which near Nikolai are
589 meters thick with 49 meters of coal, are oiily 248 meters with
11.93 of coal; while in the Galician region the whole Saarbriick is
but 1,014 meters with 35 seams and somewhat more than 60 meters
of coal. The Ostrau-Karwin region is in Austria. The Ostrau
beds occupy the Ostrau trough and most of the Peterswald. The
Sattelflotz beds, as shown by Petrascheck and Mladek since the
publication of Dannenberg's work, are present in the west side of
Karwin trough, passing under the Saarbriick farther east. Marine
deposits are characteristic of the Ostrau beds here as also in the
northern areas. The number of coal seams is great and the quan-
tity of coal makes the district important — in contrast with the other
districts, where the Ostrau coals are almost unimportant.
Goeppert,-'^ three-quarters of a century ago, studied the Silesian
and Galician portions of this region. His investigations were made
largely from the paleobotanist's standpoint, so that he had little in-
terest in correlation and still less in economic studies.
Conglomerates are not wanting but the pebbles are rarely larger
27 H. R. Goeppert, " Abhandlung eingesandte als Antwort auf die Preis-
t»-age, etc.," Leiden, 1848, pp 107-206.
