STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 429
than a pea ; the prevaihng rock is sandstone, gray to yellow, which
in some localities weathers to a carved or fretted surface. It is
quartzose and has little cementing material. Clay shales are inter-
calated in the sandstone mass and they are associated with the coal
seams. Near the coal, these 'shales often are rich in bitumen, be-
coming Brandschiefer and frequently containing much pyrite. Ir-
regularity of deposit is evident from the rapid change of sandstone
into clay shale. Sphaerosiderite occurs chiefly where the coal
seams are thin and alternating with shaly clays.
This region is marked by the thickness, extent and regularity of
the coal seams, according to Goeppert; but when he studied the
area, the correlation was very uncertain. The thickness is from 3
to 12 feet, but at one locality it reaches 42 feet. About 20 seams
are workable. Dips commonly are less than 12°, but near the Car-
pathians they are higher. The thicker seams are ordinarily in sev-
eral benches, varying not only in thickness but also in character of
the coal ; some benches are caking, others, not. Laminated coal is
the predominant type and occurs, as a rule, in the top and bottom
portions ; Grobkohle forms the best benches of thick seams and for
the most part is confined to the middle, being found rarely in other
parts; clean Pechkohle is less abundant and Blatterkohle seldom
occurs. In great districts, every coal seam contains remains of
plants, especially of Sigillaria; Faserkohle is in all seams and some-
times it predominates, making the coal loose.
At Zabrze, the seams [Sattelflotz] contain much Faserkohle;
that material predominates in the highest, which is 13 feet thick. A
sandstone quarry in the Brenz district, on the Poland border, has
great stems of silicified wood — an unusual occurrence in the Upper
Silesian field. Near Myslowitz he saw Sagenaria stems standing
on the coal, one of them 4 feet high and 2 feet in diameter. In the
Locomotive mine, there, erect Sigillaricc are abundant in the roof
of the coal seams. On the Poland border, the lowest seam near
Dabrowa is 78 feet thick, divided midway by 6 feet of Brandschiefer,
consisting of compressed Sigillaria associated with a little clay. The
same Sigillaria is in the coal along with Faserkohle. Goeppert
states that the Sigillaria is incredibly abundant.
At Zawada in the Nikolai district [Saarbriick], the Friedrich
