430 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
mine works two seams, 24 and 60 inches thick, separated by an in-
terval of 48 to 54 feet. The lower yields a laminated, hard, cok-
ing coal but coal from the upper one was considered to be inferior.
When the lower seam was almost exhausted, work was begun on
the upper. Its coal resembles Blatterkohle, consisting of hard,
glance-like lamellae alternating with thinner dull laminae, composed
of compressed barks of Lepidodendron, Calamites, Stigmaria and
Sigillaria, all distinct. Goeppert states that, in many ways, this re-
sembles peat. At a mine in this Nikolai district, the coal contains
great abundance of Sigillaria and Lepidophloios and an "incredi-
ble " mass of Sigillaria is in the roof. There he obtained Sigillaria
and Alethopteris with leaves only slightly brown and completely
flexible, preserving the minutest details of structure. Union of coal
seams is a familiar feature in the Nikolai district. Additional ob-
servations by this author will find place in another connection.
Goeppert makes only passing reference to the Austrian part of
the field; but material information respecting one portion has been
given by Petrascheck^^ in a paper dealing especially with the Peters-
wald trough, lying between the Ostrau trough at the west and the
Karwin trough at the east. With Stur and Gaebler, he recognizes
Ostrau beds in the western part of the trough but he finds the Sat-
telfiotz beds in the eastern portion, where the disturbance was so
severe as to cause inversion. A serious difficulty encountered in
correlation was found in the sudden changes in character as well
as thickness of the deposits, which mark some horizons more than
others. It appeared to him that the Ostrau beds were deposited on
a rudely level oscillating coast, so that paralic and limnic conditions
alternate. In discussing the evidence of overturned stratification, he
presents some facts which have interest here.
The layer of " Schramm," soft, more or less clean coal, passing
at times into shale, is, as a rule, on the floor of the coal seams ; occa-
sionally, it is found in the body but very rarely on top of the coal.
In the Sophien coal mine, all coal seams have the " Schramm " on
top, the Faux-mur having become the Faux-toit. Reed-beds or
underclays with Stigmaria appendages crossing the bedding, are the
28 W. Petrascheck, " Das Alter der Floze in der Peterswalder Mulde,
etc.," Jahrb. k. k. geol. Reichsanst., Band 60, 1910, pp. 779-814.
