STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 431
roof, not the floor of the seams in their present position. In one
seam, upright stems stand on the coal, in the present floor, but origi-
nal roof. The note on Cannel is worth citing, as it indicates unusual
conditions in the area. There one finds in the upper seams of the
Ostrau as well as in the Karwin seams, lenses of cannel or of dense
cannel-like Brandschiefer, " Sklok " of the miners. Petrascheck
states that, as a rule, this is the top of coal seams ; he knows of only
one instance where it is at the bottom. This he regards as the ordi-
nary condition in coal regions, thus taking issue with Potonie, who
maintains that it occurs usualy at the bottom of seams. But in the
American coal areas, cannel is found' in any part of coal seams, just
as the analogous material is found in peat deposits.
The Sattelflotz area, farther east, is thick, consisting mostly of
sandstone and arkose with intercalated beds of red sandstone. The
important coal seams have been correlated definitively with the main
seams of the same group in upper Silesia. The evidence was ob-
tained in three borings. Marine forms are present at 20 feet below
the Prokop (Pochhammer) seam and they mark the top of the
Ostrau. At Justin, the coals have local cannel in Hangend. Splen-
did, widespreading, branching Stigmaria are in the floor of the Ivan
seam, associated with sphaerosiderite. Seam II. has cannel-like
coal near the top, covered with black coal, underlying a shale with
marine mollusks. Erect Sigillaria were seen in the roof of the Her-
mann seam.
At the Albrecht shaft, the Eugen seam has many prostrate as
well as erect stems in the roof and indistinct Stigmaria are in the
floor. Stur found pebbles in this coal. Long ago, Bartonic col-
lected from a dark shale in this seam a marine fauna, Nucida, Pleu-
rotomaria, and Orthoceras as well as Anthracomya. The Koks
seam contains plant-bearing concretions of iron stone and a layer of
shale with similar concretions rests directly on the coal ; it too has a
marine fauna. A sandstone near the Koks seam has so great
number of stems of Lepidodendron and Sigillaria that Petrascheck
regarded it as a strand formation. Pebbles were seen in the
younger Ostrau coals. They are numerous. in the Josefi coal, gran-
ite, porphyry and quartz; they are present also in the Kronprinz
seams but are smaller than in the other. Erect stems occur in the
