432 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
roof of the Juni seams. Cannel-shale and sphserosiderite are char-
acteristic and several marine horizons were observed.
Petrascheck^^ has called attention to the occurrence of coal peb-
bles in a sandstone at Brzescze in the Galician area. This sand-
stone, containing many fragments of Sigillaria, is shown in the
Andreas shaft and belongs to the Upper Schatzlar [Saarbriick].
This sandstone for the most part is moderately coarse, but, where
the pebbles of coal occur, the grain is coarser, almost conglomerate.
Many of the coal fragments are well rounded, others have rounded
angles while in others the edges are still sharp. Along with these
are streaks of coal, insignificant in extent, and fragments of shale
were seen. The lamination of the coal pebbles does not coincide
with that of the sandstone. The largest pebble seen measured 6
by 5 by 3 centimeters.
The fragments include glance and laminated coal as well as
cannel and show the peculiarities of each type; glance fragments
are sharply angular but those of cannel and laminated coal are more
or less rounded. Petrascheck is convinced by the form and struc-
ture that these were not balls of peat or pieces of wood, when en-
tombed. For him, the evidence indicates clearly that the several
types of coal seen in the pebbles had attained their characteristic
features in Carboniferous time. The fragments are unquestion-
ably of Canboniferous age for no older coal-bearing series exists
anywhere in the surrounding region ; but the source has not been
discovered.
The Lower Silesian-B oJieniian Basin. — One reaches this basin at
about 150 miles north of west from the Upper Silesian field. The
area is not far from 750 square miles ; originally it was open toward
the southeast, but was closed at the north and west by the Riesenge-
birge and at the east by the Eulengebirge. The northwestern and
eastern portions are in Silesia but the southwestern, including much
of the interior basin, is in Bohemia. The region was studied in
great detail by Goeppert and recently Dannenberg^° has summarized
29 W. Petrascheck, " Das Vorkommen von Steinkohlengerollen in einem
Karbonsandstein Galiziens," Verh. k. k. Geol. Reichsan, 1910, pp. 380-386.
30 H. R. Goeppert, " Abhandlung, etc.," 1848, pp. 207-275 ; A. Dannen-
berg, " Geologic der Steinkohlenlager," 1908, pp. 147-184.
