26 HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES.
tion will not reach the listener's ears in phase and as a result will not
be magnified in the same proportion. Indeed, the sum total may be
less than that given by a single receiver through destructive inter-
ference.
Although several types of detectors employing a single receiver
for each ear, as in the " 3-Spot," have been developed at the Naval
Experimental Station for special purposes such as equipping light-
ships, hydroplanes, dirigible balloons, etc., yet the major part of the
efforts of this Station have been directed toward the development of
the so-called " multi-unit " detector devices.
Except that the " 4-Spot " arrangement of receivers has been
used throughout in preference to the " 3-Spot " arrangement, these
special single-unit types of detectors are very similar to the " 3-
Spot " type which has been described. Therefore a detailed descrip-
tion will not be given. The principle and operation of the more ef-
fective devices, those employing multiple units, follows :
The so-called " AI-B Tube" is a rotating listening device employ-
ing multiple unit receivers. The principle may be understood by
considering Plate X. In Fig. i let the numerals 1,2, 3, and 4 repre-
sent four similar acoustic receivers equally spaced in a line and con-
necting through equal length tubes with the stethoscope leads R and
L at the common junction (A). Sound coming from a direction
perpendicular to the line of receivers actuates all the receivers simul-
taneously and the response from all four reaches the ears in phase.
Under such conditions the intensity of the sound heard is four times
the intensity from a single receiver.
Sound from any other direction, such as represented by arrow 2,
does not reach the receivers simultaneously and, as a result, the re-
sponses from the various receivers do not arrive at the ears in phase.
The intensity of the resulting sound will therefore be less than four
times that from a single receiver. The difference will vary for the
different components of the sound depending upon the wave-length.
Such an instrument is capable of determining direction by means
of the maximum-minimum principle except for an ambiguity of 180
degrees. If, as in Fig. 2, half of the receivers is connected to each
ear respectively, then advantage can be taken of both the maximum-
minimum and the binaural principles. The sound response from
