434 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
character of the coal ; maigre and caking coals alternate, but in a
general way there is more of fat -coal in the higher than in the lower
divisions. Formation of coal began during the Kulm, which, on the
northern and northwestern border, contains streaks of anthracite,
up to 10 inches thick, associated with coaly shale. But accumula-
tion was unimportant prior to the Sudetic stage.
The Waldenburg (Sudetic) beds are the Liegendzug at Walden-
burg; workable seams in the eastern part of this district are few,
thin, dirty and varying much in thickness. Just beyond Altwasser,
i6 seams were seen, of which 6 to 13 are workable in the several
mines. Farther toward the south, only one seam is workable — and
locally — near Tannhauser, the whole stage thins away. The seams
are 10 to 50 inches thick.
The Schatzlar (Saarbriick) stage is the Hangendzug at Walden-
burg and is separated by a thick practically barren interval from the
Liegendzug. The rocks in this interval are conglomerates at base,
passing upward into coarse sandstone with some shale and thin
streaks of coal. These are overlain by the Hochwald porphyry,
which is 834 meters thick west from Waldenburg. The rocks be-
low the porphyry are the Weisstein beds of Dathe.^^ The Schatz-
lar stage is important chiefly near Schatzlar in the western part of
the field within Bohemia. Northeastward from that locality to
Landeshut the coals are insignificant; but toward the southwest
workable seams are at Gottesburg. Along the northern outcrop in
Prussia, the stage is unproductive, but at Waldenburg the seams are
numerous once more and 12 to 15 out of the 40 shown in the sec-
tion are workable with maximum thickness of 2 to 4 meters. But
here as elsewhere workable thickness never occurs in any consid-
erable space and important localities are practically isolated.
The Schwadowitz and Radowenz, representing the Ottweiler,
are exposed in the southwestern part of the field, where the coal
seams are of merely local importance. The succession, descend-
ing, is :
Radowenz, enclosing 5 to 7 seams, of which 2 are workable locally ;
31 E. Dathe, " Der Verbreitung der Waldenburger und Weisssteiner
Schichten in den Waldenburgen Bncht," Vcrh. d. d. Geol. Gesellsch., 1902, pp.
189-193.
