STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 437
same seam at different localities. Evidently there was localization
of contemporaneous floras.
The upper coal group, above the Hochwald porphyry, has 80
seams of coal, 2 inches to 6 feet thick, but only 3 or 4 are workable,
as partings are numerous. There are two subgroups, separated by
a barren interval.
In the lower subgroup, he found resin by no means rare in seam
I ; seams 4, 5 and 11 are caking; seam 6 has Sandkohle and seam 9
consists of Sinterkohle. Four has many thin layers of mineral
charcoal ; 1 1 is divided in distinct benches by partings of that mate-
rial ; but 5 has very little of it. The mineral charcoal is derived
from Araucarites wood. Stigmaria is present in the coal at one
mine; the upper bench of another seam contains Sigillaria, Sage-
naria and Stigmaria. The southward prolongation of one seam has
an abundant flora, which differs materially from that found in the
northern prolongation.
The upper subgroup has 19 coal seams and the dip is 18° to 20°.
The coal contains Sigillaria, Sagenaria, Lepidophloios and much
mineral charcoal, the last in fragments up to 6 inches long. Resin
is in the coal of a mine near Waldenburg. Erect stems of Sagenaria
are in the roof of seam 9 and petrified wood was seen in a sandstone
quarry. At the Sophien mines, the coal shows Stigmaria and Sage-
naria on the surfaces of splitting; in the same neighborhood, another
. seam rests on clay, crowded with Stigmaria and its roof holds an
abundant and varied flora. At the Fund mine in Charlottenbrun-
nen, the roof of a seam is a compact, fine-grained sandstone, in
which he saw great prostrate stems of Lepidodendron and Sigillaria,
40 feet long and 30 inches in diameter. The floor has abundant
Stigmaria and occasional Calamites. Many Stigmaria with some
Lepidodendron, Calamites and Noeggerathia were seen in coal at
the Segen-Gottes mine. The flora of this sub-group is most abun-
dant, where the coal is thickest, but many types are confined to very
restricted areas.
Similar conditions prevail in the Neurode district, where the
higher deposits are reached. Near Buchau he saw in sandstone,
several clumps of Araucarites stems, all apparently prostrate. Near
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, VOL. LIX, BB, DEC. 21, I92O.
