438 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
Ebersdorf, erect stems, probably Sagenaria, stand on the coal. At
Molka, he obtained Unio carhonarius from a clay containing ferns
and lycopods.
Hungary.
The coals of Hungary, ^^ confined to the Banat region, belong to
the highest part of the Upper Carboniferous and to the Rothlie-
gc-nde. They are unimportant and are present in four isolated dis-
tricts, Eibenthal-Ujbania at the east, Lupak-Gerlistye, Resicza-
Szekul and Zagradia at the west. The deposits in the Ujbania
district are exposed in an area of not more than 800 by 1,700 meters
and rest on gneiss and serpentine. Hantken's section, ascending, is
(i) Fine-grained sandstone, micaceous, with many ill-preserved
plants, no ferns, but Stigmaria ficoides and Calmnites cystii, 10 to
15 meters; (2) Donau coal seam, 1.5 to 14 meters; (3) porphyry,
the immediate roof of the Donau and floor of the next seam, 30 to
50 meters ; (4) Wenzel coal seam, 20 to 40 meters ; (5) iron ore and
porcelain jasper, underlying the Rothliegende conglomerate.
The Donau coal seam varies abruptly and frequently passes into
a bituminous clay shale, known as " Brand " ; when thick it is divided
by 16 to 50 inches parting and laminae of clay are so numerous in
the coal as .to make the product inferior ; but selected coal is good,
showing: water, 2.17; volatile matter, 14.64; fixed carbon, 79.75;
ash, 3.62 ; and sulphur rarely exceeds i per cent. The coal is tender
and the loss in mining is 50 per cent. The section at the Donau
mine is: (i) Clean coal, 0.32; (2) parting, 0.20; (3) less clean coal,
I meter ; (4) coaly shale, " Brand " 20 meters. This seam disap-
pears toward the west.
The Wenzel seam yields harder coal than that from the Donau,
but it varies much in thickness and quality ; only the upper portion
is mined. The variation in thickness in both seams is so abrupt that
systematic mining is impossible and the coal is taken out wherever
it seems to be good.
No workable seam has been found in the Upper Carboniferous
of the Lupak-Gerlistye district but the Rothliegende, consisting of
33 M. Hantken, "Die Kohlenflotze, etc., der Ungarische Krone," 1878,
pp. 24-44.
