STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 439
sandstones and clay shales, has some seams which occasionally at-
tain workable thickness. Coal seems to be confined to the lower
portion which is made up of mostly dark clay shale; the middle
division is chiefly red sandstone but contains some dark shale, yield-
ing plants ; the upper division, red sandstone and micaceous shale,
contains Walchia, Taeniopteris, Pterophyllmn, Callipteris and other
genera. The Zagradia district has no available coal.
The Szekul Valley is west from Resicza. The Coal Measures
are exposed in a small area, where they rest on gneiss and underlie
the Rothliegende. The boundary between Upper Carboniferous
and Rothliegende cannot be determined as the passage from one to
the other is exceedingly gradual, lithologically, and there is no uncon-
formity. Four seams of coal are in the Coal Measures with maxi-
mum thickness of 0.75, 2, 1.50 and 1.30 meter, but the variations in
thickness are so abrupt that, in each case, the coal is available in
very Hmited spaces. The dip is not far from 45°, but changes in
thickness are due in small degree to the disturbance. Partings are
numerous ; those of the third seam are blackband, which at times
replaces the coal — in one mine this condition continued for 200
meters. The coal is very tender, barely 10 per cent, of lump coal
being obtained. It yields a remarkably good coke ; the ash is from
7 to 16 per cent., but washing removes about half of it. It is no
longer necessary to resort to washing, as mixing the dust coal of
Szekul with that from the Liassic coal of Doman gives a coke with-
out excessive ash.
Bohemia.
Coal has been found in a number of more or less widely sepa-
rated areas within western Bohemia as well as in one within the
southern portion. The general succession throughout is so nearly
the same, that many students in later days conceive that the western
areas are merely fragments of a once continuous field, intimately
related to the Saxony basins at the north, and that there may have
been a connection with the Silesian areas at the east. As Dannen-
berg has said, they are all limnic, as appears from the irregularity
of the deposits, including the coal seams, which thicken and thin,
often wedge out and abruptly change in character; the coal seams,
