440 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
few in number, vary greatly ; the deposits were laid down in deep
troughs on Cambrian and Pre-Cambrian rocks and decrease toward
the middle line of the trough. The unevenness of the surface ex-
plains absence of lower members at some localities. The succession
is Coal Measures and Rothliegende and the passage from one to the
other is so gradual that no boundary can be determined ; the relation
of Upper Carboniferous to Permian was in dispute for a long time
and, even now, the matter seems to be undetermined at several
localities. Katzer and others of the older workers divided the de-
posits into the Radnitz beds at the base, belonging to the Coal Meas-
ures, followed by a Middle Zone, with the Niirschan coal seam, and
on top, the Kounovaer beds ; the last two were thought to be Per-
mian. Borings made in areas where exposures are rare, led v.
Purkyne^* to a different conclusion. The succession in a boring
made where the Pilsen Basin is deepest and where exposures are
rare, is, descending: (i) Upper red clay shales, red and variegated
shale and sandstone, 155 meters; (2) upper gray clay shales, with
gray to white sandstone and coal seams, 180 meters; (3) lower red
clay shales, red and variegated shale and marly shale with arkose,
52 meters ; (4) lower gray shale, gray shale and gray to white
arkose, with at least 9 coal seams, 419 meters. He thinks that
earlier students had failed to recognize the existence of two red
deposits, for no borings had been made and exposures are very rare.
The Lubna coal seam and the Nyran cannel are at the same horizon.
Each of the coal-bearing divisions, composed of gray to black shale
and gray to white sandstone, underlies a division of red shales and
sandstones, barren of coal.
Weitkofer,^^ in a review of the northern basins, grouped the
Permo-Carboniferous deposits into: ((/) Upper red clay shale, Lih-
naer beds; (c) dark gray clay shales, Schlaner beds, containing the
Pilsen and Schlan coal seams; (b) lower red clay shales, Teinitzler
beds, 190 meters, with no fossils aside from stems of Araucarites ;
(a) gray sandstone group, Kladno-Pilsener beds, 300 to 400 meters,
3* C. R. V. Purkyne, "Zur Kenntnisse der geologische Verhaltnisse der
mittelbohmischen Steinkohlenbecken," Verh. k. k. geol. Reichsan, Jahrg. 1902,
j)p. 122-125.
^^ K. A. Weitkofer, " Geologische Skizze das Kladno-Rakonitzer Kohlen-
becken," the same, pp. 399-420.
