STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 441
with the Kladno Hauptflotz at base. The Lubna and the Niirschan
coals belong to the coal group in lowest part of the gray sandstone.
Dannenberg^® states that the Lower Carboniferous and the Wal-
denburg (Sudetic or Schlesische stage) are wanting and that the
series begins with the Saarbriick, to which he refers the Kladno-
Pilsen sandstones as equivalent to the Schatzlar beds of Silesia ; but
the upper part of those beds are now regarded as belonging at the
base of the Ottweiler and as equivalent to the Schwadowitz beds.
The Teinitzler beds (Hexenstein of Silesia) and the Schlaner
(Radowenz) represent the Ottweiler, and the Lihnauer are regarded
as undoubtedly Rothliegende. The Saarbriick consists chiefly of
thick sandstones and conglomerates ; the Ottweiler is mainly red
shales and sandstones, but it has much gray shale and white sand-
stone. The Rothliegende (Lihnauer) has its characteristic flora.
Deposition apparently was continuous throughout and at some local-
ities the higher beds distinctly overlap the lower. The Lubna-
Niirschan coal seam is proved to belong to the basal coal group not
only by stratigraphical relations but also by the associated flora,
which is Carboniferous.
The several basins from north to south are the Kladno-Schlan-
Rakonitz, which is west from Prag and north from the Bersum
River ; the Pilsen and farther south the small areas of Radnitz, Mi-
roschan and Merklin.
The KladnO'-Rakonitz basin, extending southwestwardly from
Kralup to beyond Rakonitz, has a gross area of not far from 450
square miles (1,100 to 1,200 square kilometers), but the productive
area is very much less. The stratigraphy is simple as it is not ob-
scured by disturbance, the dip rarely exceeding 6°, except on the
extreme border, where it becomes at times 15° or 20°. The largest
coal seam, known as Grundflotz or deep Radnitz, is at the base,
often separated by only a thin deposit from the older rocks. Lo-
cally it becomes 6 meters thick, but ordinarily it is so dirty as to be
worthless.
The Hauptflotz or Upper Radnitz seam, 3 to 18 meters above
the Grundflotz, has been traced for 60 meters along the strike and
has been followed for 4 kilometers along the dip. It is extremely
36 A. Dannenberg, " Geologie der Steinkohlenlager," pp. 232-257.
