STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 443
Schlaner beds, not less than 600 meters of rock. It is but a short
distance below the Lihnaer red beds, belonging to the Rothliegende
or lower Permian. Dannenberg calls this upper group " modest " ;
usually there are two coal seams, the upper, 0.5 to 1.04 meter and
the lower, 0.3 to 0.4 meter thick, parting included in each case.
Near Schlan, these seams are separated by an interval of 8 meters
but, toward the west, they approach and finally become one seam,
0.4 to 1.7 meter thick. The coal is rich in volatile and contains
about 14 per cent, of ash. The floor is a bed of sphserosiderite, with
finely preserved plant remains. The roof is a Brandschief er, termed
" Schwarte," which approaches gas coal in composition but has no
practical value. It has yielded a rich harvest of crustaceans, fish
and Stegocephalus.
Lipoid,^® who believed that the Schlaner beds are Permian, has
given the section of this bed as exposed near Schlan ; it is :
(i) "Schwarte," 8 inches; (2) coal, i foot 8 inches; (3) clay,
3 inches; (4) coal, i foot 8 inches; (5) clay, not measured. This
" Schwarte " is tender, black-brown Brandschief er, so rich in bitu-
men that it ignites readily. Lipoid asserts that it distinguishes Per-
mian coal from that of the Coal Measures.
There are comparatively few exposures in the middle of the
basin ; borings, reported by Katzer,^^ show that the upper coal group
is present on the western side. The borings begin in Rothliegende ;
the first reached biotite granite at 74-5 meters, that being the country
rock. A coal seam, 0.49 meter, was pierced at 71.8 meters. In
another boring, a seam of "Schwarte" and coal, 1.06 meter, was
pierced at 89.59 meters from the surface, and was identified with
that of the first boring. It underlies a clay shale and rests on dark
clay shale, containing streaks of coal. An argillaceous sandstone
at 17 meters from the surface contains fragments of Araucarites
and appears to be in the undoubted Rothliegende. The boring
ended at 23 meters below the coal seam, but did not reach the gran-
ts M. V. Lipoid, " Das Steinkohlengebiet in nordwestlichen Theile der
Prager Kreises in Bohmen," jahrb. k. k. geol. Reichsan., Band XII., 1861-2,
PP- 507-509.
39 F. Katzer, " Zur Kenntniss der Permschichten der Rakonitzer Stein-
kohlenablagerung," Verh. k. k. gcoL Reichsan., Jahrg., 1904, pp. 291-293.
