STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 471
in part upon 4 and so has only 15 seams. The number of workable
seams does not exceed 77 and even that estimate may be excessive.
The zone of Flines, equivalent to Andenne of Belgium, gives evi-
dence of at elast five invasions by the sea.
The Concession of Dourges was studied many years ago by Bre-
ton.'^" He recognized a general decrease in volatile downward in
the section, but the change is not in accordance with an exact law,
for it is true only of seams far apart, not of those near together.
Similar variation is observed in a seam, when followed for a con-
siderable distance. The roof in each case has its own plants along
with others not peculiar to it. The exposed section in southern
Dourges is about 750 meters thick with 80 coal seams, measuring
from one centimeter to a meter and a half. The area is greatly dis-
turbed by folds and faults.
There are ^6 beds of sandstone, the thickest being 22 meters.
They vary greatly but not abruptly and consist of quartz grains with
clay and some mica. Occasionally, they contain pockets of bright
coal, and trunks of trees are not rare. Sandstone, at times, replaces
a coal bed, though the mur and toit persist in such cases. Shale
in roof of a coal seam is darkest near the coal but the best impres-
sions of plants are at about a half meter above. He notes one
marine deposit, about 7 meters thick, containing many specimens of
Productus and Orthoceras.
Breton groups the coals into grasses, which ignite readily, are
rich in gas, fuse well, give off dense smoke and leave a white ash,
and seches, less easily ignited, burn slowly, give less smoke, do not
agglutinate and leave a reddish ash. These often have much min-
eral charcoal, which bears close resemblance to wood charcoal.
Coal seams usually have shale at top or bottom or as partings, which,
in the fat coals, is combustible and is used as fuel for the boilers or
is given to the poor. He emphasizes the fact that, very often, there
is a veinette near a thick seam, with which it is apt to unite.
He groups the deposits into faisceaux. The highest is that of
the charbons tres-gras, shown in the eastern part of the Concession.
This, about 300 meters thick, has 7 workable seams with 6.15 meters
• ^0 L. Breton, " £tude geologique du sua de la concession de Dourges,""
Soc. dcs Sci. Lille, 1872, pp. 355-422.
