474 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
The pebbles differ in character. Some are of feldspathic sand-
stone, the feldspar being completely decomposed. These, at times,
contain fragments of Coal Measures plants. Others are quartzites
of types belonging to the Coal Measures ; but there are some which
appear to be of Cambro-Silurian origin, though without fossils and
some are of gneiss. Eighty-six per cent, are from the Coal Meas-
ures, 2 from Cambro-Silurian and 12 are from the Archean. The
Carboniferous specimens are from the Flines (Andenne) and Cho-
kier assises (Namurien of Stainier). The forms vary; subangular,
63 per cent., and rolled, 37. The weights are i gramme to i kilo-
gramme, 73 per cent. ; i to 10 kilogrammes, 24 per cent. ; and still
heavier, 3 per cent. The largest are of sandstone.
There must have been land where coal rocks and those of earlier
age were exposed. The area of outcropping coal rocks must have
been extensive and near at hand, as is evident from shape of the
specimens. These were from the north side of the trough, where
the rocks had become hard before tectonic disturbance occurred.
All efforts to explain their presence as due to torrential action must
be abandoned. The pebbles had been exposed for a long time;
some were wasted by rubbing, others seem to have been worn by
moving strata or by wind action ; but all evidence shows that they
endured long alteration in free air.
Erect Stems — Stainier^* has described erect trunks observed by
him at two localities. At the Falisole colliery, the Veine Lambiotte
rests on a sandstone, containing a veinette, which occasionally unites
with the main seam. At usually 4 but occasionally 12 meters above
the coal is a veinette, which at one locality unites with it. In this
interval numerous trunks were seen, but they are without roots and
all features indicate that they are merely " snags." At the other
locality, the trunks are cut off by faulting, but the evidence presented
by Stainier does not suggest that the stems are in loco natali. The
seam at this place shows signs of erosion during deposition of the
overlying sandstone. Smeysters^^ has described the mode of occur-
"^ X. Stainier, " Un gisement de troncs d' arbres debout au Charbonnage
de Falisole," Bull. Soc. Belg. de Geol, t. XVII., 1902, Mem., pp. 69-76. The
same, 1903, pp. 539-544-
'''* J. Smeysters, "Note sur les troncs d'arbres fossiles," Anyi. Mines de
Belgiquc, t. X., 1905, pp. 1-12.
