STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 477
oped' in shale, with roots at the lower end, which do not penetrate
the coal ; at least, if they do, they have been converted into coal and
become unrecognizable.
During a number of years, Barrois, P. Bertrand and some other
geologists had studied the roofs of coal beds and they succeeded in
classifying them into (i) roofs of sandstone, the grains varying in
coarseness, containing much vegetable debris, but leaves have disap-
peared; (2) roofs of shale, carbonaceous, with plants, the leaves in
fine condition, showing that they had not been transported far and
that the deposition had been made in quiet, shallow water; (3) roofs
of bituminous shale, black, ampelitic, and with fish remains ; always
very thin ; the deposit was made slowly and the water was not free
from mud ; (4) roofs of bituminous shale, brown, contains lamelli-
branchs of deep- and brackish-water types ; these also were formed
slowly and the water was not deep or agitated violently; (5) roofs
of calcareous shale with marine shells ; the water was deeper and
liable to greater movements.
If the trees had been floated in, they should occur in roofs of
deep water origin, they should not be in roofs, formed in water so
shallow that they could not be introduced in vertical position. But
they are present in shallow water roofs. At Lievin, they have been
obtained from 19 veines or passees (veinules) with typical shallow
water roofs and from 7 roofs of intermediate types. Distinctly deep
water roofs are not wanting, there being 28 of them, not one of
which contains erect trees. Barrois legards the evidence as sustain-
ing the assertion of in situ origin for the stems.
The Central Plateau of France. — The coal basins of central
France, about 300 in number, are in large part of little more than
local importance ; but some of them are extremely important because
the seams attain great thickness and yield a high-grade fuel. All are
of limnic origin and the Coal Measures deposits belong mostly to the
Stephanien. The general features are much the same in all, so that
it is necessary to refer only to the basins with which all are familiar.
The Coal basin of the Loire or of St. Etienne was studied by
Gruner, whose report was published in 1882 and by Grand'Eury,^^
81 L. Gruner, Bassin houiller de la Loire," Paris, 1882, pp. 168-173,
204-237, 483-486 ; C. Grand 'Eury, " Bassin de la Loire," C. R. Cong. Int.
Geo!., Paris, 1900, pp. 521-543, Livret-Guide des Excursions," Xlb., 1900.
