STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 479
is double with a parting, o to 8 meters thick. The coal thickens and
improves in quality toward the west, becoming 5 meters near Grand-
'Croix, where the benches are united. The roof of the upper bench
is sandstone and erosion of the coal is frequent ; but that of the lower
bench is shale and the coal is always regular. Two lower seams
have poor coal; one has maximum thickness of 1.40 meter near
Grand'Croix, but the other is a lens, disappearing in all directions.
Beyond the Rive-de-Gier, one reaches the sterile stage of St.-
Chamond, 500 to 800 meters thick, the lower portion a coarse con-
glomerate, the upper less coarse and micaceous. The upper or
micaceous division is thin at southeastern localities but it increases
at expense of the lower portion until, near St.-Chamond, it has re-
placed it almost wholly. Thin coal seams occur in the area of coarse
deposits but they disappear when the micaceous beds predominate.
The Stage de St.-fitienne inferieur, 850 to 950 meters thick, has
10 to 12 coal seams, some of which occasionally divide. They vary
abruptly in thickness as well as in quality of the coal. Seams 8 and
12 at times yield excellent coking coal but at others they are so dirty
as to be worthless. Coal seams are regular where the rocks are
quartzo-feldspathic but become worthless or disappear when the
rocks are micaceous. The upper division has one important seam, o to
6 meters thick, which suffered much from contemporaneous erosion,
having been removed wholly in many places. The coal is good for
coke, though it must be washed to remove the high ash. The coal of
this stage was formed of Cordaites, Psaroniocaulon, Aulacopteris
and Calainites.
The Middle stage of St.-fitienne, about 350 meters thick, has 8
or 9 coal seams separable into two divisions ; the lower has two
seams. In the upper, Nos. i and 2 have inferior coal containing
kidneys of iron ore and trunks of trees, replaced with carbonate of
iron. Ordinarily they are not mined, but No. 2 occasionally becomes
3 meters thick and has good coal. Nos. 2 and 3 are united at many
places ; the latter averages 4 to 5 meters ; No. 4 is ordinarily at 20
meters below 3, but the interval varies from o to 24 meters. At
times, No. 3 is 10 and 12 meters thick, but in such cases it consists
of I, 2, 3 and 4 united. The coal of this stage originated from the
same plants as in the Lower St.-£tienne.
