480 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
The fitage superieur de St.-Etienne, 250 to 350 meters thick, is
in an area of 1,000 to 1,500 meters wide by 11 kilometers long. It
has 10 or 12 coal seams with total extreme thickness of 15 to 20
meters at the east but diminishing rapidly toward the west, where
micaceous shales prevail. The lowest seams are of moderate thick-
ness and yield inferior coal. The seams in the middle are 2.50 to 7
meters and are good. The highest seam, 3 to 10 meters, yields fria-
ble coal. In all cases the coal is rich in volatile and appears to be
composed of Psaroniocaulon, Stipitopteris and Calamites.
The upper sterile stage or Permo-Carboniferous, apparently not
more than 475 meters thick, consists of shaly green and red sand-
stone. The passage from St.-£tienne is gradual and, as far as can
be gathered from Gruner's statements, the succession is conformable.
Gruner notes that the forests of this basin are confined to the
Middle St.-fitienne. Long ago, the upper one was described by
Alex. Brongniart.^^ Though are rocks are horizontal, they have
suffered from a slight movement, which has broken the continuity of
many stems, so that the root portion has been shifted. Eighteen
vertical stems are shown on the plate, which represents about 75
feet of the wall, and roots are distinct on many of them. Brong-
niart was confident that this is part of a forest of bamboo-like plants.
The interior of the stems is filled with sandstone like that in which
they occur; but this is coated by coaly or ferruginous material.
Gruner says that another forest is at 100 meters lower in the
section. He saw in the Treuil mine 12 trunks in a space 12 meters
square. These rest directly on the coal, which is not penetrated by
the roots, though in some cases they spread out upon it. These are
Sigillaria. Similar conditions were observed elsewhere. The rela-
tions in the mur are different from those observed in the roof, for
at St.-£tienne he saw rootlets descending from the coal into the un-
derclay. This condition is especially clear in les Batardes of the
Rive-de-Gier, where Stigmaria abound in the mur. His discussions
on pp. 168-173 and 483-496 should be consulted by all who are inter-
ested in the matter.
^~ Alex. Brongniart, " The Fossil Vegetables Traversing the Beds of the
Coal Measures," Ann. des Mines, 1821 ; translated in de la Beche's " Selec-
tion of Geological Memoirs," etc., London, 1836, pp. 208-216.
