STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 481
Grand'Eury presented to the Geological Congress a paper in
which he discussed elaborately the occurrence of various types of
plants. He regards the deposits as Stephanien. The paper in the
Guide gives more of detail respecting localization.
The Upper Sterile stage passes upward into coarse conglomerate,
which Stur thought analogous to the Rothliegende of Rossitz; but
there is no unconformity. The Rothliegende flora is not abundant.
Cordaites and Pccopteris are present and Tceniopteris abnormis has
been found but no trace of CalUpteris has been observed. Walchia
pinniformis was seen in the St.-Chamond, but it does not continue
into the St.-£tienne stages. The Avaize (Middle St.-fitienne) con-
tains precursors of the Permian.
The Productive Coal Measures show erect trees with their roots,
associated with well-preserved plant impressions, all indicating au-
tochthonous vegetation. Rooted trunks and stumps are uncovered
daily near St.-Etienne. His belief is that the trees, in every case,
grew in water with their roots penetrating the ground below. In
many cases, the stems have been removed during mining work but
usually the vegetable soil was not disturbed ; it is traversed by roots,
some herbaceous, some ligneous, which often pierce impressions of
leaves. Stigmaria is the most common form. These have their
roots spread out in normal position and frequently retain the delicate
appendages. They penetrate the underclay and are interlaced in it.
There are many other types, which he regards as even more satis-
factory. Chief among these is Calalnites, whose erect stems give
off rhizomes, which, in turn, give off rootlets ; all of the subterranean
organs are well preserved and are in normal position. Calamoden-
drons have their stems bound to the soil by a complete system of
roots. Psaronius stems are very numerous and are surrounded at
base by innumerable roots, pushed down obliquely into the soil.
When the plant, subjected to accumulation of alluvium, was obliged,
in order to live, to give off free roots in the water, these passed
downward and buried themselves in the soil below. Stumps of
Cordaites are equally numerous with their woody roots, divided
and subdivided even to rootlets, which have a comb-like arrange-
ment. Syringodendrons, with complete Stigmaria roots and rootlets
are of frequent occurrence. Fossil fruits are abundant. Roots of
