482 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
stumps are involved in a maze and he has observed cases where the
roots of one stump penetrate stumps at a lower horizon. Some long
roots cross several layers of subjacent rock. He is convinced that
the fossil forests were developed sur place.
Commentry. — The petty basin of Commentry, though embracing
barely six square miles, is perhaps more familiar to geologists than
is any other of the Plateau basins, St.-£tienne alone excepted. It
v/as studied during many years by Fayol,''^ who described it in an
elaborate memoir and utilized the results as basis for his well-known
Delta hypothesis. This memoir is so detailed and contains so much
of interest that it is difficult to prepare a synopsis of the facts bear-
ing on matters concerned in this study.
The basin is a depression in Archean and apparently contains no
rocks older than the higher Carboniferous. It is divided into five
strips, extending from north to south : Bourdesoulles, at west, con-
taining coarse rocks ; Le Marais-les Ferrieres, sandstones, shales and
coal seams ; Montassiege sandstones and blocks of rock ; Les Pe-
gauds, sandstone, conglomerates, shale and coal seams ; Longeroux,
at east side, conglomerates. Montassiege separates the sub-basins
of Les Ferrieres and les Pegauds, which together make up barely
one third of the whole area and in each case have only a very small
space occupied by coal. The coarser rocks predominate throughout,
shale and coal being only 4.5 per cent, of the whole mass.
The important coal deposit of les Pegauds has an outcrop rudely
resembling the capital letter C. At the easterly extremity, it begins
as a single seam of insignificant thickness, but increases along the
curved outcrop, dividing and at last thinning away to disappearance
on the east side of Montassiege, where it is represented by 8 thin seams
within a vertical section of 200 meters. Southwardly within the
curve, it dips at o to 50 degrees and finally comes to an end at a depth
of 350 meters. Near Longeroux, at the east, the thickness is only a
few centimeters, but at the northerly part of the outcrop, the main
portion, known as the Grande Couche, averages between 10 and 12
meters for a distance of 2.5 kilometers. Thence westwardly it de-
creases to disappearance. The coal for the most part is caking and
S3 H. Fayol, " fitudes sur le terrain houiller de Commentry," Liv. prem.
St.-fitienne, 1887.
