STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 483
with long flame, but it varies greatly. One finds it passing from
coal to cannel, boghead, bituminous shale and even to sandstone or
conglomerate. Sometimes it is clean from floor to roof, 15 or 20
meters ; at others, it is divided by intercalated shale, sandstone or
conglomerate, up to several meters thick. This great mass of coal
is at 500 to 800 meters above the base of the formation, near which
are some irregular deposits of anthracite.
The conditions are similar in les Ferrieres, where the principal
deposit, apparently contemporaneous with that of les Pegauds, has
a curved outcrop and thins to disappearance at both extremities.
The coal has less volatile than that in the other sub-basin.
Fine sandstone prevails in les Pegauds, but coarse material is not
wanting. One remarkable mass, marking the course of a violent
flood, was formed shortly before the beginning of the Grande
Couche. It is coarsest midway, where some blocks are of enormous
size, but it shades away on each side into fine sand. Another coarse
deposit is intercalated in the Grande Couche, but it is only a few
hundred meters long and passes into the coal at each extremity of
its outcrop. Fragments of Coal Measures rocks are found in all
parts of the section. Those of shale, by their form, suggest to Fayol
that they were plastic when enclosed. The pebbles of coal usually
resemble in composition the coal nearest to them ; those of the basal
portion are anthracitic; those of les Ferrieres are maigre but in
deposits overlying the Grande Couche the pebbles are usually of coal
with long flame, though rare specimens of anthracite occur.
The coal occurs in films and in seams. Calamites are rare in
the roof of Grande Couche but Calamodendron abounds. The flora
is the same throughout and continues into the Permian; but there
is distinct localization of forms. Lepidodendron and Stigmaria are
present in the southwestern portion but are wanting in the eastern.
Knflrria, Lepidophloios, Lepidostrohus are in the roof at western
localities. Fish and insect remains are abundant in some portions.
Renault studied many specimens of trunks and branches enclosed in
the fine sands. Their coal is derived from decomposition of vege-
table material ; there is no evidence of enrichment by infiltration, as
the enclosing sand contains neither coal nor bitumen. At times a
