484 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
branch is found, which has been changed in one portion into clean,
compact coal, while in the other it has become fusain.
Aside from shaly seams, the coal usually has from 6 to 8 per
cent, of ash, yields 6o to 62 per cent, of bright coke and gives off gas
burning with brilliant flame. Analyses by Regnault and by Carnot
give the ultimate composition :
Carbon.
Hydrogen.
O.xygen and Nitrogen.
I
II.........
82.92
83.21
5-30
5-57
11.78
11.22
Cannel is of common occurrence in the Grande Couche as thin
streaks or as lenses, which sometimes extend hundreds of meters ;
it yields a brilliant gas and has from 33 to 58 per cent, of carbon.
Fayol seems to be inclined to believe that difference in character of
coal may be related in some way to the ash-content ; ordinary coal
has 5 to 10, cannel, 7 to 12 and boghead 25 to 50 per cent, of ash.
Trunks, branches, etc., are in rocks of all kinds ; are usually pros-
trate, but some are inclined, others erect. There are few in con-
glomerates, ten times as many in sandstones, 200 times as many in
shales and 1,000 times as many in coal. Erect stems are rare in coal
and shale, proportionately they are most numerous in the coarser
rocks. At one locality, Fayol found a fern stem inverted. Attached
branches are rare but many stems retain their roots. Still, the most
of them have neither roots nor branches ; but there are stumps re-
taining roots spread out on the underlying deposit, which they do not
penetrate. One such stump, with diameter of one meter, showed 15
Stigmaricu radiating from it and enclosing a space of about 400
square feet. These Stigmaricc are arranged regularly and are flat-
tened. Stems of trees, numerous in the coal, are compressed, the
interior portions having disappeared, the rind only remaining, con-
verted into coal.
The roof is of ordinary carbonaceous or bituminous shale, pass-
ing upward gradually into sandstone. Commonly it is rich in plant
remains. The floor is usually carbonaceous shale, but occasionally
sandstone, and the passage to the coal is gradual. There are many
cases of contemporaneous erosion. One in the Tranchee de Foret
