STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 487
is difficult to conceive how the supply could be maintained in quiet
water. It must be remembered that the proportion of dissolved
ulmin is very small : Smith^*' ascertained that very brown water con-
tains only 4 grains to the gallon, and that if the quantity be 6 grains,
the color is intensely dark.
It should be noted here that the conclusions reached by Bertrand
and Renault have been controverted emphatically by Jeffrey and by
Thiessen,^'' who employed improved methods of preparing the ma-
terial. Jeffrey examined the Autun and other Bogheads and found
no algse but abundance of spores. Thiessen's results were very
similar.
Bretagne. — Several small basins have escaped erosion in the area
of the lower Loire Riven within Brittany. A general description
of them was pubHshed by Barrois about 25 years ago, but his work
is not now within the writer's reach. The only available notes are
by Rolland,^^ presented many years since. These coals, almost an-
thracite, are regarded now as belonging to the Culm. The deposits
described by Rolland are said to extend from Doue in Maine-et-
Loire to Nort in Loire-Inferieure, about 40 leagues. He divides
the section into eight systems, each with a conglomerate at base, the
intervening rocks being sandstones and blackish shales. The first
five systems, in each case, contain only thin streaks of coal, but the
sixth, Goismard, has two seams. Petit and Grand Goismard, which
at times unite and are mined. The upper. Petit, averaging about
50 centimeters, yields a hard lump coal and has as its roof a sand-
stone, pierre carree, almost 70 meters thick. Its faux-toit is fine-
grained sand, without cement and about one meter thick ; it passes
downward into a loose material, termed "tourte" by the miners
and consisting mostly of decomposed feldspar. The mur of this
seam, roof of the Grand seam, is shaly sandstone, 6 to 8 meters thick
at the outcrop ; at 100 meters down the dip, it is 3 and at 200 it is
only- 1 meter. In the deepest portion of the works, the seams have
86 R. Angus Smith, Manch. Lit. Phil. Soc, III., Vol. IV., 1871, pp. 50, 6^.
^"^ E. C. Jefifrey, " On the Nature of Some Supposed Algal Coals," Proc.
Amer. Acad. Sci., Vol. XLVI., 1910, pp. 273-390; R. Thiessen, "Plant Re-
mains Composing Coal," Science, N. S., Vol. XXXIII., 191 1, pp. 537-552.
88 M. Rolland, " Notice sur le terrain anthraxifere des bords de la Loire,"
etc., Bull. Soc. Gcol. France, t. XII., p. 463.
