488 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
united and at a short distance beyond the union they disappear.
The lower seam, 60 centimeters thick, yields a friable coal. Its miir
is a tender shale, which breaks down into a whitish clay. The sev-
enth system has three non-persistent seams and the eighth has but
one ; these are all thin.
Some sandstones in the fourth have many impressions of Cala-
mites and the conglomerate at base contains many large, flattened
fragments of stems. Those of the fifth have great abundance of
Calaniites, as well as of trunks of "palms," which are vertical to the
stratification and are replaced with sandstone. Occasionally the
shales in this system as well as those associated with coal in the
eighth, contain impressions of leaves.
The coal is maigre with not more than 13 per cent, of volatile.
Spain.
Barrois^^ devotes 82 pages of his work on the northwestern part
of Spain to the Carboniferous of the Asturias. He recognizes three
assises : Assise de Lena, consisting of sandstones, conglomerate,
shales, marine limestones and thin layers of coals ; this he regards
as equivalent to the Culm of Lower Carboniferous. Assise de
Sama, equivalent to the terrain houiller moyen of Nord, France, as
determined by Grand'Eury and Zeiller after study of the plants.
The rocks are sandstones, some persistent conglomerates, rare lime-
stones and numerous seams of coal. Assise de Tineo, equivalent to
the terrain houiller superieur of France, composed of shales, sand-
stones, some conglomerates with pebbles of Coal Measures rocks,
and a large number of coal seams. There are no marine limestones.
This is not conformable to the preceding deposits and in some areas
it rests on the older formations.
Whether or not any representative of Permian exists in the re-
gion is uncertain. An earlier student was inclined' to assign certain
deposits to it, but Barrois thinks that, most probably, they belong
to the Lower Carboniferous. The region has been subjected to vio-
lent disturbance, faults and overturned anticlines are numerous, so
89 C. Barrois, " Recherches sur les terrains anciens des Asturies et de la
Galice," Mem. Soc. Gcol. Nord, Lille, 1882, t. 2, No. i. Citations are from
pages 519-600.
