490 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
variation in thickness, some, at times, thinning away to disappear-
ance. One seam attains 3 meters ; in one case coal only 30 centi-
meters thick is mined. Coals of the same age are in the small
Santo-Firme basin, where the formation, resting on the Devonian,
is about 500 meters thick and contains 10 coal seams. It underlies
post-Carboniferous rocks. The coals show the usual tendency to
vary in thickness, sometimes thinning away only to reappear within
a short distance. A marine shale, rich in fossils, is roof of a coal
seam in upper part of this assise.
The Assise de Tineo is confined to some small basins in the west-
ern and to two in the northern part of the old kingdom. In Tineo
basin these rocks rest on the Cambrian. In Arnao and Ferrones
they rest on Devonian and, because of faults, appear to be inter-
calated in rocks of that age. The basins of Ferrones has but one
coal seam and the overlying Devonian contains fine fossils.
The province of Oviedo had 210 mines in 1869. Studies by de
Aspiroz and by Paillette proved that the composition of the coal is
not the same in different basins and that it varies even in the same
assise. The most of the coal is bituminous but a maigre, anthra-
'Citic coal is obtained in Vinon and Calunga basins ; this, of no value,
may belong to the Assise de Leiia. Volatile in the Central basin,
belonging to the Assise de Sama, is 30 to 45 per cent, and the ash is
from .04 to 3 per cent. But these are only of selected specimens.
Coals from the small northern basins have theoretical interest.
These give, according to analyses by Paillette:
Volatile.
Ash.
Fixed Carbon.
Arnao
39
49
45
47
38
46
20
7
12
2
5
8
40
42
42
49
55
44
Ferrones
Santo Firme
The Santo Firme coal belongs to Assise de Sama, that from Arnao
•and Ferrones, to Assise de Tineo. The difference in volatile might
be attributed to the age of the coals, Santo Firme, the older, having
less volatile; but Barrois thinks that another explanation, more
satisfactory, may be found in the relation of composition to strati-
