HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES. 31
within a large tank inside the ship or more usually underneath a pro-
tecting bhster on the outside of the ship's skin. The line of receivers
is in all cases mounted as near parallel to the ship's keel as conditions
will permit, one such line being mounted on each side of the ship and
directly opposite one another. The receivers in each half of the line
are grouped together, each group connecting with one ear respec-
tively, in order that the binaural principle may be employed in deter-
mining direction.
Theoretically the focusing effect is intensified by increasing the
length of line and the number of receivers, but practically the me-
chanical difficulties encountered in compensation tends to limit both
the length of line and the number of receivers. The principle of
operation of a Hne of twelve receivers is shown in Plate XII.
In Fig. 2 let numerals i, 2, and 3 represent three receivers equally
spaced and connecting to the common junction through the three
separate paths a, b, and c respectively. Paths a and c are provided
with a trombone arrangement such that their length can be varied at
will while path b has a fixed length equal to that of both a and c
when the trombone slides are adjusted to have equal paths. The
response from the three receivers will reach the junction A in phase
for sound travelling in a direction perpendicular to the line of the re-
ceivers, that represented by the arrow.
Sound proceeding in a direction as represented by the arrow in
Fig. I does not actuate the three receivers simultaneously but in the
order i, 2, 3. It is evident that a proper lengthening of the path a
and the same shortening of the path c will bring the responses from
the three receivers in phase at the junction A. If the sound comes
from a direction as indicated in Fig. 3 the variation of the paths a
and c must be in the opposite order to bring the responses from the
receivers in phase at junction A.
Consider a line of twelve equally spaced receivers divided into
four groups of three receivers each, as shown in Fig. 4. Receivers
I and 3 connect to the junction A through a simple "2-Spot" com-
pensator of the type already described, while receiver 2 is connected
to A through a fixed path equal to that from both receivers i and 3
when the compensator is so adjusted that their path lengths are
equal. The responses from the three receivers can be brought to A
