STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 491
graphical disturbance. The Sama seams crop at many places where
faulting and folding are marked, but in Arnao and Ferrones the
disturbance is far greater ; the section has been overthrust and the
Carboniferous underlies Devonian. The coals which are richest in
volatile are from areas which have suffered most severely from
pressure. He notes, as bearing on the matter, that Gosselet had
shown for the Nord area in France that the northern part of that
region had suffered very little from disturbance while, in the south-
ern portion, disturbance had been violent, there being at times com-
plete inversion of the section. Yet coals are maigre in the northwest
portion, whereas in the southwest, locality of greatest disturbance,
one finds the fattest coals.
Great Britain.
The boundary between Permian and the Coal Measures is not
always distinct in England. The unconformity is often small and
it is difficult to determine a plane of separation, as rocks of the
Upper Coal Measures closely resemble the type, which at one time
was thought to be characteristic of the later period. But in consid-
erable areas, the case is clear, for Permian rests on upturned, eroded
Coal Measures. There appears to be good reason for believing that
the system of flexures, traceable from England across France and
Belgium into Prussia, originated toward end of Coal Measures
deposition.
Permian deposits of Great Britain are equivalent to the Zech-
stein and Rothliegende of the Continent, as Murchison^° held. They
are absent from southern England and Wales and Hull believes that
that area was exposed to denudation during the Permian interval.
The Zechstein (Magnesian Limestone) has escaped erosion in only
petty areas but the Rothliegende, covering extensive spaces in sev-
eral fields, is thoroughly well marked, consisting chiefly of red and
purple marls and sandstones, with occasional conglomerates and
sometimes, on top, a breccia, containing fragments of trap and
Silurian rocks. In the South Staffordshire coal field, the thickness
90 R. I. Murchison, " Siluria," p. 347; E. Hull, "Coal-Fields of Great
Britain," 4th ed., 1881, p. 524.
