STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 493
thickness is much less than was estimated by the earHer survey.
The Lower Carboniferous Hmestones and shales are without coal.
The Upper Coal Measures, consisting of shales and sandstones
with mostly irregular coal seams, has at base a well-defined per-
sistent coal, known as Mynyddislwyn, Llanwit I, Wernfifraith and
Swansea in different districts. A vertical section of iii feet in
the Blackwood Valley near Newport of Monmouthshire, shows six
coals, 6 to 30 inches thick, but they are extremely irregular. The
Mynyddislwyn is double and the parting varies in thickness ; in one
area, it varies from 2 to 24 feet; in another, from 6 inches to 15
feet, while in another the parting of 2 feet becomes 15 feet within a
short distance. Crossbedded sandstone is not unusual in the eastern
part of the field.
The middle division or Pennant Grit is for the most part a clayey
somewhat feldspathic rock at the east, which thickens very rapidly
toward the west, where it is broken by shales. No workable coals
are known at the east but southwardly and westwardly several
seams become workable, though as a rule the coal is of inferior
quality. The Tillery Coal, known in portions of the field as the
Brither, Rhondda 2, Ynysarwed and Garn Swilt, is at the base.
This Grit has occasional bands of conglomerate, containing quartz
pebbles and rounded fragments of ironstone, coal and Coal Meas-
ures rocks. In Glamorganshire, where shales are in upper part of
the Pennant, there are three workable seams, while farther west
some coals are important. A crossbedded sandstone is the roof of
Rhondda 2 ; at others that roof is conglomerate with pebbles of iron-
stone and coal ; this is common in western localities.
The Lower or Steam Coal Series consists very largely of shale
at the east but sandstone increases toward the west. It contains
the coals which have made the field so important. In the upper por-
tion, below the Tillery Coal, there occurs a notable thickness of red
shale, which is .very characteristic along the eastern side. The
rocks generally show much variation, thickening rapidly toward the
west, where they become coarser.
The coal seams change much in structure as well as in quality,
but some of them are so persistent as to be definite stratigraphical
horizons. The best-marked seam is that known as the Rock, Black,
