494 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
Ras-Las, Nine-feet, Bydylog in different parts of the field; its varia-
tions may be taken as typical. At most localities, it is double with
a variable parting of clay, but there are definite partings, without
inorganic deposit, separating benches, differing in the character of
their coal. At some localities, it is troubled by "nips," the shale
roof disappearing and the underclay becoming sandstone, while the
coal thins away. In some districts there are considerable areas
where the coal is so poor that it is not worth mining ; yet, in most
localities, it is a thick bed and yields excellent coal.
" Washouts " are by no means infrequent. The Ras-las is miss-
ing at one place in northern Monmouth. In the Ebbw Valley of the
same county, a great washout was encountered, extending 1,200
yards and causing removal of a section, 116 yards thick, with three
coals, Three-Quarters, Black and Yard. The Ras-las has been
washed out for not less than a mile in the Sirhowy Valley ; in the
Bargoed-Taff Valley it has been rendered almost worthless at many
places by wedge-shaped masses of shale, cutting down to or nearly
to the base of the seam, but not below it. These resemble channels
of rivulets, filled with mud before deposit of the overlying rocks.
Local deposits of coal are not unusual. De la Beche^* saw, near the
village of Bagelly in southern Pembrokeshire, some irregular masses
of stone coal. One, semi-oval, is 140 yards long, 40 wide and 10
deep ; four others of similar type were observed. Such coals seem
to characterize the Millstone Grit, since all are local. Cannel is not
abundant ; it may be on top or midway in a coal seam, but it is
always in contact with the coal. A seam, one foot thick, was seen
at one place, but it appears to be local.
Strahan^^ has emphasized the plasticity of shale when between
more resistant rocks as shown at some places in the Neath Valley.
There as well as in Cynon Valley near an overthrust fault, the Nine-
feet coal has a layer of shale pressed in to close wrinkles ; the coal
has become schistose, weathering into plaquettes, with razor edges,
slickensided and very brittle.
The lower shales and sandstones of the Lower Coal Series have
9* H. T. de la Beche, " On Geology of Southern Pembrokeshire," Trans.
Geol Soc, II., Vol. 2, 1829, p. 19.
P5A. Strahan, Part IV., p. 16; Part V., p. 65.
