STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 501
The Yorkshire Coalfield was described elaborately by Green^°^
and his associates. It contains the whole column from Permian to
the upper part of the Lower Carboniferous. The succession is :
Permian, represented by the Magnesian Limestone, the Zechstein ;
Upper Coal Measures, perhaps 150 feet; Middle Coal Measures,
about 3,500 feet; Lower Coal Measures, about 1,600 feet; Millstone
Grit, perhaps 2,000 feet ; Yoredale Shales ; Carboniferous Limestone
is not reached.
Permian and Upper Coal Measures deposits remain at very few
localities and for the most part the boundary is obscure, for the rela-
tions of the lower beds are in dispute. The Magnesian Limestone
rests unconformably upon the rocks in question. Near Pontyfract
is a great sandstone, averaging not less than 75 feet, resting on about
40 feet of purple shale and yellow sandstone. It seems to be con-
formable to the underlying beds but is distinctly unconformable to
the overlying Magnesian Limestone. This rock was referred by
Smith and by Sedgwick to the base of the Permian, their conclusion
being due in great measure to the red color, but Green asserts that
this cannot be taken as criterion, for red color characterizes many
deposits, which belong undeniably to the Coal Measures. Near
Conisborough, the Pontefract is wanting and the Magnesian Lime-
stone overlies 34 feet of very red beds. These rest conformably
upon the underlying beds and contain Coal Measures types of Nen-
ropteris, Sphenopteris and Stigmaria. The Red Rock of Rother-
ham, a great mass of sandstone and shale, occupies a trough eroded
in the Middle Coal Mieasures. Its age is in dispute and Green
declines to commit himself to either interpretation. The mass is
certainly unconformable to the Coal Measures but a distinct expo-
sure at one locality shows it distinctly unconformable to the un-
doubted Permian beds above. ^°^
Coal seams are the most nearly constant deposits, because formed
in swamps ; but swamps must end somewhere ; at their margins coal
becomes impure, is split by increasing number of clay or sand layers
until at length it is replaced with sandstone or shale. Evidence is
102 A. H. Green, R. Russell and others, " The Geology of the Yorkshire
Coal-Fields," Mem. Geol. Survey, 1878, pp. xiii and 823.
103 Green and Russell, pp. 481-486.
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, VOL. LiX, FF, DECEMBER 1 7, 192O.
