STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 503
Coal seams are rarely single, usually are divided into benches by
partings of clay or sandstone which may vary greatly in thickness^
though ordinarily the variations are within narrow limits. At times
they are great enough to render the identification of seams more
than perplexing. The Beeston Coal has its two benches in contact
at Beeston, but within a short distance they are separated by an
interval of 30 feet. Three seams of the Brown Metals Group show
notable changes in relative positions ; the interval between Number
I and Number 2 is 6 inches to 56 feet, and that from Number 2 to
Number 3 is from 12 to 66 feet. Other illustrations are noted, but
these suffice for illustration.^"^
Contemporaneous erosion is by no means unusual and at some
localities its work was extensive. In this, one may see evidence of
areal changes of level. Near Penistone, a tunnel has disclosed
proof that the region was exposed to denudation for a time in the
early part of the Middle Coal Measures. A hill of Coal Measure
sandstone remained, against which shales and two coal seams abut,
which were formed in the valley around the hill. The Handworth
Sandstone, southeast from Sheffield, occupies a valley eroded in the
underlying shales, but is conformable to the overlying measures.
The great red sandstone of Rotherham is unconformable to the un-
derlying measures, occupying a broad valley cut in them. Coal
seams are troubled by " rock faults " of one sort or another. The
Old Hards Coal is wanting in some collieries, having been replaced
with a deposit containing pebbles and water worn bowlders. The
Haigh Moor Coal, one of the most important seams, is injured so
badly by rock filling the lines of old watercourses, that in one district
it is practically worthless. The " faults " are from 8 to 70 feet
across and have northwest-southeast direction. At times they are
irregular, there being broad bands of sandstone, connected by nar-
row strips, which suggest a series of ponds.^°®
The Silkstone Coal (Middleton Main) is troubled by "splits,'^
which re-unite. KendalP^*' examined one at Whitwood, where the
108 Green and Russell, pp. 185-192, 289-298.
103 Green and Russell, pp. 140. 281, 343-345, 397, 482, 689.
110 P. F. Kendall, " On the splitting of Coal-Seams by Partings of Dirt,"
Trans. Inst. Min. Eng., Vol. LIV., 1918, pp. 1-21.
