504 STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
Top Coal rises until it is 29 feet above the Bottom, thence descends
until the two benches are again in contact : the same condition is
shown in a second drift as well as in a neighboring colliery. This
phenomenon is not rare ; it has been observed in several seams
within the Yorkshire field and geologists have reported its occur-
rence in other fields. Kendall thinks it is due to the filling of a
channel with sand or clay, over which the swamp extended. The
originally level top of the in-swept material is now convex while the
originally convex bottom is flat. He conceives that during conver-
sion of the peat into coal, the thin borders of the enclosed mass
adjusted themselves to the changing thickness of the organic mate-
rial until the upper surface became convex and the bottom flat.
The existence of the gravel deposit has been proved along its west
side for about 5 miles; the mass has been crossed by drifts at two
places, which show a width of not less than 1,200 feet. Existence
of such " splits " is known in the Silkstone Coal at many places, but
these have not been connected by continuous workings. Kendall
feels justified in asserting that the splits mark courses of ancient
streams.
Limestone rarely occurs in the Yorkshire field, the prevailing
rocks being sandstones, shales and underclays. The mollusks are
mostly Anthracosia and Anthraconiya, which are at many horizons,
but undoubted marine forms are present in some thin black shales.
The sandstones vary from conglomerate to fine-grained. The
coarser rocks are irregularly bedded and in many cases they resem-
ble huge heaps, thinning away in all directions. But there are such
deposits, especially in the Millstone Grit, of vast extent and showing
little variation in thickness or character. Lepidodendron and Cala-
mites casts are not rare. Nearly all sandstones, coarse and fine
alike, are false-bedded, often with marked current- or cross-bedding,
and the finer sandstones frequently are ripple-marked. Shales may
be sandy, blocky, passing into sandstones, or they may be argilla-
ceous ; sometimes they are black, passing occasionally into cahnel.
Underclay, known as Spavin or Seat Earth, is usually clay, always
iinstratified, never splits into layers, breaks into irregular blocks and
always contains Stigmaria, with rootlets ramifying in every direc-
tion. " Many instances have been observed where fossilized trunks
