STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS. 507
feet, including partings of ordinary clay. It is finely laminated, but
this feature is distinct usually only in " spent clay," that which has
been treated. Thin streaks have been discovered in shales within
the Carboniferous Limestone, but they are unimportant. Four im-
portant horizons are in the Calciferous Sandstone, the chief one
being at 3,200 feet below the Limestone base. At some places, the
shale has many impressions of fish ; at others it is composed almost
wholly of minute cyprids and crustaceans, so abundant that the shale
resembles fine linseed cake. With these are fragments of ferns.
The lagoon of deposit had an- area of not less than 330 square miles.
The best shale has fixed carbon, 5 ; volatile, 25 ; ash, 70 per cent. A
yield of 30 gallons of oil per ton is that of good shale.
The Craigleith Sandstone, at base of the Calciferous, is well
marked in the Edinburgh area, whence Witham obtained his tree,
which, evidently, was a " snag." Brown^^* described this sandstone
as made up of lenses, thinning out in all directions and dovetailing.
Coaly laminations, derived from drifted material, are numerous.
The water was shallow; sun-cracks, worm tracks, ripple-marks,
rainprints and footprints of labyrinthodonts have been observed.
Brown found in the quarry a large block of current-bedded sand-
stone containing several casts of Lepidodendron. The largest frag-
ment, 3 feet long and 14 inches wide, was somewhat compressed and
retained some of its bark, converted into coal. At one side in the
interior was a thick layer of brown material, but the rest of the
cavity was filled with sand. The brown substance contained num-
bers of the gasterpod, Platyostomella, and the " nests " were formed
before the sand was deposited, for the laminae of the latter curve
around them. This gasteropod was probably an estuarine form.
At another locality, it is associated with Spirorhis pusillus, which
may indicate marine conditions. At the same time, the Craighill
species has peculiarities, which lead Brown to suggest that, like
Hydrohia, the genus may have had fresh-, brackish- and salt-water
species. The question of adjustibility of molluscs to changing ma-
rine or fresh-water conditions is unimportant. They can and do
^1* C. Brown, " On the occurrence of Gasteropods {Platyostomella scoto-
hurgalensis) in a Lepidodendron from Craighill Quarry, Edinburgh," Trans.
Edinh. Geol. Soc, Vol. VII., 1897, pp. 244-251.
