50S STEVENSON— INTERRELATIONS OF FOSSIL FUELS.
adjust themselves. De la Beche^^^ states that Valuta magnifica lives
high up in brackish water near Port Jackson, Australia, and that an
Area inhabits the fresh-water of Jumna River at i,ooo miles from
the sea. G. B. Sowerby had informed him that an Astarte and a
Cardita had been found in pools on the ice near Melville Island, and
that a Nucula lives in the Ganges at Banda. An Anodon thrives in
brackish water at the Commercial Docks of London, where it is
associated with a Mytilus brought from the Danube. He cites Mc-
Culloch, whose experiments proved that many marine fish and crus-
taceans can become habituated even in fresh-water. Almost 80
years ago, J. W. Bailey discovered a strange commingling of fresh-
water and marine types in the Hudson River near West Point,
where one reaches practically the limit of brackish water.
South America.
Brazil. — Permo-Carboniferous rocks have been reported from
several countries in South America and have been described in
admirable memoirs ; but such deposits are most important in Brazil,
where, according to Branner,^^^ "the Permian is, par excellenee, the
Brazilian series." They were recognized by Eschwege in 1832 and,
since that time, they have been studied in the several states by many
geologists, among them, F. de Castelnau, O. A. Derby, C. F. Hartt,
Oliveira, P. W. Lund and M. A. R. Lisboa. For the most part, the
examinations were reconnaissances, sufficing to prove extent of the
deposits, but giving detailed information respecting few areas.
Whether or not the Coal Measures are present remains to be deter-
mined. The Permo-Carboniferous has coal in the southernmost
states.
Hartt^^'^ states that Perigot discovered the coalfields of southern
Brazil in 1841. A detailed study of the deposits in Santa Catharina
was made by U. Plant, whose report, made in 1869, was republished
by Hartt. On the Rio Candiota, Plant found, in a section of 70
lis H. T. de la Beche, " Researches in Theoretical Geology," Amer. ed.,
N. Y., 1837, pp. 224, 225.
11^ J. C. Branner, " Outlines of the Geology of Brazil," Bull. Geol. Soc.
Amer., Vol. 30, 191Q, pp. 211.
11'^ C. F. Hartt, " Geology and Physical Georgraphy of Brazil," Boston,
1870, pp. 519-531.
