OF THE ADRIATIC PROBLEM. 513
waters bordering the Italian coast make it difficult for Italian ob-
servers to locate enemy submarines or mines sown by enemy craft.
Even in the matter of illumination the Italians are at a great dis-
advantage. Raids are usually made by crossing the sea under the
cover of darkness and appearing ofif the enemy coast in the early
morning. When an Austrian raider thus appears off the Italian
coast, his objective is well ilhtminated by the rising sun; whereas
the Italian artillerymen must look into the sun when firing upon
their attacker. And when an Italian squadron appears off the
eastern coast, it finds its objective obscured by the shadow of high
cliffs and must look toward the sun when developing its fire, the
while its own vessels are so well illuminated as to form excellent
targets for the east coast batteries.
On such arguments as these Italy might claim the need of special
consideration in the Adriatic. Without taking time to develop the
counter arguments I will merely note that in the proposals which
have been made for the settlement of the Adriatic question, complete
security has been offered to Italy by granting her Pola, Valona and
a central island group, three points which have long been recognized
as the strategic keys of the Adiratic.
On ethnographic grounds Italy could claim but little east of her
old land frontier. She might ask for Gorizia, Trieste and a narrow
strip along the west coast of Istria ; but beyond this both Italian and
Jugoslav geographers agree that Italians are few in number and
scattered throughout an overwhelming mass of Jugoslavs. On
topographic grounds, and to preserve the geographic and economic
unity of the Isonzo basin, as well as to afford Italy reasonable
protection on the east, her frontier in this region might be pushed
up the slopes of the Julian Alps to the crest dividing the westward
from the eastward flowing rivers, and in Istria to the main back-
bone ridge of Monte Maggiore. This would subject 370,000 Jugo-
slavs to Italian rule, and leave less than 50,000 Italians in Jugoslavia.
But Italy demanded much more than this. East of this line she
asked for the Idria district with its valuable mercury mines, and its
20,500 Jugoslavs with practically no Italians ; for a large district
cutting the Fiume-Laibach railway and containing 40,000 Jugoslavs
