518 WRIGHT— RECENT SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS.
tempt to measure the wave-lengths of the nebular lines somewhat
more accurately than had been done before ; in its present stage it is
concerned chiefly with the distribution of the radiations through the
nebulae. There have been intermediate developments. The rather
meager accumulation of material that is available is somewhat
heterogeneous, and can hardly, in its entirety, be presented to an
audience of general scientific interests. I shall, therefore, with a
full sense of the limitations of the observations, undertake to con-
sider them from the point of view of the relationship of the nebulas
to the stars. Such a relationship can be regarded as an element of
the theory of stellar evolution, and it may be well to recall a few
of the ideas that at present form the substance of that theory.
At the mention of the term " stellar evolution," in a general
scientific gathering, one frequently becomes aware of an atmospnere
of amused toleration, or tolerant skepticism. The raising of a broW,
or the birth of an indulgent smile, diffuses such an atmosphere with
the velocity of light. It is not my purpose to proselyte in the in-
terests of any particular scientific creed, but inasmuch as we are
approaching the observations from the point of view of stellar rela-
tionships, it may be well to recall the principal consideration that
has led astronomers to the belief that such a thing as stellar evolu-
tion exists. The conception of stellar evolution finds its justifica-
tion very largely in the principle of the conservation of energy. The
sun and the stars are continually pouring out into space a simply
inconceivable amount of energy in the form of radiation. We are
all familiar with comparisons designed to help us sense the prodi-
gious outflow. Perhaps as good a one as any is represented in
the statement that if the surface of the earth, land and sea, were
covered a mile deep with coal, the quantity of fuel represented
would supply the output of solar heat for about a minute. Some
of the stars radiate several thousand times as much heat as the sun.
Whatever the nature of the process by which the energy is at present
being replenished, it is impossible to conceive of the expenditure
going on forever. Sooner or later the star must cool, and, through
alteration in its temperature, sufifer a change in its physical state.
This process of change had been termed the evolution of the star.
On account of the enormous distances of the stars the principal
