520 WRIGHT— RECENT SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS.
lege Observatory. The nature of the arrangement in that system is
indicated by the typical spectra of the illustration (Fig. i). The
top spectrum is that of a Welf-Rayet star, or Class O star in the
Draper system; following it is one of Class B, in which the dark
lines of helium are strong. In the next the rhythmic hydrogen series
predominates, while, as we go down, that in turn fades, and metallic
lines, notably the strong calcium doublet, become pronounced. It
will now be observed that while the sequence on the screen is based
entirely on the occurrence of lines in the spectrum, another charac-
teristic is shown as we pass from the top to the bottom of the pic-
ture, that is, the cutting ofif of the spectrum from the left side. This
means the impoverishment of the violet end of the spectrum, as com-
pared with the red. In other words we pass from stars that are
bluish white, through those that are yellow to those that are red. It
is one of the facts of our ordinary experience, fortified by elaborate
theory and experiment, that this succession of color phenomena
marks the cooling of an incandescent body ; and the view has been
generally adopted that exhibits such as that on the screen represent
the spectra of stars in an order of continually decreasing tempera-
ture. Evidence confirmatory of this opinion is afiforded by the fact
that the spectral lines in the upper spectra are found in the labora-
tory to be characteristic of high temperature, while some of those in
the lower are due to chemical compounds which can exist only in a
comparatively cool environment.
Astronomers have, for a long time, thought that the spectral
sequence here indicated oflfers the basis for inference with respect
to stellar evolution, though there is not unanimity of opinion as to
just how the evidence should be interpreted. It is manifestly im-
possible in the available time to indicate the many points of view
from which the evidence has been considered. Probably a majority
of those who are interested in such matters are inclined to interpret
directly the sequence in the illustration, that is, to assume that the
upper spectrum is one of the newly formed star, and that the
following spectra are of stars in successive stages of development.
This is equivalent to the hypothesis that a star originates at a
high temperature and cools continuously throughout its period of
visibility, fading out as a dim red object. This view is opposed
