WRIGHT— RECENT SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS. 521
by some others, chiefly by Sir Norman Lockyer, who regard it
as out of harmony with the well-known laws of gaseous equilib-
rium. According to Lane's law a star, assuming it to be a gaseous
mass, should grow hotter while contracting as the result of the loss
of its heat.- This rise in temperature should continue until the
material, through increased density, ceases to be a perfect gas, after
which the temperature will fall. According to this conception a
young star would be comparatively cool, and therefore, red ; with
increasing age it would grow hotter, achieve a maximum, and then
cool ofif. There would be a succession of colors corresponding to
temperature. Now all of the spectra of the red stars are not alike,
nor are those of stars of the other groups, and in order to accom-
modate the spectral sequence to his hypothesis Lockyer has divided
the red, yellow, and white stars into two groups which I shall for
simplicity distingiush by means of subscripts. The red stars are
the extremes of this system, the Red^, according to Lockyer, being
the youngest and the Red„ the oldest of all the stars. Next to them
come the corresponding groups of yellows and whites. I have at-
tempted to diagram these two systems in a very elementary way by
means of these curves (Fig. 2), in which time is measured from left
to right, and temperature vertically. The hypothesis first referred
to is represented in the figure on the left. Here we start with the
hottest of all stars, those of the Wolf-Rayet or Class O group, and
with falling temperature follow through the course of a star's life.
The second hypothesis is outlined in the right-hand figure. These
two diagrams are inadequate to represent all the views, and^ modi-
fications of views that are held in one quarter or another. They
2 It has been pointed out by Schuster (Astrophysical Journal, 17, 165, IQ03)
that Lane's law concerns itself with the temperature of the star's interior,
while what we observe is the temperature at the surface. It is not certain
that there is a simple relation between the two, since the surface temperature
of a radiating body represents merely a balance between the rate of radiation
and the rapidity with which heat can be supplied from the interior to make
good the loss. If the transfer from within is effected mainly by convection
the readiness with which it takes place will depend upon the force of gravity,
that is to say upon the mass and dimensions of the star, as well as upon the
temperature of its interior. It is therefore extremely doubtful to what extent
the inferences from Lane's law should be expected to harmonize with the
observations of the surface temperatures of stars, to which we are limited in
our investigations.
