WRIGHT— RECENT SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS. 523
second group, the extended white nebulae.^ The gaseous nebulae,
from their peculiar distribution along the Milky Way, are undoubt-
edly to be regarded as forming part of our system of stars, and
in that sense furnish available material for our speculations.
Furthermore they are the only ones whose spectra we are able to
study with any degree of completeness, so that from the point of
view of spectroscopy, our hope, for the present, must lie very
largely with them. For these and other reasons it is between the
stars and the gaseous nebulae that a relationship has generally been
sought. The connection has been claimed between the nebulae and
the Class O, or Wolf-Rayet stars, by those favoring one hypothesis
on the basis of certain spectral similarities, and on the rather pecu-
liar distribution of both groups of objects along the path of the
Milky Way. The opposition, on the other hand, points to the
occurrence of the bright lines of hydrogen in both the gaseous
nebulae and some of the red stars; and quite recently a number of
the nebulium lines have been observed by Merrill at Mount Wilson
to occur temporarily in the spectra of stars of that class. It will
be seen that as between these two hypotheses, the matter of this
connection with the nebulae is one of vital concern. If the gaseous
nebulae can be shown to be related to the Wolf-Rayet stars the
first hypothesis is strengthened, if, on the other hand, the con-
nection is with the red stars the favor goes to the other theory. The
relationship of the nebulae to the one group or the other may then,
in a sense, be regarded as a criterion to determine between these
two conceptions as to the nature of stellar evolution.
I find it difficult in these remarks to be brief, and at the same
time to avoid seeming to imply a degree of definiteness with respect
to inferences that may be drawn from the evidence, and in fact,
with respect to our conceptions of cosmogony, which would not be
justified either by the available observational data nor by the present
scientific point of view. I believe that astronomers, particularly
observers, are, as a rule, not disposed to dogmatize on the subject
3 These nebulae like the gaseous or bright-line nebulae favor the Milky
Way, and are therefore to be regarded as members of our sidereal system,
but our knowledge of their spectra is so limited that it does not afford a
secure basis for speculation as to their physical constitution.
