528 WRIGHT— RECENT SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS.
object (N. G. C. No. 40), which has a central condensation of ex-
ceptional strength, Fig. 6. The somewhat lumpy look of its con-
tinuous spectrum is due to the presence of emission bands. It will
be noted that the positions of these bands do not correspond with
those of the narrow nebular lines. It is a somewhat peculiar fact
that the spectrum of a nebula and its nucleus differ markedly from
each other. The photograph was made to show the narrow nebular
lines, and the continuous spectrum is overexposed, but another
record, Fig. 7, enlarged by means of a cylindrical lens, is more
legible. The dots above the spectrum indicate the positions of the
brighter emission bands of the Class O or Wolf-Rayet stars. The
correspondence is complete, and the neucleus of the nebula is to be
regarded as a star of that group. Fig. 8 shows the spectrum of
another system of which the nucleus is extremely bright. The nar-
row lines belong to the nebula, while the hazy bands constitute the
spectrum of the nucleus. The object was originally catalogued as a
Class O star, and the surrounding nebulosity was found later. It
is Campbell's so called hydrogen envelope star, in reality a planetary
nebula.
Examples such as these might be multiplied, but there is no occa-
sion for the repetition. Summarizing the results for all of the
nebulae observed, we have:
1. Of the forty-seven nebulae examined thirty have nuclei suffi-
ciently bright for their spectra to be photographed.
2. Of these thirty nuclei fifteen are Class O stars, and all show
spectra indicative of high temperature.
I believe that upon this showing all of the nebular nuclei are
to be regarded as belonging to the same general group as the Class
O stars. When we recall that throughout the sky only one star
in several thousand is known to belong to that group, it is difficult
to escape the conclusion that there is an intimate connection between
them and the nebulae. The table summarises the argument in favor
of such a connection ; there are :
1. Nebulae without nuclei.
2. Nebulae with nuclei. The nuclei are in all instances stars of
very high temperature, and in half of the cases show Class O
bands.
