WRIGHT— RECENT SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS. 529
3. Class O stars, with no (observed) nebulous surroundings. Tem-
perature high.
In a single instance a star, previously described as belong to Class
O, has been found to be surrounded by a planetary nebula, and it
appears likely that other observations of a similar character will be
made in the future, but such discoveries are hardly necessary to
add to the proof of the connection. The only effect would be to
remove one or more objects from group 3 and place them in group 2.
In considering this relationship it should be borne in mind that the
nebulae and the Class O stars have comparatively few points of
spectral correspondence, either in wave-length or in character of
line, but the nebular unclei are Class O stars, and while their
spectra differ from the spectra of their surrounding nebulosities, we
have here the undoubted proof of physical association to bridge the
gap in spectral similarity.
Reverting now to the hypothesis diagram of figure 2, this spectral
relationship may be interpreted in various ways :
1. It may be taken as fortifying the hypothesis diagramed on
the left and refuting the other.
2. The planetary nebulae may be regarded as not standing in
the prior relationship to the stars indicated in both diagrams, but
as representing a development later in life.
3. They may be bodies exceptional character, not directly related
lo those in the supposed ordinary scheme of development.
While the evidence appears to favor the first there are arguments
for and against all of these interpretations, but there is no occasion
to discuss them here. If I have indicated at considerable length
the possible bearing of the observations on present notions of stellar
evolution it has been to point out the critical nature of nebular rela-
tionships rather than to attempt to bolster any particular theory.
What is regarded as a definite outcome of the work is that it helps
to perfect the proof of an element of stellar classification : the
relationship of the planetary nebulae to the Class O stars.
As bearing on the physical conditions obtaining in the planetary
nebulae which we find associated with these extremely hot, or elec-
