530 WRIGHT— RECENT SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS.
trically active stars, attention may be directed to a rather remarkable
continuous spectrum which begins near the hmit of the Balmer
series of hydrogen and extends toward the uhra-violet. The spec-
trum may be seen in the photograph (Fig. 9) as a broad, faint band
Fig. 9.
lying to the left of the strong negular image. ^ A similar phenome-
non has been observed by Evershed in the solar chromosphere. The
spectrum is assumed to be due to hydrogen, though nothing of the
sort has been found, with certainty, in the laboratory. It is perhaps
significant that a spectrum would be expected there if we accept the
Bohr atomic theory. From the atomic model which Bohr sets up,
the Balmer line series of hydrogen develops from the recovery of a
partially separated electron, while an extension of his equations
to include the capture of free electrons by positive nuclei estab-
lishes a continuous spectrum at just this place. I must confess
that I venture into the domain of the physicist with trepidation, and
I have, for the purposes of this small excursion, sought the hospi-
table protection and guidance of Professor Millikan, which have
been generously accorded. Professor Millikan has pointed out that
the justification of this interpretation would depend upon the ratio
of the energy of agitation of the electron to the energy expended
in capture, that is to Planck's constant multiplied by the frequency
of vibration at the limit of the Balmer series. A temperature of
about 6000° centigrade would afiford the requisite amount of kinetic
energy. As a matter of fact that is about the temperature of the
solar chromosphere, which, as we have seen, also emits this spec-
trum. It will be recalled in this connection that Buisson, Fabry, and
Bourget have estimated the temperature of the Orion Nebula to be
about 15000° Cent. It seems equally possible that the electronic
^ This illustration, unlike the others, shows a spectrum recorded with a
" slitless " spectograph. For this reason a bright line is represented by an
image of the nebula, instead of by a narrow line, as in the other illustrations.
