42 HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES.
setting which brings a sound into focus causes it to appear binaurally
centered and the rotating switch carries a scale and pointer indicating
the bearing (ambiguous of course as to port or starboard).
The ambiguity cannot be removed by comparing the intensity of
the sound as given by each line of receivers (the method employed
for an "on-board" installation) since there is no sound screen be-
tween the two lines. It therefore becomes necessary to make a
second compensator setting on two groups of receivers which have
their line of centers in a different direction. This can be done by
using six receivers in each eel. The direction will then be the com-
mon angle of the two compensator settings as has been shown.
A switching arrangement is provided whereby the twelve re-
ceivers in the port eel, or the starboard eel, or the six forward re-
ceivers of both eels, or the six rear receivers of both eels can be
connected through the compensator to the two telephones. Further-
more the compensator is so designed that the last stage of compen-
sation, the binaural stage, can be uncoupled and varied independently
of the other two stages which may be termed the maximum part of
the compensation. Whenever compensation is effected across the
two eels, i. e., between the head groups or tail groups of receivers, it
will be seen that the binaural part of the compensation must be made
independently of the maximum part.
Suppose a binaural setting has been made on a sound when the
12 receivers of, say the starboard eel, are connected through the
compensator. The maximum part of the compensation is properly
adjusted to bring the impulses from each group of 6 receivers — the
head group and the tail group — into phase. The resultant of each
group is brought into phase by the binaural part of the compensation
and the compensator is so designed that the same angular rotation is
required for both stages. Now if the six receivers in the head of
the port eel are substituted for the rear six in the starboard eel and
in the same order, it is evident that the compensator adjustment for
maximum still holds for the reason that this is determined by the
angle between the line of the receivers and the sound. This angle
remains the same in both cases since the two eels are parallel. But
the phase difference between the resultant of the two groups will in
