HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES. 43
general be different in this second case so that the binaural part of
the compensation will need to be changed to give a binaural center.
The switching arrangement in the compensator is designed so
that whenever the receivers are connected in for cross-compensation
a clutch which connects the maximum and binaural parts of the com-
pensation is automatically released leaving the binaural part free to
turn while the maximum part remains fixed. This clutch auto-
matically falls back into position whenever the port or starboard line
of receivers is switched to the compensator.
The direction of a sound source is then determined on the U-3
Tube as follows : Connect the receivers in either eel to the compen-
sator and make a binaural setting, then connect either the head or
tail groups to the compensator and make a second binaural setting.
The common angle on the two double scales is the direction.
The compensator is provided with two electrical filters either of
which can be connected in series with the telephones at will. These
filters allow all sounds above a certain definite frequency to readily
pass but eliminate almost entirely the lower frequencies. One filter
limits the passage to frequencies above 450 and the other to those
above 900. Very often disturbing noises can be largely eliminated
by using one filter or the other without weakening the comparatively
high pitched sound from a submarine.
The U-2 Tube is one of the best listening devices that has thus
far been devised. It can readily be installed on any boat without
docking, is durable and easily repaired and rapid in manipulation.
It can be operated at fairly high speeds because its streamlining is
such that it produces very little water noise itself while it can be
towed far enough astern to reduce the water noise and other noises
on the listening boat to a minimum. It has the longest range of any
of the various types of submarine detectors due to the fact that it
employs highly sensitive receivers in multiple combination, operates
at sufficient depth to largely eliminate surface noises, and at a suf-
ficient distance from the listening boat to largely eliminate local
noises, and due to its focusing qualities desirable sounds are inten-
sified while other sounds are relatively weakened.
The use of multiple unit electrical lines is not limited to towing
devices. As an " on-board " installation the electrical MV has cer-
