44 HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES.
tain advantages over the acoustical. It is more sensitive and there-
fore capable of giving greater range. It can be housed within a
water-tight blister in such a way that the line of receivers can be
withdrawn through a hand-hole opening in the skin of the ship and
repaired or replaced without docking the boat. The installation as
a whole has proved more durable than the acoustical lines. If a re-
ceiver becomes defective it can be cut out and the line can still be
used, whereas a leak in the acoustical line allows the installation to
fill with water and thus become useless. Finally, the compensator
can be placed on or near the bridge whereas the listening station for
an acoustical MV must be placed near the inlets through the ship's
skin. This location must necessarily be near the keel of the boat and
as a result considerable distance from the bridge.
On the other hand, the quality of the sound and the selectivity
given by the acoustical MV is superior to that given by any electrical
MV thus far produced because of the fact that the acoustical re-
ceivers are better matched than are the microphone receivers. How-
ever, improvements in the construction and matching of the micro-
phonic receivers are continually being made and there is all reason
for believing that the electrical MV will soon be made to compare
very favorably with the acoustical MV as regards quality of sound
and selectivity.
The perfection of the electrical MV has made possible the use of
two or more lines of receivers with the same compensator. The type
AE-2 electrical compensator developed for use with the multiple
microphone eels is provided with a multiple unit switch whereby it
can be connected with either the two eels, as described, or to two
" on-board " lines enclosed in blisters. This combination is very
favorable for searching submarines for the reason that the eels can
be used for picking up faint or distant sounds thereby directing the
listening boat to a point where the submarine can be heard and fol-
lowed by means of the " on-board " lines. Moreover, the distance of
the submarine can be judged with some accuracy by determining its
bearing on both the eels and the " on-board " lines. The distance
between the eels and the blisters being known the range of the sub-
marine is readily determined by triangulation. While this method
does not determine range with sufficient accuracy for bombing pur-
