46 HAYES— DETECTION OF SUBMARINES.
these devices in peace times as well as in war times is but imperfectly
realized, but it is a safe prediction that the future will find them a
distinct safeguard to navigation.
The Value of the Submarine Sound Detector as an Instrument of
Warfare is not to be measured by the number of " U-boats " that by
its aid have been located and damaged or sunk but rather by the re-
sulting curtailment of their radius of operation and the effect on the
morale of their officers and crews. The U-boat in operation was
never safe after the perfection of the submarine detector. When
traveling at sufficient speed to cover any distance it could be heard
and accurately located at a range of several miles. The same was
true whenever it lay on the surface charging its batteries. It. could,
in some localities, lie at rest on the bottom or if the depth prevented
this it could run very slowly, about one and a fourth knots, at a
depth of from lOO to 200 feet and thus be reasonably free from de-
tection but under such conditions it was comparatively harmless.
Submarine sound detectors promise to become a distinct aid to
navigation during conditions of low visibility. Its aid is two-fold :
first, approaching vessels can usually be heard and located in time
to avoid collision and second, harbor entrances can be safely made
by taking bearings on properly placed submarine signals.
The U. S. S. destroyer Parker while maneuvering in the North
Sea in a dense fog reported that she avoided two collisions in one
day by locating an approaching boat with her listening gear.
Some idea of the aid which can be given in entering a harbor is
shown by the results of recent experiments. By means of an elec-
trical MV-Tube on one of our transports, the writer recently located
the Nantucket Light-ship within two degrees at a distance of 2)7
nautical miles by picking up its submarine bell signal, and this was
accomplished while the transport was steaming at 15 knots. Had
the transport slowed down to Ys speed the bell could without doubt
have been heard at a range of over 50 miles. While entering New
York Harbor from one to three bell signals could be heard and ac-
curately located at any time and as a result the vessel could have
safely entered harbor in a dense fog.
It would seem that navigation during conditions of low visibility
can be made perfectly safe if each boat is equipped with a good sub-
