50 WILLIAMS— DEEP KANSAN PONDINGS IN
which produces beach-lines — both filled and undercut — of good defi-
nition, high terraces with long and flat tops, and all the signs of long
flooding : the latter will rarely persist at an exact level. We shall
come upon good examples in this discussion, and when ice-dams
occur in a valley like those of the Juniata or of the Allegheny, where
there is a fall of the regional surface commensurate with that of the
floodplain of the stream, it is evident that the height of the ice-dams
would be similarly influenced, and the sporadic bars and terraces
formed in the pondings would have a proportional fall in elevation,
and of so marked a character that it would simulate the slope of a
high gradation plain.
The illustrative material to be examined is found in the Hudson,
Lehigh and Juniata valleys, whose streams were never reversed, and
whose pondings were against ice-dams : in the Bald Eagle, and in an
inconsequential part of the West Branch of Susquehanna River,
between Williamsport and Lock Haven, both of which were tem-
porarily 'reversed, and whose ponding was between the glacier and
a col.
The Allegiheny is a patchwork stream. It flows through 4 val-
leys in reverse, and through 4 trenched cols. There were many
pondings with surfaces above 2,100 in the Pennsylvania Highlands;
above 1,600; above 1.500; above 1,430, and above 1,200, as we pro-
ceed from those highlands to the mouth of Clarion River, where the
crests of the region are 1,000 feet lower. The terraces, bars, sporadic
areas of gravel of Kansan age partake of the elevation of the pond-
ing, and fall in elevation, as will be seen below.
It is generally acknowledged that there was no sinking of the
Kansan border in Pennsylvania during glacial times, and that the
isobase of 200 feet crosses the Hudson Valley near Storm King
Mountain. We can therefore use the Government and State Topo-
graphic Quadrangles to measure relative elevations along that
border, and, with proper corrections, elsewhere, during the period
treated in this paper. The most of the illustrations which follow
have been published before. The photographs were taken by the
writer between September, 1892, and August, 1897. It remains to
acknowledge his great indebtedness to the late Dr. Joseph Barrell
who, as an assistant traversed the entire Kansan Border between the
