52 WILLIAMS— DEEP KANSAN PONDINGS IN
stagnation in the pocket, and a high ice-dam as its cause. The
gravels are found along the Rondout-Wallkill Valley, and indicate a
current of 30 inches per second passing thence from the Hudson,
and a depth of water — 314 to 514 feet — sufficient to pass over its
saddle.
Both clay and gravel are sorts of a glacial outwash. The clean-
ness of the former indicates a recession of the glacial front to the
north sufficient to permit the separation of the sand and gravel sorts
from the clay as soon as a slackening of the torrential current oc-
curred. The volume of the torrent can be inferred from the fact
that the Hudson Valley drained that part of the St. Lawrence basin
which passed through Lake Champlain — all from the glacier and the
region between the Green Mountain-Taconic range on the east and
the Delaware-Susquehanna watershed on the west, and all from
Central New York that did not escape south or west. Such a flood
would clear away at once whatever deposits in the Hudson Valley
were within the area of scour, as soon as the ice-dam in the pocket
became weak.
This episode is an archetype of our periodic freshets, with their
high water, their thin washes of slimes and of light trash, and their
rapid subsidence. Nobody associates the distance between the high
levels reached by the slimes, and the midsummer low water, to
which they run continuously, as indicating the depth of excavation
in a completely slime-filled valley. Nor do we so theorize about
sporadic gravels dropped in deep pondings, such as will now be con-
sidered.
Delaware Narrows Ponding.
A similar ice-dam was formed south of Easton, Penna., in the
Delaware Narrows, of bergs from the Hudson, and from the glacial
lobe which crossed the former river north of Pocono Mountain. It
ponded the Lehigh Valley up to 500 feet^ during the wasting of the
Hudson-Delaware-Schuylkill lobe there. As evidence of Arctic in-
trusion we find Sedum rhodiola growing on the side of the narrows
where the sun never intrudes. This and Quoddy Head, Maine, are
the two habitats of this plant in the United States.
The deposits in this ponding are sporadic. The most prominent
