PENNSYLVANIA AND DEPOSITS THEREIN. 53
are long ridges of foreset-bedded gravels with infrequent cobbles
and boulders, which extend towards the Delaware from the low hills
or the projecting shoulders of South Mountain, which formed long
areas of diminishing slackness. The bars thus diminish both in
height and breadth as they near their ends. The lodging of bergs
nearby made changes in the strength of the scour, and we find sur-
faces of erosion with unconformable beds on either side. This is
especially the case at the end of the period when fine gravel was de-
posited, and the Packer Clay with its boulders and iceberg trash fol-
lowed as a capping. Some of these bergs carried masses of rock
weighing four and one half tons, and a heap of such masses were
found on top of an eddy hill in what was South Bethlehem.
This clay capping is sandy and but 2 feet thick near lines of cur-
rent of 5 inches per second ; but is 30 feet thick and sand-poor in
areas of still water. It lies unconformably over the ends of some of
these long bars, and proves that their sculpturing preceded its depo-
sition, and that they were never part of a complete valley filling since
excavated. This latter was the theory of J. P. Lesley in his intro-
duction, p. 37, to F. Prime's third report (D3, Second Geol. Surv.
Pa., 1878), where he characterizes the Bethlehem gravels as "a high-
flood river deposit, or an ancient high-level river-channel deposit."
Susquehanna Ponding.
This valley is so broad that the only places where damming took
place in the Kansan Border are at the narrows near Rupert and at
Little Mountain. The ice-dam in the former must have been above
160 feet high, as the Berwick upper sands reach that elevation, and
carry glaciated cobbles and boulders.* At Nescopeck, opposite Ber-
wick, E. H. Williams, Jr., reported* in 1895 •
There are three formations in the gravels at Berwick and Nescopeck:
first, subglacial till so compact that a pick can scarcely be driven into it. This
has a clay base and carries an abundance of rdlled stones of all the formations
to the north — even granite and anthracite meet in the mass. On this is a
bed of modified drift of loose nature and sandy matrix with the same collec-
tion of rolled stones, and of equal freshness. In fact there is no difference in
the color of the layers. . . . The lower inch of the gravels is a conglomerate
with a limonite matrix, where the percolating waters laden with the solution
of iron were stopped by the dense till below. Capping all is a layer of un-
stratified sand that varies in thickness greatly within a few feet, and carries
streaks of gravel, glaciated cobbles and boulders at all levels.
