PENNSYLVANIA AND DEPOSITS THEREIN. 59
(connecting the preglacial Allegheny and Tionesta) ; at Foster (con-
necting East Sandy and West Sandy creeks — ^branches of the Tio-
nesta) ; at Emlenton (connecting the Tionesta and Clarion basins).
The cutting of these to present stream level formed the modern
Allegheny River.
An ephemeral connection between the preglacial Allegheny and
Tionesta, and which has resulted in the piracy, by the latter, of the
headwaters of the preglacial Conewango, occurred during the ap-
proach of the glacial margin towards Clarendon, when there was a
discharge of the Conewango ponding over the Barnes col and trench
into the Tionesta. There was also a trenched col at Titusville ; but
it had little or no influence in the formation of the gravels to be con-
sidered. Its elevation was i,6io.^
The following passes and cols enter more or less into the history
of the ponding :^
A. On the Potter-McKean County Plateau. Discharges from Big
Bend Ponding :
Keating Summit. Trench used by the Iroquois as a portage between the
Allegheny and Sinnemahoning basins. Plateau top 2,400 feet ; trench
bottom 1,878 feet. Immediately east of the McKean County line.
Clermont. Broad shallow pass. Floor 2,068 feet. Allegheny discharge
from Potato Creek through Mill Brook into East Branch of Clarion
River.
Glad Run. Shallow pass. Floor below 2,100 feet. Into West Branch of
Clarion River.
Kane. Forked pass, broad and shallow. The eastern fork into West
Branch of Clarion River : the western, into the headwaters of the pre-
glacial Conewango Creek; now, of the Tionesta. Floor 2,025 feet.
B. On the Allegheny-Tionesta Watershed. Discharges from Cone-
wango Ponding :
Barnes. Trench. Top 1,500; bottom 1,300; filled with 2 terraces of
gravel for 60 feet. Preglacial outlet into Tionesta River. Present out-
let of preglacial branches of Conewango Creek, dammed by moraine at
Clarendon, and now headwaters of Tionesta River.
Thompson. Trench. Elevation considered below. Outlet into Tionesta
River after the arrival of the glacial margin at Clarendon.
C. On the Allegheny-preglacial Upper Oil Creek Watershed. Dis-
charge from Conewango Ponding into Titusville Ponding. No
cutting or trenching :
