66 WILLIAMS— DEEP KANSAN PONDINGS IN
the shapes and thicknesses of the underlying sands and clay, and the
depth and slope of the scoured rock floor as it dips toward and be-
neath the Conewango.
This bar originally stood above the level upper sands as do those
in front of the Bald Eagle gaps. It stands away from the back of
Indian Hollow, across which it originally ran. Its cross-section any-
where shows a cylindroidal surface with the sides coming down
rather abruptly to the surface of the shoulder of the offshoot from
Quaker Ridge behind which it was dropped, as shown in the frontis-
piece and in Fig. 8. Its crest merges with that shoulder at 1,488
feet, at a distance 2,300 feet up the slope, and 92 feet vertically
above the top of the cutting shown in both figures. It is capped with
iceberg clay.
As a further proof that these formations were dropped in deep
ponding in sheltered areas along the line of current up the Cone-
wango, and only along that line, we find a similar terrace-bar acros
Glade Run Valley, since trenched by that stream, consisting of the
same succession from Conezvango Clay to Clarendon Gravels. Its
axis points up the old Conewango, and toward Barnes, and its
foreset dip has the same orientation. G. F.Wright, in 1914,^ showed
in his Fig. 2 a section of this bar 250 feet above the Allegheny
River. This is in the shelter of the forked shoulder from Quaker
Ridge which forms the southeast side of Indian Hollow, and is thus
over the ridge from the bar above described. It has the same sand
stratum near its top, and at about the same elevation ; but as both
bars are bedded with foreset strata, the plane of these interbedded
sands at Glade passes in the air at least 1,000 feet above the similar
bed at Indian Hollow. We find the same series at Stoneham and at
Clarendon, and with the sand stratum near the surface at the latter
place, dipping towards Barnes. They are thus not of a general val-
ley filling afterwards sculptured to shape, as shown by the iceberg
clap capping about Warren, which was not only dropped in deep
water; but showed that the shaping antedated the drainage of the
ponding. This last is also shown by the peculiar thin sheets of basal
conglomerate with limonite matrix, as noted by Williams.^
