THE PARALLAXES OF FIFTY STARS (SECOND LIST)
DETERMINED AT SPROUL OBSERVATORY.
By JOHN A. MILLER,
WITH THE COOPERATION OF
JOHN H. PITMAN and HANNAH B. STEELE.
{Read December 5, 1919.)
I have given in the following pages the data of observation, the
data of reduction and the reductions necessary to determine the
parallaxes of fifty stars. It seems unnecessary to describe either
the instruments or the methods employed in the work, further than
to say that the intsruments used are the same that were used in de-
termining the parallaxes of the first list published by the observatory
in 1 91 7 (Sproul Observatory Publication No. 4). The fields are
photographed with a 24-inch visually corrected refracting telescope
on Instantaneous Isochromatic plates. A ray filter which cuts off
the violet and the red rays is placed very near the plate. These
plates are measured and reduced as described in the publication re-
ferred to. The scale on the plate is 4".685 to the quarter millimeter,
the value of one turn of the screw on the measuring engine.
These results have been obtained through the efforts of several
persons. The work has been done according to plans of the writer.
Those participating in the work are : Professor John H. Pitman,
Ivliss Hannah B. Steele, Dr. Samuel G. Barton, Reverend Walter A.
Matos, Miss Marie S. Bender, and Miss Caroline H. Smedley. No
one of us has been free to devote his entire time to it. I believe, in
the body of the text, I have given specific credit to each for the part
of the work he has performed. The reductions and many of the
measures, as well as the routine work of marking the plates and
keeping the records was performed by Miss Steele until 1916 when
she went to Yerkes Observatory. Miss Bender did this work the
following year and Miss Smedley, since the summer of 1917, has
given much of her energies to the same work.
Some of the fields of comparison stars have been selected in ac-
85
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, VOL. LIX, F, MARCH 30, I92O.
