86 MILLER— PARALLAXES OF FIFTY STARS.
cordance with the scheme described in Sproul Pubhcation No. 4, (p.
10 et seq.). Other fields have been selected in the usual way, i.e.,
the comparison stars were selected because of their location and
brightness, the ideal being in every case to select stars of approxi-
mately the same brightness and to reduce the parallax star to the
same magnitude by the occulting disc. In the final table of this
paper, which contains a summary of the preceding results, I have
marked with an asterisk those stars whose comparison fields were
selected by the first method. I propose a little later to discuss more
fully our experience with this method. In the detailed results which
follow there is given for each star its B.D. number together with
some other ordinarily used designations ; its position for the epoch
of 1900; its magnitude; its proper motion; and its spectrum. The
magnitude and spectrum are taken if possible from the Annals of
the Harvard College Observatory, Volume 50. The proper motions
are taken, with few exceptions from Boss' Preliminary General
Catalogue, or from the Cincinnati publications.
Two tables are given in connection with each star. The first con-
tains the necessary observational data, and the quantities needed for
reduction. The initials in columns 2 and 9, have the following sig-
nification : B. denotes Barton ; Be., Bender ; M., Miller ; Ma., Matos ;
P., Pitman ; S., Miss Steele ; Sm., Miss Smedley. T., in column 4, is
the time of observation given in 100 days from the mean date of the
series ; m., in column 6, is the " solution " of the plate given in quar-
ter-milhmeters ; p., in column 7, is the weight of the plate assigned
by the person who measures it. The second table contains the data
for the position of the comparison stars measured in equatorial co-
ordinates, the diameter of the stars in quarter-millimeters, and their
B.D. numbers. Following this table are the normal equations and
their solutions. The quantity fx in these equations is the proper
motion given in seconds of arc per hundred days. The quantity, tt,
is the relative parallax.
An appropriation made from the income of a fund given by
James C. Watson for Astronomical Research, has been made to me
by the National Academy of Sciences for three successive years.
These appropriations have been used to aid in the measurements and
reduction of these plates. It is a pleasure to acknowledge these gen-
erous contributions from the x\cademy.
