1 16 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Euthrips iusularis Franklin var. reticulata n var.
Mr. Franklin speaks of the species as being very common throughout the
Barbadoes and West Indies ; it is perhaps the most common species, also, in
the region of Guadalajara, Mexico. Hundreds of specimens were taken by
the writer on various flowering plants — several species of Lupinus, Convolvu-
lus, Compositae, and a Rhamnus, the localities ranging in altitude from 2500
feet above sea level to 10,000 feet. There is quite a marked variation in the
species. All the specimens have a reticulated body surface, some more mark-
edly than others — this character is not mentioned in the description of Eu.
insularis; the general color varies from dark brown, almost black, to very light
yellowish brown. The antennae vary in the shape, color, and relative lengths
of the segments ; .some, as in Mr. Franklin's descriptions, have the third and
fourth segments yellow, the fourth darker on distal half; others have the third
and fourth segments uniformly yellow ; the shape of the segments varies from
slender, as in the description, to comparatively stout ; nor are the relative
lengths of the segments constant. The wings, also, vary in length consid-
erably.
It seems that the most constant characters of this species are ( 1 ) the
arrangement of the cephalic and thoracic bristles, (2) the comb-like arrange-
ment of spines on the posterior dorsal margin of the eighth abdominal seg-
ments, (3) a large clear area at base of fore-wings, (4) antennae eight-seg-
mented, with the third segment yellow, and (5) in the Mexican variety, retic-
ulation of head, thorax, abdomen and femora.
Rhaptothrips, new pfenus
Head small, rectangular ; eyes extremely small, with a few facets on outer
side ; ocelli wanting. Antennae seven-segmented, long and slender, third seg-
ment very elongate. Mouth cone of medium size, very blunt at tip ; maxillary
and labial palpi one-segmented. Prothorax about as long as head, wider
posteriorly than anteriorly ; pterothorax much broader than prothorax, with a
facetted spiracular( ?) plate on anterior angles of mesothorax. Entire dorsal
.surface from mesothorax to eighth abdominal segment inclusive covered with
irregular chitinous, setigerous plates, this irregular arrangement giving the
insect a curious patched appearance. Posterior coxae almost as widely sepa-
rated as second coxae. Legs of medium size, with several very long slender
spines on femora and tibiae, and one large spear-shaped horizontal spine on
apical end of tibiae. Wings wanting so far as known. Abdomen long and
slender, with facetted spiracular plates (sense organs?) on second and eighth
segments ; all spines occur on the chitinous plates ; ninth segment heavily
chitinized, tube nearly as long as ninth segment, converging to tip, with two
short apical spines.
Rhaptothrips peeiiliaris n. sp.
Total length of body 4.12 mm.; general color black.
Head (Fig. .^2 A) small, about one and one-fourth times as long as
