CRAWFORD, SOME THYSANOPTERA OF MEXICO AND THE SOUTH 117
broad, and about as long as prothorax ; cheeks parallel ; anterior angles con-
cave to receive antennae ; a concavity between insertion of antennae ; four in-
conspicuous spines on anterior half of dorsal surface, one pair in front and
the other pair behind the eyes, and one small spine on each cheek. Eyes ex-
tremely small, dark, with two or three widely separated facets, which are
light, the rest of the eye apparently blind ; no ocelli present. Mouth cone long,
broad, and broadly rounded at tip, reaching almost to posterior margin of
prothorax ; maxillary and labial palpi one-segmented, the latter short. Anten-
nae (Fig. 52 D) seven-segmented, long and slender, more than two and one-
half times as long as head ; two basal segments rectangular in shape, 1 shorter
than II ; III very elongate, enlarged at both ends, sides rough ; IV to VI elon-
gate, but shorter than III, with a sense cone on distal end of each ; VII bluntly
pointed at tip, with an obscure suture just beyong the middle and another more
obscure midway between the first suture and the tip; segments II, III, and
VII with three or four long slender spines at apical end ; IV to VI with one
spine on side opposite to the sense cone ; III light brown, except distal one-
sixth, the rest of the segments concolorous with body.
Prothorax ( Fig. 52 A ) about one and two-thirds times as wide as long,
narrowed anteriorly and bulging midlaterally, partly due to fore-coxae ; two
rectangular chitinous plates between fore-coxae, each bearing two spines ; no
other spines on prothorax. Mesothorax (Fig. 52 A) about as long as pro-
thorax, and one and one-half times as wide posteriorly ; sides diverging to
midpoint, and from there to posterior margin of metathorax, sides about
parallel, slightly ■ diverging ; with a pair of large facetted spiracular plates
(Fig. 52 H) near anterior angles, with closely crowded facets; dorsal surface
of both meso- and metathorax and all but two anal abdominal segments, with
irregular chitinous plates (Fig 52 A), most of which bear one spine, a few
with two spines, and some with none ; these are scattered promiscuously over
the dorsal surface, and are distinctly convex ; spines moderately long and
stout ; the rest of the body surface, both dorsal and ventral, apparently very
weakly chitinized. Metathorax shorter and slightly wider than mesothorax,
diverging somewhat to midpoint of pleurae, and then converging, but slightly
wider posteriorly than anteriorly ; hind coxae almost as widely separated as
middle pair. All thoracic spines set on chitinous plates. Legs (Fig. 52, E,
F, C) moderately long, with roughened surface; with several extremely long
and slender spines on all femora and tibiae, and several ot^ier shorter ones
on each; distal end of tibiae, without, with a very long, remarkable, spear-
shaped spine (Fig. 52 G) ; tarsi almost abortive; middle tarsi with a heavy
setigerous projection on each side of the bladder. Wings not present.
Abdomen (Fig. 52 B) long, uniformly tapering from posterior margin
of metathorax to tip ; segments one to six, with numerous irregular chitinous
plates ; as described above, and segments seven and eight with two or three
larger and more symmetrical plates, with several spines ; two anal segments
long and tube-like, and heavily chitinized over entire surface, deep black ;
ninth segment with eight long slender bristles on distal end ; ami segment
