SOME ODYNERINAE OF THE SOUTHWEST
UNITED STATES
p. CAMERON.
Leptochilus cratocerus n. sp.
Black, the clypeus, labrum, mandibles (except the apex which is rufous),
a small spot on the front, the lower edge of the eye incision, a short line
behind the eyes above, a line on the base of the thorax, dilated irregularly on to
the propleurae, a small spot on the sides of the scutellum at the base, post-
scutellum, an irregular spot narrowed behind on the sides of the metanotum
in the middle, a large conical spot below the tegulae, and broad bands on the
bases of the basal six abdominal segments, bright lemon yellow ; the ventral
segments are also edged with the same color, the mark on the second being
wider and trilobate. Legs bright lemon yellow, the base of coxae in front,
entirely behind, the trochanters, and the base of the femora broadly, the poste-
rior to near the apex above and below, and the middle femora beyond the
middle above, black. Antennal scape lemon yellow, black above, the fiagellum
brownish red, black on top. Wings hyaline, the costa and stigma dark fulvous,
the nervures black. Male — Length 7 mm.
Ormsby county, Nevada. July (Baker).
Antennae long, stouter than usual, especially toward the apex, the last
joint straight above, roundly narrowed to a blunt point below. Clypeus
sparsely punctured, covered with silvery pile ; the apex transverse, broad, as
wide as the sides which are straight and oblique. Front and vertex closely
rugosely punctured, thickly covered with long pale fuscous hair. Temples
roundly obliquely narrowed ; the occiput transverse. Thorax clearly longer
than wide, the base transverse, with bluntly projecting lateral angles, the apex
narrowed, the sides broadly rounded. Pro- and mesothorax strongly closely
punctured; the postscutellum large, with a rounded oblique slope, the apex
transverse. Metanotum deeply depressed in the middle where it is finely
closely striated, the rest distinctly punctured above, sparsely punctured and
obscurely striated below. Metapleurae shining, aciculated. First abdominal
seginent cup-shaped, longer than it is wide at the apex, gradually narrowed
from the apex to the base, somewhat strongly but not closely punctured ; the
second segment is about one-fourth longer than wide, but not much narrowed
at the base, sparsely weakly punctured. The trophi are very long, the maxillae
reaching slightly beyond the apex of thorax. The basal two joints of the
maxillary palpi are clearly thicker than the others, which are long and slender ;
the penultimate joint of the labial palpi is very long and slightly nodose at
the apex, the last is about six times longer than wide. Mandibles long, with
two teeth behind the apical, the posterior being less distinct than the second.
Labrum large, projecting, longer than wide, its apex rounded.
Saussure (Syn. Am. Wasps, 367) describes two species of Leptochilus:
falla.r Sauss., of doubtful origin, and ornatus Sauss. from Carolina. The
