CAMERON, SOME ODYNERINAE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN UNITED STATES 123
former is omitted by Mr. Cresson in his Catalogue (Trans. Am. Ent. Supp.
1887, 288), while ornatus he refers to Odynerus. As the species are very
easily recognized, Leptochilus might as well be adopted as a generic group.
Pterochilus bakeri n. sp.
Black, the clypeus except a small irregular spot in the center ; mandibles
except apex, a narrow line on the lower edge of the eye incision, a broader one
obliquely narrowed below on the outer orbits, the upper part of the thorax to
near the apex, where it is broad and incised, tegulae, two large marks on the
scutellum, postscutellum, the sides of metanotum broadly, the marks not reach-
ing to the lower edge, a squarish mark on the base of the mesopleurae rounded
below and reaching beyond the middle, a similar but longer mark immediately
below it, and the abdomen for the greater part, lemon yellow ; the basal slope
of the first abdominal segment the mark continued beyond as a narrower
rounded projection, a larger similar mark on the second, narrow rounded
bands on the base of the second to fifth, and the basal half of the sixth all
around, black. Legs of a paler yellow, the coxae behind, the hind femora to
near the apex, the four anterior femora at the base all around, more broadly
behind, and the intermediate to beyond the middle, black. Antennal scape
yellow, black above, the flagellum black, reddish brown below. Wings hyaline,
suffused with fulvous, the apex slightly violaceous, the costa and stigma ful-
vous. Female — Length 9 mm. Claremont, California. (Baker.)
Clypeus as broad as long, sparsely punctured, the apex somewhat broad,
transverse, margined. Head and thorax closely but not strongly punctured.
Base of thorax transverse, the sides slightly but distinctly bluntly projecting,
the sides at the apex broadly rounded, apical half of mesonotum with a longi-
tudinal furrow bordering the middle. Abdomen closely coarsely punctured,
the second segment square, the base of the second ventral segment has a band,
which bifurcates at the outer edges the outer fork the larger.
The apex of the clypeus is broader than it is in hiteicollis Cam. ; in that
species the lower mark on the mesopleurae is narrower, more irregular and
obliquely sloped, there is a yellow mark on the metapleurae^ and the marks
on the basal two abdominal segments are differently shaped, e. g., they are in-
cised in the middle.
Symmorphus hornii n. sp.
Black, a small, semi-circular mark on the top of the clypeus, a small one
over the antennae, a triangidar spot on the sides of the pronotum slightly
longer than that on the clypeus, two spots wider than long, and narrowed on
the inner side on the scutellum, an irregular spot narrowed below under the
tegulae, a line of uniform width on the apices of the first and second abdominal
segments, a narrow interrupted one on the middle of the third, a broader one
(not much narrower than those on the basal segments) on the fourth, and an
irregular line curved and laterally dilated, on the underside of the third, pale
whitish yellow. Tibiae, except at the apex, testaceous. Wings, hyaline, suf-
fused with violaceous, the base tinged with dark testaceous, the stigma and
nervures black. Female — Length 10 mm. Gunnison, Colorado. (Baker.)
