124 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
A longisli insect, narrow compared with the width, the thorax more than
twice longer than wide, the base narrowed transverse, the sides distinctly pro-
jecting. Parapsidal furrows complete, but shallow. Scutellum with a distinct
furrow down the apical three-fourths. Apex of postscutellum rounded, almost
transverse. Metanotum furrowed down the center, the furrow widened below,
keeled stoutly in the middle, the sides with a distinct edge. Propleurae punc-
tured above, the rest strongly closely striated ; mesopleurae with scattered
punctures, the apex above closely rugosely punctured; metapleurae obscurely
finely striated at the apex. First abdominal segment distinctly longer than
it is wide at the apex, without a distinct neck at the base, it is narrower than
the second which is clearly longer than wide, and is narrowed at the base,
smooth and shining. Clypeus pyriform, shining, weakly sparsely punctured,
its apex with a wide shallow incision. The transverse keel on the base of the
abdomen is weak, the apical longitudinal furrow deep and clearly defined.
Pubescence short, sparse and pale.
Belongs to Saussure's division a. It is not unlike 6". trisculatits Cam., but
that species has the markings luteous, not white, the stigma testaceous, the
wings hyaline, the first abdominal segment with a distinct narrowed neck, and
the propleurae are punctured, not regularly striated as in the present species.
Odynerus annulatus Say.
This species appears to be fairly common and widely distributed, judging
by the number of specimens in Prof. Baker's collection, also it is a very vari-
able one. The varieties seem to run into local races. The variety from Fedor,
Texas, (Birkmann) is black, with the following parts rufous: Clypeus except
above, a broad line on the upper half of the outer orbits, pronotum except at
the base, tegulae, scutellum, sides of metanotum and the parts round the black
central spot on first abdominal segment ; yellow are the under side of the
antennal scape, clypeus, base of mandibles, the frontal spot, base of pronotum,
the postscutellum, sides and apex of first abdominal segment broadly, and the
apices of the second and third. Some of the red markings may be yellow
and vice versa, e. g.. the clypeus, and the sides of metanotum may be yellow
or red ; the scutellum may rarely be black ; there may be a rufous spot on the
sides of the second abdominal segment at the base ; in most the postscutellum is
yellow ; in all the wings are fuscous violaceous. This variety may be known
as var. birkinanni.
The form from Prescott, Congress, and Phoenix, Arizona (Oslar), and from
Berkeley, Colorado (Oslar), is smaller and has the yellow and red colors much
more extended. The female has the head and thorax red, with the ocelli, the
sides and base of mesonotum, and more or less of the pleurae and breasts
black ; the top of the clypeus, a line on the eye incision, a line on the center
of the apex of pronotum, a large spot under the tegulae, sides of scutellum,
postscutellum, and the sides of the metathorax broadly, bright lemon yellow ;
the abdomen is bright lemon yellow, with the bases of the first and second
segments broadly red; the wings are almost hyaline, smoky violaceous along
the anterior margin. The male of this variety has the front, vertex, occiput,
