CAMERON, SOME ODYNERINAE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN UNITED STATES 125
lower part of prothorax, mesothorax, middle of nietanotum, and a more or
less large spot on the center of the basal abdominal segments ; the clypeus, a
large semi-circular spot on the front, the eye incision, a spot under the tegulae,
a spot on the sides of the scutellum, and the postscutellum, are yellow more or
less tinged with rufous. The red mark on the base of the second abdominal
segment is of irregular form and may be incised laterally at the middle and at
the apex ; there may be a square or triangular black mark in its middle ; the
basal half may be black with an enclosed transverse oval spot on the sides ;
the yellow apical band on the first segment may be dilated backwards at the
sides. An example from Ormsby county, Nevada, has the upper part of the
head, the thorax, except the apex of pronotum, a mark below the tegulae,
one on the sides of the scutellum, the postscutellum, and the first and second
segments of the abdomen (except at the sides), black. This variety mav be
known under the name oslari.
This is a very variable species and very confusing, owing to some of the
varieties simulating other but distinct species. O. orasns Cam., for example.
agrees with the last form that I have described, but may at once be known by
the incised apex of its clypeus. O. bradlcyi Cam., could be matched in color
by one of the aberrations, but may be known by the apex of the clypeus not
being transverse, and by the very different form of the antennae. O. helti
Cam., from Nicaragua is very similar in coloration, but has the clypeus longer
compared with the width, and otherwise differs in the middle of the metapleurae
at the sides projecting into a distinct tooth.
Some of the forms are not unlike Rhygcliium dorsalc F.. in coloration.
Two characteristic features of the species are : the broad clypeus truncated at
the apex in both sexes, and the form of the second abdominal segment, which
is broader than long, its apex depressed, the depression widest in the middle
and strongly punctured.
Odynerus sapelloensis n. sp.
Black, the clypeus except for a small black spot (broad and round above,
narrowed beneath shortly below the middle), a mark over the antennae, a line
on the base of the mandibles, a line on the base of the thorax, narrowed in the
middle, an irregular oval mark (straight behind, rounded in front and nar-
rowed), tegulae, base of postscutellum, two small irregular spots on the sides
of the postscutellum, two small irregular spots on the sides'of the metanotum.
the apex of first abdominal segment (the sides of the apical half more broadly,
the yellow projecting towards the center so that the black central part is nar-
rower than the apical ) , the sides of the second segment from near the base
(the yellow projecting into the central part at the base, the apex more nar-
rowly), the greater part of the following segments, the apex of the second
ventral and the greater part of the following except the last, sulphur yellow ;
the apex of the femora above, their lower part more broadly (especially the
anterior), and the tibiae and tarsi, of a more rufous yellow, the rufous tint
most distinct on the tarsi. Wings almost hyaline, clouded slightly with fulvous
