126 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
in front, the radial cellule violaceous. Antennal scape yellow, black above.
Female. Length 11-12 mm. Sapello Canon and Las \'egas, New Mexico
(Oslar).
Clypeus as wide as long, its apex transverse. Base of thorax transverse,
the sides of the apex bluntly margined, the upper half more distinctly than the
lower, the middle projecting into a slight blunt tooth. The puncturation on
the head, pro, and mesothorax, is strong and close ; the apex of the metanotum
is closely finely obliquely striated, the metapleurae except at the base is closely
somewhat strongly obliquely striated, the striae intermixed with punctures.
Abdomen closely punctured, the apex of the second segment and the following
much more coarsely than the rest ; the first segment cup-shaped, the second
slightlv wider than long, its apex reflexed. The pubescence is dense and
fuscous.
The male is smaller, its clypeus is entirely yellow and with a transverse
apex, the whole being longer than wide ; the markings on the abdomen are
more irregular, e. g. the yellow oblique line on the second abdominal segment
is almost enclosed, the black mark on the second ventral is divided on the sides
by an oblique yellow line ; the antennal hook is broad, thick, rounded, and
slightly narrowed at the apex, reaching to the apex, of the penultimate; the
legs have less black on the base, the coxae being yellow below, and the black
on the femora shorter.
This species is allied to 0. arvensis Sauss., that being larger with clypeus
not entirely yellow below, the legs not broadly black at the base, the sides of
the metanotum yellow above, and the sides of the second abdominal segment
only yellow at the apex. It is not unlike some of the varieties of 0. annulatus
Say : that species may be separated by the broader more bluntly pointed clypeus,
it having also the sides of the metanotum yellow at the base.
Odynerus deficiens n. sp.
Black, the head and thorax densely covered with long fuscous pubescence,
the clypeus, mandibles except at apex, a mark over the antennae, a short one
behind the eyes, a line on the base of thorax laterally not reaching to the
middle of pronotum, tegulae except for a central spot, a spot below them,
postscutellum, a mark on the sides of the metanotum above, a broad line on
the apex of the first abdominal segment broadly dilated laterally to the top of
apical slope, a wider one on the second widely dilated laterally to near the
base where there is an oblique projection narrowed towards the innerside,
broad lines on the other segments, the second ventral (except for a large wide
black mark irregularly narrowed laterally in the middle on the basal three-
fourths), the greater part of the third to fifth ventrals, and a mark in the center
of the last, yellow. Legs yellow, the femora largely marked with black. Male.
Length 10 mm. Prescott, Arizona (Oslar).
Clvpeus pyriform, a little longer than wide, the apex depressed, not quite
transverse, the sides slightly projecting. Base of thorax transverse, the sides
not projecting, the apex transverse, the sides more strongly keeled above than
below. Apex of postscutellum transverse. First abdominal segment cup-
