CAMERON. SOME ODYNERINAE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN UNITED STATES 127
shaped with a short neck, the second is, if anything, wider than long, nar-
rowed at the base, the apex reflexed. Wings hyaHne, tinged with violaceous ;
the basal nervures, costa and stigma, testaceous, the apical nervures blackish.
Allied to O. sapelloensis Cam., but that species may be known by the
second abdominal segment being clearly longer than wide, by the yellow basal
line being enclosed, not open, by the apical part of the black mark on the first
abdominal segment being narrower and broader on the projecting sides, by
the black mark on the second ventral segment being larger, having a larger
more rounded incision on the sides, and the apex having a broad rounded
incision.
Odynenis viereckii n. sp.
Black, the clypeus, base of mandibles, a triangular frontal mark (the nar-
row end below and with a short pedicel), the eye incision, the greater part of
the outer orbits, the basal half of pronotum, sides of scutellum, postscutellum,
a broad conical spot below the tegulae, the sides of the first abdominal segment
from the top of the basal slope, its apex more narrowly, the second segment
except a large broad mark on the center of the basal two-thirds (this mark
has the basal half obliquely narrowed, the narrowed apical part of equal width),
and all the rest of the abdomen pale orange yellow. Legs fulvous, the under-
side of the coxae pale yellow, the upper black, the apex of the femora and of
the tibiae in front, yellow. Antennal scape rufous. The center of the clypeus
tinged with rufous ; the apical half of pronotum, the center of the scutellum
broadly, the upper edges of the sides of metanotum broadly, and a broad band
bordering the sides of the black spots on the center of the first and second
abdominal segments, rufous. Wings fulvo-hyaline, the apex slightly infus-
cated, the nervures blackish, the costa and stigma fulvous. Female. Length
12 mm. Claremont, California (Baker).
Clypeus as wide as long, the upper half strongly but not closely punc-
tured, the lower flat with scattered punctures ; the apex broad, transverse,
furrowed behind. At the end of the vertex in the center, there is a smooth
transverse curved space roundly dilated behind, and with a curved trans-
verse depression on the hinder half. Base of thorax transverse, the apex
laterally becomes gradually widened from the top and bottom to the middle ;
the center of the apex is roundly depressed and closely transversely striated.
The puncturation is strong and close, and on the pleurae running into reticu-
lations. First abdominal segment smooth, cup-shaped, the second slightly
longer than wide, sparsely weakly punctured, the apex strongly punctured
with a smooth reflexed border, the other segments are much more coarsely
punctured, the ape.x of the third is strongly reflexed.
This species might be taken for a form of annulatus hut may readily be
known by the reflexed borders of the second and third segments, by the
fulvous tinted wings and by the longer second abdominal segment.
Odynenis trichiosomus n. sp.
Black, the clypeus, mandibles except the teeth, labrum, a mark over the
antennae (broad and transverse above, the lower part of it obliquely roundly
