128 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
narrowed, the lower half of equal width, half the breadth of the upper), a
line on the lower part of the eye incision, a narrow interrupted line on the
outer orbits, the pronotum, two small spots on the scutellums, a curved spot
narrowed below on the sides of the metanotum above, and the greater part of
the abdomen, orange yellow ; the yellow on the pronotum and two basal seg-
ments of abdomen largely suffused with rufous ; the abdomen has the follow-
ing black markings : the basal slope of first abdominal segment, the black con-
tinued down the middle of the segment to shortly beyond its middle, this part
being narrowed at the base, widely dilated at the apex, it becoming gradually
widened from the base to the apex, a large broad mark on the basal half of
the second segment, its basal part extends to the outer edge of the segment,
from where it becomes gradually obliquely narrowed to the middle, then
obliquely dilated to the apex which is transverse, this apical part not being
so wide as the basal ; an irregular band on the base of the fifth segment, a
broader regular one on the base of the sixth, a narrower more irregular line
around its sides and apex, the first ventral segment, a narrow band on the
base of the second with a square projection in its middle, and the basal half
of the apical segment. Basal three joints of the antennae rufous above, the
scape yellow below. Legs reddish yellow, the coxae, trochanters, and base of
femora black, the black on the hinder femora longer than on the others.
Wings fuscous hyaline, the anterior fulvous in front to the stigma, the costa
and stigma fulvous. Male — Length 11 mm. Gallinas Cation, New Mexico,
July. (Oslar.)
Entire body covered with long dark fuscous pubescence. The yellow on
the pronotum and on the basal two segments of abdomen is suffused with
rufous. Clypeus pyriform, slightly but distinctly longer than wide, the apex
with a shallow rounded incision. Upper part of head and thorax coarsely
punctured, the punctures on the mesopleurae coarser, running into reticula-
tions; the base of the metapleurae finely closely striated, the rest much more
coarsely irregularly striated. First abdominal segment cup-shaped, smooth,
the second as wide as long, the basal two-thirds smooth, the apical deeply
irregularly, but not very closely punctured ; the third to sixth are similarly
punctured, the punctures becoming gradually smaller, the apices of the seg-
ments smooth, not reflexed. Antennal hook black, curved, reaching to the
case of the penultimate joint. Base of thorax transverse, the sides not pro-
jecting. Postscutellum with a steep slope, its base punctured, the rest smooth,
the apex transverse. Sides of metanotum rugose, not margined, the center
closely transversely striated, not hollowed ; it is almost transverse behind.
This species can only be placed in Odynerus sens. str.
Odynerus approximatus n. sp.
Black, the clypeus, mandibles except the teeth, a line fully three times
longer than wide and roundly dilated above over the antennae, a broad line
bordering the lower part of the eye incision, a short narrow line behind the
eyes near the top, a broad spot of equal width behind on the base of the pro-
notum reaching close to the middle, tegulae, postscutellum. a narrow line on
