CAMERON. SOME ODYNERINAE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN UNITED STATES 131
sides extending to the apex, a line around the postscutellum, lower edge of
propleurae, lower half of mesopleiirae, mesostemum, base of metapleurae, the
base of the third abdominal segment narrowly, of the fourth more broadly,
and the base of the second ventral, black. Wings hyaline, narrowly sufifused
with fuscous in front, the costa and stigma dark testaceous, the nervures black.
Female — Length .12 mm. Nogales, Arizona. (Oslar.)
A broad stout species, sparsely haired and except the basal abdominal
segment, closely strongly punctured. Clypeus as broad as long, its apex
bluntly rounded. Thorax about twice longer than wide, as wide as the head,
the base with the sides rounded, the sides of the apex rounded and rough.
Postscutellum projecting over the metanotum, coarsely punctured except on
lower apical slope which is perpendicular. Metanotum roundly hollowed, the
sides transversely striated. Abdomen long-ovate, as long and as wide as the
thorax ; the first segment cup-shaped, with a distinct pedicel at the base, as
wide as the second which is slightly vlfider than long, its apex depressed and
more strongly punctured than the rest. Mandibles of a paler rufous color than
the head, the teeth black. Tegtilae rufous, with a large lead-colored spot in
the center. There is a distinct oblique depression over each antenna, the lower
part of the front being thus gradually narrowed. The base of the second
ventral segment is thicker than usual, projecting more downwards, and there-
fore appearing more clearly separated from the first ; there is a distinct furrow
down the basal half. The punctured apical depressed part of the second
abdominal segment is wide, and broadly roundl\' dilated backward in the
middle.
Odynerus jerouiensis n. sp.
Black, the head, thorax and base of abdomen densely covered with a
longish pale pile ; the clypeus, the greater part of the antennal scape a small
mark wider than long and roundly narrowed below over the antennae, post-
scutellum, a line on the apex of the first abdominal segment dilated laterally.
the dilation longer up and down than longitudinally and with the edge of
the base ragged, the basal two-thirds of the second segment, the apex not
reaching to the outer edge, before it an irregular indentation longest laterally,
narrowed inwardly, the base with an irregular edge, the apical boundary nar-
row and narrowed towards the outer edge, the third and fourth segments
except narrowly at the base, the Ifth more widely, the line roundly widened
at the base, the apical half of the sixth, and the greater part of the ventral
surface, lemon yellow. The following parts are black on the ventral segments :
the first segment, the base of the second broadl)', the line in the middle nar-
rowed gradually and continued to the middle, where it ends in a narrow square
projection, the base of the following segments and the basal two-thirds of the
last, a short line behind the top of the eyes, a line narrowed in the middle on
the base of the thorax rufo-fulvous. Tegulae dark yellowish testaceous, largely
fuscous in the middle. Legs rufo-testaceous, the trochanters, the four ante-
rior coxae behind, l)ase of four anterior femora, the hind coxae, and the hind
femora broadly, black. Wings hyaline, slightly infuscated, the costa and
