132 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
stigma rufo-testaceous. Male — Total length 9 mm. Jerome, Arizona. (Oslar.)
Base of thorax almost transverse, the edges bluntly rounded, the sides of
the apex rough, not very blunt, the center closely obliquely striated. Apex of
postscutellum broad, transverse, first abdominal segment large, cup-shaped, the
second clearly longer than it is wide at the apex, where it is strongly punc-
tured and reflexed, the base is slightly narrowed, the third, fourth and fifth
segments are closely punctured, the punctures deep and distinctly separated,
the apex of the sixth is less strongly punctured. Clypeus slightly longer than
wide, the apex depressed, almost transverse. Antennal hook black, reaching
to the middle of the tenth joint.
Allied to O. sapellocnsis, aequalis, and santacfcac from all of which it
may be known by the black mark on the first abdominal segment not being
incised laterally in the middle and by there being no yellow mark on the base
of the metanotum at the sides.
Odynerus congressensis n. sp.
Ferruginous, the following parts black : a broad oblique line above each
antenna, the vertex between the eyes, the fourth and following joints of the
antennae, the base and sides of the mesonotum broadly, the parts surrounding
the postscutellum, more or less of the center and apex of the metanotum, the
edges of mesopleurae, the mesosternum. The following parts are yellow :
the clypeus except for a curved rufous line around the center, a line on the
apex of the pronotum, a longish oval mark below the tegulae, postscutellum,
the apices of the first and second abdominal segments broadly, their sides to
near the base still more broadly, the others entirely, and the sides of the
metanotum broadly in the female, more narrowly in the male. Legs ferru-
ginous, the tibiae tinged with ferruginous in front. Wings hyaline, largely
tinged with violaceous in front ; the costa and stigma fulvous, the other nerv-
ures black. The pubescence is dense and pale. Female and male — Length
13 mm. Congress and Prescott, Arizona. (Oslar.)
Clypeus as long as wide, its apex broad, transverse ; it is strongly but not
closely punctured. Mandibles rufous, the teeth black. Apex of postscutellum
broadly rounded, rugosely punctured. Base of thorax transverse, the sides not
projecting ; the thorax is more than twice longer than wide. First abdominal
segment cup-shaped, smooth, the second if anything longer than wide, smooth
except at the apex which is strongly but not very closely punctured, and not
reflexed ; the third, fourth, and fifth similarly punctured, the last smooth, the
same parts of the ventral surface are more weakly punctured.
The male is similarly colored except that the sides of the metanotum are
not broadly yellow, the front is yellow, not rufous, the clypeus is broad as in
the female, but the apex is not quite transverse. The antennal scape below,
the mandibles, the tibiae, and to a less extent, the tarsi, are yellow. Probably
the amount of yellow varies in both sexes. The puncturation is strong, and is
.sparser on the center of the mesonotum.
Allied apparently to O. ductus Cr. It is more slenderly built than arvensis
or annulatus, to both of which it is related.
