CAMERON. SOME ODYNERINAE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN UNITED STATES 133
Odynerus (?) tanynutus n. sp.
Reddish ; the greater part of the first and the sides of the other abdominal
segments broadly, the apical two-thirds of the scutellum, and its lateral keels,
yellow. The fifth and following joints of the antennae, a large irregular
mark in the center of the vertex from which two broad lines run down to
the antennae, the mesonotum except for a broad V-shaped mark in the middle,
the base and apex of the scutellum, of the postscutellum more narrowly,
breasts, base of metapleurae broadly, a large semicircular mark on the apex
of the metanotum, and a broad band on the apex of the second abdominal
segment, black. Legs rufous, of a brighter tint than the body. Wings fus-
cous-violaceous, the costa and stigma dark fulvous, the nervures black. Fe-
male — Length 11 mm. Congress, Arizona. (Oslar.)
Thorax somewhat more than twice longer than wide, rounded laterally
behind, transverse at the base, the base of metanotum with a wide shallow
furrow on the middle, the apex hollowed. Apex of postscutellum broadly
rounded. Head cubical, fully wider than the thorax, the temples broad,
slightly rounded, not narrowed, the apex transverse. Clypeus pyriform,
broadly rounded above, gradually narrowed towards the apex which is trans-
verse. The head is longer than usual viewed from the sides or front ; it is
closely strongly punctured, the rufous mark on the front is obliquely narrowed
above and below, the lower part being longer and narrower than the upper.
Thorax closely strongly punctured, more closely rugosely above than on the
pleurae where the punctures are much more clearly separated. The sides of
the metanotum project into pale colored horny plates, narrowed broadly in the
middle. The first abdominal segment is elongated bell-shaped, roundly nar-
rowed at the base which is more rugosely punctured than the rest ; it is about
one-half longer than it is wide at the apex, and is of equal width from the top
of the narrowed part, and it is longer than the second, which is slightly but
distinctly longer than broad, not narrowed at the apex ; its apex and that of
the third are slightly reflexed. All the segments are closely strongly punc-
tured, but not so strongly as the thorax. The abdomen is not much longer
than the thorax.
A distinct species from its coloration, large cubical head, long thorax
compared with its width, and long bell-shaped first abdominal segment. The
wings are placed shortly beyond the middle, the fore part of the thorax being
thus longer than the posterior. There is no transverse keel on the base of
the first abdominal segment, which is, however, roughened as in many of the
Section Ancistrocerus, but not in Odynerus sens. str.
Odynerus leucospilus u. sp.
Black, shining, covered with a white down, dense and silvery on the
clypeus ; the clypeus except for a line down the center and a broad one across
the apex, a narrow line on the lower part of the eye incision, a line on the base
of the thorax, the lateral widened ]mrt incised at the apex, tegulae except for
a black spot, a mark of almost equal width below them, two spots on the apex
of scutellum, the postscutellum, a mark on the lower edge of a])e.\ of meta-
