WEST COAST NEWS NOTES
[In this department we hope to give in most numbers of the Journal,
some idea of the doings and movements of western entomologists, notices of
publications of interest to western students, notices of entomological meetings,
etc. To this end, we hope that students or collectors will send in all items
of entomological interest about themselves or others. Address, Fordyce Grin-
nell. Jr.. 372 X. Marengo Ave., Pasadena, Cal.]
Mr. C. W. Herr, a lepidopterist, formerly of Pasadena, Cal., and Tellu-
ride, Colo., has settled in northern Idaho, where he will doubtless collect some
interesting insects.
Recent additions to the collectors and students of insects in Southern
California, are Mr. Karl R. Coolidge, formerly of Palo Alto, and Mr, G. R.
Pilate, formerly of Dayton, Ohio.
Mr. Karl R. Coolidge has finished a report on the Arachnida of the Gala-
pagos Islands, which is about to be published in the Proceedings of the Cali-
fornia .Academy of Sciences.
The Regidar Ouarterly Meeting of the Pacific Coast Entomological So-
ciety was held at Thompson's Cafe, San Francisco on November 20, 1909.
Mr. William T. Piather, Librarian of the Brooklyn Entomological Society,
who visited Pasadena and the northern part of the State in September, ad-
dressed the November meeting of the Society on ".A Collector Twice Across
the Continent."
The last informal gathering of entomologists in Pasadena took place at
the residence of Mr. V. L. Clemence on November 11. Mr. Schrader of Los
Angeles, told more of his interesting experimental work with the Lepidoptera.
These meetings are held on the second Thursday evenings of each month, and
all students and collectors are cordially invited to attend.
Prof. J. J. Rivers of .Santa .Monica, our veteran student of entomology,
although near 80 years, is still active, and is writing up some notes on the
genus Melitaea ( Lemonias) which he knows so well.
.Ml students of zoo-geography in California should read and study Dr.
James I'crrin Smith's article in "Science" for September 10, on the "Geologi-
cal History of California."
