136 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Dr. F. E. Blaisdell's valuable paper on the Eleodiini has elicited a number
of reviews and criticisms, mostly of a very commendatory character. In "The
Entomologists" Record and Journal of Variation," for October, an interesting
criticism is found. Although Dr. Blaisdell divides his genus Eleodes into sub-
divisions and groups, with full diagnoses, he drops these subdivisions and uses
Eleodes for all subdivisions ; "the binomial used not offering the slightest sug-
gestion as to the position of the species in any one of the eleven subdivisions
into which the group falls, and of which Eleodes is common to both series.''
It might be said the same of the forrnae, under the species, which are evidently
incipient species or subspecies, possibly a few mutations, and are consequently
very interesting, more so than the well differentiated and isolated species ; they
should be as much recognized by name, although possibly in a trinomial form
to express their relationships.
The intensive and systematic study of the variation of species, subspecies,
etc., with strict regard to their environment and geographical distribution is
of great value and interest in the study of the origin of species, faunae and
florae. Of course, this has to be done with immense series of specimens from
all over the range of distribution and in different years ; for species which are
in process of formation vary in all directions in pattern or structure, i. e., fluc-
tuating variation, some variations being more numerous than the others and
eventually one pattern or structure is evolved through selection : whether this
selection is germinal, environmental or determinate remains to be learned. In
a beginning study of the variations of a little blue butterfly, Cupido fulla, from
various mountains of Southern California, some very interesting points are
being discovered. The species which evidently had a continuous range, rather
recently, geologically, has become more or less isolated into colonies ; the vari-
ous colonies ( although showing their relationship among themselves, are, it
seems, beginning to vary in different directions, one form of pattern predomi-
nating over the others. Is this an example of determinate variation ? The
mutations of certain plant breeders and experimenters are simply these indi-
vidual or fluctuating variations, isolated by human means and perpetuated for
a time. There are many mutations in every variable species, one of which, in
course of time, by means of natural selection may become the prevailing form
—the species. We can only get a correct idea of species from the study of
species in their true habitat and environment. Of course, plant and animal
breeding and improvement is of use economically ; but it is not natural history.
De Vries' idea is that "the slow and gradual changes surmised by Wallace and
his followers. . . . are entirely beyond our future and present experience" !
And further ; "One of the greatest objections to the Darwinian theory of de-
scent arose from the length of time it would require, if all evolution was to be
explained on the theory of slow and nearly invisible changes. This difficulty
is at once met and fully surmounted by the hypothesis of periodical but .sudden
and quite noticeable steps." ! ! That reminds us of the teachings of Werner
and his followers in geology, in a different line, a century ago. "Time is as
long as space is wide." Our finite minds can not grasp all the infinite.
