WEST COAST NEWS NOTES 137
Code des Couleurs, a I'usage des Xaturalistes, Artistes, Commerqants, et
Industriels. 720 Echantillons de Couleurs Classes d'apres la methode Chevrenl
simplifiee. par Paul Klincksieck et Th. \'alette. Paris : Paul Klincksieck,
Editeur, 3 rue Corneille, 1908.
This is a book of 32 pages of text, and 50 plates, on heavy paper, contain-
ing- 720 blocked colors ; a table of 10 principal colors in 18 languages, and a
tai)le of contents. The whole making a neat and portable volume.
The publication of this book is a great boon to systematic naturalists
everywhere, as Ridgway's Noiiieiiclutiirc of Colors has long been out of print,
and it has been practically impossible to obtain a copy of it.
This book was planned in 1906, through a real need felt in the study and
description of the "Champignons"; thus it was planned, in part, by a naturalist
for naturalists. The hope is expressed that this color code may recommend
itself to the whole world, and there is vertainly great need of a uniforn.i
nomenclature of colors accepted and used by naturalists everywhere. As the
recognition of geographic isolation as one nt the chief factors in evolution,
comes to be better known and studied, it is imperative that tones of color,
where color is of use, should be very accurately stated, instead of in general
comparative ways as is usuall}' done.
The fundamental colors are six, those of the solar spectrum, and the
tones are indicated by a number, the method invented by Chevreul : which is
decidedly better than "Se fatiguer pour trouver dans les trois Regnes on ailleurs
le nom d'un equivalent qui lui ressemble plus on moins vaguemont." and "qui
ne signifient rien de precis." There are over 14.000 tones in Chevreul's sys-
tem, but some of these. Chevreul himself, could hardly distinguish. 720 tones
were thought to be enough for the use of naturalists. Part II. of the te.xt, is
hv Th. \'alette and considers the following subjects:
1. Des couleurs an point de vue ijhysiquc.
2. Sources de lumiere colorees.
3. Des couleurs materielles on pigments colores.
4. Classification des couleurs.
5. Code des couleurs a I'usage des naturalistes.
6. Confection du Code des Couleurs.
7. Examen des couleurs complementaires contrastes.
The book ought to he in use by every systematic naturalist, dealing with
groups which exhibit color differences, thus helping to make a uniform nomen-
clature, instead of indicating colors by some vague term, \\hich leaves an idea
of uncertainty. Stability in terminology ought to be as important as the
other rules of nomenclature, — priority, etc.. and should be taken up by com-
mittees on nomenclature. The book can be had from the firm of G. E. Stechert
& Co.. 129-133 West 20th St.. X. Y.
