Pomona College Journal of Entomology
Volume II MARCH 1910 Number!
FUMIGATION STUDIES— I
THE USE OF WATER IN FUMIGATION DOSAGES
WRIGHT M. PIERCE.
[The people of this immediate region spend hundreds of thousands of
dollars each year for citrus fumigation. They are acutely interested to know
just what they are getting, and want to understand clearly the factors which
control successful work. Mr. Pierce has taken up this work here in our
own region and has gathered a large amount of first hand facts by actually fol-
lowing up many contracting fumigators in the field and studying carefully their
methods and results. His work this year may be gathered under four heads, (1)
Use of Water in Fumigation Dosages, (2) Estimating Fumigation Dosages for
Trees, (3) Does Contract Fumigation Pay, and (4) Handling Chemicals in
Fumigation Work. Some of his first results are prep''''"d herewith. He has
gathered a remarkable series of photographs in evidenci '-'Hhe points he wishes
to make — many more than we are able to present here. — sid.]
An enormous amount of Fumigation is being done in Southern Califor-
nia now, and to keep the more destructive scales out of his grove is the most
important problem facing the citrus grower of today. With our poor knowl-
edge of parasites and the be.st ways to use them in our service, it seems that
fumigation is now the most efficient process by which the ci^us grower can
combat the insect pests found here. Within many miles of Claremont prac-
tically all of the fumigating done is for the black scale alone, and the cost to this
district on account of this pest alone, amounts to tens of thousands of
dollars. With this outlay and the prime importance of the work to the whole
citrus industry, it becomes a matter of the highest import to study carefully
the methods actually employed in the district, determining if the methods
used are the most efficient ones, if the greatest possible service is obtained from
the chemicals used, and if the whole operation is accomplished with the least
possible cost to the grower. In work so extensively carried on as this is, it is
