140 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
easy to see that a very small saving of materials in some one operation, or
perhaps a little adding of expense in another, would in the long run, amount
to a difference of thousands of dollars to those who are now compelled for
their own safety to have the fumigating done. Out of the many problems and
urgent questions with which this subject is replete, the present article will con-
sider briefly the use of water in fumigation.
In the production of hydrocyanic acid gas by the action of acid upon
cyanide, it is absolutely necessary to add a certain definite proportion of water
in order that the action shall be complete and the maximum amount of gas
obtained for the chemicals used. Mr. R. S. Woglum, the Department of
Agriculture expert who has been carrying out fumigation investigations at
• Whittier for several years, has long since called attention to the fact that to
vary the amount of water from a certain optimum standard, is to change very
materiallv the ultimate results obtained. His original conclusions were based
Figure 53. "Frosted" Generators
upon laboratory work with the chemicals. As a result of his investigations
he recommends as giving the best all around results the following formula :
Water three parts, sulphuric acid one part, and potassium cyanide one part.
This having been determined, it was an interesting matter to follow
up our local fumigators and examine the actual practice in this regard.
Three out of four of the outfits studied were found to be using this standard
formula. Those using it were getting very satisfactory results from it. All
the cyanide "burned" and no "baking" or "frosting" took place in the generat-
ing dishes. When the refuse was turned out of the dishes there was no hard
residue left, showing conclusively that the action had been complete.
In the case of one outfit using a dififerent formula a very different result
was encountered. Here the generating dishes were in a very dirty condition,
(Figure 53), much of the dose having "frosted," so that each time it was
dumped out, a very liberal supply of the light colored flaky substance
