THE USE OF WATER IN FUMIGATION DOSAGES 141
remained, sticking to the generator. When the material dumped upon the
ground in piles was examined again, even after several days, the strong odor
of hydrocyanic acid gas was easily distinguishable. Old specimens of this ma-
terial when analyzed, do not show the presence of any unused cyanide, as a
report from the Government Chemist kindly made by Dr. L. O. Howard
on some of this very material, would seem to indicate. Yet many days had
elapsed between the use of the material in the generators and its analysis by
the Chemist. It seems tniquestionable that there is a considerable loss of gas
in real practice where severe "frosting" occurs, and when minimum dosages
are used as for black scale, it means not only a waste of materials, but a loss
in efficiency. Last year one outfit was followed up closely by men from this
department and was found not to be killing even the black scale on certain
trees with the dosages and times of exposure it was using. The outfit men-
Figure 54. Showing amount of material often dumped out of a single generator
tioned above, the work of which was seriously impeded by "frosting" of the
generators, w as using a formula : water one part, cyanide two parts, acid one
and a half parts. In this formula there is evidently not enough water to
dissolve and free the potassium sulphate which is formed by the action of the
acid on the cyanide, and thus it cakes (Figure .^4), retarding'the action and-
preventing the most rapid escape of the gas.
In spite of the importance to be attached to the matter of a proper amount
of water in the formula, we know of one outfit which sent a boy through the
orchard with a pail and dipper to ladle water into the generators. Such an
occurrence is, however, a rarity. All of the outfits wdiose work I have fol-
lowed, have measured out the water with glass graduates (Figure 53), and
have shown a disposition to mix the dosages with care, even when the formula
used was an unwise one, and the method of estimating the dosage a most
uncertain one — as is usually the case in this region. The day of guesswork is,
however, rapidly ])assing. The growers have had enough of il. and arc ra])idly
