THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF THE CITRUS
MEALY BUG. I
fi. O. ESSIG.
Beginning with this article, we expect to present, as thoroughly as possible,
the life-histories of all our natural enemies of the Citrus Mealy Bug (Pseudo-
coccus citri). Due to the great variety of its food plants, and its natural
ability to ward ofif sprays and gases, it is believed by good authorities that the
only remedy possible for the Mealy Bug lies with its insect enemies. Whether
this be entirely true or not, we are sure that they will play a very important
part and should be known by all who are interested in the raising" of citrus
fruits. Two divisions of friendly insects are recognized : First, those insects
which prey directly upon and devour the host, or Predacious enemies; and
second, those which undergo their transformations from the egg to the adult
within the body of the host, or Internal parasites. The first to come under
consideration is one of the predacious enemies:
Syuipherobius augustiis Batiks
( Brown Lace-wing) .
Adult Female. — (Fig. 57) — In general the color is brown, and rightly
deserves the name Brown Lace-Wing. In shape and carriage it greatly resem-
bles the green Aphis-Lion, or Chrysopa, which is familiar to all. Length of
body, 6mm. ; including wings, 7 mm. Width of body, 2 mm. Wing spread,
14 mm. Head, small with large compound eyes. Mouth-parts as shown i»
Figiire 58A. Antennae nearly as long as body, many articled (59 to 60) ; the
articles are nearly rectangtilar, and very hairy, as is the entire body. Legs,
rather long and slender. Wings, primary and secondary, are nearly alike in
structure. The former are much larger and highly pigmented, while the latter
are nearly hyaline. In repose the wings are folded with the costal margin
down, as are the wings of most Neuropteroids. The general and detailed
structure may be seen in the drawing (Figure 57).
The adult forms are very short-lived and scarcely survive a day or two.
In confinement they usually live about 24 hours. Although they have little
need of food, I have seen them greedily devour adult Mealy Bugs. The pro-
cess of eating is simple. With their effective mouth-parts (Fig 58 A) they
rapidly eat a hole in the back of the mealy bug and extract the contents, with-
out lifting the prey from ofif its feet. At all times the female is very active
and continually keeps its antennae moving while it runs about or flits hither
and thither. As yet the eggs have not been found. I believe this is because
they are laid in the cottony egg masses of the Mealy Bug and are very difficult
