CRAWFORD, THYSANOPTERA OF MEXICO AND THE SOUTH 167
slightly broader than long, and more rectangular, and sometimes it is distinctly
longer than broad ; very seldom the head is more or less narrowed anteriorly
(Fig. 69 A) — partially caused by the collapsing of the eyes; cheeks full,
sparsely spinose ; vertex slightly elevated, and distinctly produced, but not
attaining the insertion of the antennae; postocular spines moderately long, and
blunt at the tip. Eyes medium, finely faceted and slightly pilose, pigment
almost white ; ocelli large and distinct ; anterior ocellus on apex of produced
vertex and directed forward; posterior ocelli not quite contiguous with inner
anterior margin of eyes. Mouthcone short and blunt, scarcely reaching half
the length of prothorax. Antennae (Fig. 69 C) about twice as long as head,
very stout and thickly, but briefly, spinose ; segments II-VII distinctly pedicel-
late and subglobose; II-V with spotted sense cones, or sometimes transparent;
I, base of II, and VII and VIII concolorous with body, intermediate segments
yellowish brown or lemon yellow.
Prothorax (Fig. 69 A) including coxae, twice as wide as long, and about
seven-ninths as long as head ; with all the usual prothoracic spines present,
long and blunt at tip ; dorsal surface slightly spinose. Pterothorax widest
across mesocoxae, converging both anteriorly and posteriorly, partially reticu-
lated. Wings moderately long, broadest at base, and distinctly narrowed be-
yond the middle like a drawn-out shoesole ; scale and extreme base light
brown ; with a short median vein at base, bearing three long spines and one
short one ; posterior fringe double subapically for eight cilia. Legs medium,
moderately stout, sparsely spinose; foretarsi (Fig. 69 E) with a small tooth
near the middle, within, and a terminal tarsal hook ; foretibiae and foretarsi
light yellow, the rest concolorous with body.
Abdomen long, slender, very weak, tapering evenly from base to tip ; with
two prominent spines on each posterior dorsal angle ; tube ( Fig. 69 B ) about
as long as prothorax, seven-ninths as long as head, converging toward tip ; with
six long spines at tip, and several shorter ones.
Measurements: Head, length .17 mm., width .165 mm.; prothora.x, length
.13 mm., width .26 mm. ; pterothorax, width .31 mm. ; abdomen, width at base
.32 mm.; tube, length .13 mm, width at base .05 mm., at tip .03 mm.; total
length 1.64 mm. Antenna: I, .024 mm.; II, .047 mm.; Ill, .038 mm.; IV,
.050 mm. ; width .031 mm. ; \', .049 mm. ; VI. .040 mm. ; VII, .042 mm. ; VIII,
.024 mm. ; total .33 mm.
Males smaller than females, but similar in nearly all respects ; abdomen
more slender, tube shorter; average length of male 1.46 mm.
Described from numerous females and several males.
Food plants : Celosia, Dodder, and a native tropical creeping vine.
Localities: Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba (C. F. Baker) ; Managua, Nica-
ragua (C. F. Baker), and Guadalajara, Mexico (Crawford).
The abdomen was described as being weak, because of the fact that in
many, perhaps the majority, of the specimens used in this study the abdomen is
constricted in several of its basal segments, probably by the action of the
reagents used in the preparation of the mounts.
