168 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOiMOLOGY
Idulothrips angusticeps n. sp.
Average length 5.28 mm. ; general color deep black ; entire body surface,
including femora and tibire, finel}- reticulated.
Head (Fig. 70 A) more than two and one-half times the width across
eyes ; with numerous tuberculous serrations on dorsal and lateral surfaces ;
with numerous short, stout spines, and two pairs of very long ones, one pair
in front of the posterior ocelli, and the other postocular, smaller ; head about as
wide posteriorly as across eyes, constricted somewhat behind the eyes ; vertex
produced triangularly over insertion of antennae, with the anterior ocellus on
the apex. Eyes moderately large, bulging, finely faceted and not pilose, pig-
ment yellow ; ocelli small, indistinct ; posterior ocelli not contiguous with inner
margin of eyes ; anterior ocellus directed forward, beyond insertion of antemise.
Mouthcone short, broadly rounded at tip, scarcely reaching to posterior margin
of prosternum ; maxillary palpi two-segmented, the basal joint very short.
Antennae (Fig. 70 F) almost one and one-third times as long as head, very
slender; two basal segments comparatively short and thick, II with a sense
area near tip; III-V elongate, clavate, III longest, with several long spine;
on apical half and one long sense cone near tip ; IV and \' with several long
spines and several transparent, but prominent, sense cones near tip; VI-VIII
fusiform; \'I and \'II with several long spines and one sense cone on each;
VIII with a longitudinal row of six spines, and one long spine at tip; I and
basal half of II concolorous with body; apical half of II and all but the tip
of III, basal three-fourths of I\' and basal half of V yellow; tip of III and IV
light brown, apical half of \' and \I-VIII dark brown.
Prothorax (Fig. 70 A) about half as long as wide, including coxae, and
two-fifths as long as head ; coxae conspicuously protruding, with one stout,
black spine on each coxa, without, and one on posterior angles of prothorax ;
a few small spines on dorsal surface, and three small ones in front of the
coxae ; membraneous portions of prothorax conspicuous. Mesothorax dis-
tinctly wider than prothorax, with a few conspicuous spines ; with a faceted
spiracular ( ?) plate on each anterior angle. Legs long and very spiny; fore-
femora (Fig. 70 G, male) enlarged, prolonged posteriorly over trochanter;
foretibise with numerous conspicuous spines, and one extremely long one near
base; foretarsi (Fig. 70 D) within, with a sharp tooth, bearing two spines;
middle and hind legs very slender, long and spinose ; posterior tibiae ( Fig. 70
E) in both sexes with a long and exceptionally stout, black spine near tip;
meso- and posterior tarsi (Fig. 70 E) with a fringe of cilia-like spines on the
entire distal margin of both segments ; all bladder-like appendages easily re-
tractile ; femora black, tibiae brown, yellow at tip, tarsi yellow. Wings clear
white, comparatively short, with a long fringe on both margins ; forewings with
a brown longitudinal stripe in the center extending from base to middle of wing,
and a few spines at base of wing.
Abdomen long and slender, widest at segments two to four ; with two long
spines at each posterior angle, and a few small ones on dorsal surface ; ninth
segment (Fig. 70 B) with several long, slender spines on posterior margin;
