WEST COAST NEWS NOTES
[In this department we hope to give in most numbers of the Journal, some
idea of the doings and movements of western entomologists, notices of publi-
cations of interest to western students, notices of entomological meetings, etc.
To this end, we hope that students or collectors will send in all items of ento-
mological interest about themselves or others. Address, Fordyce Grinnell, Jr.,
572 N. Marengo Ave., Pasadena, Cal.]
Air. \'ictor L. Clemence and Mr. Karl R. Coolidge are planning to leave
in April for a three months" entomological trip to Cordoba, Mexico. This re-
gion is the richest in Mexico or Central America, according to the Biolugia.
Lord Walsingham's collection of Micro-Lepidoptera, about to be trans-
ferred to the British Museum, consists of 260,000 specimens, adding alsout
45,000 species to the collection.
The Lepidopterological Library of the late Dr. Staudinger has been bought
by the firm of R. Friedlander & Sohn, Berlin, and a catalogue is being pre-
pared. This is one of the richest collections in the world.
Max Weg, Buchhandlung und Antiquariat, Leipzig, Germany, has just
issued a very interesting and valuable catalogue of books, "Zoogeographie,"
it has 3006 titles listed, arranged under XII divisions, including the zoogeo-
graphical regions of the world. It contains 94 pages, and on the cover a photo-
graph of Dr. R. Bergh, student of the Opisthobranch Mollusks.
Prof. J. D. Tinsley, formerly of Las Cruces, N. M., and a student of the
Coccidse, has been appointed soil specialist for the Santa Fe railway system.
"His duties will be to instruct the farmers along the railway what crops can
give the best yield," thus increasing the crop out-put. A new departure for
the railroad interests.
The new edition of Ridgway's Nomenclature of Colors, will appear this
spring ; it will be much better than the former edition and will be indispensable
to systematic naturalists everywhere. It will contain about 1350 colors, named
and numbered. The price will be very moderate, about $5.00
In the California Fruit Grower, for January 8, 1910, p? 4-5, 8 columns,
is an article by W. H. Volck, on Insect Pests and Diseases of the Apple, deliv-
ered at the California State Fruit Growers' Convention, at Watsonville in
December.
The last meeting of the Entomological Club was held at the residence of
Air. V. L. Clemence, Pasadena, on January 13, Thursday evening. The fol-
lowing persons were present : Messrs. Fall, Fenyes, Bollerman, Schrader,
Haskins, Coolidge, Ross, Smith, Clemence, and Grinnell. Mr. K. R. Coolidge
was elected secretary. A very enthusiastic discussion was indulged in till
after 11 P. M.
