WEST COAST NEWS NOTES 173
suggestive article by Dr. Creigliton Weliman, of Oakland, on "Comments on
Tropical Medicine." And among the book reviews in the same number are
notices of Nuttall and VVarburton's "Ticks : A Monograph of the Ixodoidea,"
and Calkins' Textbook of Protozoology. And a notice that the New York
Post-Graduate Medical School "has established a regular and completely
equipped department of Tropical Medicine."
The Trees of California. By Willis Linn Jepson, Ph. D., Assistant Pro-
fessor of Dendrology in the University of California, etc. Illustrated with one
hundred and twentj'-five original figures. Issued December 16, 1909, Cunning-
ham, Curtis & Welch, San Francisco and Los Angeles. $2.50 net.
This book is absolutely indispensable to the entomologist who is also a
naturalist (sens, st.) who is interested in the relations of living things (Biota).
We will never comprehend the "unknown factors" of evolution, till we study
and understand the relations and interrelations of all the participants.
The spirit in which the book was written is to be highly commended, as
shown in the dedication, quotations, preface and the body of the book. It is
the spirit of the naturalist (including in the term, the systematic student).
"The author, therefore cherishes the hope that these pages may be an inspira-
tion to some who have opportunity to take up special studies of our trees for
the sake of the intellectual pleasure and cultivation to be derived from such an
avocation." If the person who should read this book thoughtfully and "is not
stirred by the lure of the unknown," he is not "really and truly alive."
On pages 13-49 are taken up twenty-four subjects connected with the study
of trees, which are very suggestive and stimulating. The Forest Provinces, each
treated very fully, should be studied by students of zoogeography, and those
preparing lists of species found in certain regions. Other suggestive and inter-
esting sections are : Arboreal Islands, The "Klamath Mountains,' A Histor-
ical Sketch of Sequoia, Local Tree Distribution and the Indian Tribes, and
Exploration ; Far Afield and Locally. From page 50, with a key to the fami-
lies, the various trees are described, with full distribution and bionomic notes
on each. It is a book which the naturalist should study in the laboratory and
take with him on his field excursions.
