DOES ORDINARY CONTRACT FUMIGATION PAY? 177
far the most economical for the grower. Under this arrangement the chances
of cutting either the dosages or time of treatment may be practically elimi-
nated. The grower buys his own chemicals, and gives the fumigator so
much per tree for doing the work. In this case the contract should always
provide that the tents be left over the trees at least one hour. Thus the grower,
by keeping account of the materials used, and by comparisons with the number
of his trees, the number of tents and men in the outfit, and the time of
treatment, may judge exactly as to the efficiency of the service he is getting
Outfit A, w-orking as indicated above, after allowing for the cost of
supplies and labor, earned approximately $2.90 for every working hour. This
outfit used tmmarked tents.
In both outfits B and C, marked tents were used, and this necessitated
greater care and time, B netting Init $1.38 per hour, and C $1.32. Figuring
out the total cost to the grower on ten acres in each case, we have :
Orchard No. 1, w-here A worked, cost the grow-er $158.00
Orchard No. 2, where B worked, cost the grower 187.86
Orchard No. 3, where C worked, cost the grower 206.92
In each instance the amount spent for labor was practically the same for
ten acres, so that the extra cost of B and C went for materials rather than
to swell the profits of the fumigator. Another striking fact to note from
these figures is that where the profit was greater to the fumigator in outfit
A, the cost to the grower was less than in the other cases where the chemicals
were carefully measured. It seems almost certain that Outfit A was cutting
not only the time but the dosage, both acts very prejudicial to the interests
of the grower.
The system of marking tents and accurately measuring the dosage cer-
tainly does not lessen the cost to the grower, but it insures honest fumigation,
and a guagiitg of the dosage that zcill kill the scale!
It is an exceedingly interesting and important matter now. to compare
these figures, picked up at random in actual practice here in Los .Angeles
county, with the figures covering the work of fumigating on one of the largest
and most successful ranches in Southern California, where it is to be supposed
that the work would be done as near actual cost as would be possible. At the
same time, on this ranch, they fumigate for a purpose, and would not
futnigate at all were it not for their confident belief in being able to do
effective work. Three grades of dosage were used, gauged "lo k,''l..red and
yellow scale, as well as black, and the cost in each case figures out as follows :
For ten acres containing 960 trees, 14 years old
It costs at 7y2 ozs. to the tree $259.20
at 8 ozs. to the tree 273.98
at 10 ozs. to the tree 306.80
This is more than is usually paid in Los Angeles county for fumigation,
and here we must at the same time pay the necessary margin of profit to
the contractor.
