180 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
the wing membrane transparent and will bring the veins into sufficient con-
trast to make them easily seen. The veins of the figure are numbered to
correspond with the system in common use by describers of this family, and
they are also given the names used where numbers are not available.
The secondaries, or hind wings (Fig. 71) have two free or internal
veins, vein 8 is out of the sub-costal a little beyond base, and the median
vein is either 3 or 4 branched, depending upon whether 5 is from a short
spur close to 4, or whether it is obsolescent and out of the obscure cross-
vein closing the cell. At the base of the costal margin there is, in the male,
a single spine or spur, the frenulum, which fits into a loop or retinaculum
attached to the co.'^ta of primaries, and holds the wings together ; in the
female there are three or four weaker bristles, and these are held by crossed
scales on the under-side of the median cell. This gives us a convenient way
of determining sex in this family, the loop of the males or crossed scales
of the females being very readily detcrniinaljle, as a rule. There are, however,
a few exceptions to this rule; the half a dozen species of EutcU'uii and
Stictopterini having the frenulum single in the female as well as the male,
but no loop in the female.
On the basis of the difiference in vein 5 of the secondaries, the Noctuidse
are divided into two series — XhtTrifidae in which the vein is nearly or quite
lost and, when traceable, is from the cross-vein, well beyond the end of the
median — and the Quadrifidae in which vein 5 is nearly or quite as strong as the
others and is connected at base by a strong spur with the end of the median.
In another way of putting it, the median vein is 3-branched in the one case,
4-branched in the other. The difiference can be readily seen by comparing
any large species of Hadciia or Mamcstra with a Catocala.
The body of the Noctuids is usually stout and well-developed, very few
species having large or frail wrings, and the body vestiture may be hairy or
scaly, the differences furnishing bases for generic distinctions.
The al)domen is quite frequently tufted on the dorsum, and sometimes
along the lateral edges of the segments. It is rarely much longer than the
anal angle of the secondaries, and in the Quadrifidae tends to become cylindri-
conic and smoother.
The thorax usually has a well-developed collar, which may be produced
at -the sides or middle, or even projected forward into a distinct hood. The
patagia are usually well-marked and quite usually sufficiently up-lifted to give
the thorax a distinctly squared appearance. On the dorsum the vestiture may
be flat and smooth, formed into a keel-like ridge, produced into anterior or
posterior tufts or both, or there may be a divided crest through the center ;
all these furnishing bases for generic divisions.
The head is usually well developed, rarely retracted, and the eyes are
usually round and more or less globose. In this matter there are differences,
however, and in some series reniform or kidney-shaped eyes occur. The
front of the head is usually smooth, slightly convex ; but it sometimes becomes
protuberant, bulging, roughened or furnished with processes of various kinds ;
all these modifications being used in systematic work. The antenna are al-
