THE SCORPIONS OF CALII ORMA
NATHAN BANKS
OK THE U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGKICULTURE
Tile scorpions are readily known from all other arachnids by the presence
of two peculiar characters ; the body terminates in a poison sting, ami on the
venter, near the base of the abdomen is a pair of appendages (Fig. 80, d), each
bearing a number of lamellae ; these are the pectines, or conilis. The palpi
are enlarged at tip and chelate, the claw being of three parts ; the hand, or
basal portion, and two fingers, one movable, the other fixed. There are three
groups of eyes on the anterior part of the cephalothorax, one median of two,
and a lateral group at each anterior comer, of two or three eyes. The last
five segments of the body are much narrower than the others, and form the
Cauda, or tail ; the last segment is the "vesicle," and bears the sting. These
caudal segments bear ridges, which are called "keels." The legs have no
patella between femur and tiliia. The mandibles in front consist of a basal
part, or paturon, (Fig. 80, f), and two curved fingers, one fixed and one
movable ; these fingers are usually provided with teeth. Beneath on the venter
is a small triangular or pentagonal area between the posterior coxre ; this area
is the sternum.
The poisonous nature of scorpions has been exaggerated by most people ;
the commoner forms are no more dangerous than a wasp ; one species. Centrums
exilkauda, which occurs in western Mexico and up into the southern part of
California, is considered by some to be more poisonous than dther species;
however, there is little evidence, as yet, on this matter.
The species so far known to occur in California arc distinguished in the
following table :
1. Between tarsus and metatarsus is a single spur (on anterior side) ;
sternum pentagonal ; cephalothorax deeply emarginate in front ; cauda
very small; fingers shorter than hand; pectines rarely more than 12 in
number 2
Between tarsus and metatarsus are a pair of spurs, one in front, one
behind 3
2. No tooth below sting; hand longer than broad ; pectines not more than
seven Opisthacantluis Icptiinis.
A tooth below sting; hand as broad as long; pectines about 10; sur-
face of cephalothorax finely granulate Diploccntrus kcyscrlingi.
3. Sternum long, triangular, with converging sides ; immovable finger of
mandibles with lower tooth 1 1
Sternum short, pentagonal ; immovable finger of mandibles without
lower tooth ; no tooth below the sting 4
4. With but two lateral eyes ; stigmata oval ; with about 7 pectines ; hand
very broad ; small, short species Broteochactas allcnii.
With three lateral eyes ; stigmata more elongate, usually slit-like 5
