188 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
12. The rows of teeth overlap ; fingers one and a half times longer than
hand; np tooth under the sting; body mostly unicolorous
Tityiis tenuimanus.
The rows of teeth do not overlap; fingers twice as long as hand; a
tooth under the sting ; body and legs more or less maculate ; cauda of
male especially long Isomctnts iiiaciilatiis.
13. A distinct tooth below sting; fingers but one-fourth longer than hand;
median keel of the fifth caudal segment reaching to tip. (Fig.
81, A B) Centnints californicus.
No distinct tooth below sting ; fingers one-half longer than hand ;
median keel of fifth caudal segment lost in the general granulation ;
Cauda more slender. (Fig. 81, C D) Centnints exilicauda.
Opisthacanthiis lepturiis Pal de Beauv
This is a large, very dark-colored species, with very large claws, and a
verv small tail : it occurs in the American tropics, and has been taken from the
islands off the Californian coast.
Diplocentrus keyserlingi Karsch
This is a JNlexican species of which there are specimens in the Marx
collection labelled "California." It is nearly black. There is another Mexi-
can species closely similar in appearance, but with the cephalothorax smooth,
not gramilate ; it is D. zi'liitci Gerv., and may possibly be taken in California.
Broteochactas alleuii Wood
This is a small and short species, with large hand and very short fingers;
it was described from Baja California, but I have seen specimens from Ft.
Tejon, Calif.
Hadi'urus hirsutus Wood
This is our largest species of scorpion ; it is reddish yellow, or brownish,
and unmarked ; the legs and palpi are noticeably long-haired. Specimens have
been seen from Indio, Tulare County, Salton, San Bernardino County, the
Mohave Desert, and Palm Springs.
Uroctonus inordax Thorell
This is a very dark-colored species, with large claws, apparently rather
common in central and northern California ; specimens are from Lakeside,
Lake Chabot, San Francisco, Fresno County, Sausalito, Camp Meeker, Sonoma
County, Napa County, and Santa Rosa Island.
Aniiroctomis pliaiodactyliis Wood
This is rather larger than the last species, of a red-brown color, rather
hairy, and peculiar on account of the swollen sting in the male. Specimens
are from Witch Creek, and Cuyamaca Mountains, both in San Diego County,
from the Mohave Desert, and Claremont.
