THE SCORPIONS OF CALIFORNIA 189
Vejovis punctipalpi Wood
A reddish brown species, with strongly ridged claw. Specimens from
San Bernardino County, Death Valley, Santa Margarita Island, and San Diego
County.
Vejovis boreus Girard
This species is smaller than the last, and of more northern distribu-
tion, occurring in Washington, Idaho and Montana, but I have seen speci-
mens labelled "California."
Vejovis spinigeriis Wood
This species is easily known by the smooth tail striped with black. Speci-
mens are marked "California."
Vejovis liirsiiticauda Banks n. sp.
Reddish brown. Densely acutely granulate almost all over ; granulate in
front of eyes ; four complete granulate keels on dorsum of last abdominal
segment ; the submedian keels below complete and widely separated ; cauda
slender, strongly keeled ; beneath, the submedian keels are strong and granu-
late ; the fifth segment is extremely long, one and three-fourths
times as long as the fourth segment, keels strong to tip ; the
vesicle is very slender, and bears many very long hairs beneath, almost form-
ing a brush; the sting is only slightly curved; there are 15 pectines ; the
pedipalpi are rather short, the hand a little longer than broad, with strong,
granulate keels; fingers rather shorter than hand. Length l'^ inch. From
San Bernardino County, California.
Isometriis inaculatus Linne
This species occurs all through the tropics, and I have seen specimens
from Santa Barbara and Santa Catalina Islands. It is a slender species with
long tail, and more or less maculate with dark brown.
Tityiis tenuiiiianus Banks n. sp.
This species has been taken at Buena Vista Lake. It is yellowish brown
in color. The peclipalpi are slender, the hand but wxakly keeled
and not granulate, the fingers fully one and a half times longer than
hand, the eye-tubercle is broad, and the eyes large; from the tubercle
is a row of granules each side to front margin, and on sides
a row, indented behind and connected to opposite row near posterior edge
of cephalothorax ; the lateral ridges on first two segments are connected in
front, the last segment has five rows of granules, the median not reaching
behind, beneath the outer ridges are short; the tail is rather stout, the fifth
segment with prominent serrate lower edges; no tooth below sting. Length
2 inches.
