194 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
central portion are more sparsely haired. A tuft of very long hairs projects
outward from base of the hairy portion of each wing.
Type locality — Guadalajara, Mexico. Described from eight specimens.
Colletes dilatata n. sp.
Female — Length 9-10 mm. Stout, black with griseous pubescence. Head
broader than long, eyes converging below. Face sparsely covered with
griseous pubescence, sometimes nearly nude ; thickly covered with medium
sized punctures. Clypeus broad, convex, shiny, with large, long, shallow
punctures, forming longitudinal striae, depressed into a median sulcus in mid-
dle, truncate at apex. Mandibles dark, reddish at tips. Malar space very
short, about one-eighth as long as broad. Supra-clypeal area smooth except
for a few fine punctures around margin. Antennae black, sometimes brown
beneath. Vertex shining, smooth except between ocelli, where it is finely
punctured. Hair on vertex almost entirely black. Hair on under side of
head white, not dense ; that on mouth parts, golden yellow.
Thorax — Stout, rather shiny. Mesothorax covered anteriorly and on
sides with short griseous pubescence, covered with large, round punctures,
more crowded anteriorly, entirely lacking on a large disk. Ajjical margin
with a narrow band of small punctures. Scutellum, covered on sides with
tufts of longer hair, the black quite conspicuous and mostly inside of the
patch of white. Anteriorly smooth and shiny, the sides and posterior half
with a few very large, round punctures. Postscutellum — sparsely pubescent,
almost nude, closely punctured, rugose. Superior face of metathorax nor-
mal, with ten or twelve rectangular pits. The posterior face has the enclosure
funnel shaped, the neck rather narrow, the bowl divided by a number of ridges
forming more or less noticeable pits joining those of the superior face. Lateral
areas of posterior face closely punctured with large shallow punctures, the
sides with rather long pubescence, mostly light colored. The mesopleura
are shiny, with large round punctures, and a few very small ones between ;
pubescence sparse, long and white. Prothoracic spine, long and sharp. Wings
hyaline ; nervures and stigina dark ; tegulae, black.
Abdomen — Stout, shiny, wide at base, suddenly narrowed at apex ; first
segment almost smooth anteriorly, becoming finely, densely punctured to-
ward apex ; remaining segments finely, closely punctured. Abdomen prac-
tically nude except for the sparse white pubescence on the anterior part of
first segment, and the white fasciae on the apex of segments one to five.
The first fascia is quite narrow ; the rest rather broad. On the fourth and
fifth segments are a few spiny black hairs, becoming yellowish on the sixth.
Pubescence on under side of abdomen rather dense, and of an ochraceous color,
except for the faint, lighter colored fasciae.
Legs — Stout, dull black ; first tarsal joint stout, about two and one-half
to three times as long as broad. Pubescence on inner side of hind femora long,
white and silky, that on outside shorter. Tibial scopa white and dense.
The apices of inner tarsi clothed with golden hairs. The tibial spurs are
long, and yellowish ; the inner ones finely pectinate. Claws light, medially
toothed.
