196 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
at apex. \'olsella quite prominent. Seventh ventral plate fan shaped ; each
wing with a broad, rounded emargination at a]>ex, densely haired in a V
shape, extending along the margins ; but almost no hair in the apical median
space. No tufts of hair anywhere.
Type locality — Guadalajara, Mexico. Described from three males and
fifteen females.
Colletes liueata n. sp.
!\[.\LE — Length 10 mm. Black, rather slender; pubescence, brownish.
Head — A little broader than long, eyes converging below, but margin almost
straight. Face densely clothed with rather dense and long ochraceous
pubescence, noticeably darker on clypeus and base of antenns. Clypeus convex,
thickly punctured, but not striate, except a portion near margin ; punctures
smaller and closer medially. Malar space one-fourth to one-fifth as long
as broad. Tips of mandibles reddish. Face punctured ; vertex very thickly
so. Antennffi solid black ; scape short with dark ochraceous hairs ; third joint
shorter, broader, and more densely covered with minute black pubescence than
other joints of flagellum ; remaining joints about twice as long as broad.
Hair on under side of head long, dense, same color as the lighter part of
facial pubescence.
Thorax — Dull, covered with rather short brownish hair, except on sides of
metathorax, where it is long and light. Mesothorax covered with rather large
rovmd punctures, thicker anteriorly, sparse on medium sized disk. Scutel-
lum with larger punctures, well separated in front, thicker on poster/or half.
Postscutellum rugose. Superior face of metathorax shining, with a number
of rather narrow pits. Posterior face shining, enclosure funnel shaped ; neck
rather narrow, about twice as long as wide at base ; lateral faces with very
large, pit-like, shallow punctures, forming rugse, or irregular widely separated
ridges. Mesopleura densely punctured ; hair beneath tegulse same color as on
thorax, becoming longer and lighter beneath. Tegulse black. Wings hyaline,
nervures brownish.
Abdomen — Ovoid, not very shiny ; pale, usually white fascise on all seg-
ments except last. All segments densely finely punctured except first, which
has fewer. First segment with pale brownish hairs, more dense anteriorly
and laterally. Hair underneath sparse and dark, except for continuation of
fasciiTS.
Legs — Black ; pubescence on posterior femora long, whitish, darker and
shorter above ; that on tibiae shorter, denser and lighter. Tibial spurs golden
yellovi'. First tarsal joint long, four or five times as long as broad; apical
hairs on tarsi slightly golden. Claws reddish, apically cleft. First tarsal joint
on anterior and middle legs narrower than on posterior legs.
Genitalia (Fig. 74) — Stipes notched, apex long and slender, curved slightly
inward, apical half with long hairs. Sagittae long, broad at base ; apical half
narrowed, and elbowed in middle, the ends pointing outward. The mem-
branous wing of each saggita reaches the entire length of the narrow half.
Volsella medium sized Seventh ventral plate — Two long wings, each with
