200 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
white and spiny. Apices of tarsal joints witli yellow, spiny hairs. Tibial spurs
long, dark yellow. Claws ferruginous to yellow, apically cleft. First joint
of hind tarsi rectangiilar, about four times as long as broad.
Genitalia — (Fig. 76.). Stipes stout, notched; apex very short and blunt,
covered with tuft of long hair. Inner margin of middle portion with few
long hairs. Sagittal rods long, extending one-fourth of their length beyond
the stipites. Membranous wing extending back to near the end of the volsella.
Volsella very large and prominent. Seventh ventral plate very small and
broad ; each wing extending diagonally outward, instead of straight forward.
Entire anterior portion haired. On the inner margin of the basal portion is
a sort of ridge, crowned with a row of long, curved spines.
This species may be found to be near C. prosopidis Ckll., or some allied
species. The very short malar space would indicate that it is not C. prosopidis,
however.
Type locality, Guailalajara, Mexico. Described from two males.
Collates moctezuuiensis n. sp.
Male — Length 8 mm. Head broader than long; eyes converging below.
Face and under side of head covered with long white pubescence, in contrast
with ochraceous of thorax. Clypeus black, convex, striate punctate, with
shallow punctures, and faint median sulcus. Supra-clypeal area similarly punc-
tured. Apex of clypeus truncate, depressed. Face finely punctured; vertex
coarsely so with close round punctures. Hair on vertex sparse, yellowish.
Malar space longer than wide. Mandibles dark, reddish at tips. Antennas long,
black ; flagellum reddish brown beneath ; scape punctured ; joint three long
as four; four and remainder one-third longer than broad.
Thorax — Black, clothed with dark ochraceous to ferruginous pubescence,
longer and thicker on sides and on outer margin of scutellum ; paler on
metathorax. Mesolhorax distinctly but not thickly punctured with medium
sized, round punctures almost lacking on the disk. Posterior two-thirds of
scutellum with large round punctures, quite close together ; anterior part
smooth but not shining; posterior and lateral margins with long hair, nearly
covering scutellum. Postscutellum rugulose ; the rugae of anterior part pit
like. Superior face of metathorax with usual shining pits. Enclosure of
posterior face broadly funnel shaped, shining; lateral faces surrounding it
shining, with broad shallow punctures forming rugae. Prothoracic spine short,
sharp. Mesopleura coarsely punctured, covered with long white hair, contrast-
ing with colored hair of thorax. Wings hyaline ; nervures and stigma yellow-
ish. TeguljE brown, with yellow edges.
Abdomen — Shining, densely punctured, with small round punctures,
slightly farther apart on first segment. Anterior part of first segment with a
few long white hairs. All segments have broad, thick, yellowish, fasciae, ex-
cept last. The last three segments have a few white spiny hairs.
Legs — Dark brown to black. Posterior femora with long, silvery white
floccus. Hair on posterior tibije similar. First joint of hind tarsi four to five
times as long as broad. Tarsi lighter than other joints. Claws apically cleft.
