ESSIG, APHIDIDAE OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 3
cular, IV one large circular, V one terminal surronnded by five marginal — all
in the apical process. Pro-thorax — lateral tubercles wanting. Rostrum — not
half as long as the body. Abdomen — very indistinctly segmented and covered
with numerous red dots. Cornicles — truncate, nearly obsolete. Legs — Hairy,
very long, due to the enormous lengths of the tibia, and especially the tibia of
the hind legs which are very long; they have no sensoria. The lengths of the
tibia of the respective legs are : pro-thoracic 0.51 mm., meso-thoracic 0.57 mm.,
meta-thoracic 1.1mm. These long legs enable the aphid to move very rapidly.
The hind legs are especially adapted for clinging to the slender pine needles
along which it moves at a great rate. IVings — Entirely clear, primary —
length 2.4 mm., width 0.75 mm. Cubitus — well defined. Stigmal — nearly
straight, marking lower margin of a narrow distinct stigma. Radius — straight,
extending from stigmal vein to margin. Of the third oblique only two rem-
nants remain, showing that it was undoubtedly once forked. The first and
Figure 3. Rhopalosiphum violae
second obliques are straight. They arise together about the middle of the
cubitus and extend to the margin. Secondary — length 1.63 mm., width 0.32
mm. Two discoidals. Subcostal — well marked and extending to tip of the
wing. The first discoidal arises from the sub-costal near the base and extends
nearly to the margin of the wing. The second discoidal arises from the sub-
costal at a distance from the first discoidal equal to the distance from the first
discoidal to the base of the wing and extends nearly to the margin. Cauda —
rounded, slightly hairy. Style — obsolete.
Apterous Viviparous Female. — (Figure 2.) Length 1.6 mm., width
0.5 mm. Differs from the winged form as follows : On the antennae
(Figure 5, I) the sensoria are distributed as follows: I and II none. III many
large circular, IV four large circular, V one terminal surrounded by several
marginal in the process. On the legs the sensoria are distributed as follows :
