204 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
punctured instead of rugose ; tegulae dark brown ; surface of thorax shining.
Abdomen also similar to C. macconnelli, but is very shiny, lacks punctures,
or only has very sparse fine punctures ; has black hairs on apical segments in-
stead of golden. Legs similar to C. macconnelli, but first joint of hind tarsi
shorter and broader, being about two and one-half to three times as long as
broad.
Genitalia (Fig. 79) — Stipes notched; apical part short and blunt; this
and inner margin of middle part covered with rather short hairs. Sagitta long,
but stout ; tip curved out ; wing short. Seventh ventral plate small delicate ;
each wing expanded into a broad lobe at base. The almost transparent and
practically hairless forepart of the wing is long and narrow, and has a dark-
ened portion along the outer edge. On the outer part of the basal lobe there
is a large patch of hair ; while on the inner part is an erect knob-like protuber-
ance covered with hair.
The coloration of the hair of this species is very varialjlc, running from
pale yellow in some to rich Ijrown in others.
Described from five males.
Type locality — Guadalajara. Alexico.
Colletes subdilatata li. sp.
Female — Resembles in general appearance the female of C. dilatata, but
differs as follows : Malar space shorter, being a mere line. Alesothorax
with much smaller punctures, and no impunctate disk ; the punctures being
over entire surface. The black hair of the mesothorax much less noticeable ;
the light hair ochraceous instead of white. Punctures on scutellum very much
smaller, and mucli more numerous, covering practically the whole surface.
Mesopleura with smaller punctures, sparse above, forming striae in center.
First abdominal segment punctured all over, instead of merely at apex. First
joint of posterior tarsi much stouter, shorter, and broader, being less than
twice as long as broad. With the exception of the floccus the hair on the
posterior femora and tibise is dark, noticeably different from C. dilatata. It
is quite possible that this may prove to be the female of C. delicata, or C. mac-
connelli, as it resembles both, but I have provisionally separated it. It has the
punctured abdomen of C. macconnelli, but lacks even a moderately long malar
space. The puncturation of the thorax also resembles that of C. macconnelli,
but that of the head is like C. delicata.
One specimen which I have has almost no punctures on the first abdomi-
nal segment, and fewer on the other segments, but as it is identical in other
respects, I consider it a form of this species.
Described from three females.
Type locality — Guadalajara, Mexico.
Colletes capitata n. sp.
Fem.\lE — Length about 16 mm. Anterior wing 12 mm. Body rather
slender; head, thorax and wings pale ferruginous; abdomen dull black with
white fasciae ; no black hairs on thorax ; no white hairs on body except fasciae
on abdomen. Head broader than long ; eyes prominent, converging below,
