BEES OF THE GENUS COLLETES FROM MEXICO 205
inner margin convex. Clypeus large, broad, shining, convex, with sparse
golden hair, and large, shallow, confluent punctures forming irregular striae ;
median sulcus narrow, deep ; apex depressed, subemarginate. Mandibles large,
blunt, entirely black, with few golden hairs. Supra-clypeal area with a rectan-
gular median space smooth, remainder with dense large punctures, smaller
basally. Space along eye margins and around antennae with dense, long,
ilark ochraceous hair. Vertex almost nude. Face densely punctured ; punc-
tures becoming larger and confluent near vertex. Along the inner margin
of each eye, from the vertex half way down the face is a space that is de-
pressed very much, is dull black, and almost entirely lacking punctures. A
narrow space across vertex and along lateral margins of outer ocelli, is smooth
and shining ; behind this the punctures become dense, and of two sizes.
Occiput with fringe of rather long ferruginous hair. Malar space short, one-
eighth to one-sixth as long as broad. Antennae short ; scape long, smooth,
with a few golden hairs at apex ; flagellum brown beneath ; joint three one and
one-half times as long as four; four shorter than five; all but third and last
shorter than broad. Under side of head with sparse long ochraceous hair.
Thorax — Densely covered with short ferruginous pubescence, becoming
long and pale on sides, metathorax, and scutellum ; mesothorax black, rather
shiny, densely punctured with large round punctures, crowded over entire sur-
face, except a small impunctate disk. Scutellum shining, densely punctured,
except anterior margin, with large punctures ; hair on sides long, light ; inside
of this, hair is dark, rich brown. Postscutellum rugulose. Superior face of
metathorax with pits not clearly defined, having a wavy appearance. Enclos-
ure of posterior face shining with wavy irregular surface like that of superior
face, funnel shape, neck narrow; lateral faces bordering enclosure roughened
with minute wavy lines, giving peculiar appearance like microscopic pits over
entire surface. Mesopleura with large punctures; hair long and plumose,
almost white. Wings darkened almost to ferruginous ; nervures and stigma
ferruginous ; tegulae ferruginous. Prothoracic spine short and sharp.
Abdomen — Densely punctured and microscopically wrinkled ; punctures
dense on basal and apical margins of segments. First segment is not truncate,
but tapers ofif at base ; punctures dense except on tapering part. The punc-
tures are more dense and smaller near both margins of the segments. The
apical fasciae of segments one to five are rather broad ; the pubescence is pure
white, quite short and down-like ; often broken on the first tv»o segments. The
last three segments have many black, spine-like hairs, becoming dense and of
a brow'uish color on tlie last segment. On the dorsal surface the hairs are
sparse, long, and golden.
Legs — Stout, black ; pubescence entirely ochraceous to ferruginous, or
golden; floccus on the posterior femora long, dense, plumose, ochraceous;
hair on posterior tibiae almost spine-like. Tibiae stout. Inroad at apex; spurs
golden. First joint of the hind tarsi rectangular, broad, being one-third as
broad as long. Pubescence of tarsi golden, spine-like. Claws sharp, medially
toothed.
