206 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
This species is very conspicuous, being large, with colored pubescence
and wings of the same shade. The peculiar sculpture of the face, and the
white abdominal fasciae easily distinguish it. On all the specimens I have
the hair of head and thorax is all colored, that of fasciae on abdomen being tlie
only white on the body.
Described from four females.
Type locality — Guadalajara, Mexico.
CoUetes bonibiforniis u. sp.
Fkm.m.E — Measurements: Length 13 mm.; thorax, 4' 4 mm. long by 434
mm. broad; abdomen, 6^4 mm. long by 5 mm. broad; wing, lOj/^ mm. long;
head, 3j4 'Tim- long by 3% mm. broad. Entirely black, except pubescence of
face, very robust ; thorax as broad as long ; abdomen truncate or slightly con-
vex at base.
Head — Broader than long ; eyes nearly parallel ; inner margins concave.
Clypeus shining, very convex, covered with sparse brown and white hairs,
deeply punctured, the punctures forming striae that curve in toward a narrow,
rather deep groove down the center, apex subemarginate. Supra-clypeal area
with large well separated punctures. Mandibles large, dark, blunt. Malar
space narrow, being one-eighth to one-sixth as long as broad. Face covered
with rather sparse, plumose, light brownish to gray hair, with some black on
sides, and vertex ; entire surface, including vertex, rather densely punctured
with various sized punctures, all smaller than those on supra-clypeal area.
Antennae black ; scape long, shining, slightly punctured near end, with short,
black hair on inner side ; flagellum rather stout ; joint three one and one-half
times four ; four equal five ; all except four longer than broad. Under surface
of head with sparse brown and black hairs mixed.
Thorax — Deep black, shining; all hair black, plumose, rather long, much
longer on sides, metathorax and scutellum. Mesothorax with rather large,
round, well separated but not sparse punctures, farther apart on disk. Scutel-
lum with much larger punctures, very close together except on narrow strip
along anterior margin. Post-scutellum rugulose. Superior face of meta-
thorax shining with rectangular pits of various widths, all minutely covered
with faint wavy lines. Posterior face with enclosure funnel shape ; the top
with pits similar to those of the superior face, those in middle much wider
than long, those on sides longer than wide, the whole forming a sort of an
arch occupying most of the bowl of the enclosure; neck of enclosure narrow;
lateral faces rugose. Mesopleura with large round punctures and a somewhat
brownish tinge to the black hair in places. Wings darkened ; stigma small ; it
and nervures black ; first submarginal cell of uniform width throughout, long
as second and third combined. Tegulae shining black, smooth except for a
few small punctures, with a fringe of light hair on outer edges.
Abdomen — Very stout, black, shining, no fasciae ; a few long black hairs
on base and sides of first segment ; sparse short black hairs on other seg-
ments, becoming long and spine-like on apical segments. Punctures very few
and small on first segment, and confined largely to apical margin, more but
