BEES OF THE GENUS COLLETES FROM MEXICO 207
rather sparse on other segments. The apex of the fourth segment is broad,
band-like, smooth and shining.
Legs — Robust, black. Floccus on posterior femora long, black, plumose;
tibiae with long black hairs; spurs long, black, lighter at tips; first tarsal joint
on posterior legs, broad, short, two and one-half times as long as broad, with
rather long spine-like hairs ; other tarsal joints longer, lighter, with hair almost
golden on apices ; claws reddish to golden, medially toothed.
This may be C. acthiops Cr., but the pubescence of the thorax is not
"short," and not "slightly mixed with pale on face," but is long on thorax and
almost entirely pale on face. It also lacks any "palish pubescence on apical
margins of segments."
Described from one female.
Type locality — Guadalajara, Mexico.
Colletcs frontalis n. sp.
FEMALE — Head broader than long ; eyes convex below ; inner orbital mar-
gins concave. Pubescence of face peculiar ; that of clypeus sparse, not plu-
mose, white and golden mixed; space between clypeus and orbit on each side,
and fringe on upper margin of supra-clypeal area silvery white and rather
plumose ; on each side of the supra-clypeal area, and just inside of the white
fringe around the supra-clypeal area the pubescence is rather short and gray
to ochraceous, with a few long black hairs on the outer margins. Area be-
tween and just back of antennae with rather long gray to ochraceous hair.
The vertex and well down on the front is almost nude except for a few black
hairs. The patches of silvery white on each side of the clypeus in contrast
with the rest give the face a peculiar look, noticeable at a glance. Clypeus
convex, jjroad, shining, truncate at tip ; no noticeable sulcus ; punctures quite
large and shallow, forming longitudinal striae that are so prominent that the
punctures can hardly be distinguished in some places. j\landi!)lcs very large,
dark reddish, blunt, with golden hairs; mandiljular lobe comparatively small,
rounded, not toothed. .Malar space one-eighth as long as wide. Supra-clypeal
area very finely lined, not punctured. Face with large round punctures, close
together. Vertex with very small sparse punctures; inter-ocellar area with
larger ones. Scape of antennae long, sparsely punctured with few black hairs
at apex; joint three one and one-half times as long as four; four shorter than
the following ones. Flagellum sometimes brownish beneath.
Thora.x — Stout, black, not very shiny. Mesothorax with large, deep punc-
tures over entire surface, as close together as they can be in front, but little
more separated posteriorly ; pubescence short, gray to ochraceous, mixed with
black, but black not prominent, longer on sides. Scutellum with hair on outer
margin longer, almost white ; inside of this is sparse fringe of black. Scutel-
lum si)arsely covered with round punctures of various sizes, mostly large ; more
crowded posteriorly. Postscutellum narrow, concealed by dense, long, ochra-
ceous to white hair ; punctures shallow and close together, giving rugose ap-
pearance. Superior face of metathorax with broad rectangular shining pits.
Enclosure of posterior face shining, funnel shaped, bowl broad and rather
