NOTES ON CALIFORNIA COCCID/E V 213
Uiaspis broiiicliae Kerti. Pineapple Scale
Female Scale — Nearly circular, flat, with more or less uneven margin ;
diameter, 2 mm. ; color nearly white, with first exuvia yellow.
Female Body (Fig. 86 B) — The general shape is that of most of the
memhers of this genus — it being oval at the anterior end and tapering towards
the posterior end — nearly triangular. The color is a light yellow to almost
brown, with a faint tinge of blue or purple in some. Diameter of the body —
taking the longest measurements possible — rarely e.xceeds 1 mm.
I'ygidium (Fig. 86 A) — Mcsal lobes separated by two distinct sjiines ;
depressed on the inner margins. Secondary lobes divided or forked and de-
pressed on the outer margins. Third pair of lobes and fourth pair like the
second — bifurcate and depressed or serrate on the outer margin. Spines are
stout and prominent ; arranged as follows : two between the mesal lul)es, one
between the mesal and second pair, one betw'een second and third pair, one
between third and fourth pair — also a slender spine or hair. Seven very stout
spines between the fourth pair and the last abdominal segment preceding the
pygidium, two on this last segment. Tubular spinnerets numerous and dis-
tributed over nearly the whole surface of the pygidium.
Figure 86. Diaspis bromeliae.
Distribution of the circunigcnital glands is as follows: Lower laterals —
12 to 13; upper laterals — 17 to 19; median — 10 to 13.
The female body shown in the cut is parasitized — the nearly full grown
parasite showing" plainly.
Young (Fig. 86 B) — Oval or nearly round, flat, slightly segmented to-
wards the posterior end. Antennas si.x — articled and normally haired. Legs
very small — not showing when viewed dorsally. Anal lobes without spines.
Food plants — Pineapple, Braiiuiia, Piiii^uin, Hibiscus. Cainia. Iz'y, Bill-
bcrgia zebrina, Olea fragrans.
The de.scribed specimen was taken from a pineapple in a roniona green-
house, where it was quite thick. It has been reported from Kumpe, green-
houses in all parts of the L'nitcd States, Hawaiian Islands, and Mexico
