4 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Pro-thoracic, three large circular on coxa, many smaller ones scattered along
the femur ; meta-thoracic, few on femur, many on tibia, one on the tarsi.
Nymph op Apterous Viviparous Female. — These young are about one-
seventh as large as the adult and are like them in color and form.
The antennae (Figure 5, J) are four-jointed, about 0.3 mm. in length;
with an apical nail-like process on the last article. The respective lengths of
the articles are as follows : I 0.075 mm., II 0.15 mm.. Ill 0.038 mm., IV 0.037
mm. There are no sensoria. The abdomen is more distinctly segmented than
in the adult form. The rostrum is nearly as long as the body.
Common on some cultivated pines at Claremont, California, during the
winter of 1908-09. Their presence would pass unnoticed except for beating the
boughs which yields many specimens of this long-legged active species. Like
certain other Lachnus it presents some strong affinities with the genus Schizo-
neura. It seems to find its nearest relative in Lachnus agilis Kalt., but differs
in wing formation and other prominent features.
Rhopalosiphum violae, n. sp.
Winged Viviparous Female. — Length 1.4 mm., width 0.75 mm..
wing expanse 6.05 mm. Prevailing color — dark wine-red. Legs, antennae,
cornicles, and style — pale brown. (Figure 3.)
Head — Nearly as broad as long; considerably narrower than thorax.
Compound eyes — large with long terete (ocellar — ?) tubercles just behind near
the posterior border. Antennae (Figure 5, O) arise from large prominent
frontal tubercles and are transversely scabrous with a basal nail-like process
on article VI; are longer than the body, 2.34 mm., and are made up of six
joints. The lengths of the respective articles are as follows : I 0.08 mm.,
II 005 mm., Ill 0.01 mm., IV 0.51 mm., V 0.46 mm., VI 0.84 mm. The
sensoria are distributed as follows: I and II none, III large number — large
and circular, IV four large circular, V one large circular on distal end,
VI one large terminal and several smaller marginal in the process. There are
several terminal sense hairs on tip of this article. Rostrum — half as long as
the body. Pro-thorax — no distinct lateral tubercles. Abdomen — smooth.
Cornicles — incrassate, almost clavate in form, 0.25 mm. long. Legs — slightly
hairy, moderately long, without sensoria. Wings — Primary, length 2.65 mm.,
width 0.98 mm., veins well marked, broadly clouded along margins. The
cubitus is distinct, separating off a broad well-defined stigma of trapezoidal
shape. The radius is sharply curved. Of the three obliques, the third is
twice forked, the second curves in slightly near the margin, the first is straight.
Secondary — length 1.3 mm., width 0.51 mm. Have a well-defined sub-costal
extending the entire length, with two discoidals. Of these the first arises from
the sub-costal a third of its distance from the body, and the second arises from
the sub-costal two-thirds of its distance from the body to the wing-tip. Style —
prominent and somewhat upturned.
Apterous Viviparous Female. — Length 1.2 mm., width 0.70 mm.
Differs from winged form as follows : No sensoria and fewer sense-
