224 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
whitish color in the Hving forms. This does not show in the cut. SHghtly
hairy. Cornicles (Fig. 96 E) — Somewhat incrassate, dark, as long or longer
than the style. Legs — moderately long and hairy. Wings — hyaline with a
dark stigma. Primary — length, 3.5 mm., width 1.2 mm. Sub-costal, straight.
Stigma, dark, long, narrow, and nearly rectangular in shape. Stigmal arises
from center of stigma, and is curved gradually to the margin of the wing.
Third discoidal — straight, does not arise from the sub-costal, twice forked, the
first and second branches arising from the fork not far from the wing-margin.
Second discoidal — Curves slightly toward the body. First discoidal — also curves
toward the body. Secondary — Length, 1.5 mm., width, 0.5 mm. Sub-costal ex-
tends to wing tip. First and second discoidals nearly the same length and
nearly straight. Style — conical and hairy.
(Vein terminology changed as follows — Cubitus to sub-costal; radius to
stigmal; obliques to discoidals.)
Apterous Viviparous Femalb (Fig. 96 I) — Length 3 mm., width 1^4
mm. Color, dark brown to almost black. Diflfers from the winged form as fol-
lows : Body very much more robust and has appearance of some members of the
Genus Lachnus. Antennae (Fig. 96 C) without sensoria except in the nail-
like process. Cornicles (Fig. 96 F).
Nymph of Apterous Viviparous Female (Fig. 96, D, G, H) — Resemble
greatly the adult, but are much lighter in color. The cut shows the principal
characteristics. This form was collected by C. li. Vary of Pomona. It was in-
festing orange trees of that locality very badly, and promised to do severe
damage. The general appearance was very much of a Lachnus and so I
marked it until it was studied out. The cottony covering and short antennae
led to this belief. The wing structure and general characteristics undoubtedly
place it in the genus Aphis. Ashmead had named this species citrifoUi and
citruUi, as found on orange and melon. Forbes had named the cucumber form,
cncumeris, while Weed again named it forbesi.
Food plants — (After Theodor Pergande, in Insect Life, Vol. VII, p. 313)
Purslane (Portulaca oleracea) ; Shepherds-purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris) ;
Pepper-grass (Lepidium virginicum) ; Amaranthus sp. ; Dock (Rumex crispus
and other species) ; Burdock (Lappa major) ; Dandelion (Taraxacum dens-
leonis) ; Pigweed (Chenopodium album) ; Wormseed (Chenopodium anthel-
minthicum) ; Plantain (Plantago virginica) ; Chickweed (Stellaria media) ;
Morning Glory (Convolvulus sp.) ; Three-seeded mercury (Acalypha vir-
ginica) ; Button-weed (Diodia teres) ; Ground Ivy (Nepeta glechoma) ; Red
Clover (Trifolium pratense) ; Indian "Strawberry (Fragaria indica) ; Mallow
or Malva (Malva rotundifolia) ; Cultivated Strawberry (Fragaria) ; Dwarf
Bean (Phaseolus nanus) ; Spinach (Spinacia oleracea) ; Hop (Humulus lupu-
lus) ; Cotton (Gossypium herbaceum) ; Pear (Pyrus comminis) ; European
Dogwood (Cornus mas) ; Orange (Citrus aurantium and other varieties).
Chaitophorus populicola Thos
In Vol. I, No. 4, December, the following measurements of Chaitophorns
populicola are correct: Length 1.5 to 2 mm., width 1 mm., wing expansion
7 mm. Primary wings, 3 mm.; secondary, 2 mm.
