AMERICAN PSYLLID.E I (Triozinae)
D. L. CRAWFORD
Although the Psylhdae have been quite thoroughly studied in Europe,
chiefly by Dr. Franz Low, still the knowledge of the group in America is very
scanty. A few papers have been published by E. A. Schwarz and by the late
Mr. Riley and others, but no attempt has been made in America to systematic-
ally study this most interesting and important group as a whole. The large
collection of Psyllidae presented to Pomona College by Prof. C. F. Baker, and
also the extensive C. F. Baker collection from the National Museum at Wash-
ington are now before me for systematic study. These collections include
specimens from the majority of the states, and also from Mexico and Central
America.
In this first paper, I present a provisional key to the genera and species of
the subfamily Triozinae, together with the first installment of descriptions of
the new species. Although the key is only provisional and will probably be
extensively revised before the completion of the work, still I have chosen what
seemed to me after very careful comparative study of the two collections to be
the best diagnostic characters. It is quite possible that a few of the American
species will be found to be identical or closely related to some European forms ;
representatives of many of the European species have been placed at my dis-
posal, but not enough of them to make a systematic comparison.
In making the synopsis of genera of the subfamily, I am unable, from Mr.
Scott's characterization of his genus Petalolyma, to find any generic differences
between that genus and the typical g^nus Triosa. From the brief and wholly
inadequate descriptions of Trioza diospyri Ashmead, T. magnoliae Ashmead
and T. pyrifoUae Forbes, it is impossible to include these in the synopsis of
species ; it seems quite probable, however, that T. magnoliae is closely related
to Paratrioza arbolensis n. sp.
In this and subsequent studies, the term facial cones is applied to the
conical structures projecting outward or downward from the face ; the term
frontal plates is applied to the flat discal area of the upper anterior portion of
head, whether that area is raised plate-like or not.
SYNOPSIS OF THE GENERA OF THE SUB-FAMILY TRIOZINAE
A. Radius longer than basal portion of subcosta.
B. Facial cones entirely wanting. Fore femora long and distinctly broad-
ened Rhinopsylla Riley.
BB. Facial cones not entirely wanting.
C. Labrum very large and distinctly visible below and between facial
cones ; facial cones extremely short and very broad and broadly
rounded when viewed from in front, with antennae inserted near
their base ; cones slightly projecting beyond insertion of antennae.
Paratrioza n. gen.
