WEST COAST NEWS NOTES
[In this department we hope to give in most numbers of the Journal
some idea of the doings and movements of western entomologists, notices of
publications of interest to western students, notices of entomological meet-
ings, etc. To this end, we hope that students or collectors will send in all
items of entomological interest about themselves or others. Mr. Grinnell will
be very glad to answer any questions or help anyone in any way, by letter
or personally. Address, Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., 572 N. Marengo Ave.,
Pasadena, Cal.]
Mr. D. W. Coquillett of Washington, D. C, is visiting in Los Angeles
during this spring.
Mr. Wm. M. Mann of Stanford University is studying and collecting
myrmecophilous insects, especially Coleoptera, and has already found some
very interesting forms.
Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell describes a number of new Californian bees in
the Annals and Magazine of Natural History, London, for January, 1910.
One wing of the County Historical Museum and Art Gallery about to
be erected in Agricultural Park, Los Angeles, will be occupied by the
collections of the Southern California Academy of Sciences.
The March meeting of the Pasadena Entomological Society was held
at the residence of Mr. Karl R. Coolidge, in Pasadena. Mr. Wm. Schrader,
of Los Angeles, reviewed some of the interesting experimental work of
Standfuss, on the Lepidoptera ; and alluded to some of his own work.
Mr. Francis X. Williams of San Francisco has been appointed assistant
curator of the Snow Entomological Collections of the University of Kansas.
On his way to Kansas he stopped for a few days' visit in Pasadena.
Prof. Herbert Osborn of the Ohio State L'niversity was a recent visitor
at Pomona College.
Mr. D. L. Crawford expects to spend another summer in Mexico,
collecting in some of the Southeastern States.
The Palos Verdes Marine Laboratory of Pomona College at Portuguese
Bend — a very favorable point on the coast of Southern California — will be
opened during the coming summer. This laboratory is intended especially
to supplement the work of the Department of Biology of Pomona College,
but it will be open to any students or investigators desiring to work at this
point.
Dr. F. E. Blaisdell and Dr. Edwin C. VanDyke are planning a collecting
trip for Coleoptera to the high Sierras of Middle California.
Mr. G. W. Kirkaldy died in San Francisco, February 2d. He was a good
student of the Hemiptera, and was commencing a monumentous catalogue
of the Hemiptera of the world, published by Felix L. Dames, Berlin, Germany.
From January to April, the Oakland College of Medicine, Oakland, Cal.,
offered a course in Tropical Diseases and Medical Parasitology to graduates
