WEST COAST NEWS NOTES 239
and practitioners of medicine, under the direction of Dr. Creighton \\'ellinan.
Mr. Grinnell will be glad to get any number of specimens of Linicnitis
lorqidiiii and Linicnitis {Hctcrochroa) californica from any part of the
Pacific Coast, for the study of the mimetic relations of these two species.
Exact date and locality should be on each specimen.
j\Ir. \'. L. Clemence and Mr. Karl R. Coolidge have canceled their pro-
posed trip to Mexico this year, and instead have gone to Southern Arizona
to collect for about three months ; most of the time will be spent in the
Huachuca Mountains.
Mr. W. H. Stultz of Minneapolis has been in Pasadena for the winter and
spring. Air. Stultz collected many Lepidoptera for the work of Packard
and Grote.
The Open Court Publishing Co., Chicago, has reprinted the classic,
'"Experiments on the Generation of Insects," by Francesco Redi, of Arezzo,
translated from the Italian edition of 1688 by Mab Bigelow. Illustrated
with +4 full page, 16th century drawings. Cloth, $2.00. Edition of 1000
copies.
The Vitascope is a new instrument for observing living insects, etc.,
without disturbing them, at a distance, under high magnification, which can
be varied from 10-60 diameters. It is being put on the market by Newton
& Co., London.
Messrs. James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard are authors of An
Orthopterological Reconnaissance of the Southwestern United States. Part
III. California and Nevada. From the Proceedings of the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, pp. 409-483. Oct. 1909. It is a very fully
annotated list, with descriptions of several new species, principally Californian,
and descriptions of localities visited. During 1909 Messrs. Rehn and Hebard
collected an additional lot of 10,000 Orthoptera, including more new and inter-
esting species.
Dr. William Morton Wheeler's "Ants, Their Structure, Development
and Behavior," has just been published by the MacMillan Company, N. Y.,
and forms a part of the Columbia University Biological Series. The price
is $5.00.
The department of tropical medicine in th.e State Journal of Medicine,
conducted by Dr. Creighton Wellman, is interesting and suggestive. In a
recent number are sections on Zoology and Medicine, Leprosy in California,
Our Small Rodents, Hookworm Among LTs, and a Suggestien. And in an
editorial on Scientific Work on Plague, there is reviewed the most important
recent publications of the U. S. Public Health and Marine Hospital Service.
A resume of the more important of these are given. A good number
are in the Journal of Infectious Diseases, the Public Health Reports, Para-
sitology, Journal of Medical Research, etc.
"Medical Zoology is rapidly coming to its own. Since the recognition
of specific causes of disease, bacteriology was the first to ally itself with
clinical medicine and for a time threatened to divide the field with the patholo-
gist. But there has been and still is an increasingly significant tendency to
