SPRAYING FOR THE CITRUS MEALY BUG 259
Pressure: Great difficulty was found in keeping a high and constant
pressure with run-down spray pumps. This work is very particular and the
pump must be overhauled at the beginning of the spraying season so that
the best possible results may be obtained. The pressure should never be less
than 200 pounds. In many cases where it went as low as 100 pounds or even
140 pounds the results were not satisfactory. The high pressure not only
penetrates the cottony protection better, but it whirls the leaves and enables
the sprayer to hit every part of the tree. Much of the poor results obtained
were usually traced right back to this cause, which though a small thing,
is extremely important in spraying for the mealy bug.
Application: There is always fault found with the application of sprays.
Either the sprayers are careless or, as found in some cases here, did not wish
to do the work, so pushed it as rapidly as possible, giving each tree only half
the required dosage. By careful work we found that if applied rightly, the
Carbolic Acid Emulsion did excellent work, so if you get poor results look up
this matter. Few men enjoy spraying and farm hands like to see it finished
as soon as possible. Sometimes it was necessary to go over the work twice
in order to get beneficial results at all, and in those cases we found that the
first dosage given was less than half which the sprayers were instructed to use.
Careless spraying is useless.
Material: The commercial materials used must be carefully examined.
for we have found some unfit for anything.
As a rule the crude carbolic acid was good, but if it is allowed to
stand in wooden barrels in the hot sun for any length of time it is liable to
evaporate and escape, leaving a concentrated liquid which is disastrous to the
spraying apparatus because it collects in the hose and stops up the nozzles, and
to the trees because it may drop the leaves.
With the whale oil soap we found considerable trouble. In all we have
handled some three tons and find two distinct grades. One is a light brown
and is good, while the other is very dark — nearly black — and is worthless.
Out of the last ton some 400 pounds were set aside and will be shipped back
to the factory. The trouble with this poor grade seems to lie in that it will
not form an emulsion, no matter how much is used. Several tanks were
sprayed out before the mixer was aware of the difference, which showed up
immediately on the trees. No harm was done to the foliage or to the
mealy bugs. Therefore in view of this experience you are advised to avoid
dark whale oil soap. It is not good.
General Results: At times the work proves very encouraging, while
again it does not show up well, but I am satisfied that all poor work lies with
the above named faults. Spraying citrus trees for anything is difficult, and
doubly so when spraying for the mealy bug. The pest is bad and hard to
kill. Remember it cannot be killed n-ith reckless sprayins:;. Good zcork always
shows up in the results. Remember this in your spraying zcork.
