THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF THE CITRUS MEALY
BUG 11.
BY E. 0. ESSIG
HORTICDI,TDRAl< COMMISSIONER OF
VENTURA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
CoccinellidaB
Among the ladybird beetles come many of the predaceous enemies of
the mealy bug, and because of their great importance to the entire field of
Agriculture and Horticulture in combating especially the Coccid and Aphid
pests, we have been studying as many of its species as possible. To my
knowledge there are no works in the state dealing with the accurate dis-
tinguishing of the larval and pupa forms and to this end this study is being
attempted. To the practical observer the larv£e and pupas are rarely as-
sociated with the correct adult. Since it is the larva that we expect to do
most of the good work, we should be able to distinguish it immediately. At
present we have at Santa Paula the following ladybird beetles as enemies of
the mealy bug; Cryptolacmus montrouzieri, Rhicobius ventralis, Rhizobins
loph-antha, Scymmis guttulaftis, and several others not determined. These
we shall consider first. In order to better vmderstand the descriptions let
us look first at the general characters of the larvje.
Family Characters of Larvae of Coccinellidae*
Larva six-footed, with ventral side of the body straight — an adaptation
for crawling on a plane surface. Abdomen with nine segments, the last con-
taining an anal tube which is used in locomotion.
Spiracles are located as follows : One pair on the mesothorax and a pair
on each of the first eight abdominal segments. These spiracles are situated
on the lateral margins near the middle of the segments, and extend to a
considerable distance within the body.
Head small, hard, narrower than pro-thorax. Epistoma large at the
fore part widening from a narow front towards the crown of the head
where it becomes almost circular. Clypeus distinctly separated from the
frontal by a well defined suture.-
Ocelli protruding, situated on a triangle just behind the antennre.
Antennje situated on the lateral anterior angles of the head just back
of the base of the mandibles ; three-articled, very small and retractible. The
of the base of the mandibles ; three-articled, very small and retractile. The
inserted on the exterior margin of the second. It is shorter, more slender
than the second and usually terminates in a point.
Mouth-parts small and not extended. Labrum membranous, irregular
on the front, extending between the lateral angles of the clypeus, which
is much more chitinous. Mandibles strong, somewhat triangular, nearly
as wide at the base as long, sharp-pointed, but generally bifurcate at the
point, with a tooth on either side or with one on both sides near the base.
•Geo. W. Dimmock — A!guna.s Coccinellidae de Cuba, 1905.
