THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF THE CITRUS MEALY BUG II 261
Maxillaries inserted under the mandibles ; basal maxillary sclerite is short,
indefinite, and inserted on the head ; the second maxillary sclerite is flattened,
large, extending forward and uniting the greater part of its length with
the second sclerite of the labrum. The exterior lobe does not exist. The
interior lobe is carnose, widening, provided with an appendage of two articles,
slightly inclined, and situated on the apex of which are some hairs or bristles.
Maxillary palpi three-articled, large, strong, hard, conical, slightly bent, and
provided with a few bristles. The third article of the palpus is large, and
conical with the point obtusely rounded and provided with conical sensoria-
like structures. The second sclerite of the labrum is large, widening, and
unites on the under side with the maxillary stipe. The stipes of the diverging
labial palpi are united. The labial palpi are inclined slightly upward, conical,
strong, two-articled, the apical article is conical, largest and well-rounded at the
point, which is provided with numerous conical sensoria. Without ligula.
Thorax with three distinct segments. Prothorax longer and narrower than
the mesothorax and metathorax which are almost equal.
Legs consisting of coxa, trochanter, femur, tibia, and claw. Coxa short,
conical, length less than one-third the width of the base. Trochanters much
shorter and narrower than the coxse. Femur large, nearly cylindrical, curving
slightly inward, much longer than the coxa, where it unites with the trochan-
ter it is small and obliquely truncate permitting great flexibility in the joint.
Tibia large, nearly cylindrical, sparcely bristly on the exterior surface and
densely bristly on the interior ; generally longer than the femur and claviform
in shape. Claw one on each leg, curving downward and inward and thickened
at the base.
Abdomen straight, more or less flattened, wider than the thorax and
gradually tapering posteriorly; with nine distinct segments. The last seg-
ment is generally much narrower than the other eight. Anal tube mem-
braneous and retractile ; can be extended and is used in locomotion.
Habit active, and usually living upon plants infested with Aphids, Coc-
cids, and other small insects on which they feed. Usually diurnal.
Larva moult four times in development.
For convenience the larvae of the family were placed in five groups
by Dimmock, as follows :
1. Larvae with tubercles producing bristles. These larvae are great Aphid
feeders. A few are adorned with brilliant colors. The ^hape is gen-
erally fusiform with the body flattened. The nymphs are bare.
2. Larvae with short stout spines, some having very small spines or bristles.
Generally flattened and fusiform ; adorned with many bright colors ;
great Aphid feeders; nymphs usually bare. The larvae of Bxochomus
forms a transition from this group to the next, the larvae of which
are mostly Coccid feeders and the nymphs remain in the larval skins
in transforming.
2. Larve with short, stout spines, some having very small spines or bristles.
The nymphs remain in the skins of the larvae in changing to adult.
