262 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
4. Larvae with large branched spines, and small branching spines or bristles.
Larvae are oval or somewhat elongated and are herbivorous. The nymphs
remain partially within the skins of the larvae in their transformations.
5. Larvae with skins for the secretion of white filaments. These larvae vary
in their food-habits ; the nymphs remain within the skins of the larvae.
Family Characters of the Nymphs of Coccinellidae*
Color — The colors of the nymphs of the family Coccinellidae are generally
showy, this show of colors being the reason of their being called this name.
Like the larvae they are protected from the ravages of insectivorous animals
by offensive secretions. In consequence these insects, during their trans-
formations to the adult, remain in exposed places. The distribution of the
marks vary considerably within the same species, but the color is one of
the chief characteristics in their classification.
Antennae — These are small and inconspicuous like those of the larvae.
In the nymphs they are hidden from the dorsal view, being bent under the
prothorax dorsally and posteriorily from the point of insertion. The tips
of the antennas extend upon the femur of the first pair of legs.
Elytra — These are large, and when viewed dorsally with one of the
elytra turned sufficiently on its base, the surface of the abdomen may be viewed
as, in the case with the nymphs of the Coleoptera in general. The elytra
commonly hide the dorsal surface and almost all of the sides back to the
third abdominal segment. They are somewhat bent until they meet in a
median line and usually hide the greater part of the posterior feet. Such
a peculiarity is mentioned by Letzner (1857). The marking of the elytra
of the nymphs do not correspond to that of the adult, but is an important
character of the nymphs and should be mentioned in all descriptions of them.
The marking is somewhat variable within the species, but this character
is very essential and is usually constant.
Spiracles — Those of the thorax are hidden. Those of the first five ab-
dominal segments are prominent, and those of the remaining segments are
smaller. In the nymphs of Chilochorus the margins of the spiracles of the
first abdominal segments are formed into a prolonged conspicuous tube.
Surface — Smooth, downy, or bristly, according to the species. The
nymphs, in descriptions, are characterized by their colors and the distribution
of the down and bristles.
Dorsal View — The head is not visible from a direct dorsal view, due to
the fact that it is completely bent under the ventral surface of the prothorax.
Prothorax — Equal to or exceeding in length the mesothoracic and meta-
thoracic joints but doubled ventrally nearly at right angles to the axis of
the body. The position when viewed ventrally appears like the transverse
segment before the mesothorax and elytra; larger than the metathorax.
Mesothorax — Trapezoidal in shape and narrower and much shorter than
the prothorax ; its width is greater than its length, the anterior margin is
greater than the posterior, and the base of the elytra are united at the con-
verging lateral margins.
**Geo. W. Dimmock in Report of Estacion Central Agronomica, Cuba.
