THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF THE CITRUS MEALY BUG 11 263
Metathorax — Crescent-shaped with the convex surface towards the front ;
equal to or sHghtly exceeding the mesothorax in length and greater in width.
Much narrower on the posterior margin than on the anterior.
Abdomen — Commonly very convex along the median line; somewhat
flattened out on the lateral joints (sutures between the segments). In many
of the nymphs there is a de€p suture between the segments 3 and 4, 4 and 5,
5 and 6, and sometimes between 6 and 7. These transverse sutures or joints,
permit a greater flexibility of the abdomen, in virtue of which the nymph is
able to raise itself almost perpendicular to the surface to which it is attached
and to repeat this motion in a regular manner, when it is molested. This is
to frighten its enemies. The lateral portions and the flattenings of the ab-
dominal segments are prolonged sometimes, more or less, by spines, which is
true of some segments of the nymphs of the genus Anatis.
Anal Appendage — Absent, but the apex of the abdomen is prolonged to
a point forming in many of the nymphs an anal fork which is sometimes
folded under the dorsum. This anal fork first observed by Letzner (1857)
serves to hold the nymph in the skin of the larva and is easily broken when
the nymph is forced violently from its binding, leaving the abdomen rounded.
This anal fork (morphologically considered) is like that of the nymphs and
larvae of the Cassidini, a subfamily of the Chrysomelidas.
Ventral View — Head small, border of the anterior margins of the pro-
thorax as it occurs in many of the nymphs of the Clavicornia. The large
maxillary palpi, which are easily distinguished by the terminal article which
is nearly triangular or the shape of an axe. The rest of the mouth-parts are
not very conspicuous. The antennie are visible from both sides of the head,
resting in the cavity formed by the lateral margins of the prothorax.
Feet — The pair of anterior feet and the mesothoracic ones are doubled
contiguously below the anterior part of the nymph, but are so small that
the knees do not protrude from the sides of the nymph. The femur forms
nearly a right angle with the main axis of the body. The metathoracic feet
are almost hidden by the el\tra.
Cryptolaemus moutrouzieri
Eggs — Are orange-colored and long, tapering to a point at both ends.
They are laid on end and stand together like a bunch of cigars. There are
from 4 to 12 in each bunch, and they are laid on various parts of the tree,
on the bark of the limbs and trunk in hidden places, oi; the leaves and
even on the stems of the fruit. The eggs hatch out very soon. It has been
impossible to keep those collected in the field from hatching for over one
week. The eggs probably remain for sometime in cold weather, but under
favorable conditions should hatch within two weeks.
Larvae (Fig. 106 A) : Hatch all at about the same time, and immediately
go in search of food. The first born have little covering, and the legs are
very prominent. Length about 1 mm. Form, oblong to oblong oval. The
body when covered with the white, wooly secretion is of various shapes,
but usually longer than wide. The length of the body proper when fully
