THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF THE CITRUS MEALY BUG 11 265
developed averages about 1 cm., but with the woolly secretions as seen in the
orchard some are twice as long as this. The width is about one-third the
length of the body, but this may be very different in some specimens. I am
using only average measurements. The woolly covering secreted by the larva
is snowy-white. The covering is arranged in long filaments, each filament
arising from the dorsal and lateral spine areas and extending in all direc-
tions. When attacked the larva immediately curls up showing only a woolly
mass. Few insects care to eat through this secretion to get at the body, so
the attacks of other insects are few. The body is yellow, sometimes approach-
ing a very dark shade. The dorsum of the head and ninth abdominal segment
are nearly black, as are also the femur, tibia, and claw of the legs. On the dor-
sum of the prothorax are two large black blotches and many smaller ones. The
entire body is covered with long and short spines. The following descrip-
tion is of the body with the wolly secretion removed :
Head — As long as the piothorax, but much narrower. Color, dark
on the dorsal side. Covered with long hairs or spines. Antennae, three-articled,
tapering greatly from base to the tip ; retractile. All of the articles are
nearly equal in length. I is much wider than 11, II is twice as wide as III.
^Mandibles (Fig. 106) — Strong: bifurcate at the point, with tooth on the
inner margin near the base. Maxillary palpi, three-articled, the epidermis may
be extended at the point of insertion to make them appear four-articled. Ar-
ticles I and II are nearly equal in length, III is nearly as long as both I and II.
Article I is wider than long, and much wider than II ; article II is also wider
than the length and wider than III; III is very narrow and much longer
than either I or II. Labial palpi, two-articled and small ; articles nearly equal
in length but I is wider than II.
Thorax — Gradually tapering from the head to the metathorax which is
the widest part of the body. Prothorax much wider than the head, and
narrower than either the meso or metathorax. Color, yellow with two large
cloudy blotches and several smaller ones on the dorsum. Spines on posterior
margin. Mesothorax very short, yellow, with two large spine areas near
the middle of the dorsum, and two spine areas on either side of these. On the
lateral margin is a large spine area. The. large breathing spiracle is on the
anterior lateral margin. Metathorax agrees with the mesothorax in ar-
rangement of spine areas, but is wider and has no spiracle.
Abdomen — Nine segments, all tapering from the first to the posterior
segment which is much narrower than the other eight. All ,are yellow except
the dorsum of the ninth segment, which is dark. On the dorsum there are
two median spine areas, two more or less lateral or dorsal (one on each
side of the two median) and a lateral area on each margin of the first eight
abdominal segments. On the ventral side there are five ventral spine areas
and two lateral areas on each segment. (One of the two lateral areas on
each margin is the lateral area seen from above.) The 16 spiracles are situated
along the margin of the abdomen. A spiracle situated on the anterior lateral
margin of each of the first eight abdominal segments. The ninth segment
is covered with many long spines or hairs.
