THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF THE CITRUS MEALY BUG II 269
bug has also appeared in destructive numbers." — John Isaac in "Jjug vs. Bug,"
1906, page 14.
"Mealy Bug {Dactylopius adouidum, Signoret). This mealy bug has
made its presence felt in some portions of the State. It congregates in large
numbers in portions of the tree, especially among the clusters of fruit.
"Treatment — This insect is effectually destroyed by the ordinary washes
used for scale, and by the ladybird Cryptolaemus montroncieri, lately intro-
duced. This ladybird is as effectual in destroying the mealy bug as the
Vedalia and Novius are in devouring the cottony cushion scale." — B. M.
Lelong in "Culture of the Citrus in California," 1902, page 262.
"Of the other insects imported by Mr. Koebele, two are worthy of mention.
One of these, Cryptolaemus montronaicri, is an important enemy of several
Coccidas such as the mealy bug, Pulvinaria, etc. This is the species which was
introduced in Hawaii, and has 1)een so successful there in ridding coffee
plantations of Pulviiuiria psidii. It is being reared in confinement and dis-
tributed in portions of Southern California, where the mealy bug is an im-
portant pest, and specimens brought to Washington have demonstrated their
usefulness by cleaning orange trees in the hot-houses of the Department
of Agriculture of mealy bugs. It gives promise of being a valuable outdoor
enemy wherever the climate is favorable, and in the North and East will be
a valuable indoor means of controlling soft scale." By C. L. Marlatt. In
"Year Book of the Department of Agriculture," 1896, page 226.
Extracts from Bulletin No. 1 of the Claremont Pomological Club, issued
at Claremont, Cal., Feb. 15, 1909:
"However, the predacious insect that has controlled the pest (mealy
bug) in San Diego is the Cryptolaemus montrouzieri, a ladybird. It has
done wonderful work there and should be introduced after fumigation. They
can be secured of Mr. Austin, San Diego, upon payment of his services." By
P. E. Smith.
"The first time that we had the bug it did not spread much. We intro-
duced the parasite — the Cryptolaemus — together with it — ." "In conse-
quence of its remaining on the trees throughout the Winter, the Cryptolaemus
increased very considerably, so that last Summer ... it was present in
immense numbers. When fumigating last Fall, I set aside three patches
of about an acre each in different parts of the orchard where the mealy bug
was bad and the Cryptolaemus most abundant. I did this for the purpose of
preserving and multiplying the latter. In this we were'.successful, and after
the orchards had been fumigated the Cryptolaemus seemed to spread pretty
well over them. At the present time there is very little mealy bug to be
seen, and the general condition of the orchards in that respect is infinitely
better than it was last Spring and Summer." By R. C. Allen.
"We have been devoting a good deal of attention to this pest (mealy bug)
the last season and we have at present a ladybird (Cryptolaemus montrouzieri)
that does good work on it, working in about the same manner as the Novius
eardinalis doe> on the cottony cushion scale, although it is not so thorough
