270 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
in its work, being a slower spreader and requiring more attention in this
respect." By E. K. Carnes.
Extracts from Pomological Bulletin Vol. No. 2 :
"Peculiar conditions in San Diego county have enabled the most efficient
predatory insect attacking mealy bugs in California, Cryptolaemus montrou-
cieri, to become firmly established in that region, so much so that it can be
collected in numbers practically all the year round, experience has also show
that in perhaps three years out of four its work is as complete in that
region as that obtained by any mechanical means of control, thus I consider
Mr. Allen justified in the course he has decided to adopt. It is further
true that in this same locality of which I have just been speaking, as
recently as the 14th of last October, when C. montrousieri had increased in
such numbers that I was able to obtain 1,000 in the space of an hour, and when
the work of cleaning up the mealy bugs was considered remarkable, there were
more mealy bugs on each tree in this orchard than there are in the entire
infestion here at Claremont."' pjy Frederick Maskew.
Rhi/obius ventralis
Eggs — Are small, cylindrical, and pointed. They are deposited in egg-
masses and among the mealy bugs. In the case of black scale, they are
deposited under the adult female shell — usually few at a place.
Larvae (Fig. 108 A) — Hatch from the eggs some two weeks from the
time of deposition. The first born are very small and somewhat inactive.
Form, oblong and somewhat narrow ; tapering towards the tail-end. Length
of average 6 mm., width 2.5 mm. Color, dark brown to black. Body very
rough because of many small ridges, and large spine areas. The spine areas
are located as follows : Lateral areas — two extremely large areas on each
abdominal segment, these are also present on the margins of the prothorax,
mesothorax and metathorax ; two smaller spine areas on all of the abdominal
segments, and two large areas on the prothorax. mesothorax and metathorax.
Dorsal areas — Two median areas on all of the first eight abdominal seg-
ments, and a large area on the ninth.
The spines are all simple. On the median spine areas, there are two
large spines and several smaller ones ; on the remaining areas there are
numerous large and small spines. The rough skin is shown in the enlarged
drawing of the spine area. The entire body is covered with the short spines.
Around the spine areas the color is somewhat lighter than the body, as is
also true of a streak down the middle of the thorax. This streak forks
at the base of the head, each fork extending to the lateral margin just back
of the eye. A dark streak extends down the middle of the dorsum. The
ventral side is a dark yellow color. When disturbed, the larvae emit a sticky
yellow fluid. Head shorter than thorax, and half as wide, very dark in
color; covered with spines. Antennae three-articled. Article I as long as II
and III; twice as wide as II; and many times as wide as III. Article III
not as long as II, and half as wide; with a long spine at apex. Article II has
a large, stout spine arising at its apical end beside article III. This spine
