THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF THE CITRUS MEALY BUG II 271
is longer than article III. Mamlihles bifurcate at the point, with a long curved
tooth near the base of the inner margin. Maxillary-palpi appear really four-
articled. Article III (the apical according to Dimmock) is much longer
than the article II or I, and is much narrower. Labial-palpi two-articled; ar-
ticle I wider and shorter than II. Thorax gradually growing wider from the
head to the first abdominal segment. Prothorax much wider, and longer than
the head. With large spine area on each half and a rudimentary lateral area.
With a lighter streak on middle of dorsum. Mesothorax wider and shorter
than the prothorax; with spine areas the same, but not so large. Metathorax
slightly wider than the mesothorax, but little longer. Spine areas the same.
Abdomen nine segmented, the second being the widest and the ninth very
much the smallest. Legs short and stout. Coxae much longer than broad,
longer than femur or tibia. Trochanter normal. Femur nearly co-equal with
tibia. Claw well curved with enlargement at the base.
The larVcX are to be found in great numbers in the egg masses of the
mealy bug, or crawling about on the tree. This stage may be found at any
season of the year, although in no great numbers during the winter months.
During the months of October, November, and December, they are present
in the greatest numbers and do the most work. The work is done very
slowly and while the larv3e appear in great numbers it is difficult to see the
results. This is probably due to the fact that they move about very little
and their food requirements are not as great as for the more active species.
It was noticeable that great numbers were trapped by tanglefoot bands on the
trunks of the trees, where they usually collect in the greatest numbers and feed
upon the egg masses here, rather than upon the fruit, although they are
found on all parts of the tree. This insect was introduced for black scale
(Saissctia olcae). but it seems to prefer the mealy bugs when they can be
had. I have seldom found them working on the black scale which infested
trees covered with the mealy bug. So far the only enemies known are the
Green Lace-Wings (Chrysopa) which destroys many of the younger larvre.
Pupa (Fig. 108 B) — The nymph is covered with the dark spiny skin of
the larva. Average length, 4 mm. ; average width, 2.5 mm. Color same as the
larva. Surface of body smooth, but covered with short spines or hairs. Anal
appendages peculiarly the shape of a human foot, with the toes turning in.
The nymphs appear in the greatest numbers during the later months ( Novem-
ber, January,) and are very scarce during the months of June and July.
The moult lasts from two weeks to one month, and occurs in a hidden
protected place under the bark, in curled leaves, or any such favorable places.
Where sacks were tied around the limbs to prevent wire stays from cutting
into the bark, great numbers of this stage were found hiding unflerneath the
sacking.
The greater percentage of the nymphs develop normally. I have never
found any partially developed forms.
Adult (Fig. 108 C) — Slightly oval to nearly round in form. Color,
black, but due to the pubescent covering, often appears grayish, shiny and
sometimes appearing to be slightly mottled. The abdomen is salmon-colored.
