274 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
The above reports would seem to indicate that by this time the black
scale in the coast counties would have disappeared, but such is not the case.
The following account taken from the minutes of the Ventura County Board
of Horticulture, June 27, 1894, records the introduction of this insect into
Ventura County :
"Persuant to adjournment, T. A. Rice and J. F. Mclntyre met at Ellwood
Cooper's ranch today. In company with Mr. Cooper and Mr. Alexander Craw,
we made a thorough inspection of the two orchards where the new black
ladybird, Rhizohius ventralis, was first placed and found that the ladybird
had apparently exterminated the black scale in those two orchards. We also
visited other orchards where the ladybirds were recently introduced and found
the beetles and larvae very numerous.
"We are much indebted to Mr. Cooper for the hospitality received, and
for allowing us to collect a large quantity of the beetles and bring them to
Ventura county."
J. F. McIntyre, Secretary.
From this report we find that the black ladybird beetle has been in this
county for a little over 16 years. It was well scattered over the county
at an early date for we find in Insect Life, Vol. \\ page 364, July, 1895,
where Mr. J. F. Mclntyre sent a number of specimens from Fillmore to
the Department of Agriculture. It would naturally be expected that the
black scale would be fairly diminished in this county, but such is not the
case. At this time we have some of the worst infections I have ever seen in
all parts of the county and especially along the coast, where the damp climate
is especially conducive to propagation of this pest. In all of these orchards
the beetle can be found in considerable numbers, and they have been molested
very little by fumigation or spraying. It is therefore interesting to note that
in the orchards infested with the citrus mealy bug, it has been found in the
greatest numbers and seems to render the most service.
That they work on the mealy bugs and not the black scale alone has been
proven by experiments in breeding cages where they have been confined
and fed on nothing but mealy bugs. I have reared a goodly number of them
in my office during the past year in such a breeding cage. During the
month of May a large shipment of mealy bug infested fruit was sent to
Honolulu to meet Mr. Geo. Compere who was bringing to this State internal
parasites for this pest. The material was taken out of the orchards here
without thought of our own natural enemies, and when it arrived in Honolulu
the box contained only a great number of the Rhizohius ventralis, which had
eaten up all of the mealy bugs en route. They breed very rapidly, when pro-
tected, and with other natural enemies, promise to aid very greatly in cleaning
up the mealy bug in Ventura County.
