276 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Palpi slender, upcurved ; or straight or oblique, with upright scaly vesti-
ture, making them blade-like; fore-legs of male always modified and
tufted, tibia always abbreviated and with a long anterior process
Hcnniniini.
Palpi straight or oblique, with upright scaly vestiture which is transversely
compressed* anterior legs of male not modified Hypenini.
In the tribe Hcliini the genius Bpiseuxis is the only Pacific Coast genus,
and that is represented in California by two species. E. occidentalis Smith,
wrs described as a variety of the common eastern lubricalis Geyer; but is
probably a good species. It is a smooth, yellowish-smoky species with a
sility lustre, the median lines dentate, diffuse, and more in the form of bands
than lines. The maculation of primaries is continued on the secondaries and
the species expands about an inch and a half. I have no definite localities
for this species and examples are very rare in collections.
E. cobeta Barnes, is a somewhat smaller, rather broader-winged, decidedly
more mottled species. The darker tints are chocolate brown, and the pale
shadings over the transverse lines are yellow. The type of maculation is
identical for all the species. The locality given is Southern California, and
I have only two examples from Dr. Barnes from that region ; but the species
extends also into Arizona, and I have several samples from that State.
Three species that occur in Arizona should also occur in the arid regions
of California, and I quite expect a representative of the small forms, typified
by the eastern rotundalis.
The tribe Herminiini is one of very great interest because of the wealth
of secondary sexual characters that occurs in the male, and because of the
variation that occurs in the venation of the primaries. This latter centers
about the accessory cell, which tends to become, and, in several genera
actually is, lost ; the veins usually arising from it becoming modified in several
ways.
The sexual modifications begin with the antennje which are simple or
ciliated in the female ; but never in the male. They may be pectinated, some-
times so strongly as to be almost plumose ; they may be twisted or furnished
with distorted joints at basal third; they may have two or three of the joints
toward the middle furnished with stout spine-like processes ; or there may
be a tuft which may or may not cover an excrescence or other modification.
The palpi are not infrequently tufted in the male, and sometimes these
tufts of hair pencils are enormously exaggerated and extend back half the
length of the body or more.
The wing-form is sometimes different in the sexes, and the primaries
may even be split in the male while they are entire in the female.
The most usual and characteristic modifications are found on the forelegs,
on which we may have a small hair-pencil only, attached to the inner side
of the tibia, or on which we may have every segment or part modified into
a sheath for a tuft or pencil until, when spread out it is almost impossible
to recognize the parts.
