8 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
thorax. Compound eyes — large and dark, with long terete (ocellar?) tuber-
cles just behind near the posterior border. Antennae (Figure 5, L) arise
from large frontal tubercles, are six-jointed, L83 mm. long, transversely
scabrous, with a basal nail-like process on the sixth article. The lengths of
the respective articles are as follows: I 0.07 mm., II 0.09 mm.. Ill 0.4 mm.,
IV 0.22 mm., V 0.3 mm., VI 0.75 mm. The sensoria are distributed as follows :
I and II none. III row of six large circular, IV one large circular near middle,
V one large circular near distal end, VI one large terminal surrounded by
several small marginal in the process. Pro-thorax — with distinct lateral tuber-
cles. Rostrum — half as long as body. Abdomen covered with numerous short
tubercles. Cornicles — cylindrical, 0.25 mm. long, and transverself scabrous.
Wings — Clear. Primary — length 2.24 mm., width 0.83 mm. Cubitus —
well defined. Stigma — long and slender. Radius — sharply curved. The third
oblique is twice forked. ( In this form the second fork of the third oblique is
much nearer the margin than in the wine-red form.) The first and second
obliques are straight and extend to the margin. Secondary — length 1.12 mm.,
width 0.37 mm. They have well defined subcostal extending to the tip of the
wing and two discoidals. The first discoidal joins the sub-costal at a distance
of one-third and the second discoidal joins it at two-thirds distance from base
to wing-tip. Style — prominent, conical, hairy.
Apterous Viviparous Female. — Length 1.67 mm., width 0.78 mm.
Differs from winged form as follows : The distribution of the sensoria
(Figure 5, M) is as follows: I, II, III and IV none, V one large circular near
the distal end, VI one large terminal in the nail-like process. Sense-hair —
few. Cornicles ..21 mm. long. (Figure 4, E.)
It will be noted that the pro-thoracic tubercles of this green form ally it
apparently to the genus Macrosiphum. It is, however, for the present left with
Rhopalosiphum violae.
I'eniphigiis radicicola, n. sp.
Winged Viviparous Female. — Length 1.9 mm., width 0.8 mm.,
wing expanse 4.6 mm. Prevailing color — dark brown. Thorax and antennae
— somewhat darker. Legs — lighter. Shape — nearly cylindrical. (Figure 6.)
Head — Short, broader than long. Vertex bisected by a distinct suture.
Narrower than thorax. Compound eyes — large, with prominent terete (ocel-
lar?) tubercles just behind near the posterior border. Antennae (Figure 5, H)
do not arise from frontal tubercles; five-jointed: 0.85 mm. long; with an apical
nail-like process on last article. The lengths of the respective articles are as
follows: I 0.06 mm., II 0.12 mm., Ill 0.38 mm., IV 0.12 mm., V 0.17 mm.
The distribution of the sensoria is as follows : I and II none. III many
large and small circular ones, IV one large terminal and one large marginal
near the proximal end, V one large cup-shaped terminal surrounded by several
irregular marginals in the process. Pro-thorax — without lateral tubercles.
Rostrum — half as long as body. Abdomen — very distinctly segmented along
fides. Breathing spiracles along sides are very prominent, and raised on
