ON ARGYNNIS ATOSSA EDWARDS
BY KARL R. COOLIDGE
Argynnis atvssa was first described by W. H. Edwards in his Butterflies
of North America, Vol. 3, 1890, the types (Plate VIII) coming from
Tehachapi, California, at an elevation of about 4000 feet. I am not aware
that any additional captures have been recorded in literature, although Hol-
land (Butterfly Book) figures a male on Plate XIII, which is presumably one
of the types. Mr. W. G. Wright* states that "atossa is a species that I have
never met, although I have hunted over the ground where it is said to fly,
both before and after it was found."
The peculiar yellowish coloring of atossa above, the dimidiation of the
anterior marginal line and of the usual marginal and discal spots are indeed
striking, and with its pallidness of the undersurface and lack of silver spots
on the secondaries beneath, it has been placed close to adiaste Behr, with
which, however, I fail to see that it has any special affinity.
In June, 1905, Mr. Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., took an argynnid on Mt. Pinos,
at about 5000 feet altitude, which is absolutely referable to the published
figures of atossa. Mt. Pinos is about a hundred miles in an air line from
Tehachapi. The example was taken in company with eurynome Edwards, then
flying commonly, and of which I am convinced that atossa is but an extreme
pallid individuant, not worthy of even aberrational rank. The eurynome
markings are distinctly traceable and, moreover, Wright says of macaria
Edwards, which with laura Edwards, I take to be synonyms of eurynome;
"There is a peculiar feature in macaria that does not appear in any other
California Argynnis, namely, that in some specimens there is a paling or
fading out of the basal part of all wings from the body half way across the
wings. . . . This feature is seen in about one-third of the specimens of
macaria that I have ever seen." Recently in conversation with Mr. Wright
he informed me that he had, through correspondence, learned the exact
habitat of atossa and had searched assiduously for it, but without success.
The chaotic state of some of our rhopalocerous genera, such as Argynnis,
Melitaea, Lycaena, Thecla, and worst of all Pamphila, is due to the fact that
too little attention has been paid to precise and exact data, and from the
publication of species without sufficient geographical series. A. clio Edwards,
bischoffi Edwards, opis Edwards, and artonis Edwards, will all probably
prove to be but geographical forms of eurynome. A. launna Wright is a pallid
individuant of eurynome, {laura), somewhat corresponding to atossa.
•Butt. West Coast, pp. 139, 141, 1905.
