SOME VARIATIONS IN THE WINGS AND ANTENNAE
OF TRIFIDAPHIS RADICICOLA Essig
The winged form of Pemphigus radicicola as described in the Pomona
Journal of Entomology, March, 1909, page 8, and later classified as
TriMaphis radicicola by G. Del Giiercio in the October number of the same
Journal, was described from one rather imperfect specimen. During the
entire spring and summer of 1909 a constant search was maintained with
the result of finding but one winged form. The apterous forms were obtained
in abundance.
On the 13th of April, 1910, while in a lemon orchard at Oxnard, I chanced
to pull up a nightshade which was infested with this Aphid. One winged
form remained on the roots. Digging into the ground wliere the plant grew,
I was able to obtain some hundred winged specimens from this single plant,
to say nothing of the many apterous individuals. In pulling up the plant
the winged forms are scraped off because of the friction caused by their
wings and remain in the ground.
Thus with a goodly number of specimens I have been able to note some
interesting variations in the wings and antennae in particular. In all over
fifty individuals were mounted and studied with results which might be
expanded even more, in the future. These results have been recorded in
the form of drawings which are presented with this article (Fig. 110).
Variations in the wings (Compare Fig. 110) : In order to have some
system in presenting this material I shall take each vein and make note of
its particular variations.
Cubitus or Suhcostai. Normal in all wings.
Radius or Stigmal.
A. Slightly curved and not touching the stigma.
B. Sharply curved near stigma, from which it arises.
C. Short, sharp curve from stigma, from which it rises.
D. Well rounded curve near stigma, from which it rises.
E. Indefinite curve from stigma to tip.
H. Normally curved and arising from stigma.
G. Xormally curved not arising from stigma.
H. Normally curved and arising from stigma.
I. Normally curved and arising from stigma.
J. Normally curved and arising from stigma.
Obliques or Discoidals. These veins are somewhat confusin* What is
present I believe to be as follows : First and second obliques arising from or
near the same point and diverging towards the margin ; third oblique, of which
but a remnant is present. I believe this to be the third because in one wing
of one specimen (h) there is a remnant uniting with this to form a fork.
