WEST COAST NEWS NOTES
[In this department we hope to give in most numbers of the Journal
some idea of the doings and movements of western entomologists, notices
of publications of interest to western students, notices of entomological
meetings, etc. To this end, we hope that students or collectors will send in
all items of entomological interest about themselves or others. Address : Mr.
Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., 572 N. Marengo Ave., Pasadena, Cal.]
Prof. V. L. Kellogg of Stanford University delivered a course of lec-
tures at the Summer Session of the University of California.
Prof. R. \V. Doane and Mr. E. H. Rust have been at \\'hittier during
the summer, studying scale insects, fumigation, etc.
Mr. \'. L. Clemence and Mr. K. R. Coolidge had a very successful collect-
ing season in Ramsay Canon, Huachuca Mts., Arizona, obtaining a lot cf
interesting Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, Spiders and other groups.
Mr. James E. Cottle of San Francisco spent the summer vacation at
Sweet Brier Camp, Shasta Co., Cal., "Cottle's Domain." He reports : "Butter-
flies fly high here. Am doing some good collecting."
Mr. Francis X. Williams, of the University of Kansas, formerly of San
Francisco, is making an entomological survey of Kansas this summer.
Mr. C. W. Herr is collecting a large number of interesting Lepidoptera
in the Priest River region of northern Idaho, which are being studied by
Mr. Grinnell.
Mr. K. R. Coolidge is planning to leave for Chili, as arachnologist in the
National Museum there. We congratulate him on this chance to widen his
experience.
Mr. W. C. Martin is collecting Lepidoptera at Switzer"s Camp, in the
mountains near Pasadena.
Vol. I, Article I, Bulletin of the Public Museum of the City of Milwaukee,
is a catalogue of the Odonata of North America, by Richard A. Muttkowski,
issued June 27, 1910. It consists of 206 pages : and will be of great use to
students of this order.
Prof. H. C. Fall, of Pasadena, made his usual pilgrimage to Boston, "the
hub of the universe," during the summer.
Dr. A. Fenyes of Pasadena made a collecting trip to A'ancouver Island
during the early summer.
Mr. D. L. Crawford's work in Mexico this summer has been attended
with remarkable success. His operations have extended to Vera Cruz, Oaxaca,
Jalapa, Cordoba, Cuernavaca and elsewhere, and into Chiapas and Guerrero.
Recent visitors to the Department of Biology of Pomona College have
included Dr. W. H. Dall of the United States National Museum, Dr. Wm.
Barnes of Decatur, 111., and David Fairchild and P. R. Dorsett of LTnited States
Department of Agriculture
