THE CITRUS MEALY BUG 291
Two years ago the mealy bug was re,ported in two orchards in Santa
liarbara County, but to date Mr. C. W. Beers, Horticultural Commissioner,
informs. me that after a close inspection, not a single insect is to be found
in these orchards. It does exist, however, in tic greenhouses and flower
gardens in that City.
A general summary of the present distribution is as follows:
County Locality Extent
SAN DIEGO San Diego Greenhouses.
Chula \'ista Orchards — slight.
Bonita Orchards — bad.
National City Orchards — slight.
Sunnyside Orchards — slight.
ORANGE Santa Ana Florists— slight.
Fullerton Orchards — bad.
Placentia Orchards — bad.
In only limited districts.
LOS ANGELES City of Los Angeles Greenhouses.
Monrovia Orchards — limited.
Duarte Orchards — limited.
Glendora Orchards — limited.
Claremont Orchards — limited.
Pomona Greenhouses.
W'hittier Yards — few.
VENTURA Santa Paula Orchard.s— bad.
Saticoy Orchards — few.
Oxnard Orchards — few.
Ventura Orchards — few.
- Sespe 1 yard.
Fillmore I greenhouse.
Nordhofif 1 yard.
SANTA BARBARA City of Santa Barbara Florists and yards.
GENER.VL DISTRIBUTION.
In practically every greenhouse in California and in the United States.
It has been reported from the various states in the United States and from
loreign countries as follows : Florida, Texas, Louisiana, Arizona, New York,
New Jersey. Massachusetts, Philippine Islands, Mauritius, Jamaica, Hawaii,
Prazil, Europe, and Canada.
nESTRUCTlVENESS.
It has been but a few _\'ears since entomologists considered tiie common
mealy bug (Pscudococcns citri Risso) as simply a troublesome greenhouse
jiest, which would scarcely be able to thrive in the orchards, though it was
early recognized as a feeder on citrus trees in Europe. To-day citrus growers
in Southern California are seeking everywhere for methods and means of
liolding this pest in check, for in many localities it has proven a dreadful
scourge. Because of its resistive powers and large variety of host plants,
it cannot but be regarded as one of the very worst citrus pests known, not
excepting the white fly or the orange maggot. For a number of vears the
mealy bug has been known to be a disastrous pest : yet no definite orcliard
