292 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
work, other than the introduction of parasites, has been accorded to it by
State or Government.
Some time ago Morrill, who shortly became entomologist for .\rizona.
jiassed through this county and saw the condition of the orchards which were
nifested with the mealy bug. As entoinologist of a new citrus region he de-
.stroyed a shipment of nursery stock which was infested with this pest, and
is now standing lawsuit for his action. If the citrus growers can but realize
th.e importance of keeping out such dangerous pests, the action of this en-
tomologist would be highly praised by grower and nurseryman alike.
That I am not the only one who is throwing out warnings regarding
the mealy bug is seen from the following extracts :
■■Regarding the mealy bug {Psendococcus citri) will sa\- that I believe
this is one of the most troublesome of citrus pests and this last season we
have had reports from several new sections where it has made an appear-
ance. When it conies to fumigate against this pest we find it a very hard
pest to kill, requiring a very strong dosage to kill them and even the exces-
sive dosage has failed in many cases — and while in some cases, where the
pest was taken in time — a strong fumigation has practically eradicated them,
rigain they seem to be as bad in 30 days as before the fumigation." E. K.
Carnes, Director of the California State Insectary. in lUill. 1. Claremont
Tomological Club. p. 13 (1909).
'■From close observation in a badly infected district. I would say that
the mealy bug is by far the most damaging and dangerous pest in the South-
land. I believe that the citrus industry is threatened by the invasion of
this insect as it has not been threatened since the ravages of Icerya purchasi,
before it was checked by its natural enemy the Xovius (Vedalia) cardinalis.
In prolificness, in endurance to hardships, in power to spread, and to do
damage no pest in the South is nearly its equal." P. E. Smith. In Bull. Xo.
1, Claremont Pomological Club, p. 6 (1909).
■"The mealy bug will do more damage to the citrus groves than any pest
yet discovered, except the white fly. It has done $75,000 or $100,000 damage
in Santa Paula. . . . We should quarantine against the mealy bug at
cnce and then form an association and raise money and buy the infected trees
and destroy them." C. E. McFadden, in Cal. Cul., Dec. 23, (1909).
■'At the present time the citrus mealy bug is furnishing the greatest
cause for alarm witnessed for many years. In fact many of our best economic
entomologists and our most observant growers fear the menace as they have
none other unless it were the white scale." J. W. JefTrey. State Com. of Hort.,
Cal. in L. A. Times Magaz., Feb. 6. (1910).
"In California it (mealy bug) is most abundant and destructive in San
Diego and Ventura Counties, but occasionall\- it is met with in nearly all
sections of the southern part of the State."
•■The mealy bugs are noted for their resistance tn s])rays and fumigation.
Their waxv coverings and secretions tend to prevent sprays from penetrating
to affect them and they are able to withstand h\-dr(^cyanic acid gas at strengths
