300 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Spinuics — There are two pairs of Ijreathing organs ; tlie first pair is
located on the ventral surface nearly midway between the prothoracic and the
mesothoracic cox?e ; the second is located nearer front than midway between
the mesothoracic and metathoracic coxae, on the ventral surface.
Legs (Fig. 115 B). Normally long and hairy. Coxae longer than
broad, nearly as long as the femurs. Trochanters narrow and not more than
half as long as the coxae. Fenun-s stout, shorter than tibiae. Tibia long
and slender, twice as long as the tarsi, slender and spiny on the inner margin.
Tarsi with a few stout spines in inner margin. Claws normal.
Pygidiuiii (Fig. 115 C and D). Covered over the surface with a large
number of circular pores, which are common to this genus. Anal lobes with
1 large spine and 2 small, slender spines on the ventral surface, and with
2 short stout spines and 1 hair-like spine on the dorsal surface, of each
lobe. Circumanal spines — normally six, which are half as long as the spines
of the anal lobes. On the ventral surface, just in front of these spines,
arc two i^airs of slender hair-like spines. .\ tlistinct ccniical cauda projects
backwards just below the 2 most dorsal of the spines.
The i\i;,i;.f (Fig. 116) arc elliptical oval in shape. Color — Straw yellow,
amber, "corn" or light yellow. Surface — siuooth and somewhat glossy when
the covering threads arc removed. .S'/rf — .\verage length 0.34 mm., average
width 0.17 mm. Thev are deposited in large masses, and are intertwined and
bound together with fine, white, cottony threads, which are secreted and
cxuiled by the female during the process of egg-laying. The eggs are de-
posited in cracks, and crevices of the trees, on the fruit, especially where there
are clusters, in the navel of oranges and the blossom end of seedlings, under
the calyx, and in any other place which may afford slu-ltcr and ])r()tection
for theiu.
Tinc M.\r.E.
Lavvqc I Fig. 117 a). The first born are difficult to distinguish from
Ihe females of the same age, but the male larvae developes nnicli faster and is
soon told by its rather long, smooth, dark-colored body, and by llic dis-
appearance of the mouth parts after the first moult. There are 4 moults
before the adult stage is attained. The antenna^ are 7-articled and are sparsely
covered with hair. There are two dark- marginal eyes which are retained
throughout the entire development.
Nxmpth (Fig. 117 b and c). When the brood is nearly one-tliird grown
the males seek a sheltered place, usually in an egg-mass, to s])in their cocoon
m which their transformation is to take ])lace. The cocoon varies from 3
III 4 mm. in length, is nearly cylindrical in sha]ie. and is spun with very fine
white cottony threads, such as cover the egg-masses. The n\iupli, if un-
disturbed, remains perfectly quiet throughout the moult, but if the cocoon
is destroyed at any stage, it immediately moves away to find a more suitable
place to make another. With age the body becomes dark in color, the wing
buds, and then the wing pads ap]iear and the large red dorsal and ventral
