306 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
first nymphs appear in from 10 to 18 days after the commencement of the
egg-sac. Only a small number of those hatched from a single egg-sac are
males. The young nymphs on hatching remain a short time within the egg-
sac, and, on leaving it, spread rapidly over the leaf, settling in large numbers
plong the mid-rib and at the joints of the stems. As previously pointed out,
it is impossible to separate the males from the females during this stage.
FIRST NYMPHAL STAGE.
At time of hatching, the young nymphs are about 0.4 mm. long, and from
0.18 mm., to 0.21 mm. wide, bright yellow to orange in color, oval in outline,
siightly narrowed at the caudal end and rounded at the cephalic end. The
appendages look large and clumsy in comparison with the size of the body.
The abdomen is distinctly divided into eight segments, the transverse
sutures being distinct on both dorsal and ventral surfaces. The divisions
of the thorax are not so distinct. The transverse sutures cannot be distin-
guished on the venter, and only with difficulty on the dorsum. The suture
separating the head from the thorax can be seen only on the dorsal surface.
The antennae are about 0.16 mm. long, situated on the ventral surface
of the anterior end of the body. The bases of the antennae are not contiguous,
and small hairs are scattered over their entire surface. They are divided into
seven segments. The basal one is triangular in outline and quite short.
The seventh segment is the longest, longer than the three preceding segments
taken together, oval in shape, and ends in an apical tubercle, upon which is
inserted a stiff hair, almost as long as the segment itself.
The cornea of the eyes projects from the sides of the head. The black
pigment is well developed, showing prominently on the ventral surface.
The legs are well developed and strong, especially when compared with
their condition in the adult.
SfiCOND NYMPHAL STAGE.
The first moult occurs from 10 to 22 days after hatching. It is just before
this moult that Berlese could distinguish the males from the females by the
absence of developing mouth-parts.
After the first moult the females are about 0.625 mm. in length, 0.3 mm.
in width ; bright oransje in color, somewhat rounded at the anterior and
posterior ends.
The antennae are 0.19 nun. long, and have seven segments. The basal
segment is quadrangular in outline and quite short. The seventh is the
longest, being nearly as long as the three preceding taken together.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to separate the first and second nymphal
stages, except by rearing them and noting the time of moulting. The char-
acters of length and size of antennae are of doubtful value, and not to be
depended upon. The antennae of a nymph, near the latter part of the first
stage, measured over 0.19 mm. This is the length usually found in the
nymphs at the beginning of the second stage.
