THE CITRUS MEALY BUG 307
THIRD NYMPHAL STAGE.
The second moult occurs, on the average, about 15 days after the first.
The antennse now consist of eight segments, and are 0.264 mm. in length.
The basal segment is quadrangular in outline, and the eighth is nearly as long
as the three preceding taken together. The character and the number of the
antennal segments readily distinguish this stage from the preceding ones,
but are absolutely of no value in separating it from the mature or last stage.
In other characters they do not differ materially from those of the preceding
stages.
As all previous workers have considered the antennae in the first nymphal
stage as consisting of only six segments, I would like to draw attention to the
fact that in all specimens which T have examined there were seven clearly-
defined segments in the first and second nymphal stages and eight in the third,
as well as in the adult female.
ADULT FEMALE.
Tile third and last moult takes place, on the average, about 13 days after
the second. I found it very difficult to secure many observations on the exact
time of this moult on account of the roving habits of the nymphs under
observation.
After this moult the females do not usually move about, but remain
practically motionless. Egg-laying commences in from 15 to 20 days later,
and continues from 10 to 14 days. An interesting observation worth recording
is that the females are usually not of a uniform size at the time when they
commence egg-laying. This has been pointed out by Reed in his thesis, and
I had many opportunities of verifying his observations. Often what I. judg-
ing from the size only, considered were nymphs in the third stage would
prove to be mature females and commence egg-laying.
To the preceding accounts may be added the following orchard observa-
tions taken at Santa Paula. Ventura Countv, California, during the years
1909 and 1910:
EGGS AT SANTA PAULA.
The egg-laying in the field certainly differs from that seen in the labora-
tory where the temperature is more uniform. It covers a period from two
weeks to one month. For breeding material, I keep infested fruit on damp
sand and under such conditions the egg-laying usually requires but two
weeks. On fruit placed in jars, where it soon begins to wither, the egg-laying
may occupy but 10 days or even less, while mealy bugs placed in boxes,
jars, or cells without food, deposit most of the eggs in one week. ITnder
extreme unfavorable conditions, such as excessive heat and dryness, the eggs
are laid in the course of three days. The conditions of egg-laying also
influence the lime for hatching, lender the most favorable conditions the
eggs first laid begin to hatch about the time, or a little before, the last eggs '
are deposited. This accounts for the great difference in the sizes of the in-
dividuals from the same brood. Conditions also influence the number of
