308 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
eggs deposited by an individual female, the facts being that vnider extremes,
such as lack of food for the adult, or excessive heat, the number of eggs
laid are greatly reduced, in such cases to one-half or even one-fourth nor-
mally laid.
There is no marked egg-laying season, but the bulk of the eggs are laid
in the fall during the months of September, October, November, and December.
At this season the mealy bugs seem to be thickest and are more noticeable
than at any other season. The insect evidently prefers to pass the winter
in the egg stage, although large numbers of all stages appear during these
months. The idea of massing the eggs in great clusters for protection against
other insects, birds, and weather, seems to be carried out perfectly by ttie
inealy bug, for during these months much of the fruit, the limbs, and the
foliage may be entirely wrapped in cottony egg-masses. Large streamers
hang from the fruit in badly infested orchards, so that the eggs may be
gathered in handfuls. The position for depositing the eggs is determined
by the condition of the fruit upon the trees. There is no doubt but that the
mealy bug prefers the fruit to the foliage. The lemon tree, being a constant
bearer of fruit is subject to greater attacks than are orange trees from which
all of the fruit has been removed at some season of the year. The eggs are
deposited in the navels and at the blossom ends of the seedling fruit, as
long as there is any fruit upon the tree, in much larger numbers than upon
the limbs and leaves, but as soon as the fruit is removed the masses begin to
appear in great numbers upon the trunks and large limbs in the center of the
trees where there is more protection afforded. On a lemon tree a few of
the eggs are deposited upon the trunk and limbs of the tree, but the greatest
masses appear in the fruit clusters on the leaves near the fruit. Very few eggs
are to be seen during the months of May, June, and July, and it is usually
at this season that the grower believes that the mealy bug has left.
That the eggs are deposited in the ground for winter protection has never
been proved. I have searched very thoroughly to test this assertion and
have found but very few eggs in the ground, and these were on the base
of the trunk at the surface of the ground. If the eggs are laid upon the roots
in the ground, the young upon hatching would naturally crawl up the tree
trunk to begin feeding, when the proper time came in the spring for them
to do so. To test this, we put tanglefoot bands around several acres of trees
and left them there for one winter and the early part of the summer. No
mealy bugs were caught worth mentioning on either side of the sticky band.
The egg is the hardest stage in the life history of the pest to deal with.
In the fumigation work and in the spraying experiments, the large egg-masses
resisted the most. For testing the efficiency of hot water as an insecticide for
dipping mealy bug infected boxes, it was found that at 158° F. all of the insects
were killed, while it took 164° F. to kill all of the eggs.
Bggs. Tn regard to the number of eggs laid by this insect, Mr. John J.
Davis published in the Entomological News, xix.. No. 8, p. 383 (1908), the
following article :
