THE CITRUS MEALY BUG 311
is greatest. The following orchard notes serve to trace the general field
development in a badly infested orchard at Santa Paula. The notes begin
in the fall of the year 1909 and have been continued throughout the year
and should give field conditions accurately :
Sept. 7, 1909. — Mealy bug beginning to show up very numerously. A
large number of immature and adult insects, but few egg masses.
Sept. 30, 1909. — Egg masses becoming numerous in the navels and flower
end of the oranges, causing some of the navels to rot. Particularly bad in
two navel orchards and in a large 'seedling orchard.
October 30, 1910. — Eggs masses abundant upon orange and lemon trees,
and upon the foliage and fruit. Trees becoming very black due to smut.
Lemons worse infested than orange trees.
Nov. 24, 1909. — All through this month the mealy bugs seem to show up
more than at any other time. Great masses of adults collect on the fruit,
while the trunks of the trees are covered with masses of eggs.
Dec. 1, 1909. — Navel oranges are badly infested and are rotting at the
navel end, because of the work of the insect. In many cases the injury
extends to the center of the fruit. A large percentage of the fruit is cracking
at the navel end and the rot is spreading. The McKevett orchard, though
fumigated last month, shows similar results, but the mealy bug has been
greatly reduced.
Dec. 30, 1909. — Great numbers of egg-masses on the fruit and trunks of
the trees. Rainy weather does not seem to retard the development of the
mealy bug.
Jan. 30, 1910. — Conditions of the mealy bug as bad as during the two
preceding months. Smut very bad because of damp weather.
February 28, 1910. — Conditions in the lemon orchards very bad. Great
clusters of egg-masses on the fruit, leaves and branches. On the orange
trees the branches are covered with egg masses, which seem to be waiting
for spring to hatch.
March 30, 1910. — Clusters of egg masses begin to disappear as the eggs
are hatching very rapidly. Still many clusters remain. Young are settling
upon the young growth.
April 29, 1910. — Young mealy bugs appearing in great numbers. Masses
upon the tree trunks are breaking up and disappearing, but large clusters
remain between touching lemons.
May, 30, 1910. — Young still hatching, hut not in very great numbers.
Egg-masses gradually disappearing.
June 30, 1910. — All of the young appear to be hatched, except on the
fruit of some lemons, which were very badly infested. No living eggs re-
maining upon trunks of the trees. Young hard to find in the orange grove.->.
July 30, 1910. — Only young individuals to be found and they ate be-
ginning to settle upon the young oranges. No full grown adults to be readily
found. No egg-masses at all.
