312 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
August 30, 1910. — Young and half-grown mealy bugs appearing in con-
siderable numbers on the fruit of the orange and lemon trees. More nu-
merous than last month. No egg-masses.
The almost complete disappearance during the summer months, had led
many to believe that the mealy bug had left the trees, but upon close
examination it will be found that the young are there, but hid away in
cracks and crevices upon the orange trees waiting for the fruit to set. Upon
tlie lemon trees they are settled around the stem, under the calyx, or between
lemons, and also upon the tender sucker growth.
M.\LE NYMPHS .-VND ADULTS, AT SANTA PAULA.
Tlie young male usually selects an egg mass under which to transform.
This is [jrobably for two reasons; viz., to find protection, and to be able to
perform his sexual (kity without any great traveling, for it is probable that
the male flies very Hltle until after copulation. In nearly every egg mass
there is to be found a developing male, even though the egg mass is only a few-
days old. Since the copulation takes place while the female is less than
or when she is half grown, the transformations of the male must be more
rapid than that of the female, and this accounts for the advanced stages of
the male in the egg masses. As soon as the cocoon is left behind the male
searches out those ready for mating, before the thought of flight is enter-
tained, and in the large egg-masses many of the males never get an opportunity
to fly.
Though a delicate insect, the male is capable of long flights. In cages,
I have observed individuals constantly upon the wing for one hour before
lighting, and then repeat the same operation. That they fly a great deal
was shown by tangle foot bands in remote parts of the infested orchards. On
a single 2-inch band, thousands of the male mealy bugs were sticking and
on every band in a 50-acre seedling orchard the same thing was observed,
llow many males the bands succeeded in capturing it is hard to estimate,
but the matter of reproduction by the females continued unhampered.
While most of the males transform under the egg masses, during the early
breeding season in the fall when there are no egg-masses, except those just
lieing deposited, the males may be found in great numbers pupating upoi?
the leaves. The accompanying cut, showing the male cocoons, was photo-
graphed from a tree which was swarming with the transforming males.
HOST PLANTS.
I fast Plants of Fscudococcus Citri (Risso) /;/ California.
Begonia. Only in greenhouse. — Ehrhorn.
Bignonia sp. — Baker & Essig.
Bouvardia sp. — In greenhouse. — Essig.
Callistemon lanceolatus (Bottle Brush).— Baker & Essig.
Ceanothus integerrimus— In Mountains.— Essig.
Citrus aurantium (Orange).— Baker & Essig.
Citrus decumanus ( Pomelo).— Baker & Essig.
