316 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
clinging power of the cottony secretion which enfolds the eggs is very
great. It is this which makes the distribution of the mealy bug so easy. In
working with the egg-masses with a needle point, it is very difficult to prevent
the eggs and adult mealy bugs, which are spinning the threads during the
egg-laying process, from clinging persistently to the point.
Insects. — Ladybird beetles, including those which prey upon the mealy
Lug, are sure distributors of this pest. It is well known that the adult forms
are not efficient feeders and are not liable to eat even the young scale and
eggs which may be clinging to its legs. The predaceous forms, including
Cryptolaemus montrouzieri, Rhizobius ventraUs, Scymnus guttulatus, and
Crypto gomus orhicuhts, which pupate among the egg masses of the mealy bug,
seldom fly to another tree without taking some of the eggs also. Although
this may seem to be dangerous, there is no doubt but that the good done by
these ladybird beetles oflf-sets this a thousand fold. I simply mention this
as a fact and not as a drawback or as a means of discouraging the use of
parasites.
ll'ind. — Many close observers have noticed that a dirty orchard on the
windward side of a clean orchard would infect the first few rows of the
clean orchard in one season. This has been demonstrated repeatedly in many
localities and is the best argument that the wind is an agent in scale dis-
tribution. The young mealy bugs are very small and might easily be carried
from their footing by a gust of strong wind and deposited some distance
away. Just how much the wind is responsible we have no accurate means of
telling, but we do know that if an orchard to the windward in infested with
mealy bugs that we are sure to get it soon. It may be that the birds and
insects usually fly with the wind wherever possible and that in this secondary
manner the greatest amount of distributing is done.
Irrigating Water. — The white cottony covering thoroughly protects the
mealy bugs and their eggs from being destroyed by water, even though
completely immersed for several hours. The waxy ingredients in the cover-
ing and its ability to retain air globules enables them to float freely. If an}-
of the mealy bugs are brushed into the furrow^ before irrigating, and do
not get out before the water is turned on, or if any of the adults or the eggs
are dropped into the running water, they may in this way be distributed from
one section of an orchard to another. Infested culls, dumped into the rivers
and ditches may serve to infest regions miles away. The dumping of
culls in the dry river beds during the winter, if infested with any scale,
should be prohibited and a strict watch should be kept by those in authority
for just such acts of carelessness.
Greenhouse and Nursery Stock. — The greater part of the present dis-
tribution of the citrus mealy bug in California may be traced directly to the
introduction of infested greenhouse and nursery stock. It is very jjrobable
that the first orchard pests came on citrus stock from Florida, while green-
house plants are responsible for the infestation at Santa Paula. .\nd no
wonder the conditions exist. Nearly every greenhouse in the state is infested,
