THE CITRUS MEALY BUG 317
and is allowed to send plants into the orchard sections of the country un-
molested. Take the Southern part of the State for an excellent example.
.\fter having spent a great deal of time in the greenhouses looking into this
matter, I have found that mealy bugs exist in practically every greenhouse
in Los Angeles. Only to-day I turned back a shipment of plants froiu (inc
of these greenhouses badh- infested with the citrus variety, oiid which bore
a certificate stating that it z^'os free from iiijitrioiis insect pests. In many
communities these same plants are being admitteil daily, and what is dune
to protect the orchardist who does not know? At Pomona, a district which
cannot be equalled for fine orchards, mealy bug was found to exist in large
numbers in the greenhouses. .Xt Santa Ana the largest greenhouse and
propagating institution has mealy bug. The infection at Claremont was
traced to a greenhouse plant which had been planted near the house. N.
W. Blanchard at Santa Paula states that the mealy bug was first known
to exist in a greenhouse near his orchard. At Sespe the only infection was
found on some orange trees growing near a private conservator\-. At Fill-
more the pest was found in the only greenhouse in town. Two davs ago,
I destroyed six large Coleus plants infested with mealy bug, which came from
a florist at Santa Barbara. .A.nd so one could go on to practically every
original infestation with the same results. To accuse any one in the jiast
is folly, for the seriousness of the pest was not Icnown, but the present condi-
tions in many of the cities, towns, and orchard districts with regard to
greenhouse stock is inexcusable.
Pickiiis; Boxes. — The secondary infestations in most parts of W^ntura
County may be traced directly to picking boxes. So evident is this, that in
some orchards the box rows are easily recognized by the presence of this
pest. At Oxnard the only infestation is in the corner of an orchard where
the boxes were always piled when they were taken from the packing houses.
From Santa Paula the boxes were sent to Oxnard and Ventura and both
of these localities have mealy bugs. The ability of the egg-masses to cling
to the boxes and of the adult female to endure hardships is responsible for
this condition. To nn- mind this is the most dangerous method employed
in a community as a spreading agent, and it was the first practice to be
stopped. For methods of handling boxes, see same under head of Quarantine.
Picking Crezvs. — Coming later, hut even more disastrous were the picking
crews. They are spreaders of all insect and fungoid diseases, and while a
necessity in most cases, they accomplish, as scale distributed, in a few days
what would take all of the natural agents, and boxes years to do. Tiie
[)ickers rub through all parts of the tree and if there are any infections they
are sure to come in contact with them. In case of the mealy bug, there are
few chances of having picked a tree without carrying away some of the
egg-sacs which adhere to the clothes and especially to the hat. Following
up this method. I have seen great numbers of living mealy bugs on a single
]iicker, who disregarded their presence absolutely. The next tree miw add
something to tlie supply or may Lake some away and so it is distrihuteil
