318 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
from one tree to another. At times the crew is transferred to a distant
orchard in the middle of the day and they take the supply of mealy bugs along.
Even though the crew is not transferred directly to a clean orchard, individual
members constantly wearing the same clothes may be able to distribute as they
go for a week or more, before their clothes are entirely free. Too much care
can not be taken when we regard the seriousness of this pest and this is one
problem that is important. See same under quarantine.
Cultivators and Wagons go under the same head with the boxes and
picking crews and must be as carefully guarded. Driving through an infested
district with a cultivator or a wagon always brushes off mealy bugs. In this
way it does not take long to infect a whole orchard. The Blanchard orchard
is an excellent illustration showing the combined effects of the picking boxes,
cultivation, picking, and hauling as distributing agents. All parts of the
orchard were infected badly before the insect really became observable. I
recently examined a wagon, in which cultivating implements had been taken
from an orchard infested with mealy bug, to a clean orchard. On the side-
boards were counted 5 large adult female mealy bugs. In the bed were three
infested oranges which had dropped off while driving through the infected
orchard. The wagon was allowed to stand all day in the clean orchard with
enough mealy bugs to infect the 10 acres in the course of a few years.
Infected Fruit. — Travellers and visiting relations contribute to the spread
of such pests by carrying home infected fruit or by throwing the peel along
the roadside near a clean orchard. .\ rind thrown from a car window in
a citrus orchard may be sufficient to infest a neighborhood.
KNOWN NATURAL ENEMIES.
PREDACEOUS.
Ladybird Beetles (Coccinellidje)
Cryptolsemus montrouzieri.*
Rhizobius ventralis.
" lopantha.
Hyperasis lateralis.
Scymnus guttulatus.
" sordidus.
Lacezvings (Neuroptera)
Chrysopa occulta. (Green Lacewing.)
Sympherobius angustus. (Brown Lacewing.)
IWRASiriC.
Hxiiiciwfifcra.
Chrvsnplatvcerus splendens How.
Lvsiphelhus citraphis Ashm.
Dif^tera.
Leucopis bella Loew.
