THE MEXICAN ORANGE MAGGOT
{Aiiastrcpha [Trypctal ludciis Loew.)
By D. L. Crawfoiud.
For many years Mexico lias harbored in certain parts of her land a
truit fly whose maggot year after year has attacked the orange, mango, and
guava, which fruits in many localities grow together. The origin of the
pest is not yet known, but it is thought to have been imported from some
point further south. It has been known to exist in certain parts of the country,
chiefly the state of Morelos, for over sixty years, but very little attention
was given to it until an embargo was placed on Mexican oranges by the
California State Board of Horticulture shortly before the year 1900. It was
first described in the year 1873 by the Austrian entomologist, Loew, and
named by him Trypeta hidcns. The generic name has been subsequently
changed to Anastrcpha instead of Trypeta, according to a recent determination
by Mr. Coquillett of the Department of Agriculture in Washington. After the
miction had been taken by California prohibiting the importation of Mexican
oranges, the Mexican orange growers were soon aroused. They declared
repeatedly that this action on the part of our State had been taken in
fear of competition from the Mexican oranges, whereas the embargo was
solely for the protection of our own vast citrus industry from the introduc-
tion of the worm.
After some time had elapsed in making these objections, attention began
to be directed to controlling or annihilating the pest. In 1900 Fernandez Leal,
then chief of the department of agriculture, and Prof. A. L. Herrera, then
head of the department of parasitology, began the task of determining the
distribution of the pest, of warning the growers of the danger, and of
discovering means of eradicating the insect. Bulletins were from time to
time published and the farmers kept informed on the progress of these in-
vestigations. While these studies were in progress, attempts were constantly
made by the Departmento de Fomento in Mexico City to remove the embargo
of California and so regain the United States markets to the Mexican growers.
.\ request was finally made that California send down an expert to go over
the field with Prof. Herrera and report to our citrus growers the real condi-
tions in order that all fear should be removed of importing, the pest into this
State. In accordance with this request, in 1905 the California Board of
Horticulture commissioned Mr. John Isaac to this task. Through data given
iiim by Prof. Herrera and by personal observation he was enabled to report
fully on the history, distribution, and natural enemies of the pest, and on means
then employed by the government in combatting it. Mr. Isaac's report on
"The Trypeta ludens in Mexico," published in Sacramento in 1905, is, as
tar as I have been able to determine, the only account given to the public
of this dreaded worm in the last five years or more, with the exception of
