THE MEXICAN ORANGE MAGGOT 325
and most continuous, and it is, therefore, in this state that the work of
combatting it should be centered. (Fig. 121.)
A very important phase of the study of a pest of this nature is the
percentage of fruit which it destroys annually. The proportion, as sug-
gested above, is variable in diliferent places and times of year. I was told
by the chief of the Oaxaca Experiment Station that very frequently in the
late part of the season fully two-thirds of the orange crop is destroyed, but
this is not true for every year. Cuernavaca, in Morelos, produces many
mangoes and guavas but few oranges, comparatively. The proportion of
mangoes infected by the worm is tremendous. A large part of those in-
fected decay badly enough to fall to the ground before they are gathered
for market. An equally large part are picked from the trees for market
before the decay has gone very far. In one of the mango groves visited in
late June, the fruit, as it was picked, was brought to a small clearing to
be sorted over. The fruit which had a soft spot in it was thrown into one
pile and what the sorters thought was good fruit was thrown into another.
The infected pile was fully one-half as large as the other, and that, too, when
one-fourth of the crop w-as dropping to the ground. Wishing to see if all the
mangoes in the good pile were without the worm, I purchased twenty and
helped the man select them. Before the twenty mangoes had been picked out, as
many more had been discarded because of a tell-tale soft spot with a minute
hole through the skin in the center of it. I took the twenty mangoes that had
been selected so carefully and of the twenty, when cut into, found only
thirteen without worms. A rough estimate from the above figures shows that
fully three-fourths of the crop was infected. This is a fair type of the
majority of the groves of Cuernavaca ; a few are worse and a few are better.
.^ visit to the Borda Gardens presents, perhaps, the extreme of infection.
.'\lmost utter neglect of the grove has made this a veritable insectary for
breeding the flies. On the other hand, a small and comparatively well culti
vated grove belonging to Sr. Gaudalupe Gutierrez shows a slightly less per-
centage of infection, without a doubt due to the better care of the place.
The guavas are often infected to a worse degree than the mangoes. The
trees usually grow in among the mango trees so that the flies pass very readily
from one to the other. To find roughly the proportion of fruit infected with
the worm about three hundred guavas were opened ; out of this number
eighty were free from infection. In another grove one hundred and twenty-
five were opened and seventy-five had no worms in them, showing a much
lower percentage of injury.
Yautepec, Morelos, about sixty miles from Cuernavaca, produces many
oranges and comparatively few mangoes. Unfortunately I was obliged to
complete the work of the expedition and leave for California before the end
of September, so that T was unable to see the attacks of the fly w'hen the
orange crop was at its best, in November. .Although the season was early
yet considerable picking and shipping was being done. With the assistance
of an efficient guide visits were made to many orchards belonging to Sr.
