326 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Cirilo Vidal and Sr. Procopio JMejia. These orchards were all kept moderately
clean and somewhat cultivated by order of the government several years
ago. In all the orchards visited, wherever there was any ripening fruit, the
dread fly was found in greater or less numbers depending on the amount of
fruit ripened. Decay had hardly progressed far enough to cause any extensive
dropping of fruit, so that statistics on this matter had to be gathered from
residents. Even at that early season, however, the infection was quite general,
although the worms were not far developed as yet. Inquiries from the packers
at the railroad station revealed the fact that a large percentage of the fruits
had worms but the fruit was shipped, nevertheless, to the Mexico City market.
Some of the growers assured me that the pest is rapidly disappearing in
their section. Others, among whom was a very intelligent and well-to-do
grower. Air. Chas. A. Aragon, were sure that the pest is decidedly on the
increase, and that the danger from its ravages is immense. 1 am not in
a position to state whether or not it is decreasing, but this much can be
said with great emphasis — if it has decreased in the last few years, then it
must have been fearful beyond words a few years ago.
After studying the habits of the insect in its various stages of existence,
the department of parasitology ofifered the following artificial means of com-
batting and possibly exterminating the pest.
1. Gather each day all the mangoes, lemons and oranges which may
have fallen from the trees and deposit them in a clean corner of
the orchard.
2. Destroy all fruit thus accumulated at least once a week.
3. It is preferable to destroy the fruit by burning, but it may be disposed
of by burial, and when buried it should be covered with at least
fifty centimetres (twenty inches) of soil.
4. As the same worm exists in the guava, this fruit should also be
destroyed in the same manner.
In a report to the Minister of Agriculture in 1900 Prof. Herrera wrote:
"As preventive mea.sures I advise the burning of all the early oranges, the
cleaning up of all the orchards, the substitution of wire fences for live hedges,
and the burning of all fruit which ripens prematurely on the trees. It is
very probable that the enforcement of these measures for two or three con-
secutive years in all parts of the Mexican Republic invaded by the maggot
would result in its total extirpation." And yet today the insect continues
its ravages apparently unchecked. Probably the first question to arise in
one's mind is : have these measures been thoroughly applied by all concerned ?
Before answering this it might be well to see what it means to apply these
measures everywhere in the infested districts. (Fig. 122.)
The usual intermixing of orange, mango and guava trees has already
been spoken of. It is very difficult, to say the least, to keep a place well cleaned
and cultivated which is covered in a most irregular fashion with various sorts
of trees. Another difficulty is in the existence of more or less wild trees
which are onlv occasionally visited for the fruit. The guava grows very com-
