328 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
by the Commission of Parasitology for some years, up to the time, at least,
when Mr. Isaac was sent down to investigate conditions ; this fighting was
limited to Yautepec, although Cuernavaca is only a short distance away and
very badly infested ; since the time of Prof. Herrera and his commission, ef-
forts at combatting it have practically ceased. The Commission of Parasitology
has passed out of existence and its functions given over to the Central Agri-
cultural Experiment Station in Mexico City. A visit to this station soon
convinced me that very little concern was felt about the pest there. Further-
more a bulletin of this station issued in 1910, Bulletin 31 entitled Diseases and
Pests of the Orange, offers the following remedies, which are practically
identical with those given ten years earlier: "(1) Clean the orchards thor-
oughly, cutting out all weeds, and substitute hedges with wire fences. (2)
Gather daily the fallen fruit and burn it in incinerating ovens prepared for this
purpose. (3) Rake the ground beneath the trees to displace all pupae and
expose them for chickens to eat. (4) If there are successive crops of fruits
Figure 123.
Showing condition of the incinerating furnaces today. Evidently tliese have not
been used for a long time.
attacked by the fly, such as the mango and guava, destroy one of these to break
the cycle of successive generations of the pest, since the female will have
nothing in which to deposit her eggs." It very often happens that a remedy
is used year after year against a certain pest or plant disease, so that, there-
fore, there is nothing amiss in the mere fact that these are identical to those
of ten years ago. The trouble lies in the fact that practically no attempt has
been made in the last three years, at least, either to study the trouble further
and possibly find more effective means for combatting it, or even to enforce
those already proposed. I was informed of this fact by the chief of staff' at the
Central Experiment Station, Sr. Jose Ramirez. (Eig. 123).
In addition to these artificial means of fighting the dread fly, there has
been another agency at work for many years. A parasitic ichneumon fly
has been known for some time to favor the larv?e of this fly as a place in which
