THE MEXICAN ORANGE MAGGOT 329
lo deposit its eggs. These eggs hatch within the body of the maggot, and
the latter, consequently, never come to maturity, but die before pupation
occurs. This parasite has heretofore been known as Cratospila nidibnnda.
Many specimens were taken by the writer in the very act of stinging the
fruit, oranges, mangoes and guavas, and depositing eggs in the maggots. A
determination on these parasites by Mr. Viereck of the U. S. Department
of Agriculture places them in the genus Diachasma ; he is unable to assign
to it a specific name. The monograph of Bracontdac by Szepligeti has no
mention whatever of the name Cratospila ritdibunda. The name heretofore
known is possibly a manuscript name only and should in that case be dropped
trom use.
In dealing with a trouble which is very wide-spread, and in a tropical
country where fruit trees attacked by it grow easily with little care and
often in a wild state, and where for many reasons an artificial remedy is
very hard to apply, one is very apt to favor natural control by parasites. Let
us consider again the previously proposed measures as compared with new
measures wherein parasitism figures mostly. Mr. Isaac in his report stated
that the work of the parasite was not, as yet, very effective, since only from
ten to fifteen percent of the larvae were parasitised, but it was hoped that the
percentage would increase materially in the future. Since it was impossible
to stay in one place long enough to study the life-history or determine the
percentage of parasitized larvse, no definite statement can be made as to
whether or not it has increased. Now if the trouble is to be removed b\'
destroying al! the maggots in <;// infested localities for a period long enough
to eradicate the fly entirely, well and good. But if one spot is overlooked
or if a few flies continue to exist, then the whole fight will have to be re-
peated. On the very face of it, it is easy to see that a complete stamping out
of the pest by the above mentioned methods is utterly impossible, for reasons
already given, whereas to increase artificially the number of the Diachasma
parasites will undoubtedly reduce the trouble to a minimum and hold it there.
Now, as was said above, great hopes have been entertained that the
parasite would increase to larger numbers, but, while entertaining these hopes,
the government have simply been destroying the objects of their hope by burning
or burying the parasitized maggots — except when this was not enforced. .\nd
when no fruit was being destroyed the fly and the parasite maintained their
former ratio of equilibrium. This is undoubtedly the present condition of
affairs. If, then, the methods formerly used have not proved entirely satis-
factory and, further, have prevented the increase of parasites, and since
parasitism is the most logical and effective method of controlling the pest, then
some means should be devised whereby a rapid and large increase of the
Diachasma parasites can be effected.
A very simple, economical and wholly practicable means may be found
in the following suggestion : In a word, confine the parasitized maggots in such
a way that the parasite can escape when it emerges while the fly mu.st remain
and die in confinement. This is very simple indeed and easily performed,
