330 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
but, as far as I have been able to ascertain, it has never been suggested,
much less tried.
The simplest method of carrj-ing this out is by means of a small shed
built trom the cheapest and handiest materials ; in most places this would be
adobie. It should be large enough to hold quite a large quantity of fruit
without piling it up any more than is necessary, so that infested fruit could be
thrown in and the larvae allowed to mature and pupate within the shed. The
shed should be absolutely without a hole or crack large enough for the adult
fly to escape through. A part of one end is covered with wire screen, instead
of adobe. The meshes of this screen must be 3 millimeters (one-eighth of an
nich), which is just large enough to allow the parasite to escape but not the
fly, as was shown by experiment. On each side of the shed, at a height of
about three feet from the ground, are several openings large enough to dump
the fruit through ; by inserting a short flume into the openings, beveled at
the end within the shed, and by hanging a bottomless canvas bag over the
beveled end of the flume, a trap entrance could easily be made, so that fruit
could be dumped in with no fear of the insects within escaping.
Since the increase of parasites would be in direct proportion to the amount
of fruit enclosed in the sheds, as large a percentage as possible of the fruit
which has fallen to the ground should be so disposed of. Of course each
shed would hold only a certain amount successfully, but additions could be
made to the fruit at intervals of about two weeks or more, depending on
the time required for pupation. If there is a surplus of fallen fruit which
can not be so disposed of, it should be gathered and burned wherever possible
or feasible, thus diminishing the number of flies, at least.
A thorough trial of this in many of the localities should, without a doubt,
increase the parasites sufficiently so that within three years, or possibly four,
the pest would be reduced below the danger line. Minor accompanying
remedies might assist enough to blot out the trouble entirely.
A carbolic emulsion should prove very eiTective as a spray to be used
on the adult flies, which, with very few exceptions, stay on the fruit or leaves.
This spray is effective enough to kill the flies which it touches, and in addi-
tion to this it leaves on the trees such an odor that the surviving flies would
be kept off for some time. A third function of the same spray is the dripping
down of the liquid onto the ground under the trees and undoubtedly killing
many of the pupae and transforming larvae which may have escaped between
the daily clean-up of the fallen fruit. .\ secondary but no less beneficial
result from the application of the spray is the cleaning up of the trees and
fruit, ridding them from any scale insects and accompanying smut. These
latter are, of course, mere suggestions, but well worth a good trial. The
formula for a good spray of carbolic emulsion is as follows :
Carbolic acid (crude) 5 gallons
Whale oil .soap 40 pounds
Water 40 gallons
This stock solution should be diluted one to twenty parts with water
before using it as a spray.
