THE MEXICAN ORANGE MAGGOT 331
The question which has always been uppermost in the minds of all in
this regard is this : Is there any possibility of danger from the importation
of the Morelos orange worm into California? The Mexican ex-commission
of parasitology have always maintained that there is not any such danger,
because of our colder winters and lack of continuous fruit. Perhaps they
are right in this statement, but since no proof of it has ever been made, and,
further, since the tlies have lu-en lircd and kept alive in an Eastern winter
showing that they can survive cold, the best thing that we in this state can
(111 is to increase our watchfulness against its first appearance. It is quite
probaljle that further studies on its life-history will reveal the fact that a
dormant period is sometimes passed through, for otherwise it simply could
not exist in certain of the places investigated in the past summer. Further-
more, it could easily develop a dormant period here, or else adapt itself to
feeding on other fruits as it is claimed to have done in Mexico. In any
case the danger from it is very real. While it exists in Mexico there is danger
of its appearance here at any day. Fruit, often with the maggots, is con-
stantly being brought into the country in the lunch basket or the suit case,
and this may be the means of its introduction. Every horticultural coriirn;.-.-
sioner and inspector should be familiar with the fly and its maggot in orocr
to discover and report its appearance at tiie earliest moment possible. This
means that onlv tlioroiii^lily coinpcicnt men should be placed in office as
coDiiiiissiniiers. and that ///(' citrus iiisficction should be made what if oui:;ht
to he, instead of the mere [^erfnnctory and su/^erfieial e.rcuse for iiisl^eclion
\ohich it iio'zo is in too many f^laces.
.Moreover, while the pest exists, one of the chief concerns of both coun-
tries should be to wipe out the trouble and thus eliminate a great pest 7rom
the one country and the possible danger of it from the other. Mexico con-
tains some of the finest orange and mango lands in the world, and it is
possible for these industries to be brought to a high state of dcvelo])mLnt
there, so that it would be to the immense advantage of Mexico in several ways
for her government to attack this problem most energetically. If competent
men were actually sent into the field and backed by sufficient money and
authority, and help from the growers, the desired object could be accomplished
in a comparatively short time. The citrus industry in Mexico has a great
future only with this pest stamped out, and California wishes her well in the
coming development of this industry.
'I'he ,t;rr(7/ and immediate dani^^cr from the mai^i^ot is to the citrus i:;roi'es
of Texas. A'rri' Mexico, and Arizona. If it is permitted to _i;a/;/ access to these
states, then it zcill become increasiii<:.Iy difhcnit to keep it out of California.
This is certai:il\ a case for united .S'fate and federal action, if there ei'cr
Zi<as one.
Mr. Jeffrey, State Horticultural Commissioner, in a recent letter con-
cerning the maggot says : "Texas is now maintaining a strict quarantine
at Laredo and El Paso against this pest in particular. The horticultural au-
thorities are co-operating with the customs service and are exercising great
