THE RED SCALE
(Chrysomplialiis aurautii Mask)
A. J. COOK.
If we except the water problem, and possibly that of fertihzers and cuUi-
vation, no question more concerns the growers of citrus fruits than that of
scale insects. Success demands their control and that often involves great
expense. At present, there are four or five of these insects that are seriously
destructive in Southern California : the yellow scale, the black scale, the purple
scale, the mealy hug and the red scale. So blighting is the work of these
insects, and so difficult and expensive their control that it is exceedingly import-
ant to eradicate them, if possible, when localized, and to quarantine rigorously
against them, when absent. All scale pests, when numerous, are very harmful
to the plants on which they feed. The red scale is perhaps the most to be
dreaded, as from the great variety of its food plants, it becomes very difficult
and expensive to successfully fight it. Its enemies have not in the past been
able to hold it in check, or prevent its spread. We are fortunate, in our
immediate locality, Claremont, in that we do not number this red scale among
the obstacles to success. It is, however, close to us on three sides. If we
are wise, we will not only keep it out, but will insist that the few colonies,
known to be near us, be fought to the death. Right action in this matter means
a tremendous saving to our citrus fruit growers. (Figure 11.)
FAMILY OF .SCALE INSECTS COCCIDAE.
A word about this family of insects that includes the scale insects and
the mealy bugs is desirable. The females are always wingless, though both
sexes are scale-like in form at first, while the mature male is always possessed
of two wings. Like the Aphids, or plant lice, and the Aleyrodids or white
flies, they belong to the Homopterous division of the true bugs or Hemiptera.
In this sub-order the wings are much alike, and all are quite similar from
end to end. All insects in this order are pre-eminent for their sucking habits.
Their rostrum or beak is made up of needle-like mouth-parts and modified
specially for piercing and sucking.
SUB-FAMILIES OF COCCIDAE.
There are several sub-families of cnccids, three of which greatly interest
our orchardists. The females of Dactolypinae or mealy bugs preserve the form
