AMERICAN PSYLLIDAE II 3S9
Head deflexed, with eyes not as broad as thorax, finely punctate.
Posterior margin of vertex very narrowly elevated over middle half, arcuate,
not emarginate at median suture ; discal area with a small fovea midway be-
tween median suture and each posterior ocellus, and a shallow divergent de-
pression extending about to anterior margin of eyes, frontal plates raised
plate-like, emarginate at median suture anteriorly and sutural angle of each
plate deflexed making double emargination. Anterior ocellus not visible
from above. Facial cones rather long, strong divergent, acute, subvertical and
not visible from above, sparsely pubescent. Antenna inserted between base
of cones and eyes ; insertion cone-shaped, converging to point on each side
of anterior ocellus.
Thorax strongly arched, punctate. Pronotum short, depressed below
dorsulum and head, with a small fovea on each side just above pleurites.
Dorsulum strongly ascending, narrowly rounded anteriorly, quite coarsely
punctate. Wings subhyaline, fulvous, about two and one-half times as long-
as broad, broadest across first marginal cell, rounded apically but not broadly
so ; radius fully as long as second cubital, flexed midway ; marginal cells
subequal ; venation brownish, anal angle black or dark brown.
Female. — Genital segment short, a little longer than anal ventral segmental
plate ; dorsal plate overreaching ventral, and less acute ; genital pore contiguous
to and about as long as anal dorsal segmental plate ; ventral plate with an up-
curved acute prolongation ; pubescence inconspicuous. Male — Abdomen re-
curved caudad, much slenderer than in females ; dorsal segmental plates de-
pressed beyond third and scarcely visible from side. Genital segment as
long as two preceding, semierect ; claspers very small and short, triangular
when viewed laterally ; anal projection small, simple erect, about twice as
long as broad and slightly broader than base of claspers ; pubescence short,
sparse and inconspicuous.
Described from numerous males and females collected in Colorado by
C. F. Baker. Type in National Aluseum.
This species is apparently closely related to T. aurantiaca.
Trioza fulvida var siniilis n. var.
Although tliis species presents more or less gradual variations, still there
seems to be a quite distinct varietal group which has the forewings hyaline and
not fulvous as in the species. The structural characters are the same in both
groups.
Described from several males and females taken in Colorado by C. F.
Baker. Type in National Museum.
Trioza longicoruis n. sp.
Figs. 128 U; 129 M ; 130 T.)
Length of body, 2.4 mm. ; length of forewing, 3.6 mm. ; greatest width,
1..T mm.; width of vertex between eyes, .45 mm.; with eyes, .72 mm. General
color greenish yellow, notum slightly darker.
Head scarcely deflexed, conspicuously lower than dorsal margin of
dorsulum, very finely punctate. Posterior margin of vertex arcuate, narrowly
