AMERICAN PSYLLIDAE II 361
ventral segment short, produced apically into a short and acute point. Male. —
Abdomen slender, arched dorsally, broadest across third dorsal segmental
plate, the anal dorsal plate scarcely visible above ventral segmental plate.
Genital segment about as long as two preceding, somewhat reflexed, with
apical margin horizontal ; claspers rather short, simple, slender and acute in
distal half, arcuate and briefly pubescent. Anal projection bilobate when
viewed laterally ; the longest lobe horizontal and at right angles to the other,
reaching fully to base of claspers ; pubescence short, whitish.
Described from numerous females and several males taken in Ormsby
County, Nevada, and Santa Clara County, California, by C. F. Baker.
This species is more or less variable in some respects and it is therefore,
quite difficult to determine the line of separation between this and closely
related species. Wherever a large number of specimens belonging to some
common species is studied this difficulty of gradual variation is nearly al-
ways encountered. It is quite possible that these variations are slowly giving
rise to new species, but while the variations are slight and grade into each
other the only course possible is to class the entire group of slightly varying
forms into one species. In this specific group the genital characters are the
most constant and reliable for diagnosis.
Trioza varians n.sp.
(Figs. 128 V; 129 O; 130 U, V.)
Length of body, 2.1 mm.; length of forewing 3.3 mm.; greatest width of
wing, 1.4 mm.; width of vertex between eyes, .41 mm.; with eyes, .70 mm.
General color, dark brown to black with conspicuous stripes and bands of
yellowish white ; frontal plates bordered with light band ; whitish band on
pedicle of eye ; on posterior margin of dorsulum and several stripes on dorsal
surface of scutum and dorsulum ; upper margin of ventral abdominal plates
whitish.
Head somewhat deflexed, finely punctate. Posterior margin of vertex
narrowly and sharply elevated into a ridge over three-fifths of the line between
posterior ocelli ; discal area with a sulcus extending parallel with median
suture ; margin of frontal plates elevated arcuately ; when viewed from side
raised plate-like; deeply emarginate anteriorly. Anterior ocellus not visible
from above. Facial cones medium in length, divergent, subacute, subvertical
and not visible from above, slightly rugulose, sparsely pubescent. Antenn:e
inserted below frontal plates, in front.
Thorax strongly arched, finely punctate. Pronotum ■ short, depressed
lielow dorsulum and head; with a fova: on each side above pleurites ; lighter
in color than dorsulum. Dorsulum quite strongly ascending, roundly pointed
anteriorly ; with a stripe of lighter brown on dorsal surface. Wings hyaline,
about two and a half times as long as broad, broadest across middle of first
marginal cell, quite broadly rounded apically ; radius as long as second cubital ;
first marginal cell smaller than second.
Female. — Abdomen arched dorsally; borders of ventral segmental plates
lighter colored. Genital segment about as long as anal segment ; concolorous
