366 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
the prosternuni, whicii, together with the feet proper, extends forward Ijeiieath
the head. Eyes either absent or present ; when present consisting of a single
or of several to numerous simple ocelli, these rarely agglomerated or pseudo-
tacetted. Antennte mostly long and thread-like or cylindrical, rarely club-
shaped or flattened, composed of 14 (rarely 12 or 13) or more segments.
The length of the antennje like that of the legs, is mostly inver.sely propor-
tionate to that of the body. The head bears one pair of mandibles and two
pair of maxillje, of which maxillse the second constitute a labium comparable
to that of insects. Stigmata always or nearly always with a closing apparatus.
Tracheal system presenting anastomoses excepting in Scutigera. Genital duct
unpaired, opening on the preanal segment. Anal segment enclosed in three
sclerites, one dorsal and two pleuro-ventral.
Most chilopods are very sensitive to conditions of moisture; and as a
result in regions like California, many forms burrow into the ground during
the dry season and are to be secured only by digging down in suitable places
until dam]) earth is reached. They abound both in inter-tropical and in tem-
perate regions, while fewer forms exist even in sub-artic and artic territory.
Key to the Orders of ChUopoda.
a. Tracheae opening through seven unpaired spiracles arranged along the
median dorsal line ; antennae very long and many jointed ; legs likewise
extremely long, the tarsi composed of many segments ; agglomerated or
falsely facetted. Order Schizotarsia.
aa. Tracheae opening through paired spiracles situated in the pleural region
between tergite and coxre of a variable number of the body segments ;
antennae and legs moderate or short : ocelli of eyes not agglomerated or
falsely facetted,
b. Trunk with fifteen leg-bearing segments among which the tergites
of the 2nd, 4th. 9th, 11th and 13th are shortened or reduced ; young
born with seven pairs of legs, subsequently acquiring the full num-
ber through several distinct steps or stages. Order Anamorpha.
bb. Trunk with twenty-one or more leg-bearing segments among which
the tergites of none are relatively reduced or shortened ; yotuig
hatched with the full number of legs. Order Epimorpha.
Order schizotarsi.\.
This order includes the single family Scutigeridae of which one genus.
Scutiger, is known to occur in the United States.
Genus Scutigera Lamarck.
Of this genus the following species occurs in California. Most of its
relatives are tropical or subtropical.
Scutigera forceps ( Rafinesque. )
This form is very common in the southeastern states where it has long
been known. It is widely called the house-centipede because of its frequenting
houses and outbuildings where it lives upon flies and other insects which it
{■ajitures with its long, lash-likc tarsi. In buildings kept continuously warm
