THE CHILOPODA OF CALIFORNIA I 367
it has also been found in New York and other northern states. The autliur
took an adult of the species in Elysian Park, Los Angeles, in June 1909. Tliis
appears to be the only record from California.
Order .\x.\morpha.
One sub-order of this order is known to be represented in Xurtii America.
Tiiis is the Lithobiomorpha.
Sub-ordLM' LiTiioniOMORPHA.
The members of the Lithobiomorpha are all ver\- active and swiftl\-
nimiing forms quite readily recognized. The body is only moderateh- elongate,
bearing but fifteen pairs of ambulatory legs which are all short or medium in
length excepting the ultimate and penultimate, these being commonly more
elongate and strengthened for use in defense against attack from the rear.
The antennae are relatively long and distinctly segmented. The anterior margin
of the prosternum usually bears two or more pairs of teeth (prosternal teeth).
Ocelli may be absent, may be one on each side, or may exist in a group of
several to many. In our representatives a pair of spiracles always opens
on each of the 3rd. 5th, 8th, 10th, 12th and 14th segments, while a pair niav
or may not open on the first. The coxge of the last four (rarely five) pairs
of legs in our forms bear a number of glands which open through pores
arranged either in a single series or in several more or less irregular series.
The genital segment of the female supports a pair of gonopods or genital
forceps each of which ends in a claw which may be single or two or three lobed
and bears at the base two or three pairs of conspicuous spines.
Key to FaiiiiHcs of the lithobiomorpha.
a. Legs bearing only bristles, no true spines being present ; a single ocellus
on each side of the head ; anal segment both in young and in adults
with a pair of pores, the openings of the anal glands (anal pores) ; no
males. Family Hcnicopidac.
aa. Legs bearing both bristles and stout spines ; ocelli either absent or in a
group of several to many on each side: no anal pores in adults; both
males and females occurring. Family Lithobiidac.
Family Henicopidae.
Two genera of this family are represented in California. They are
interesting, among other reasons, because, so far as known, their reproduction
is exclusively parthenogenetic, no males ever having been recorded.
Key to Genera and Sub-families of the Henicopidae.
h. Tarsi of legs 1 to 13 undivided, those of the 14th and 15th pairs biarticu-
late : a pair of spiracles present on the first segment.
Genus Lamyctes (sub. family Henicopin;e).
aa. Tarsi of all legs two-jointed; no spiracles present on the first segment.
Genus Zy^ethobius (sub-family Zygetobin,-e, new).
Genus Lamyctes Meinert.
Two species of this genus are known from the L'nitcd States, one
being recorded here for the first time, the other being common in the eastern
part of the country and in Europe and being the type of the genus.
