368 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Lamyctes fiihicornis jMeinert.
This is a small, slender, parallel-sided species from 7 to 10 pr., 11 mm.
in length. The dorsum is yellowish brown in color ; the head and prehensorial
feet are darker, reddish, the head usually deeper in color anteriorly ; the
antennae are yellowish red and darker at base than distally. The caudal
margins of all the dorsal plates are straight or rounded, the angles of none
being produced. The antennae have from 24 to 29 (mostly 25) articles.
The author has taken this species in Oregon not far from the California
Ijorder within which it doubtless occurs.
Lamyctes pinanipus, sp. nov.
\'ery close to the preceding species ; but manifestly more slender through-
out. Among various points of diiiference the most conspicuous are in the
anal legs which are decidedly more slender and relatively much longer. This
may be seen in the accompanying figures, both of which were drawn by means
of the camera lucida on the same scale of magnification.
This species was first taken by the author at Las Vegas, Nevada. In
California it seems to be common at Claremont from which place specimens
collected by C. H. Chen and A. Sugg have been studied.
Genus Zygethobhis Chamberlin.
One species of this genus is thus far known.
Zygethobius doUcJwpns Chamberlin.
This species is considerably larger than the species of Lamyctes, meas-
uring from 11.4 to 12.6 mm. in length. The body is manifestly attenuated
from the 10th segment cephalad. It is mostly brown in color with the head
distinctly darker, reddish to almost black ; legs yellow, darkest distally ; an-
tennje yellow to brown, darker proximally. The posterior angles of the 9th,
11th, and 13th dorsal plates are strongly produced. Antennae with 39 or 40
articles.
Occurring widely in cool moist places in the Wahsatch and Uintah Mts.
of Utah at elevations above 8,000 feet. In California it has been taken in
the Sierras near Truckee (author).
Family Lithobiidac.
The spines borne upon the legs of the members of this family are im-
portant in the diagnosis of species. It is customary to enumerate those oc-
curring on the ventral aspect of the first, penult and ultimate pairs, those
found at the distal ends of the joints from trochanter to tibia inclusive being
listed in order; thus, 1, 3, 3, 1, where trochanter bears one, prefemur 3, femur
3, and tibia 1. The number and arrangement of the ocelli is also of importance
in the discrimination of species. It is advantageous to give the number of
horizontal series in which the ocelli fall and to enumerate the number of
ocelli in these series in order from above ventrad. There is commonly a large
single ocellus a little caudad of the main group which is separately reckoned ;
f. g., 1 and .T. 5, 3, 2. The number of prostcrnal teeth on the two halves
