THE CHILOPODA OF CALIFORNIA I 369
of the prosternum is indicated b_\- the appropriate figures separated by a dash ;
c. g-., 3 — 3, where the number of teeth on each side is three.
In making use of the keys in the present paper care nuist he taken to
make sure that specimens are fully adult. Even the genera cannot always be
ascertained from a study of immature specimens in the present state of our
knowledge.
•Fotrr genera of this famil\ are represented in California.
Key to Genera of the Lithohiidae.
a. Coxal ]x)res in several series are scattered. Genus Botlivopoh's.
aa. Coxal pores in a single series.
b. Coxal pores borne upon the last four pairs of coxae. Genus Lithobius
bb. Coxal pores borne upon the last five pairs of coxje.
Genus Psciidolithohiiis.
Genus Bothropolys Wood.
The species of this genus known to occur in California may readily be
separated by means of the following key :
Key to Species of Bothropolys.
a. .Angles of the ')th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced (subgenus
Allobothropolys Ver. ). B. xanti Wood,
aa. Angles of none of the dorsal plates ]5roduced ( subgenus .\rchilithobius
Stuxberg). B. monticola Stuxberg.
Bothropolys xanti Wood.
This species is commonly 20 mm. and above in length, being one of
the larger members of the Lithobiidse of California. It is brown in general
color above, the ultimate segments, head with prehensorial feet, and the legs
commonly darker. There are 20 articles to the antenna?. The anal legs are
long and slender. The claw of the female gonopoda is tripartite, the basal
spines numbering 3 — 3.
B. xanti is common in southern California and along the coast and in the
Coast Mts. north to San Francisco and possibly beyond. The author has
specimens from San Bernardino County, Los Angeles, Santa Monica, Clare-
mont (Pomona Coll. Collection), Santa Barbara and other southern points,
and from Stanford, Alonterey Co.. etc.
Bothropolys monticola (Stuxberg).
Syn. Lithobius californicus Daday, 1889.
Cf. also sub Lithobius pusio Stuxberg in present paper.
B. monticola is on the average larger than the preceding species. It is
darker in color. The dorsum commonly dark brown or mahogany ; the head
more reddish; legs yellowish the posterior pairs darker. Antennas with
mostly 20 articles but in some the number may be as large as 27 (variety).
Gonopols as in the preceding form.
After examining material from many different localities, the author is
convinced that Stuxberg based his description upon an individtial only partly
grown and that in cnumer;iting the s])incs of the anal legs he included some
