SOME MOTHS FROM CLAREMONT, CALIFORNIA
WITH NOTES ON CERTAIN ALLIED SPECIES
BY HARRISON G. DYAR.
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, WASHINGTON, D. C.
Among a collection of "Micros" made by Mr. C. W. Metz at Claremont.
for the purposes of a faunal synopsis, were certain smaller moths of higher
families. The material was sent to Mr. August Busck by Prof. C. F. Baker,
and those not belonging to the Tineid families were turned over to me. I make
mention also in this connection of specimens from Claremont, formerly sent
to me by Prof. Baker, as well as certain species from other localities that are
allied to these.
Family noctuidae. •
Pleonectyptera cuniulalis, new species.
Ground color of wings dull ocherous, powdered with brown ; lines marked
at their inceptions on costa by dark spots, pale, the inner line straight, edged
outwardly by dark shading; reniform dark filled, contrasted, yet not strongly
so; outer line incurved below cell, pale, defined by the powderings ; sub-
terminal line flexuous, pale, marked with a dark submaculate border within.
Hind wings brown-powdered, showing an outer dark shaded line. Expanse,
21 — 24 mm.
Three specimens, Claremont, Cal, (C. F. Baker, No. 3102) ; Argus Mts.,
Cal., (Koebele).
Type, No. 13447, U. S. National Museum.
This appears to be the species misidentified by Smith as P. fiiiitiinu Smith
(Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, xxxiii, 377, 1907), which therefore requires a new
name. The types of finitima are identical with tonalis Smith of the paper cited,
the name fiinitiina having precedence.
Family GEometridae.
Eois microphysa Hulst.
A single specimen collected by Mr. Metz appears to belong to this rare
species, described from the Panamint Valley. The specimen is much rubbed,
so that a positive identification cannot be made.
Family pyralidae.
Subfamily pyraustinae.
Loxostege shnilalis Guenee.
Two specimens. These are unusually dark in color.
Bvergestis napacalis Hulst.
Seven specimens. Also several other specimens from Prof. Baker.
Nomophila noctucUa Den. and Schift'.
One specimen of this world-wide species.
