376 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Aletasia argalis Fernald.
One specimen, agreeing well with Fernald's type from the Argfus Mts.
Both are females. The species strongly resembles Diascmia elegantalis Warren,
of which I have three males. In elegantalis the hind wings are nearly im-
maculate, in argalis they are marked with two wavy brown lines, but these
may be sexual differences. I do not perceive any other specific characters
between them. Warren's name has precedence in case the species prove to
be identical.
Pyraiista cincrosa Grt. and Rob.
Ninteen specimens. All are of the dark cinerosa form, no true laticlavia
being present. I have, however, some of the true laticlavia from Claremont,
formerly received from Prof. Baker.
Cornifrons thalialis Walk.
One specimen.
Lin codes Integra Zeller.
Fourteen specimens. This species would seem to be remarkably common
m Claremont; but as it feeds upon potatoes (among other plants) its abund-
ance may be due to the proximity of gardens.
Subfamily chrys.xuginaE.
Acallis griphalis Hulst.
One female specimen. This female is like males before me, and proves
that the specimen referred here by me as the female (Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash,»
X, 96, 1908) is really specifically distinct. I therefore describe it as follows :
Acallis centralis, new species.
Dull purplish red ; forewings with two illy defined orchraceous lines, the
inner curved from before middle of costa to basal third of inner margin, the
outer from beyond middle of costa to outer third of inner margin, slightly
angled downward in its lower third. Hind wings silky whitish, shading to
purplish at apex and in a narrow line along outer margin. Expanse, 26 mm.
One female, Williams, Arizona, July 10 (H. S. Barber).
Type, No. 13445, U. S. National Museum.
The species of AcaUis have veins 4 and 5 of forewings stalked. A
single specimen before me, apparently of A. griphalis Hulst, has these veins
completely coincident. It might, therefore, be placed in another genus, but it
resembles griphalis so closely, that I consider it for the present as an instance
of variation in venation. The specimen is from Mesilla, Xew Mexico, (C. N.
Ainslie).
Another closely allied species is before me. which presents a somewhat
similar peculiarity of venation, but in this case I think it is indicative of
generic separation. It differs from Acallis in that veins 7 and 8 of hind wings
are coincident. 1 separate it under the new name Polloccia, as the character
seems constant and the species is superficially distinct from any of our Chry-
sauginae.
