CLAREMONT MOTHS 377
Polloccia alticolalis, new species.
Straw color, irrorated witli purplish ; lines of the pale ground, defined by
borders of dark purplish, placed mesially of the lines ; a basal costal patch of
dark purplish ; inner line slightly projected, almost dislocated subcostally ;
outer line sharply angled subcostally, then roundedly excurved, becoming"
below parallel to inner line. Hind wings silky pale ochraceous. Expanse,
13 mm.
Two males, Skyland, Page Co., Virginia, July 31, 1900 (H. G. Dyar),
Dublin, New Hampshire, June, 1909 (A. Busck).
Type, No. 13446, U. vS. National Museum.
Subfamily crambinaE.
Crambus IcachcUns Zinck.
l"ive specimens.
One specimen.
One specimen.
Onimatopteryx occUea Haw.
Subfamily phycitinae.
Epischnia boisduvaliclla Guen.
Eticlla schisticolor Zeller.
One specimen ; also another formerly s^nt by Prof. Baker. Neither
specimen is good enough in condition to show the presence of the discal dots,
the character separating this form from the Eastern and European dnckencUa
Treits. : but I have others from California that do show them. This form
occurs in California, Washington and Idaho. In specimens from Utah the
discal dots are faint, while specimens from Colorado are unequivocally of the
zinckcncUa form. The species has been bred from pods of Astragalus, and
may prove injurious to beans or peas.
J'itula scrratiUnccUd Rag.
Two specimens.
Honora dotclla', new species.
Costa broadly whitish-shaded to beyond cell ; rest of forewing dark gray
with vinous tint ; a diffuse reddish ocher patch at laase, a stain of the same
col(jr on lower edge of cell; inner line narrow, whitish, angled, followed
by black; one discal dot only (the lower) ; outer line lost. Hind wing wliitish.
gray only on the fringe on upper part of wing. Expanse, 23 nnii.
Two specimens, collected by Mr. Metz.
Type, No. 13448, U. S. National Museum.
.Mlied to H. mcllincUa Grt., but larger, the costal pale edge much wider,
the orange beyond the inner line diffused. Differs from subsciiirclla Ragonot
in the obsolescence of the outer line.
The following species is not from Claremont. but from a neighboring
region and may a])])ro])riately be described here:
