WEST COAST NEWS NOTES
I In this department we hope to give in most numbers of the Journal
some idea of the doings and movements of western entomologists, notices of
publications of interest to western students, notices of entomological meet-
ings, etc. To this end, we hope that students or collectors will send in all
items of entomological interest about themselves or others, .\ddress: Mr.
Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., 572 N. Marengo Ave.. Pasadena, Calif.]
Dr. A. Fenyes, of Pasadena, has been elected a Fellow of the Entomo-
logical Society of London.
Dr. William Morton Wheeler, of Harvard University, the chief authority
on ants in this country, is planning to spend a part of the winter in Southern
California.
Prof. R. W. Doane, of Stanford University, is the author of a recent publi-
cation of Henry Holt & Co., called "Insects and Disease."
Dr. A. Fenyes is working on a Catalogue of the Alcocliarliiac of the
World.
According to an interesting editorial in The Argonaut, San Francisco, of
October 29, Prof. Woodworth of the University of California, has a book in
press on eugenics, based on the life organization of the bee.
Messrs. Clemence and Coolidge, of Pasadena, have described a new
Hesperid, a Rhabdoides, from Southern Arizona, related to celhis, Bdv.-Lec.
Mr. W. M. Davidson, a graduate of Stanford University, has been spend-
ing the fall months in Pasadena. Mr. Davidson has done considerable work
on Californian Aphididae, and is now beginning the study and collection of the
Sxn-pJiidac.
The late Alexander Agassiz did considerable entomological work in his
younger years; he collected a lot of Lepidoptera in central and northern Cali-
fornia, and his very first scientific paper was on the flight of Lepidoptera. An
excellent sketch of his life is found in Popular Science Monthly for November.
Mr. J. R. Haskins has returned from a week's vacation at Gold Run,
Arizona, where he turned up some interesting Lepidoptera. During the early
summer he made an extended trip to the east, doing some collcting in Arizona
and Mexico on the way.
Messrs. J. A. G. Rehn anfl Morgan Hebard were in Pasadena on Sej)-
tember 25 and 26, taking a trip up Mt. Lowe. They collected about 10.000
Orthoptera during a two months' collecting trip along the coast.
Mr. E. .-X. McGregor, of Stanford L^niversity, stopped in Pasadena, the
early part of September, on his way to Texas to help fight the Cotton-boll
Weevil.
Mr. D. T. FuUaway, entomologist in the Hawaiian Experiment Station,
has been spending the present semester in study at Stanford l^niversity, and
also assisting in Course T. in Entomology.
