380 POMONA COLLEGE JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
The Southern California Academy of Sciences has received, by gift, the
collection and library of the late Max Albright, of Soldiers' Home. Tlie in-
sects, mostly Coleoptera, are contained in about 70 boxes, and include some
good Californian species.
A new experimental station is being established at Santa Ana, Orange
County, under the direction of Prof. C. W. Woodworth.
Dr. L. O. Howard, U. S. Entomologist, visited various sections of South-
ern California during the last of September, stopping off at Pomona College.
"The United States government says that toads are worth $20 apiece
to the farmer as they eat up flies, bugs and worms which destroy fruits and
other farmers' crops. One toad is known to have caught 86 flies in ten
minutes." — Pacific Rural Press, Oct. 29, 1910.
Gleanings in Bee Culture, issued twice monthly at Medina, Ohio, has
an interesting department of short notes : — Beekeeping in Southern California,
by Mrs. H. G. Acklin, of Glendora, Cal.
Mr. F. Grinnell, Jr., is editing a collection of biographies and selections
of the Pioneer Naturalists of California, to be published in book form, prob-
ably in the spring.
The honey crop in the Imperial Valley is reported short this year, owing,
it is said, to the fact that cotton-fields are taking the place of alfalfa-ranges.
The session.s of the University Farm at Davis, in the Sacramento Valley,
are proving very instructive to the farmers of the region. A good force of
lecturers and instructors are in charge, including the entomologists Professors
W. T. Clarke and J. C. Bridwell.
-Vlr. E. W. Rust, of Whittier Pathological Laboratory, is engaged in the
study of the life-histories of scale-insects.
The Catalogue, Entomologie, 1911, of Max Weg of Leipzig, Germany,
No. 127, includes the library of Kerr. Prof. G. Kraaz, Berlin ; it consists of
4343 titles, and is very interesting to the bibliophile. Another recent cata-
logtie is that of the New York Book Mart.
"Prof. W. T. Clarke, in charge of the farmers' institutes and university
extension work in agriculture, will attend the meeting of the men interested in
farmers' institute work which will be held in Washington. He will then
return to the coast to take charge of a demonstration train.'' — San Francisco
Call.. Nov. 2, 1910.
"Daniel William Coquillett knows more about insects harmful to vegetable
growths than any other man, though he is only fifty-four years old. Since 1896
he has been honorary custodian of diptera in the L'nited States National
Museum at Washington, but before that he had done a large amount of
effective work in the farms and in the orchards of Illinois and California.
Grasshoppers, caterpillars, and the microscopic pests which injure fruit trees
are his especial prey, and it was through his efforts that ladybirds were im-
ported to exterminate the cottony-cushion scale dreaded by horticulturists." —
The Argonaut, San Francisco, Oct. 1.^, 1910.
