WEST COATS NEWS NOTES 381
Early Geological Surveying in Kentucky, by H. Foster Bain. Mining and
Scientific Press, San Francisco, Oct. 1, 1910, pp. 435-437. An account of tiic
survey under N. S. Slialer, tells "the other half of the story," other than the
"Dull documents," which "tell but half the story of geological survey life,"
which is hardly known to the "younger generation " F. G. Sanborn was the
entomologist of the survey, and he and his net figure conspicuously in the well
executed, humorous and suggestive cartoons of scenes. Any naturalist who
has done field work away from towns and railroads will appreciate the article
and cartoons. We "should know how the men we now admire as leaders got
their start."
Prof. H. C. Fall, of Pasadena, is a member of the e.xecutive committee of
the International Congress of Entomology.
Prof. C. A. Kofoid, of the University of California, is studying the blood-
parasites of birds. This is of a technical and systematic character; but it may
turn out to be of great practical value to medicine. Several of our dreaded
diseases are caused by the transmission of the blood parasite, bv means of
insects, from the host to man.
The Oakland College of Medicine has a strong department of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene, under the direction of Dr. Creighton WcUman, with a
well-equipped laboratory. There is one associate professor, two assistant
professors and two assistants. There are seven regular courses, with lectures
and laboratory work. "During the past year the students in this course
(Course III) saw and studied cases of Amoebic Dysentery, Amoebic Appendi-
citis, Liver Abscess, Beri-Beri, Bubonic Plague, Cochin China Diarrhoea.
Flagellate Diarrhoea, Endemic Hjemoptysis, Filariasis, Gangosa, Opiathorchia-
sis, Hookworm, Leprosy, Tertian, Quartan and ^'Estivo-Autumnal Malaria,
Pellagra, various tropical intestinal worms, etc." Course V is divided into
three sections : — Medical Protozoology, Medical Helminthology, and Medical
Anthropolog}'. The te.xtbook in the department is : ]\Ianson's Tropical Dis-
eases.
