WEST COAST INSECT NOTES
( Every active entomologist is constantly encountering in the course of
his work, isolated facts of the greatest interest concerning life histories, lo-
cality occurences, new points in anatomy, nomenclatorial corrections, and so
on, that are of the greatest interest and value and should not be lost to
entomological literature. We shall regularly devote some space to such notes
and invite them from every quarter.
Plecoma near Pasadena. — A fresh but partially eaten specimen of Plecoma
was found in a mountain canon near Pasadena just after the rain of October.
This is especially interesting, as only one other fragment of this rare beetle
was found years ago in this region, and a species described from one speci-
men from the Cuyamaca mountains, by Prof. Rivers. The males of this genus
have the habit of flying during or directly after the first heavy rain of the
season ; the females, on the other hand, being wingless, remain hidden a
foot or more in the ground, where the males locate them. It is to be hoped
that more .specimens of this interesting beetle will be discovered. The present
fragment was taken by a High School boy, and is in the collection of
Prof. Fall.
Later note: Nineteen more s])ecimens of this Plecoma were taken during
a rain, about a week ago. They represent a new species, and Prof. Fall will
describe it soon. — Fordyce Grinnell, Jr.
Harpyia cinerca Wlk. near Spadra, Cal. — Mr. C. H. V^ary, Horticultural
Inspector of Pomona, called our attention to the fact that large cottonwoods
at Spadra were being entirely defoliated by a very peculiar notodontid larva.
After some delay Profs. Cook and Baker visited the locality and found the
larvje pupating in immense numbers in the crevices of the bark on the main
trunks, and also on fence posts and boards near by. Although occurring
in great numbers the cocoons are difficult to find, being exactly the color of
the bark, and set into cavities hollowed out by the larvae. .\ large number
of the cocoons placed in breeding boxes gave principally Tachinid parasites,
so that it is not probable that the occurrence of the moth in so great numbers
will be soon repeated. — C. F. Baker.
.\ Borer in the Castilloa Ruljber Tree in Mexico. — Specimens of a Ceram-
bycid borer (Taeuiofcs sutitnilis Thomson — determined by Wickham) were
recently reared from a portion of the trunk of a rubber tree in the State
of Chiapas in Mexico. The deeper incisions made in the tree for the purpose
of tapping are often invaded by a fungus which causes a constantly enlarging
decayed spot in the wood. These spots of dead wood invite, among other
insects, this large conspicuous Cerambycid, which, extending its borings into
the living wood, accomplishes immense damage to the rubber forests. The
gallery made by this borer is fully one-third of an inch in diameter. — D. L.
Crawford.
