20 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
PARASITES AND PREDACEOUS INSECTS.
As yet no parasitic or predaceous insect has served to appreciably lessen
the number or work of the red scale in our orchards of Southern California.
This is not true of the yellow scale, as the golden Chalcid has in many places
seemed sufficient to hold that species in check. As suggested above, the yellow
scale about Claremont is not controlled by its insect enemies. This greater
freedom from attack by parasites of the red scale, is another important differ-
ence between these two species, which in general are so closely similar. While
we should strive to secure parasites that would be as efficient to destroy this
red scale as is Novius (Vedalia) cardinaiis to combat the cottony cushion
scale, yet we must not withhold fumigation until some enemy is found that
will control the scale. We can never afford to allow our orchards to be
victimized by these devitalizing sappers.
PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS.
The fact that the red scale is armored, and exists at all times, and in all
stages of growth, makes its destruction very difficult. It requires nearly or
quite double the black scale dosage and about as much cyanide as does the
purple scale, if we would secure complete extermination. At times, even
when we are so thorough, it may be wise, to give a second fumigation as soon
as we can learn, by examination, that the first fumigation was not entirely
effective. The tents must be gas proof, and should remain over the trees for
a full hour. They should also in all cases of fumigation, be marked as directed
by the Department of Agriculture, that there may be no guess work, and so
no possible mistake in determining the amount of cyanide to be used in each
case.
As is true of all scale insects, all weeds that may harbor the scale should
be kept entirely from the precincts or neighborhood of the orchard. Clean
culture, except in winter, when the best success demands that a good cover
crop of legumes be grown, must be practiced. In case of red and purple scale,
it is wise to gather and bum the fallen fruit. On fallen leaves scale insects
soon die, but they live a long time on fruit.
HINTS ON FUMIGATION.
Fumigation for black scale may best be done, when all the scale are
hatched and still quite young. For our locality this is October and November,
though when necessary this may extend from September 1st to February 1st.
x\s there are more or less black scale in all our citrus and deciduous orchards,
this is a good time to treat any scale, as we then kill both the black and the
other as well. It is not wise, however, in case the red scale, the purple scale,
or the mealy bug are found to be introduced into any region, to wait for autumn,
but to fumigate at once. They are all very prolific, and are easily scattered by
wind, bird or insect, so immediate extermination should be the watchword,
as soon as their presence is discovered. To delay treatment is costly and
dangerous, and makes the orchard a menace to all others in the region. For
the red, the yellow, and the purple scale, it is fortunate if we can fumigate in
