24 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Genus Apliidius Nees
All of the species described below are not black, but testaceous, and all but
one have much yellow. In all, the face is largely yellow. In all, the subdis-
coidal nervure is interstitial and does not touch the second discoidal cell.
A. Second abscissa of radius shorter than the transverse cubitus ;
a small species with almost the entire body and appendages
concolorous testaceous. delicatus n. sp.
AA. Second abscissa of radius longer than the transverse cubitus;
large species with yellow legs.
B. Part of sternum only, yellow; length 2 ram.
C. Antennae lO-jointed, first two articles yellow; all of face
below antennae, yellow. coloratus n. sp.
CC. Antennae 20-jointed; first two articles testaceous; only
the clypeus yellow. coloratus var. ferruginosiis n. var.
BB. All of lower half of thorax yellow; length 2.5 mm. pulcher n. sp.
Aphidius delicatus n. sp.
Male: Length, 1.5 mm. Whole insect testaceous, abdomen and legs basally
paler. Clypeus and mandibles yellow. Metanotum smooth, shining, with a
delicate median carina which splits posteriorly, the branches diverging to pos-
terior border; and on either side posteriorly with a large rounded sharply
bordered pit. Apparently near to Aphidius avcnaphis Fitch.
Ormsby County, Nevada. Coll. C. F. Baker.
Aphidius coloratus n. sp.
Female: Length 2 mm. Head and thorax piceous, abdomen testaceous, legs
entirely, prothorax, mouthparts, all of face below antennae, and first two
joints of antennae, yellow. Antennae lO-jointed, flagellum piceous. Metano-
tum smooth and shining, with a median carina which is split behind and
encloses a small lozenge-shaped area which extends to posterior border ; on
either side of this latter area is a large sharply bordered pit.
Jeannette, Pa. Coll. H. G. Klages.
Aphidius coloratus var. ferruglnosus n. var.
Female: Length 2 mm. Piceous to dark testaceous, petiole and hind mar-
gin of second segment pale. Legs sternum, and prothorax, yellowish to
ferruginous. Clypeus and mandibles yellowish. Antennae 20-iointed, piceous,
first two articles testaceous. Metanotum identical with that in the species
Polk County, Wisconsin. Coll. C. F. Baker.
Aphidius pulcher n. sp.
Female: Length 2.5 mm. Head and thorax above, laterial margins of
second tergiun, and discs of third, fourth and fifth terga shining piceous. the
rest of abdomen, the sternum, pleurae and prothorax, ferruginous to yellowish.
