BAKER. STUDIES IN OXYBELIDAE 29
Belouiicrus colorata n. sp.
Female : Length 5 mm. A large species with bright yellow markings, and
a largely reddish abdomen, and related to cladothricis.
Clypeus truncate anteriorly, its disc subtuberculate, the raised portion naked,
smooth, shining, and with a few large punctures ; remainder of face covered with
appressed silvery hair, which is thickest below. Antennae piceous above and
sordid yellowish below, the funicle distinctly longer than the first flagellar article.
Mandibles honey yellow at base to piceous at the simple tips. Lateral ocelli dis-
tinctly nearer to the eyes than to the median ocellus.
Pronotum honey yellow, except a spot at middle. Tegulae rufous. Meso-
pleura with the vertical groove broad, shallow, and ill defined. Postscutel yellow,
and with its broad squamae longer than half the entire width, the squamae com-
pletely coalescing, the median posterior emargination is shallow and with a
rounded apex. Median fovea of metanotum broader than long, the oblique striae
on lateral faces distinct, but the puncturation very inconspicuous.
Legs with tips of femora, all of tibiae, and basal joints of tarsi honey yellow ;
the tarsi are piceous apically. Abdomen ferruginous, the first, second, and third
tergites with posterior margins broadly yellow. Pygidium triangular, the width
at base greater than the length.
This fine species was taken in Ormsby county, Nevada.
Beloniicrus Cookii n. sp.
Male : Length 4.75 mm. A medium-sized species with banded abdomen,
without ferruginous except at tip, and related to forbesii.
Clypeus tridentate anteriorly ; its disc not subtuberculate, entirely covered
with the silky appressed pubescence of the face, and near the anterior margin
transversely banded with yellow. The antennal scrobes are unusually large and
deep. Antennae with honey yellow scape and sordid ferruginous flagellum, the
funicle distinctly shorter than the first article of flagellum. Mandibles honey yel-
low at base to piceous at their simple tips. Lateral ocellus about as far from
eye margins as from median ocellus. Pronotum with a broad, yellow, almost
continuous band which reaches on to scapulae. Tegulae rufous. Mesonotum
with the vertical groove distinct and sharply marked. Postscutel yellow, and
with its squamae not longer than half the entire width at base, the squamae
coalescing behind, tlie posterior emargination V-shaped.
Median fovea of metanotum triangular and twice as long as broad, the
oblique striation on lateral faces very fine and the puncturation very distinct.
Legs with tips of femora, all of tibiae, and basal portion of tarsi honey yellow,
the tarsi piceous apically. Abdomen black, the first to fifth tergites broadly
banded posteriorly with very pale yellowish, the last two segments sordid ferru-
ginous.
Female : Clypeus truncate. Scape honey yellow only at tip. the remainder
piceous. Abdomen with yellow bands on segments I to IV, but gradually fading
out posteriorly, the last half of third segment, and the remainder of abdomen
bright ferruginous. Pygidium broader at base than long, triangular, but the
