THE GENUS PSEUDOCOCCUS IN CALIFORNIA
E. O. ESSIG.
The following study of this difficult genus is manifestly provisional. Much
more material is needed to complete the work, and we should be glad to receive
specimens of any species of the genus from any source. A synopsis of the females
has been a great desideratum, and we have attempted to construct such a synopsis.
It now includes all the known native species and most of the introduced forms,
though there are some like Pseudococcus calceolariae, P. afUnis, and P. hyiiicii-
ocleae recorded as having occurred in the State, which we have not yet seen.
These insects are very variable in most of their characters, and minute differences
in the antennal articles or bristle arrangement taken alone are not to be depended
upon. So we have used only characters, or combinations of characters, which
seem to us, on the average, to be good. For this reason in using the synopsis,
care should be taken to e.xamine numbers of specimens of any form, since even
species having normally 8-articled antennae occasionally include specimens with
only 7 articles or even with 9. We have not always used in the synopsis charac-
ters which we consider of greatest value in distinguishing the species, since we
are limited always to the use only of described characters in those species we have
not seen.
rROVISIOXAL KEY TO FEMALES OF CALIFORNIA PSEUDOCOCCUS.
A. Third article of antennae about half the length of the last ; spines of anal
lobes usually much longer than circumanal spines; body with only powdery
wax.
B. Antennae /-articled and very small.
C. Antennae with very few hairs, article 4 shorter than 5 ; body
slate colored. Under bark of Artemisia califoniica.
artciiiisiac n. sp.
CC. Antennae with normal number of hairs, article 4 longer than
5; body ])inkish. I'nder bark of Qucrcns agrifolia.
agrifoliac n. sp.
BB. Antennae 8-articIed, large, and normally haired.
C. Antennae with article 2 much longer than 3.
D. "Sides with rows of spinneret spine areas'
enclosed in an egg-sac. On Azalea.
acalcae.
