ESSIG. THE GENUS PSEUDOCOCCUS IN CALIFORNIA 43
Pseudococciis obsciirus n. sp.
In form this species is very narrowly oblong. The body segmentation is very
distinct. The length of the body varies from 2 to 6 mm., the width from 1 to 2
mm. The covering consists of a very thin, powdery wax, which does not hide
the light-gray body of the insect. The lateral wax appendages are not distinct,
while those of the anal segments, though short, are well defined.
When boiled in K O H, the body becomes cardinal — the legs and antennae
remain a light-brown.
The antennae (Figure 23 C) are 8-articled, and normal in size and in the
distribution of hair. Article 3 is three-fourths as long as the last. Article 1 is
as long as 3 and longer than 2. The mouth-parts are short and stout ; the rostral
loop about half the length of the body. The legs (Figure 24 C) are short and
stout. The coxa is as broad as long ; the tibia is longer than the femur, and twice
as long as the tarsus ; the claw is short and well curved. The spines of the anal
lobes are as long as the circumanal spines (Figure 25 C). The lobes are quite
hairy, with two denticles on the inner margin of each. The body is nearly desti-
tute of hair.
Figure 2 7. Pseudococcus obscurus on Sambucus glauca
The eggs are laid in loose cottony masses. The male is unknown.
This species was taken from the roots of Opuntia at the home of Mr. Meserve,
County Horticultural Commissioner, on Boyle Heights, Los Angeles. In some
ways it resembles P. ryani, but differs as the antennae shotvs in the following
comparative table of the different articles beginning with the longest article first :
P. ryani:— S, 3, 2, 4, 1, 6, 5, 7.
P. obscurus: — 8, 1, 3, 2, 4, 7, 5, 6.
A form taken at Santa Paula (Figure 27) from the bark of Sambucus glauca
resembles P. obscurus closely enough to be the same species or a variety of it.
The following cuts will point out some of the resemblances : Fig. 23 A ; Fig.
24 A ; Fig. 24 I.
It was first taken bv Conntv Commissioner I'. E. Smith, of Santa Paula.
