ESSIG, APHIDIDAE OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 49
sensoria ; I and II none, III five large circular in a row. 1\' none, \' one large
circular at distal end, VI several small ones in the nail-like process. All but the
last articles are scabrous, and there are few hair on any. Pro-thorax with lateral
tubercles. Rostrum reaching just beyond the metathoracic coxae. Abdomen
more or less distinctly segmented. Cornicles (Figure 34 F) cylindrical and
scabrous, length 0.18 mm. Lt\t:-*- moderately long with few hair and no sensoria.
livings hyaline ; primary length 2.3 mm., width 0.95 mm. Cubitus very distinct,
as are all the veins. Stigma long and linear. Radius sharply curved, first and
second obliques straight, third twice forked. Secondary wing, length 1.55 mm.,
width 0.6 mm. Sub-costal extends to wing tip, slightly bent at base of second
discoidal. First Discoidal arises from the sub-costal one-third its distance from
the base. Second Discoidal arises from the sub-costal two-thirds its distance
from the base. Style cylindrical, about one-half the length of the cornicles.
The pupa is shown in Figure 34 C.
Figure 35. Callipterus juglandicola. winged female
.Apterous Vivip.\rous Fem.-xle. — (Figs. 34 A and B.) Length 1 mm., width
0.8 mm. Diflfers from the winged form in the following respects : Body nearly
globular, scarcely segmented at all, dark brown to black. Antennae (Fig. 34 H)
considerable longer than the body, 1.22 mm., and without sensoria. The corni-
cles of this form are shown in Figure 34 E.
Nymph of Apterous \'ivip.\rous Female. — Resembles the adult only is
much smaller and lighter in color. The antennae (Fig 34 G) are five-jointed,
the respective lengths are as follows: I 0.93 mm., II 0.95 mm.. Ill 0.12 mm.,
I\' 0.06 mm., V 0.22 mm. The body segmentation is more distinct than in the
adult. Rostrum reaches just beyond the nieta-thoracic coxae. The cornicles of
the nymph are shown in Figure 34 D.
This, the Orange Aphid, attacks with vigor the tender .shoots of the citrus
trees. Although in time checked by parasites, it succeeds in doing a great deal
