ESSIG, APHIDIDAE OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 51
of damage, first because of its rapid increase in numbers, and secondly because
it is able to do a life's work before the parasite finally gets the upper hand. In
this way much of the new growth is completely destroyed and the tree thereby
injured. By summer only isolated specimens of the aphid can usually be found.
I have referred this common Californian form to the Aphis citri of Ashmead,
but it is only a provisional reference, since there appears to be no way in which to
tell what Aphis citri really is, except by a re-e.xamination and description of
authentic material.
Callipterus jii^laiidicula Koch
Pterocallis JHglandicola — Kalt.
Lachnus juglaiidicola — Kalt.
Aph is juglaiidicola — I Valk .
Winged Viviparous Fem.\le. — (Figure 35). Length 2 mm., width 0.5 mm.,
wing-expansion 3.25 mm. Prevailing color light yellow, many individuals hav-
ing two rows of black blotches on the back extending from the pro-thorax to the
Cauda. Eyes are red.
Head short and as wide as the pro-thorax, with few short hairs on the frontal
margin between the antennae. Compound eyes large, bright red, with long terete
tubercles just behind near the posterior border. Antennae (Figure 36 E) arise
from head without tubercles, are shorter than the body, being 1.975 mm. long.
The tips of articles III, IV, V and VI are very deeply clouded. There are very
few hairs. Article VI has an apical nail-like process. The lengths of the respect-
ive articles are as follows: I 0.1 mm., II 0.1 mm.. Ill 0.375 mm., IV 0.225 mm..
V 0.125 mm., VI 0.15 mm. The distribution of the sensoria is: I and II none,
III one row of seven large circular, IV none, V one large circular near distal end,
VI several small ones in the nail-like process. Pro-thorax without lateral tuber-
cles. Rostrum short, not reaching the coxal cavities. Abdomen distinctly seg-
mented, in many cases having two rows of black blotches on the back. With few
hairs and no digitules. Cornicles short, with trumpet-shaped openings. Legs
moderate in length, more or less hairy, without sensoria. Hind tibia with a large
black blotch on the distal end. Wings hyaline, veins slightly pigmented at the
base. Primary wings, length 2.45 mm., width 0.75 mm. Cubitus well defined
Stigma long and narrow. Radius well curved. First and second obliques
straight, third well curved and twice-forked. Secondary wings, length 1.45 mm.,
width 0.5 mm. Two discoidals. Sub-costal bends down at the base of the sec-
ondary discoidal and extends to the wing-tip.
First discoidal is straight and arises from the sub-costal nearly one-half its
length and extends nearly to the margin. Second discoidal curves slightly in and
arises from the sub-costa at about two-thirds its length and e.xtends nearly to the
margin. Cauda rounded and hairy. Style obscure.
Apterous Viviparous Female. — This form has not been obtained, although
close watch has been kept since the first of January.
Pupa of Viviparous Female. — (Figure 36 A, B. C.) In shape and color
the pupa resembles the adult form. On the frontal margin the hairs are replaced
