HOST INDEX TO CALIFORNIAN COCCIUAE
E. O. ESSIG AND C. F. I'AKER.
The following index was first roughly compiled from all the publica-
tions which we happened to have at hand, and it was then submitted for
correction and emendation to Mr. Edw. M. Ehrhorn (Deputy Horticultural
Commissioner at San Francisco), Mr. R. S. Woglum (of the U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture), Mr. E. K. Carnes (Superintendent of State Insec-
tary), Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell (of Colorado State University), and Mr. E.
R. Sasscer (of the U. S. Department of Agriculture). The index has been
completely remodelled in accordance with their notes. But even now it is
evidently only a good beginning. Many of our common cultivated plants,
some of which at least must often be scale infested, are not yet on the list,
while there are beyond doubt many more native species awaiting discovery.
We shall be glad to publish all further corrections or additions, since the
great value of a complete index of this sort is very evident. We heartily
invite all Californian entomologists, horticultural commissioners, and in-
spectors, to assist us in the development of this index. It is
especially important that we indicate the species which are found
only in the greenhouses. Of course, quarantine records are not
in reality Californian records at all, though very important as
indicating the species which are actually knocking at our doors for admis-
sion. It is a splendid justification of our quarantine service, that so many
of such records have remained, so far as we know, only quarantine occur-
rences. Several specialists have indicated to us that the name Aspidiotns
camclliac should be used in place of Aspidiotns rapax. Dactylopius coccus in
^\ace oiCoccus cacti, and Pulvinaria vitis in place of Puh'inaria innumcrabilis,
all of these apparently being changes compelled by priority rules.
Abies sp.? (Fir).
Chionaspis pinifoliae.
Abies concolor (White Fir).
Aspidiotus ehrhorni.
Leucaspis kelloggi.
Physokermes concolor.
Abies grandis.
Leucaspis kelloggi.
Abies magnifica (Red Fir).
Leucaspis kelloggi.
Abies shastensis.
Leucaspis kelloggi.
