AN ENTOMOLOGICAL EXPEDITION TO GUADALAJARA
D. L. CRAWFORD.
(The following account adds one more to successful entomological ven-
tures into the Mexican field. Though with but limited time and at an unfavor-
able season, yet Messrs. Crawford and McConnell brought together extensive
collections in the groups to which they gave especial attention — namely, the
Hemiptera and Hymenoptera. Their gatherings in some other groups were
also of great interest and value. Most of this material has already been per-
manenty deposited in the collections of various institutions, but there still
remain for sale considerable numbers of Coleoptera, Arachnida, Neuroptera,
and some other groups. — Editor.)
Mr. R. A. McConnell and the writer left Claremont for Mexico on the
last day of June, 1909, arriving in Mexico City about five days later. Several
delays along the route enabled us to make collections at various points on the
way. Less than a week was spent in Mexico City. We arrived in Guada-
lajara, our headquarters, on July 12. About this latter city, collecting was
done over most of the desirable territory within a radius of perhaps twenty
miles and a trip was made high up on the slopes of San Pedro Mountain, about
forty miles from the city. A visit was also made to Lake Chapala, about fifty
miles froin headquarters. The altitude covered ranged from 3000 feet above
sea level upward, most of the work being done at or near 5000 feet.
The chief difficulty lay in the frequent rains. It might be supposed that
any part of Mexico so far south as Guadalajara would be very tropical in
character, but this is not at all the case. Instead of a more or less continuous
rainy season such as may be found in truly tropical regions, there is a period
of about three months of thunder storms and cloud-bursts, lasting from about
June to September, while during the remaining nine months it is very dry and
sometimes quite cold. In consequence of this condition, the great burst of
insect life comes during the winter months of January, February and somewhat
later. During our few weeks of work, we noticed hordes of larvae, hemi-
pterous and orthopterous nymphs and pupae, as well as coleopterous grubs,
dipterous larvae, and odonate nymphs. Towards the close of our trip we
were able to find a few early butterfly chrysalids here and there, but apparently
the great majority of larvae had not yet pupated. There were some butterflies,
but nearly all had frayed or torn wings — relics of the past season.
The same might be said of Orthoptera. In some grassy places we en-
countered hopping masses of immature grasshoppers and locusts, a great many
of them beautifully colored. Any amount of some four or five common vari-
eties were in season, but of the very numerous later forms we encountered only
a few extra early adults. Mature Blattidae were, of course, abundant, as they
are at all seasons. Mantidae were still in the nymphal stages. .'Mso adults of
