CRAWFORD, ENTOMOLOGICAL EXPEDITION TO GUADALAJARA 77
one phasmid and several gryllids were taken. However, throughout the rainy
season, there were thousands of good Coleoptera, Hemiptera, Hymenoptera,
Diptera, and Arachnida, everywhere, and somewhat less of Odonata and Neu-
roptera. It might be remarked that the general cast of the whole insect fauna
at this season is, as to families and genera, remarkably similar to that of the
Southwestern United States.
The topography of the region about Guadalajara is very interesting. The
city is situated on a high inland plateau ranging from 4000 to 7000 feet alti-
tude. Enclosing the city, but some fifty miles away, are numerous mountain
peaks of varying height, San Pedro overtopping them all. Between two of
these small ranges of mountains and at about 6000 feet altitude, lies Lake
Chapala, which is some seventy miles long and half as wide. Santiago River,
the outlet of the lake, flows through these mountains and out into the level
valley, on its way carving out a long deep canon or barranca. In some places
this barranca may be as much as 2000 feet below the surrounding country, and
is filled with a very rich vegetation. Bananas, mangoes, cocoanuts and other
tropical fruits flourish in the barranca, while they do not thrive in the level
country about Guadalajara. The walls of the barranca are practically cloaked
with creeping vines which make progress very difficult. The insect fauna of
the barranca includes many forms not found in the country above, though very
many are common to the two regions. Some very distinct and interesting
forms were also taken during a hasty visit to the slopes of San Pedro moun-
tain.
One would naturally assume that the waters of the region would yield a
great number of aquatic forms, but this certainly was not so during our visit.
Careful dredging was done everywhere, but very few Hemiptera and Cole-
optera were taken. Collecting about electric lights also proved very poor.
We were told that at Vera Cruz there were millions of "bugs" flying about
the lights, but there were very few at Guadalajara. In spite of the unfavorable
season we managed to secure some 30,000 specimens. All of the Hemiptera
and Hymenoptera went to Pomona College. All of the Diptera and some of
the Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Odonata went to the Carnegie Museum in
Pittsburg. The Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia took the Orth-
optera, as well as the entire collection of landshelis. Mr. E. O. Essig is now
studying the Coccidae, and the writer is working up a report on the Thysan-
optera.
Mexico certainly needs active practical work in economic entomology and
botany. The parks, plazas, and private plantings are usually very badly in-
fested with all sorts of serious pests. In one of the chief parks of Mexico
City we made a considerable collection of Coccidae. In the central plaza of
Guadalajara, Chrysomphalus aurantii was abundant on citrus trees, and Diaspis
echinocacti thrived on cactus, and there were many other species besides these.
In this same park also occurred myriads of Aleyrodidae. During most of the
summer, a species of rose beetle — Macrodactylus — was enormously abundant
on rose bushes, though this disappeared about the first of September and was
replaced by swarms of another beetle.
