ON SOME DIPLOPTERYGA FROM THE SOUTHWEST
OF NORTH AMERICA
p. CAMERON.
Nortonia acanthopiis Cam.
A female of what is doubtless this species from Lee county, Texas, (Birk-
man), has an oblique longish mark or line on the top of the basal slope of
the first abdominal segment on the sides, and the mark on the sides of the
metanotum is larger and wider, covering the apical half of the sides.
Ancistroceriis pilias Cam.
A specimen of this species from the mountains near Claremont, California,
has the two large marks of the second abdominal segment of the type, united
into one broad yellow band ; the other markings are larger.
Ancistrocerus ho-wardi sp. nov.
Black, the liead and thorax covered densely with fuscous pubescence, the
clypeus except for a wide mark down the center of the upper half, a small
triangular mark on the base of the mandibles, a mark not much wider than
long over the antennae, a short line on upper part of outer orbits, a line on
the basal third of pronotum narrowed in the center, a broad line on the scutel-
lum roundly narrowed at the base and nearer the apex than the base of the
scutellum, postscutellum, a line on the apex of the first abdominal segment
broadly dilated backwards to the suture on the sides, a line all around on the
second and fourth, and one on the top of the fifth segment, the apices of the
femora broadly, and the tibiae, bright orange yellow ; the tarsi rufofulvous ;
the tegulae of a paler yellow, with a fuscous spot in the center. Wings hya-
line, the radial cellule smoky, the costa and nervures black, the stigma dark
fuscous. Female, length to end of second segment 8 mm. Lee county, Texas,
(Birkman).
Metanotum bordered all around with a stout keel, there being also a keel
down the center ; the keels at the top curve down obliquely to unite with the
central keel, at the sides below is a leaf-like expansion. Clypeus broad, pyri-
form, strongly punctured, the apex transverse. Antennal scape yellow except
above and there is a small yellow spot at its outer side ; the flagellum is brown-
ish below. Base of thorax almost transverse, the sides rounded, not project-
ing. Apex of postscutellum almost transverse. First abdominal segment
longish cup-shaped, the base triangular, flat, smooth and shining, the second
