80 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
of the hind coxae, but in other respects it is very different. The species with
the coxae spined appear to have the first abdominal segment longer than usual,
e. g. O. a4:anthopiis Cam., and O. austrimis Cr. 0. austrinus Cr. has a dis-
tinct curved spine on the hind coxae, narrowed towards the apex.
Odynerus blakeanus sp. nov.
Black, the clypeus except narrowly around the apex and two small spots
in the middle, a small semi-circular mark on the front, a short line behind the
top of the eyes, underside of antennal scape, a large irregular triangular mark
on the base of the sides of pronotum, an irregular mark as large as the tegulae
at the base of mesopleurae above, a small irregular mark on the sides of the
scutelluni in the center, postscutellum, a small irregular mark on the sides of
the metanotum at the base, the first abdominal segment from the top of the
apical slope, an irregular mark on the sides of the second segment near the
base, the apices of the second to fifth segments somewhat broadly, the apices
of the second to fourth ventrals more narrowly, and the sides of the fifth,
lemon-yellow. The first abdominal segment is yellow from the top of the
apical slope, except for an irregular mark which at the base is slightly more
than one-third the width of the segment, beyond this dilated into a longish
line from the inner part of which it becomes gradually narrowed to a fine point,
which does not extend near to the apex. Apices of the femora broadly, and
the tibiae, yellow, the tarsi rufous. Wings smoky violaceous, more deeply so
in front than elsewhere, the nervures and stigma black. Female, length 12
mm. Lee county, Texas, April.
Head and thorax densely covered with longish fuscous pubescence, closely
strongly punctured, the clypeus less closely than the rest of the head, and the
latter more closely than the thorax, the metapleurae opaque, bare, and alutace-
ous. Clypeus as long as wide, rounded above, the apex depressed, transverse.
Temples broad, rounded, not much narrowed. Base of thorax almost trans-
verse, the sides of the apex rough, almost margined, the center hardly de-
pressed, somewhat coarsely obliquely striated. Apex of postscutellum broadly
roundly narrowed and smooth. First abdominal segment large, cup-shaped,
the basal slope weakly and sparsely punctured compared with the apex in the
center of which is a narrow longitudinal furrow. The second segment is
slightly longer than wide, weakly punctured, the apex more strongly and closely
punctured, not reflexed, the third to fifth more coarsely punctured.
Allied to 0. arvensis Sauss. Apart from the differences in coloration —
the presence of a yellow mark on the sides of the second abdominal segment,
there being only two small marks on the clypeus, etc. — arz'ensis may be known
by the shorter second abdominal segment and by its being strongly depressed
and punctured in the center behind the apical line. The mandibles in blake-
anus are black save for a small yellow mark near the base ; in arvensis they are
for the greater part rufous.
