CAMERON, DIPLOPTERYGA FROM THE SOUTHWEST 81
Odynerus (?) bradleyi sp. nov.
Black, the clypeus, a narrow line on the lower half of the upper inner
orbits reaching to the lower edge of the incision, a similar line on the upper
half of the outer, the base of the prothorax broadly, this mark extending close
to the apex of the propleurae where it is narrowed, a narrow line on the lower
edge of the propleurae, a large oblique spot widest above on the base of meso-
pleurae above, a broad band on apex of postscutellum, a large irregular mark
on the sides of apical slope of the metanotum, an irregularly oval mark on the
sides of the base of first abdominal segment, the band dilated laterally, and
broad bands on the following five seginents, bright yellow. The lower edge
of the segment on the lower basal half between the yellow and a large mark
on the sides of the basal half of the second segment, rufous. Coxae black,
the trochanters and femora reddish fulvous, the tibiae red, the tarsi yellow
einged with fulvous. Antennal scape yellow below, the flagellum reddish
brown below, the apical joints marked with black at the apex, the last rounded
above, flat below, roundly narrowed at the apex. Wings fulvous hyaline, the
apex smoky, the costa and nervures fulvous. Female, length 13 mm. Col-
lected at Durango, Colorado, by Oslar.
Clypeus not much longer than wide, the top dilated broadly in the middle,
the apex with a shallow incision. Antennae longish, stout, dilated towards the
apex. Front and vertex closely not very strongly punctured, densely cov-
ered with long fuscous pubescence. Temples obliquely narrowed. Pronotum
roundly narrowed from the apex to the base, which is keeled, transverse and
slightly projecting at the angles. Mesothorax closely strongly punctured, a
smooth line down the center of the base, and the two short furrows on the
apex. Apex of postscutellum steeply sloped, transverse, smooth and shining.
Metanotum short, its sides broadly rounded. Base of metapleurae smooth,
irregularly striated below, the apex aciculated and sparsely punctured. First
abdominal segment cup-shaped, large, a short but distinct neck at the base,
the second is as wide as long and narrowed at the base, both are sparsely
weakly punctured, more strongly at the apex. Mandibles reddish at the apex,
a yellow spot at their base. Head as wide as the thorax. The thorax is dis-
tinctly longer than wide, and is narrowed posteriorly. The whole body is
longer than usual with the Odynerina. The species may be an Bpiponus to
which it has a greater resemblance than to Odynerus proper or to Pachody-
Odyneriis bruesi sp. nov.
I'.lack. the basal segment of the abdomen red, the clypeus except around apex,
underside of antennal scape, the outer edge of tegulae, two irregular spots on
the apex of scutellum, a triangular spot below the tegulae, its sides rounded,
and narrow bands on the apices of the basal three abdominal segments (that
on the first with a shorter black line in front), pale yellow. The apex of the
femora and the outer side of the tibiae pale yellow. Wings hyaline, the stigma
and nervures black. Male, length * mm. Claremont, California (Baker).
