82 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
Base of the thorax stoutly obliquely distinctly projecting laterally, the pro-
jection longer than it is thick at the base, narrowed and rounded at the apex.
Clypeus clearly broader than long, rounded broadly above and below, widest
in the middle, the top not so broad as the bottom. Head and thorax closely
punctured, except the metapleurae which are aciculated, sparsely punctured, and
obscurely striated. Postscutellum strongly punctured at the base, the rest
smooth and shining; it has an oblique slope and its apex is broadly rounded.
First abdominal segment cup-shaped, strongly punctured, especially before the
apex, which is smooth and raised. The second segment is less strongly, but
more closely punctured, except at the apex, which is slightly raised. The
other segments are more closely punctured. Antennal hook black, not quite
reaching to the apex of the last joint. Tropin long, reaching beyond the mid-
dle coxae.
Odyneriis tosquineti sp. nov.
Black, the abdomen rufous, the clypeus, mandibles except at apex, underside
of antennal scape, a broad line narrowed in the middle on the apex of prono-
tum, tegulae except for a fuscous spot in the middle, scutellum broadly, a large
spot below the tegulae longer than wide, transverse above and rounded and
narrowed below, a broad line on the top of the first abdominal segment, a
broader one on the second, all around, considerably dilated above, the apex
of the femora narrowly and the greater part of the tibiae, whitish yellow.
Flagellum of anteimae brownish red, darker at the apex above. Wings hyaline,
the stigma fuscous, the nervures blackish. Male, length 5 mm. Claremont.
California (Baker).
Front and eye incision densely covered with silvery pubescence, the rest
of the head and body with shorter and sparser silvery pubescence. Head and
thorax strongly punctured, the puncturation on the pronotum and clypeus
sparser and weaker on the metathorax than on the mesothorax, the lower part
of the metapleurae almost smooth. The apical slope of the median segment
is red, as is also the apex of the metapleurae. Clypeus longer than wide,
rounded above, the apex with a V-shaped incision. Base of thorax not quite
transverse, being slightly dilated in the middle, the sides are almost rounded.
Postscutellum large, transverse at the apex. The sides of metanotum rounded
and with two pale teeth. The apices of the two basal segments of the abdo-
men are slightly raised, closely and strongly punctured, the first is sup-shaped,
the second about one-fourth longer than it is wide, its apex more strongly
punctured than the rest. The antennae are thicker than usual, the hook
black and reaching to the apex of the last joint. The second abdominal seg-
ment is not much narrowed at the base. The four anterior tibiae are broadly
lined with black behind ; so also are the posterior, which have besides a line
on the innerside. The apical segments of the abdomen are darker colored
than the basal two.
Odynerus aciiticarinatus sp. nov.
Black, two curved lines or spots on the top of the clypeus at the sides, a
narrow indistinct line across the base of the pronotum. a narrow but distincter
