WEST COAST NEWS NOTES
(In this department we hope to give in each number of the Journal, some
idea of the doings and movements of western entomologists, notices of publi-
cations of interest to western students, notices of entomological meetings, etc.
To this end, we hope that students or collectors will send in all items of ento-
mological interest about themselves or others. Address, — Fordyce Grinnell,
Jr., 572 N. Marengo Ave., Pasadena, Calif.)
— Mr. Francis X. Williams and Mr. Erval J. Newcomer collected a lot of
interesting Lepidoptera in the Lake Tahoe region this summer, including the
life-history of Papilo indra.
— From numerous cards and letters received, Mr. and Mrs. Victor L.
Clemence are having a delightful time on their European trip, notwithstanding
the disagreeable weather prevailing in that part of the world.
— Mr. Karl R. Coolidge of Palo Alto is recovering from an attack of
typhoid fever, contracted at Visalia. We wish him speedy and complete re-
covery and return to his entomological studies.
— Mr. Leo Goeppinger has been collecting a few interesting Lepidoptera
in Kern and Inyo counties, including both color forms of Rusticns eniig-
dionis and Pieris beckerii.
— Mr. E. K. Carncs of the State Insectary at Sacramento has been ap-
pointed a member of the State Board of Horticultural Examiners.
— Mr. Dudley Moulton has an interesting article on "Controlling the Pear
Thrips," in the California Fruit Grower for July 24.
— The first annual meeting of the Pacific Slope Association of Economic
Entomologists assembled at Portland, Oregon, on August 20 and 21. A pro-
gram of papers and discussions on certain subjects of interest to economic
entomologists was prepared ; the Secretary of the Association is W. B. Herms,
Berkeley, Calif.
— The "White Fly at Marysville" has become quite famous, but "the
closest and most extensive inspection fails to find any trace" of it now. It
looks as though politics or something else was badly mixed in this episode.
— According to "Nature," London, Lord Walsingham's large collection
of Micro-Lepidoptera is to be transferred to the British Museum, in the course
of next year. This collection contains types of a good number of Californian
species, collected in the early days.
