WEST COAST NEWS NOTES 87
— It is announced in the Pacific Rural Press of recent date, that Mr. E. AI.
Ehrhorn, deputy commissioner of horticulture and state horticultural quaran-
tine officer, has resigned, to accept the position of superintendent of entomology
and inspection at the port of Honolulu. This position was held by Alexander
Craw, whom Ehrhorn succeeded at San Francisco.
— The thirty-third regular meeting of the Pacific Coast Entomological
Society will be held at Thompson's Cafe, O'Farrell street, between Fillmore
and Steiner streets, San Francisco, on Saturday evening, August 28, 1909, at 8
o'clock. Luncheon will be served. These meetings are always full of enthus-
iasm and inspiration, and are remembered long after the time of dispersal.
— Prof. C. F. Baker made two trips East during the summer, visiting
Washington, New York, and other points, and also Seattle.
— Mr. C. O. Metz collected large series of Hemiptera, Hymenoptera, and
Lepidoptera in Northern Wyoming during the summer, and has brought these
collections to Pomona College, where they are being mounted.
— Mr. E. O. Essig has been appointed horticultural commissioner of \'en-
tura County and will make his headquarters at Santa Paula, where he has an
office and laboratory.
— Professors Cook and Baker have announced the presentation to the
Biological Department of Pomona College, of their entire professional private
libraries, consisting of many valuable sets of technical journals, rare scientific
works, and special technical papers in great numbers, amounting in all to
about 4000 books and pamphlets, valued nominally at about $5000. These
two libraries combined with what the College already possesses will give the
Department of Biology most unusual facilities in this direction. These libra-
ries have been well developed on both the technical and the economic sides,
and along several special lines are /practically complete, representing the assidu-
ous gatherings of twenty to thirty years, at a total expense far exceeding
that mentioned above. This is one more step in a logical program of upbuild-
ing which Professors Cook and Baker have in mind for the Biological Depart-
ment.
