CRAWFORD, SOME NEW THYSANOPTERA FROM SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 101
extemling from base to tip; anterior longitudinal connected with ring vem by
two distinct cross veins, and with the posterior longitudinal by one large cross
vein in center of wing; posterior longitudinal connected with ring vein by two
slightly less distinct cross veins ; both longitudinal veins with a row of con-
spicuous spines ; twenty-five on the anterior and eighteen on the posterior ;
anterior markin a row of stout spines, and a short fringe appearing about the
middle of margin and increasing in length toward the tip ; posterior margin
with long double fringe ; entire surface covered with microscopic hairs. Fore-
wings light brown ; hind wings clear white, and margined on both sides with
a long fringe.
Abdomen ovate, about half as broad as long ; uniform brown ; segments
four to seven with a row of short spines on the dorsal surface, and all seg-
ments with several longer spines on edges and posterior angles ; last three
segments (Fig. 45 B) with numerous very long, stout bristles; three last seg-
ments form sheath for large upturned ovipositor.
Measurements: Head, length, .18 mm. (.1.^ - .21 mm.), width .21 mm.;
prothorax, length .15 mm., width ,27 mm.; mesnthorax, width .2f^ mm.: abdo-
men, width .32 mm.; totil lengtli 1.46 mm. (1.28 - 1.65 mm.) Antennae:
I .025 mm., II .067 mm.. Ill .054 mm., IV .040 mm., \' .041 mm., VI .040 mm.,
VII .027 mm., VIII .018 mm.. IX .023 mm. ; total, .32 mm.
Males. — Males somewhat smaller than females ; legs slightly lighter than
body; abdomen very dark brown to black, darker than thorax, with a broad,
white intersegmental membrane between first and second segments, appearing
as a white band across the abdomen. Ninth abdominal segment with four
very long bristles (Fig. 45 D), and twenty shorter but extremely stout spines
(almost teeth) on dorsal surface; anal segment with a partially covered de-
pression on dorsal surface, and two claspers on ventral side ; four very long
bristles at tip of abdomen.
Described from five females and three males.
Food plant: California laurel (Umbclliilaria) and Cal. lilac (Ccauothus).
Locality: Canon near Claremont, Cal.: altitude, 5000 ft. (Crawford.)
Aeolothrips longiceps n. sp.
Head (Fig. 46 F) as long as wide, rounded in front and slightly elevated
between basal segments of antennae ; distance from eye to occiput unusually
long; cheeks arched; with many inconspicuous spines on the dorsal surface and
several on the ventral. Eyes prominent, pilose, with dark Encircling ring;
facets large, well separated. Ocelli present, placed well forward on anterior
part of head, posterior ocelli almost contiguous with inner margin of eyes.
Mouth cone long, reaching three-fourths the length of the prothorax. subacute ;
maxillary palpi three segmented, basal segment large, terminal very small ;
labial palpi four segmented. Antennae (Fig. 46 B) nine segmented, a little
more than twice as long as head ; light brown, lighter than body, except seg-
ments four and five, which are unicolorous with body ; third light lemon yellow
with darker area at distal end ; all segments, except two basal ones, thicklv
and unif()rn:l\- cloth'.'d with stout spines; basal segments with fewer spine
