CRAWFORD. SOME NEW THYSANOPTERA FROM SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 103
spines on third very light colored ; sense area on distal portion of third and
fourth, and conspicuous sense cone on lower side of fifth near tip ; two conspic-
uous long spines on tip of ninth.
Prothorax one and one-half times as wide as long, and wider than head,
with an emargination and thickening of wall on each side ; with several small
inconspicuous spines on dorsal surface. Thorax broadest across mesothorax.
Metathorax with sides tapering uniformly, and quite noticeably posteriorly.
Legs (Fig. 46 A, C, D) dark brown, except fore-tibiae, which are lighter; fore-
femora thickened ; fore-tibiae with conspicuous long spine on inner side near
the middle (Fig. 46 A) ; fore- and second tibiae with two stout spines at tip,
and posterior tibiae with several stouter spines at tip; fore-tarsi armed with a
stout hook and tooth and overreaching spine ; legs thickly clothed with con-
spicuous spines, and the second and posterior tibiae and tarsi with numerous
microscopic hairs. Fore-wings (Fig. 46 E) broadly rounded at tip and slightly
broadened in distal half ; with no longitudinal veins whatever, but two rows
of spines extending the entire length of the wing ; the anterior row is white and
inconspicuous, but the posterior row brown and distinct ; anterior margin with-
out fringe, but having a row of short spines ; posterior margin with long fringe
of cilia ; wings clear white with dark brown longitudinal band covering post-
erior half of wing, extending from near base to near tip ; microscopic hairs on
clear portion white, on brown portion brown. Posterior wings clear white,
except small brown longitudinal band near base ; without longitudinal veins ;
with simple fringe on posterior margin.
Abdomen widest at seventh segment, about one-third as wide as long;
first segment lightest in color, the rest shading uniformly to dark brown at
ninth segment ; segments three to seven with dark transverse line near anterior
margin. One small spine on posterior angles of eighth segment, and several
on ninth, which bears two large articidated claspers (Fig. 46 G) ; six very
long and stout and several smaller spines on tip of ninth segment ; posterior
ventral margin of ninth segment with deep indentation, reaching one-third the
length of segment.
Measurements: Head, length .17 mm., width .17 mm.; prothorax, length
.13 mm., width .20 mm.; mesothorax, width .25 mm.; abdomen, width (at sev-
enth segment) .26 mm.; total length of body 1.33 mm. Antennae: I .034
mm., II .051 mm., Ill .098 mm., IV .083 mm., V .080 mm., VI .010 mm.,
VII .010 mm., VIII .08 mm., IX .09 mm.; total .38 mm.
General color, brown ; head, pro- and mesothorax brown ; metathora.x and
first five abdominal segments lighter ; remaining abdominal segments shading
to dark brown.
Described from one male.
Food plant: Arteniisia.
Locality: Claremont, Calif. (Crawford.)
This species in general appearance is close to Acolothrips kutvanaii, Moul-
ton, but in having no longitudinal veins in anterior wings it not only diflfers
sharply from that species, but presents a slight departure from current de-
scriptions of the family.
