CRAWFORD, SOME NEW THYSANOPTERA FROM SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 105
Euthrips ininutus var. setosus n. var.
The specimens of this variety resemble very closely Euthrips miitiitiis,
Moulton. but possess several distinctive characters, which, however, are hardly
of specific value. In the description, only the diagnostic characters will be
mentioned.
Anterior margin of head ( Fig. 47 A ) with distinct notched prolongation
of vertex between insertion of antennae. Antennae (Fig. 47 F) nearly three
times as long as head.
Prothorax (Fig. 47 A) with anterior margin reticulate; two spines on each
anterior angle ; four long spines on posterior margin ; without a spine on lateral
side of posterior angle. Anterior margin of wing (Fig. 47 G) with twenty-
two spines ; fore vein with nineteen spines ; hind vein with fourteen.
Abdomen (Fig. 47 B) with two conspicuous spines on each side of every
seginent, and two on the dorsal surface of each segment.
Measurements: Head, length .076 mm., width .14 mm. ; prothorax, length
.125 mm., width .18 mm. ; mesothorax, width .24 mm. ; abdomen, width .29 mm. ;
total length 1.28 mm. (.91 - 1.65 mm.). Antennae: I .015 mm., II .032 mm..
Ill .035 mm.. IV .039 mm., V .030 mm., VI .041 mm., VII .08 mm., VIII .013
mm. ; total .28 mm. Color, uniform light to dark brown ; wings, gray-brown.
Described from numerous females.
Food plants: Certain Compositae, Rhamnus crocca. MoitardcUa lancco-
lata, Sambuciis glauca, and other flowers.
Locality: Claremont, Calif. (Crawford.)
Phyllothrips fasciculata n. sp.
Average length 1.55 mm.; general color very dark brown to black.
Head (Fig. 48 A) a little more than one and one-half times as long as wide,
widest posteriorly, narrowed anteriorly; frons projecting over insertion of basal
segments of antennae, with anterior ocellus on vertex ; back of head slightly
reticulate and conspicuously serrated, and set with small spines raised on in-
conspicuous tubercles ; post-ocular spines long, and blunt at tip. Eyes medium,
finely facetted, slightly pilose, light brown. Ocelli present, anterior ocellus on
apex of produced part of vertex above insertion of antennae, and directed
forward ; posterior ocelli nearly contiguous with inner concave margin of eyes.
Mouth cone short and broadly rounded, reaching scarcely half the length of
prothorax; maxillary palpi long and slenger. Antennae (Fig. 48 D) eight-
segmented, only a little longer than head ; two basal segments almost black,
three light yellow, the remaining segments brown ; sense area on two and seven ;
two sense cones on di.stal end of three to six, inclusive ; antennae sparsely
clothed with small spines.
Prothorax (Fig. 48 A) more than twice as wide as long, very much wider
po.steriorly than anteriorly ; with one spine on anterior angles, one on posterior,
and one midlateral about equal in length to the one on anterior angle ; a few
s])incs on posterior margin. Pterothorax with sides almost parallel, converging
