112 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
with broad tip — IV with convex surface to receive base of V ; \' notched at
tip to receive base of VI; VI to X all free, with small sense areas; antennal
spines not very large.
Prothorax ( Fig. 50 A) a little longer and wider than head ; angles rounded ;
one spine on anterior angles, and one very inconspicuous spine on posterior
angles ; a few small spines on dorsal surface ; reticulated. Mesothorax largest,
with a triangular area on dorsal surface near the front more conspicuously
reticulated than the rest. Legs (Fig. 50 E, F, G) medium; tibiae with mod-
erately stout spines at tip ; anterior tibiae light on distal half, the rest dark ;
fore-tarsi with small tooth at tip ; middle and posterior tibiae dark ; femora
reticulated. Wings (Fig. 50 H) fully developed, broad at base, the rest
narrow ; with two longitudinal veins extending the entire length, set with short
spines, twenty on anterior vein and sixteen on posterior; simple fringe on
both margins, and a row of short spines on anterior margin posterior fringe
longer ; wings light brown, except basal one-sixth clear ; scale small.
Abdomen (Fig. 50 B) uniform dark brown, usually very stout, occas-
ionally slender; with two spines on dorsal surface in center of each segment,
and a few small spines on margin ; spines at tip of abdomen short ; comb-like
arrangement of spines on posterior margin of segments one to nine ; surface
reticulated.
Male ; Much smaller than female, but similar in every respect except
tip of abdomen ; with two claspers on posterior margin of anal segment ( Fig.
50 C).
Measurements of female: Head, length .13 mm., width .19 mm.; pro-
thorax, length .145 mm., width .26 mm. ; pterothorax, width .25 mm. ; abdo-
men, length .61 mm., width .28 mm.; total length 1.18 mm. Antennae: I .020,
II .032, III .021, IV .058, V .044, VI .025, VII .028. VIII .017. IX .016, X .020;
total length .28 mm.
Described from twenty-six females and ten males.
Food plant : A low native tree, with small yellow flowers, common in
the barrancas near Guadalajara ; also a shrub belonging to the family Mal-
pighiaceae.
Locality: Guadalajara, Mexico. (Crawford.)
There is no doubt as to the antennae being 10-segmented, for in some of
the mounted specimens used in this study, the segments are completely sepa-
rated at every true joint. The last five segments are smaller and free, as de-
scribed in some Aeolothripidae. There is no diflferentiation of the style, which
is present in most Thripidac. In one deformed specimen the left antenna
is eight-segmented ( Fig. 50 I ) , the right possessing the ten normal segments.
This is evidently a reversion to the normal type of Thripidae, the three basal
segments being similar to the normal, but the fourth is shortened and has
apparently two pseudo-joints instead of one in the normal, the fifth being
somewhat similar to the normal except that it is not notched at the distal end,
but is convex like the normal fourth ; the last five segments of the normal
antenna are represented in this case by three relatively longer segments ; the
arrangement of the antennal spines is similar in the two cases.
