114 POMONA JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY
In the main, this species conforms to the characterization of the genus
Heterothrips Hood, but in one or two pecuHarities it does not: (1) antennae
clearly 10-segmented ; (2) prothorax much less than twice as long as head;
(3) rows of minute teeth extending across entire posterior dorsal margins of
abdominal segments two to eight. These characters, however, are not neces-
sarily of generic value. The general type of the antennae in this genus is
unmistakable.
Chirothrips mexicana n. sp.
Length, .86 mm. ; general color, medium brown.
Head (Fig. 51 A) somewhat wider than long, small, spatulate and nar-
rowed anteriorly ; cheeks arched, about two-fifths as long as eye ; portion be-
tween posterior margin of eyes and occiput very much elevated, arched and
reticulated, bearing the ocelli on the abrupt incline from the occiput to the
vertex ; front prolonged triangularly between insertion of antennae ; with eight
small spines in front of the ocelli, and two very small postocular spines on
each side. Eyes moderately large, finely facetted, slightly pilose ; distance
between eyes less than half the greatest width of head ; ocelli small, pale, situ-
ated far back on elevated portion of head, between posterior angles. Mouth
cone moderately long, broadly rounded at tip ; maxillary palpi consisting of
three very short segments; labial palpi one-segmented. Antennae (Fig. 51 B)
twice as long as head, stout, with only a few small spines ; general color lighter
than body — basal segment concolorous with body, and second lemon yellow ;
basal segment large, transversely egg-shaped, the point outward, with dark
transverse line; segment II prolonged outwardly into a long acute apophysis
with a small sense cone at tip ; III pedunculate, asymmetrically pyriform, with
a prominent sense cone on outer anterior angle, as has, also IV; IV and V
roughly rounded, V smaller than IV ; VI elongate, with two small sense cones
on distal half; VII and VIII small, moderately slender.
Prothorax (Fig. 51 A) about two and one-half times as long as head,
one and one-ninth times as wide as long, more than twice as wide posteriorly as
anteriorly; sides with a deep indentation above coxae and a short, black chit-
inised line curving in from it ; with one prominent spine on posterior angles
and a few small inconspicuous ones on dorsal surface ; dorsal surface deeply
reticulated. Metathorax wider than prothorax, and pleurae bulging beneath
insertion of wings. Pterothorax reticulated. Wings (Fig 51 H) long and
narrow, reaching beyond tip of abdomen; forewings light brown, surface
covered with microscopic hairs ; hind wings lighter colored ; fore-wing with
one median longitudinal vein, which disappears before the middle of the
wing; with five spines on median vein, and five on apical half of wing, ar-
ranged as though the two longitudinal veins were present ; anterior margin
with row of twenty-six long slender fringe-like spines; posterior fringe long.
Legs (Fig. 51 E. F, G) short, with only a few small spines; fore-femora
(Fig. 51 E) enormously thickened, trapezoidal, nearly as broad at base as
long ; fore-tibiae short and thick ; fore-tibiae and all tarsi lemon yellow.
