[Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, 27 (N.S.). Part I.. 1914.J
Am. I — Victoi'idn Hulutharoidea, with descriptions of
New Species.
By E. C. JOSHUA.
(With I'latf I.),
k.ad l:.'th March. lUli
III tliu following' j»:i|MT Htti'fH spttics art- dralt witli. four of
wliicli are liflii-vi-iJ to lo new to scitMite. No iitteiiipt lias been made
to L'ive :i eonipletu synonvniy of eaeli speeieK. l)Ul a leferenie has
been ^'iven to wlioro sueli may Iw ftnind. The author desiies to
oxprfss hiK thanks to PKifeKsor Speruei. the Diieetor of the
National .MiiNeum. .\IellM)urne, for permission to make an examina-
tion of tho speeiniens eontained in its eollettion. in which all those
<I<m1i with are intlmled; ho also wishes tc» thank Mr. J. A. Ker-
sliau. tlin Curator of tho alxjvo institution, for much kindness and
attention iireived from him. T.j Dr. T. S. Hall, of the Hiolopical
(U'jtartinent. of the I'niversity of .MellMiurne. his thanks are duo
foi most useful jruidaiue jriven on many occasions, partiiiilarly
it: tojMKvtion with tho literatur*- of the subject. Very valuable
assistaiui' in i-olleit inir has Ikch L'iven him by Mr. H. Hoebuck.
a (Htloii^r naturalist, ami by .Mr. James WilKon. in the nuikingr
'if arranged slides of the spicules found in some of the species.
ir«- part ioilarly desires to thank Professor Dendy. of Kinp's Col-
IfL''-. London, for vi-ry kindly comparing specimens <.f ('liiritlnta
(hiiuiliin ii^ix, Parker, with that of tlu' Author's Trorli<nhit(i aUnni.
Taxonoiny.
Tho system of classification adopteil in this jiajier is that of
I.inlwip (ICt. but (^stergren's revision of the Paractinopoda is
used in dealing with this order.
The yenus ?>//•» j'o.'/.V'"'* is discai-ded : tlie writer is of opinion
that, the jreinis (|ua iriiius never had any real existence. Semper's
lanirua>:o in dealimr with it conveys little more than the sugjrestioii
for a ;:tnus. and in his catalogue and synonymy he entirely ignores
it. Clark (M) has taken it .seriously, and I followed him in de-
scribing Trorhodotii (ilhini. but more recently the examination of
numerous sj)tvimens of this spivies has definitely sh<»wn me that
