Victorian Gi-a'ptol'ites. 107
ping about halt' llu'ir length; inclined at .'{OO, apL-ituial nuiigin at.
lOOO. Sicula I..") mm. long, slender; the tirst theea arising near
its apex.
The speeies is closely allied to J), nicholsoni. Lap., hut differs a.
good deal in the proportions of the proximal part.
Locdlif;/. — The type is from Diamond Hill, Bendigo.
//r;?-/:o/;.— Bendigonian.
DiDYMOCRAPTUS MUNDUS n. sp. (PI. XVII., Fig. 9).
Branches diverging at 130o to 150^ from the sicula, and at ahout
the tenth theca. running nearly horizontally, and from tAvo to"
six cm. in length. Sicula rather narrow, about 1.5 mm. long.
Thecae 9 in 1 cm. near the sicula, and about 8 in 1 cm. distally,
broadly expanding, overlapping about one-half their length.
Apertural margin normal to the thecal axis, inclined at ISQo.
Outer extremity forming an acute denticle. Width of branch over
first theca 1 mm., and at 5 cm. from origin 1.7 mm. Details in.
sicular region not discernible in any of my specimens.
The species is closely allied to D. nitichis, and has generally
been referred to it. McCoy, Etheridge and myself have recorded'
D. nitidiis from various localities, but I now venture to think in-
correctly. 1 have changed my mind several times about it, but
have decided that a new name is advisable. D. mimdus differs
from D. nitidus in its slightly larger sicula, in the smaller number"
of thecae, and in their lower inclination. From D. euodus Lap
it difter.s in its greater width proximally, and smaller width dis-
tally. though it agrees with it in several other characters.
Locality. — It is widely distributed, and characteristic of the-
Upper Bendigonian, and Lower and Middle zones of the Castle-
mainian.
DiDYMOCiKAPTUS DILATANS n. sp. (PI. XVII., Fig. 10).
Branches 3 or 4 cm. long, rigid, straight, diverging at about
150O, gradually widening. Width over first theca 0.5 mm., and
at 25 mm. 1.0 mm. Sicula narrow, length about 1.3 mm. Thecae-
8 or 9 in 10 mm., inclined at about 20o, slightly expanding, over-
lapping one-third to half their length. Aperture normal to axis
of branch.
This species lias the habit of D. nicfiohoui . and 1). serratuhia,
but differs in the marked increase in width of the branches, and^
