Victorian Graj^tolifes. 109'
l.ocaliti/. — -(^tuari'v in hard l>lue slate, one mile west of school on
road from Woodend to Macedon ; in similar rock Steiglitz District
(Min. Dept.).
Associates. — Goniof/rapfKs spp., 0/icor/rapfiis npsiloii, D .
caducens (large typical variety), I), forcijyiformis, etc.
Horizon. — Castlemainian.
Oncogkaptus n. gen.
Hydrosome at first biserial, but later dividing into two uniserial
branches. Thecae long, 'narrow and slightly curved.
The form of the genus is quite different from that of any other
graptolite. The form of the thecae and tlie great width of the
branches seem to remove it from the Dicranograptidae.
As regards its origin it may be pointed out that it resembles
D. caduceus in the form of its thecae. Concrescence of the branches
of this species for a certain distance would produce a somewhat
similar form. The thecae of the uniserial part appear to be
opposite, and not alternate, but though I have had a very large
number of specimens before me, none show the details of structure
very clearly, and I have waited in vain for a long time for better
material.
Oncograptus upsilon, n, sp. (Pi. XVII., Fig. 14).
Uniserial portion about 12 mm. long. Breadth at level of
bifurcation 10 or 12 mm. Width of uniserial branch about 6 mm.
Length of branch 10 mm. These are the dimensions of the type.
but the measurements vary a good deal in other specimens. The
whole polypary has the form of an aiiowliead.
Thecae 9 in 1 cm. Near the proximal end of the hydrosome
they are at right angles to the axis, and probably at the proximal
end itself have turned through an angle of 90°, and are in a line
with the axis of the undivided portion. At the distal end of the
uniserial branches they are inclined at about 30o. The apertures
are trumpet shaped, and a long recurved denticle is present. The
sicula has not been seen. The axil seems united by a membrane.
0. upsilon is the type of the genus.
Locality. — Frederick the Great Mine, Sebastian (Type). Quarries
north and west of Gisborne; Steiglitz; Castlemaine (Harri.s) ;
Yapeen (Ba. 90, Quartersheet 15 N.E.), in National Museum, pro-
bably collected by Ulrich in 1864; Ingliston (quarry near 42,i mile
viaduct on railway. A. E. Kitson). •
Horizon. — Castlemainian, but exact position uncertain.
