Victorian Graptolitc^. ) 1 1
type averages 6 uii each side of tin' t'dur see()ii<l:ii-v Iji'aiuhes. or
about 48 in all. Width of branch to tip (jf denticle •> nun. Thecae
8 or 9 in 10 nun., inclined at 40° to 50o. Apertural margin at
130O. Thecae slightly cnrved, and expanded with a somewhat
mucronate dt'nticle, and overlapping about one-half their length.
The inner end of the outer wall reaches as far Ijack as the denticle
■of the next theca but one. The type specimen is in the National
Museum. Melbourne, and is perhaps the most beautiful graptolite
known, though in point of size it is sui-passed by a few other
species, especially of ('lonor/rapf us.
Locdlitj/. — Slate-quarry about <S miles S.W. of Woodend. I
have a less perfect specimen from the same locality. A fragment
of the same species was collected at an unknown locality at Bendigo.
Horizon. — Castlemainian, but exact position uncertain. On the
same slab as the type occur Goniograptus fhureaui, Bidyniorirapt kk
■caduceus, D. caduceus var. manuhriatus, Phi/llograj}tns cf. fijpKS,
■Oncograptus upsiloti, and apparently a Trignnograptus, etc.
The type was found by Mr. Neil Johnson, and presented to the
National Museum in 1889.
GoNiOfiRAPTOS CRiNiTUS n. sp. (Text Figs. 2 and 3).
This species is doubtfully referred to Goniograpfus as a com-
plete hydrosome is unknown. The specimens found are usually
in the form of stout branches, which are bent in a zig-zag, the
angular bending being more pronounced towards the proxinuil
•end. At times two or three branches are associated, as in the
figured specimen. The angles of the zig-zag are from two to four
mm. apart, and from the salient angles are given off fine, theca-
bearing branches, which are unbranched, and fairly rigid. These
may be 100 mm. long or more. The main branches are about 0.75
mm. in diameter, and do not appear to be theca -bearing. The
finest branches are about 0.5 mm. in diameter, measured across
the aperture of the theca. The thecae are raiely preserved, and
when not visible the branch is about 0.25 mm. wide, and about
as rigid as a liorsehair. The thecae number 11 in 10 mm., and are
straight-sided, inclined at about 10°, aperture normal to their
length. At first sight this species might be mistaken for a T/iam-
nograptus, and I formerly recorded it as such. The ultimate
branches are. however, theca-bearing, and are much shorter than
those figured by James Hall. Thamnogropfus does not occur in
the Bendigonian or Castlemainian series.
