Victorian Holothuroldeu. 3
This Holdtlnniiin is I'oininon in Port Phillip Bay. iuiJ at luuiiei-
'Ovis localitiL's on the coast. Yniiiij; specimuus inay frequently he
met with on rocks just l)elow low water mark, the older animal*
.prefer deeper water.
Sticiiopus simulans Dendy and Hiudle.
For synonymy see
191.3. Erwe Willy (8).
On several occasions I have made preparations of the skins of
Holothurians. which, before seeing,' Dendy and Hindle's paper, I
regarded as specimens of Sticliopiis mollis; they, however, ex-
liibited the peculiar dichotomoid ossicles described by Dendy (4),
(5), in addition to the ordinary spiculation, and must therefore
be regarded as belonging to the above-named species.
GENUS CUCUMARIA.
CUCUMARIA INCONSPICUA Bell (1).
I have collected numerous specimens of this little holothurian at
Flinders; the form described by Bell is usually found between tide
marks, but it is also met w4th in water of from five to ten fathoms
in depth — these latter specimens do not quite accord with Bell's
account of the distribution of the podia in his type — in the strictly
littoral forms the pedicels may be described as ventrally confined
to the radii, and dorsally almost so; but in those collected in
■deeper water, the arrangement in rows is quite lost dorsally,
but the ventral disposition remains the same; the result is an
animal whose external appearance is identical with Cucumaria
parva, Ludwig; the spiculation, however, is unaltered, and the de-
tails of the internal anatomy are the same as in the shore speci-
mens. In addition to the large cruciform bodies I found numerous
small rods branclied at the ends, and very numerous
minute (32 /<.) dichotomously foliaceous ossicles, which in some
individuals occui- in dense crust-like patches. This animal has
■the curious brood-sheltering habit noticed by Ludwig (17) in
Cucumaria parva. I liave never seen the young actually adhering
to the parent, but on placing some living specimens in a narcotic
.solution, after removing the larger animals, a number of minute
individuals of from 1 to 3 mm. in length were found at the bottom
of the receptacle; these can only be assumed to have become de-
tached from the older specimens. The spiculation of the young
animals agreed with that of their parents.
2a
