J 24 ^V. M. Janner :
Further, in weathered roeks. ferric oxide always predominates ovei
-ferrous oxide, whilst in the Queenstown rock the reverse is the case.
Petrology. — All specimens examined (some of them from the
-Caledonia mine coming from greater depths than 200 feet) showed
considera])le alteration, resulting in the formation of such secon-
dary minerals as chlorite, epidote, sericite, carbonates, leucoxene,
-pyrrhotite, and iron pyrites. In hand-specimen, the rock is even-
grained, and consists of about equal quantities of salic and femic
minerals, chiefly hornblende and felspar. Quartz is not visible
macroscopically. Microscopically it is a holocrystalline, medium
and even-grained rock, consisting essentially of brown hornblende,
felspar (both orthoclase and plagioclase), quartz, ilmenite apatite,
and the above-mentioned secondary minerals.
The hornblende is the brown variety, which is so cliaiacteristic
'of the igneous rocks of the Walhalla, Wood's Point gold belt. In
most sections, little of it remains, as it has been extensively changed
to chlorite and epidote. It is usually hypidiomorphic and often
includes ilmenite and felspar, showing that it consolidated later
than these minerals. Tremolitic outgrowths in optical continuity
with the brown hornblende are occasionally present. Twinning,
-with twin and composition plane parallel to the orthopinacoid, is
not uncounnon. It is markedly pleochroic, exhibiting the following
■colour scheme : —
X light yellow brown.
Y fairly dark brown.
Z very dark brown.
and Z>Y>X as usual.
Plagioclase (Recurs as beautifully zoned crystals, sliowing the
usual albite twinning, and occasionally twinned accoiding to the
("arlsbad and Pericline laws. Certain sections of zoned plagioclase
show no signs of the albite lamellae, but exhiliit basal cleavage, and
are therefore cut approximately parallel to 010. One such section
gave an extinction angle of-16o from the 001 cleavage for the
central core, and -t- 21^ from the same cleavage fur tlie clear outer
zone, indicating a kernel of labradorite (Ab An ), and an outer
zone of albite. Almost invariably the refractive index of the clear
exterior zone of the felspar is less than that of (}uartz. jiroving it
to be albite. Symmetrical extinction angles, from the all)ite
lamellae, range as high as 430 for the cores, showing phigioclase
near Bytownite. A few phenocrysts of untwinned oi' sini])ly twinned
kaolinised felspai-, having a refractive index less than that of
