Pf'troloc/f/ and Geologt/ of Queenstowii J)isfrirf. 125'
quartz, are ortliDe-lasf. Cukulating- the percentage of t'elspai's fi-oju
the clieniical analysis, aceorilin<j: to the xVnierican ntethod, we get
the following result : —
Orthoclase, 10.01%.
Albite, 21.48%.
Aiiorthite. :n.69%.
Quartz is interstitial, and oeeurs in irregular shaped, pellucid
grains characterised by fairly abundant Huid inclusions containing
bubbles, llnienite is farly common, and is present in skeletal and
malformed crystals, occasionally showing hexagonal outlines. It is-
associated frequently with its replacement product, leucoxene, and
the triangular parting is often rendered very evident by relict
ilmenite bars surrounded by leucoxene. Extraction of any magnetic
particles from the powdered rock by a weak l;>ar magnet, showed
that only an inappreciable amount of magnetite was present.
The accessory minerals include apatite, and zircon ; the latter
in chloritic areas is often surrounded by pleochroic haloes.
Of the secondary minerals, chlorite is the most abundant, and is
usually intimately .associated with hornblende and epidote. It is
undoubtedly secondary after hornblende in nearly all cases, and '.
occasionally idiomorphic outlines of the latter mineral are preserved'
in the chlorite pseudomorphs. The chlorite is of the variety pen-
nine, giving ultra blue polarisation colours. It is decidedly pleo-
chroic X — Y, apple green. Z. yellow, and is microspherulitic in
part. Slightly yellow coloured grains of epidote. referable to
pistacite. almost invariably accompany the chlorite derived from
the hornblende. Some of the epidote is present as radial aggregates.
Fibres of a colourless mineral, having a refractive index between
that of chlorite and epidote. and exhibiting very high polarisation
colours, are probably calcite. It appears the most of the mag-
nesia, and part of the iron of the original hornblende,, have gone
to form chlorite, and the lime and the other portion of the iron,
with some alumina and water, have yielded epidote. Carbonate
occurs generally in massive cleaved, and twinned plates, filling
interstices between the quartz and the felsj^ar. It does not occur
replacing these minerals or the hornblende to any marked extent.
Notew-orthy is the fact that it differs very markedly from the meta-
somatic granular and dusty carbonate so commonly developed in
these rocks, as a result of hydrothermal vein alteration. A little
sericite replaces plagioclase, especially along cleavage planes. In
all sections examined a little sulphide is present, shoAving marked
