?126 lY. E. Junner:
preference for areas of ihnenite and undoubtedly replacing the
latter mineral in many cases. The sulphide is easily recognised as
pyrrhotite by its lighter colour than ordinary pyrites in reflected
light, and by its irregular outlines. It is proved without doubt
by extracting the magnetic minerals from the powdered rock, and
either examining the separated material under a microscope, or by
adding a little hydrochloric acid to the separated grains, when
stilphuretted hydrogen is readily detected. A very little iron
pyrit-is also accompanied the pyrrhotite thus separated. Pyrrhotite
chough present in practically all sections, is most common in peg-
matitic veins intersecting the diorite.
Acid Df/A-es in Diorite. — Numerous small aplitic and pegmatitic
•dykes intersect the diorite. The pegmatites, in general, consist
cliiefly of large hornblende prisms and colourless felspar, whilst
in the aplite dykes, hornblende is rare or absent, and microscopic
sections show that orthoclase predominates over plagioclase. Speci-
men No. 120, Caledonia Mine, is typical of these aplites. The hand
specimen of the rock is of a light yellowish colour. Abundant
stibnite and pyrites are visil)le, disseminated throughout the speci-
men. Microscopically, it is a fairly even-grained, holocrystalline
rock, with granitoid texture, and composed of the following
minerals : — Quartz, felspar, muscovite. iron and arsenical pyrites,
stibnite, carbonate and sericite. No femic minerals are present,
and quartz is in slight excess of the total felspar. Orthoclase,
generally untwinned and greatly kaolinised, preponderates over
plagioclase, which is also much weathered. Sections of plagioclase
occasionally show intersecting lamellar twinning according to the
albite and pericline laws. Zoning is rare, and in nearly all sec-
tions, the mean refractive index of the plagioclase, determined by
the Becke method, is less than that of quartz, indicating oligoclase
■ or albite. Maximum extinction angles of 2()0 from the all)ite twin
planes, prove albite. A few rectangular sections of muscovite with
the usual separated leucoxene or rutile. iei»iesent, without doubt.
hornblende or biotite in the original rock. Most of the mica, how-
ever, is of the sericitic type and occius in the usual aggregates of
foils, sometimes arranged i-adially and often leplacing felspar.
Veinlets of carbonate and quartz cai-rying stibnite. travei-se the
rock. Acicular crystals of stibnite, together with a little ordinary
and arsenical pyrites, also occur promiscuously distiilmted
throughout the section. Certain miscroscopic veins of quaitz, which
intersect plagioclase crystals, are seoi to grade insensilily into the
