128 K B. Junner:
the rocks. According to Spurr, there are transitions between the-
propylitic and sericitic facies. According to Kirk,i the chloritic
and sericitic phases 'of the alteration of the Butte Granite merge-
into each other very gradually. Stelzner and Bergeat^ and Schu-
maclier^ consider the propylitisation of the Tertiary andesites of
TraUvSylvania to be independent of the vein solutions and much
earlier, and Finlayson^ comes to similar conclusions with respect tO'
the alteration of the andesites of the Hauraki goldfield.
The author's study of the auriferous diorites of the Wood's Point
gold belt, and also of the related rock from Queenstown, has con-
vinced him that the regional propylitic alteration undergone 1)y
these rocks is independent of the vein solutions and that the effects
of the latter are superimposed upon the propylitisation. The-
propylitic alteration is regional, and no relation appears to exist
between tlie amounts of chlorite, epidote and pyrrhotite, and the
proximity t(j a vein fissure. These minerals are just as abundant
20 feet away from the vein fissure as they are two feet away from
it. Certainly no transition occurs between the two types of altera-
tion such as (Spurr has described at Tonapah.'' Furtlier, the
minerals developed in the propylitic facies are generally charac-
teristic of high temperature deposits. Both clilorite (Pennine) and
epidote are common in the crystalline schists, and contact meta-
morphic ore deposits, which are formed under considerable pressure
and at relatively high temperatures. The vein solutions w^ere
undoubtedly moderately strong alkaline charbonate and sulphide
solutions, and both the above minerals appear to be unstable in
the presence of such.
Significance of Pyrrhotite. — Pyrrhotite is usually regarded as a
high temperature mineral. Its occurrence as a primary mineral in
certain basic rcoks, and its association with such undoubted high
temperature minerals as garnet and magnetite in contact meta-
morphic ore deposits, clearly support this view. At Queenstown,
small quantities of pyrrhotite occur distributed through the propy-
litised diorite. It is closely associated with the ilmenite and
leucoxene, and in places occurs disseminated through these minerals.
In one section, narrow parallel bars of ilmenite traverse an irre-
1 " Conditions of Mineralisation in the Copper Veins at Butte, Montana." Economic Geology,
vol. vii., 1912.
■2 "DieErzlagerstatten." 1905-1906.
;{ Zeitschr, f. prakt. Geol., pp. 1-8:"), 1912.
4 " Problems in the Geology of the Hauraki Ctoldfielils. New Zealand." Economic Geology, vol
iv., No. 7, 1909,
.S Op. Cit. p. 210.
