130 ^V it*. Jmincr:
greatly changed as a result of the alteration. It appears very
likely that the niineralisers had their origin in the cooling niaguia,
and that their escape was made possible Ijy the relief of pressure
during the inti-usion of the diorite. Tlie gases thus expelled from
the magma would permeate the solidifying rock, and cause such
alteration as has been described.
II. Hydrothermal alteration adjoining vein fissures. Narrow
veins of auriferous cjuartz, generally only an inch or two in width,
but as much as twelve inches wide in places, traverse the diorite.
On either side of these veins, the coimtry rock has been bleache(l
for varying distances, generally less than one foot, and rendered
nuich finer grained. Considerable development of pyritt- and
arsenopyrite together with some stil)nite, has taken place in close
pi-oximity to the quartz veins. These sulphides are most abundant
along the vein wall, and decrease in amount outwards. That the
bleaching is a result of the alteration of the diorite by the vein
.solutions, is certain.
Specimen No. 140, Caledonia Mine, Yow Yow, shows an inter-
mediate stage in the alteration. Macroscopically, it is a fairly even
grained rock, greenish in colour, and showing fairly abundant
pyrites scattered through it. A section of the rock examined micro-
.scopically shows no hornblende or felspar. The hornblende remain-
ing from the propylitic alteration has not been first changed to
chlorite, and then to carbonates and muscovite, but apparently it
has in part passed directly to carbonate, and in part to a whitish
or yellowish, cloudy, nondescript material. Idiomorphic outlines
of hornblende are occasionally preserved in this material. The
carbonate is dolomitic or ankeritic in character, as dilute hydro-
chloric acid has very little action on the powdered rock in the cold.
Chemical analyses of similar carbonates developed in the diorites
near Wood's Point have shown them to be varying compounds of
the carbonates of lime, magnesia, ferrous oxide, and manganous
oxide. Chlorite still remains in considerable amount, Init epidote
has disappeared, having apparently succumbed to the action of the
carbonate solutions. Local patches of carbonate in the chlorite are
closely allied in shape to the epidote grains in the propylitic rock,
and undoubtedly replace the latter mineral. Some of the chlorite
is beginning to })ass to colourless mica (muscovite), and carbonates
have been intruded along the cleavage planes, and replace the
chlorite in part. The felspars have been almost completely re-
placed by closely packed sericite flakes. Under high powers,
