[Proc. Rot. Soc. Victoria, 27 (N.S.), Part II., 1914].
Art. XU.— Studies iv the Physical Chemistri/ of Essential Oils.
Part I. — The Physical Properties of mixtures oj two l^erjiene sub-
stances ill relation to those of the constituents.
BY
R. BARRY DREW, M.Sc,
AND
E. IVAN ROSEN BLUM, M.Sc.
(Communicated by W. Hebei- Green).
[Read 9th July, 1914).
It is of considerable interest to regard the mixture of organic
bodies which is presented to us by an essential oil from a physico-
chemical, as well as from the ordinary systematic point of view.
We have here a class of mixtures, easily obtainied in quantity,
whose constituents are mostly well-known, and of allied structure;
conditions v>^hich suggest a novel method of attacking the general
theory of solution, and should also give us valuable data, for judg-
ing the general composition of an oil from its physical constants
— a problem of interest, both from the commercial and from the
scientific standpoint.
As sliowing the questions which meet us here we may cite as an
instance two eucalyptus oils from the same species, which yielded
the same percentage of phellandrene [a= — 69°] and contained no
other optically active substance, whose rotations were as far dis-
tinct as —2.30 and — 44o respectively.
The major portion of an essential oil usually consists of one or
more terpenes. These may be considered as simple examples of
non-ionising, unassociated solvents, and it will be Avell, therefore,
to start our inquiry into essential oil equilibria by the study of
these simple substances, adding progressively more complex or more
reactive constituents, such as oxygenated derivatives, etc., and
essaying to evaluate the new solution factors as they occur.
An ideal invest ig:at ion, then, would start from the simplest
case — a mixture of tw(j terpenes — proceed through increasing com-
plexity in the number and nature of the components, and finally
reach that complicated equilibrium presented by a natural essen-
tial oil, such as that of Eucalyptus globulus.
