150 -R. B. Drew and E. I. Rosenblum :
The following results are of a preliminary natui'e, and are
concerned with the simpler cases of sueh an inquiry.
Exveri men till.
The method followed in the measurements hei-e recorded was to
make mixtures of various concentrations from materials prepared
as freshly as possible. The density, refractive index, and rotation
of these were taken at 25° C, with such methods and precautions
as accurate physicochemical Avork suggests.
The pyknometer held about 6 c.c's., and the temperature adjust-
ment was correct to .Olo. The rotations were taken in a 100 mm.
*ube in a Schmidt and Haensch polarimeter. and the refractivia
indices in a Zeiss refractometer, and for eacli of these the diver-
gence in temperature did not exceed .1°.
The mixtures themselves were made up by successive additions of
one constituent to a definite amount of the other — a method
economical of material — and the results have shown it to be justi-
fied, for any systematic error arising from this cause would in-
crease with each addition, and such increases have not appeared.
Cnlculafion of Restdfs.
We may comment here on the methods emphiyed for calculating
the theoretical value of any physical property of a liquid mixture'.
If the property under consideration is additive, and no anomaly
is present, Ave have — -
P ^ m,V, + urj",
(calc.) ^ yn^n,'^
where P,, P.j, are the Values of tlie pi-operty considered, fur the
individual substances, and m^ and u/.^ are the masses of these sub-
stances in the mixture. If the additive relationshiji does not hold,
however, we must modify the formula to express the effects of the
molecules, atoms oi- ions, wliich are the disturbing factor. Thus,
if the molecules are the reacting entities to be considered, we have
[Ml, M2 1)eing the molecular weights] —
m,Pi ^/..Po
P _ M7 M.,
(calc.) rn.2 m,^
Ml M,
Since many factors in liquid mixtures are influencing a par-
ticular property, it is necessary to introduce more and more terms
before we can attain concordance. But since tlie diflficultv of in-
