4 E. C. Josh iia :
I think that there can be no doubt that this species is very close-
to. if not identical with Ludwig's Cucumarla parvo. It is to be
noted that Ludwig (17) has pointed out that so far as 2)arva is
concerned, the process of reproduction may occur before complete
development of the spicules has been attained.
CccuMARiA MUTANs, sp. n. (Plate I., Figs. 1 (a), (b), (c), (d).)
Localities. — Port Phillip Bay. Westernport Bay. and Victorian
Coast line.
Length 60 mm., greatest width 20 mm., tapering gradually to
both posterior and anterior ends. Tentacles, ten of almost equal
length, pedicels confined to the radii. In the three ventral radii
they occur in five closely disposed rows; in the two dorsal radii
in three rows. The calcareous deposits consist of numerous tables.
80 fx in diameter, with three large central holes, and a spire hav-
ing three rods, joined by a transverse beam, and terminating in
six or seven spinous projections. The calcareous ring has ten
pieces of about equal length, without posterior prolongations. The
internal anatomy shows no peculiarities; colour, degraded white;
tentacles, black.
This is perhaps one of our commonest Holothurians — the young
forms being met Avith between tide marks in all the localities in
which I have collected. It is to be noted, however, that these
young forms differ very materially from the mature animal; their
colour is a deep blue black, and the tables, which are crowded-
in the older animal, are few and far between in the young, and
are usually devoid of the spire.
Though a very typical Cucumarian. its spiculation would appear
to specifically distinguish it from any previously described species.
GENUS PHYLLOPHORUS.
Phyllophorus dearmatus Dendy.
I collected a single specimen of this animal at Flinders, and
there is another from Westernport Bay. in the collection of the
National Museum. Melbourne; Mr. Roebuck obtained two at Tor-
quay. Tlio al)sence of spicules in the perisome would appear to be
not unconunon in uiembers of this genus. A species about to be
described exhibits the same pec-uliarity, and another species at pre-
sent undescribed, found in South Australia, is quite devoid of
calcareous bodies in the perisome, with the exception of the cribri-
