Physical Chemistry of Essential Oils. 151
terpreling the equations so obtained, makes this rather a waste
of labour, it suffices at present, where properties are atomic (e.g.,
Refractivity) to use the first of these equations, while for those
where the molecular influence is introduced (e.g., Density) the
second formula, giving what is known as the Molar Fraction,
serves as some correction.
Hence, these two methods of calculation are all that have been
employed in the present research.
7'/(e System l-pinene — d-pinene.
In considering the purity of the terpenes mentioned, it must be
remembered that where suitable solid derivatives, from which a
terpene may be regenerated in quantity, are wanting, the only
means of purification is repeatedly to distil under diminished pres-
sure. The product, of course, may be parti)- racemised, or may
contain some of its optical isomers. For tliis reason the physical
properties of two optical isomers, such as d- and l-pinene, are not
numerically identical, a point which is of little significance in the
present research, since these well-fractionated terpenes are " pure"
from the practical point of view. Indeed, the l-pinene of rotation
— 390 is almost free from I'acemate, while the + 25° rotation of
the d-pinene is quite as high as other workers have usually, ob-
tained. In the mixture of these two isomers, from our stand-
point, the simplest case, we should anticipate no constitutive ef-
fects, and indeed, the observed properties of the mixtures a<gree
excellently with those calculated by (1), the simple mixture for-
mula, and the slight deviations whicli occur n\ay be taken as indi-
cative of the magnitude of the exijerimental error in the other
systems as well.
The pineries were obtained from oils from Eucalyptus dextro
pinea and E. laevopinea, which were generously given us by Mr.
Smith, of the Sydney Technological Museum. He has w-orked out
their composition, and his results we have confirmed, and by dis-
tilling iii a rod and disk apparatus at 10 mm. pressure we have
obtained pinene fractions with the following properties : —
At25°C. d-Pinene. 1-Pinene.
Rotation ... +25.40° -39.64°
Refractive Index L4640 1.4639
Density ... .8604 .8646
