Victor ian H<jlutJiar<>'ulea. 5
form plates at the end of the poelia (present also in detirnuif us.
and rfsf/t'/is). Perfectly fresh material >vas used for examinatiun.
so that the possibility of destruction by an acid preservative is un-
tenable.
Phyllophorus vkstikns, sp. nov. (Plate T., Figs. 2 (a), (b), (c), (d).)
Localities. — Port Phillip Bay. Westernport Bay, and Victorian
'Coast line.
Size, 70 X 25 mm., fusiform flexed dorsally. Tentacles 20.
ten outer, alternating with five pairs of inner, the outer dorsal
tentacles are about three times the length of the ventral, the ten-
tacles forming the inner crown do not vary in size. Tube feet
are thickly disposed over the whole surface of the body, no ar-
rangement in rows being anywhere visible. The calcareous ring
(Fig. 2) consists of ten very irregular and complex processes,
deeply imbedded in cartilage; the radial pieces have prolongations
posteriorly. In the perisome there are no calcareous deposits other
than large cribriform plates, at the extremities of the tube feet,
The tentacles are provided with rods, having expanded ends pierced
Avith several holes; they also exhibit irregularly distributed patclies
of small foliaceous ossicles (Fig. 2a, 2b, c, d, e). Polian vessel
and madreporal canal, single. The genitalia consist of numerous
comparatively short unbranched coeca, springing from each side
of the genital duct, for a distance of about 30 mm. ; in the type
they contain ova. and are of a bright yellow colour.
The body colour of the animal is a brownish pink; tube feet,
white; tentacles, black. In life, it covers itself with stones, shells
and shore debris.
This Holothurian is of frequent occurrence along our coast line,
though its habit of coating itself with debris would often protect
it from observation. The strong dorsal flexure invariably, noted
in all spirit specimens of this genus, would appear to lie a post
mortem contraction, as I have, in this species at least, never seen
it in life; the animal simply adheres and accommodates itself to
the surface to which it mav be attached.
CxExrs roLorHiRus.
CoLOCHiRUS SPINOSUS (Quoy and Gaimar
For synonymy, see
Theel (19). and
1897. Whitelegge (20), Colochirus spinosu
