raphical DiMrihution of Sea-Grasses. 1 H 1
both tlie Iiidopatilic and the Atluiitic regions. And, as nearly all
are tropical, sub-tropical, or warm-temperate plants (Zosfera being
the only one which reaches the cold regions), the occurrence of the
same genus in l)oth regions indicates that the genera are so old
that tliey originated at a time when the distribution of sea and
land was very different from tliat at pi'esent — this time being at
least not later than Early Tertiary. 1 It is not probable that such
heat-requiring plants could^ have migrated from the Indopacific,
where they most probably originated, into the Atlantic, through
the cold waters either around the Cape of Good Hope or Cape
Horn.
Thus their distribution seems to indicate the great age of the
sea-grasses, as does their low place in the natural system of the
Phanerogams.
Hence it will, I think, be obvious- that a detailed study of the
geographical distribution, bearing in mind their systematic affini-
ties, may possibly throw some light on the evolution of the sea-
grasses, on the distribution of sea and land, and on the age of
the present land-bridges or land-barriers separating the oceans.
The 8 genera of sea-grasses contain altogether only 30 species,
most of them having a wide distribution, as is often the case with
water plants.
It will be convenient to arrange them into several groups accord-
ing to their geographical distribution, instead of treating each
species separately.
1. — Indopacific grovp (7 species), i.e.. species which grow in
the Red Sea. along the coasts of East Africa and of tlie East-
African Isles, along the south and south-eastern coasts of Asia, in
the Malay Archipelago, the islands of the Pacific, and, in some
cases, also on the tropical coast of Australia.
II. — Malayan group (4 species), /.^., species found in the Malayan
region : south-eastern coast of Asia, Malay Archipelago, and the
tropical coast of Australia.
III. — East-African group (2 species), i.e.. species found only in
the Red Sea, along the coasts of East-Africa and of the East-
African isles.
IV. — Carihhean group (6 species), i.e., species occurring along
the coasts of the islands of the Caribbean Sea, Florida, and the
north-coast of South America, some extending as far as the Ber-
mudas.
idunia, perhaps even Upper Cretaceous.
