182 C. H. Ostenfeld:
V. — Australia fi r/roiip (5 species), i.e., species found along the
western and southern coasts of Australia and all round Tasmania,
some extending as far as Queensland and New Zealand.
VI. — Mediterranean groirp (2 species), i.e., species occurring in
the Mediterranean and reaching the Atlantic coasts at the numtli
of the Mediterranean.
VII. — North-Facific (jronp (2 species), i.e.. species occurring
along the North-Pacific coasts of North America, and (one species)
also along the coasts of Japan.
VIII. — North-ttmperate group (2 species), i.e.. species occurring
in the northern (cold and temperate) parts of both the Atlantic
and the Pacific oceans.
Of these eight groups. I. -IV. are tropical. V.-VI. icann-femperate
(or subtropical), and VII. -VIII. temperate.
I. The Indo pacific yronp consists of 7 species — viz. : Halophila
ovalis; Enlialus acoroides; Thalassia Hemprichii ; Cymodocea isoeti-
folia; Cymodocea rutundata ; Cymodocea serrulata ; Diplanthera
uninervis
Halophila ovalis has the widest area of distribution, as it reaches
the western and southern coasts of Australia. Taken as a whole,
the geographical area of this group is larger than that of any other
(perhaps except that of Zostera marina). It is probable that the
group represents the direct offspring of tlie old types of sea-grasses
and that it inhabits their old area.
II. The Malayan group has four species, viz. : Halophila devi-
piens, Halophila ovata, Halophila Beccarii, Halophila spinulosa.
All these species are rare, being found only in a few places, but
it is pi'obal)le that further search will show that they have a wider
distiibution. so that the group may perhaps be included in the
Indopacific one.
[It is worth noting that //. spinulosa differs widely from all other
species of Halophila. and is probably of great age. Being of
quite characteristic habit, and also conjparutivcly cuns])ieuous. it
is not probable that it has been overlooked im the continiental
coasts of the Indian Ocean, from which it has not yet been re-
ported; it seems, in fact, to be restricted to the .Malay legion.]
HI. The East-African group has only two niciiibers — viz. : Halo-
phila stipulacea, Cymodocea ciliata. They aic routined to the
Red Sea and the western side of the Indian Oeean. (C. ciliata has
been reported from .Australia in eiror for ('. .^erndata.)
