Geog rap] ileal Dif<tribut!on of Sf'a-Grasses. IS-")
south coast (how far \vest\Yards 1 do not know); also in New Zea-
land and in one place on the coast of Chili. Thus the area covers
the temperate part of the South-Pacific, with an outpost in the
Tropics at Cape York.
The discussion of the orifi:in of this part of the Australian group
will be postponed and taken together with that of other species
of Zostera.
The other section of the Australian group consists of two species.
The first — Cymodncea anforcfica — stands somewhat isolated with-
in the genus. It is quite different from its nearest ally, the East-
African C ciliofa, and it must be supposed to be an old species.
The other — Fosidonm ausfralls — has only one congeneric species,
P. oceanicn, of the Mediterranean. Thus, these tAvo species, which
make up the isolated genus Posidonia, inhabit widely separated
and comparatively small areas of a Avarm-temperate charactei-.
The species are quite distinguishable from one anothei', in good
agreement with their I'emote areas of occurrence.
The marked specific differences, as Avell as the isolated place of
the genus within the Potamogetonaceae, indicate their" great age.
The following more detailed explanation of their distribution is
only a Avorking hypothesis. In former times the genus inhabited
& continuous area, of Avhich the present tAvo isolated areas are the
only remnants. It seems as if the genus is noAV no longer fit for
true tropical conditions, while the ancestors of the present species
did occur in the Tropics. Tropical conditions, tlien, have driven
Posidonia toAvards the north and south; and the Australian south-
coast and the Mediterranean are the last refuge for a dying genus,
Airhich, to judge from identifications of leaves from Tertiary -.'and
Cretaceous times, is one of the oldest floAvei'ing plants.
VI. The Mediterranean group contains only tAvo species — viz. :
Cymodocea nodosa.
Posidonia oceanica.
The tAVo species, Zostera marina and Z. nana also uceur in the
Mediterranean, but are not lestvicted to it.
We have already dealt Avith I'osldonla oceanica. Avhen treating
of the Australian /'. australis. Neither Posidonia nor Cymodocea
goes into the Black Sea, probably because its waters are neither
Avarm nor saline enough; Zostera marina and Z. nana, on the
other liand, having greater ability of adaptation, penetrate into
the Black Sea.
