186 C. H. Ostenfeld:
Posidonia and Cymodocen have migrated through the Straits of
Gibraltar out along the nearest Atlantic coast, Posidonia going
northwards along the Iberian peninsula as far as the head of the
Bay of Biscay, and Cymodocea northwards to Cadiz and south-
wards alongl the African coast to Senegambia and the Canaries.
These interesting extensions of distribution are slight, and the two
species are essentially Mediterranean in type.
As explained above, Posidonia has its only allied species in Aus-
tralian Avaters. C ymodocea nodosa is nearest allied to C. rotun-
data. one of the Indopacific species. Therefore it seems justifiable
to consider the Mediterranean species as derived from the Indo-
pacific one; or, perhaps more correctly, to derive both from an
Indopacific ancestor. The main point, however, is that both Poii-
donia and C ymodocea. must be supposed to have come to the Medi-
terranean from the Indopacific region, and that this happened at
a comparative early time, since the two Mediterranean species have
developed so far along their own line of evolution,- and are now
specifically well characterised.
On the other hand, Zostera marina and Z. nana came into the
Mediterranean from the north and west, through the Straits of
Gibraltar.
VII. The North-Pacific group consists of the genus Phyllo-
spadix. with its two very closely allied species — viz. : Phyllospadiz;
Sroulcri and P. Torreyi.
Tlie genus Pliylloxpadi.r lias arisen from Zostera. It differs in
being dioecious and having a short, contracted rhizome (not the
long, straggling rhizome of Zostera). The two species are so close
togt'thcr. that an American lx)tanist, W. K. Dudley, who has
studied tliem in situ. doul>ts if they are really distinct. The one {P.
Scouleri) is very varial)le. while the other (P. Torreyi) is not. and
tlie amplitude of the variatitjn of the first species includes that of
tlie second one. Botli species inhabit the same part of the west
coast of Xo)-th America, from southern California to British
Colunihia ; and tlie variable (probably older) species occurs in
Japan, also making it probable that it, too, may be found in the
intermediate i-egion, along the shores of the Aleutian islands and
the south coast of Alaska.
The genus l)eing resti-icted to the northern Pacific, and derived
from Zostera, lias })robably originated not in the tropics, but in
its present liome, and at a comparatively late time.
Phyllospa/7ir serrulatu.s Rupr., of doubtful standing, came from
Alaska.
