[Proc. Rot. Soc. Victoria. 27 (N.S.), Pt. H., 1914].
Art. XV.— Bitter Pit and Sensitivity of Apples to Poisons,
An Answer to Prof. A. J. Ewart.
BY
H. G. BREIDAHL, B.Sc.
AND
A. C. H. ROTHERA, M.A, D.Sc.
[Read 8tli October, 1914].
This opportunity has kindly been given us of replying to a paper
by Prof. A. J. Ewart, appearing in the Proceedings of this Society,
Vol. XXVI., p. 228, March, 1914, in which he criticises a paper by
R. H. Greenwood and A. C. H. Rothera, forming portion of the
Second Progress Report, issued by Mr. D. McAlpine.
The position briefly is this :
A theory that Bitter Pit might be due to poisoning of certam
cell groups in the apple was put forward by Dr. Jean White, and
strenuously supported by Prof. Ewart. This theory included the
statement that the apple cells of the areas affected with pit have
their diastatic enzymes destroyed — or inhibited — by the poison be-
fore the cells themselves are killed. It is logical, if this be so, to
attempt to show that bitter pit tissue contains some poison capable
of inhibiting diastatic action, and Greenwood and Rothera searched
first for such a poison in a soluble form, second in an insoluble
form. They were unable to get any evidence of inhibition, their
results either showing no effect, or in the case of malt diastase an
acceleration with both normal pulp and pitted material. This
acceleration was assigned to the beneficial effect which traces of
organic acids exert upon malt diastase, which explanation is still
held to be the correct one for this }-esult. since it naturally accounts
for the slightly greater acceleration produced by healthy pulp cells
than by ])itter pit, and also for the greater retardation of ptyalin
(wliicli is injui'ed by slight acidity), by the foi-mer than tlie latter.
Against these expevimental results Prof. Ewart raises various
criticisms.
His fir.st is a complete denial. He writes : " On repeating these
experiments with filtered solutions of malt diastase dissolved in
distilled water. I am alik' to give them emphatic contradiction.
Prolonged contact with pounded apple pulp, boiled or unboiled.
