192 BreiddJd and Rather a :
bitter pit, or normal, practically destroys diastase in one to three
days."
But in the next paragraph it appears that 20 grms. of pounded
pulp were added to only 10 c.c. of 1% Taka diastase. No experi-
ments are quoted which are comparable with Greenwood and
Rothera's, in which 1 grm. of pounded pulp was used with 5 c.c.
•of a 5% malt diastase, and the emphatic contradiction is therefore
most unjustifiable.
The second criticism is that the observed accelerating action on
malt diastase was not an acceleration, but only an apparent accele-
ration, due to an experimental pitfall.
Owing to actions of tannic acid on starch solutions causing pre-
cipitation of the starch, and also to the influence of tannic acid
upon the starch iodine test employed. Greenwood and R other a are
assumed to have been misled into taking the digestion of the starch
as complete, when it really was still incomplete.
Though convinced that a real acceleration of malt diastase had
been obtained with both normal apple tissue and bitter pit
material, and that the experimental technique employed excluded
the pitfalls suggested by Prof. Ewart, it was decided to carefully
investigate the criticism raised as to the action of tannic acid.
Freely acknoAvledging full indebtedness to Professor Ewart for
bringing the tannic acid complications to our notice, we find that
such complications cannot be applied to refute the experimental
results of Greenwood and Rothera.
Tn the first place, though the blue colour produced by starch
with a small amount of iodine can be destroyed by tannic acid,
the proportions of the reagents are quite different to those of the
experiments of Greenwood and Rothera, in which the maximum
tannic acid could not exceed .002% final concentration, and in
wliicli the iodine was always used in large excess.
For, in following a starch digestion, it is <_ustoniarv to remove
1 drop of the starch solution, which is then mixed with 1 drop of
a 1% iodine solution, and the blue colour ])rodueed under such
conditions is uninfluenced by tannic acid in concentrations up
to 1%.
Only when the (|uantity of tannic acid is large, and tlie iodine
vei-y little in amount, does the decolourising power of the tannic
acid become inqioitant.
Then again, we find that Ewait is unfortunate in his second
point that tannic acid inhibits diastatic action by forming a com-
pound with starch wliirli is resistant to the ferment.
