Bitter Pit in Afrples 19:^
Although tannic acid (in the concentrations with which we ar&
concerned, when dealing witli apple tissue or juice) does produce
a slight cloudiness in a 1% filtered starch solution, this does not
render the starch any less readily digested by diastase. With the
weaker tannic acid solutions (as Prof. Ewart points out) the cloudi-
ness vanishes at .35° C.
In fact, with tlie taka diastase (Merck) in the possession of the
laboratory, the presence of small amounts of tannic acid caused
an acceleration of the enzyme action, and a slowing was only ob-
tained when the tannic acid concentration was approximately five
times as great as in apple juice.
It proved a most fortunate circumstance for us that the taka
diastase preparation in our possession (the same as that used by
Greenwood and Rothera) showed this acceleration, for it permitted
us to show that (at least for the tannic acid concentrations up tO'
.25%) tannic acid does not foi-m a starch compound of less digesti-
bility, and that where it does inhibit diastatic action it does sO'
by precipitating the enzyme as suggested by Payen.i
Solutions of the taka diastase in our possession gave no imme-
diate precipitate with dilute tannic acid, but in some of our ex-
periments, in which a weak enzyme solution was used, a precipitate
did form after two hours, and w^as accompanied by a slowing of
the rate of action.
This slowing apparently depended upon the flocculation of the
enzyme per se, and was not proportional to the amount of tannic
acid present. In fact, a slightly greater amount of tannic acid
produced less slowing, probably because the accelerating factor was
present simultaneously.
Careful tests were made in order to be certain that the tannic
acid acceleration was not due to an influence exerted upon the
starch iodine colour.
Greenwood and Rothera used strong solutions of taka diastase,
and in the light of present results the very small amount of tannic
acid extracted from healthy apple pulp, or pitted cells, could only
have had a slight accelerating influence.
With the malt diastase (Merck) (the same preparation as that
used by Greenwood *ind Rothera) tannic acid solutions, even when
dilute, always gave a precipitate, with solutions of the enzyme,
accompanied by a retardation of action. In Greenwood and
Rothera's experiments with malt diastase, accelerations were
1. Quoted from Cza)v o Rionhemie dei- Pflanzeii, vol. i., p. .•i4.5
