194 Breidahl and Rothera .-
obtained, so that the invoking of the tannic acid retardation is
not applicable.
We therefore maintain (i) that Ewart's tannic acid complica-
tions are not applicable to the experiments of Greenwood and
Rothera; (ii) that Ewart is incorrect in assigning the tannic acid
retardation to an action upon the starch; and (iii) that experimen-
tal results obtained under quite different conditions and with quite
different proportions of reagents have been used in a wholly un-
justifiable manner, as though applicable to Greenwood and
Rothera's conditions, and reagent coticentrationa.
1. — Action of Tannic Acid on Filtered Starch Solutions.
1% tannic acid solution was added to 1% starch solution in the
proportions of 1:1; 1 :-3 ; 1:7; and 1:15 respectively, the final
•concoctions of tannic acid being 0.5%; 0.25%; 0.125%, and
0.0625% respectively. They were mixed and kept at room tem-
perature.
The first two gave a cloudiness immediately, which became dense
on standing; but after eighteen hours there was no sign of a
precipitate.
The third gave a very slight cloudiness on first mixing, but this
became more marked on standing.
The fourth showed no appreciable change from a control to which
an amount of water equal to the tannic acid solution had been
added, but after standing eighteen hours there was a just per-
ceptible difference.
In the course of one of the expeiiments. to be described later,
1% tannic acid and 1% filtered starch solutions were mixed, so that
the final concentrations were .2% tannic acid, and .8% starch re-
spectively. The starch solution had been made up five days previ-
ously, and had not been filtered in the meantime.
A cloudiness developed 'anunediately on mixing, which was done
at room temperature.
This was then placed in a water bath kept at 38o — 4()0C., with
a control. At the temperature of the bath it became much cleai-er.
being but little denser than the control (which contained .8%
starch solution), and at the end of twenty-thiee hours there was a
slight transparent precipitate at the bottom of both tubes, being
slightly greater in that containing tlie tannic acid.
