Australian and Tasmanian Scydtnaenidae. 1 '.•'.•
examination. I also examined all the Australian specimens of the
family in the Macleay Museinu. hut as most of these were taken
nuiny years ago, and many are uniciue and difficult to clean, many
were returned unnamed. Some of my own specimens are also left
unnamed, altliough almost certainly new.
The majoiity of the specimens from New South Wales were taken
during floods, and it is likely enough therefore that some of them
are ants' nest species. From Tasmania a large percentage of the
species were taken from mosses, lichens and tussocks ;i and it is
extremely j)robable that when mosses, etc., are well worked in other
parts of Australia, undescribed species w^ill be obtained in abun-
dance. So far New South Wales and Tasmania are the only two
States that have been (comparatively) well worked for species i>f
the family.
Ifeferopnathus armitagei, King.
Of this species King says, " Thorace fossula transversa basali ";
on a co-type before me, however, there is at the base of the pro-
thorax a close series of punctures, but they are separated, and not
combined to form a transverse depression, although at a hasty
glance they appear to be so.
Heterognathus gracilis. King.
Additional localities for this species are Tweed River. Forest
Reefs and Glen Innes.
Heferognathii.^ geniculatvs. King.
Additional localities for tliis species are Glen Innes and Forest
Reefs.
Heterognathus rohustus, n.sp.
Of a rather dark reddish castaneous, suture slightly infuscated.
Rather densely clothed with subei-ect, stramineous pubescence or
short hairs.
Head moderately wide, with small, partially concealed punctures.
Eyes of medium size, latero-frontal and fairly prominent. An-
tennae, for the genus, rather stout; club conspicuously three-
jointed. Prothorax moderately convex, about as long as wide,
sides rather strongly rounded, but becoming oblique to base;
punctures vei-y indistinct. Elytra rather short and wide, across
base wider than widest part of prothorax, but across middle not
1. Some of these also are perhaps inquilines, as many ants are to be taken in such situations.
5a
