200 Arthur M. Lea :
twice as wide; sides rather strongly and evenly rounded, with small,
dense punctures, only partially concealed by clothing. Legs rather
long and stout; hind coxae moderately separated. Length, 2 mm.
Hab. — Queensland; Mulgrave River (H. Hacker).
A robust, densely pubescent species, allied to gracilis, but larger
and stouter, and elytra with dense and fairly distinct punctures.
Considerably stouter than carinatus, ninth joint of antennae
larger, and prothorax not carinated, etc.
The second-eighth joints of antennae are of almost even width,
but gradually decrease in length, from slightly longer than wide
to moderately transverse, the ninth joint is somewhat smaller than
the tenth, and about twice as long and twice as wide as the eighth,
the eleventh is subconic'al, slightly wider and distinctly longer than
the tenth.
Two rather dirty specimens from Brisbane, in the Macleay
Museum, probably belong to this species, but differ in having the
abdomen slightly less convex; the clothing also is somewhat sparser,
bTit this is probably due to abrasion.
Scydmae7ius kingensis, Lea.
Tasmanian specimens of this species have the longitudinal impres-
sion on each side of the suture, near the base more distinct than on
the type; so that conjoined they appear as a rather large depres-
sion, with the suture elevated in the middle of same. The antennae
were originally described as with the " last four (joints) forming
an elongate and loosely jointed club." Having had occasion to
examine many species recently, this now appears incorrect to me,
and the joints should be regarded as subcontinuous, and not form-
ing a club; a distinction readily apparent on examining numerous
species, whose antennae have the two, three, or four apical joints
conspicuously clavate.
Scydniaenus gulosus. King.
This species may be taken in abundance during floods on several
New South Wales rivers. There is also a specimen in the Macleay
Museum from South Australia, and two from Victoria.
On most of the specimens the head and prothorax are of a deep
shining black, but two specimens in the Macleay Museum from
Sydney and Ash Island, and one in my own collection from
AVindsor, have the parts named not much darker than the elytra.
The front tibiae are dilated only in the male.
