Australian and Tasmanian Scychnaenidae. 201
Sci/(h/ia<-/iiis parrnmattensis, King.
Additional localities for this species are Clarence River, Windsor
and Tannvorth.
Scijdmaoiua clarus. n.sp.
<?■ Bright reddish castancous ; head prothorax and suture some-
■what darker than elsewiiere ; palpi and tarsi flavous. Sides at
base of head, and sides of prothorax, with moderately dense,
flavous hairs; rest of upper surface entirely glabrous.
Head transverse; obtusely bilobed between antennae. Eyes small
and prominent. Antennae rather long; club four-jointed. Pro-
tJwrar about as long as wide, moderately convex; each side of base
with a small deep fovea, the outer basal margins also foveate.
Ehffra at base scarcely wider than base of prothorax, sides dilated
to near the middle; and then rounded to ajjex; basal impressions
wide and conspicuou.s. Mctasttrnum rather widely concave' at
middle of apex. Legs rather long; hind coxae rather distant;
femora rather stout, the front pair stouter than the others. Length
If mm.
? Differs in having the metasternum depressed only in middle of
extreme apex, femora thinner and antennae somewhat thinnei- and
shorter.
Hah. — Tasmania : Mount Wellington, Frankford, from fallen
leaves and moss. (A. M. Lea.)
In appearance fairly close to r/lahripennis. but antennae rather
stouter, and prothoracic impressions and clotliing different.
At a glance the club appears to be subcontinuous with the other
joints of the antennae, but the eighth joint is longer and suddenly
(although not much) wider than the seventh, althougli as the follow-
ing joints slightly increase in width, and the seventh is itself
slightly Avider than the sixth, the clubbing is not so pronounced as
in many other species.' The basal foveae of the prothorax from
most directions appear to be completely isolated, but from others
a vague connecting depression is visible; the outer (Uies are quite
concealed from above.
On this and on all the following species of the genus the elytral
punctures are so extremely sparse and faint that they are quite
useless for purposes of identification ; on the head and prothorax,
if present at all, they are seen with difficulty, and only from certain
"directions.
