2 1 12 Arthur M. Lea :
Sct/dmaenus setmniger, n.sp.
Black; elytra dark tastaneous, suture still darker, under surface
dark reddish-brown or black, abdomen generally pale; legs and
palpi fiavous, antennae somewhat darker. Upper surface glabrous,
except for numerous hairs at sides of prothorax, and a fascicle on
each side of base of head.
Head moderately transverse, convex, rounded between antennae.
Eyes small and prominent. Antennae moderately long and rather
thin ; club conspicuously four-jointed, but seventh joint distinctly
longer and wider than sixth, although decidedly narrower and
slightly shorter than eighth. Prothorax about as long as wide ;
base with two small deep foveae. Elytra rather wide and depressed ;
base slightly wilder than base of prothorax, the basal impressions
comparatively small ; sides gently dilated to beyond the middle, and
then regularly rounded to apex. Legs moderately long, hind coxae
moderately separated; front tibiae somewhat inflated towards apex
in male. Length, 1^ mm.
Hah. — Victoria (Macleay Museum), Portland (H. W. Davey);
N.S.W. : Forest Reefs; Tasmania : Jordan River, abundant in flood
debris, New Norfolk, in tussocks, Holjart, in moss, Launceston (A.
M. Lea).
The size and outlines are almost exactly as in bifascicidatun, but
the colours and habits are very different. In general appearance,
colours, etc.. it is much like glabrijjennis in miniature; gulosus is
frequently like it in colour, but is considerably narrower, with the
elytra clothed. The black head and prothorax readily distinguish
it from most of the species having the elytra glabrous.
The prothoracic foveae from some directions appear to be con-
nected together by a strong transverse impression, but from other
directions this impression appears rather faint ; from some it
causes the base to appear quadrifoveate.
Some specimens, from the Tweed River, differ in luvving some
sparse straggling hairs about the basal third of the elytra, but I
can find no other differences.
Sci/dniueniis f itnbri colli. •<, n.sp.
Bright castaneous, elytra (sutuie not at all) very little paler
than head and prothorax. antennae somewhat ]ialei- ; femora and
tibiae almost, the taisi and ])ali)i (|uitc', flavons. Upper surface
glabrous, except for numerous stramineous hairs at sides of pro-
thorax, and a small fascicle on each side of base of head.
