Australian and Tasmanian Scydmaenidae. 208
I/ead moderately transverse, feebly bilobed between antennae.
Eyes small and very prominent. Antennae i-ather long; club four-
jointed. Prothora.r about as long" as wide; base with two small,
deep and i-atlier distant foveae. Elytra at extreme base no wider
than base of protliorax ; sides moderately dilated to just before
the middle, tlience narrowed to apex. Legs rather long; hind
coxae separated almost t'lie width of impression at apex of metas-
ternum. Length, 1^ mm.
Ilah. — Tasmania : Jordan River, in flood debris, Hobart, Mount
Wellington, in moss. Waratah. (A. M. Lea.)
Larger than casfo/ieo(/labe/\ elytra slightly longer in proportion,
and prothorax conspicuously fringed. Bifasciculafus, Avhich has
a similar fringe, is shorter, with wider elytra and slightly shorter
and tliinner antennae. In general appearance rather like small
specimens of c/anis, but antennae thinner, although not longer, the
joints (if the club less closely articulated, and basal impressions of
prothorax not quite the same.
The club is certainly four-jointed, but as its joints slightly in-
crease in width, and as the seventh is distinctly wider and some-
what longer than the sixth, from some directions it almost appears
to be five-jointed. From some directions a rather shallow impres-
sion connecting the protlioracic foveae is visible; but from others
these appear to be completely isolated.
Srj/d)uaein(s fiavoapicalts, n.sp.
Bright castaneous; elytra slightly paler, but becoming flavous at
apex; legs and palpi flavous. Clothing as in preceding species.
Head moderately transverse; rounded betAveen antennae. Eyes
rather small and prominent. Antennae rather thin; club dis-
tinctly four- jointed. PrntJmrar slightly wider than long, with two
deep l)asal foveae. Elytra moderately wide, at base slightly wider
than base of prothorax. sides regularly rounded and widest just
befoi-e middle. Leyx long; hind coxae moderately separated.
Length, ]| mm.
Hah. — N.S. Wales : Ropes Creek, Sydney (Macleay Museum),
Clarence River, Forest Reefs, Tamworth, Windsor (A. M. Lea.)
Slightly larger than castaneoglahtr, and prothoracic impressions
connected across base; that species also has not a conspicuous
lateral fringe of hairs. From the preceding species it differs in
being slightly smallei-. elytra rather less narrowed at base, and
antennae shorter and thinner.
