204 Arthur M. Lea :
The flavous portion of the elytra varies from about one-fifth to
about one-third; although very distinct, it is not sharply limited.
The prothoracic foveae from some directions appear to be con-
nected by a strong transverse impression ; from other directions,
however, the impression seems rather feeble, although it is always
traceable.
Numerous specimens differ in having the head and protliorax
almost or quite black, and such specimens sometimes have tlie
apex of elytra scarcely flavous; but, as I can find no differences in
clothing or structure, I presume they represent varieties only.
They are coloured much as ne.miniger , except that the under sur-
face is not dark; but their size is very slightly, although consis-
tently, smaller than that of that species, and are also somewhat
narrower.
Scydtyiaenus flauipes, n.sp.
Bright castaneous ; elytra (suture excepted) somewhat paler ; legs
and palpi flavous. Clothing as in two preceding species.
Head (excluding neck) almost as long as wide, bilobed between
antennae. Eyes small and moderately prominent. Antennae long
and thin; club conspicuously four-jointed. Prothorai slightly longer
than wide; depressed; base with two small deep foveae. with a
conspicuous connecting impression. Elytra fiat and comparatively
narrow; widest about, middle ; basal impressions rather small.
Legs long; hind coxae moderately separated. Length 1^ mm.
Hah. — W. Australia : Swan River. (A. M. Lea.)
A small, depressed species, narrower thau most of those having
glabrous elytra. Except for the glabrous elytra, which, however,
are rather wider, it is much like atroph'us.
Scydmaetius si/hr/labrij)e/i/i/s, n.sp.
Castaneous. elytra (suture excepted) somewhat i>alef : legs and
palpi flavous. Upper surface glal)r(ius. cxrcpt toi' numerous
stramineous hairs at sides of protliorax, a few ahout Ijase (including
sides) of elytra, a few at sides of head, and a fascii'le on each side
of its base.
//ead moderately transverse, rather strongly rounded between
antennae. Eyes (foi- the genus) lather large. Antennae rather
long and thin; club four-jointed. I'rotliora.c al)out as long as
wide, moderately convex; base Avith two small deep foveae. Elytra
rather short and wide; at base distinctly wider than prothorax,
