Australian and Tasmanian Scydmaenidae. 'H)'>
and thrice as wide alxmt the middle. J.e(/s loiij^; hind eoxae mode-
rately separated. Length, 1^ mm.
//«/>.— Queensland : Dalby. (Mrs. F. H. Hobler.)
The outlines are mueh as in ylahripennis , but the colours and
clothing are different, and elub somewhat thinner, etc. The elytral
clothing, although not dense, is fairly distinct, so I think it should
not be placed with the species having glabrous elytra.
The seventh joint of the antennae is distinctly longer and Avider
than the sixth, but as it is vei'y decidedly narrower and shorter
than the eighth, it cannot l)e regarded as forming part of the
club. The basal foveae of the prothorax ai'e connected by an im-
pression that from some dii'ections appears to be deep and distinct,
but fi-om othei-s is scarcely traceable.
Scydmaeiuis ohscuricontlti, n.sp.
Dark reddish castaneous; suture and eighth, ninth and tem
joints of antennae deeply infuscated; legs rather dark, tai-si and
palpi pale, but scarcely flavous. Elytra with sparse, suberect,
and moderately long, pale hairs; prothorax densely clothed at
sides, and glabrous else^vhere; head very sparsely clothed, but Avith
a loose fascicle on each side of base.
Head almost as long as Avide; feebly bilobed betAveen antennae.
Eyes rather small and moderately prominent. Antennae rather
long and thin ; club conspicuously four-jointed. Froihorax about
as long as Avide; foveae and connecting impression as in preceding
species. Elytra moderately long, at extreme base no Avider than
prothorax, sides regularly rounded and Avidest at about middle.
Legs long; liind coxae moderately separated; femora subclavate.
Length. 1^ nnn.
Hah. — Tasmania : Hobart (A. M. Lea).
In size and shape like insignivenfris, but club dark and otherAvise
different. The depression connecting the foveae together is very
shalloAv (it is ([uite invisible from certain directions), and very
different to tliat o/ denliventris. The elytra are decidedly narroAver
than in the preceding species, and the club is much darker. The
outlines are someAvhat as in Kiagensis, but the antennae and cloth-
ing are different. The outlines approach those of glabripennis ,
but that species has the elytra entirely glabrous, and head a; .
prothorax much darker.
The seventh joint of the antennae is very little longer or wider
than the sixth, and is only about half the width of the eighth.
