206 Arthur M. Lea:
A specimen, taken from under rotting leaves in the National
Park (N. S. Wales), appears to belong to this species, but differs in
having the elytral clothing confined to the basal third (perhaps
from abrasion), and the elytra, undei- surface and legs somewhat
paler.
Sci/dnine/iu.<! hrerisefostis, n.sp.
Bi-ight reddish-castaneous, elytra very little (the suture not at
all) paler than liead and prothorax ; legs and palpi flavous.
Elytra with very short and indistinct, but almost evenly distributed
setae (scarcely pubescence) ; sides of prothorax with rather dense
stramineous hairs, similar hairs forming a fascicle on each side of
base of head.
Head about as long as wide, feebly bilobed between antennae.
Eyes small and prominent. Antennae comparatively short and
stout; club distinctly four-jointed. Prothorax slightly transverse;
each side of base with two small foveae. Elytra at base slightly
wider than prothorax; basal impressions smallei- than usual; sides
moderately dilated to near the middle, and then narrowed to apex ;
Lef/a rather long and stout ; hind coxae moderately separated.
Length, \\ mm.
Hah. — Tasmania : Mount Wellington, four specimens from moss.
(A. M. Lea.)
The elytra at first appear to be glabrous, but on looking at then^
sideways some very fine suberect setae become noticeable. The
first, second and eleventh joints of the antennae aie longer than
wide, all the others being transverse, the eighth, ninth and tenth
are fully twice as wido as long; the seventh is just perceptibly
longer and wider than the sixth. The prothoracic foveae are all
connected together by a transverse impression that varies, accord-
ing to the point of view, fi-om faint to strongly defined; the lateral
foveae are only partially visil)le from a])ove, but from the sides
each is seen to mark the l)ase of a longitudiiial im])ression.
ScydiiKteitiix hrevi pilix, n.sp.
Bright reddish-castaneous elytra (suture excepted), very little
paler; legs almost, the tarsi and palpi quite flavous. Elytra with
short and rather spaise, l)ut very distinct pale pubescence; pro-
thorax with dense hairs at sides, and a few at base and sides of
disc, biit middle of disc glabrous; head with a small loose fascicle
on each side of base, and sparsely clothed elsewhere.
