Australian and Tasmanian Scydmaenidae. 2(»1>
fourth segment iippears bifoveate, with the teeth marking the boun-
daries of the foveae; looking at them, from the direction of tlie
head they appear as three rather acute teeth; from some directions.
they appeal- as slioi-t acutL'ly tciininated ridges, on the same phme
as the base of the segment.
The seventli joint of the antennae is slightly larger than tlie sixtli,
and conspicuously smaller than tlie eighth, the eighth, nintli and
tenth are each sliglitly dilated to tlie apex, the eleventh is sliglitly
longer than the ninth and tenth combined. The basal prothoracic
foveae and the connecting impression are somewhat variable, the
foveae sometimes are rather large, shallow, and two in number,
with the connecting impression rather feeble. On other specimens,
the impression appears more distinct, and with two or four foveate
expansions. It is connected on each side with a longitudinal
impression that is quite invisible from above.
One of the Hobart specimens has the elytra darker than the
others, and with a faint infuscation along suture. The Swansea
ones are also so coloured. Two females from Cunnamulla .(Qld.),
taken by Mr. Hardcastle, appear to belong to the species, but are-
of a rather light castaneous, with the elytra still paler. A speci-
men from South Australia, in the Macleay Museum, appears to.
belong to the species, but is abraded; and, as it is somewhat dirty,
I have not been able to examine it satisfactorily.
Scydmaenus tridentatus, n.sp.
J' Bright castaneous, head and prothorax somewhat darker tha^j
elsewhere, tarsi and palpi flavous. Clothing much as in preceding
species.
Head moderately transverse, very feebly bilobed between an-
tennae, with two very indistinct impressions close to each eye. Eyes-,
small and prominent. Antennae slightly shorter, but otherwise
much as in preceding species. Prothorax lightly transverse; base
foveate and transversely impressed. Elyfro moderately wide, and
gently convex, base distinctly wider than prothorax, sides regularly
rounded and widest just before middle. Abdomen with fourth
segment armed. Legs rather long; front coxae rather di.stant;
femora stout, especially the front pair. Length, If mm.
? Differs in having the antennae shorter, front femora not quite
so stout, and abdomen unarmed.
Hah. — W. Australia : Swan and Vasse Rivers. (A. M. Lea.)
