210 Arthur M. Lea:
The teeth on the fourth segment of the iibdonien of the male
^re intermediate between those of insif/n/ renfris and dentiventris,
•differing from the former in being sliorter, not quite as close to
the margins, on the same plane as the base of the segment, and
the median tooth quite distinctly a tooth, and not a slight thicken-
ing of a membranous flap, although remnants of such a flap are
present. From the latter species it differs in the outer teeth being
•decidedly longer than the middle one, more distant from each other,
and conspicuously projecting as teeth over the fifth segment. To
see them most clearly they should be examined from the direction
of the head, as, in this species and in rhntiveiitrls, they are some-
what obscured by clothing.
The base of the prothorax is transversely impressed, with the
imj^ression foveate, but the depressed parts are somewhat obscured
by clothing.
A female, possibly belonging to this species, differs in being some-
■\vhat wider, elytra more densely clothed, head with rather dense
clothing across base, and femora and tibiae almost flavous.
Scydmaenus fiiiihriatus, n.sp.
Of a rather dingy castaneous, suture somewhat darker than rest
■of elytra; tarsi and palpi flavous. Elytra with rather short and
depressed stramineous hairs, prothorax rather densely clothed at
sides, and sparsely elsewhere; not at all on middle of disc; head
sparsely clothed, except at sides and in middle of base, where
the clothing is dense.
Head feebly transverse; moderately bilobed Ijetween antennae.
Eyes small and moderately prominent. Antennae moderately
long; club conspicuously four-jointed. Prothorax lightly transverse;
base foveate. Elytra not very wide, base distinctly wider than pro-
thorax, sides regularly rounded and widest across middle. Legs
rather long; hind coxae moderately separated; femora suliclavato.
Length, Ifmm.
Hah. — N. S. Wales : Ourimbah, from rotting leaves. (A. M. Lea).
The general shape and appearance is much like liiat of Hete/rofi-
nathus robusfus, but the club is distinctly four-jointed. At a
glance it appears close to the preceding species. l)ut tlie l>ases of tlie
prothorax and elytra are different; the elytra and their rlothim:
are not as in hrevijrilis.
The cephalic fascicles are not separated the entire width of the
base, but appear extended round and almost drawn .together, caus-
