Australian and Tasmanian ScydnKtenidae. 2 1 1
ing the lioiul to lie iikut densely clotlied at the base tliuii is usual,
HO that it is leally witlmut tiue fascicles. The seventh joint ot the
niiteiinae is very little lar^ei- than the sixth, and not half the nidrh
of the eighth, the latter is practically the same size as the ninth or
tenth. These combined are the length of the eleventh. At the base
of the prothoi-ax there are two small round foveae, somewhat closer
together than is usual ; there is also anothei' fcjvea on each margin,
but partly visible from above; all four are connected by an im-
pression that varies in apparent depth according to the point of
view; the lateral foveae are each connected by mi oblique impies-
sion. The elytra are suppled with faii'ly numerous punctures, of
small size certainly, but readily visil)le under a Coddington lens,
in which respec't they differ from the other species here descj'ibc<l.
Sci/dniatnu.s a/itplipennis, n.sp.
S' Bright castaneous, head and pi'othorax somewhat darker than
-elsewhere, tarsi and palpi Havous. Elytra with rather sparse and
not very long stiamineous hairs; prothorax not very densely clothed
at sides, and glabrous elsewhere; head very spai-sely clothed and
without fascicles.
Head slightly longer than wide, feebly bilobed between antennae.
Eyes small and prominent. Antennae moderately long; club in-
conspicuously four-jointed. I'rothorar distinctly longer than wide;
base with two somewhat irregular foveae. Elytra at base wider
than prothorax, and rather more than twice as wide about the
middle, subobliquely dilated to near the middle, and then rounded
to apex. Metasternum lightly convex. Abdomen with fourth seg-
ment bidentate. Legs long; hind coxae rather widely separated;
front trochanters triangularly dentate. Length, If mm.
2 Differs in having abdomen simple, and legs somewhat shorter,
with the front trochanters unarmed.
//«?>.— N. S. Wales : Sydney. (Macleay Museum), Forest Reefs.
(A. M. Lea.)
Readily distinguished from most species of the genus by the com-
paratively small prothorax, large elytra and bidentate abdomen.
The second to seventh joints of antennae are practically of even
width, and the seventh is not much, certainly not conspicuously so,
narrower than the eighth, so that the antennae might almost faiidy
be regarded as having the joints of subcontinuous width, and with
the club rather feebly defined; still it is defined, and this, with the
separation of the hind coxae, evidently distinguishes the species
