212 Arthur M. Lea:
from I'liaf/oiiophaiia, to several species of wliieh it is ratlier close in
general appearance.
From certain directions the head appears to have a small but very
distinct fovea close to each eye; from other directions, however, it
appears no more than a very shallow and indistinct impression.
The basal foveas of the prothorax are somewhat transverse, closer
together and less rounded than usual, and with a feeble connecting-
impression ; the impression continued to connect with a longi-
tudinal impression on each side. The teeth on the fourth abdominal
segment of the male are moderately large and close together, and
project backwards on the same plane as the rest of the segment;
from certain directions they appear to be connected l>y a basal
membrane, but there is no trace of a smaller median tooth.
Svi/diiKtenus tennicoUis, n.sp. or var.
Head and prothorax rather dark reddish-castaneous; ehi;ra
about base and basal half of suture not much paler, but decidedly
paler elsewhere, and l)ecoming almost flavous posteriorly ; legs and
palpi flavous. Clothing much as in preceding species.
Head and antennae as in preceding species. Prothorar and
d]ttra narrower. ])ut otlierwise much the same. Legs long; hind
coxae rather widely separated. Length, If mm.
Hah. — Tasmania : Huon Kiver. (A. M. Lea.)
In general appearance very close to the preceding species, of
which it is perhaps a variety, but the prothorax and elytra are
slightly narrower, and the latter are somewhat paler. I am ac-
quainted with liut a single specimen, evidently a female.
Scydmaenus inastersi, n.sp.
<? Of a i-atlier dingy castaneous, legs paler, tarsi and palpi
flavous. Elytra with sparse and short depressed hairs, prothorax
rather densely clothed at the sides in front l)ut sparsely elsewhere,
head sparsely clothed and without fascicles.
Head moderately transvei'se; feebly bihilied l)et\veen antennae.
Eyes rather small and prominent. Antennae moderately long; club
distinctly four-jointed. J'rothorax about as long as wide; base with
two strong foveae. El i/t ra ratlicr wide and convex ; at base wider
than prothoi'ax, and acinss middle fully twice as wide, sides rather
strongly and evenly rdunded. Metaxfeniinn moderately convex.
Legs moderately long: hind coxae distinctly, but not very widely
separated; front ti))iae somewhat intiated towards apex. Lengtli.
1^ mm.
