Australidn and Tasmnnian Scydmaenidae. 213
$ Differs in having,' the UR'tastfrnuiii ruthoi- inoro (.'onvex, and
front tibiae thinner, with the legs in general somewhat shorter.
f/ah. — N. S. Wales : Tweed River (Macleay Museum and A. M.
Lea); Clarence River, Tamworth (Lea).
Allied to (/iilosiis, and with the front tibiae also inflated in the
male; but liead and jiruthorax paler, size slightly smaller and
clothing sparser, etc. .Smaller than the pale form of denfivenfris,
and pruthorax different at l)ase. Wider than rlvularis and pro-
thoraeic impressions and colours different. Narrower than depre$-
sns and yrijfitlti, elytra less depressed, and different at base, and
prothoracic foveae different.
The colour of the upper surface is usually of a uniform dingy
castaneous, but on some specimens the elytra (suture excepted)
are slightly paler than the prothorax and head. The seventh joint
of the antennae is somewhat larger than the sixth, but is slightly
shorter and conspicuously narrower than the eighth. The pro-
thoracic foveae are connected by an impression that is not very
distinct, although traceable, from some directions, but very dis-
tinct, and apparently deep, from others.
Sci/dmaeuus usitatus, n.sp.
Of a rather bright reddish-castaneous, elytra sometimes slightly
paler than head and prothorax; legs and palpi flavous. Elytra
with fairly numerous but rather short, suberect pale hairs; pro-
thorax rather densely clothed at sides; head with a distinct but
rather loose fascicle on each side of base.
Head moderately transverse; feebly bilobed between antennae.
Eyes small and prominent. Antennae moderately long; club con-
spicuously four- jointed. Prothorax slightly longer than wide, base
bifoveate. Elytra moderately long, at extreme base the width of
prothorax, but about once and one-half as wide across middle, sides
moderately and regularly rounded. Legs moderately long; hind
coxae moderately separated; front tiljiae with apical half some-
what inflated. Length, 1| mm.
$ Differs in having the metasteriium more strongly convex; legs
somewhat shorter, and front tibiae less inflated towards-apex.
Ilah. — -Tasmania : Stanley, in tussocks at summit of " Nut."
Hobart, in moss, Waratah, (A. M. Lea.)
From the preceding species distinguished by having elytra de-
cidedly narrower, with the hind coxae more noticeably separated;
the clothing and prothoracic sculpture are also not the same. It
