214 Arthur M. Lea:
is certainly close to gulosus, hnt the head and piothorax are not
shining black as in that species, and the inflation of the front
tibiae is somewhat different. It is smaller and liairier than colo-
bopsiti, more densely clothed than depifHsus and f/riffitlii, less
depresseti ; elytra and prothorax not tpiite the same as base, ana
antennae soniewhat shorter.
The eighth joint of the antennae is fully twice the width of the
seventh. The basal fovcae of the prothoiax are larger and closer
together than usual; connecting them is a short impi'ession that
appears (juite absent from some directinns, Ijut from other causes
than to appear confiueut ; the impression is continued to eacll side,
where it joins in with a 'lateral impression, which, however, i.s
partially concealed by clothing.
One specimen has the metasternum and alxlomen ahnost l)lack.
Scydmaenus pilosicoUi.^, n.sp.
Dark castaneous, elytra slightly palei- than prothorax, legs pale
castaneous, tarsi and palpi flavous. Elytra with moderately dense,
suberect, short, pale hairs; prothorax densely clothed at sides, and
sparsely elsewhere; head rather spai-sely clothed, l)ut with a loose
fascicle on each side of base.
Head moderately transverse; very indistinctly l)ilol)ed betweer;
antennae. Eyes small and prominent. Antennae moderately long;
club four-jointed. Prothomx slightly longer than wide; base with
two large and almost confluent foveae in middle, and one on each
side. Elytra with outlines as in preceding species. Legs mode-
rately long; hind coxae distinctly, but not very widely sepaiated.
Length, 1^ nmi.
Hah. — Tasmania : Hobart, from moss, Lc^ng Bay. (A. M. Lea.)
Slightly larger, hairier, and with slightly stouter and less con-
spicuous club than in the preceding species, and prothoracic im-
pressions deeper. Larger, hairier, and wider than nrularis.
Slightly smaller than colobopsis, nariower. more convex and more
densely clothed, and basal parts of prothorax and elytra not quite
the same.
The disc of the pronotum, although not densely clothed, is not
glabrous as in so many species of the genus. The seventh joint of
the antennae is slightly larger than the sixth, and almost two-thirds
of the width of, and somewhat shorter than, the eighth; the latt<ir
is somewhat narrowei' than tlie ninth, so that the club is not very
conspicuously four- jointed, although <|uite decidedly so. The pro-
