Aitstralian and Tasmanian Scydmaenidae. 21")
thoracic foveae are umistially large, and the lateral ones are par-
tially vsiible from above; they are all so close together that there-
is not room for a conspicuous connecting impression, but fi'om some
directions the base appears to l)e conspicuously traversed by a
rather deep impression.
Scydinatii us latebricola, n.sp.
Black, under surface piceous; pruthorax diluted with red at
base; elytra dark castaneous, antennae paler; palpi and legs
tiavous, knees slightly infuscated. Elytra Avith rather long, sub-
erect, pale hairs; prothorax densely clothed at sides and glabrous
elsewhere; head with a loose fascicle on each side of base, very
sparsely clothed elsewhere.
Head slightly longer than wide; very indistinctly bilol)ed between
antennae. Eyes small and prominent. Antennae of moderate
length; club conspicuously four-jointed. Prothorax distinctly
longer than wide; with two round, moderately deep, but not very
large foveae, isolated from each other, but each connected with one
on the side. Elytra moderately long; base distinctly wider than
prothorax, and almost twice as wide across middle, sides mode-
rately and evenly rounded. Legs moderately long; hind coxae dis-
tinctly but not very widely separated. Length, 1^ mm.
Hah. — Tasmania : New Norfolk, in tussocks, (A. M. Lea.)
Very close to gitlosiis, but a trifle larger, club somewhat stouter
and shorter, head more densely clothed, prothorax more densely
clothed at sides, and elytra darker, with longer clothing. From
clientulus it differs in being larger and darker, club stoutei-, and
clothing longer and darker. It is rather like a large specimen of
the preceding species, but the prothoracic foveae are different, and
the hind coxae are a trifle closer together.
The eighth joint of the club is the length of, but slightly
narrower than, the ninth, but is fully twice the width of the
seventh, the latt-er is very little larger than the sixth. The lateral
foveae of the prothorax are partially visible from above; the im-
pression connecting each with one of the medio-basal foveae is very
conspicuous from some directions, but apparently absent frmn
others.
One specimen has the entire upper surface of a dark castaneous.
Scydmaenus walkeri, n.sp.
Bright reddish-castaneous, legs somewhat paler, tarsi and paljii
flavous. Elytra with rather short and subdepressed pale hairs;
