216 Arthur M. Lea:
prothonix sparsely clothed at the sides and glabrous elsewhere;
head glabrous, even at the sides.
Head modeiately transverse; rounded between antennae. Eyes
small and moderately prominent. Antennae moderately long and
thin; club distinctly four-jointed. Profhorax rather convex,
about as long as wide; base bifoveate. Elytra rather wide, at base-
distinctly wider than prothorax, and more than twice as wide
across middle; sides rather strongly and evenly rounded. Legs
long; hind CDxae moderately separated. Length, 1^ mm.
J/ah.—y. W. Austialia : Upper Ord River (R. Helms), Adelaide
River (Bi-itisli Museum, t'roni: J. J. Walker).
Rather close to uiasfersi, but antennae longer and thinner, and
prothorax not quite the same.
At a glance the antennae appear to have the joints of subcon-
tinuous width, but the eighth joint, although distinctly narrower
than the ninth, is almost twice the width of the seventh; the latter
is distinctly, but not much, larger than the sixth. The prothoracic
foveae are rather small; from some directions a fairly distinct
connecting impression is visible, but from others it appears to be
entirely absent.
Scydmaenus calvicejjs, n.sp.
Colours and clothing much as in preceding species, except that on
the elytra the hairs are slightly shorter.
Head moderately transverse, flattened and almost straight be-
tween antennae. Eyes of moderate size and moderately prominent.
Antennae rather short; club conspicuously four-jointed. Frothorary
about as long as wide; base with two rather large round foveae,
close together, but without a connecting impression. Elytra with
outlines much as in preceding species. Metasternum rather con-
vex. Legs moderately long; hind coxae closer together than usuaU
although distinctly separated; front tibiae somewhat inflated in
male. Length, 1^ mm.
Hab.—^. S. Wales : Tweed River. (A. M. Lea.)
From the many similarly coloured species readily distinguished
by the isolation of tlie prothoracic foveae, and the rather sliort an-
tennae, with stouter club than usual ; the clothing also is decidedly
shorter than usual. From the pale foi-m of gulosus, which has the
foveae similarly isolated, the much shorter antennae are sufiicently
distinctive. In appearance it is close to mastersi, but is slightly
smaller, and antennae shorter, with club decidedly stouter; the
prothoracic foveae are also somewhat different. In general ap-
