Austndian. and Tasmanian Scydnnaenidae. 219
Like an <.'nlai;j:f(l tdnii of the piuci'din;^' sjtfeies, hut darkcM\ even
as to the le^'s. it is due (/f the very few .speeies whose palpi are not
entirely tluvons.
Tlie eluh is ilistiiietly foiir-jointed, the eighth joint of the an-
tennae, however, is distinetly nnnower and iiioie lonnded than the
ninth, and scarcely twice the width of the seventh, the latter is
slightly larger than the sixth; the eleventh is almost as long as the
ninth and tenth conihined. The basal foveae of the prothorax, are
fairly large, close togetlier, and with a connecting impression, that
is always traceable, but varies in apparent depth with the point of
view.
Srt/dmaenua evanidux, n.sp.
Of a rather l)i-ight castaneous, antennae somewhat paler; legs
and palpi Havous. Elytra with short, sparse pale, depressed hairs
(almost pubescence); prothorax sparsely clothed at sides, and
glabrous elsewhere ; head almost glabrous, without basal fascicles.
Head moderately tiansverse; gently rounded between antennae.
Eyes rather small and moderately prominent. Antennae long and
rather thin; club conspicuously four-jointed. Frothorax somewhat
depressed, slightly longer than wide; base bifoveate. Elytra de-
pressed, base distinctly wider than prothoiax and aljout twice
as wide across middle; sides moderately and evenly rounded.
MefasfeniiuN ratliei' lightly convex. Li'f/s moderately long; hind
coxae moderately sejjavated. Length, 4/5th nun.
Hah.—^. S. Wales: Tamworth (A. M. Lea). %
A minute, depressed species, ■with thin antennae. In general
appearance it is close to Scydmaenilla pusdla. but antennae with
the club four-jointed, and liind coxae distinctly separated.
The eighth joint (.>f tlie antennae is scarcely, if at all. narroAver
tlian the ninth, and twice the width of the seventh; the latter is
slightly but noticeably larger than the sixth. The prothoracic
foveae are round and rather deep, but not very large, from some
directifins tliey appeal' to be isolated, Imt from others a faint con-
necting inqtression is traceal)le.
Scf/di/iae/iits ri rularis, n.sp.
Black; elytra and extreme base of prothorax deep reddish-cas-
taneous; antennae and abdomen someAvhat paler; legs and palpi
Havous. Elytra with fairly numerous and rather short, subde-
pressed, pale iiairs; prothorax densely clothed at sides and glabrous
elseAvhere; head sparsely clothed; eacli side of l)ase with a feeble fas-
cicle.
