220 Arthur M. Lea :
Head lightly transverse; feebly bilobed between antennae. Eyes
small and prominent. Antennae moderatly long and not very thin;
club conspicuously four-jointed. Prothorar, slightly longer than
wide; base with two rather small, round, deep foveae, close to-
gether, but without a connecting" impression; each side with a
small fovea, also isolated from the median ones. Elytra i-ather
long, base not much wider tlian prothorax, and not twice as wid ■
across middle, sides moderately and evenly rounded, -/vf.r/.s mode-
rately long; hind coxae distinctly but not widely separated; tibiae
soiViewhat stouter in male than in female. Length, \\ mm.
Hah. — Victoria; N. S. Wales: Sydney (Macleay Museum), Nepean
River (A. J. Coates), Tweed, Clarence, Hawkesbury and Peel
Rivers, abundant in flood debris (A. M. Lea).
The prothoracic foveae are more sharply defined and closer to-
gether than usual. The colours are mucli as in (julosiis, but that
species is somewhat larger and wider, prothoracic foveae separated
almost twice the distance, Ijase of elytra not quite the same, and
joints of club more globular. Poramaffe/is/s is also larger and
wider, antennae longer, and club and base of elytra different. The
eighth joint of the antennae is very decidedly narrower than the
ninth, although almost twice the width of the seventh.
On an occasional specimen the metasternum is not much darker
than the elytra ; and one specimen has the entire body pale cas-
taneous, with the appendages still paler, but it is probably im-
mature.
Scydmaeiiiis foveidisfa/is, n.sp.
(? Dark castaneous; metasternum almost or quite black; legs and
palpi flavous, antennae somewhat darker. Elytra with moderately
numerous, short, subdepressed hairs, prothorax not very densely
clothed at sides and sparsely elsewhere, only middle of disc glab-
rous; head sparsely clothed, basal fascicles very fecltle and indis-
tinct.
Head about as long as wide; gently rounded between antennae
Eyes small and prominent. Antennae moderately long; elul) con-
spicuously four-jointed. Prothorax about as long as wide; base
bifoveate. Elytra moderately long, extreme base no wider than
prothorax, and across middle less than twice as wide; sides rather
lightly and evenly rounded. Metasternum rather lightly convex.
Legs moderately long; hind coxae distinctly but not widely sepa-
rated; front coxae inflated. Length, 1 mm.
