Australian and Tasmania^ Scydmaenidae. 221
5 DiffiMs in liavin*,' the inetasteniuin more euiivex, tlio appeii-
<Iages somewhat shorter, with the front tibiae tliinner.
I/ab. — N. S. Wales; Nepean River (A. J. Coates), Tamwoitli.
Windsor (A. M. Lea).
Smaller, darker, wider and more depressed than the precedin<;
species, and prothoracie impressions different; the basal foveae are
rather small and widely separated, but with a connecting impres-
sion that appears very distinct from some directions, although
ratlier feeble from others. It is considerably smaller than manfersi,
usitatus and yidoxus.
The eighth joint oi the antennae is about twice the width of the
seventh, and almost the width of the ninth. The front coxae of tli ■
male are distinctly inflated from, near the base to near the apex,
but then decrease to the apex itself, as a result their outer edge
has a somewhat rounded outline.
One specimen has the elytra darker than the prothorax, a re-
versal of the usual colours in species of the genus.
Sci/dmae/nis apj}ropitiqiia?ift. n.sp.
Very dark brownish castaneous, elytra (sutuie excepted) generallv
slightly paler; metasternum black; abdomen usually black, but tip
obscurely diluted with red; antennae and legs of a rather dingy
pale castaneous, tarsi and palpi paler, but scarcely flavous. Elytra
with short, sparse, depressed hairs or pubescence; prothorax
rather sparsely clothed at sides, and glabrous elsewhere; head almost
glabrous, Avithout basal fascicles.
Head about as long as Avide, very indistinctly bilobed between
antennae. Eyes small and not very prominent. Antennae slightly
longer, but otherAvise mucli as in preceding species. Prothorar
about as long as Avide; base Avith two shaiply defined foveae of
moderate size, closer together than usual, and with a very feeble
connecting impression. Elytra subdepressed and rather Avide; base
distinctly Avider than prothorax, and aljout tAvice as Avide across
middle; sides rathei- strongly and evenly rounded. Ltga mode-
rately long; hind coxae lightly l)nt distinctly separated, front tibiae
8omeAvhat st(niter in male than in female. Length, 1 mm.
llah. — W. Australia : Vasse River, in flood debris (A. M. Lea).
Close to rtrularix, but soniCAvhat smaller, pi'othoracic foveae
someAvhat different, antennae shorter, and joints of club smaller.
Also close to the preceding species, but prothoracic foveae larger
