222 Arthur M. Lea.-
and much closer together, with the connecting impression scarcely
traceable from certain directions, and not at all from others.
The elytra, although always dark, are usually somewhat paler
than the head and prothorax.
A specimen in the Macleay Museum, from Victoria, is very close,
to if not identical Avith this species; its elytra are rather darker,
l)ut I can find no other differences.
» Scydinaenus afrojihiis, n.sp.
Bright castaneous, antennae and legs somewhat paler, tarsi and
palpi flavous. Elytra with rather short, sparse, pale, depressed
hairs or pubescence; prothorax sparsely clothed at sides, greater
portion of disc glabrous; head very sparsely clothed, a few hairs on
each side at base, but scarcely forming fascicles.
Head lightly transverse ; feebly bilobed between antennae. Eyes
small and prominent. Antennae rather long; club conspicuously
four-jointed. Prothorax somewhat depressed, and slightly longer
than wide; base bifoveate. Elytra long, at extreme base no wider
than prothorax, and scarcely once and one-half across middle; sides
gently and evenly rounded. Metasternum rather longer than usual,
and moderately convex. Legs moderately long; hind coxae dis-
tinctly but not very widely separated; front tibiae rather stouter
in male than in female. Length, 1 mm.
Hab. — W. Australia : Swan and Vasse Rivers (A. M. Lea).
A small, narrow, species, in build close to the preceding species,
but slightly narrower, much paler and prothoracic impressions dif-
ferent; the basal foveas are distinctly transverse, rather large,
distinctly (at least from certain directions) connected with one on
each side, but indistinctly connected with each other. It is smaller
and distinctly narrower than duplicatiis and grijfithi, and the
prothoracic impressions are different. It is much the size and
colour of Sci/dmaetiilla 2^f'silla, but the club and liind coxae are
different.
The eighth joint of the antennae is twice the width of the
seventh, and fully as wide as the ninth.
Phagonophana sutu rails, n.sp.
Dark reddish-castaneous; elytra (sutu)-o excepted) and ajipen-
(lages paler. Hather densely clothed with niodei'ately long, sub-
t'l'cct. straiuiiieoiis liairs.
