Australian and Tasmanian Scydmaenidae. 22.">
Head luodcratelv luii^'. Eyes small, latero-frontal and promi-
nent. Antennae fairly stout, passing middle coxae, joints of sub-
continuous widtli. Prothorax slightly? longer than wide; base with
i)regular foveae, partially obscured by clothing. Elytra at ex-
treme base the width of prothorax, but considerably wider across
middle, sides strongly and evenly rounded; each side of base with
two rather large impressions, of which the inner one is the smaller ;
narrowly striated on basal fourth close to suture; with small, irre-
gularly distributed and usually indistinct punctures. Leffs stout
and rather long; hind coxae almost touching; femora not peduncu-
late. Length, 2 mm.
Hab. — Tasmania : Mount Wellington, in moss (A. M. Lea).
Considerably smaller and somewhat narrower than ladpennis,
with denser and paler clothing, and femora approaching the
normal. It is stouter than the following species, antennae stouter,
clothing denser and longer, and elytra with sides regularly
rounded.
The clotliing is denser on head and sides of prothorax than else-
where, on the head almost entirely concealing its sculpture. The
eyes are on a lower plane than usual, so that, although distinctlv
projecting from their surroundings, they are not very conspicuous
from above. The second joint of the antennae is shorter than the
first, but longer than the third, the latter is about as long as wide,
but with the front edge narrowed to its junction with the fourtli,
the fifth to tenth have their apices similarly narrowed, i the tenth
is about twice as wide as the third, but the intervening joints so
regularly decrease in size, that the antennae cannot be regarded as
having a club; the eleventh joint is subconical, and slightly longer
than the two preceding combined. Close to the base and imme-
diately on each side of the suture there is impressed a verv fine
stria, inmiediately outside of which there is a still finei- stria,
which is continued for a short distance beyond the first ; but they
are rather indistinct from some directions. Seen from the direc-
tion of the liead the hind coxae appear rather widely sepaiated, but
when examined from along the abdomen they are seen to be almost
touching.
I'hagonopliaiia abundans. n.sp.
(? Dark castaneous, elytra, abdomen and appendages somewhat
paler, palpi and tarsi flavous. Moderately clothed with not very
long, suberect, stramineous hairs.
1. Similarly shaped joints in the PseJaphidae are described by M. Raffray as trapezoidal.
