224 Arthur M. Lea :
Head moderately long, with a sniall and latlier shallow impres-
sion close to each eye. Eyes small, latero-fronta] and prominent.
Antennae rather long and thiin^ second to sixth joints of even width,
the others slightly and regularly increasing in width, and not dis-
tinctly clubbed, eleventh subconical, slightly longer than two pre-
ceding joints combined. I'rotliora.i strongly convex, and very de-
cidedly longer than wide; l)ase with foui- impressions, the two
outer marginal and longitudinal, l)ut partially visible from above,
the two inner round and fairly large f oveae ; the space between them
appearing almost as a carina. Elytra at extreme base the width of
prothorax, sides strongly obliquely dilated to the basal two-fifths,
where the width is more than twice that of the prothoi-ax. then
rounded, and then somewhat oblique to apex ; each side of base
depressed, the depression causing each side to appeal' like a small
projecting tooth; with sparse, rather small, and more or less con-
cealed punctures. Metasterinim somewhat flattened across middle
of apex. Abdomen with fourtli segment having a strong raised
double ridge on each side of middle, the middle of its apex exca-
vated, and with a smaller ridge or tooth. Leys long; liiud coxae
moderately separated; femora subclavate. Length, 1 4/5-2 mm.
? Differs in having metasternum more convex, abdomen simple,
and appendages somewhat shorter.
Hah. — Tasmania : New Norfolk, Hobart. Mount Wellington,
numerous specimens from moss and several from fallen leaves.
Seen from the side the fourth abdominal segment of the \\va\q
appears to have on each side of its middle, a strongly elevated
narrow ridge, highest towards its l)ase, with its l)asal end vertical,
and witli its apex projecting as a tiuncated tooth beyond the apex
of the segment. From an oblicjue tliiection each lidge is seen to 1)l'
distinctly double, with the separate parts conjoined at apex. Seen
directly fi-om behind each appears as two narrow ve)-tical teeth.
I'hayo n oph a n a h irt iceps , n . sp .
Moderately dark castaneous. elytra slightly paler, legs slightly
paler still, tarsi and palpi almost flavous. (^lothing much as in
preceding spei'ies, except that it is densei- on rhc lioad.
Head moderately wide. Eyes snndl, latero-fi-ontal and promi-
nent. Antennae long and i-ather thin, second joint slightly shorter
than first, slightly stouter than third and almost as long as thiid
and fourth combined, third to sixth of even widtli, the others
slightly and regularly increasing in width, eleventh sul)ci>nical.
