Australian and Tasmanian Sci/chnaenidae. 225
slightly longer than ninth and tenth combined. Frof/iora.r strongly
convex, distinctly k>nger than wide, widest across apical third ;
near base with two rounded t'oveae, the space between almost cari-
nated. Kli/fra with outlines much as in preceding species; a nar-
row stria close to each side of the suture on the basal fifth; punc-
tures spai-se and indistinct. Lec/s long and rather stout; hind
coxae rather Avidely separated. Length, 2 1/6 mm.
Hah. — Tasmania : Southport (A. M. Lea).
In general appearance close to the preceding species, but an-
tennae stouter, elytra less suddenly inflated, and the shades of
colour of prothorax and elytra less strongly defined. The separa-
tion of the hind coxae is also more noticeable, but the two species
are so obviously close together that it is inadvisable to generically
separate them, although the separation is certainly more pro-
nounced than in any other species of Phagonophana.
Phagonophana crassipes, n.sp.
Colour and clothing as in ahundans, except that on the head and
prothorax the clothing is denser.
Head moderately long, with fairly numerous but more or less
concealed punctures. Eyes small, latero-frontal, and moderately
prominent. Antennae moderately long and not very thin, joints
of subcontinuous Avidth, eleventh joint subconical, as long as ninth
and tenth combined. Prothorax rather strongly convex, distinctly-
longer than wide, widest across apical third; base with four
strong impressions. Elytra at extreme base no wider than base of
prothorax, but almost twice as wide across middle, sides strongly
and evenly rounded ; each side of base with two impressions, appear-
ing confluent from some directions; with small, and rather sparse,
more or less obscured punctures. Legs long and rather stout ; hind
coxae almost touching; femora not pedunculate. Length, If mm.
Hah. — Tasmania (Macleay Museum and H. H. D. Griffith),
Hobart, Mount Wellington, in moss (A. M. Lea).
Somewhat smaller than ahundans and clothing shorter, and
elytra more regularly rounded and different at base; the basal
impressions on the prothorax are much the same, but they are
partially obscured by the clothing. The antennae are somewhat
shorter than in the three preceding species, the ninth and tentli
joints are fully twice as wide as long, the others gradually decrease
in width, so that the third is just perceptibly transverse.
