526 Arthur M. Lea :
When viewed straight from behind the hind coxae are seen to be
sliglitly separated, but from other directions they appear to l)e
touching.
PJiagonopho/Ki pedu/iculnto, n.sp.
Of a rather dai'k reddish-castaneous, abdomen and legs some-
what paler, tarsi and palpi almost flavous. Elytra moderately
<-lothed with not very long, subdepressed, stramineous hairs, denser
on head and sides of prothorax; disc of the latter glabrous.
J/e(ir/ moderately wide. Eyes small, latero-frontal and promi-
nent. Antennae moderately long and not very thin. Prothorar
moderately convex, slightly longer than wide; base with four im-
pressions. Eh/fra at base distinctly wider than prothorax, and
almost twice as wide across middle, sides rather strongly and evenly
rounded; with moderately sparse and small punctures. Legs long
and rather thin; hind coxae touching; hind femora pedunculate,
the others much less so. Length, 1^ mm.
Hah. — N. S. Wales : Sydney (Macleay Museum), Clarence River
(A. M. Lea).
Rather close to the preceding species, but sliglitly smaller,
antennae a trifle longer (although stouter than most species of the
genus), prothorax with the basal impressions somewhat different;
and legs longer and of different shape.
The third to fifth joints of antennae are of even width, the sixth
is a trifle wider, the seventh is rather suddenly, although not much,
wider than the sixth, the others feebly and regularly increase in
width, so that it is somewhat diflicult to decide as to whether the
antennae should be regarded as having the joints of sub-continuous
width or as having a five-jointed' club. The four basal
impressions of the prothorax consist of two rather small
median foveae, and a longitudinal impression on each side, con-
necting them all is an impression that appears rather feeble from
some directions, but from othei-s appears almost as a deep continu-
ous groove. The elytral punctures, although small, are fairly dis-
tinct where the surface has been abraded.
The pedunculate femora, contiguous hind coxae and joints of
antennae of subcontinuous width, or almost .so, would appear to
■denote that this species belongs to Fhagonophana. Two of the
main characters, relied upon by King for distinguishing that genus
from others, are the biarticulate labial palpi, and mandibles with
two teeth and membranous edge; but to see these it is necessary to
