Notefi on A my derides. 249
Head and rostrum continuous aljove in profile; foreliead sli^ditly
depressed at base of rostrum; head and rostrum moderately closely
punctate, punctures distinct, rounded, nowhere confluent, coarse)-
and rather closer together on lostrum. Rostruin excavate, external
ridges subparallel; median area not raised, but with a narrow
median laevigata line; internal ridges ol)solete ; latcro-l)asal sulci
subtriangular, deep, foveiform. Prothorax (5.5 x 7 mm.) )-at]iei-
strongly ampliate, widest in front of middle; apical maigin with
post-ocular emargination but with lol^es indefinite ; subapical con-
striction indistinct. Rather closely set with moderately small rounded
granules, slightly larger along constriction, and very feebly trans-
verse in middle; sides granulate. Elytra (12 x 7 mm.) subparallel;
humeri strongly tuberculiform, outwardly projecting; base between
humeri gently concave, and with thickened basal border, absent in
middle; derm granulate-punctate between the tul)ei'cles, no definite
arrangement into striae. Tubercles strong, acutely conical pos-
teriorly, less prominent, somewhat elongate on the second and
third interstices at base; second with six, not extending down
declivity; third with eight, at intervals, from Ijase to apex, the last
two or three on declivity in line with second interstice; fourth
without tubercles; fifth with eight, at intervals, from base down
declivity; sixth with six, rather closer together, strongly conical
and outwardly directed ; lateral interstices nodulose. Ventral seg-
ments flattened ; basal segments finely strigose, suture between them
depressed; intermediate segments smooth, rugosely punctate at
sides, less so in middle; apical segment rugosely punctate, with a
feeble triangular depression at apex, slightly deeper along posterior
margin, depression with short, thick, setose hair. Anterior femora
with a feeble ridge beneath.
? More ovate; convex beneatli; apical ventral segment with a
short transverse impression at apex.
Dimensions : J" 20 x 7 mm. ; ? 18 x 7 mm.
Hah. — West Australia, Swaii River, Darling Ranges.
Type in A. M. Lea's collection.
Closest to T . semispinosvs but considerably larger, more parallel,
with considerably stronger tuberculation of elytra. The prothoracic
granules are about the same size, but not (piite so depressed, and
the prothorax is notably larger and more transverse. The rostral
punctures — a fairly constant feature in this group — are similar.
