2')0 Eustace ^Y. Ferguson:
Talaurinus validus, n. sp.
2 Large, robust, elongate-ovate. Black, dull; practically with-
out clothing above; sides of elytra maculate with white in depres-
sions.
Head convex, front shallowly concave, in middle slightly raised;,
profile of head continuous with that of rostrum. Rostrum short,
excavate; external ridges subj^arallel, continued on to head, bordei--
ing the concavity; median area sublaevigate, not raised; internal
ridges obsolete; lateraY l>i\sal suk-i shor.t, deep, ti-iangularily
foveiform, not meeting across base; punctures of head and rostrum
obsolescent. Sci'obes open posteriorly. Eyes small, subrotundate.
Prothorax (5.5 x 7 mm.) widest somewhat in front of middle;:
apical margin with moderately deep postocular emarginatiou ; sub-
apical impression not clearly defined; disc convex, set with large,
isolated, rounded tubercles, the central ones very slightly transverse.
Sides with tubercles smaller. Elytra (14x9 mm.) evenly and gently
rounded on sides; ajicx moderately strongly lounded ; base rather
strongly emarginate. the humeri strongly produced, tulierculiform,
the basal margin thickened on each side of suture owing to the
confluence of the Ijasal tubercles of the second and third interstices.
Disc of elytra granulose between the tubercles, punctures not defi-
nitely traceable. Suture with small granules, obsolete posteriorly,
becoming larger towards base and merging into basal border on
eithei- side, leaving a marked depression at junction of suture with
base. Othei- interstices strongly tuberculate, tulDercles large, sepa-
rate, rounded anteriorly, becoming conical posteriorly and laterally;:
second with five from base to edge of declivity; third with nine,
from Ijase practically to apex, the last two or three on declivity,
approximated towards middle, so as to be almost in line with second
interstice; fourth witli one on basal bordei-, and one or two nearer
middle of interstice; fifth with strong humeral tubercle, and six
strong conical tubercles, extending doAvn declivity; sixth witli seven
strong Lonival tubercles, outwardly directed. Sides with depres-
sions more defined and arranged in series, the interstices nodulose.
Beneath convex ; depressed along suture between first and second
segments, basal seginents minutely transversely strigose; fifth
segment witli shallow transverse impression at extreme apex.
/Jiit/r/isions. — 5 21x9 mm.
Hah. — West Austi'alia, Esperance Bay. Swan River.
Type in A. M. Lea's collection.
