2i(>t<'s on Amycterides. 251
Allied to T. !<e/iii.</)i/i()siis Imt witli largei' and much stronger
tubercles, particularly on the protliorax and on the niore lateral
elytral interstices. It is possible that a long series of T. semi-
spi/wsiia might show. forms linking up the two species, but even in
that case I think this form well worthy of a distinctive name.
'r.VLAlRINUS CARINATIOR, 1). sp.
S Large, elongate-ovate. Black; rather densely clothed, except
on costae, Avith minute, muddy-grey subpubescence, hardly squames;
median vential vitta dark brown ; setae black.
Head convex, slightly ridged on either side in continuation of
the external rostral ridges; forehead feebly depressed in front.
Kostrum excavate; external ridges somewhat nodulose, traversed by
two slight transverse impressions, and separated from head by slight
impression; internal ridges less prominent than external, con-
vergent, apices not quite meeting; median area depressed; sub-
lateral sulci narrow, rather shallow, running into transverse depres-
sion at base of rostrum. Scrobes ending far from eyes. Eyes
ovate. Protliorax (5 x 5 mm.) little widened on sides; apical
margin feebly rounded above, with slight post-ocular emargination.
Disc -with an ill-defined, transverse, subapical constriction, and
rather broad median area, free from granules; with rounded
granules, moderately large, not closely set. varying in size; tending
to run together on either side of median line ; sides granulate.
Elytra (14 x 8 mm.) elongate-ovate, widest behind middle, apex
rounded, feebly mucronate at suture; base gently arcuate, humeri
thickened, somewliat out-turned. Disc with three broad sulciform
striae, each composed of a double series of foveae; in each series
foveae small, rather shallow, not confluent with those above or
below, less marked off from, though not absolutely confluent with,
those of the adjacent series. Interstices two, four, and six not
raised; three, five and seven strongly raised, costiform ; sutural
less prominent with ;i row of more or less confluent granules, more
strongly costate at base; third vei-y strongly raised and costiform,
narrow, somewhat crenulate; fifth almost as strongly raised as
third; seventh showing some tendency to resolve into its component
granules. Sides foveo-striate in single series; interstices with sub-
obsolete granules. Intermediate ventral segments long; fifth with
shalloAv median depression, and a moie strongly depressed pit at
extreme apex. Anterior femora simple. Diincnxiojix : <^ 22 x 8 mm.
//r/';.-New South Wales, Coramba (W. Heron per H. J. Carter).
TvpL' in autlior's collection.
