252 Eustace W. Ferguson :
Close to 2\ itiveo-rittatus, but differing in the colour of the
clothing; the prothoracic granule^ are also smaller and less con-
fluent, and the elytral interstices narrower, more raised and less
crenulate.
Talaurinus posticalis, n. SJ).
<? Elongate, narrow, size moderately large. Black, with muddy-
grey clothing in depressions, giving insect a dingy appearance.
Setae few, mostly absent from elytra, of a light l)rownish colour.
Beneath with a broad, golden-brown, liirsute vitta, extending the
length of abdomen.
Head and rostrum in the same plane above ; forehead feebly
concave. Rostrum moderately long, deeply excavate, external ridges
with a light sinuation about middle, slightly thickened at base;
internal ridges short, little prominent, convergent but not meeting;
median area deeply depressed, sulciform posteriorly, widening out
in front; sublateral sulci short, not very dcej), running into depres-
sion at base of rostrum, behind the internal ridges. Scrobes simple,
ending far from eyes. Eyes ovate. Antennal scape moderately
long, rather strongly incrassate, slightly curved backwards. Pro-
thorax (4.5 X 4.5 mm.) subcylindrical, little rounded on sides;
apical margin lightly sinuate above, more deeply at sides; sub-
apical imjiression ill-defined, irregidar; disc with irregular depres-
sions and nodulose, irregular, confluent elevations, and more
definitely granule.? laterally; sides witli flattened granules. Elytra
(11 X 7 mm.) slightly wider at l)ase than prothorax, thence evenly
and gently rounded on sides; base lightly emarginate, hum<'ii
marked by thickened nodule. Disc with three broad foveolate sulci,
foveae extremely irregular and ill-defined, not marked off from each
other laterally, but separated at irregular intervals above and below
by irregular thickened ridges; the outer sulcus with foveae smaller.
more punctiform but still ill-defined. Interstices two, four and six
quite obsolete, the others costiform; first not elevated except at
bottom of declivity, where it is raised into a strong rounded ridge;
third interstice very prominent and costiform, .soniewhat flexuous
in outline, extending from base to halfway down declivity; fifth
somewhat less elevated, showing a slight tendency to break up into
its component granules, extending from humeral angle to edge of
declivity; seventh forming lateral boundary, costiform, less \n-o-
minent, also showing tendency to break up into granules. Sides
foveo-striate, foveae small, punctiform; interstices slightly elevated,
hardly costate, and not definitely granulate. Beneath with ventral
