Notes oil Amycterides. 258
segments long; Hfth segment with a median depression, ubseured by
vitta. Anterior femora simple. /Ji/iu/isions : J 1!) x 7 nun.
J/ab. — New South Wales, Corandja (W. Heron per H. J. Carter.)
A typical member of the costate section, I know of no other
species with which 1 can compare it except T. crenulatns. From
that species it differs in its much larger size, and different clothing,
inter aim itiulta. In general appearance it is not unlike a species
of Mythites, but it is a typical Talaurinus.
Type in author's collection.
SCLEKORINUS DiXONI, 11. sp.
cT Elongate, large. Black; densely clothed with golden brown
squamosa subpubescence, prothorax feebly trivittate with lighter,
elytra with a few whitish maculae; median ventral vitta dark
golden-brown; setae dark.
Head and rostrum as in S. sahulosus. Prothorax (7x8 mm.)
widely ampliate; apical margin lightly rounded above, with rather
•deep post-ocular emargination ; subapical impression rather well
marked; median line free from granules but not deeply impressed,
disc set Avith small, more or less round, granules, smaller in centre,
somewhat flattened, and variable in size and to some extent in
shape. Sides with granules becoming progressively smaller towards
coxae, but not obsolete except posteriorly. Elytra (15 x 8 mm.)
elongate, very little widened on sides, narrowed to apex from level
of declivity, apex rounded; base feebly arcuate, humeral angles
marked by a small tubercle; seriate punctures small, obscure, each
subtended by a small, but definite, setigerous granule; interstices
tuberculate, sutural with small granules, somewhat larger near
base; second with three or four small isolated tubercles; third witli
a continuous row of about twenty-one small tul)ercles, or granules,
feebly subconical, slightly more so posteriorly, closely set. and
extending from base almost to apex; fourth with one or none;
fifth and sixth each with a continuous row of about sixteen similar
to third ; lateral interstices with small tubercles, not at all pro-
minent. Beneath as in ,S'. sahulosus. Anterior femora ridged
beneath.
$ Shorter and more ovate tlian tlie S ; prothorax slightly less
ampliate; elytra with tubercles more numeious and rathei- smaller,
second with six, third with a continuous low as in the $, but a
number of the middle tubercles duplicated, fourth with five, fifth
with twenty, sixth with sixteen.
