254 Eustace W. Ferguson :
Dimensions. — 3 23 x 8 lum. ; ? 22 x 9 mm.
Hab. — Victoria, Ouyen (J. Dixon, Searce, Mellor), Kow Plains.
Of this species I Lave seen a large number of specimens sent to
me by Mr. J. Dixon and by the National Museum. All of the speci-
mens agree in having constantly small tubercles, noticeably smaller
than in S. sabulosus. From that species it also differs in the
different clothing and in the more granulate sides of the prothorai.
The median vitta in the 3 is also narrower and darker. The
differences in the elytral granulation are more marked between the
females of the two species, than in the case of the opposite sex.
Type in author's collection.
SCLERORINUS GOUDIEI, n. sp.
3" Close to S. Di.voui and with similar clothing.
Head, rostrum and prothorax as in .S'. Diro/ii. Elytra (15 x
8 mm.) with tubercles notably larger than in S. Dixoni (also larger
than in .S'. sahuloxus). the number of tubercles on the interstices 2
to 6 being 5, 21. 3, 17. and 16, on the left side of the type; on the
third interstice tubercles becoming slightly transverse, the posterior
ones conical. Otherwise as in S. Dixoni.
3 Differs from ? in usual manner; compared with female of
S. Dixoni. the tubei'cles are noticeably larger, fewer in number and
not duplicated on the third interstice, and with none on the fourtlu
Dimensions. — (? 23 x 8 mm. ; ? 22 x 9 mm.
//fl7>.— Victoria, Birchip (J. C. Goudie).
Type in author's collection.
Though compared with S. Dixoni, I regard this species as close to
S. sahulosus. It differs from the latter in the larger elytral
tubercles of both sexes, as well as in the clothing and sides of pro-
thorax. Three specimens from the National Museum labelled Wes-
tern District should perhaps be regarded as distinct. They differ
in the elytral tubercles Ijeing slightly larger and fewer in number
on the third, fifth and sixth interstices, the tubercles are also rather
more conical. The tubercle index is.— 3 5. 15, 5, 13, 11; ? 6, 17,
4, 16, 13. Their dimensions are.— <? 22 x 7.5 mm. ; ? 22 x 9 mm.
At present I think it l>6tter to consider these as forms of S. Qoudiei.
SCLEROKINUS INORNATUS, n. sp.
cT Elongate-ovate, rather small. Black, legs diluted with red;
above moderately densely clothed with minute, black subpubescence,.
and with long, black setae; l)eneath witli scattci-ed. black setae.
