Notes oil Aniycterides. 25.">
Head gently convex above, continuous with rostrum. Kostruni
little excavate; external ridges subparallel; median carina distinct,
continued as a bare line up forehead, point of junction marked by
a round, punctiform fovea; lateral-basal sulci triangular, mode-
rately deep. Scrnbes simple. Eyes ovate. Prothorax (4x4 mm.)
little rounded on sides; apical margin slightly sinuate above, with
deep post-ocular emargination. ocular lobes well defined. Disc with
moderately distinct subapical constriction and rather indistinct
median line; almost smooth, except for some nearly obliterated
longitudinal setigerous ridges; sides obsoletely granulate above.
Elytra (9 x 6) gently widened on sides ; base subtruncate, humeral
angles subrectangular, not prominent; disc convex, strial punctures
obsolete; interstices feebly raised, with a few isolated, almost
obliterated, tubercles, on third interstice extending down declivity;
sixth interstice with tubercles smaller, slightly more definite and
mucli closei- together. Sides with seriate punctures more evident,
interstices witli almost completely obsolete granules, closely set, and
indicated mainly by the setae. Beneath laevigate, with scattered
setigerous punctures. Apical segment with a shallow^ rather broad,
median, channel, but without tubercles. Anterior tarsi witli three
basal segments transverse, the second and third spongiose beneath
except along median sulcus; intermediate and posterior tarsi with
segments more elongate, not spongiose.
? Somewhat larger, more ovate, more produced at apex, the
elytra separately acuminate; sculpture similar, but interstices not
raised, and tubercles slightly more distinct. Beneath convex;
apical segment with a narrow median impression, not quite reach-
ing anterior margin, deeper posteriorly; apical margin raised and
bisinuate in middle. Anterior tarsi not spongiose.
Dimensions. — <? 1") x 6; ? 16 x 7 mm.
Hah. — Victoria, Gippsland (C. French).
Types in National Museum, Melbourne.
Two males in the museum collection, from Portland and Western
Districts, differ in the lighter, more brownish, clothing, and in the
less obliterated sculpture.
The species is undoubtedly close to .S'. obliteratus, but. if I am
correct in associating that name with a species found in the Vic-
torian Alps, the present species is readily separated by the apical
ventral segment being without tubercles in the male. The sculpture
is also more obliterated in S. innrnafus, compared with the type
5) of S. ohlite.ratus.
