256 Eustace W. Ferguson :
ACANTHOLOPHUS DiXONI, 11. Sp.
cT Elongate, suboblongate, flattened above; size moderately small.
Black. Moderately densely covered with dark grown subsquamose
clothing; with a light grey median vitta, and sqiiames of similar
colour, lightly scattered on the more lateral elytral tubercles ; with
white almost silvery squames, forming two small maculae on the
sides of the prothorax, and forming a moderately distinct vitta.
with a few macules above it posterioi'ly, on the sides of the elytra;
beneath with greyish squames lightly sprinkled over metasternum.
and at sides of ventral segments; legs with similar squames, and
with a moderately distinct whitish band, about one-third from the
apex of the femora.
Rostrum short, the upper surface feebly concave, almost flat, with
a median fovea or pit; lateral margins little raised, not tubercu-
late or angulate in front, gently convex in profile and continued
back to supraocular crests. Head with a single crest over each
eye, strongly curved backwards and upwards, the apex sharpliy
pointed ; the crest joined at base across head by a strong ridge,
with a median ridge running forward from it, and almost immedi-
ately liifmcating, tlii> limbs 'running forwards and outwards to
join the lateral rostral margins near the base, and enclosing with
them a deep fossa on each side. Forehead concave behind the ridge
joining the crests. Scrobes short; a deep groove running up from
in front of eye, on to the side of the crest. Pi'othorax (3.5 x 4.5).
slightly emarginate behind eyes, ocular lobes )atlier feebly deve-
loped. Disc with a strong transveise impression behind apex, and
a similar one immediately in front of base; with median and lateral
groups of tubercles on each side; with median area longitudinally
furrowed. Median tubercles moderately large, about six on each
side, the apical pair larger, more elongate, situated in fi-ont of sub-
apical impression, the other tubercles varying in size, not all in
line, the third from the front situated further out than the others.
Lateral tubercles large, flattened above, obtusely pointed, out-
wardly directed, with a feeble inclination backwards; consisting of
three larger and a few smaller tubercles ; two of the larger tubercles
situated in front of middle and conjoined at base, the hinder of
the two the larger, the third large tubercle situated behind middle,
Bmaller than the larger of the two anterior tubercles; a small
tubercle situated anterior to subapical impression, one situated
between and below the larger tubercles, and two situated posteriorly.
Sides somewhat rugosely strigose. Elytra (8.5 x 5 mm.) little wider
