Notes on Amyctcrides. 251)
ACANTIIOLOPHUS AN(UTS'I'ICOI,IJS, II. sp.
<? Elongate, ovate; size inoderate. Bhuk ; iiKKlerately doiisely
covered with brown subsquamose clothing, the larger apical and
lateral elytral tubercles with lighter greyish clothing on the upper
surface; abdominal segments with a few gi-eyish setae at sides;
femora wi_th grey subapical patch on outer surface, forming an
incomplete ring.
Kostrum somewhat nairower than head, rather strongly concave
above, Avith a moderately deep, narrow median impression pos-
teriorly; lateral margins strongly angulate in front of middle,
sloping anteriorly to apex, and posteriorly to base of supra-
ocular crests. Crests simple, broad antero-posteriorly, the upper
edge rounded in front, feebly notched above, and produced to a
small degree backwards and upwards, the apex somewhat obtusely
pointed. Intercristal and oblique ridges somewhat prominent, the
basal foveae rather deep. Forehead feebly concave in front.
.Scrobes ending far from eyes; a moderately deep groove running
from in front of eye, on to side of crest, as far as notch in upper
margin. Prothorax (3.5 x 4 mm.) not » greatly transvere, apical
margin somewhat feebly emarginate behind eyes, lobes indefinite.
Subapical constriction distinct, sub-basal less so. With median
and lateral groups of tubercles; intervening spaces somewhat
sparsely granulate, median area Avith a narrow^ impression, deepest
in middle. Tubercles of median group rather small, slightly elon-
gate, about six in number, with three oi' four smaller ones about
middle, more outAvardly placed; anterior pair hardly cristiforni,
situated in front of subapical constriction, the second pair bridging
■over the constriction. Lateral tubercles triangularly dentiform,
broad at base, flattened above, outwardly projecting; a conjoined
pair in front of middle and a single one posterior to middle; also
a small rounded tubercle anterior to constriction. Ehi:ra (10 x
5.5 mm,) gently Avidened posteriorly; disc with three rows of
tubercles, the other interstices rather conspicuously granlate. Fii-st
row of tubercles about ten in number, the basal ones small rounded,
the last three becoming progressively larger and spinose; second
roAV Avith about ten, not quite reaching l)ase, running backwards
and outAvards and reaching beyond level of first row, the basal
tubercles small, becoming progressively larger, the last four or five
spiniform, outAvardty directed, the apical tAvo slightly smaller than
the immediately antecedent ones, and all smaller than the apical
tubercles of the first roAv; third roAv Avith f)-om eight to ten, largest
