264 N. M. Junner:
3.— Upper Silurian Sediments.
The basal beds of the Healesville area are a folded series of f airly
shallow water marine sediments, consisting chiefly of sandstones
and shales. Two fossiliferous conglomerates were found by the
Avriter near Narbethong, one on either side of the main road from
Healesville to Marysville. The western conglomerate was seen in
densely overgrown country, at a point about one and a-l^alf miles
east of the above-mentioned road, and about two miles from St.
Fillans. The conglomerate outcrops on a low ridge trending
approximately north and south, and is well jointed. It dips east
at about 70° and strikes about north and south, and contains
numerous poorly preserved fossils. The pebbles are mostly rounded
and sub-angular in shape, and consist almost entirely of sedi-
mentary rocks, vein quartz and quartzite being most common, and
chert and sandstone relatively uncommon.
The eastern conglomerate is visible along the now disused road
from Narbethong to Marysville. It consists of exactly the same
types of pebbles as occur in the w^estern conglomerate, and contains
casts of fossils, chiefly corals and crinoid stems. The direction of
dip of the conglomerate was not determinate, but the sediment*
near by are west dipping, and presumably the conglomerate also
dips in this direction. It seems likely, from the structure of this
portion of the area and from the lithological similarity of the two
conglomerates, that they are on the same stratigraphical horizon.
The abundant pebbles of milky vein quartz are interesting, suggest-
ing the occurrence in Victoria of quartz veins, possibly auriferous,
pre-Upper Silurian in age.
The Silurian sediments at, and to the east of Melbourne, strike
fairly consistently east of north. Near Healesville, however, the
beds swing round and the strike changes to the west of north, and
this direction is maintained as far east as Wood's Point. In
Healesville township the strata trends N. 20o W. approximately,
and dip about 70o to the west. In the northern portion of the area,
near Narbethong and Marysville,, the average strike is between 20<^
and 30o west of north. No explanation is suggested for this change
of strike. Clearly the effect is regional and no explanation, involv-
ing local causes, e.g., the effect of the intrusion of the igneous rocks,
faulting or cross-folding can be valid.
The precise age of these beds is doubtful. Fossils are very rare,
and with the exception of the poorly preserved fossils in the above-
mentioned conglomerates, and certain plant remains which the
