Igneous Rocks. 205
writer found in reddish-coloured sandstones and mudstoues in tJio
north of the area, no other fossils have been seen or recorded. Mr.
Chapman has kindly examined these plant remains for me. and
has referred them to Haliserites Dechenianus, (Toppei-t, a fossil
■characteristic of his Tangilian division of Ihc Silui'ian, and which
is very abundant in the Tangilian beds at Wood's Point. The
presence of Haliserites, the occurrence of fossiliferous conglomerates
and the general lithology of these beds, all point to a close similarity
with the shallow water marine or estuarine beds near Wood's Point.
Tangilian mai-ine fossiliferous strata occur at Starvation creek and
McMahon's which are approximately on the continuation of the
same line of strike as the beds near Narbethong and Marysville.
The evidence at hand, therefore, although not conclusive, supports
the belief that the sediments to the north of the volcanics near
Narbethong are Tangilian, i.e.. Upper Silurian, in age. In the
Al>sence of fossils from the beds near Healesville nothing definite can
be said respecting their age.
Locally, near the intrusions of granodiorite, the sediments have
been metamorphosed and changed to hornfels. Such alteration,
however, is never very extensive.
Auriferous quartz veins traverse the sediments in places in this
Area, but none of them have been economically important.
4. — Petrology.
A. Granodioritt.
Granodiorite and granodiorite porphyry occur as small intru-
sions at several points around the periphery of the extrusive rocks.
The most important localities in which these rocks outcrop are
Malory's falls; the Maroondah aqueduct, north of Healesville; west
of the road from Healesville to Toolangi, near Meyers' falls; Nyoia
and in the ranges west of Narbethong.
Malory's falls. — At Malory's falls at a height of about 2000 feet
above sea level, is found a rather coarse grained, occasionally
porphyritic, rock composed of quartz, felspar, biotite and garnet.
Numerous pits are developed on the weathered surface of the rock
due to the removal of the felspar. Biotite occurs in fine six-sided
lustrous plates. Euhedral crystals of pink garnet (almandine) are
fairly common. Examined microscopically, the rock is seen to Ije
rery similar to the granodiorite described from the Macedon area.
by Professor Skeats and Dr. Summers.^ It is a holocrystalline
