26H ' N. B. Junner:
rook, showing a tendency towards a porphyritic structure. Zoned
plagioclase, having a nucleus of oligoclase or oligoclase-andesine,
and an outer zone of albite, greatly predominates over orthoclase.
Several traverses of this section showed that the ratio of plagioclase
to orthoclase was approximately ."3 : 1. One plagioclase phenocryst
shoAved a highly sericitised idiomorphic core surrounded by finely
zoned pellucid felspar. Orthoclase is present in simply twinned
phenocrysts, including a small quantity of microperthitic albite. It
is apparently identical with the type present in the neighbouring
rhyolites. Titaniferous biotite occurs as deep brown idiomorphic
plates. Some of the biotite has been bleached, and r utile needles^
have separated out in the form of sagenite webs. Pleochroic haloes
due to inclusion of zircon are very noticeable in the altered mica.
Inclusions of ihnenite are also common. A little muscovite is also-
present, but it is undoubtedly secondary. Zircon and apatite a]e
common accessories. Tlie garnet crystals, which appear to be
homogeneous in hand specimens are seen under the microscope to be-
greatly fractured and to include unaltered and chloritised biotite,
quartz, ilmenite and apatite. Rims of biotite often surround the-
garnet crystals.
Maroondah (iqutdnci , north of Uealesvillt. — Granodiorite out-
crops on the ridge seijarating Meyer's creek and Donnelly's creek,
The rock is greatly decomposed near the surface, but fresh speci-
mens are obtainable froui the tips formed from the rocks taken out
in tlie tunnelling of the above-mentioned ridge for the Maroondah
aqueduct. At the western end of the tunnel contorted, steeply
dipping Silurian mudstones and .shales outcrop. Near the contact
the sediments have been changed to liornfels. Xenoliths of meta-
morphosed sediments are common in the granodiorite near the
coiitact.
In hand specimen the rock is medium and even grained, and
consists of colourless quartz, felspar and abundant biotite. Pink
garnets are not uncommon. Fine-grained rocks (microgranite or
aplite) are occasionally present.
Section No. HlOO, contact of granodiorite with sedimentary
Xenolith, from tunnel in Maroondah aqueduct. — The mineralogical
composition of tliis granodiorite is very similar to; that of the rock
from near Maloi-y's falls. The felspai-s. however, are greatly re-
placed by scrii-itc and carl)onatcs, and the brown biotite crystals
are greatly chloritised, and sagenitic webs of rutile have separated
o\it. A fail- amount of granular ilmenite occurs throughout the
section. Near the contact pyrrhotite makes its appearance in con-
siderable quantities, and the place of the granular ilmenite is taken
