270 N. R. Junner:
varied conditions, strongly suggests that it is a primary mineral.
Although only rarely visible macroscopically in the rocks from the
Healesville area, microscopic examination has revealed its presence
in granodiorites, dacites. rhyolites, and tuffs. Its occurrence in
these rocks (both plutonic and extrusive) certainly suggests that
it was an original mineral in the magma from which these rocks
were derived. Microscopical examination of these garnet-bearing
rocks, however, leads one to doubt the primary origin of the
garnet for the following reasons : —
1. The apparently homogeneous crystals of garnet, occurring in
hand specimens of the rocks, are seen under the microscope to b«
aggregates of garnet grains associated with secondary quartz,
pyrrhotite, chlorite after biotite, sericitised felspar, and in on»
case with blue tourmaline.
2. The association of garnet with pyrrhotite and chloritised
biotite is characteristic. Rims of pennine occasionally surround
the garnet aggregates. Pyrrhotite is often a contact metamorphic
mineral, and has been noticed in the altered sediments adjoining
granodiorite at the Maroondah aqueduct.
3. Garnet is apparently absent in the hypersthene bearing
dacites; at least this is so in all the sections of these rocks that
I have examined. Sir Thomas Holland has described certain rocks
in Avhich garnet apparently replaces hypersthene, but in otir case
sufficient evidence is not available to determine whether such
replacement has taken place.
Contact metamorphism of the volcanic rocks only becomes marked
near certain of the granodiorite intrusions, and garnet is invari-
ably absent from the contact rocks, so that it is improbable that tlie
garnet is a contact metamorphic mineral.
Abyssal magmatic assimilation might possibly account for the
presence of the garnet in the Healesville igneous rocks. Cordieriie,
sillimanite and garnet have been previously mentioned as forming
at Lipari owing to the assimilation of an andalusite bearing rock
by an andesite.
Summing up, no definite conclusion, respecting the origin of the
garnet, can be arrived at, and it is left for future investigators to
make a more detailed study of the question.
(J . — Andesifex.
Quartz free andesites are rarely met with \u the Healesville area,
Tlie best example of these rocks seen by the writer occurs at a point
1 "Geology of the iifii;hl)oiiflioo(l of Salem, etc' Moinoir,^ (Jfol. Suiv, Inrlia, vol. x.\x., 1900
