Ii/ncoiis Rocks. 27 T
about two miles alnng the Don road, nortli of Launcliinf; Place.
The rock is very tough and fine grained, and felspar is the only-
mineral visible niegascopically.
A thin section of the rock examined under the microscope, con-
sisted of phenocrysts of felspar in a fine-grained andesitic ground
mass of laths and stunted prisms of plagioclase, microcrystalline
quartz and magnetite dust. Chlorite, sericite and epidote (pistacite)
are alternation products. Original femic minerals are lacking.
Recrystallisation has taken place in the ground mass of tha
original rock, and a mosaic of quartz grains has been formed.
Occasional vesicles filled with chlorite and quartz ai*e also present.
The panidioniorpliic plagioclase phenocrysts are well zoned, and
give maximum symmetrical extinction angles of 36o from the albite
lamellae, indicating plagioclase near labradorite-bytownite (Ab?,
Ang). Most of them are highly sericitised, and a little secondary
epidote has been developed in the felspar in places. The ground
mass laths are generally only simply twinned and are referable to
labradorite.
Section No. H2, from near Wade's Look-out, is a fine-grained
andesite consisting of zoned phenocrysts of rather basic labradorite,
and chloritisecl femic mineral, in a pilotaxitic ground mass com-
posed of plagioclase laths, biotite, chlorite and ilmenite. Quartz
is absent. The section of this rock is very similar to sections of
certain black andesitic xenoliths present in the dacites.
►Section No. H79, biotite andesite, M.M.B.W. pipe line to Badger
Creek Weir. — A thin section of the rock examined microscopically
shows abundant phenocrysts of zoned plagioclase (andesine or acid
labradorite). chloritised biotite and ilmenite in a yellowish coloured
devitrified glassy ground mass. Quartz is almost entirely absent.
Abundant granular ilmenite occurs, included in biotite, and in the
ground mass of the rock some of the ilmenite is replaced by pyrites.
A little epidote replaces biotite.
A Pyroclastics.
Section iitar Wade's Look-out. — The best section of these frag-
mental rocks, in the area described, occurs in cuttings along the
Don road from Healesville to Launching Place, above Wade's Look-
out. Near the Look-out, the pyroclastics are seen resting on east-
dipping Silurian sediments. The former consist here of tuffs, and
volcanic agglomerates containing rounded and sub-angular pebbles
of rhyolite or quartz porphyry. About one-third of a mile above
