272 N. R. Junner:
Wade's Look-out, two cuttings for road metal' have exposed good
sections of these fragmental rocks. The following section is seen in
one of these cuttings : —
A. — Dense, black, aphanitic asli resembling chert; width about
7 feet.
• B. — Coarser grained tuff or ash containing occasional agglomer-
atic pebbles of rhyolite. It is well bedded, and dips steeply to the
east; width about 5 feet.
C. — Partially unconsolidated, finely bedded tuff resembling a
mudstone; width about 2^ feet.
Examined under' a lens, numerous flakes of biotite and a few
grains of quartz and altered felspar, and a little pyrite and
muscovite are discernible in the rock. The tuff is ripple marked in
places, but it is impossible to determine whether these markings are
due to water action or wind. No fossils, either marine or fresh
water forms, were found in these tuffs, and they appear to bt*
Entirely sub-aerial in origin.
D. — Another band of black, flinty ash.
These pyroclastic rocks all appear to dip at fairly high angles to
the east, but they ai-e well jointed and it is possible, but not prob-
able, that jointing and bedding were confused by the author. It
is possible tKat these tuffs and ashes were originally deposited on
some fairly steep slope, but the more probable explanation of their
high dip is that they have been sul>jected to later earth movements.
Section No. HI, black cherty ash, referred to above as A. — Under
the microscope angular pieces of quartz and occasional fragments
of beautifully zoned plagioclase can be recognised in a crypto-
crystalline matrix. A little biotite is also present, and finely
divided iron oxide is plentiful. Bedding is distinctly visible.
The bedding planes, however, are not straight, but occur in the form
of waves, suggesting rippling.
Section No. H3, bedded tuff, partially unconsolidated, referred
to as D. — Microscopically it consists of numerous angular and
oval-shaped fragments of igneous rocks largely dacitic in composi-
tion. One or two xenolites of sandstone are present in the section.
The bulk of the rock, however, consists of finely-divided rock dust,
and fragments of crystals, of quartz, felspar, biotite, chlorite and
colourless garnet. The whole of the felspar appears to be plagio-
clase, and none of the orthoclase, so characteristic of the tuffs near
Malory's falls, is present. Chalcedonic silica is well developed in
places.
