Igneous Rocks. 27:^
Section No. H30, xenolith in tuff, one-third of a mile above
Wade's Look-out. — A leucocratic, porphyritic rock, consisting of
phenocrysts of quartz, microperthitic, ortboclase, acid plagioclase
and niuscovite in a cryptocrystalline ground mass composed of the
same minerals. Orthoclase is in excess of plagioclase. The pheno-
crysts of niuscovite usually show included needles and sagenitic
M'ebs of rutile, and occasionally include a little epidote. They un-
doubtedly replace original biotite. Quartz grains are plentiful.
They remain clear, although often greatly corroded. Leucoxene is
fairly abundant, and one or two twinned sections of epidote are
also present. The rock may be described as a quartz porphyry or
rhyolite. The presence of the microperthitic orthoclase, so charac-
teristic of the rhyolites, is interesting.
Section No. H15, xenolith in tuff, one-third of a mile above
Wade's Look-out. — The rock is an altered quartz porphyry consist-
ing of large phenocrysts of quartz, highly sericitised and kaolinised
felspar, and occasional biotite crystals, in a microcrystalline
ground mass. The idiomorphic outlines of the felspar and the
absence of twinning suggest orthoclase. A little yellowish-brown
opal occurs in places, and brown iron oxides are rather common,,
showing that the rock is much weathered.
Track to Malory's falls. — Tuffs are well developed near the
northern foot of the Blacks' Spur, and they can be seen at
numerous points along the track from near Lindt's Hermitage ta
Malory's falls. They are generally light coloured, white or grey,
but are occasionally stained with hydrated oxides of iron. Certain
of the tuffs still remain loose and cavernous, but the majority have
been secondarily silicified and rendered more compact. Cubes of
pyrite are common. The lapilli present in the tuffs are usually
small, being rarely more than half an inch in diameter. Examined
microscopically, these tuffs are seen to consist chiefly of fragments
of rhyolitic rocks. Lapilli of sedimentary rocks are very rarely
present. Especially characteristic, in these pyroclastics, is the
microperthitic orthoclase so abundant in the rhyolite lavas.
Specimen No. 114, track to Malory's falls.— Numerous fragments
of banded rhyolite are seen in hand specimens of this rock.
Crystals of quartz and altered orthoclase are also visible mega-
scopically. Examined microscopically phenocrysts of altered micro-
perthitic orthoclase, acid plagioclase, and colourless quartz, are
immediately recognised. Chloritised biotite occurs in small
amount. The matrix of the rock appears to consist largely of
microcrystalline silica and sericitised felspar. That secondary
