274 N. R. Junncr:
eilicification lias taken i^lace is evident from the silica added to some
of the quartz phenocrysts. The rock is a rhyolite tnff.
Section No. HSl, from near H4, is again composed ahnost entirely
of rhyolitic debris. — Rectangular sections of muscovite, secondary
after biotite, are numerous and clear, simply twinned laths of acid
plagioclase are not uncommon. Microperthitic orthoclase occurs as
fragments of crystals, much corroded and greatly sericitised in
places. The matrix is chiefly finely granular silica, chalcedony,
and sericitised felspar. Certain colourless isotropic cubes, of a
mineral having a refractive index much less than that of the
ground mass, are undoubtedly fluorite.
Section No. H9, track to Malory's falls, is made up of lapilli of
andesitic and rhyolitic rocks and fragments of chlorite, secondary
after biotite, quartz, plagiolcase, biotite and highly sericitised
orthoclase in a matrix composed chiefly of quartz and sericitised
felspar. Abundant leucoxene and zircon occur scattered through
■the section. Microperthitic orthoclase is almost entirely absent.
One or tAvo fragments of garnet are also present.
Section No. H39, immediately west of the Blacks' SjDur road, on
the track to Malory's falls. — Fluorite cubes are again present in this
section. The rock is a normal rhyolite tuff.
M.M.B.W. pipe line to Badger Greek Weir, S.S.W . of Mount
Riddell. — Ashes, tuffs with fine lapilli, and coarse agglomerates are
all present in the rocks from this locality. The agglomerate pebbles
are usually small, being rarely more than three inches in diameter,
and are mostly sub-angular in shape. They consist almost entirely
of a yellowish-green, aphanitic, pyritised rock resembling in hand
specimen the Diamond creek dyke rock. No signs of bedding are
visible in any of the tuffs. They are frequently honeycombed, and
secondary carbonates, sericite and pyrites have been developed in
them.
Specimen No. H88, pebble in agglomerate, S.S.W. of Mount Rid-
dell, is a leucocratic, aphanitic rock showing "minute grains of
quartz, felspar and a little pyrite in hand specimen. Micro-
scopically, it consists of phenocrysts of altered felspar, quartz and
a little chloritised femic mineial, in a ground mass of quartz,
felspar laths and occasional ilmenite. Carbonates, sericite. Lhlorite,
rutile and leucoxene are secondary minerals. Veinlets of quartz
and carbonates traverse the rock. The felspar phenocrysts are pre-
dominantly orthoclase; highly sericitised in general and often
carbonated. The plagioclase phencrysts are of albite or albite-
oligoclase, and are not zoned. The grains of quartz are pellucid as
