hfuc.oiis Rocks. 21 h
tisual, but are often greatly fractured and corroded. The rock is a
metasomatieally altered rhyolite of quartz porphyry.
Section No. H91, xenolith in tuffs, S.S.W. of xMount Riddell. is
& slightly luetaniorphosed granodiorite. Biotite is greatly replaced
by chlorite (pennine) and rutile has separated out as sagenitic webs.
Abundant pyrrhotite occurs throughout the section, replacing much
of the original ilinenite'. The felspars are greatly altered, but
plagioclase appears to be in excess of orthoclase.
Section No. H94, andesite tuff, from same locality as preceding
specimens. Under the microscope the rock is seen to consist largely
of fragments of andesite showing fine pilotaxitic texture. The
original biotite crystals have been replaced by strongly pleochroic
chlorite (pennine) and epidote (pistacite), and leucoxene has sepa-
rated out. Quartz phenocrysts are rare, but the bulk of the
matrix of the rock appears to be silica, some of which is chalcedonic.
Occasional crystals of colourless isotropic garnet are seen in the
section. The felspar phenocrysts and ground mass laths appear to
be almost entirely plagioclase, often well zoned.
Track to Marooiidah weir. — Doubtful fragmental rocks occur near
Maroondah weir. Specimen No. Jl, metasomatieally altered
rhyolite tuff or rhyolite, one mile south-west of Maroondah weir,
is typical of these rocks. Hand specimens are brecciated, consist-
ing of fragments of a light-coloured rock in a darker coloured
matrix. Thin sections of the rock examined microscopically show
that silicification, carbonation and sei'icitisation have greatlv
affected the original rock. The primary minerals include simply
twinned orthoclase, plagioclase, corroded and fractured quartz,
garnet, zircon, sphene, apatite and a (?) femic mineral which has
been entirely replaced. Muscovite, carbonates ('I dolomite), chal-
cedony, quartz pyrites, (?) opal and brown iron oxides are
secondary. Most of the plagioclase has a refractive index less than
that of quartz, and appears to be albite, but certain zoned sections
give symmetrical extinction angles of 22° from the albite lamellae,
indicating andesine. Massive cleaved carbonates and flakes of seri-
cite replace much of the felspar. A little secondary, radially
arranged, albite has been developed in one place in the section.
Yellow-brown aggregates and double wedge-shaped sections of
sphene, showing bright pinks and greens of the third order under
crossed nicols, are not uncommon. The garnet is rarely idio-
morphic, occurring more often in corroded and irregular-shaped
grains. Microspherulitic chalcedony, showing a black cross under
crossed nicols, occurs throughout the section. Minute veins of
quartz traverse the rock.
