Igneous Rocks. 279
Section No. H77, from Meyer's creek road, soutli-we.st of Mount
Jit. Leonard, is typical of these rocks. It consists of phcnocrysts of
<}uartz and occasional highly sericitised crystals of orthoclase and
plagioclase, in a microcrystalline ground mass of quartz, biotite
and altered felspar. The structure of the rock is homogeneous.
Radial aggregates of secondary biotite have been developed in
association with mosaics of secondary quartz and a little pellucid
felspar.
Section No. H72, from same locality as the preceding specimen. —
Microscopically it consists of occasional phenocrysts of pellucid very
rounded quartz, and a few panidiomorphic phenocrysts of highly
altered felspar in a micromosaic of quartz, felspar, sericite, iron
oxides, biotite and pyrite. One rather rounded and broken crystal
of slightly pink garnet occurs associated with a little biotite and
muscovite. Irregular shaped grains of pyrite are seen replacing
felspar in places in this section.
F. — Metasoinatically altered rocks.
The dacites in the Healesville area are remarkably fresh, and
-except for the occasional presence of chlorite, epidote, sericite and
very rarely tourmaline, they remain unaltered. It has been pre-
viously suggested that the dacitic lavas were very viscous and poor
in mineralisers; hence, perhaps, the minor alteration of these
rocks. The basal volcanic rocks, — the rhyolites, and tuffs, — how-
ever, have been greatly altered in places. These metasomatically
altered rocks are best seen along the aqueduct from the Badger
river, south-west of Mount Riddell. Here, a greenish-coloured,
compact rock, veined with carbonates and quartz are locally greatly
pyritised, outcrops. Examined under a lens, some of the limon-
itised pyrites appears to contain native gold. In the absence of
assays of the pyrites, however, one cannot assert definitely that
gold is present in these rocks. The fact that gold has been won
from the Badger creek, near by here, is perhaps significant. Ac-
cording to Professor Skeats, gold has been obtained from creeks
passing only over dacites near Marysville and Gcmbrook. but its
mode of occurrence is not known.
Specimen No. H80, from south-west of Mount Riddell, is typical
of these propylitised rocks. Hand specimens are compact and
aphanitic, and of a greenish-grey colour. The specific gravity of
the rock is 2.80. Examined microscopically it is seen that the
original rock has been greatly r^laced by carbonates, chlorite,
