280 N. R. Junner :
sericite and pyrites, much of which has been oxidised to limonite
and hematite. One large, simply twinned, phenocryst of orthoclase
remains. It is partly replaced by sericite and granular chloritfe
and a little carbonate.
Other idiomorphic felspar crystals are seen to be entirely re-
placed by carbonates, chlorite (pennine), and sericite. The quartz
phenocrysts still remain clear, although greatly corroded and par-
tially sericitised in places. Small lenticular vesicles, infilled with
carbonates and quartz, are occasionally present. Veinlets of car-
bonates, chlorite and a little quartz traverse the rock. Carbonates
are abundant throughout the ground mass of the rock, especially
replacing felspar laths. The alteration of the tuffs and agglome
rates, that occur near by here, has been previously described.
Near the Echo tunnel, in the Maroondah aqueduct, and also near
the Maroondah weir, carbonation, sericitisation and pyritisation
have taken place in the basal volcanic rocks underlying the normal
dacites.
Secondary tourmaline and biotite have been mentioned as forming
in the rhyolites near Archer's Look-out, and in the tuffs near here
fluorite is occasionally present.
This alteration has been ascribed by the writer to the action of
vapours released from the neighbouring granodiorite.
5.— Field Relations and Origin of the Igneous Rock.
A. — Eelationshijy of the gronodiorift to the sedimentary and
volcanic rocks.
Wlierever seen the granodiorite is intrusive into the Silurian
sediments, and has altered the latter for some distance from th»
junction. Xenoliths of hornfels are also common in the grano-
diorite near the contact.
The relationship of the plutonic rock to the igneous rocks, how-
ever, is not so evident. Selwyn stated that hornblende granite
passed into porphyry near Mount Monda, and Ferguson also
believed that there was a gradual passage between the plutonic and
volcanic rocks near Gembrook.i However, Professor Skeata has
Bhown clearly that near Gembrook and Macedon, the granodiorite
is intrusive into the normal dacite, and that the latter rock has
been rendered gneissic in places near the contact. Whenever the
two rocks come into relation in the Healesville area marked con-
1 " Notes on certain Geological Features of the Parishes of Geniltrook North and Naugana."
Prog. Rept. Vict. Geol. Surv., No. 8, 1894.
