282 N. R Junner:
yet, they appear to be sharply defined from one another. The
superposition of the dacites on the rhyolites near the Acheron
River, and the inclusion of fragments of the latter rock in the
former at certain places, are sufficient to prove the subsequent
extrusion of the dacites. The position of the quartz free andesites^
is not certain. They occur marginal to the dacites near Launching-
Place, suggesting that the latter rocks overlie them. Numerous
xenoliths of andesite occurring in the Blacks' Spur dacite, may
also indicate a subsequent origin for the dacite. However, in
the absence of mora certain evidence it is better to leave the ques-
tion of the age of the andesites unanswered. The evidence brought
forward is sufficient to establish the following sequence, from older
to newer —
Rhyolites and rliyolitic tuffs,
Andesite,
Dacites,
Granodiorite.
The sequence, viewed broadly, shows the order of extrusion to be
one of increasing basicity.
C- — Origrn of the rocks.
Without much doul^t all these rocks have been derived by dif-
ferentiation from a connaon magma. Whether the differentiation
is of a serial or complementary type, cannot however be deter-
mined Avith certainty in the absence of chemical analyses of all
these rocks. The qviestion of differentiation has been attacked
exhaustively in the Macedon area by Professor Skeats and Dr.
Summers, and at Dandenong, by Mr. Morris, and their conclu-
sions leave no room for doubting that the granodiorites and dacites
in these areas are consanguineous. If any further evidence i»
needed in the Healesville area to establish the comagmatic origin
of the rocks, the striking similarity in their mineralogical com-
position and their intimate association in the field may be put
forward in support of this view. Especially significant is the
occurrence of zone plagioclase and microperthitic orthoclase in
the granodioi'ite, and exactly the same types of felspar in the
dacites and rhyolites. Garnet is also present in all of these rocks.
6, — Conclusions.
1. Folded Upper Silurian shallow water marine sediments
form the basal bods of the Healesville area. Fossils are rare.
Haliserites Dechenianus, Goppert, was found in the north of the
