Igneous Rochft. 288
area, determining the age of the beds as probably Tangilian.
Poorly preserved corals and ci'inoids, occur in conglomerates from
near Narbethong.
2. The vulcanieity in this area commenced in 1 Devonian
times, after the folding and uplift of the sediments. Extrusion of
rhyolites, accompanied by minor explosive outbursts, inaugurated
the cycle of volcanic activity. The expiring rhyolitic vulcanieity
was marked by the passage of hydrothermal solutions, containing
alkaline carbonates and sulphides, in solution, through the pre-
viously consolidated igneous rocks.
3. A great thickness of dacitic rocks, including quartz free
andesites, biotite dacites, and hypersthene biotite dacites suc-
ceeded the rhyolites and pyroclastic rocks, and covered up most
of them. The latter rocks are now only visible around the
periphery of the dacites, where denudation has been greatest.
There is good reason to believe that the dacitic magma was very
viscous. Steam cavities are almost entirely absent, and mineral-
isers which would have decreased the viscosity were apparently
ecaroe.
Later still, granodiorite was intruded at several points. Subse-
quent denudation, which has been greatest around the margins
of this volcanic pile, has exposed certain of these intrusions.
The volcanic activity appears to have been entirely sub-aerial.
There is no evidence present anywhere in the area of lacustrine
or marine sediments associated with the igneous rocks.
4. It is. very probable that all the igneous rocks described are
congeneric. The more complete evidence available from other
areas in Victoria, e.g., Macedon and Dandenong, where somewhat
similar rocks are present, supports this belief. The sequence of
eruption was apparently one of increasing basicity.
5. Magmatic fusion and assimilation of aluminous rocks by cer-
tain of the dacites has taken place, and as a result cordierite,
sillimanite and, possibly, garnet, have been formed.
6. The origin of the garnet remains unsolved, but it seems
very likely that it is a primary mineral in the rocks. Its exten-
sive occurrence, in granites, porphyries and dacites elsewhere in
Victoria, supports this contention.
In conclusion, the writer desires to express his indebtedness to
Professor "Watts, for many facilities granted him in the carrying
out of this research at the Royal College of Science, London ; and
to Professor Skeats, for advice and suggestions.
