Igneous Pebbles. 287
it consisted of sub-angular and rounded fragments of quartzite,
decomposed diorite, limestone, etc., in a dark-coloured siliceous
matrix in part calcareous, and was associated with a decomposed
dyke and a belt of limestone. He concluded from the following:
evidence : —
(a) The direct association of the breccia with the decom-
posed dyke;
(b) The appearance of presumably the same belt of breccia
and dyke, first, on one side of the limestone, and then
on the other;
(c) The occurrence of included fragments of limestone in
the breccia ;
that the breccia was probably of volcanic origin, occupying an
immense strike fault in the silurian rocks.
In 1901. Mr. H. Herman^ described in some detail the relations
l^etween the beds near the Thomson river. He states that " A
gradual transition in texture can be traced from the coarse fossili-
ferous conglomerate . . . through fossiliferous shales with
crinoid stems, to highly calcareous encrinital shales, and finally
to encrinital limestone or marble." He regarded the conglomerate
as a normal shore line deposit, and explained the presence of
limestone pebbles in it, as either due to contemporaneous erosion
or thouglit possibly that they may have been derived from a pre-
existing formation. Mr. F. Chapman^, in 1907, described the
fossils occurring in the limestone near the Thomson River copper
mine. He mentioned the occurrence of flakes of biotite and
chlorite, and contorted bands of tuffaceous andesitic ejectmenta,
in sections of the limestone, and suggested that volcanic activity
took place contemporaneously with the deposition of the limestone.
Field Relations neap the Thomson River, Walhalla.
The Silurian sediments near Walhalla ^ consist lithologically of
sandstones, shales and slates, for the major part, but lenticular
bands of limestone associated with gritty and conglomeratic beds
are not unusual. The structure is geosynclinal with thin bedded,
highly cleaved, shales and slates in the centre of the geosyncline,
and more coarsely grained sandstones and gritty beds towards
the margins.
1 Op. cit., p. 12.
2 "The fossiliferous limestones and cong:lonierates of the Thomson and Tveis rivers and Marble-
creek, Gippslaiid." Records Vict. Geol. Surv., vol. ii., pt. 1.
3 For geological map and sections of the locality dealt with, vide Herman, op. cit.
