^88 N. R. Junner:
Near the Thomson River copper mine the beds dip easterly,
^t angles between SO.o and 70o, and strike N. 15o E. to N. 20°
E. ; and the general stratigraphical succession, from the west to
«ast, starting from a point about half a mile west of the Thomson
River, is as follows : —
(1) Normal shallow water marine sediments chiefly shales and
sandstones.
(2) A band of conglomerate and gritty beds, well seen in sec-
tions on the track from the Copper Mine township to the Jubilee
Mine, and also in cuttings near the limestone quarries in Cooper's
•Creek.
(3) Overlying these conglomerates and fossiliferous grits in the
Cooper's Creek section, occurs a lenticular mass of dense black
limestone, highly fossiliferous, and traversed by veins of calcite.
The limestone matrix weathers more rapidly than the fossils, and
as a result the latter are often seen in fine relief on the weathered
surface of the rock. The forms present are chiefly corals, crinoids,
brachiopods, and polyzoa, and they are very similar to the fossils
■occurring in the Yeringian limestone at Lilydale. Bedding is not
very evident in the massive limestone, but occasional shale bands
•serve to define it. This band of limestone is not present in the
flection along the road from the Copper Mine township to the
Jubilee Mine. The corresponding strata, in this section, overlying
the conglomerate, consist of grits and calcareous shaly beds, and
one or two narrow bands of black, lioneycombed chert, which
undoubtedly replaces fossiliferous gi'itty beds.
4. Another outcrop of similar black limestone occurs not far
east of the above mentioned beds. At the time of my visit to the
locality, it was being cjuarried immediately to the north of Cooper's
creek, near its junction with the Thomson river. This patch of
limestone does not extend far to the soutli, for sections on the
same line of strike at the Thompson River show that the massive
limestono is absent, and that its place is taken by calcareous, fos-
siliferous grits containing pebbles of quartzite, and limestone
nodules composed in some cases almost entirely of corals. No
igneous pebbles were seen by the wiiter in this conglomerate.
Pebbles of igneous rocks are very numerous in the first men-
tioned conglomerate. The majority of these pebbles are well-
rounded, and they are generally small, being rarely more than
three inches in diameter, although Mr. Herman mentions that
pebbles up to 6 inches or 8 inches in diameter, are occasionally
present. They are partly set in a fine brownish coloured, granular
