290 K R Junner:
pebbles are not numerous. Others of vein quartz, sandstone, slate,
limestone and rarely chert were found by the writer. These
pebbles are usually small and rounded. Some of them are well
jointed by planes perpendicular to their longest axes, and these
joint planes are occasionally covered with a film of pyrites. Un-
•doubtedly this conglomerate, like the one near Cooper's Creek,
is a normal marine shore line deposit.
The author saw no evidence anywhere of the immense fault re-
ferred to by Mr. Stirling, and he feels convinced that no such
fault exists. No slickensides or gouges were seen ; and the shape
•of the pebbles does not support the view that they have originated
by faulting. No great disturbance of the strata has taken place,
and there is no evidence of any displacement of the beds. Thei
petrological characters of these pebbles disprove of the idea that they
were formed by the brecciation of the associated dyke, referred
to by Mr. Stirling, and forcibly suggest that they were derived
from pre Upper Silurian igneous rocks. The only series of vol-
canic rocks in Victoria, known to be pre Silurian in age, are
the Heathcotian, and hornblende diabase and associated pyro-
clastic rocks are characteristic of this series. The pebbles of
gneiss in the conglomerate must, undoubtedly, have come from the
pre Cambrian metamorphics of eastern Victoria, and the large
felspar crystals, referred to by Mr. Stirlingl, may have come from
the same source.
Further, Mr. Stirling's strong point of the occurrence of the
breccia first, on the east side of the limestone near the Copper
Mine township, and on the west side of it further south, can be
explained away when it is recognised that the limestone bands
are lenticular, and are not persistent in strike, and that there
may be two or more lenticular patches of limestone not quite on
the same line of strike.
Moreover, tlie evidence at hand does not support Mr. Chap-
man's belief in contemporaneous andesitic vulcanicity. It seems
to me more probable, as Professor Skeats2 has suggested, that the
volcanic debris included in the limestones, is detrital. The as-
sociated conglomerates and grits contain abundant, undoubtedly
•detrital, igneous pebbles, and it is quite natural to expect that
some of this material should be deposited with the limestones. The
field relations do not lend any support to Mr. Chapman's sugges-
1 Op. cit.
2 "The Volcanic Rock of Victoria." Pres. Add., Sect. C, .\iis. Assoc. Adv. Sci., I90».
