Igneous Fehhles. 291
tion, and therefore, inferences drawn from the results of a micro-
scopic examination of thin sections of these rocks, must be accepted
with caution. Associated interbedded lavas or tuffs are absent,
and the igneous fragments present in the limestone can be most
easily explained on the assumption that they were derived from
the same source as the detrital igneous pebbles. No indubitable
Silurian igneous rocks have been recognised in Victoria, and moro
definite evidence than that brought forward by Mr. Chapman, is
needed to establish Silurian vulcanicity. The present writer agrees
with Mr. Herman that the conglomerates and grits are normal
ehore line deposits, and that the included igneous pebbles are de-
rived from pre-existing formations.
Petrology.
Honihlende yiieiss.
Specimen Wl, pebble in rduglomei-ate, section on road to Jubilee
Mine.
The hand specimen of the rock is coarse grained. Felspar and
hornblende can be recognised megascopically.
Examined microscopically, the rock shows very well the effects
of mechanical dynamic metamorphism. Strain polarisation has
been developed in the quartz grains, and they are considerably
mylonitised. The horneblende is almost entirely light green actino-
lite. The prisms and plates of this mineral are very rarely idio-
morphic, and are often twisted and bent in all directions. ■ The
elongation of the hornblende crystals is parallel to the direction
of foliation of the rock. They are occasionally twinned according
to the usual law; w4th twin and composition plane 100. One
idiomorphic basal section showed an excentric emergence of an
optic axis. Determination of the axial plane showed that it
bisected the obtuse angle between the cleavages, and that it was
parallel to the clinopinacoid, as is usual for hornblende. It is
moderately pleochroic, giving the following colour scheme : —
X light yellow green.
Y light green.
Z bright green, and Z>Y>X as usual.
The maximum extinction angle from the prismatic cleavage is 15o.
The felspar is greatly kaolinised, and has suffered a considei-able
amount of mechanical deformation. Plagioclase appears to be
in excess of orthoclase. The refractive index of the plagioclase is
