292 N. R. Jv/nner:-
at times greater, and at other times less than that of the quartz,
and hence it appears to be oligoclase or oligoclase-andesine.
Sphene is not uncommon as irreguhir shaped dusty masses.
Rarely it is present as double wedge shaped crystals. A little
chlorite occurs replacing the hornblende; quartz is not abundant.
Apparently the original rock was an intermediate plutonic rock.
Horiihlende diabase (Epidiorife).
Section W2. Pebble in conglomerate near the Thomson River
copper mine, is a holocrystalline, fairly even grained rock with
pilotaxitic fabric. There is a tendency towards an ophitic tex-
ture in places, but it is never very pronounced. Plagioclase and
actinolite constitute almost the whole rock, but there is also a
little quartz, ilmenite, chlorite and zircon present. The actinolite
occurs usually in anhedral grains and masses. It is moderately
pleochroic, varying in colour from light green to almost colourless.
It is ophitically penetrated by the felspar in places. Most of the
felspar laths are either simply twinned, or untwinned. Owing
to their extensive sericitisation, it is frequently impossible to
determine their original characters. Extinction angles as high
as 350 from the twin planes were measured on certain felspars,
indicating a rather basic labradorite. Interesting outgrowths have
taken place around the original felspar laths. Their idiomorphic
outlines are generally visible as greatly altered cores, surrounded
by a clear outer zone of albite showing ragged boundaries.
One interesting case, of additional material being added to a
former idiomorphic crystal of felspar at two different periods, was
visible in this section. By the first addition tlie idiomorphic
crystal became rectangular in outline. Both the original crystal
and the added material Avere now completely sericitised, and a
second marginal addition of pellucid felspar took place. The
twinning of the original felspar extends through the clear ex-
terior zone, showing that the addition has been in crystallographic
continuity with the primary felspar. The method of formation
of these outgrowths has been masked in the present case by thdl
great changes undergone by the rock. Professor Judd,i from a
study of similar outgrowths on felspar crystals from the Western
Isles of Scotland and elsewhere, came to the conclusion that the
majority of such additions took place Avhilst the felspars were
fresh and unaltered, and that in the Scotch case the outgrowths took
1 Quarterly Journal of the Oeoloffical Society, London.
