/(/neons Pehhle.s. 298
place at the expense of the original glassy ground mass. He men-
tions that in certain specimens of rocks from New South Wales
received by him from Professor David, the outgrowths apparently
took place after advanced kaolinisation of the original crystals.
In the Walhalla specimens, the latter remarks apply equally well,
with the substitution of sericitisation for kaolinisation.
A moderate amount of interstitial quartz, containing fluid and
glass inclusions, is present in this section. It is doubtful whether
the quartz is primary or not. Considerable changes have taken
place in the rock, and it is possible that the quartz was formed
at the time of the amphibolitisation of the original femic mineral
which Avas probably augite. A little chlorite (pennine) occurs
replacing the hornblende, specimen W4, from same locality as
W2. This rock resemljles the preceding one very closely. Quartz
however is rare. Sub-ophitic hornblende, and plagioclase laths
predominate. The plagioclase appears to be present in two genera-
tions. An analysis of this rock for silica and alkalies gave the
following result : —
SiO^ 52.99 per cent.
Ko 2.09 per cent.
Nao ... 3.21 per cent.
The analysis confirms the microscopical determination of the rock
as a hornblende diabase, or according to Barker's nomenclature,
a hornblende dolerite. Since the hornblende is secondary, pre-
sumably replacing augite, the rock may be described as an epi-
diorite. No unequivocal potash felspar is present in the section,
so that the relatively high percentage of potash indicated in the
analysis, is probably due to the extensive sericitisation undergone
by the original felspars.
Basic spherulite {1 variolite).
In hand specimen, this rock is compact and aplianitic, and green
in colour. No vesicles are seen even with the aid of a lens, and
in only one specimen collected was there any evidence of varioles.
Section W6, pebble in conglomerate; section on road to the
Jubilee Mine. Examined microscopically, it is seen that the rock
is composed almost entirely of beautifully developed, sheaf and
fan like, and occasionally spherulitic aggregates of hornblende
and felspar. Phenocrysts are practically absent, as are also true
varioles marked off from the ground mass. According to the de-
finition of Professors Cole and Gregory, ^ " a variolite is a devitri-
11
