294 iV. B. Jiinner:
fied spherulitic tachylyte, typically coarse in structure." The
■latter phrase of which was interpreted by Miss Raisin^ to prob-
ably mean that spherulites were visible niacroscopically. The
Walhalla rock therefore differs from the typical variolite in the
absence of macroscopic ally visible spherulites or varioles. The
hornblende is entirely actinolite, and it usually occurs as long
niicrolites frequently crossing one another. Examined under the
high power, many of these niicrolites are seen to be skeleton crys-
tals, and they very often enclose a tubular core of ground ni/ass
material showing very low polarisation colours. The edges of the
microlitea are often greatly serrated, and they usually fork at the
ends, and pass gradually into the ground mass of the rock. Cross
sections of these laths of actinolite occur in the form of small
jjarallelograms, with central inclusions, corresiionding to the
tubular inclusions present in the niicrolites. The actinolite laths
show a characteristic cross fracture at right angles to their length,
and more rarely a cleavage parallel to their elongation. Twinning
according to the usual law is not infrequently j) resent. Both
these niicrolites and the spherulites appear to be essentially con-
temporaneous in origin. At times the laths intersect the
spherulites, but often the reverse is true, and the spherulites cut
across, or project into the actinolite laths. Chlorite replaces much
of the actinolite. The felspar laths gi-ve maximum extinction
angles of 25^. They exhibit undulose extinction, and are serici-
tised in places.
Section W8, of pebble from same locality as the preceding speci-
men. This is an intermediate type between the normal diabase
and the spherulitic rock. Microscopically, it consists almost en-
tirely of hornblende and felspar laths, with secondary chlorite.
The long niicrolites of actinolite show the characteristic serrated
edges, and the central tul)ular inclusion of the ground mass. One
or two grains of the hornblende retain the rectangular ilcavage
of augite, clearly proving the secondary origin of the former
mineral. The felspar laths are usually only simply twinned, and
they are occasionally zoned. Extinction angles are generally low.
but angles as great as 40^ were measured on isolated sections.
The felspar in places includes hornblende, and in others pene-
trates the femic mineral, showing that both minerals are essen-
tially contemporaneous in origin. The chlorite is markedly
pleochroic, in shades of green and yellow. One section gave an
1 "The Vaiiolitic Rocks of Mont Genevre." Q.J.G S.. Loiirtoii. I8!K), p. 3:^0.
2 " Variolite of the Lleyn and associated Volcanic Rocks." (|».J.(;.S., I-oiidoii, 1893, y>. ir>.'i.
