298 Alfred J. Eicart :
AsTKR SUBUT.ATUS, Miclix. " Shrub Aster." (Compositae).
Otukai, New Zealand. H. Carse, April, 1914.
A native of North America, widely spread as a naturalised
alien in Victoria and New South Wales, but has not been hitherto
recorded as growing wild in New Zealand.
Atropis magellanica or Atropis stricta? (Hook). Des\.
(Grauiineae).
Gerniantown, near Geelong, Victoria. H. B. Williamson,
N'ovember, 1910.
This grass is a native of the southern part of South America,,
has only recently appeared, and is apparently sufficiently estab-
lished to be considered naturalised, at least near Germantown.
In regard to it Professor Hitchcock writes: — "The species of thi»
genus are in great confusion, and it is difficult to identify them
with certainty, until the group has been inonographed. The three
nerved upper glume of A. magellanica is unusual." This species
has at different times been placed under Catabrosa, and also under
Glyceria. The grass appears as though it would be of some value
as a pasture plant, but nothing definite appears to be known from
this point of view in regard to it. It has no injurious properties
so far as is known at present.
Dr. Stapf writes: — "The spikelets agree very well with those
of a specimen of Glyceria stricta, collected l)y Adamson. near Mel-
bourne, in 1856, and fairly well with those of Hooker's type ot
Glyceria stricta from New Zealand, except that the joints of the
rhacilla are generally longer, and the spikelets therefore laxer ;
but we have no samples Avith panicles equally loose. I wonder
whether it can be a shade form. This could only be decided in the
field or by experiment. Meanwhile the grass might Ix- marked as
Glyceria (Atropis) stricta, f. perlaxa."
Professor Hackel considers it to be Atropis stricta. Hack. var.
tenuispica, Hack, ined (Glyceria tenuispica Steud.). a species found
in Australia and New Zealand.
The ])ositi()ii of this grass is for the present uncertain.
AvENA 15ARBATA, Brot. "Barbed Oat Grass" (Graniiiieae).
Govcniiiiciit Domain. Melbourne. Edwin Cheel, 9/1/1913.
A native of Aral)ia. Asia Minor, and the Mediterranean Regions,
not vet sufficientlv established to l)e considered naturalised.
1
