Floni of Aiu^tralni. 299
Caladenia con(;K!sta, K. Br. "Slender Cfilfidein.-i." (Orchidaceae).
Mt. Difficult. (Iranipiaus. J. W. Audas, 30/10/1;^
Tho specimens have bronze to purple flowers. Bentliani gives
the tloAvers as 1-2 and pink. Luxuriant specimens also occur
with pale or puiplish pcriantlis, and they may have up to three
or four flowers.
Cexti NCULi's MiviMU.s, L. "Chaff Weed " (Prinndaceae).
This tiny plant is not recorded in Bentham's Flora Austra-
liensis, and in Baron von Mueller's Census is recorded as Aus-
tralian. In the Key to Victorian Plants, it is given with the native
plants, Init with the proviso, " possibly immigrated." The plant
was first collected in 1883 at Mt. Macedon as Anagallis centunculus,
and since then has been found as Hawkesdale (1899, F. M. Reader
and H. B. Willianison, and at Mentone, C. R. Roberts, 1910).
It is possibly more widely spread, but overlooked on account of its
small size. There can be no doubt that it is a naturalised alien
in Victoria, and not an original member of the native flora.
In Engler's Pflanzenreich (Primulaceae, 1905), it is recorded from
Europe, Asi.i, Africa, North and South America, but not from
Australia.
CoNRiNOiA oKiEXTAMs, iJonii. " Haie's Ear." (Cruciferae).
Warracknabeal, Borung Shire, Oct., 1913. St. Eloy Dalton,
Nov., 1904.
First i-ecorded a garden escape, near Qimlwola, and now ap-
parently naturalised. A freely seeding annual, apt to smother
seedlings in cultivated land, but not poisonous, or specially in-
jurious.
Cynosurus ECniNAius, Fi. " Rougli Dog's tail." (Graniineae).
Drouin. February, 1913. W. C. Anders.. n and H. J. Lindsay.
This grass is a native of Europe, whicli appears occasionally
on the shores of Great Britain. It appears to have definitely estab-
lished itself as a naturalised alien, and to be giowing plentifully
in at least one district of Victoria. The plant is an annual, and
less valuable as a pasture grass than the Crested D
(Cynosurus cristatus, L.), which is a perennial.
ujlLIBRARYJaoj
.-v
