:308 W. G. Ivens:
NOTES, ETC., ON TABLE I.
Dr. Codrington, " Melanesian Languages," p. 177, gives the
following definition of the use and the nature of Verbal Suffixes.
" The Verbal Suffix marks the word as a Verb. All Verbs have not
Suffixes; a Suffix is added to a Verb to change in some way its
signification. It may very well be that a Verb with a suffixed termi-
nation may be found in a language in which the Verb without a
Suffix is not found at present, but the stem is a Verb, and the
signification of the Suffix will be felt in the meaning of the word."
This quotation applies directly to the use of these Suffixes in the
Melanesian languages. While the same Suffixes may be clearly
seen attached to Verbs in the Polynesian languages, yet it is very
evident that the Polynesian peoples do not regularly employ these
Suffixes in the same way or to the same extent in which they are
employed in Melanesia. However, instances given Wow from
Samoan and from Maori show certain uses of the Verbal Suffixes
directly corresponding to uses in the Melanesian languages.
The Verbal Suffixes are attached in the Melanesian languages to
Verbs, Nouns, Adjectives, Adverbs, their function being to make a
Neuter Verb definitely transitive, or to increase the transitive
signification of a Verb already transitive, or to fix its action on to
a certain object, or to mark a word as a Verb. In this latter
capacity the Verbal Suffixes are attached to Nouns, Adjectives and
Adverbs. No instance has been collected of a Verbal SuflSx added
to an undoubted Adjective in any Polynesian language, and it may
well be that the Adjectives in Sa'a and Ulawa, to which Verbal
Suffixes are added, imine big, xwainxti small, haora (Ulawa), small,
are really Verbs, and that the Verbal Suffixes are not really added
to pure Adjectives, and in all probability the so-called Adverbs to
which the Suffixes are added are really neuter Verbs.
It is unnecessary for the purpc^se of this enquiry to quote the
examples of Verbal Suffixes that are given in the languages treated
by Dr. Codrington in " Melanesian Languages," and accordingly
examples will be given in those languages only which the writer has
himself added to the Table, or which have been amplified.
(1) Verhal Sii-ffi.res in tlie htnguage of Ngima.
These have been collected from the translation of the Gospels
according to S.S. Matthew and John.
Maworawora adj. broken, 7nairori to break, (c.f. Mel. Lang., p.
461); muiiu v.i. to drink, niunuc/i to drink of; marimatagi v.t. to
