Siifjixf's in Oceanic Laiigu<i<i<'s. 809
prepare. (Motu iiKttemafe ready); inafoiiki v.t. to fear (Ulawa
ma'aa, ma'au/ii); tinnnii to swallow; roronil to love, (Mota lolo
Iieart, affections): i<aina!<(iina ii. <j:1oiv, sd/tidsania/ii to glorify;
pitnusi prep, to, v.t. to see. fc.f. Ulawa lonsi, and Florida pitnnsi) ;
pululi to seal (Uliiwa puhi n pitili. piihi'i to pitch); tntauo to
beseech, fafauori to ask.
Certain Vcihs in Xgiina seem to have Suffixes compounded of
two forms; /lafi to throw, lutfiki and natihiiii to cast, noa to say, to
speak, Doasai and iioalixdi to declare. Dr. Codrington (" Mel.
Lang.."" p. 465) cpiestions whether ki in Sesake is a Verbal Suffix,
and in the following instance separates ki from the Verb sajjura,
soro sapui-a kiiia lepa, sweep away the dirt. He adds, however, that
snpuraki resembles the Mota savrag, and is used in Nguna as
meaning to sow; sarrar/ itself being made up of sav to sow, and
rag, Verbal Suffix. Since ki occurs in Nguna, a neighbouring
island, it probably occurs also as a Verbal Suffix in Sesake, and
raki certainly occurs in Nguna as a Verbal Suffix, and liniraki to
leave, abandon, shoAvs an undoubted instance of iriTci as a Syllabic
Suffix, c.f Sa'a liki to cross, go beyond, leave; Florida liligi beside,
to pass by.
(2) Verbal Suffixes in the language of Neir Britain.
Arik to split, Mota ari ; felek to peck at, Mota tere; likun to bend,
Mota luk; kolot to scold, Mota gol.
(3) Verbal iSuffixes in the language of the Gilbert Islands.
Mata XI. eye. inatai to look covetously at; boha to trade in oil,
bobai to trade; ma,\\a a branch, manai a spear with branches;
nruurti to engage in destroying, iiriia to destroy, xirubaH to engage
in destroying; okai a house for storing coconuts, okaia to store coco-
nuts; kauka to open, (Sa'a hu'e to open, hu'esi, Samoan sua to
grub up, Maori hnaki to open); )noti adj. broken off, motika to
break; biUi to go along, butika. to meet (c.f. Sa'a odo to journey
on, odo'i to meet); ua to swim, nana to swim out to; tabu to forbid,
tabuna to make taboo; ruo to descend, ruona to descend to; inoa a
namesake, inoana to name after; rao a companion, raona to asso-
ciate with; kori v.t. to scratch, korita v.t. to scratch; raba adj.
secret, rabata to approach cautiously in order to seize; bono adj.
shut, bonata to close; rabata n. the body, v.t. to embrace, rabata
v.t. to embrace; urina to remember, urinaba to remember with
affection or sorrow.
