310 W. G. Ivens:
All of these instances are tlioroughly after the Melanesian style,
and Verbs, Nouns, and Adjectives have the Vei'lial Suffix attached.
The Adjectives are probably neuter Verbs.
(4) Verbal Suffixes in tlie laiKjuayi of lioiuma.
In the grammar of Rotuma (" Mel. Lang.." p. 406) Dr. Codring-
ton says : — " The transitive suffix ki appears in the Verb alaki
kill, from ala to die."
(5) Verbal Suffixes in Maori.
The Verbal Suffixes can be clearly seen in Maori and are found
attached to Verbs, Nouns, and so-called Adjectives. They have
never been recognised by the Maori grammarians, and Dr. Cod-
rington (" Mel. Lang.," p. 181) says that there is no suffix to the
Verb in Maori. But as will be seen from the examples appended
here, certain Verbal Suffixes have similar functions in Maori and
in the Melanesian languages, though the impression given by a
general study of the words in Maori which show the presence of a
Verbal Suffix is that they are not used with anything like the force
and power which they have in Melanesia, that, in fact, they have
ceased in the main to be " Transitive Suffixes," nor does their
addition to a word necessarily mark it as a Verb. Both Mota and
Sa'a afford examples of the addition of the Transitive Suffixes to
the Verb without thereby conveying a definite Transitive force;
Mota vura to spring forth, vuras to come forth, vuratag to spring-
forth forcibly; goro to pass over, of sound, gorot v.i. to strike, come
to the ears; tale to go round; ialLuj, v.i. to turn; qoro to throw
down something heavy, qoron to encounter anything severe. Sa'a
hure'i to gush forth, Mota vura as above.
Examples : mana a branch, manai mouth (Fiji mawa a mouth,
c.f. Motu haga to gape, liagai to open the mouth, Lau faga mouth,
Mota wana to gape, wanai, a gaping, wanara to branch, wanarai a
branch); taka to fasten a fish hook, fakai to wrap round; uku to
wash with clay, ukui to rub; horoi to wash, (Tongan holo to wash,
Samoan solo soloi towel) ; pao to strike with a hammer, paoi to
pound (c.f. Sa'a horo to kill, horo'i to hit); inoi to beg, pray
{Samoan inoino to demand, Lau ino to beseech); punui adj. close
together (Samoan punupunu a cluster of parasitical plants, Sa'a
hunu a bunch); vjhawha to lay hold of, what settled, possessing;
pu to blow, puhi to blow (Ulawa 'uhi); taka to fall off, roll, takahi
to trample; aro to face, arohi to examine; ara a path, arahi to
