Sujffixes hi, Ocennic LaiH/iKu/cs. :]]:]
«wim for and get, olohaini to swim with and rarrv ('c.f. Mota fag.
^ag, vag ; Fiji caka, taka).
Examples. — muo first, niaai to bo first (Malay iiniJ(uinil<i first.
mulai to be first, also Mota anioa formerly dkxiI to l)f first);
inamafa weighty, honoured, mamaf, to be hoiioiued (c.f. " Mel.
Lang.," p. 415 : Maewo weda to be heavy, ivedei to be heavy up(jii ;
also p. 465. Sesake mairura broken, niairori to be l)i-okeH); a/a
sinnet, afaafai to bind with sinnet ; iiofo to sit, iiofoi to l)e in a
sitting posture; mawa branch, /nanai to sit astride; fnpu to make
sacred, fapui a sign of tapu, to prohibit by a tapu mark ; sapasapa/'
to take in the arms (Mota sapa/r, Sa'a \ipala); pola a plaited foco-
nut leaf, polnni to carry on a pola; fusa to be equal, tusani to
•divide equally; lavalava a loin cloth, lavasi to tie rotmd and
round; motu broken, motusi to break (Sa'a mo'u, to be broken.
mo'usi to break); pulvti to pitch, to glue (Sa'a puhi pitch, pulu' i
to pitch); mat a ey^e, mataf, to be swept away as clotids, to be open,
clear; poniponi twilight, poponi to scowl, begin to be blind (Poly-
nesian po night); inomo'e to sleep, mo'' egci i to carry over night, i.e.
to sleep with ; -s/// adv. exceedingly, xilifa" i to go beyond (Sa'a sill
to enter, sdihtl to insert); (do to cijiiceal, alofa' i to conceal;
punipuni to shut in, punita' i to stop up with anything; noga to be
quiet, 7wgafa'i to desist; tanu to bury, tanuma'i to cover up with;
nofo to sit, nofoa'i to sit and talk over news.
Verbs with the reciprocal prefix fe have si, fi, iii, a' i , fa' i, tna'i,
ta'i, na'i, va'i, as Syllabic Suffixes, and i, fi, iii, *■/, as Consonantal
Suffixes; fe'ausi to swim, fetauofi to take hold of; felaani, to go two
together; fealofani to love one another; lata, to be near, felata'i to
be near together; felamata'i to watch for one anotlier (c.f. Ulawu
he'itotori) } fetalia'i to give answer (c.f. Sa'a ala v.i. to answer,
alami to answer anyone, he' ialama' i to answer one another);
gagaiia to speak, fegaganava i to speak to one another; utti to draw
water, feutufa'i.
The Noun Suffix na may be added to tlie Verb when used with
either the Consonantal or the Syllabic Stiffix, nofo to sit, nofoa'i^
nofoa'iua a sitting; afi to do up in a bundle, afisi to carry under
the arms, afsina an armful; but in Melanesia tTie Noun Suffix is
attached only to the Consonantal Verbal Suffix. Sa'a usu to push,
iisuue'i to send, usune'lne a commandment. But if Dr. Macdonald's
example from Fate be correct, na hulutiaii nl na sunia tho plaster-
ing of the house, then the Samoan use has a perfect parallel in
Melanesia.
