814 ^y. a. IveiiH:
Our conclusion is that all the various characteristic uses of th&
Verbal Suffixes in Melanesia, with the same exception noted in
Maori., viz., Verbs formed from Adjectives by the addition of the
Verbal Suffix, are found also in Samoan. In addition Ave note the
use of the Consonantal Suffix with the reciprocal fe (seen alsiO in
Sa"a), and the Consonantal Suffix forming a Noun from a Verb,
tapii). poniponi. This last use can be readily accounted for as in
Maori l)y the word thus formed being used to deseril)e both the
action and also the name of the action.
(7) Yerhal Susies in TougoH, Tahifiaii, and IJairaiinn .
Tongan,
holo to wipe, lioloi to wipe; kafa sinnet, kafakafai to wrap
sinnet round anything; huai to turn up. Iitiahiiai to uncover
(Samoan, sua to dig, etc.); buaki to vomit (Maori />ita foaming);
mafaki to spy (Oceanic niata eye); Iionii to sniff (Maori ho, honi, as
above); anuhia to spit on (Mota anus, Samoan unusa) ; nla to touch,
alaf, to feel after the hand. Mr. Ray, " Common origin of the
Oceanic peoples," gives aki as a Verbal Suffix.
Tahitian,
iapah'h to split breadfruit (Maori to pa to pulverise, tapahi
to chop; Sa'a tapa to strike, fa pal/ to cut off); ruai to vomit
(Mota lulua, luag; Maori ruaki); mat ait ai to examine (Oceanic
mata eye); homi to sniff (Maori ho, honi); horomi to swallow (Maori
hnro, horomi).
HaAvaiian,
puai to spout (Maori pua foaming); luai to vomit; huai to
open; holoi to wash; kaluii to bind, girdle (Polynesian kaha
sinnet); kiko a dot, kikokikoi irregularly; honi to smell; iniki to
pinch (Oceanic gini, 'iiii).
(8) ] crhal Sujjires in Mala//.
Minum to drink (Sa'a 'inu, 'inumi; Nguna nivnu, munugi); apif
to lie side by side (Maori apiapi; Sa'a apie.pi); apit-kan a press;
luat to loathe; amhnsi to puff out from the mouth (Mota pupus Pol.
pupuhi); m/ilamida at first, mulai to be first; susu milk, sitsui to
suckle; panas hot, panasi to heat; penoh full, pe//ohkaii to fill;
lapix a fold, lapiskan to line; tangis to Aveep {Po taxxi).
Dr. Codrington (" Mel. Lang.,'" p. 181) says that the Verbal
Suffixes aie looked for in vain in Malay, and that they are not
appai-ent in Tongan. and that he has no knowledge of their exist-
