]6 Hoivard Ashton :
Sub-family Cicadinae.
Division Polyneuraria.
Gen. Platy pleura, Am. and Serv.
P. ^•IGROMARGINATA, D. sp.
Jiale. — Hecuh ochraceous. with a faint tint of green. Eyes brown,
ocelli red. a slender broken l)lack fascia between eyes, passing
through region of ocelli. Proiiot n ni , ochraceous, faintly greenish,
central tranverse fascia on anterior margin, and margins of pos-
terior marginal area l>lack, with broad V)lack margins to the
strongly produced lateral processes, enclosing a triangular spot on
each of these produced areas. MexoDof uni shining chocolate brown,
two comma-shaped spots in centre of anterior margin, and a trans-
verse spot, anteriorly ol»tusely angled in the depression before the
ci-uciform elevation. Ijlack. Cruciform elevation with broad flat-
tened disc, light yellowish olive. Ahdnnnui shining black, sparsely
greyishly pilose, with obseure central dorsal castaneous fascia, final
segmenr brown, tip black. Head beneath obscurely ochraceous,
frontal rugae castaneous. central frontal sulcus, two large spots be-
tween eyes and front, and two converging fasciae beside clypeus,
blai'k. Sternum ochraceous. nuirked with black, heavily pilose,
pronotal lateral margins same as above, legs castaneous, with joints
yellow. Abdomen beneath didl ocliraceous, with central broad black
longitudinal fascia. Opercula translucent brown. Tegmina and
iriiKjs. hyaline, venation rtchraceous, a little fuscous at apices, slight
infuscations al)out tegminal apical areas, including bases of same
and a series of faint spots on ends of longitudinal veins. Anal
areas of wings a little dusky. Head very slnnt. not half as long as
pronotum. as wide (including eyes), as jironotum and mesonotuni
(excluding pronotal margins), front depiessed, not seen from
above, flattened beloAv, deeply centrally sulcate and laterally cari-
nate. Rostrum yellow, darker at tip. just passing hind coxae.
Opercula very s(|uaie. just touching in centre.
I male in Coll.. H. A.
LriKjth. — 24 mm.. ; exp. teg.. 80 mm.
//r/A.— Africa. Kntel>be. T^^anda.
Pla'i'Vpi.kura siktmha. n. sp.
11 1(1(1 l)i-owiiish ocliraceous, two black fasciae lietwcen eyes, one
pasiug tlirough l)ase of front, tlie (tther across region of ocelli.
