Siiffi.reti ill Ocediiic LaiKjaages. 815
ence in Taliitian and Hawaiian. However, the above examples
clearly show the presenee of those Suffixes in all the four languages.
But there can be no (l()ul)t tliat the Suffixes do not play the im-
portant part in these four languages which they play in Melanesia,
or in Samoan. *
(8) Verhol Suffices in the Solomon Island Languages.
For tlie purpose of this Paper it will not be necessary to give
instances of words show^ing the ordinary way in which the Verbal
Suffixes are used in the Solomon Island languages; a full account of
their use in Florida is given in " Melanesian Languages," and the
present Avriter has done the same for Sa'a and Ulawa and Lau in
his grammars of those languages.
No very satisfactory explanation can be given of the termination
ni in the Syllabic Suffixes in Ulaw-a, Wango, Sa'a, Lau, Florida.
Dr. Codrington (" Mel. Lang.," p. 532) speaking of its use in
Florida with the Verbal Suffixes, calls it a Preposition and refers to
the use of ni in Oba, where it is compounded with the Preposition
gi (Polynesian /./). The Florida ni occurs also as an Instrumental,
but in the Eastern Solomons in Sa'a, etc.. ni is used only as a Geni-
tive, the Instrumental being ana or a7ii. It is possible that the
Instrumental ani may be formed from nia by metathesis, and that
nia is compounded of ni prep, and a suffixed pronoun.
Lau and Wango use the Syllabic forms in an Active sense, i.e., a
Pronoun is added as an anticipatory Object, without the necessity
of adding ni to the Suffix; Lau gonifa^i v.t. to receive; gwoutaH or
gu'outa'ini to incline the body; oalana'i to distribute; fatolama'i
to command (Sa'a haafolana'vni); Wango poofa'i to beseech. In
Ulawa and Sa'a when /// is omitted after the Suffix the Verb has no
transitive force. Jcire ho kelite'i honoiamu they stand in a circle
round you; ^«> to raise, fa'ela'i v.i. to set out. start, make a be-
ginning; and when the Verb with Suffix is separated from its
Object the ni is dropped and the Possessive is used as the Object
instead of the Suffixed Pronoun; kire ke su'uhe'i niano ada they
will completely destroy them; xwanc 'o ha'apolahd'A saewasu ana
mane i'oe chast-en not thy servant in thy displeasure.
In Ulawa, Wango, Sa'a and Lau, there is an adjectival or parti-
cipal use of the Syllal)ic forms in «'/ without ni added; Sa'a
honide^i Wango Jiontira'i full of; Sa'a fekela'i, Lau tegela'i lost,
tarau continuously, straight on, taraure^i continuously. Also
ha'ideuie'i till daylight. Also in Lau the Syllabic forms without
