318 W. G. Ivens:
the wings (Sa'a apa wing); Maori kapekapeta to flutter (Sa'a
h/uhiu kape to flutter, a wagtail, c.f. Maori kapokapa, Mota lopa-
lapn to flutter).
Possibly fa in the above instances is the same as ta the adjectival
Suflix.
Sa; Sa'a loloku to be bent, lokuna v.t. to bend; qao to do,
qaona to appoint; duu to move v.i. duu7ie to move a thing up; ata
to move, atana to move a thing slightly; Motu pisili spray, pipisina
to splash (Sanioan pid to splash, Sa'a qisi v.i. to splash, qisili v.t.);
Mota tiana to be pregnant, tia belly.
Sa ; Samoan anusa to spit (Mota anu-x spittle); po night, ponisa
to be dark; ranu water, ranusa to bale water (see " Mel. Lang.," p.
181.) Mota maru to sink, subside, maruso to subside.
Va; Samoan musumusu to whisper, musiiva to whisper together.
La: Samoan ua rain, uala to be rainy with sunshine; Sa'a 'apala
to carry in the arms, 'apa' apa wing, shoulder; Mota sapan Samoan
sapasapai to carry in the arms, probably show sapa with a Verbal
Suffix. Dr. Codrington connects sapan with panel hand. Mota
ivanara branch, may show ra as a Verbal Suffix, wana to open the
mouth.
Na; Samoan to' ana to settle down, to frequent, to' a to settle;
Maori kapu to close the hand, kapuna to take up with both hands.
In these two instances the Suffix no is probably the Noun Suffix.
Rana; Maori pu a heap, piirana to heap up; hua to raise with a
lever, huarana to transplant; kapu to close the hand, kapurana to
take up by handfuls (Marquesas kapu hand). This termination
rana is probably the gerundival Suffix.
In some of the Oceanic languages a is used as a Verbal Suffix : —
Samoan tane man, tanea having to do with men; lele to fly, lelea
to be carried off by the wind; sili exceedingly, silia to let pass; lat
the westerly wind, lata to be blighted by the westerly wind; Motu
lokua to be folded (Sa'a loloku bent). This termination a is prob-
ably the same as the adjectival Suffix a (see below under Table IV.),
Niue niu coconut, niue possessing coconuts; Sa'a niuniue tasting
of coconuts. The Suffix la in Samoan uala is also probably the
same as the adjectival Suffix la, Sa'a 'iisu dog. 'usule possessing
dogs.
TABLE IL
Noun S^iffixes.
Dr. Codrington, in " Melanesian Languages," give no Table of
Noun Suffixes. The Melanesian examples in this Table have been
