Bitter Pit. 343
0.001 % at 28° and 35° C. With larger amounts of tannic acid an
apparent acceleration may be shown, but this is simply due to the
tannic acid condensing and precipitating the starch, so that the
liquid above gives yellow with iodine. If the whole of the j-emain-
ing starch is precipitated with excess of tannic acid, filtered, dried
and weighed, the control always contains less starch than the tube
with tannic acid. To get the full retarding action, the diastase
extract must contain no proteids capable of combining with and
removing the tannic acid, and for this reason filtered malt diastase
is more sensitive to the presence of tannic acid than unfiltered malt
diastase. When the diastase extract is free from proteids capable
of removing tannic acid, the retarding action is probably entirely
due to the action of the tannic acid on the starch and not to an
action on the diastase. In addition, I was able to show that dilu-
tions of metallic poisons unable to destroy either oxidase or diastase
were still poisonous to the living protoplasm of the apple and potato
when applied externally. It is, in fact, a fairly general rule that
enzymes are a little more resistant to dry and moist heat and to
poisons than the protoplasm of the cells containing them, and hence
the diastase method will only detect a poison when present in
relatively large amount and in soluble form, and even then only
when nothing else which affects diastatic action is present in the
tissue.
At the Sejitember meeting of the Royal Society of Victoria.
Rothera, together with Miss Kincaid and Miss Jackson, advanced
a criticism of my work on the sensitivity of apples to poison. They
stated that the poisoning effects obtained by me were not due to the
poisons used at all, but to the action of the distilled water to which
the apple pulp was exposed at the points where the cuticle had been
removed. They based this conclusion on the following statements :
— (1) Prepared apples floated on distilled water developed brown
pits beneath the points from which the "cuticle" had been re-
moved. (2) In isosmotic (isotonic) solutions of sodium chloride
(2.6 % and upwards) to which poisonous solutions were added, no
brown pits developed. (3) Peeled apple pulp floated on distilled
water slowly turns brown, but remains colourless when floated in
apple sap. They conclude, therefore, that in (2) and (3) the pulp
cells are under normal osmotic conditions, and the pulp cells remain
living, and that in (1) they are under abnormal osmotic conditions
and therefore die. As a matter of fact the reverse is the case. No
plant cell provided with a cell-wall can grow in a medium isosmotic
