B'iftcr Pit 845
or nearly so. instead of turning brown. If fresli apple pulp is
pounded up with 0.5 to 2.5 % solutions of sodium chloride, it does
not turn brown, although the cells are completely killed. The pulp
^ivee even after some hours a faint blue with guiacuiii. a strong
one with guiacum and hydrogen peroxide, and a fairly i-apid
reaction with ursol tartrate. Salt, therefore, prevents the oxida-
tion of tannic acid by apple oxidase without destroying the latter.
and it is a sensitiser to the oxidase action on guiacum, which
normally only turns l)lue with guiacixm in the i^resence of hydrogen
peroxide. I have already given specific instances of many similar
specific " antioxidase " and "sensitiser" reactions. ;ind have
shown that the presence of salt affects various of the colour reac-
tions of tannic acid, including its reaction with ferric chloride.
Owing to the action of salt in preventing broAvning it is difficult
to determine its poisonous action. So far as can be judged by
microscopic examination of the cells beneath the prepared spots
where the salt solution is absorbed, it appears to belong to the
elass of almost non-poisonous salts as compared with mercury and
copper salts, and to be less poisonous than potassium salts. With
strong solutions osmotic injury is caused, but this is mainly con-
fined to the surfaces of the prepared spots.
In regard to the statement that browni pits developed in apples
floated on distilled Avater beneath the prepared spots from which
the cuticle had been removed, I was fortunately able to examine
subsequently the apples in question and to see that not only the
cuticle but also the epidermis and hypodermis had lieen removed
right doAvn to the pulp tissue. The importance of not removing
these layers is that they form continuous layers of cells without air
spaces (except at the lenticels), and hence prevent the invasion of
micro-organisms, which takes place very rapidly in water, particu-
larly if any of the pulp cells have been injured or cut, and is soon
followed by an invasion of fungal hyphae.
The browning of peeled pulp floated in distilled water is usually
due to the action of micro-organisms. They can l)e seen in a few
hours, and if the water is previously sterilised, all ])ossible .anti-
septic precautions taken and the peeling done witli a sliarp razoi-,
the browning of the pulp is very slow. Peeled pulp will remain
fresh and living under kerosene for as long as 2 to 3 weeks, show-
ing that the death of the pulp is not due to asphyxiation by diow ii-
ing. In fact, apples remain living for some Aveeks in an atmo-
sphere of nitrogen or hydrogen.
