l^ictoruin Fossils, Part XVII. .S5:^
France, Malta and Italy, although recorded, apparently in error,
from the Lower Eocene, since no Eocene locality is given in the list
tliat follows. The Australian species on the other hand, has a very
extensive range, from Oligocene to Lower Pliocene, and throughout
seems to maintain its specific characters.
Oligocene or Balcombian. — Muddy Creek, near Hamilton (lower
beds), Newport and Altona bores. Port Phillip. Balcombe Bay
and Grice's Creek, Port Phillip.
Miocene or Janjukian. — Gellibrand River (low down in series).
Brown's Creek, Otway Coast. Birregurra. Lower Moorabool, Mit-
chell River, Gippsland. Mount Gambler, South Australia. Table
Cape. Tasmania. Spring Creek, near Torquay. Flemington, near
Melbourne.
Lower Pliocene or-Kalimnan. — Beaumaris.
Fani. N AUTILIDAH, Owen.
Genus Nautilus, Linne.
Xautilus balcojnbenais, s}). nov. (Plate IIL, Fij;s. 3, 4; Plate IV.
Figs. 5, 6; Plate VIIL, Figs. 18, 19).
Description. — Shell well inflated, periphery well rounded. Dor-
sal arch not so deep as in N. geelongensis . Septa, about 17 in the
last Avhorl; sutures slightly waved. Umbilicus narrow and deep.
Siphuncle a little above the centre in a young specimen. Young
examples show a striated surface of shell, as in adult forms from
mesozoic strata.
Dlmt)isions. — Type specimen (from Balcombe Bay) : greatest
diameter, 205 mm.; height of apei'ture, 118 mm.; width, 110 mm.
Another specimen (from Muddy Creek) : greatest diameter, 80
mm. ; height of aperture, 45.5 mm. ; width, 42 mm. A small speci-
men (from Balcombe Bay) : Height of aperture, 23 mm. ; width,
26 mm.
Affinities. — This Nautilus attains to a large size, but is very
difficult to secure in anything like a complete state owing to the
thinness of the shell, and its frequent occurrence in loose, shelly
marl. The type of shell is near N . regalis, Sowerby,! but, unlike
that species, has an open, though narrow umbilicus. At first sight
it might be confused with N . geelongensis, as a compressed variety,
but the latter species has fewer chambers, a more strongly arched
dorsum, and a siphuncle situated slightly below the centre. The
1 Mineral Concholotfi , 1SS2, vol.
