:^54 Frederick Cltapman .-
sides of N. geelonr/ensis are also more strongly convex, and pro-
portionately broader, whilst the body chamber in N . halcomhensis
is higher and more nearly equal to the width, which it exceeds in
the later stages.
Occurrence and Horizon. — The type specimen is from Balcombe
Bay; collected and presented by Mr. F. A. Cudmore. This par-
ticular specimen must have lain for some time on the Balcombian
sea-bed, since there are numerous attached valves of Dimija
dissimilis^ Tate, adherent to the exterior of the shell.
Other specimens, presented by Mr. Cudmore, from the same
locality, are in the brephic and neanic stages. Another example,
in the Museum collection, in the ephebic stage, was collected by
the Avriter from Muddy Creek (lower beds). All the examples are
from strata of Balcombian age.
Xiiutihis yeelotuietisis, Foord. (Plate TV., Figs. 7-9).
Nautilus geelongensis, Foord, 1891, Cat. Foss. Cephalopoda
(Brit. Mus.). part II., p. 332, woodcut fig. 69.
Dtscri'pfion. — The following diagnosis is quoted from A. H.
Foord :—
" Sp. Char. A number of detached casts of the chaml>ers which,
when fitted together, make up a shell of a somewhat inflated form,
rather compressed on the sides, and broadly rounded on the peri-
phery. The aperture would be considerably wider than high. The
septa are moderately distant, the sutures very slightly flexuous,
with a dorsal lobe in the young shell. . . The siphuncle is
nearly central, perhaps a little below the centre. Not a vestige
of the shell remains."
The above description, based on a cast, gives the chief points
about the form of this species. Judging by the figure given by
Foord, the type specimen would possess about 15 chambers on the
last whorl, and this number coincides with the examples I have
identified as N. geelongensis in the Museum collection. It occurs
throughout the Miocene proper, or the Janjukian series of Vic-
toria, but chiefly in the form of a cast of the interior of the shell.
The shell is occasionally met with, but the beds in which it is
found are not usually favourable for the extraction of the fossil
in anything like completeness. Only one such shell is preserved
in the Museum collection. The shell is moderately thin, and the
outer layer conspicuously marked with growth lines. The um-
bilicus is apparently nearly closed; the sutures slightly flexuous.
