Victor tan Fo.ssUs, Part XVTf. 355
Casts of tlie interior of the shell of this species, from the Murray
River cliffs, show that the annular lobe on the dorsum or impressed
zone is very distinct in the earlier camerae, but become fainter,
and disappear on reaching the ephebic stage of the shell. It is
interesting to note in connection with the presence of the annular
lobe in this species, that it is also seen in another Australian form,
N. felix, but less strongly developed.
Dimensions. — The type specimen of N. geelo?i(/ensis, figured by
Foord (op. cit. p. 333, fig. 69), has a maximum diameter of about
114 mm. The heigFt of aperture is about 45 nmi., and the width
63 mm.
A shell from Fyansford shows, height of aperture from impressed
zone to periphery, 25 mm. ; width, 32 mm.
Another specimen (cast), from the Murray River, measures on
the aperture about 67 mm. in height, and 89 mm. in width.
Observations.- — This species is apparently the commonest and
best known of the Victorian Tertiary nautili, since it is a typical
form in the widely developed Janjukian series, although ranging into
the Kalimnan. Occurring so often in polyzoal rock, however, it is
met with generally in the form of an internal cast of the shell.
This is obviously due to the great solvent processes continually pro-
ceeding in and through this porous limestone. The characters and
form of the original shell are so often clearly shown in the casts, as
to leave no room for doubting the identity of the species. The
general form of N. geelongensis is like that of N. imperiolis,
Sowerby,! but is not so wide at the aperture.
Occurrence and Horizon. — The original locality, " near Gee-
long," is somewhat vague, as it may have come from any of the
chalky or polyzoal limestones within a wide radius in that district.
All of those localities, however, would belong to the Janjukian
series. Casts of Nautilus, probably of this species, occur in South
Australia, in the Avhite and yellow limestone of the Murray cliffs.
A cast of N . geelongensis preserved in the white polyzoal lime-
stone of that locality Avas presented by the late Rev. C. S. Y. Price,
to whom the Museum has been indebted from time to time for many
valuable specimens.
The small example, having the shell preserved, was collected by
Mr. J. F. Mulder, at Fyansford, the deposit at which locality I
now include in the Janjukian series.
1 Min. Conch., vol. i., 1812, p. !), pi. i.
