Victoria a Fossils. Part XVII. 357
.Vaufl/us felir,' sp. uov. (Phite VL, Fig. U; Plate VII., Fig. 15).
Description. — Shell somewhat compressed, or only moderately
inflated, with a well rounded periphery; whorls increasing rapidly.
Camerae high, and with the sutures slightly undulate; few in num-
ber, nine in the last whorl. A feeble annular lobe on the im-
pressed zone. Umbilicus rather wide and deep. Aperture roundly
dome-shaped; higher than wide.
Dimensions. — Maximum diameter of shell in type specimen, 85
mm. ; minimum diameter, 63 mm. ; height of aperture, 47 mm. ;
width, 42 mm. ; width of umbilicus, 7.5 mm.
Observations. — This form differs in many respects from any other
known Victorian species. Its salient characters are — its com-
pressed form compared with N . halcombensis and N . geelongensis,
the wide umbilicus, and the small number of camerae in each
whorl.
Occurrence and Horizon. — Happy Valley, South Australia
(Magellania j)ectoralis beds)2 Janjukian (Miocene). Type speci-
men in the Dennant coll.
DIBRANCHIATA.
Fam. Sepiophoridae.
Genus Notosepla, gen. nov.
Notosepia cliftonensis, sp. nov. (Plate VII., Figs. 16, 17; Plate VIII.,
Figs. 20-22).
Description. — Shell or sepion large and comparatively thick,
but variable in the latter respect, according to habitat; triangu-
lary ovate in ventral aspect. Alveolus moderately deep, filling up
with age. Ventral lip of alveolar border recurved, and sometimes
quite pendent; inner surface of lip radiately grooved or fluted.
Back and sides of sepion coarsely reticulated or labyrinthic, and
spongy. Vestigial septation of the internal surface of the pro-
ostracum faintly marked, but stronger than in the living Sepia.
Pro-ostracum strongly convex dorsally, at the anterior end be-
coming depressed and marked with strongly-arched lamellar
growth-lines. Mucro thick, cylindrical, and bluntly terminated;
in fully grown specimens directly in line with the back of the pro-
ostracum, but in younger specimens having a slight tendency to
recurve.
1 Name sujfgested by its oociyrence at Happy Valley.
•2 For notes on this deposit see H. Basedow, Trans. R. Soc. S.A., vol. xxviii., 1904, p. 248.
15
