Three New African Cicadaf^. 17
Eyva l)r(i\\ii. I'rointt mii brownish oehruL-eous, iinmacvilate.
Mf'sdiiot mil . Idownish ochvaceous, with four sti-oiifrly dcfiiuMl
black ulvdiiiial spots, the inner pair shorter, brownish spots at
anterior angles of and on centre of disc of cruciform elevation.
Abdomen V)lack, shading at lateral edges and tip to an obscure
castaneous. Body beneath brownish ochraceous. Ttgmina all grey-
ish fuscous and oj^aque, except for a hyaline fascia across bases of
apical areas, and another, including upper discoidal area and
portion of second. SjDot behind costa. small spots in apices of apical
areas, and margin, also hyaline. Wiiif/s Avith basal third and anal
area yellow, central third deep fuscous, and apical margin, Avhicii
is very broad, hyaline. Head equal in width to mesonotum. short,
obtusely convex, front not prominent, pronotal margins narrow and
not produced laterally; head, pronotum and mesonotum about equal
in length to abdomen. Face flattened, rostrum just reaching hind
coxae. Opercula, broadly rounded posteriorly, not quite meeting
centrally. Seven males in Coll. H. A.
Le/if/t/i. — 13-15 mm. ; exp. teg., 37-40 mm.
I/ah. — Central Africa. Sikumba.
Platypi.euha longirostris, n. sp.
Head, dull ochraceous. base of front in two bright yellow spots,
followed by a fine black fascia. Black fascia between eyes, includ-
ing area of ocelli and broken between ocelli and eyes, and surround
a dull ochraceous spot. Eyes brown. Pronotum dull ochraceous,
incisures and spot before posterior margin blackish. Spot on
anterior angles of pronotal lateral margins, which are fairly ampli-
ate and rounded, black. Mesonotum ochraceous, two central obconi-
cal spots, on each side a longer fascia extending over almost whole
of lateral areas, between the two central spots a fine line joining
with a large black area before the cruciform elevation ; all black,
cruciform elevation shining yellow. Abdomen black, tympanal
coverings dull castaneous. penultimate segment of abdomen above
covered, except for central dorsal line, with white tomentum.
Tegmiiia warm fuscous, marked with several white spots, of whiel
the most prominent are. two in radial area, one in third discoidal
area, one in eighth apical area, and one at apex of fifth apical area.
Wings reddish yellow, evenly margined with piceous, white spot
on margin just outside anal area, which is all yellow. Body beneath
almost uniformly dull brown, central sulcus to face, tip of rostrum.
3
