Aasfr(difey< jroni Western Victoria, 363
A/)/)earafice of Aifstralife.
General cliaraoteis. — Tlie speciinen is sliaped somewhat like a
pine-seed, being elliptical in outline, flat above, convex below, and
tapering at its edge to a thin flange, which is flat at the extremities
of the specimen, and curved back on the middle part of the upper
surface. The flange has l)een slightly chipped near each extremity.
The colour of the australite ranges from light yellow in the thin
flange, thvougli bottle-green to black, but even the thickest part is
translucent.
Fhif (ir upper surface.
Examiifed under the microscope Avith a 2-inch objective, numer-
ous small pits of hemispherical shape are noticed on the middle
part of the upper surface. Near the flange these pass into semi-
cylindrical grooves, which are recurved at the junction with the
flange. The recurving is in opposite directions on opposite sides
of the central part of the flange. Near the extremities of the longer
axis of the specimen tlie grooves run out into the flange parallel to
the longer axis of the specimen. This recurving of the grooves
alluded to above is what would be expected to occur if they were"
formed while the glass was still plastic and rotating about an axis at
right angles to the flat or upper side, while the turning upwards of
the central part of the flange might be expected to occur in a plastic
body as a result of resistance from the air, Avhile the body was mov-
ing in the direction of the assumed axis of rotation.
Convex or lower surface.
Pits and grooves are also noticed on this surface of the speci-
men. In the middle of the specimen they are hemispherical, at
the margins of the central part they become semi-elliptical to semi-
cylindrical, and in the flange, especially at the extremities of the
longer axis, they are drawn out to linear grooves.
Examination of interior of Australite.
For this purpose the australite Avas immersed in water in a
watch glass, and examined under the microscope.
The specimen shows no sign of crystals or incipient crystals;
it is completely glassy. In polarised light the central parts are
completely isotropic, but the marginal parts, especially the thin
part of the flange, exhibit grey to Avhite polarization colours, in-
dicating the existence of a state of sti-ain in the glass of the mar-
gin and flange of the australite.
