Auatralites from. Wo^tern Victoria. 365
Examitiafion of interior of Ausiralite.
The australite Avas immersed in water in a watch glass, and
examined under the microscope.
The specimen is completely glassy, showing neither crystallites
or microlites, and is completely isotropic, except for slight strain
polarization effects at the thin ends of the australite.
Disc-shaped Australite presented by Mr. Charles D' Alton to
Geological Museum of the U niversity.
Measurements. — The weight determined by the chemical balance
is .3184 grams.
The specific gravity determined by Joly's spring balance is 2.41.
Length of australite is 13 mm. or |^ inch.
Breadth of australite is 11.8 mm. or ?,# inch.
Maximum thickness is 1.2 mm. or ^^ inch.
Length of australite, excluding the flange, is 5.2 mm. or ^f inch.
Breadth of australite, excluding the flange, is 45 mm. or ^-^
inch.
Appearance of Australite.
The specimen is approximately disc-shaped, and almost circu-
lar in outline. It is dark bottle-green in colour, and quite trans-
lucent, owing to its thinness. The flange is much broader, and
slighter thicker than the central portion. The edge of the flange is
perfect, except for a small chip. It is smooth, except for small
pits and quite clearly could never have formed a portion de-
tached from a glass bubble.
Upper Surface. — The whole surface is crowded with minute pits,
some hemispherical in shape, some shallower, and many are con-
fluent at their edges. In addition shallow grooves are seen form-
ing a closed, roughly elliptical curve tangent at one point to the
central portion, and passing out to neai- the margin of one part
of the flange. The junction of the flange with the central portion
is depressed, and the flange as a whole is thicker than the central
portion.
Lower Surface. — The lower surface is almost flat. It is covered
with minute pits, and in the central portion with sub-parallel
grooves trending in the direction of the longer axis of the speci-
men. These grooves, however, fail to reach the margin of the
flange.
