Agglutination l^cst in Abortion. ;>/ I
In this section will be found results of eertaiu researches con-
ducted on diajjnosis from specimens of uterine exudate and of
whey.
When triiei/ has been used the a<i:glutination test alone has l)een
applied to it.
When usi/u/ e.ru<I(ite} tlic /ncdiis dvaildhle in t/ie Iio/ids of fhe
bacteriolo(jiitt are : —
(1) ]\Iicrf)Scopical examination.
(2) Cultures.
(3) Inoculation of animals.
(4) Agglutination test; and
(5) Complement fixation test.
1. Microscojncal examination . — To a person who is in the habit
of frequently examining specimens containing the bacilhis abortus
the diagnosis presents no great difficulties, especially if the organ-
isms are plentiful and typically arranged. On the other hand
there are met with in vaginal or uterine material bacteria which
simulate more or less the B. abortus, and here the other tests aid
to confirm the diagnosis.
2. Cultures. — For these to be satisfactory, the materfal should
be as free as possible from contamination by other organisms. In
Australia a cow is frequently at grass wdien abortion takes place,
and may have aborted some days before the stockman sees her.
The discharge in such cases is sure to be badly contaminated.
Also, the discharge should obviously not contain any antiseptic.
It sometimes happens that one is called upon to examine material
from a cow which has been syringed out with lysol, the specimen
smelling strongly of the antiseptic. For these reasons this method
is of very limited application.
3. Inoculation of Animals. — The remai'ks made about contamina-
tion and antiseptics under the last heading apply equally here.
Nevertheless, this method of diagnosis has been used here with
success, guinea-pigs being used. Owing to the length of time before
marked lesions develop one resorts to the agglutination test of the
blood serum of the guinea-pig to determine whether infection by
the specific organism has taken place.
4. Agglutination Test. — This has proved valuable in diagnosing
a sample of exudate, in which the microscopical findings were
doubtful, and where, on account of great containination, cultures
were not obtained.
1 The word exudate is used throughout to mean vaginal discharge oontainiiiy- uterine exudate.
