:'>72 H. R. Seddon :
It has been found very delicate, as little as 0.0025 c.c. of exud-
ate causing agglutination. From one of these positive cases the
blood serum, secured 16 days later than the exudate and 17 days
after abortion, gave an exactly similar agglutinating titre to the
exudate. (See Cow II., " Bluey.")
Further, exudate may be kept until it is fairly swarming with
bacteria, and yet show little loss of agglutinant action. Also
exudate diluted with carbolised saline (10% of exudate in saline
containing 0.5% of carbolic acid) shows little loss of agglutinating
bodies.
Exudate from a healthy cow which calved at the Institute was
tested, and even in an amount of 0.25 c.c, failed to give any
agglutination.
5. Coinjdement Fixation Test. — No opportunity has presented
itself of applying this test to exudate, but, judging from the re-
sults with the agglutination test on this material, there seems to
be no reason why it should not be of use for diagnostic purposes. ^
Details of Cows.
I. Normal Cow. — This animal was kept at the Institute in con-
nection with another experiment. She calved, after the usual signs
of on-coming parturition, the offspring being of full size, and
vigorous.
Exudate secured the day she calved gave no agglutination with
0.25 c.c.
Whey from milk taken eleven days after calving gave a positive
agglutination with 0.25 c.c, but a negative with 0.05 c.c.
II. Cow, " Bluey." — Detailed history not available. Aborted
on 1st September, 1913. Exudate — in appearance typical of the
disease — was secured from the vagina next day. It Avas tested four
days later, and agglutinated at 0.15 c.c, this being the smallest
quantity used. Twelve days later the end-point was determined
to be 0.0025 c.c, the material used in this test having been left
in the bottle and being now fairly putrid. At the same liime
material which had been diluted with carbolised saline twelve days
ago now gave a reaction with 0.005 c.c
Microscopical exainination of exudate showed long chains of
bacilli, streptococci, and also some clumps of bacilli the siae of B.
1 An opportunity has since presented itself of testing:, by the Complement Fixation method, a
''ample of vapinal exudate from a cow which had recently aborted. The result was positive, thus
showing- that tlie test may l)e .ilso availed of for diagnosis as is suggested al)ove.
