AggiiUiudfion Ted in Abortion. 373
ff/ji/iosus. Smears from plat'ontal membi-am.' showed streptobacilli
and strept(K(tcri. as above. Neither specimen showed bacilli which
tduhl be detiiutely recognised as tlie l)acilli of contagious abortion.
Cii/fiirex of the 7i. ahortns were not obtained, the tubes being over-
grown by the other organisms present.
III. Cow, " Baptist."— Aborted on 22nd June, 1914. Exudate,
secured from the vagina two days later, gave agglutination with
0.0025 CO. Microscopical ejamination of c.rudate showed numerous
organisms morphologically like B. abort ax.
Inoculation of Aniniah. — Guinea-pig \'t^^ was inoculated sub-
cutaneously with exudate, and its serum, tested nine days later,
gave no agglutination ; 10 days after irjoculation a positive agglu-
tination was obtained with 0.15 c.c. of serum; 76 days after inocu-
lation 0.0025 c.c. of serum gave a positive agglutination; 95 days
after inocidation the animal was killed.
I'ost-morteni E.raniinafion. — Animal in good condition and all
organs apparently normal, except the spleen, which showed a nodu-
lar appearance externally and on section numerous very small
greyish foci, which looked rather more like enlarged and prominent
malpighian bodies than foci of necrotic material. On smears, no
organisms could be detected.
Guinea-pig 489, inoculated intraperitoneally with exudate, was
tested 40 days after inoculation, when the serum gave a positive
agglutination reaction.
IV. Cow. "Garfish." — Calved 5th July, 1914, not being due
till the I7tli of the same month, but the owner remarks: "Calf
full size, but dead." Exudate w'as secured two days after parturi-
tion, and gave no agglutination when tested, using 0.05 c.c.
Microscopical era mi not ion of exudate failed to demonstrate the
presence of B. abortus, and ciiltures gave negative results.
Animals Inoculated. — Guinea-pig 491, inoculated intraperitone-
ally with exudate, was tested three times (the last test ll.'i days
after inoculation), the serum giving no agglutination. Guinea-pig
492, inoculated subcutaneously with exudate, tested one month
after inoculation, gave a similar negative residt.
Whey from milk collected eight days after calving, gave a nega-
tive result with 0.05 c.c.
2. Technique Employed.
In the following pages details of the technique employed in the
use of all the materials examined are given with a view to a
