Agglittinatlon Test in Abort to ti.
Thus the series of tubes contain : —
A.
B.
(.'.
L>.
Whey -
-
O.l
0.02
.
0.01
0.005 c.c.
Emulsion
0.5
0.5
-
n.5
O.o c.c.
Saline -
-
0.9
0.98
-
0.99
0.995 c.c.
The tubes are then shaken and put in the incubator till next
<lay, when the results are read. Further incubation shows littlr
alteration, a tube showing " partial " agglutination — i.e., small
deposit, with no "clearing" of the supernatant fluid at the end
18 to 24 hours, may be complete at the end of 36 to 48 hours.
Whey, from milk Avhich had been kept 20 days at room tempera-
ture, and clotted naturally, has also been tested, when it was
found that this bacterially-produced whey exhibited the same tit re
as the wliolr milk.
A large number of experiments with whey have been performed,
Ijut as yet no conclusion has been come to as regards the limiting
titres upon which a diagnosis may be made. It has be(en found
that the agglutinins in Avhey increase and decrease in much the
same manner as they do in blood serum. The work to date has
been chiefly among cows on a property where the disease has been
in existence for a number of years, but where the abortions, since
the investigations commenced, have been very few — not sufficient
to warrant a definite opinion as to the comi3arative value of whey
versus serum. Sufficient has been done, however, to warrant inves-
tigation of the value of whey as a material for diagnosis by other
workers.
b. — Collect inn of Senini from Cattle and Guiuea-iiir/s.
Occurretice of the Agglutinins in the Blood of Steers.
Cattle. — Undoubtedly the most satisfactory method of obtain-
ing serum in large quantities is by bleeding from the jugular vein.
but as this method takes some time, and often necessitates the cast-
ing of the animal, another and simpler method is required where
only small quantities of blood, suflicient for diagnostic purposes,
are required.
It has been found that such may be best obtained from the small
artery which runs with the vein extending along the centre of the
dorsum of the ear. This vein is the most prominent and is easily
found. The hair is clipped off, and an incision is made across the
vein and the artery at a point about mid-way betwen the tip and the
base of the ear. The artery may not te cut at the first incision, as
16a
