:{70 H. R. Seddon:
it usually lies underneath the vein, and a second rather free inci-
sion may be necessary. From this the blood spurts or drips freely,
and 5 to 10 c.c. can be collected in a test-tube. The blood is allowed
to clot, the clot loosened from the sides of the tube for about two-
thirds of its attachment, and the tube inverted in a conical urine
test-glass. After allowing this to stand for some hours, the serum
may be collected free from corpuscles.
Guinea-pigs. — The following method has been found satisfactory
for obtaining small. quantities of serum for diagnostic purposes: —
Centrifuge tubes are put up, containing 2 c.c. of citrated carbol
saline (Sod. chlor. 0.85, Sod. cit. 1, Ac. Carb. liq. 0.5, water 100).
The margin of the ear of the guinea-pig is then incised with the
scissors and held dependant. There is a .small artery in this region
from which, if it has been cut, the blood drips freely. Six drops
of blood are collected in the prepared tubes. If we assume that
six drops of blood are equal to 0.3 c.c, then we should have about
0.2 c.c. of serum in each tube, or a dilution of 1 in 10.
The tubes are shaken, centrifugalised, and the supernatant fluid
pipetted off and tested in various quantities. Though not quite
accurate, this method is sufficiently so for determining whether
the animal is harbouring the bacilli, as, for example, those animals
inoculated with vaginal exudate or milk fiom suspected cows.
Healthy, non-inoculated guinea-pigs have invariably given a nega-
tive reaction, even with 0.1 c.c. of pure serum (?'.<?., 1 c.c. of the
citrated saline mixture), whereas some of our reacting guinea-pigs
have given an agglutinating titre of 0.005 c.c, and in one cas©
of 0.0005 c.c
E.ra/ni/iafioii of the Blood of Steers.
Because of the large number of cows which give a positive
agglutination reaction it is important to determine whether agglu-
tination of the Contagious Abortion bacillus is brought about by
normal ox serum, and, if at all, to what extent. With a view to
obtaining information on this point, experiments have been con-
ducted Avith the serum of male animals never used for breeding.
The following experiments have been made with the serum of
steers. The animals were for human consumption, and the blood
was taken, immediately upon slaughter at the abattoirs, into
a bottle containing a small quantity of strong (20%) citrate solu-
tion. The serum was obtained by centrifugalising and tested as
follows : —
