Agglvfhiation Text in Ahortioii. oB-f
<iuaiititv of ililuted soniui, heiift' it is advisahU' to n-for to the-
agglutinating titre of a serum as " so many cul)ic (.-(.'iitinietres of
serum,'" and not us " up to a dilution of such and such." Foi-
the statement of the dilution to ho of any guide to other workers
this must be supplemented by a statement referring not only to th&
actual amount of diluted serum used, but to the actual quantity
of emulsion used also.
Adopting the suggested method — i.e.^ the statement of the exact
Huantity of serum used, the amount of emulsion used is the only
supplementary factor required to be known, for, as is shown by
these experiments, and by the following section, the amount of
emulsion markedly and in a regular manner affects the agglutina-
tion titre.
b. — Influence of Qtia/it/f// of Emulsion on Agglutination.
Also a note on a peculiar it >/ of agglutination.
As is indicated in the experiments in sub-section (a) of section 5
of this paper, the quantity of emulsion present in a tube in which
there is a certain definite amount of serum (or, in other words,
the proportion between the amount of emulsion and the amount
of serum), has a bearing on whether that particular quantity of
serum will show agglutination of the bacilli or not.
whereas with 0.05 c.c. of emulsion (Standard 10 X) agglutination
The tests, la. and lb. (see Conclusion 3, page 382), showed that
occurred with quantities of serum varying from 0.006 c.c. up, with
0.1 c.c. of the same emidsion the smallest quantity of serum to giver
agglutination was 0.02 c.c.
To further elucidate this relationship, a large number of tubes,
with varying proportions of emulsion and serum, were put up as
indicated in the table (Table 2), in which the results are also
shown. On account of the wide range in quantities over which
the experiment Avas made, various concentrations of serum and of
emulsion were used in actually making the test.
These basal dilutions Avere : —
Of Serum : — 1 in 5. 1 in 50, and 1 in 500.
Of Emulsion: — A standard suspension "X," and also one
standardised to 10 X — i.e., 10 times as strong.
The quantities of emulsion used are stated throughout the table
in terms of standard X enmlsion, but for those tubes shown in
the table as containing 1 c.c. and over of standard X emulsion, the
10 X emulsion was used; the amounts of this (standard 10 X) that
