New and Rare Fossils. 39
Cythp:re pakallklo<;kamma, G. S. Brady. (Plate VII., Fig. 22).
Cythere pardUfhxjraiiinia, G. S. Brady, 1880, Rep. Chall.
Zool., vol. i., pt. iii., p. 82, pi. xv., figs. \a-e. Egger,
1901, Abhaiull. d. k. haver. Akad. Wiss., vol. xxi.,
abth. ii., p. 442, pi. vi.. figs. 15, 16.
Ohserratio/is. — Originally dredged off Prince Edward's Island
in the Southern Ocean at 50-150 fathoms, this species has lately
been found by the writer in a sounding off Cape Wiles, S. Aus-
tralia at 100 fathoms. Dr. Egger recorded it from the West
African coast, and it has lately t>ccurred as a Pleistocene fossil in
the Antarctic.
This species shows a considerable amount of variation, the orna-
ment in some specimens becoming granulate at the intersection of
the reticulations, whilst the carapace may be more inflated. It
seems to link on to Cythere wyville-thomsoni by annectant
characters.
Occurrence. — Bore 9, 315-325 feet (Kalimnan or Janjukian).
Bore 10. 195-225 feet (Janjukian).
Cytheke postdeclivis, sp. nov. (Plate VIT., Figs. 23a, 6).
DeKcripfion. — Shell, seen from the side, oblong ovate, highest in
the anterior third, with parallel sides and broad recurved anterior
end, which projects towards the ventral margin, and is roundly
truncate at the dorsal angle; posterior extremity bluntly acuminate.
In edge view, the carapace is tumid, depressed in the median area,
steeply falling fore and aft to the extremities, the posterior being
deeply impressed, and often with a fossa in the central area. Sur-
face-ornament consisting of cancellated and vermiform depressions,
which have a distinct trend in certain parts of the shell, tending
to parallelism at the hinder end and the dorsal margin. The
muscle-spot area is indicated by a stellate arrangement of the
cancellae.
D/i/u'ns/(nis. — Length, 1-4 mm.; lieight, .675 mm.; thickness of
cai-apace. .6 mm.
Oh.<err(ifinnx. — In a general way this species is related to both
G. oral/'s and C. ca/icclla(a. The ornament, however, is so distinct
as to warrant the establishment of a new species. The posterior
depression is more marked than in C. cancellafa. It is one of
the commonest forms in the present collection of Mallee ostracoda.
