-44 Frederick Chapuian :
The present example from the bore came from the top of the
Janjukian series (Miocene). It is in every way comparable with
recent examples of the species now living in the Southern Ocean at
100, fathoms, even to the distinct variegation of the carapace.
Occurrrence. — Bore 11, 267-270 feet (Janjukian).
Genus CYTHERURA, G. 0. Sars.
CyTHKRUR.-V CAPILLIFERA, sp. uov. (Plate VIII., Figs. 34a, b).
Description. — Carapace oblong, compressed anteriorly. Seen
from the side, the valve is highest at the posterior third ; dorsal
margin straight in the middle, and convexly rounded to the
extremities; ventral border widely concave; surface gently sloping
to the front, swollen and abrupt behind, with a short caudal
•extremity. Edge view compressed at the anterior, abi-uptly trun-
cated behind, and steeply incurved to the caudal prolongation.
Surface ornamented with fine, sinuous, hair-liko lines, especially
on the ventral area, generally punctate over the whole surface.
Colour patches of organic origin still visible on tlie valve.
Dimensio7is. — Length, 1.04 mm.; height, .423 mm.; thickness of
■carapace, .423 mm.
Affinities. — The nearest allied form to the above appears to be
€i/therura similis. G. 0. Sars.i a species found round the shores of
Great Britain, and in the Arctic and Scandinavian seas, as well as
& Pleistocene fossil of Scotland, Ireland and Norway.
Occurrence. — Bore 11, 175-197 feet (Kalimnan).
Cytherura ouyenensis, sp. nov. (Plate VIII., Figs. 35a, b).
Description. — Carapace oblong, medially compressed; seen from
the side, rhomboidal, highest towards the front, height exceeding
half the length; anterior evenly rounded at the ventral, and trun-
cately so at the dorsal angle; posterior bluntly caudate; dorsal line
short and straight, curving steeply to the posterior, ventral margin
slightly concave, swelling out towards the posterior extremity, where
it suddenly curves inward to meet the blunt termination. Edge view
of carapace ovate, compressed in front and bluntly acuminate
behind; median area slightly depressed. Shell surface relieved
with numerous impressed puncta, encircled by a clear ring; other-
1. See Brady and Norman, Trans. R. Dublin Soc. 1889, vol. iv., ser. ii., p. 205, pi. xviii , Hg». 7-9
