54 . Frederick Chwpman:
National Museum (W. Kershaw coll.), and from the same
horizon at Muddy Creek, near Hamilton, in the Den-
nant collection. The example from Beaumaris is ideu-
tihable with the specimen referred to, B. cf. psittacus,.
Molina sp.. which has been found fossil in the Tertiary
beds of Patagonia. B. i^sittacus is still found living, according to^
Darwin, along the coast of Chili, and very abundant at a few
fathoms depth. Darwin remarks (loc. cit.) that this species is
distinguished externally from B. tintiniuilnduDi, another large and
well-known form, by its hexagonal rather than its trigonal orifice,
and. moreover, is not tinted so darkly as the latter species. It
is the largest species of the genus, sometimes attaining a length, in
the living examples, of nine inches.
Isolated compartments of the above species were found in the
Mallee bore at one depth only. The Mallee specimens retain much
of their original colour, although coming from the deepest part of
bore 9, the sample of which contained a mixed Janjukian and
Kalimnan fauna, and may be as old as the Miocene. One of the
Mallee fossils is of a pale purplish tint, with about 7 primary and
7 secondary fine, longitudinal ribs of a dark purple. These ribs
aie noted by Darwin (loc. cit., p. 207), and also depicted by
Oi'tmann (loc. cit., fig. 2). A fragment of the base of the parietes
in one of the Mallee specimens indicates the deep cup-shaped habit
of attachment in this species. In regard to the parietal tubes, as
Darwin notes, they are unusually large in proportion to the size
of the shell, and run up to the summit without any transverse
septa. " The radii," to again (|uote Darwin. " are generally very
highly developed, so tliat tlieii- summits are even wider than the
bases of the parietes; but on the other hand, in some few large
specimens, the radii are either very narrow or absolutely linear.'*
In the figured specimen from the Mallee it will be noticed that the
radii are similarly well-developed. The septa of the radii in the
Mallee examples, as in the living B. psiffnciis. are strongly denticu-
lated, as shown here (fig. 52^>).
Occurrence. — Bore 4, 163-170 feet (Kalimnan or Janjukian).
Borc !). .'515-325 feet (Kalimnan or Janjukian).
Balanus varians, Sowerby. (Plate X., Figs. 53, 54).
BaJdini.^ rarlans, G. B. Sowerby, 1846, in Darwin's Geol.
Observations on South America, pi. ii., figs. 4-6.
Darwin, 1854, Mon. Cirripedia (Ray Soc), vol. ii., p.
