66 Frederick Chapman :
An antero-lateral crushing tooth occurs in one of the bores at an
horizon where fish reniaitis are abundant, and which may be rele-
gated to the top of the Janjukian. There is little doubt that it is
related to the specific form which has been previously recorded from
various localities in Victoria at or near the base of the Kalimnan.
The formerly recorded occurrences were nearly all represented by
the strong, broad lateral crushing teeth. The genus dates from
Upper Jurassic times (C falcifer, in the Solenhofen stone of
Bavaria).
Occurrence. — Bore 8, 210-219 feet (Kalimnan or Janjukian).
Fam. TRYGONIIDAE.
Genus TRYGON, Adanson.
Trygok cf. rugosus, Probst sp. (Plate X., Figs. i)^a-d).
Raia rugosus, Probst, (?) 1874, Beitrage zur Kenntniss der
fossilien Fische ous der Molasse von Baltringen, — Wurr-
temberg Naturw. Jahresheft 1874-82 (not seen). Zittel-
Barrois, 1893, Traite de Paleontologie, pt. i.. vol. iii.,
pp. 102, 103, fig. 120a-c. Trygoii rugosus, Probst sp.
Eastman-Zittel, 1902, Text-book of Palaeontology, p. 42,
fig. 83.
Observations.-^— A single specimen of a well-preserved tooth with
bifurcated root was found in a sample of the Mallee bores contain-
ing an admixture of Kalimnan and Janjukian shells, but with a,
predominance of the latter fauna. Both in width and height the
tooth measures 4.25 mm. In the Miocene marls of Baltringen,
Wurtemberg, Probst found a similar pavement tooth, which he
referred to Baia, but which has since Ijeen placed in the genus
Trygon. Our specimen is in close agreement as regards both shape
and structure, so that it seems advisable for the present to refer it
tentatively to Probst's species, which came from a similar, or
nearly similar, formation.
In respect to the generic position of the tooth, the marginal or
border teeth of the living Thornbacks (Baia), which I have been
able to examine in the National Museum through the kind offices of
Mr. J. A. Kershaw, show a bicuspid root, but differing from the
present specimen in having it more expansive or less hook-like than
in the Mallee fossil.
Occurrence. — Bore 5, 163-175 feet (probably Janjukian).
