Australian Ilydrolds. 7'6
In ixrciit years several observers have, following Von Lenden-
fekl. admitted the genus Eiccopella, and Fraser. recognising the
affinity ot' C caliculafa with Von Lendenfeld's genus, has adopted
the name Kncoj/clhi cal/riihifd . No doubt Fraser is right with,
regard to the affinity of that species, but if such forms are to be
separated from Cdinpaniilarid or Vlijt'ui (as most observers seem
inclined to separate them), then they must be referred to Ortliopi/ria.
whieh ^\as fai' anterior to Von Lendenfeld's genus. That Eucopdla'
should be superseded is the more desirable, since much confusion
has been caused by the original association under that name of two
quite unrelated forms.
The most impoi-tant character of the genus Orf/iopi/u/s is the
structure of the gonozooid, which, as described by Agassiz, is a
very degraded form of medusa, having an umbrella with foui'
radial canals, l)ut neither manubrium nor tentacles. There is alsc'
a peculiarity of the tropliosome not noticed by any of the earlier
observers, namely the distinctly bilateral development of the hydio-
theca. which is compressed in the lower half so as to be of an elliptic
or iiblong section, while, as a lule, retaining the ordinary circular
form in the distal portion. Another prominent characteristic, ap-
parently Lummon to all the species, is the variability in thickness,
of the hydrotheca-wall, which occurs in individuals not only of the
same variety, but also of the same colony. I find this variation in
thickness to l)e dependent, to a certain extent, on the position in
whieh the hydrotheca is viewed; thus a hydrotheca seen in its
broader aspect is not only less tapering downwards, with a wider
and riattei- floor, but its wall conuiionly appears distinctly morf
thickened than when it is seen in its narrow aspect. In some of
the published figures of 0. coin preaxa the thickening of the calycle-
wall is remarkably developed.
In 0. ealicidata the peduncles, which vary extjemely in length,
are slender, thin-walled, and twisted into a loose, irregular spiral
generally throughout their length, but sometimes with smooth or
nearly smooth intervals. Most of the other forms agree in this
particulai'. oi- else have the undulations shorter and more pro-
nounced. l)ut O. compressff and 0. a/if/u/ata have peduncles whicln
are stouter in themselves, and pi-ovided with thicker perisarc. and
never exhibit the spiral oi- undulated form found in the other
species. Below the pronounced globular segment which occui-s im-
mediately under the hydrotheca in all the species, these often have-
a distinct oblong segment, and there may be a few constrictions at
irregular intervals.
