74 W. M. Bale:
A noteworthy characteristic of the genus is the wide range of
variation displayed in the forms of the gonangia. Every species
has its typical form, but a large proportion of the individual gon-
;angia differ from their respective types very considerably, dis-
torted and irregular forms being abundant. Several species which
scarcely differ at all in regard to the trophosome have nevertheless
gonangia quite unlike each other.
Only in 0. caliculata and Evcopelln campanularia have tlie
gonozooids been the subject of elaborate investigations, tlie foinier
by Agassiz and the latter by Von Lendenfeld. The most important
■distinction is the presence in E . cainpanuloria of eiglit otocysts on
the umbi'ella-margin. So far as is known there is no noticea])le
difference in any of the species between the gonangia which contain
tlie male and the female medusae.
Perhaps the most striking point about the genus is the exceed-
ingly close relationship existing between the various species. Ex-
cept for the difference in the peduncles, which distinguishes 0. com-
pressa and 0. angidnta from the other forms included here, their
trophosomes agree so closely that, keeping in mind the variations
which exist in each species (and which will most probably be found
on furthei' investigation to be even more extensive than I have
'described them from the few specimens at my disposal^, we would
not find it surprising if all these variations were to occur within
the limits of a single species. Yet the differences in the gonosomes
appear ample to justify their separation. It is to be borne in
mind, however, that most of these species are described from the
trophosomes and the gonangia only; in none of them except 0. cali-
culata and E. campanularia have the gonozooids themselves been
".sufficiently investigated to render it certain that they come strictly
"vvithin the limits of the genus as it is described by Agassiz and Von
Lendenfeld. ^
•Okthopvxis caliculata (Hincks). (Pis. XI. and Xll., Fig. 1).
(Jainpainilaria cdl'cii/dfa, Hincks, .Ann. .Mag. Xat. Hist. (2),
xi.. 185;}. p. 178, pi. v.. fig. 5. Allman, Proc. Roy.
Soc. Edin.. iv., 1862, p. 61, 64. Hincks. Brit. Hyd.
Zooph., 1868, p. 164, pi. xxxi., fig. 2-2d. Jiale. Proc.
Lin. Soc. N.S.W. (2), iii., 1888, p. 755, pi. xiii.. figs.
^-^^. Schneider, Zool. Jahrb.. x.. 1897. p. 482.
Th..rnely. Zool. Uesults, Willey, iv., 1900, p. 454. Har-
;gitt, Amer. Nat., xxxv.. 1901, p. 88.'}. fig. 18. Hartlaul),
