76 W. M. Bale:
as seen in the other aspect the sides are less convergent down to the
tloor or diaphragm, hehjw ^\hich they curve inward, making the-
outline hell-shaped. Tlie thickening of the calycle-wall may he
quite pronounced in the broader view, while not appearing in the
narrower aspect. This thickening is generally greatest at the
margin of the liydrotheca. becoming gradually less towards the
diaphragm. The conspicuous inwai'd thickening which forms the
diaphragm is pierced by a central channel, or hydropore, w^hich
expands into a small rounded cavity between the diaphragm and
the base of the hydidtheca. If the same liydrotheca be viewed in
its narrow aspect tlie sides will appear (|uite tliin, and even at the-
base tlie perisarc will not appear very thick, as the central enlarge-
ment of the hyd)'opore appears in this view to nearly fill the space
lielow the diaphraiini. But in some colonies all the hydrothecae
may appear thin-walh'd. in whatever dii^ection they are viewed.
Sometimes the border of the liydrotheca may be a little everted,
in •)ther cases not at all. especially when thick at the margin.
Considerable differences in size often exist among the hydrothecae-
of a single colony. I have not detected any sign of bilateral
synnuetry in the hydianths. which have a very large hypostome and
from about 24 to '50 tentacles. The peduncles may be of any length,
fnim twice that of tiie hydrothecae to twenty times, or even more.
Tliey are thin-walled, and twisted in a loose irregulai- spiral, with
oreasionally smooth interspaces.
The typical g(uiangia are oblong or ovate, tapering below, smooth,
and when matuie rounded at the top. They are but slightly com-
piessed. But variations fi'om the type are abundant ; sometimes
there are two intlatiojis. corresponding to the two contained zooids,
in other cases tliere ai-e still more irregular forms, and there may
be a series of annular undulations., Agassiz describes the goiiothecae
as about twice the length of the hydrothecae; in my specimens I find
them three to foui- times as long.
Miich difference of opinion exists as to whether O. cal/riilafa and'
('. i/i/ei/ra aj'e the sanie species. Among those wlio support this
view are Levinseii. iliiula. Billai-d. and Linko. while Hartlaub,
Calkins, and Nutting hold the contrary oj)iTiion. 1 am a1 the-
disadvantage of not having seen Birula's pa]>er, but I fiml fi-om
]Jid\o that ('. i/if('(/ro. forma fi/p/ca, is distinguished hf its orbicu-
lai- and thin-walled liydi'otliecae from forifur ral/ciilafn, in which the
liydi-.ithecae are cdmiiressed. with thick walls. This distinction
obviously does not iiuld good, since we find the compressed hydro-
