Austnillini N 1/(1 mills. :V^
uiidulatioiis sli(ii'tri- and iiioir stionji;!}' itfceiituated than tiiose of"
(). cdliciildtd . TIk' i::onan<i:ia aie of vei'v t-haracteristic foi-iii. They
rniiM-ldy iX'seinhk' a seven- oi' eight-sided prism, but the sides are-
curved instead of flat. The h)n<ritudiual lines are simply th^ optical'
expression of the folds in the perisare, where the sides meet. These
lines usually appear nioie or less irieuular, being bi-oken and want-
ing in parts, and in comparatively few cases are they fairly sti'aight
an<l uniform tlii-oughout. The gonotheca is subject to quite as many
irregularities as in the allied species; I have seen examples with a
deep constriction round the middle, and others with a series of"
irregular aniiulations. The sexes do not differ in foi-m. There are-
two medusae, one of which may be so lai-ge as to nearly fill the-
capsule, while the other is still very small. In one case I saw what
seemed to be otocysts.
The absence of a distinctly compressed condition of the gonangia
differentiates this species from all the others referred to in this
paper.
Okthopvxis platycarpa n. ><p. (Pis. XI. and XII., Fig 3).
Hydrorhiza stout, peduncles distinctly waved, mostly 2-4 times as
long as the hydrothecae.
Hydrothecae large, wide-based in the broader aspect, with the
walls often somewhat thickened, principally in the form of a convex
sub-marginal band, narrower aspect less thickened or not at all,
border plain, distinctly everted. Length, .o3 — .4.3 mm., width at
Ijorder, .32— .39 mm.
Gonothecae large, very much compressed, smooth, Avith straight
sides forming angles at the summit, which is slightly lower between
them, a single gonophore filling the capsule when matui-e. Length.,
alxnit 1.55 mm., width .72— .90.
Hah.— In or near Port Phillip.
This form, in the strongly compressed hydrotliecae, the bi-oad^
basal portion, and the form of the thickening, shows most affinity
with O. mncrogona, and occasionally a hydrotheca is seen which
might readily be taken for one of that species. The gonangia, how-
ever, differ greatly in their straight sides and squarish summit (as
seen in their broader aspect), and in their much compressed form.
Seen edge-wise they appear slightly curved alternately in opposite-
directions. In each of the few specimens which I examined there-
was a single large gonophore, occupying the Avhole cavity, but they
were not in a condition to permit of their character being made out
satisfactorilv.
