A iisfral HI II H i/(lr()i*fs. ST
disrai fiitl, louiuk'd at thr l)ase. verv iinR-Ii compressL'd lateially."
Vanhufien's aiul Ijiiiko's ti^iu'cs show them with the perisarc very
much thickened towaids tlie liase. exactly as in tliuse of S/I/riilnria
ritii-iil(it(i (Hai-thiuh). which they also i-eseiiihle in theii' t'uneate-
outline.
( 'iintradictmy accounts ni' the speides are given hy diffefent ob-
servers. Nutting, Hartlaub, Vanhoffen, and Linko appear to have
seen specimens agreeing with Clark's. Calkins describes under tlie
name of CampanuJaria ctiliciilaia a fui ni of which the tropliosome.
according to his account, agrees exactly with that of 0. compressa,
not with that of 0. cal/culafa. At the same time the gonangia
which he figures are more like those of the latter species. Torrey
descrilies specimens of which the medusa has four long tentacles, as
however the hydrothecae have a toothed margin, which nevei' occurs
in O. cotnpressa, it is difficult to see why they are referred to that
species. The form given as C. roinjjressa by Jaderholm has ringed
or twisted peduncles, and therefore seems wrongly placed; the
gonotheca moreover is more like that of 0. caJiculatn. As Van-
hoffen states, the species is characterised by tlie thick hydrothecae,
the smooth stalks, and the bi'oad flat gonothecae.
In lanking EucopeUa campotuilario Von Lendenfeld as a synonym
of 0. compressa I follow Nutting, who lias pointed out in his paper
on the Hydroids of the Harriman Alaska Expedition that there-
appears to be no difference between tlie two species. E. campanu-
lana, however, has been involved in some confusion owing to Von
Lendenfeld's having included in his account of the species two forms
differing entirely in regard to the hydrothecae, though the gonangia'
are similar. He has figured a number of hydrothecae which he says
are connected by intermediate forms; most of these are of the-
ordinary Orthopyxis type, but two among them are of totally dif-
ferent form, and are obviously identical wuth those found in the
genus Silicularia. No intermediate forms between these and the
Orthopyxis are shown. In 1886 I received from the Australian
Museum a portion of the type specimens of E . campavularia, which
consisted solely of the Silirularia-iormH, and were similar to those
figured by me as E. campnnularia in the Proceedings of the Linnean
Society of N.S. Wales for 1888. I had not then seen Von Lenden-
feld's original paper, and was not aware that any other form had'
been included in the species. Neither in the type specimens sent to
me nor in any others of similar character whicli I have examined,
is there any approach to the Orthopyxis type, while colonies of the
