82 IF. J/. BaU :
latter invariably fail to exhibit any liydrotheeae witli characters
tending towards the S/I/nilan'a form. The distinction Isetween the
trophosomes is absolute, and I consider it lieyniid a doubt that
Eucopella campainddria, as originally described, comprises two
distinct species, one a typical Orfliopij.ris. tlie (.tlier. at least so
far as the trophosome is concerned, a typical SlJiciilaria.
The acccvunt of the gonangia of E. ca luixnnddrld is contradic-
toiy, theii- length lieing stated as from two To tliree millimetres,
while they are fitiured as under .75 mm. ; but their compressed
•condition, and their cuneate outline, as seen in their broader
aspect, are (juite similar to the same features in the typical 0.
cornpressa. Only, therefore, in the event of future research reveal-
ing some important difference between the gonozooicl of that species
and Von Lendenfeld's description will be possible to maintain the
specific distinctness of E. campamilaria.
0. compresm is found in Xoilli and Soutli Ameiica, where, like
Von Lendenfeld's specimens, is appears to giow hal)itually, if not
exclusively, on Laminaria.
ORTHOPYXtS AXGULATA, U. sp. ( PU.
Hydrorhiza thick and broad, pedunch
smootli, occasionally with one or more
rowed in at tjie base.
Hydrothecae, in the broader aspect, very wide at the base, with
the floor somewhat flattened, often more or less thickened, thick-
ening sometimes confined to a convex band surrounding the distal
portion of the hydrotlieca, sometimes extending to the base ^ narrow
aspect funnel-shaped, with thin walls, except for a slight thicken-
ing where the sub-marginal band extends to them; margin plain,
everted. Length, .'M) — .45 mm., widtli at aperture. .27 — .37 mm.
Gonotliecae broad, muclr compressed, the broad aspect ovate, trun-
cate, with edges undulated; a little narrov.ed in near the top, and
then widening outward and upward, forming angular projections
at each side of the top, or even produced into blunt, horn-like pro-
cesses, summit of the gonangium straiglit or sliglitly concave be-
tween them. Length, about L27 — 1.36 nmi.. width, .87 — .96 mm.
Two gonophores in each gonotheca ; lunbrella with foui- b)'ancliing
radial canals, and eight otocysts.
//a7^._Port Phillip (Mr. J. Brace])ridgv \Vils(ui).
This species agrees with 0. roniprcssa, and differs fiom the other
forms here described, in the stout, thick-walled, smooth peduncles.
XL. ,ui<
1 XLF., Fig. 4).
i stoiU.
with thick perisarc.
distinct
constrictions, nar-
