84 W. M. Bale:
Orfhopj/xis. Probably these may be bilateral to the same extent
as those of Orf/iopi/.ris: in any case they seem to form a distinct
link hetAveen the two genera.
As stated under 0. comparivlaria Von Lendcnfeld included under
that species two distinct hydroids, an OrfJiopi/xu. and a Silicularia^
the latter of which is here distinguished under the name of .S'.
rawpannJaria.
In considering the relations of OrfJ/op//,vis and Silicularia
we must not overlook the different structure of the hydranths. Those
of Orthopyxls are, so far as an ordinary examination can disclose.
purely radial, while some species at least of Hilicninria are dis-
tinctly bilateral, as described by Hilgendorf in his //. nsipnmetrica ,
and as they exist in Von Lendenfeld's specimens, and ai-e indicated
by Hartlaub in E. reticulata. A large lobe or inflation occupies
that side of the hydrotheca, which is lower than the rest, apparently
to accommodate it, and as all species of Silicularia (except S. diver-
yens), also have one side lower, it is presumable that the structure'
of the hydranth is similar in all of them. Another peculiarity in
our specimens is the union of the proximal part of the tentacles
in a sort of calyx with an annular, thickened border, and of this
also there is a distinct indication in Hartlaul>'s figure of E.
reticulata.
Silicularia campanularia (Von Lendenfeld). (PI. XIII.,
Figs. 1-6).
Eucopella cainjian iilaria, in part. Von Lendenfeld, Zeitschr,
f. wiss. Zool.. v.. 188:^, p. 497-583; pi. xxix., fig. 15, Dl.
Eucopella campanularia. Bale, Proc. Lin. Soc. N.S.W., (2),
iii., 1888, pi. xiii., figs. 9-15. Mulder and Trebilcock.
Geelong Naturalist, (2), vi., 1914, p. 9, pi. ii., figs.
8-11.
1 Eucopella reticulata, Hartlaub, Zool. Jahrb. , Suppl. vi.,.
iii.. 1905. p. 569, fig. lU.
Hydi'orhiza very broad and thick-walled. Avith numerous branches,
which are mostly given oft' at liglit angles, and are commonly oppo-
sirL'. IVduncles very stout, and with thick perisarc, the longer
(UK'S sometimes a little attenuated in the middle, rounded at the
top, and narrowed in at the base, one or tAvo rounded or oblong
segments sometimes at the top, a distinct rounded or angular bead
betAvecn the nednmle and the hvdrotheca.
