AasfndittiK Hydrohls. 85
Hydrothceae luiu-li cdiiiiu'essod, llie two hinad sides t'<iniiiii<j; erect
•convex lobes, the intermediate sides lower, forming two lips, one
lower than the other; the interior nearly tilled up Avith solid peri-
sarc, pierced by the hydropore. which is enlarged just above its
lower extremity, and gi-adually widens out above into the shallow
cavity of the liydrotheca.
Gonothecae usually deeuml)eut, euneate, compressed, rounded at
the top wlien mature, shortly but distinctly stalked, their perisai-c
thickened towards the basfe.
Hydranths seated' in the concavity of the hydrothecae, base flat-
tened, a large rounded retractile inflation of that side of the body
which is over the lower lip ; proximal portion of the tentacles united
and joined In- an annular band into a calyx surroun<ling the oi-al
extremity.
Gonophores — sporosacs, one or two in each gonotheca.
The foregoing description refers to the specimens which formed
part of Von Lendenfeld's types of Eucopella campanularia, and
which, as already mentioned, were sent to me from the Australian
Museum. The description applies equally to the two forms from
Bondi figured by me in the Proceedings of the Linnean Society
of New South Wales, under the name of E. campanularia. There
are slight differences among these forms, and as there may be a
doubt as to whether they should all be classed together, I now figure
the actual specimens taken from Von Lendenfeld's types. The re-
lationship between these three forms, also Eucopella reticulnta
Hartlaub, is very close.
In Von Lendenfeld's specimens tlie liydrorhiza is extremely broad,
reaching about .-S'^mm., of which the internal cavity occupies alxmt
.15 mm. When torn off and turned edgewise it is seen to be much
flattened. The peduncles also are very massive, the longer ones
may be attenuated in the middle portion, owing to the perisarc !:>€-
ing thinner, but neai- the extremities they usually reach their
normal diameter. The canal giadually widens a little to the base,
and as the perisarc is narrowed in at the same pa)t, the area of
attachment is slender. Just at the top of the peduncle there is
a distinct internal inflation of the canal. The bead-like segment
between the hydrotheca and the peduncle may be globular, or it
may be angular round the equator, and sometimes there is a second,
and larger, globular bead. The peduncles may be tumid at the top
•and bottom, and theii- length is variable, some being less than twice
the length of a liydrotheca, othei's ten times that length, but short
'Ones predominate.
