86 W. M. Bale:
Tlie hjdrothecae were figured by Vou Leudeufeld as oljliquely
truncate, like those of //. ag(/regata Allman. but the figure is in-
accurate, the broader sides being elevated convex lobes. The two
lips are not everted. As seen broadside the outer lateral contours
are usually, but not always, slightly concave in the middle, and
in the longer one there may be a slight angle. Their length varies
between .30 and .55 mm., the width from .30 to .45 mm. The
gonangium is flattened at the top during its growth, 1)ut at maturity
the top is smoothly rounded, and firmly chitinous; there is no
special border, and only by close inspection can a line be detected
at which the convex top ultimately separates. They are about 1.35
— 1.60 mm. in length, and .75 — .90 in width.
Tlie hydranths. which I have seen only in Von Lendenfeld's speci-
mens, are very characteristic, and quite unlike those of Orthopyxis,
the lx)dy having on one side a large rounded inflation, which is
situated just inside the lower lip. In all the hydranths, as pre-
served, the body was bent over the higher lip, and in close contact
with it t(i tlie edge; on the opposite side is the lateral inflation,
which, when fully expanded, fills in tlie space above the lower lip;,
it is sometimes i-etracted to small dimensions, but more often ex-
panded sufficiently to be a conspicuous feature. Hilgendorf de-
scribes a similar lobe in liis U (jyanthed a^iftnmefricd, but mentions
that it is divided by a sharp constriction from the l)ody, a charac-
ter which I have not detected in my specimens. Hartlaub clearly
indicates the lateral inflation in his figures of Eiicopella reticulata.
The base of the hydranth is flattened; one edge of it fits into a
notch or sinuation half-way down the inside of the hydrotheca,
below the higher lip, the other rests on the lower side, opposite tO'
it.
The distal portion foi'ms a wide infundibuliform expansion or
calyx, composed (at least, in regard to its outer layei) of the united
proximal portions of the tentacles, and iiordcied l)y a thick, annu-
lar l)and, which is attached by its iniu'r margin to the edge of the
calyx; outside this circle of attachment tiie tentacles are free. The
aniiulus is evidently the homologue of tlu" hypostome of Orthopyxis,
but it is nairower and situated furtliei- fiom tin" centre, and the
fact that it is constant in position in all the hydranths conveys
the impression that it lias not tlie mobility of tin- liypostomes of
Orfltopyxh, which assume all sorts of varied di-grees of expansion
and contraction. Occasionally in a sli(U' of Ortiiopyxls is seen a
hydrotheca, with tlie tentacles recurved, and the hypostome ei-
