AiistroU,,,,, Hildronls. 89
.foiiilitioiis of liTuwth. And witli ri'<rai(l i«> A', nt tcuhttn , tin- ihai-
acttM-s ascrihed to it seeni hardly suttiiiciit to justify its sprritic-
separation.
Hil<iL'ndorf says that the specimens tiaurcd liy \\\v as E. cam /xnni-
laria aic //. hUdhidia (Coutihtrey). Of tliis I am v^ry doul)ff\d.
The goiiano-iii of //. hihiliiafd , airoi'din^' to l)oth ('ou<ihtrry and
Hilgeiidorf. art' very iinliki' those of the present form. Hilgendorf "s
account of //. hildhUitu is not in aeeord witli his figui'e, especially
as regards the jieduneles. His specific diagnosis is a copy of All-
man's description of //. atiyrfi/dto, including tlie measurement (\
inch), but Pie gives the height afterwards as A inch, which agrees
with Coughtrey's. The present species does not, I think, reach
more than half that height, and I suspect that //. hildhiatd may
be identical with the Xew Zealand form previously leferred to.
w^hich has the hydrothecae and hydranths nuich larger than those
of 'S'. catnpanularia, and agrees well with Coughtrey's figure.
Neither Coughtrey noi- Hilgeiidorf give any indication of the size
• of the hydrothecae in their specimens. The former, it is true, says
that his figures are magnified fifty times, but there is clearly some
mistake, as it is obvious to anyone acquainted with some of the
species figured that the magnification is not nearly fifty; in s(jme
• cases, indeed, it is not twenty.
SiLICtJLARIA UNDULATA (Muld(M- and Tiefiileock).
Eucnpella nnihdafd, Mulder and Trebilcock. (jeelong Natura-
list (2) vi., 1914, p. 10, pi. ii., tigs. 5-7.
This appears to be a different species from .S'. cainpanularia. be-
ing distinguished by the peduncles and the gonothecae. The
former are thin-walled and undulated, as in most of the spLries of
Orthopyxiif. though often becoming thicker and smooth at l)oth
extremities. According to the figures the base is not conti'acted at
the junction with the hydrorhiza, as in S. campan uhiria. The
gonothecae are decumbent, i-oughly orbicular in outline. Hat be-
neath, convex above, with faint, transverse iviuae. and with a snb-
• circular aperture, looking upward. The hydiotheeae are similar
to those of .S'. campatntlana.
A figure of the hydranth shows it leaning over the higher lip of
the hydrotheca, which is stated to be its position when living; the
inflation of the opposite side is noticeable, and the oral calyx and
the annulus are also shown. As the latter is described as a large
. cup-sliaped proboscis, it would seem that its cliaracter is more dis-
