90 W M. Bale:
tinct than in the niouiitetl specimens of .S'. camptimdaria. The
tentacles are longer than tlmse of that species, a difference also
perhaps dependent on the condition of the specimens.
ZVGOPHYLAX RUFA Bale.
Campanularia rufa, Bale, Cat. Aust. Hyd. Zooph., 1884,
p. 54. pi. 1, tig. 1 ; Trans, and Proc. Roy. Soc. Vict.,
xxiii., 1887, p. 91.
" Campanidaria '^ rufa, Levinsen, Vidensk. Medd.. fra den
naturh. Foren, 64, 1913, p. 292.
This species was ranked by Billard as a synonym of Lictorella
antipathes (Lamarck), but erroneously, as I gather from the same
observer's remarks in his report on the Bi-itish Museum collection,
in which he says that L. antipathes does not exhibit the slight
distal narrowing of the hydrotheca, nor the everted margin, both
of which features characterise the present species (as mentioned in
the original description). It may also be noted that L. antipathes is
described as a coarse, woody, and rigid form, reaching according
to Lamarck and Allman about four inches, and according to Bil-
lard fourteen centimetres, while Ritchie says that some of the
specimens of which he obtained portions must have much exceeded
these dimensions. Z. rufa, so far as it is known, is a small, deli-
cate form, under an inch in height, with the fasciculation limited
to a few tutes on the stem only. The original Lafo'ea halecioides
of Allman (187.'3) seems to resemble Z. rufa more than does L.
antipathes, but it differs in the absence of a perisarcal diaphragm
in the hydrotheca. The nearest species to Z. rufa would seem to be
Lictorella. concinna Ritchie (Mem. Aust. Mus. iv., p. 823), which
is of similar habit, but its hydrothecae differ in form, especially
in the much elongated stalk-like condition of the proximal part,
whieh is below the diaphragm.
The pinnae of Z. rufa are sub-alternate; between every two on
the same side are two hydrothecae, one of them axillary. The
apophyses are distinct, and mostly about double the diameter of
the hydrotheca at the point of attachment. There is usually no-
intervening segment, though in exceptional cases such a segment
may occur. The portion of the hydrotheca lielow the diaphragm
or " floor " is short, genei'ally about one-sixth of the whole length.
In a few cases the apo]>hyses wliich support the axillary hydrothecae
are narrowed down gradually to the diameter of the hydrotheca-
base, and not divided fi-om the latter by a distinct joint.
