Australian Hydro Ids. 91'
Tlie pieseiK'L' on soiiir of {\\v a])o]>liyses of a sarc-othera, or a pair
of tlieiii. was not iiiciil ioiied in tlie original description, having
Iteen overlooked by nie. an omission wliich is accounted for by the
fact that they are only present in a small jd'opoi'tion of cases, and
that rliey are so small as to he readily passed over, especially
as they are mostly below the axillary apophyses, where they are
more apt to be obscured. In fact, I could only find three or four
on the pinnae. In a few other instances marks were visible where
they had been detached, but for the most part even these were want-
ing. These little calycles are not unlike the hydrothecae in shape,,
but not narrowed at all towards the end.
Thyroscyphus mauginatus Bale.
Campanidaria marginafa. Bale, Cat. Aust. Hydr. Zooph.,.
1884, p. 54, pi. 1, fig. 2; Proc. Lin. Soc. N.S.W. (2),.
iii., 1888, p. 758. Bartlett, Geelong Nat., (2) iii., 1907,
p. 62, fig. — .
" Camijaindnrla '^ niarginata, Levinsen, Vidensk. Medd.
fra den naturh. Foren, 64, 1913, p. 289.
This species, which on account of its possessing hydrothecae with'
a four-valved operculum, I now refer to the genus Thyroscyi^hus,
is nevertheless of peculiar hal)it, differing from that of the otlier
known members of the genus. In its simplest form it consists of
a single hydrotheca, J)orne on a peduncle two or three times its own
length, which may have, near tlie base, a few irregularly-placed
joints; it therefore differs little in habit from such species as
Orthopyxis calicidata. But most commonly this structure is re-
peated two or three times, and in each case the new peduncle is
given off kterally from the preceding one, immediately below the-
summit of the latter, on which the hydrotheca is borne. The distal
end of the peduncle is usually a little curved, and the next peduncle
springs from the outer side of the curve. The curves do not usually
alternate; frecjuently two or thi-ee in succession are directed to
the same side. Occasionally two new peduncles spring side by side
from the preceding one.
In the original description I mentioned that I had only seen the
operculum in a fragmentary condition, and so delicate is its nature
that I have not, up to the present, seen a perfect one. However,
I have specimens sufficiently well preserved to show that the oper-
culum is of the type which characterises the genus Thyroscyphns.
In some instances all trace of the opeiculum had disappeared, al-
though the hvdranths still survived.
