Vietorldir Marine M,>lluHca. 95
whoils, itartcd by u liiu'ur suture. The colouratidii of the wlioils
is fairly uniforiu. w ith no indication of markings as in the previous
species. The shell is hhu li lounded anteriorly. Aperture pyriforrn.
Labruin thin, .simple. Lal)iaui moderately thick on the Vjody.
Dhnr/is/o/is of ti/pc. — Len<ith, 1.75; breadth, G mm.
LovaUfi/. — Kileunda, in shell sand.
Ohservntion. — This is the smallest of our Victorian species, and
is immediately separable by its squat form, dome-shaped apex, and
uniform colouration. Its nearest ally is L. joshuana, GatlifF and
Gabriel, which is here refigured for comparison.
Type in Mr. C. J. Gabriel's collection.
Lkiostraca STYLiFORMis, sp. uov. (PI. XIV., Figs. 4 and 5).
Shell minute, acuminate, smooth, glassy. Whorls nine, through
Avhich the axial pillar may be plainly seen. Whorls ai'e slightly
•convex; suture fairly distinct in consecpience of the slight rounding
of the whorls. Tlie generic characteristic is indicated in the later
whorls by fairly distinct, but irregular orange-tinted markings,
more numerous and more pronounced on the body-whorl. Aperture
somewhat pyriform, outer-lip thin and roundly prominent at the
periphery. Inner lip slightly reflected.
Dimensions of type. — Length, 2.5; breadth, 8 mm.
Locality. — Dredged off Wilson's Promontory.
Observation. — A most delicate and curious little shell; its distinct
acuminate form .serving to distinguish from the Victorian members
of the genus.
Type in Mr. C. J. Gabriel's collection.
■Cyclostrema kilcundak, sp. nov. (PI. XV., Figs. 8, 9 and 10).
Shell very minute, white, hyaline, of four whorls including the
smooth globular protoconch. Discoidal, spire sunken, widely um-
bilicated. Ornamented with transverse riblets, aboiit twenty-seven
•on the body-whorl, they are irregularly spaced, becoming more
•crowded towards the mouth, the intervening spaces are traversed by
very fine encircling incised lines. Mouth circulai-.
Dimensions of ^5//?e.— Height, '\>h : diametei-, 1 mm.
Locality. — In shell sand, Kilcunda.
Observation. — Type in Mr. J. H. Gatliff's collection.
