GdJlif and Gahrid
Cyclostrkma vkrcoi, sp. nov. (PI. XV., Figs. 11, 12 and 13).
Slifll veiv iriiiiutu. wliite, opaque, of foui- whorl's including the
l)iiitoc(incli. Dise-oidal. widely umbilicated, spire sunken. Whorls
erosst'<l l)_v riljlets. a])out seventeen on the last whorl, the inter-
vening spaces are smooth with the exception of a median spiral
thread on the base. Mouth circular.
Diiiu iisioiiH of ti/pf. — Height, .27; diameter, .75 mm.
Lncdhti/. — Dredged oft' Wilson's Promontory.
()J,s,rr(itlon.—'Yyi)ii in Mr. J. H. Gatlift"s collection.
Myodora subalbida, sp. nov. (PI. XV., Fig. 14).
Shell white, ol)long, obliquely truncated posteriorly, rounded
autLTit.rly, concentrically ridged, ridges somewhat rounded, re-
gularly spaced; about fourteen in number. Umbos central, acute.
Tlie Aviiole shell is covered l)y very fine radial striae, under the
mici-dscope this sculpture is divided into closely compacted
elongate, flattened, hexagonal areas, angularly defined posteriorly,
see figures 15 and 16. Right valve convex, with an angle e.xtending
from the umbos to the margin, and defining the truncated area. Left
valve similar to the right valve, but rather deeper. Pearly inside.
Dimen.^ions of f ;i pc . — Length antero-posterior, 10. ; undjo-ven-
tral, 5.5 mm.
Locnlifij. — Dredged in aljout seven fathoms. Western Port.
Oh.^ervotio)! . — Resend)ling M. a/bida, T. Woods, with which
species M. corrugata, Verco, is conspecific. Dr. Verco has kindly
compared our shell with his type and confirms our opinion that it
is distinct from oui- new species.
Type in Mr. J. H. Gatlift"s collection.
DosiNiA viCTORiAE, sp. uov. (PI. XVf, Flgs. 17, 18 and 19).
Shell cream-coloured, i-atlier Iwittle, inaequilatei'al, the anterior
side being the shorter. Unibods fairly prominent, slightly in-
curved, and situated at about one-tliird of the whole length from
the anterior. The concentric sculpture resolves itself into about 65
excessively thin erect lamellae, the interstices of which are micro-
scopically striate. The interstices are further sculpturd by fine
ol)solescent radial riblets which are not seen to ascend the lamellae,
and are a little less froiiucnt than the minute striae. Lunular area
