Victoriaii Mivr'ive MoUiisca. 97
of a brown isli tiiii^e. eloiigately-eordit'oriii, medially elevated, and
ornamented with imhricating lamellae. The ligament is sunken,
narroAv. and long. Hinge area normal. The pallial sinus is broad,
well defined and oblicjuely ascending to about the centre of the
valve. The surface of the shell has four sub-equally spaced rays
of brown, arrow-sliaped markings. Further colouration may be
seen on the post-dorsal margin in four conspicuous brown macula-
tions.
Dimensions of fypt- — Length, 36; breadth, 34; sectional of
closed valves, 16 mm.
Localitjf. — W/estern Port, 5-10 fathorjis type taken alive;
dredged off Portsea, Port Phillip.
Observation. — Under the name of D. variegata, Gray, this species
was recorded from Victoria by Pritchard and Gatliff, P.R.S., Vic,
xvi. (new series), 1903, p. 133. Careful investigation and much
correspondence leads us to the conviction that this is manifestly a
wrongful identification; and, further, that the shell is an un-
descriljed species. /). variegata is extremely variable; this vari-
ability with the figures and remarks by Reeve, Conch., Icon. vi.
pi. 6, fig. 33a, and Sowerby Thes. Conch. II., pt. 13, p. 675, No.
72, pi. U4, fig. 83, excusably leading Pritchard and Gatliff to
regard the Victorian sliell as another of its forms. Close
study, however, has revealed cliaracters, suificiently consistent to
warrant our separating it as a distinct species. From D. varie-
gata, the shell may be readily distinguished by its flatness (al-
though in this respect showing slight variation), by its more
elongated lunule and in the character of the radial sculpture.
Another misapplied name is D. histrio ((jimel), var., an appellation
recognised in South Australia. From typical D. histrio it is quite
distinct as depicted in the well-executed figures, by Romer. Mono-
granh Dosinia, p. 33, pi. vi. figs. 2. 3.
The "Challenger" Report Laniell. p. 152, records D. Jiistrio
(Gmel). var. from Cape York, Flinders Passage, and Arafura Sea,
E. A. Smith, in his observations, remarking : " This species has
received several names from various authors. It is the Venus
anstraJAs of Quoy and Gaimard, the Artemis variegata of Reeve,
Artemis firafa and 1 pnticidaris of Sowerby, and perhaps the Artemis
scabra of Philippi. The specimens from station 187 (near Cape
York) and Flinders Passage resemble the variety Artemis lirata."
Reference to Sowerby's figure of Artemis lirata Thes. Conch., pi.
cxliv., fig. 85, clearly shows that our shell has been misunderstood
in S. Australia. D. deshayesi, A. Ad., as figured in " Challenger "
s
