BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS,
ARIZONA.
By Harry S. Swarth.
INTRODUCTION.
The Huachuca Mountains are a range which have been pretty
thoroughly explored by investigators in various branches of natural
history, but of which there has been but little published, at least of
ornithological interest. A few scattered notes recording the occurrence
of various rarities in that region, and some more or less carefully de-
tailed accounts of the breeding habits of the most interesting and con-
spicuous species of birds inhabiting the mountains are about all that
have appeared, but nothing of a general character; and as in the course
of several seasons careful work in the mountains many interesting and
surprising facts in distribution, migrations, etc., of various species were
being continually encountered, which, while they may be familiar to the
naturalists who have visited the range, are probably unknown to
ornithologists in general. I have been induced to embody the results of
my labors in the following pages. The list of residents and summer
visitants I believe to be fairly complete, but as stray individuals of many
surprising and more or less unexoected species have turned up in the
region on various occasions it is but fair to suppose that additional
species of this class will have to be added to this list in the future, and
it is possible that there are some that I failed to meet with occurring
regularly during the fall migration, of which I saw but very little.
Though considerable work was done along the valley of the San Pedro
River, but a few miles distant, and a number of birds found there not
occurring in the Huachucas, I have preferred to limit my list to such
species as occur in the mountains, or, ranging over the plains below,
occasionally venture up into the mouths of the canyons ; for a great
variety of migrating water fowl undoubtedly occurs along the San Pedro
River, both in the spring and fall, and these I had hardly any opportunity
of observing, so prefer to restrict myself as indicated.
The following list is, with the exception of a few records quoted
from various publications, entirely from observations made and speci-
mens collected during three visits to the region under consideration. In
1896 four of us, W. B. Judson, H. G. Rising, O. W. Howard and myself
made the Huachuca mountains the objective point of a leisurely wagon
trip from Los Angeles across the Colorado desert and southern Arizona,
and spent three months, from April 25th to July 20th, camped in Ramsey
Canyon. In 1902 O. W. Howard and myself were camped together near
the mouth of Miller Canyon from March 29th to July 25th, when Mr.
Howard returned to Los Angeles, leaving me in the mountains, where
I remained until September 5th. In 1903 I was in the mountains, also in
Miller Canyon, from February 17th to May 30th. Almost all the col-
lecting was done on the east side of the mountains, in the seven canyons
