2 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
from Tanner to Ash Canyon, by far the best part of the range, ornitho-
logically considered. Occasional trips were made to the west slope of
the mountains, and along the San Pedro River. In 1896 but compara-.
tively few skins were put up, but a large collection of nests and eggs was
gathered which is unfortunately inaccessible at the present writing. On
the two subsequent trips more attention was paid to the collecting of the
birds themselves ; personally 1 put up some 2500 skins, which, with the
notes made at the same time, form the basis of the present paper.
The Huachuca Mountains lie in the southeastern corner of Arizona,
extending northwest and southeast, and with their southern extremity
lying just over the Mexican boundary line. The range is a small one,
about forty miles long, composed of a single ridge or back bone, which
reaches its greatest height at about the middle of the range ; where two
peaks rise, one to an altitude of about 10,000 feet, and the other a few
hundred feet lower. On the eastern slope a number of broad, well
watered canyons extend from the plains quite to the divide of the range,
while smaller and shorter ones lie between. The western slope is steeper
and more rugged, and the canyons are consequently shorter and not so
well watered. The base of the mountains at Miller Canyon, about the
center of the range lies at an altitude of about 4500 feet, and in this same
canyon, where I did most of my collecting, the distance from the mouth
of the canyon to the divide (9000 feet) is about six miles.
The San Pedro River rises west of the Huachucas, circles about the
southern extremity of the range, and flows in a northerly direction
almost parallel with the mountains and at an average distance of about
fifteen miles. Just north of the mountains the Barbocomari River flows,
about at right angles with the line of the range, emptying into the San
Pedro River at Fairbanks. From the San Pedro to the mountains is an
unbroken plain, covered with mesquite and other brush from the river
up to within about five miles of the mountains, but for the rest simply a
grass covered prairie. Where the various canyons leave the mountains
they extend in the shape of washes across the plains to the river, the
trees gradually diminishing in size and numbers; and the water sinking,
in the summer far above the mouths of the canyons, and in the early
spring sometimes two or three miles below, to rise again just before the
river is reached. Where the water comes to the surface again rows of
large willows, and other vegetation is found.
The Huachucas are a well wooded range, covered in the higher
parts, with various conifers ; along the canyons with maples, alders, ash,
madrones, walnuts and sycamores ; with extensive groves of live-oaks
over the foothills and along the base of the mountains ; and in places
thickly covered with low brush. There are very few willows in the
mountains, and these but small bushes ; and of cottonwoods there are
but a very few trees scattered along the base of the range. Though
some beautiful little species of cactus occur, the various species of
pri«„kl^ pear and cholla, so conspicuous about Tucson and many other
parts of the territory, are almost entirely absent, both in the mountains
and in the plains ; but there are many mescals all over the range, "and, in
the foothills a few yuccas.
The winters are cold in the mountains ; in February, 1903, there was
snow lying over the range down to the foothills, and in places along the
