April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 5
have seen several nests containing young but a few days old the first
week in September. Large flocks may be seen all through the summer,
feeding in the oak trees in the lower parts of the mountains, but as al
rule, they seem to breed at rather high altitudes, for most of the nests I
have seen have been above 8000 feet. I know of no instance in which
more than one egg or one young bird has been found in a nest in this
region. During the breeding season the male bird is fond of sitting in
some elevated position, usually the top of a tall dead pine, giving utter-
ance, at frequent intervals, to a loud "coo," more like the note of an owl
than a pigeon, which can be heard at a considerable distance ; while
occasionally he launches himself into the air, and with wings and tail
stiffly outspread, describes a large circle back to his starting point,
uttering meanwhile a peculiar, wheezing noise impossible of description.
I had supposed that this noise was made by the outspread wings, but a
male bird which Mr. Howard had in his possession for some time, gave
utterance to the same sound whenever angered or excited, evidently by
means of his vocal organs, as we had ample opportunity of observing.
Zenaidura macroura (Linnaeus). Mourning Dove.
A common summer resident, at times appearing in incredibly large
numbers, as in April, 1902, when they were particularly abundant. They
fed out on the plains below the mountains, and as it was a very dry year,
w^ere obliged to fly a mile or two up the canyons for water. Morning and
evening they passed over our camp on their way up the canyon, the
flight lasting from half to three-quarters of an hour during which time
there was an almost continuous stream of birds passing overhead.
During this time they formed no inconsiderable part of our daily bill of
fare, being almost the only thing in the way of small game that the
mountains afiforded. Although usually found low down in the canyons,
I have occasionally seen Mourning Doves as high as 9000 feet.
Melopelia leucoptera (Linnaeus). White-winged Dove.
In the spring the White-winged Doves make their appearance in the
lower parts of the mountains in small numbers, and usually in company
with the Mourning Doves. In 1902, the first one seen was on April 30
and the last May 15th. In the fall of the same year one was taken on
August 6; and from then on until I left, September 5, they were much
more abundant than I have ever seen them in the spring. Most of the
fall birds were young of the year ; as a rule they were two together,
sometimes pairs and sometimes two of the same sex, though occasionally
as many as six or eight were seen together. The White-winged Dove
breeds rather commonly in places along the San Pedro River some
twenty miles distant, but I know of no instance of its breeding in the
Huachucas. The highest altitude at which I have seen it in the moun-
tains is 5000 feet, and at that height but rarely.
Columbigallina passerina pallescens (Baird). Mexican Ground Dove.
A rare migrant. I secured a male bird on May 8, 1903, the only one
I have seen in the mountains. They breed along the San Pedro River,
and though by no means common, a pair or two can usually be found in
any suitable locality, showing a marked preference for the cultivated
fields and damp pastures.
Cathartes aura (Linnaeus). Turkey Vulture.
Fairly common through the summer months. Mr. F. C. Willard
secured a set of eggs in Ramsey Canyon, but they don't seem to breed
