6 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
in the mountains in any numbers. I think that I have seen more in
August than at any other time, but they are never very abundant unless
there is some carrion around on which they have been feeding.
Circus hudsonius (Linnaeus). Marsh Hawk.
Quite common in the early spring on the grass covered plains below
the mountains, occasionally venturing up into the foot hills. None were
seen later than April i.
Accipiter velox rufilatus Ridgway. Western Sharp-shinned Hawk.
A fairly common migrant, and as I have seen one or two at various
times through the summer months T presume that a few remain to breed.
They range over all parts of the mountains, from the foothills to the
summit of the highest peaks.
Accipiter cooperi (Bonaparte). Cooper Hawk.
Probably a resident, and fairly common though extremely wary ; for
continual warfare is waged between them and every poultry owner in
the mountains. There are one or two pair breeding in almost every
canyon, and as, when other game runs short, they make no scruples of
picking up a half grown chicken from under its owner's nose, it is only
by eternal vigilance that they are enabled to continue their career. I
think that this is the only species of hawk occurring in the mountains
that makes any depradations whatever upon the chicken yard.
Accipiter atricapillus (Wilson). American Goshawk.
On two occasions in April, 1903, I saw what I took to be a Goshawk
circling overhead at the top of the mountains. I have also seen in the
possession of one of the inhabitants of the mountains, a pair of wings
undoubtedly belonging to an individual of this species, which he had
shot.
Buteo borealis calurus (Cassin). Western Red-tailed Hawk.
Though not at all abundant a few pair breed in the higher parts of
the mountains, and the same birds can be seen day after day in about the
same locality. In 1902 a pair raised a brood near the head of the Miller
Canyon, and through the month of August I frequently saw the young
birds in the same locality. They were very tame and unsuspicious, and
on several occasions one lit on a tree under which I was resting, evi-
dently out of sheer curiosity.
Buteo abbreviatus Cabanis. Zone-tailed Hawk.
Not at all common. A pair were seen throughout the spring and
summer of 1902, but I doubt very much if they bred, as the two were
continually seen together up to September, when I left. A single bird
was several times seen in the same canyon during the spring of 1903,
'and I have seen possibly half a dozen more in different parts of the
mountains.
Buteo swainsoni Bonaparte. Swainson Hawk.
A very abundant summer resident on the plains between the Hua-
chucas and the San Pedro River. Occasionally a bird ventures up into
the canyons, but I have never found any breeding in the mountains
proper. In the washes, half a mile or so below the mouths of the
canyons, where the trees begin to thin out and the country to become
more open, they nest commonly in the walnuts, sycamores and mes-
quites, the nests being seldom over thirty feet from the ground and
