April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 9
Megascops flammeolus (Kaup). Flammulated Screech Owl.
Althoug-h the Flammulated Screech Owl is quite a common migrant
in the Huachucas some years. I believe that but very few remain to
breed, the bulk of them going- farther north. In 1896 eight, and in 1902
seven, specimens were secured : and of these. I believe all but one were
migrating birds. The exception was a female, taken, with a set of two
badly incubated eggs, by H. G. Rising on June 7. 1896. Of the others the
earliest secured was on April 22, 1902, and the latest on May 12 of the
same year. All were shot where they were sitting in the trees, usually
in dense thickets almost impossible to penetrate; and this fact may
perhaps account for so few specimens of this bird being taken, as quite
half of those secured were found while searching for the nest of such
bfirds as bred in the thick brush. On May 5, 1902, O. W. Howard
secured two females in some willows on the San Pedro River, fifteen
miles from the mountains and an exceptionally low altitude for this
species, about 3000 feet. The breeding bird mentioned was taken at
about 8000 feet elevation ; and all the others, from the base of the moun-
tain (about 4500 feet) up to 6000 feet. In 1903 I did not see a singl!e
Flammulated Screech Owl. and it is noteworthy that cineraccns was also
much more scarce than it had been during the previous year. The
stomachs of such as I examined contained nothing but beetles and other
insects, indicating an entirely insectivorus diet on the part of this species.
Bubo virginianus pallescens Stone. Western Horned Owl.
I have seen but very few Horned Owls in the Huachucas. although
along the San Pedro River it appears to be of fairly common occurrence.
In 1896 one made his home in a cavity in the face of a high precipice
overlooking our camp, and hardly a night passed that we did not see
him appear about dusk, and after a few preliminary hoots, start out in
search of provender. A male I secured on May 6. 1903. at the mouth of
Miller Canyon, was evidently not breeding. I have heard one or two
others hooting at various times, but these two are all that T have se^n
and I believe that they are anything but common in the mountains. The
male bird mentioned above is exceedingly pale in coloration, more
so than any other Southern Arizona specimen I have seen, though the
plumage is fresh and unworn and does not appear to be faded by the
action of the sun. The general appearance of the upper parts is dark
gray, with the head and ear tufts rather darker, but with very little of
brownish or rusty markings anywhere. The throat, median line of
breast, abdomen, tibiae and feet are pure white, while the sides of the
body are white, finely marked with narrow, dark vermiculations.
Speotyto cunicularia hypogaea (P)Onapartc). Burrowing Owl.
Burrowing Owls are to be seen in considerable numbers in the vari-
ous prairie dog "towns" between the Huachucas and the San Pedro
River, and a few are scattered elsewhere over the prairies, some coming
quite to the base of the mountains.
Glaucidium gnoma Wagler. Pygmy Owl.
I have seen but very few Pygmy Owls in the mountains, and though
very possibly resident there, I doubt if they are very abundant. On
August 3, 1902, I saw a pair of very ragged birds but was unable to
secure either of them.
