lO PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
Crotophaga sulcirostris Swainson. Groove-billed Ani.
The capture of a single specimen of this bird near the Huachuca
Mountains has been recorded by O. C. Poling. (See Auk Vol. VIII, '
1891, page 313.)
Geococcyx calif ornianus (Lesson). Road-runner.
Road-runners are fairly abundant all through the foothill region,
and I occasionally saw them far up the canyons ; at least once at an
altitude of about 6500 feet.
Coccyzus americanus occidentalis Ridgway. California Cuckoo.
A rare migrant, but of fairly regular occurrence both in spring and
fall. Along the San Pedro River it is a fairly common summer resident,
breeding in all suitable localities ; but in the mountains it is only a stray
pair or two that remains to breed. O. W. Howard found a nest con-
taining two badly incubated eggs, on June 28, 1896, in Ramsey Canyon
at an altitude of about 6000 feet. The eggs were beyond saving and
were left, and a day or two later young birds were seen in the nest. An
adult male was secured on August 21, 1902.
Trogon ambiguus Gould. Coppery-tailed Trogon.
Probably of fairly regular occurrence in the mountains during the
summer months. I have never been fortunate enough to run across any
myself, but O. W. Howard informs me that he has seen them on several
occasions, and specimens have been taken by G. F. Breninger, R. D.
Lusk, and others. A hunter on the west side of the mountains told me
that he had killed one in the summer of 1902, and that he knew of another
that was killed close by at about the same time.
Ceryle alcyon (Linnaeus). Belted Kingfisher.
On /\pril 15, 1903, a Belted Kingfisher lit on a tree overhanging the
tent I was occupying, and gave utterance to his loud rattling call to
announce his arrival. This is the only occasion on which I have seen
this species in the mountains : none of the streams are large enough to
support any fish, and an occasional stray bird which drops in to rest
during the migration, is probably all that visits the range.
Dryobates villosus hyloscopus (Cabanis). Cabanis Woodpecker.
Fairly abundant in the higher parts of the mountains, from 7000 feet
upward. They may be seen almost anywhere in that region, but for
breeding purposes, seem to particularly favor the dense thickets of
quaking asp. They do not seem to remain through the. winter months ;
at any rate I saw none during February, 1903, nor did any appear until
March 17, when I secured two and saw one other. Ten days later they
were quite abundant. The winter of 1902-1903 was quite cold, with a
great deal of snow on the ground, and it is possible that with a milder
winter they might remain the year through. There does not seem to be
any vertical migration on the part of this woodpecker, for I saw none
below 7000 feet, and but very few as low as that. Specimens from the
Huachucas compared with Southern California examples of Iiyloscof^us
average rather smaller, with decidedly smaller and weaker bills.
Dryobates scalaris bairdi (Malherbe). Texan Woodpecker.
On the dry and comparatively barren foothills the Texan Wood-
pecker is a fairly abundant resident, breeding usually in the dead stalks
of the mescal plant, which grows in abundance throughout the moun-
tains. This woodpecker is seldom seen above 5500 feet, and rarely ven-
