April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. II
tures into the canyons. On the plains below, wherever there is brush or
trees, and all along the San Pedro River it is very common, as in fact, I
have found it in all similar places I have visited in Southern Arizona. I
have frequently observed the bird feeding in small bushes close to the
ground, and often at work on the leaves of a cactus, seeming to be gen-
erally less dependant on the presence of large timber than any of the
other woodpeckers.
Dryobates arizonae (Hargitt). Arizona Woodpecker.
Although the Arizona Woodpecker is resident the year through in
the Huachucas, it is singular how the birds seem to disappear in the
breeding season, that is from the middle of April to the middle of June,
when the young birds begins to leave the nest. During this time their
loud shrill call may be occasionally heard from some wooded hillside,
but the birds themselves are seldom seen. I have taken specimens from
the base of the mountains, about 4500 feet altitude, up to 8000 feet, but
they are not often seen above 7000 feet. In the winter they seem to more
particularly favor the large groves of live-oaks along the foot-hills and
at the mouths of the canyons ; scattering over the mountains and as-
cending to rather a higher elevation upon the advent of the breeding
season. They breed indiscriminately in the large trees along the canyon
streams, in the oaks on the hillsides, and occasionally in a dead mescal
stalk in the same locality as the Texan Woodpecker. Although a fairly
common bird in the region they frequent, I have never found them at all
gregarious ; except in the svmimer when a pair of old birds with three
or four young may frequently be seen ; never more than a single brood
however and these small gatherings break up before the young acquire
the adult plumage. What I have frequently seen though, occasionally
even in the breeding season, is two old males bearing each other com-
pany, and usually sticking pretty close together.
About the third week in April they commence laying their eggs, and
after the middle of June the young birds begin to leave the nest, and
soon become quite abundant. I have never had any difficulty in ap-
proaching these birds as they are usually quite tame and unsuspicious;
far more so than the generality of woodpeckers, and the young birds are
noticeably so. I have several times stood within ten feet of a young
bird, easily distinguishable by his red cap, as he was industriously
pounding on a limb without seeming in the least disturbed by my pres-
ence, or showing any inclination to leave. On one occasion the con-
fiding, and in this case inquiring nature of the bird occasioned rather a
laughable scene. An acquaintance in the mountains, passing the camp
one day stopped to lead his horse down to the well which supplied us
with water. A young Arizona Woodpecker was sitting in an oak tree
close by, and soon after the horse began drinking he flew down, and
lighting on the animal's hind leg as on the side of a tree, hit it a vigorous
rap or two. The horse and its owner appeared equally surprised, and
both moving a little the bird retreated to his tree. It wasn't a minute be-
fore he was back again, this time on a front leg, where he went to work
with such energy as to start the horse plunging and kicking in an efifort
to get rid of its curious assailant. The woodpecker left but did not seem
to be particularly frightened, as he sat on the wooden curb of the well
until he was left alone again.
The Arizona Woodoecker commences to moult about the middle of
July, and by the first weeK in September the new plumage is almost com-
pletely acquired. The plumage of the breast, abdomen, and lower parts
