12 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
generally, seems to be the first to be renewed, while the remiges, rec-
trices and feathers of the interscapular region are the last to get their
growth. An old female shot on September 3 had practically completed
its moult, with the exception of the tail feathers, none of which were
over half an inch long ; while several specimens of both sexes, taken
during the last two weeks in August, are in nearly perfect autumnal
plumage, except for some small patches of old feathers in the inter-
scapular region. Fall specimens are considerably darker on the back
than birds taken during the spring and summer, but the change is un-
doubtedly due to fading of the plumage, as birds taken in the late winter
and early spring, show not the slightest traces of moult, and a series of
birds taken from February to July, show plainly the gradual change of
coloration. Singularly enough the pileum and back of the neck does not
seem to fade as the dorsum does, and consequently, while birds in fresh
fall plumage are of practically uniform coloration on the upper parts,
specimens taken in the late spring and summer have the head and neck
abruptly darker than the back and exposed portion of the wings. Young
birds of both sexes have the pileum' red, and although it is not always
safe to lay down rules concerning young birds, the sexes not always
being easy to ascertain with certainty, there seems to be some difference
in the marking of the juvenile male and female. In no case does the red
cap extend over the entire pileum ; the anterior portion is always brown
like the back, and in some young females half the surface is without any
red. In the young female, besides occupying a less extensive surface,
the red is less intense than in the male, and not as solid, that is there is
always more or less brown showing through. The red cap of the juvenile
bird seems to be worn but a short time, as a young female taken Septem-
ber 4 has hardly a trace of it remaining. Young birds are lighter un-
derneath than the adult, with the markings of the under parts less
plainly defined, but there is a difference in this respect between autum-
nal and spring adults also ; and in each instance it is caused by the dark
markings being obscured by light colored edges to the feathers, which
disappear by abrasion later on. Of twenty-four specimens from this
region four show more or less traces of white bars across the rump ; one
of these is a male in nuptial plumage, one a male in freshly acquired
autumnal plumage, one a female in nuptial plumage (this specimen his
some faint indications of white bars on some of the scapulars as well),
and one is a young male. Another spring female has some white bars
on the scapulars but none on the rump. Presumably this is a tendency
toward the Mexican species Dryobafcs stricklandi.
Sphyrapicus varius nuchalis Raird. Red-naped Sapsucker.
In February, 1903, I found this species fairly abundant in the Hua-
chucas, and pretty equally distributed over all parts of the mountains ;
though possibly more abundant in the pine forests of the higher p-^rts
of the range than elsewhere. They remained in diminishing numbers
up to March 26, on which date I secured the last one I saw. I was rather
surprised at their leaving so early, the more so that during the previous
yc^i thvi only one I saw for the season was a male which I secured on
April 25. Nearly all the specimens secured showed more or less s'gns
of moult on the throat and breast, though not elsewhere. One young
male, shot February 21, had but a few scattered red feathers on the
crown, and one or two black ones on the breast ; the red throat patch
being nearly perfect. In the specimens secured the color of the lower
parts varies from almost pure white to rather bright sulphur yellow.
