April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 1 3
Sphyrapicus thyroideus (Cassin). Williamson Sapsucker.
On April 6, 1902, I saw about a dozen Williamson Sapsuckers near
the summit of the mountains at an altitude of about 9000 feet. Though
not at all in a compact flock they seemed to keep rather close together,
and when one flew any distance away, the others soon followed. The
bulk of them were females, and but one or two males were seen, one of
which was, with great difficulty secured, for they were very wild. On
April 9 several more were seen and a female secured at this same place ;
and a male was taken a mile or two from this place, at an altitude of
nearly 10,000 feet. These were the last I saw in the spring, though they
do occur later as I have a female that was taken in the Huachucas by H.
Kimball on April 20, 1895. On August 30, 1902, I secured a female in
Tanner Canyon at an altitude not over 7000 feet, the lowest point at
which I have seen this species in the mountains. I think that this bird
was a migrant returning south early, as I doubt very much if they breed
anywhere in the Huachucas. On February 21, 1903, I shot a female at
the same place where I had seen so many the previous year ; it was a
favorite locality for >uicholis and I took several of that species there, but
saw no more of thyroideus, nor were any more seen for the remainder
of the time I was in the mountains.
Melanerpes formicivorus aculeatus Mearns. Ant-eating Woodpecker.
A most abundant summer resident in the lower parts of the moun-
tains ; a few winter here but they are scarce during the cold weather. I
saw but two or three during February and the early part of March, about
the middle of March they began to arrive in numbers, and by April i
were most abundant. Primarily a bird of the oak woods they seldom
venture into the higher parts of the mountains, breeding almost entirely
below 6000 feet. About July i the young birds begin to make their ap-
pearance so like the adults" in general appearance that it is difficult to
distinguish between them. The young of both sexes usually have the
entire crown red, as in the adult male, but of a duller color, more of a
brick red; but one young female secured has the red area very limited
and coming to a point behind, so as to form a small, triangular shaped
patch on the crown. Of seventeen specimens collected in the Huachucas,
three show, more or less distinctly, white markings on the outer tail
feathers. In one of these, an adult female, the marks consist of indistinct
white spots, mostly on the inner web. The other two, juvenile females,
have the outer feathers distinctly, though irregularly, barred with white
for about half their length.
Aculeatus seems to me to be a perfectly good subspecies, inter-
mediate in characteristics and habitat between true formich'orns and
bairdi, as claimed for it by its describer. (See Auk Vol. VH, 1900, 249).
My Huachuca Mountain birds have the "solid" black breast of bairdi,
and in the coloration and markings of the lower parts generally, are abso-
lutely indistinguishable from that race ; but they are smaller, with
smaller and weaker bills, and possess one important characteristic over-
looked bv Dr. Mearns in his description of aculeatus, which serves to
distinguish them from either foriniciz'orus or bairdi. This is the pattern
of coloration of the crown in the females, in which respect the Arizona
birds apparently approach the Lower California form angnstifrons. In
most cases the width of the white or yellow frontal band and the black
crown band is about equal to the width (longitudinally) of the red occi-
pital patch. Occasionally it is a trifle greater, but invariably the black
