l6 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
head of Miller Canyon, about 9000 feet altitude. They made their ap-
pearance soon after sunset and remained for an hour or so, hawking back
and forth, usually within a few feet of the i2:round, sometimes thirty of
forty being in sight at once ; but they were difficult to ^hoot, as the light
was poor and they seldom rose so as to be seen against the sky. A num-
ber a male birds were taken, but of females I secured but a single speci-
men. This was taken on June 23, 1902, and most vmdoubtedly was not
a breeding bird. In the daytime, while shooting warblers and other
small birds in the pines, several night hawks were flushed from limbs
high up in the trees. I presume that in all probability they breed in the
Huachucas, but I know of no one who has found any eggs in this re-
gion. The Texan Nighthawk I have never seen in the Huachuca Moun-
tains, though along the San Pedro River it is a most abundant summer
resident.
Chaetura vauxi (Townsend). Vaux Swift.
From the tenth to the fifteenth of May (1902) I several times saw
a few Vaux Swifts flying about, usually late in the afternoon. They
seem to be of rare occurrence in this region, as this is the only occasion
on which I have seen any.
Aercnautes melanoleucus (Baird). White-throated Swift.
The numerous high rocky cliffs found throughout the mountains
afford an abundance of nesting sites for these swifts ; so that, as a rule,
they are exceedingly abundant during the summer months, their shrill
twittering notes being heard on all sides ; and I believe that a few stay
through the winter as well, as on February 26, 1903, I saw a small flock
flying about during a snow storm. Altitude seems to cut but little figure
with them, as I have seen them entering crevices in the rocks in all parts
of the mountains, and they probably breed wherever the nature of the
ground suits them. In feeding, however, they seem to congregate, in a
measure, over the highest parts of the mountains, where I have seen
them in greater numbers than in any other one place ; passing from one
side of the mountains to the other, and occasionally skimming over the
ridge but a few feet from the ground, screaming and twittering almost
continuously. Occasionally during July and August, the rainy season, I
have been on the divide when black threatening thunder clouds were
passing low over the mountains, and the flocks of swifts, flying beneath
these heavy clouds produced by their wings a most peculiar sound; a
continuous murmur, now loud and now low, utterly indiscribable, but
much like a crowd of people shouting in the distance. I heard the noise
for half an hour or more one day before I was able to place it, for the
birds were flying high, and were utterly silent as far as their vocal organs
were concerned; being probably too busy feeding to indulge in their
usual fights and squabbles, which are always accompanied by consider-
able noise. A nest of this species was, with the greatest difficulty,
reached and examined by O. W. Howard and W. B. Judson. on June 9,
1896. The nest was in a crevice in a high over-hanging cliff, and at this
date a single egg was found lying on the rock outside the nest. On June
18 three eggs were taken from this nest. Aside from the difficulty nid
great danger usually attendant on approaching the nests of these birds,
it is generally labor thrown away, as the crevices in which they breed
often run far back in the rock, and the eggs are as much out of reach
when the opening is reached as before.
