April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. I9
Selasphorus alleni Hensbaw. Allen Hummingbird.
Among- a number of specirhens of Selasphorus rufiis from this re-
gion I have found four of allcui. These are an adult male and immature
male taken July 13, 1896; an immature male taken July 15, 1896, and an
adult male taken July 30, 1902. The last mentioned was taken from a
flock of riifits at an altitude of 9500 feet.
Stellula calliope Gould. Calliope Hummingbird.
After the summer rains the mountains present an exceedingly invit-
ing appearance, particularly so in the higher parts, along the ridges and
on various pine covered "flats." where, with the green grass, a multitude
of brilliantly colored wild flowers springs up, often waist high, and in
many places in solid banks of bright colors. In such places, in the late
summer of 1902, I found the Calliope Hummingbird quite abundant,
feeding close to the ground, and when alighting usually choosing a low
bush. I did not see any around the mescals, which at this time were
past their prime, and aside from a few Rivolis did not attract many
hummingbirds; nor did they seem very gregarious, a single bird, or at
most two or three, being all that were seen at a time. The first one was
shot August 14, and from then up to the time we left the mountains,
September 5, they remained abundant in certain localities ; none being
seen below 9000 feet.
Atthis morcomi Ridgway. Morcom Hummingbird.
Known only from two females shot by H. G. Rising, July 2, 1896.
These were taken in Ramsey Canyon, not together but not far distant
from one another; and at an altitude of about 7500 feet. I have looked
carefully for this species since then, but have seen nothing that I could
ascribe to it, though possibly when calliope was so abundant there might
have been some of uiorcoini with them- without my noticing them, for
the females, at least, of the two species are very much alike.
Basillina leucotis (Vieillot). White-eared Hummingbird.
In all prob^bilitv the White-eared Hummingbird is a regular sum-
mer visitant to the Huachucas, though in small numbers. A female was
taken by W. B. Judson on July 7, 1896; and in 1902, I secured a male on
June 21 at an altitude of 5500 feet, and another August 14, at 7000 feet.
On July 23 I saw still another at the same place where the last men-
tioned was secured. Mr. O. W. Howard tells me that he has seen them
several times in the years intervening between 1896 and 1902, and on
one occasion saw a female carrying building material. In 1903 I left the
mountains at an earlier date than I had seen the species in the region,
but a few weeks later, on June 24, I was in company with Mr. F. Steph-
ens when he secured a male in the Santa Rita Mountains, some forty
miles to the northwest of the Huachucas, at an altitude of 5500 feet.
T'his one is not an adult bird, but is in a stage corresponding to one
often met with in the male of Calypte costae, probably a bird of the pre-
vious year. In this bird (No. 6301 F. Stephens) the whole of the upper
parts are dull green, the feathers of the rump being narrowly margined
with brown. Forehead, dull brownish. Under parts (breast and abdo-
men) dull white spotted with green, as in the female. Throat, metallic
emerald-green with a few grayish feathers intermixed, and with but the
faintest trace, (one or two scattered feathers), of the beautiful sapphire-
blue chin of the adult male. The white stripe on the side of the head
is about the same, both in color and extent, and the auriculars are not
even as dark, as in the female. The lateral rectrices (as is the case in the
