20 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
opposite sex) are broadly tipped with white. Bill, black ; base of mandi-
ble flesh color. In the adult male the base of the bill is compressed,
similarly though not to such an extent as in I ache latirostris, but in this
specimen it is quite as narrow as in the female. All the specimens se-
cured were feeding on a scarlet flower, somewhat similar to a honey-
suckle, but growing close to the ground.
lache latirostris (Swainson). Broad-billed Hummingbird.
An extremely rare bird in this region. A male was secured on July
21, 1902, and I have seen a female taken by R. D. Lusk, July 10, 1897.
Platypsaris albiventris (Lawrence). Xantus Becard.
The capture of a male bird of this species on June 20, 1888, has been
recorded by W. W. Price. (Auk Vol. V., 1888, page 425) Although
Mr. Price mentions hearing the notes of several besides the one secured,
and seemed to believe that the species would prove to be a regular sum-
mer visitant to the Huachuca ^Mountains, it has not since been met with
by any collector in this region, and is probably extremely rare and ir-
regular in it's occurrence over our borders.
Tyrannus verticalis Say. Arkansas Kingbird.
The Arkansas Kingbird is found most abundantly in the washes
leading from the various canyons ; and breeds in large numbers as far
down these washes as the trees extend. They occasionally venture up
into the mountains but not often ; and while breeding the nests stop so
abruptly at the mouths of the canyons that I am uncertain if it is on ac-
count of the altitude, or because they .prefer the open country below to
the more restricted canyons. They are late late in getting here in the
spring; considerably later than in Southern California, the earliest ar-
rival noted at the Huachucas being three weeks later than the time the
species reaches Los Angeles, which is considerably further north. In
1902 the first seen was on April 8, and it was a week later before they
were at all abundant. The following year the first seen was on April 14,
and the bulk of them were correspondingly later in making their appear-
ance. During the breeding season the large numbers of White-necked Ra-
vens and Swainson Hawks found in the vicinity afford the Kingbirds ex-
ceptional opportunities for exhibiting their peculiar talents, and during
the summer months these wretched birds' lives are made a burden to them
through the incessant persecution they receive. The hawks usually
leave as soon as possible on being attacked ; but the ravens, though
beating a hasty retreat often try to fight back, twisting from side to
side in vain endeavor to reach their diminutive assailant ; cawing a
vigorous protest, meanwhile, at being treated in such a disrespectful
fashion. On September 5, 1902, I saw a large number of Kingbirds,
both verticalis and vociferans, sitting along the fences in the valleys evi-
dently migrating: and apparently in the midst of their moult, as they
presented a very ragged appearance.
Tyrannus vociferans Swainson. Cassin Kingbird.
It is rather a singular fact that although this species winters
abundantly in Southern California, in this region it arrives in the spring
at the same time, and usually in company with rerficalis the enrli'st
being on April 8. In breeding it ascends to rather a higher altitude than
that species, the majority of the nests found being between 5000 and
6000 feet ; I have occasionally^ but not often seen the birds as high as
7500 feet, and I found one nest quite at the mouth of the canyon, 4500
