April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 21
feet ; but as a rule, the territories occupied by this species and vcrticalis
during the breeding season hardly overlap. All the nests of this species
I have seen in this region were built in sycamores, usually at a con-
siderable distance from the ground. In 1896 a set was secured on June
20, and another on June 26. They probably leave in the early fall, for
as I before remarked, I have seen both this species and vertical is evi-
dently migrating in the early part of September.
The Cassin Kingbirds do not seem to persecute the hawks and other
large birds to >such an extent as the Arkansas does, but they are far
more noisy ; and at times, particularly in the early morning, make a fear-
ful racket. Commencing shortly before daybreak, they keep up a con-
tinuous clamor, generally on the wooded hillsides, to such an extent that
it seems like an army of birds engaged. They do not seem to be quar-
reling or fighting at these times, for those I have seen merely sat,
screaming, on the top of some tall tree. This racket is kept up until
about sunrise, when it stops rather abruptly.
Myiodynastes luteiventris Sclater. Sulphur-bellied Flycatcher.
This species, though a handsome, strikingly marked bird, and at
times an exceedingly noisy one, is yet so shy and retiring, that, far from
being conspicuous, a person unfamiliar with the habits of the species
might collect for weeks in a region in which it abounded and not know
that there were any around. Frequenting as they do, the tops of the
tallest trees ?ilong the canyons, which are thickly covered with foliage
at the time these birds arrive, a far brighter colored bird might easilv
escape observation ; and as their colors, though striking, blend exceed-
ingly well with the surrounding vegetation, they are by no means easy
to see ; the more so that they frequently sit perfectly motionless for a
considerable length of time. It has happened more than once, that,
hearing the familiar note in some tree too, I have watched, sometimes
for half an hour, endeavoring to see the bird ; scanning, as I supposed,
every twig on the tree, only to see it finally depart from some limb where
it had been sitting, if not in plain sight, at any rate but very imper-
fectly concealed. The call note is loud and shrill, and there are times
when they are quite noisy, particularly so when pairing off. At this
time three or more can occasionally be seen pursuing one another
through the tree tops and keeping up a continuous clamor. Occasionally
also, I have heard a single bird calling in the early morning, from some
tree top, as the Cassin Kingbirds do. Though noisy their vocabulary
is limited and I have never heard but the one shrill call from them, a
note hard to describe but very much in the style of the familiar two-
svllabled whistle of the VVesrern Fhcatcher { Empidoiia.v difficilis). Of
course the volume is infinitely ereater than with the little Empidonax.
but they resemble each other to this extent, that I have known a person
familiar with the Sulphur-bellied Flvcatcher to mistake a difficilis near
at hand for the larger flycatcher in the distance.
They are late in reaching their breeding grounds, about the latest
of all the birds of this region. M^v 19 being the earliest d^te at w^Mch
I have seen any. and about a week later nearer the usual time for the
first arrival. The nest is built in a natural cavity in a tree, invariably
in a sycamore as far as known ; and Mr. O. \V. Howard, who has taken
a good many sets of eggs, has demonstrated beyond question that the
same cavity is used year after year, but that the same pair of birds oc-
cupies it indefinitely is, I think, open to question. I have, as I before
remarked, seen two or more males contesting for a female, to the ac-
