April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 23
open ground, it loves the dense, impenetrable scrub oak thickets of the
hillsides better than any other place, though also found along the can-
yon streams wherever the trees grow thick enough to prevent the sun
from penetrating. It seldom ascends the mountains to any great height,
7500 feet being about the upward limit of the species, and it is most
abundant below 6000 feet. They breed down quite to the mouths of the
canyons, and on one occasion during the migration I secured one in a
wash over a mile from the mountains. This, however, is quite except-
ional. These flycatchers begin to arrive early in April, the first noted
being on April 6, but it is a week or ten days later before they are at all
abundant. They seem to disappear during the breeding season, and
though really very abundant, their plaintive note, heard occasionally
from some dense thicket is almost the only evidence that the birds are
still around. Consequently not a great deal is known of their breeding
habits. All the nests I have seen, some six or eight, all told, were built
at a considerable distance from the ground, from twenty to fifty feet.
They seem to breed rather late, as Mr. Howard secured a set on June
17, 1902, and on July 25 I shot a young bird which had only just left the
nest. They begin to leave as soon as the young have attained their
growth, being about the first of the summer residents to move south.
Their numbers decrease rapidly after the end of July, and by the middle
of August there were practically none left in the mountains. I saw no
more, and supposed that they had all left, until September 3, when I
came onto a pair of the birds feeding several young. This was right at
a place where Mr. Howard had secured a set of eggs earlier in the sea-
son, and I have no doubt that, as neither of the parent birds were shot,
they reared another brood and were correspondingly delayed in leaving.
Young birds collected, of various ages, differ from the adults in having
the upper parts more of a brownish color, and the lower breast and
abdomen, light yellow in the adult, very pale, in some cases almost
white with just the faintest tinge of yellow; wing coverts, tertials and
secondaries are broadly, and primaries narrowly margined with rusty
fulvous, while the rectrices are broadly margined with the same.
Sayornis saya (Bonaparte). Say Phoebe.
Resident in the foothill region, and along the base of the mountains
generally, though in limited numbers. During the migrations they
appear rather more numerously, but never venture far up into the can-
yons. A favorite nesting site is a well or some similar excavation, or
an old abandoned adobe house. At the postofifice at Turner, some six
or seven miles below the mountains, a pair of Say Phoebes has built a
nest over the doorway, and bred there for many successive seasons; and
not only do they breed there year after year, but the same individual
pair of birds seems to stay there the year through.
Sayornis nigricans (Swainson). Black Phoebe.
The Black Phoebe occasionally breeds in the Huachucas up to as
high an altitude as 6000 feet, but it is anything but a common bird in
this region and does not remain at all through the winter months. The
earliest date at which T saw any was March 15, 1903, when a single bird
was seen ; for the next week or two an odd bird was seen now and then
evidently migrating, and after that, no more appeared. About the first
of August they began to appear in the lower parts of the mountains,
evidently moving up from the river valleys where they breed in greater
abundance. -At this time they were just commencing the autumnal moult
