24 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
and were consequently extremely ragged and disreputable in appearance.
T did not secure enough specimens to admit of extended comparison, but
the few I have are absolutely indistinguishable from Southern Califor-
nia birds.
Nuttallornis borealis (Swainson). Olive-sided Flycatcher.
The Olive-sided Flycatcher occurs regularly in the Huachucas
during the migrations, but is never at all abundant; five or six being
about as many as I have seen in the whole course of a migration. It is
rather a late arrival, and the extreme dates at which I have noted the
species are from April 20th to May 28th. In the fall the first and only
one I saw was on August 30th. Though a bird of the highest altitudes
in the regions in which it breeds, these migrating birds never seemed
to ascend the mountains to any height, none being seen above 6000 feet.
Contopus pertinax pallidiventris Chapman. Cones Flycatcher.
During the summer months this flycatcher is one of the character-
istic birds of the pine regions of the Huachucas, where if not seen, it can
at least be heard almost everywhere. It is one of the first of the summer
residents to arrive, and one was heard calling as early as March 29th The
usual time of arrival is the first week in April, and during this month
they can be found generally distributed over all parts of the mountains ;
while I have taken specimens, evidently migrating birds, quite at the
base of the range, as latp as May 25th, though others were found breed-
ing at an earlier date. In its breeding, in fact in its habits in general, it
closely resembles the Olive-sided Flycatcher, but I have never found it
migrating out in the plains and valleys as that species quite generally
does. As with borealis the male bird is fond of getting in some elevated
position, usually the extremity of a dead limb at the top of some tall
pine or fir, and remaining there for hours, uttering at frequent intervals
its loud, characteristic call. In character and tone this call is quite
similar to that of borealis, but the rotes differ. The local name for the
species, derived from its cry, is Jose Maria (pronounced, Ho-say Maria,
with the second syllable of the last word drawn out and emphasized),
a far better translation of the sounds that is the case in many similar
instances.
During the breeding season these birds are to a great extent re-
stricted to the higher parts of the mountains, being most abundant from
8000 to 10,000 feet ; though I have seen one or two nests as low as 7000
feet. In the choice of a nesting place they show a marked prefierence
for the conifers, the nest being usually built at a considerable distance
from the ground, on some limb affording a wide, uninterrupted outlook,
but there again no hard and fast rule can be laid down, as I have seen
nests built in maples in the bottom of a canyon, not twenty-five feet
above the ground, and nearly hidden by the luxuriant foliage. I have
seen birds beginning to build in the middle of May, and eggs can be
occasionally be found until at least the middle of July. On July 23, 1902,
I secured a young bird which had just left the nest but was as yet hardly
able to fiy, and two weeks later broods of young, attended by the parents
could be seen everywhere. After the young had left the nest, a general
movement toward a lower altitude began, and by the middle of August
young and old could be found quite commonly along the canyons, and in
the groves of live oaks at the mouths of the same. The young birds
collected differ from the adults in having the abdomen and lower tail
coverts and sometimes tlie center of the throat as well, bufify ochraceous.
