April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA 29
This is the only race of the Horned Lark that I have found here, though
I have specimens taken from February to July, and some of the other
•sub-species might be expected to occur as migrants.
Cyanocitta stelleri diademata (Bonaparte). Long-crested Jay.
A common resident in the Huachucas, ascending to the pine forests
■of the higher altitudes during the breeding season, but generally dis-
tributed over the mountains for the rest of the year. Up to the middle
of April they were most abundant in the oak regions and along the can-
yons from 5000 to 7000 feet, usually in fiocks of a dozen or more ; but
after that time they gradually withdrew to the higher parts of the moun-
tains to attend to their domestic duties. During the breeding season,
up to the beginning of July, they were as quiet and inconspicuous as it
is in the nature of a jay to be, but after the young left the nest they began
to move down to a lower altitude, as noisy and as much of a nuisance as
ever. They did not seem to be as gregarious at this time as in the early
spring, for after the young had attained their growth the families seemed
to break up, and each one to shift for himself to a great extent.
A young male just from the nest, and with the rectrices not yet half
their length, has both the upper and lower parts, a uniform dark slate
color, rather darker on the crest and paler on the rump and abdomen.
There is some whitish on the chin, an indistinct whitish line over the
eye, and the faintest suggestion of bluish white markings on the fore-
head. A juvenile female is essentially the same in coloration but lacks
the whitish markings about the head. A young male, taken August 13.
is beginning to lose the juvenile plumage, having patches of blue feathers
on the sides and upper parts of the breast, the rump and lower tail co-
verts. Soon after the young leave the nest the adults begin to moult ;
specimens taken the middle of July being in a very worn state of plu-
mage, with the webs of the tertials abraded so as to show hardly a trace
of the transverse markings ; but as yet hardly beginning to shed their
feathers. An adult male taken August 15 has almost entirely renewed
the rectrices and remiges as well as the plumage of the lower breast and
abdomen ; while the chin and throat are nearly bare, but little more than
the shafts of the old feathers remaining, and a scattering growth of pin
feathers just beginning to appear. The feathers of the crest are mostly
new, but still ensheathed for about half their length ; while the neck and
anterior portion of the dorsum still retain the old worn plumage.
Specimens in fresh, unworn plumage have the upper parts of a de
cidedly bluish tinge, in marked contrast to the brown dorsum of late
spring and summer birds.
Aphelocoma woodhousei (Baird). Woodhouse Jay.
This species is resident in the oak belt from the base of the moun-
tains up to an altitude of 7500 feet, and is possibly fairly common in this
region : but from the quiet, retiring disposition of the birds (a striking
contrast to the rest of the family!) they are seldom seen, and it would
be an easy matter for even an experienced collector to overlook them en-
tirely. They frequent the steep brush-covered hillsides for the most
part, seldom venturing down into the canyons, or into the open any-
where ; and though their note can occasionally be heard, though they
do not call very much either, a fleeting glimpse of a bird sneaking
through the brush, close to the ground, is the most that is usually ob-
tained. They are possibly more abundant on the west slope of the
mountains than elsewhere; and they are generally rather local in their
