30 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. fNo. 4
distribution, favoring certain spots in certain canyons, where they cart
usually be foimd, to the exclusion of other places presenting apparently
precisely similar conditions. On April 6, 1903, I scared several from
some oaks at the base of the mountains, and with considerable difficulty
secured ane. Possibly these were migrating birds, as it was a place they
did not usually frequent ; and the one secured, a female in very worn
plumage, was evidently not breeding, not even paired off in fact. On
July 23, 1902, I saw a fully fledged juvenile at an altitude of about 7500
feet. I was not able to secure it, for as I was resting by the side of the
trail it lit on a limb but a few feet away, and after a short inspection, left
rather abruptly, nor did I see it again.
Aphelocoma sieberii arizonae Ridgway. Arizona Jay.
Noisy, fussy and quarrelsome as all the jays are, I know of no other
species which possesses to such an eminent degree the quality of prying
into* all manner of things which do not concern it, and of making such a
nuisance of itself in general, on the slightest provocation or on none at
all, as the Arizona Jay does. They are very gregarious, and even during
the breeding season may be seen travelling through the oaks in flocks of
fifteen or twenty or more, ostensibly seeking for food, but also on the
lookout for trouble, or any excitement which might turn up. A collector
travelling through the wo'ods gets his fair share of invectives, especially
if he is examining nests, shrieked from the tree tops at a safe distance,
to the accompaniment of bobbing heads and twitching tails; a Red-tail
or Swainson Hawk sitting on some limb, furnishes a little excitement
until he removes to some quiter locality: but the crowning joy of all is
to find some wretched fox or wild cat quietly ensconsed on some broad,
sheltered, oak limb. In such a case the one that finds the unhappy vic-
tim takes care to let every jay within half a mile know from his outcry
that there is some excitement on hand ; and it is nothing unusual to see
thirty or forty birds gathered about the object of their aversion, letting
him know in no undecided terms just what their opinion of him is. It is
a curious sight also to see a dozen or more gathered around some large
sn^ke, which they seem to fear nearly as much as they hate. On one
occasion I had an excellent opportunity of watching about twenty Ari-
zona Jays protesting at the presence of rather a large rattlesnake which
was leisurely travelling down a dry watercourse which passed our
camp. The jays seemed imbued with a wholesome fear of their wicked
looking antogonist, and though they surrounded it, kept at a respectful
distance ; they were not as noisy as they often are, but kept uttering low
querulous cries, quite different from their usual outbursts. Some of the
boldest lit a short distance from the snake and strutted before it in a
most curious fashion, head and body held bolt upright, and the tail
pressed down on the ground vmtil about a third of it was dragging. A
bird we had in captivity for some time strutted about in the same comical
fashion whenever it was angered and wished to show fight. On many
occasions while out collecting, I have heard an outburst of jay's voices
drawing nearer and nearer, until presently a Cooper, or Sharp-shinned
Hawk, passed silently, like a ghost down the canyon ; while behind it a
straggling stream of jays trooped, anything but ghost-like, screaming
and clamoring, to the great detriment of the hawk's hunting, who re-
garded them, I have no doubt, with precisely the same feeling that most
of the deer hunters of this region have for the jays. Beside his vocal
outbursts, the Arizona Jav mqkes when flying a curious fluttering noise
with his wings, loud and distinct enough to be heard some little dis-
