52- PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
variously blotched with blue, may be seen all through the month. The
adults renew their plumage entirely at this time, but the juveniles seem
to retain the rectrices and remi^jes acquired with the first plumage. I left
before the moult was completed, but specimens taken in February and
March, which I take to be birds of the previous year, have these feathers
much more worn and abraded than have the more highly colored, older
birds. Two old females taken the middle of August are in the midst of
the autumnal moult, covered with pin feathers, and with many old
feathers still scattered over the body.
Corvus corax sinuatus (Wagler). American Raven.
I have occasionally, but not often, seen large ravens in the higher
parts of the mountains, their size, as well as the different note, serving-
to distinguish them from their smaller white-necked cousins of the
plains. Possibly they breed in the mountains, but I know of no instance
of a nest being found, or of any other evidence showing that they do so.
Corvus crytoleucus Couch. AVhite-necked Raven.
On the plains and in the low lands generally in this region, the
White-necked Raven, or "Crow," as it usually called here, is a most
abundant resident ; and though not a mountain bird, properly speaking,,
they frequently come up into the canyons, and on the lower foothills,
usually after dead cattle. They are usually quite tame and unsuspicious^
paying little or no attention to a man on horseback or a wagon passing
by ; but after being shot at a few times soon become very wary and hard
to approach, and as they are usually out on the open prairie it is an easy
matter for them to keep out of the way. On one occasion I approached
a flock of thirty or forty busily engaged in catching grasshoppers, and as
they began to leave long before I arrived within gunshot, I thought to
try an experiment ; wondering if an appeal to their curiosity might not
be as successful as it usually was with the jays. Tying a stone in the
corner of a red bandana handkerchief, I tossed it high into the air, and
the result far exceeded my expectations; for though standing in plain
sight, they came headlong to see what it was that had fluttered to the
ground, and from that time on I had no difficulty in securing White-
necked Ravens. When one or more were shot out of a flock the re-
mainder did not fly off and alight again, but usually circled about, keep-
ing in rather a compact body and ascending higher and higher; not de-
scending to the ground for a considerable length of time, and usually a
long ways off. On May 3, 1902, I heard a flock of Ravens making a
great commotion in the air, and at first supposed them to be mobbing a
]-iwk. brt on their descending nearer to the ground and passing within
about a hundred yards of where I was standing, I saw that what I had
t''ken for a hawk was undoubtedly a White-necked Raven, but of a
uniform pale brown color throughout. After a time the others appeared
to become reconciled to their unique companion, and they all passed
amicably away together. In the spring of 1903, I noticed a place on the
plains some eight or ten miles from the mountains, where some species
of bird w^s evidently roosting in large numbers. The plains are cov-
ered with brush at tliis point, mostly scrubby mesquite, and for a space
some two hundred yards long and twenty-five or thirty yards wide the
t'-«es w^re almost destroyed by the use to which they had been put.
Tlie ground underneath was inches deep with excreta, and the trunks
and branches of the trees were white with the same; while they were
almost totally denuded of leaves, except at the extreme top where a little
