34 . PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
a flock calling as they passed by, but was unable to catch sight of them
on account of the thick trees in which I was standing. These are the
only occasions on which I have met with the species in this region.
Molothrus ater obscurus (Gmelin). Dwarf Cowbird.
About the first of May, Cowbirds begin to appear in small numbers
along the base of the mountains, but they never become at all abundant.
Occasionally I have seen them as high as 5500 feet, but as a rule they
do not venture far up into the mountains ; remaining more at the base
of the hills and in the mouths of the canyons. They are most numerous
about the middle of May, and leave early in the summer; I saw none in
the Huachucas after the middle of July.
Sturnella magna subspecies ?. Meadow Lark.
T have seen a few meadow larks in various places along the base of
the Huachucas, usually in the tall grass in enclosed pastures, but they
are anything but abundant, and those I saw were so wild as to be utterly
unapproachable, so I was unable to secure a single specimen. I have
seen them at various times through the spring and summer, so the few
that are there undoubtedly breed in the locality. As I unfortunatelv
failed to secure any it is, of course, impossible to say whether those I
saw were ncglccta or hoopcsi, either or both of which may occur in this
region.
Icterus parisorum Bonaparte. Scott Oriole.
A most abundant summer resident, principally frequenting the
lower parts of the mountains, though I have occasionally seen it as high
as 8000 feet. The earliest date at which I have seen any was March 31,
1903, when a male was secured ; no more being seen until April 5, after
which date they were abundant. Until' nearly the end of April small
flocks of from six to a dozen birds could be found along the canyons,
usually below 5000 feet, feeding in the tops of the trees, where, in spite
of the brilliant plumage and loud, ringing whistle of the male birds, they
were anything but conspicuous. In feeding they sit quietly on the limbs
prying and peering into such buds as are within reach, any necessary
change of position being accomplished by clambering along the branches
with hardly any fluttering of the wings ; and as their plumage, though
bright, harmonizes exceedingly well with the surrounding foliage, they
could be easily overlooked were it not for the loud notes to which the
males give utterance at frequent intervals. The first to arrive were the
old, bright plumaged males, then a week or so later some females began
to come in, and finally toward the end of April, what few flocks were
seen were composed of females, and males presumably of the previous
year, in every stage of plumage, most of them indistinguishable from the
more highly colored females. The males in intermediate stages of plu-
mage were very abundant for a time, and as specimens were secured in
every phase from those absolutely indistinguishable from some females,
up to the fully mature male, I should think it very probable that two
years, at least, are required to obtain the perfect plumage. The dullest
colored male I secured has the black restricted to the lores, cheeks,
throat and upper breast, while the top of the head and sides of the ne'ck
are olive-green slightly specked with black. Some others are much like
this one, but with the top and sides of the head more or less uniform,
though dull, black. In all but one of these the tail is precisely as in the
female, plain yellowish-olve, but little darker toward the tip ; the excep-
tion has three rectrices bright yellow, the terminal third abruptly darker,
