April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 35
nearly as dark as in the adult male. These are not new feathers, for all
tl:e rectrices are equally worn and have the appearance of having been
acquired the previous fall. Another specimen is a step nearer the mature
plumage ; the black of the head and breast is more extensive and more
glossy ; the back is dull black, and the feathers of this part as well as
those of the nape and sides of the neck are edged with grayish and yel-
lowish so as to produce a somewhat mottled efifect. The pattern of
coloration of the tail is exactly as in the adult male, but the colors much
duller ; and the under parts and the rump are dull greenish yellow but
little brighter than the female. Still another is very nearly perfect ; the
wings and the tail have the bright, sharply defined colors of the adult,
the throat and breast are glossy black, and while the yellow of the lower
parts is not so bright as in my finest specimens, still it does not fall short
of it very much. The upper parts, however, are duller; the head is black
but with very little gloss, while from the nape the feathers of the back
are broadly edged with olive-yellow and green. The rump, too, is dull
greenish yellow but little brighter than in some females. Mr. Brewster.
in his "Birds of the Cape Region of Lower California" dwells at some
length of this same intermediate plumage of the male of Icterus pan-
sonim, and seems to doubt the probability of its indicating immaturity;
and though I have not the advantage of anything like as extensive a
series as was at his disposal (I have no fall specimens but have examined
in this connection thirty-five males taken iDy myself in the Huachuca
Mountains and near Tucson from March to July) I can not help think-
ing that this is the explanation of the variation. It is not a well defined
phase either of color or markings, for, as I have shown, there is a nicely
graded series of changes from a dull plumage similar to the female, up
to the brightest colored male. The fact that these dull colored males
arrive in the spring later even than the female would also indicate their
immaturity. The fact that they breed in this plumage is indisputable,
but I should imagine that to merely prove that more than a year is re-
quired to obtain the full plumage. Most of the male birds I secured have
more or less traces of grayish-white edgings to the feathers of the lower
back, the only one without any trace of these markings being a specimen
taken late in July% in very abraded plumage, and nearly ready to com-
mence the moult. About a third of the females secured have the throat
and upper breast, and sometimes the top of the head black, much as in
the more imperfect males ; one has a few scattered black spots on the
breast, and the remainder have no trace of black on these parts.
The Scott Orioles seem to leave the Huachucas very soon after they
are through breeding ; I have taken none after July and though some mav
linger through August. I have no notes or recollections of seeing any
at this time.
On May 25th, 1903, I secured a set of four fresh eggs near the mouth
of one of tl*e canyons, at an altitude of about 4500 feet. The nest was
built under the sharp, overhanging leaves of a yucca, about four feet
from the ground.
Icterus cucullatus nelsoni Ridgway. Arizona Hooded Oriole.
The Arizona Hooded Orioles hardly enter into the mountains at all,
except in the migrations, when I have occasionally seen a few half a mile
or so up the canyon ; but in the washes below they are quite abundant
throughout the summer. The earliest arrival noted was a male on April
4th, but they were not really abundant until after the middle of the
month. Two males secured are in the dull plumage of the female, with
