36 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. . [No. 4
hardly any black on the throat. In one of these there are black feathers
scattered throughout the area which is all black in the adult male; but
the other has but two or three black spots on the throat. These two birds
taken ]\Iay 6th and 8th, 1903, were paired ofif and preparing to breed.
Icterus bullocki (Swainson). Bullock Oriole.
The only time at which I have seen Bullock Orioles at all abundant
in the Huachuca Mountains was in August, 1902. About the middle of
the month flocks of from ten to twenty, nearly all young birds, could be
seen along the canyons up to an altitude of about 5500 feet. ]\Iost of these
must have come in from other parts of the country, for I have never
found them breeding at all abundantly in the mountains .being in fact,
the rarest of the three species of orioles occurring there. They probably
arrive, usually, about the first week in April along with the Hooded and
Scott Orioles ; in 1902 I saw one on April 3rd and they were fairly com-
mon by the middle of the month, but in 1903 the first I saw was on May
4th, after I had begun to think that they were not coming at all. They
kept arriving in a leisurely fashion, and it was after the middle of May
before I saw any beginning to pair off. They breed mostly along the
washes in the same localities as the Hooded Oriole.
Scolecophagus cyanocephalus fWagler). Brewer Blackbird.
I have seen this species about the yards and corrals at Fort Hua-
chuca but hardly anywhere else. A solitary female was shot in a dry
wash some three miles from the mountains on May 8, 1903.
Coccothraustes vespertinus montanus (Ridgway). Western Evening
Grosbeak.
I am in doubt as to whether this species breeds in the Huachucas
or not, for though I have never seen any at any time in the spring or
early summer, on July 30, 1902, I came onto about half a dozen birds
scattered through the pines at an altitude of about 9000 feet. An old
male was observed feeding a fully fledged young, and secured, but the
young one flew ofT and was not seen again. All that were seen were very
wild, and after securing a second bird, a female, I was unable to ap-
proach within gunshot of any more. I am satisfied that these birds had
not bred anywhere in the immediate vicinity of the place where they
were at this time, for I had done a good deal of collecting there during
the summer and would certainly have seen or heard them; but the\
might have done so in some more distant part of the range which I had
not visited. The two secured were in badly worn plumage, the female
having commenced to moult. On this occasion all the birds seen were
scattered individuals, but on August 3rd a flock of six or eight were seen
at a spot some five miles distant, and on August 30th a flock of over a
dozen was seen near this latter place. These birds were all so wild that
I was unable to get anywhere near them, and so none were secured.
Carpodacus cassini Baird. Cassin Purple Finch.
A migrant, but probably of irregular occurrence. At various times
during the spring of 1903, I saw flocks of Cassin Purple Finch in the pines
from 9000 feet upward, specimens being secured from April 8th to May
nth; while during the previous year all that were seen were one or two
stray birds about the middle of April in the canyons below 5000 feet.
They were frequently found in company with the Pine Siskin, feeding
simetimes on the ground and sometimes in the trees, the two species
flying away together when disturbed. Several male birds secured, one
