April 1904] BIRDS OF THH HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 39
single birds. If more than one was seen at a time they made no effort
to keep together when startled, but usually went in different directions.
Specimens taken the third week in April were undergoing a slight moult,
usually restricted to the chin, throat and upper breast. In such as have
completed this change, the plumage of these parts is of a decidedly more
buffy hue than in those taken earlier in the season, in which it is gen-
erally almost pure white. Aside from this, ahnost the only variation in
the specimens collected is in the markings of the pileum ; in some the
■dark streakings being destricted almost entirely to the sides, leaving a
broad, well defined, median line of buff", while others have the whole
crown almost equally strealced with dusky.
Coturniculus savannarum bimaculatus (Swainson). Western Grasshop-
per Sparrow.
A rare migrant. In 1902 I secured a female on March 31st, and a
pair on April 4th ; the following year a male was taken on April 5th.
These were all shot in a field at the base of the mountains, about 4500
feet, altitude, and are all that I have seen in this regoin.
Chondestes grammacus strigatus (Swainson). Western Lark Sparrow.
This species proved to be an exceedingly abundant summer resi-
dent in the washes below the mountains, arriving about the middle of
April. Though so common along the base of the mountains, I never met
with any above the very entrance of the canyons.
Zonotrichia leucophrys (Forster). White-crowned Sparrow.
I found this species, together with '^amhcli, very abundant alont^
the San Pedro River during the latter part of March and throughout
April, but they appeared in the Huachucas in but very limited numbers
The first seen in the mountains were secured on April 7th, and a few
others were observed at various times up to May 13th, when a pair of
l)irds were shot, none being detected above 5000 feet. Most of the speci-
mens taken early in May show more or less traces of moult on the head,
throat, and dorsum.
Zonotrichia leucophrys gambeli (Nuttall). Intermediate Sparrow.
Very rare in the Hviachuca Mountains, though, as I before indicated,
more abundant along the valley of the San Pedro. Even there, how-
ever, it is outnumbered by true leucophrys two to one, and the only
positive record I have of its occurrence in the mountains is one immature
female taken March 24, 1903.
Spizella socalis arizonae Coues. Western Chipping Sparrow.
This species probably remains in the Huachucas through the winter,
for on my arrival in the mountains on February 17, 1903, I found large
flocks of Chipping Sparrows everywhere in the oak region, and they
remained in the greatest abundance all spring. Though not breeding in
this region they remain very late, being abundant up to the first of May;
and I saw some as late as May 15. In 1902 they appeared in the fall
about the first of August, and were soon quite abundant, though not as
much so as in the spring. All that were seen at this time were adults in
very worn plumage, many of them ragged and moulting. None were
seen at a higher altitude than 5000 feet.
Spizella breweri Cassin. Brewer Sparrow.
Occurring in company with the Chipping Sparrow in the spring, but
in much smaller numbers, and leaving at rather an earlier date. I saw
none in August or September up to the time I left the mountains.
