40 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
Spizella atrogularis (Cabanis). Bl-\ck-chinned Sparrow.
On April 4, 1902, I heard a Black-chinned Sparrow singing on a
steep bill-side near our camp. The bird was not seen, buj the loud
characteristic song was kept up for some time, and I know of no other
species in this region with a note at all like it. Some ten days previous
to this I saw and heard several in the foothills of the Santa Catalina
Mountains, near Tucson, so I do not think I could have been mistaken.
This is the only occasion on which I have had any indications of the
presence of this species in the Huachucas, and it must be of rare occur-
rence there.
Junco hyemalis (Linnaeus). Slate-colored Junco.
Occurs in limited numbers in the winter in company with caniccps,
mearnsi and thurbcri. I took but four specimens all told : two males
taken on February 18 and 24, respectively, and a male and female taken
on March 24, all in 1903. Possibly three or four others were seen; none
being observed at a higher altitude than 5500 feet.
Junco hyemalis shufeldti Coale. Shufeldt Junco.
I have three Juncos from this region, two males and a female, which
Mr. Ridgway has identified as belonging to this race. These were all
taken at a low altitude in flocks composed of the various species of jitnca
wintering in the mountains, and though these were all the specimens
secured they may have been fairly abundant, being associated with
thurbcri as thev were; for the two races are bv no means easv to dier-
entiate. even where specimens are secured, and in the field it is prac-
tically impossible to do so.
Junco hyemalis thurberi Anthony. Thurber Junco.
As this bird is usually listed as a mere straggler in Arizona, I was
surprised at finding it as numerous as it was in the Huachuca Mountains
during February and March, 1003. At this time it was probably the
most abundant species of junco in the mountains, being particularly
numerous in the oak regions below 5500 feet, and occurring in limited
numbers up to the highest parts of the range. On February 21, I saw
a few on the divide of the mountain at about 9000 feet. After the middle
of March they began to disappear, and after the first of April but an
occasional small bunch of half a dozen or so was seen, the last observed
being on April 19. Specimens secured differ in no wise from birds in my
collection taken in various parts of Southern California.
Junco mearnsi Ridgway. Pink-sided Junco.
T found this species quite common during February and March, 1903,
occurring in the large flocks composed of the various species of juncos
that were in the mountains at the time ; but restricted almost entirely
to the lowest part of the range, no specimens of mearnsi being taken
above 5500 feet. Though not as abundant as some of the other species,
it was fairly numerous up to the third week in March, all that were seen
after that being an occasional stray bird, usually in a small flock of can-
iceps, which lingers in this region longer than any of the other non-resi-
dent species of juncos. The last Pink-sided Junco seen was a female
shot on April 15. In the specimens secured there is considerable varia-
tion, particularly in the females, in the shade of pink of the sides, and the
area covered by it ; in some this color extending^ far up on the sides of the
neck, or meeting- across the breast.
