April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 4I
Junco caniceps (Woodhouse). Gray-headed Junco.
A winter resident, very abundant in the oak regions, and to a lesser
extent in the higher parts of the mountains, remaining until about the end
of April. In February and the early part of March it was outnumbered
bv f/mrbcri, but as that species decreased in numbers caniceps became
more in evidence, though probably not really increasing in numbers. Up
to the middle of April the Gray-headed Junco was still fairly abundant,
though in smaller Hocks than before, and often found at a considerably
higher altitude than that frequented earlier in the season. I took sev-
eral specimens as high as 9000 feet, and they may have been more numer-
ous than I supposed, for those secured were usually in company with the
Arizona Junco (/. />. palliafus) and it is not easy to distinguish between
the two species in life. I took specimens on various occasions toward
the end of April, and have one shot as late as May 2 (1896). A small
percentage of specimens of both sexes have more or less chestnut on the
crown, of the same color as the back, usually in the shape of a few dis-
connected spots but occasionally covering nearly the whole of the crown.
There is also considerable variation in the color of the tertials, which,
usually edged with pale gray or having the whole outer web of that color,
are in about a third of the specimens collected, broadly edged with pale
brown.
Four specimens were secured which are probably hybrids between
caniceps and inearnsi (J. anneetcns of Professor Baird. and /. ridgzvayi
of Dr. Mearns). These were all taken in March, 1903, two males the
7th and I2th, ?nd two females on the 13th and 14th. respectively. Three
of these, a male and two females, resemble each other very closely, and
?re oracticalb' like average ex'^mples of caniceps but with more or les,^
pink on the sides and flanks. The fourth specimen, a male taken March
12, is quite different from these and has apparently just undergone a com-
plete moult, for there are pin feathers scattered over the body, three of
tl'-e rectrirf^s have not vet attained their full leneth, and over the entire
plumage there is a gloss and bloom only present in newly acquired
plumage. The head and throat are darker than is the case in either
caniceps or inearnsi, there is considerable pink on the sides and flanks,
and the lower parts from the breast to the anal region are dirty bufif, the
only pure white feathers being the under tail coverts. The interscapular
region is dark chestnut obscured throughovt by a dusky wash; the
greater wing coverts are reddish brown, and the outer web of the tertials
is broadly margined with the same.
All four of tbpse birds in general appearance resemlilc caniceps
nnich more c^oselv than thev do niearnsi.
Junco phaenotus palliatus Ridofway. Arizona Junco.
An abundant resident, and one with which, apparently, the seasons
make but little difference, for not only does it refrain from going further
south at the advent of cold weather, but I could discern little evidence
of any vertical migration either. During February and March I found
the non-resident species of j uncos together in large flocks throughout
the oak resion, but I never once took a specimen of palliatns in any of
these mixed gatherings. Even in the coldest weather I never saw one
below 5500 feet, and they were most abundant above 7500 feet ; usually in
small bunches of six or eieht. occasionally witht a strav caniceps includ-
ed in the flock, but usuallv by themselves. They are at all times, winter
and summer, most abundant along the divide of the mountains, from
8500 to 10,000 feet, altitude, and the only appreciable difference in their
