42 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No 4
distribution at the different seasons, is that up to the end of March they
are fairly abundant between 5500 and 6500 feet, while but very few breed
at so low an altitude. They begin to pair off about the first week in
April ; on April 25 I shot a female which had laid part of its set, while the
latest nest I have seen was one containing three badly incubated eggs,
on July 30. The nest is usually built upon the ground, under a bunch
of grass, a log, or, as I have occasionally found it, under a flat stone ; but
this is not invariably the case, as I have known one or two instances of
its being placed in some thick shrubbery, a drooping pine limb, or a
young fir, a foot or two above the ground. The Arizona Junco is much
more arboreal in its habits in general than any other of the genus that T
have come in contact with, and on several occasions specimens were shot
from the topmost branches of the pines, fluttering about like warblers,
for which I mistook them, and from their actions apparently in search
of insect food. In the spring the male bird frequently ascends high in
the tree tops, and sits there motionless, uttering his short song at fre-
quent intervals; and two or more may often be seen pursuing one an-
other through the trees, seldom descending to the ground at such times.
About the middle of June the young birds in the spotted plumage begin
to appear, and all through July they are quite numerous, often two or
more broods running together, accompanied by the various parents.
The young birds are at this time heavily streaked above and below,
though less on the throat and abdomen than elsewhere, the bill is uni-
formly black, and the iris brown. The dark streakings are confined
principally to the tips of the feathers, and, as the soft juvenile plumage
wears away very rapidly, those birds which have nearly attained their
full size have these markings much more faintly indicated than those
which have just left the nest. Specimens taken late in July, nearly ready
to discard the juvenile plumage, have the dorsum nearly uniform red, as
in the adults though much paler; and the dark streaks of the lower parts
restricted almost entirely to the upper breast. As the bird becomes older
the iris gets paler, changing from brown to whitish, then to pale yellow,
and finally, about the time the juvenile plumage is shed, to the bright
yellow of the adult bird. At the same time the lower mandible is grad-
ually becoming paler than the upper, the change in this respect as well as
in the iris, being completed about the time the adult plumage is assumed.
The juvenile plumage is shed in August, at tbe same time that the adults
are undergoing their post-nuptial moult; specimens secured on Septem-
ber 2 being hardly distinguishable from adults, and wi^h but a few faint
spots remaining on the breast, sides of the head, and scapulars. The
scapulars seem to retain the juvenile markings the longest, and I have
one specimen, a female, presumably of the previous year, taken on April
4, in which not only the scapulars, but the greater wing coverts also, are
tipped with dusky, and there are one or two faint spots on the red of the
dorsum as well. An adult male taken September 2, has not quite
completed the moult, some of the rectrices having not yet acquired their
growth ; and is practically indistinguishable from specimens taken in
February, the principal difference being in the softer more blended ap-
pearance of the plumage.
In the specimens collected there is some difference, mamly seasonal,
in the intensity of the red of the back, those taken in February and
March, having the color obscured by grayish edgings to the feathers.
In a number of cases there is. more or less admixture of grayish in the
red of the sca'pulars and greater wing coverts, these parts occasionally
being almost entirely gray. In the tertials also there is considerable
