44 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
Melospiza lincolni (Audubon). Lincoln Sparrow.
This species is usually fairly abundant in the spring, frequenting
damp shady places in the canyons up to an altitude of 6200 feet. In 1902
I found it in the mountains when I arrived at the end of March, remain-
ing until about the midle of May ; but in 1903 the first did not arrive
until May 9, and not more than half a dozen were seen altogether.
Pipilo maculatus megalonyx (Baird). Spurred Towhee.
A common resident in the higher parts of the mountains, descend-
ing, along the canyons, as low as 5500 feet, but most abundant from 7500
feet upward. During the breeding season a more restricted area is oc-
cupied than at other times ; for after the young birds begin to appear,
about the middle of July, they scatter over the mountains, and are more
abundant in the lower canyons than before, but at all times their num-
bers are greater along the divide of the mountains, in the pines, than
elsewhere.
Pipilo fuscus mesoleucus (Baird). Canyon Towhee.
Occurs in limited numbers along the base of the mountains, favor-
ing the more barren foothill region rather than the canyons, where it is
frequently seen in companv with Aimophila rnficeps scotfi. It is far
more abundant along the San Pedro River than I have found it any-
where in the Huachucas.
Oreospiza chlorura (Townsend). Green-tailed Towhee.
A common migrant, frequenting the lower canyons up to an alti-
tude of about 6000 feet. In 1902 the earliest arrival noted in the Hua-
chucas was on April 2, though I saw some near Tucson, in the Santa
Catalina Mountains at the middle of March. They were fairly abundant
throughout April, and up to the middle of May; reappearing in the fall
on September ist. In 1903 the Green-tailed Towhee were very late in
arriving, the first seen being on May 6th; the last noted, on May 22nd.
At this time all that were seen were in the washes issuing from the can-
yons, specimens being taken a mile or more from the mountains. A male
bird, presumably of the previous year, taken on May 8, 1903, has hardly
a trace of the rufous crown, and is generally of a duller color and with
the markings less sharply defined than in the fully adult bird. An im-
mature female, taken September i, 1902. has the rufous crown obscured
by dusky tips to the feathers, and the whole of the upper parts sufifused
with a brownish wash.
Zamelodia ludoviciana (Linnaeus). Rose-breasted Grosbeak.
I have in my possession a male Rose-breasted Grosbeak collected by
R. D. Lusk in the Huachuca Mountains, on June 29, 1894. From the
date at which it was taken it would almost seem as if it was a breeding
bird, though I doubt very much that that was the case. This species is
undoubtedly of extremely rare occurrence in this region ; I have never
met with it myself nor do I know of any other specimens secured in the
mountains.
Zamelodia melanocephala (Swainson). Black-headed Grosbeak.
This species is one of the most abundant and conspicuous of the
breeding birds of this region, and during the summer months the loud,
ringing song of the male bird can be heard in all parts of the mountains.
They arrive in April, in 1902 the first being seen on April 20th, and the
following year on April 28th ; and though the first arrivals soon set to
