46 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
exceedingly short one, more so than any other of the migrating species.
In 1903 the first noted was on April 14th ; for about a week they were
quite plentiful, and then abruptly disappeared. In 1902 I observ^ed a few
along the San Pedro River on April 17th ; a day or two later they began
to appear in the mountains, and by the third week in April had all gone
on. In 1896 I saw a very few during the last week in April. They re-
appear at a very early date, for one was seen on July 22, 1902, and their
numbers increased rapidly throughout August. Though at all times
more abundant in fairly open ground in the lower parts of the moun-
tains than elsewhere, I have occasionally seen them far up the canyons ;
and, particularly in the spring, have known them to ascend to as high
an altitude as 8000 feet. At such times they were generally in mixed
flocks of migrating warblers, vireos, etc. ; and fed with them in the tree
tops rather than on or near the ground, as they usually do. In the fall
the old males were the first to appear, the females and young following
later. An adult male taken August 21st has renewed many of the
feathers of the head and back, but for the rest it is clothed almost entire-
ly in the old worn breeding plumage. An adult female taken August
nth has almost entirely renewed the plumage of the upper parts, and
has many new feathers scattered over the throat, breast and sides.
Cyanospiza ciris (Linnaeus). Painted Bunting.
On July 12, 1902, I secured a male bird of this species, which, on
dissection appeared to be an adult, though lacking entirely the bright
colors of the old male. The plumage is old and abraded, the upper parts
almost uniform dull greenish, while the lower parts are yellowish
with a tinge of green on the throat and breast. This bird was taken near
the mouth of a canyon, feeding on the ground under some live-oaks, and
another, apparently a facsimile of the one secured, was seen close bv.
Several times during the month of August I imaeined I saw others in
the same dull plumage in the flocks of amoena which were abundant at
the time, but no more were secured : and it is difficult, if not impossible,
to distinguish with any degree of certainty, the immature of the two
species while flying about.
Calamospiza melanocorys Stejneger. Lark Bunting.
The only place in this region wdiere I have found the Lark Bunting
really abundant is below Fort Huachuca along the edge of the rnesi
rising from the Barbacomari River. I have occasionally seen scattered
birds along the base of the Huachucas elsewhere, though not many, but
here during the migrations they can usually be found in considerable
numbers. I saw several small flocks here on x^pril 22, 1902, and secured
a male which had nearly acquired the nuptial plumage. The lower parts
are nearly all black, and the plumage of the wings and tail has been
entirely renewed, but a good many old feathers remain, scattered over
the upper parts, and a single pure white one shows conspicuously against
the black throat. On May 16, 1902, I saw a large flock and several single
birds on the Empire Ranch, some twenty-five miles to the northward of
the Huachucas, the latest that I have seen any in this region in the
spring. The first to appear in the fall were three adult males which T
saw at the base of the mountains on August loth ; while on September
5th, while driving to the railroad, flocks of hundreds were seen on the
plains below Fort Huachuca, all moving in a southerly direction. In
these flocks none were seen in the black and white plumage of the adult
male, so that either the old males had gone on ahead, or had already
moulted their summer plumage.
