April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 49
pursuing the females. On April 17, 1902, several nests containing from
one to three eggs were examined, and the first containing a full set was
one containing six eggs, found on April 22nd. An immature bird taken
on July 26th, is still to a great extent in the grayish brown vermiculated
juvenile plumage, but another, shot on August 6th, is hardly distinguish-
able from the adult. An adult male taken on August 17th has almost
completed the moult, the only old feathers remaining being a few in the
wings and tail. It is appreciably darker than the spring specimens.
Vireo olivaceus (Linnaeus). Red-eyed Vireo.
I have an adult male of this species taken in the Huachuca Moun-
tains by R. D. Lusk on May 20, 1895. It is probably a mere straggler
to this region.
Vireo gilvus swainsoni (Baird). Western Warbling Vireo.
A very common migrant ; but though I thought it possible that a
few might remain to breed in these mountains, I was unable to detect
any during the breeding season, and they probably go further north ;
though from the early date at which they reappeared in the fall their
breeding ground cannot be at any great distance to the northward. The
earliest date at which I have seen this species in the spring was April
21, IQ02; the following year the first seen was on April 30th. They were
found in all parts of the mountains, though probably most abundant in
the oak region, below 6000 feet, and remained in tolerable abundance
until about the third week in May. They reappeared before the end of
July ; I saw several on July 27th, and, though not as abundant as in the
spring, they were to be found all through the oak region during the
month of August.
Vireo solitarius cassini (Xantus). Cassin Vireo.
A common migrant, found throughout the mountains. The earliest
arrival noted in the spring was on April 9th, and the last seen on May
22nd. On September 3, 1902, I saw several and secured two, a male and
a female, in newly acquired autumnal plumage.
Vireo solitarius plumbeus (Coues). Plumbeous Vireo.
During the spring migration the Plumbeous Vireo is quite abundant
in all parts of the mountains ; and at this time I took several specimens
from the base of the mountains up to the top of the highest peaks.
During the summer it is not so numerous, though still a fairly com-
mon bird, and the breeding birds occupy a more restricted area, being
found along the canyons, from 6000 to 8000 feet. In 1902, the first seen
was on May 6th; in 1903, one was secured on May ist, and on May 5th,
one was seen at work at a nest which was already well started. Speci-
mens collected show considerable variation in color, and though I took
none that could be confused with cussiin, still some have a considerable
admixture of greenish-yellow on the sides and flanks ; though the ma-
jority have those parts plain, dark plumbeous. A female shot on May
nth, has a number of old, worn feathers scattered over the crown and
back as though it were just completing a moult.
Vireo huttoni stephensi Brewster. Stephens Vireo.
Possibly this species remains in the Huachucas Mountains through-
out the winter, but I am inclined to doubt it, and if it does it must be in
very limited numbers. I secured a single bird as early as February
20th, but no more were seen until March 2nd, when another was taken ;
