50 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
about the middle of March they became more abundant, though not a
common bird at any time, and soon after the middle of the month were
already in pairs. Upon their first arival they were found mostly in the
live oaks near the base of the mountains, but the breeding- range seems
to lie between 5000 and 7500 feet. During the breeding season these
vireos were very quiet and inconspicuous, and were most easily over-
looked ; but after the middle of August they began to appear in con-
siderable numbers, and were more abundant at this time than at any
other. Specimens taken the middle" of August are in the midst of the
moult, but some secured the first week in September have nearly com-
pleted the change. Birds taken at this time are generally rather darker
and more olivaceous than spring specimens, with more greenish-yellow
on the edges of the wing and tail feathers. Aside from these seasonal
differences the series of specimens I secured here shows very ilttle
variation in color, and I took none which approach huttoni very closely;
but I have a male specimen of huttoni taken at Los Angeles on Decem-
ber 6th, 1898, which is almost indistinguishable from autumnal examples
of stcphensi; being quite as pale in coloration, but having rather more
greenish-yellow streakings on the sides and flanks than is the case with
that race. The bill is also of the larger size which distinguishes the
coast race.
Vireo pusillus Coues. Least Vireo.
This species must be of very rare occurrence in these mountains,
for the only occasion on which I met with it was on April 8, 1902, when
a single bird was seen, but not secured, in a live-oak at the base of the
movmtains. Along the San Pedro River it is a common migrant, and
breeds fairly abundantly in suitable places.
Helminthophila luciae (Cooper). Lucy Warbler.
From April 8th to 12th, 1902, I found this species in very limited
numbers, in company with virginiac, gittturalis and Intcscciis, in some
live-oaks at the mouth of the canyon I was camped in. This is the only
occasion on which I have found it in the Huachucas, though in the lower
valleys of- this region it is an exceedingly abundant summer resident.
Along the San Pedro River it breeds in great abundance, and O. W.
Howard and F. C. Willard have both informed me that in this region
the nest is frequently placed in some hole or depression in the steep
sides of the "washes" and "draws" which intersect the country draining
to the river.
Helminthophila virginiae (Baird). Virginia Warbler.
This species proved to be very abundant during the spring migra-
tion, particularly in the lower parts of the mountains ; but the nipst of
them seem to go farther north, and but few, compared with the numbers
seen in April and the early part of May, remained through the summer
to breed. The earliest arrival noted was on April loth and soon after
they were quite abundant, mostly in the oak region below 5000 feet,
remaining so throughout April and up to the first week in May. at which
time the migrating birds had about all passed on. All that were seen
after that I took to be breeding birds, for they gradually moved to a
higher altitude, (6000 to 8000 feet) and were nearly all in pairs. About
the middle of April. 1902, I found a few virginiae, together with other
migrating warblers, in the willows along the San Pedro River, some
fifteen miles from the mountains. Throughout the summer thev were
