April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 5I
very quiet and inconspicuous ; I once or twice heard the male bird sing-
ings from some elevated position, but as a rule they kept quietly in the
underbrush, close to the ground, and were most easily overlooked. On
-May 20, 1903, I found a nest about half finished, which on the 29th
contained four fresh eggs. It was built on a steep sidehill about ten
feet from a much traveled trail, and was very well concealed ; being
under a thick bunch of overhanging grass, and sunk into the ground be-
sides, so as to be entirely hidden from view. This was at an elevation
of about 8000 feet, which seems to be about the upward limit for this
species in this region. About the middle of July, young birds began
to appear, and from this time, young and old moved down into the foot-
hill region once more, where I took specimens at various times through
the month of August, though they were not nearly as nimierous as in
the spring.
In the spring males collected there is great variation in the amount
of yellow on the breast; in some instances it extends quite to the bill,
and over the sides of the breast, while in some few it is restricted to a
small, faintly indicated sppt. Usually the yellow is restricted to the
center of the breast and lower part of the throat, the upper throat and
chin being grayish white ; and even in the brightest colored specimens
there is a more or less well defined line of grayish extending across the
yellow of the throat. Just one spring bird shows signs of moult on the
chin and throat, the new feathers being yellow, the old ones gray; so
possibly it is the older birds which are the brightest in this respect. In
some females the yellow marking is almost entirely absent, while in
others it is quite bright, more so than in some of the duller colored males ;
and in the females the chestnut crown patch is sometimes present and
sometimes not.
An adult male taken August i8th, which has nearly completed the
post-nuptial moult, has the upper parts clear gray with but very little
of a brownish cast. The lower parts are grayish, strongly tinged with
brown on the sides and flanks, while the yellow of the breast is overcast
with grayish, and the chin and throat white, tinged with yellowish buff.
An adult female taken August 22nd, in newly acquired autumnal plumage
has the upper parts uniform grayish brown, much darker than the male
bird just described. The crown patch is present but almost entirely
concealed by the brownish tips of the feathers. The yellow of the breast
is quite as extensive as in many spring specimens, but overcast with
grayish : while the throat and median line of the abdomen are white with
a decidedly buffy tinge, the sides and flanks being brownish. A very
young male has the upper parts dull grayish brown, the breast, sides and
flanks a rather paler shade of the same, while the chin, throat and abdo
men are a dirty white. On the median line of the throat and on each
side of the breast, a narrow line of buffy yellow pin feathers is appear-
ing. A female, a little older, has the entire lower parts of this buffy
yellow hue, a spot on the breast being almost clear yellow. Another,
with sex undertermined but probably a female, is about the same but
lacks the yellow on the breast, having the lower parts buffy yellow in-
terrupted by a line of grayish feathers across the throat. Two young
males taken at a later stage have lost much of the buffy hue of the lower
parts, have the chin and throat grayish white, the yellow of the breast
quite bright and well defined, and are losing by moult the plumage of
the head, upper neck, and back, replacing it with a plumage more like
the adult. In one case in which the feathers of the pileum have been
