52 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
almost completely renewed, there is still no sign of the chestnut crown
patch of the adult bird. It is rather curious that in all these juveniles
the yellowish rump, and upper and lower tail coverts, are nearly or quite
as bright as in the adult.
To sum up, it would seem that on leaving the nest the young bird is
in a plumage, grayish-brown above, on the breast and sides, and whitish
on throat and abdomen, which is retained but a very short time ; a moult
of the lower parts taking place almost immediately, and those parts be-
coming a more or less uniform buffy-yellow from the bill to the anal
region. A little later the plumage of the upper parts is moulted, and at
the same time the bulTy breast and abdomen changes to gr.ayish-white
with the yellow breast spot. Through the changes the rectrices and re-
miges are retained and the bird is now much like the autumnal
adult, though lacking the chestnut crown patch, which possibly is not
acquired until the following spring.
Helminthophila rubricapilla gutturalis (Ridgway). Calaveras Warbler.
Contrary to my expectations T found the Calaveras to be rather a
common migrant in this region, and in the spring at least, occurring in
the lowlands as well as in the mountains. The earliest noted in the
Huachucas was on April 6th and the last seen on April 25th ; while about
the middle of April I saw several in the willows along the San Pedro
River. In the spring they were most abundant in the oaks at the mouths
of the canyons, but also occurred up as high as 6500 feet. They re-
appeared in the fall on August i8th, and until I left, September 5th, were
fairly abundant, but frequented rather diflferent localities than in the
spring; for I took none below 5500 feet, and they were most abundant
along the divide of the mountain, from 9000 to 10,000 feet, where they
fed mostly in the flowers and weeds which had sprung up from the sum-
mer rains. Both adults and young were taken at this time, but the old
birds seemed to be the most numerous.
Helminthophila celata (Say). Orange-crowned Warbler.
On September 2, 1902, I secured a male bird of this species from
where it was feeding in some low bushes at an altitude of 9000 feet. The
same day I saw several more apparently the same, fluttering in and out
of a thick patch of sunflowers, but was unable to get any of them. The
one secured is a facsimile of some fall birds I have taken in Southern
California, with the head very gray, grayish-white orbital ring, and the
lower parts dull greenish yellow, obscurely streaked with grayish. On
April 17, 1902, I secured a female in some willows near the San Pedro
River which appears to be of this species. Allowing for the greater
abrasion of the plumage, it is practically the same as the autumn bird
just mentioned.
Helminthophila celata lutescens Ridgway. Lutescent Warbler.
Although I found the Lutescen Warbler to be a most abundant
migrant in the spring in this region, I took but few specimens which
can be considered as typical of the race ; but one or two, in fact, which
are as brightly colored as Pacific Coast specimens. The greater part of
those secured appear to be intermediate between celata and lutscens.
but nearer the latter from which they differ principally in being of duller
coloration.
Although I have seen the species at Tucson in the middle of March,
the earliest arrival noted in the Huachuca Mountains was on April 8th ;
the last seen on May 5th.
