April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 53
Dendroica olivacea (Girand). Olive Warbler.
I have not found this species very abundant in the Huachucas at
any time, but it is probably resident to some extent, for I secured an
adult male on February 21, when the snow was deep on the ground.
During March I saw several more, all adult males and single birds,
usually with a troop of Pygmy Nuthatches ; but it was not until the first
of April, when the other warblers were arriving, that they became at all
abundant. In 1902, they were few in numbers and I did not get many
specimens, in fact but two adult males were observed ; but in 1903 they
"became fairly abundant, particularly in April, when many small flocks-
of five or six birds each, were seen. I found them only in the pine forests
of the highest parts of the mountains, even in cold weather none being
seen below 8500 feet ; and more were secured above 9000 feet than below
it. They were seldom in company with other warblers, but when not
alone, associated with nuthatches and creepers. In their actions they
are more like vireos than warblers, clambering slowly and deliberately
over the branches in the search for food ; and uttering at frequent inter-
vals a liquid note much like that of a bluebird, but ventriloquial in its
efifect, and very difificult to locate. Though frequenting the tree tops to
a great extent, they seem singularly tame and unsuspicious, and several
times I have had one feeding in some of the lower branches, within arm's
reach of me without it's showing the least sign of fear.
The male birds seem to take at least two years in acquiring the adult
plumage, being indistinguishable from the female the first year, and I
was surprised at the large proportion of birds in this immature plumage
that were seen. At a very liberal estimate I should say that the males in
adult plumage comprised barely a third of the birds seen in the spring;
while in the late summer, when the flocks of juveniles appeared on the
scene, the proportion of perfect plumaged males was, of course, much
smaller. The male bird breeds in the immature plumage, for on June 21,
1902, I assisted Mr. O. W. Howard in securing a nest, containing four
eggs, the parents of which were indistinguishable in color and markings.
About the middle of July young birds began to appear, and through-
out August young and old "were seen together in small flocks.
Dendroica aestiva sonorana BrcAvster. Sonoran Yellow Warbler.
A common summer resident along the San Pedro River. It is possi-
ble that this species occasionally breeds in the Huachucas, for on sev-
eral occasions about the middle of June, 1902. I saw a single bird, a
female, at the same spot, a small clump of willows in a canyon at an
altitude of about 5500 feet. This warbler does not occur in the moun-
tains at all during the spring migration, but in August, 1902, it was
fairly abundant up to 6000 feet, the first seen being on August 9, and
most of those observed being immature birds. An adult female taken
August 26th, in fresh autumnal plumage, is very curiously colored; nor-
mallv marked below, but the dark olive-green of the upper parts, wings
and tail, irregularly blotched with bright yellow ; so that in the char-
acter of coloration it closely resembles a tame canary.
Dendroica aestiva brewsteri Grinnell. Western Yellow Warbler.
From May 8 to 19. 1903, I found Yellow Warblers in limited num-
bers in some of the washes immediately below the mountains. At the
time I took them to be sonorana, but the nine specimens I secured ,five
males and four females, prove to be indistinguishable from California
birds; and were probably migrants en route for the Pacific Coast to-
