54 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
g'ether with D. f07viiseiidi, D. occidcntalis, Vireo s. cassiui, and others
passing through here at the same time.
Dendroica auduboni (Townsend). Audubon Warbler.
I was surprised at not finding this species in the mountains during
the winter months, but it seems to occur in the Huachucas only as a
migrant. A single bird was seen near the base of the mountains on
March 6th, but he was much in advance of the rest of his tribe, for na
more were seen until March 24th ; after which they steadily increased in
numbers until the end of April. A great many were seen in the pines on
the top of the mountain on May 11, 1903, and they left rather abruptly
about a week later. Though distributed over all parts of the mountains,
they were at all times more abundant in the higher pine region, than
elsewhere; and on April 24, 1903, I found them particularly numerous
along the divide of the mountains, evidently migrating. They could
hardly be said to be in flocks on this occasion, for along the ridge, which
runs almost due north and south, there was for several miles a continu-
ous stream of Audubon Warblers travelling rapidly from tree to tree,
always moving in a northerly direction ; sometimes a dozen or more in
one pine, and sometimes only two or three, but never stopping long and
all moving in the same direction. Almost all that were seen on this
occasion were high plumaged males, hardly half a dozen females being
observed for the day.
Dendroica auduboni nigrifrons (Brewster). Black-fronted Warbler.
This, the only form of auduboni that breeds m the Huachucas, oc-
curs during the summer months, though in rather limited numbers, in
the higher pine regions from 8500 feet upwards. On one occasion, April
5. 1903, I secured a male nigrifrons from a flock of auduboni feeding in
some live-oaks near the mouth of one of the canyons at an altitude of
about 4500 feet, but this is the only time that I have seen it below the
altitude given above; and it is also exceptional in the early date of its
arrival. No more were seen until the second week in May, which seems
nearer the usual time of arrival, for in 1902, the first seen was on May
9th. A young bird just from the nest was secured on July i, 1902, and
another about the same age was taken on July 13th. A young male
taken August 19th, which has discarded the streaked juvenile, for the
first winter plumage, is practically indistinguishable from specimens
of auduboni at the same stage, being perhaps a shade darker, throughout.
In two adult males, taken August 26th and August 30th, respectively,
which have practically completed the postnuptual moult, the black of
the under parts is quite as extensive as in spring birds, but obscured by
gray tips to the feathers. In one the feathers of the back are much as
in spring birds, though with rather broader gray edgings and overcast
with a faint wash of brown ; while the white patch formed by the edgings
and tips of the middle and greater wing coverts is nearly perfect. In the
other, the plumage of the back is overcast with brown to such an extent
that hardly a trace of the dark centers of the feathers is discernable,
while the white wing patch is heavily washed with the same.
Several specimens were taken intermediate in their characteristics
between auduboni and nigrifrons: some, of the size of the latter, though
in color 1)ut little darker than auduboni, while some show every grada-
tion of color between the two extremes.
In the darkest specimens of nigrifrons the black of the under parts
extends from the yellow throat patch to the flanks miinterruptedly, even
