5^ PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. fNo. 4
Dendroica nigrescens (TownsencI). Black-throated Gray Warbler.
A very common summer resident, occurring- principally below 7500
feet, and favoring the brush covered hills of the oak belt to a great exten^
The earliest arrival noted was on March 31st.
Dendroica townsendi (Townsend). Townsend Warbler.
One of the most abundant of the migrating warblers in this region.
In the spring I found it in all parts of the mountains, but most abundant
along the canyons from 5000 to 7500 feet. The first seen was on April
9th, and the last May 15th. At the beginning of the fall migration in
1902, a few were seen in the pines above 9000 feet on August 19th; and
they remained in limited numbers up to the time I left the mountains,,
September 5th.
Dendroica occidentalis (Townsend). Hermit Warbler.
A common migrant both in the spring and fall. The first arrivals
appeared in the very highest parts of the mountains, but a little later
they could be found in all parts of the range, and on April 17, 1902, 1
saw a few in some willows near the San Pedro River. The first seen in
the spring was on May 9th, and the last. May 28th. They reappeared
in August, but at this time were seen only in the pines above 8500 feet.
It xS rather singular, and in contradiction to the idea that m the migra-
tions the old birds go first in order to show the way, that the first secured
in the fall was a young female, taken August 7th. The young birds then
became very abundant, and on August 14th the first adult female was
taken ; and not until August 19th was an adult male seen. The adults
then became nearly as abundant as the juveniles, and both together were
more numerous than I have ever seen them in the spring, on several oc-
casions as many as fifteen to twenty being seen in one flock.
The young birds of both sexes were in many instances quite indis-
tinguishable in coloration, none of the young males having as much
black on the throat as the adult female.
S«iurus noveboracensis notabilis (Ridgway). Alaska Water-Thrush.
I met with this species on but one occasion, August 31, 1903, when
I secured a female at an altitude of about 5500 feet. Scott has recorded
its occurrence in the Santa Catalina Mountains in September, and Hen-
shaw, at Camp Crittenden in August, so it may very possibly prove to be
a regular fall migrant through this region.
Geothlypis tolmiei (Townsend). Tolmie Warbler.
A fairly common migrant in the lower parts of the mountains, oc-
curring up to 6000 feet, mostly in the thick underbrush along the streams.
I observed it in the spring from April nth to May i8th ; in the fall one
was seen on August 21st, and through the rest of the month it was fairly
abundant, though not as much so as in the spring.
Geothlypis trichas occidentalis Brewster. Western Yellow-throat.
A rare migrant in the inountains though of common occurrence in
the lower valleys of this region. In the Huachucas 1 have seen it on but
two or three occasions, and then only in the lowest parts, at the mouths
of the canyons and in the washes below. A male was secured, and an-
other seen, on May 8, 1903, and a female taken on May 22nd.
A breeding male taken on the San Pedro River, about twenty miles
from the mountains, on July 6, 1902, and submitted to Mr. Ridgway,
was jjronounced by him as "inclining toward G. t. mclanops." Tliis bird
