April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 59
bank by the side of a trail, and could never have been seen had not the
bird darted from the nest when it was approached.
Cinclus mexicanus Swainson. American Dipper.
On August 4, 1902, I saw a dipper in the narrow, rocky defile known
as the "Box" in Ramsey Canyon. Several times in the month /of August
I saw what was probably the same bird, in this place ; but it was so wild
as to be unapproachable, and though it never flew to any great distance
I was quite unable to get a shot at it.
Mimus polygottos leucopterus (Vigors). Western Mockingbird.
A summer resident in the lower canyons and very abundant in the
washes leading from the mountains. It does not seem to remain during
the winter, for though a single bird was seen on February i8th, I be-
lieve it was one that had strayed from the valley below, and quickly
returned there, for no more were seen until the middle of April. As
the summer advances they ascend higher and higher in the canyons,
about 5500 feet being their upward breeding limit; but on one occasion,
August 14, 1902, I saw a Mockingbird right on the divide of the moun-
tain at an elevation of about 8500 feet. Specimens taken the first week
in May were not yet breeding, and a female secured on May 18th had
laid part of its set ; while on July 5th I examined eight or ten nests along
the San Pedro River, all of which contained eggs in various stages of
incubation.
Toxostoma curvircstre palmeri (Coues). Palmer Thrasher.
Breeds in very limited numbers in the lower parts of the moun-
tains, none being seen above 5000 feet. It is common enough in the
brush covered valleys below, and after the breeding season, moves up
toward the mountains to some extent. During August young and old,
equally ragged in appearance, were seen along the foothills in consider-
able numbers ; but they were very shy and difficult to approach, and
from their disreputable appearance I did not covet them very much, so
secured but few specimens.
Toxostoma crissalis Henry. Crissal Thrasher.
This is apparently a very rare species in this region, for a juvenile,
though fully fledged, female, secured August 9, 1902, at the base of the
mountains, is the only one I have seen. This bird, as well as the Palmer
Thrasher, was busily engaged in grubbing up a species of small black
beetle which abounds after the sumriier rains, from the shallow burrows
that it occupies.
Heleodytes brunneicapillus couesi (Sharpe). Cactus Wren.
I have never seen the nest of this species in the Huachucas, though
very possibly it breeds in limited numbers in some parts of the range ;
but in the valley below it is a common resident, ascending, together
with the thrashers, to the base of the mountains after the breeding sea-
son.
Salpinctes obsoletus (Say). Rock Wren.
A common resident in the stony foothill region, ascending in. places
up to 5000 feet. I could discern no difference in the distribution of the
species at the different seasons.
