6o PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
Catherpes mexicanus conspersus Ridgway. Canyon Wren.
Resident throughout the mountains, though nowhere very abund-
ant, the Canyon Wren is to be found around the steep cliffs and preci-
pices bordering the canyons, or on the rock strewn foothills. A female
secured on April 12th contained an egg about ready to be laid; and by
,the middle of June troops of young led by their parents were seen in
many places.
Thryomanes bewicki leucogaster (Baird). Baird Wren.
I found this wren to be quite common in the lower parts of the
mountains, ranging up to about 6000 feet, and occurring also in suitable
localities in the valley below. It appeared to be resident, and I could
discern no increase in the number of birds seen during the migration.
Though a common species the nest is quite difficult to find, and I
have seen only three or four, all built in cavities in the trees, from six
to fifteen feet from the ground.
Specimens secured vary much in size but little in color, though the
only autumnal adult taken, a male on August 17th which had nearly
completed the moult, is appreciably darker than any spring specimens.
Troglodytes aedon aztecus Baird. Western House Wren.
An abundant summer resident in the higher parts of the mountains,
breeding from 7000 feet upward, but most abundant in the pine forests
above 8000 feet. Upon their arrival in the spring, the first being noted
on April 8th, they were distributed over all parts of the range, but soon
withdrew to the higher altitudes to breed; nor did they descend again
when the young were out of the nest, as so many species similarly
placed, did. Spring specimens are uniformly very pale, and easily dis-
tinguished from parkiiiani of the Pacific Coast ; but a male taken Sep-
tember 2nd, which has quite completed the moult, is much darker than
the spring birds and bears a close resemblance to fall specimens of park-
iiiani.
Olbiorchilus hiemalis pacificus (Baird). Western Winter Wren.
I met with this species on but one occasion, on April 2, 1902, when
a male bird was secured at an altitude of 5500 feet. It is probably a
straggler from the Pacific Coast, of rare and irregular occurrence.
Certhia familiaris albescens (Berlepsch). Mexican Creeper.
A fairly common summer resident in the higher pine regions, and
as a rule restricted to those parts and but seldom descending below 7000
feet. The earliest arrival noted was a female, taken with a female of
C. f. montana, on March 3, 1903, at an altitude of 5700 feet, the lowest
altitude at which I have ever found the species. About ten days later
they were fairly numerous along the divide of the mountains, where the
faint call note peculiar to the species could be frequently heard, though
the birds themselves generally succeeded in evading observation. About
the middle of July young birds began to appear, and they seemed more
abundant at this time than at any other. As with many other species
breeding in the higher parts of the range, a downward movement began
about this time, and though never descending to the foothills, in the late
summer Creepers were found scattered all through the upper part of the
oak belt. The juveniles seem to be attended by their parents for a long
time, for up to the first week in September, when young and old were
practically indistinguishable in size and general appearance, the families
