April 1904] BIKDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 61
Still clung together, and the old birds were seen continually feeding their
offspring.
In differentiating this race great stress has been laid upon the ab-
sence of white markhigs on the primary coverts of albescens, a charac-
teristic which is not borne out by the series before me, for out of four-
teen specimens, young and old, there are just three that lack these
markings. In most cases they are quite as distinct and apparent as in
any specimens of ::elotes, or the two examples of montana in my collec-
tion.
Certhia familaris montana Ridgway. Rocky Mountain Creeper.
A creeper submitted to Mr. Ridgway and pronounced by him to be
montana, was secured in Miller Canyon on March i. 1903. at an altitude
■of 5500 feet. Another bird practically the same in markings and colora-
tion, and referred to above, was taken on March 3rd in the same canyon.
These were probably migrants going further north, and they may be of
regular occurrence in this region during the migrations. The paler
coloration, above and below, longer and more slender bill, and generally
larger size, serves to distinguish this race from the breeding bird (albescens)
of the mountains of Southern Arizona.
Sitta carolinensis nelsoni Mearns. Rocky Mountain Nuthatch.
Resident throughout the mountains, though most abundant in the
higher pine regions. During the cold weather it is quite common in the
oaks along the base of the mountains, but though a few breed there, the
majority of them ascend to a higher altitude in the summer. Several
were seen hard at work excavating for their nests on April 6th ; and a set
of eggs was secured by O. W. Howard on April 19, 1902. They seem to
be at all times rather solitary birds, and though a single one may occa-
sionally be seen in a flock of Pygmy Nuthatches or Chickadees, I cannot
recall ever seeing more than a pair of them together. Birds taken in
August and September are much darker than spring specimens, and
some males, possibly immature, have the black of the crown extending
in disconnected spots on to the dorsum.
Sitta canadensis Linnaeus. Red-breasted Nuthatch.
On April 6, 1902, I secured four Red-breasted Nuthatches from a
flock of a dozen or more feeding in some pines in a steep, narrow canyon,
at an altitude of about 8500 feet. This is the only occasion on which T
have seen the species in the Huachucas, and from the scarcity of records
it would seem to be of rare occurrence anywhere in Arizona.
Sitta pygmaea Vigors. Pygmy Nuthatch.
An abundant resident, though restricted entirely to the higher parts
of the range and rarely descending as low as 6000 feet, the Pygmy Nut-
hatch is seen and heard everywhere in the pine regions ; going about in
large flocks and travelling rapidly and restlessly from tree to tree. Dur-
ing the migrations they seem to form a sort of nucleus for other birds
to gather around, and are usually accompanied by a number of migratmg
warblers vireos, etc. Many of them remain in small flocks up to the
middle of May, though others may be seen at work at their nests in some
old stump early in April ; so by the time the last of them are paired ofif,
those that first went to work are nearly ready to appear with their
broods, and there is consequently hardly any time when Pygmy Nut-
hatches are not to be seen in flocks.
