62 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA. [No. 4
Baeolophus wollweberi (Bonaparte). Bridled Titmouse.
This, one of the characteristic birds of the mountains of Southern
Arizona, is found in the greatest abundance everywhere in the oak re-
gions of the Huachucas, breeding occasionally up to 7000 feet, but most
abundant below 6000 feet. On one occasion, late in the summer, I saw
a Bridled Titmouse in a flock of Lead-colored Bush Tits on the divide
of the mountains at about 8500 feet, but it is very unusual to see the spe-
cies at such an altitude. In February and March they were in small
flocks of from twelve to fifteen birds, and about the middle of March
they began to pair off, though one or two small flocks were still seen
during the first week in April. Early in June young birds began to ap-
pear, and soon the broods, attended by their parents, were seen every-
where in the oaks. The young are essentially like the adults as to the
markings about the head, but duller colored and with the black of the
throat more or less obscured by grayish. About the middle of July the
adults commence to moult, the new plumage being entirely acquired by
about the first of September. Adults in fresh autumnal plumage are
more olivaceous on the dorsum and rump than are spring specimens,
which are usually of a more uniform grayish cast throughout. At the
end of August they were gathered in rather larger flocks than I have
seen them in at other times, sometimes as many as twenty or twenty-five
being seen together.
Psaltriparus plumbeus Baird. Lead-colored Bush-Tit.
I found this species in the Huachucas in February, though not as
abundant as it was later on, nor did I see any in the higher parts of the
range until later in the spring. During the summer it seems to be
equally distributed over all parts of the mountains, from the highest
peaks down to the groves of live oaks on the plains immediately below
the mountains. About the middle of March the birds commenced to
pair ofif, and I found one nest about half finished on ]\Iarch 26th. The
earliest nests found were all in the lower foothill regions, built mostly in
scrub oak and small juniper trees, usually not over eight or ten feet
from the ground ; but later in the season they nest abundantly in the
higher altitudes, sometimes high up in the pine trees. I saw one nest
at the very top of a tall pine, but the tree was growing on a steep hill
side, and the nest was about on a level with the trail from which I saw it.
Of the spring specimens collected, the majority had bright yellowish-
white eyes ; but in about a third of either sex the iris was brown ; several
of the adults have the flanks decidedly tinged with vinaceous. I took
no specimens that could be referred to Jloyd'x though several juveniles,
undoubtedlv plumbeus, have some slight indication of a duskv line over
the auriculars ; and one young female has a fairly distinct, though nar-
row, black line or collar across the hind neck.
Auriparus flaviceps (Sundevall). Verdin.
Though the Verdin is exceedingly abundant along the San Pedro
River and everywhere in the lowlands it but very rarely ventures up into
the mountains, and I have seen it in the Huachucas but once or twice,
and then only in the foothills. T have seen one or two old nests in some
of the canyons so it sometimes breeds in the mountains, though ])rob-
ably very rarely.
Regulus calendula (Linnaeus). Ruby-crowned Kinglet.
A common migrant and probably a winter resident. I saw a few
in February, but they did not become abundant until about the middle
