April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 63
of March, when their numbers were suddenly greatly increased. At
this time they could be seen feeding in trees along the streams in flocks
of from fifteen to twenty-five individuals, being larger gatherings of
these birds than I have seen elsewhere. Though occurring in all parts
of the mountains up to the highest peaks, they were most abundant m
the canyons below 7000 feet; and remained until about the middle of
May, the last being seen May 13th. In the fall, up to the time I left,
September 5th, they had not yet returned.
Polioptila caerulea obscura Ridgway. Western Gnatcatcher.
This is the only species of gnatcatcher I have observed in the
Huachucas. On the brush covered plains below, and along the San
Pedro River, plmnhca breeds in moderate abundance, but \ have never
seen it in the mountains, the altitude being probably too high. Oh-
sciira is probably resident in the Huachucas, though I have not found
it very abundant at any time : and it does not seem to range above 6500
feet, and but rarely to that altitude. It seemed more particularly to fre-
quent the rather barren foothill country, staying in the oaks and brush
high up on the hill sides rather than in the canyons. I saw several al-
ready paired on April 7th.
Myadestes townsendi (Audubon). Townsend Solitaire.
The Townsend Solitaire occurs in this region only as a migrant,
passing through earlv in the spring. The first noted was on March 7th,
and the last on April 30th. They were found in all parts of the range,
for I took specimens at nearly 10,000 feet, and others in the washes be-
low the mountains. They preferred rather open ground, and in the can-
yon I did most of my collecting in there was a large patch of cleared
ground which they seemed particularly to favor, and occasionally as
many as eight or ten birds could be seen sitting on the tops of the trees
surrounding the clearing. As a rule they stayed high up in the trees,
and were at all times shy and hard to approach. They were in full song
before they left.
Hylocichla ustulata (Nuttall). Russet-backed Thrush.
Hylocichla ustulata swainsoni (Cabanis). Olive-backed Thrush.
In 1896 two thrushes from the Huachuca Mountains sent to Mr.
Ridgwav to be identified were returned to him labelled, the one ustu-
lata, the' other swainsoni. These two represent the extremes of color of
a considerable series of these birds from the region under consideration,
the one (tistulata) being an extremely pale colored bird, sparsely marked
on the breast, indistinguishable from breeding birds from Southern Cal-
ifornia; while the other (szvainsoni) is a very dark colored heavily
marked bird. Between these extremes the specimens collected form an
unbroken chain, so that it is impossible to say where the one ends and
the other begins, The scries of szvainsoni are all very olivaceous in their
coloration, without any trace of the grayish on the upper parts that Mr.
Oberholzer ascribes to the sub-species almae, (Auk. XV, page 303), oth-
erwise I should think it more probable that the Huachuca Mountam
birds belonged to that race than to szvainsoni.
These two varieties appear in the spring at about the same time,
and in the same localities, being abundant along the streams in the
lower canyons at a time when most of the migrants have already passed
on to their breeding grounds. I have specimens of both ustulata and
