April 1904] BIRDS OF THE HUACHUCA MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 65
deserts that intervene, and might be expected to form an utterly impas-
sible barrier.
I believe slcvini to be a fairly common migrant in the Huachiicas,
though but few specimens were secured, for it is an extremely shy bird,
and from the nature of the ground frequented, exceedingly difficult even
to get sight of. Aiidiiboiii was found mostly in the pine woods, and
guttata along the canyons, but slevini seemed to prefer the dense thickets
covering the steep, dry, hillsides, an unpleasant place to travel in at any
time, and almost hopeless ground in which to pursue a shy, secretive
bird like the present species. The specimens secured were, a male shot
on March 9, 1903, and two females taken on May 8th, and another on
April 19, 1902.
I have a specimen of slexini in my collection, from which the label
was unfortunately lost, which was one of a lot of skins (now in the pos-
session of W. Lee Chambers) put up by R. D. Lusk in the Chiricahua
Mountains. If this specimen came from that range, as would seem to
be the case, it probably indicates the extreme eastern limit to which the
species wanders.
Merula migratoria propinqua Ridgway. Western Robin.
This species is a fairly common resident in the Huachucas, and I
could see no difference in its numbers at different seasons. During the
cold weather the Robins could be found in abundance along the lower
canyons and through the foothills generally, but by the end of April they
had retreated to the higher pine regions, few being seen below 8000 feet
during the breeding season. I took fully fledged young on July i, and
by the middle of the month they began to move down to a lower alti-
tude, the spotted juveniles being seen in all parts of the mountains.
Sialia mexicanus bairdi Ridgway. Cestnut-backed Bluebird.
During February and the early part of March I found the Chestnut-
backed Bluebirds quite numerous in the lower foothills, and on the plains
immediately near the mountains, being entirely absent from the higher
parts of the range, where the snow still lay deep on the ground ; but
about the middle of March they began to move upward, and by the first
of April there were none to be seen except in the higher pine regions,
their breeding grounds. Here they remained through the summer in the
greatest abundance, none being seen below 8000 feet, and being most
numerous along the divide of the mountain. About the middle of Au-
gust they began, to some extent, to move down to a lower altitude once
more, for the evening of August 12th a small flock was seen flying over-
head near the base of the mountains.
The male birds collected show considerable variation in the shade
and intensity of the blue coloring, but are remarkably uniform in the
pattern of the markings ; having with hardly an exception the inter-
scapular region "solid" chestnut, and the sides and flanks of the same
color extending broadly across the breast. In just one specimen, a
breeding bird in rather worn plumage, the blue of the throat and abdo-
men just meets on the median line of the breast; while the chestnut of
the upper parts is reduced to a mere line across the back. A juvenile
male taken August 26th is still in the spotted plumage, though with
large chestnut patches appearing on the sides and flanks.
