PREFACE
AS in the case of a previous volume. Common Weeds of the Farm
-^-J^ and Garden, the preparation of this handbook was undertaken
because of the great lack of readily available and rehable information
on the subject in EngHsh scientific Hterature. Many of the facts were
known to a few interested persons, but many others were so scattered
here and there in technical reports and journals that they were scarcely
known even to expert chemists and botanists. The bringing of this
information together in some sort of order has involved considerable
labour extending over several years, but if the volume be found helpful
to those for whose use it has been prepared I shall feel more than
gratified.
That the subject is of importance is fully reahsed by farmers and
veterinary surgeons ahke, for the annual loss of stock due to poisonous
plants, though not ascertainable, is undoubtedly considerable. It was
felt that notes on mechanical injury caused by plants and on the
influence of plants on milk might usefully be included, as in some
degree related to poisoning; this has therefore been done. On the
other hand, a number of cultivated plants {e.g. Rhus, Wistaria) which
are poisonous have not been included because exotic and hardly Hkely
to be eaten by stock. Fungi generally also find no place in the volume,
as they are sufficiently extensive to deserve a volume to themselves,
and are far less readily identified than flowering plants.
The dividing hue between plants which are actually poisonous
and those which are only suspected is far from clear, but a division
was considered desirable for the convenience of the reader, and an
endeavour has been made to give a sound but brief statement as to
the present information on plants poisonous to five stock in the United
Kingdom, with symptoms, toxic principles, and a fist of the more
important references to the bibhography in relation to each plant
included in Chapters ii to vi (the numbers corresponding with the
numbers in the Bibhography).
Regarding symptoms it is to be regretted that in many cases they
appear to be the result of injections of the toxic extracts, and not
observations made after natural poisoning by ingestion of the plants.
d^^h<\
\An
