vi Preface
Further, there may frequently be doubt as to the identification of the
plant suspected of causing poisoning; indeed, in some cases it is
possible that the identification rests on the veterinary surgeon or
the stockman thinking a certain plant is the cause. The most
complete and systematic account of European poisonous plants is
that of Cornevin (1887), and references to poisonous plants in the
ordinary hterature are heavily indebted to him. In so far as the
toxic principles of the plants are concerned, however, his book is in
many instances no longer reUable.
The chemical formulae, quoted for the use of students and research
workers, have been checked by consulting works by the following
authors, the reference to the bibliography being given in brackets:
Henry (128), Dunstan (76), Allen (4), Haas and Hill (114), Thorpe (240),
Van Kijn (252), Robert (161), Esser (81), and Beilstein (16).
Apart from the literature consulted I desire to acknowledge my
great indebtedness to the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries for kind
permission to make use of ofiicial records; to Mr F. W. Garnett,
M.R.C.V.S., for kindly reading the proofs from the veterinary stand-
point; to very many Experiment Stations, State Departments of
Agriculture, and other authorities in Australasia, America and the
Continent of Europe, for assistance given and hterature sent; to
Sir David Prain and members of the staff at Kew for much friendly
advice, and aid in consulting the Kew hbrary; to Sir James Dobbie
for permission to spend some time at the Government Laboratories
to consult certain volumes; to Mr T. H. Middleton, C.B., Dr E. J.
Russell, Professor W. Somerville, Sir Stewart Stockman, Professor
T. B. Wood, and others, for information and many helpful suggestions ;
to my friend Mr W. A. Whatmough, B.Sc. (Lond.), for many sugges-
tions and kindly reading the proofs; and to my colleague Mr W. R.
Black for invaluable help in preparing notes, checking data and reading
proofs. To all these, and many others who are not mentioned by
name, I tender my sincere thanks.
For any shortcomings I crave the indulgence of my readers, only
requesting that they be friendly enough to spare a moment to call
my attention thereto.
H. C. LONG.
SURBITON,
October, 1916.
