10 Ranunculaceae [ch.
and itself gives rise in the plant to Anemonic acid and Anemonin
(CioHg04), a very poisonous, narcotic substance, stated to be neither
a glucoside, nor an alkaloid, but a ring ketone with the properties of
an acid anhydride.
Symptoms. — The symptoms recorded by Cornevin in the poisoning
of animals by the fresh plants are nausea, coughing, vomiting (if pos-
sible), stupefaction, muscular tremors, and violent colic, accompanied
at times by hematuria and always by diarrhoea and dysentery. There
are pronounced respiratory and heart troubles.
Pott confirms the symptoms of hsematuria, diarrhoea, and inflam-
mation of the stomach and intestines in the case of A. Pulsatilla when
fed in the green condition. According to Esser, the plant poison affects
the spinal cord and the brain, the symptoms being similar to those
produced by Aconitum Napellus.
REFERENCES.
16, 63, 81, 191, 197, 198, 213, 233, 240.
Buttercups {Ranunculus sp.). A number of species of Ranunculus
are acrid, irritant or severely poisonous, as the case may be. There
are variations in the poisonous character according to the season, and
some parts of the plant are more toxic than others. At the time the
young shoots develop in the spring but little of the poisonous principle
is present, and some {e.g. R. Ficaria) are not then poisonous, but a
larger quantity of the poisonous principle forms later, and some species
are especially dangerous at the time of flowering, after which the toxicity
decreases with the maturity and state of dryness of the plant. The
flowers are the most poisonous, and then the leaves and stem. It does
not seem to have been demonstrated that the seeds of any species are
dangerous, though Henslow states that the fruits of some species, when
green, appear to be most intensely acrid.
Some species of Ranunculus are especially harmful {R. sceleratus,
R. Flammula, and R. bulbosus), while others are less so {R. lingua, R,
Ficaria, R. acris). The toxic principle is volatile, and buttercups are
easily rendered innocuous by drying or boiling — so much so that when
dried in hay they may be regarded as a nourishing food for stock, and
are readily eaten. Indeed, R. repens is scarcely, if at all, injurious even
when green, though a case of fatal poisoning to sheep said to be due to
this species was reported in the Veterinarian in 1844. Fresh R. aquatilis
is held to be quite harmless, and has been used as a fodder. "Along
the banks of the Hampshire Avon, and other places in the same neigh-
