ii] RanunculaceaB 13
in the abdomen, followed by diarrhoea and general oedematous swelling
over the whole body," but they recovered (Johnson and Sowerby).
REFERENCES.
63, 81, 140, 190, 203, 213, 233.
Hellebores {Helleborus sp.). Two poisonous species of hellebore
may on occasion be taken by live stock, though rarely — Stinking
Hellebore {H. foetidus L.) and Green Hellebore {H. viridis L.). The
much esteemed Christmas Kose {H. niger) is also toxic, but unlikely to
be eaten by stock. In no case should trimmings of these plants from
shrubberies, etc., be thrown to stock^cows have died from eating such
trimmings. The two species first mentioned are equally toxic, all parts
are poisonous, and drying does not render them innocuous. Cornevin
records that animals have been killed by H. foetidus, and says that
9| oz. of the fresh root or 2|oz. of the dried root are poisonous doses to
the horse, while 120 to 150 grains are fatal to sheep. It was recorded
in 1847 {Veterinarian) by Mayer that a horse was fatally poisoned
through eating five half-pints of the chopped-up leaves of this species
in two days in a bran mash. In regard to this species also Johnson
and Sowerby write: "The Bear's-Foot has been used as a vermifuge
ever since the days of Hippocrates, notwithstanding its dangerous
qualities. Every part of the plant is a violent cathartic, but far too
uncertain in the degree of its action to be safely administered."
Toxic Principle. Both species contain the poisonous glucosides
Helleborin (C36H42O6), a highly narcotic and powerful poison; Helle-
borein (C26H44O15); and the alkaloid Jervine (C26H37O3N2H2O).
Symptoms. The Hellebores are cathartic, narcotic, and drastically
purgative. Stupor is followed by death with spasms in the case of
H. viridis (Pammel). In general there is in the horse and ox bloody
purgation, salivation, attempts to vomit, and excessive urination,
according to Lander, who cites Mayer as noting violent straining and
the discharge of frothy mucus, but no effort to vomit, the heart action
resembling that observed in Digitalis poisoning, showing periodic in-
tervals of arrest in systole.
Miiller gives the symptoms in cattle and sheep after eating the leaves
as loss of appetite, nausea, and even vomiting, salivation, grinding of
teeth, wind, colic, bloody diarrhoea, decrepitude, giddiness, loss of
sensation, convulsions, and not seldom death.
Affected cows are stated to give bitter milk which has purgative
effects (Pott).
