ii] Ranmiculacese 15
Monkshood {Aconitum Napellus L.). The extremely poisonous
character of this plant has been recognised since ancient times, and it
is mentioned by Pliny, Dioscorides, etc. It is not common in the wild
state in Britain — chiefly occurring in some Welsh and one or two West
of England counties — and is not very liable to cause poisoning of live
stock in Britain. Cases of poisoning of horses, cattle, sheep and pigs
have been recorded on the Continent, however (Cornevin), and cows died
in Victoria. Linnaeus says that it is fatal to cows and goats when they
eat it fresh, but that when dried it does no harm to horses. Medical
works record many cases of human poisoning, particularly in cases
where the root has been mistaken for horse radish — from which, however,
it markedly differs. The leaves at first taste insipid and then sharply
burning; the root when fresh smells like the radish and has a sHghtly
sweetish taste, which is succeeded by characteristic tingling of the
tongue and a sensation of numbness in the mouth.
Toxic Principle. Monkshood is very poisonous, and though all
parts are toxic the root is the most dangerous, and next the seeds and
leaves. The plant seems to vary in toxicity with age and climate,
being but shghtly active when very young, most active just before
flowering, and at the minimum of activity when the seeds ripen. The
cultivated form is stated to be much less poisonous than the wild one.
Drying removes a part of the toxic substance, and boiling removes most
of it. The plant contains the toxic alkaloid Aconitine (C34H45NO11),
and also Aconine (C25H39NO9). The root contains 0-17 to 0-28 per cent,
of Aconitine, but the leaves and flowers less.
Symptoms. The chief symptoms are those of depression, and are
manifested through the nervous system and the circulatory and
respiratory organs. Tetanic symptoms are also present. There is loss of
appetite, salivation, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth
and jaws, grinding of teeth, nausea and vomiting, great restlessness and
colic; the animal groans and walks with an uncertain gait owing to
bodily weakness, giddiness and paralysis of hind feet or of all limbs;
there is also a notable slackening in the pulse, breathing becomes diffi-
cult, consciousness is lost and the pupils are dilated. Death ensues in
most cases within a few hours, and after convulsions.
Kaufmann (quoted by Cornevin) observed in the horse champing
of the jaws, salivation, fibrillous contraction of the muscles of the ole-
cranon, then of the buttocks, then of the whole body. The intestinal
pains were shown by the blows of the animal's hind feet under and at
the back of the belly. There was also observed an intense and painful
