16 Ranunculaceae, Papaveraceae [ch.
contraction of the muscles in the inferior cervical region, the hyoid
and the abdomen; an increased sensibility; repeated evacuations;
at first congestion, then great paleness of the mucous membranes;
diminution in the .volume of the arteries; faint whinnyings at the
moment of the contraction of the muscles of the neck, shoulders and
stomach; muscular rigidity of the posterior limbs; uncertain gait;
laboured breathing; and finally paralysis of motion, respiration and
Lander in giving similar symptoms for the horse notices also choking
movements of the oesophagus, eructation of frothy matter, dilatation
of pupils and low temperature.
Kaufmann gives the poisonous doses of powdered root for the horse
and dog as 13 to 14 oz. and \ oz. respectively.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 63, 78, 81, 128, 130, 153, 161, 170, 203, 205, 213, 233.
PAPAVERACE^.
Poppies {Palaver sp.). Poisoning by the two common poppies
(P. Rhoeas L. and P. dubium L.) is not common, but Cornevin says that
the former is poisonous in all its parts, and sufficiently so to cause acci-
dents every year. Animals may be aiSected by eating the plant when
mixed with green fodder, or by ingesting the seeds and capsules with
waste material after the winnowing and grading of cereals. Stock,
however, will most likely reject the plants, owing to their unpleasant
odour and taste, but cattle have been poisoned by eating unripe heads
of P. Rhoeas when the plant was mixed with clover and sainfoin.
P. dubium has caused poisoning of horses, cattle and pigs.
Toxic Principle. Both species contain the alkaloids Morphine
(C17HJ9NO3) and Rheadine (CgiHaiNOe), which are present in the milky
juice of the plant. The latter, which was isolated by Hesse, is believed
to have no narcotic effects. The toxic principle is not destroyed by
heating, and the plant is therefore poisonous both in the green state
and when dried in hay.
Symptoms. It is remarked by Cornevin that cattle poisoned by
P. Rhoeas at first exhibit symptoms of excitement, shown by continual
movement, by pawing of the soil or litter, increased respiration and more
rapid pulse; this is followed by stoppage of the digestive functions,
sometimes a little swelling of the eyelids, and coma, one affected animal
