ii] Papave7'aces8 17
appearing to sleep while standing, remaining motionless, and if forced
to move walking in an unsteady manner. Finally, the animal falls,
and if a fatal result is likely (which is unusual) it remains stretched on
the ground ; respiration becomes slower, the temperature falls, and after
a few convulsive movements death occurs owing to asphyxia.
Miiller notes excitement, wildness of look, dilatation of pupil, con-
vulsions; then coma, loss of sensation and symptoms of depression
replace those of excitement. There is salivation, bloating, constipation,
and in many cases also bloody diarrhoea. Death, however, is rare.
Pott gives stupidity, retention of urine, colic, with sickness and
diarrhoea, convulsions, and epileptic symptoms, the animals falling
over and rolling.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 63, 128, 190, 205, 213, 262.
Greater Celandine {Chelidonium majus L.). This common plant
exhales an unpleasant odour, and when bruised or broken shows the
presence of a yellowish acrid juice, which becomes red immediately on
exposure to the air. It is an old medicinal drug plant, but is dangerous,
being emetic and purgative, with a strongly irritating effect on the
digestive tract. Animals are but rarely likely to take it, and no record
of the death of domesticated animals has been found.
Toxic Principle. Among the substances contained in the Greater
Celandine may be mentioned the bitter alkaloid Chelidonine (C20H19NO5
4- HgO), which, especially occurring in the root, does not appear to be
poisonous, or is of feeble activity ; the alkaloid Chelerythrine (C2iHi7N04),
which is poisonous; and Protopine (CaoHigNOg). It is stated by
Cornevin that the toxic substance is not removed on drying, but Pott
(1907) remarks that the dried plant is harmless to animals, the poisonous
alkaloid being volatile and disappearing on drying.
Symptoms. The action of this plant is acrid, irritant and narcotic,
emetic and purgative. Esser remarks that when Chelerythrine is intro-
duced on the nasal mucous membrane it causes violent sneezing, and
taken internally causes vomiting. Miiller says that poisoning of
domesticated animals is not recorded, but that according to old accounts
500 grammes (about 1 lb.) of the fresh plant eaten by the horse will at
most cause sHght diabetes.
REFERENCES.
16, 63, 81, 128, 141, 190, 203, 205, 213.
