18 Cruciferm [ch.
CRUCIFER^.
Charlock {Brassica Sinapistrum Boiss.), also known as B. Sinapis
Visiani and Sinapis arvensis L,, may be regarded as harmless in the
young state, but liable to cause injury after flowering, when the
seeds have formed, when it may occasion serious accidents if eaten by
live stock. A case in which rape cake containing the seeds of charlock
caused poisoning was recorded in 1875 {Jour. Roy. Agric. Soc). The
seeds only are dangerous.
Toxic Principle. The seeds contain minute quantities of volatile
Oil of Mustard or Allyl-isothiocyanate (C3H5NCS), the alkaloid Sinapine
(CigHasNOj), and the alkaloidal glucoside Sinalbin.
Symptoyns. Ingestion of the seeds may cause inflammation of the
stomach and intestines (with loss of appetite, wind, coUc, and diarrhoea) ;
inflammation of kidneys (difficult, excessive or bloody urination) ; and
nervous symptoms, with great exhaustion, uncertain gait, paralysis of
limbs and in isolated cases convulsions (Miiller).
Pott also records increased salivation.
In the horse Cornevin records great depression, difficult and ac-
celerated respiration, yellowish mucus and convulsive cough. A
characteristic symptom is the emission of frothy Uquid through the
nostrils (as much as 10 litres in one hour). Death often occurs from
asphyxia in a fit of coughing.
In cattle, cake containing the seeds caused inflammation of the
intestines, exhausting diarrhoea, and unquenchable thirst.
The cultivated Mustards may induce similar effects, and Lander
records the following symptoms as caused by Brassica nigra: — In the
horse, bronchial symptoms, marked by difficulty in breathing and the
discharge of great quantities of yellowish frothy matter from the nose;
in cattle, uneasiness, restlessness and intense colic, with frantic rushing
about and mania, ending in exhaustion, falling, struggles and collapse;
in a recent case there were dullness, coldness, some tympany, laboured
respiration, staggering and falhng, and in fatal cases, immobility and
a semi-comatose condition.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 63, 76, 127, 170, 190, 205, 213. 219.
Wild Radish {Raphanus Raphanistrum L.). As in the case of
charlock, the seeds of wild radish are very acrid, and susceptible of intro-
ducing intestinal troubles if eaten by animals when mixed with cereals.
