n] Cruciferse, Caryophyllacex 19
Garlic Mustard {AlUaria officinalis Andrz.) and Treacle Mustard
{Erysimum cheiranthoides L.). The seeds are stated to have properties
similar to Brassica Sinapistrum (p. 18) owing to a pungent oil; and
when eaten in quantity to induce poisoning, inflammation of the diges-
tive tract and of the kidneys, as well as nervous symptoms (Miiller).
CARYOPHYLLACE^.
Soap wort {Saponaria officinalis L.). This plant is more or less
poisonous, but is rarely, if ever, eaten by stock, and no recorded case of
the poisoning of stock has been met with.
Toxic Principle. The whole plant, especially the root, contains the
poisonous glucosidal Saponin (CigH280io)4, a pecuUar substance which
causes intense frothing when stirred in water.
Symptoms. No symptoms of animal poisoning by the plant are
recorded, but the action of Saponin in the blood stream is to induce
dissolution of the red cells, with stupefaction and paralysis, as in the
killing of fish by poisoning. It also causes vomiting and purging.
Taken by the mouth it causes inflammation of the aUmentary tract,
the contents of which are foetid and mixed with blood.
REFERENCES.
16, 63, 76, 81, 203, 235.
Corn Cockle {Agrostemma Giihago L.). This well-known plant of
corn-fields must be regarded as poisonous, though experiments and
reports as to its effects on the different classes of Uve stock vary widely.
Though a poisonous principle is found in nearly all parts of the plant,
the plant in the green state appears to be innocuous, and is in any case
rarely hkely to be eaten fresh by stock, which probably refuse it on
account of its hairy character. The seeds, however, are by no means
harmless. They are rather large, and somewhat troublesome to separate
from cereal grains. When ground up with wheat they both discolour
the flour and impart a grey tint and disagreeable odour to bread made
from it. Further, flour containing a considerable quantity of cockle
must, owing to the poisonous character of the latter, be held to be unfit
for consumption. Fatal results have followed the use of bread contain-
ing Corn Cockle. The toxic principle therefore is not destroyed by
heating, even in an oven in baking.
2—2
