20 Caryophyllacex [ch.
As regards domestic animals, Corn Cockle seeds have frequently-
been mixed with feeding stuffs and have caused many deaths. Cornevin's
experiments in feeding calves, pigs and fowls led to fatal results. He
was able to say that the amounts of cockle flour necessary to cause death
were : —
Calf 0-25 lb. \
S:::::::::::::o:9o ;; periooib.iive weight.
Fowl 0-25 „ j
Among other cases, Kornauth and Arche found that in their feeding
trials pigs were not killed, but albuminoid metabolism was diminished
and fat production increased. In 1893 pigs died in Germany with
symptoms of acute poisoning, when fed on tailings containing six per cent,
of cockle. In 1903-4 experiments showed that with the cow, sheep,
pig and goat, cockle is not poisonous when fed in amounts usually found
in feeding stuffs. Millspaugh gives a case in which two calves died on
being fed with two lots of 14| oz. each of wheat flour containing 30 per
cent, and 45 per cent, of cockle seeds. About 1892 Nevinny concluded
that six grammes of cockle seed consumed in 1200 grammes of bread
were beyond doubt poisonous in effect, and that the sale of grain or
flour containing it should be forbidden. Robert held that the sale of
feeding stuffs containing cockle should be forbidden by law. An
extensive study of this question was made by Pesch, who concluded
that "Under certain conditions Corn Cockle is injurious to domestic
animals. The amount of the poisonous substance in the seed is variable,
depending probably upon the season and the soil. Animals become
accustomed to it, so that amounts of seed which at first cause sickness,
later have no injurious effect. The susceptibility of animals to the
poison varies both with the species and the individual. Young animals
are more readily affected than older ones. It is believed that rodents
and sheep are not susceptible, and, as far as is known, grown cattle are
only slightly or not at all affected by the poison. Calves, swine, horses,
and especially dogs, are more or less susceptible. Concerning birds
and fowls there is some doubt."
Though animals are reputed to become tolerant of the poison if the
cockle is only taken in small regular doses, yet there appears to be a
chronic form of poisoning due to this cause and termed Githagism, while
there is an acute poisoning due to the ingestion of large quantities of
the seeds which may cause death in 24 hours or less.
