CH. Ill] Papilionacem 25
PAPILIONACEffi.
Laburnum (Cytisus Laburnum L.). The well-known and much
admired Laburnum must be regarded as one of the most poisonous
species of British plants. By numerous experimental researches
Cornevin proved that all parts of the plant are poisonous — root, wood,
bark, leaves, flowers, and seeds, especially the seeds. In his experiments
the horse, ass, sheep, goat, dog, cat, fowl, duck and pigeon, were utilized,
seeds being given. He found that 80 centigrammes per kilogramme
live weight would be necessary to kill a horse (say 1 lb. for an animal of
1200 lb. live weight), 60 centigrammes per kilogramme live weight to
kill an ass (say 6 oz. for an ass weighing 600 lb.) ; and 6 grammes in the
case of a fowl (say 0-4 oz. for a fowl weighing 4| lb.). The sheep and
goat he was not able to kill, as they refused the food after a certain
point; the dog and cat he was not able to kill because they so readily
vomited ; and the duck and pigeon vomited with extreme facility.
Many cases of the poisoning of children have occurred through the
ingestion of the flowers and seeds. In 1908 a case was recorded by
the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, in which two horses were
alleged to have been poisoned in North Wales by laburnum seeds, a
very small quantity of which was found in their stomachs after
death.
Miiller states that in Dalmatia goats which had eaten Cytisus Weldeni,
though themselves uninjured, produced milk which was poisonous to
man.
Toxic Principle. All parts contain the toxic alkaloid Cytisine
(CnHj^NgO), said by Moer and Partheil to be identical with Ulexine ;
it is found in the seeds to the extent of 1-5 per cent. Cornevin states that
the root, wood and bark are nearly constant in toxicity, but that the
leaves and pods present remarkable seasonal variations owing to the
migration of the poison into the seeds. The toxic property is not
destroyed by drying of the plant.
Symjytoms. Laburnum poisoning is of the acrid, narcotic type, with,
in man, nervous symptoms, abdominal pain, vomiting, purging, tetanic
spasms and convulsions.
Cornevin's observations show that the symptoms occur in three
consecutive stages, — (1) excitement, (2) coma and inco-ordination of
movement, and (3) convulsions. The order of the appearance, their
duration, and the association of each with the others depend upon
the susceptibility of the animal and the quantity ingested. Thus the
