26 Papilionacese [CH.
symptoms of excitement may be present alone if only a small quantity
is eaten ; the duration of the symptoms in this case is never considerable,
and the normal is gradually regained. In general, however, the symp-
toms are associated in pairs ; thus when an average quantity is fed there
is excitement and coma but no convulsions; when large quantities are
fed the first stage is suppressed or is so short as to be almost imperceptible,
the coma and convulsions being present simultaneously. As regards
temperature, there is, in stage (1) a rise, in stage (2) a drop, and in stage
(3) a rise again near death. In stages (2) and (3) there is a slackening
of respiration, the arterial tension is raised, there is an increase in the
number of pulsations and a modification of the rhythm. In stage (3)
near death there is a lowering of the arterial tension, and the pulsations
become gradually less perceptible, but with a uniform rhythm; there
is a slackening in respiration, and by the time this finally ceases the heart
beats have become imperceptible.
When horses, asses or mules have eaten a small quantity of the seeds
or leaves, there is simply yawning and uncertain gait, these symptoms
lasting for two hours, and the normal being regained after urination.
Considerable (but not fatal) quantities cause unsuccessful attempts at
vomiting, sometimes opisthotonos in asses, sweating, muscular tremors,
and then a deep coma which may last 15 hours. Fatal quantities cause
yawning, sexual excitement, accelerated and noisy respiration, wheezing,
muscular tremors followed by contractions which commence in the
posterior limbs ajid spread to the anterior limbs, facial contractions,
staggering and copious sweating. A rapid fall in temperature follows,
but there is a slight rise during the period of convulsions ; the pulse is
at first quicker and stronger, but the number of beats rapidly comes
back to the normal, to rise again shortly before death ; the rhythm of
the pulse is at first regular (in groups of 2, 3 or 4) but becomes irregular
again just before death. The animal at length falls, and cannot get up,
the nostrils are distended, the mouth is wide open, respiration becomes
gradually slower, and death takes place in great agony.
In cases of poisoning of horses and asses noticed by Pott animals
that could not vomit died very quickly. The symptoms were excitement,
nausea, coma, slower breathing, convulsions, paralysis of the motor
nerves, and finally cessation of the action of lungs and heart.
Ruminants are much less susceptible than horses. Cornevin's
attempts at poisoning failed through their refusal of the plant. Miiller
observed in a case of cattle poisoning, bloating, paralysis of the limbs
(especially fore limbs), sleepiness, dilatation of pupils, and later sahvation,
