ni] PapiUonaceae 27
nausea, coma and occasional convulsive movements of the muscles of
the extremities. These symptoms persisted through several days and
then disappeared.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 63, 64, 81, 128, 144, 161, 190, 205, 213.
Broom {Cytisus Scoparius Link.). This very plentiful and widely
distributed plant is undoubtedly to some extent poisonous, though
perhaps only feebly so in the quantities likely to be eaten by domestic
animals. Blyth records 400 cases of poisoning from it, however.
Very hungry animals might eat too much of it, and hence show symptoms
of poisoning.
Toxic Principle. The plant contains the alkaloid Cytisine (CUH14N2O) ;
also the volatile alkaloid Sparteine (CigHggNa), a single drop of which,
according to Blyth, killed a rabbit, which showed symptoms similar
to those of nicotine poisoning.
Symptoms. Taken in sufficient quantity broom induces narcotic
poisoning, with symptoms resembling those caused by Coniine, with
central nervous paralysis.
Cornevin gives the symptoms as similar to those due to C. Laburnum.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 82, 128, 203.
Indian Peas {Lathyrus sativus L.). A type of poisoning that
deserves attention here is that known as Lathyrism, since it is due to
the consumption of peas of the genus Lathyrus, the most dangerous
being the "Indian Pea," L. sativus. The peas of this plant (see Frontis-
piece) are small and dark-coloured, and are imported largely from India
and other countries under the general name of Mutter peas, a name which
they share with the ordinary pea Pisum sativum. In addition to the
seeds of this species the seeds of two South European and North
African species — L. Cicera and L. Clymenum — have commonly caused
poisoning both in man and in animals, not infrequently leading to
fatal results. Horses, cattle, sheep and pigs have been affected —
horses particularly so — and many cases have been recorded in the
veterinary journals since 1885. Very heavy losses have occasionally
resulted from the use of the raw peas as a food for stock. For
example, in 1884 Messrs. Leather of Liverpool had 35 out of 74 cart
horses ill through eating Indian peas at the rate of 3 to 4 lb. per head
per day. Of the 35 no less than 19 died, and 2 were slaughtered, while
