28 PapiUonaceae [ch.
14 recovered. In the famous Bristol Tramways case (1894) 123 out of
800 horses became ill owing to being fed on the peas of L. sativus, and
many died. There are few records of harm to cattle, sheep and pigs,
and Watt quotes Don to the effect that pigeons lose their power of
flight by feeding on the peas. Very large quantities of the peas are used
for feeding purposes, and the fact that the losses are not larger is
probably because the peas only comprise a small proportion of the
ration or are cooked before use.
After boiling or roasting the peas appear to be less harmful, as they
are eaten in India when cooked, or ground into flour and converted into
bread — though Cornevin states that drying and cooking does not
destroy the toxicity, while boiling for some time showed that at any
rate part of the toxic substance passed into the water, which became
toxic and caused death, the boiled seeds losing the greater part of their
poisonous property and not causing accidents when the water was
rejected. MacDougall states that as far as experimental evidence was
available (1894) it seemed to show that boiUng the seeds before use
renders them innocuous.
Lathryism usually only supervenes when the use of the peas for food
is prolonged, and the peas are taken in considerable quantity, but
it is possible that there is wide variation in the toxicity of difierent
samples, owing to differences in soil, climate, and other factors. In man,
Lathryism is stated to be common in Spain, Italy, Russia and India,
owing to continued use of bread from flour of the three species of Lathyrus
mentioned above. It is said especially to affect males.
Toxic Principle. Nothing certain as to the poisonous properties is
known, attempts to isolate the toxic substance having failed (Kobert),
though Smith gives it as prussic acid, apparently indicating a cyano-
genetic glucoside. This, however, can hardly be so, as the poison is
cumulative, and may not show its effects for weeks or months, or, in
man, even years — according to the quantity of peas eaten.
Symptoms. Lathyrism is only produced when the ration consists
largely of the pea for a considerable period (see above) ; in the horse
fed exclusively on the pea, the tenth day ; but when one or two quarts
are given daily, only towards about the 80th day. Moreover, the malady
may declare itself as long as fifty days after the cessation of the pea
feeding (Lander).
In general Lathyrism is marked by paralysis of the lower extremities
in man and the hind limbs in animals, owing to the degeneration of the
muscle fibres, and possibly to affection of the nerves. In horses there
