Ill] FajnlionacesB 29
is paralysis of the hind limbs, dyspnoea and roaring — with paralysis of
the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and transverse myelitis. The horse
thus shows weakness of the hind quarters, staggering in the effort to
stand, difficulty in breathing, abnormally fast and irregular pulse, open
mouth, distended nostrils. Tracheotomy often gives almost immediate
reUef.
Lander mentions in cart horses grinding of teeth, and convulsive
movements of the eyes, recalling epilepsy. In one outbreak there was
thick wind, staggering gait, weakness of hind quarters, and general
signs of intoxication ; and sudden violent attacks of laryngeal paralysis
and dyspnoea during which there was palpitation, frothing, tongue
protruded, eyes staring, bluish tint of buccal membranes, and palpita-
tion. Paroxysms sometimes proved fatal.
An attack among 125 lambs is mentioned by Cornevin. The lambs
could not stand on their fore legs and were obhged to go down on their
knees. On setting them up again, they were only able to keep up while
motionless or moving slowly. There was loss of sensibihty in the front
members. In spite of this the eye was alert, they were attentive to
everything that went on around them, and were easily frightened.
In pigs paralysis of posterior members has been observed.
In cattle there was staggering, blindness, and stiffness of the lower
joints. In sheep and pigs there was also paralysis of the hind limbs.
REFERENCES.
63, 82, 137, 170, 179, 190, 203, 205.
Yellow VetchUng (Lathyrus Aphaca L.). To what extent this
vetchling is poisonous to stock is not clearly known, but it is cultivated
in India as a fodder for cattle. The seeds, however, are not altogether
safe when ripe, and MacDougall says "The seeds and pods have been
known to be used in soup in their young state and without harm resulting,
but the ripe seeds are narcotic and cause sickness and headache."
Lupines {Lupinus sp.). Different species of Lupinus have been
found to cause poisoning of live stock, more particularly sheep, which,
when fed largely on lupines, develop a chronic type of poisoning known
as Lupinosis, or poisoning may be acute and rapid in its effects, as in the
United States. Records of large numbers of sheep being affected at
a time date from 1872, in various parts of the German empire. In
Europe by far the most harmful species is the Yellow Lupine (L. luteus),
which has been the cause of heavy losses of sheep, though horses, cattle
and goats may also be affected. The Blue Lupine {L. angustifolius)
