30 Painlionacese [ch.
and White Lupine {L. alhus) may also be toxic. L. luteus has caused
lupinosis in Germany since 1860, and Cornevin states that in 1880 no
less than 14,138 out of 240,000 sheep fed upon it (or 5-89 per cent.) died.
Of 44 horses affected 11 died.
It must not be thought that all crops of lupine are poisonous, as
lupines are extensively grown on the Continent for fodder purposes and
are usually harmless. Even where Lupinosis occurs, considerable
quantities of the lupine must be ingested to cause poisoning. The
toxicity appears to vary according to soil and certain indefinite con-
ditions, and sometimes even a kilogramme (2-2 lb.) of the plant would
sufi&ce to kill a sheep. Poisonous symptoms may sometimes be observed
after a single meal. Desiccation does not render the plant innocuous, the
seeds and hay being poisonous.
In the United States species of Lwpinus have caused great loss. In
1898 no fewer than 1,150 of a flock of 2,500 sheep died from eating one
species ; one sheep farmer lost 700 sheep from the same cause ; and
1,900 out of 3,000 sheep died from Lupine poisoning in Montana in 1900.
Lupine hay is found to be less harmful to horses and cattle, and Chesnut
and Wilcox suggest that this is possibly because as a rule they avoid
the pods, while sheep eat them. Lupines in America are very rapid
in their action on sheep, which may often die in one-half to three-quarters
of an hour after eating a quantity of the pods. Further, there is evidence
that sheep may gradually become immune to the poison by eating
Lupines regularly, since sheep fed regularly on hay nearly half lupine were
unaffected, but others eating the same hay for the first time died in
considerable numbers. The lupines are certainly far the most dangerous
when they bear ripe seeds — cut and made into hay before the pods form
they are much less dangerous.
In regard to L. luteus Lander says: "According to the German
authorities a daily ration of 1 pound of the whole plant, f pound of
empty pods, or i pound of seeds, will produce poisoning."
Various means have been tried to render Lupines harmless, and
success is stated to follow heating with steam under a pressure of 2 to
2| atmospheres.
Toxic Principle. A very full account of Lupine poisoning is given
by Pott, and from this a brief summary may be made. Siewert and
Wildt (1879) found two substances very like the alkaloids of Conium
maculatum — one like Coniine and the other Hke Conhydrine, the former
only being proved to be very poisonous. Baumert states that in L.
luteus there are only two bitter alkaloids, Lwpinine (CioHigON) and
