ni] Papilionaeeae 33
lunatus are poisonous, and the fact is noted by Church {Food Grains of
India, 1886), and by Watt {Dictionary of the Economic Products of
India, 1889-96). The coloured forms, and particularly the wild forms,
are the most dangerous, the white types being in general safe for
stock feeding. Some forms have a general similarity to butter beans
and haricots, and have hence been favourably regarded by farmers, but
it is a sound plan to purchase under a guarantee beans with such names
as those given.
Toxic Principle. It was shown in 1903 {Proc. Roy. Soc, Vol. 72)
that the seeds of P. lunatus, uncultivated in Mauritius, contained a
cyanogenetic glucoside, Phaseolunatin (CioH^^OgN). This glucoside,
under favourable conditions, such as are present when the beans are
moist, masticated and ingested at the temperature of the animal body,
gives rise to prussic acid, which is the direct cause of poisoning. The
seeds of the wild forms yield, hke bitter almond seeds, considerable
quantities of prussic acid, while the cultivated forms resemble sweet
almonds in yielding only traces of the acid, or none at all. Deter-
minations of the yield of prussic acid by various investigators show
percentages of from 0-027 to 0-137 in Java beans, and 0-004 to 0-02
in Burma beans. The largest proportion therefore occurs in the coloured
beans, while the white forms contain much less or none at all, and may
be generally regarded as safe for stock.
Symptoms. — The symptoms given by Damman and Behrens {Veter-
inary Journal, 1906) were vertigo, tympany, and falling, with death in
most cases. Mosselmann {Vet. Jour., 1908) observed the symptoms
due to the ingestion of a small quantity of the beans by six head of
cattle. They were: great excitement, salivation, swelling, sHght
diarrhoea, quick pulse and respiration, muscular spasms, and paralysis
of the hind quarters in one instance ; all recovered rapidly.
REFERENCES.
5, 38, 76, 77, 107, 109, 125, 129, 144, 255.
Castor Oil Plant {Ricinus communis L.). The beans (see Frontispiece)
of this exotic are toxic, and poisoning is only likely to occur if they are
sold in error as a feeding stuff, or from the use for feeding purposes of
the press-cake after the extraction of the well-known castor oil, a pur-
gative commonly used medicinally, of which the beans contain about
50 per cent. According to Cornevin four seeds sufl&ce to cause accidents
in man, eight lead to very grave results, and beyond that number death
may ensue. Pigs and poultry have been poisoned by the seeds, and
L. 3
