34 Papilionaceas, Rosaceae [ch.
M. Audibert (near Beaucaire) reported the death of 80 sheep from eating
the press-cake, which is stated to have more pronounced properties
than the oil. It has been found as an impurity in linseed cake and maize
meal. {Jour. Roy. Agric. Soc, 1892.)
Toxic Principle. The toxic properties of the bean are due to Ricin,
a toxin which is similar to bacterial toxins, and the activity of which is
destroyed by heating to 100° C. The beans also contain the alkaloid
Ricinine (CgHgOaNg) , the toxic properties of which are regarded as doubt-
ful. (See Deane and Finnemore, Yearbook of Pharmacy, 1905, p. 473.)
Symptoms. These usually appear some days after the ingestion of
the beans or press-cake. There is generally purging. Broad observed
in an affected horse loss of appetite, shivering, cold extremities, dejec-
tion, abdominal pain, constipation, temperature 103° F., pulse 70, and
death in about three days.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 66, 73, 128, 205.
ROSACEiS;.
Cherry Laurel {Prunus laurocerasus L.). This exceedingly com-
mon ornamental shrub has caused the poisoning of numerous cattle and
sheep on the Continent, but is apparently less harmful in Great Britain
— and in any case animals are not much given to eating the foliage of
this shrub, the strong smell of the leaves when bruised affording a warn-
ing of its unwholesome character. Gerlach recorded the intoxication
of 25 sheep. Bibbey also records the poisoning of 15 sheep by
laurel, some of them dying {Farmer and Stockbreeder, Jan. 29, 1912).
On the other hand, Henslow wrote of his cows that they "completely
ruined a long laurel hedge adjoining the field in which they lived;
but this abnormal food did no harm either to themselves or the milk
they produced."
Toxic Principle. So long ago as 1803 Schrader showed that the
cherry laurel contains a substance yielding prussic acid. The leaves
contain the cyanogenetic glucoside Prulaurasin {Q^^-^^0^), and an
enzyme-emulsin which, by its action on the cyanogenetic glucoside,
induces the formation of prussic acid, which is the actual cause of
poisoning. The percentage of the glucoside appears to be greatest
about July and August. By a microchemical examination Peche has
clearly localised hydrocyanic acid compounds in the leaf parenchyma.
Symptoms. In poisoning by Cherry Laurel there is bloating,
inability to rise, loss of sensation, difficult breathing, convulsions and
