Ill] Rosaceae, Cucurhitacese 35
dilatation of pupils, and the results may be fatal if unattended to,
prussic acid being formed.
In the case of poisoning of ewes Aggio observed ( Veterinary Journal,
1907) loss of appetite, vomiting, and inability to rise, followed by
several deaths. In 1871 Adsetts described {Veterinarian, 1871) symp-
toms of poisoning in the horse : indistinct and feeble pulse ; congested
mucous membranes, difficult respiration, uneasiness, prostration,
coldness of the extremities, loss of appetite, constipation, diminished
urination, and acute pain, eventuating in death in three days. In sheep
Bibbey observed saUvation, grinding of teeth, brain symptoms,
paralysis in the back, coma, and death.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 73, 76, 81, 128, 129, 130, 132, 170, 205, 232, 254, 255.
CUCURBITACEiE.
Bryony {Bryonia dioica L.). This widely distributed hedge
climber, which produces large quantities of scarlet berries, is a highly
irritant plant, with an unpleasant odour and a nauseous juice. The
large fleshy tuberous rootstocks have caused the poisoning of whole
famiUes who have eaten them in mistake for turnips and parsnips. The
berries may tempt children, and cases of poisoning have occurred.
Cornevin estimated that 15 berries would cause the death of a child and
40 that of an adult. No deaths of domestic animals have been observed
in searching the literature, but animals may possibly eat it along the
hedgerows at times when grass is scarce. Pigs might possibly eat
sufficient of the rootstock, or poultry of the berries, to cause poisoning.
Toxic Principle. The plant contains the bitter and poisonous
glucoside Bryonin (C34H48O9).
Symptoms. The symptoms are those resulting from inflammation of
the stomach and intestines, together with convulsions. According to Cor-
nevin consumption of the plant promotes sweating, and causes a livid hue,
nausea, diuresis and abundant painless, watery defsecation, to which are
added in cases of poisoning nervous symptoms of stupor and tetanic con-
vulsions. There may be super-purgation or a suppression of defsecation.
Lander states that 2 lb. of fresh or 6 to 8 oz. of dried root given to
horses did not cause purging, but there was abdominal pain, loss of
appetite, accelerated breathing, fever, dullness and copious urination.
Cases may end fatally.
REFERENCES.
73, 76, 81, 141, 170, 233.
3—2
