36 Umhelliferss [CH.
UMBELLIFERiE.
Cowbane or Water Hemlock {Cicuta virosa L.). This plant is
undoubtedly exceedingly poisonous, and fatal cases have occurred in
both man and farm live stock. It has been mistaken by man for parsley,
celery or parsnip, with fatal results, many persons having succumbed
to it. The rootstock is attractive to children on account of its sweetish
taste. Pott says that either fresh or dry it is poisonous to all animals
when only a small quantity is eaten, and often causes rapid death.
Sheep and goats appear to be less readily affected than other domestic
animals, and cattle to be most sensitive. The loss of eleven animals in
Brittany was noted in the Veterinarian in 1877, and a number of cattle
died in Ireland {Veterinary News, 1911), death in both cases being due to
Cowbane. It is clearly dangerous to grazing animals which have easy
access to it, especially if ordinary herbage is scarce. Hedrick (Canada)
is quoted as stating that a piece of the root about the size of a walnut
is sufficient to kill a cow in about fifteen minutes ; and Miiller says that
the quantity of dried plant sufficient to kill a horse appears to be about
1 lb. According to Kanngiesser the mortality in human poisoning due
to this plant amounts to 45 per cent, of the cases.
Toxic Principle. The poisonous character of Cowbane has not
been fully investigated, and the toxic principles are given as the alkaloid
Cicutine, with Oil of Cicuta, and Cicutoxine. The last is a bitter resinous
substance classed by Cushny in the picrotoxin group ; it occurs in the
dry root to the extent of 3'5 per cent. The toxicity is stated to vary
with season and climate ; the rootstock is most poisonous in spring.
Symptoms. In man the yellow poisonous juice in the rhizome induces
epileptic convulsions, followed by death. The cicutoxine gives acrid
narcotic symptoms quickly followed by fatal results. The symptoms
usually appear within two hours, and death ensues in half-an-hour
to several hours. The symptoms which appear in an hour or so are
given as loss of appetite, salivation, vomiting (in swine), nausea, colic
(in horse), bloating (in cattle), diarrhoea, irregular pulse and heart,
dilatation of pupils, rolling of eyeballs, vertigo, reeling in circles, twisting
of neck, falling down, automatic movement of limbs, opening and
shutting of mouth, and death, usually with convulsions, in from half
an hour to an hour after first manifestation of symptoms.
For cattle, Lander gives hurried respiration, collection of froth at the
mouth and nostrils, and tympanites. The limbs are extended and
alternately stiffened and relaxed.
