Ill] Umhelliferse 37
In his description of the symptoms Esser states that swallowing is
difficult, the tongue is stiffened, there is salivation, and death takes
place after loss of consciousness and convulsions.
REFERENCES.
31, 73, 81, 123, 141, 151, 170, 190, 203, 205, 213, 233, 238.
Water Faxsnip {Sium latifolium L.). The leaves and especially
the root of this species are regarded as poisonous, and the plant is
described as "poisonous" by Strasburger.
According to Miiller the symptoms resemble those produced by
Cheer ojphyllum (p. 40). After eating the roots cows showed symptoms
of excitement, leading, in some instances, very quickly to death. The
milk, according to Cornevin, is of a disagreeable flavour.
The related S. angustifolium has also been mentioned as objectionable.
As regards the toxic principle these plants have not been closely studied,
and it is not possible to give detailed symptoms.
REFERENCES.
73, 81, 190, 235.
Water Dropwort (Oenanthe crocata L.). This weed of marshes,
ditches, and similar wet spots, has been a frequent cause of loss of stock.
Cases of fatal human poisoning have also occurred, owing to the leaves
having been mistaken for celery and the rootstock for parsnips. Several
cases of the poisoning of cattle have been recorded in the veterinary
journals, and sheep and cattle died on a farm near Bristol {Jour. Roy.
Agric. Soc, 1898). Horses have also been poisoned. Johnson and
Sowerby (1861) record the poisoning of 17 convicts near Woolwich,
the leaves and roots being eaten in mistake for celery and parsnips
respectively. Nine suffered from convulsions and became insensible;
one died in five minutes, a second in a quarter of an hour, a third in an
hour, and a fourth a few minutes later, while two more died during the
next few days.
Cornevin says that this plant causes the poisoning of animals every
year — they eat it willingly, showing an enfeebled instinct owing to
domestication. The plant is poisonous in all its parts, the root being
the most toxic, and drying does not destroy the toxic property. Cornevin
gives the following quantities of the fresh root as necessary to poison
various animals: —
