38 Umbelliferae [ch.
Horse 0-100 per cent, of the live weight.
Ox 0-125
Sheep 0-200
Pig 0-150
Eabbit 2-000
Holmes described Oenanthe crocata as the most dangerous and
virulently poisonous of all our native plants {Pharm. Jour., 1902).
Other species of Oenanthe are also poisonous in a less degree —
e.g. 0. fistulosa L., and 0. Phellandrium Lamk.
Toxic Principle. Poehl (1895) obtained from the root of this species
an amorphous neutral product which he designated Oenanthotoxin. The
latest investigation is that by Tutin, who examined entire dried plants
collected in early spring, and the experiments confirmed the conclusion
arrived at by Poehl, that the toxic principle is a neutral resin. A dark-
coloured, viscid resin, insoluble in water, and equal to 3 per cent, of the
weight of the plant, was extracted, and it is stated that the neutral
portions of the petroleum and ether extracts of this resin represent the
toxic principle of the plant. As there is no evidence of the homogeneity
of this product, and it is probably complex in character, it was given no
name or formula. The fact that it has poisonous properties was ascer-
tained by administering the various products to guinea pigs per os.
Symptoms. In poisoning by 0. crocata the symptoms generally
appear very quickly, and in serious cases death may follow in from one
hour to a few hours. In Tutin's experiments on guinea pigs the extracts
referred to above rendered the animal hypersensitive in two to four
hours, while marked convulsions, with trismus soon appeared; the
heart-beat became very noticeably slow and the convulsions persisted
until death ensued. There is great restlessness, difficult breathing,
convulsions, loss of sensation, blindness and stupefaction (Miiller);
Lander says the symptoms recall hemlock poisoning, with the addition
of green foetid diarrhoea.
In cattle, one hour after eating, there is depression and accelerated
respiration; the conjunctivae are injected, the eye turns in its orbit,
the pulse is weak but rapid, and there is foaming. Later, there is
colic, and spasmodic contractions of limbs and jaws. If the quantity
ingested is sufficient to cause death, the animal falls, but still moves
its limbs. There is bellowing, contraction of pupils, insensibihty, and
death in convulsions — or, if not fatal, cattle may remain paralysed.
In the horse, the appearance of the symptoms and the course of the
illness are much more rapid and the nervous symptoms are accentuated.
