40 Umhelliferse [ch.
behaviour to Coniine, and probably identical with it." The investi-
gators suggest that the alkaloid is Coniine, and the small amount would
justify the opinion, but there may be variation in toxic property accord-
ing to stage of development and climate. The authors conclude that
"it cannot be considered improbable that under favourable conditions
of growth, the proportion of alkaloid may be increased to such an extent
as to impart to the plant the poisonous properties ascribed to it."
Symptoms. In a child which died, there were abdominal pain, a
feeling of sickness, and a tendency to lockjaw, and death supervened
within an hour; and in a German case, vomiting, diarrhoea, lockjaw,
and death in 24 hours. (Johnson and Sowerby.) The plant causes
convulsions and stupor, with nausea and vomiting (Henslow).
The symptoms observed in coivs are loss of appetite, salivation, fever,
uncertain gait, and paralysis of hind limbs (Miiller).
Pott refers to a case which occurred in Guernsey among horses.
Animals with white muzzles and feet had diarrhoea, while other horses
remained healthy. All white places on the body were badly inflamed.
Pammel states that the plant causes stupor, paralysis and convulsions
in domestic animals.
REFERENCES.
45, 73, 81, 121, 130, 141, 190, 203, 213, 214.
Chervils {Chaerophyllum sp.). No investigation of these plants
appears to have been undertaken, but C. sylvestre L., though eaten by
some animals, including the ass and the rabbit, is stated by a German
observer {vide Cornevin) to have caused the death of pigs. Miiller
states that according to the hterature both cows and pigs have been
poisoned, even fatally, by C. temulum L. The plants have a strong
odour and acrid taste.
Toxic Principle. This, if any, appears to be unknown, though
Miiller (1897) says that C. temulum contains in all its parts the little
known Chaerophyllin (? alk.).
Symptoms. The pigs referred to above as having died were said to
show paralysis, dilated pupils, and enteritis, and to refuse food. Post-
mortem examination showed acute gastro-intestinal inflammation.
In the case of cows there are similar symptoms.
REFERENCES.
73, 190.
