44 CaprifoUaceaB, Compositse [ch.
country folk as a purgative has caused fatal poisoning. The leaves of
S. nigra have caused severe irritant poisoning in a child.
Toxic Principle. Some doubt exists as to the poisonous principle
of the Elders, the leaves of which contain Samhunigrin (C14H17O6N),
a cyanogenetic glucoside; the alkaloid Sambucine; and a purgative
principle. According to Cornevin drying reduces the toxicity but does
not destroy it.
Symptoms. The symptoms are not very definite, but small quantities
cause purgation, while large quantities induce depression and violent
emetic and cathartic effects, with diarrhoea, abundant diuresis and
acceleration of pulse. The leaves of S. Ehulus have caused vomiting,
obstinate constipation and enteritis in a boy, and in the case of another
boy the flowers caused vertigo and headache.
REFERENCES.
4, 73, 81, 203, 233.
COMPOSITiE.
Tansy {Tanacetum vulgare L.). Live stock are most unlikely to
eat this plant, as it is bitter and acrid. Cattle appear to have been
poisoned by it in Germany, Robert's opinion being that death had
resulted from tansy. There have also been many serious cases of
human poisoning.
Toxic Principle. Tansy contains the bitter, volatile and poisonous
Oil of Tansy.
Symptoms. Tansy Oil has been employed as an abortifacient, and
produces convulsions, violent spasms, frequent and feeble pulse, and
paralysis of the heart and lungs, inducing a condition similar to that
observed in rabies.
Pammel cites cases of the action of the oil from the plant on dogs.
According to Pott the tansy imparts a bitter taste to the milk of cows
which eat it.
REFERENCES.
161, 203, 204, 213.
Ragwort {Senecio Jacoboea L.). No suspicion appears to have
been focussed on Ragwort in Britain, but it must be recorded here as
the cause in Canada of the Pictou cattle disease, or hepatic cirrhosis,
a somewhat fatal disease which has caused much loss during the last
few years. In New Zealand also the same disease has been experienced,
and has caused considerable mortahty among sheep. In one case sheep
