iv] Composite 45
were closely pastured on about 4000 acres with the object of eradicating
the too prevalent weed, but after a year losses ensued. Gilruth con-
cluded that if the weed does not monopolise the ground, sheep may,
with few exceptions, eat it daily without suffering ill effects. Cattle
and horses avoided it when possible.
It may be remarked that in Britain feeding the young shoots ofi
with sheep, which seem to like the plant, is regarded as the best plan
of reducing Ragwort in grass land. So far there seems to be no record
of injury from this cause.
In South Africa cirrhosis of the Uver in cattle (locally termed Molteno
cattle sickness) has been traced to S. latifolius, 8 to 10 lb. of which in
daily feeds of 2 to 6 oz. caused death in about six weeks. Another
species, S. Burchellii, is similarly poisonous, | lb. daily for four days
having killed an ox on the fifth day; at Molteno half the quantity
proved fatal. Both species are fatal to cattle and horses.
Toxic Principle. As regards S. Jacohoea nothing appears to be known
as to any toxic principles, though an alkaloid has been isolated by Watt
(1911), but not fully described. The South African S. latifolius, how-
ever, was examined at the Imperial Institute, and two new crystalline
alkaloids were isolated— >Se%ea/oZiwe (CigHgyOgN) and Senecifolidine
(C18H25O7N) — 1-20 per cent, being present in the plant before flowering
and 0-49 per cent, after flowering.
Symptoms. As they may to some extent serve as a guide in relation
to possible Ragwort poisoning in Britain the symptoms observed from
poisoning by the South African species may be given: Severe and
strained purging: iseces yellowish to dark brown; cows cease to give
milk ; abdominal pain, groaning ; animal may go mad and charge any-
one approaching, or lie with outstretched head, drooping ears, staring
coat, and dull glaring eyes; death usual within three days from com-
mencement of purging. The post-mortem shows an inflamed fourth
stomach; hardened condition of the liver, often dull grey with spots
in the interior ; expanded gall bladder, with dull yellow viscid bile.
REFERENCES.
43, 128, 195, 260.
Wild Lettuce {Lactuca sp.). Just how far the two species L.
scariola L. and L. virosa L. are really poisonous is not clearly known,
and it is probable that to be seriously harmful to farm live stock they
would need to be ingested in considerable quantity, and this they never
seem to be. They are certainly not actively poisonous, though Bailey
