iv] Ericacex 47
have been used in Russia and Germany for rheumatism, has caused
poisoning in man. R. punctatum and R. hirsutum appear to be not less
poisonous.
Both leaves and flowers are narcotic, and even the honey in the
flowers is regarded with suspicion. The following quotations are not
without interest: —
"In these regions (Tungu) many of my goats and kids had died
foaming at the mouth and grinding their teeth, and I have discovered
the cause to arise from their eating the leaves of Rhododendron cinna-
barinum (" Kema Kechoong," Lepcha ; Kema signifying Rhododendron) ;
this species alone is said to be poisonous, and when used as a fuel it
causes the face to swell and the eyes to inflame, of which I observed
several instances." (Hooker, Himalayan Journals, ii. p. 150).
"Rhododendron arboreum becomes plentiful at 5000 to 6000 feet
(East Nepal), forming a large tree on dry clayey slopes In
the contracted parts of the valley the mountains often dip to the river-
bed in precipices of gneiss under the ledges of which wild bees build
pendulous nests looking like huge bats suspended by their wings ; they
are two or three feet long and as broad at the top whence they taper
downwards ; the honey is much sought for except in spring, when it is
said to be poisoned by Rhododendron flowers just as that eaten by the
soldiers in the retreat of the Ten Thousand was by the flowers of R.
ponticum.'' (I.e. i. p. 200).
Toxic Principle. The leaves and flowers contain a bitter poisonous
glucoside, Andromedotoxin (C31H50O10), which has been regarded as
more poisonous than Aconitine. Other glucosides found in Rhododen-
drons are Ericolin (C34H5g02i), Arbutin (CigHigO^), and Rhododendrin
(CigHggOy), but it is not clearly shown whether these are poisonous
when ingested ; Robert, however, includes the two former among
cerebro-spinal poisons.
Symptoms. In the case of goats Cornevin records intense pain,
diarrhoea, discomfort, gritting of teeth, salivation, and frequently
vomiting; while there is reduced lactation, trembling, spasms, vertigo,
loss of power, and death. Lander notes similar symptoms in cattle
and sheep.
According to Eve {Veterinary Record, 1907), a reddish colour was
observed in the milk of a cow poisoned by Rhododendron.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 53, 63, 73, 76, 81, 144, 161, 170, 203, 205,
211, 212, 213, .231, 252, 264.
