48 Ei^icacex, Primulaceae [ch.
Azalea {Azalea sp.). A suspected case of poisoning was recorded
in the Journal of the Board of Agriculture in 1907. No British record
of poisoning has been found. Various species of Azalea {A. pontica,
A. indica, A. arborescens, A. nudiflora, etc.) are stated to be very poison-
ous to all animals which browse on them in the East. Cuttings should
never be thrown down where they can be eaten by stock.
Toxic Principle. Little work has been done on these plants, but
they are believed to contain Ericolin, Arbutin, and Andromedotoxin as
in the case of rhododendrons (p. 47).
Symptoms. Azaleas appear to be narcotic, and to produce symptoms
resembling those caused by Lolium temulentum (Cornevin).
REFERENCES.
73, 144, 190, 205.
PRIMULACEiE.
Scarlet Pimpernel {Anagallis arvensis L.). Unless it occurs in
very considerable quantity this little plant is unlikely to be eaten to
an extent sufficient to cause definite poisonous symptoms, as it is a corn-
field weed. It may be taken, however, if animals are allowed to run
over stubble. Sheep are said to refuse it in general, but have died from
eating it (see below).
There seems to be no doubt that if eaten in sufficient quantity it has
a poisonous action, having an irritant action on the digestive tract—
the intestines — as well as producing narcotic effects. Strasburger notes
it as "shghtly poisonous"; Bailey says "a dog is stated to have been
destroyed by making it swallow three drachms of the extract," while
according to Hyams the fluid extract in 4 drachm doses is fatal to dogs
(the size of the dog is not mentioned!); at the Veterinary School at
Lyons horses were intentionally killed by administering a decoction of
the plant ; in America Chesnut notes it as suspected of kilhng a horse ;
Ewart says it "has been reported to render the chafi from oat crops
infested by the weed unpalatable to stock"; and Gilruth states that
a year or two ago it was responsible for the death of a large number of
sheep in Victoria, apparently acting as a narcotic poison {Amer. Vet.
Rev., July, 1913, p. 383.). On the Pacific coast the plant is known
as "Poison Weed." Grognier and Orfila are stated to have put its
poisonous properties beyond doubt.
