50 Solanacex [ch.
SOLANACEiE.
Thorn Apple {Datura Stramonium L.). This species is an escape
from cultivation, but on occasion occurs plentifully in gardens, and if
allowed to seed may escape to arable fields and find its way to stock,
though it does not appear to have done so in Britain. Several species
of Datura are recognized as virulent poisons in North America, where
they are known as Jimson Weeds. All parts are poisonous, especially
the seeds, which have a somewhat sweetish taste, and have frequently
caused accidents to children who have eaten them. Cases are recorded
in the United States in which cattle have been poisoned by eating the
leaves of young plants in hay. Live stock, however, usually avoid the
plant, which has an unpleasant odour and taste, while the seeds are
enclosed in thorny capsules. Walsh states that the seeds are very
fatal to young ostriches. Drying does not destroy the toxicity.
Toxic Principle. The Thorn Apple is usually stated to contain the
highly poisonous narcotic alkaloid Daturine, but this appears to be a
mixture of the two alkaloids Hyoscyamine (C17H23O3N) and Atropine
(C17H23O3N), which, together with the alkaloid Scopolamine, or Hyoscine
(C17H21O4N), have been found in the plant, the principal constituent
being Hyoscyamine. In some analyses as much as 0-33 per cent, of
Atropine has been found in the seeds, and 0-2 per cent, in the leaves
(Pammel). The three alkaloids occur together to the extent of 0-48 to
3*33 per cent, in the leaves, 0-43 per cent, in the flowers, and 0-1 per
cent, in the root, Hyoscyamine predominating (Esser). An investigation
conducted at the Imperial Institute {Bid. Imp. Inst., 1911) showed
the amount of alkaloids in European specimens to be: —
Seeds . . 0-21 to 0-48 per cent.
Leaves . . up to 0-4 „
Stems . . average 0-22 „
Roots . . average 0-17 ,,
Symptoms. The general effect of Datura poisoning appears to re-
semble that of Atropa Belladonna, but is by some considered more rapidly
effective. There is paralysis, dilatation of the pupils, suspension of
secretion and of the inhibitory fibres of the vagus, leading to rapid action
of the heart (Lander), Poisoning may terminate fatally. Pammel
quotes Winslow as stating that two grains of Atropine produce mild toxic
symptoms in the horse; cattle are as susceptible as horses, though
herbivora are not so easily influenced as carnivora. Chesnut gives the
