iv] Solanacex 53
siderable quantities without ill effects, while in other cases it will
undoubtedly prove poisonous.
Children have been poisoned by the berries, but may on occasion
eat them with no other ill effect than a stomach ache, or, if eaten in
excess, sickness and purging. The berries "have even been used instead
of raisins for plum puddings with no effects out of the ordinary" (Ewart).
The plant has also been used in Queensland and elsewhere as a substitute
for spinach. In several cases the plant has proved fatal. Gohier gave
3 kilogrammes (6| lb.) of the green plant to a horse and observed no
serious symptoms. Cases of poisoning are recorded for calves, sheep,
goats and pigs (Chesnut and Wilcox). According to Lehmann, Schraber
and Haller, the berries are poisonous to ducks and chickens. Over
thirty years ago the death of a number of cattle in Victoria was recorded
as being due to poisoning by this weed.
Though cases of poisoning of stock are rare, partly perhaps because
the plant is a weed of arable land and partly because animals are likely
to avoid it unless starved, Solanum nigrum must be regarded as a poison-
ous plant, any examples of which may prove toxic. The downy and
more prostrate form has been considered the most poisonous.
The " Wonderberry," said to be a hybrid between Solanum guineense
and S. villosum, which are probably varieties of S. nigrum, cannot in
England be distinguished from the last named, the fruits of which appear
to be edible in some countries and poisonous in others. Greshoff found
that fruits of the " Wonderberry " contained more Solanine than the
wild English S. nigrum or the Canadian form known as the "Huckle-
berry," and hence they should not be eaten.
Toxic Principle. The Garden Nightshade, in particular the berries,
contains the alkaloidal glucoside Solanine, of which the formula is
considered doubtful. Solanine is readily converted into sugar and the
poisonous Solanidine. It was isolated from the berries in 1821, and
though decidedly active in sufficient quantity is not a violent poison.
A small quantity of Solanine is present in the stem and berries, but
these are probably less poisonous than green potatoes (p. 54).
Symptoms. The symptoms of poisoning are apparently much the
same in man and animals : "Stupefaction; staggering; loss of speech,
feeling, and consciousness; cramps and sometimes convulsions. The
pupil is generally dilated."
REFERENCES.
4, 10, 11, 16, 17, 52, 53, 57, 73, 81, 82, 128,
141, 161, 203, 235, 240.
