54 Solanaceae [ch.
Bittersweet {Solanum Dulcamara L.). Some doubt exists in regard
to the toxic character of this common denizen of the hedge-row, some
persons regarding the berries as harmless and others as poisonous.
Possibly the plant varies in toxicity. Floyer states that 30 berries
killed a dog. Though stock rarely touch the plant there seems to be
no doubt that it is poisonous, stem, leaves, and berries containing
the toxic alkaloid found in S. nigrum and the potato (q.v.), and it
is especially possible that poisoning may follow the ingestion of the
berries. Johnson and Sowerby (1861) say that the leaves are narcotic,
causing nausea and giddiness, and that the fruit is equally harmful,
though no fatal cases then seemed to be recorded. Gillam records
{Vet. Record, 1906) a case of poisoning of sheep. An anonymous writer
in the Mark Lane Express (July 24, 1911) states emphatically that this
plant is very poisonous, and that he has known 14 per cent, of the sheep
on a farm to be killed by it in a year, while his veterinary feurgeon had
had 40 cases that season, some proving fatal.
Toxic Principle. Like S. nigrum, the stems, leaves, and berries of
Bittersweet contain Solanine. The berries are stated by Esser to contain
0-3 to 0-7 per cent, of Solanine. The stems also contain the glucoside
Dulcamarin (C22H340io)5 which imparts a bitter taste to the plant, but
which has not been fully studied.
Symptoms. In the case recorded by Gillam (see above) the symptoms
observed in sheep were small intermittent pulse, temperature 104° F.,
quickened respiration, staggering gait, dilated pupil, and greenish
diarrhoea. The symptoms appear to be the same in the case of cattle
{Farmer and Stockbreeder, July 10, 1911).
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 40, 50, 52, 73, 81, 141, 147, 203, 213, 257.
The Potato {Solanum tuberosum L.). Though potato haulm is
more or less commonly utilised on the Continent as a green fodder,
and has been so used in England, yet there are good grounds for the
general belief that it is not a suitable food for stock. The tubers may
in general be eaten with impunity, but, under certain conditions, cannot
be regarded as blameless, since they have caused serious injury. There
are certainly records of injury to man from eating Potatoes, and accidents
with animals have occurred more commonly. "Greened" tubers, and
tubers with young shoots appear to be the chief cause of accidents, and,
as regards live stock, usually when fed raw.
Cornevin knew of no case of poisoning in man, and considered that
