56 Solanacese [ch.
haulm, but in the flowers and fruits, and in the peel of the tubers.
Solanidine also occurs ready-formed in the young sprouts of potatoes to
the extent of TS per cent. (Allen). In the case of the soldiers poisoned in
Berlin analysis demonstrated the presence of Solanine to the extent of
0-038 per cent, in boiled tubers and 0-024 per cent, in raw tubers, and
on an average every man who fell ill had 0-3 gramme of the alkaloid, a
sufficient quantity to produce toxic results. Esser (1910) states that in
midsummer the haulm contains 0-0925 per cent, of Solanine but late
in summer only 0-0374 per cent. In the tubers the alkaloid occurs in
the inner layers of the peel to the extent of 0-0124 per cent., red or pink
varieties containing rather more than yellow sorts. The same authority
says that damp soils tend to a higher percentage of Solanine than dry
soils^, and that nitrogenous manuring as compared with potash tends
to an increase of Solanine. In fresh spring shoots 1-5 per cent, of the
alkaloid has been found, and the percentage is especially high in tubers
which have been "greened" by long exposure to light. As already
stated it is the greened tubers which appear to be the chief cause of
accidents. Tubers with young shoots are richer in poisonous alkaloids
than those which have not yet been sprouted; such tubers when fed
raw to stock may on occasion induce poisoning, unless fed only in small
quantities.
Writing in 1887 Cornevin remarked that Solanine, though neither
very active nor very abundant in Potatoes, nevertheless causes accidents,
as it is cumulative, or, to be more exact, is eliminated slowly.
Symptoms. In poisoning by potato haulm, Cornevin records con-
stipation, loss of appetite, rise in temperature, accelerated circulation,
normal respiration, saUvation, tumefaction of eyelids, eyes watery, con-
junctivae injected, and hair erect. The skin is covered with scabs which
exude matter, the skin being cracked. These scabs are found especially
on the scrotum of male cattle and the udder of female cattle, but also
in the caudal region and round the anus. An examination of the mouth
shows places on the upper jaw which are devoid of mucus and are
purulent at the centre, the mucus round the edges being swollen. The
posterior members are similarly but not so badly affected. Movement
of these members seems to cause the animal much pain. Defecation
is frequent, the faeces being liquid and dark in colour. The animals are
recumbent for a considerable time with the posterior members stretched
out. In the worst cases there is pronounced emaciation.
^ On the other hand, potatoes grown in a dry sandy soil are stated to contain
more Solanine than those grown in other soils.
