iv] Solanaceae 57
According to Friedberger and Frohner {vide Pammel) animals
affected by potato tops show symptoms resembling those of foot-and-
mouth disease.
According to Pott the berries cause colic and foul smelling diarrhoea
in cattle. A German veterinary surgeon after feeding the green plant
observed symptoms of dehrium, paralysis, and flatulence. In other cases
trembling and uncertain gait, with paralysis of the spinal cord, have
been observed in cows.
In poisoning by tubers there is depression, loss of appetite, cessation
of lactation, gritting of teeth, profound prostration, with a remarkable
somnolence, but no dilatation of the pupils. The animals remain re-
cumbent, with closed eyes, and refuse to get up. Respiration is somewhat
retarded, and the pulse is small and accelerated. There are digestive
disturbances, tympanitis, diarrhoea succeeds constipation, and there
is vomiting (where possible). The poisoning is usually fatal.
Where a large quantity of sprouted Potatoes has been fed the pros-
tration becomes paraplegia, with loss of sensibility, stupefaction, and
death. Where there is prolonged ingestion of a large quantity of un-
sprouted tubers there is prostration, intestinal irritation, rapid emacia-
tion and death in marasmus after an illness of from one to three weeks
(Cornevin).
Pott states that potatoes diseased with wet rot, when fed raw,
cause digestive troubles, bloating, diarrhoea, abortion, and decrease in
milk yield, with fatal results in some cases. Potatoes diseased with
dry rot cause constipation in sucking pigs, and a "fishy" butter from
cow's milk.
Lander notices two cases of poisoning of horses by tubers. In the
first case the symptoms were a small and weak pulse, normal tempera-
ture and loss of co-ordination in movements ; complete loss of appetite,
excessive thirst, but inability to drink ; mydriasis, stertorous breathing,
suspension of peristalsis, and slight tremors over the crural muscles.
In the second case there was a rapid and feeble pulse, temperature
103° F., intense congestion of the mucous membranes, and very foetid
diarrhoea, terminating fatally.
In poisoning of horses after receiving large quantities of raw Potatoes,
Pott records boil-Hke swellings on the skin, loss of hair, diarrhoea, in-
flammation of the stomach and intestines, skin irritation, and swollen
fetlocks and hocks.
In reference to the horses mentioned above (p. 55) it is stated that
an affected animal seems dull, and dies within twelve hours after being
