58 Solmiacese [ch.
first observed, without evincing any sign of pain. The first symptoms
in ten cases were weakness and loss of power over the limbs.
In cows the symptoms (Miiller) are loss of appetite, bloating, diar-
rhoea, staggering, dilatation of pupils, convulsions, loss of sensation and
paralysis. In many cases, however, these symptoms do not appear,
but instead there are outbreaks on the skin of the hind legs similar to
those in foot-and-mouth disease. Pott mentions abortion as a symptom.
After the ingestion of green Potato parings by dairy cows he remarks
catarrh of the stomach and intestines, and bad milk and cheese ; con-
sumption of diseased Potato parings resulted in the flow of hard mucus
from the mouth, the legs being badly swollen, and covered with scabs,
and the mouth and body covered with boils. Symptoms of paralysis
were noticed after feeding dirty Potato parings to four cows and four
bulls, and one cow died.
In the case of the cows already referred to (p. 55) as poisoned in
Germany, it was remarked as a noticeable feature in both instances that
there was the appearance of eczema on the hind limbs, causing lameness.
A case in which figs were fed on uncooked, sprouted Potatoes is
noticed by Chesnut and Wilcox ; there was slowly progressing paralysis,
which became complete after about 24 hours, increased salivation, and
a regurgitation of the stomach contents. According to Pott death
may result in pigs. The symptoms given by Lander for poisoning in
pigs are loss of appetite, dullness, exhaustion, imperceptible pulse,
watery diarrhoea, low temperature and comatose condition.
In the case of the poisoned soldiers the symptoms were those of
acute gastro-enteritis ; rise in temperature to 103° F, ; headache^
colic, diarrhoea, general debility; in some cases vomiting, in others
nausea only; several men fainted, and one had convulsions; the
majority were drowsy and apathetic ; but all recovered.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 19, 57, 73, 81, 128, 130, 141, 170, 190,
196, 203, 204, 205, 213.
Deadly Nightshade {Atropa Belladonna L.). This plant has long
been known to be exceedingly poisonous, all parts containing a
toxic principle. Both man and domestic animals may be poisoned,
though the latter are very unlikely to touch the plant. As regards man,
children are most likely to be affected, owing to the attractive character
of the large bright black berries. Domestic animals appear to be rarely
poisoned and are less affected than man, and in any case the susceptibility
