vi] Graminex 83
killed by giving it 2 kilogrammes (4-4 lb.) of Darnel. Cornevin concluded
that the amounts of Darnel necessary to kill certain animals would be
as follows: —
Horse ..
0-7 lb. per 100 lb. live weight.
Ruminants
1-5 to 1-8 lb. per 100 lb. Uve weight.
Poultry
1-5 to 1-8 lb.
Dog . .
1-8 lb.
He found pigs very little affected. As regards man 30 grammes
(1 oz.) of the flour appear to be about the most that can be taken without
showing dangerous symptoms.
The presence of Darnel flour in flour of the cereal grains may be
determined by an examination of the starch granules, which are given by
Cornevin as only 5 to 8 /x in diameter (compared with 25 to 45 /x for
rye), simple in general, but sometimes in groups of 2 to even 5, poly-
hedral or partly rounded, with a nucleus or fusiform nucleal cavity,
and readily coloured blue with iodine ; they resemble those of maize but
are only about one-eighth the size.
Toxic Principle. The grains only are harmful, and contain the
narcotic alkaloid Temuline (C^HigNgO), which Hofmeister showed to
be a strong nerve poison, and which is said to occur to the extent of
0-06 per cent, in the seeds. Other authorities impute the toxic property
to Lolii)ie, while Smith states that the toxic principle is Picro'oxin. In
relation to the grain fungal hyphse have usually been found, though not
invariably, 20 to 30 per cent, of the plants sometimes being free from
it. The fungus {Endoconidium temulentum) is propagated vegetatively
by means of mycelium. It appears to live symbiotically in the maturing
grain, and perhaps to a slight extent renders possible the assimilation
of nitrogen from the atmosphere; but Freeman observed that though
generally stimulating to the Darnel, it is occasionally injurious to it.
Esser sums it up by saying that according to most authorities who have
investigated Darnel the fungus alone contains the toxic substance —
the Temuline — and hence the grains in which the fungus does not
occur should be harmless. The fungus is found in Darnel grain in all
countries— Chile, Brazil, S. Africa, Persia, Spain, France, Sweden,
Germany, etc. So far as can be ascertained there have been no feeding
experiments to determine the difference in toxic character between
fungus-infested and fungus-free grains. The dangerous properties are
said to be most pronounced in wet seasons.
Symptoms. In France Darnel is called Ivraie, because, when brewed
with barley, it acts as a narcotic intoxicant.
6—2
