84 Graminex, Equisetacese [ch.
Darnel poisoning induces giddiness, drowsiness, uncertain gait, and
stupefaction (Miiller), and, in the older animals, vomiting, convulsions,
loss of sensation and death (Pott).
The symptoms in the horse are dilatation of pupils, vertigo, uncertain
gait, and trembling. The animal falls, the body is cold and the extremi-
ties are stiff, respiration is laboured, the pulse is slow and small, and there
are convulsive movements of the head and limbs. There is rapid en-
feeblement, and death may occur within thirty hours.
In figs, foaming, convulsions and paralysis have been observed;
the stomach and intestines were inflamed and the lungs congested.
REFERENCES.
4, 16, 73, 81, 106, 128, 130, 141, 190, 203, 204,
205, 213, 233, 235, 254.
EQUISETACE^.
Horsetails {Equisetum sp.). A very great deal has been written
on the subject of Equisetosis or Equisetum poisoning, and even
at the present day opinion is divided as to which species are
poisonous and to what extent. From the time of Linnaeus there has
been uncertainty as to the species, which has generally been given as
E. arvense. Two German papers, by Weber and Lohmann respectively,
published by the German Agricultural Society in 1903 and 1904, have
done much to remove doubt on the matter, but cannot be said to have
settled the question absolutely. These two papers seem to have been
overlooked by some recent writers on the subject, but Lohmann's
appears to be the most authoritative paper yet written. Both are
referred to below.
It seems to be definitely proved that certain species of Equisetum
really are poisonous, hesitating statements notwithstanding. Chesnut
and Wilcox state that there are cases of poisoning of both horses and
sheep by E. arvense in the United States, though they are not common,
and the opinion is expressed that "the plant, if deleterious, is evidently
so only on account of its harsh scouring action in the mouth and intes-
tinal tract." On the other hand Rich and Jones record poisoning of
horses by E. arvense in hay, but while adding that horses seem to develop
a depraved appetite for the weed, they state that they have no evidence
that horses grazing upon the green plant are poisoned. Giissow's
experience has been that cattle do not suffer any inconvenience at all
