86 Equisetaceae [ch.
toxic symptoms induced by Horsetails were due to Silica or to Aconitic
acid — the latter a substance found by Matz and Ludwig. The conclu-
sion come to by Weber, however, was that the poisoning by E. palustre
is of an organic character, not due to silica. The young shoots, which
contain little silica, were found in general to be much more poisonous
than the old plants, which contain much silica. It was long since found
by Wiggers that dried plants of E. palustre contained 8-88 per cent, of
silica, but all species contain this substance in greater or less degree,
and it varies considerably in amount, even in the same species. The
feeding experiments conducted by Lohmann, with certain species of
Equisetum, and the observed symptoms of illness after the consumption
of some of them, particularly E. palustre, serve to show that the ill
efiects are neither to be attributed to greater or less digestibility, nor
to the silica present. Neither are the aconitic acid and other organic
substances, in part found in previous investigations, responsible for the
poisoning. However, an active compound named Equisetine, a substance
belonging to the alkaloid group, was isolated; this occurs usually,
perhaps only, in E. palustre, at any rate in sufficient quantity to be
dangerous to animals. Lohmann then, following up the investigations
of Paucerzynski, Matz, Meyer, Weber and others, ascertained definitely
that E. palustre contains an alkaloidal nerve poison, to which the name
Equisetine was given, and the experiments were held to decide that this
is the poisonous substance in this species. (As stated above, E. arvense
was held to be harmless.)
Symptoms. At first, excitement and anxiety, followed by uncer-
tainty of movement, reeling and staggering; paralysis of hind limbs
at least, falling, possibly general paralysis, insensibihty to external
irritants, unconsciousness, and coma. Pulse accelerated, appetite at
first normal, but in course of time great disturbance of nutrition ; sugar
in the urine. Course sometimes very acute, death occurring in a few
hours, but sometimes protracted (two to eight days), and at times even
chronic (one to several weeks).
In cattle, after excessive eating, continuous diarrhoea is character-
istic, with paralysis ; while, if the food be persisted with, cachexia and
hydrsemia combined with weakness bordering on paralysis make their
appearance (Friedberger and Frohner, via Pammel). In addition to
cachexia. Pott also mentions colic, stoppage, bloody urination, abortion,
and loss of teeth.
Young animals appear to succumb sooner than older ones, while
grain-fed animals are more resistant than others. Referring to E.
