vi] Equisetdcede, Filices 87
arvense Pammel says it produces paralysis of the rear extremities, and
when death occurs spasms are noted. In relation to the poisoning of
horses by the same species in hay Rich and Jones note unthriftiness,
the animal appearing thin and the muscles wasted. In from two to
five weeks, according to the age of the horse and the manner of feeding,
the animal begins to lose control of the muscles, and there is swaying
and staggering, though the eye is bright and the appetite good. If the
plant is regularly ingested the horse loses the power of standing, becomes
nervous, struggles to rise, the legs become more or less rigid, and at
times all the muscles of the body seem convulsed. Even in this condi-
tion one well-nursed patient lived two weeks. The horses are generally
wilhng to eat, although unable to rise, but become sore and tired from
struggling, finally dying from exhaustion. Life is much prolonged by
turning from side to side three or four times in twenty-four hours, thus
preventing congestion. The pulse is slow till near the end, when it
is rapid and weak ; the temperature is below normal at first, but when
the animal is down there is fever; the extremities are usually cold;
and the lining membrane of the mouth, nose, and eye becomes pale.
Of Equisetum sp. Stebler and Schroeter say that they induce diarrhoea
in cattle, which become poor, and in cows the milk yield is checked or
ceases. Weber also refers to the effect on milk yield of E. palustre,
which he says causes the milk of affected cows to become watery, poor
in fat, and gives rise to a greasy, unappetising butter, while the yield
may soon quite fail.
REFERENCES.
2, 20, 57, 111, 176, 203, 204, 213, 220, 221, 222, 237, 260, 261.
FILICES.
Bracken {Pteris aquilina L.). The Bracken, Brake Fern, or "Fern"
is of very considerable importance to farmers for four reasons: (1) It
is a most pernicious weed; (2) it forms an excellent litter for stock
and treads down into good manure ; (3) it is said to have been success-
fully converted into silage; but (4) it has been accused of poisoning
cattle.
In regard to possible poisonous properties, it must be said that the
facts are at present somewhat uncertain, but a number of authorities
clearly regard the Bracken as poisonous, (a) Miiller (1897) records the
poisoning of horses which ate it for some weeks with chaff — and some
