88 Filices, Fungi [ch.
died. (6) Chesnut and Wilcox (1901) say that cases of poisoning of
horses and cattle have been reported from England and a few localities in
the United States, (c) Pott states that when eaten in quantity by
cattle Bracken causes hsematuria, and in horses nervous symptoms
(brain trouble), sometimes with fatal effects, {d) Pammel also remarks
on the believed poisonous character of this plant, (e) In view of its
suspected poisonous character feeding experiments were conducted by
the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries with a large quantity of Bracken,
but the results were negative, yielding no experimental proof of the
plant being poisonous. One animal — a heifer — consumed 60 lb. of
Bracken between Aug. 14 and Aug. 20, and after two meals containing
about 30 lb. of Bracken showed only symptoms of indigestion. After
the 60 lb. there were no symptoms of illness. It has been thought
possible that the so-called Bracken poisoning is due to Potentilla Tor-
mentilla {q.v.).
In 1893 Storrar dealt with the question and expressed the view that
any disorder due to Bracken was probably not a toxic effect but a
digestive trouble simply {Jour. Comp. Path., 1893).
Toxic Principle. Continental authorities say that Bracken contains
the poisonous Pteritannic acid, which is identical with the Filicic acid
of the Male Fern {Aspidium filix-mas).
Symptoms. In the cases of horses which died Miiller gives the symp-
toms as timidity, slower movement or action, loss of balance, dilated
pupils, reddening followed by yellowing of the conjunctivae, and slowing
of the pulse.
Pammel notes Bracken as an astringent and anthelmintic, and also
says it causes enteritis, spasms, and paralysis.
REFERENCES.
10, 25, .57, 190, 203, 204, 213.
FUNGI 1.
Ergot {Claviceps purpurea). This fungus, parasitic on rye and a
number of grasses, has long been known to induce distinct poisonous
effects on man and domestic animals when ingested in sufficient quantity.
Ergot must be regarded as a cause of abortion in cows, though
somewhat divergent views have been expressed as to the facts, some
* Poisonous parasitic fungi generally are not dealt with in this volume, but
ergot is included because it is widely distributed and perhaps the best known, while
its effects have been fully studied.
