vi] Fmigi 89
authorities considering the belief well founded, while others consider
that there is little ground for it. It is quite clear, however, that when
taken in sufficient quantity Ergot induces serious poisoning of domestic
animals. Horses have died in two or three days from eating ergoted
hay and wild rye. Extensive outbreaks of ergotism have occurred in
the United States, and serious losses have been recorded in the Central
and Western States. Ewart remarks that "a comparatively small
number of fresh Ergot grains suffice to injure or kill a horse, cow, or
sheep." The effects of the poisoning of animals will be found under
Symptoms below.
Toxic Principle. Ergot of rye is used in medicine. It contains
0-20 to 0-25 per cent, of Ergotinine. In the British Pharmaceutical
Codex, 1911, the grains (sclerotia) of Ergot (see Frontispiece) are
described as longitudinally furrowed, 1 to 4 cm. long, slender, curved,
tapering to both ends; they break with a short fracture, and are
somewhat triangular in transverse section; they have a characteristic
and disagreeable odour and taste, are dark violet to black in colour,
and whitish within. Ergot contains the physiologically active alkaloid
Ergotoxine or Hydroergotintne (C35H4iOeN5), also known as amorphous
Ergotinine, and, when formerly obtained in an impure state, as
Corniitine and Ecboline. It is the hydrate of the crystalline base
Ergotinine (C35H39O5N5). There are also other physiologically active
constituents derived from amino-acids.
Symptoms. In man Ergot has induced two types of epidemic ergotism,
caused by the prolonged use of ergoted rye bread. The two forms are
rarely or never found together. One is a gangrenous form characterized
by agonizing pain in the extremities, followed by dry gangrene of the
peripheral parts of the body. The second type of ergotism is much
more rare — a nervous epidemic characterized by paroxysmal epileptiform
convulsions.
Owing to the fact that at the outset ergotism causes irritation in the
hands and feet it is termed "Kribbelkrankheit" in Germany.
The three substances noted above as isolated by Robert are stated
to cause poisoning— the first producing inflammation of the serous and
mucous membranes, disintegration of the red blood cells, and widespread
ecchymoses ; the second excites the central nervous system and causes
general convulsions ; and the last induces gangrene.
In one case a horse ate ergoted hay : next day the left hind leg was
stiff, and moist with cold sweat ; on the second day it was badly swollen
and gangrene of all the tissues became apparent, and after the skin of
