90 Fungi [oh.
the leg and a considerable part of the muscular tissue had sloughed off
the animal died on the third day. In other cases horses showed symp-
toms twenty-four hours after eating ergoted hay : fatigue, indisposition
to work, cold sweat, particularly on the neck, paralysis of the tongue and
muscles concerned in swallowing, and then generalized paralysis, very
slow and deep respiration, subnormal temperature, normal pulse at first
and then weaker till scarcely distinguishable, death in six or eight hours
(Chesnut and Wilcox).
According to Pammel ergotism manifests itself among animals
chiefly in the chronic form, the poison being acquired in small amounts
and accumulation taking place slowly. Two distinct forms of the disease
are recognized, the spasmodic and gangrenous. " Symptoms referable to
the digestive tract, such as nausea, vomiting, colic, diarrhoea, or consti-
pation occur in both forms. Pregnant animals very frequently abort."
"In the spasmodic type of the disease, symptoms due to over-
stimulation of the central nervous system appear. These are tonic
contraction of the flexor tendons of the limbs, anaesthesia of the ex-
tremities, muscular trembUng, general tetanic spasms, convulsions and
dehrium. Death usually occurs from secondary causes."
"Gangrenous ergotism is characterised by coldness and anaesthesia
of the extremities, followed ultimately by dry gangrene of these parts.
The effects of this dry gangrene are often very serious and amount to
sloughing of the feet, tips of the ears, tip of the tail, shedding of the hair,
teeth, etc. Death takes place from exhaustion.
"Acute poisoning is characterized by vomiting (in dogs), profuse
salivation, dilatation of the pupils, rapid breathing and frequent pulse.
The animal cries out, has convulsive twitchings, staggering gait, para-
plegia, intense thirst and coma, terminating in death."
In an extensive outbreak of ergotism in the United States in 1884
Law and Salmon reported as a prominent symptom ulceration of the
mucous membrane of the tongue and mouth cavity, this and lesions
on the extremities giving the appearance of foot-and-mouth disease.
Affected animals showed weakness, dullness, and paralytic conditions
of certain groups of muscles. When in pregnant animals the uterus is
acted upon, labour pains occur, and the foetus is expelled. The straining
in those cases is often very painful and may be so severe that prolapsus
of the uterus or even the rectum is the result. When Ergot produces
gangrene, it usually affects the extremities, like the lower parts of the
legs, the ears, tail or teats in cattle, and the comb, wattles, toes, wings
or tongue of poultry. It is preceded by redness, coldness, and painful
