OH. vii] Plants suspected of being Poisonous 93
though it may possibly be taken occasionally on roadsides. It has not
been proved to be poisonous, but Pott states that it has a strongly
constipating efiect (213).
Tormentil {Potentilla Tormentilla L.). In relation to supposed
bracken poisoning (see p. 87) in regard to which experiments were
conducted by the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, Tormentil occurred
in several instances with the bracken in localities where this plant was
reported to cause poisoning. Two feeding experiments in which the
weed was fed to heifers gave negative results. In a further case, however,
4 or 5 lb. were collected from a field where sick animals were grazing, and
fed to a heifer ; it appeared to be the cause of rise of temperature (to
106° F.), diarrhoea, and the passing of a considerable quantity of blood
in the faeces for three days, after which the animal improved. It was,
however, slaughtered, and lesions were found similar to those found in
animals dying in the field from so-called bracken poisoning. Though
the plant was suspected, results generally were not held to prove that
it was the cause of poisoning (25). According to Van Rijn the root of
Tormentil contains a considerable quantity of Chinovic acid (CggH^gOe?).
Wall-Pepper {Sedum acre L.) is regarded as emetic and purgative,
but to lose the harmful properties on drying.
Sundews {Drosera sp.) are reputed to be poisonous to sheep, but
no evidence has been found.
White-Rot or Marsh Penny- Wort {Hydrocotyle vulgaris L.) is stated
to have caused inflammation of the digestive tract, and hsematuria;
and to contain a toxic substance Vellarin (213).
Wild Parsnip {Pastinaca saliva L.). This plant has often been sup-
posed to be poisonous, but Pammel shows that in Iowa the plant is
quite harmless, as it appears to be in Britain,
Devil's-Bit {Scabiosa succisa L.) is stated by Moir to have caused
injury to cattle in one instance {Vet. Record, 1899), causing sahvation,
gritting of the teeth, twitching of facial muscles, and shghtly protruded,
abraded, swollen and sensitive tongue. An experiment on cattle showed
the plant to induce violent inflammation of the mouth and tongue.
AU-Heal {Valeriana officinalis L.) is not hkely to be eaten by stock
in sufficient quantity to cause poisonous symptoms, though it is stated
to contain the poisonous Valerianic acid and Oil of Valerian. According
to Chevaher {vide Henry) this plant contains an alkaloid not yet fully
characterised.
Canadian Erigeron {Erigeron canadensis L.), sporadic in England, is
suspected in America. It contains an oil, chiefly a terjpene {Oy^^^).
