94 Plants suspected of being Poisonous [ch.
It has an acrid taste, causes smarting of the eyes, soreness of throat,
aching of extremities, and coHc ; and irritation to people handling it (203).
Mayweeds {Anthemis sp.). It is not at all clear whether these
plants are more than irritant in character, and they are so very common
and widely distributed that there would probably be more evidence if
they were poisonous, A. Cotula is regarded as suspected by Smith and
Halsted, while Ewart says that it is obnoxious to stock on account of
its unpleasant flavour, and if eaten by them in time of scarcity is apt
to give their flesh, milk, or butter an unpleasant flavour. Giissow
states that this species blisters the mouth and nostrils of animals. In
his investigations at Kew, GreshofE found that the seeds of A. Cotula
and A. arvensis contain much hydrocyanic acid. (He further found that
the cyanogenetic glucoside from A. aetnensis Schouw. and A. chia L.
belongs to the amygdalin type, giving off hydrocyanic acid and benz-
aldehyde on hydrolysis. "The strong odour of benzaldehyde may
even be observed on grinding the seeds with water. Species of Anthemis
contained from 0-15 down to 0-03 per cent, of hydrocyanic acid.")
Cat's-Ear {Hypochceris radicata L.). No record of poisoning of
Cat's Ear has been found, but it may be mentioned here, since Ewart
says of it : " It contains a bitter, milky sap, which makes it unpalatable
though not entirely poisonous An exclusive diet of this
weed could not help but injure stock eventually."
Dodders {Cuscuta sp.), when parasitic on clovers and fed as fodder
or hay, have been suspected of causing digestive troubles in horses and
cattle in the United States. Miiller records a case of poisoning of young
pigs by C. europcea, with inflammation of the intestines and nervous
symptoms. Barbey determined the presence of the glucoside Cuscutin
in C. Epithymum.
Viper's Bugloss {Echium vulgare L.) is suspected of being poisonous;
according to Friedberger and Frohner it causes slavering (see also
Cynoglossum).
Hound's Tongue {Cynoglossum officinale L.). To what extent this
plant is actually poisonous is not clear, but with some other members
of the order {Echium vulgare, Anchusa officinalis), it contains the two
alkaloids Consolidine and Cynoglossine — the former of wliich paralyses
the central nervous system and the latter the peripheral nerves.
(Greimer, 1900: vide Henry).
According to Hooker, Hound's Tongue is narcotic and astringent,
and Smith includes it as a simple vegetable irritant, causing nausea and
purging. No records of actual poisoning of animals have been found.
