vii] Plants suspected of hemg Poisonous 95
Broom-rape {Orohanche minor Sutt.) has been suspected, and
according to Boitel is liable to cause violent colic when it occurs in
considerable proportion in clover and is ingested with it (73). On the
other hand, in a case noted by Stapledon, in which Broom-rape
(0. minor) had completely overrun the aftermath on a farm near
Fishguard, two-year-old cattle devoured the plant with apparent
relish and cleared off most of it in a few days after being turned in.
The farmer stated that he saw no trace of colic or other ill effects.
{Jour. Bd. Agric, September, 1916.)
Great Mullein {Verbascum Thapsus L.). Though it does not
appear to be touched by farm live-stock the Great Mullein must be
mentioned here. The leaves and flowers have been used medicinally
as an emollient and pectoral, while the seeds possess narcotic properties
and serve to stupefy fish (73). Pammel states that the plant causes
irritation, but is probably not very poisonous to stock.
Toadflax {Linaria vulgaris Mill). Cornevin describes Toadflax as
acrid and poisonous, but says that stock reject it, and he could record
no accidents to animals. In his full and excellent account of this weed,
Kraus says it is regarded as poisonous, or suspected of being so, but
that according to most accounts it is not harmful to cattle (168).
Leunis regards it as suspicious on account of its acridity. Some
German authorities say it is willingly eaten by cattle, but it is generally
believed to be avoided, and owing to its disagreeable odour and acrid
taste this view is probably correct. The plant has not been exhaustively
studied, and while Smith gives the toxic principle as Oil of Snapdragon
and the resin Gratiolin, it may be observed that Toadflax contains the
glucoside Linarin (Cg4H5Q04Q).
Figworts {Scrophularia nodosa L. and S. aquatica L.). These
plants are not hkely to be eaten by animals, but Cornevin states that
the former is strongly emetic and purgative, and that in excess it may
cause superpurgation ending in death. Miiller says that the two
species have respectively caused poisonous symptoms in a cow and a
sheep ; in the case of the cow there were loss of appetite and symptoms
of paralysis. From S. nodosa Walz extracted a bitter, crystalline
substance, Scrophularine.
Yellow Rattle {Rhinanthus Crista-galli L.). When grass land is
put under the plough Yellow Rattle present may re-appear in a cereal
crop as a semi-parasite, and its seeds may later be ground up with the
grain, imparting a reddish or violet-brown colour and an unpleasant
taste to the flour and even bread made from it. It is strongly suspected
