96 Plants suspected of being Poisonous [ch.
of being poisonous, like Pedicularis and Melampyrum, but it is by no
means clear how far it may prove harmful to stock. It is beheved by
some people to impart a bad taste to the butter made from the milk
of cows grazing on infested pastures. Lehmann ate without harm
35 grammes (about Ij oz.) of the seeds made into a cake and
cooked; and during four days he gave a rabbit 1238 grammes
(2-7 lb.) of the fresh plant with half-ripe seeds, without apparent
injury (73).
In some poor pastures it occurs in excessive quantity, and would
appear to be only very slightly poisonous, or would have attracted
wider attention. It is possibly only poisonous after being eaten for
a prolonged period, as in the case of Lolium teniulentum, and Lathyrus
sativus. The seeds contain the bitter-sweet glucoside Rhinanthin
(C29H52O20), which is suspected of having poisonous properties.
Cow- Wheat {Melampyrum arvense L.). It seems clear that Cow-
Wheat is at least not poisonous unless eaten in very considerable quan-
tities — amounts in fact which in practice are most unlikely to be eaten.
The seeds may occur in cereal grains, and hence be ground up into meal.
As they are said to contain a glucoside analogous to Rhinanthin, have
a bitter taste and peculiar odour, and impart a violet coloration to
flour, their presence in cornfields is most undesirable. According to
Pammel this plant induces sleepiness and colic.
Ground Ivy {Nepeta Glechoma Benth.) is, according to Schaffner,
poisonous to horses. It contains a volatile oil and bitter principle, as
also does Catmint {N. Cataria). In a case which came before the Board
of Agriculture and Fisheries in 1906 three horses became ill with
symptoms of poisoning, and the only weed found in the lucerne they
were getting was Ground Ivy, and this was suspected but not proved to
be the cause. In a further case, reported in 1909, eleven horses were
believed to have been poisoned by this weed, and in one of the dead
horses scarcely any food but Ground Ivy was found, and to it the
veterinary surgeon in attendance attributed death. During preceding
years several horses had died in the locality (Ely), owing, it was believed,
to poisoning by the same weed. The losses, however, were not proved
to be due to this plant.
In the Veterinary Journal (October, 1914, p. 515) poisoning of
horses by this weed was noted (after Ferenczhazsy in the Recueil de
Medecine Veterinaire). The author observed nine cases of intoxication
due to the weed, though it is stated that it " has occasioned no trouble
in cattle and sheep that consumed it." The symptoms in horses were
