vii] Plants suspected of being Poisonous 97
"anxious look, dyspnoea, salivation, sweating, dilatation of the pupils,
cyanosis, signs of pulmonary oedema." Two horses died. In 1913
similar cases were observed by other owners, and terminated fatally.
Hooker states that N. Glechoma is "bitter and aromatic, formerly
used for beer, occasionally for tea."
Orache {Atriplex sp.). So far as known these plants are not poison-
ous, but it may be stated that Greshoff found the seeds of five species,
and the leaves of two species, to contain a Saponin.
Nettles (Urtica sp.). Nettles are not generally regarded as poisonous
otherwise than as causing painful nettle rash on the bare skin, but
Urtica dioica L, is stated to have caused the death of dogs (Berliner
Tierdrztliche Wochenschrift, 1909).
Yellow Flag {Iris Pseud-acorus L.). The wild Flag was noted by
Linnaeus as dangerous to cattle, but no case of actual poisoning has
been found in the Hterature. The plant is stated to have marked emetic
and purgative properties, and Cornevin remarks that in Belgium intense
gastro-enteritis is attributed to it. It contains the glucoside Iridin
(C24H26O13).
Narcissus sp. Various Narcissi (e.g. N. pseudo-narcissus, N. poeticus,
and others) have been regarded as irritant to the hands. They would
rarely if ever be eaten by live-stock in Britain, but it is stated that
on the Continent many poisonings of cattle, goats, and pigs have been
recorded, not infrequently ending in death after two or three days.
The Narcissi are strongly narcotic, emetic, and purgative, and cause
dilated pupils. Pott states that they cause inflammation of the digestive
tract, and convulsions, sometimes with fatal results; and according
to Pammel N. poeticus induces intense gastro-enteritis. N. pseudo-
narcissus contains the alkaloid Narcissine {C^^^^ldiyO^^), which with
cats causes nausea and purgation (Henry).
Common Fritillary {Fritillaria Meleagris L.). The Fritillary or
Snake's Head occurs only in a few places in England, and truly wild
perhaps only rarely in southern and eastern counties — not in Scotland or
Ireland. No definite case of poisoning has been found in the literature,
but the plant is stated to be poisonous. It contains the bitter
alkaloid Imperialine (C35HgoN04), which is a heart poison.
Bog Asphodel {Narthecium ossifragum Huds.) has by some been
regarded as a poisonous plant, and Miiller says that the poisoning of
cows has been recorded, and also that a cat died after drinking the milk
of an affected cow. The toxic property is beUeved to be the glucoside
Narihecin.
L. 7
