100 The effects of Plants on Milk [ch.
Achillea Millefolium L. is stated to impart its bitter taste and strong
odour to dairy products when eaten by cows. It contains an alkaloid,
Achilleine (CgoHggOigNg) having a pecuHar odour and bitter taste.
Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum has also been suspected of imparting
a bad flavour to butter.
According to Pott the milk of cows eating Oxalis Acetosella is with
difl&culty converted into butter.
The poisonous principle of Colchicum autumnale is stated to find its
way into the milk of animals consuming it, and Miiller states that the
milk of goats which have eaten it has caused the poisoning of infants.
Miiller states that a cat died after drinking the milk of a cow suffering
from poisoning by Narthecium ossifragum.
Mercurialis annua is said to cause milk to be thin, "blue," and poor
in fat; while in a case already mentioned (p. 68) M. perennis entirely
stopped the secretion of milk.
According to Chesnut, goats may eat quantities of Euphorbia Lathyris,
and it is said that their milk then possesses the poisonous properties of
the plants. Ingestion of other Euphorbias appears to have the same
effect.
Cornevin remarks that Melampyrum arvense is considered to influence
cows to produce more milk.
According to some authorities species of Equisetum check milk
production or cause it to cease, and E. palustre is stated by Weber to
cause the milk of affected cows to become watery, poor in fat, and give
rise to a greasy and unappetising butter, while the peld may soon quite
fail.
The ingestion of the foliage of the oak {Quercus sp.) is stated by
Cornevin to induce Maladie des Bois, with reduction or entire loss of
milk production (see p. 69). Acorns have also affected milk production,
and a case is recorded (The Dairy, 1913) in which it is stated that cheese
made from the milk of cows which had fed on acorns developed a
sharp acid flavour when about four weeks old, though the texture was
good. It is not clear, however, how it was proved to be due to the
acorns.
In one case recorded a reddish tinge was observed in the milk of a
cow suffering from Rhododendron poisoning (p. 46), and in general
reduced milk production appears to occur.
In addition to the foregoing, there is good authority for saying that
the following plants may impart a disagreeable flavour to milk, and in
many cases the butter made from it : —
