SOCIETY AN ORGANISM. 3
with its acquirement of greater mass its parts multiply and simulta-
neously differentiate. It is thus with a society. At first the unlike-
nesses among its groups of units are inconspicuous in number and
degree ; but, as it becomes more populous, divisions and subdivisions
become more numerous and more decided. Further, in the social or-
ganism as in the individual organism, differentiations cease only with
that completion of the type which marks maturity and precedes decay.
Though in inoi'ganic aggregates also, as in the entire solar system
and in each of its members, structural differentiations accompany the
integrations, yet these are so relatively slow, and so relatively simple,
that they may be disregarded. The multiplication of contrasted parts
in bodies politic and in living bodies is so great that it substantially
constitutes another common character which marks them off from in-
organic bodies.
This community will be more fully appreciated on observing that
progressive differentiation of structures is accompanied by progressive
differentiation of functions.
The multiplying divisions, primary, secondary, and tertiaiy, which
arise in a developing animal, do not assume their major and minor
unlikenesses to no purpose. Along with diversities in their shapes
and compositions there go diversities in the actions they perform:
they grow into unlike organs having unlike duties. Assuming the
entire function of absorbing nutriment at the same time that it takes
on its structural characters, the alimentary system becomes gradually
marked off into contrasted portions, each of which has a special func-
tion forming part of the general function. A limb, instrumental to
locomotion or prehension, acquires divisions and subdivisions which
perform their leading and their subsidiary shares in this office. So is
it with the parts into which a society divides. A dominant class
arising does not simply become unlike the rest, but assumes control
over the rest ; and when .this class separates into the more and the less
dominant, these, again, begin to discharge distinct parts of the entire
control. With the classes whose actions are controlled it is the same.
The various groups into which they fall have various occupations, each
of such groups also, within itself, acquiring minor contrasts of parts
along with minor contrasts of duties.
And here we see more clearly how the two classes of things we
are comparing distinguish themselves from things of other classes;
for such differences of structure as slowly arise in inorganic aggre-
gates arc not accompanied by what we can fairly call differences of
function.
Why in a body politic and in a living body these unlike actions
of unlike parts are properly regarded by us as functions, while we
cannot so regard the unlike actions of unlike parts in an inorganic
body, we shall perceive on turning to the next and most distinctive
common trait.
