LINGUAL DEVELOPMENT IN BABYHOOD. 133
lence human, namely, the power of noting analogies. This is the
fountain-head of general ideas and of language. We point out to
her on the walls of a room the figures of birds painted red and blue,
a couple of inches in length, saying once only, " Look at the kokos."
She was at once conscious of the resemblance, and for half a day she
took the liveliest pleasure in being carried up and down along the
walls of the room, enthusiastically crying out, at the sight of each
bird, koko ! No dog, no parrot would ever act thus, and, in my opin-
ion, we have in this fact the essence of language. Other analogies
she perceives with equal readiness. The first dog she ever saw was a
little black one belonging to the house, who barks frequently ; from
him she framed the word oiia-oua. Very soon, with but slight as-
sistance from those around her, she applied this word to dogs of all
sizes and of every breed that she saw in the street ; later she applied
it to porcelain figures of dogs — a still more noteworthy fact. Nay,
on seeing, day before yesterday, a month-old kid, she called it oiia-
oua^ thus naming it after the dog, which is the nearest form, rather
than after the horse, which is too big, or the cat, which has a different
gait.' Herein we perceive a trait characteristic of man : two very
dissimilar successive perceptions leave a common residue, a distinct
impression, solicitation, impulsion, which results in the invention or
adoption of some mode of expression, either by gesture, cry, articula-
tion, or name.
I come now to the word tem^ one of the most notewoi'thy and one
of the first pronounced by her. All the other words are probably
attributives^ to use the language of Max Mtlller,* and a person has no
difficulty in discovering their meaning; this is probably a demon-
strative, and, as we had no term with which to translate it, we took
several weeks to discover its meaning.
At first, and for more than two weeks, the child pronounced this
word tern as she did the wov^ papa, without giving to it any precise
meaning ; she thus practised dental articulation followed by a labial,
and the thing afforded her some amusement. By degrees the word
became associated in her mind with a definite intention, and at pres-
ent it means for her give, take, see, look. She pronounces it very per-
fectly, several times in succession, and with earnestness, her aim be-
ing now to get some new object which she sees, again to have some
one take her up, or to attract attention to herself. All these meanings
are comprised in the word teni. It may be that it is a form of the
word tietis, wdiich had often been addressed to her in a somewhat
similar sense. But I am rather inclined to suppose that this word was
coined by herself to express her principal desires, viz., to be taken in
' When the Romans first saw the elephant they called it the Lueanian ox. Thus, too,
savage tribes that had never before seen a horse gave that animal the title of bic/ hog.
{See Miiller's " Lectures on Darwin's Philosophy of Language.")
2 Lectures on the "Science of Language," sixth edition, vol. i., p. 809.
