134 ^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the arms, to get the objects she wants, and to attract notice. If such
is the case, then this word is a natural vocal gesture. This view is
rendered more probable by the fact that she possesses other words,
of which more anon, and which are evidently the products, not of
imitation, but of invention.
(Fifteenth to seventeenth month). Great progress made; the child
has learned to walk, and even to run. She is gaining new ideas every
day, and understands a number of phrases, such as these: "Fetch the
ball;" "Go and doudou to the lady" (i. e., fondle her and let her kiss
you) ; " Come and stand between papa's legs ; " " Go down there ; "
" Come here," etc. She is beginning to distinguish between the tone of
anger and that of pleasure; she quits doing anything forbidden with
severe countenance, or with voice expressive of disapproval ; of her own
accord she frequently shows a desire of being fondled. But she has
learned or invented but few new words recently. Her chief new
words are Pa (Paul), Bahert (Gilbert), hehe (baby), heee (nanny-goat),
cola (chocolate), oua-oua (anything good to eat), ham (eating, I want
to eat). There are a number of other words which she understands,
but is unable to pronounce, such as grandfather, grandmother. Her
vocal organs, not being sufficiently practised, do not as yet reproduce
all the sounds she knows, and to which she attaches meanings.
Cola (chocolate) was one of the first dainties she ever tasted, and
she prefers it to all others. She gets a lozenge daily during her visits
to her grandmother ; she knows the box in which the bonbons are
kept, and keeps pointing toward it until it is opened.
JBebe. — We have spoken of the curious meaning she at first gave
to this word ; by degrees, under the influence of education, she has
come nearer to its ordinary sense. Other infants have been shown to
her, and called hebe\ she herself has also been called by this name;
now she answers to it. She has been shown the reflection of her own
face in a mirror, and told to look at hehe, and now she goes herself to
the glass, and, on seeing the image, laughs and calls '■''hehe!'''' Start-
ing from this, she gives the name of hehe to miniatures, pictures, and
statuettes. Here again education has produced a result that had not
been anticipated : the general character perceived by the child is not
the one that we could have desired her to perceive. We have taught
her the sound, and she has invented the meaning.
Ham (eating, I want to eat). — Here she originated both the sound
and the sense. This sound she first uttered during her fourteenth
month. For weeks I took it to be mere prattle, but at last I noticed
that it was uttered always, without exception, when food was in sight.
Now she never fails to say ham whenever she is hungry or thirsty.
This again is a natural vocal gesture.
Oua-oua. — It was not till three weeks ago (end of the sixteenth
month) that she employed this word in the sense of something good
to eat. For a while we did not understand what it meant, for the
