136 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as seen from a bridge. The flashing, running water was plainly for
her an object of extraordinary beauty, and she would keep exclaim-
ing, " "Water, water " (age, twenty months). A little later (thirty
months) she was profoundly impressed on seeing the moon. She
wanted to look at it every night. When she Avalked abroad it seemed
to her that the moon also was moving, and this discovery gave her de-
light ; as the moon made her appearance in different localities, accord-
ing to the hour, being seen at one time in front of the house, and again
in the rear, she would exclaim, " Another moon ! another moon ! "
One night (age, three years) she wanted to know where the moon
was, and, on being told that it had gone to bed, she asked, " Where,
then, is the moon's nurse ? " All this very closely resembles the emo-
tions and conjectures of childlike races ; their profound wonderment
in presence of the great phenomena of Nature ; the influence exerted
upon them by analogy, language, and metaphor, leading them to form
myths of the sun, the moon, etc. Suppose such a state of mind to be
universal at any period, and we can readily foresee what religious
ideas and legends would be the result ; in fact, we have instances of
this process of development in the Vedas, the Edda, and even in
Homer.
If we speak to the child of an object at some little distance, but
which she can represent to herself definitely enough, having seen the
object itself or something like it, her first question always is : " What
does it say ? What does the rabbit say ? What does the bird say ?
What does the horse say ? What does the big tree say ? " Whether
it be an animal or a tree, she always treats the object as a person ;
wants to know what it thinks, what it says. By a spontaneous in-
duction, she pictures it as like herself or like us — humanizes it. This
same tendency is found among primitive races, and it is all the strong-
er the more primitive they are.
It requires long time and many an effort for the infant to attain to
ideas which to us appear simple. When this child's doll had its head
broken she was told that now the doll was dead. One day her grand-
mother said to her : " I am old, and shall not remain long with you ;
I shall die." " Your head will be broken, then." This she repeated
several times. Even yet (age, three years and one month), to be dead
means, for her, to have a broken head. Day before yesterday a mag-
pie that had been killed by the gardener was tied to the top of a pole
for a scarecrow ; on being told that the pie was dead the child wished
to see it. " What does the pie do ? " she asked. " She does noth-
ing ; she will never stir again, she is dead." " Oh ! " For the first
time the idea of final immobility has entered her mind. Now let us
suppose a people to stop at this idea, and to have no other definition
of death than this. For them the Beyond will be the Sheol of the
Hebrews — the place where the motionless dead live a vague sort of
life. For her yesterday means in the past, and to-morrow means in
