NATURAL TRUMPET OF THE CRAXE. 139
by an eagle, or the wind is likely to break their order, they close in
circles. Their passage frequently takes place during the night, which
is known by their sonorous voice, which announces it ; and the head
of the troop often utters, to indicate the route he is taking, a cry of
appeal to which all his followers answer. Their voices, even on these
nocturnal voyages, are exceedingly loud — probably owing to the
length of the windpipe and the convolution near its bronchial ex-
tremity. When they cry during the day they are generally understood
to forebode rain, as is the case with the cries of many other birds
which feed partially on those worms which the approaching humidity
brings to the surface — not only when the rain actually falls, but when,
from the changed state of the air, the evaporation is much diminished.
When they are peculiarly noisy and tumultuous, and fly near the
ground, occasionally alighting, it is considered as a pretty certain in*
dication of a tempest. On the other hand, when they rise high, and fly
onward in regular order, it is regarded as a sign of fine weather."
That great observer, Virgil, has used the simile of cranes in flight
in a grand passage in the tenth "^neid," to give an idea of the Greeks
and Trojans charging each other in the battle-field :
" . . . . Clamorem ad sidera tollunt
Dardanidee e muris : spes addita suscitat iras :
Tela manu jaciunt. Quales sub nubibus atris
Strymonife dant signa grues atque ssthera tranant
Cum sonitu, fugiuntque Notos clamore secundo."
[The Trojans, from their walls, raise acclamations to the stars. Ad-
ditional hope rouses up their fury. Darts from their hands they hurl,
as under the black lowering clouds Strymonian cranes give the signal
and swim along the skies with obstreperous din, and from the stormy
south winds with joyous clamor fly.]
I consider the marvelous natural trumpet of the crane to be a most
beautiful provision given by the Creator to these wild birds to enable
them to keep their ranks, and not lose each other when migrating.
In fact, we men have adopted the idea by using trumpets. It often
happens that the dust at a field-day is so great that very little can be
seen, while it would be impossible for the human voice to be hoard ;
ti'umpets, therefore, come in here of the greatest service, especially to
direct movements of cavalry. In the same way, the cranes might
possibly lose each other when flying in the wilderness of space of the
vast firmament of ether, and, were it not for their being able to signal
to each other, they w^ould be unable to travel with facility either at
night, or when passing through clouds and fogs.
A few days since a valued correspondent in Ireland sent us the
breastbone of a Hooper swan. I have dissected this, and find the
trachea convoluted in a manner very similar to that of the crane.
There is a legend that when a swan is. dying lie becomes musical.
