142 THE POPULziR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mentioning Prof. B. Silliman's report on Pennsylvania i^etrolcum to
Messrs. Eveleth, Bissell & Reed, 1855.
He examined the rock-oil or petroleum of Venango County, and,
long before the present processes of refining had been introduced,
suggested several very important processes, which Lave been since
followed in its treatment ; such as distillation by steam, " cracking,"
or breaking up of the heavier oils into lighter compounds, its use for
making gas, for illuminating purposes, for lubricating, etc.
Composition. — Petroleum is a mixture of several hydrocarbons,
and contains also bituminous materials, sulphur, carbonaceous mat-
ter, sand, and clay. Its odor is generally ofiensive. The color and
specific gravity vary greatly. The crude petroleum of Pennsylvania
is generally dark-green with a brownisli tinge by reflected light ; the
color of thin layers by transmitted light varies from dark-yellowish
to reddish-brown. The oil of Enniskillen is blackish-brown ; of
Mecca, Ohio, yellow ; in the neighborhood of Shamburg, Venango
County, Pennsylvania, " black " and " green " oils occur side by side
in the same districts ; the lubricating oil of White Oak, West Vir-
ginia, is yellow ; that from Amiano, Italy, is red to straw-color ; at
Baku the light oil is clear and faint yellow. Pennsylvania petroleum
is somewhat thick, like thin sirup, but, although stiffened somewhat
by cold, is always fluid. The oil of Pagan, Burmah, is very light,
resembling naphtha, as is some of that from Baku.
The specific gravities of different petroleums are as follows :
White Oak, West Virginia, 28° to 40° Beaume ; Mecca, Ohio, 26° to
27° ; Franklin, Pennsylvania, 30° to 32° ; Cuba,Kew York, 32° ; Tidi-
oute,48°; Pit-Hole, 51° ; Pomeroy, Ohio, 51°; Russia, 28° to 40°.
The heavy oils command, as a rule, a higher price. Although there
is no certainty about their occurrence, the heavy oils have been fre-
quently found at a higher level than the light oils in Pennsylvania,
so that this was at one time supposed to be the rule.
The constituents of the mixture known as petroleum are separated
from each other by fractional distillation ; with care they can be iso-
lated in quite a pure state, but in practice they undergo various de-
compositions, and are frequently to be regarded rather as j9rof?wc?«
than as educts of the operations. Some are gaseous at ordinary
temperatures, others are liquid, and others solid. They are divided
into two classes : one having the formula C„H„n-t-2, and belonging to
the marsh-gas, or paraffine sei'ies ; the other, with the formula C^H^n,
belonging to the ethylene series (olefines). They have been carefully
investigated by Pelouze and Cahours, Warren, Schorlemmer, and
Ronalds, and the results obtained by them are given in the following
table, partly compiled from the review of the subject by Prof. S. P.
Sadtler, in Prof. Genth's " Report on the Mineralogy of Pennsylvania "
(" Second Geological Survey, 1874 "). The letters F, R, W, P and C,
and S, indicate the observers, Fouque, Ronalds, Warren, Pelouze and
