4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Evolution establishes in them both, not differences simply, but defi-
nitely-connected differences — differences such that each makes the
others possible. The parts of an inorganic aggregate are so related
that one may change greatly without appreciably affecting the rest.
It is otherwise with the parts of an organic aggregate or of a social
aggregate. In either of these the changes in the parts are mutually
determined, and the changed actions of the parts are mutually depend-
ent. In both, too, this mutuality increases as the evolution advances.
The lowest type of animal is all stomach, all respiratory surface, all
limb. Development of a type having appendages by which to move
about or lay hold of food can take place only if these appendages,
losing power to absorb nutriment directly from surrounding bodies,
are supplied with nutriment by parts which retain the power of ab-
sorption. A respiratory surface, to which the circulating fluids are
brought to be aerated, can be formed only on condition that the con-
comitant loss of ability to supply itself with materials for repair and
growth is made good by the development of a structure bringing
these materials. So is it in a society. What we call with perfect
propriety its organization has a necessary implication of the same kind.
While rudimentary, it is all warrior, all hunter, all hut-builder, all
tool-maker : every part fulfills for itself all needs. Progress to a
stage characterized by a permanent army can go on only as there
arise arrangements for supplying that army with food, clothes, and
munitions of war, by the rest. If here the population occupies itself
solely with agriculture and there with mining — if these manufacture
goods while those distribute them — it must be on condition that, in
exchange for a special kind of service rendered by each part to other
parts, these other parts severally give due proportions of their services.
This division of labor, first dwelt on by political economists as a
social phenomenon, and thereupon recognized by biologists as a phe-
nomenon of living bodies, which they called* the " physiological divi-
sion of labor," is that which in the society, as in the animal, makes it
a living whole. Scarcely can I emphasize sufiiciently the truth that,
in respect of this fundamental trait, a social organism and an indi-
vidual organism are entirely alike. When we see that, in a mammal,
arresting the lungs quickly brings the heart to a stand ; that if the
stomach fails absolutely in its ofiice all other parts by-and-by cease
to act ; that paralysis of its limbs entails on the body at large death
from want of food or inability to escape ; that loss of even such small
organs as the eyes deprives the rest of a service essential to their
preservation — we cannot but admit that mutual dependence of parts
is an essential characteristic. And when, in a society, we see that
the workers in iron stop if the miners do not supply materials ; that
makers of clothes cannot carry on their business in the absence of
those who spin and weave textile fabrics ; that the manufacturing
community will cease to act unless the food-producing and food-dis-
