146 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Counties, between thirty-live and forty miles. Xo oil is found in tLe
horizontal rocks, but it occurs along the disturbed and broken, tilted
strata on the edges of the line of uplift. This same belt runs north
into Ohio, through Washington and Morgan Counties into Noble
County. Volcano, White Oak, and Burning Springs are the principal
points in West Virginia. The oil is found in subcarboniferous rocks,
ascending to them from the underlying Devonian.
In Ohio there is another oil-belt, west of the above, beginning in
Perry and Morgan Counties on the north, and running south through
Athens into Meigs County; and in Cuyahoga and Trumbull Counties
are oil-regions closely related to those of Western Pennsylvania. The
" Mecca" oil, a valuable lubricating oil, occurs in the Mecca Oil Rocks
(Berea grit and Bedford shales) of Trumbull County, Ohio. The total
production of Ohio and West Virginia is not over 500 barrels daily
(Wrigley).
The Kentucky oil-district is mainly in Barren and Cumberland
Counties, with a small adjoining tract south of- it in Overton County,
Tennessee. A well in Cumberland County, 191 feet deep, produced.
300 barrels daily. The abundant supply from Pennsylvania and the
difficulty of transportation have prevented these regions from becom-
ing well known.
Oeigix axd Source of Peteoleum. — At first it was held by many
that petroleum was a result of distillation from the bituminous coals,
which wei'e found in its vicinity, and this belief was strengthened by
the fact that some of the very bituminous coals, such as Cannel and
Boghead coal, afforded large quantities of similar oils on being dis-
tilled; but, although this is very probably the source of a small
amol^nt of oil, yet the larger part of it is now believed to derive its
origin from rocks lying below the coal-measures, since the oil-bearing
rocks are mostly older than the carboniferous formations.
Some investigators have ascribed a vegetable origin to petroleum,
but most authorities agree in attributing it to animal as well as vege-
table agencies. Shales are the most common oil-bearing rocks, and in
their formation the organic materials would be finely divided and
protected from oxidation. The oil-bearing shales commonly show
few vegetable remains, and Dana observes that the absence of distinct
fossil animal and vegetable remains points to an abundance of delicate
water-plants or infusorial or microscopic vegetable life as the source
of the organic material contained in them. Limestones, on the other
hand, are frequently full of animal fossil remains, showing an animal
origin for the oil in them, although it is by no means agreed that the
petroleum in certain limestones was derived from organic remains in
the limestones and not from other strata below them. In whatever
shape the finely-divided material was originally present, it would be
finely diffused through the mud, and protected from atmospheric agen-
cies, and subsequently the hydrocarbons would be formed from them,
