PETROLEUM. 149
subject, mention should be made of the sjas which so generally accom-
panies the oil. It is often met with in the oil-regions when no oil is
struck, producing " gas-wells ; " and is also met with where no oil, or
very little, is found, on the borders of the oil-districts. Many private
residences and manufacturing establishments are heated and lighted
by this gas ; Fredonia, Xew York, has been lighted with it for years.
The Newton gas-well, five miles south of Titusville, Pennsylvania, is
786 feet deep, and yielded 4,000,000 cubic feet per day, supplying
light and fuel to a great number of dwellings and manufactories in
Titusville, A rolling-mill near Pittsburg is run by gas brought
from Butler County, a distance of about nineteen miles, and when it
is not needed the gas is lighted, furnishing a jet of flame seventy feet
high, w^hich, with another jet from a neighboring mill, furnishes a
grand spectacle at night.
This gas is the cause of spouting-wells. If a well is sunk into the
top of a fissure containing oil and gas, the gas will first escape, and
then the oil must be pumped out ; but, if the well strikes in the oil,
the pressure of the gas would first di'ive out the oil. If water also
was present and the well struck the bottom of the fissure the heavier
water would first escape, then the oil, and then the gas. Such a well,
after standing a while would again yield oil on ^^umping, then perhaps
water only, or water and oil, until it had had another rest. If the
supply of gas is kept up by an open crevice, the well may continue to
flow for some time. The pressure of neighboring water may also
cause the oil to flow from a well. Generally the pumping-wells are
pretty constant, although when a number of wells are bored near
together they interfere with each other, and sometimes water poured
down one well will appear in another, and this method has been
pursued to bring rival well-ow'uers to terras.
A few words may hex-e be said about drilling wells and transport-
ing the oik The wells are drilled by means of drilling-tools like
those used in sinking artesian wells, which are suspended by a cable,
and operated by small steam-engines. The well is lined with wrought-
iron tubing, screwed together in sections, and, to prevent water from
flowing dowm the outside of the lining into the well, a water-packer is
used, which is essentially a circular piece of leather with the edges
cut and turned upward, so that the whole forms a cup about the tube,
which is pressed tightly against the sides of the well by the weight
of the column of water. It is much better than the old flaxseed bag.
The oil is conveyed from the oil-district to the refineries and shipping-
stations by means of wrought-iron pipes, two to four inches in diam-
eter, which form a network throughout the entire country, and have
an aggregate length of nearly 2,000 miles. One company carries the
oil thirty-seven miles, in this way, from Butler County to the vicinity
of Pittsburg.
Refining and Uses of Petroleum. — Crude petroleum contains
