150 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gases and volatile liquids giving off at ordinary temperatures gases,
whicli form explosive mixtures with air ; heavy oils, -which injure its
burning properties, but are useful as furnishing lubricators and paraf-
fine ; tarry and carbonaceous matters ; sulphur and other compounds,
which give an offensive odor when burned. It is therefore refined by
distillation, to separate the useful products in a pure state. The general
features of the process will be best illustrated by a practical example,
and for this purpose we have selected the well-known refinery of
Charles Pratt & Co., at Greenpoint, Long Island, manufacturers of
Pratt's Astral Oil. This establishment has a capacity of 15,000
barrels weekly.
The crude oil, coming mostly from Pennsylvania, with a specific
gravity of 46 to 48° Beaume, is run into horizontal cylindrical stills
of wrought-iron, heated by anthracite fires. Eight of these stills have
a capacity of 600 barrels each, and there are eight smaller ones.
From these stills pipes lead to large worms, cooled by running
water, and connected with a series of small tanks, so that the prod-
ucts from each still can be separately collected, and the successive
portions that come from the still can be kept apart, according to their
specific gravity.
At about 160° Fahr. (V0° C.) the gases begin to come off abun-
dantly, and these ai'e conducted from the lower end of the worms to
heat the steam-boilers. At about 225° Fahr. (107° C.) gasoline, hav-
ing a specific gravity of 85° B., begins to run from the worm ; after
an hour and a half, at a temperature of 325° Fahr. (163° C.) naphtha
begins to run, with a density of 74° B., and continues for about three
hours; at 350-400° Fahr. (177-200° C.) benzine, with a density of
62° B., begins and runs about one hour. For the remainder of the
heat, about thirty hours, illuminating oil is collected, with a density
of 48-50° B., and ending with a temperature of 750° Fahr. (398 C).
The residuum, having a density of 20° B., is drawn off and shipped in
l)arrels to the paraffine and lubricating oil-works. Steam is then run
into the still for nearly two hours to remove the gas, the man-hole is
opened, and the coke scraped off to be used for fuel.
The results of this 023eration are about as follows :
Gasoline 3 per cent.
Naphtha 10 " "
Benzine 3 " "
Illuminating oil 75 " "
Residuum. 4 " "
Coke and loss 5 " "
Total 100
The residuum yields by subsequent treatment parafSne to the
a:niount of about one per cent, of the crude petroleum.
The illuminating oil comes from the worm at a temperature of
