PETROLEUM. 151
about 80^ Fahr. (49° C.) and is pumped from tlic receiving-tank into
the agitator, an immense cylindrical tank of boiler-iron, holding 1,800
barrels (a smaller one holds 500), where it is cooled (if necessary) to
60° Fahr. by water run in at the top by sprinkling from a hose, and
drawn oif below. Forty-four gallons of strong commercial sul2)huric
acid being added for every 100 barrels of oil, the mixture is agitated
by air pumped in through a pipe leading down through the oil to the
bottom. This is done by an engine, and produces a very thorough mixt-
ure, during which the temperature rises, and when it reaches V0° Fahr.
(21° C.) the operation is ended. Water is then ])layed upon the top
for about three hours, when caustic-soda lye of 20° B. is added, in the
proportion of 500 gallons to 1,800 barrels of oil, thoroughly agitated
with the oil, and then drawn off at the bottom after settling. The
sulphuric acid purifies the oil partly by combining with, partly by
breaking up, the injurious compounds, and the soda is added to neu-
tralize the acid. Finally, the oil is again washed with water and
drawn off into bleaching-pans, of which one has a capacity of 2,000
barrels, and two others of 750 each. Here the oil is left under a roof
and exposed to diffused daylight four or five hours, to improve its
color, and is then removed to the storage-tanks. It is possible to
expose the oil too long in the bleachers, injuring its color. It is a
curious fact, noticed in several refineries, that the oil, after removal
to the agitator and before treatment with the acid, sometimes gives
off spontaneously inflammable gas, which has been known to take fire
during^ the cooling with water.
The gasolene is used for making gas. The naphtha and benzine
destined for the market are kept separate, but sometimes they are
further treated at the refinery, and are then run together, and sent to
the naphtha-works with a density of 68° to 70° B. Here they are
treated in iron stills of 200 to 600 barrels capacity, heated by coal.
The vapors are condensed in a series of three worms, and the opera-
tion is so managed that the various products are obtained of the re-
quired density. These products are gasolene, of 90° (sometimes 97°),
88°, and 86° B. ; naphtha, of 76° and 71°; benzine, of 65° and 62°.
Most of the benzine shipped is of the latter density. The barrels
used for shipping all of these products are coated inside with glue.
The residuum is either " cracked " in special stills (a process of
which we shall have more to say hereafter) or it is sold to be worked
up for lubricating oils and parafline.
Mr. Joshua Merrill, manufacturing chemist of the Downer Kero-
sene Oil Company, has made several very important discoveries in the
treatment of petroleum, and a short account of them has been given in
a " Memoir on Petroleum Products," communicated to the Society of
Arts, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, by S. D. Hayes, March
14, 1872, from which some facts are here selected :
Neutral lubricating oil, free from offensive odors and tastes, was
