152 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
partly the result of an accident. The condenser of a still heated by
direct fire and charged with 900 gallons of mixed heavy and light
oils, became partially closed, and the pressure caused leakage at the
bottom of the still. The fire was very gradually drawn, after 250
gallons of light oil bad jjassed oft". The next day the oil in the still
was found to be light-yellow, neaily odorless, neutral, and dense ;
the light, odorous hydrocarbons having been removed, at this low
temperature, without decomposing either the distillate or the oil in
tlie still. Further experiments perfected the process, which is greatly
aided by the admission of steam from an open pipe into the body of
the still during distillation.
Mineral sperm-oil was the result of experiments by Messrs. J. and
R. S. Merrill on burning heavy lubricating oil and paraffine in lamps,
especially constructed for the purpose. The light was very "good, but
the liquid was too thick to ascend into the wick. To obviate this
the oil was subjected to a partially destructive distillation, " crack-
ing " it enough to render it mobile, but not volatile.
The manner in which the crude petroleum is treated to obtain
these various products is briefl}'^ outlined here from Prof, llayes's
sketch : The crude oil is heated by steam in upright, wrought-iron
cylinders, incased in wood, of 12,000 gallons capacity. About 15
per cent, of distillate passes off and is condensed in pi})es surrounded
by water, yielding gasolene and A, B, and C naphthas, which are
separately collected. From the gasolene rhigolene can be obtained
by a second distillation with steam-heat, condensing the first portions
of the distillate by ice and salt; ten per cent, is obtained from the
gasolene. The steamed oil is pumped from the naphtha-stills into
small stills, holding 1,000 gallons each, and heated by direct fires.
Only carbon remains in these stills, some uncondensable gas escapes,
and the other products are : No. 1, crude illuminating oil ; Ko. 2, in-
termediate oils ; No. 3, crude lubricating oil. Each of these is redis-
tilled in the same sort of still. No. 1 is agitated with sulphuric acid,
then Avith caustic soda, and distilled, yielding 80 per cent, of its
volume of finished kerosene (refined illuminating oil) and mineral
sperm-oil, and nearly 20 per cent, of denser oil. No. 2 is at once
redistilled, yielding chiefly crude lubricating oil. No. 3 is agitated
with suljAuric acid and then distilled with caustic soda in the still,
yielding mainly dense parafiine-oil. This is kept in wooden barrels in
ice-houses from seven to ten days, and deposits crystalline parafline,
which is pressed in strong cloth bags, one above another, with sheet-
iron between, and yields ci'ude paratnne-wax and heavy oil. The
pai'afline is repeatedly recrystallized from solution in naphtha and
pressed, \intil it is white and pure enough for sale. The heavy oil is
heated in stills by direct fires, slowly increased, but kept as low
as possible, and generally with the admission of steam, until 20
to 30 per cent, has passed over. The residue is ready for sale,
