154 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the temperature of the oil in an ordinary glass oil-lamp ranges from
76 to 98° F., and in a metal lamp from 76° to 129° F., the lower limits
being for rooms heated between 73° and 74° F., and the higher for a
temperature of 90° to 92°. It is, therefore, evident that an oil giving
oil' explosive gases at less than 100° F. must be dangerous, and even
at 110° F. an accident might occur, but only in exceptional circum-
stances.
The oils must, therefore, stand a certain test, called the " flashing
test," which consists in heating them, preferably, in a thin metal or
glass cup which holds the oil, and is itself placed in another vessel full
of cold water, which is gradually heated by a small spirit-lamp. The
bulb of a thermometer is kept well immersed beneath the surface of the
oil, draughts are to be avoided, and the heat very slowly raised. From
time to time, as the flashing-point is approached, the temperature is
noted, and a very small flame, as a gas-jet issuing from a glass tube
di'awn to a fine point, is quickly passed across its surface, taking care
not to touch the oil. A faint blue flame will flash across the oil when
it reaches a temperature at which explosive gases are given off". Al-
though it is generally agreed that the temperature should be very
gradually raised, fifteen minutes being allowed for a test, yet Calvert
{Chemical News, May, 1870) states that an oil which flashed at 90°
F., after fifteen minutes, showed a flushing-point of 101°, when thirty
minutes were consumed in making the test. Oil of 100° is not safe
absolutely. There is another test called the burning-test, the point at
which an oil will take fire and burn ; it is from 10° to 50° F. above the
flashing-test (Chandler), and is of little value in determining the safety
of an oil, because, as already shown, the addition of one per cent, of
naphtha will lower the flashing-test 10° in a good oil, while it would
not materially affect the burning-point. From the directions already
given for testing oil any one can readily make the test, and in view
of the large number of unsafe oils sold it is very important that such
tests should be made before using an oil not known to be safe.
The subject of refining petroleum may be dismissed with a few
words more about " cracking " oils. It is the object of the refiner to
make as much illuminating oil as possible, and to do this advantage
is taken of the fact that, when the vapors of heavy oils are heated
above their boiling-points, carbon is deposited, and the condensed
hydrocarbons resulting have a less specific gravity. This decompo-
sition is technically called " cracking," and it was observed long ago
that in distilling the heavier oils lighter hydrocarbons were obtained
during the first stages of the operation, even when not wanted.
Cracking can be accomplished by distilling the oils under pressure,
or, as is the ease in the very large stills now employed, by allowing
the vapors of the heavier hydrocarbons, on condensing, to flow down
again upon the now hotter oil in the still, whereby they are cracked,
de2)0siting carbon. By carefully adapting the heat to the changing
