PETROLEUM. 155
character of the oil, the yield of illuminating oil can be increased, but
a residuum is always left in the large stills to be afterward treated in
smaller ones.
S. D. Hayes states that this operation can be reversed, and from
two to ten per cent, of a heavy oil obtained from the lightest and
clieajiest gasolene or petroleum naphtha. This change he observed
in an apparatus constructed by Mr. Z. A. Willard, for generating
gases and hydrocarbon vapors for metallurgical purposes. It consisted
essentially of upright wrought-iron cylinders, hulf-full of the naphtha,
through which steam at the ordinary working temperature and press-
ure passed, vaporizing the naphtha, and maintaining a pressure of about
fifty pounds to the inch. The steam and naphtha vapors were thus
kept above the liquid at a temperature much above the boiling-point
of naphtha, but never as high as 300° Falir., and the decompositions
appeared to occur rather in the vapors than in the liquid. The heavy-
oil drawn ofi" below had a dark yellowish-brown color, was nearly
odorless after a few days' exposure to the air, had a specific gravity
of about 34" Beaume, and boiled above 400° Fahr. By redistilling, it
was broken up into lighter and heavier liquid hydrocarbons, paraffine,
and separated carbon {American Journal of Science, III., ii., 184).
Petroleum as a Fuel and Gas-Producee. — The use of gasolene in
gas-machines is well known, and sometimes naphtha has been used to
enrich coal-gas, by decomposing its vapor at a cherry-red heat, so as
to produce a gas rich in heavy hydrocarbons, which is mixed with
the coal-gas. Crude petroleum has also been conducted continuously
into red-hot cast-iron retorts, whereby it is decomposed and rich gas
formed. The Lowe process, now making daily 120,000 cubic feet of
gas, of 19.5 candle-power, for a five-foot burner, at Utica, New York,
is very successful. It consists essentially in forcing steam through a
generator partly full of anthracite coal, brought to intense ignition ;
the steam is decomposed, and the resulting hydrogen meets crude pe-
troleum that trickles down through the top of the generator; the
petroleum is carried in vapor with the hydrogen into a "superheater"
filled with loose fire-bricks, previously intensely heated by the gases
from the generator. Here the hydrogen and hydrocarbons react upon
eacli other, producing a permanent gas, which is purified as usual.
The resulting gas is of uniform quality, very pure, and the saving in
labor and materials is about 35 per cent, over coal-gas {Scientific
Ainerican, January 8, 1876).
As regards the use of petroleum for fuel, it has always been found
difficult to secure the complete combustion of the oil, so as to avoid
smoke ; the complicated nature of the contrivances devised for its use
has also worked against its introduction as a fuel ; but a furnace for
reheating and rolling scrap-iron into boiler-plate has been invented
by C. J. Fames, and is worked in Jersey City, which deserves men-
tion. Prof H. Wurtz {American Chemist, September, 1875) has de-
