SOCIETY AN ORGANISM. 5
tributing agencies are acting ; that the controlling powers, govern-
ments, bureaus, judicial officers, police, must fail to keep order when
the necessaries of life are not suj^plied to them by the parts kept in
order — we are obliged to say that this mutual dependence of parts is
similarly rigorous. Unlike as the two kinds of aggregates are in
sundry respects, they are alike in respect of this fundamental char-
acter, and the characters implied by it.
How the combined actions of mutually-dependent parts constitute
life of the whole, and how there hence results a parallelism between
national life and individual life, we see still more clearly on learning
that the life of every visible organism is constituted by the lives of
units too minute to be seen by the unaided eye.
An undeniable illustration is furnished us by the strange order
Myxomycetes. The spores or germs produced by one of these forms
become ciliated monads which, after a time of active locomotion,
change into shapes like those of amcebse, move about, take in nu-
triment, grow, multiply by fission. Then these amoeba-form indi-
viduals swarm together, begin to coalesce into groups, and these
groups to coalesce with one auothei-, making a mass sometimes bare-
ly visible, sometimes as big as the hand. This plasmodium, irregu-
lar, mostly reticulated, and in substance gelatinous, itself exhibits
movements of its parts like those of a gigantic rhizopod, creeping
slowly over surfaces of decaying matters and even up the stems of
plants. Here, then, union of many minute living individuals to form
a relatively vast aggregate in which their individualities are appar-
ently lost, but the life of which results from combination of their
lives, is demonstrable.
In other cases, instead of units which, originally discrete, lose
their individualities by aggregation, we have units which, arising by
multiplication from the same germ, do not part company, but never-
theless display their separate lives very clearly. A growing sponge
has its horny fibres clothed with a gelatinous substance, and the
microscope shows this to consist of moving monads. We cannot
deny life to the sjjonge as a whole, for it shows us some corporate
actions. The outer amoeba-form units partially lose their individuali-
ties by fusion into a protective layer or skin ; the supporting frame-
work of fibres is produced by the joint agency of the monads, and
from their joint agency also result those currents of water which are
drawn in through the small orifices and expelled through the larger.
But, while there is thus shown a feeble aggregate life, the lives of the
myriads of component units are very little subordinated : these units
form, as it were, a nation having scarcely any subdivision of func-
tions. Or, in the words of Prof. Huxley, " the sponge represents a
kind of subaqueous city, where the peoj)le are arranged about the
streets and roads in such a manner that each can easily appropriate
his food from the water as it passes along."
