Li:SSONS IN ELECTRICITY.
161
Discharge the egg by touching it. Reexcite the glass tube and
bring it again near. Touch the egg with a wire or with your finger
at a. Is it the negative at a, into which you phmge your finger, that
escapes ? No such thing. The free positive fluid passes through the
negative, and through your finger to the earth. Prove this, by re-
moving first your finger and then the glass tube. The egg is charged
negatively.
Again: place two eggs, E E^ Fig. 12, lengthwise on two dry
wineglasses, g y, and cause two of their ends to touch each other, as
at C. Bring your rubbed glass rod near the end a, and while it is
there separate the eggs by moving one glass away from the other.
Withdraw the rod and test both eggs : a is negative, b is positive.
The two charges neutralize each other in the electroscope. Again:
bring the eggs together and restore the rubbed tube to its jDlace near
a. Touch a and then separate the eggs. Remove the glass rod and
test the eggs : a is negative, b is neutral. Its electricity has escaped
through the finger, though placed at a.
Push your experiments still farther, and, instead of bringing the
eggs, T T\ Fig. 13, together, place them six feet or so apart, and let
a light chain, C, or wire stretch from one to the other. Two brass
Fig. 13.
balls or wooden balls covered with tin-foil, and supported by tall
drinking-glasses, G G\ will be better than the eggs for this experi-
ment, for they will bear better the strain of the chain ; but you can
make the experiment with the eggs, or very readily with two apples
or two turnips. For the present we will suppose the straw-index IF
not to be there. Rub your glass tube i?, and bring it near one of the
balls ; test both: the near one, T\ is negative, the distant one, T^
positive. Touch the near one, the positive electricity, which had been
driven along the chain to the remotest part of the system, returns
along the chain, passes through the negative which is held captive by
the tube, and escapes to the earth. When the tube is removed, nega-
tive electricity overspreads both chain and balls.
In Fig. 6 you made the acquaintance of the plate iT, and the
VOL. IX — 11
