LESSONS IN ELECTRICITY. 163
lated, will answer. Let a small weight suspended from a silk string
rest on one end of the conductor, and hold your rubbed glass rod
near the other end. You can predict beforehand what will occur
when you remove the weight. It carries away with it electricity,
which repels rubbed glass, and which attracts your balanced lath.
Stand on an insulating stool : make one, if necessary, by placing
a board on four warm tumblers. Present the knuckles of your right
hand to the end of the balanced lath, and. stretch forth your left arm.
There is no attraction. But let a friend or an assistant bring the
rubbed glass tube over the left arm; the lath immediately follows
the right hand.
While matters continue thus, touch the lath, which I suppose to
be uninsulated ; the " attractive virtue," as it was called by Gray, dis-
appears. After this, as long as the excited tube is held over the arm
there is no attraction. But when the tube is removed the attractive
power of the hand is restored. Here, you will at once comprehend,
the first attraction was by positive electricity driven to the right hand
from the left, and the second attraction by negative electricity, liber-
ated by the removal of the glass rod.
Stand on an insulating stool, and place your right hand on the
electroscope : there is no action. Stretch forth the left arm and per-
mit an assistant alternately to bring near, and to withdraw, an excited
glass tube. The gold-leaves open and collapse in similar alternation.
At every approach, positive electricity is di'iven over the gold-leaves ;
at every withdrawal, the equilibrium is restored,
I will now ask you to charge your Dutch gold electroscoj^e posi-
tively by rubbed gutta-percha, and to charge it negatively by rubbed
glass, A moment's reflection will enable you to do it. You bring
your excited body near : the same electricity as that of the excited
body is driven over the leaves, and they diverge by repulsion. Touch
the electroscope, the leaves collapse. Withdraw your finger, and
withdraw afterward the excited body : the leaves then diverge with
the opposite electricity.
The simplest way of testing the quality of electricity is to charge
the electroscope with electricity of a known kind. If, on the ajyproach
of the body to be tested, the leaves diverge still wider, the leaves and
the body are similarly electrified. The reason is obvious.
The wealth of knowledge, and of interest, which these experiments
involve, may be placed within any boy's reach by the wise expendi-
ture of half a crown.
Once firmly possessed of the principle of induction and versed in
its application, the difficulties of our subject will melt away before us.
In fact, our subsequent work will consist mainly in unraveling phe-
nomena by the aid of this principle.
Without a knowledge of this principle we could render no account
