LIJSSOiVS AV ELECTRICITY. 165
the liJ : the electricities flow again together; neutrality is restoi-cd,
and your lid fails to attract your balanced lath.
Once more place the lid upon the excited surface : touch it Avith
the finger. What occurs ? You ought to know. The free electricity,
which is negative, will escape through your body to the earth, leaving
the chained positive behind.
Now lift the lid by the handle : what is its condition ? Again I
say you ought to know. It is covered with free positive electricity.
If it be presented to the lath it will strongly attract it ; if it be pre-
sented to the knuckle it will yield a spark.
A smooth half-crown or penny will answer for this experiment.
Stick to the coin an inch of sealing-wax as an insulating handle ; bring
it down upon the excited India-rubber: touch it, lift it, and present it
to your lath. Tne lath may be six or eight feet long, three inches
wide, and half an inch thick ; the little electrophorus-lid, formed by
the half-crown, will pull it round and round. The experiment is a
very impressive one.
Scrutinize your instrument still further. Let the end of a thin
wire rest upon the lid of your electrophorus, under a little weight if
necessary, and connect the other end of the wire with the electro-
scope. As you lower the lid down toward the excited plate of the
electrophorus, what must occur ? The power of prevision now belongs
to you and you must exercise it. The repelled electricity will flow
over the leaves of the electroscope, causing them to diverge. Lift the
lid, they collapse. Lower and raise the lid several times, and observe
the corresponding rhythmic action of the electroscope-leaves.
A little knob of sealing-wax, j5, coated with tin-foil ; or indeed any
knob with a conducting surface, stuck into the lid of the electropho-
rus, will enable you to obtain a better spark. The reason of this will
immediately appear.
Sec. 15. Action of Points and Flames. — The course of exposition
proceeds naturally fi'om the electrophorus to the electrical machine.
But before we take up the machine we must make our minds clear re-
garding the manner in which electricity diffnses itself over conductors,
and more especially over elongated and pointed conductors.
Rub your glass tube and draw it over an insulated sphere of metal
— of wood covered with tin-foil, or indeed any other insulated s]>heri-
cal conductor. Repeat the process several times, so as to impart a
good charge to the sphere. Touch the charged sphere with your car-
rier, and transfer the charge to the electroscope. Note the diver-
gence of the leaves. Discharge the electroscope, and repeat the ex-
periment, touching, however, some other point of the sphere. The
electroscope shows the same amount of divergence. Even when the
greatest exactness of the most practised experimenter is brought
into play, the spherical conductor is found to be equally charged
at all points of its surface. You may figure the electric fluid as
