i66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a little ocean encompassing the sphere, and of the same depth every-
where.
But supjiosing the conductor, instead of being a spliere, to be a
cube, an elongated cylinder, a cone, or a disk. The depth, or as it is
sometimes called the density of the electricity, will not be everywhere
the same. The corners of the cube will impart a stronger charge to
your carrier than the sides. The end of the cylinder will impart a
stronger charge than its middle. The edge of the disk will impart a
stronger charge than its flat surface. The apex or point of the cone
will impart a stronger charge than its curved surface or its base.
You can satisfy yourself of the truth of all this in a rough but cer-
tain way, by charging, after the sphere, a turnip cut into the form of a
cube ; or a cigar-box coated with tin-foil ; a metal cylinder, or a wood-
en one coated with tin-foil ; a disk of tin or of sheet-zinc; a carrot or
parsnip with its natural shape improved so as to make it a sharp cone.
You will find the charge imparted to the carrier by the sharp corners
and points, to be greater than that communicated by gently-rounded
or flat surfaces. The difierence may not be great, but it will be dis-
tinct. Indeed, the ^^^ laid on its side, as we have already used it in
our experiments on induction, yields a stronger charge from its ends
than from its middle.
Let me place before you an exarpple of this distribution, taken
from the excellent work on " Frictional Electricity," by Prof. Riess,
of Berlin, who is probably the greatest living exponent of the sub-
ject. Two cones, Fig. 16, are pjlaced together base to base. Calling
Fig. 1G.
the strength of the charge along the circular edge where the two
bases join each other 100, the charge at the apex of the blunter cone
is 133, and at the apex of the sharper one 202. The other numbers
give the charges taken from the points where they are placed. Fig.
17, moreover, represents a cube with a cone placed upon it. The
charge on the face of the cube being 1, the charges at the corners of
the cube and at the apex of the cone are given by the other numbers ;
thev are all far in excess of the electricity on the flat surface.
Riess found that he could deduce with great accuracy the sharp-
ness of a point, from the charge which it imparted. He compared in
this way the sharpness of various thorns with that of a fine English
sewini^-needle. The following is the result: Euphorbia-thorn was
sharper than the needle ; gooseberry-thorn of the same sharpness as
