190 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
seeu in the increased depth now given to the handle, where it enters
the eye. It will be noticed that Fig. 5 is socketed as a carpenter's
heavy mortisiug-chisel. The commendable pride of these prehistoric
workmen in the beauty of their tools may be inferred from the orna-
mentation of these bronze axe-blades.
When we pass from the tool and its contrived handle to the mode
of using, and the purpose for which it has been constructed, we find,
as a rule, a cutting-edge formed by two inclined surfaces meeting at
an angle, the bisecting line of which passes through the middle of the
metal. It is very apparent that the more acute this angle is, the
greater, under the same impact, will be the penetrative power of the
axe into the material against which it is driven. This supposition
very soon needs to be qualified, for suppose the material offers a great
resistance to the entrance of this edge, then the effect of the blow,
upon the principle that action and reaction are equal, will react upon
the edge, and the M'eakest, eitlier edge of axe or object struck, must
yield. Here, then, primitive experience would be obliged to qualify
the simple tool in which the edge was keen and acute, and would nat-
urally sacrifice the keenness and acuteness to strength.
When early uses of the axe are considered, it will be noticed that,
even in fashioning with an axe or adze the same piece of wood, differ-
ent conditions of edge are requisite. If the blow be given in the direc-
tion of the fibre, resistance to entrance of the edge is much less than
in the blow across that fibre. So great, indeed, may this difference
become, that while the axe in Class 1 seems in all respects a suitable
tool, yet as the attention of the workman passes to directions inclined
to the fibre at an angle of more than forty-five degrees, he will be in-
duced to lay aside the tools in Class 1, and try those in Class 2 ; for
he will have found that while in the one direction of the wood the
edge of his axe continues sound and eflScient, yet a few blows on the
same timber at right angles to this direction haTe seriously damaged
the perfection of the edge, whatever may be the angle at which the
faces meet which constitute the edge.
These remarks apply only to tools used in dividing materials, and
not to tools used in preparation of surfaces of materials. This pre-
liminary consideration prepares us for the different circumstances
under which these two classes of tools may be respectively used.
And as the contrast of the effect of the same tool under different cir-
cumstances in the same substance is considerable, great also is likely
to be the contrast between the edges of the tools and the manner of
using them, e. g., the axe, which is the proper tool in the direction of
the fibre, is operated upon by impact, while a saw, which is the proper
tool across the fibre, is operated upon by tension or thrust, but never
by impact.
The mode in which the axe is used will explain why it is unsuitcd
for work across the fibre. The axe is simply a wedge, and therefore
