6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Even in the highest animals there remains traceable this relation be-
tween the aggregate life and the lives of components. Blood is a liquid
in which, along with nutritive matters, circulate innumerable living
units — the blood-corijuscles. These have severally their life-histories.
During its first stage each of tbem, then known as a white corpuscle,
makes independent movements like those of an amoeba ; and though
in its adult stage, as a red, flattened disk, it is not visibly active, its
individual life continues. Nor is this individual life of the units
provable only where free flotation in a liquid allows its signs to be
readily seen. Sundry mucous surfaces, as those of the air-passages,
are covered with what is called ciliated epithelium — a layer of minute
cells packed side by side, and each bearing on its exposed end several
cilia continually in motion. The wavings of these cilia are essen-
tially like those of the monads which live in the passages running
through a sponge ; and just as the joint action of these ciliated
sponge monads propels the current of water, so does the joint action
of the ciliated epithelium-cells move forward the mucous secretion
covering them. If there needs further proof of the individual lives
of these epithelium-cells, we have it in the fact that, when detached
and placed in fluid, they " move about with considerable rapidity for
some time, by the continued vibrations of the cilia with which they
are furnished."
On thus seeing that an ordinary living organism may be regarded
as a nation of units that live individually, and have many of them
considerable degrees of independence, we shall perceive how truly a
nation of human beings may be regarded as an organism.
The relation between the lives of the units and the life of the ag-
gregate has a further character common to the two cases. By a ca-
tastrophe the life of the aggregate may be destroyed without imme-
diately destroying the lives of all its units ; while, on the other hand,
if no catastrophe abridges it, the life of the aggregate immensely
exceeds in length the lives of its units.
In a cold-blooded animal, ciliated cells perform their motions with
perfect regularity long after the creature they are part of has become
motionless ; muscular fibres retain their power of contracting under
stimulation ; the cells of secreting organs go on pouring out their
product if blood is artificially supplied to them ; and the components
of an entire organ, as the heart, continue their cooperation for many
hours after its detachment. Similarly, arrest of those commercial
activities and governmental coordinations, etc., which constitute the
corporate life of a nation, may be caused, say by an inroad of bar-
barians, without immediately stopping the actions of all the units.
Certain classes of these, especially the widely-diffused ones engaged
in food-production, may, in the remoter districts, long survive and
carry on their individual occupations.
Conversely, in both cases, if not brought to a close by violence,
