192 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the power exerted to raise a body is in the inverse ratio of the spaces
passed through by the body, and the point of application of the power,
it may thus be obvious how great a strain will be on the muscles if
the axe head be raised by the hands at the opposite extremity of the
handle. Reverse the problem. Take tlie axe-head as raised to such
an elevation as to cause the handle to be vertical (we are dealing
with ordinary axes, the handles being in the plane of the axe-blade).
Now, the left hand is at the extremity of the handle, the right hand
is very near to the axe-head — the blow is about to be given. The
requirement in this case is that there should be concentrated at the
axe-head all the force or power possible ; hence to ease the descent
would be as injudicious as to intensify the weight of the lift. Con-
sequently, while with the hand nearest to the head (as it is when the
axe reaches its highest elevation) the workman momentarily forces
forward the axe, availing himself of the leverage now formed by re-
garding the left hand as the fulcrum of motion, he gives an impulse,
and this impelling force is continued until an involuntarily conscious-
ness assures him that the descending speed of the axe is in excess of
any velocity that muscular efforts can maintain. To permit gravity
to have free play, the workman withdraws the hand nearest to the
head, and, sliding it along the handle, brings it close to the left hand,
which is at the extremity of the handle ; thus the head comes down
upon the work with all the energy which a combination of muscular
action and gravity can effect. The process is repeated by the right
hand sliding along the handle, and releasing as well as raising the
head.
Fig. 6.
The form of the axe-handle deserves notice, differing as it does
from that of the sledge-hammer. In the latter it is round or nearly
so, in the axe it is oval, the narrow end of the oval being on the side
toward the edge of the axe, and, more than this, the longer axis of
the oval increases as the handle approaches the head, till at its en-
trance into tlie head it may be double what it is at the other extrem-
ity. It often has also a projection at the extremity of the handle.
The increasing thickness near the head not only gives strength where
needed, as the axe is being driven in, but it also supplies that for
which our ancestors employed the thongs as illustrated in Figs. 4 and
5. There is, too, this further difference — in a sledge-hammer more or
less recoil has to be provided for, and the handle does this ; in the
axe no recoil ought to take place. The entrance of the axe-edge is.
