AXBS AND HATCHETS, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 193
or ought to be, sufficient to retain it, and the whole of tlie energy
resulting from muscular action and gravity should be utilized. The
curvature, too, of the handle is in marked contrast with the straight
line of the sledge-hammer handle. The object of this curvature is
worthy of note. In my hand is an American forester's axe. The
handle is very long and curved. If, laying the axe-handle across my
finger where the head and handle balance, I place the blade of the axe
horizontally, you may notice that the edge does not turn downward ;
in fact, the centre of gravity of the axe-head is in the horizontal
straight-line prolongation of the handle through the place where my
finger is. Now, in sledge-hammer work the face is to be brought
down flat, i. e., as a rule, in an horizontal plane. Not so with the for-
ester's axe : it has to be brought down at varying obliquities. If, now,
the hewer's hand had to be counteracting the influence of gravity,
there would be added to him very needless labor; hence the care of a
skilled forester in the balance of the axe-head and the curvature of
the handle.
We must now consider the form of the cutting-edge as seen in
the side of the axe. It is often convex. The line across the face in
Fig. 7 indicates the extent of the steel, and the corresponding line in
Fig. 8 the bevel of the cleaving edge. It will be noticed that the cut-
ting-edge in each case is curved. The object of this is to prevent not
only the jar and damage which might be done by the too sudden
stoppage of the rapid motion of the heavy head in separating a group
of fibres, but also to facilitate that separation by attacking these fibres
in succession. For, assuming that the axe falls square on its work
FlQ.
Fig. 8.
in the direction of the fibres, a convex edge will first separate two
fibres, and in so doing will have released a portion of the bond which
held adjoining fibres. An edge thus convex, progressing at each side
of the convexity which first strikes the wood, facilitates the entrance
of successive portions from the middle outward. If the edge had
been straight and fallen parallel to itself upon the end of the wood,
none of this preliminary preparation would have taken place ; on the
contrary, in all probability there would have been in some parts a
vor,. IX. — 13
