AXES AND HATCHETS, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 195
of the straight part of the blade, and to counteract the tendency of
the wedge-side pressing the hatchet out of its true plane.
Ox Adzes. — Those whose business requires the forming of lengths
of wood into curved shapes, and who rely upon the adze for the prelimi-
nary operation, use an Indian form of adze. In India it is held so near
the metal that the workman's hand touches the metal. He accomjilishes
blows chiefly by acting from the elbow. This very general mode of
holding gives a pretty uniform length to the radius of the swing, hence
the form of the adze in the plane of the swing is nearly that of the cir-
cle described. The angle of the handle and the adze is very much the
same as that of the handle of the file-maker's hammer and the head.
The Two-haxded Adze. — When we look at the adze as used by
English wheelwrights or shipwrights, we may M^ell shudder to see
how it is handled, especially when the cutting-edge is taken into ac-
count. The operation, briefly described, is the following : The work-
man stands with one foot upon the wood, this foot being in the line
of the fibre. He thus assists in steadying (say) the felloe of a wheel.
From this felloe much of the wood on which the sole of his shoe rests
has to be removed. It will be noticed that the long handle of the
adze is curved — the object of this is to permit an efiicient blow to be
given, and the instrument brought to a stop before the handle strikes
any part of the workman's body ; in fact, caused to stop by the ex-
haustion of its impact energy in and among the fibres of wood to be
separated. The edge is often so keen as to cut through a horse-hair
held at one end and pressed against it.
This instrument is raised by both hands until nearly in an horizon-
tal position, and then not simply allowed to fall, but steadily driven
downward until the curved metal, with its broad and sharji edge,
enters near to, if not below, the sole of the workman's shoe, separat-
ing a large flake of Avood from the mass ; the handle is rapidly raised,
and the blows repeated. This is done Avith frequency, the workman
gradually receding his foot until the end-flakes of wood are separated.
It is fearful to contemplate an error of judgment or an unsteady blow.
William Tell and the apple on his son's head are, in another form,
here repeated.
So skilled do men become in thus xising the adze, that some Avill
undertake, with any predetermined stroke in a series, to split their
shoe-sole in two.
Curvature of Adze. — Clearly the adze must be sharpened from
the inside, and, when the action of it is considered, it is also clear that
the curvature of the adze-iron must be circular, or nearly so.
