SUBTERRANEAN STREAMS IN SOUTH CAROLINA. 199
in the deeper water may be seen full-grown perch and bream, catfish,
black bass, pike, and alewives. Watch the bottom for a while, and
you will see these fish issuing from the fissure in the rock, the larger
bass (four to eight pounders) never venturing far from it, and darting
into it at the least alarm. I well remember a pike nearly three feet
long which I have often struck with a fishing-cane, but which I never
could capture. The largest fish will not take the hook, on account of
the exposure to view; but the smaller bream, perch, and bass, bite with
great eagerness, and I have often caught fi'om twenty to sixty in an
afternoon, selecting the best fish by sight, and placing the bait at their
very mouths. Sometimes the basin is almost empty of fish ; an hour
afterward enough will be visible to overstock a dozen ponds of equal
size. By day eels are rarely visible, and you may stir up all the
patches of grass along the bed without discovering one; at night they
ai'e frequently caught, the negroes sometimes "gigging" them of the
largest size. The temperature of the water is the same winter and
summer, about 62°, and the fish bite best in the coldest weather. I
have examined the sandy margins at all seasons, and have never seen
a fish-bed in this or any other of the si^rings. They do not breed in
them, and indeed could not j^ossibly do so.
From tlie lower extremity of this large basin proceeds the " run,'*
a shallow, winding stream down which the larger fish could not pos-
sibly make their way. Indeed, I once caught a two-pound bass
stranded, having essayed the passage and failed. Following this run
about five hundred yards, we come suddenly on another busin, circu-
lar in form and much smaller than the first. Its greatest diameter
is probably not over fifteen feet, while its greatest depth, near the
centre, is fully ten. The bottom descends like a huge funnel, but on
one side there is a projecting ledge of rock, under which, sloping
downward in a direction away from the upper basin, is a hole seem-
ingly about a foot in diameter. Out of this hole bass and pike of the
largest size are seen to emerge, while the upper basin is filled with
small bream and sunfish, biting readily at angle-worms, and occasion-
ally a large red-bellied perch, a species rarely seen in the basin, will
dart from under the rock-ledge and seize the bait. The little stream
is lost at this basin, which has no outlet, but is surrounded by a wet,
swampy piece of ground. Not far from these basins marl has been
extensively dug, and one or two beds of greensand have been found,
but I never knew the hard limestone-rock which forms the bottom of
the springs to be struck in any of the excavations.
Proceeding now in a northwesterly direction, we find another of
these basins on a plantation about two miles off. The ground falls
suddenly into a little valley about twelve feet deep and six or seven
wide, at the head of which stands a very old oak-tree, growing on the
upper level. On the southeast the roots have been exposed by the
washing of the clay soil, and immediately under them lies the spring.
