2C0 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
This is a basin inclosed by an octagonal brick wall, where, for a cen-
tury or more, the washing of the plantation and other such matters
have been performed. Directly under the oak-tree is a ledge of rock,
over which the water is about two feet deep. It grows more shallow
toward the " run," where its depth is but a few inches ; the entire
basin is about thirteen feet by ten. The above-mentioned ledge of
rock forms the roof of a cave-like aperture some eighteen inches high
by three or four feet wide, into whose dark recesses the eye cannot
penetrate, the bottom sloping away in a northwesterly direction under
the hill which sustains the old oak. Schools of minnows frequent the
shallow part, and hide in the water-grass; stir this grass with a cane
or stick, and occasionally you may frighten out a small bream or sun-
fish, but very few fish of any sort are seen in the shallow basin, and
these few refuse the most tempting bait. Now, the proper rock-basin
here lies just in front of the cavernous opening, and is some six feet
deep, but scarcely four in diameter. Drop your line there^ and, if all
is quiet, in a moment your float will dart diagonally down under the
rock, and you may draw out a yellow-bellied perch, a blue bream, or
a sun-perch of half a pound weight. Look in, and you will see huge
bass lying with their heads only visible at the opening, or flashing
their silvery sides as they turn into its unknown recesses. I once
detected a pair of white eyes peering from the grass at the mouth of
this cavei'n, and, dropping my bait just in front of them, was aston-
ished at hooking an enormous mud-fish ; this fish must have weighed
five pounds, and he carried several yards of tackle right into the
bowels of the earth, whence it soon emerged viirnis hook and lead.
The " run " to this basin is not more than three inches deep any-
where, and sinks entirely into a quaking bog some hundred yards
from its source. No fish over an inch long could swim seventy yards
from the basin, and there is no communication whatever with any
other water.
Leaving the " Pooshee Spring," we now ride a little to the east of
north, and, at the distance of about two miles, we reach "Moore's
Fountains," the most remarkable of the group. Crossing a little
" bay " in the pine-land, you notice under your feet a miniature Natu-
ral Bridge, a span of rock about six feet wide covered with earth, and
a little hole full of clear water on either side. Walking among the
pines about a hundred yards to the right, you reach the " Fountains,"
six or seven holes in the ground, the largest of which is about five
feet by eight, and in general character like the larger basins before
described, but much more shallow. All these holes contain large
numbers of small perch and bream, which bite readily in the winter,
but are hardly worth catching. A little to the right of them used to
stand two large twin-pines, and directly between their roots was a
hole not more than two feet in diameter, and which you could not
detect until you stood on its very edge. (I use the past tense, as the
