SUBTERRANEAN STREAMS IN SOUTH CAROLINA. 201
trees may have fallen in the ten years suice I stood beside them.)
This hole seems to go sheer down into the earth, and I have never
been able to sound its depth with the longest fishing-line or rod
which I had with me. Setting my float about ten feet deep, however,
and " bobbing " into it by hand, I have caught, from between those
trees, from thirty to sixty good-sized bream and perch of different
species, in the course of two hours. The float would go straight
down, as if the fish were descending into the bowels of the earth.
The next spring of which I know the existence is at '^The Rocks"
plantation, some twelve miles away, and the last of the chain is the
famous " Eutaw Springs," where a battle was fought during the
Revolution. At the latter place there are two openings, some dis-
tance apart, and tradition says that an Indian once dived into one
and emerged from the other. I do not know whether fish are caught
in these or not. No connection has ever been traced between these
springs, or fountains, and the neighboring rivers, either of which —
the Santee and the Cooper — is many miles away. Here, then, is the
proof of a subterranean stream, or more probably lake, inhabited by
fish in immense numbers, and of the same species found in the neigh-
boring waters. These fish have perfect eyes, and differ in no respect
from their fellows of the ponds and rivers, except that they invariably
present that bright, clean appearance characteristic of fish taken from
pure, clear water. They must pass freely through the whole course
of the underground caverns, for, were all the open basins put together
in one, it would not afford food or breeding-space for one hundredth
part of the number found in any one of them, and they must live
most of their time in utter darkness, for the little openings at which
they appear are few in number and many miles apart. The indica-
tions seem to be that this enormous subterranean cave or water-course
is hollowed out through a narrow stratum of limestone-rock which
winds its way in a southeasterly direction ; but it may be of far
greater extent. Near Pineville, some ten miles from the nearest
spring, and considerably off the course, there is a certain spot in the
public road where the sound of the horse's feet is precisely like the
noise made in crossing an earth-covered bridge, and tradition tells of
treasure buried there in Revolutionary times. The water in this sec-
tion shows no lime, nor indeed does it anywhere except in the sprin<rs
themselves. The negroes of the region have invested these springs
with a supernatural interest, peopling them with water-spirits known
as " Cyml>ees," resembling in their imaginary characters the Undines
and kelpies of the Old World.
