202 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
MATHEMATICS IX EVOLUTIOX.
By GEOKGE ILES.
WHILE we know that only Infinite Intelligence could reduce the
entire phenomena of the universe to mathematical expression,
it affords an observer constant surprise to find primitive laws of
order and number recur again and again amid the infinite A'ariety of
Xature.
The siDcctroscope would seem to indicate that the elements of our
present chemistry are ideally very complex structures, yet we find
them, when grouped in all sorts of proportions as molecules, capable
of crystallizing in forms of perfect geometrical symmetry, often of
much simplicity. In botany, where the factors both chemically and
mechanically are extremely various, we find simple laws obeyed in
the disposition of leaves, flowers, and parts of flowers ; a remarkable
instance of which occurs in the growth of leaves on spirally-leaved
plants. In the first order of them, a leaf is found in ^ the circumfer-
ence of the stem, and throughout the series the arcs occupied by a
leaf are respectively ^, 4, -f, -^-^^ -^j, and ^, of a circle, the numerator
and denominator of each fraction being those of the two next pre-
ceding added together.
In the highest plane of Xature, that of animal forms, the condi-
tions fulfilled are too complex to permit any formulation of lines and
angles, but natural history in its first chapters gives us the habita-
tions of the nautilus and other organisms low in the scale of life,
which in their beautiful volutes and spirals embody simple geometry.
So also does the architecture of our common insects, the bee, wasp,
and spider, which, wonderful as it is, must remain less so than the
work of the microscopic coral zoophytes, which, while severally living
and building where it is easiest, yet unconsciously cooperate through
successive generations to complete a structure of comj^aratively vast
proportions and much symmetrical unity.
These few examples, which might be multiplied indefinitely, may
serve as bases for the opinion that complex wholes, acting in many
cases like simple ones, may be more easily reducible to mathematical
treatment than might at first view be supposed, from the number and
variety of ultimate factors concerned in any given problem. Xature
would seem to act by but few first principles, which she constantly
repeats in her various fields, and which, combined in different ways,
yield all her infinite manifestations. The scientific progress of our
times is marked by the continual absorption of diverse laws into
higher and more general ones ; thus the forms of force that used to be
thought distinct entities are now proved to be interchangeable, and-
therefore essentially the same. A minor instance of a like kind occurs
