SOCIETY AN ORGANISM. 7
the life of the aggregate greatly exceeds in duration the lives of its
units. The minute living elements composing a developed animal
severally evolve, play their parts, decay, and are replaced, while the
animal as a whole continues. In the deep layer of the skin, cells are
formed by fission, which, as they enlai-ge, are thrust outward, and, be-
coming flattened to form the epidermis, eventually .exfoliate, while the
younger ones beneath take their places. Liver-cells, growing by im-
bibition of matters from which they separate the bile, presently die,
and their vacant seats are occupied by another generation. Even
bone, though so dense and seemingly inert, is permeated by blood-
vessels carrying matei'ials to replace old components by new ones.
And the replacement, rapid in some tissues and in others slow, goes
on at such rate that, during the continued existence of the entire
body, each portion of it has been many times over produced and de-
stroyed. Thus it is also with a society and its units. Integrity of
the whole and of each large division is perennially maintained, not-
withstanding the deaths of component citizens. The fabric of living
persons, which, in a manufacturing town, produces some commodity for
national use, remains after a century as large a fabric, though all the
masters and workers who a century ago composed it have long since
disappeared. Even with the minor parts of this industrial structure
the like holds. A firm that dates from past generations^ still carry-
ing on business in the name of its fi^under, has had all its members and
employes changed one by one, perhaps several times over, whde the
firm has continued to occupy the same place and to maintain like rela-
tions to buyers and sellers. Throughout we find this. Governing
bodies, general and local, ecclesiastical corporations, armies, institu-
tions of all orders down to guilds, clubs, philanthropic associations,
etc., show us -a continuity of life exceeding that of the persons consti-
tuting them. Nay, more. As part of the same law, we see that the
existence of the society at large exceeds in duration that of some of
these compound parts. Private unions, local public bodies, secondary
national institutions, towns carrying on special industries, may decay,
while the nation, maintaining its integrity, evolves in mass and structure.
In both cases, too, the mutually-dependent functions of the various
divisions, being severally made up of the actions of many units, it
results that these units, dying one by one, are replaced without the
function in whicli they share being sensibly afiected. In a muscle
each sarcous element wearing out in its turn is removed, and a sub-
stitution made while the rest carry on their combined contractions as
usual; and the retirement of a public official or death of a shopman
perturbs inappreciably the business of the department or activity of
the industry in which he had a share.
Hence arises in the social organism, as in the individual organism^
a life of the whole quite unlike the lives of the units, though it is a
life produced by them.
