MATHEMATICS IN EVOLUTION. 203
in the recent investigation of wave-motion. The old notion was that
the particles in watev-waves moved up and down in straight lines,
but the fact has been demonstrated that they roll in circles having
a diameter equal to the amplitude of the wave ; this holds of all
wave-motion, including light, so that the movements of the planets,
as they turn on their axes and circle round the sun, are conveyed to
our sight by an ethereal motion of precisely the same kind.
Although mathematical studies find ample illustration in Xature,
an -exaggerated love of. symmetry may be induced by them, causing
an enthusiast to pass legitimate bounds in an effort to over-simplify
intricate problems ; thus Kepler attempted to harmonize the orbits
of the five planets with the boundaries of the five regular solids suc-
cessively contained in each other. Such a vagary, however, could be
pardoned in the author of the three immortal laws of astronomy.
In the present stage of knowledge so few of the sciences are ex-
act, that any application of mathematics to the vast and complex
processes of evolution is only allowable when the laws considered
would be so powerful, did they work in an open field, that, though
veiled by many weaker ones, they remain distinctly discernible in
the saUent features of Nature.
A valid application of this kind is made by Mr. Darwin in his
theory of natural selection, where he states the tendency of organ-
isms to multiply according to the law of geometrical progression —
a tendency which he shows counts throughout the mazy conflict of
forces affecting organic life. The purpose of this paper is to trace
some effects of other such laws, in their theoretical simplicity so ex-
tremely potent, that their results persist through all practical quali-
fications, and so, when shown to account for observed facts, may serve
as tenable ground for inference and deduction.
In evolution heterogeneity is a constant measure of progress, hence
the laws stating the variety of effects producible from given elements
have a direct interest and value. These are the laws of combination
and permutation. Combinations, mathematically, are groups where
the presence and not the position of an element counts for difference
— thus B C A and BAG are the same combination but different per-
mutations. As additions are made to the elements, combinations in-
crease in geometrical progression with 2 as constant factor. Thus 2
elements yield 4 ; 3, 8 ; 4, 16 ; until, when we reach 63, the number
of elements in chemistry, we find more than nine quintillions of com-
binations to be possible. This law tends to hold only in cases where
the particular position of an element in a group is indifferent, as in
the superimposition of colors in light ; as in the simple molecules of
chemistry, where, for instance, the result is the same, whether H"
unites with O, or O with IF ; and as in all merely mechanical mixing
of ingredients in manufacture, as pottery, gunpowder, and so on. Such
cases are less common in Nature and art than those in which definite
