^04 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
positions are points of difference, as we find in the atomic grouping
of compound molecules, where the phenomena of isomerism appear ;
in the order of successive sounds, whether in language or music ; and
as in the various series in which muscular and nervous forces coordi-
nate in animal movements. In all such cases the multiplication of
effects tends to follow a law of even greater increase than that of geo-
metrical progression — namely, the law of permutations.
If A B C be elements given, their permutations in groups of 3 are
C (3 X 2 X 1), in groups of 2, 6 more, and adding 3 for the elements
taken singly, 15 is obtained as the number of permutations of all
kinds. The addition of anew element increases them to 64 (15x4-1-4),
and so on in a ratio increasing with every additional element, until
we find that 10 produce 9,856,900 permutations, and but 1,024 combi-
nations.
These abstract laws are paralleled by the multiplied results which
follow in the wake of any important invention or discovery. Forty
years ago the main arts of representation were five in number — sculp-
ture, painting, printing, engraving, and lithography. The art of photog-
raphy, introduced by Daguerre in 1839, and since so beautifully de-
veloj^ed, is continually increasing derivative arts. It is applicable to
every other main art, and may become an element in new perrau-
tative groups of them. It has already given aid to the sculptor, the
painter, and the engraver, and in the heliotype and woodburytype
exhibits relations with lithography and printing ; besides, it has added
to human power in many other ways, has made the stereoscope avail-
able, bringing the natural beauties and artistic treasures of distant
lands vividly near ; it has aided astronomy in fixing views of tran-
sits and eclipses of brief duration, and in mapping the sun and moon ;
the physiologist has used it to preserve the evanescent exhibitions of
dissection ; and in observatories it accurately marks the minute move-
ments of delicate apparatus. It limns the interiors of pyramids,
catacombs, caves, and mines, giving incidental help to archaeology
and geology ; and, in regions inaccessible to man, pictures the depths
of the sea. It serves in war — and might in peace — to aid the topog-
rapher in mapping plans of city and country ; in times of siege it
has reduced correspondence to microscopic limits for carriage in the
only possible way — by birds ; and from year to year this wonderful
art continues to be applied in new and valuable uses.
The illustration it affords of the manner in which human resouices
are multiplied by the accession of a new discovery might be repeated,
were all the applications and results of the steam-engine, locomotive,
or telegraph, traced in their numerous ramifications. So far from
these mighty achievements exhausting the conquests possible to man,
they are merely centres of new circles of power from which he may
successively penetrate into the ever-boundless regions of the unknown.
The late Mr. Mill, at a period of great depression in his early life,
