MATHEMATICS AY EVOLUTION. 205
found relief in the charms of music, and strangely enough dreaded an
exhaustion of it, just as many other people who have not the excuse
of morbid ailment think that all the greatest possible discoveries have
been mado, and that all the finest things in prose and verse have been
said. Such notions are denied by the laws which have been stated,
as exemplified not only in the diversity and might of modern achieve-
ment, but also in the deep relations between the elements of natural
action divulged by their very multiplication of efiects ; the generali-
zations of this age have never been equaled in scope and foi'ce — the
persistence of force and the theory of evolution.
As sciences advance, their essential unity becomes more and more
evident; methods that at first view would seem utterly unconnected
are being constantly found to have a secret and helpful family tie.
The comparative value of various types of bridges has been investi-
gated by submitting glass models duly weighted to polarized light,
which shows at once the distributions of strain and pressure. A
common magnetic needle has been successfully employed in finding
weak places in iron and steel axles by its unequal deflection at such
points, due to internal heterogeneity in the mass examined. At Paris
recently an underground pneumatic tube became obstructed at an
unknown point ; excavation was correctly guided by the adoption of
an acoustic princij^le ; a loud sound was made at the tube's entrance,
and the time occupied before the reflected wave returned was care-
fully noted, from which was inferred the distance traversed by it to
and from the obstacle. Many instruments at first made for purely
philosophical study have been drafted into the world's practical
uses. Applications of the rheostat and Wheatstone's bridge serve to
locate the oft-recurring breaks in ocean-cables and telegraph-lines,
and have very lately yielded the marvellous duplex and quadruplex
telegraphs. The sjDectroscope, originally directed to the heavens, has
now found uses on earth of great value; it detects adulteration,
marks defectiveness in drainage, and jDoints out impurities in water-
supplies.^
' A proposition in pure mathematics may receive elucidation and extension by an
illustration taken from optics. In Newton's "Principia," book i., section xii., prop. '70,
he proves, in a manner very difficult to follow, that a corpuscle placed within a hollow
sphere, if attracted as the square of the distance by all the points in the concave sur-
face, will remain unmoved wherever placed, as the sums of attraction always balance.
This may be made clear not only of a spherical surface, but the closed interior of any
surface whatever, provided it has no reentrant angles, as a pyramid or an obliquely-
truncated cone.
For, imagine the corpuscle to be luminous and to be bisected by any plane extended
80 as to cut the containing hollow surface into two parts, it is evident that equal
amounts of light are radiated by each half of the corpuscle on each of the two parts of
the surface containing it. Now, these rays diminish in intensity as the square of the
distance, and so reciprocally correspond with a force emanating according to the same
law from the surface and affecting the corpuscle. Hence, the area of the surface of any
hollow body, having no reentrant angles, varies as the square of its average distance
from any point within it.
