2o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
So tliat, in the tree of knowledge, as the branches grow in all direc-
tions, their offshoots come to touch at innumerable points.
The multiplication of effects may be traced not only in physics,
chemistry, and cognate sciences, but also in the chapters of natural
history and the facts of human life. The organized faculties of an
animal which are distinctly different may be considered — of course,
with proper qualification — as elements which may be grouped j^er-
mutatively in the various actions directed to aid maintenance or pro-
mote safety ; although, in the case of any particular variety of a
species, a vast discrepancy must exist between the theoretical results
of the mathematical law and the number of different groupings really
made, yet, if the discrepancy is tolerably constant in degree in any
two successive cases, the relations between two such cases may be
stated by the law with an approximation to truth. Thus if a variety
of quadrupeds with, say, four distinct and presumedly averaged pow-
ers be taken, at first sight it would seem but one-third better off in the
struggle for existence than another variety with three several powers ;
yet the one may have an advantage over the other as great as four
to one, for the variety of actions possible to the former may cover a
field four times as great as the others. This aids us in understanding
why variations in useful rather than those in useless directions tend
strongly to persist. They do so because of the immense exaltation
of power that comes with the development of any new faculty, any
new means of securing a livelihood or escaping danger; and so great
is this exaltation that even minor degrees of develoj^ment have an
appreciable value and tend to become permanent and to increase.
The effects of the laws under consideration also help to make clear
why transition periods in organic Xature have been brief as revealed
in their infrequent traces in such geological records as we possess.
When ncAv circumstances have demanded the acquisition of new
powers, or rather the development of dormant ones, the odds have
been overwhelming against such individuals of a race as have been
inelastic in the required direction, so that in a comparatively short
period all that lived knew the new lesson.
A further corollary which harmonizes with observed facts is that,
as species progress, an ever-increasing width of gap would separate
kind from kind, and the highest individual of a kind from the next
below it. The lowest organisms, monera, have no definite shape;
polyps, some grades above them, conform very tolerably to a certain
outline ; and so on in the scale of life an increasing individuality keeps
pace with an increasing divergency, until man and the tree mark the
two great summits of Nature in her animal and vegetal forms.
Many able students of the theory of evolution stop short at the
chasm which divides the human climax from the allied primates, and
hesitate to believe that there can be a common origin for apes and
the race which has produced a Beethoven and a Raphael; but a con-
