MATHEMATICS IN EVOLUTION. 209
Successive increments of difference in degree may gradually merge
and become exalted into a difference in kind. A number of pendu-
lums might, if unresisted, vibrate in an arc forever, but, if on one of
them the movements of the others are suitably concentrated, its arc
will gradually increase in amplitude until it becomes a circle.
This principle of concentration appears in organic Nature in the
ph]fsiological division of labor, and in the adaptation of every organ-
ism to some particular environment which may be to it its tield and
kingdom. Analogy w^ould lead us to suppose that the different duties
of the brain are performed by special parts. So directly profitable
has the division of labor been found in manufacturing industry, that
in many cases it has been pushed to an injurious extreme, for a man
is stunted in development when all his powers of mind and body but
one remain unexercised. Specialists in art and science discover that
their highest excellence can only come with a comprehension of wide
principles and study in many various fields.
So far from concentration being invariably useful, diffusion may
be a process incident to progress. A lump is soonest leavened by
leaven distributed throughout it, crystallization proceeds more swiftly
from separate nuclei than from a concrete mass. Analogously, the
best, wisest, and most talented men of a people exert a larger influ-
ence when scattered through it than if gathered into an over-central-
ized capital, where they radiate chiefly on each other.
In the laws which have been considered thus briefly, it has ap-
peared that their tendencies are continually progressive; that, while
the capital of evolution is being increased, so also is the rate of com-
pound interest by which it accumulates. It is now fitting that some
of the causes should be noticed which reduce these tendencies from
their theoretical power to the moderate activity we find them really
presenting.
A minor and unfavorable sort of natural selection is that made by
animals not carnivorous when they have a choice of food; they take
the best to be had, and leave the rest to propagate its kind. This
residue may be very bad indeed, when the total supply is scanty; in
crowded pastures the grazing herds only permit the worst parts of the
clover to come to seed, and squirrels always first eat the best nuts
stored in their hiding-places, and any surplus that might germinate
and^grow is commonly of a very poor kind. The acquisition of new
powers by an animal is usually accompanied by a gradual and injuri-
ous loss of its original ones; neither the omnivorous hog nor the higher
primates can number readiness in swimming amojig their resources,,
although their inferior ancestry doubtless could. The introduction of
machinery is steadily causing us to lose the deftness and dexterity of
the old, unaided handicrafts, yet never so much as now were knack and'
skill of value, for they are indispensable to the designer and inventor in.
their work. A highly-cultivated citizen of New York, when he pene-
VOL. IX. — 14
