210 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tratcs the wilds of the far West, must have an Indian to guide him
through prairie and forest, for the red-man's perceptions of the phe-
nomena around him remain keen and almost intuitive.
Modern arts vastly outnumber ancient ones, yet do not include
them all ; antiquity possessed many, either lost by neglect or by being
secret with individuals and perishing with them, or perhaps in the ex-
tirpation of small, highly-gifted communities by overwlielming bar-
barous hordes.
The vast preponderance of mediocrity over exalted talent has al-
ways limited the influence of intellectual greatness, and at times even
perverted it to confirm the low standard of a community's intelligence
instead of raising it. A key in metaphor is always something unlock-
ing or unfolding the hidden — this refers to but half the business of a
key — it is also used to bind, lock up, and secrete. History furnishes
many examples of an unusual might of mind permitted, by the lack of
appreciation for its best work, not only to leave it undone, but induced
to acquire power by mystifying difficulties instead of resolving them,
and so to retard progress by an exertion of the very capacity that
might assist it.
The individuals of a community rise pretty much together, and the
voice of circumstances is not so loudly " Be your best," as " Be fit."
The limit to the practical value of greatness becomes plain if we imag-
ine Kej^ler, while making a scientific journey, to be suddenly surround-
ed by hostile Sioux. We can believe that the world may not know
some of its greatest sons, for greatness is known only when allied with
the talents of publicity and the circumstances of appreciation.
Truths and suggestions beyond the comprehension of hearers have
doubtless often been uttered in vain. Our guides in the path of
knowledge must keep within easy distance if they are to be useful.
Huyghens, the great Dutch philosopher, clearly propounded the wave-
theory of light, but it remained unnoticed in his times, to be redis-
covered a century afterward, when the minds of scientific men had
been prepared to receive it.
Then, again, the very intensity of appreciation bestowed upon
genius may be hurtful, in the diversion of men of some oi'iginal power
from the development of themselves into the army of mere repeaters,
imitators, and quoters. Besides, when the leaders of thought and in-
vestigation have erred, as at times they inevitably must, the mistaken
opinion from the weight of a great name becomes a clog and a barrier.
Newton's emission-theory of light delayed the true explanation through
many weary years; and zoulogy is still suffering from the belief in
catastrophes entertained in the mighty brain of Cuvier. And, further,
physiologically, the antagonism of growth and reproduction has left
the chiefs of men either childless, as Kant, or continued in a puny
race, as Cromwell. Talent is hereditary, but genius scarcely.
Proo-ress is also thwarted by the sub-evolution of evil. In human
