EXPERIMENTS ON HYPNOTISM. zn
societies, as mutvial trust and confidence advance, they are liable to
be rudely checked from time to time as the rewards of the liar and
thief temptingly increase. The very perfection of mechanical appli-
ances is used by the burglar and counterfeiter, and only a high de-
gree of educated ingenuity and a world-wide mercantile good faith
could have made such a fiend as Thomassen possible. The invention
of new machinery, the manufacture of new chemicals, the extensions
of mining, and the commingling of increased travel, in their accidents
and sometimes in their baneful results in common pursuit, render the
tasks of physician and surgeon more difficult than ever before. The
complications of modern life are so great and varied, that the moral
laws do not possess the direct and simple force they had of old ; in the
surge and vortex of to-day it takes a keen intellect to separate right
from wrong, and many err because their consciences are not reinforced
by education for the new exigencies.
Evolution is underlaid, as is all change, by the greater law of the
persistence of force, ever holding the even balance through all com-
plexity, maintaining throughout all a just compensation. Every new
faculty and enjoyment is earned by its equivalent of work, trouble,
or ill ; with every addition to power comes an addition to wants, to
labor, and the possibilities of pain. As the stores of the mind increase
so also do ideals craving satisfaction become higher and wider: ever
" on the isthmus of a middle state," man is at once a record of the
past and a prophecy of the future ; limited by his inheritance to defi-
nite acquirement, he yet aspires, by nascent impulses, for such better
things as only his posterity can ever possess.
EXPERIMENTS ON HYPNOTISM.
By FKANKLIN CHASE CLARKE, M. D.
SOME time ago my attention was called to two articles on " Hyp-
notism in Animals," in the columns of The Popular Science
MoxTHLY,' in which I became very deeply interested.
For the sake of those who may have forgotten what the author,
Prof. Czermak, said in regard to these very curious phenomena as
observed in fowls, I will briefly describe his mode of proceeding, and
afterward give the results of my own experiments.
And, first, of the crawfish experiment. If a crawfish is held firmly
in one hand, while with the other " passes" are made along the back
of the animal from head to lower extremity, the animal will become
so quieted as to allow itself to be placed in any position whatever, even
the most unnatural, without once stirring. Among peoole generally
• September and November, 1873.
