212 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this has been called "mesmerism" or " magnetism." Prof. Czermak
proved that neither magnetism nor mesmerism is active in the pro-
duction of this phenomenon.
This case is simple enough, that of the fowls is more complex. It
has been thought that if " a chalk-line" were drawn the length of a
hen's beak, or from eye to eye across the beak, while lield upon a flat
surface, she would remain pei'fectly quiet ibr more or less time when
the hands were removed. I think this is commonly believed in our
own country. Here, the chalk-line seemed intimately connected with
the phenomenon.
Kircher varied the experiment by erasing the chalk-line. He also
tied a ribbon around the legs of the fowl, and then removed it ; and
the hen still remained quiet. According to him the imagination of
the fowl plays an important part ; and he laid great stress on the
acts of " tying " and " chalking."
Prof. Czermak does not attach miich importance to Kircher's con-
clusions, in his first lecture. But, in his second, he seems to believe
that the " tying and chalking " exert some slight influence through
the imagination. He relies mainly, however, on the " stretching
out " of the fowl's neck. Pigeons gave him more trouble in this re-
spect ; and this caused him to modify his theory to some extent. He
agreed, however, that after a hen had once been subjected to this
neck-stretching process, she could be caught and placed upon the floor
or any other surface, ic«Y^OM< being again subjected to it ; that is, hold
her firmly until all struggling has ceased, and she can be placed in
almost any position without once touching the neck. Here Prof.
Czermak stops, and from this point my own experiments begin.
I first repeated many of his experiments on fowls, without using
chalk and string, and with as successful results. Afterward I varied
the mode of experimenting. Hens, ducks, cats, and canary-birds, have
thus all succumbed to this peculiar procedure at my hands, and in
every instance without my subjecting them once to " neck-stretching,"
except, of course, when I was repeating his experiments.
My first experiments, since repeated, were made upon some pet ca-
nary-birds when I was quite a child, and knew nothing of this phe-
nomenon. I had three of these little birds, one male and two females.
These I would often remove from their cage, hold them in my hand un-
til they became quiet, and then place them upon the floor. In this
way I would often have all three lying out upon the floor perfectly
motionless. As to whether their eyes remained closed or not I have
no recollection. The male was very wild, and, if not watched care-
fully, would fly from the floor.
This experiment I have since practised on a canary, and obtained
the same results as I did when I first noticed the peculiarity. Here
let me say again that I never touched the head or the neck of the
bird.
