214 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
head, she began to sing. She remained very quiet, but only for a
short time,
A gentleman told me of a somewhat similar process he employed
in the West, when he had entrapped in the same box several prairie
chickens. It being difficult for him to hold more than one chicken at
a time, he would take one from the traj), hold it until quiet, shake it a
little, and then lay it upon the snow. Sometimes he would have two
or three thus lying there with their eyes closed. Tliey would remain
in this condition long enough for him to secure the whole catch. But,
if one chanced to open its eyes when he was not looking, it would
most certainly escape.
The explanation of all this does not seem difficult. In fact, we
do not feel obliged to bring forward mesmerism, magnetism., nor even
hypnotism, as having anything to do with the phenomena. They
result simply from fear, as any one may easily prove for himself: the
animal appreciates the power acting on it, and the uselessness of
resisting the injury or the supposed injury inflicted. Here, of course,
we must allow animals a certain amount of intelligence for such per-
ceptions. After the animal has made resistance, and finds itself inca-
pable of removing the obstacle, it lapses into quietude, to act again
only when it supposes the restraint has been removed.
Hence, Kircher, apart from his " ribbons " and " clialk-Iines," or
" remembrance of chalk-lines and ribbons," is not so far cut of the way
in believing these phenomena to be due to the power of the animal's
imagination. The same thing, under certain circumstances, is ob-
served in man, and every one must be aware of the power the imagi-
nation often possesses over him.
In the " charming " of the lower animals by serpents we notice
similar phenomena. The so-called "charmed animal" cannot move,
from the fact that it does not believe it can. It has no power of will
to put into operation those muscles necessary to carry it from danger.
In other words, it is paralyzed with fear.
The cat playing with the mouse still further illustrates the same
principle. The mouse knows he cannot escape, for, at every attempt
to move, pussy's paw is put gently upon him, and he is pulled back
within her reach. Hence, after a while the mouse does not moA^e at
all unless pussy " stirs him up," so to speak, with her paw.
Hence we cannot see anything very wonderful, after all, in these
phenomena : they depend wholly and only upon fear, and are but an
illustration of the power of the imagination among animals, and add to
the evidence daily accumulating of the possession by the lower ani-
mals of a certain amount of intelligence.
