8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
From these likenesses between the social organism and the indi-
vidual organism, we must now turn to an extreme unlikeness. The
parts of an animal form a concrete whole, but the parts of a so-
ciety form a whole that is discrete. While the living units com-
posing the one are bound together in close contact, the living miits
composing the other are free, not in contact, and more or less widely
disjDersed. How, then, can there be any parallelism ?
Though this difference is fundamental and apparently puts com-
parison out of the question, yet examination proves it to be less than
it seems. Presently I shall have to point out that complete admis-
sion of it consists with maintenance of the alleged analogy; but we
will first observe how one who thought it needful might argue that
even in this respect there is more kinship than a cursory glance shows.
He might urge that the physically-coherent body of an animal is
not composed all through of living units, but that it consists in large
measure of differentiated parts which the vitally active parts have
formed, and which thereafter become semi-vital and in some cases
almost un-vital. Taking as an example the protoj^lasmic layer under-
lying the skin, he might say that, while this consists of truly living
units, the cells produced in it, changing into epithelium-scales, become
inert protective structures ; and, pointing to the insensitive nails, hair,
horns, and teeth, arising from this layer, he might show that such
parts, though components of the organism, are hardly living compo-
nents. Carrying out the argument, he would contend that elsewhere
in the body there exist such protoplasmic layers, from which grow
the tissues composing the various organs — layers which alone remain
fully alive, while the structures evolved from them lose their vitality
in proportion as they are specialized : instancing cartilage, tendon,
and connective tissue, as showing in conspicuous ways this low vital-
ity. From all which he would draw the inference that, though the
body forms a coherent whole, its essential units, taken by tliemselves,
form a whole which is coherent only throughout the protoplasmic
layers.
And then would follow the argument that the social organism,
rightly conceived, is much less discontinuous than it seems. He
would contend that, as in the individual organism we include with
the fully living parts the less living and not living parts which co-
operate in the total activities, so, in the social organism, we must
include not only those most highly-vitalized units, the human beings,
who chiefly determine its phenomena, but also the various kinds of
domestic animals, lower in the scale of life, which under the control
of man cooperate with him, and even those far inferior structures the
plants, which, propagated by human agency, supply materials for ani-
mal and human activities. In defense of this view he would point
out how largely these lower classes of organisms, coexisting with men
in societies, affect the structures and activities of the societies — how
