ORGANISMS AND THEIR MEDIA. 215
OEGA^^ISMS AND THEIR MEDIA.
By H. CHARLTON BASTIAN, M. D., F. E. S.
HEAT and light are physical influences to which even the lowest
units of living matter respond, whether their mode of life and
nutrition is most akin to that of plants or to that of animals. These
influences act on such organisms, either by stimulating, retarding, or
otherwise modifying the chemical changes naturally occurring in
their interior, and upon the existence of which their life depends.
Where the vital processes of the organism are stimulated by these
physical agencies, their incidence may, in many instances, become the
cause of so-called " spontaneous movements." The term, however,
as applied to movements, is a bad one — since all the movements ol
an organism are alike dependent upon a series of antecedent states of
contractile and other tissues. There is some sort of foundation, it is
true, for the popular mode of expression. A movement is not said to
be " spontaneous " if it follows immediately upon some external im-
pression as a cause ; the term is generally applied where the cause of
the movement is not distinctly recognizable. In some instances the
undetected or unconsidered external cause may be the incidence of a
difi'used physical agent such as heat, which, by stimulating the vital
processes, seems to give rise to spontaneous movements. In other
cases so-called "spontaneous" movements are to be referred to inter-
nal states or changes, whose origin is even less distinctly traceable,
to impressions, it may be, which emanate from some of the internal
organs, and thence are transmitted to ganglia in direct relation with
some of the organs of locomotion.
Heat mostly acts on organisms upon all sides alike, so tliat,
though it may stimulate their life-processes generally, and, in some
instances, give rise to movements, these movements are not deter-
mined in one, more than in another, direction. Thus, while heat
stimulates the " to-and-fro " or the gyratory movements of bacteria,
and also renders more striking and rapid those changes of form which
all amceboid organisms are apt to display, the movements evoked are
random, and apparently devoid of all purpose.
It is not altogether similar, however, with the influence of light.
This agent almost always, and necessarily, falls more on one side than
on another ; and consequently it often suffices to induce movements
to be made in definite directions, by the lower forms of life, just as it
causes definite and responsive movements to be executed by certain
parts of higher plants, which come fully under its influence. In each
case the movement, or altered position, is due to some nutritive
change; that is, to some alteration, whatever its nature, in the ac-
tivity of the life-processes taking place in the part impressed by the
