2i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
light. So that, whether we have to do with the movement of a sun-
flower, or with the locomotions of minute living units, the essential
mode of production of the movement is probably similar. Of the
actual locomotions of minute living units under the influence of light
many instances might be cited; it will suflice, however, to mention
the fact that any green zoospores which may liave been uniformly
diflfused through the water are very apt, w^hen the vessel containing
them is placed near a window, to collect on the surface of the water
at the part where most light falls upon them. Minute animal or-
ganisms are, however, often affected quite difterently by this agent.
They are frequently caused to move away from, rather than toward,
its source ; so that the creatures thus impressed " seek " the shade
rather than the glare of sunlight.
The action of such influences and the production of sucli move-
ments form the beginnings or substrata, as it were, of other phe-
nomena with which we are now more particularly concerned. The
unilateral influence of light and the movements to or from its source
to which it may give rise afford a connecting link between diffused
causes like heat, which, by affecting the general activity of the vital
processes in the organisms, may lead to purely random movements,
and those more localized influences now to be considered, to which
the various definite or responsive movements of organisms are attrib-
utable.
The first, because it is the simplest, of these localized influences to
be considered is a shock or mechanical impact of some kind, falling
upon the external surface of the organism. This is the primordial
or most general of all the modes by which the surface of an organism
is impressible, and its sensitivity to such stimuli is both in the stage
of impression and the stage of reaction closely akin to the general
organic irritability of protoplasm — which, indeed, unquestionably
constitutes its starting-point. This mode of impression, moreover, is
one which tends to establish a correspondence between the organism
and the most common events or properties of the medium in which
it lives and moves. It is consequently the mode of impressibility
most extensively called into play among all the lower forms of
animal life. And although the whole surface of an organism, or the
greater part of it, in one of the simple animals to which we are refer-
ring, may be more or less impressible to shocks or impacts from con-
tact with surrounding bodies, it often happens. that s^ich impressions
more frequently fall upon, and are more readily received by, certain
appendages situated at the anterior extremity of the animal, in close
proximity to the mouth. Such specialized parts or tactile appendages
are known as papillae, setae, tentacles, antennae, or palpi, according to
the forms which they assume in different animals.
Why such organs are developed so frequently at the anterior
extremity of the animal, and in the neighborhood of the mouth rather
