2 20 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
produced by " waves " of light emanating from a distance, and is thus
brought into mediate contact with certain distant objects. A re-
finement of the organs of taste may also occur whereby bodies possess-
ing sapid qualities are capable of impressing organisms still at a dis-
tance. Just as vision, in fact, is, in its most elementary phases, a Fort
of " anticipatory touch," so is smell a kind of anticipatory taste. Yet
the two cases are not altogether similar. In vision, the contact — if it
may be so termed — with the distant body is mediate, through the in-
tervention of ethereal undulations ; while in smell we have to do with
a case of immediate contact, not with the distant body itself of course,
but with extremely minute particles which it gives off on all sides.
An " emission " theory serves to explain the ditlusion of odors, though
it will not hold for the diffusion of light. From what 1 have said it
may be inferred that, as regards the delicacy of their res])ective physi-
cal causes, the sense of smell occupies an intermediate jjosition between
taste and sight.
It is regarded as a matter of certainty by naturalists that such
creatures as spiders, Crustacea, insects, and the higher mollusks, are
capable of being impressed in some way by odors, and that their
actions are to a certain extent regulated by such impressions. We
have, however, no definite knowledge concerning the parts of the sur-
face which in these, and perhaps in still lower organisms, are attuned
to receive such influences. Althougli a rudimentary sense of smell
seems unquestionably to be possessed by such aquatic forms of the
invertebrata as Crustacea and the higher mollusks, it is, perhaps, a
sense-endowment whicli generally exists in a more developed and
more varied form among air-breathing animals. In whatever forms
of life it may be met with, however, the sense of smell seems to be very
largely indeed related to the detection and capture of food; so, that,
in these relations, it comes to the aid of the already-existing senses of
sight, touch, and taste, though it has the peculiarity of being scarcely
otherwise called into activity among the invertebrata.
Although we have no positive knowledge concerning the situation
of the organs of smell among invertebrate animals, there is good reason
for believing that in Crustacea they are to be found at the base of the
antennules; that in cephalopods they are represented by two little
fossae in the neighborhood of the eyes ; and that in insects a power of
appreciating odors is possibly possessed either by the antennae them-
selves, or by a pair of fossfe near their bases. Another cephalic organ
has also been referred to as possibly endowed with a power of being
impressed by odors. Thus Owen says: "The application, by the com-
mon house-fly, of the sheath of its proboscis to particles of solid or
liquid food, before it imbibes them, is an action closely analogous to
the scenting of food by the nose in higher animals ; and, as it is by the
odorous qualities, much more than by the form of the surface, that we
judge of the fitness of substances for food, it is more reason al>le to
