222 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lows by means of connecting fibres, while they are also more distantly
united with other nerve-ganglia in different parts of the body by means
of commissural fibres.
But another special sense-endowment remains to be referred to.
This has to do with the organism's power of appreciating sounds or
" auditory " expressions — a power which is, however, probably pos-
sessed in only a low degree by most invertebrate animals ; since, even
in the most perfect form of the organ of hearing among them we
have to do with a very rudimentary structure. In this respect there
is a great difference between the sense of sight arid the sense of hear-
ing. While the eye of the cuttle-fish attains a degree of elaboration
that does not fall so very far short of the most perfect form which it
displays among vertebrate animals, the organ of hearing, as a mere
organ, in all forms of the invertebrata is remarkable for its simplicity,
and remains notably inferior to the highest type attained by this sen-
sorial apparatus — which, with its nerve-connections, becomes so enor-
mously developed in many mammals and in man.
Like the sense of sight and the sense of smell, that of hearing, even
in its simplest grades, serves to bring the organism into relation with
more or less distant bodies, so long as they are sufficiently sonorous
to transmit the so-called " sound " vibrations through water or air to
the sensitive organs which become attuned to receive such impres-
sions.
An auditory organ does not seem to be present at all — certainly
none has as yet been detected or inferred to exist — in many of the low-
er forms of life ; while in other animals, though inferred to exist, it
remains as yet unrecognized. This is the case, for instance, with the
majority of Crustacea, spiders, and insects. Judging from the instances
in which an organ of hearing has been detected in mollusks, and in a
very few representatives of the classes above named, it seems (however
novel the information may be to many readers) that it is an organ of
special sense which is not habitually, or even usually, found in the
head, and in direct relation with one of the ganglia composing the
brain. Further remarks, however, on this subject must be deferred
until a brief description has been given of the nature and distribution
of the nervous system in some of the principal groups of invertebrate
animals.
These, then, are the commonly-received modes by which organisms
are impressed from without, and by which they attune themselves to
the conditions and actions in their medium. It was recognized by
Democritus, and Other ancient writers, that they are all of them deriv-
atives, or more specialized modes of a primordial common sensibility,
such as is possessed by the entire outer surface of the organism. Touch,
taste, smell, vision, and hearing, are sense-endowments, having their
origin in organs formed by a gradual differentiation of certain portions
of the external or surface layer of the body — that is, of the part in
