ORGANISMS AND THEIR MEDIA. 223
which common sensibility is most frequently called into play. And
just as this common sensibility is a crude or general sense of touclj, so
are the several special senses only more or less highly-refined modes oi
the same sense-endowment. In the case of special tactile organs, of
organs of taste and organs of smell, the several contacts between the
animal and tlie body which impresses it, though differing in their deli-
cacy or refinement, are still immediate ; while in the case of the or-
gans of hearing and the organs of vision the contact between the sensi-
tive surfaces and the impressing body is mediate, by the intervention
iu the one case of vibrations transmitted through water or air, and,
in the other, of vibrations from the often far-distant luminous body,
through an intermediate and all-pervading ether.
The movements of locomotion, or of parts of the organism w^hich
become established in correspondence with these various impi-essions,
slowly increase in number, definiteness, and complexity. Such re-
sponsive movements, however, are found, as a general rule, to have
the effect of prolonging the action of any influences which previous
individual or race experiences have proved to be favorable to the life
and well-being of the organism ; and, on the other hand, of cutting
short or avoiding influences which past individual or race experiences
have proved to be contrary to its general well-being. The capture
and swallowing of food are ends to which a very large proportion
indeed of the definite motions of most of the lower organisms are
directed ; and this direction of their energies is only a special case to
be included under the rule above indicated; just as efforts to escape
from predatory neighbors are other, though opposite, instances of the
same rule.
In addition to the various modes of impressibility by external in-
fluence which we have hitherto been considering, there are certain
internal modes of impressibility due to changes in the condition of
internal parts of the organism. These are commonly spoken of as
divisible into two categories : 1. The impressions derivable from, or
in some way attendant upon, the contractions of muscles ; and, 2. Im-
pressions emanating from one or other of the various sets of internal
organs, such as the alimentary canal and its appendages, the respira-
tory organs, the genital organs, or other internal parts.
With the first set of impressions we have at present nothing to do.
They differ altogether from others, whether of external or internal
origin, by the fact that they follow or accompany movements whose
intensity they are supposed to measure, and do not themselves lead
to movements. Granting that such impressions may have a real
existence, it is obvious we can know nothing about them among
invertebrate animals, if they have only a subjective existence, and do
not cause an efflux of molecular movements along outgoing nerve-
fibres.
The second category of internal impressions — those emanating
