224 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
from the viscera — are undoubtedly very important in relation to ani-
mal life generally. In part they have the effect of causing contrac-
tions of related muscular portions of the viscera — as when the presence
of food in certain portions of the alimentary canal excites impressions,
followed by contraction whereby the food is propelled farther on.
In part, however, they act upon the principal nerve-ganglia — those
constituting the brain — and thus excite the external sense-organs
with which they are connected to a higher order of activity. Visceral
impressions may cause an animal eagerly to pursue food, or to be alert
in discovering its mate; so that in these, and in many other instances,
internal impressions, reaching the cerebral ganglia, would seem to
excite a higher receptivity to certain kinds of external impressions
and a corresponding readiness to respond on the part of the moving
organs whose activity is related to such external impressions.
SCIENCE KED THE LOGICIAT^S.
By DAVID BOYD, A. M.
T TNDER the above heading may be comprehended the most of
LJ what we are desirous of saying in review of the article entitled
"Science and Religion," by Dr. Charles F. Deems, in The Popular
Science Monthly for February.
We first run counter to the author upon the definition of science
taken from Sir William Hamilton's "Logic." Says he: " We can all
afford to agree upon the definition rendered by the only man who has
been found in twenty-two centuries to add anything important to the
impei'ial science of logic. Sir William Hamilton defines science as a
complement of cognitions having in point of form the character of
logical perfection, in point of matter the character of real truth."
In the first place, Hamilton is not the only man since Aristotle
that has been found to add anything important to logic. Tliere has
been a whole department, and by iar the most valuable department
of that science, brought into existence during the last three hundred
vears. We have ' reference to inductive logic, or scientific method.
Hamilton had nothing to do with tlie creation of this department.
His additions are wholly confined to the barren field of formal logic.
The other department is the result of the joint labors of Bacon, Gali-
leo, Xewton, Herschel (John), Mill, Bain, and Jevons.
Hamilton's additions to formal logic consist chiefly in what is
known as the quantification of the predicate, and the moods and
figures consequent upon this. There is much difference of opinion as
to the value of these additions. Mill and Bain afiirm that by the
quantification of the predicate no new or distinct meaning is conveyed,
