SCIENCE AND THE LOGICIANS. 225
nor is there even a more intelligent rendering of an old meaning. In
our own opinion the distinction between the comprehension and the
extension of propositions is important ; but it is paraded with too
much ostentation, and treated with too much prolixity. Hamilton's
great virtue is his clearness of statement and exhaustiveness of treat-
ment. His method is admirable. Sometimes, however, there is too
much display of his own erudition.
But even in the domain of formal logic Hamilton is not the only-
one that has within the present century made important additions.
Prominent among these is De Morgan. Especially valuable are his
discussions upon the different values of the logical copula. Prof.
Boole has also made important additions to the syllogism, and has
most ably supported the theory of the -common ground occupied by
logic and the mathematics. Prof. Bam also, in jmre logic, has made
a most important generalization. Hamilton's three laws of thought,
namely, identity, nonTContradiction, and excluded middle, he has re-
duced to the single law or canon of consistency.
So much for the assertion that Hamilton was the only man in
twenty-two centuries to make any important additions to the imperial
science of logic. Like enough the doctor would exclude scientilic
method from the imperial science. Perhaps he regards formal logic
alone fit to wear the purple. But even here we see that there can be
no such claim set up. If, however, he could claim this distinction, it
would afford no reason for receiving his definition of science without
question. That should stand or fall wholly upon its own merits.
The greatest of men are not without personal biases. It is well known
that Hamilton had a metaphysical bias. In his work on metaphysics
the first three lectures are occupied in attempting to prove the supe-
riority of mental science over natural science. He quotes with much
approval this ancient declaration, " On earth there is- nothing great
but man, in man there is nothing great but mind." This being his
known bias, before examining the definition, an investigator of Na-
ture, a believer in scientific method, might have thought that it
was by no means certain that he " could afford " to take it simply
on his authority. However, when we come to the definition itself,
the matter of it is well enough. But we have the temerity to suggest
that it^form might be improved without changing the substance. It
is too pedantic and prolix. It is not in a shape easily to be remem-
bered. We would render it thus : Science is real knowledge logically
classified. But, as Bain remarks, positive definition is not thorough
enough. As he says in his second canon on definition, it is needful
to assemble for comparison the particulars of the contrasting or op-
posed notion. We can never know distinctly what a notion is until
we contrast it with its opposite. Knowing is discriminating. What
is not science ? What is tlie other notion that lies side by side with
it — in contrast, but contained under the same genus ? Now, if we
VOL. IX. — 15
