2 26 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
define science simply as knowledge or " complement of cognitions,"
it is contrasted with feeling or emotion. Its correlatives are produc-
tions designed to please, such as poetry, painting, or the fine arts
generally.
If religion be regarded as proceeding wholly from the emotional
nature, it may be contrasted with science and classed among aesthetic
conceptions. But narrowing the definition further by qualifying
knowledge by the terms " logically classified," we then have science
as contrasted with or opposed to particular knowledge, or knowledge
imperfectly classified. Qualifying further by placing the word real
before knowledge, we have it contrasted with error or not genuine
knowledge. By reading Hamilton, it will be seen that error is his
antithesis to his real truth in the definition. But hypotheses are not
error, since they are not held as truth. The distinguishing character
of error is that, while false in fact, is is supposed to be true completely.
Hypotheses are neither genuine truth nor errors, so long as they are
held merely as «;uch. They lie upon the border-lands of truth and
error, and Hamilton's definition cannot banish them completely from
the domain of science. They are properly allowed to hover around
its borders. But we totally disagree with Dr. Deems as to the value
of these '• guesses " at truth. Says he, " A professor of religion has
just as much right to guess as a professor of science, and the latter
no more right than the former, though he may have more skill."
Now, as to the right, there can be no dispute, but, as to the value of
the guesses, this better skill makes all the difference in the world.
Prof. Huxley is right in his estimate of guesses. Says he, " Do not
allow yourself to be misled by the common notion that an hypothesis
is untrustworthy because it is an hypothesis. What more have we to
guide us in nine-tenths of the most important affairs of daily life than
hypotheses, atfd often very ill-based ones ? So then in science, where
the evidence of an hypothesis is subjected to the most rigid examina-
tion, we may rightly pursue the same course. You may have hypoth-
eses and hypotheses. A man may say, if he like, that the moon is
made of green cheese ; that is an hypothesis. But another man, who
has devoted a great deal of time and attention to the subject, and
availed himself of the most powerful telescopes, and the results of the
observations of others, declares that it is probably composed of mate-
rials very similar to those of which the earth is made up ; and this
also is an hypothesis." You perceive that it makes a good deal of
difference both as to who guesses and as to what is guessed. Indeed,
so many scientific hypotheses have been verified in the face of the
opposing theological hypotheses, that there begins to be a strong
presumption in their favor before verification. Kor is it strange that
we should be led to regard them as highly probable. The investiga-
tor of Nature, familiar with her processes and her laws, founds these
guesses upon broad and deep analogies.
