HAMMERS AND PERCUSSION. n
of the society. It has ever to be remembered that great as may be
the efforts made for the prosperity of the body politic, yet the claims
of the body politic are nothing in themselves, and become something
only in so far as they embody the claims of its component individuals.
From this last consideration, which is a digression rather than a
part of the argument, let us now return and sum up the various reasons
for regarding a society as an organism.
It undergoes continuous growth ; as it grows, its parts, becoming
unlike, exhibit increase of structure ; the unlike parts simultaneously
assume activities of unlike kinds ; these activities are not simply dif-
ferent, but their differences are so related as to make one another pos-
sible ; the reciprocal aid thus given causes mutual dependence of the
parts ; and the mutually-dependent parts, living by and for one an-
other, form an aggregate constituted on the' same general principle as
an individual organism. The analogy of a society to an organism
becomes still clearer on learning that every organism of appreciable
size is a society, and on further learning that, in both, the lives of the
units continue for some time if the life of the aggregate is suddenly
arrested, while if the aggregate is not destroyed by violence its life
greatly exceeds in duration the lives of its units. Though the two are
contrasted as respectively discrete and concrete, and though there
results a difference in the ends subserved by the organization, there
does not result a difference in the laws of the organization : the re-
quired mutual influences of the parts, not transmissible in a direct way,
being transmitted in an indirect way.
Having thus considered in their most general forms the reasons for
regarding a society as an organism, we are prepared for following out
the comparison in detail. We shall find that the further we pursue it
the closer does the analogy appear.
HAMMERS A^D PERCUSSIOK
By the Rev. AKTHUK EIGG, M. A.
THE only mechanical tools for external use with which man is pro-
vided by Nature are : the hammer, a compound vise, and a
scratching or scraping tool ; these are all in the hand. As a vise, the
hand is worthy of a very lengthened notice ; as a hammer alone it is
now our concern. While upon a substance softer than itself the fist
can deal an appreciable blow, with one harder than itself the reaction
of the substance transfers the blow to the flesh and bone of Nature's
hammer. Hence early arose the necessity of an artificial hammer of
stone or other hard substance.
' Abstract of three lectures before the London Society of Arts.
