SCIENCE AND THE LOGICIANS. 229
parts, and to establish their exact relations. He compares, adds, sub-
tracts, multiplies, divides. In order to communicate his knowledge
of the relation of parts, he must use words ; these words he must de-
fine, if their meaning is not obvious to the one instructed. But if the
property is of a primary nature, and given in the experience of every
one, there is no need of definition, and indeed no rational definition
can be given. This is true alike of the notions, extension, surface,
line, and point. Each of these is as much a datum of simple experi-
ence as the notion of white or blue ; and it is just as absurd to at-
tempt to define the one class of concepts as the other. They may be,
however, brought out a little more closely by contrasting the correla-
tives in the manner that we have attempted with extension and indefi-
nite space. Thus surface may be contrasted with the solid volume,
or definite space, of which it forms the boundary; line with surface,
of which it in turn is the boundary ; and, lastly, point with line, of
which it is the termination or the where of separation. It is not true
that the existence of forms depends upon the motions of points.
Forms are given in experience through sensation. A point is the
ultimate step in the analysis of boundaries. It is sheer nonsense to
attempt to construct lines out of points, surfaces out of lines, and
volumes out of surfaces. All that it is necessary to say further upon
this subject is, that the differentias of the higher mathematics are not
nothings, but quantities the least conceivable. The least conceivable
portion of a line is not a point ; the least conceivable portion of a
surface is not a line ; the least conceivable portion of a volume is not
a surface, for the simple reason that no portion of a thing can be its
boundary.
Now, in conclusion, we say that geometry rests upon no aflarma-
tions in respect to the infinite, but, on the contrary, it is wholly occu-
pied about the relations of the finite in space. We have the assurance
from the doctor that the finite is the sphere of every science, while the
sphere of religion is the infinite. This certainly would cast theology
out of the sphere of science, for the doctor has laid down as one of
its fundamental concepts, " God is an infinite person." Sir William
Hamilton's definition, in its very first clause, also excludes theology
from science, if we take himself as authority for the meaning of the
term cognition. Every cognition is simply a perception of relation.
The infinite and absolute — equal God — are not thinkable. Hence the-
ology can have no " complement of cognition " out of which to classify
a science.
In another place we find that the cry of conflict has its origin in
confounding theology with religion. "Theology is not religion any
more than psychology is human life, or zoology animal life, or botany
plant-life. Theology is objective, religion is subjective. Theology is
the scientific classification of what is known of God; religion is a
loving obedience to God's commandments. Every religious man
