230 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
must have a theology, but it does not follow that every tljeologian
must have a religion. There may be a conflict between theology and
some other sciences, and religious men may deplore it," etc. Now, in
our opinion, if every religious man must have a theology, and if his the-
ology be in conflict with science, he must either be in conflict in opin-
ion with that science or abandon his theology. But the truth is, that
the real, actual conflict arises from the religious element. The con-
flict of opinion is in the theology of a man ; the conflict, as it appears
upon the stage of the world's history in acts and deeds, has sprung
from the religious nature, even as defined by Dr. Deems. A man may
hold what theological views you please and make no disturbance in
the world, i)rovided he does not think much about his duty in obeying
the commands, word, or will of God, all of which are a part of his
theology. For instance, one of the commands of God, as contained
in his word, and to which he should render a " loving obedience," is
" Suffer not a witch to live." Now, a man may believe in that com-
mand simply as a dogma, but, being indifferent in the matter of ren-
dering a loving obedience, he will not let it influence his conduct, -and
so will make no effort to hunt up and have witches burnt. If, on the
contrary, he has a loving obedience to God's word, he will trample
upon eveiy kindly feeling and instinct of his nature rather than not
have the command carried out.
Accordingly, we find that it has been the pious, the sincere, the
believers in duty, those wishing to render a loving obedience to God's
word, or what they thought was his word, who have in every age
been the persecutors. But^ you say that they were acting under a
delusion. Tliey mistook Avhat was the word of God. But how are
they to know what is his word, if direct commands like the foregoing
are not his ? Besides, if there was a mistake, it was in their theology,
and not in their x-eligion ; that only impelling them to lovingly obey
God's commands as they knew them. Religion is but an impulse, a
blind instinct. It knows nothing about weighing and comparing opin-
ions. Theology furnishes it with these. If these are bad, its conduct
will be bad; if good, the conduct will be good. All it knows is
blind obedience — zeal to do the will of God as it knows it ; and the
pretended science, which alone can give it guidance, is a science of
the Unknowable, the Infinite, the Absolute.
We will close with a quotation from Lecky's " History of Ration-
alism," in reference to Luther: "He was subject to many strange hal-
lucinations and vibrations of judgment, which he invariably attributed
to the direct agency of Satan. Satan became, in consequence, the
dominating conception of his life. In every critical event, in every
mental perturbation, he recognized satanic power. Fools, deformed
persons, the blind and the dumb, were possessed by devils. Physi-
cians, indeed, attempted to explain these infirmities by natural causes ;
but those physicians were ignorant men — they did not know all the
