SKETCH OF BENJAMIN THOMPSON. 231
power of Satan. Every form of disease might be produced by Satan
or his agents, the witches ; and none of the infirmities to which Luther
was liable were natural ; but his earache was peculiarly diabolical.
Hail, thunder, and plagues, are all the direct consequence of the inter-
vention of spirits. Many of those persons who were supposed to have
committed suicide had in reality been seized by the devil and stran-
gled by him, as the traveler is strangled by the robber. The devil
could transport men through the air. He could beget children ; and
Luther himself had come in contact with one of them. An intense
love of children was one of the most amiable characteristics of the
great Reformer ; but on this occasion he most eainestly recommended
the reputed relatives to throw the child into the river, in order to free
their house from the presence of the devil. As a natural consequence,
of these modes of thought, witchcraft did not present the slightest
improbability to his mind. In strict accordance with the spirit of his
age, he continually asserted the existence and frequency of the crime,
and emphatically proclaimed the duty of burning witches."
We see what a loving obedience to the word of God led Luther to
recommend. That this spirit has died out, is wholly due to the
advancement of science and rationalism, and not to any change in
the religious spirit ^jer se, or to any difierent interpretation of the
Bible. The witchcraft is tliere, as it was in the days of Luther, and
the injunction not to suffer witches to live is there, and neither has
been explained any better than it was in the middle ages. But
the researches of the investigators of Nature have gradually driven
these notions out of the minds of men, and stamped them with the
opprobrium of absurdities.
Greeley, Colorado, February 14, 18*76.
SKETCH OF BENJAMIN THOMPSON (COUNT RUMFORD).
IN his late work, " Recent Advances in Physical Science," Prof.
Tait, of the University of Edinburgh, has attempted a history of
dynamical science, or rather of the doctrine of the conservation of
energy. Though this great doctrine is recent in its completer develop-
ment. Prof. Tait holds that it is implied in Newton's laws of motion,
and that Newton only failed to grasp it in its modern form for lack of
certain experiments. Where Newton broke down, there the subject
remained for more than a hundred years, no physicist appearing who
could take up the research at that point and carry it on. Prof! Tait
says that "what Newton really wanted was to know what becomes
of work when it is spent in friction." The experiments thus needed
to open the way to a new era in the doctrine of forces were supplied
