SKETCH OF BENJAMIN THOMPSON. 233
by a self-educated American, the subject of this sketch. The news-
papers say that he is dropping out of memory in this age, and was in
his day a distinguished smoke-doctor and improver of fireplaces ; but
in the scientific world his fame has been increasing in recent years,
and is destined to grow brighter with the further progress of physical
knowledge. As attention has latterly been drawn to what America
has done for science, it is desirable to give an account of the career
and labors of this eminent American investigator.
Benjamin Thompson was born March 26, 1753, in Woburn, Mas-
sachusetts. He first saw the light in the west end of a substantial
farmhouse, which is still standing a few rods south of the meeting-
house in North Woburn. The dwelling is said to be well preserved,
retaining its external and internal appearance unchanged, notwith-
standing its great age, and it has been recently purchased by the
citizens of Woburn, to be preserved as an object of public and histori-
cal interest. His father died in his infancy, and when the child was
three years old his widowed mother was married to Josiah Pierce, Jr.,
of Woburn. His latest biographer, Mr. George E. Ellis, says that
the lad " indicated from his early years an inconstancy and indiffer-
ence to the homely routine tasks and the rural employments which
were required of him, while at the same time he exhibited an intense
mental activity, a spirit of ingenuity and inventiveness, and was
found seeking for amusement in things which afterward proved to
lead him to the profitable and beneficent occupations of his mature
life. He showed a particular ardor for arithmetic and mathematics,
and it was remembered of him afterward that his play-time and some
of his proper work-time had been given to ingenious mechanical con-
trivances, soon leading to a curious interest in the principles of me-
chanics and natural philosophy."
He received the rudiments of a common-school education, and his
guardians, finding that he was unfit for a farm-drudge, apprenticed
him at thirteen to a merchant in Salem. While thus engaged, with
such spare time and private assistance as he could get, he studied
algebra, trigonometry, astronomy, and even the higher mathematics,
so that before the age of fifteen he was able to calculate an eclipse.
At sixteen he was sent to Boston to continue the dry-goodc business,
and there attended an evening French school. In 1*771 he began the
study of medicine with Dr. John Hay, of Woburn, and at the same
time attended a few lectures at Cambridge. He taught school for a
short time at Bradford on the Merrimack, and afterAvard taught in an
academy in Concord, New Hampshire, higher up the same river, a
town which had been formerly known as Rumford.
" When Benjamin Thompson went to Concord as a teacher he was
in the glory of his youth, not having yet reached manhood. His friend
Baldwin describes him as of a fine manly make and figure, nearly six
feet in height, of handsome features, bright blue eyes, and dark au-
