234 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
burn hair. He had the manners and polish of a gentleman, Avith fas-
cinating ways, and an ability to make himself agreeable. So dili-
gently, too, had he used his opportunities of culture and reading, that
he might well have shone even in a circle socially more exacting
than that to which he was now introduced. We may anticipate here
the conclusion to which the review of his whole career will lead us,
that, as boy or man, he was never one to allow an opportunity of
advancement to escape him." At Concord, when nineteen years of
age, Mr. Thomjison married Sarah Walker Rolfe, a wealthy widow,
aged thirty-three, and by whom he had a daughter.
Tlie Revolution was now fermenting, and alienations and discords
were springing up among the people. Young Thompson had made
the acquaintance of Governor Wentworth of New Hampshire, who,
discerning his genius and promise, gave him the military commission
of major. This aroused a bitter feeling of jealousy not only in the
subordinate officers over whom he had been sprung, but also with his
superiors, who were all turned into effective enemies. His independent
manners, his intimacy with the royal governor, and, perhaps, incon-
siderate words in a time of excitement, led to the suspicion and the
charge that Thompson was unpatriotic and sided with the royalists.
By the potency of gossip and tale-bearing he was brought under sus-
picion of Toryism, and threatened with that dignified discipline of
outraged patriotism, tar and feathers and riding on a rail. Thompson
indignantly denied the accusation. He called for proof, and a meet-
ing of his townsmen was called to consider his case. But no evidence
of any kind was produced against him. Xevertheless the adverse
feeling in Concord was so strong that he found, it necessary to
leave. There can be little doubt of the brutal injustice with which
Thompson was treated. His biographer writes with evident impar-
tiality, and presents the case in all its aspects, and, admitting that
nothing bearing the character of evidence was to be found against
his patriotism, hes ays that "Major Thompson insisted from the first,
and steadfastly to the close of his life affirmed, that he was friendly
to the patriot cause, and had never done or said anything which could
be truthfully alleged as hostile to it." The simple fact seems to be
that while yoimg Thompson entertained, and probably expressed, his
doubts about the issue of a conflict with the mother-country, as many
other independent-minded men must have done, he was nevertheless
in sympathy with the patriot cause, and was not only willing to devote
himself to it, but earnestly sought the opportunity Vjy j^etitioning the
Provincial Congress for a position in the army. But he was defeated
through the machinations of the officers who resented his appoint-
ment by Wentworth. His biographer says: " He lingered about the
camp. He devoted himself zealously to the study of military tactics.
He continued his experiments on gunpowder. He strolled between
Woburn, Medford, Cambridge, and Charlestown, learning whatever
