SKETCH OF BENJAMIN THOMPSON. 235
his inquisitive mind could appropriate. But there was one set of men
whom he never could conciliate, who mistrusted his purposes, and
cast upon him lowering looks as they met liim about the camp.
These were the general and field officers from New Hampshire, who
looked upon him as a dandy and an upstart at least, if not also at
heart a traitor. They would not associate with him, itill less confide
in him." It is further stated on authority, that there is no reason
for doubting that " after the battle at Charlestown, Thompson
was favorably introduced by some oflicers of Cambridge to General
Washington, who had just assumed the command; and that, had it
not been for the oj^position of some of the New Hampshire ofiicers, he
would have had the place in the American artillery corps which was
given to Colonel Gridley." The genius of Thompson was thus lost
to the American cause through the rivalries and hatreds of arm^r
officers, a source of evil which profoundly troubled the life of Wash-
ington during the lievolution, as it did also that of Lincoln during the
civil war.
Nothing was therefore left to Thompson but to remain in obscurity
at home under a cloud of suspicion that would have darkened his life,
or to seek a field of action elsewhere. He was a man of high spirit
and great force of character, and of course would not submit like a
poltroon to the degrading alternative. He accordingly took service
under the governm-ent of his early allegiance. He went to England,
and soon after his arrival, at the age of twenty-three, was given an
appointment in the colonial office, under Lord George Germaine. He
directed immediate attention to military matters ; improved the ac-
coutrements of the Horse-Guards ; continued and extended his experi-
ments on gunpowder, and improved the construction of firearms. He
experimented with great guns, made a study of the principles of naval
artillery, and devised a code of marine signals. He also made investi-
gations into the cohesion of bodies, which he communicated to Sir
Joseph Banks, President of the Royal Society, and was elected Fellow
of that body in 1Y79 at the age of twenty-six. He very soon became
one of the most active and honored members of the Royal Society,
always attending its meetings when he was in London. He after-
ward i-eceived a colonelcy from the British Government, and came
back to this country in command of a regiment on Long Island, build-
ing a fort at Huntington. He returned to England in 1783, and the
same year made a tour on the Continent. At Strasburg he acciden-
tally met with Prince Maximilian of Deux Ponts, then field-marshal in
the service of France, who became so interested in Colonel Thompson
that he gave him an introduction to his uncle the Elector of Bavaria
at Munich. The Elector was a man of liberal views, and discerning in
Thompson the talent that he thought might be made available in pro-
moting the interests of his government and people, he made overtures
to him to enter his service in a joint military and civil capacity. The
