236 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
proposition was favorably received, but, as Colonel Thompson was a
half-pay officer of the English crown, he needed to have the permission
of the king before making a Continental engagement. He therefore
returned to England in 1784, and received not only the king's per-
mission, but also the honor of knighthood and the continuance of his
half-pay, and he returned to Munich the same year as Sir Benjamin
Thompson. A splendid field was now before him, and he entered
upon a series of the most remarkable labors, to which he devoted him-
self with great assiduity. "These labors ranged from subjects of the
homeliest nature in their bearings upon the thrift, economy, and com-
fort of life for the poorest classes, through enterprises of wide-extended
and radical reform, and comprehensive benevolence, up to the severest
tests and experiments in the interests of practical science." . . . . " The
elector was from first to last his constant friend, never thwarting him,
never holding back his aid; but, on the contrary, ready always to
advance every plan of his, and to espouse his views when questioned
or opposed by other counselors."
It is impossible, in this brief sketch, even to enumerate the ex-
tensive and important measures of public beneficence and social
amelioration which Sir Benjamin projected and successfully carried
out. He reorganized the entire military establishment of Bavaria,
introduced not only a simpler code of tactics and a new system
of order, discipline, and economy, among the troops and industrial
schools for the soldiers' children, but greatly improved the construc-
tion and modes of manufacture of arms and ordnance. He devoted
himself to various ameliorations, such as improving the construction
and arrangement of the dwellings of the working-classes, providing
for them a better education, organizing houses of industry, introducing
superior breeds of horses and cattle, and promoting landscape-garden-
ing, which he did by converting an old abandoned hunting-ground,
near Munich, into a park, where, after his departure, the inhabitants
erected a monument to his honor. He moreover suppressed the sys-
tem of beggar}^, which had grown into a recognized profession in Bava-
ria and become an enormous public evil — one of the most remarkable
social reforms on record. Mendicity in Bavaria was at that time
"a stupendous and organized system of abuses, which, gradually
growing upon the tolerance of the government and people, had
reached such proportions and had established itself with such a vigor-
ous power of mischief as to be acquiesced in as irremediable. Beggars
and vagabonds, the larger part of whom were also thieves, swarmed
all over the country, especially in the cities. These were not only
natives, but foreigners. They were of both sexes and all ages; they
strolled in all directions, lining the highways, levying contributions
with clamorous demands, entering houses, stores, and workshops, to
rob, interrupting the devotions of the churches with their exactions,
and extorting everywhere, through fear, what they failed to get by
