CORRESP ONDEN CE.
239
CORRESPONDENCE.
"WHAT CONSTITUTES RELIGION?"
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
DEAR SIR : The use of my name
twice in your notice of Mr. Fiske's
new work on " Tiie Unseen World," in
your May number, perhaps justifies me in
soliciting a small space for comment on
some expressions in that notice.
You are defending Dr. Draper from Mr.
Fiske's trenchant attacks. To that there
can be no objection. Confederates are jus-
tified in standing by one another ; but I do
not think that you are justified in saying
that " the point of contention is as to what
constitutes religion.'' So far from there
being contention on that point, there is
really no important difference. All " sects,"
no matter liow much they " eat each other
up in their denial of dogmas," as you af-
firm, agree as to what religion is. It does
not seem edifying to behold in you the tem-
per which dictates the first of the following
sentences, although the exceeding generos-
ity of the careful proposal ki the second
has a redeeming flavor. " We hope that
the agreement of Messrs. Brownson, Hill,
Washburn, Deems, Fiske & Co., in de-
nouncing the groundlessness of the ' con-
flict,' will not be construed as implying
any agreement among the parties as to what
religion is. If these gentlemen will get to-
gether and settle the point, an important
step will be gained, and The Popular Sci-
ence Monthly will gladly pay the expenses
of a convention of reasonable length for
such a purpose; hut we stipulate not to
foot the bills until they reach an agree-
ment."
For the other gentlemen I cannot an-
swer, but I simply say that I never did
'■'■denounce the groundlessness of the con-
flict," but have announced it and endeav-
ored to demonstrate it, and you are witness
that I am " vehement in asaerling the
groundlessness and absurdity of Dr. Dra-
per's assumption" of the conflict (page
113).
Why are you so anxious to keep your
readers from believing that the gentlemen
whose names you have recited in fact do
not and really caimot agree as to what is
" reHgiou ? " Have you ever seen anything
in our writings or heard anytliing in our
oral teachings to justify tlie supposition
that we do not agree ? As you challenge
us, I accept the challenge for my part. I
will not expose you to the cost of a con-
vention, hut here, in my study, wi(hout
consultation with any of the other gentle-
men you name, I venture to give two defi-
nitions of religion, in both of which I vent-
ure to predict that all those gentlemen, if
they see this letter, will heartily agree, and
that these definitions will win the assent
also of Archbishop McCloskey, Bishop Pot-
ter, Bishop Foster, Bishop Wightman, Chan-
cellor Ci'osby, Rev. Dr. Armitage, and Rev.
Dr. Storrs, representatives of the leading
" sects."
To give the least first, here is my own
definition: Religion is loving obedience to
God^s vj/ll. No matter how or where that
will is discovered, nor what it is, he is a
religious man who does what he believes
will please God, because he loves God.
The second is authoritative. It is that
of St. James (i. 27) : " True religion and
undefiled before God and the Father is
this : To visit the fatherless and widows
in their affliction, and to keep himself un-
spotted from the world." A life of inward
purity and outward beneficence is a reli-
gious life.
1 venture to think you may pass these
around the whole circle of religionists and
find unanimity. But do not we religionists
disagree? Certainly. The five gentlemen
you have mentioned, and the seven whom I
have named, differ more or less, oftener
more than less, and on some points appar-
ently irreconcilably. . But mark : we never
diff'er in our religion ; it is in our science.
The moment two men become scientific,
whether they are religious or not, they begin
to " eat each other up in their denial of dog-
mas." So long as we keep to religion, we
are one. Our hearts are together. It is
only with our heads that we butt one an-
other. I have worshiped God in company
with each of the seven distinguislied cler-
gymen whom I have ventured to name, and
yet there is not one of them who does not
hold some dogma of doctrine or ecclesiasti-
cism to which I cannot subscribe. As re-
ligioni.-^ts, we agree. As scientists, we dif-
fer. It is on the ground of our theology
that we differ, and that is purely a scien-
tific ground. Be pleased always to remem-
ber that theology i^ only a science like
geology or biology.
But, my dear sir, we theologians would
be out of fashion if we did not " eat each
other up in our denial of dogmas." All
other scientists do. The dogma of hotero-
genesis tries to " eat up " the dogma of
homngenesis, while the dogma of pangene-
sis is fairly bursting itself to swallow both
the others bodily ; and tliere is no small
conflict between spontaneity and heredity,
