240
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and meanwhile biosis is striving vigorously
to hold its ground against archebiosis.
Behold ! are not Religion and Life the
two greatest subjects ? You are quite anx-
ious that your readers shall fancy that reli-
gionists cannot agree in their definitions of
religion. But you do not show them that
even on the subject of Life the scientists
are greatly at difference. Prof. Owen says
that "Life is a sound ; " Schelling says it is
a "tendency." Herbert Spencer calls it
''a continuous adjustment." Dr. Meissner
says it is " but motion." Dr. Bastian holds
that he has produced plants and animals
from inorganic matter. Schultz positively
believes it never was done and cannot be
done: and Prof. Huxley holds that "con-
structive chemistry could do nothing with-
out the influence of preexisting living pro-
toplasm."
I do not wish to crowd your pages, and
so content myself with these few instances
out of the multitudes of conflicting and
perplexing differences among " advanced
thinkers."
Even you, my dear sir, have not utterly
escaped. You once wrote, " If the forces
are correlated in organic growth and nutri-
tion, they must he in organic action." Man-
ifestly, after that sentence was written,
you meditated, and, meditating, you dis-
covered that the sequitur was not quite as
apparent as it ought to be. You did not
strike out the sentence, Ijut you apologized
for it handsomely by saying, "From the
great complexity of the conditions, the
same exactness will not be expected here as
in the inorganic field." But you see, my
dear sir, that theology is a science which
has for its field those subjects in which
there is the greatest complexity of condi-
tions, and you must not demand of your
brother scientists as much exactness in the
statements of a metaphysical proposition as
you may in the statement of the length of a
fish's tooth.
But as to your statement that the forces
nuist be correlated in organic action, are you
not in danger of being " eaten up " by the
statements of your friends, Bastian, Barker,
and, what is still harder on you, Herbert
Spencer ? Prof. Barker teaches that the
correlation of the natural forces with
thought " has never yet been measured."
Then, it is a mere " guess." Dr. Bastian
says that it " cannot be proved " that sen-
sation and thought are truly the direct re-
sults of molecular activity. Then it is a
mere "guess." Mr. Herbert Spencer,
whose name is conclusive authority with
you, and who, I am most frank to ad-
mit, knows as much about the " unknow-
able " as any writer whose works I have
read, says that the outer force and the in-
ward feeling it excites " do not even main-
tain an unvarying proportion." Then it is
a mere "guess." And, my dear sir, I do
most heartily agree with your statement,
" not he who guesses is to be esteemed the
true discoverer, but he who demonstrates a
new truth."
Now, if Messrs. Spencer, Barker, Tyn-
dall, Huxley, Biichner, Draper, Youmans,
"& Co.," will "get together and settle"
what Life is, or Thought, "an important
step will be gained ;" and, not to be out-
done by your generosity, I will engage to
" pay the expenses of a convention of rea-
sonable length for such a purpose," but I
" stipulate not to foot the bills until you
reach an agreement."
Trusting that both you and I, as we
grow older, may have more science and
more religion, and room enough in our heads
and hearts for both without " conflict,"
I am, very faithfully, your co-laborer,
Charles F. Dekms.
Of course Dr. Deems meant to announce,
assert, and declare, the groundlessness of
the conflict between Religion and Science;
and we think the readers of our article which
he criticises were not in the slightest danger
of misapprehending his position, notwith-
standing the slip of writing in which he is
said to have denounced it.
Dr. Deems asks : " Why are you so
anxious to keep your readers from believing
that the gentlemen whose names you have
recited in fact do not, and really cannot,
agree as to what is religion ? " Has not
the doctor here slipped also, in inadvertent
haste, and does he not really mean. Why
are you so anxious to make your readers be-
lieve, etc. ? and to this we reply, that the
anxiety in regard to a definition of religion
has not originated with us. It is the re-
viewers of Dr. Draper who have called for
a definition of religion from him, and con-
demn his book as dealing with a " conflict"
existing only in his own imagination, be-
cause he has not defined what reUgion is.
Had he undertaken this, they tell us, it
would have at once appeared that there is
and can be really no such conflict. We
said that "the point of contention is as to
what constitutes religion," because the the-
ological reviewers of Draper charge that
what he treats as religion, and as conflict-
ing with science, is not religion. We
have not denied that religion can be so de-
fined as to avoid all antagonism with sci-
ence ; and there is hope that the time may
come when such a definition will be ac-
cepted and the antagonism will disappear.
We onlv maintain that in the historic past.
