12
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Among the contrivances which have come down to us from the
ao-es before history was written, or the use of metals known, are found
stones shaped, as we may suppose, by the action of water, and so
rounded as to fit the hand. These stones are called by antiquarians
" mauls," and they were probably held in the hand and struck against
objects which otherwise could not have been broken. The maul is the
original form of the hammer. This maul might occasionally have
proved too heavy, but more frequently too light. For that tapping
action which in our minor wants is often more requisite than blows,
our prehistoric ancestors seem to have devised an ingenious appliance
consisting of a stone specially prepared for this somewhat delicate
operation. (Fig. 1.)
Fig. 1.— Tapping-Hammer of Stone.
This is supposed to be one of these tapping-hammers, held between
a finger and the thumb ; the original bears traces of wear, as if it had
been employed in striking against a cylindrical or sharp surface.
When, now, we pass from this light to very heavy work, it will be
obvious that to hold a stone in the hollow of the hand, and to strike an
object with it so that the reaction of the blow shall be mainly met by the
muscular action of the back of the hand, and the thinnest section of the
wrist, would be not only fatiguing, but might be injurious to the deli-
cate network of muscles there found, and so damage this part of the
hand. It may have been from such effects that even in the Stone age
there are traces of mauls which have double ends and are held by the
middle. A blow given by such is counteracted not only by the in-
creased mass of material, but also by the changed position of the hand
and wrist in relation to the direction of the blow. When held in the
hollow of the hand, the reaction was met by (say) a depth of tissue of
about three-quarters of an inch, but, when held as the maul now alluded
to must have been held, this reaction is met by a depth of tissue of
about three inches. Hence, while mechanically (owing to the mass of
stone) and muscularly (owing to the position of the hand in reference
to the direction of the blow) the maul in this second stage is a decided
improvement upon its primitive form, we cannot but admit that ex-
perience would soon suggest that even thus there was wanting suffi-
cient energy to overcome reactions, and that the double-headed maul
might be improved.
