EDITOR'S TABLE.
241
with which Dr. Draper deals, such an inter-
pretation of religion had not been reached,
and that it is very far from being arrived at
at the present time. Dr. Draper has been
reproached for not defining religion; had
he done so, and had his definition described
that which has passed under the name of
religion, and been held as religion, genera-
tion after generation, his definition would
have been at once repudiated by the theo-
logical party. We said that those who
agree in demanding a definition of religion
from Dr. Draper, and condemn his book as
treating of an illusive conflict because he
does not furnish it, cannot themselves agree
upon the definition they profess to so much
desire. Does Dr. Deems accept Mr. Fiske's
definition? And if there is one definition,
clear and complete, which all men can
adopt, why does he bring us two, and
which are we to accept ? They are cer-
tainly not identical, (or one makes it con-
sist in a special relation of man to God,
and the other in charity and moral purity.
Dr. Deems defines religion as " loving obe-
dience to God's will ; " but if the obedience
is inspired by Calvinistic fear, is it religion
or not ? Loving obedience to God's will —
but how ascertained ? Dr. Deems may say,
with broad liberality, either by the study of
God's printed word, or by the study of his
living works ; but can he insure us an agree-
ment among all parties upon this basis ?
From the doctor's position, that religious
people disagree among each other on ac-
count of their science, we respectfully dis-
sent. Science is not an agency of discord,
but of concord. There are undoubtedly
disagreements in science, for its nature is
progressive, and diversities of view are in-
evitably incident to its imperfect stages.
Yet the great law of scientific thought is
that, with the progress of investigation,
there is ever a tendency to wider agreement,
until its truths at length become established
and universally accepted. Throughout civil-
ization it is in science, and, we might almost
say, in science alone, that men are brought
into essential agreement. Through the pow-
er it has conferred over the elements of Na-
ture have come the marvels of modem in-
ternational communication and intercourse ;
and through the truths it has established in
the domain of experience has come a body
of common belief, which men of all lan-
guages, religions, and nationalities, can ac-
cept, so that we must regard science as in
fact the predominant unifying agency of the
world. The reason is, that it deals with the
order of Nature, which is constant and ever
open to observation and research. New
questions are, of course, constantly arising
in science, upon which there are at first
wide contrasts of opinion, but the history of
science abundantly shows, either that such
questions are gradually cleared up, or, if this
is found to be impossible — if the truth can-
not be determined about them — then there
comes agreement in this, and they are
finally put aside as insoluble, and therefore
questions with which science has no legiti-
mate concern. Conflicting views now pre-
vail on the problems of the origin of life
and the nature of life, and time alone can
determine what will be the issue of these
inquiries ; but we submit that these diver-
sities of opinion are of a quite different
kind from those between the Unitarian and
the Trinitarian — the Universalist and the
Perditiouist.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
WITO SHALL STUDY THE BABIESt
THE reader's attention will be ar-
rested by the novelty of our first
article, by a distinguished literary
Frenchman, giving the result of his
observations on the progress of an in-
fant in learning to talk. We confess
to some mortification at seeing the
name of a man at the head of such a
VOL. IX. — 16
discussion. Xot that the dignity of
M. Taine is at all compromised, for he
never undertook a more important or a
more distinguished task than critically
noting the steps of mental evolution in
a baby. Nevertheless, tliis would seem
to be preeminently the proper work of
woman — a work to which we might
infer she would be drawn by her feel-
