242
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ings, in which she would be interested
by her curiosity, and would take up
from the temptation of her special op-
portunities. Yet M. Taine found that
it had not been done. He wished to
test Max Mliller's views in regard to
the genesis of language, and wanted a
series of observations of infantine men-
tal groAvth for the purpose. But they
had not been made, the facts were
wanting, and nothing remained but to
make the study hijuself. We say this
kind of work belongs to woman, and
she is perfectly competent to peform it.
Why, then, has it not been undertaken,
and why has there not grown up a body
of carefully-observed and widely-veri-
fied facts regarding psychological de-
velopment in infancy such as would be
valuable for arriving at inductive truths
for guidance in the rational education
of childhood? Undoubtedly, psychol-
ogy is a backward science, imperfect
from the obscurity and complexity of
its questions, and its long cultivation by
unscientific methods. But the value
of observations upon the mental un-
folding of infancy is not, by any means,
dependent upon the possibility of im-
mediately explaining them. Such ob-
servations, if accurately made and in-
telligently recorded, will have a value
of their own independent of the state
of psychological science, while they
would become a permanent and potent
means of its advancement. In most
other fields of natural phenomena the
facts are far in advance of the theories
by which they are organized into sci-
ence ; in the field of mental growth,
however, observations are scanty and
speculation superabundant.
We are, of course, not to expect
that things will come before they are
wanted, and, if such observations are
not called for, why should they be sup-
plied ? But the facts have been long
and loudly called for, if not by psy-
chologists, then by practical educators,
while woman has had exclusive charge
of the education that begins in infancy.
She is an educator as a mother, and
the culture of childhood has almost
universally fallen into her hands as a
teacher. We might surely have ex-
pected that, with their great excess of
opportunity, some few women of abil-
ity would have gone carefully and criti-
cally and often over the ground which
M. Taine has passed over once with
such interesting results. But the work
that might have been expected, so far
as we are aware, has not been done,
nor is there any promise of it. The
difficulty is, that there has been noth-
ing in woman's education either to in-
terest her in the subject or to qualify
her for dealing with it. Observations,
to be valuable for scientific purposes,
involve an accuracy of perception and
an intellectual discrimination which are
not to be had except by patient and
methodical training of the observing
powers. This is the one thing that has
not been included in female education.
Neither languages, nor mathematics,
nor history, nor mental philosophy, nor
music, nor general literature, affords any
exercise whatever of the observing fac-
ulties. A student may become pro-
ficient in all these branches, whOe the
intellectual interest in the phenomena
of daily experience, and the objects of
common life, reniains as dormant as it
is in the savages. Nay, more, absorp-
tion in these modes of mental activ-
ity, which involve chiefly the memory
and reflective powers, is fatally un-
favorable to observation, as it brings
the mind under the control of mental
habits that exclude it. No woman can
make valuable observations on mental
progress in infancy that has not had a
culture fitted for it, first, by a long prac-
tice, such as she gives to music, in in-
dependent observation in some branch
of objective science, as botany, for ex-
ample ; and, secondly, by a thorough
knowledge of the constitution of the
child, especially the functions of its
nervous mechanism. With their heads
filled with history, ajsthetics, algebra,
