EDITOR'S TABLE.
243
French, and German, they will never
attain to these qualifications for study-
ing the character of children. The
seminaries do not prepare tliem for it;
the high-schools and the normal schools
do not confer it. Nor is this all, nor
the worst. There is no appreciation of
it or aspiration for it. The so-called
woman's nioveraent, which professes to
aim at her higher improvement and the
enlargement of her activities, is not in
this direction. It looks to public, profes-
sional, and political life, as woman's fu-
ture and better spliere of action. In the
new colleges for women that are spring-
ing up in all directions with munificent
endowments, the supreme consideration
seems to be to ignore sex, and frame the
feminine curriculum of study on the old
masculine models, and keep it up to the
masculine standards. The spirit of these
schools is that of a slavish imitation.
They are organized with no reference
to the argent and living needs of society,
but they go in for the traditional trum-
peries of the old colleges ; and, instead
of studying science in its personal, do-
mestic, and social bearings, the women
demand Latin and Greek, and as much
of it as the masculine intellect has proved
capable of surviving. Children are imi-
tators. Savages are imitators. What
else are the women in their demands
for new and ampler opportunities of
culture ? They will study classics, and
let the men study the babies ; but, if
they are incompetent, of course the men
must do it. For this business of study-
ing the science of infancy must be pur-
sued by somebody, thorougldy and ex-
haustively. It is nothing less than a
transcendent problem of human charac-
ter lying at the foundation of the social
state; for only as the human being is
understood in its deeper organic laws,
prenatal and infantine, as well as in its
subsequent unfolding, can we arrive at
settled and scientific views regarding
the rights, claims, duties, and true in-
terests of the individual in society. If
not a new research, it is at least a new
impulse and stage of research, and we
say again that we should think intelli-
gent and ambitious women would be
glad to have a share in it, and would
have wisdom enough to include it in
their extended schemes of female edu-
cation.
ENGLISH PniLOSOPUY IX GERMANY.
We not lung ago called attention to
a newspaper article under the title of
"German Darwinism," which made a
point against Herbert Spencer as pot be-
ing recognized in Germany. We point-
ed out various reasons in the national
habits of thought, why Spencer's doc-
trines, which are put forth under the
form of a philosophical system, would
be likely not to attract the attention
of German thinkers so early as those
of other Continental countries. Our
view has since been strikingly confirmed
by an eminent German authority, Prof.
Wundt, of the University of Leipsic, a
physiologist and psychologist of world-
wide reputation. In a review of the
German translation of "First Princi-
ples," published in the Jena Literary
Gazette, Prof. Wundt gives an excellent
account of the book, from which the fol-
lowing statements are condensed:
" Of living Enejlish philosophers Herbert
Spencer undoubtedly stands in the foremost
rank, yet his works have hitherto been little
known in Germany. It would, however,
appear that this neglect is soon to be re-
trieved, for, simultaneously with the aj)-
pearance of the work Under review, two oth-
er volumes by the same author are issued.
By giving an excellent translatiooi of 'First
Principles ' (under the title of The Bases of
Philosophy'), Dr. Vetter has rendered good
service to liis countrymen, and it is to be
hoped that h<i will further aid in making
tliis distinguished author known in Ger-
many by translating the subsequent, volumes
of his system."
" In the whole tenor of his views Mr.
Spencer differs widely from the speculative
philosopliers of Germany. Tiie indomita-
ble persistency with wiiich for twenty-five
years he has worked on the various branches
of science, bringing tliem into one system,
has no parallel in Germany, save, perhaps,
in Hegel's ' PIncyclopsedia.' "
" Among the dominant ideas in this sys-
