244
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
tern the doctrine of evolution is preeminent.
In Spencer's mind evolution is not merely a
principle in biology, but extends on the one
hand to inorganic Nature, and on the other
hand to the domain of psychology and so-
ciology. And here we take occasion to re-
mind the reader that, independently of the
stimulus given to scientific thought by Dar-
win, Mr. Spencer early recognized the im-
portance of the law of evolution, to which
from the first he gave very wide scope, and
which he has illustrated with a multitude
of original ideas."
"A detailed criticism of the 'First Prin-
ciples ' would necessarily require a book for
itself, more especially because the German
reader, from the very nature of his philo-
sophical training, will enter on the study of
the most general laws of heing, the demon-
stration of which is the aim of the present
work, with prepossessions difl'erent from
those of the English author. Perhaps in
the philosophical literature of recent times
there is no English work which bears the
national stamp so visibly as does Spencer's.
From this point of view alone, to say nothing
of the many pregnant thoughts it contains,
it well deserves the attention of German
readers. John Stuart Mill, in the philosoph-
ical direction of his mind, came too much
under the influence of the French, particu-
larly of Comte. Spencer's mind is, no
doubt, more original than Mill's, and more
free from foreign influences, though inferior
in the splendor of external form. In all the
philosophical speculations of Spencer we
plainly see that practical sense which makes
its way through the most drfficult problems
by the shortest route."
" Finally, though the German reader will
find in these 'Bases of Philosophy' much
that he will object to, and though on the
capital points of the system he will dissent
from the author oftener than he agrees with
him, nevertheless he will not lay the book
aside without having received many a valu-
able suggestion. Indeed, it may be truly
said of works on philosophy, that we learn
more from those which arouse our opposi-
tion than from those which merely echo our
own opinions,"
TEE RUMFOBD MEDALS.
The Eumford gold medal of the
American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ences, founded to commemorate impor-
tant contributions toward our knowl-
edge of heat and light, has just been
granted to Dr, John William Draper,
of New York. This is a distinguished
tribute to the scientific labors of our
eminent physicist and chemist, and the
Academy has honored itself in the
award. Yet, those who know how
early and eminent were Dr. Draper's
original contributions to the chemistry
of light, will be tempted to ask why
this distinction was not accorded by
the Academy to Dr. Draper a genera-
tion ago. As reminiscences of Count
Eumford are being revived just now,
it will be interesting to glance at the
history of his medals, which have at-
tained such celebrity in the scientific
world.
Deeply impressed with the impor-
tance of extending the knowledge of
heat and light, to which he had de-
voted himself with great assiduity and
success, Count Eumford, in 1796, pre-
sented to the Eoyal Society £1,000,
the interest of which was to be spent
in striking two medals both in the
same die, one of gold and one of silver,
worth the interest of the donation for
two years, and to be given biennially
for the most important discovery or
improvement relating to heat and light
that should have been made during the
preceding two years in any part of Eu-
rope. The trust was accepted and the
medals designed. The first award was
to Eumford himself in 1802. In 1804
John Leslie received the Eumford med-
als. The honor then passed, in 1806,
to Murdock ; in 1810 to Malus ; in 1814
to Dr, Wells; in 1816 to Humphry
Davy ; in 1818 to David Brewster ; in
1824 to Fresnel; in 1834 to Melloni ;
in 1838 to J. D. Forbes; in 1840 to
Biot ; in 1842 to Fox-Talbot ; in 1846
to Faraday; in 1848 to Eegnault; in
1850 to Arago ; in 1852 to Stokes ; in
1854 to Arnott ; in 1856 to Pasteur ;
in 1858 to Jamin; in 1860 to Clerk-
Maxwell; in 1862 to Kircbhoff; in
1864 to Tyndall ; in 1866 to Fizeau ; in
1868 to Balfour Stewart.
At tlie same time Count Eumford
made a corresponding donation to the
