LITERARY XOTICES.
24;
American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ences, instituted in 1780. Five thou-
sand dollars were presented, the accru-
ing interest of which was to be invest-
ed in medals, and granted biennially by
the academy for the most important
discoveries in relation to heat or light
made within the preceding two years.
It was also provided that, if this term
passed without any discovery or im-
provement being made that should be
deemed worthy of the award, the ac-
cruing interest was to be added to the
principal, and the augmented income
thus arising was to be added to the
medals when the next award was made.
But the arrangement seemed to be a
futile one, as there were none in
America who troubled themselves to
extend the knowledge of heat and
light ; or, at all events, there were no
such extensions as in the opinion of the
Academy were entitled to win the
prizes. Years passed, and the money
accumulated until the Academy became
embarrassed by the question what to
do with it. And so they got a law
passed by the Legislature empowering
them to depart from the strict letter of
the endowment, and use the funds with
more freedom in the interest of ad-
vancing knowledge. In 1839 the Acad-
emy gave from the interest of the Rum-
ford fund the sum of $600 to Dr. Hare,
of Philadelphia, in consideration of his
invention of the compound blowpipe,
and his improvement in galvanic appa-
ratus. The Rumford medal was grant-
ed by the Academy, in 1862, to John B.
Ericssen for his caloric - engine ; in
1865 to Daniel Treadwell, for improve-
ments in the management of heat; in
1867 to Alvan Clark, for improvement
in the lens of the refracting telescope ;
and in 1870 to George 11. Corliss, for
improvement:4 in the steam-engine.
When the gift was made to Dr. Hare,
the fund amounted to $27,000 ; and it
has now grown to $42,000.
The biographer of Rumford makes
the following significant observation :
" It is remarkable that the count, after
having liberally provided funds for
medals in the award of two learned
i bodies, should a few years afterward,
when drawing his plan and publishing
his proposals for his own Royal Institu-
tion, have introduced into them an ex-
press prohibition of all premiums and
rewards."
LITERARY NOTICES.
On Fermextatiox. By P. Schutzesberger.
With Twenty-eight Illustrations. Pp.
306. Price, $1.50. D. Appleton & Co.
No. XX. International Scientitic Series.
In the logic of science, the misleading
influence of words is a matter of ever-in-
creasing importance. Words remain, but
the ideas they represent are altered, ex-
panded, revolutionized. The old and nar-
row meanings live on in common speech,
and the changed and enlarged significations
are current among men of science, so that
when the terms are employed between these
classes they have so totally different a sig-
nification that intelligent and critical in-
terchange of ideas between them is hardly
possible. The term applied to the pres-
ent work is a case in point. The word^
" fermentation " is derived from fervere,
to boil, and applies to the agitation or
effervescence of saccharine liquids when
placed in contact with ferments — a phe-
nomenon that was probably familiarly
known long before the earliest traces ofi
history. To the mass of people, the word
" fermentation" suggests bread-making and
brewing, wi^h the production of spirituous
and souring products. To the man of science
and as treated in tbe present volume, fer-
mentation has become one of the great
gateways to biology. The subject has ever
been, and must continue to be, of great
practical moment in its domestic and manu-
fivcturing relations ; and every step in its
scientific elucidation is therefore a contri-
bution to the theory and progress of the'
arts. The knowledge of it has now become,
so clear and extended, that it was necessary
it should be brought together in a special
treatise for reference for all who are in-
terested hi practical problems of organic
chemistry. But while tlie present book
fulfills this condition, it also aims at the
