246
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
higher object of bringing the principles of
the subject into relation with philosophical
biology. The scientific significance of fer-
mentation lies in the fact that it brings be-
fore us the action and effects of the lowest
and most elemental forms of living organ-
isms ; it deals with the behavior and influ-
ence in numerous relations of elementary
organisms reduced to a single cell ; but these
Cells are the units of all organic life, a plant
or an animal of a higher order being only
the union under special laws of diflerent
kinds of cells, each of which acts in a cer-
tain determinable manner. While the high-
er organisms baffle analysis from the infinite
complexity and diversity of their minute or
histological elements, the key to their study
is offered in these lower structures, for " the
more simple an organism is, the fewer spe-
cial kinds of cells it contains, the simpler
are the chemical reactions which take place
in it, and the more easily are they separated
from each other and isolated by experi-
ment;" and from this point of view the
history of fermentation becomes nothing
less than that of the chemical phenomena
of Hfe. The thorough study of ferments,
therefore, becomes an indispensable scien-
tific prerequisite to the knowledge of the
higher organisms.
The investigation of the influence of
different ferment-cells in initiating differ-
ent lines of chemical change brings us into
closer quarters with the relations of chemi-
cal and so-called vital forces. As the dif-
ferent radiant forces, thermal, luminous, and
chemical, produce their profoundly diverse
effects simply by variations of wave-length,
so the different kind of cells are supposed
to initiate different chemical changes by
differences in the vibratory rhythm which
starts them. In relation to this point our
author remarks :
"The transformation of sug^ar into alcohol
and carbon dioxide and the conversion of ihe
same body into lactic acid are chemical phe-
nomena which we cannot yet reproduce by the
intersention of beat alone, nor by the additional
agency of light or of electricity. The force capa-
ble of attacking, in a certain determinate direc-
tion, the complex edifice which we call sugar, an
edifice composed of atoms of carbon, hydrogen,
and oxygen, grouped according to a determinate
lo^_t|jig force, which is manifested only in the
living cell of the ferment, is a force as material
as all those which we are accustomed to utilize.
Its principal peculiarity is, that it is only foand
in the living organisms, to which it gives their
peculiar character. We ought not to allow our-
selves to be stopped by tliis rampart, over which
no cue has hitherto been able to pass ; we ought
not to say to the chemist, ' You shall go no
farther, for beyond this is the domain of life,
where jou have no control.' The history of
science shows us the weakness of these so-called
impassable barriers. No one can any longer
admit that vital force has power over matter, to
change, comiterbalance, or annul, the natural
play of chemical aflBnities. That which we have
agreed to call chemical affinity is not an absolute
force ; this affinity is modified in numberless
ways, according as the circumstances vary by
which bodies are surrounded. Thus, the appar-
ent diflferences between the reactions of the lab-
oratory and those of the organism ought to be
sought for, more particularly among the special
conditions, which the latter alone has been able
hitherto to bring together. In other w ords, there
is really no chemical vital force. If living cells
produce reactions which seem peculiar to them-
selves, it is because they realize conditions of
molecular mechanism which we have not hith-
erto succeeded in tracing, but which we shall,
withmil doubt, be able to discover at some future
time. Science can t;ain nothing by being limited
in the possibility of the aims which she proposes
to herself, or the end which she seeks."
Memoir of Sir Benjamin Thompson (Count
Rumford), with Notices of his Daugh-
ter. By George E. Ellis. Published,
in connection with an edition of Rum-
ford's Complete Works, by the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences. Boston.
Pp. 680.
Rumford's Complete Works, vol. I., pp. 493.
Vol. II., pp. 570. Yol. 111., pp. 504. Vol.
IV., pp. 842. Price of the set, including
the " Life," $25.00. Boston : Estes &
Lauiiat.
We elsewhere publish a brief notice of
the life of Count Rumford — so brief as
hardly to give a just idea of the interest
that attaches to the romantic and remark-
able story of his career. But few biogra-
phies are richer in varied incident, or fuller
i of instruction, than this of Rumford ; and its
i literary execution, by Mr. Ellis, is well
I worthy of the subject. The four volumes
of his works comprise not only all the
I Count's essays, formerly published in Eng-
lish, but also valuable papers written by
I him in French and German which have been
first translated for this edition. The col-
lection has been supervised by the Rumford
Comiuittee of the American Academy of
I Sciences, who have grouped together in the
j several volumes, as far as was practicable,
I the papers on allied subjects ; thus the scl-
