LITERARY NOTICES.
249
A Treatise on the Diseases of the Ner-
vous System. By William A. Ham-
mond, M. D. New York : D. Appleton
& Co. Pp. 883, with 109 lUuslrations.
Price, $6.
The standing of this work may be in-
ferred from the fact that it has gone to the
sixth edition, and, having been out of print
a year, reappears rewritten, enlarged, and
much improved. Dr. Hammond has made
the subject of this work a specialty, and
his extensive medical practice in the de-
partment of nervous diseases can hardly
fail to give much practical value to his
treatise upon the subject. The work is
■written for medical students and the pro-
fession, but other people can collect a great
deal of information from it, curious and
valuable, in regard to nervous actions, con-
ditions, and disorders.
In his preface Dr. Hammond says : " One
feature I may, however, with justice claim
for this work, and that is, that it rests to a
great extent on my own observation and ex-
perience, and is, therefore, no mere compi-
lation. The reader will readily perceive that
I have views of my own on every disease
considered, and that I have not hesitated to
express them." Obviously, the great ob-
scurity and unsettledness of our knowledge,
both of the physiology and pathology of
the nervous system, offer a strong tempta-
tion to confident minds to form and pro-
mulgate positive opinions concerning them,
but the same causes should enforce caution
upon the student in their acceptance.
Painters' Magazine. Monthly, pp. 40. A.
G. Sullivan, Editor and Pujjlisher.
The eighth number of the second annual
volume has just been published, and pre-
sents to its readers an excellent and varied
table of contents, besides some useful illus-
trations for the practical painter, artist, etc.
The contributions are from some of the
best writers of the day upon the various
branches of painting. This magazine must
be useful not only to the painter, but also
to tlie architect and builder. That a belter
idea may be had, we give the headings of
leading articles, viz.: House-Painting; In-
terior or Mural Decoration; Pigment and
Color; Hints on Drawing; Answers to
Correspondents; Rail\vaj--Car Painting, etc.
Price, $1.50 per annum.
Magnetism and Electricity. By F. Guth-
rie. New York : Putnams. Price, §1.50.
In this little volume. Prof. Guthrie, of the
Royal School of Mines, London, pi-esents to
the general student of magnetism and elec-
tricity a very full compendium of that sci-
ence. In directness of statement and clear-
ness of expression this treatise is deserving
of very high prai.-ie, and these qualities it
doubtless owes to the circumstance that it is
based upon the notes of the lectures deliv-
ered by the author for many years to min-
ing students and science-teachers. The
work is illustrated with over 300 woodcuts.
Notes on BniLniNG Construction. For
sale by Lippiucott, Philadelphia.
This is the first of a series of three vol-
umes, intended to assist pupils who are pre-
paring for the examinations in building
construction held annually under the direc-
tion of the Science and Art Department of
the British Government. This first part
treats of the points laid down as necessary
for the examination in the elementary
course. The subjects discussed are : Wall-
ing and arches ; brickwork ; masonry ; car-
pentry; floors; partitions; timber roofs;
iron roofs; slating; pUimbing ; cast-iron
girders ; joinery.
Legal Chemistry. By A. Naqcet. Pp.
178. Price, $2. New York : Van Nos-
trand.
The title of this work sufiiciently indi-
cates its purport, namely, the solution ol
chemical problems arising in the adminis-
tration of justice. As a matter of course,
the subject of the detection of poisons re-
ceives the most attention ; but the author
also describes the processes to be adopted
for examining sundry alimentary and pliar-
maceutical substances, for examining writ-
ten documents, blood-stains, etc. The trans-
lator of the work. Dr. J. P. Battershall, ap-.
pends a list of l)Ooks and memoirs on the
subject of toxicology and the allied branches.
Principal Characters of the Dinocerata.
By Prof. 0. C. Marsh.
This is a reprint from the Anurican
Journal of Science and Art. Besides the
letter-press, the paper contains six litho-
graphic plates giving views of the skull, den-
tition, jaw, feet, etc., of Dinocerata.
