MISCELLANY.
251
lar point, furnished with two barbs ; then
they become enkrged, and present on the
lower surface tliree portions of the thread
of a screw, while their sides and their up-
per surface are covered with short, strong
spines, projecting from the centre of a de-
pression with hard and abrupt margins.
The purpose of these spines is to tear the
cells of tlie orange pulp, as the rasp serves
to open the cells of the beet-root, in order
to extract sugar. The upper region of the
trunk is covered below and on the sides
with fine, close-set stria;, arranged in half-
screws, which give it the properties of a
file; the striae are interrupted here and
there by small spines of soft consistence,
which serve for the perception of tactile
sensations. The orifice of the canal is situ-
ated in the lower surface, below the first
screw-third. All this will be seen better
from the annexed fiirures :
Trunk op Opldderesfullonica. — A, in Profile ; JB,
from below ; f , from above ; I, laterior Canal ;
o. Orifice of the Canal.
On investigation, M. Kiinckel has found
that all the species of the genus Ophidcrcs
possess a similar terebrant trunk. This
circumstance establishes a closer relation-
ship between the Lepidopiera, the Hemip-
icra, and certain Diptera in which the max-
illae are adapted to pierce tissues.
As we learn from Prof. A. R. Grote, the
group of Noduihc to wliich Ophiderca be-
longs, called by Borkhauson Fasciafce, is
represented by only a few forms in Europe,
but it is largely developed in tlie tropics of
both hemispheres. The peculiar structure
of the maxillte observed in Ophideres has
not been found in any of the North Amer-
ican genera of the group. In the genus
Catocala, which is largely represented in
North America, the spn-al tongue or trunk
is simply furni.-^hed with lateral papillae, ap-
pearing like serratures, toward the extrem-
ity of the trunk.
tunning of the Adder.— A correspond-
ent of the Milwaukee Scntmel confirms Mr.
Lewis's observations on the cunning of the
adder (in the February number of the
Monthly). This correspondent states that,
over thirty years ago, in Leeds, Greene
County, New York, his attention was one
day attracted by the plaintive cry of a cat.
Looking into a garden, an adder was seen
near the cat. The cat seemed to be com-
pletely paralyzed by fear of the adder ; she
kept up the plaintive cry, as if in great dis-
tress, but did not take her eye off the ser-
pent, or make any attempt to attack or es-
cape. Soon the snake saw that human
eyes were observing him, and he com-
menced to crawl slowly away. "I then,"
continues the writer of the narrative, "con-
cluded to release the cat from its trouble.
I took a garden-rake and put it on the
snake's back, and held it without hurting it.
As soon as I had the snake fast in this po-
sition, it raised its head, flattened it out, and
blew, making a hissing noise, and something
resembling breath or steam came from its
mouth. When that was exhausted I re-
moved the rake, and the adder turned over
on its back, lying as if dead. With the
rake I turned it over on its belly again, but
it immediately turned on. its back. This
was repeated several times. At last it was
taken out of the garden, laid in the road,
and we all retired to watch its movements.
It commenced to rai.se and turn its head
slowly (looking about the while), until en-
tirely on its belly, and started at full speed
for a little pool of water in the road, from
which it was raked out and dispatched."
Measnrin-; Distances by Scniid. — The
Prussian correspondent of the London
Times makes mention of an instrument de-
viseil by Major Le Boulanger, of the Bel-
gian Artillery, which, with great accuracy,
indicates the distance between two armies
from the report of their guns. The mo-
