252
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ment the enemy fires a shot, the action of
the report upon the "telemeter" marks
the distance to a fraction. The instrument
is entirely self-acting, easily kept in order,
and requires no particular experience or
intricate calculations to use it aright. The
experiments to which it has been subjected
in Prussia and iu some other countries are
stated to have been completely successful
as regards cannon. Experiments in the
rifle-grounds are still going on. Even
should the invention be confined to artil-
lery, its effect must be tremendous, consid-
ering the present deadly efficiency of fire-
arms. One of its principal advantages, it
is supposed, will be to enable gunners in a
coast-battery to determine the position of
a hostile ship — a calculation hitherto fraught
with special difficulty.
Sir John Lubbock on the Habits of Ants.
— Sir John Lubbock still continues his ob-
servations of ants, and at a recent meeting
of the Linnean Society of London read a
paper in which he treated — 1. Of the power
of intercommunication among ants ; 2.
Their organs of sense; 3. Their affection
or regard for one another. The results are
chiefly negative, contradicting many gen-
erally-received opinions. To test the ants'
power of communicating information to one
another, the author had a glass box for the
"nest," so that he could watch what was
done inside. This was placed on a pole.
On the other side of the pole was a board
intended as a promenade for the ants. Js'ear
to this were three pieces of glass, connected
with the board by strips of paper. On one
of the pieces of glass was placed a collec-
tion of food, and on the other two there
was nothing. Two ants were taken and
marked with spots of color, as in former
observations, so that they should be readily
recognized. These were both taken, one
after the other, to the store of food, and
were guided and taught their way to the
nest. They soon learned their way to and
from the nest to the food-siipply, coming
out of the door along the outside to the
pole, around that, across the board, along
the paper bridge, and so to the glass that
supported the food, and so back again to
the nest. Sir John Lubbock's object was
to watch whether the other ants iu the nest
would find out the food, and, if so, to test
as far as possible whether they found it
from information given, or whether they
tracked the scent. He devoted certain pe-
riods to watching the movements of the
ants, counting the number of journeys made
by his marked ants, and also recording how
many untaught strangers made their way
from the board along the right bridge to
the food. At his first period of observation
he found that, while his marked ants made
forty journeys with food, nineteen strangers
also came on to the bridges. Of these, two
only turned to the food, eight turned to the
wrong bridge, and the rest went straight
on. Modifications in the arrangements of
the bridges were made in diflerent ways,
while the rest of the construction was left
unaltered. The observations made on dif-
ferent days and during periods of different
duration all showed the same result.
In referring to the organs of sense, Sir
John had endeavored to ascertain whether
the antennae are organs of hearing or of
smell. He had tried them with all sorts of
noises he could contrive, and found no re-
sults. If ants have hearing, they must be
sensible to those vibrations of the air which
do not affect the human ear. But he had
also tried the antennae with smells, and he
found that if he put a fine camel's-hair
pencil with a scent on it near one of them
it shrank away, and then, if applied to the
other, that also turned away. The use of
the antennae, however, still needs inves-
tigation, and Sir John hopes soon to make
further observations. As regards their af-
fection for one another, he does not doubt
that an ant that dies laden with food will
be eared for by its companions ; but he
brought forward a number of instances in
which he had put ants that had suffered
immersion in water for periods of from an
hour to ten hours in the way of ants that
were passing by, and he found almost inva-
riably that they took no notice of their un-
fortunate brethren. Indeed, the exceptions
in which any attention was paid were so
few that Sir John said he was disposed to
regard these as ants with individual feel-
ings, which were by no means those com-
mon to the community. It is understood
that the results of Sir John Lubbock's long-
continued researches into the habits of bees
