MISCELLANY.
253
and ants will be given to the public before
long in a volume of the " International
Scientific Series."
Sea -Soundings without a Line. — Dr.
Siemens exhibited, at a recent meeting
of the Loudon Royal Society, an instrument
devised by himself for ascertaining the
depth of the sea. In explaining the prin-
ciple of this instrument, Mr. Siemens ob-
served that the total gravitation of the
earth, as measured on its normal surface,
is composed of the separate attractions of
its parts, and that the attractive influence
of each equal volume- varies directly as its
density and inversely as the square of its
distance from the point of measurement.
The density of sea-water being about 1.026,
and that of the solid constituents compos-
ing the earth's crust about 2.763, it follows
that an intervening depth of sea-water must
exercise a sensible influence upon total
gravitation if measured on the surface of
the i^ea. His instrument, which he calls a
bathometer, is described in the London
Times as consisting "essentially of a ver-
tical column of mercury, contained in a
steel tube having cup-like extensions at
both extremities, so as to increase the ter-
minal area of the mercury. The lower cup
is closed by means of a corrugated dia-
phragm of thin steel plate, and the weight
of the column of mercury is balanced in
the centre of the diaphragm by the elastic
force derived from two carefully-tempered
spiral steel springs of the same length as
the mercury-column. One of the peculiar-
ities of this mechanical arrangement is,
that it is parathermal, the diminishing elas-
tic force of the springs with rise of tem-
perature being compensated by a similar
decrease of potential of the mercury-col-
umn, which decrease depends upon the
proportions given to the areas of the steel
tube and its cup-like extensions."
The instrument is suspended in such a
manner as to retain the vertical position,
notwithstanding the motion of the ship,
and the vertical oscillations of the mercury
are almost entirely prevented by a local
contraction of the mercury-column to a very
small orifice. The reading of the instru-
ment is effected by means of electrical con-
tact, which is established between the end
of a micrometer-screw and the centre of
the elastic diaphragm. The pitch of the
screw and the divisions in the rim are so
proportioned that each division represents
the diminuiion of gravity due to one fathom
of depth. Actual experiment has shown
the apparatus to be very reliable.
Formation of Mountain -Cliaius. — This
subject is considered by Prof Joseph Le
Conte in the April nuniber of the American
Journal of Science, in which interesting
facts are presented, the results of obser-
vations made by the author in the Coast
Range of California. He finds that the
actual length of the folded strata is about
two and a half to three times the horizon-
tal distance through the mountains. It
thus appears that from fifteen to eighteen
miles of strata, that is, of original sea-
bottom, has been crushed or mashed intof
six mUes, with " corresponding up-swelling
of the whole mass."
This diminution of distance, according
to the theory of Prof Le Conte, has not
arisen from folding of the strata, but by
mashing of them by horizontal pressure.
From the flatteued and elongated form
of little nodules of clay found in some of
the strata, he concludes that their elonga-
tion vertically exactly correlates their short-
ening horizontally, and that the one is to
the other as two and a half or three is to
one. It thus appears that in the compres-
sion of the beds their constituent particles
underwent a change of form corresponding
with the conditions of the pressure.
These clay pellets or nodules arc sup-
posed to have been formed on the bottom
of gently-flowing streams, are a part of the
original sedimentary beds, and are the same
in character as tiiose which form greenish
spots in slate, as described by Prof. Tyn-
dall.
It will be seen that, in accounting for
the elevation of mountain-chains, Prof Le
Conte differs from Prof. Dana in this : that
wnile they agree that mountain-chains are
formed by yielding of the earth's crust,
Prof Dana attaches importance chiefly to
the bending and plication of it. Prof. Le
Conte to the cru-liing of it. He says, " I
am satisfied that Prof Dana greatly under-
estimates the amount of elevation by sim-
ple mashing as compared with foMing."
