254
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Brain-Weight and Mental Power. — Great
weight of braia is coraraoaly regarded as
evidence of great cerebral power. That
this CDuclusion, however, is erroneous, is
shown by Dr. Robert Lawson, who, in the
Lancet^ compares the brain-weights of some
of the great men of modern times with the
brain-weights of lunatics who died in the
West Riding Asylum. He gives the follow-
ing instructive table :
Ounces, Ounces.
Brain-weight of Dr. Chalmers 53 Lunatic 53
Daniel Webster.. &S.5 " 58
" Sir J. T. Simpson 54 " 5S.5
" Goodsir 57.5 " 59.5
" Abercrombie .... 63 " 60.5
Cuvier 64 " 61
It will be observed that only Abersrombie
and Cuvier surpass in weight of brain the
imnates of the asylum. One of these lu-
natics, he whose brain weighed 61 ounces,
was seventy-one years of age when he died ;
when he was forty-6ve, his brain probably
weighed not less than 64 ounces, thus equal-
ing in weight the brain of the great Cuvier,
and exceeding that of Daniel Webster by
20 per cent. From all this it follows that
great weight of brain is not in itself a con-
clusive evidence of great intellect.
From this comparison of brain-weights,
Dr. Lawsou passes to the consideration of
the relations between geuius and insanity.
"Every day," he says, " the observation of
the poet, that great wit is nearly allied to
madness, gains a wider and more practical
acceptance. So much is this the case that
Dr. Wilks ventures to make the statement
that it is probably the insane element which
imparts what we call genius to the human
race, the true celestial fire. And though it
is fearful to think of the propagation of a
race tainted with insanity, yet it does not
follow that an infusion of the insane blood
may not be desirable. Dr. Maudsley holds
the same opinion."
Preseryatiim of Zo'dlogical Spetimeus. —
Last summer, Profs. Terrillaud Rice, of Yale
College, made a number of experiments to
ascertain the effects of various chemical
preparations upon marine invertebrates, the
objects being to improve existing methods
of preserving specimens and to ascertain
the best means of killing in an expanded
state species which ordinarily contract very
much when put directly into alcohol. The
results are given in the American Journal of
Science, by Prof. Verrill, who says that sev-
eral very fine preparations of Actinice in
a state of nearly perfect expansion were
made by slowly adding a concentrated solu-
tion of picric acid to a small quantity of sea-
water in which they had been allowed to ex-
pand. When fairly dead, they were trans-
ferred to a pure saturated solution of the
acid, and allowed to remain from one to
three hours. They were then placed in
alcohol for permanent preservation. The
alcohol should be renewed after a day or
two, and this should be repeated until all
the water has been absorbed from the speci-
men. Hydroids and most kinds of jelly-fish-
es can be easily preserved in the same way.
Even delicate Ctenophorce can be thus pre-
served so as to make fair specimens. The
experiments were made with the view of
finding some poison that will kill moUusks,
especially gasteropods, in a fully-extended
state, but the results were negative ; at
least no method was discovered that is
more generally successful tliau that of al-
lowing them to suffocate in stale sea-water,
through excess of carbonic acid and de-
ficiency of oxygen.
ImproTcment of the Steam-Engine. — In
giving testimony before the Government Com-
missioners on the Advancement of Science in
Great Britain, Mr. Anderson, superintendent
of machinery at Woolwich, spoke of Joule's
experiments on the conservation of energy
as of immense value and as being an exam-
ple of what government should do for the
common good. Joule had made engineers
thoroughly dissatisfied with their present
knowledge as to what they can do with
steam. " I believe," he continued, " that
what Joule did will do more for this coun-
try than even what James Watt did. The
part that James Watt took was very great,
and the world gives him full credit for it ;
but the world is scarcely willing to give
credit to Joule. Engineers know that the
best steam-engine is not doing one-sixth of
the work which it ought to do and can do.
That is a sad state of matters to be in when
we know that we are so for wrong, but yet
no one will go to the trouble of going to the
end of the question so as to improve the
steam-engine as it might be done."
