NOTES.
255
rndcrgronnd Forests in the Thames Val-
leji — An interesting geological discovery,
as we learn from Nature, was recently made
during excavations for a new tidal basin at
the Surrey Commercial Docks, London.
On penetrating some six feet below the sur-
face, the workmen everywhere came across
a subterranean forest-bed, consisting of
peat with trunks of trees, for the most part
still standing erect. All are of species still
inhabiting Britain ; the oak, alder, and wil-
low, are apparently most abundant. The
trees are not mineralized, but retain their
vegetable character, except that they are
thoroughly saturated with water. In the
peat are found bones of the great fossil ox.
Fresb-water shells are also found. No doubt
is entertained that the bed thus exposed is
a continuation of the old buried forest which
has been brought to light at various other
localities on both sides of the Thames. In
each case the forest-bed is found buried be-
neath the marsh-claj', showing that the land
has sunk below the tidal level since the for-
est flourished.
The Medication of Infants. — From ex-
periments made by Dr. Lewald it appears
that sundry medicines are most advanta-
geously introduced into the system of an
infant through the mother's milk. Thus of
iron a larger quantity can be administered
to the infant in this way than by any other
means. Bismuth, however, is eliminated in
the milk only in very small quantity. Iodine
does not appear in the milk until ninety-six
hours after taking it ; iodide of potassium
appears four hours after ingestion, and
continues to be eliminated for eleven days.
Arsenic appears in the milk at the end of
seventeen hours, and continues for at least
forty hours. Oxide of zinc, though one of
the most insoluble preparations, is elimi-
nated by the milk ; it disappears sooner than
iron. The elimination of antimony is an
undeniable fact, and it is well to bear this
in mind during the period of nursing ; the
same holds true in regard to mercurial prep-
arations. That alcohol and narcotics are
eliminated by the milk has not been demon-
strated. Sulphate of quinine is eliminated
very easily, and a child suffering from inter-
mittent fever was cured by administering
quinine to the nurse.
NOTES.
The printing-press at which Benjamin
Franklin worked in London will be exhib-.
iled at Philadelphia. This press was at
one time the property of Ilarrild & Sons,
of London, but in 1841 they allowed it to
be forwarded to I'hiladelphia. By way of
acknowledgment, a sum of money was to
be handed over to the Printers' Pension
Corporation, for the purpose of founding a
pension for an aged printer. This has nev-
er been done, and hence Franklin's press
by right belongs to Messrs. Harrild, and-
should appear at the Centennial Exhibition
as an English and not an American exhibit.
In the "Annual of Natural Science," of
Wiirtcmberg, Otto Halin has an elaborate
review of the Eozoon Canadtnse question.
Thi.5 article, which is very long, is published
in the Annals and Magazine of Natural His-
tory, for April. The author, after an ex-
amination of the geological, the mineralogi-
cal, and the zoological facts, pronounces the
so-called eozoon structures to be purely
mineral in their origin.
In replying to Tyndall, Dr. Bastian cites
a number of investigators as supporting his
views on biogenesis. Among the authori-
ties thus quoted are E. Kay Lankcster and
Dr. Pode ; but the former of these two gen-
tlemen now writes to Natvre, saying that
their (i. e., Lankester's and Pode's) results
" conclusively and categorically contradict
the particular assertions contained in Dr.
Bastiari's book, ' The Beginnings of Life,'
into the truth of which they set themselves
to inquire."
Spectmens of paper and cardboard made
from peat were recently presented to the
Berlin Polytechnic Association by Herr
Yeyt-Meyer. The paper and cardboard
were very firm, and the latter was so thick
that it might be planed and polished. Pa-
per made of peat alone is like that made
from wood or straw ; but only fifteen per
cent, of rags is needed to give it consistence.
A large factory for the manufacture of peat
paper is to be established in Prussia.
In order to act intelligently against the
cotton-worm. Southern planters ai-e advised
by Prof. A. R. Grote to act in concert. He
further recommends that, whatever agent is
employed to destroy the woim, be used
against the first brood that appears in the
locality, so as to prevent its spreading far-
ther. It is highly desirable that the life-
history and habits of such insect-pests
should be thoroughly studied, with a view to
their extermination.
Prof. Benjamin Silliman, of Yale Col-
lego, has patented a process for giving reso-
