256
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nance to sundry alloys, such as britannia
metal, pewter, etc., which commonly give
only a dull sound when struck. According
to the Eii'jlnccring and Mtuing Jonrn/il, the
process consists in submitting articles made
of these alloys to the action of a certain
degree of temperature, just below their
melting-point, for a short time, in a bath of
oil or paraffine. The theory of the process
appears to turn upon a rearrangement, per-
haps a crystallization, of the molecules.
The Phylloxera Commission, appointed
by the Paris Academy of Science, to award
the Government prize of 300,000 francs for
the discovery of an effectual means of de-
stroying the Phylloxera^ has reported that
none of the specifics submitted to them are
entitled to the prize.
Db. Ewald records, in ReicherVs Archiv,
an instance of the production of a hydro-
carbon gas in the stomach of a man suffer-
ing from chronic gastritis. The man, one
day, while lighting a cigar, was surprised to
see his breath take fire, and burn with a
yellow flame. Dr. Ewald afterward analyzed
some of this gas, and found it to con.sist of
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbonic acid,
and a consideraVjle portion (about ten per
cent.) of marsh gas.
Aboct ten per cent, of the Cape dia-
monds are of first quahty, fifteen per cent,
of second, twenty of third. The remain-
der are employed for cutting diamonds, and
for the numerous applications of this gem
in the arts. It is estimated that the value
of the diamonds found at the Cape from
March, 1S67, to the present time exceeds
£•12,000,000.
Dr. Richard.son", of London, cites the
high death-rate of innkeepers, publicans,
and the like, as evidence of the fatal effects
of intoxicating drink. In London the mor-
tality of all males is 2.012 per cent, annu-
ally ; that of publicans, 3.466 per cent. In
England, exclusive of London, the mortality
of all males is 1.182 per cent, annually; of
publicans 3.163 per cent. It is a striking |
fact that the death-rate in this class is high-
er than in any other class of male occupa- ]
tions named in the census, save one — the !
hackney-coachman. |
Salicylic acid has been used with good 1
results in Germany, in the treatment of re-
cent superficial gangrenous sores, the method I
being to apply a thin layer of powdered I
salicylic acid on the surface of the sore,
covering it then with wadding.
Experiments lately made in France show
that air laden with coal-dust is highly ex-
plosive. Several cases of explosion in coal-
mines have been traced to the action of sus-
pended coal-dust when no fire-damp was
pp«»«nt.
The practice of scalping is not peculiar
to the American aboritrines. Southall, in
his "Recent Origin of Man," quotes from
Herodotus to show that the Scythians used
to scalp their fallen enemies. In the pres-
ent time the wild tribes of Isortheastem
Bengal use the scalping-knife.
As expedition under the leadership of
Prof. Xordenskiold will start next summer
to explore a commercial route from North-
ern Russia to Behring Strait, funds have
also been contributed toward the cost of
another expedition to explore the gulf of
Obi and the sea-route between Archangel
and the great rivers of Siberia.
Enjnr.vD A. Parkes, M. D., F. R. S., Pro-
fessor of Military Hygiene in the Army Medi-
cal School at Netley, England, died March
15th, at the age of fifty-six years. During
the Crimean War he was selected by Govern-
ment to organize and conduct a hospital,
and on his return to England was appointed
to the chair of Hygiene at Xetley. His
annual contributions on hygiene were for
many years, perhaps the most valuable feat-
ure of the blue-books of the War Depait-
ment. He was a very successful teacher,
and a frequent contributor to the medical
press, and to the " Transactions " of scientific
bodies. His " Manual of Practical Hygiene "
has reached a fourth edition.
Died, March 29th, Dr. Henry Letheby,
for many years lecturer on chemistry and
toxicology in the London Hospital, and
chemical analyst of the city of London. He
was the author of a number of papers on
sanitary and chemical subjects, published in
sundry medical journals. His work on
"Food" was republished in this country
three years ago. At the time of his death
he was sixty years of age.
Nearly all the amber of commerce comes
from Eastern Prussia, where it is obtained
by dredging the bottom of the sea .just off
the coast. It was recently discovered that
amber occurs in a deposit called the "blue
earth." It has been supposed that this
deposit extends for some distance inland,
and a shaft was recently sunk to determine
this point. At the depth of 140 feet there
was found a stratum of " blue earth " with-
out amber and two feet in thickness ; then
came another stratum five feet thick, which
was rich in amber.
There are few who do not remember the
childish wonder they once felt at hearing
the resonance produced by placing a sea-
shell to the ear, an effect which fancy has
likened to " the roar of the sea." This is
caused by the hollow form of the shell and
its polished surface, enabling it to receive
and return the beatings of all sounds that
chance to be trembling in the air. — Public
Ojjinion.
