258 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
have now removed ; and, like the other forms of force, light is found
to be capable of direct conversion into m©tion, and of being — like
heat, electricity, magnetism, sound, gravitation, and chemical action —
most delicately and accurately measured by the amount of motion
thus produced.
My research arose from the study of an anomaly.
It is well known to scientific men that bodies appear to weigh less
when they are hot than when they are cold ; the explanation given
being that the ascending currents of hot air buoy up the body, so to
speak. Wishing to get rid of this and other interfering actions of the
air during a research on the atomic weight of thallium, I had a balance
constructed in which I could weigh in a vacuum. I still, indeed,
found my apparatus less heavy when hot than when cold. The obvi-
ous explanations were evidently not the true ones ; ohvioxis explana-
tions seldom are true ones, for simplicity is not a characteristic of
Nature.
An unknown disturbing cause was interfering, and the endeavor
to find the clew to the apparent anomaly has led to the discovery of
the mechanical action of light.
I was long troubled by the apparent lawlessness of the actions I
obtained. By gradually increasing the delicacy of my apparatus I
could easily get certain results of motion when hot bodies were
brought near them, but sometimes it was one of attraction, at others
of repulsion, while occasionally no movement whatever was produced.
I will try to reproduce these phenomena in this apparatus (Fig. 1).
Here are two glass bulbs, each containing a bar of pith about three
inches long and half an inch thick, suspended horizontally by a
long fibre of cocoon silk. I bring a hot glass rod, or a candle, toward
one of them, and you see that the pith is gradually attracted, follow-
ing the candle as I move it roimd the bulb. That seems a very defi-
nite fact ; but look at the action in the other bulb. I bring the candle,
or a hot glass rod, near the other bar of pith, and it is strongly re-
pelled by it, much more strongly than it was attracted in the first
instance.
Here, again, is a third fact. I bring a piece of ice near the pith-bar
which has just been repelled by the hot rod, and it is attracted, and
follows the rod round as a magnetic needle follows a piece of iron.
The repulsion by radiation is the key-note of these researches.
The movement of a small bar of pith is not very distinct, except to
those near, and I wish to make this repulsion evident to all. I have
therefore arranged a piece of apparatus by which it can be seen by all
present. I will, by means of the electric light, project an image of a
pendulum suspended in vacuo on the screen. You see that the ap-
proach of a candle gives the bob a veritable push, and, by alternately
obscuring and uncovering the light, I can make the pendulum beat
time to my movements.
