26o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
what I think is a masterpiece of glass-working — the pump which en-
ables me so readily to produce a vacuum unattainable by ordinary
means.
The pump here at work is a modification of the Sprengel pump,
but it contains two or three valuable improvements. I cannot at-
tempt to describe the whole of the ai-rangeraents, but I will rapidly
run over them as illuminated by the electric light. It has a triple-
fall tube in which the mercury is carried down, thus exhausting with
threefold rapidity; it has Dr. McLeod's beautiful arrangement for
measuring the residual gas ; it has gauges in all directions, and a
small radiometer attached to it to tell the amount of exhaustion that
I get in any experiments ; it has a contrivance for admitting oil of
vitriol into the tubes without interfering with the progress of the
exhaustion, and it is provided with a whole series of most ingenious
vacuum-taps devised by Mr. Gimingham. The exhaustion produced
in this pump is such that a current of electricity from an induction-
coil will not pass across the vacuum. This pump is now exhausting
a torsion-balance, which will be described presently. Another pump,
of a similar kind but less complicated, is exhausting an apparatus
which has enabled me to pass from the mere exhibition of the phe-
nomena to the obtaining of quantitative measurements.
A certain amount of force is exerted when a ray of light or heat
falls on the suspended pith, and I wished to ascertain —
1. What were the actual rays — invisible heat, luminous, or ultra-
violet — which caused this action ?
2. What influence had the color of the surface on the action ?
3. Was the amount of action in direct proportion to the amount
of radiation ?
4. What was the amount of force exerted by radiation ?
I required an apparatus which would be easily moved by the im-
pact of light on it, but which would readily return to zero, so that
measurements might be obtained of the force exerted when different
amounts of light acted on it. At first I made an apparatus on the
principle of Zollner's horizontal pendulum. For a reason that will be
explained presently, I am unable to show you the apparatus at work,
but the principle of it is shown in the diagram (Fig. 3). The pendu-
lum represented by this horizontal line has a weight at the end. It is
supported on two fibres of glass, one stretched upward and the other
stretched downward, both firmly fastened at the ends, and also at-
taclied to the horizontal rod (as shown in the figure) at points near
together, but not quite opposite to one another.
It is evident that if there is a certain amount of pull upon each of
these fibres, and that the pull can be so adjusted as to counteract the
weight at the end and keep it horizontal, the nearer the beam ap-*
proaches the horizontal line the slower its rate of oscillation. If I
relax the tension, by throwing the horizontal beam downward, I get a
