THE MECHANICAL ACTION OF LIGHT.
261
more rapid oscillation sideways. If I turn the leveling-screw so as
to raise the beam and weight, the nearer it approaches the horizontal
position the slower the oscillation becomes, and the more delicate is
the instrument. Here is the actual apparatus that I tried to work
with. The weight at the end is a piece of pith ; in the centre is a
glass mirror, on which to throw a ray of light, so as to enable me to
see the movements by a luminous index. The instrument, inclosed in
glass and exhausted of air, was mounted on a stand with leveling-
screws, and with it I tried the action of a ray of light falling on the
pith. I found that I could get any amount of sensitiveness that I
liked ; but it was not only sensitive to the impact of a ray of lio-ht, it
was immeasurably more so to a change of horizontality. It was in
fact, too delicate for me to work with. The slightest elevation of one
end of the instrument altered the sensitiveness, or the position of the
■O
Fig. 3.
Co
■^
Fig. 4.
zero-point, to such a degree that it was impossible to try any experi-
ments with it in such a place as London. A person stepping from
one room to another altered the position of the centre of gravity of
the house. If I walked from one side of my own laboratory to the
other, I tilted the house over sufficiently to upset the equilibrium of
the apparatus. Children playing in the street disturbed it. Prof.
Rood, who has worked with an apparatus of this kind in America,
finds that an elevation of its side equal to ggoSoooo P^^^. of an inch is
sufficient to be shown on the instrument. It was therefore out of the
question to use an instrument of this construction, so I tried another
form (shown in Fig. 4), in which a fine glass beam, having disks of
pith at each end, is suspended horizontally by a fine glass fibre, the
whole being sealed up in glass and perfectly exhausted. To the cen-
tre of oscillation a glass mirror is attached.
Now, a glass fibre has the property of always coming back to zero
when it is twisted out of its position. It is almost, if not quite, a per-
fectly elastic body. I will show this by a simple experiment. This
is a long glass fibre hanging vertically, and having an horizontal bar
