262 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
suspeuded on it. I hold the bar, and turn it half round ; it swings
backward and forward for a few times, but it quickly comes back to
its original position. However much twist, however much torsion,
may be put on this, it always returns ultimately to the same position.
I have twisted glass fibres round and kept them in a permanent state
of twist more than a hundred complete revolutions, and they always
came back accurately to zero. The principle of an instrument that I
shall describe farther on depends entirely on this property of glass.
Instead of using silk to suspend the torsion-beam with, I employ a
fibre of glass, drawn out very fine before the blow-pipe. A thread of
glass of less than the thousandth of an inch in thickness is wonder-
fully strong, of great stifihess, and of perfect elasticity, so that, how-
ever much it is twisted round short of the breaking-point, it untwists
itself perfectly when liberated. The advantage of using glass fibres
for suspending my beam is, therefore, that it always returns accu-
rately to zero after having tried an experiment, while I can get any
desired amount of sensitiveness by drawing out the glass fibre suffi-
ciently fine.
Here, then, is the torsion apparatus sealed on to a Sprengel pump.
You will easily understand the construction by reference to the dia-
gram (Fig. 4). It consists of an horizontal beam suspended by a glass
fibre, and having disks of pith at each end coated with lampblack.
The whole is inclosed in a glass case, made of tubes blown together,
and by means of the pump the air is entirely removed. In the centre
of the horizontal beam is a silvered mirror, and a ray from the electric
light is reflected from it on to a scale in front, where it is visible as a
small circular spot of light. It is evident that an angular movement
of the torsion-beam will cause the spot of light to move to the right
or to the left along the scale. I will first show you the wonderful
sensitiveness of the apparatus. I simply place my finger near the
pith-disk at one end, and the warmth is quite sufficient to drive the
spot of light several inches along the scale. It has now returned to
zero, and I place a candle near it. The spot of light flies off the scale.
I now bring the candle near it alternately from one side to the other,
and you see how perfectly it obeys the force of the candle. I think
the movement is almost better seen without the screen than with it.
The fog, which has been so great a detriment to every one else, is
rather in my favor, for it shows the luminous index like a solid bar of
light swaying to and fro across the room. The warmth of my finger,
or the radiation from a candle, is therefore seen to drive the j^ith-
disk away. Here is a lump of ice, and on bringing it near one of the
disks the luminous index promptly shows a movement of apparent
attraction.
With this apparatus I have tried many experiments, and among
otliers I endeavored to answer the question, " Is it light, or is it heat,
that produces the movement?" — for that is a question that is asked
