H
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
skill in the use of the hammer as a fiuishing-tool can be acquired, is
manifest from the many beautiful specimens of rei^ousse work to be
seen in silversmiths' shops. The details of the ornamentation are not
only minute, but they so harmonize as to give elegance and expres-
sion to the whole, exclusive of the form of the articles themselves.
The variety of shape is mainly produced by changes in the form of
the "pane" of the hammer and in the weight of it. These changes
of " pane " are sometimes effected by separating the pane from the
hammer, and then the separated piece is called a "punch."
The famous shield of Achilles, in the " Iliad " of Homer, is described
as the result of hammer-work ; and, though this shield may not have
been actually fashioned, nevertheless the description gives an idea of
what a hammer was in early times poetically supposed to be capable
of accomplishing. The scenes wrought upon the shield of Achilles
are — 1. The earth, sea, and heavenly bodies. 2. In a cit}' at peace
there are (a.) Marriage festivities ; (b.) Judicial suit or trial. 3. In a
city at war there are (a.) A scene before the ramparts; [b.) An ambush
and surprise ; (c.) A bloody tight. 4. The ploughing of a field. 5.
The harvest and the meal in preparation. 6. The vintage, with music
and a march. 7. A herd of cattle attacked by lions. 8. Sheep at
pasture, and their folds. 9. A dance. 10. Thegreat ocean-river encom-
passing the whole, as, in the mind of Homer, it encompassed the earth.
For examples of the use of hammers in the production of works of
great variety and extent on a large scale, see the ancient hammered
wrought-iron gates, hinges, and panels, in the architectural room in
the South Kensington Museum; also the suits of mail and chain-armor
in the Tower of London ; also the formation of gold-leaf, the springs
of carriages, and the stiffening of saw-plates.
Fig. 3.
Fig. 4. Fig. 5.
Engineer's Hammers.
Fig. 6.
The nature of the work to be done by hammers calls for very great
differences, not only in the form, material, and weight of the hammer-
head, but also in the appendages to these. There are the material
