THE MECHANICAL ACTION OF LIGHT.
263
me by almost every one ; and a good many appear to think that, if
the motion can be explained by an action of heat, all the novelty and
the importance of the discovery vanish. Now, this question of light
or heat is one I cannot answer, and I think that when I have ex-
plained the reason you will agree with me that it is unanswerable.
There is no physical difference between light and heat. Here is a
diagram of the visible spectrum (Fig. 5). The spectrum, as scientific
ABC D
Fig. 5.
men understand it, extends from an indefinite distance heyond the red
to an indefinite distance beyond the violet. We do not know how far
it would extend one way or the other if no absorbing media were
present; but, by what we may call a physiological accident, the
human eye is sensitive to a portion of the spectrum situated between
the line A in the red to about the line H in the violet. But this is
not a physical difference between the luminous and non-luminous
parts of the spectrum ; it is only a physiological difference. Xow, the
part at the red end of the spectrum possesses, in the greatest degree,
the property of causing the sensation of warmth, and of dilating the
mercury in a thermometer, and of doing other things which are con-
veniently classed among the effects of heat ; the centre part affects
the eye, and is therefore called light ; while the part at the other end
of the spectrum has the greatest energy in producing chemical action.
But it must not be forgotten that any ray of the spectrum, from what-
ever part it is selected, will produce all these physical actions in more
or less degree. A ray here, at the letter C for instance in the orange,
if concentrated on the bulb of a thermometer, will cause the mercury
to dilate, and thus show the presence of heat ; if concentrated on my
hand I feel loarmth • if I throw it on the face of a thermo-pile it will
produce a current of electricity ; if I throw it upon a sensitive photo-
graphic plate it will produce chemical action ; and if I throw it upon
the instrument I have just described it will produce motion. "Wliat,
then, am I to call that ray ? Is it light, heat, electricity, chemical
action, or motion ? It is neither. All these actions are inseparable
