264 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
attributes of the ray of that particular wave-lengtli, and are not evi-
dences of separate identities. I can no more split that ray up into
five or six different rays, each having different properties, than I can
split up the element iron, for instance, into other elements, one pos-
sessing the specific gravity of iron, another its magnetic properties,
a third its chemical properties, a fourth its conducting power for
heat, and so on. A ray of light of a definite refrangibility is one and
indivisible, just as an element is, and these different properties of the
ray are mere functions of that refrangibility, and inseparable from it.
Therefore when I tell you that a ray in the ultra-red pushes the in-
strument with a force of one hundred, and a ray in the most luminous
part has a dynamic value of about half that, it must be understood
that the latter action is not due to heat-rays which accompany the
luminous rays, but that the action is one purely due to the wave-
length and the refrangibility of the ray employed. You now under-
stand why it is that I cannot give a definite answer to the question,
"Is it heat or is it light that produces these movements? " There is
no physical difference between heat and light ; so, to avoid confusion,
I call the total bundle of rays which come from a candle or the sun,
radiation.
I found, by throwing the pure rays of the spectrum one after the
other upon this apparatus, that I could obtain a very definite answer
to my first question, " What are the actual rays which cause this
action ? "
The apparatus was fitted up in a room specially devoted to it, and
was protected on all sides, except where the rays of light had to pass,
with cotton-wool and large bottles of water. A heliostat reflected a
beam of sunlight in a constant direction, and it was received on an
appropriate arrangement of slit, lenses, prisms, etc., for projecting a
pure spectrum. Results were obtained in the months of July, August,
and September ; and they are given in the figure (Fig. 5) graphically
as a curve, the maximum being in the ultra-red and the minimum in
the ultra-violet. Taking the maximum at 100, the following are the
mechanical values of the different colors of the spectrum :
Ultra-red 100
Extreme red .......... 85
Red 73
Orange 66
Yellow • . 57
Green 41
Blue 22
Indigo 8^
Violet 6
Ultra-violet 5
A comparison of these figures is a sufficient proof that the mechanical
action of radiation is as much a function of the luminous rays as it is
of the dark heat-rays.
