CAUSES OF THE COLD OF THE ICE PERIOD. 287
One result of the formation of an ice-cap over the polar regions
alternately in one and the other hemisphere migljt very well be, as
claimed by CroU and admitted by Sir William Thomson, such great
ebbs and flows of the ocean-waters as we find recorded in the Cham-
plain clays, and the present depressed sea-level; but some more con-
clusive evidence of an ice-cap will be asked by cautious reasoners than
these alternations of level: such evidence, for example, as universal
glaciation over all of North America of 40° north latitude. No
such evidence has as yet been adduced; but, on the contrary, ob-
servers report an absence of ice-marks in the interior of the continent
northwest of the Great Lakes. This we might take to be proof that
the glaciers of the Ice period were limited to the highlands compar-
atively near the ocean, the source of evaporation, and that the inte-
rior was so dry then and now that no glaciers could be formed there.
This is, however, a subject which requires further investigation.
Whatever be its cause, the uniformity and magnitude of the change
of sea-level from the Tertiary emergence to the Champlain submer-
gence, and then to the present, render it one of the most remarkable
phenomena recorded in geological history, and one that with careful
study will probably throw much light upon the great dynamical in-
fluences that have produced changes on the earth's surface.
III. Either simultaneously or alternately with the extremes of
warmth and cold, which we find recorded in the northern, warm and
cold periods prevailed in the southern hemisphere. The evidences of
a Glacial period in South America are as conclusive as on our own
continent ; but it is diflScult to conceive how barriers could, at that
time, have been thrown across the great open oceans — the South At-
lantic and South Pacific — in such a way as to confine the tropical cur-
rents to the central portions of these oceans.
We are, perhaps, not justified in saying that such barriers never
did exist, but it will be conceded that the difficulties which oppose
their erection there are much greater than in the northern hemisphere ;
and the hypothesis which supposes their existence in the Glacial pe-
riod of the southern hemisphere is so entirely unsupported by facts,
that we are compelled to regard it as mere conjecture.
In any discussion of the phenomena and causes of the Ice period
we are, up to the present time, somewhat limited and embarrassed for
want of a Avider range of observation. The facts are not yet all in.
Nearly all the detailed and careful observations made on the glacial
phenomena of the northern hemisphere have been limited to the east-
ern half of North America and the western part of the European
Continent. Here the traces left by the glaciers are really stupendous
in their magnitude and extent ; and we have demonstrative evidence
that, during the Ice period, the glaciers and snow-fields of Greenland
stretched continuously down along the Atlantic coast of North Amer-
ica to and below New York, and that the highlands of New England
