288 THF. POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and Eastern Canada were completely covered, and probably deeply
buried, in sheets of ice and snow. In the British Islands and Norway
the inscriptions made by ancient glaciers are scarcely less broad and
profound, and it is even conjectured that the bed of the shallow Korth
Sea is itself glaciated throughout. These evidences of vast accumu-
lations of ice and snow on the borders of the Atlantic have led some
theorists to suppose that the Ice period was attended, if not in part
caused, by a far more abundant evaporation from the surface of the
Atlantic than takes place at present ; and it has even been conjectured
that submarine volcanoes in the tropics might have loaded the atmos-
phere with an unusual amount of moisture. This speculation seems
to me, however, both improbable and superfluous ; improbable, be-
cause no traces of any such cataclysm have been discovered, and it is
more than doubtful whether the generation of steam in the tropics,
however large the quantity, would produce glaciation of the polar
regions. The ascent of steam and heated air loaded with vapor to
the altitude of refrigeration, would, as it seems to me, result in the
rapid radiation of the heat into space, and the local precipitation of
unusual quantities of rain ; and the effect of such a catastrophe would
be slowly propagated and feebly felt in the arctic and antarctic re-
gions. The hypothesis is superfluous, because all we want, to restore
the conditions recorded in the glaciated area, is simply a depression
of temperature ; by this the climate of Greenland, with all the attend-
ing phenomena, would be brought down on both sides of the Atlan-
tic to the lowest point where the average annual temperature of
Greenland prevailed.
This is, I think, proved by the condition of Greenland itself; re-
mote as it is from evaporating surfaces of warm water, the pre-
cipitation of moisture upon that continent is, however, sufficient to
cover it deeply under sheets of snow and ice ; the whole interior be-
ing occupied by a continental glacier ; and it is easy to see that, with
a depression of the average annual temperature 10°, the highlands of
Labrador would be brought into the same condition. With a still
further depression the elevated portions of New England, the Adi-
rondacks, and the highlands north of the lakes, would be comijletely
encased in snow and ice. If the flow of the St. Lawrence were ar-
rested, and the annual precipitation of the region drained by it were
congealed, and retained from year to year, glaciers would soon form,
and creep down from the highlands into the valleys, until the basins
of the great lakes and the troughs of the Hudson and St. Lawrence
would be completely filled with ice. On the eastern side of the At-
lantic this state of things would be still more rapidly reached, inas-
much as, from the effect of the Gulf Stream, the coast climate is con-
siderably more moist.
So far, then, as the region bordering the North Atlantic is con-
cerned, a simple depression of temperature from any cause whatever.
