CAUSES OF THE COLD OF THE ICE PERIOD. 289
terrestrial or cosmical, would produce all the phenomena of the Ice
period.
Before we can certainly determine, however, what the nature of
the cause producing the cold of the Ice period was, we must know
more accurately where and how the cause operated. To accomplish
this, observations must be made over all those portions of the northern
and southern hemispheres where the traces of former glaciers are
visible.
In a general way we know that there was a cold period throughout
the northern hemisphere, as glacial phenomena are reported from Si-
beria and Northwestern America, somewhat similar to those which
we find on the Atlantic coast. In regard to Siberia very much re-
mains to be learned. Nearly the whole of the northern portion of
this great area is flat, and is deeply covered with Quaternary depos-
its ; and it has been conjectured that in the Ice period the shallow sea
off the Siberian coast was solidl}' frozen throughout a great portion
of its breadth, and thus formed an ice-dam, behind which the drain-
age of the northern slope accumulated alternately as sheets of ice
and bodies of fresh water.
The northern portion of the interior of our own continent is said to
be without distinct marks of glacial action. Should this statement be
confirmed by further observation, it would not, however, be a formida-
ble argument against a general Glacial period; for intense cold would
leave no permanent record there, unless there was sufiicient precipita-
tion of moisture to form glaciers. As this region is now very di"y and
stei-ile, it was perhaps so through the Ice period, and snow at no time
fell there in sufiicient quantity to form glaciers. On the mountains of
British America and Alaska, of Oregon and California, there are
abundant evidences of glaciers far more numerous and extensive than
any now existing ; and these furnish demonstrative evidence that this
region shared in the effects of a distinct Ice period. The slopes of the
Cascade Mountains in Oregon are everywhere glaciated, and perhaps
no more impressive record of the Ice period exists than that formed
by the planed and furrowed surfaces, the roches moutonnees, etc., by
which all the higher portions of the belt, twenty to thirty miles in
width, are marked. No ice-sheet moved in that region from the north,
as there was no district of northern highlands where continental gla-
ciers could be generated; but the glaciers radiated east and west
from various centres along the crests of the chain, and descended at
least 2,500 feet below the present snow line. This I determined by
actual barometric observation in many places, and I nowhere found
the lower limit of glacial action, as the planed and furrowed surfaces
passed beneath the alluvium of the lower valleys.
Whether there was a depression of the Western coast during the
Chamjilain epoch, corresponding to that recorded along the shoi'es of
the Atlantic, we are as yet unable to say, as careful observations on
VOL. IX. — 19
