290
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this interesting subject are wanting ; and these are not easily made
on this iron-bound and eai-thquake-shaken coast, where there has been
so little low and level land upon which Charaplain clays could be
deposited.
That this portion of the continent — like the Eastern side — has been
higher than now, we learn from the deeply-excavated channels of
the Golden Gate, the straits of Carquines, the mouth of the Colum-
bia, the Canal De Haro, etc. But this erosion was produced in part
if not altogether in Tertiary times. At Shoalwater Bay and about
Steilacoom, there are raised beaches, apparently of ancient date, but
farther south the changes of level have been so frequent and local
that nothing like system has been educed from a comparison of the
old shore-lines.
Taken as a whole, the glacial inscriptions of the West coast, as
studied by King and Le Conte in California, and myself in Oregon,
prove an Ice period as distinctly as do the glacial marks of the At-
lantic coast and the Mississippi Valley ; but the peculiar topography
of the Western country has made the record a somewhat different one.
From the foregoing facts it seems to me that we are justified in
concluding :
1. That however simple and plausible the Lyellian hypothesis may
be, or however ingenious the extension or application of it suggested
by Dana, it is not sustained by any proof, and the testimony of the
rocks seems to be decidedly against it.
2. Though much may yet be learned from a more extended and
careful study of the glacial phenomena of all parts of both hemispheres,
the facts already gathered seem to be incompatible with any theory
yet advanced wliich makes the Ice period simply a series of telluric
phenomena, and so far strengthens the arguments of those who look
to extraneous and cosmical causes for the origin of these phenomena.
A FITTING RECOGNITION OF AMERICAN SCIENCE.
PRESENTATION OF THE EUMFOED MEDAL BY THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF
SCIENCE TO DE. DRAPER.— FROM THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY.
AT the six hundred and eighty-ninth meeting of this body, held
March 8, 1876, the chairman of the Rumford Committee intro-
duced the special business of the evening, and handed to the Presi-
dent, Hon. Charles Francis Adams, the Rumford medals (in gold and
silver), on each of which had been engraved the following inscription :
" Awarded by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences to John
W. Draper, for his researches in radiant energy. May 25, 18V5."
In presenting the medals the President said :
