A FITTING RECOGNITION OF AMERICAN SCIENCE. 2c)i
Gentlemex of the Academy : The foundation of this Society,
you all know, dates back but four years less than a century. It fol-
lowed close upon the adoption of the form of government of the State
itself. Further than this privilege of a corporation, I am not aware
that the State has since bestowed any aid on it whatever. During the
long period that has intervened, the individual members have steadily
and honestly contributed their labors and their money to the advance-
ment of science and of the arts, the evidence of which is to be found
as well in the collections of the library as in the long series of their
published ti-ansactions. We have not been so lucky as to earn the
favor of the generous and wealthy at all in the proportion given to
some other institutions of the same general character. In point of
fact, we have to ascribe our success more to our own energies than to
the assistance of patrons. This is no bad sign for the future. The
Academy was never in moi-e healthy and vigorous condition than at this
moment. The meetings are constantly attended by members who ap-
pear to give or to receive with interest the many valuable contribu-
tions to knowledge which ultimately take their place in the formidable
volumes open to the inspection of the world.
Yet it is not to be understood from what I have said that the insti-
tution has been altogether without liberal assistance from several
sources. The most remarkable instance of a benefaction was perhaps
the earliest, that of Benjamin Thompson, better known under the name
of Count Rumford, who, eighty years ago, presented to the Academy
the sum of five thousand dollars, to be devoted to the stimulation of
the study of the various phenomena connected with light and heat, by
the presentation of medals of value as honorary rewards to successful
research. It is to the credit of the Academy, in these degenerate days,
to find that its administration of this property has fully justified the
confidence of the donor, the original sum having increased more than
fourfold over and above the cost of the medals which have from time
to time been awarded to successful investigation of the great subjects
proposed for study and examination.
It now becomes my agreeable duty to announce the fact that, after
a careful review of the meritorious service of Prof. Draper in this
great field of inquiry, the committee having the subject in their
charge have, for reasons given by them, recommended through their
chairman, that the medals prescribed in the deed of trust should be
presented to him as having fully deserved them. It falls to ray lot
only to recapitulate in brief some of these reasons.
In 1840 Dr. Draper independently discovered the peculiar phe-
nomena commonly known as Moser's images, which are formed when
a medal or coin is placed upon a polished surface of glass or metal.
These images remain, as it were, latent, until a vapor is allowed to
condense upon the surface, when the image is developed and becomes
visible.
