292 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
At a later period he -devised the method of measuving the inten-
sity of the chemical action of light, afterward perfected and employed
by Bunsen and Roscoe in their elaborate investigations. This method
consists in exposing to the source of light a mixture of equal volumes
of chlorine and hydrogen gases. Combination takes place more or
less rajiidly, and the intensity of the chemical action of the light is
measured by the diminution in volume. No other known method
compares with this in accuracy, and most valuable results have been
obtained by its use.
In an elaborate investigation, published in 1847, Dr. Draper estab-
lished experimentally the following important facts :
1. All solid substances, and probably liquids, become incandescent
at the same temperature.
2. The thermometric point at which substances become red-hot is
about 977° Fahr.
3. The spectrum of an incandescent solid is continuous ; it contains
neither bright nor dark fixed lines.
4. From common temperatures nearly up to 977° Fahr., the rays
emitted by a solid are invisible. At that temperature they are red,
and, the heat of the incandescing body being made continuously to
increase, other rays are added, increasing in refrangibility as the tem-
perature rises.
5. While the addition of rays so much the more refrangible as the
temperature is higher is taking place, there is an increase in the in-
tensity of those already existing. Thirteen years afterward Kirch -
hoff published his celebrated memoir on the relations between the
coefficients of emission and absorption of bodies for light and heat, in
which he established mathematically the same facts, and announced
them as new.
6. Dr. Draper claims, and we believe with justice, to have been the
first to apply the daguerreotype process to taking portraits.
7. Dr. Draper applied ruled glasses and specula to'produce spectra
for the study of the chemical action of light. The employment of
ruled metallic specula for this purpose enabled him to avoid the
absorbent action of glass and other transparent media, as well as to
establish the points of maximum and minimum intensity with reference
to portions of the spectmim defined by their wave-lengths. He ob-
tained also the advantage of employing a normal spectrum in place of
one which is abnormally condensed at one end and expanded at the
other.
8. We owe to him valuable and original researclies on the nature
of the rays absorbed in the growth of plants in sunlight. These
researches prove that the maximum action is produced by the yel-
low rays, and they have been fully confirmed by more recent investi-
gations.
9. We owe to him, further, an elaborate discussion of the chemical
