A FITTING RECOGNITION OF AMERICAN SCIENCE, zg^
action of light, supported in a great measure by his own experiments,
and proving conclusively, and, as we believe, for the first time, that
rays of all wave-lengths are capable of producing chemical changes,
and that too little account has hitherto been taken of the nature of the
substance in which the decomposition is produced.
10. Finally, Dr. Draper has recently published researches on the
distribution of heat in the spectrum, which are of the highest interest,
and which have largely contributed to the advancement of our knowl-
edge of the subject of radiant energy.
And now, in the absence of *Di-. Draper, unable at this inclement
season to execute a fatiguing journey, it gives me pleasure to recog-
nize you, Mr. Quincy, as his worthy and competent representative.
I pray you, in receiving these two medals on his belialf, in accord-
ance with the terms of- the original trust, to assure him, on the part
of the Academy, of the high satisfaction taken by all its Fellovvs in
doing honor to those who, like him, take a prominent rank in the ad-
vance of science throughout the world.
Mr. Quincy, on receiving the medals, said :
Mr. Pkesident : In tlie name and on the behalf of Di*. Di-aper I
have the honor to receive the Rumford medals in gold and silver,
which the Academy has been pleased to award to him, and I will
have thera safely conveyed to him to-morrow, together with the assur-
ances of the satisfaction of the Academy in this action which you wish
me to communicate to him. In common with yourself, sir, and all the
Fellows present, I regret that that eminent person is unable to attend
this meeting and receive the medals himself. And, personally, I re-
gret the absence of Dr. Wolcott Gibbs, who had promised to perform
this grateful service for his friend, and who would have been able to
make a more suitable reply to the able discourse with which you have
accompanied the presentation of the medals, and to have done more
justice to the claims of Dr. Draper to this distinction than I can pre-
tend to do. Dr. Gibbs having also been unavoidably prevented from
being present this evening, I have now the honor to read a communi-
cation from Dr. Draper to the Academy, in acknowledgment of this
testimony to his services to science.
Mr. Quincy then read the following letter :
To THE Americax Academy of Arts and Sciences : Your favorable ap-
preciation of my researclies on radiations, expressed to-day by the award of
the Rumford medals, the highest testimonial of approbation that American sci-
ence has to bestow on those who have devoted themselves to the enlargement
of knowledge, is to me a most acceptable return for the attention I have given
to that subject through a period of more than forty years, and I deeply regret
that through ill-health I am unable to receive it in person.
Sir David Brewster, to whom science is under so many obligations for the
discoveries he made, once said to me that the solar-spectrum is a world in itself,
and that the study of it will never be completed. His remark is perfectly just.
But the spectrum is only a single manifestation of that infinite ether which
