294 ^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
makes known to us the presence of the universe, and in which whatever exists
—if I may be permitted to say so — lives and moves and has its being.
What object, then, can be oifered to us more worthy of contemplation than
the attributes of this intermedium between ourselves and the outer world?
Its existence, the modes of motion through it, its transverse vibrations, their
creation of the ideas of light and colors in the mind, the interferences of its
waves, polarization, the conception of radiations and their physical and chemi-
cal effects — these have occupied the thoughts of men of the highest order. The
observational powers of science have been greatly extended through the conse-
quent invention of those grand instruments, the telescope, the microscope, the
spectrometer. Through these we have obtained more majestic views of the
nature of the universe. Through these we are able to contemplate the structure
and genesis of other systems of worlds, and are gathering information as to the
chemical constitution and history of the stars.
In this noble advancement of science you, through some of your members,
have taken no inconspicuous part. It adds impressively to the honor you have
this day conferred on me, that your action is the deliberate determination of
competent, severe, impartial judges. I cannot adequately express my feelings
of gratitude in such a presence, publicly pronouncing its approval on what I
have done.
I am, gentlemen, very truly yours, John W. Deaper.
BLASIUS'S THEORY OF STORMS.'
• By Prof. YICTOK L. CONEAD, M. A.
I PROPOSE to give some account of a new tlieory of storms put
forth by Prof. Blasius, of Philadelphia, formerly Professor of Nat-
ural Sciences in the Lyceum of Hanover, Germany. His attention
was first drawn to the subject of storms in the year 1851. Having
witnessed the destructive effects of a tornado at West Cambridge,
Massachusetts, he made a careful survey of its entire track. The
facts discovered about the middle of its course, where the most dam-
age had been caused, favored the rotary theory of Redfield ; those
near the end of its path seemed to confirm the inblowing theory of
Espy ; but those at the beginning could not be explained by either
theory. Discouraged and perplexed by these conflicting results, he
resolved to apply to storms the analogy drawn from the life of an
animal in its origin or embryo, its development to maturity, and its
end. From this he argued that storms must have a beginning, a dura-
tion, and an end, with phases peculiar to each stage of their develop-
ment and progress, like an animal ; and, guided by this analogy, he
made a careful reexamination and application of all the facts he had
1 " Storms : Their Nature, Classification, and Laws, witli the Means of predicting
them by their Embodiments the Clouds." By William Blasius. Philadelphia : Porter &
Coates.
