BLASIUS'S THEORY OF STORMS. 297
Atmospheric Currents. — All storms owe their origin to the heat
of the sun, which produces differences of temperature in different por-
tions of the earth, and thereby causes all the movements and currents
which take place in the atmosphere around the globe. As the air at
the equator is more highly heated by the sun than that of any other
region, it expands, becomes lighter and rises, causing a partial vacuum
or deficiency there at the surface of the earth. The air north and
south of it at once moves forward from opposite directions to supply
this deficiency at the equator, and this in turn becomes heated and
ascends. Other air again moves forward from north and south to
replace it, and thus an iipward current at the equator, and a north
and south polar current at the surface toward the equator, are estab-
lished. These north and south polar currents cause a deficiency of
air at the poles, and the heated air which has risen at the equator into
the upper region of the atmosphere divides and moves forward tow-
ard the opposite poles to su2:)ply the deficiency caused there. Thus,
upper currents in opposite directions from the equator to the poles
are also established in order to restore the equilibrium disturbed by
the surface polar currents flowing toward the equator.
But by the time the air of the upper currents has reached the re-
gion of the tropics, it has become cooler and heavier, and descends to
the surface of the earth. Here it divides into two currents — one
flowing back to the equator, forming the trade-Avinds ; and the other,
becoming warmer again at the surface, flows toward the poles, meet-
ing the polar current somewhere north of the tropic in the northern
hemisphere, and south of it in the southern. This meeting of the
equatorial or tropical and polar currents in the temperate zone, and the
various phenomena attending and resulting from it, are the most sig-
nificant and important facts ichich constitute the basis of Prof Bla-
sius^ theory of storm,s, in distinction from the centripetal theory of
Espy, and the rotary theory of Colonel Clapper, as developed by Pid-
dington, Thorn, Dove, and others, and better known in this country
as the cyclone theory of Redfield.
The following diagram (Fig. 1) will serve to indicate the move-
ments and courses of the general atmospheric currents of the eartli,
as above described, the arrows showing the directions in which thev
move.
The two currents above referred to — the polar and the equato-
rial or tropical — are of different temperatures, and move horizontally
in opposite directions toward each other. When they meet they over-
lap each other somewhat like two wedges with their sharp ends for-
ward. The warmer current, being lighter, glides obliquely over the
cooler current, and moves northward ; and the cooler current, being
heavier, moves beneath it on the surface of the earth southward, just
as two currents, warm and cold, flow over each other in opposite di-
rections through an open window or door of a heated room.
