BLASIUS'S THEORY OF STORMS. 299
cal curreut over the polar, varies with the seasons and local circum-
stances. In winter the slope between the two currents is very gradual,
as there is less diflerence of temperature, and less power of resistance
between them. The warm current passes over the cold at a gentle in-
clination (as represented by the line B H \u Fig. 1) ; and thus the
horizontal or geographical extent of the storm beneath it — from £ to
D — which is the region of low barometer, is much enlarged, and
sometimes its oscillations extend or move over several hundred miles.
In summer, however, the difference of temperature between the
two currents, and their power of resistance, are greater, and when
they meet they bank up against each other with more momentum and
force, and the plane of meeting or conflict is often very steep and
sometimes almost vertical (as indicated hjBUm Fig. 2). Hence,
the geographical extent of a storm in summer is much less than in
winter, and the region of low barometer which moves with it is cor-
respondingly small.
Clouds the Precursors of Storms. — Whenever a warm cur-
rent of air, saturated with moisture, meets or mingles with a cold
current, the invisible moisture of the warm air is condensed into visi-
ble vapor or clouds. As storms are produced by the movements and
conflicts of warm and cold currents of air, the formation of clouds
always indicates to the observer the region in the atmosphere where
such movements are taking place, which would otherwise be invisible.
Clouds, therefore, are the invariable precursors of storms, and the
kind of clouds formed will indicate the kind of storm or atmospheric
movements which produce them.
This general fact, however, does not aj^ply to deserts, where the
moisture of the warm air is condensed and precipitated before it
meets the cooler air, and hence rain-clouds are seldom or never formed
by the sand-storms of deserts.
Classification of Clouds. — Whenever, on account of some topo-
graphic circumstances, the sun heats any locality on the surface of
the earth more than the surrounding region, a gentle current or col-
umn of heated air rises, and its invisible moisture is condensed into
small masses of clouds called cumuli, which spread and produce the
mottled appearance commonly known as " mackerel sky," as indi-
cated at 1 in the accompanying illustration (Fig. 2).
But when, as is frequently the case in summer, a valley or plain, or
island, or any other place, is much more highly heated by the sun than
the surrounding region, the heated air over such locality rises more
rapidly and with more ascensional momentum ; and, as it reaches the
higher and cooler regions of the atmosphere, its moisture is condensed
into large rounded volumes, or mountain-like masses oi cumulus clouds,
as indicated at 2 in the illustration. Such cumulus clouds always pre-
cede and characterize a local summer storm or shower.
When the warm horizontal curreut from the south, as in winter,
