BLASIUS'S THEORY OF STORMS. 303
barometer now rises again, but is not as higli as before the storm,
because it is in the tropical current which has reached the locality.
If, now, the wind from the south, which has prevailed and driven
back the northern current, continues in the same direction until the
entire atmospheric area of the storm passes over the zenith north-
ward, and the sky clears up from the south or southwest, as is gen-
erally the case in early autumn or late spring, then the next storm or
change of weather Avill come from the north. But if the wind changes
its direction again before the storm is over, as is mostly the case in
mid-winter, and blows from the north, as it did at the beginning,
imtil the entire atmospheric area of the storm is carried backward
over the zenith, and the sky clears from the north, then the next
storm or change of weather will come from the south, as described
above. In this case the polar current has prevailed, the air is colder,
the thermometer falls, the barometer rises higher than in the other
case, and the atmospheric conditions existing before the storm are
gradually reestablished.
Summer Storms. — Before a progressive summer storm, the air is
usually warm and sultry, the sky cloudless but somewhat dim, and a
light southerly bi'eeze is blowing. Suddenly the sound of distant rum-
bling thunder is heard, and large masses of dark cumulus clouds rise
and arrange themselves on a Jong bank of stratus clouds in the north-
ern or northwestern horizon. This is the cumulo-stratus combination
of clouds which is the herald of a polar or progressive summer storm.
Soon the south wind increases in violence, and drives clouds of dust
before it. The thunder rolls, and lightning flashes more frequently.
The clouds bank up higher and higher, and advance more slowly, until
at last they become stationary. These are the ordinary indications of a
violent progressive summer storm, which sometimes ends in a tornado.
Like a winter storm, it is produced by the mfeeting and conflict of
the polar and tropical currents under greater difierences of temperature
and other conditions, and is therefore attended with more violent and
complex phenomena than those of a winter storm. The changes of
wind, and of the barometer and thermometer, during its development
at any locality, are similar to those of a winter storm in its return
oscillation southxoard ; that is, these changes occur in a reverse order
to those of a winter storm during the regular progress of the tropical
current northward, in the same order as during its oscillation south-
ward.
In most cases of this kind of summer storms, after the clouds have
remained stationary for some time, discharged their rain and restored
the disturbed equilibrium of the atmosphere, the polar current which
produced it by moving southward oscillates back to the north again,
and the storm at this locality is over — although similar phenomena
and changes will be occasioned by it later at other localities over
which it sweeps in its oscillation northward.
