304 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The cwnulo-stratus cloud, which is the precursoi- of this kind of
storm, can usually be observed only from one to eight hours, and, in
some cases of the most violent kind, only about twelve hours before it
will burst upon a place. Although these storms are the most danger-
ous and destructive — not unfrequently ending in toruadoes and hurri-
canes — the bai'ometer is of no practical service in predicting it. This
is explained by the fact that in such storms the plane of meeting of
the two currents moves southward with its lower extremity, or region
of lowest barometer, in front, while the plane itself is more or less
inclined northward. Hence the barometer shows no change until
this region of lowest barometer moves over it, when it suddenly falls ;
but it is then already in the most dangerous part of the storm, and its
warning, therefore, comes too late ; while the clouds, if properly ob-
served, always give warning in time to provide against the dangers
of such a storm.
Tornadoes. — This class of storms includes hailstorms, water-
spouts, hurricanes, and all storms in which rotary and lateral motions
are more or less combined. They are the most violent and destruc-
tive of all storms, as well as the most complicated and difficult to
understand and explain. They ai-e the offspring of progressive polar
or summer storms, and in the temperate zone occur only during
summer.
When in tlie development of a summer storm, as above described,
the two conflicting currents attain a state of equal power or resistance,
and thus balance each other, which is indicated when the dense cumu-
lus clouds over the plane of conflict become stationary, then the storm
is at its crisis. The air within the region of conflict is com2)ressed and
very sultry, and this condition is always felt before a tornado by per-
sons within its area. If, now, during this critical stage of the storm,
no topographic or other disturbance of its tension take place in its
plane of meeting, a return oscillation of the polar current northward
will set in, and the storm will gradually clear away. But if, in this
crisis of the stoi'm and during this high state of compression and re-
sistance, either cui-rent becomes stronger, and forces back the other
over some hill or valley, or if some other obstruction or configuration
of the surface of the earth breaks the tension or disturbs the resistance
between the two currents at any point, so that the polar current will
sink as in a valley, then the tropical current will suddenly rush into
this depression and generate a succession of violent whirling and zig-
zag motions along the diagonal of the two currents within the plane
of conflict, as the waters of a dam would rush through a sudden break
or depression in an embankment. This conclusion respecting the
origin of tornadoes Prof. Blasius reached after his careful study of
the West Cambridge tornado of 1851, and it was subsequently con-
firmed by the facts and phenomena connected with the tornado of
Iowa and Illinois, in May, 1873, as obtained from the report of the
