ORDEALS AND OATHS. 307
the northward, where it slopes more gradually beneath the inclined
plane of meeting, as above explained.
For obvious reasons, the region of high barometer is within the
polar current before it meets the tropical, and also within the tropical
current before it is disturbed, or its horizontal movement checked by
meeting the polar current; but the barometer is highest in the polar
current, because it is colder and denser.
In addition to the fox'egoing facts which barometric observations
have established, this theory of opposing currents explains a great
many other aerial problems and phenomena which have not heretofore
been adequately accounted for. Among these are the real causes of
different kinds of storms and how they originate ; why they move for-
ward and backward, carrying the lines and areas of high and Tow
barometer, of isobars and gradients, with them, and why they cease ;
why the barometer indicates the approach of some storms in advance,
but is useless in others ; why it falls in some storms but rises in others ;
why a progressive storm travels against the prevailing wind, and why
the wind changes during its progress ; why there is a region of calm,
and why the wind is stronger around this region of calm. It explains
how snow-storms change to rain, or sleet and rain, and why it falls
obliquely toward the direction fi-om which the storm is coming; also
why in some storms the rain falls in advance of the area of low barome-
ter and in the rear of it in others. It accounts for the origin of torna-
does, water-spouts, hail-storms, and all other whirling storms, and
explains why these always move in an eastward direction on our con-
tinent. It explains why the rain-areas of winter storms are more ex-
tended than those of summer, why their approach is slower and their
continuance longer,and why they produce sudden changes of tempera-
ture in their progress over any place. It greatly simplifies and cor-
rects previous explanations respecting the formation of different kinds
of clouds, and accounts for the development of electricity both in
summer and in winter storms.
ORDEALS AND OATHS.
By EDWARD B. TYLOK.
IN primitive stages of society, the clannish life of rude tribes may
well have been more favorable to frank and truthful relations be-
tween man and man than our wider and looser social intercourse can
be. Yet one can see, from the habits of modern savages, that already
in early savage times society was setting itself to take measures
against men who broke faith to save themselves from harm or to
gain some coveted good. At the stage of civilization where social
