3o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
order was becoming regular and settled, the wise men turned their
minds to devise guarantees stronger than mere yes and no. Thus the
ordeal and the oath were introduced, that wrong-doing should not he
concealed or denied, that unrighteous claims should not he backed
by false witness, and that covenants made should not be broken.
The principles on which these ordeals and oaths were invented
and developed may to this day be plainly made out. It is evident
that the matter was referred to the two intellectual orders of early
times, the magicians and the priests. Each advised after the manner
of his own profession. The magician said, " With my symbols and
charms I will try the accused, and bind the witness and the promiser."
The priest said, " I will call upon my spirits, and they shall find out the
hidden thing, and punish the lie and the broken vow." Kow, magic
and religion are separate in their nature and origin. Magic is based
on a delusive tendency arising out of the association of ideas, namely,
the tendency to believe that things which are ideally connected in
our minds must therefore be really connected in the outer world.
Heligion is based on the doctrine of spiritual beings, souls, demons,
or deities, who take cognizance of men and interpose in their affairs.
It is needful to keep this absolute distinction clear in our minds, for
on it depends our finding our mental way through a set of complicated
proceedings, in which magical and religious elements have become
mixed in the most intricate manner. Well they might, considering
how commonly the professions of sorcerer and priest have overlapped
so as even to be combined in one and the same person. But it seems,
from a general survey of the facts of ordeals and oaths, that on the
whole the magical element in them is earliest and underlying, while
the religious element is apt to come in later in history, often only
taking up and consecrating some old magical process.
In the series of instances to be brought into view, this blending
of the religious with the magical element will be repeatedly observ-
able. It will be seen also that the ordeal and the oath are not only
allied in their fundamental principles, but that they continually run
into one another in their use. Oaths, we shall see, may be made to
act as ordeals, and ordeals are brought in as tests of oaths. While
recognizing this close connection, it will be convenient to divide the
two and take them in order according to their practical application,
ordeals being proceedings for the discovery of wrong-doers, while
oaths are of the nature of declarations of undertakings.
The association of ideas which serves as a magical basis for an
ordeal is quite childish in its simplicity. Suppose it has to be decided
which of two men has acted wrongfully, and appeal is had to the
ordeal. There being no evidence on the real issue, a fanciful issue is
taken instead, which can be settled, and the association of ideas does
not rest. Thus in Borneo, when two Dyaks have to decide which is
in the right, they have two equal lumps of salt given them to drop
