ORDEALS AND OATHS. 309
together into water, and the one whose lump is gone first is in the
•wrong. Or they put two live shell-fish on a plate, one for each dis.
putant, and squeeze lime-juice over them, the verdict being given
according to which man's champion-mollusk moves first. This reason-
ing is such as any child can enter into. Among the Sandwich-
Islanders, again, when a thief had to be detected, the priest would
consecrate a dish of water, and the suspected persons, one by one,
held their hands over it, till the a^^proach of the guilty was known by
the water trembling. Here the connection of ideas is plain. But we
may see it somewhat more fully thought out in Euroj)e, where the old
notion remains on record that the executioner's sword will tremble
when a thief draws near, and even utter a dull clang at the approach
of a murderer.
Starting with the magical ordeal, we have next to notice how the
religious element is imported into it. Take the ordeal of the balance,
well known to Hindoo law. A rude pair of scales is set ixp with its
wooden scale-beam supported on posts ; the accused is put in one
scale, and stones and sand in the other to counterpoise him ; then he
is taken out, to be put in again after the balance has been called upon
to show his guilt by letting him go doAvn, or his innocence by raising
him up. This is pure magic, the ideal weight of guilt being by mere
absurd association of ideas transferred to material weight in a pair
of scales. In this process no religious act is essential, but in practice
it is introduced by prayers and sacrifices, and a sacred formula
appealing to the great gods who know the walk of .men, so that it is
considered to be by their divine aid that the accused rises or falls at
once in material fact and moral metaphor. If he either goes fairly up
or down the case is clear. But a difl[iculty arises if the accused hap-
pens to weigh the same as he did five minutes before, so nearly at
least as can be detected by a pair of heavy wooden scales which
would hardly turn within an ounce or two. This embarrassing pos-
sibility has in fact perplexed the Hindoo lawyers not a little. One
learned pundit says, " He is guilty, unless he goes right up ! " A
second suggests, " Weigh him again ! " A third distinguishes with
subtlety, "If he weighs the same he is guilty, but not so guilty as if
he had gone right down ! " The one only interpretation that never
occurs to any of them is, that sin may be an imponderable. We may
smile at the Hindoo way of striking a moral balance, but it should be
remembered that a similar practice, probably a survival from the same
original Aryan rite, was kept up in England within the last century.
In 1759, near Aylesbury, a woman who could not get her spinning-
wheel to go round, and naturally concluded that it had been be-
witchfid, charged one Susannah Haynokes with being the witch. At
this Susannah's husband was indignant, and demanded that his wife
should be allowed to clear herself by the customary ordeal of weigh-
ing. So they took her to the parish church, stripped her to her under
