310 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
garments, and weighed her against the church Bible ; she outweighed
it, and went home in triumph. Here the metaphor of weighing is
worked in the opposite way to that in India, but it is quite as intelli-
gible, and not a whit the worse for practical purposes. For yet an-
other case, how an old magical process may be afterward transformed
by bringing in the religious sanction, we may look at the ancient
classic sieve and shears, the sieve being suspended by sticking the
points of the open shears into the rim, and the handles of the shears
balanced on the forefingers of the holders. To discover a thief,. or a
lover, all that was required was to call over all susjDected names, till
the instrument turned at the right one. In the course of history, this
childish divining-ordeal came to be Christianized into the key and
Bible ; the key, of course, to open the secret, the Bible to supply the
test of truth. For a thief-ordeal, the proper mode is to tie in the key
at the verse of the 50th Psalm, " When thou sawest a thief, then thou
consentedst with him ; " and then, when the names are called over, at
the name of the guilty one the instrument makes its sign by swerving
or turning in the holders' hands. This is interesting, as being almost
the only ordeal which survives in common use in England; it may be
met with in many an out-of-the-way farmhouse. It is some years
since English rustics have dared to " swim " a witch, that is, to put in
practice the ancient water-ordeal, which our folk-lore remembers in
its most archaic Aryan form. Its essential principle is as plainly
magical as any : the water, being set to make the trial, shows its
decision by rejecting the guilty, who accordingly comes up to the
surface. Our ancestors, who did not seize the distinction between
weight and specific gravity, used to wonder at the supernatural power
with which the water would heave up a wicked fellow, even if he
weighed sixteen stone.
Mediaeval ordeals, by water or fire, by touch of the corpse, or by
wager of battle, have fallen to mere curiosities of literature, and it is
needless to dwell here on their well-known picturesque details, or to
repeat the liturgies of prayer or malediction said or sung by the con-
secrating priests. It is not by such accompanying formulas, but by
the intention of the act itself, that we must estimate the real position
of the religious element in it. Nowhere is this so strong as in what
may be called the ordeal by miracle, where the innocent by divine
help walks over the nine red-hot ploughshares, or carries the red-hot
iron bar in his hand, or drinks a dose of deadly poison, and is none the
worse for it ; or, in the opposite way, where the draught of harmless
water, cursed or consecrated by the priests, will bring, within a few
days, dire disease on him or her who, being guilty, has dared to drink
of it.
Looking at the subject from the statesman's point of view, the
survey of the ordeals of all nations and ages enables us to judge with
some certainty what their practical efi'ect has been for evil or good.
i
