ORDEALS AND OATHS. 311
Their basis being mere delusive imagination, when honestly adminis-
tered, their being right or wrong has been matter of mere accident.
It would, however, be a mistake to suppose that fair-play ever gen-
erally prevailed in the administration of ordeals. As is well known,
they have always been engines of political power in the hands of un-
scrupulous priests and chiefs. Often it was unnecessary even to cheat,
when the arbiter had it at his pleasure to administer either a harmless
ordeal like drinking cursed water, or a deadly ordeal by a dose of
aconite or physosiigma. When it comes to sheer cheating, nothing
can be more atrocious than this poison-ordeal. In West Africa, where
the Calabar bean is used, the administerers can give the accused a dose
which will make him sick, and so prove his innocence, or tliey can
give him enough to prove him guilty, and murder him in the very act
of proof; when we consider that over a great part of that great conti-
nent this and similar drugs usually de+ermine the destiny of people in-
convenient to the fetich-man and the cliief — the constituted authorities
of church and state — we see before us one efficient cause of the unpro-
gressive character of African society. The famed ordeal by red-hot
iron, also, has been a palpable swindle in the hands of the authorities.
In India and Arabia the test is to lick the iron, which will burn the
guilty tongue but not the innocent. Xow, no doubt the judges know
the secret that innocent and guilty alike can lick a white-hot iron
with impunity, as any blacksmith will do, and as I have done myself,
the layer of vapor in a spheroidal state preventing any chemical con-
tact with the skin. As for the walking over red-hot i^loughshares, or
carrying a red-hot iron bar three paces in the palm of the hand, its
fraudulent nature fits with the fact that the ecclesiastics who adminis-
tered it took their precautions against close approach of spectators
much more carefully than the jugglers do who handle the red-hot bars
and walk over the ploughshares nowadays ; and, moreover, any list of
cases will show how inevitably the friend of the Church got off, while
the man on the wrong side was sure to " lose his cause and burn his
fingers." Remembering how Queen Emma in the story, with uplifted
eyes, walked over the ploughshares without knowing it, and then
asked when the trial was to begin, and how, after this triumphant
issue, one-and-twenty manors were settled on the bishopric and church
of Winchester, it may be inferred with some probability that in such
cases the glowing ploughshares glowed with nothing more dangerous
than daubs of red paint.
Almost the only effect of ordeals which can be looked upon as
beneficial to society is, that the belief in their efficacy has done some-
thing to deter the credulous from crime, and still more often has led
the guilty to betray himself by his own terrified imagination. Visitors
to Rome know the great round marble mask called the Bocca della
Verita. It is but the sink of an old drain ; but many a frightened
knave has shrunk from the test of putting liis hand into its open
