312 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" moutli of truth " and taking oath of his innocence, lest it sliould
really close on him as tradition says it does on the forsworn. The
ordeal by the mouthful of food is still, popular in Southern Asia for its
practical eflectiveness : the thief in the household, his mouth dry with
nervous terror, fails to masticate or swallow fairly the grains of rice.
So in old England, the culprit may have failed to swallow the con-
secrated cor-sna3d, or trial-slice of bread or cheese ; it stuck in his
throat, as in Earl Godwin's in the story. To this day the formula,
" May this mouthful choke me if I am not speaking the truth ! " keeps
up the memory of the official ordeal. Not less effective is the ordeal
by curse, still used in Russia to detect a thief. The babushka^ or
local witch, stands with a vessel of water before her in the midst of
the assembled household, and makes bread-pills to drop in, saying to
each in order, " Ivan Ivanoff, if you are guilty, as this ball falls to the
bottom, so your soul will fall into hell." But this is more than any
common Russian will face, and the rule is that the culpi'it confesses at
sight. This is the best that can be said for ordeals. Under their-
most favorable aspect, they are useful delusions or pious frauds. At
woi'st they are those wickedest of human deeds, crimes disguised
behind the mask of justice. Shall we wonder that the world, slowly
trying its institutions by the experience of ages, has at last come to
the stage of casting out the judicial ordeal; or shall we rather won-
der at the constitution of the human mind, which for so many ages
has set up the creations of delusive fancy to hold sway over a world
of facts ?
From the ordeal we pass to the oath. The oath, for purposes of
classification, may be best defined as an asseveration made under su-
perhuman penalty, such penalty being (as in the ordeal) either magi-
cal or religious in its nature, or both combined. Here, then, we dis-
tinguish the oath from the mere declaration, or promise, or covenant,
however formal. For example, the covenant by grasping hands is
not in itself an oath, nor is even that wide-spread ancient ceremony
of entering into a bond of brotherhood by the two parties mixing
drops of their blood, or tasting each other's. This latter rite, though
often called an oath, can under this definition be only reckoned as a
solemn compact. But when a Galla of Abyssinia sits down over a pit
covered over with a hide, imprecating that he may fall into a pit if
he breaks his word* or when in our police-courts we make a Chinaman
swear by taking an earthen saucer and breaking it on the rail in front
of the witness-box, signifying, as the interpreter then puts it in
words, " If you do not tell the truth, your soul will be cracked like
this saucer," we have here two full oaths, of which the penalty, magi-
cal or religious, is shown in pantomime before us. By-the-way, the
English judges who authorized this last sensational ceremony must
have believed that they were calling on a Chinaman to take a judi-
cial oath after the manner of his own country ; but they acted under
