ORDEALS AND OATHS. 313
a mistake, for in fact the Chinese use no oaths at all in their law-courts.
Now, we have to distinguish these real oaths from mere asseverations,
in which emphatic terms, or descriptive gestures, are introduced mere-
ly for the purpose of showing the strength of resolve in the declarer's
mind. Where, tlien, does the difference lie between the two ? It is
to be found in the incurring of supernatural penalt}'. There would
be no difficulty at all in clearing up the question, were it not that
theologians have set up a distinction between oaths of imprecation
and oaths of witness. Such subtilties, however, looked at from a
practical point of view, are seen to be casuistic cobwebs which a
touch of the rough broom of common-sense will sweep away. The
practical question is this : does the swearer mean that by going
through the ceremony he brings on himself, if he breaks faith, some
special magic harm, or divine displeasure and punishment ? If so, the
oath is practically imprecatory ; if not, it is futile, Avanting the very
sanction which gives it legal value. It does not matter whether the
imprecation is stated or only implied. When a Bedouin jjicks up a
straw, and swears by him who made it grow and wither, there is no
need to accompany this with a homily on the fate of the perjured.
This reticence is so usual in the world, that as often as not we have to
go outside the actual formula and ceremony to learn what their full
intention is.
Let us now examine some typical forms of oath. The rude natives
of New Guinea swear by the sun, or by a certain mountain, or by a
Aveapon, that the sun may burn them, or the mountain crush them, or
the weapon wound them, if they lie. The even ruder savages of the
Brazilian forests, to confirm their words, raise the hand over the head
or thrust it into their hair, or they will touch the points of their weap-
ons. These two accounts of savage ceremony introduce us to customs
well known to nations of higher culture. The raising of the hand
toward the sky seems to mean here what it does elsewhere. It is in
gesture calling on the heaven-god to smite the perjurer with his thun-
derbolt. The touching of the head, again, carries its meaning among
these Brazilians almost as plainly as in Africa, where we find men
swearing by their heads or limbs, in the belief that they would wither
if forsworn ; or, as when among the Old Prussians a man would lay
his right hand on his own neck, and his left on the holy oak, saying,
"May Perkun (the thunder-god) destroy me!" As to swearing by
weapons, another graphic instance of its original meaning comes from
Aracan, where the witness swearing to speak the truth takes in his
hand a musket, a sword, a spear, a tiger's tusk, a crocodile's tooth,
and a thunderbolt (that is, of course, a stone celt). The oath by the
weapon not only lasted on through classic ages, but remained so com-
mon in Christendom that it was expressly forbidden by a synod ;
even in the seventeenth century, to swear on the sword (like Hamlet's
friends in the ghost-scene) was still a legal oath in Holstein. As for
