31+ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the holding up the hand to invoke the personal divine sky, the suc-
cessor of this primitive gesture remains to this day among the chief
acts in the solemn oaths of European nations.
It could scarcely be shown more clearly with what childlike
imagination the savage conceives that a symbolic action, such as
touching his head or his spear, will somehow pass into reality. In
connection with this group of oaths, we can carry yet a step further
the illustration of the way men's minds work in this primitive stage
of association of ideas. One of the accounts from New Guinea is
that the swearer, holding up an arrow, calls on Heaven to punish him
if he lies ; but by turning the arrow the other way the oath can be
neutralized. This is magic all over. What one symbol can do, the
reverse symbol can undo. True to the laws of primitive magical rea-
soning, uncultured men elsewhere still carry on the symbolic reversal
of their oaths. An Abyssinian chief, who had sworn an oath he dis-
liked, has been seen to scrape it off his tongue and spit it out. There
are still places in Germany where the false witness reckons to escape
th^ spiritual consequences of perjury by crooking one finger, to make
it, I suppose, not a straight but a crooked oath, or he puts his left
hand to his side to neutralize what the right hand is doir.g. Here is
the idea of our " over the left ; " but so far as I know this has come
down with us to mere schoolboy's shufl3ing.
It has just been noticed that the arsenal of deadly weapons by
which the natives of Aracan swear, includes a tiger's tusk and a
crocodile's tooth. This leads us to a group of instructive rites belong-
ing to Central and North Asia. Probably to this day there may be
seen in Russian law-courts in Siberia the oath on the bear's head.
When an Ostiak is to be sworn a bear's head is brought into court,
and the man makes believe to bite at it, calling on the bear to de-
vour him in like manner if he does not tell the truth. Xow, the
meaning of this act goes beyond magic and into religion, for we
are here in the region of bear-worship, among people who believe
that this wise and divine beast knows what goes on, and will come
and punish them. Nor need one wonder at this, for the idea that
the bear will hear and come if called on is familiar to German my-
thology. I was interested to find it still in survival in Switzerland
a few years ago, when a peasant-woman, whom a mischievous little
English boy had irritated beyond endurance, pronounced the ancient
awful imprecation on him, " The bear take thee ! " (der Bar nimm
dich !) Among the hill-tribes of India a tiger's skin is sworn on in
the same sense as the bear's head among the Ostiaks, Rivers, again,
which to the savage and barbarian are intelligent and personal divini-
ties, are sworn by in strong belief that their waters will punish him
who takes their name in vain. We can understand why Homeric
heroes swore by the rivers, when we hear still among Hindoos how the
sacred Ganges will take vengeance sure and terrible on the children
