ORDEALS AND OATHS. 31-7
stratum of post-mundane oaths such as obtain among modern civilized
nations. Roughly, the development in the course of ages may hp
expressed in the following two classifications :
Mundane 1 i Curae.
Mixed >• Oaths, ^ Conditional Favor.
Post-Mundane ) ( Judgment.
Though these tw^o series only partly coincide in history, they so
far fit that the judicial oaths of the lower culture belong to the class
of mundane curse, while those of the higher culture in general belong
to that of post-mundane judgment. Anthropologically, this is the
most special new view I have here to bring forward. It forms part
of a wider generalization, belonging at once to the science of morals
and the science of religion. But, rather than open out the subject
into this too wide field, we may do well to fix it in our min^s by
tracing a curious historical point in the legal customs of our own
country. Every one knows that the modes of administering a judi-
cial oath in Scotland and in England are not the same. In Scotland,
where the witness holds up his hand toward heaven, and swears to
tell the truth as he shall answer to God at the day of judgment, we
have before us the most explicit possible example of a post-mundane
oath framed on Christian lines. In contrasting this with the English
judicial oath, w^e first notice that our acted ceremony consists com-
monly in taking a New Testament in the hand and kissing it. Thus,
unlike the Scotch oath, the English oath is sworn on a halidome
(Anglo-Saxon, hcUigdom ; Germ.B,n,heiligthum),a, holy or sacred object.
Many writers have fallen into confusion about this word, mystifying
it into sacred judgment or "holy doom;" but it is a perfectly
i=itraightforward term for a sanctuary or relic, as " On tliam haligdome
swerian " — to swear by the relic. Now, this custom of swearing on
a halidome belongs to far pre-Christian antiquity, one famous exam-
ple being when Hannibal, then a lad of nine years old, was brought
by his father to the altar and made to swear, by touching the sacred
things {tactis sacris)^ that when he grew up he would be the enemy
of Rome. In classical antiquity the sacred objects were especially
the images and altars of the gods, as it is put in a scene in Plautus,
" Touch this altar of Venus ! " The man answers, " I touch it," and
then he is sworn. When this ancient rite came into use in early
Christian England, the object touched might be the altar itself, or a
relic-shrine like that w^hich Harold is touchins; with his right fore-
finger in the famous scene in the Bayeux tapestry, or it might be a
missal, or a book of the gospels. In modern England a copy of the
New Testament has become the recognized halidome on w^hich oaths
are taken, and the practice of kissing it has almost supplanted the
older and more general custom of touching it with the hand.
Next, our attention must be called to the remarkable formula in
which (in England, not in Scotland) the invocation of the Deity is
