3i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
made, " So lielp me God ! " or " So help you God ! " Many a modem
Englishman puzzles over this obscure form of words. When the
question is asked what the meaning of the oath is, the official inter-
pretation practically comes to saying that it means the same as the
Scotch oath. But neither by act nor word does it convey this mean-
ing. So obvious is the discrepancy between what is considered to be
meant and what is actually done and said, that Paley, remarking on
the different forms of swearing in different countries, does not scruple
to say that they are " in no country in the world, I believe, worse
contrived either to convey the meaning, or impress the obligation of
an oath, than in our own,"
This remark of Paley's aptly illustrates a principle of the science
of culture which cannot be too strongly impressed on the minds of all
who ^tudy the institutions of their own or any other age. People
often talk of mystic formulas and mystic ceremonies. But, the more
we study civilization in its earlier stages, the more we shall find that
formulas and ceremonies, both in law and in religion, are as purposeful
and business-like as can be, if only we get at them anywhere near
their origin. What happens afterward is this, that, while men's
thoughts and wants gradually change, the old phrases and ceremonies
are kept up by natural conservatism, so that they become less and
less appropriate, and then, as their meaning falls away, its place is apt
to be filled up with mystery. Applying this principle to the English-
oath formula, we ask what and where it originally was. It was Teu-
tonic-Scandinavian, for, though corresponding formulas are known in
Latin (Ita me adjuvet Deus) and in Old French [Ce rri'ait Diex, etc.),
these are shown by their comparatively recent dates to be mere trans-
lations of the Germanic originals. Now, although ancient English
and German records fail to give the early history of the phrase, this
want is fortunately supplied by a document preserved in Iceland.
Some while after the settlement of the island by the Northmen, but
long before their conversion to Christianity, the settlers felt the urgent
need of a code of laws, and accordingly Ulfliot went to Norway for
three years to Thorleif the Wise, who imparted to him his legal lore.
Ulfliot went to Norway a. d. 925, so that the form of judicial oath he
authorized, and which waiS at a later time put on record in the Ice-
landic Landnamabok, may be taken as good and old in Norse law.
Its pre-Christian character is, indeed, obvious from its tenor. The
halidome on which it was sworn was a metal arm-ring, which was
kept by the godhi or priest, who reddened it with the blood of the ox
sacrificed, and the sweai-er touching it said, in words that are still
half English : " Name I to witness that I take oath by the ring, law-
oath, so help me Frey, and Niordh, and almighty Thor (hialpi mer
sva Freyr, ok Niordhr, ok hinn almattki Ass) as I shall this suit fol-
low or defend, or witness bear or verdict or doom, as I wit rightest
and soothest and most lawfully," etc. Here, then, we have the full
I
1
