ORDEALS AND OATHS. 319
and intelligible formula which must very nearly represent that of
which we keep a mutilated fragment in our English oath. So close is
the connection, that two of the gods referred to, Frey and Thor (who
is described as the almighty god), are the old English gods whose
names we commemorate in Friday and Thursday. The formula be-
longs, with the classic ones lately spoken of, to the class of oaths of
conditional favor, " so help me as I shall do rightly," while Frey and
NiOrdh are gods whom a Norse warrior would ask for earthly help, but
who would scarcely concern themselves with his soul after death. It is
likely that the swearer Avas not indeed unmindful of what the skalds
sang of Xastrond, the strand of corpses, that loathly house arched of the
bodies of huge serpents, whose heads, turned inward, dripped venom
on the perjurers and murderers within. But the primary formula is,
as I have said, that of the oath of conditional favor, not of judgment.
"With the constituents of the modern English oath now fairly before
us, we see that its incoherence, as usual in such cases, has an histori-
cal interpretation. What English law has done is to transplant from
archaic fetich-worship the ceremony of the halidome or consecrated
object, and to combine with this one-half of a pre-Christian formula
of conditional favor, without the second half which made sense of it.
Considering that to this combination is attached a theological inter-
pretation which is neither implied in act nor word, we cannot wonder
if in the popular mind a certain amount of obscurity, not to say mys-
tery, surrounds the whole transaction. Nevertheless, we may well
deprecate any attempt to patch up into Scotch distinctness and con-
sistency the old formula, which will probably last untouched so long
as judicial oaths shall remain in use in England.
Being in the midst of this subject, it may not be amiss to say a
few words upon old and new ideas as to the administration of oaths
to little children. The Canon Law expressly forbade the exacting of
an oath from children under fourteen — pueri ante antios XIV non
cogantur jurare. This prohibition is derived from yet earlier law.
The rough old Norsemen would not take oaths from children, as
comes out so quaintly in the saga of Baldur, where the goddess made
all the beasts and birds and trees «wear they would not harm him,
but the little mistletoe only she craved.no oath from, for she thought
it was too young. Admitting the necessity of taking children's evi-
dence somehow, the question is how best to do it. In England it
must be done on oath, and for this end there has arisen a custom in
our courts of putting the child through an inquisition as to the theo-
logical consequences of perjury, so as usually to extract from it a well-
known definition which the stiffest theologian will not stand to for a
moment if put straight to him, but which is looked upon as a proper
means for binding the conscience of a little child.' Moreover, children
' Two illustrative cases are given me by a friend learned in the law. In court lately,
a little girl was asked the usual preliminary question as to the consequcucc of swearing
