ORDEALS AND OATHS. 321
legislators to use oaths, not merely in special and solemn matters, but
as means of securing honesty in the details of public business. When
this has been done, the consequences to public morals have been dis-
astrous. There is no need to hunt up ancient or foreign proofs of this,
seeing how conspicuous an instance is the state of England early in the
present century, while it was still, as a contemporary writer called it,
" a land of oaths," and the professional perjurer plied a thriving trade.
A single illustration will suffice, taken from the valuable treatise on
Oaths, published in 1834, by the Rev. James Endell Tyler: "During
the continuance of the former system of custom-house oaths, there
were houses of resort where persons were always to be found ready at
a moment's warning to take any oath required ; the signal of the busi-
ness for which they were needed was this inquiry, ' Any damned soul
here ? ' " Nowadays this enormous excess of jiublic oaths has been
much cut down, and with the best results. Yet it must be evident to
students of sociology that the world will not stop short at this point.
The wider question is coming into view, What effect is produced on
the every-day standard of truthfulness by the doctrine that fraudulent
lying is in itself a minor offense, but is converted into an awful crime
by the addition of a ceremony and a formula? It is an easily-stated
problem in moral arithmetic ; on the credit side. Government is able
to tighten with an extra screw the consciences of a shaky class of wit-
nesses and public officers ; on the debit side, the current value of a
man's word is correspondingly depreciated through the whole range
of public and private business. As a mere sober student of social
causes and effects, following along history the tendencies of opinion,
I cannot doubt for a moment how the public mind must act on this
problem. I simply predict that where the judicial ordeal is already
gone, there the judicial oath will sooner or later follow. Not only do
symptoms of the coming change appear from year to year, but its
greatest determining cause is unfolding itself day by day before ob-
servant eyes, a sight such as neither we nor our fathers ever saw
before.
IIow has it come to pass that the sense of the sanctity of intel-
lectual truth, and the craving after its full and free possession, are so
ma§tering the modern educated mind ? This is not a mystery hard to
unravel. Can any fail to see how in these latter years the methods
of scientific thought have come forth from the laboratory and the mu-
seum to claim their powers over the whole range of history and philos-
ophy, of politics and morals ? Truth in thought is fast spreading its
wide waves through the outside world. Of intellectual truthfulness,
truthfubiess in word and act is the outward manifestation. In all
modern philosophy there is no principle more fertile than the doctrine
so plainly set forth by Herbert Spencer — that truth means bringing
our minds into accurate matching with the realities in and around us;
so that botli intellectual and moral truth are bound up together in
VOL. IX. — 21
