322 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that vast process of evolution whereby man is gradually brought into
fuller harmony with the universe he inhabits. There need, then, be
no fear that the falling away of such artificial crutches as those whose
history I have here been tracing should leave public truth maimed
and lialting. Upheld by the j^erfect fitting of the inner mind to the
outer world, the progress of truth will be firmer and more majestic
than in the ancient days. If, in time to come, the grand old disputa-
tion before King Darius were to be reenacted, to decide again the
question, "What is the strongest of all things? " it would be said, as
then, that " Truth abi(fes, and is strong for evermore, living and con-
quering from age flfc age." And the people as of old would say again
with one voice, "Truth is great, and prevails!" ' — Advance-sheets
of Macmillan's Magazine.
THE CIIEOMIS PATER-FAMILIAS.
By Dr. LOETET.
~I TP to the present we know but a small number of fishes which
y^ hatch their eggs and bring up their young in the cavity of the
mouth or among the gills. Agassiz, during his voyage on the Ama-
zonas, discovered one species. Afterward there was brought from
China the macropod, the singular habits of which are now known to
all the world. All these species belong to the great group of the
Lahyrlnthohranchiata • and Agassiz supposes that the fishes of this
order only can hatch their eggs in so abnormal a manner, thanks
to the branchial pockets which allow of the eggs being easily kept in
place. But the Chromis, of which we give a faithful representation,
proves the assertion of Agassiz to be erroneous. The Chromis pater-
familias has the gills disposed in simple laminae ; it is unprovided
with any special apparatus for retaining the eggs or the young ones,
and yet it brings up about 200 young in the mouth and gills. It is
always the male that performs these fimctions of incubation. After
the female has deposited the eggs in a depression of the sand or be-
tween the tufts of reeds, the male approaches and takes them by in-
halation into the cavity of the mouth. From there some movement,
the mechanism of which we have not been able to observe, sends them
between the leaflets of the gills. The pressure exerted on the eggs by
the branchial laminae euflices to keep them in place. There, in the midst
of the organs of respiration, the eggs undergo all their metamorphoses.
The young ones grow rapidly, and soon appear much inconvenienced
in their narrow prison. They leave it, not by the gills but through
the opening by which the bronchial cavity communicates with the
' 1 Esdras iv. 41 : /xeyaXTj fj a\^0€ja, /cal virtpKrxifi — Magnas est Veritas, et prmialet.
