32+ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
they hold their ground very firmly, yet how they do so we have
not discovered. Neither can we "understand how the nursing father
avoids swallowing his progeny ; we are also ignorant at what period
of their life the young ones leave the paternal mouth to live inde-
pendently.
The Chromis pater-familias is 1 inches long by If inch thick.
The teeth are very fine and sharp, disposed in several rows. The
snout is obtuse, conical, the upper profile oblique. The nasal promi-
nence is very conspicuous. The caudal fin is almost truncated. The
soft rays of the dorsal reach to the beginning of tlie caudal. The
length of the body, including the tail, is 4^ times its thickness. The
snout is in length twice the diameter of the orbit. The mouth is
slightly oblique, large, as wide as it is long. The teeth are slightly
recurved, disposed in three or four rows, tinged with deep yellow at
the free end. The first row presents 26 on each side of the upper
maxillary. The fins show the number of rays following :
Dorsal U-rU
Anal 3+8
Caudal 16
Pectoral 12
Yentral 1+ 5
The lateral line comprises 32 scales disposed 20-fl2. The scales
are cycloidal, their length greater than their breadth ; three-fourths
of their surface is covered by the succeeding scales. Color, olive-
green on the back, barred with blue. The belly has a silvery lustre,
with green and blue spots.
I caught this interesting species, with a net, on the 29th of
April, 1875, in shallow water full of reeds, on the margin of Lake
Tiberias, at a place called Ain-Tin, the ancient Capernaum. There
are numerous warm springs there which unite to form a rather con-
siderable stream. It is in these warm waters that the Chromis lives.
— La Nature.
BIGOTKY IX SCIENTIFIC COXTROYEESY.'
MANY edifying commonplaces might doubtless be written on the
intellectual fermentation, if it may not rather be called confu-
sion of the age. Nor can it be denied that tendencies supposed to
have been long ago slain and sepulchred have risen again, and are
asserting themselves with a hardihood which our fathers would have
deemed impossible. When we find a scientific work — at any rate a
work written by an eminent scientific man, and devoted to the dis-
' " Lessons from Nature. By St. Greorge Mivart, F. R. S." New York : D. Appleton
&Co.
I
