BIGOTRY IN SCIENTIFIC CONTROVERSY. 327
"Filled the butchers' shops with large blue flies,"
or who —
" "With foul earthquakes ravaged the Caracas,
And raised the price of sugars aud tobaccos."
Suppose, in all sober sadness, an inquirer knowing nothing more
of Darwin than what he miglit learn out of " Lessons from Kature."
Would he not go away with the impression that our great English
naturalist had done little beyond launching a " puerile hypothesis,"
and had played a very unimportant — and, if anything, rather injuri-
ous — part in the development of biological science ? Yet every can-
did critic must admit that, were the theory of natural selection
superseded to-morrow, to Darwin would still belong the merit of
effecting in natural history a transformation as signal as that wrought
in astronomy by Galileo, Copernicus, and Kepler, or in chemistry by
LaA'oisier ; of bestowing upon zoulogy and botany a definite purpose
and a direction for research such as before were wanting. His works
would still remain a treasviry of observations and of suggestions, and
the impulse he has given to the science would never die away. In
England, Germany, America, naturalists have sprung up as if by
magic in obedience to his spell, and Mr. Mivart himself can hardly be
excluded from their number.
We need scarcely add that a critic unjust to persons will not b»?
much more trustworthy as regards their discoveries and their doc-
trines. The evidence in favor of natural selection — and indeed of
evolution altogether — is strictly cumulative, and as such, whatever
weight it may carry to the patient and dispassionate inquirer, it is
peculiarly open to the attacks of an opponent at one skillful and un-
scrupulous. We do not, of course, mean to accuse Mr. Mivart of
deliberate unscrupulousness. We all know the words — in themselves
literally reeking with hypocrisy — in which " the Church " pronounced
sentence of death on Giordano Bruno : " Ut quam dementissime et citra
sanguinis effusionem puniretvr " (Let him be punished as leniently as
may be, and without shedding blood). Yet even on that occasion
we should be reluctant to declare that the judges were sinning
against better light and knowledge. Just so here : Mr. Mivart doubt-
less believes and feels what he says, and considers his own line of
criticism fair and honorable. We know that man is an adept in self-
delusion, and of all men the metaphysician who has cultivated the art
s^egarer avec m'ethode (of going astray methodically) is most likely to
go unconsciously astray.
We come now to a most painful subject, which, indeed, we would
gladly pass over were not its consideration absolutely imperative.
Mr. Mivart complains that in one particular instance Mr. Darwin de-
parts from his ordinary courtesy to opponents. We are therefore
justified in assuming that he regards courtesy to opponents as a duty
— at least in others. Bearing in mind this circumstance, we turn to
