328 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
page 144, and read: "It is in one respect a calamity of our time and
country that unbelievers, instead of, as in France, honestly avowing
their sentiments, disguise them by studious reticence — as Mr. Darwin
at first studiously disguised his views as to the bestiality (!) of man,
and as the late Mr, Mill silently allowed himself to be represented to
the public as a thorough believer in God." Along with this passage
we take the remarks on " Mr. Winwood Reade, a friend and ardent
disciple of Mr. Darwin," and on the teachings of " our English physical
expositors" (pp. 393-395), and then ask whether the author is not, by
implication at least, charging Mr. Darwin with atheism ? This is the
more probable, as we can find no saving clause or limitation guarding
against such a construction being put upon these passages. Still, in
a charge so grave the accused is entitled to the benefit of the faintest
doubt, and Mr. Mivart may therefore claim a verdict of " Not proven."
It is time, however, that we came to a full understanding about the
foul practice of introducing charges of atheism in scientific contro-
versy. On this subject we beg to ofier the following considerations :
1. Charges of " heresy," " infidelity," or " atheism," are beside the
question. If a theory in astronomy, in geology, in physics, chemis-
try, or biology, is in doubt, let it be judged on its own evidence; that
is, let it be compared respectively with astronomical, geological, phys-
ical, chemical, or biological facts, and, according as it is able or un-
able to account for and to harmonize such, let it stand or fall. The
man who is unable or unwilling to do this convicts himself, from an
intellectual point of view, either of impotence or perversity, and should
leave controversy to others.
2. Such charges, further, are delusive. Not to speak of the thor-
oughly-trained scholar, even many of the " half-educated " know that
almost every important discovery in science has been denounced by
the " parti 2yr$tre" (clerical party) as impious, heretical, and atheistic.
A yearly volume of the Quarterly Journal of Science would not con-
tain the abuse uttered by ecclesiastics against the Copernican theory
of the solar system, against the doctrine of a plurality of worlds, the
Newtonian view of the universe, the nebular hypothesis, the chro-
nology of modern geologists, etc. Yet all these views, and many
more which might be mentioned, were found — when passion had
cooled and sober judgment had time to decide — perfectly compatible,
not with theism merely, but with Christian revelation. What "the
Church " has cursed in one generation, she " assimilates " in the next.
What educated man, then, after reviewing the past, can dare to set
aside modern theories in such a manner?
3. Such charges are, further, distinctly immoral, and even crimi-
nal. All civilized countries bi'and with ignominy the suitor or the
advocate who suborns false witnesses, forges or destroys documents,
or corrupts judges and juries. But the controversialist who charges
his opponent with atheism stands in a precisely similar position. He
