. BIGOTRY IN SCIENTIFIC CONTROVERSY. 329
well knows that, although the public might not admit, totklem verbis
(in so many words), that "whatever an atheist advances must be
false," or that " every theory once pronounced atheistic must be erro-
neous," yet it will practically act as if such propositions were estab-
lished. Hence by making such charges he fraudulently attempts to
steal from the public, through an a})peal to their passions, a verdict
which he has no hope of obtaining from their reason. Knowing and
trading on the extreme animosity with which the heretic, the skeptic,
and the atheist are — rightly or wrongly — regarded, he seeks to deprive ■
his opponents of a fair hearing by applying to them these dreaded
names. A meaner, a more infamous stratagem can scarcely be con-
ceived. Yet more: it is not the man conscious of tlie goodness of his
cause who fights with such weapons. He who knows that his views
are in harmony with facts has nothing to gain by foul play ; but if he
feels inward misgivings concerning the doctrines which he advocates,
or doubts at least the possibility of bringing forward valid arguments
in their defense, he may readily, if dishonest enough, seek to blacken
the character of an opponent.
We may, therefore, safely and fairly conclude that whosoever in
scientific controversy introduces accusations of atheism is, if not
knowingly and willfully, still decidedly in the wrong. We are conse-
quently fully justified in shutting his book, and giving judgment
against him.
But there is another consideration which here forces itself upon
our attention. All writings calculated to bring a man into general
" ridicule, hatred, or contempt," are by the law declared to be libel-
ous. Now, it is very questionable if, in England, any acciisation is
so much calculated to bring a man into "hatred and contempt" as a
charge of atheism or "materialism," however ill-founded it maybe.
Surely therefore such charges, whether brought directly or bv impli-
cation, are libelous, and as such they are more fitted to be dealt with
by a criminal court than by reviewers. We should like to see such a
case decided, and we believe that the result would be a great improve-
ment in the tone of scientific and semi-scientific controversy.
But even if such accusations should be pronounced not libelous,
and if those who resort to them have no legal penalties to dread,
there is another tribunal which might interfere. Why should not
scientific men, scientific societies, and scientific journals, agree that
whosoever in a scientific controversy attempts to get rid of an oppo-
nent by raising the cry of atheism should be held to be ipso facto an
outlaw, and to be no longer entitled to the treatment of a gentleman
and a scholar? Nay, why should not other cliarges afiecting the per-
sonal character of an opponent be dealt with in a similar manner?
We do not, of course, seek to screen the man who can be proved to
have suppressed documents, cooked results, or claimed as his own dis-
coveries those which he Wfll knew belonored to another. We refer to
