330
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
those random charges of dishonesty and mendacity, and those sweep-
ing ascriptions of motive which are unfortunately so common. Tlius
we have often heard and seen it asserted that the authors of some
particular theory were actuated by a desire to disprove the existence
of a God, to subvert the Christian religion or some particular form of
it, or to injure public morals. To such assertors we would reply :
"Prove your charge by evidence, such as would satisfy an impartial
court of justice, or take the consequences, which will not be pleas-
ant ! " We are here reminded that in the very passage in Mr.
Mivart's book (p. 144), in which he comes unpleasantly near charg-
ing Mr. Darwin with atheism, he brings forward against the same
gentleman something very like an accusation of dishonesty. It is
perfectly true that in the "Origin of S2:>ecies" Mr. Darwin does not
pronounce as to whether mankind had or had not been gradually
evolved from some lower form of animal life. But reticence is very
dilFerent fi'om dishonesty. A thinker is not absolutely bound to bring
his speculations to light at all ; for keeping them back, while he is
accumidating and weighing the evidence for and against them, he
deserves praise rather than censure. Nay, even for introducing doc-
trines gradually, as the public are able to bear them, there is certainly
authority which Mr. Mivart cannot consistently impugn. Nor must
we forget that Mr. Darv>'in has, from the first, nowise courted pub-
licity for his views. But for the fact that Mr. Wallace was known to
be preparing a work of a somewhat similar nature, even the "Origin
of Species " might never have seen the light.
There may be persons who will be aggrieved at this expression of
our views on the subject of scientific controversies; but if they feel
themselves guiltless they may cheerfully exclaim, " Let the galled jade
wince." As f«jr those who have actually made the kind of charges
we protest against, they have no claim to lenity or forbearance.
Controversies on theories in the various inorganic sciences have
been carried on with no little acrimony. But charges of atheism are,
at least, banished. Why may not this reform be extended to biology
and psychology? Those who cannot treat these subjects from a
purely scientific point of view may serve to test the patience of unfor-
tunate reviewers, but they cannot lead us to the truth. — Extract from
Article in the Quarterly Journal of Science.
