332 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the Leyden philosophers correctly stated the conditions necessary to
the success of the experiment. Hence the phial received the name of
the Leyden-phial, or Leyden-jar.
The discovery of Rleist and Cunaeus excited the most profound
interest, and the subject was explored in all directions. Wilson, in
1746, filled a phial partially with water, and plunged it into Maler,
so as to bring the water surfaces, within and without, to the same
level. On charging such a phial tlie strength of the shock was found
greater than had been observed before.
Two years subsequently Dr. Watson and Dr. Bevis noticed how
the charge grew stronger as the area of the conductor in contact with
the outer surface increased. They substituted shot for water inside
the jar, and obtained substantially the same eflfect. Dr. Bevis then
coated a plate of glass on both sides with silver-foil, within about an
inch of the edge, and obtained from it discharges as strong as those
obtained from a phial containing half a pint of water. Finally, Dr.
Watson coated his phial inside and out with silver-foil. By these
steps the Leyden-jar reached the form which it possesses to-day.
It is easy to repeat the experiment of Dr. Bevis. Procure a glass
plate nine inches square; cover it on both sides with tin-foil six inches
square. Connect one side with the earth and the other with the
machine. Charge and discharge : you obtain a brilliant spark.
In our experiment with the golden fish (Fig. 22), we employed a
common form of the Leyden-jar, only with the difierence that to get
to a sufficient distance from the glass, so as to avoid the attraction of
the fish by the jar itself, the knob was placed higher than usual. But,
with a good flint-glass tumbler, a piece of tin-foil, and a bit of wire,
you can make a jar for yourself. Bad glass, remember, is not rare.
In Fig. 24 you have such a jar. T is the outer, T' the inner coating,
reaching to within an inch of the edge of the tumbler G. TF is the
bit of wire fastened below by wax, and surmounted by a knob, which
may be of metal, or of wax or wood, coated with tin-foil. In charging
the jar you connect the outer coating with the earth — say with a gas-
pipe or a water-pipe — and present the knob to the conductor of your
machine. A few turns will charge the jar. It is discharged by lay-
ing one knob of a " discharger " against the outer coating, and causing
the other knob to approach the knob of the jar. Before contact, the
electricity flies from knob to knob in the form of a spark.
A " discharger " suited to our means and purposes is shown in Fig.
25. ^ is a stick of sealing-wax : TF TT a stout wire bent as in the
figure, and ending in the knobs B B' . These may be of wax coated
with tin-foil. Any other light conducting knobs would of course
answer. The insulating handle H protects you eflectually from the
shock.
Sec. 18. Explanation of the Leyden - Jar.— The principles of
electrical induction with which you are now so familiar will enable
