i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Before considering the elements upon a combination of which the
powers of hand-hammers depend, it will be well to remark upon the
circumstances under which this power is actually developed. The
development takes place at the instant of contact of the moving
hammer with the struck body. Such contacts as those of hammers
J.^ ^
Fig. 19.— Tomahawk -Hammer.
belong to that department of mechanical philosophy called "impact."
Impact is pressure of short duration — so short that, compared with the
time in which the velocity of the impinging body is being acquired,
it is inappreciable ; or, if the comparison be between spaces passed
through by the hammer-head before impact and during impact, then,
generally speaking, the disproportion is the same, and the space passed
through after impact is almost inappreciable when compared with the
space passed through before impact.
It may assist in realizing the source as well as the magnitude of
the power of a hammer, if the dynamical effect of impact be compared
with what may be called the statical effect of pressure. Let any one
attempt to drive a nail vertically into an horizontal piece of timber by
the statical effect of the simple pressure of a load placed gently on the
head, as weights are laid in scale-pans. Let the depth to which the nail
is thus moved be measured. Again, let the same nail, under the same
circumstances, be driven to the same depth by the impact of a ham-
mer-head, then it may for our present purpose be said that the load
placed on the nail is a representative statical measure of the impact
of the hammer.
Now, although in any given case the work in a hammer consequent
on its mass and velocity may be very great, yet utilizing the whole
of the work produced in the expenditure of the accumulated power
in the hammer depends iipon the resistance met wdth at the instant
of impact. The more perfect this resistance is, the greater will be
the value of the work done ; hence the practise of using massive
anvils, firmly fixed, and the necessity for staying all vibrations in the
body struck. Let any one attempt to drive a nail in a board not
firmly supported, and then by the use of the same means drive a simi-
lar nail into the same board supported, and he will appreciate the im-
portance of resistance to the progress of a hammer's motion if the full
effect of a blow be desired.
