LESSOiVS IN ELECTRICITY. 333
you to thorouglily analyze and understand the action of the Leyden-
jar. In charging the jar, the outer coating is connected with the
earth and the inner coating with the electrical machine. Let the
machine, as usual, be of glass yielding positive electricity. When it
is worked the electricity poured into the jar acts inductively across
the glass upon the outer coating ; attracting its negative and repelling
its positive to the earth. Two mutually attractive electric layers are
thus in presence of each other, being separated merely by the glass.
When the machine is in good order and the glass of the jar is thin,
the attraction may be rendered strong enough to perforate the jar.
Franklin saw and announced with clearness the escape of the
electricity from the outer coating of the jar. His statement is that,
whatever be the quantity of the " electric fire" thrown into the jar,
an equal quantity was dislodged from the outside. We have now
to prove by actual experiment that this explanation is correct.
Place your Leyden-jar upon a table, and connect the outer coating
with your electroscope. There is no divergence of the leaves when
electricity is poured into the jar.
But here the outer coating is connected through the table with the
earth. Let us cut off this communication by an insulator. Place tlie
jar upon a board supported by warm tumblers, or upon a piece of
vulcanized India-rubber cloth, and again connect the outer coating
with the electroscope. The moment electricity is communicated to
the knob of the jar the leaves of Dutch metal diverge. Detach the
wire by your discharger and test the quality of the electricity — it is
positive, as theory declares it must be.
Consider now the experiment of Klei&t and Cunoeus (Fig. 23).
You will, I doubt not, penetrate its meaning. You will see that in
their case the hand formed the outer coating of the jar. When
electricity was communicated through the nail to the water within,
that electricity acted across the glass inductively upon the hand, at-
tracting the one fluid and repelling the other to the earth.
Again I say, prove all things; and what is here affirmed may be
proved by the following beautiful and conclusive experiment : Stand
on your board, insulated by its four tumblers ; or upon a sheet of
gutta-percha, or vulcanized India-rubber. Seize the old Leyden-phial
with your left hand, and touch the electroscope with tlie right, or with
a lath or a wire held in the right. When electricity is communicated
to the nail, the leaves immediately diverge by the electricity driven
from your left hand through your body to the electroscope.
Here the nail may be electrified either by connecting it with the
prime conductor of the machine, or by simply rubbing it with an
excited glass rod. Indeed, I should prefer your resorting to the sim-
plest and cheapest means in making these experiments.
As a thoughtful and reflective boy you cannot, I think, help won-
dering at the power which your thorough mastery of the principles
