334
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of induction gives you over these wonderful and complicated phenom-
ena. By those principles the various facts of our science are bound
together to an organic whole. But we have not yet exhausted the
fruit fulness of this principle.
Consider the following problem. Usually we allow the electricity
of the outer coating to escape to the earth. Suppose we try to utilize
it. Place, then, your jar upon vulcanized India-rubber, and connect
its outer coating by a wire with the knob or inner coating of a second
jar. What will occur when the first jar is charged ? Why, the
second one will be charged also by the electricity which has escaped
from the outer coating of the first. And suppose you connect the
outer coating of the second insulated jar with the inner coating of a
third; what occurs? The third jar will obviously be charged with
the electricity repelled from the outer coating of the second. Of
course, we need not stop here. We may have a long series of insu-
lated jars, the outer coating of each being connected with the inner
coating of the next succeeding one. Connect the outer coating of the
last jar with the earth, and charge the first jar. You charge thereby
the entire series of jars. In this simple way you master practically,
and grasp the theory of the celebrated ^''cascade battery''^ of Frank-
lin, represented in Fig, 26, with coated glass tumblers. A, J3, C, Z*,
Fig. 26.
and so on. You must see that, before making the experiment, you
could really have predicted what would occur. This power of pre-
vision is one of the most striking characteristics of science.
Sec. 19. Novel Ley den- Jars of the Simplest Form. — But, possessed
of its principles, we can reduce the Leyden-jar to a far simpler form
than any hitherto dealt with. Spread a sheet of tin-foil smoothly
upon a table, and lay upon the foil a pane of glass, somewhat
smaller than the foil in size. Remember that the glass, as usual, must
be dry. Stick on to the glass by sealing-wax two loops of narrow
silk ribbon, by which the pane may be lifted; and then lay smoothly
upon the glass a second sheet of tin-foil, less than the pane in size.
