L:ESS0NS IX ELECTRICITY. 337
by "warm tumblers. Hold in your right hand a sheet of vulcanized
India-rubber, and clasp, with it between you, the left hand of a friend.
Place your left hand on the conductor of the machine, and let it be
worked. You and your friend soon feel a crackling and a tickling of
the hands, due to the heightening attraction of the opposite electrici-
ties across the India-rubber. The hand-jar is then charged. To dis-
charge it you have only to bring your other hands together: the
shock of the Leyden-jar is felt.
By the discharge of the hand-jar you can fire gunpowder. But this
will be referred to more particularly further on.
Sec. 20. Physiological Effects of the Shock. — The physiological
effect of the shock was variously studied. Graham caused a number
of persons to lay hold of the same metal plate, which was connected
witli the outer coating of a charged Leyden-jar, and also to lay hold
of a rod by which the jar was discharged. The shock divided itself
equally among them.
The Abbe Nollet formed a line of one hundred and eighty guards-
men, and sent the discharge through them all. He also killed sparrows
and fishes by the shock. The analogy of these effects with those pro-
duced by thunder and lightning could not escape attention, nor fail
to stimulate inquiry.
Indeed, as experimental knowledge increased, men's thoughts be-
came more definite and exact as regards the relation of electrical
effects to thunder and lightning. The Abbe Nollet thus quaintly ex-
presses himself: " If any one should take upon him to prove, from a
well-connected comparison of phenomena, that thunder is, in the hands
of Nature, what electricity is in ours, and that the wonders which we
now exhibit at our pleasure are little imitations of those great effects
which frighten us, I avow that this idea, if it was well supported,
would give me a great deal of pleasure." He then points out the
analogies between both, and continues thus : " All those points of
analogy, which I have been some time meditating, begin to make me
believe that one might, by taking electricity as the model, form to
one's self, in relation to thunder and lightning, more perfect and more
probable ideas than what have been offered hitherto.* "
These views were prevalent at this time, and out of them grew
the experimental proof by the great physical philosopher, Franklin,
of the substantial identity of the lightning-fiash and the electric
spark.
Franklin was twice -struck senseless by the shock. He afterward
sent the discharge of two large jars through six robust men ; they fell
to the ground and got up again without knowing what had happened;
they neither heard nor felt the discharge. Priestley, who made many
valuable contributions to electricity, received the charge of two jars,
but did not find it painful.
» Priestley's " History of Electricity," pp. 151, 152.
VOL. IX. — 22
