338 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
This experience agrees with mine. In the theatre of the Royal
Institution, and in the presence of an audience, I once received tlie
discliarge of a battery of fifteen Leydeu-jars. Unlike Franklin's six
men, I did not fall, but, like them, I felt nothing. I was simply ex-
tinguished for a sensible interval.
This may be regarded as an experimental proof that people killed
by lightning suffer no pain.
Sec. 21. Seat of Charge, in the Ley den- Jar. — Franklin sought to
determine how the charge was hidden in the Leyden-jar. Recharged
with electricity a bottle half-filled with water and coated on the out-
side with tin-foil ; dipping the finger of one hand into the water, and
touching the outside coating with the other, he received a shock. He
w^as thus led to inquire, Is the electricity in the water? He poured
the water into a second bottle, examined it, and found that it had
carried no electricity along with it.
His conclusion was, that "the electric fire must either have been
lost in the decanting or must have remained in the bottle. The latter
he found to be true ; for, filling the charged bottle with fresh water,
he obtained the shock, and was, therefore, satisfied that the power of
giving it resided in the glass itself." ' An account of Franklin's dis-
coveries was given by him in a series of letters addressed to Peter
Collinson, Esq., F. R.S., from 1V47 to 1754.
So much for history ; but you are to verify the history by repeat-
ing Franklin's experiments. Place water in a wide glass vessel ; place
a second glass vessel within the first, and fiU it to the same height
with water. Connect the outer water by a wire with the earth, and
the inner water by a wire with the electric machine. One or two
turns furnish a sufiicient charge. Removing the inner wire, and dip-
ping one finger into the outside and the other into the inside water, a
smart shock is felt. This was Franklin's first experiment.
Pass on to the second. Coat a glass jar with tin-foil (not too high) ;
fill it to the same height with w'ater, and place it on India-rubber
cloth. Charge it by connecting the outside coating with the earth,
and the water inside (by means of a stem cemented to the bottom of
the jar and a knob) with an electric machine. You obtain a bright
spark on discharging. This proves your apparatus to be in good
order.
Recharge. Take hold of the charged jar with the India-rubber,
and pour the water into a second similar jar. Xo sensible charge is
imparted to the latter. Pour fresh unelectrified water into the first
I'ar, and discharge it. The retention of the charge is shown by a
brilliant spark. Be careful in these experiments, or you will fail, as I
did at first. Kote that the edge of the jar out of which the water is
poured is to be surrounded by a band of bibulous paper to catch the
final drop.
1 Priestlcy'3 " History of Electricitv," third edition, p. 149.
