340 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the opening of the Academy of Sciences by Frederick the Great, at
Berlin, on the 23d of January, 1744. With a spark from the sword
of one of the court cavaliers present on the occasion, Ludolf ignited
sulphuric ether.
Dr. Watson also made numerous experiments on the ignition of
bodies by the electric spark. He fired gunpowder and discharged
guns. Causing a spoon containing ether to be held by an electrified
jjerson, he ignited the ether by the finger of an unelectrified person.
He also noticed that the spark varied in color when the substances be-
tween which it passed varied.
These, and numerous other experiments, may be made with a far
simpler "machine" than any hitherto described. It was devised for
your benefit by Mr. Cottrell. In the electric machine, as we have
learned, the prime conductor is flooded with positive electricity
through the discharge of the negative from the points against the
excited glass. Your glass tube may be similarly turned to account.
A strip of sheet-brass or copper, jP, Fig. 30, about five inches long
and one inch wide, is sewn on to the edge of the silk pad, 7?, employed
as a rubber. Through apertures in the strip of metal about twenty
pin-points are introduced and soldered to the metal. When the tube
is clasped by the amalgam-covered rubber, the metal strip and points
(^uite encircle the tube.
When a fine wire, w^ connects the strip of metal with the knob of
a Leyden-jar, by every downward stroke the glass tube is powerfully
excited, and hotly following the exciting rubber is the circle of points.
From these, against the rod, negative electricity is discharged, the
free positive electricity escaping along the wire to the jar, which is
rapidly charged.
Connecting the strip of metal with an insulated metallic knob,
placed within a quarter or an eighth of an inch of an uninsulated
argand burner, at every downward stroke of the rubber a stream of
sparks passes between the knob and burner. If gas be turned on, it
is immediately ignited by the stream of sparks. Blowing out the
flame and repeating the experiment, a single stroke of the tube infal-
libly ignites the gas. Sulphuric ether, in a spoon which has been
previously warmed, is thus ignited : but the ether soon cools by evap-
oration ; its vapor is diminished, and it is then less easy to ignite.
Bisulphide of carbon may be substituted for the ether, with the cer-
tainty that every stroke of the rubber will set it ablaze.* The spark
thus obtained also fires an electric pistol charged with a mixture of
oxygen and hydrogen. The two gases unite with explosion to form
water, when an electric spark is passed thi^ugh them.
Mr. Cottrell has mounted his glass tube so as to render friction in
both directions available. The tube-machine is represented in Fig.
* I am indebted to Dr. Debus for the suggestion of the bisulphide as a substitute for
the ether.
