342 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Sec. 23. Duration of the Electric BparTc. — The duration of the
electric spark is very brief: in a special case, Sir Charles Wbeat-
stone found it to be 24000 ^^ ^f a second. This, however, was the
maximum duration. In other cases it was less than the millionth of
a second.
Fig. 32. # Fig. 33.
"When a body is illuminated for an instant, the image of the body
remains upon the retina of the eye for a fraction of a second. If,
then, a body in swift motion be illuminated by an instantaneous flash,
it will be seen to stand motionless for the fraction of a second at the
point where the flash falls upon it. A rifle-bullet passing through the
air, and illuminated by an electric flash, would be seen thus motion-
less ; a circle like D D', Fig. 33, divided into black and white isectors,.
and rotating so quickly as to cause the sectors to blend to a uniform
gray, appears, when illuminated by the spark of a Ley den-jar, per-
fectly motionless, wdth all its sectors revealed. A falling jet of water,
W'hich appears continuous, is resolved by the electric flash into its
constituent drops.
For a long time it was found almost impossible to ignite gunpow-
der by the electric spark, its duration was so brief; the powder, when
the discharge occurred in its midst, was simply scattered violently
about. In 1787 Wolfi" introduced into the circuit through which the
discharge passed a glass tube wetted on the inside. He thereby ren-
dered the ignition certain. This was owing to the retardation of the
spark by the imperfect conductor. Gun-cotton, phosphorus, and
amadou, which are torn asunder by the unretarded spark, are ignited
Avhen the discharge is retarded by a tube of water. A wetted string
is the usual means resorted to for retardation when gunpowder is to
be discharged.
The instrument usually employed for the ignition of powder is
called a universal discharger. It is represented in Fig. 34. J and /'
are insulating rods of glass or sealing-wax, supporting two metal
arms, the ends of which can be brought down upon the little central
I
