34-4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" flapping," and consists in simply breaking the force of a descent ;
this is followed by a more effectual use of the wings, and horizontal
progression, and it is some time subsequent to this that the young
birds attain to the power oiupvmrd flight. This holds good of a con-
siderable number of species, studied with special reference to their
flight, as the robin, the wood-thrush, cedar-bird, cat-bird, pewee, and
indigo-bird.
It is doubtful if young birds, while yet in their nests, are conscious
of the use to be made of their wings. After long-continued experi-
menting, I find they make no use of them, in endeavoring to escape,
but trust to their legs entirely, if removed from the nest, or defend
themselves by pecking at the intruder. When a sufiicient growth ot
feather has been obtained, the parent-birds, directly and indirectly,
instruct them ; or, perhaps more properly, force them to use their
wings. So, at least, I can only interpret certain habitual actions of
the parent-birds with reference to their newly-fledged young.
As an instance I will quote from my field-notes, with reference to
the indigo-bird: "June 23, 1873. Found a nest of this species in
a dense thicket of blackberry, and, curiously enougli, within just
seven paces of the railroad-track. The young birds were just ready
to leave the nest. I visited the nest the next day, and saw on my
approach one of the four young birds sitting on a brier-stem, about a
yard from the nest. Taking a favorable position, I continued to watch
the birds closely, as they were very restless and noisy. Evidently
something unusual had occurred or was occurring. In a few mo-
ments I saw the hen-bird go to the nest and push one of the young
birds out of the nest. It forced it from the edge of the nest, to which
it clung with its feet. Once free, the little fellow struggled to keep
itself up, throwing up its wings, as a child would straighten out its
arms when falling. This was the initial movement that developed
into flight. All of the young birds were thus forced from the nest, and
I am satisfied from no outside cause, as, for the three following even-
ings, the young returned to the nest to roost. I spent several hours
watching this brood and their parents, and the whole time was
occupied, except short intervals when they were fed, in forcing the
young birds from point to point, but ever keeping them from the
railroad-track, over which trains passed frequently. Two days from
leaving the nest they could fly six or eight yards, but always from a
higher to a lower perch, and regained the more elevated branches by
very short, 'jumping' flights, wilh a laborious flapping of the wings ;
but on the fifth day they could follow their parents almost any dis-
tance, and execute an upward flight with apparently the same ease.
Examination of the wing-feathers on the 30th of June, as compared
with a week previous, showed so slight gain in the growth of the
feathers, that I believe nothing in the increased flight-power was due
to their being now better fledgred."
