McCOSR IN REPLY TO CARPENTER. 21
those which are by many still considered to produce the most per-
fect of hammered work, the "wiper" was so shaped as to throw the
hammer very high. The ascent was checked by a powerful spring,
and thus the ascensional energy was reversed and added to the accel-
erating force of gravity downward ; and so not only was the intensity
pf the blows increased, but their frequency also. This spring took
the place of that muscular energy which brought the hammer down
with intensified efiect.
Hence, also, in steam-hammers, all muscular effect to intensify the
blow is transferred to the steam, and all consequences of centrifugal
action, whether from hand or tilt hammers at the ends of arms, are
removed. Further, in steam-hammers nowadays, the steam operates
to check as well as to intensify the blow. This checking action is
called " cushioning," and it seems to do what an elastic handle does
in a sledge-hammer : it relieves the rigid fabric or erection from jar
or destruction. " Cushioning " is brought into play by admitting steam
for the purpose of checking the intensity of the blow due to the action
of gravity alone, or of steam combining with gravity upon the ham-
mer. Hence the perfect control over large steam or air worked ham-
mers, and the rapidity with which the intensity of the blow may be
changed. Such control as this over a sledge-hammer is beyond our
bodily powers. We may intensify the blow, but we cannot, except
just experimentally, and for the purpose of display, bring the restrain-
ing power of the muscles to diminish the energy of the descending
hammer. — Journal of the Society of Arts.
PREPOSSESSIONS FOR AIS^D AGAINST THE SUPER-
NATURAL.
A CEITICISM OF DR. CARPENTER.
Bt JAMES MoCOSH, LL. D.,
PRESIDENT OF PRINCETON COLLEGE.
DR. CARPENTER is master of the domain which he has appropri-
ated for the last age, that of physiology. He has done more than
any living man, not exactly to advance, but to combine and expound,
the discovered truths of his science. But he is ever impelled by his in-
tellectual sharpness and his cultivated tastes to take excursions into
other regions, and I am not sure whether he has there been so success-
ful. In particular, as dwelling so near the territory of mind, he has ever
been crossing into it. He has made a very careful survey of the bor-
der-country, and given us the result in his valuable work "Mental
Physiology." Ever since the palmy days of mesmerism and table-
