CERTAIN PHASES OF BIRD-LIFE. 3^7
pasture-fields, overturn dry chips of cow-dung, in search of crickets ;
but such young birds will naturally iollow their parents thither, and
this is just the case, for the larger proportion of birds killed in Octo-
ber, in such localities, are the young of the preceding summer.
In conclusion, with reference to young birds, I believe they leave
their nests totally ignorant, and naturally imitate their parents. What
this imitation secures to them, in the way of knowledge, they perfect
by experience ; and this explains the variation in the habits of the
same birds, so noticeable when studied in localities widely distant and
greatly diflfering in character.
Let us turn our attention now to adult birds ; and, with reference
to them, I would refer particularly to two phases of their life-habits
that have interested me exceedingly. The first of these points is the
ingenuity so frequently displayed in procuring food. By the exercise
of ingenuity, I mean instances of the attacking bird (in cases of birds
of prey) being at first outwitted by the pursued, and, after repeated
eflfbrts availing nothing, ceasing its aggressive movements ; then con-
sidering the causes of failure, planning a new method of action, and,
having correctly judged the difiiculties, finally succeeding. This, at
least, is the manner in which I interpret the following instance :
While out watching our winter birds, January 22d of this year, I
was caught in quite a hard shower, and sought shelter under a group
of three large, dense cedars. Like myself, driven in from the adjoin-
ing meadows by the increasing rain, came a dozen or more sparrows,
which, settling among the branches, commenced dressing their feath-
ers and twittering cheerily. In a few moments after came, with a
rush and loud chirp, a gay cardinal. If the sparrows did not ac-
knowledge his presence with a low bow, each, at any rate, took a
lower branch, leaving him on his elevated perch like a monarch on
his throne. But he was fated to be molested, for, scarcely had he
become fairly settled, and his feathers smoothed, when a sparrow-
hawk rushed through the tree, with a zigzag movement, endeavoring
to seize him or one of his attendant spari'ows. Failing in this, the
hawk hovered about a few moments, giving the scattered birds time
to return, which they quickly did, when, with a similar rush, he again
scattered them. One little snow-bird was so thoroughly frightened
that it lit upon my shoulder, as though seeking safety under the brim
of my hat. The third efibrt of the hawk failing, he came back imme-
diately and seated himself at a little distance from the top of the tree,
and close to the main stem. I remained nearly motionless, but with
upturned face, and could plainly see the bird, although fortunately I
escaped notice. One thing in particular attracted my notice : the
bird was very much exhausted, " out of breath," as we should say of
oui-selves, and, with his beak open, he panted violently. This satisfied
me that the eff'orts to capture prey are not accomplished with the ease
sometimes supposed. As the rain was increasing, and the wind con-
