CERTAIN PHASES OF BIRD-LIFE. 349
would result difFerently. It must be remembered, however, that where
a bird is noticed in its natural haunts, once, even if for more than an
hour — which is an unusually long observation — there are weeks when
this same bird is unseen, and therefore what its acts may be are ab-
solutely unknown. For this reason, an ingenious act of a bird may
be frequently repeated, and almost certainly is. Indeed, our igno-
rance of bird-life is so great, that what seem to us " curious instances,"
because but seldom witnessed, are fi'equently daily occurrences, and
ordinary features of the bird's life. It can scarcely have escaped the
notice of close observers of our winter birds, that their comparative
abundance is only during clear, pleasant weather, when they will be
as lively and restless as spring birds in early summer, and that during
the winter certain localities, as the southern outlooks of wooded hill-
sides and such sheltered spots, are those where these hardy species
"most do congregate." During a mild day, at some such spot, we
can almost delude ourselves into thinking that spring is coming ; but
on the morrow a fierce wind rattles the bare branches above you,
clouds of stinging dust, or driving snow, fill the chilled air, and not a
bird is to be seen or heard, the cheery sights and sounds of yesterday
having given place to a dreariness most drear. One question now
arises, and we naturally ask, "What has become of the birds, so lately
here ? "
During the winter of 1874-'75 (the coldest except one — 1835-'36 —
since 1780), I endeavored to determine to what extent these birds
sought shelter, and the character of it, not only as a protection
against severe storms, but as regular winter quarters, i. e., for roosting-
places. I was led to do this from the fact that these winter residents,
as the bluebird, the cardinal redbird, and the titmouse, do not roost in
the trees, as in summer, and it seemed probable that, seeking warmer
quarters in ordinary weather, they should seek shelter from severe
storms, and not temporarily migrate to some point beyond the limits
of the storm; not only this, but that some spot is selected early in the
season as such roosting-place and refuge, and occupied as such through-
out the season. So far as my observations extend, I was correct in my
surmises.
I have, on my farm, a deep " gully," or ravine, thickly wooded,
and with overhanging banks, extending a considerable portion of the
entire length. This overhanging earth is held in place, partly by the
character of the soil, and more by the roots of the trees growing near
the margins of the gully. In this locality, under the overhanging
earth, in some instances at a distance of three feet from the open <
ground, I found the snow-birds, song and chipping sparrows, occa-
sionally a flock of cedar-birds, the arctic snow-bird, and horned larks,
roosting; and, judging from the amount of excreta upon the ground,
this had been the accustomed roosting-piace for many weeks. A little
before sundown, during January, I would find these birds, some or
