35°
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
all of tliem, congregating in the adjoining fields and in the trees of the
gully, and quite suddenly they would all disappear. Searching every
possible hiding-place, I finally found them as above described. If
the following day proved very cold or stormy, many of them would
remain in their snug retreat, the arctic visitors being the first to
venture out. The birds just mentioned all build open nests, either
in trees or upon the ground. On the other hand, the titmouse, nut-
hatch, brown tree-creeper, and bluebird, all of which build nests in
hollow trees, or sheltered spots of that character, I found regularly
roosted in the hollow trees, or in the outbuildings of the farm. The
cardinal redbirds, however, which nest in trees and brier-patches,
usually took refuge in dense cedars, to roost, but sought other shelter
during severe storms. For instance, during the remarkable wind-
storm of February 9th, when the air was filled with dust, and the
thermometer ranged from 3° to 4^° Fahr., no ordinary shelter could
protect our resident birds. During the day not one was to be seen
flying. I found the cardinal redbirds — a pair of them — had taken
shelter in a large, hollow tree, and with them was quite a large num-
ber of titmice, a brown tree-creeper {Certhia familiar is), and several
sparrows. I do not doubt but that the earth-shelter already described
had proved inadequate, and that the birds usually roosting there had
sought more sheltered spots. However, I did not have the courage to
face the wind, and see for myself, if such was the case.
During the present winter I have found that some, at least, of our
winter birds utilize the very excellent shelter afforded by the nests of
our bank-swallows. February 20th, a bright, clear day, I passed by
a high, steep cliff" of compact sand and clay, much frequented by these
swallows during summer. I noticed there chipping-sparrows and a
bluebird sunning themselves, each at the opening of a nest. On driv-
ing them away I found that they circled about for a few moments, and
returned. On passing the cliff" again, some houi'S later, I saw these
birds, and several others, some at the openings of the nests, and
others flitting about, quite in the manner of swallows. I could not
reach the nests, to determine if they had been much occupied during
the winter, but do not doubt but that such was the case.
I have not found, however, any shelters constructed by birds for
such purpose solely, except in the case of the introduced English
sparrow, which builds quite an elaborate and very warm roosting-
nest. During the early frosts of autumn and prevalence of cold rain-
storms, occurring before the ordinary date of migratorial departure,
the nests used in spring and summer are, I know, used as roosting-
places, but I have not detected any refitting of them for this purpose.
Considering this, it would be natural for birds to build new structures
for winter use, and in the sparrow we have an instance of it, and, I
presume, the abundance of natural shelter has alone prevented the
gradual acquirement of this habit by our winter birds.
