''THE UN<JERTAINTY, ETC., OF THE SCIENCES:' 351
Having familiarized one's self with the various phases of bird-life,
as it occurs in the open fields, dense thickets, along secluded streams,
and in shady forests, one can scarcely conclude otherwise, if happily
he has not entered upon his studies with some preconceived notion,
than that these wild and wary falcons, timid sparrows, fiery little
wrens, and cautious waterfowl, are creatux-es that, like man himself,
are thrown upon the world dependent upon their own exertions,
guided by their own reasoning powers. There are no prearranged
rules which, when birds leave their nests, they must strictly follow,
to exist. Given that knowledge which comes through direct and in-
direct instruction from the parent-birds, and a young bird, having the
world before it, exercises just those mental powers that man ex-
ercises, but limited just so far as its own wants are less than man's
wants as man. Finally, in the chance occurrence of some peculiar
habit have we not a trace of the foruier mode of life of some far-dis-
tant ancestral form ; and, in the undeniable irregularity of all habits,
can we not discern unmistakable indications of the gradual adoption
of every habit, just as the various specific forms themselves gradually
emerged from the archaic creature that, appearing in the dim past,
foreshadowed the gigantic condor of the Andes, and the petulant
humming-birds of our summer gardens ?
"OF THE UXCERTAmTY AND YANITY OF THE
SCIENCES."
By IE win E us sell.
ABOUT three hundred and fifty years ago, Henry Cornelius Agrip-
pa wrote a very curious book, "De Incertitudine et Vanitate
Scientiarum" (Of the Uncertainty and Vanity of the Sciences). Few
people read it now. Yet it has its interest, as an exponent of the
state of science at that day, aside from the attractions which are given
it by the quaint, sarcastic style of the author.
Here it is, a very old edition, in the black-letter of the sixteenth
century. The text has numerous peculiarities. The letter " a," with
a dash over it, represents "an ;" there are two kinds of "r's ; " the
double " e's " and double " o's," respectively, are put on a single type.
The emphasized words are printed in Roman characters, whereof the
font contains no " w," and that letter is made by placing tAvo " v's "
together. The book is numbered by folios, instead of pages. The
printer tells us that his edition is translated from the original Latin,
compared with an Italian version. Let us transcribe some of Agrippa's
remarks — altering the spelling to suit our modern rules.
