352 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Above rJl sciences, he favors geometry : " In fine, all the cunning
that is in Painting, in the Measuring the world, in ground tilth and. trim-
ming, in the Art of war, in founding of metals, in the art of working
Images in earth, in Image-making, in forging, in building and in metals,
for the most part, cometh from geometry." He says, however, of the
geometricians : " Yet such is their ambition, that they will never rest
upon the precepts of their preceptors; but believing in such things to
find out more than their Masters, do bring themselves into so great
madness that all the Helleborus in the world sufficeth not to purge
it." He instances as the fruits of this science, " all the cunning work-
ing of tools and artificial instruments, Magnaries, Machanopocetickes^
jPoliorcetickes, .... Testiidines, Cuniculines, .... Exosters, Sam-
hxikes.'''' Between paragraphs, the reader can consult the dictionary
or encyclopaedia.
We are told in cap. 23, " Of the Arte Opticke," that " there are
sundry and divers opinions of the manner of seeing. For Plato sup-
poseth the sight to be made according to the clearness : to wit, that
which cometh from the eyes : the Light running to an outward air,
that Light which is carried from the bodies being brought against
it ; but that which is about the midst of the air, doth cause that it
spreadeth, and turneth back to the virtue of the Sight, being spi-ead
abroad, and like unto Fire. Galene and Plato are of one opinion ; but
Hipparchus saith, that the beams spreading abroad from the eyes
unto bodies, touching them as it were with a certain feeling, or grop-
ing, do give that which they receive to the Sight. And the Epicures
affirm that the similitudes of things not corporal, but according to the
quality through the alteration of the air, which is in compass, doth
come from visible things unto the sight. But Porphirius saith that,
neither the Beams, neither the similitudes, nor any other thing, is the
cause of seeing, but the soul alone, that knoweth herself visible, and
that is one of all things, which knoweth herself in all things that are.
The geometricians and perspectivians, approaching somewhat near to
Hipparchus, do affirm that there be certain Figures made of the meet-
ing together of the beams, which are sent out through the eyes, from
whence the sight doth comprehend in one, many visible things, but
they most certain of all, wheresoever the beams shall meet together.
Certes, Alchindus saith otherwise of the Sights : but it seemeth to
Augustine that the power of the Soul doth bring somewhat to effect in
the eyes, the which is not yet perceived of the Students of Wisdom."
Although we have advanced much since the time of Cornelius
Agrippa, still, even in this glorious nineteenth century there is here
and there a thing " the whiche is not yet perceyved of the Studentes
of Wisedome."
The following is a good example of our author's peculiar style :
" Xotwithstandiug, I learned in time past in Italy, that there was in
pictures and images an authority greatly to be esteemed ; for whereas
