^'THE UNCERTAINTY, ETC., OF THE SCIENCES:' 353
there was an obstinate strife between the Augustine Friars and the
vulgar Canons, before the pope, concerning the habit or apparel of
S, Augustine, that is to say, whether he did wear a black weed upon
a white Coat, or a white weed upon a black Coat ; and finding nothing
in the Scriptures which made to the ending of this strife, the Roman
judges thought good to prefer the whole matter to Painters and Image-
makers, and that which they could avouch out of ancient Pictures and
Images should be holden for a Definitive sentence. I being grounded
upon this example, when some time I with exceeding great diligence
searched for the Original of the Friars' cowl, and could find nothing
for that matter in the Scriptures, at length I went me to the Painters,
and for this thing I sought in the Cloisters, and in the cells of the
Friars, where for the most part the histories of both Testaments are
painted ; and when I could not find in all the Old Testament none of
the Patriarchs, none of the Priests, none of the Prophets, none of the
Levites, nor yet Helias himself, whom the Carmelitans would have to
be their Patron, with a cowl : taking the New Testament in hand, I
found there Zacharie, Symeon, John Baptist, Joseph, Christe, the
Apostles, the Disciples, the Scribes, the Pharisees, the High Priest
Annas, Caiphes, Herode, Pilate, and many other, I saw in no place a
Friar's cowl : and again diligently examining everything from the
beginning, immediately in the fore part of the History the De^ il was
painted with a Cowl, to wit, he which went to tempt Christ in the
Desert. I rejoiced exceedingly that I had found that in the pictures
which until that time I could not see in writing, that is to say, that
the Devil was the first author of a cowl : of whom afterwards, I sup-
pose, that other Monks and Friars took up the fashion under divers
colors ; or, perhaps, have retained it as a thing left to them by inheri-
tance."
Such passages as the last, which abound in the book, were not cal-
culated to win for the writer the affection of the clergy. Through
their influence, Agrippa was imprisoned for some time, and his pen-
sion from the Emperor of Austria was withdrawn.
"Seeing glasses" he classifies as follows; "The hollow, the em-
bossed, the plain, the Columnarie, the Piromidal, the Turhinal, the
bunched, the round, the cornered, the inversed, the eversed, the regu-
lar, the unregular, the massy, and the clear." He describes their
properties, and says: "And I know how to make Glasses, in which,
when the sun shineth, all things that are lightened of his beams may
very plainlv be seen a great space off, as three or four miles." Were
these "glasses" on the principle of the telescope? The invention of
that instrument is generally assigned to Galileo, about 1590; whereas
Agrippa's book was published at Antwerp in 1530.
Astronomy he pronounces " altogether false, and fuller of trifling
toys than the fables of the Poets" — declaring that the laws of the
science, as then asserted, Avere only a mass of idle conjectures.
Toi,. IX. — 23
