354 "J^HE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Of magic lie says : " The things which the deluded and bewitched
> persons do imagine, have no truth of action and being, save only
things imagined. For the end of this skill is not to do, simply, but
to stretch out Imaginations even unto appearance."
The chapter on alchemy is a curiosity. One passage reads :
" Finally, of that only blessed thing alone, besides which there is no
other thing, yet to be found in every place, the subject of the most
holy stone of the Philosophers, I mean, that is to say, I have almost
rashly uttered the name of the thing, whereby I should be a sacrilege
and forsworn, yet I will speak it with circumlocution, but somewhat
more obscure, that none but young beginners in the Art and they
which be trained up in the mysteries thereof may understand it. It
is a thing, which hath substance, and not overmuch fiery, nor alto-
gether earthly, nor simply watery, nor a most sharp nor most blunt
quality, but indifferent, and light in touching, and after a sort tender,
or at the least not hard, not unpleasant, but after a sort sweet in
taste, sweet in smell, delectable to the sight, pleasant and jocund to
the hearing, large to the imagination : I may say no more, and yet
there be things greater than these." The description is scarcely
definite enough to enable us to find the philosopher's stone.
The 102d chapter is "A Digression in prayse of the Asse" — after
which follows the conclusion of the work, in which he salutes his
readers, " O ye asses." Perhaps some modern authors would like to
follow his example in this respect.
The printer, in his preface to this edition, remarks : " Sapience
proceedeth of perfect Reason, joyned with Learning, and knowledge,
which if it be true, then consequently it followeth, that Artes and Sci-
ences are good. And although this Authour sharply inveyeth against
them, (which to the rude multitude for that cause may seeme naught
and noysome) yet his intent is not to deface the worthiness of
Artes and Sciences, but to reprove and detect their euill vses, and
declare the excellencie of his wit in disprouing them, for a shewe of
learning."
Henry Cornelius Agrippa was one of the most learned men of his
time, and wrote voluminously upon scientific and philosophical sub-
jects. The " Edinburgh Encyclopaedia " says of him : " As a soldier
and a physician, a lawyer and a lecturer, a metaphysician and a theo-
logian, the versatility of his genius enabled him to attain the highest
distinction." He wrote a " Dissertation on Original Sin," a work on
" Occult Philosophy," a " History of the Government of Charles V.,"
and various other treatises. The book from which we have quoted so
largely is undoubtedly the most complete summary of the condition
of science at that day to be found in any one volume.
Is it probable that our present accepted theories will seem as curi-
ous to the reader of three hundred and fifty years hence as those of
Agrippa's day appear to us ? Will the customs, the manners, and the
