ANIMAL POWERS OF OFFENSE AND DEFENSE. 357
thinking at first sight that the butterflies themselves have been at-
tacked by real fungi."
The walking-stick insects, as they are called, in their turn imitate,
in the skeleton-like structure of their bodies, the appearance of dried
twigs; and it is a singular fact that even in their awkward, ungainly
manner of walking, the resemblance to the chance movements of
twigs is clearly perceptible ; the mimicry being rendered more real-
istic through this latter phase. Then, also, we find certain harmless
groups of moths imitating closely the outward appearance of species
of stinging bees and hornets. And one remarkable case of mimicry
is the well known instance of some perfectly inodorous South Ameri-
can butterflies, which perfectly reproduce the external appearance
of other butterflies which emit a most offensive odor; the reason
assigned for this latter phase of mimicry being the very feasible one
that the inodorous forms are prote'^ted from the attacks of birds
by their resemblance to their strong-smelling neighbors. As a
last instance of this curious phase of animal organization, we may
note the example furnished by those curious little fishes, the Sip-
pocampi, or sea-horses — so named from the obvious resemblance
of the form of the head to that of a horse — the bodies of which be-
come covered with long streamers of certain kinds of seaweed ; so
that, when these fishes rest amid the seaweed-covered nooks of their
marine grottoes, the presence of their streamers serves to render de-
tection by their enemies no easy matter.
Referring to the explanation, if such can be afforded, of these mi-
metic resemblances, there can be little doubt that, viewed as to its
ultimate use and purpose, the condition of mimicry serves in the most
effective manner as a means of defense and protection to the animals
so endowed. The resemblance of the colors of birds to that of their
habitat presents an obvious instance of this purpose ; as also does
the more complicated example of the imitation, by scentless butterflies,
of their odorous neighbors. But, as regards the exact means whei-eby
the condition of mimicry is induced and perfected, or concerning the
exact causes of its assumption and development, natural history sci-
ence, in its practical aspect, remains silent ; although the bolder march
of theory and speculation may indeed lead us for a little way toward
the solution of the problem. At any rate, there can be no difiiculty
to our clearly appreciating the workings of a great law of purpose
and design in the production of mimicry, as serving to protect the
weak and less powerful against stronger and better-provided animals.
Turning now to some lower forms of animal life, we find in such
forms as the Hydrm, or common fresh-water polyps, the zoophytes,
sea-anemones, jelly-fishes, and allied forms, excellent examples of very
specific means of defense and offense in animals. Within the tissues
of the bodies of the foregoing organisms, when these tissues are mi-
croscopically examined, numerous little sacs or cells, varying in size
