358 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
and form, may be observed. To these cells the appropriate name of
''thread-cells," or c?itc?ce, has been given. When their structure is
investigated, each little cell is seen to possess an elastic wall of dou-
ble nature; the inner layer of the wall being strong, while the outer
one is of thinner and more delicate texture. The upper or open ex-
tremity of the inner layer of the sac is prolonged to form a kind of
sheath, which protects and gives origin to a thread-like filament, from
the presence of which, indeed, these cells derive their name. This
thread, in the ordinary condition of the cell, is coiled up within the
interior of the sac, and around its own sheath ; and in many cases
both thread and sheath may be discerned to be provided with minute
spines or hooks. The cell itself, in addition, contains a fluid, amid
which the thread is submerged.
Such is the essential structure of a thread-cell in its normal state
of what we may term repose. When such a structure, however, is
pressed or irritated in any way, the cell ruptures or bursts, the con-
tained fluid escapes, and the thread and its sheath are quickly pro-
truded or thrown out from the opening in the cell. If, now, the thread
and fluid are observed to come in contact with any body of appropri-
ate and assailable kind, such a body will exhibit certain symptoms
which will indicate to us the probable nature of these curious cells.
Thus, when the tentacles or feelers of the sea-anemone, or of any of
the zoophytes, come in contact with a minute or susceptible organism
adapted for food, the organism is first observed to struggle to escape
from the entwining filaments which encircle its body. Soon, however,
its active exertions cease, and the victim appears paralyzed and inca-
pable of helping itself, or of struggling longer with its captor. The
thread-cells, in other words, have been discharging their miniatm*e
darts or " threads " into the body attacked ; the fluid — in all proba-
bility of aciid or poisonous nature — has been poisoning the tissues
of the struggling organism ; and the observation has revealed to us
that the functions of the cells are undoubtedly analogous to those of
the serpent's fangs and poison-gland, in that they serve to paralyze
and kill the prey.
As might naturally be supposed, the power of the thread-cells
varies in different species and groups of the animals that possess
them ; but there are some forms of Coelenterata — for thus the Hydrm^
sea-anemones, and their allies, are collectively named — in which the
stinging-cells are of sufficient size and power to inflict severe pain on
man himself Aristotle was fully aware of this latter fact when he
named the jelly-fishes and their allies Acalephce, or " nettle-like "
animals. And bathers and swimmers, through instinct, if not thor-
ough zoological knowledge, generally and wisely contrive to give the
jelly-fishes a wide berth in their marine raeanderings. The late Ed-
ward Forbes, in his humorsome manner, says of one species of jelly-
fish, that, " once tangled in its trailing ' hair,' the unfortunate, who
