22 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
turning, he has been enlarging on that " expectancy " and " preposses-
sion " which have been so perverting the vision of many in their ob-
servation of facts. He will not be offended with me if I hint that it is
just possible that he himself may unconsciously be under the influence
of these, when, on finding how much can be explained by physiologi-
cal processes, he imagines he can account in the same way for purely
mental operations.
On some points Dr. Carpenter has been vigorously ojjposing the
materialism of the day : " In reducing the thinking man to the level of
a puppet, that moves according as its strings are pulled, the material-
istic philosopher places himself in complete antagonism to the positive
conviction, which, like that of the existence of an external world, is felt
by every right-minded man, who does not trouble himself by speculat-
ing upon the matter, that he really does possess a self-dttermining
poicer, which can rise above all the promptings of suggestion, and can,
within certain limits, mould external circumstances to its own re-
quirements instead of being completely subjugated by them." — ("Men-
tal Physiology," § 5.) By such utterances, worthy of the son of Lant
Carpentei', of Bristol, he has gained the confidence of a number of
anti-materialistic and religious men, who may find, however, that he
is conducting them into a place between two armies where they are
exposed to the fire of both. At this point he has been abandoned by
the disciples of Bain, Huxley, and Tyndall, by M. Ribot, and the
writers in the Hevue Scientijlque, the organ of the school in France
who wonder that he should stop where he has. For, if material agency
can generate so much, can account for imagination and genius gener-
ally, can explain our higher intellectual efforts of judgment and rea-
soning, can fashion conscience and gender the obligation of duty and
the sense of guilt, and our reverence for the unseen and the sublime,
why may it not also produce will, an operation evidently so swayed by
causes ? They who follow Dr. Carpenter will soon find that they have
very insecure footing, and must either go forward and identify will,
as they do intelligence, with material agency, or retreat so far back
as to hold that there are many other operations, such as the discern-
ment of higher truth and higher goodness, which cannot be derived
from atoms. If there be such an agent as will — and I agree with Dr.
Carpenter in thinking that consciousness testifies in its behalf — then
we must provide a compartment for it, and we may place there reason
and our ideas of the good, the infinite, and the perfect.
Dr. Cai'penter's views of the attributes of the mind seem to me to
be very inadequate. They were formed about the time when Hart-
ley's " Observations on Man " and James Mill's " Analysis of the Hu-
man Mind" were reckoned the highest authorities among the Unita-
rians who felt Priestley's influence. Dr. Carpenter evidently looks
upon the operations of the mind as composed of sensations and ide-
ations. His view of both these is very insufiicient. In all sense-per-
