SKETCH OF ALEXANDER BAIN. 361
pies and Discussions of Important Principles and Usages," intended
as a help to the thorough mastery of English. Prof. Bain contributed
the articles on " Logic " and " Mental Philosophy " to " Chambers's
Encyclopaedia," and contributed editorial notes to the recent edition
of the works of James Mill. Prof. Bain was for many years the inti-
mate friend and confidant of George Grote the historian, and was
made by liim heir in reversion (after Mrs. Grote's death) of all his copy-
rights. In connection with Prof, Croome Robertson, he edited Mr.
Grote's posthumous work on " Aristotle," and he also edited Grote's
"Minor Works," and prefixed to the edition an elaborate estimate of
the character and writings of the historian. In connection with Dr.
Taylor he is now engaged in a thorough revision of Arnott's "Phys-
ics," bringing it up to date, so that a new edition of this valuable and
favorite work may be soon expected. He received the degree of
LL. D. in the University of Edinburgh in 1869.
As a philosophic thinker, the influence of Prof. Bain is now very
widely felt. He has made a powerful impression upon the mental
science of the age by accepting the results of modern physiology and
treating methodically of thought and emotion in connection with their
physical concomitants. Though not disregarding the value of intro-
spection, or the study of psychical phenomena in the changes of con-
sciousness, he couples with this method the vigorous study of mental
effects on their physical side, considering that there can be no mental
science worth the name that does not carry its analysis down to the
material conditions under which mind is manifested. The recognition
of the corporeal nature as so fundamental a factor in mental science
naturally drew his attention to the theory of organic development by
which the higher organisms are explained on the principle of their
derivation from the lower. This theory carries with it the necessary
implication that the psychical nature of man, his intellectual faculties,
emotions, and sentiments, are also derivative from lower conditions,
and are only to be explained through the principle of descent. In the
last edition of "The Emotions and the Will" this view is conse-
quently adopted.
We give the readers of the Monthly an excellent likeness of Prof.
Bain, probably the first that has appeai'ed in this country. He is a
man of slight stature, but of an active nervous temperament, a frue
and admirable talker, full of wit and anecdote, and a lively story-
teller. He is broad and liberal in his opinions, and holds advanced
views on the subject of education and university reform.
