362
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE WATER-HAMMEE.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
SIR : The following phenomenon can,
perhaps, be explained by yourself or
one of your readers : I have a water-ham-
mer, made of a straight tube of glass, about
eighteen inches long and three-quarters of
an inch in diameter. At the top of the
tube there are two bulbs, the upper one
about half the size of the lower, with only
a narrow passage of about a sixteenth of an
inch in width to connect the lower bulb
with the tube, and the upper bulb with the
lower. About one-third of the tube con-
tains water. When the tube is inverted,
and the water allowed to fill both bulbs, it
will not, upon the tube being reversed, run
out, but will remam in the bulbs for an in-
definite time, until shaken or otherwise
disturbed. This may be owing to adhesion
simply, or, possibly, to capillary attraction,
but it is not to this fact chiefly that I wish
to call your attention. The water being in
the bulbs, and the tube held with
the bulbs upward, if a smart blow
with the palm of the had be ap-
plied at the bottom of the tube,
there arises, under certain con-
ditions which I have been unable
to determine, a ringing noise re-
sembling sometimes the singing
of a bird, sometimes the noise
produced by a thin iron instru-
ment — a fork, for instance — when
knocked rapidly against an empty
tumbler. During this time, no
water escapes from the bulbs, but
the water at the mouth of the
lower bulb is violently agitated,
as if small particles of air were
quickly ascending to the height
of a quarter of an inch in the bulb.
Not a drop of water is displaced,
I the water remaining at the bottom
of the tube not being perceptibly
'^'**~ increased while ihe noise contin-
ues. It lasts sometimes from five to ten
minutes, and it seems as though, under fa- 1
vorable conditions, it might continue in-
definitely. Very frequentl}', however, the
experiment does not succeed, though ap-
parently all the conditions are exactly the
same. Here, therefore, are two questions :
1. What is the reason why the water,
when caused to enter the bulbs, does not
flow out of them when the position of the
tube is reversed, but remains stationary as
if there was no such thing as gravity, and,
in this case, a vacuum besides ?
2. What is the reason of the singing
noise above described ? G. M.
New Yobk, March 28, 1ST6.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
Will you allow me to state the precise
ground of objection to your criticism of my
book, " The Sexes throughout Nature ? "
" What she proposes to do," you aflBrm, " is
nothing less than to reduce the whole organic
world, with all its vital and physical char-
acters, into exact and demonstrable quanti-
tative expression."
I only insist that, until science can oflTer
us exact quantitative proof that the total
of male characters is in excess of the total
of female characters, no scientist should as-
sume to determine, on scientific authority,
that woman is inferior to man. I make no
attempt to place my hypothesis, that, in
each species of being, the sexes are true eguiv-
alenis, on a " demonstrable quantitative "
basis.
Though presented in the form of equa-
tions, and defended in a series of carefully-
argued propositions, the theory waits to be
tested experimentally and quantitatively.
It assumes to be nothing but a provisional
hypothesis, destined to be either confirmed
or rejected, as it is found to agree or not to
agree with the decisive facts of Nature. I
merely offer various evidence in defensre of
the assumption that, physical powers com-
pared with physical, and psychical powers
with psychical, the female is everywhere
the equal of the pale of its own species.
I
I
