CORRESP OXDENCE.
363
Unlike but mutually-adapted physical
growth and expenditure, including the func-
tions of reproduction, are held to balance
and equalize the physical well-being of the
sexes. It is further claimed that their psy-
chical powers, dependent upon and working
through adapted organisms, are also thereby
maintained in a perpetually-adjusted equi-
librium. The hypothesis assumes true men-
tal equivalence, which is secured through
inherent, varying, constitutional provisions.
My sole claim to originality must lie in
the attempt to briefly and insufficiently in-
dicate how Nature has wrought to achieve
a continuous and progressive balance of
the sexes from the beginning until now.
It remains to complete the work ; to deter-
mine how much of one set of characters is
the mathematical equivalent of counter-
balancing quantities.
Extremely accurate and detailed esti-
mates are doubtless out of the question.
The simplest computations are so inexact
that even the mean distance of the earth
from the sun still awaits revision. How-
ever, " in time," science must be able to
oflfer sufficiently accurate, incontrovertible
proof that men and women are, or are not,
intellectually peers.
A. B. Blackwell.
SoMEBVELLE, N. J., Marck, 1876.
THE "NEW PHILOSOPHY" OF HEAT.
To the Editor of The Popular Science Monthly.
Is opening a copy of Bailey's Dic-
tionary, published in London in 1775, my
eye fell upon the following : " Heat (ac-
cording to the N'ew Philosophy) very much
consists in the rapidity of motion in the
smaller parts of bodies, and that every
way ; or in the parts being rapidly agitated
all ways. Its operation upon the senses
we call Jleat, and is estimated according to
its relation to the organs of feeling, which
motion of its small parts must be brisk
enough to increase or surpass that of the
parts of the sentient, for if it be more
weak or languid, it is said to be cold."
I was under the impression that the
theory concerning heat which involves this
definition is of modern development. What
is the truth on the subject ?
E. R. Craven.
The doctrine which makes heat consist
in molecular motion, or in an agitation of
the minuter parts of which material things
are constituted, is old as a speculation, but
modern as a scientific demonstration. Locke
said, more than a hundred years ago, " Heat
is a very brisk agitation of the insensible
parts of an object, which produces in us
that sensation from which we denominate
the object hot, so- that what in our sensa-
tions is heat, in the object is nothing but
motion." Similar views may be vaguely
traced in the writings of Galileo, Bacon,
Newton, Leibnitz, Descartes, Bernoulli, and
Laplace. But they were unverified con-
jectures, and could not take their place
among the principles of science until ex-
perimentally proved. This was first done
by Count Rumford, in his celebrated experi-
ments at the Munich Arsenal, and yublished
in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society
for 1798." But Rumford's results were ig-
nored for half a century. Dr. Whewell
published the history of thermotics in 1837,
without mentioning him. He was far in
advance of his age, both in his philosophi-
cal views regarding heat and the experi-
mental evidence by which he sustained
them. When, from 1840 to 1850, various
physicists and chemists entered upon lines
of research that led to the general doctrine
of the convertibility or correlation of forces,
the labors of Rumford began to be appre-
ciated, and the truth concerning the nature
of heat being proved in various ways, be-
came accepted in science and part of a
" new philosophy," in a sense quite differ-
ent from that in which these terms were
used in the last century.
