36+
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
EDITOR'S TABLE.
THE RADIOMETER.
"TT7"E some months ago printed a
VV paper describing briefly the
leading features of Mr. Crookes's dis-
covery of the mechanical action of light.
We this month publish a more elabo-
rate article under the same title, with
new illustrations, in which the distin-
guished discoverer goes more fully into
the subject, states how he was led into
the investigation, explains the construc-
tion of the instrument, traces out the
action of difl'erent kinds of rays, shows
the value of the contrivance as a pho-
tometer or light-measurer, explains its
magnetic and electrical relations and
how its motions may be recorded, sug-
gests its meteorological uses, and final-
ly considers its results as determining
the amount of the force of sunlight
upon the earth. Nothing could better
illustrate the wide and complex inter-
actions and dependencies of natural
phenomena than the circle of questions
that is opened by the introduction of
this ingenious invention.
The radiometer (so called because
of its capacity of measuring radiations)
is a very simple instrument (as will be
seen by referring to Fig. 8, page 269),
consisting of a small glass globe from
which the air has been pumped out,
and containing four arms supported at
the centre by a fine point, and carrying
at their extremities thin vanes or disks,
white upon one surface and dark upon
the other. When light from any source
falls upon it the arms begin to revolve,
the white surfaces approaching the
light and the dark surfaces receding
from it as if repelled or pushed away.
We have before us a radiometer made
by Geissler, the inventor of " Geissler's
Tubes," which consists of a globe two
and three-quarters inches in diameter,
with its downward stem resting on a
wooden base, the whole being ten inches
high. It is in motion constantly in the
daytime, propelled by the diffused light
from the window, and, if the curtain
be dropped and the room darkened, the
faint light that comes in at the side
maintains it in slow revolution. As the
intensity of the light increases the mo-
tion is quickened, and when the instru-
ment is placed directly in the solar
rays the revolutions are so rapid that
they cannot be counted. Mr. Crookes
made one instrument so delicate that
a single candle would drive it at forty
revolutions per second.
In the hands of many the radiometer
is now only a curiosity and a toy, yet
to the physicist it is an instrument of
great interest as displaying a new as-
pect of dynamical phenomena, and may
help to explain still further the nature
of the radiant forces, and perhaps throw
light upon other questions. It is at-
tracting much attention from scientific
men, who may be expected in due time
to report the results of their own re-
flections and experiments upon the sub-
ject.
SUNDAY AT THE CENTEyyiAL EXHI-
BITION
The exhibition at Philadelphia has
many features of interest, one of the
highest of which is that it stands out
before the world in a moral and reh-
gious aspect as a tribute to the dignity,
inspiration, and sacredness of conscien-
tious and successful labor. The war-
riors, politicians, orators, have their
honors elsewhere ; the Centennial Ex-
position is an ovation to the " captains
of industry." The multitudinous dis-
play is all due to the achievements of
labor, to head-toilers and hand-toilers
— the devotees and the heroes of science
