386 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
thither to summon individuals who, in their folly, take no note of the
change of temperature. Is it not plain that these birds know how to
say, " It is time to be gone ? "
But in all probability the language of animals gives expression
only to very simple impressions and ideas. But, inasmuch as we do
not understand it, we cannot define either its extent or its true char-
acter. Some persons have the power of imitating the calls and songs
of birds ; and birds, in turn, repeat human language, without, how-
ever, understanding its sense; it is only very rarely tiiat we can
recognize in the phrase uttered by- the inhabitant of a cage the ex-
pression of a desire. Man and dog, close friends though they are,
understand one another only by means of a sort of pantomime.
Eventually the dog understands some of the words spoken by his
master, and the man understands some of the vocal expressions of his
trusty friend ; and tliis is the highest result of long association. It
appears as though, by a supreme will, an insurmountable obstacle had
been opposed to all close communication between man and animals.
Apparently those animals whose organization comes nearest to
that of man lack both the faculty of producing an ensemble of articu-
late sounds and the degree of intelligence requisite for attaching to
words a strictly determinate meaning. No monkey has ever learned
to talk. In our own day the comparative study of specialties of or-
ganization and of the life-conditions of living beings has thrown light
upon the subject of articulate speech. We may confidently affirm that
a creature possessing an instrument or an organ subject to the control
of its will comes into the world possessed of an instinct to employ
that organ or instrument ; guided by intelligence, it will make more
or less happy use of it. As individuals differ from one another in the
perfection of their vocal organs, so too they differ in the measure of
their control of those organs. Natural gifts and judicious exercise
afford immense advantages. All men possess a vocal apparatus : for
talking or for singing they usually employ it skillfully enough to an-
swer all common demands ; while a privileged few produce wonderful
effects with the same instrumentalities.
The mechanism of voice deserves to be studied by all. As regards
man, we now have very accurate knowledge of the manner in which
speech and singing are produced. Means having been found of view-
ing the play of the different parts of the larynx, physicians intent
i;pon the advancement of the art of healing, physiologists spurred on
by the desire of explaining phenomena, singers eager to penetrate the
secret of the highest achievements in their art, have all devoted them-
selves to patient researclies. The results of a multitude of investiga-
tions have been published, and in this way science has been greatly
extended. Dr. Mandl, an observer who had already studied in its
minutest details the structure of the respiratory organs, has given the
fullest account yet presented of the vocal apparatus in all the phases
