VOICE IN MAN AND IN ANIMALS. 387
of its activity.' At present he is engaged in studying tlie phenomena
of voice in the larger animals. As for birds, it is to be hoped that
soon we shall understand the organic peculiarities in virtue of which
they are able to talk or to sing. Doubtless before long we shall dis-
cover the relations subsisting between life-conditions, physical jDOwers,
and psychological faculties.
In all those communities which have attained a high degree of in-
tellectual culture, the explanation of natural phenomena has ever more
or less engaged the attention of the best minds. Among the ancients
we observe a manful effort to discover the secret of the human organ-
ization. The origin of speech and of song was unquestionably a sub-
ject of profound inquiry for them. Galen, the last and the most famous
of the ancient physicians, wrote a description of the larynx, and this
description is the work of a master who recognizes the high impor-
tance of the work he is engaged in. Since the time of the Renaissance
anatomists have been studying the minutest details, and physiologists
experimenting. Thus everything was ready for new discoveries, so
soon as it should be possible to place before the eye the performance
of the instrument used by the singer. It would be difficult, without
some knowledge of the vocal apparatus, to understand how the sounds
are produced, and hence we will briefly describe those portions of the
respiratory organs in which the voice is formed.
The trachea, which is the passage for air between the mouth and
the lungs, ascends from the chest to the middle region of the neck;
it is made up of cartilaginous rings. At its lower extremity it branches
out into two tubes, which are divided and subdivided into numerous
ramifications : these are the bronchi, which terminate in the lung-cells.
At the upper extremity of the trachea is the larynx, appearing like
an angular box, and crowning the trachea like the capital on a column.
Cartilages connected by ligaments give considerable strength to the
walls of the larynx. Internally these walls have a lining of mucous
membrane, which forms folds known as the vocal cords, or better,
lips. Under the action of special muscles these folds separate from
one another, are elongated or shortened, or become tense, and hence
the differences of sound. The cartilages are four in number: two on
the anterior surface of the box and two on the sides. In advanced
age these cartilaginous plates ossify; the suppleness of the larynx is
then greatly diminished, and the voice loses the power of modulation
which it possessed in the period of youth. One of the cartilages,
which has the form of a ring, is much higher behind than in front.
This ring, being firmly fixed upon the first ring of the trachea, serves
to support the various parts which constitute the larynx. The largest
of these parts shields, as it were, the front of the vocal apparatus: it
consists of a plate of cartilage bent into a V-shape, with the point of
* " Traito du Larynx et du Pharynx," 1872 ; " ITvgienc dc la Vois parlee et chantec,"
1876.
