388 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the Y turned forward. In women it is less prominent than in men,
and it is known as Adam's apple. The lateral cartilages, which spring
from the ring-cartilage at the back of the larynx, assume the form of
little triangular pyramids with uneven surface. They are slightly
curved toward the upper extremity, and support a little horny plate,
which in the eyes of the ancient anatomists resembled the snout of a
pitcher.^ The lateral cartilages, being very mobile, play an important
part in the emission of the voice.
The larynx is to some extent movable. Being attached to the
hyoid or tongue bone by means of a membrane strengthened by liga-
ments, it is lifted up by the action of muscles extending from the
tongue-bone to the external surface of the thyroid cartilage; it is
pulled down by the action of muscles which extend from this same
cartilage to the sternum. Further, the vocal apparatus is affected by
the movements of the pharynx and of the tongue, as also by the
respiratory movements. The solid parts of the larynx, being more or
less movable, change position under the action of muscles which pass
from one to another of them. Bundles of muscular fibre which spring
from the annular cartilage (the cricoid) cause the thyroid cartilage
to move up and down, and this movement produces tension of the
vocal cords. Muscles springing from the cricoid and from the thy-
roid produce a rotation of the lateral cartilages, and modify the con-
ditions of the cords. Finally, there are bundles of muscular fibre
extending from one lateral cartilage to the other; when these con-
tract, the walls of the larynx are brought nearer to each other, and
the opening through which the air passes is made narrower.
Internally, the larynx is lined with mucous membrane, which is
continuous with the mucous membrane of the mouth. Two pairs of
ligaments, extending from the thyroid to the arytenoid, divide the
cavity into compartments. The lower portion is limited by an arch
formed of thick folds of mucous membrane. The middle portion is
distinguished by the presence of folds supported by ligaments. These
are the vocal cords, which play the principal part in the act of pho-
nation. The superior cords, which resemble thin bands, occupy both
sides. The inferior cords, or true vocal cords, which are very thick,
are situated beneath the upper, and extend considerably beyond
them toward the median line.^ They bound the orifice called the
glottis. Tills orifice, which in the state of repose is triangular in
shape, varies constantly in form and in dimensions under the influence
of respiration and the emission of the voice. This use of the term glot-
tis, which signifies tongue^ to designate an orifice, is very curious, and is
' The ring-cartilage is tlie cricoid cartilage of the anatomists ; the Y-shaped cartilage
is the thyroid ; the lateral cartilages are the right and left arytenoids ; and the little plate
they bear, the cartilages of Santorini.
' On each side, between the superior and inferior vocal cords, occuis a large cavity.
These cavities are known as Morgagni's ventricles.
