VOICE IX MAN AND IN ANIMALS. 389
the result of a strange confusion of ideas. The ancients observed in
the larynx "organs resembling the mouth-pieces of ancient flutes, viz.,
the parts on the right and left, which meet and regulate tl)e passage
of the ail'." Later, the term denoting the folds which bound the ori-
fice was used to designate the orifice itself. This error has been con-
firmed by the usage of centuries, but yet it is better to give, as Mandl
does, to the space between the vocal lips, the name of glottic orifice,
or orifice of the glottis. The superior portion of the larynx is the ves-
tibule communicating directly with the back part of the mouth.
Above the entrance to the vestibule and back of the tongue, a fibro-
cartilaginous plate, the epiglottis, defends the passage. Under ordi-
nary circumstances, the epiglottis stands vertical, presenting no ob-
stacle to the free passage of air in both directions. When depressed,
it covers the opening. Every one, from personal experience, is famil-
iar with the painful sensation produced by the entrance of liquids or
solids into the respiratory passages. Apparently the epiglottis closes
up this passage during the act of swallowing, but on this point we have
no certainty; we cannot observe the act of deglutition, and we know
that the vocal cords may be moistened by liquids without causing
inconvenience.
Like every other organ, the larynx presents considerable indi-
vidual difierences. A good development of the larynx indicates a
strong, deep voice. In childhood this apparatus undergoes very
little change, but at the period of adolescence it grows very rapidly,
the efiect being an alteration of the voice, very notable in boys, but
inconsiderable in girls, Li all cases, without regard to stature, the
larynx is smaller in women than in men. Its angles are less salient,
its muscles weaker, its cartilages thinner, and more supple : the sharp
notes of the instrument are the evidences of these peculiarities of con-
formation. Though our general knowledge of the vocal organs is very
positive, nevertheless we are unable to determine the characters of the
voice by simply examining the larynx, for it is impossible to compare
in all their details those instruments whose good or bad qualities are
known.
The vocal apparatus is perfected by the addition of the cavities which
produce resonance, viz., the pharynx, the mouth, and the nasal fossae.
The pharyngeal cavity, into which open the oesophagus and the larynx,
is continuous with the buccal cavity, a hollow box admirably adapted
for articulation. Its shape and size are extremely variable. The
cheeks constitute walls which can be compressed or dilated wnth the
slightest effort ; the lips, which bound the anterior opening, are per-
fectly mobile ; the tongue can be moved in every direction ; in the
rear, the velum palati, or soft palate, suspended from the palatal arch,
is supple and contractile. This veil of the palate is simply a fold of
mucous membrane, separating the buccal from the pharyngeal cavi-
ty; it also extends to the nasal fosste, which it closes; it terminates
