390 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in an appendage called the uvula. When the velum palati, or soft
palate, does not discharge its functions properly, the voice assumes a
specially disagreeable character — it becomes nasal. The two rows of
teeth act a part in producing speech ; a breach once made in this
rampart, the pronunciation becomes defective, tlie air escapes through
the unguarded space, and the result is a hissing sound.
The plan of action of the whole vocal apparatus being under inves-
tigation, in the absence of the means of direct observation, recourse
has been had to endless stratagems, in order to have a glimpse of the
play of the organs and to explain the mechanism of voice-production.
It has been a struggle with incredible difficulties, in which the human
mind, though it has not won a complete victory, has nevertheless ac-
quitted itself with honor. Some of the investigators succeeded in
forming theories which are not very far from the truth, but these
theories are now only the monuments of a period wliose science is
antiquated.
Galen, in comparing the organ of voice to a flute with double
mouth-piece, referred the production of the sound to the vocal cords.
Fabrizio d'Acquapendente, the famous professor of the University of
Padua, held that the dilatation and contraction of the glottic ori-
fice determined whether sounds shall be grave or acute. Dodart. a
member of the old Academic des Sciences, held that the tone depends
upon the greater or less number of vibrations of the vocal cords.
Ferrein, one of the famous anatomists of the eighteenth century, con-
ceived the idea of causing the larynx of a dead body to produce
sounds by blowing through the trachea. He affirms that the lij^s of.
the glottis vibrate and emit sound like the strings of a violin. Ma-
gendie made experiments upon living animals ; having laid bare the
glottis, he saw the vocal cords vibrating when the animal uttered a
cry. Savart, famed for his researches in acoustics, compared man's
vocal apparatus to an organ-pipe. Lehfeld, a German author, laid
stress upon the special effects of the cords, as vibrating through their
entire substance, or only at their free edges. Cagniard de Latour
constructed artificial larynges with mouth-pieces of membrane. John
Mtiller, the physiologist, after a series of diversified researches, was
of the opinion that " the vocal organ is a mouth-piece consisting of
two lips, and that the vibrations of these is the chief cause of the
sound — the pitch being determined by the width and length of the
orifice of the glottis." Longet, who made numerous experiments on
the actions of the muscles of the vocal organ, threw new light upon
the conditions modifying the vibrations. In short, the result of all
these researches, made by investigators who never had seen the larynx
of a living man, was firmly to establish one point, namely, that the
voice is formed in the glottis. The proofs of this are conclusive, for,
if an "opening be made in the trachea, the voice ceases ; it reappears
when we close the opening again ; it persists though the superior parts
