VOICE IN MAN AND IN ANIMALS. 391
of the larynx be rent and torn ; but it is destroyed by lesion of the
nerves of the little muscles which alter the form of the glottis and
stretch the vocal cords.
But alongside of these undisputed facts there were a number of
undecided questions which stimulated to further research. Some in-
vestigators were continually meditating on methods of viewing the
larynx in normal action. Toward the close of the last century mir-
rors were first employed for this jturpose, but the earliest attempts
were unsuccessful. For fifty years all efforts of this kind proved abor-
tive, and the thought of examining the interior of a living larynx was
coming to be regarded as an illusion. Suddenly, as by an inspiration,
the solution of the problem occurred to the mind of Manuel Garcia.
Ignorant of the labors of others who had endea-vored to obtain a view
of the vocal apparatus, Garcia conceived the idea of observing his own
vocal organs in the act of singing. Taking a small mirror attached to
the end of a long rod, he placed it beneath the uvula, and then, illumi-
nating with a beam of sunlight another mirror which he held in his
hand, he had a full view of his own larynx. Thus was discovered the
true method of investigation. In 1855 Garcia communicated to the
London Royal Society the result of his observations on the living
larynx.*
When a new mode of research is discovered', the first investigators
to take hold of it are those who have little or no prepossessions of their
own. They perceive that, by varying the application of the process,
notable results may be attained without much labor or ability. Gar-
cia's process called forth on many sides much enthusiastic zeal. This
was the case especially at Vienna, but the results fell short of the
anticipations. The caprices of the sun's light and the defects of arti-
ficial light were such as to discourage the observers. In order to
succeed, the means of illumination had to be improved at any cost.
Garcia had used for a reflector a plane mirror ; J. Czermak, Professor
of Physiology at Pesth, finding his pattern in the instrument used for
inspecting the eye, the ophthalmoscope, employed a concave mirror,
which concentrates the light. The feasibility of studying man's vocal
apparatus by means of the laryngoscope was now insured. Still, for
a long time afterward, experimenters busied tliemselves with devising
contrivances for increasing the intensity of the light by combinations
of glass lenses.'
Czermak, who by long practice had acquired great skill in the
manipulation of his own larynx, visited the principal cities of Ger-
many, taking with him a good instrument. His demonstrations were
* " Observations on the Human Voice," " Proceedings of the Royal Society of Lon-
don," vol. vii.
* The different kinds of instruments are described in Mandl's work, " Trait6 du
Larynx;" also, in the article, " Laryngoscope," by Dr. Krisbaber, in "Dictionnaire En-
cyclop6dique des Sciences M^dicales."
