392 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
witnessed with profound interest by physicians and physiologists. In
1860 he came to Paris, and astonished many of the members of our
learned societies. He exhibited not only the whole of his own larynx,
but also the interior of his trachea down to the bifurcation — a sight
well calculated to cause astonishment when one sees it for the first
time. The vocal organ cannot be examined with the same facility in
all persons, and some practice is needed for experimenting successfully.
Dr. Mandl and Dr. Krishaber possess an extraordinary power of con-
trolling the various movements of the larynx. After repeated experi-
ments we now fully understand the functions of the vocal organs in
speaking and in singing. The studies of Helmholtz upon the forma-
tion of sounds have thrown new light upon the phenomena of voice.
The notes of an organ, when heard beneath the arched roof of a
cathedral, produce a profound impression. Inasmuch as no otlier kind
of music so closely resembles the human voice, we can fancy ourselves
communing with the thoughts and feelings "of the human soul. We
naturally compare the organ to man's vocal apparatus. The organ
has a bellows, we have lungs ; in the organ is a " sound-board," the
trachea performs the same function ; the vibrating tongue of the or-
gan has its counterpart in our vocal cords ; and the pharynx and the
mouth answer to the resonating cavities of the organ. Yet the natu-
ral instrument is immensely superior to the artificial one. In the or-
gan there must be a number of pipes to produce the different sounds ;
in the natural instrument there is only one pipe for both speech and
song, but it is a wonderful pipe, being susceptible of endless modifica-
tions. It has a double vibrating spring and a resonator. The glottis
is the vibrating spring or tongue, and, according as the air-passage is
more or less narrowed, and the vocal cords more or less tense and
vibrant, the sounds emitted are either grave or sharp. The mouth
forms the resonator; the cavity of the mouth is susceptible of almost
endless modifications, producing an infinite diversity of sounds.
Our various senses are each affected by a special order of impres-
sions ; the organ of hearing takes note of sounds, which are propa-
gated by concussions of the air, by vibrations. When these vibra-
tions are continuous, regular, isochronous, they constitute a musical
sound; when irregular, the result is noise. Sounds possess very defi-
nite characters, as intensity, pitch, timbre. Intensity depends upon
the amplitude of the vibrations, which travel in the form of concen-
tric spheres from the starting-point, as the waves caused by a peb-
ble dropped into water are diffused in the form of concentric circles.
Amplitude is always the result of the force of the primary shock.
The pitch of a sound is determined by the number of vibrations
occurring in the space of one second: when the vibrations are few,
the sound is grave ; wlien very numerous, it is sharp. In a word,
the shorter the duration of each vibration, the higher the pitch of
the sound. Timbre means quality of voice. We distinguish voices
