VOICE IN MAN AND IN ANIMALS. 395
ing obstacles ; thus are formed the sounds known as consonants. In
setting up these obstacles, the tongue, the teeth, the lips, the soft
palate, play respectively a more or less important part. We readily
distinguish the labials, the Unguals, the dentals, the nasals. No
classification, however, will stand a rigid analysis ; the simultaneous
play of the teeth, tongue, lips, and soft palate, and the somewhat
doubtful character of some sounds, render all classifications more or
less arbitrary.
Among the consonants are the sounds of putting, hissing, trilling^
and these are pronounced without the aid of vowels.* The labials
are formed mainly by the movement of the lips — the easiest move-
ment of all those concerned in the utterance of speech. Accordingly
as the lips are closed tightly or loosely, two distinct letters are
pronounced ; if the closure is imperfect, a third letter is produced."
There are two letters, m and 7i, which it is impossible to pronounce
with the soft palate depressed, so as to close the nasal passages.
Czermak introduced water into his nostrils, and then tried to pro-
nounce these two consonants ; the water was forced out by the passage
of the air. The sound of the dentals is produced by a strong pressure
of the tongue usually against the teeth, which, however, are not indis-
pensable. The gutturals are pronounced by bringing the tongue
back against the palate.
All these consonants may be classed, according to the character
of the sound, as either surds or exj^losives. When the external air re-
mains in communication with the air expired, notwithstanding the
obstacle set up for articulation, the consonant may be sustained
during the continuance of the expiration.^ Where there is no com-
munication, the duration of the sound is restricted to the instant in
which the obstacle is removed, and the result is a slight explosion of
the air.* This is shown conclusively when we precede a consonant
with a vowel, and the same experiment serves clearly to show the dis-
tinction between hard and soft explosives.* In pronouncing the former
the glottic orifice is narrow, the current of air is feeble, and the sound
persists for a moment after the mouth has opened; in the other case,
the glottis allows the passage of a stronger current of air, and the
Bound has no perceptible duration.
Certain consonants are in English called trills ;* they are produced
by the interruption of the breath at regular intervals, by vibrations
of the soft palate and the extremity of the tongue. In the soft trill,
the edges of the tongue produce simple oscillations of the air, but in
the harsh trill, the vibrations produced at once by the palate and the
tip of the tongue become intense. Finally, there are certain sounds
of frequent occurrence in English, German, and the Slavonic lan-
guages; these are produced by an expiration differing from one
» /, s, r. 2 b, p, V. » 2, zd, V, 8. * b, p, d, t, g (hard), k, x.
' b, d, gh, as contrasted with p, t, k. * I and r.
