396 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
another according to the obstacles opposed by the tongue, the teeth,
and the lips.*
It has been demonstrated that the sounds of speech are formed in
the buccal cavity, by processes which vary within very narrow limits.
Authors who have studied in their own persons the pronunciation of
the vowels and consonants describe with great minuteness the posi-
tions assumed by the lips, the tongue, the soft palate, under all circum-
stances, and give drawings which show the various operations we
perform while articulating letters and syllables.'' These observations
possess great interest ; but yet the rules thence derived are not so rig-
orously true as to be indisputable. As Mandl observes, sounds that
are nearly identical are produced with different positions of the organs
of speech. If a person has lost all his teeth, he modifies the play of
the lips and tongue, and so contrives to speak intelligibly. The voices
of persons we know can be imitated so that the deception shall be
perfect. By changing the timbre, the voice is made to sound as
though it came from a cavern ; this is the ventriloquist's art. Persons
who had had the misfortune to lose a considerable portion of their
tongue, have been able to converse, though it is not affirmed that
hearing them speak would be a pleasure. Some birds find it possible
to utter sounds which with us require the use of the lips. In a word,
there is nothing absolute in the acts which produce speech, though in
general the same organs do not differ very much in their mode of pro-
curing the same results, as may be shown from the fact that congeni-
tal deaf-mutes who have learned to speak interpret the movements of
the mouth with infallible certainty ; they see the speech of the inter-
locutor. This proves that our modes of articulation present only
shades of difference.
The phenomenon of deaf-mutes capable of speech has long been
esteemed a marvel. In the middle ages there was one instance of
this, the credit of which is due to the patience and skill of Beverley,
Archbishop of York. In the sixteenth century, the universal scholar,
Jerome Cardan, discussed the possibility of teaching the use of the
voice to congenital mutes. About the same period, the Spanish
monk Pedro de Ponce was, according to an epitaph, famous through-
out the whole world far his power of causing mutes to speak. He
had for his pupils two brothers and one sister of Pedro de Velasco,
and the son of Gaspar de Guerra, Govei-nor of Aragon. Some time
later, Juan Pablo Bonet, in a work which is the oldest known upon
this subject, treated of the art of giving speech to the dumb.' In
' sh and ih in English ; sch in German ; tch in Russian.
"^ See Ernst Briicke, " Grundziige der Physiologie und Systematik der Sprachlaute
fur Linguisten und Taubstumraenlehrer," Vienna, 1855; Max Mxiller, "Lectures on the
Science of Language;" Johann Czermak, "Populare physiologische Vortrage," Vienna,
1869, etc.
' "Abecedario demonstrativo : Reduccion de las letras y arte para ensenar a hablar
los Mudos," 1620.
