VOICE IN MAN AND IN ANIMALS. 397
England, Holland, and Germany, this art was reduced to practice
with more or less favorable results ; instances of success were few
and far between. About the year 1732, a young Israelite, who had
come to France from Estremadura, being touched by the unhappy lot
of a woman whom he loved, resolved to devote himself to the instruc-
tion of deaf-mutes. His name was Jacob Rodrigues Pereira. At La
Rochelle, a boy thirteen years of age was brought to him; soon the
lad was able to speak, so as to astonish all. The result was noised
through the city ; one of the grands fermiers had a deaf-mute son,
whom Pereira undertook to instruct. After sixteen months of study,
he presented his pupil to the Academic des Sciences. The assembly
was delighted. Several of the members undertook to examine the
case thoroughly, and on July 9, 1749, Buffon reported that the lad
had answered questions " both in writing and by word of mouth."
At the court of Louis XY. this marvel excited general admiration.
The Duke de Chaulnes had a godson that was deaf, a boy of about
twelve years ; him he placed under the care of Pereira. This pupil,
Saboureux de Fontenay, who in after-times attained to some celebrity,
was very intelligent, and quickly improved under instruction. On
being exhibited at the Academic des Sciences, and there tested in va-
rious exercises, he occasioned no little surprise. The official report
concludes by stating that " M. Pereira possesses a singular gift of
teaching congenital mutes to speak and read."
Pensioned by the king, and honored with marks of esteem by
illustrious personages, Pereira continued his labors. He gave the
power of speech to a large number of mutes, but he kept his method
of education secret. The memory of this brilliant success had been
wellnigh effaced, when the Abbe de I'Epee won the favor of all classes
of society by giving to the deaf a sign-language. Pereira left behind
him pupils who justly believed that they did honor to their master by
making public the secret of their instruction ; some of these scattered
notes have been collected. It has required only a little research to
discover the forgotten method.* The teaching of deaf-mutes to
speak was again brought into practice, and at Geneva M. Maguat
was very successful in carrying out this system. He visited Paris,
accompanied by some of his pupils, who, though utterly deaf, con-
versed with wonderful ease. Some grandsons and great-grandsons
of Jacob Rodrigues Pereira, on witnessing the renewal of the wonders
performed by their ancestor, founded at Paris an institution for edu-
cating mutes. In this establishment, children of various ages, about
thirty in number, afford matter for curious observations upon the
phenomenon of voice and the articulation of language.^
' See an interesting sketch by M. Felix H6ment, entitled " Jacob Rodrigues Pereire,
premier instituteur des sourds-muets en France," 1875.
' Tlie institution founded by the Messrs. Pereire, at 94 Avenue Villars, Paris, is
directed by M. Maguat, author of the " Cours d'articulation, pour I'enseignement de la
parole articulee aux sourds-muets," 1874.
