398 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A person who is deaf from birth is also absolutely dumb, until he
is trained to the use of speech ; he utters no cry. His lips and tongue
are motionless ; his mouth remains shut, his larynx is in a state of
unbroken repose ; he breathes only through the nostrils. When first
the eifort is made to have him pronounce a letter written on the black-
board, it appears to be simply impossible for him to produce any
sound. The instructor shows the young mute how-to open the mouth,
and how to hold the tongue and the lips. He places the child's hand
upon his own larynx, so that it may feel the movement necessary to
be performed. In the beginning, the simple expulsion of the breath
is diflScult, but, after repeated exercise, there is a sort of stifled articu-
lation ; later, with some difficulty, a clear sound is obtained. In this
way the deaf-mute learns to pronounce all the vowels and consonants.
It needs but a short time to acquire the pronunciation of the labials.
Longer practice is needed in order to learn the play of the tongue,
and the proper mode of emitting the breath in articulating those con-
sonants which call for only a slight intervention of the lips. Having
learned the alphabet, the mute begins to pronounce syllables and
phrases written on the blackboard. Finally, he speaks, and is under-
stood. He whites from dictation, with his eyes fixed upon the per-
son who addresses him questions, and makes his answers confidently.
OUK COMMON MOULDS.
By BYEON D. HALSTEAD
THE following remarks are from personal observations which have
been made from time to time as circumstances would permit.
For convenience, the term mould will be extended beyond its narrow
technical meaning, and include all those forms of vegetable life which
are usually designated by that name. No lengthy argument is needed
to prove that mould is of common occurrence. It is a fact well known
to every person, from the wholesale provision-dealer down to the
hungry child who eats his crust upon the street,
Wbere these plants do not grow it is difficult to say ; but to point
out the favorable conditions for their growth and some of the forms
which they there assume is an easier task, and to this part of the sub-
ject the reader's attention is invited.
Moulds belong to that peculiar parasitic group of plants called
Fungi^ the members of which never have anything like green leaves,
the workshops of higher plants, and are therefore unable to build up
their tissue from unorganized matter. They must feed upon that
which is already organized, either animal or vegetable, living or dead,
as the species will decide.
