OUR COMMON MOULDS.
399
One of the most essential conditions for the development of these
minute fungi is the presence of a good degree of moisture. So well
known is this, that to many minds moisture and mould bear tO each
other nothing less than the relation of cause and effect. A warm at-
mosphere is also required. In winter the housewife exercises fewer
precautions to keep these intruders from her viands than during the
warm summer weather. Besides ouganic matter, moisture, and
warmth, a free access of oxygen must be added as an essential condi-
tion for the perfect development of moulds.
When the season comes and the soil is ready, the farmer knows
he must sow the seed, or he cannot hope to reap a harvest. So it is
with the moulds : to the conditions for growth there must be added
the germs of life, or no mould will be produced. How this sowing is
accomjilished will be better seen after some of the species are con-
sidered more in detail.
Our common bread is a substance which offers special inducements
for the growth of various moulds, and, in order to study them, a slice
was taken and placed on a zinc rack on a dinner-plate and covered
with a glass bell-jar lined with filtering-paper which dij^ped into
some water in the bottom of the plate, producing thus a moist atmos-
phere by the evaporation from its extensive surface. This culture
Fig. 1.— Mould Culture.
(Fig. 1), placed in a warm room, secured all the important conditions
for the production of a crop of mould. On the bread thus situated a
mould made its appearance in about thirty-six hours, and proved to
be one of the most common of the bread-moulds [Jfucor stolonifer),
shown in Fig. 2. When first noticeable, the surface of the bread is
covered with a cobweb-like mass of fine white threads, called myce-
lium, which run in all directions through the tissue of the bread, and
perform the work of absorbing nourishment. Soon other and larger
threads begin to rise into the air, their tips enlarge, the protoplasmic
contents of the threads passing up into the ends, which finally assume
a spherical shape. At first these large round heads are of a white
