24 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the object whose image passes over bis eye is in rnotion. It is tbus
tbat wben a person bas come to us habitually at a certain hour, say
the postman to deliver our letters, we may readily take some other
person who appears at the time for him, and be ready to aflBrm or to
swear that we saw him. It is thus that " the wisb is father to the
thought ; " that is, we are inclined to believe what we wish and ex-
pect. It is thus, too, tbat in times of excitement, personal, political,
and religious, we readily fall in with the fancies created by our fears
and our hopes. Not only so, but a vivid idea reaching down from the
brain may produce the same effect on the sensorium as the external
object does through the sense of sight or hearing. Dr. Carpenter
has seized an important truth in explaining in this way the eiToneous
declarations given by honest enough persons believing in mesmerism
and spirit-rapping, and ever seeking for signs and wonders. He is
right, too, in explaining how strong religious feelings may raise illu-
sory expectations and beliefs, and that the testimony given by per-
sons under their influence may be partial or valueless.
I think I discover proof that even scientific men may fall under
the influence of this " prepossession " and " expectancy." I see an
example of it in the way in which many of them account for our
thoughts and resolutions : they call them reflex action. The discovery
of the nature of automatic motion was one of the most important dis-
coveries of the last age. An action goes along a nerve to the centre
of a ganglion, and comes out in motion by another nerve: thus, if a
frog's foot is pricked, it is immediately drawn in. Of much the same
kind is the reflex action of the sensori-motor system. My nostrils are
affected by a pungent substance, the action goes on to the sensorium,
and a sneeze is the result. So far we have a well-understood process.
But can we go on to explain in this way our special mental acts ? The
language used by some physiologists is fitted to leave the impression
that all mental action is the reflex of some action from without, proba-
bly a sensation. Let us look at a case. I receive a letter informing
me that a friend at a distance is in deep distress, needs me to defend
him by my presence, my purse, and my counsel, against a false accu-
sation, and I hasten to his assistance. Is all this merely a reflex ac-
tion called forth by the appeal in the letter ? Let us carefully inquire
how much and how little physiology can explain. It can show how
the writing in the letter, after passing through the eye, is reflected on
the retina, thence carried through the optic nerve to the sensorium,
thence it may be transmitted to the gray matter at the periphery of
the brain, and produce there, it may be, some motion or new ar-
rangement of the cells. But it can go no farther. When I under-
stand the letter, when I comjDrebend the position of my friend, M"hen
I conclude that the accusation against him is false, when I feel that I
ought to assist him, and for this purpose travel a long way and make
many sacrifices, we have come to processes that cannot be explained
