OUR COMMON MOULDS.
401
quires a diameter much greater than that of the filaments which have
produced it, and is many hundred times the size of the spores formed
in the capsules. It is also provided with two coat:?, the outer one
thick, dark-colored, and covered with warty excrescences, except on
the two ends where the remnants of the conjugated filaments remain.
Successive stages in the development of these spores are shown in
Fig. 3. At a the two swollen threads are near each other; b^ the pro-
cess partly completed, with the middle cell plainly seen ; and c, the full-
formed zygaspore, with the remains of the old cells. The importance
of these sexual spores in the economy of the plant is not diflicult to
FiQ. 3.— Zygospores of Mucor Stztgites. De Eary.
understand. The minute asexual spores have a very thin covering,
and under favorable conditions will germinate as soon as formed, but
on the other hand are readily destroyed by extreme climatic changes.
The large, well -protected zygaspores which germinate only after
months of ripening, are in every way fitted to carry the species
through the unpropitious season of winter, times of drought, and
severe exposure. When the zygaspore germinates it produces very
soon a large crop of capsules, and their little spores are scattered
far and wide ready to develop into plants in a few hours, as circum-
stances shall decide. This dual form of fruiting is an interesting
feature in the life of these little plants, and is as eftectual in preserv-
ing the species as it is interesting.
After upward of a week from the time the Mucor, of which we
have been speaking, made its appearance on the bread, another mould
was noticed growing over its surface, which was of a much finer struct-
ure and dingy yellow in color. When placed under the microscope,
it was found to be peculiar, both in structure and habit of growth.
The filament which bears the spores, as it rises from the matted sur-
face of the Mucor^ divides into two branches, each of these into two
others, and so on, until ten or more branches are reached. The same
angle of divergence being preserved in all the branching, the com-
voL. IX. — 26
