402
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pound top assumes a very regular, semicircular outline, as shown in
Fig. 4, «, where the filaments are represented by single lines ; the
whole of the branch i is a more highly-magnified view of a dark tip
at the end of one of the branches in a / and at c is shown, on a still
higher scale, one of the ultimate branches in i, with the spores ar-
ranged in rows of four around the enlarged end ; while d is one of
those tips after the spores have fallen away.
The reader wdll please bear in mind that this figure, and all the
others, with the single exception of the first one, represent the object
as greatly enlai-ged — the microscope used for most of the work mag-
nifying 650 diameters. An entire plant of the one in question {Pipto-
cephalis Fresmniana) is scarcely visible to the naked eye when pre-
pared on a glass slide for investigation with the microscope.
Fig. 4.— Piptocephalis FRESiENiAKA. Dc Bary.
That W'hich makes this mould of particular interest is the fact that
it is a parasite, and cannot live unless it has some other mould upon
which to grow. This easily explains why it does not make its appear-
ance until the Mucor is well established. Here we have a true parasite
growing on a saprophyte ; or one mould which steals its substance from
another which derives its living from the bread. We will not stop to
i-eason upon the matter, or wonder how this strange, state of things
came about, but will leave the fact as it exists to those who would
know the cause of all things both great and small.
There were two or three other members of the Mucor genus which
grew on various cultures, but, as they differ only in minor points of
structure from the one treated, space will nut permit of their being
further mentioned.
The bones of a recently-killed dog proved to be very well adapted
for the growth of the largest-known species of mould. Those who
have a passion for scientific names may call it Phycomyces niteiis. It
