WHAT ARE SPECIES? 409
as seen in c and cl (Fig. 13). The coils grow closer together as the
filament increases in size, until a hollow cylinder is formed. From
the same threads below the base of the coil one or more processes
grow out which are the male organs, and, where one of these threads
reaches the tip of the female coiled filament, that organ is fertilized.
From this time on, this body undergoes various and complicated
changes, which finally result in a bright-yellow spherical body (Fig.
13,/), which consists of a thin wall inclosing a large number of sac^
<7, each of which contains eight spores.
To find all these various stages of development is a matter of some
time and patience; but nothing is more satisfactory in the study of
moulds than to trace all these steps, from the first bending of the fila-
ment to the perfect sphere with its multitude of spores.
For a long time these two form? of fruit in the Aspergillus were
considered as belonging to distinct and widely-separated species, but,
when the microscope shows that they are produced from the same my-
celium, it is time to conclude that they are but tw^o methods of continu-
ing the same species.
Space forbids further details concerning our common moulds • but
it is hoped enough has been said to show that among them the spe-
cies are distinct. The tiny forests which the microscope reveals are
made up of forms as decided as those which compose our woodlands
and groves. In closing, the reader expects an answer to the question
which very naturally arises, viz., " What good do they do V " Though
often of great annoyance in domestic and other affairs, yet all in all it
is safe to say the good tliey accomplish far overbalances the harm.
They are scavengers which do in their own inobtrusive way a vast
amount of sanitary work. Though small in themselves, they are great
reducing agents, striving to bring about that equilibrium so necessary
to perfect harmony in the organic world. They hasten decay, tear
down the accumulating rubbish around us, and allow the elements thus
liberated to pass again into the cycle of ceaseless activity and growth.
To the thoughtful mind moulds do not simply excite wonder or dis-
gust, but teach a deeper lesson of adaptation and service of little
tilings, in the perfect and economical scheme of creation.
WHAT AKE SPECIES?
Br Prof. T. H. HUXLEY.
"TN its most general acceptation the word " species " signifies a kind
-L or sort of something, which something is the ffenus to which tlie
species belongs. Thus, a black stone is a species of the genus stone;
a gray horse is a species of the genus horse ; a scalene triangle is a
species of the genus triangle ; and, generally, it may be said that
