41 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
every a(]jective denotes a species of the genus indicated by the sub-
stantive to which it is applied.
In the technology of the physical sciences the term " species " has
a more restricted signification. It is used to denote a group of indi-
viduals which corresj)Oiids with an early stage of that process of ab-
straction by which the qualities of individual objects are arranged in
the subordinated categories of classification.
The individual object aloue exists in Nature ; but, when individual
objects are compared, it is found that many agree in all those charac-
ters which, for the particular purpose of the classifier, are regarded
as important, while they differ only in those which are unimportant ;
and those which thus agree constitute a species, the definition of
which is a statement of the common characters of the individuals
which compose the species.
Again, when the species thus established are compared, certain of
them are found to agree with one another, and to differ from all the
rest in some one or more peculiarities. They thus form a group,
which, logically, is merely a species of higher order, Avhile technically
it is termed a " genus." And, by a continuation of the same process,
genera are grouped into families, families into orders, and so on.
Each of the groups thus named is in the logical sense a genus, of which
the next lower groups constitute the species.
The characters on which species are based necessarily depend upon
the nature of the bodies classified. Thus, mineral species are founded
upon i^urely morphological characters ; that is to say, they are defined
by peculiarities either of form, color, and the like, or of structure, which
last term may be used to include both the physical and the chemical
characteristics of a mineral. The distinction between a species and a
variety is wholly arbitrary, except so far as it is commonly agreed tliat
individuals which differ from others only as terms of a gradual series
of modifications belong to the same species, and are to be considered
merely as varieties of that species.
It is conceivable that animals and plants should have been known
to us only by their remains preserved in museums or in the fossil state.
If this had been the case, biological, like mineralogical species, could
have been defined only by morphological characters ; that is to say,
by the peculiarities of their outward foim and inward structure ; and,
as a matter of fact, this is the state of our knowledge in respect of a
large proportion of the existing fauna and flora of the world, and of
all extinct animals and plants.
A botanist or a concholo^ist who sets to work to arrange a newlv-
received collection sorts his plants or his shells out according to tlieir
likenesses and unlikenesses of form and structure, until he has arranged
them into groups of individuals which agree in certain constant char-
acters and differ only by insignificant features, or by such peculiarities
as vary in different individuals in such a manner that an insensible
