WHAT ARE SPECIES/ 411
gradation can be traced between those forms which have the pecu-
liarity strongly marked and those in which it is absent.
Thus far the considerations which guide tlie biologist in the estab-
lishment of sjjecies differ in no respect from those which influence the
mineralogist.
But although naturalists have no more direct knowledge of any but
the morphological character of the great majority of the species of
animals and plants than they would have of so many mineral speci-
mens, they are familiar with many animals and plants in the living
state when they exhibit phenomena to which the mineral world pre-
sents no parallel, and the study of these phenomena of active life has
complicated the conception of species in biology, by adding physio-
logical to morphological considerations.
The fact that living beings originate by generation from other
living beings is one of the circumstances in their history which most
completely differentiates them from minerals. This process of gener-
ation enters in various ways into the conception of biological species.
For example, it is a generally assumed axiom in biology that
whatever proceeds from a living being by way of generation is of
the same species as that from which it proceeds, whether the morpho-
logical differences between parent and offspring be great or small.
The two sexes are often extraordinarily different, and in cases of the
so-called alternation of generation the successive zooids may differ
very widely ; but, inasmuch as the differing forms in these cases pro-
ceed from the same parents, no one doubts that they belong to the same
species. The breeds of domesticated animals and plants often differ
morphologically as widely as admitted species, but, apart from other
considerations, historical evidence that they have the same parentage
suffices to cause them to be regarded as of one species. It is not
quite clear that the converse of the axiom which has just been re-
ferred to would be admitted, and that living beings which arise from
totally distinct parents are of different species, even though morpho-
logically identical. The wellnigh exploded hypothesis of the multi-
plicity of centres of origin for species of wide distribution implies the
belief that groups of individuals which have proceeded from distinct-
ly-created parents may, nevertheless, be of the same species, while
the supporters of the no less nearly extinct hypothesis of the inde-
pendent creation of the fauna and flora of successive formations used
to affirm that, although indistinguishable, two forms from separate
formations must be of distinct species, because they had been created
separately. However, these subtilties have ceased to have any prac-
tical importance.
In the next place it is observed that, while individuals of the same
morphological species breed freely with one another and give rise to
perfectly fertile offspring, the unions of individuals of different mor-
phological species are, as a rule, either unfertile or imperfectly fertile.
