412 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Thus fertility, like jjarentage, has become a physiological character of
species ; and, though in the case of some domesticated animals, as
pigeons, the extreme forms are more different from one another than
many morphological species, yet they, apart from the historical evi-
dence of their j)arentage, ai*e held to be members of the same species,
because they are all perfectly fertile one with another, and their off-
spring ai"e also perfectly fertile.
Thirdly, it is a matter of experience that, as a general rule, and
taking the whole cycle of forms through which a living being runs
into account, offspring and parent are so similar that they belong to
one and the same morphological species ; and it is further in evidence
that many species have endured for extremely long periods without
any notable difference being discernible between ancestor and de-
scendant. Moreover, in some cases, varieties are found to revert to
the character of the species from which they have proceeded. The
conclusion has been drawn that the character of species is physio-
logically fixed ; that is to say, that, however long the process of gen-
eration may be continued, the individuals either retain the identical
morphological character of the oldest ancestor, or, if they vary, the
varieties remain fei'tile with one another.
Assuming that species have the physiological character thus enu-
merated, certain conclusions respecting the " origin of species " are
inevitable. It is clear that no existing species can have arisen by the
intercrossing of preexisting species, or by the variation of preexist-
ing species, but that every species must have existed from all eter-
nity, or have come into existence suddenly in its present form, which
is the objective fact denoted by what is termed creation.
At the dawn of modern biology, a century ago, no scientific evi-
dence respecting the real history of life on the globe was extant, and,
for any proof that existed to the contrary, species might have been
of eternal duration. But philosophical speculation combined with
theological dogma not only to favor the contrary opinion, but to lead
the most philosophic naturalist of his day to embody the hypothesis
of creation in a definition of species. " Totidem numeramus species
quot in principio formae sunt creatse " (we reckon as many species as
there w^ere forms created in the beginning) is the well-known formula
of Linnaeus.
In practice Linnaeus regarded species from a purely mythological
point of view ; in theory, he assumed the common ancestry and the
limited variability of species, though he was disposed to allow more
freedom in this direction than most of his successors. On the other
hand, he seems to have attached comparatively little weight to the
assumed sterility of hybrids, and to have held a sort of modified doc-
trine of evolution, supposing that existing species may have been
produced by the interbreeding of comparatively few primordial
forms.
