McCOSH IN REPLY TO CARPENTER. 25
by any external impulse ; which can as little be accounted for by reflex
action as tliey could by gravity or by chemical affinity. Then there
are cases in which the action originates within, with no prompting
from without. I awake in the morning and I think and conclude that
some good cause, the cause of liberty, or of my country, or of religion,
requires me to take a bold, decisive action, and I hasten to put my
purpose in execution. How absurd to call this, with some physiolo-
gists, a reflex action ! That able men should have fallen into this error
can only be accounted for by a law of " expectancy ; " they have ex-
plained so much by their law, and they think that they can explain
everything.
Dr. Carpenter has unfolded, as Hume had done a century ago, the
tendencies which jDredispose man to believe in preternatural occur-
rences. But are there no " prepossessions " and " expectations " which
incline some scientific men in the present day to account for all things
by natural agency, and prejudice them against calling in any thing
preternatural ? The business of science is to look into the causes of
obvious or recondite phenomena, and, proceeding in the right method,
they have discovered the natural causes of events which many re-
garded as supernaturah The men who have explained lightning
and mysterious diseases, and resolved light into vibrations, and
detected the composition of the sun's atmosphere, and of the distant
stars, are led to spurn at the very idea of there being any thing which
cannot be accounted for by mundane agency. Then they have seen,
or heard, or read, of so many cases of religious pretension and impost-
ure that they at once set down every reported case of divine inter-
position to illusion or delusion. Some have gone the length of main-
taining that a miracle is not only an improbability, but an impossi-
bility. A " prepossession " is produced, an " expectancy " is created,
that the miracles of Scripture may be solved by some natural means.
In the last age Paulus labored to prove that Jesus accomplished his
cures by taking advantage of the secret agencies of Xature. But this
theory has long ago been set aside by every one as inconsistent with
the training, the position, and known character of Jesus. Then the
mythic theory was started and stretched to its utmost capacity by
Strauss; but it has been shown that no myths ever had the con-
sistency, the purity, the spirituality of the gospel narratives, parables,
and doctrines. Now it is averred that historical proof is wanting of
the early date of the books of the Xew Testament. Tliis objection
has been met already by the great scholars of Germany, and is being
met by Dr. Lightfoot and others among English-speaking divines.
It is shown and is admitted that some of the epistles of Paul must
have been written by their reputed author, and that they presuppose
a belief throughout the Church of the leading events in Christ's life,
and of a perfected system of evangelical belief. If the epistles are
genuine, so must be the correlated Book of Acts, with its wonderful
