41 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
MALAEIA.'
By CHARLES P. EUSSEL, M. D.
THE terms malaria and miasm in medical phraseology include the
causes of a large class of aftections — what are known more par-
ticularly as zymotic diseases, which depend upon a variety of specific
organic poisons whose essential nature, composition, and form, are
mostly inappreciable as yet by scientific research. The general under-
standing, however, of these terms, is more limited ; and, in conformity
with the popular idea, I shall in the present paper confine their appli-
cation to the cause of those wide-sj^read disorders, intermittent and re-
mittent fevers — the former of which is so well known as " chills and
fever" or " fever and ague."
"Timeout of mind," as Watson remarks, "it had been matter of
common observation that the inhabitants of wet and marshy situations
were especially subject to these definite and unequivocal forms of dis-
ease." The same natural agencies which are now at work elaborating,
evolving, and disseminating malaria must have been equally in opera-
tion ever since the surface of the earth assumed its present condition.
Vast and remote wildernesses that have never known human presence
teem, as of yore, with deadly exhalations that almost preclude the
bold attempts of enterprising man to lay bare their secrets. There
are some parts of India, as Bishop Heber informs us, which even mon-
keys- and other wild animals instinctively desert between April and
October of each year. The tigers go up to the hills; the antelopes
and wild-hogs make incursions into the cultivated plains ; and those
persons, such as ddk-hearers and military people, who are obliged to
venture into the marshy jungles, agree that not so much as a bird can
be heard or seen in the frightful solitude.
The celebrated Pontine Marshes may be regarded as the classic
home of malaria. The older historical records describe this tract as
occupied with numerous towns by the Volsci. It was evidently a fer-
tile region ; for we read in Livy that the early Romans sent thither
during a season of scarcity for a supply of corn. Three hundred and
twelve years b. c, the Censor Appius Claudius Caecus constructed
the Appian Way across the length of the Pontine region, the soil of
which must then have been suflficiently compact to support the heavy
causeway. At some period of the subsequent century and a half, the
country seems to have undergone great deterioration either from nat-
ural or civil causes, and to have become partially inundated ; for, about
170 B. c, we find the Consul Cornelius Cethegus applying himself to
draining the marshes, and restorino; the land to cultivation and salu-
' A portion ol a paper read before tlie New York Public Health Association, April
13, 1870.
