MALARIA. 417
brity. The result of his efforts was, that new and flourishing towns
arose on the ruins of the ancient Volscian cities. The civil wars, how-
ever, and the devastation which accompanied them, again caused the
hydraulic works of the Pontine Marshes to fall into neglect, until they
were repaired by Augustus, who constructed several new canals, espe-
cially a navigable one skirted by the Appian Way. It was on this
canal, at Forum Appii, that Horace embarked one evening, and at
the same spot St. Paul first met his countrymen from Kome. Nerva
and Trajan both contributed to the drainage of the Pontine Marshes,
and left insci'iptions, still extant, which testify to their great interest
in the project. During the convulsions of the following centuries
they were overflowed anew, until in the reign of Theodosius they were
once more drained, with most beneficial effect, by a public-spirited in-
dividual named Csecilius Decius. We have no subsequent account of
the condition of this region until the end of the thirteenth century,
when Pope Boniface VIII. constructed some works to drain it.' Leo
X. employed the engineer Giovanni Scotti to repair and enlarge the
canal of Badino, the principal outlet of the marshes, and Sixtus V.
built a large lateral canal. The most important improvements, how-
ever, were effected by Pius VI., and a system of effectual drainage
was almost completed, when the low condition of the papal treasury
and the confusion attendant upon the French Revolutionary invasion
completely arrested the undertaking, which up to that time had in-
volved an expense equal to 61,622,000. No new works have since
been attempted, although the authorities endeavor to keep the canals
clear and the dikes in repair. The greater part of the plain is covered
with rich pastures ; but, except the post-Ftations along the highway,
and some scattered huts of herdsmen, it has and can have no perma-
nent population.
Taking the United States census of 1870 as a guide for our own
country, we find malarial fevers forming a very important feature of
the mortality-tables. They are most fatal in Florida, Louisiana, and
Texas, ^^ext in order follow Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Geor-
gia, Missouri, Kansas, and Nevada. In another group distinguished by
a somewhat less mortality we find New Mexico, the Carolinas, Virginia,
Tennessee, Kentucky, Illinois, and Indiana. Those States marked by
the lowest mortality are the New England and Middle States, Wis-
consin, and Minnesota. In California there is a considerable ratio of
mortality, diminishing easterly in Utah, and northerly in Oregon and
Washington Territory, while it augments largely toward the south
in New Mexico. Since the census was taken, however, that is, since
about 1869, there has been noticed an evident extension of the subtile
miasmatic agency over regions previously exempt from it, in the Mid-
dle and New England States. The increase of mortality by this cause
in New York City has been notable, but can scarcely be attributed
entirely to local influences. In 1868 there were registered in this city
TOL. IX. — 27
