41 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
only 98 deaths from malai-ial fevers. In 1869 they rose to 128; in
1870, to 213; in 1871, to 291; and in 1872, to 348: an increase of
350 per cent, in four years. Since then some diminution in their fatal-
ity has occurred. They occasioned 282 deaths in 1873, 295 in 1874,
and 275 in 1875.
Let us now consider under what circumstances malaria may be
produced. Although it cannot be denied that there are peculiar local-
ities where, with apparently every presumed condition existing for the
development of malaria, that poison is entirely absent, yet the concur-
rence of malarial emanations with such conditions in innumerable
places establishes beyond a question their direct relation. The essen-
tial element in the production of malaria would appear to be vegetahle
decomposition / and, in order that this process shall ensue, the simul-
taneous operation of air^ onoisture, and a certain high range of tem-
perature, is absolutely requii-ed. Localities, therefore, where such com-
bination occurs, are prolific of malaria. Of this character are swamps
and morasses, alluvial deposits, loose, porous, sandy, and argillaceous
soils, or deep, loamy, marly lands underlaid by impermeable strata
affording capacity for the retention of moisture, regions exposed to
periodical or occasional inundation, places left bare by the subsidence
of lakes or drying up of streams, and particularly areas subject to
the intermingling of salt and fresh water — as salt-marshes into which
fresh streams discharge, or regions liable to tidal overflow and re-
cession.
The exhalations from marshy tracts are recognized by their effects
upon the human system throughout the world ; and the fact that
marshes bear a causative relation to malaria has been demonstrated in
numerous instances by the disappearance of fever after thorough
drainage and cultivation, and its reappearance upon their being al-
lowed to relapse into neglect. The favorable effect of drainage and
cultivation is owing both to the systematic removal of water near the
surface, and most probably also to the absorption by the growing
crops of the products of organic decomposition. On the s^me prin-
ciple Prof. Maury succeeded in antagonizing the noxious emanations
from a marsh surrounding the observatory at Washington by planting
it thickly with sunflowers, which seem to possess an extraordinary ab-
sorbing power. Sebastian is inclined to believe that the Calamus
aromaticus which grows in some swamps has a similar neutralizing
quality. Swamps covered with water are not so dangerous as those
partially dry, the layer of water serving as a protection against the
access of air and heat to the vegetable matter underneath.
A certain continuous range of temperature seems essential to the
development of malaria, which is almost unknown beyond 60° north
and 57° south latitude, and during the cold season in the temperate
zone. According to Hirsch, it prevails up to various degrees of lati-
tude and average annual temperature. It is the average summer tem-
