MALARIA. 419
perature, however, that is of account, and the northern limit of this
lies between the isotherms of 59° and 59.8° Fahr., giving a prolonged
temperature sufficiently high to insure vegetable decomposition.
The alluvial soil along the banks of rivers and at their deltas, as
those of the Ganges, Nile, Orinoco, and Mississippi, gives rise to fevers
of a very malignant type. Their banks are subject to overflow, and
frequently have a clayey subsoil, presenting an obstacle to percolation
— thus upon the river's receding into its ordinary channel its banks
remain damp below the surface, and disease is generated by the sun's
agency. A like process annually takes place in the extensive plains
and table-lands formed of alluvium washed down from mountain-
ranges during the lapse of centui'ies, and having few actual marshes.
Profuse rains, succeeded by dry hot seasons, render such regions ex-
ceedingly insalubrious during certain periods of the year. Somewhat
similar in character are the oases of the Desert of Sahara, which
abound in malaria. Hirsch describes these spots as consisting of
trough-like depressions in a rocky or highly-hygroscopic soil, the re-
ceptacle of subterranean waters, and covered with a layer of alluvium,
the surface of the oasis. In this the fierce heat of the sun causes
cracks and deep rifts in the earth, which give free vent to the miasm
evolved from beneath.
Sandy plains, especially when at the foot of tropical hills and cov-
ered with vegetation, as the " Terai " at the base of the Himalayan
range, are often infested with malaria. In other cases sandy plains
at a distance from hills, apparently dry and not subject to variations
in the ground-water, are equally sources of the poison. Such in-
stances as the latter might seem to militate against the generally-
accepted theory, but actually do not. Some sands which appear quite
free from organic admixture are really the reverse. Faure has pointed
out tliat the sandy soil of the Landes in Southwestern France contains
a large amount of organic ingredient which is constantly decomposing
and gives rise to periodic fevers. Under such sands, moreover, there
is frequently a subsoil of clay. Here, then, assuming a continued
high range of temperature, we find all the conditions necessary for
the production of malaria.
Localities subject to the intermixture of salt and fresh water are
particularly prone to malaria. The Maremmas of Italy afford exam-
ples of this on a large scale. The Maremma of Lucca consists of three
basins formerly dotted over with ponds and pools. It had been for
centuries frequently overflowed by the sea-tides which intermingled
witli its fresh ponds. Malarial fevers ravaged it and rendered it
almost uninliubitable. To the wayfarer who was so imprudent as to
spend a night of August or September within its desolate bounds, the
penalty was almost certain death. A remedy for this deplorable con-
dition of tilings was long sought. A proposition had been made in
1714 by the engineer Rondelli to attempt the exclusion of the sea.
