420 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Renewed in IVSO by Manfredi, and six years later by Zendrini, a mathe-
matician of Bologna, the idea was finally carried into execution in
1740. The initial attempt was made upon the principal and most un-
healthful basin. A sluice was constructed at the entrance of the canal
of Burlamacca through which the waters of the sea penetrated into
the basin to its central pond. The flood-gate was so arranged as to
act like a valve, shutting by the pressure of the rising tide and open-
ing when it fell. The success of this enterprise was so complete that
in the following year the miasmatic diseases which had never failed to
show themselves annually did not reappear, and the whole district was
rendered salubrious. It was at this period that the village of Viar-
regio, previously abandoned and composed only of a few fishers' huts
grouped at the foot of an old tower where galley-slaves were confined,
became a place of fashionable resoit during the summer for the aris-
tocracy of Lucca. This fact of a region's being rendered healthy by
the eTxclusion of sea-water is curious, but made more decisive still by
its counter-proof. In l768-'69 fevers suddenly sprang up again as bad
as ever in the same territory. Upon the cause being investigated, it
was found that the sluice had become deranged and the mixture of
waters had been reestablished. Upon the flood-gate being repaired,
the malaria was again extinguished. The same occurrence happened
in l'784-'85. The sluice having been neglected, there took place in
1784, out of a population of 1,900, the enormous number of 1,200 cases
of malarial fever and 92 deaths. In the following year there oc-
curred 103 deaths. The trouble was remedied in the same manner as
before. The other portions of the Maremma were rendered healthy
later, by sluices successively established at difierent points. Such a
remarkable result necessarily attracted public attention. Leopold II.,
Grand-duke of Tuscany, was particularly impressed by it, and he con-
ceived the great idea of improving the whole Tuscan Maremma in
the same manner. It was an immense undertaking which he contem-
plated — an actual transformation of a large part of his dominions —
and it redounds to his glory that he succeeded, in the face of almost
insurmountable obstacles, Tiy the means described, and a properly-
directed system of canalization and field-culture, in regenerating a
very considerable portion of his territory.
It is not difficult to account for the generation of malaria under
such circumstances as those just mentioned. The minute forms of
vegetable life with which both fresh and salt water teem require their
own special element for continued existence. The intermixture of
salt with fresh water introduces a new element with which the life
maintained in each separately is incompatible. The surface of the
soil consequently after every invasion and retirement of the tide ex-
poses to the action of the heat a mass of defunct vegetable material
spread out over an extensive area, and in most favorable condition for
speedy decomposition.
