MALABIA. 421
Besides the localities enumerated, malaria is apt to be induced or
intensified in a region wholly or comparatively exempt from it be-
fore, during the disturbance of large extents of soil, as in the construc-
tion of canals, roads, railways, fortifications, and dikes, rooting out
of timber, preparation of virgin land for cultivation, etc. Vegetable
organisms previously hidden and protected underground are thus
brought to the surface and exposed to the agencies of putrefaction.
Laborers engaged in such works and the neighboring inhabitants sopn
suffer. The "polders" of Holland, those parts reclaimed from the
sea by the erection of dikes, are of this character, and the workmen
engaged on them are attacked with malarial troubles of great severity.
In this country such instances are common. We have an example at
our very doors in the increase of malarial fevers which accompanied
the opening of the new boulevards, and the engineering excavations
of the Harlem Railroad, After such works have been completed,
however, it is not unusual for the vicinity to be restored to health-
fulness.
It must be acknowledged that occasionally miasmatic fevers ap-
pear and disappear without there having occurred any perceptible
changes in the relations of the soil. Such circumstances were re-
ported to the Pennsylvania State Medical Society as having been
noticed in 1856 along the Juniata River. Reports to the Connecticut
State Medical Society also mention the appearance of miasmatic
disorders without any recognized cause in portions of the State pre-
viously exempt from them.
There would appear to be some connection between such phe-
nomena and the fluctuating level of the subsoil-water as affected either
by rainfalls or subterranean forces. According to Jilek's figures, in
Pola, a noted malarious district of Istria, between 1863 and 1868 the
number of persons attacked by fever varied from fourteen to fifty-
one in every one hundred inhabitants, in exact proportion as the
rainfall had varied from one to eighteen inches.
We know that the level of the ground-water is constantly changing.
It rises and falls more or less rapidly, and at different rates in differ-
ent places — in some only a few inches either way annually, but in
many places several feet. In Munich, its limit was found by Petten-
kofer to be about ten feet. In India, the changes are greater. At
Saugor, in Central India, the extremes are between a few inches from
the surface during the rains, to seventeen feet in May. At Jubbulpore
it varies from two to fifteen feet from the surface. The caiises of such
changes are rainfalls, i^ressure of water from seas or rivers, and ob
struction of outflow. The pressure of the Rhine has been observed
to affect the water in a well 1,670 feet distant from the river. An
impeded outflow which raises the level of the ground-water has been
productive of an immense spread of paroxysmal fevers. Demster,
Taylor, and Ferguson, have reported such to have been the case in
