42 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
portions of India. The severe and fatal fevers prevailing in Burdo-
wan, Lower Bengal, during the last fifteen or twenty years, have been
coincident with obstruction to the natural drainage from mills, and
blockage of water-courses. The same cause has doubtless operated
to a great extent in producing the fevers of Bloomingdale, Manhat-
tanville, Yorkville, and Harlem. The establishment during the past
five years of extensive subsoil drains in those portions of New York
has had a visible tendency to diminish the area of malaria. A similar
result on a large scale has been noticed in Lincolnshire and other
parts of England, where many malarious tracts have been rendered
quite healthy by similar measures, having for their object the low-
ering of the subsoil water-level by an increased outflow.
I have thus far confined my observations to endemic malaria. But,
like other diseases dependent ujjon telluric or organic emanations,
miasmatic fevers occasionally assume an epidemic character, and,
breaking loose from their native haunts, overspread a wide extent
of territory. Thus, as Hertz informs us, nearly the whole of Europe
was invaded by such epidemics in 1558 — in 1678-'79 — from 1718 to
1722— from 1824 to 1827— and from 1845 to 1848. The cause of
malaria being thus propagated is as mysterious as that of most epi-
demics. It is possible that such an epidemic malarial influence
has been prevailing here; but we must not lose sight of the fact
that sporadic cases of malarial fever appearing in non-malarial dis-
tricts can frequently be traced to previous exposure in an infected
locality.
Malaria, although having its ordinary habitat in low-lying re-
gions, may under conditions favoi*able for its production exist at great
elevations. On the Tuscan Apennines it is found at a height of 1,100
feet above the sea ; on the Pyrenees and Mexican Cordilleras, 5,000
feet ; on the Himalayas, 6,400 feet ; on the island of Ceylon, 6,500
feet; and on the Andes, 11,000 feet. Sometimes, however, at con-
siderable elevations it is unaccountably absent under circumstances
apparently supplying every condition for its development. Thus,
according to Jourdanet, close to the city of Mexico lies the lake of
Tescudo, some twenty-five square miles in extent, composed partly
of fresh and partly of brackish water, with a clayey bottom often
laid bare over large areas as the result of evaporation under a tem-
perature of 122° to 140° Fahr., notwithstanding which, malarial fevers
seldom occur in its vicinity. At Puebla, Mexico, on the other hand,
is a very malarious marsh 5,000 feet above the sea. Under ordinary
circumstances, a certain altitude affords immunity from malaria,
although low elevations of 200 or 300 feet above a miasmatic
tract are often more dangerous than the flat lands — the poison seem-
ing to float upward and become intensified. This was long no-
ticeable on the heights of Bergen Hill, West Hoboken, and Wee-
hawken, which overlook the Jersey flats. At present, the elevation
