MALAEIA. 425
tory organs is quite certain. What we really do know of it has refer-
ence more particularly to its mode of action. It is most dangerous
when the suu is down, and it seems almost inert during the day. It
appears providential that the same agency which is so potent in its
production should be the principal instrument of its destruction. It
loves the ground, where in many regions it is so concentrated and
deadly as to destroy the incautious sleeper on the earth almost as
quickly as the most noxious gas. Hence it is generally regarded as
having a specific gravity heavier than that of air, but this is by no
means certain. It is doubtless rendered heavy by combining with
night-fogs and dews, but upon their being dissipated by the sun it
rises into the air and probably becomes innocuous by wide diffusion
and dilution. It is intercepted by impediments, such as walls and
groves of leafy trees, which obstruct the winds that bear it. Perhaps
the latter also neutralize it by absorption. It is likewise neutralized
and probably absorbed in passing over a considerable body of water
— especially salt-water. The distance necessary to effect this result
naturally varies with circumstances — force of winds, concentration,
intensity, and abundance of the poison itself. According to Blane, in
the channel between Beveland and Walcheren, 3,000 feet of water
rendered it inert. In China, three-quarters of a mile, and in the West
Indies, one mile, have been required to be effectual.
Recognizing the facts mentioned, the precautions to be observed
against malaria are quite obvious. In built-up cities we are protected
by pavements and sewers to a great extent, and probably also by the
character of the atmosphere, which is artificially warmed by radiation
at night, and impregnated with gases which, though injurious in other
ways, are antagonistic to malarial emanations. But in malarial sub-
urban and country districts it is otherwise. There certain precautions
are necessary. If possible, elevation of a dwelling-place, at least 500
feet above the source of the miasm, is to be recommended in temperate
climates, and from 1,500 to 2,000 feet in the tropics. If this be not
practicable, thorough subsoil drainage, filling up of low and moist
grounds, covering the earth with closely-cut herbage, belts of um-
brageous trees interposed between the dwelling and the point of dan-
ger, but at a sufficient distance to permit free ventilation, and the
access of sunlight ; doors and windows opening principally away from
the malarial qiiarter; the house, if possible, to be raised on pillars or
arches a few feet above the ground, otherwise a sub-cellar thoroughly
cemented — all these are measures of primary importance. The sleep-
ing-apartments should not be below the second story, and should be
provided with open fireplaces in which on damp or chilly nights a
little fire miy be kindled. Exposure to the open air after sunset, or
until several hours after sunrise, should be avoided. As whatever
tends to lower the vital powers predisposes the individual to malarial
invasion, personal hygiene is indispensable. It should of course be
