42 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
dictated by coraraon-sense, with the object of establishing and main-
taining, in the words of the old maxim of the sanitarian, mens sana
in corpore sano.
KOCK-STKTJCTUEE.
Bt Eev. J. MAGENS MELLO, M. A., E. G. S.
THE Study of rock-structure is one of great interest to the geolo-
gist, and not only does it teach him the various materials of
which any particular rock is built up, but it will often lead him to the
knowledge of wonderful facts relating to its origin and past history,
and will enable him to trace some of the many changes to which it
may have been subjected during the lapse of time.
I propose to illustrate this by taking some familiar specimen and
showing the ways in which we may investigate its nature and history.
Suppose we take a piece of granite and see what we may learn
about it. There are few persons but are acquainted with this rock
in some one or more of the forms in which it is found. Our public
buildings often present us with splendid illustrations of granite,
sometimes roughly hewed, as it has come from the quarry; in other
cases highly polished. We have seen the fine gray stones from Aber-
deen, or the beautiful red ones from Peterhead and elsewhere. Now,
when we begin to examine a j^iece of one of these granites, we see at
once that it is not an homogeneous stone — such, for instance, as is a
bit of flint — ^but that it is built up of various dissimilar-looking mate-
rials; and we may notice, moreover, that one or more of those mate-
rials is crystalline, that it is shaped in some regular geometrical form.
We shall probably be struck with certain whitish or flesh-colored
crystals, more conspicuously prominent than the other substances of
which the S2:)eeimen is composed. With some care we may be able
to make out in part the form of these crystals, and perhaps to meas-
ure one or more of their angles ; then, too, we shall notice that these
crystals are apparently imbedded in a more glassy-looking substance
of a clear and grayish color, and here and there we shall observe
some bright spangles of a thin flaky mineral. We shall thus have
seen the three principal minerals of which typical granite rock is
composed; the larger opaque crystals, whether white or pink, are
feldspar, the glassy mineral is quartz, and the little glittering spangles
are mica. We may next proceed to a more detailed examination of
each of these in turn. We will first ask the chemist what he can tell
us of their composition. The chemist is not satisfied with merely
knowing that a certain mineral occurring in certain definite crystal-
line or other forms is quartz, another feldspar, and so on ; but he asks
further : " What is this quartz ? Is it a simple body, or is it, simple as
