26 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
story of the spread of the gospel, the only "working hypothesis " to
explain the facts. The synoptics bear internal marks of being genu-
ine ; give a consistent tale to account for the state of things as detailed
by Paul and the Book of Acts; and have external testimony accumu-
lating in their favor derived especially from the controversies with
the early heretics. Even John's gospel is brought within a hundred
years of our Lord's death, almost certainly in the first century, is
shown to be as little inconsistent with the synoptics as Plato's Socra-
tes is with Xenophon's Socrates, and breathes an air so superior to
that of the Apostolic Fathers, that we see the one to be heaven-de-
scended, the other to be the product of imperfect human nature at a
time when the minds of Christians were saturated with divine truth.
It is clear that the " expectancy " of accounting for the life of Christ
by human causes has not yet been realized. " The Bible," as Beza
said, "is an anvil which has worn out many hammers."
Every one knows that all men, scientific and unscientific, are lia-
ble to be swayed by prejudice, and Dr. Carpenter has not been able
to throw much light on this subject by physiology. Even mathema-
ticians may have their " personal equation." Philosophers, so called,
and scientists have fallen under the influence of the idols of Bacon,
and not a few other idols which have been set up since his time. His-
torical investigators, judges, and juries, are all aware of its existence,
and should guard against it. We meet with it in our daily inter-
course with our fellow-men, and make allowance for it. We see it in the
village parties, in political contests, and in the rivalries of rank and
trade. To every reality there is a counterfeit ; corresponding to ev-
ery truth there is a false appearance ; if there be one Jehovah, there
are many idols. Many, when they look to the dust of the conflict,
are tempted to conclude that Truth cannot be found. But, notwith-
standing all this, Truth can be found and won by those who court her
in the right manner and the right spirit. It is to be remembered,
however, that Avhile we are required to demand evidence before yield-
ing our conviction, all evidence is not of the same kind. " I receive
mathematics," said Goethe, " as the most sublime and useful science
as long as they are applied in their proper place ; but I cannot com-
mend the misuse of them in matters which do not belon^ to their
sphere, and in which, noble science as they are, they seem to be mere
nonsense, as if, forsooth, things only exist when they can be mathe-
matically demonstrated ! It would be foolish for a man not to believe
in his mistress's love because she could not prove it to him mathemati-
cally. Sh6 can mathematically prove her dowry, but not her love."
Some scientists in our day are insisting that every thing, even in his-
tory, morals, and religion, is to be settled by experiment and calcu-
lation, and would place all truth under the microscope — subject it to
the blowpipe, and express it in statistics — and they do not see that
the highest truth escapes in the process. The defenders of religion
