428 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
microscopically examined. When the granite rocks become decom-
posed, as they often do in Cornwall and elsewhere, through the wear
and tear of the weather, we frequently find the disintegrated mate-
rials so separated that the silicate of alumina of the feldspar forms
thick deposits of the beautiful white clay known as kaolin, and which
is so valuable to the china-manufacturer.
The mica of granite is usually a variety called Muscovite, or potash
mica ; this again on chemical analysis is found to contain, as did the
feldspar, silica, alumina, and potash, and also often some iron and man-
ganese. There are several difierent sorts of mica, also, sometimes
found in granite, especially Biotite, the composition of which varies
from the above ; but all the micas may be known by their being found
in flattish crystals, which may be split up into an infinity of thin leaf-
lets. Thus far our unaided eyesight and the help of the chemist have
Fig. 2. Orthoclase Feldspab. Fio. 3.— Plagioclase Feldspar.
shown us what granite is made of ; but we are now beginning to learn
that, would we know something of the real history of a rock, a far
minuter examination is needful, and geologists are rapidly learning
that they must turn to the microscope if they would receive answers
to many important questions, both as to the history and also as to the
comjjosition of rocks. A marvelous light has been shed during the
past few years on rock-structure through this minute investigation,
especially with the aid of polarized light. The intricacies of the
closest-grained rocks have been disentangled, their component parts
distinguished from each other, and the very order and history of their
combination in the mass revealed. Xow, when we examine our gran-
ite beneath the microscope, which can be done- by having thin slices
prepared, we shall learn something about it which we could hardly
hope to have discovered without this aid. There has been much spec-
ulation as to the origin of granite, whether it is a plutonic — that is,
an old volcanic rock — or whether it is only a deposit from water con-
solidated and altered during the lapse of long ages by heat and press-
ure : the microscope will help us to the truth. When magnified and
examined with the polariscope, a thin section of granite is a very
beautiful object, and its difierent constituent parts stand revealed
with the greatest distinctness : we at once learn to see the crystals of
