R CK-S TR UCT URE. 4 2 9
feldspar, somewhat opaque and cloudy as tbey usually are in granite,
but now and then clear and beautifully striped, and also the crystals
of mica, imbedded in the clear quartz, which will be at once known
by its bright clear colors and by the margin of rainbow-like tints
which border its patches. Ordinary orthoclase feldspar is usually some-
what opaque and dirty-looking under the microscope, and by this it
may be distinguished from the clear, glassy sanidine which is fre-
quently found in igneous rocks, and presents under the microscope,
when polarized, pure rich colors as well as sharply-defined crystals
similar in form to those of the common orthoclase. The orthoclastic
feldspars may be very readily distinguished from the plagioclastic by
their structure, as revealed by the polariscope ; the latter invariably
are seen to be striped with variously-colored bands, showing what is
called twin crystallization ; and the orthoclase, though often forming
twins on a larger scale, does not present the minutely-banded appear-
FiG. 4.— Mica (Biotite).
ance of the plagioclastic feldspars. The mica in the granite section
will not be difficult to recognize, especially if Biotite ; often we shall
observe it as forming fairly-shaped hexagonal crystals, and the polar-
iscope will also help us to know it by its thinly-laminated structure,
giving rise to fine parallel striae on the surface of its crystals. Its
colors, also, when polarized will be duller than those of the quartz,
for which it might sometimes be mistaken at first sight, should it be a
light-colored mica ; and then, again, it will frequently be found that
when the prisms of the polariscope are crossed the mica becomes per-
fectly opaque, its sections having been formed across the optical axis.
But let us now look at the quartz. We shall observe that this quartz
is generally not crystallized in definite forms, as are the feldspar and
the mica ; it appears as a matrix which has been at some time or other
soft and so is penetrated by the other crystals, the interspaces of
which it fills up : this shows us at once that it must have been solidi-
fied after them, and so was unable to assume its regular forms. This
is a very remarkable fact, and helps us toward the secret of the forma-
tion of the granite. We know that quartz requires a higher tempera-
ture to melt it than does either the feldspar or the-mica, and so, had
the granite been formed as are regular volcanic rocks in the ordinary
way of igneous fusion, we should certainly have found that the quartz
would have crystallized before either the feldspar or the mica, and it
