THE APOTHEOSIS OF STEAM. 431
machine came into use deserves to rank as the leading era in history ;
and that it demands from us more study than either of the preceding
ages of the press, iron, bronze, or stone, though they lasted much
longer and have heretofore occupied much greater j^rominence in his-
torical study.
Modern civilization belongs to the Euraryan — the Teutonic, Latin,
Celtic, Slavonic and Greek — nationalities which migrated from Asia
in the remote past to Europe, whence some of them passed over to
other parts of the world, carrying their culture, their energy, and
their high capacity for further progress, with them. The Asiatics, the
Africans, and the aboriginal Americans and Polynesians, have for the
last four centuries acted a part so subordinate in the great drama of
human advancement, that they are like the shadows of a picture j they
serve mainly as contrasts to bring ovt the brilliancy of the forms and
colors in the light.
The age of steam — the period between ITVO and 1875 — has trebled
the Euraryans who have given us the enlightenment of the present,
and are the hope of the future. Their number a hundred years ago
was probably 120,000,000; though Gibbon, in the sixty-second note
to the second chapter of his " Decline and Fall," following Voltaire,
who was a respectable authority, said that Europe then had 107,000,000
inhabitants, including twenty-two in Germany, twenty in France,
twelve in Russia, ten in Italy, eight in Spain and Portugal, eight in
Great Britain and Ireland, seven in Scandinavia, as many more in
Turkey, and four each in Hungary and the Netherlands. The facilities
for getting information then were not so good as now, and, though
Gibbon was very careful in his statements, yet he probably made a
mistake in his figures. Kolb, in his "Hand-book of Comparative
Statistics " (German, and not translated), tells us that France had
22,500,000 in 1770, Spain nine and one-third in 1768, Germany thirty
in 1786, and Italy twenty in 1812; and Levi, in his "History of
British Commerce," credits Great Britain and Ireland with ten in
1763. After excluding certain nationalities not of Aryan blood in
Europe, and adding the British and Spanish colonists in America, we
may estimate the total number of Euraryans in 1770 at 120,000,000.
The present number is about 360,000,000, including three hundred
in Europe, and forty-eight in North America. This great increase,
far from being a necessary or natural result of the lapse of time,
is entirely unexampled. The Roman Empire had about 120,000,000
inhabitants, and the same territory after a lapse of eighteen cen-
turies had no moi'e. Egypt 3,000 years ago, and Peru and Mexico
before the Spanish conquest, had more inhabitants than now. As a
general rule, population has been nearly stationary; century after
century has passed, with little difference until we come within the
magic influence of steam, and then suddenly the Euraryan race, ac-
quiring the power to draw larger crops from the soil, to distribute
