432 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
them more evenly, tliua preventing disease and famine, and to visit new
and more profitable fields of industry, multiplies so as to keep pace
with the increased supplies of food and with the demand for labor.
Education, like civilization, of which it is a large part, belongs
mainly to the Euraryans. It is the misfortune of the Chinese and
Japanese that more time is required to learn their hieroglyphical
writing than to get a liberal education in a Teutonic or Latin tongue.
The Arabs and Hindoos have alphabets, but they have no eminent
schools, no rich literature, no great city in which their race lias reached
a leading place in culture. The possession of the alphabet, with the
books, the schools, the wealth, and tlie centres of civilization, in the
temperate zone, where man has the strongest stimulus and the most
energy for the exercise of his physical and mental faculties, gives to
Euraryans the mastery of the fortunes, and almost a monopoly of the
interest of earth. Progress depends not so much on the number of
those who come within its nominal domain, as of those who are under
its full influence and appreciate its value; that is, the educated people.
They have increased ninefold since 1770. In that year not one out
of a hundred adults in Russia and Turkey, not ten in Catholic Europe,
not thirty in Protestant Europe, could read. Now, about eighty-five
out of a hundred in the Teutonic, and fifty in the Latin nations, can
read, or nearly 200,000,000 in all. The gain in education is, however,
much more than that indicated in the mere increase of those able to
read. The quality of the learning has improved as much as its quan-
tity. In the middle of the last century, there were few books worth
reading in any modern language. A man was not accounted well
educated unless he were familiar with Latin, So scanty were the lit-
eratures of French, English and German, that they were considered
unworthy of the notice of scholars. The student had to read Greek
and Latin to learn "the humanities." There was no science save dry
astronomy and mathematics, little history, little philosophy, little
poetry. The chemistry, geology, and physiology, which form the bulk
of our positive knowledge, are products of the steam age ; and, instead
of being dry and remote from the business and associations of practi-
cal life, they come home to us every day, guarding our health, assist-
ing our industry, and influencing our opinions. Ancient Egypt, As-
syria, and Hindostan, and the prehistoric man in Europe, have been
made known to us by late research, and even our histories of Greece
and Rome have required rewriting, to adapt them to the advance of
our knowledge and philosophy.
A large majority of our most instructive books are the product of
the last hundred years. Of the works sold in the book-stores or loaned
by the public libraries, at least ninety-five per cent, are new. Nearly
all our prose romance, and most of our poetry, history, and miscellane-
ous literature, belong to the steam age in origin and spirit. We now
write ten times as many books, and publish fifty times as many vol-
