THE APOTHEOSIS OF STEAM. 435
ing-macbine. The steam-plough has not yet been introduced exten-
sively, but it will doubtless make another revolution. The progress
made in the drainage of land by pipes, in the drying of fruits and
vegetables by hot air, and the canning of fruits and meats, all are im-
portant aids to agricultural industry. The breeds of farm-animals
have been greatly improved. The Ayrshire, the Durham, the Jersey,
and the Devon, the Cotswold, the Southdown and the Cheviot, the
Chester and the Berkshire, the Clydesdale and the American trotter,
have been either started, or for the first time introduced into extensive
use, in the steam age.
Tlie miner has adopted dynamite and other explosives stronger
and safer to handle than the charcoal-powder, and can, at the same
time, hold and strike the small drill, whereas the large drill needed
for the weaker j^owder required one man to hold the drill while an-
other was striking. Steam not only hoists the ore and pumps the
water, but sometimes drills the rock. The method of stoping toward
the shaft has been introduced. More important still is the general
education of the superintendents in engineering and chemistry. The
processes of separating gold and silver from the earthy and rocky mat-
ter which hold threm in a state of nature are new in their principal
features.
All the prominent mechanical occupations have felt the influences
of our progressive time, and many have been added to the list.
Nearly every labor-saving machine has called a new trade into ex-
istence. The builders of stationary engines, of locomotives and of rail-
way-cars, the boiler-maker, the steam, the railway, and the gas en-
gineers, the gas-fitter, and the manufacturer of chemicals, are a few
out of many. Planing and moulding machines, and circular and band
saws, wire ropes and iron bridges, " balloon " house-frames, fastened
together with nails, and without the old style of mortices and tenons,
and machines to make cut-nails and wood screws, have had much in-
fluence in mechanical business. If steel pens had not come into use
as a substitute for quills, the supply of which would have been entire-
ly inadequate to the scribbling demands of the present day, education
might have felt a check. The steam-press, the turbine-wheel, the
type-casting machine, lamp-chimneys which secure better light with
less smoke, kerosene-lamps, cleanly stearine-candles instead of the
dirty tallow, are all to be credited to the steam age.
The railroads and the steamboats have covered the land, the
rivers, and the lakes of Europe and North America with the beneficent
network of their routes, and have given a new life to commerce. The
exports of Great Britain in IVTO amounted to $65,000,000, and in 1870
to 11,220,000,000. In the same period the measurement of the ship-
ping owned in that country increased from 550,000 to 7,100,000 tons,
and that of the shipping entered in a year from 890,000 to 18,000,000
tons. The amount insured rose from 1850,000,000 to $6,800,000,000.
