THE APOTHEOSIS OF STEAM. 437
chargeable in a great degree to our superior knowledge. We have
discovered that their premises were false, and of course we care
nothing for their conclusions. I assert that poetry, painting, sculp-
ture, and architecture, never within an equal period produced so
many great works as since 1770, but I have not here the space to
argue that point.
I think the proof is sufficient that there has been an immense
change in human life for the better since the middle of the last cen-
tury — a change great enough to require the recognition of a new era
in culture. The preponderant influence and characteristic of our
time suggest that it should be called " The Age of Steam ; " and this,
like the universally-accepted stone, bronze, and iron ages, suggests
that industry is the most important feature of culture. No other name
has been offered, no other force can compete with it. The improve-
ments in printing and in the manufacti;re of iron and cloth, great as
they are, are yet dependent for much of their value on the steam which
drives the press, the rolling-mill, and the loom, and transports their
products to market. The electric telegraj)h is inferior to either of
these three : Watt's invention remains master of the field. It has
made a new era, which ranks with that of bronze, and the two sur-
pass in importance all the others.
When savages learned to make bronze, their former weapons and
tools of stone and bone were thrown away. The flint knife, which lost
its brittle edge at the first cut into wood, was replaced by tough
metal which could be sharpened anew every day, and would last for
years. The clumsy obsidian spear-head, that flew to pieces at the first
throw, was superseded by another of better shape and more durable
material, fitted for the wear of centuries. The savage armed with
flint weapons was no match for the man of bronze, and thus the latter
could take the most fertile valleys and reduce the former to slavery.
The possession of metallic hoes, spades, and sickles, was the beginning
of systematic agriculture. The soil began to produce abundantly;
the supply of food was larger and more constant ; population became
dense ; buildings of cut stone were erected for temples, fortifications,
and granaries ; the accumulation of property became possible and
reputable; nations were organized and armies drilled. All these
changes were the necessary results of the discovery of the art of mak-
ing bronze. Previously men were in the stone age, without durable
houses, without national government, without cities, without any ac-
cumulation of property, division of labor, literature, or prospect of
progress.
The iron and printing ages made revolutiojis in society, but tliey
were far less important than those of bronze and steam. The bronze
revolution was the greater, looked at from a relative standpoint, but,
considered absolutely, it was small in comparison, and very slow in
progress, with the influence of steam. The ancient Egyptians asserted
