438 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that their monarchy had stood without material change for 10,000
years. There is much reason for believing that their religion and
polity were about the same for at least 3,000 years, and for presum-
ing that they must have been very slow in reaching that condition.
The farther we look back into history, the longer we find the intervals
between the permanent improvements of culture. The present age is
resplendent not less for the magnitude of its inventions and discoveries
than for the speed with which they have crowded upon one another's
heels, and have been carried round the world. No previous time
has approached ours in its achievements, and, if ever any force of
culture deserved apotheosis, it is steam.
OX THE BACKWAKDXESS OF THE AXCIEXTS IN
XATUKAL SCIENCE.
By carl von LITTROW.*
I CAN hardly be mistaken in holding that the ceremonies attending
the installation of a rector of our university chiefly concern the
students. Thus only can I account for the fact that on the one hand
the newly-installed officer is burdened with the unpleasant duty of
listening to a history of his own life, and, on the other, that he is re-
quired to deliver an address whose sole purpose is to make known the
ground he occupies in science and in his teaching. His colleagues,
to whom he is indebted for his election, of course have no need to be
informed where he stands, while the students oftentimes have but
scant opportunity of knowing what manner of opinions are held by
Mm. Hence it is that my words are addressed first of all to you, my
young friends.
Those nations of antiquity which so long freely and unchallenged
have borne the title of " classical," owe to their mastery of form what-
ever right they have to that honorable epithet. While we must re-
gard oiir predecessors in culture as being the best patterns in all
that regards form, we may nevertheless of ourselves assert that in the
investigation of matter, and in the arts of making it siibservient to
man, we in turn equally or even to a greater degree surpass the an-
cients. This condition of things is indeed nothing but one phase of
the strife between the real and the ideal — a strife which, fortunately
for mankind, is never altogether allayed. That in nearly every de-
partment of art — taking this term in its widest sense — we are on the
whole the miserable Epigoni of the ancients, is universally admitted,
' Inaugural Address on his installation as Rector of the University of Vienna. Trans-
lated by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
