McCOSH IN REPLY TO CARPENTER. 27
maintain that in religion a sincere mind will discover the truth with
or witliout scientific knowledge. Many believe that John Bunyan saw
as far into spiritual matters as even Newton or Locke, and much far-
ther than Laplace ever did. Some of the highest statesmen and law-
yers in Great Britain imagined that they could get more good from
the dix'ect and homely appeals of Moody than from those select dilet-
tant meetings in London of savants and litterateurs who have aban-
doned Christianity, and are seeking to catch some higher religion
which evanishes as they would lay hold of it.
Everybody acknowledges that all witnesses are not to be trusted;
yet in the common affairs of life, in trials, in history, we do find tes-
timony which we implicitly believe. To the great body even of edu-
cated men, scientific knowledge depends on the trustworthiness of
those who have made the observations and experiments. Notwith-
standing all their preconceptions, there are declarations of men of
science as to matters of fact which we can trust ; and it would be a
violation of their whole nature, in fact it would be a miracle, were they
to deceive us. Dr. Carpenter is entitled to credit for having helped
to expose the fooleries and the rogueries of spirit-rapping, rope-tying,
and of levitation. But he seems to think that it is possible by the
same method to undermine the miracles of the Old and New Testa-
ments. All who have inquired carefully into the subject see that the
testimony in favor of spiritualistic manifestations cannot stand the
common tests of evidence. But it has been maintained by many of
the greatest and most sagacious minds, and by the highest moral
minds which our world has produced, that the testimony in behalf of
the essential events of the New Testament cannot be set aside with-
out undermining the whole of ancient history. Even at first sight the
spiritual seances and performers have no moral prestige in their favor.
The products are unworthy of God, and inconsistent with his mode of
operation in Nature. We can discover motives enough to induce
them to act as they do — such as the desire to create wonder — with
some the hope of getting money. How different with our Lord, who,
so far from taking advantage of the wonder-loving spirit of the Jews,
actually restrained it ! The wonders of the spiritualists are performed
in rooms prepared for the purpose or in darkness, whereas the mir-
acles of our Lord were performed in open day, in unexpected circum-
stances, and before all men. Then the whole teaching of Jesus was
totally above and altogether opposed to the spirit of his age and na-
tion, and only exposed him and his followers to opprobrium, poverty,
and suffering.
But Dr. Carpenter has discovered that there is no stronger evi-
dence in behalf of the events of our Lord's life than we have in favor of
the miracles attributed to St. Columba. This is a proof that, amid his
multifarious employments, Dr. Carpenter has not carefully surveyed
or minutely examined the whole body of Christian evideu(!es. The
