BACKWARDNESS OF THE ANCIENTS. 439
and the causes of our inferiority are well enough understood. On the
contrary, the reasons of our own preeminence in the exact sciences are
by no means so generally known. Schiller, who, had he not been a
profound philosopher, would never have been the prince of poets that
he was, describes the realist as being characterized by a spirit of
"sober observation," and the idealist by a spirit of " restless specu-
lation." " When we presume," says he, " by the mere force of reason
to determine anything about the outer world, we do but trifle." How-
ever obvious the meaning of this remark may at first appear, we shall
find, on closer consideration, that in fact the author not only ascribes
to the ideialistic mind of antiquity an undue bent toward speculation,
but that furthermore he plainly denies to it the faculty of correct ob-
servation. The entire justice of Schiller's remark, whethej* as taken
in its literal or in its implicative sense, is perhaps nowhere so patent
as in the province of astronomy.
Every one knows of the clear skies which canopy the homes of the
early civilizations — Italy, Greece, Spain, Egypt, Arabia, The purity
of the atmosphere enjoyed by these regions is shown by the im-
portance attached by the ancients to the knowledge of the rising and
setting of certain stars. In our countries astronomy must have been
precluded from taking the same direction by the fact that but rarely
do we see the stars near the horizon, to say nothing of seeing them on
the horizon, owing to the presence of haze, which in these regions
nearly always narrows the field of view. For this reason, had we
not the telescope, we should have been unable to attain to the com-
paratively accurate knowledge possessed by the ancients with regard
to the movements of Mercury, a planet which is hardly visible from
our latitudes We inhabitants of Central Europe might easily, in
point of cloudy skies, be the rivals of the dwellers on the shores of the
Sea of Azof — the Cimmerians of the ancients. It might therefore be
supposed that the starry heavens, as these ancestors would describe
them to us, must be in great part invisible to us, and far richer than
we have been able to see them in later times. We must the more
expect them to describe things hardly visible to us as our present
division of the northern heavens into constellations dates, as far
as its main features are concerned, from at least 2,000 years ago,
and the firmament formed an object of studious contemplation even
then. Add to this the fact that, as early as the year 130 b. c, Hip-
parchus began to draw up a complete catalogue of all the fixed stars ;
and Claudius Ptolemaeus, 150 years later, took up this task anew.
Now the " Almagest," as Ptolemy's work is called by the Arabs, who
handed it down to us, includes 1,028 stars ; and even if, on the strength
of a remark made by the elder Pliny, who speaks of 1,600 observed
stars, we with faint probability grant that the " Almagest " does no^
represent the complete labors of Hipparchus and Ptolemy, still even
the second figure is far less than we should have expected. Argelan-
