440 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
der, at Bonn, sets down in his charts no less than 3,256 stars visible
to the naked eye ; and Heis, whose eye indeed was possessed of an
abnormal power, seeing stars as points without rays, increased Ar-
gelander's list by 2,000 stars visible at Miinster. Thus, not taking
into the account the no less than twenty more degrees of the heavens
visible from Alexandria than from Germany, the ancients noted
hardly one-half of the stars which were visible to them ! The defec-
tiveness of their observations can be more easily understood from the
fact that for instance they reckoned 474 stars of the fourth magnitude,
only 271 of the fifth, and finally only 49 of the sixth magnitude ;
whereas the fact is, that the number of stars increases so rapidly in
the order of magnitudes that each succeeding class embraces a much
larger number than all the classes that precede it. In our latitudes
Argelander makes out with the naked eye nineteen nebulae and star-
clusters, while Hipparchus mentions only two, and Ptolemy five, nei-
ther of them noting such prominent objects as the nebula in Orion
and that in Andromeda. And such defective knowledge as this
of the open-lying heavens persisted long after the invention of the
telescope — for full 1,500 years. Among the old astronomers the Per-
sian, Abdalrahman-Al-Stifi, who lived in the tenth century, forms a
notable exception ; but he did not inspire his contemporaries or his
successors with his own ardor, or prompt them to add to his labors.
The same is to be said of the southern heavens. The Arabians,
surely, did not lack opportunity for acquiring a knowledge of many
of its constellations. Ever since the days of Ba'rtolomeo Diaz, it was
a necessity for Europeans, on sea-voyages, to determine places by
southern constellations. Ptolemy was acquainted with only a few of
the principal stars of the antarctic hemisphere, and it was not till the
beginning of the seventeenth century that Theodor von Emden regu-
larly divided these regions of the heavens into constellations. It re-
mained for Herschel, in recent times, to determine a number of open
questions with regard to these southern constellations.
To account for this backwardness in the investigation of a subject
which certainly possessed at least as much interest for the ancients as
for ourselves, by declaring it to be the result of their superficiality,
were an injustice to the olden time, seeing that in other respects it
commands our unconditional admiration for its arduous achievements.
That what they needed was to have their senses trained to this kind
of work, and that, although they had keen appreciation of art, they
never learned to look at things with the eye of the investigator of
Nature, wnll be better understood from a statement of what they
knew about individual celestial objects than of what they knew about
the entire firmament.
That well-known group of stars, the Pleiades, which in the Fall
adorns our eastern sky by niglit, serves well to show that in observing
the stars something else is required besides a clear atmosphere and
