BACKWARDNESS OF THE ANCIENTS. 441
good eyesight. In a didactic poem by Aratus, written 270 years b. c,
we have our earliest trustworthy account of Grecian astronomy.
There the Pleiades are called " tTrraTTopoi " — stars traveling in seven
paths — though according to Aratus only six stars were visible. Some
300 years later Ovid writes —
" Quae septem dici, sex taraen esse solent ; " *
while Hipparchus, in his critique of Aratus, about 150 years before
Ovid, expressly says that in clear, moonless nights seven stars can be
actually made out. Now, Aratus lived in Macedonia, and Ovid ap]mr-
ently wrote his " Fasti" at Rome, giving the finishing touches to the
vvork on the southern shore of the Black Sea : thus both writers lived
beneath a very clear sky. The fact that Hipparchus labored at Rhodes,
a few degrees farther south, must not be supposed to account for his hav-
ing seen one more star than the others, though the discrepancy between
the observers is all the more surprising as the group about which they
differed was of great importance for navigators in the then state of
nautical science, and was constantly under observation. This circum-
stance, in fact, attracted the attention of the astronomers of the time,
but for centuries they sought in vain for the seventh star, and offered
all manner of curious explanations for its supposed disappearance, one
of which is worthy of special mention, viz, : that this seventh star had
moved over to the position of the middle star in the tail of Ursa Ma-
jor, called by the Arabians Mizar, and that it was the little star now
commonly known as the Postilion and which stands close to Mizar.
The scholia to Homer cling to this idea of the disappearance of the
seventh star. Not until the thirteenth century do we find a correct de-
scription of the Pleiades, in a work by the Persian astronomer Kaz-
vini, who apparently borrowed it from Sufi. " There are," says Kaz-
vini, " six stars (in the Pleiades) and in the midst of them a number
of dark (i. e., faint) stars;" but his observations received no attention
from subsequent astronomers. In vain, too, was the observation even
of such a man as Maestlin, Kepler's preceptor, who distinguished no
less than fourteen stars in the Pleiades group. Not till after the in-
vention of the telescope could Sir Christopher Heyden, in 1610, write
as follows, showing the power of the new instrument : " I see with my
telescope eleven stars in the Pleiades, though never before were more
than seven distinguished." But how stands the case to-day ? At
present they who discern these eleven stars with the naked eye are
considered anything but ])rodigies ; indeed, I am acquainted witli
persons — not professional astronomers, but laymen — who can make
out from fourteen to sixteen stars in this group. But then we are the
descendants of generations of men who from infancy were taught to
put their organs of sense to the sternest test, and to take note even
of the faintest sense-impressions ; our eyes have been schooled, and
' Said to be seven, though they number only six.
