442
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in this special instance of the Pleiades they are not so much dazzled
by the brighter stars as guided by them to the stars in their neigh-
borhood, for, in fact, more than one half of the fourteen stars are of
a magnitude far below the commonly-accepted limit of vision for the
naked eye. We have learned to observe, to choose favorable condi-
tions, to know what is a really clear atmosphere; we know that small
stars in the vicinity of bright ones are far more readily descried in
twilight than in the depth of night, the brightness of the larger stars
in the latter case obscuring the smaller. .Hipparchus errs in saying
that moonlight is a hinderance to such observation: keen eyes may,
with a bright full moon shining, count as many as fifteen stars in the
Pleiades.
Another point of considerable interest Ave note in this instructive
examjile. The fact that the Postilion, the Alcor of the Arabians, was
taken to be the lost seventh star of the Pleiades, further shows that
Alcor, though a star of the fifth magnitude, and easily discernible,
had not been noted by previous astronomers, else it could never have
passed, at the beginning of our era, as a new star, then first registered.
And indeed the Arabian astronomers, one thousand years later, call
this star "The Forgotten," plainly because it had not been noticed
previously.
We have a like instance in the star Alpha in Capricorn. Mankind
had to observe this star for thousands of years before they saw, what
any child may see when its attention is directed to the object, that
here are two stars (one of the third and one of the fourth magnitude)
so close together as to coalesce into one when hastily viewed. Again,
it was the Arabians who noted this circumstance. Still, this did not
avail to establish the true nature of a Capricorni, Ulugh Beigh, in
the fifteenth century, and Tycho Brahe, in the beginning of the seven-
teenth, in their famous "Catalogues of the Stars," take no notice of
it, and it was not till one hundred years later that Hevelius formally
entered the companion-star in his list. We cite two or three further
instances to show how the idealistic bias of the ancients, which cul-
minated in Aristotelism, has almost down to our own times diverted
men from simple but correct views of the world of sense.
The amazing progress of observational astronomy during the last
two centuries is in great measure due to the happy accident of our
hemisphere containing a bright polar star. Sundry investigations
can be made only with regard to stars near the pole, and all the more
easily, of course, aud with smaller instruments, the larger the star
happens to be. The importance of this star imjiressed itself upon
men in former times, it being employed for correcting the compass.
And yet even Columbus was not clear whether Polaris is situated at
the north-pole, or only near to it, though it must be observed that in
his day its distance from the pole amouted to more than three degrees,
i. e., about six diameters of the full mocn, and that hence it could
