446 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pretty images seen in a reversed telescope, discovered a means — ever
since universally employed — of producing artificial signals which have
precisely the same properties as though they stood in infinite dis-
tance; or when a Xewton made of the spectrum, a thing that had
been gaped at as a mere curiosity a thousand times before, the
foundation of modern optics ?
The sudden arrival at a truth from all sides — a thing so fre-
quent in the history of the sciences, which often makes it hard to
decide to whom the honor of new discoveries properly belongs — of
itself shows that cultivated minds in general have grasped the idea.
The human race might be compared to a traveler in unexplored
countries. As the booty he brings home is rich in proportion to
the extent of his own intellectual acquirements, which enable him
to distinguish what is new from what is hackneyed, so mankind has
need of schooling in order to understand what is of importance in the
events occurring round about. In short, one must be impressible in
order to be impressed.
Ever since the fourth century of our era, the Chinese have used
the magnetic needle as a nautical instrument, and thus were enabled
to extend their voyages as far as India and Eastern Africa. The
Arabians brought us into relations with India in the eighth century,
and the Crusaders with the Orient in the tenth, and yet the mariner's
compass was not introduced into Europe till the twelfth century.
Does it not seem wellnigh incredible that we cannot trace the use
of the free-hanging plummet, as a means of observation, farther back
than the period when the Arabians were our teachers in astronomy ;
nay, that only in the fifteenth century it found general acceptance by
the exertions of our renowned countryman Georg von Peuerbach ?
When, at the beginning of the last century, Amontons worked
with entire success an optical telegraph ; and Franklin, fifty years
later, robbed the clouds of their lightning ; and when both of these
men were dismissed even by a learned body like the Paris Academy
with stale witticisms ; if for thousands of years countless aerolites
have been seen to fall to the earth without ever giving rise to an
inquiry as to the nature of meteors — the reason is always to be
found in the self-same indisposition to receive what is new, which
caused mediaeval Europe to pass by unnoticed the golden teachings
of a Roger Bacon or of a Leonardo da Yinci. Both of these stood
high above Francis Bacon as inductive philosophers ; but he had
for his contemporaries men who had been taught by Copernicus,
Galileo, Kepler, and others, some of the mighty consequences of that
principle which Francis Bacon had now simply to formulate in order
to have it universally accepted. Here and there other eminent men
had, long before Roger Bacon himseK, hit on the right way of investi-
gating Xature. This assertion, too, rests on unquestionable evidence,
which, however, is perhaps not so familiar to you. The visibility of
