BACKWARDNESS OF THE ANCIENTS. 447
the crescent moon after new moon is of ritual significance to the Jews,
the ecclesiastical commencement of their months depending upon it.
Their great philosophei*, Maimonides, who wrote in the twelfth centu-
ry, informs us of the process whereby they for a long time noted the
moments wherein the lunula* became visible; hence they deduced a
formula by the aid of which the time of the visibility of the crescent
may be calculated. This is induction pure and simple ; but not till
long afterward was the soil fitted to receive such seed, or the signifi-
cance of this process recognized.
For only a little over a hundred years have we been following the
right path. We have enlarged the capacities of our organs to an ex-
traordinary degree; we have learned, to warn our senses of the veils
with which preconceived philosophical ideas were wont to blindfold
them; we prize the good-fortune which places in our hands any im-
portant clew to the working of Nature ; disdainful skepticism, of which
Alexander von Humboldt says that, in individual instances, it is al-
most more harmful than unquestioning credulousness, is like the latter
disappearing from among us. But we must guard against the error
of supposing that herein is our entire salvation, " The educated man
is more than a virtuoso, than a specialist ; his power does not lie in
the exercise of one faculty alone. . . . The man who harmoniously
combines within himself the largest number of diverse faculties is a
leader of men, though he be surpassed by others in the development
of individual faculties. Here we have the fruits of true humanism,
of true culture, which is ever aiming at the establishing of an inward
equilibrium in the individual as in the state." These words of a re-
nowned poet of the present age foreshadow the counsel I would offer
to you for your guidance through life. While, on the one hand, the
principle of the division of labor, without which human progress is
inconceivable, restricts the functions of the individual within a com-
paratively narrow province : on the other hand, he only can wisely
elect to labor in such a province, and can work the field profitably,
who does not lack comprehensiveness. There is no science which has
not its aesthetic side, as there is no study of form which may not be
advanced by having a basis in fact. Philologists and historians of
late have been desirous of having their studies classed among inductive
sciences; the investigator of Nature feels more and more every day
that he has, perhaps, too long neglected the deductive method. And
philosophy itself, the science of sciences, can it subsist without a fun-
damental knowledge of the grounds of all the sciences ? Without phi-
losophy any high degree of intellectual development, in any direction
whatever, is inconceivable. Even they who turn away with con-
tempt from Philosophy are, in spite of themselves, compelled to have
recourse to her. She alone brings clearness in thoughts upon tlie na-
ture of one's chosen pursuit — thoughts from which there is no escape
for whoever thinks !
