448 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Let it then be your firm resolve, students of the high-school par
excellence, not to attend the lectures simply of one faculty, or of one
branch of a faculty. Be true to the principles of a universitas litera-
rum. Over and above the studies special to your future calling, do
not fail to acquire as liberal an education^as possible. Postpone purely
specialist studies to the time when you will not only have to receive,
but also to give — to produce. Hold in high esteem the ancients in all
things wherein they were and still are our teachers. Despise not
your less remote predecessors and your contemporaries the world over
in matters wherein thev alone are the authorities.
THE SPONTAKEOLTS-GEXERA.TIOX COXTPtOYERST.
By Rev. W. H. DALLINGER, V. P. R. M. S.
IN the present position of biological science in relation to this im-
portant and interesting question, any positive results which have
a detinite bearing on the difficulties of the subject, and point hope-
fully to new methods of research, must be warmly welcomed. Prof.
Tyndall's beautiful series of experiments " On the Optical Deport-
ment of the Atmosphere in Reference to the Phenomena of Putrefac-
tion and Infection " are precisely of this class, and will give new
impulse and direction to all unbiased labor. It is to be regretted
when, in a matter so purely one of rigid science as this is, impas-
sioned controversy is suffered to haAe any place. It fails utterly of
its intended purpose, and simply hinders and delays the final issue.
There are few but will have admired the animation, courage, and
resolution, manifested by Dr. Bastian in the discussion of this ques-
tion during the last five years ; but those who have been most capa-
ble of understanding the method, nature, and objects of his experi-
ments, ajid the general drift of his reasoning, are those who most
earnestly disavow the perhaps unconscious, but nevertheless too pal-
pable, advocacy of a thesis which his writings so freely display.
Dr. Bastian's position in relation to the origin of minute organic
forms has, at the outset, the immense disadvantage of being adverse
to the whole analogical teaching of Nature, down to the uttermost
depths of minuteness, tchere our hnoxdedfje is accurate and sound.
Wherever science has put down the landmarks of possession, and is
not dealing with the disputable territory of hypothesis, it is abso-
lutely known that at some period in the cycle of development the
lowliest organisms are dependent for their propagation upon what we
can only look upon as genetic products.
Manifestly, then, it must be weighty — nay, unequivocal and even
irresistible — evidence that will induce the philosophical biologist to
