SF ONTANEO US-GENERA TION CONTR VERS Y. 449
conclude that Nature's otherwise universal method is changed, in the
outmost fringe of organized being. Mere reasoning could never ac-
complish this. It must be hard, defiant fact, which none can gainsay.
But verily no such facts — nor even their most distant forecasts — are
before us. The profound diificulties which bristle round the inquiry
on every hand are prominent signals for caution ; while the uncer-
tainty and incompetency of the methods hithei'to employed, and their
conflict of results, is alive with meaning. Indeed, we are dealing
with organisms so minute as to elude all but our best optical appli-
ances ; and the accurate and correct interpretation of tlie details they
enable us to discover requires the practice and experience of years.
Of the developmental history of these organisms themselves, Ave
know from actual observation almost nothing with certainty; and the
little we do know from such careful i.nd patient observers as Cohn,
Billroth, Ray, Lankester, and others, is so complex and conflicting
as to demonstrate the necessity of years of patient experiment and
skilled research, and to plainly tell lis of our ignorance of this mi-
nute and wonderful group of organic forms. And yet, forsooth, we are
asked, upon the conflicting testimony of a multiplicity of boiled infu-
sions, yielding often even in the same hands uncertain results, and in
difierent hands conflicting ones, to believe that organic Nature — whose
method of reproduction is the same to the very limits of certain
knowledge — changes its method in this uncertain and cloudy region.
Of course, to " spontaneous generation " as a mode of vital repro-
duction there can be no a ^^I'iori objection. Let us have it by all
means, if it be a fact in Nature ; but not on any other terms. Is it
reasonable to suppose that such men as Darwin, and Huxley, and
Tyndall, and Burdon-Sanderson, and Cohn, and Billroth, and Lankes-
tei', would shrink from " spontaneous generation " because of the
•' consequences " to which, strangely enough, it is by some supposed
to lead? The very thought admits of nothing but ridicule. And
yet Dr. Bastian is displeased with Darwin * because he has not defi-
nitely determined whether all living things originated in one primor-
dial germ, or originated spontaneously in multitudinous centres scat-
tered over the earth's surface. Both Huxley and Tyndall are in efiect
charged with grave inconsistency,* because, while they admit the ori-
gin of all vital forms by evolution, they yet declare that they have
never seen an instance of " spontaneous generation " of organized
forms. It is asked, " Why should men of such acknowledged emi-
nence in matters of philosophy and science as Mr. Herbert Spencer
and Prof. Huxley promulgate a notion which seems to involve an
arbitrary infringement of the uniformity of Nature ? " I dare not
answer for them ; but for myself I answer. Because the facts as pre-
sented to them on the subject — as well known to them as to Dr. Bas-
tian, and we may venture to say as well considered — do not appear
' "Evolution and the Origin of Life," pp. 13-17. * Ibid., pp. 15, 16.
VOL. IX. — 29
