450 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to involve the " arbitrary infringement " of Nature's uniformity of
which Dr. Bastian speaks. If these admittedly competent and pro-
verbially fearless men could be led by facts to see that their teaching
promulgated an " arbitrary infringement " of Nature's method, is it
rational to suppose that they would persist in it another hour ? The
very position, therefore, of the leading biologists of the day in rela-
tion to the hypothesis of " spontaneous generation," is an authorita-
tive declaration of the invalidity of the data on which it rests.
To Dr. Bastian, nevertheless, the "facts," such as they are, have
carried a different conviction. But, on analysis, that conviction is
evidently not wholly formed upon the bare "facts." It is influenced
and stimulated by a " philosophy " wliich, in short, is this : Continuity
in Nature is the grand outcome of all modern research ; but if you are
to have this in a sense wide enough to include the organic world,
you must have " spontaneous generation." Give up this, and con-
tinuous evolution is impossible ; therefore abiogenesis inv.st be a great
truth.
Of course, continuity in Nature is a profound truth. Every careful
and comprehensive student of modern biology will admit that. By
Dr. Bastian's own showing, Huxley, Darwin, and Spencer, are its most
competent expositors. But they prefer not to be hasty. They decline
to determine the exact manner or line of that continuity until they
have facts of a competent kind to guide them. There may be lines of
continuity infinitely more subtile than any the subtilest minds have
even conceived. At least they decline to accept one, laid down, as it
appears to them, not by Nature, but by Dr. Bastian ; and no believer
in the evolution of living things, surely, is recreant of his creed who
declines a similar surrender.
The largest difliculty surrounding the question of the mode of
origin of septic organisms is that of discovering their life-cycle. By
dealing with them in aggregations we run told and untold risks.
The conflict of results by this means, in the most accomplished hands,
employing the most refined methods during the past eighteen years,
is a sufficient witness. Repetitions of experiments, and conflicting
results, and explanations of the reason why ; and so the cycle rolls.
Of course, important lessons in biology are learned, but not the lesson.
And yet by the teachings of this complex and doubtful method alone
Dr. Bastian is content to accept " abiogenesis " as a great fact in
Natui*e.
To those who are best acquainted with the experimental history of
the subject for the last twenty — but certainly for the last six — years
this is the more remarkable. For the weight of evidence is certainly
not only not in favor of "abiogenesis," but is in the strongest sense
adverse to it. The most refined, delicate, and continuous researches
all point to the existence of what are at present ultra-miscroscopic
germs. This, indeed, is directly affirmed by the authors. A single
