28 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
only original life of Columba is the " Vita " of Abbot Adamnan, written
about one hundred years after tlie saint's death. All that it proves is,
that at the time the life was written Columba was believed to have
wrought miracles. But there is satisfactory proof that the first gos-
pels were written while many who had seen the events were still
alive. The account given by the abbot was all in accordance with
the popular belief, and had not, like the earlier Christian records, to
encounter the hostile criticism of keen and able opponents. The
voice of the Irish dove was a very pleasant one, but all the good
words uttered were got from him on whom the spirit alighted as a
dove. "We have no utterances of his to be compared witli the teach-
ings of our Lord and his disciples. Then we have no record of such
lives and sacrifices as are described in the letter of Pliny the Younger
in A. D. 112. Nor have we such corroborations as the Book of Acts,
such original productions as the Epistles of Paul, such a mighty re-
sult as Christianity with its influence over the world, over its edu«a-
tion and its civilization, for the last eighteen hundred years.
Dr. Carpenter quotes Locke as saying that we are to regard the
doctrine as proving the miracle rather than the miracle proving the
doctrine. Locke believed both the doctrine and the miracle. Dr.
Carpenter does not tell us whether he believes either. He does not
say w^hether he looks on the doctrine as proving the miracle. The
wisest defenders of Christianity have always combined the two, the
lofty teaching and the high morality, with the attested supernatural
action. In estimating the validity of even common testimony we
combine the character of the witness with the facts to which he de-
pones. We look to his manner of testifying, to the consistency and
transparency of his statements, even to the name he has borne among
his associates and the motives by which he may have been swayed.
So in weighing the evidence we have for Christianity we are entitled
to combine the truth testified to with the testimony. TTe do not
choose to separate the record of miracles in Matthew from the Sermon
on the Mount. We are prepared to believe that he who uttered those
bold and transparently sincere and pure precepts could not have been
guilty of deceit. It is clear that Jesus claimed supernatural power. If
there be any truth at all in the accounts of him, in fact, if there ever
was such a person as Jesus, it is clear that he claimed to work miracles.
His claims are found imbedded in the heart of discourses which con-
tain his loftiest ideas, moral and spiritual, far beyond the concep-
tion of the evangelists or the early Christian writers. His discourses
are, in fact, his greatest miracle. His acts and words are like the
warp and woof of his garment, which is woven throughout and can-
not be divided.
The doctrines, the precepts, the providential occurrences, the mir-
acles, constitute a system quite as much as the Cosmos does. In this
system one part supports another, each helps to bear up the whole, and
