SPONTAXEOUS-GENERATION CONTROVERSY. 451
and recent instance will suffice. After a remarkable series of experi-
ments detailed before the Royal Society, Dr. W. Koberts says : " The
issue of the foregoing inquiry has been to confirm in the fullest man-
ner the main propositions of the panspermic theory, and to establish
the conclusion that bacteria and toruke, when they do not proceed
from visible parents like themselves, originate from invisible germs
floating in the surrounding aerial and aqueous media." *
But, further, this has been remarkably sustained by analogical evi-
dence. There are putrefactive organisms that closely approximate
to the bacteria in form, structure, and size. These are the " monads,^''
or, as Prof. Huxley doubtless more fitly names them, the heteromati.^
They live side by side with the bacteria in the same putrescent mass,
and certainly in the later stages of the disintegration of dead organic
matter are the most active and poweriul agents. From their greater
size they present a more promising field for microscopical research
than the bacteria themselves ; and the life-history of some of thefe
could be fully mastered. I long since felt that valuable aid miglit
thus be rendered to the discovery of the nature of the bacteria.
Armed with the best and most powerful appliances which the modern
optician could supply, Dr. J. Drysdale and myself ventured on the
work. The results are fully detailed elsewhere.^ It need only be re-
^V^'
Fig. 1.
marked here that the only hope of success was in continuous observa-
tion of the same form, in the same drop of fluid, under the highest
powers. The secret, therefore, was to find a means of keeping the
same drop under examination without evaporation. This we did.*
The result was, that patient work enabled us to completely unravel
' "Philosophical Transactions," 1874, p. 4*75.
' Macmillan's il/a^razme, February, 1876, p. 379.
' Monthly Microscopic Journal, vols, x.-xiii .
* Ibid., vol. xi., pp. 67-69.
