SPONTANEOUS-GENJERATION CONTROVERSY. 455
sufficed to cause all the floating matter to be deposited on the sides
and bottom, where it was retained by a coating of glycerine, with
which the interior surface of the case had been purposely varnished.
The test-tubes were then filled through the pipette, boiled for five
minutes in a bath of brine or oil, and abandoned to the action of the
moteless air."
In this way the air in its normal condition was freely supplied to
the infusions, but of mechanically suspended matter it could be de-
monstrated that there was none. And it was j^roved, with a clearness
that admits of no quibble, that infusions of every kind, animal or vege-
table, were absolutely free from putrefactive organisms. " In no sin-
gle instance. . . . did the air which had been proved moteless by the
searching beam show itself to possess the least pov/er of producing
bacterial life or the associated phenomena of putrefaction." But por-
tions of the same infusions exposed to the common air of the Royal
Institution Laboratory at a continuous temperature of from 60° to 70°
Fahr., fell invariably into putrefaction ; and when the tubes contain-
ing them amounted to six hundred in number not one of them escaped
infection — they were all " infallibly smitten." Here is irresistible
evidence that there is a direct relation between a mote-laden atmos-
phere and bacterial development. The whole series of Dr. Tyndall's
exquisite experiments is simply an irrefragable affirmation of this
truth. The presence of the physically demonstrated motes is as essen-
tial to the production, in a sterilized infusion, of septic organisms, as
light is to actinic action. They cannot be made to appear without the
precursive motes ; they cannot be prevented from appearing if the
motes be there. That these are the germs of bacteria by themselves,
or associated with minute specks of matter, approximates to certainty
in the proportion of hundreds of millions to one.
A beautiful illustration of the minuteness and multitude of the
particles is given. Let clean gum-mastic be dissolved in alcohol, and
drop it into water ; the mastic is precipitated and milkiness is pro-
duced. Gradually dilute the alcoholic solution, and a point is reached
where the milkiness disappears, and by reflected light the liquid is of
a bright cerulean hue. " It is in point of fact the color of the sky, and
is due to a similar cause — namely, the scattering of light by particles
small in comparison to the size of the waves of light."
Examine this liquid with the highest microscopical power, and it
appears as optically clear as distilled water. The mastic-particles are
almost infinite in number, and must crowd the entire field of the mi-
croscope ; but they are as absolutely ultra-microscopic as though
they had no existence. I have tested this with an exquisite -^ of
Powell and Lealand's, employed with a new and delicate mode of
illumination for high powers,* and worked up to 15,000 diameters;
but not the ghostliest semblance of such particles was seen. But at
* Vide Monfhli/ Microscopical Journal, April, 1876.
