4=; 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
right angles to a luminous beam passing among these particles in the
fluid " they discharge perfectly polarized light. . . . The optical deport-
ment of the floating ?hatter of the air proves it to be composed, in
part, of particles of this excessively minute character," and it is among
the finest of these ultra-microscopical particles that Prof. Tyndall
finds the sources of bacterial life. It is almost impossible to conceive
a nearer approach to certainty concerning the nature of these minute
particles than this. Their minuteness, their capability of being physi-
cally demonstrated, the aT)solute necessity of their presence to the
origination of bacteria in sterilized infusions of any and every kind,
taken in connection with what we knoic concerning the germs of the
heteromita whose life-histories have been studied, render it simply inev-
itable that we have at length reached, what we are justified in believ-
ing to be, a genetic product of the bacteria through which their con-
tinuation as organisms is preserved. When first I saw the simplicity
and beauty of this method, it struck me that its applicability as a test
in reference to germs — knoicn to be such — would have considerable
collateral weight ; and a method of employing it was suggested by a
fact in past experience.' I had in my possession a maceration of cod's
head, which I had kept in use for eleven months. It had become a
pulpy mass, and in the middle of January last it was comparatively
free from bacteria, but swarmed with two monads — the fourth and
sixth of the series described by my colleague and myself. To ascer-
tain their exact condition, I watched them on the " continuous stage "
for three consecutive days, and found that both forms were to be seen
plentifully emitting spores. The m.aceration had become very short
of moisture, which served my purpose. I subjected it to a drier air
with a higher temperature, and it was not very long in becoming a
moist pulpy mass, with sufiicient cohesiveness to be removed from the
vessel ; and in this condition it was placed in a heating-chamber,
which was slowly raised to a temperature of 150° Fahr., and kept at
this for an hour. This was 10° Fahr. higher than Dr. Drysdale and
myself had proved necessary to destroy absolutely every adult form.
The baked mass now appeared cracked, porous, and flaky. In parts
it was extremely friable, and with little pressure crumbled into almost
impalpable powder; while by friction a very large proportion was
reduced to the finest dust. To avoid all possibility of error this pow-
der was again exposed in the heating-chamber, spread over a plate of
glass, to a temperature of 140° Fahr. for ten minutes — thus rendering
the plea of mere desiccation impossible.
A chamber or box was now prepared precisely like Prof. Tyndall's,
except that there were no tubes to communicate with the outer air.
In the " Researches " on the life-history of monads we had proved
tliat they could live, thrive, and multiply, almost as well in Cohn's
"nutritive fluid " as in the normal animal infusion. This fluid is com-
' Vide Monthly Microscopical Journal, vol. xii., pp. 262, 263.
