SF ONTANE US- GENERA TION CONTR VERSY. 4 5 7
posed of phosphate of potash, sulphate of magnesia, triple basic phos-
phate of lime, tartrate of ammonia, and distilled water. If these in-
gredients are all mingled the fluid becomes speedily charged with
bacteria, unless hermetically sealed, and sometimes even then. We
therefore keep the ammonia in a separate solution, mixing them when
required.
A portion of the fine dust of the maceration was now taken and
thoroughly scattered through the air of the prepared chamber. The
condensed beam from an oxyhydrogen lime-light ' was then sent
through it. Its line of passage was far more brilliantly marked inside
the chamber than in tlie outer air. It was deemed inexpedient to
insert the fluids while such brilliant points were visible in the air, and
four hours were suffered to elapse. The lime-light beam was still
visible with perfect distinctness, but its path within the chamber was
much less brilliant and more homogeneous than it was without. The
fluids were then carefully mixed, and five small glass basins of the
mixture were inserted. The whole was undisturbed for five days.
At the expiration of that time the beam of the lime-light sent through
the chamber was absolutely invisible, although perfectly clear in the
open air on both sides of it.
The fluids were now withdrawn. Ten "dips" were taken out of
each basin for microscopical examination. I7i every '•'• dip''"' — that is,
fifty in all — one or other of the monads appeared^ and were in a state
of active fission y' and in twenty-seven of the "dips" both monads
were found. Bacteria swarmed the field, which of coui'se I fully
expected.
I now took five other glass vessels, and inserted them with great
care into the now moteless air of the chamber, and poured in, as be-
fore, fresh Cohn's fluid. They were exposed for another five days.
On careful microscopical examination of seventy-five " dips " 7iot a
single iiuonad of either form appeared ; bacteria were feebly present,
but of course no steps were taken to guard agains»t these, and, as be-
fore, they were anticipated.
The air of the chamber was again impregnated with dust, as be-
fore suffered for a time to settle, and these same vessels offluid^ which
had yielded negative results, were again placed in the chamber. At
the expiration of five days they were again examined, and one or
other of the monads was found in every successive ^' dip.''^
Now let it be observed that there can be no possible error as to
the forms. They were the identical species of the maceration, witl)
which I am as familiar as with a barn-door fowl. What, then, is the
logic of these facts? Dr. Tyndall proves that bacteria only develop
in sterilized infusions when tlie air around them is laden with motes
of incalculable multitude and exquisite minuteness. Given the pres-
■ This was of course very much less capable of " searching " than the electric beam ;
but it served for the rougher end I had in view.
