458 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ence of these, and the development of bacteria is inevitable. The in-
ference is that the motes are germs. The above experiments show
that, in closely allied septic organisms, the germs of which have been
demonstrated and their developments watched, if the dry debris of a
maceration in which these forms are found be scattered in the air
around a pre2:»ared fluid, and demonstrated by similar optical means,
the said organisms develop ; but if the minute dust from the debris
be optically proved to be absent, none of the monad -forms ap-
pear. Here we do not hypothecate a germ, but we know that it
exists ; and its deportment in similar coj^ditions is identical with that
of the assumed bacterial germ. Do we need more irresistible evi-
dence that the bacteria develop, not de novo, but from genetic prod-
ucts ?
Evidently Dr. Bastian thinks we do. He tells us in effect that, if
Dr. Tyndall has not succeeded, others have, in seeing bacteria reap-
pear in infusions that have been exposed to a boiling-heat for five
minutes. This is true ; but not to the extent nor with the meaning
Dr. Bastian claims. He furnishes a list in Nature,^ for example, of
those who are supposed to have secured the results he insists on.
But this list is, perhaps hastily, but in effect, most unjustly framed.
It is not surprising to see strong protests from the investigators con-
cerned.^ The citing of Roberts, for example, or Lankester and Pode,
or Pasteur or Schwann, is simply a meaningless exercitation to all but
the ignorant. Stripped of all disguise, the number of cases of the
appearance of bacteria in sealed infusion after five or ten minutes'
boiling is few and doubtful indeed. But still there are cases, and in
one instance at least admirably attested ; but they are confessedly
exceptional in a high degree. Dr. Bastian, however, prefers to inter-
pret !N"ature from the exceptional flasks, and infer " spontaneous gen-
eration" rather than be guided by the cumulative and overwhelming
evidence of the existence of bacterial germs, as the medium of their
normal reproduction. This must mean either that he believes that
these organisms originate de novo as well as by germs, which is a
direct petitio principii ; or else that he is incapable of seeing the
force of the facts which render the existence of germs inevitable.
From the conflicting evidence of his own writing it would almost
appear that he endeavored to maintain both these views. He has
recently said, "Prof. Tyndall's results, admirable as they may be in
themselves, are altogether collateral, and do not bear upon the main
point at issue." ^ Surely the " main point at issue " is the mode of
origin of bacteria, and we cannot get much nearer the origin of an
organic form than by tracing it to a genetic product — a spore ! This
was originally Dr. Bastian's question — did bacteria originate de novo,
or from parents ? It is not so now. He says, " The question is, not
' February 10, 1876. ' E. G., Nature, February 24, 1876, p. 324.
3 Times, January 29, 1876.
