SPONTANEOUS-GENERATION CONTROVERSY. 459
what air does or does not contain, since I have long ago shown ....
that boiled fluids can be made to putrefy and swarm with bacteria in
closed flasks, from which air and whatever it may contain has been
expelled." * The same reasoning also obtains in his communication to
the Lancet ^ and to Nature.^ The result is clear. The doctrine of
" spontaneous generation " rests upon exceptions for its truth. In rare
instances, and in special infusions, bacteria have appeared after pro-
longed boiling. After a careful sifting of the evidence, the meagre-
ness of the testimony is striking. All that can be fairly taken at all,
when justly weighed, if taken altogether, is not equal to the evidence
given by Dr. Burdon-Sanderson." But it is well known that, while
admitting and publishing the facts, he ignores absolutely Dr. Bas-
tian's inference. And surely this is the truer philosophy. Let it be
granted that, by means not now explicable, the germs of bacteria, de-
structible in filtered infusions at a boiling temperature, are feebly, and
at times, able to survive a slight continuation of the boiling-point in
infusions containing solid particles without apparent injury — is not
that a ground for inquiring the reason why, rather than for inferring
'•spontaneous generation?" If we can prove that in ninety-nine
cases out of one hundred actual germs are destroyed at 212° Fahr., but
that, in exceptional circumstances, the remaining one case yields bac-
teria after exposure to 212° Fahr. for some minutes, is not that a
reason for inferring, and looking for, some protective influence upon
the germ, rather than launching into an hypothesis of a new mode
of origin ?
That the medium in which minute organic forms are subjected to
heat exerts an influence on their subsequent deportment I can abun-
dantly pi'ove. I am equally convinced that the death-point of bac-
teria-germs hovers very near the boiling-point of water — a conviction
amply sustained by fact. This being so, the survival, as germs, of
some few, amid incalculable myriads, by some accidental protection,
is surely possible. So that, indeed, all true work now should be a
study of the germ and its properties, and a discovery by patient
research of the life-history of the organism.
The valueless nature of mere temperature experiments on such
organisms, as tests of their ability to survive, without a knowledge
of their life-history, Dr. Bastian, without knowing it, has made suffi-
ciently plain. He gives a brilliant illustration — styled by himself
" typical " — of the futility of his own method. Consider the facts.
In our " Researches " on the monads, my colleague and myself
made it a special point to institute a series of investigations on the
points of temperature which the adults, and the spores, of each form
studied could resist. The results were as lanexpected as they were
remarkable. Only the results can here be stated. Taking the spore-
» Ttmes, January 29, 1876. ^ February 10, 1876.
' February 6, 1876. * Nature, January 9, 1873, vols. vii. and viii.
