46o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sacs of the several forms in tlie order in which our illustration gives
them, the data are as follow, viz. : Fig. 1 survived after exposure to
250° Fahr. ; Figs. 2 and 4, 300° Fahr. ; Fig. 3 (which produced living
young), 180" Fahr. ; Figs. 5 and 6, 250° Fahr. That is to say, the
spore, after the heating to the ahove-naraed temperatures^ were fol-
lowed step by step until they reached the parent condition. The
adults of each form were absolutely destroyed at from 130° to 140^
Fahr. Thus, if all the examples be taken together, it will be seen
that on the average the spore have a capacity to resist heat better
than the adult in the proportion of eleven to six. This is surely im-
portant.
Xow, until Dr. Bnstian's promised "new results" ^ have appeared,
I believe I am justified in afiirming that the strongest cases on which
even he relies for "spontaneous generation" are recorded on pp. 175-
180 of his " Evolution and the Origin of Lifo." They are thus intro-
duced : " After this I may, perhaps, be deemed fully justified in quot-
ing two very typical experiments for the further consideration of
those who stave ofi" the belief in spontaneous generation — either by
relying on insufiicient reasons for doubting the influence of boiling
Avater, or because of their following Pasteur, Cohn, and others, in sup-
posing that certain peculiar bacteria-germs are not killed except by a
brief exposure to a heat of 227° or 230° Fahr. For even if we could
grant them these limits, of what avail would the concession, be . . . .
in the face of the following experiments ? " The details of the exper-
iments follow. They are alike in method, and we will concern our-
selves only with the second. A strong infusion of common cress, with
a few of the leaves and stalks of the plants, were inclosed in a flask,
which was hermetically sealed while the fluid within was boiling. It
was then introduced into a digester and gradually heated, and after-
ward kept at a temperature of 270-275° Fahr. for twenty minutes, and
was retained at a temperature, if the time of heating and cooling be
considered, over 230° Fahr. for one hour. This flask was opened after
nine weeks. The reaction was acid ; the odor was not striking. On
microscopical examination with a -jV^^^^ objective " there appeared
more than a dozen very active monadsy
Xow, fortunately, Dr. Bastian has not only carefully measured and
described these organisms, but he has drawn them, and they are
reproduced on the frontispiece of the book. He describes them as
the TijVo ^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^ diameter ; they were provided^ with a long,
rapidly-moving lash {flagellum)^ by which granules were freely moved
about. But, besides this, " there tcere many smaller^ motio7iIess, tail-
less spherules, of different sizes, whose body-substances i^resented a
similar appearance to that of the monads — and of which they were
in all probability earlier developmental forms." '
Now, by careful comparison, I find that this monad is no other
' Vide Times, January 29, 1876. * "Evolution," p. 178.
