SPONTANEOUS-GENERATION CONTROVERSY, 461
than the " uniflagellate monad," which is the fourth in the series
whose life-histories were studied by Dr. Drysdale and myself/ Figs.
7 and 8 will help to make this clear, where Fig. 7 is an exact ren-
dering of Dr. Bastian's monad magnified 800 diameters ; and Fig.
8 is a drawing of the " uniflagellate monad " described by my col-
FiG. 7. Fig. 8.
Fig. 7, a Monad found by Dr. Bastian in an infusion after heating up to 275' Fahr., said to
be spontaneously generated.
Pig. 8, tlie yame Monad as seen by Dallinger and Drysdale, and the spore of which (Fig. 4)
survives 300° Fahr.
league and myself, magnified 2,500 diameters. We describe it thus :
" Its exterior form is extremely simple, being ovoid, with a sin-
gle flagellum. Its long diameter never exceeds the ^^ qVo V^^^ ^^
an inch " in length.^ Now, from a very j^rolohged and careful study
of these organisms, I am convinced that Dr. Bastian's form and ours
are absolutely identical. But to make the tiling simply irresistible
we have further and final evidence. One of the metamorphoses of
this monad on its passage to multiple fission is that it loses its Jfagel-
lum, and becomes precisely what Dr. Bastian saw all around — a mo-
tionless spherule.^ These little bodies are less in diameter than the
active monad, and of precisely the same structure. The identity is
thus complete. The evidence is as full as may be; the monad Dr.
Bastian saw was the one whose life-history was fully worked out. ' As
usual, it multiplies by fission, but the fission is multiple. It then
passes to a sac-like condition, resulting from the uniting together or
fusion of two individuals. This sac becomes sftll and bursts, as seen
in Fig. 4, pouring out spores that taxed our highest powers and closest
watching. The spores of only two of the monads studied survived
after exposure to a temperature of 300° Fahr. This is one of them.
Now, Dr. Bastian says, " A drop of the fluid containing several
of these active monads was placed for about five minutes on a glass
slip in a water-oven, maintained at a temperature of 140° Fahr. All
the movements of the monads ceased from that time, and they never
afterward showed any signs of life."* This is 2^recisely oicr exjyeri-
ence. But now mark the reasoning;. This monad was killed at 140°
Fahr., but it ic as found in an infusion that had been heated vp to 275°
Fahr. ; therefoke it must have originated de novo.
' Monthhi Microscopical Journal, vol. xi., p. 69, et scq. ° P. 69, ibid.
3 P. 69, ibid. * " Evolution and the Origin of Life," p. 179.
