46a THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But it has been shown that the monad has germs, and that these
have a power of resisting heat up to 300° Fahr. — that is to say, 25°
Fahr. higher than that to which Dr. Bastian's infusion was exposed —
and therefore, by the logic of facts, the monads found were not a re-
sult of " spontaneous generation," but loere the natural outcome of a
genetic product contained in the infusion, and which the heat emiyloyed
coidd not destroy.
We need no stronger proof of the futility of reasoning concerning
the thermal death-point of a minute organism where developmental
history is wholly unknown. Yet so confident is our experimenter of
his result that he says : " Nothing that has yet been alleged, by way
of objection to the admission of spontaneous generation as an every-
day fact, at all affects such experiments as these. The shortest way
out of the difficulty would, therefore, be to doubt the facts." But I
think I have shown a still shorter way " out of the difficulty," and
that without the discourtesy of doubting Dr. Bastian's experimental
" facts."
The truth, then, is that Dr. Bastian liad no real knowledge of the
monad ; but he argued as if he had. Hence assumed premises led to
a false and fatal conclusion.
He is simply repeating this in his latest attitude in reference to
the question of the mode of origin of bacteria. Compelled to yield
all else, he throws up a rampart round his exceptional flasks, and de-
clares " spontaneous generation " to be impregnable — an inviolable
law of Nature. Dr. Tyndall is plainly told that his knowledge is
insufficient, that he has mistaken the meaning of the question, and that
his mode of treating it is " laughable ; " ' and all this arises from the
fact that Prof. Tyndall dealt with the question oi the mode of origin
of bacteria generally ; whereas, to have pleased Dr. Bastian, he ought
to have explained some exceptional conditions to which he now points
— the exceptions being more important than the rule !
What are the facts ?
1. Dr. Tyndall has proved, in connection with a host of others, but
in a more definite and precise manner, that in filtered infusions five
minutes' boiling does kill every form of bacteria.
2. He has further shown that they are propagated by demon-
strable germs ojily, in sxich infusions ; and —
3. This fact removes the probability of their spontaneous gen-
eration to an almost infinite distance.
As to the development of bacteria in infusions charored with solid
matter, precise experiment of a sufficiently comprehensive character
has yet to be made on them, in relation to the demonstrated germs.
Meantime, shall we accept " spontaneous generation " on such ground
as its strongest advocate has now to offer, and ignore the vast chain
of facts copiously attested and controlled, which are in perfect har-
' Lancet, February 5, 1876, and Briihh Medical Journal, February 5, 18Y6.
