SOCIAL EXPERIMENTS IN UTAH. 485
in the number of deaths ; the father then must suffer an amount of
domestic affliction terrible to contemplate, or undergo a progressive
hardening of sensibility more to be deplored, even down to a point
where the death of an offspring ceases to afflict. To use an awkward
commercial phrase, can a man with fifty children, reasonably certain
to follow fifteen or twenty to the grave, aflTord to mourn the death of
each one ? More than one bishop has a considerable graveyard filled
with his own dead. One is said to have seventeen children buried
in one row — the longest grave not over four feet. One within my
knowledge has thirty-two children living and nineteen dead. What-
ever might be the result under happier circumstances, I can only say
this of the Mormons : No peoj^le in my ken regard death so little, es-
pecially the death of young children. They claim that this indiffer-
ence is a product of their faith, " ^Oeath is but a step to a higher
sphere ;" but I apprehend a lively religious faith, even to the point
of belief that an infant is in paradise, does not have that efifect, I
can understand that something of the same result might follow an
excessively large family anywhere ; and on this point, too, my obser-
vation in Utah convinces me that there is a certain normal size for a
family, best attained and very rarely exceeded in monogamy, and
that an increase beyond it is productive of misery rather than domes-
tic happiness.
A very curious and subtile effect of polygamy is a tendency toward
extreme reticence, habitual concealment of the feelings. It is often
said by the Mormon preachers, and daily observation confirms it, that
no people in the world keep their feelings and thoughts to themselves
so well as the Mormons. Your host may be torn by internal torments,
but you will sit at his table many a day ere you discover it. This
might be well enough, perhaps, but with it is closely connected an ha-
bitual deceit, which, of certain kinds, is all but universal in Utah. Its
genesis is partly to be sought in polygamy. A man with more than
one wife necessarily lives a lie, pretending an equal affection which he
cannot possibly feel ; and a policy of concealment is absolutely neces-
sary to maintain peace. Going daily or weekly from one wife to an-
other, he must preserve a determined reticence as to all that passed
with the first, or resort to deceit. The wife, too, has her reasons for
concealment or prevarication ; it never would do to reveal her actual
feelings if she means to retain her share of his affections. Whether
this, continued through all the months of ante-natal growth, has a
marked effect on the offspring, is a question for another branch of
science ; but certainly that or something else has affected the children
of Utah. Deceit is a habit which easily extends from one thing to
many, and the effects of this continual falsehood in polygamy are only
evil and that continually. The polygamous nations are universally
more deceitful in their social relations than the monogamous.
With this is to be connected another method in which polygamy
