486 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
prevents tbe accumulation of wealth. It tends to the dissipation of
social energy. The father to more than one family cannot possibly
be a father to either. No man can duplicate himself; and he who be-
gins by having three families and three homes, ends by having none.
To this must be added the constant fear, of late years in Utah, of in-
terference by the Government; and thus has been added a new and
fearful element of uncertainty to the affairs of life. One result has
been to engender suspicion, and a general lack of the monogamic feel-
ing of fixedness; and these in turn prevent large organizations for
business. Whatever be the true theory, as things are now, it must
be admitted that the family is the cement of the civil structure — the
unit, so to speak, from which are successively built up the school-dis-
trict, township, county, State, and nation — and that without the unit
of organization the higher forms could not be evolved. Whatever,
then, introduces an element of uncertainty into the family, weakens
social cohesion and lessens the ability for organization. Accordingly,
we see that no polygamous people ever established a republic or even
a remote approach to one ; and that in Utah every kind of organiza-
tion, for business or politics, is headed and managed by the priest-
hood. Without them it could not have been organized at all. Social
cohesion is the one indispensable element in a republic : that a people
may practise self-government it is necessary that an overwhelming
majority should be able to trust each other, transact business, and
regulate their conduct without any government at all. Their social
cohesion is certainly weaker among a polygamous people, and must
in some way be supplemented ; accordingly, theocracy is their natural
form of government, and with it springs up a paternalism which aims
to take care of the affairs of everybody.
The result of these forces working together gives us the clew to
the whole history of Utah. For twenty years the priesthood was ab-
solute spiritually and temporally; the hurch directed everything
and governed everybody ; every detail of private life was regulated
by " counsel ; " every public act of the citizen was the subject of
some law. Inside the Church pi'oper were three organized govern-
ments : the ecclesiastical, the civil, and the financial and industrial.
The civil government of the Territory, imder the organic act of Utah,
passed by Congress, September 9, 1850, was scarcely known except
as a convenience by which the Church carried out decrees previously
agreed upon in the School of the Prophets. The incumbents of the
various offices made elective by the congressional act were first appoint-
ed by the Church ; the Mormon people then cast a unanimous vote for
them under the supervision of the priesthood, every voter's ballot be-
ing put on record. Only two instances are known to have occurred
of an attempt at political reform. In one of the southern districts
some young Mormons nominated a candidate not on the Church ticket
and elected him to the Legislature. Reaching the city he was promptly
