SOCIAL EXPERIMENTS IN UTAH. +87
cited before the High Council, as promptly resigned, and the Church
nominee was declared elected, A few dissenters in the Thirteenth
Ward of Salt Lake City combined with non-Mormons and elected
Bishop Woolley to the City Council. He was cited before the School
of the Prophets, and subjected to savage abuse by Brigham Young,
humbly apologized for his presumption, and resigned ; and the regu-
lar nominee took the seat. It was the last attempt of that nature
inside the Church. That patriotic class of religionists who want an
amendment declaring ours a " Christian Protestant Government "
would have been delighted with the state of Utah ; it was a " religioiis
government" in the broadest sense of the words. The modified
theocracy set up in New England by the Puritans was red-republican
communism in comparison.
Here and there an individual grew restive under this regime, but
took good care to say nothing openly ; for of all reformers those who
strive to rescue men from a mental slavery receive the bitterest oppo-
sition from those they seek to aid. If such found the condition intol-
erable, they quietly slipped out of the Territory and sought a com-
munity where public opinion was not so oppressively unanimous. If,
as sometimes happened, one failed in the attempt, there was a " man
missing— supposed to have been killed by the Indians "—as duly re-
ported'^in the Church paper. As to the fate of these missing men we
are mostly without legal proof, but find a number of candid state-
ments in various sermons preached by the heads of the Church. As
instance the following from Brigham Young :
" Now, you apostates, keep your tongues still, lest Budden destruction come
upon you. I say, rather than apostates shall flourish here, I will unsheath my
bowie-knife and conquer or die! Now, you nasty apostates, clear out, or judg-
ment will be laid to the line and righteousness to the plummet. If you say it is
all right, raise your hands." (All hands up.) " Let us call upon the Lord to
assist us in tliis and every other good work."
Of course, if we should see this quotation in a hostile report, we
should reject it at once as a fabrication ; but it is in the " Journal of
Discourses," with a score of similar passages, the whole book being
published by the Mormon Church and indorsed on the title-page by
Brigham Young and his councilors. The curious reader may find the
doctrine of killing apostates explained and commended in that work,
viz.: voh i., pp. 72, 73, 82, 83; voL ii., pp. 165, 166, et seq. ; vol. iii.,
pp. 226, 234, 235, 237, 241, 246, 247, 279, and in many other passages.
The results of this peculiar system of securing unanimity were
curious indeed— well worth the study of the sociologist. The society
became perfectly homogeneous. All traces of mental independence
vanished. The people even ceased to care for it apparently. A rigid
paternalism governed every detail of the social organism under the
cruise of what was called " counsel by the priesthood." There was
