488 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
counsel to sell and counsel to buy, to go abroad or remain at home,
to build a house, open a farm, buy a cow, or take another wife. The
remnants of individualism which the people had brought with them
from their native lands seem to have completely died out as early as
1855. Natural selection of course operated powerfully in aid of this
tendency, coupled with the isolated condition of the country. From
one to three thousand fresh converts arrived every year; those who
could not submit at once and completely, slipped out of the Territory
as soon as possible, and the residuary mass settled into a condition
of unchanging homogeneity. That class of thinkers who maintain
that government should take care of the people's business, finances,
and morals, by prohibitory enactments as to foreign goods and native
whiskey, would have been amazed to see how thoroughly Utah had
carried out this policy. All the business of the people was regulated
by the rulers ; paper-money was issued by the city under the direc-
tion of the Church; nobody could sell liquor without the consent of
Brigham, and the distance from markets created a protective tariff
200 per cent, heavier than a Congress of Greeleys and Careys would
have dared to impose. Stranger still, the system was, as to the ob-
jects aimed at, a perfect success : a whole community voluntarily
abdicated each man his personal sovereignty, and were taken care of
by their priestly advisers with a cruel kindness which the ordinary
American need not hope to comprehend. Even the desire for inde-
pendence died out. An original thought came to be regarded as a
sin to be repented of, confessed, and p\it away. Each successive and
abortive attempt at something better resulted in making the popula-
tion still more submissive. Where vigorous preaching had been nec-
essary in 1850, a move of the hand was suflBcient in 1860 ; where argu-
ment was still employed in 1860, a hint was enough in 1868. Toward
the close of this j^eriod, and before the disturbing Gentile invasion,
business took me on a lengthy tour through the remote settlements,
where the results of over-government showed themselves most com-
pletely in the perversion or stupefaction of the mental faculties. I
heard men maintain with vehemence that Jesus Christ was a practical
polygamist ; that the Gentile world was to be utterly desolated before
1890, and the remnant submit to the Mormon priesthood; that a re-
publican government was a rebellion against God, in that men sought
to govern themselves without counsel of an inspired priesthood and a
prophet divinely appointed; and that a man could not obtain honor-
able rank in heaven unless he had children on earth. I heard women
protest that they would not live as the one wife of a man if possible
to go into polygamy ; that there was no exaltation in heaven to an
unmarried woman ; that it was a deadly sin to refuse to enter polyg-
amy ; and that a woman or man who voluntarily remained unmarried
would be a servant to the Saints to all eternity. Both sexes accepted
as a religious verity that slavery and polygamy were established by
