SOCIAL EXPERIMENTS IN UTAH. 489
direct command of God; that tlie Government was at war with the
Almighty in the abolition of one and disapproval of the other; and
that the mass of the people of the United States were scoundrels who
deserved death, and would soon be visited with all the plagues of the
Apocalypse. And these people did not seem to be aware that they
were insane. They argued earnestly and swore fluently in defense of
their religion, quoted the Bible voluminously in favor of slavery and
concubinage, and declaimed about the Prince of Peace, the way of
salvation, and control of passion, till they were black in the face with
anger. At the autumn conference that year Brigham pronounced the
fiat — " No trade with outsiders ; " and at a wave of his hand all the
commercial relations of 75,000 people were changed in a day ; a dozen
mercantile firms had their business destroyed, and were driven from
the country. Some of them could not even dispose of their stock on
hand, and were forced into bankruptcy. That autumn I visited one
settlement, near Salt Lake City, where a cane-mill was run night and
day on custom-work. A year afterward I passed that way again ; the
cane-mill was resting in idleness, and the people hauling their cane
miles away to another settlement. The owner of the mill had apos-
tatized ; the word from the Tabernacle had gone forth, " Drop him ! "
and for the first, and I hope the last, time in my life I got sight of that
unique theological phenomenon — an apostate cane-mill.
Whether the moral condition was then tolerably good or very bad
cannot be determined satisfactorily. There was such a dead calm
upon the surface of society, and such a singular reticence among all
classes, that only the most atrocious cases ever came to light — often
those were not known or suspected until some of the parties had apos-
tatized. No account was ever given in the Mormon papers of any
crimes committed in the remote settlements, and so complete was the
surveillance of the secret police tliat a case of seduction was almost
immediately discovered and settled by having the parties married at
once, a previous marriage of the man being no hinderance. Of two
strangers visiting the Territory, one would say : " These are the most
orderly, law-abiding, and happy people on earth ; " the otlier : " There
is neither liberty nor law — neither honest, earnest thought nor vigor-
ous happiness ; there is a centralized despotism, and Brigham Young
is king." Possibly some idea of the moral tone may be gained by
noting the prominent chai-acters chosen for the offices, and presuma-
bly representing the priesthood and people. John D. Lee, as well
known then as now as the wholesale murderer of Mountain Meadows,
only a few months after that awful crime came to represent Iron
County in the Legislature, received the encomiums due a faithful pub-
lic servant, and went home with a young wife, "sealed" to him by
Brigham Young. His colleague in murder, Isaac C. Ilaight, was also
his colleague in the Legislature, and was in like manner rewarded
with a young wife. Both these men continued high in office in the
