490 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Mormon Church until the United States marshals chased them into
the mountains. Robert T. Burton, who murdered four of the "Mor-
risites " after their surrender, was rewarded with the offices of collec-
tor, sheriif, and bishop, and two extra wives given him. Bill Hick-
man, who confesses to twenty murders, was a member of the Legisla-
ture, and had during his career ten wives. Samuel Smith, Bishop of
Boxelder, rejoices, presumably, in the ownership of six wives, of whom
two are his brother's daughters. It is not conclusive that these men
represented the average moral tone, as they were appointed by Brig-
ham before being elected by the voters ; nevertheless, I do not remem-
ber having heard the appointment spoken of with disapprobation by
the people. I visited both Haight and Lee at their homes in Southern
Utah, and, while the latter was under some popular condemnation,
tlie former was a leading citizen of Toquerville. Polygamy, like sla-
very, is necessarily the practice of a minority — a select aristocracy ;
but in both cases it is to be noted that the great majority who could
not enjoy its benefits, if any, were its most ai"dent defenders. Could
this social and political condition have continued three generations,
then would the future scientist have found in Utah an entirely new
variety of our species — Saxons without a constitutional government,
Britons w'ith no consciousness of a personal sovereignty, Americans
lacking ■ even the wish for a republic ; wives willing to share a hus-
band's heart, maidens looking for an "exaltation " in polygamy, and
children with blood relationship so mixed that no " heraldry Harvey "
could ever have succeeded in tracing the circulation. From a scien-
tific standpoint, it ia almost a pity the Gentile could not have left
Utah untouched for a century — it would have been such an interest-
ing experiment. With the Gentile invasion and establishment of
United States authority, the experiment practically comes to an end;
but, let it be dealt wnth as wisely and mercifully as it may, the break-
up must be attended with fearful suflfering.
SKETCH OF PROF. J. S. NEWBERRY, M. D., LL. D.
JOHN" STRONG NEWBERRY, whose portrait we give in the
present number of the Monthly, was born December 22, 1822,
at Windsor, Connecticut. He is sprung from old Puritan stock, his
ancestors having formed part of a colony which, in 1635, emigrated
from Dorchester in the colony of Massachusetts Bay, and made the
first settlement in Connecticut, at Windsor. Many members of the
Newberry family earned high distinction by their services in the field
and in the council during the colonial period, in the War of Lidepen-
dence, and in the later history of Connecticut.
