SKETCH OF PROF. J. S. NEWBERRY. 491
The grandfather of J. S. Newberry, General Roger Newberry, an
officer in the army during the Revolutionary War, was for many years
a member of the Governor's Council ; he was also one of the directors
of the Connecticut Land Company, proprietors of a great part of the
"Western Reserve," in Northern Ohio. His son Henry, father of
the subject of this notice, in 1824, with his family, emigrated from
Windsor to the Western Reserve, and founded the town of Cuyahoga
Falls, in Summit County.
Young Newberry received his academic education at the West-
ern Reserve College, from which institution he graduated in 1846.
Two years later he received the degree of Doctor of Medicine
from the Cleveland Medical College. The years 1849-'50 he spent
in study and in foreign travel, and in 1851 he began the practice
of medicine at Cleveland. But the life of a practising physician
was distasteful to Dr. Newberry, as affording but little opportunity
for scientific study, for which he had from boyhood evinced great
aptitude. Hence, in May, 1855, he accepted an appointment as assist-
ant surgeon and geologist to Lieutenant Williamson's expedition for
the exploration of the country lying between San Francisco and the
Columbia River. The results of this expedition are published in the
Pacific Railroad "Reports;" but Dr. Newberry's report on "The
Geology, Botany, and Zoology of Northern California and Oregon "
also appears in a separate quarto volume of 300 pages, with 48 plates.
He next, in 1857-58, was attached to an expedition under the
command of Lieutenant J. C. Ives, commissioned to explore and navi-
gate the Colorado River, so as to open a route of communication
with the army in Utah. An iron steamer, constructed in Philadel-
phia, was taken in sections to the Gulf of California, where it was put
together and launched. The expedition navigated the river for the
distance of 500 miles. Above the point reached by the steamer the
course of the river, for hundreds of miles, is through deep canons with
vertical walls, in some places over a mile in height. The report on
the Colorado region, drawn up conjointly by Lieutenant Ives and Dr.
Newberry, gives a graphic description of perhaps the most remark-
able portion of the earth's surface. In the preface to the report, Lieu-
tenant Ives speaks of Newberry's observations as constituting " the
most interesting material gathei'ed by the expedition."
The following year (1859) Dr. Newberry was ordered to join a
party sent out by the War Department, to report to Captain Ma-
comb, for tlie exploration of the San Juan and Upper Colorado Rivers.
The party traversed a large part of Southern Colorado, Utah, North-
ern Arizona, and New Mexico, adding greatly to the sum of geo-
graphical knowledge, and opening a region of singular interest and
of enormous mineral wealth. This expedition determined the point
of junction of the Gi'and and Green Rivers, forming the Colorado;
further, it explored the valley of the San Juan, a river whose banks
