492 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for hundreds of miles are lined with the ruined stone houses and
towns of an extinct race. Dr. Newberry's report of this expedition
was published recently.
Upon the outbreak of the war, Dr. Newberry was elected a mem-
ber of the Sanitary Commission, and in September, 1861, he was
chosen secretary of its Western department. He had supervision of
the affairs of the Commission in the Mississippi Valley, with head-
quarters at first in Cleveland, then in Louisville. In this position he
displayed executive abilities of a high order. Branches of the Com-
mission were, through his efibrts, established in the chief cities of the
West, and measures taken for the permanent and effective care of
the sick and wounded.
In 1866 he was appointed Professor of Geology in the School of
Mines of Columbia College, New York, which position he still holds.
In 1869 he received from Governor Hayes the appointment as State
Geologist of Ohio, and was commissioned to make a geological sur-
vey 'of that State. The work was carried on by Dr. Newberry and
his assistants with extraordinary vigor, and was completed at the
close of the year 18*74.
The report of this survey is now in jirocess of publication. Two
"Reports of Progress," and four volumes of the "Final Report,"
illustrated with a large number of finely-executed maps and plates,
have already appeared. Four volumes more, and a geological map
of the State, still remain to be published. This work, though exe-
cuted with unexampled rapidity, has not been carelessly done. The
record already made is proof of its thoroughness, and shows that it
will compare fav^orably with any similar survey made in this country
or elsewhere; indeed, it is in the highest degree creditable to the
State of Ohio, and to the geologist in charge.
Prof Newberry's eminence as a scientific man is unquestioned.
As a geologist and paleontologist he ranks among the foremost of the
time. His contributions to the literature of these branches of science
have been numerous and valuable, being chiefly in the departments
of general geology, fossil plants, and fossil fishes. He is a member
of most of our American scientific associations, and of many similar
European bodies ; he was one of the original corporators of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, has been President of the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, and is at the present time
President' of the New York Academy of Sciences (formerly Lyceum
of Natural History).
