EDITOR'S TABLE.
495
tiesdevoted to each of thegreat branches
of science, local institutions, naturalists'
clubs, and large popular associations
for the advancement of science, as in
Germany, France, England, and this
country, which hold their meetings in
the different cities so as to act upon
large numbers of people — all these are
illustrations of the tendency to organize
for the promotion of science by increas-
ing observations, experiments, and ori-
ginal researches for the improvement
and extension of this kind of knowledge.
Xor are there many obstacles to these
modes of work, save those which spring
from its inherent difficulties. It is a
very expensive kind of study, involving
costly instruments, elaborate investiga-
tions, and extensive collections — the
sending of expeditions into remote and
unknown regions, and of ships around
the world to scrape tlie bottom of the
sea. The universally confessed impor-
tance of such inquiries has already se-
cured large appropriations for these
objects, and it may be expected that
in future private enterprise and govern-
mental aid will become still more avail-
able for these objects.
But there is another agency for the
promotion of science, which we hold to
be of far greater importance than all
these immediate means and instrumen-
talities, and which the world has hardly
yet begun seriously to consider. We
refer to the alliance between science
and general education. Science has
liitherto accompUshed its work with
but very imperfect assistance from this
source. Education in all its grades has
been in the interest of other classes,
and it does not even yet distinctly, or
fairly, recognize as a class the students
of Nature. There have been innumer-
able institutions strongly endowed, and
ably equipped for the intellectual train-
ing of lawyers, clergymen, physicians,
linguists, metaphysicians, historians, and
literary men, but the facilities for the
systematic training of scientific students
have been scanty, defective, or alto-
gether wanting. Education was highly
organized before science arose, and the
old institutions not only did not en-
courage the experimental study of Na-
ture, but resisted it, with the whole
weight of their influence, for centuries.
The universities were creatures of the
church and the state, and devoted to
ideas, and ideals of culture, which were
unfavorable for the study of natural
things, and obstructive to scientific in-
vestigation. The old educational insti-
tutions have been, of course, greatly
modified and liberalized, in recent times,
yet tradition continues in the ascendant,
so that, although science has forced its
way into many of them, it is still re-
garded with jealousy and treated -as an
intruder. Though within the pale of
official recognition, it is dealt with as
something outside of the venerated cur-
riculum of liberal study. It has not
been assimilated so as to become an
integral and necessary part of our mod-
ern culture, and college authorities are
still perplexed to decide how much to
concede to it, and what to do with it.
Scientific men have, therefore, grown
up under unfavorable conditions, and
have not had those advantages of early
preparation, of cordial encouragement,
and of long and faithful discipline, which
the students in other departments have
freely enjoyed. It is under these grave
disadvantages that science has, thus far,
advanced. Education has been made
only very partially tributary to its prog-
ress. "When it takes its rightful place
in our schemes of study, when it is
honored as other acquirements are
honored, and when the higher insti-
tutions ofl"er the same facilities for pro-
longed and thorough scientific disci-
pline that they offer for training in
classics and mathematics, a step will
have been taken toward the general
promotion of science, more important
in its consequences than any measures
that have been hitherto adopted.
And yet this will be but a partial
step in the right direction. The bring-
