496
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
ing of education into the full service
of science means much more than it3
liberal acceptance by the higher schools.
Science is a vast and a permanent in-
terest in human society, and in consid-
ering the means of its advancement we
are bound to take account of those
deeper agencies which require time for
the accomplishment of their results.
More important for the general promo-
tion of science than any change of policy
on the part of the colleges, wUl be its
recognition and adoption as a part of
the established work of primary and
common schools. The most urgent
question now, and fullest of import for
the future, is the relation which sci-
ence is to take to elementary education.
Thus far, the course of science has been
a continuous battle, and it has only got
what it has conquered. Its claims have
been pressed by its advocates, and they
have been resisted by the partisans of
other studies, and we observe that the
instincts of the combatants are bringing
them rapidly to the vital issues of the
strife. As we have often said, the most
critical and important question between
the old education and the new is, which
shall have authority to form the first
impressions in childhood. The practi-
cal inquiry is, How early shall children
be allowed to begin the study of science
in schools ? We can imagine a future
time, and we trust it is not far distant,
when such an inquiry will be regarded
as absurd. Science being an under-
standing of natural things, and a child
being born into the order of Nature,
with a capacity for intelligence which
is awakened and unfolded only by its
intercourse with natural things, what
can be more preposterous than to raise
the question when a child shall begin to
have its attention thoughtfully directed
to the objects around it ?• In this dawn-
ing action of the mind upon sensible
things are found the rudiments of all
science. Obviously, the true require-
ment is, that these germinal acquisitions
concerning the kinds, and properties,
and changes, and relations of things
around, shall become matters of early
attention, encouragement, and cultiva-
tion, on the part of parents and teach-
ers ; and, if this were intelligently and
skillfully given, the query could never
arise, When shall the study of science
begin ? But we are far enough from
that condition now. In accordance
with the prevailing ideas of education,
the child is got into the schoolroom as
early as possible, and, being started in
a course of acquisition in which science
is left out, the question at length arises,
If it is to be introduced at all, when
shall it commence ? The advocates of
the old education would never ask for
it. They would occupy childhood, and
youth, and manhood, with language,
grammar, and book-acquisitious, so that
the pupil and the student would get no
more knowledge of the laws and phe-
nomena of Nature than they had before
this knowledge was discovered. And,
when pressed by the advocates of the
new education to make room for scien-
tific studies, they defer it as long as they
can, and allow it as little time as pos-
sible.
A very interesting controversy has
gone on for some time past, in the col-
umns of Nature^ as to how early science
is to be entered upon in the prepara-
tory schools. All the writers profess to
represent the liberal side, yet some of
them who admit the importance of sci-
ence assign it a low value as a means
of education, and think that children
should not touch a scientific subject in
school until they are well grounded in
Latin and geometry. This is substan-
tially a surrender of the whole ground ;
yet it is the position taken in the great
mass of schools in which the sciences
are regarded as only fit for finishing
studies. The physicists and chemists
are more in earnest, and believe in the
educational usefulness and importance
of their subjects, but they seem more
concerned about the consideration given
to their chosen sciences than about the
