32 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
reous surface. Rub your sealing-wax with vulcanized India-rubber,
the electricity of glass will be found upon the resinous surface.
We now use the XQ.Yva. positive electricity to denote that developed
on glass by the friction of silk ; and negative electricity to denote that
developed on sealing-wax by the friction of flannel. These terms are
adopted purely for the sake of convenience. There is no reason in
Nature why the resinous electricity should not be called positive, and
the vitreous electricity negative. Once agreed, however, to apply the
terms as here fixed, we must adhere to this agreement throughout.
Sec. 10. Fundamental Law of Electric Action. — In all the expeii-
ments which we have hitherto made, one of the substances has been
electrified by friction, and the other not. But, once engaged in inqui-
ries of this description, questions incessantly occur to the mind, the
answering of which extends our knowledge, and suggests other ques-
tions. Suppose, instead of exciting only one of the bodies presented
to each otlier, we were to excite both of them, what would occur ?
This is the question which was asked and answered by Du Fay, and
which we must answer for ourselves.
Here your wire loop (Fig. 1), comes again into play. Place an
unrubbed gutta-percha tube, or a stick of sealing-wax, in the loop,
aud be sure that it is unrubbed — that no electricity adheres to it from
former experiments. If it fail to attract light bodies, it is unexcited ;
if it attract them, pass your hand over it several times, or, better still,
pass it over or through the flame of a spirit-lamp or candle. This
will remove every trace of electricity. Attract the unrubbed gutta-
percha tube by a rubbed one.
Remove the unrubbed tube from the loop, and excite it with its
flannel rubber. One end of the tube is held in j-our hand, and is there-
fore unexcited. Return the tube to the loop, keeping your eye upon
the excited end. Bring a second rubbed tube near the excited end
of the suspended one : strong repulsion is the consequence. Drive the
suspended tube round and round by this force of repulsion.
Bring a rubbed glass tube near the excited end of the gutta-percha
tube : strong attraction is the result.
Repeat this experiment step by step with two glass tubes. Prove
that the rubbed glass tube attracts the unrubbed one. Remove the
unrubbed tube from the loop, excite it by its rubber, return it to the
loop, and establish the repulsion of glass by glass. Bring rubbed
gutta-percha or sealing-wax near the rubbed glass : strong attraction
is the consequence.
These experiments lead us directly to the fundamental law of elec-
tric action, which is this: Bodies charged with the same electricity
repel each other, while bodies charged with opposite electricities
attract each other. Positive repels positive, and attracts negative.
Negative repels negative, and attracts positive.
Devise experiments which shall still further illustrate this funda-
