EDITOR'S TABLE.
497
mental needs of children, and the adap-
tation of objective studies to their early
cultivation. They would therefore begin
with physics and chemistry when boys
and girls are old enough to commence
simple experimenting ; that is, at per-
haps the age of twelve or thirteen. Mr.
Wyles, of AUesley Park College, claims
to have had the best success with chem-
ical and physical experiments and the
use of the microscope, and he embodies
his views and results in the following
instructive passage:
" I believe that sucli knowledge as I have
indicated may be profitably given even to
very young boys. They learn thereby to
distinguish the precise features and qualities
of natural objects, and the conditions of or-
dinary phenomena ; and such teaching un-
doubtedly exercises in the best way the ob-
serving powers, which develop much earlier
than the reflective faculty. I am inclined to
say that teaching elementary science to boys
from ten to thirteen is a greater success than
teaching grammar; i. e., that the principles
involved are more easily seen, excite more
interest, and become therefore a better men-
tal discipline. We rarely have boys come
to us with any knowledge of science, and,
when they have, it has generally been ac-
quired from lectures, and is worthless aa a
means of education. We do not lecture, but
do real hard class-work, and take periodical
examinations on this work, giving it equal
value in these and our grade examinations
with language and mathematics. We have
no reason to believe that this work interferes
with or deteriorates the work in language
and mathematics, in which subjects we find
our boys quite equal, and, except in very
rare cases, I may say, superior to incomers
of like power, and who have had no science-
teaching.
" The great number of men eminent for
their vast scientific attainments, who have
achieved this eminence in spite of our non-
scientific, I may almost say anti-scientific
system of education, clearly indicates that
many of us have an inherent scientific power
or genius surpassing our power in any other
direction. I plead for such that they have
the same chance of being floated on their
scientific voyage as the linguist and the
mathematician have on theirs : and I have
seen no SMtisfactory plea why they should
not. Value for value, I claim for the science-
man a higher status in our present social
VOL. IX.— 32
life than is due to either linguist or mathe-
matician.
" My experience as a schoolmaster has
revealed to me many cases where the talent
for language or mathematics has been so
low that the education effected by these has
been of the meanest kind; or where the in-
cessant failure has fjroduced a stolid igno-
rance, a kind of mental paralysis, most dis-
heartening to all concerned. Such cases
have come into my hands, and I have seen
intelligence rekindled, and mental power
aroused, by simple science - teaching, and
the power even for other subjects enhanced
thereby."
But there are others who Insist that
scientific studies may and should begin
much earlier, and their view must be
adopted before society can ever reach
the solid and lasting advantages which
are to be gained by scientific education.
It is the teachers of natural history
that favor this view, maintaining that
the collection, observation, and com-
parison of plants, insects, shells, etc.,
may be made highly instructive at a
period when chemical and physical ex-
periments may not be undertaken. The
Eev. George Henslow takes this de-
cided position, and, in replying to Mr.
Wilson, of Rugby, in Nature, of April
20th, he has the following remarks:
" Before twelve, I agree with Mr. Wil-
son, that practical chemistry should not be-
gin. But, Mr. Wilson says, ' Science should
be introduced into a school, beginning at
the top and going downward gradually to a
point which will be indicated by experi-
ence.' Surely this is inverting a fundamen-
tal principle of education, and we niay ask,
Why should science be thus singled out?
Why not begin at the top with Latin and
arithmetic and work downward ? Science,
however, has its ' elements ' and its ' ad-
vanced ' stages, like everything else. The
soundest method seems to me to select the
science for each age or capacity of pupils,
and for the teacher himself to adapt the
branch selected to them. Let him begin
with botany — with children of the age of
six, if he plea-ses — and by using the schedule
he will find it almost self-adapting to the
child's powers. Physical geography might
come next, with pupils from eiglit to twelve ;
then the experimental sciences or geology
from twelve upward. The observing of the
