498
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
habits of animals might go along with any
other science as an out-door instructive
amusement, and be limited to no age.
" Mr. "Wilson talks of the difficulty of a
' bored and weary schoolmaster teaching
science informally.' Passing by the fact
that, if he be bored and weary, it is largely
due to his own want of interest in teaching,
or in engaging that of his pupils, I would
maintain just tlie opposite opinion — that,
assuming a teacher to be such, informal
teaching in natural liistory has a wonderfully
invigorating effect, and reawakens the at-
tention which may have become dull by mo-
notony. Thus I have often found, during a
lesson in Latin, e. g., Virgil's ' Georgics,'
passages to be constantly occurring when
' collateral scieuce ' can be invoked. And,
what is a proof of its value is, that it be-
comes suggestive to the pupils themselves,
so that I have been obliged to check the su-
perabundance of questions lest a Latin las-
son should resolve itself into one on natural
history.
" Beyond such informal teaching as this
I would never encourage it as a principle for
teachers solely to act upon with young
children, though, of course, there need be
no restrictions in giving it them. But if sci-
ence is to be tavght at all— and all such in-
formal methods are not really teaching — let
it be thorough as far as it goes, lest it should
lapse into a slipshod informality. It is the
charm of the schedule-system of botany
that it demands close and accurate observa-
tion in the dissections, and the writing com-
pels accuracy in the result, as well as im-
presses the facts firmly upon the memory."
CRUIIXAL JUSTICE IX 1S76.
OxE of the objects of this Govern-
ment, avowed by its founders in the
preamble to the Constitution, is to es-
tahlish justice. Tlie implication here
is that there are such things as human
rights which reqau-e to be protected,
and that it is the office of government
to enforce this protection. The first
utterance to the world of the American
people, in detaching themselves from
the parent-country and proclaiming
independence, was an affirmation of
"inalienable rights," to secure which
" governments are instituted among
men." We may infer from this that it
is the first, the supreme, and the ac-
knowledged duty of the governing
power in society to guarantee the
rights of citizens, and to see to the
strict enforcement of justice. The pre-
sumption is that, in the free interactions
of citizens in the social state, wrongs
will occur, rights will be violated, and
injustice be done. The innocent will
be circumvented by the crafty, the
weak will be oppressed by the strong,
the unscrupulous will combine to plun-
der the helpless, and, to prevent all
this. Legislatures enact laws, courts are
established, judges, sheriff's, and con-
stables appointed to carry them out
and secure the requirements of justice.
This is the boasted theory of our civil
institutions, but, after a hundred years
of experience and improvement and
progress, it is painful to note the enor-
mous gap that still exists between theory
and practice. That government should
fail to secure its great ends in a perfect
manner is what might be expected from
the imperfection of all human institu-
tions. Though devested assiduously to
this great object, such are its difficul-
ties, and such the ingenuity of the prac-
tised perpetrators of wrong, that we
should be entitled to expect from gov-
ernment only a very partial accom-
plishment of its purpose. Another and
a very powerful cause of the inefficient
execution of justice in society is, that
government perpetually forgets its su-
preme function, in the pursuit of other
ends. It attempts to do so many things
that it does nothing well, and sacrifices
the very object for which it was insti-
tuted, in the attempt to accomplish
others which it had no business to un-
dertake. Instead of confining itself vig-
orously to establishing justice in all the
relations of society, and then allowing
the widest liberty of individual action
and enterprise, it meddles with every-
thing and everybody, interfering, check-
ing, and restraining, wliere it should let
things alone, and undertaking to play
the part of Providence in controlling
the whole course of human interests.
Justice is thus not only neglected, but
injustice is wrought in all directions,
