EDITOR'S TABLE.
499
so that government at last becomes the
instrument and partner of the great
agencies of oppression and wrong-doing
in society. Nor is this the worst : in-
stead of concentrating its attention upon
the transcendent duty of working out
the great ends of justice, and laboring
to improve and perfect the methods
and appliances for attaining this object,
it stands convicted as the open and
shameless perpetrator of wrong, viola-
tor of the most sacred rights of citizens
and the defiant executor of palpable and
rank injustice. The prosecutor of crimi-
nals, it becomes itself the criminal, and
cuts off its victim from all possibility
of redress.
An illustration of this has just oc-
curred, which is worth pondering over
in this year consecrated to political
vainglory. The newspapers inform us
that " in November, 1874, Charles and
Mary Fisher were sentenced in the
county of New York, the former to
seven and the latter to five years' im-
prisonment in Sing Sing, for being ac-
cessory to an outrage upon a girl. The
governor has pardoned both, upon the
representation of the prosecuting officer
that they were innocent of the crime."
Government has here perpetrated a
gross injustice upon two innocent per-
sons — deprived them of their liberty,
extorted labor from them, and robbed
tliem of the results of it, subjected them
to a cruel degradation, and, when con-
victed of its own blundering, it lets its
victims go without lifting a finger tow-
ard repairing the wrongs it has in-
flicted; Charles and Mary Fisher are
without redress. If their rights had
been similarly violated by other indi-
viduals, government would have recog-
nized their claims to large compensa-
tion. But when its own court and its
own officers are the self-convicted of-
fenders, those who have suffered may
ask reparation in vain. If a citizen is
wrongfully deprived of his property by
government, he may prosecute and re-
cover it to the uttermost farthing ; but,
if wrongfully imprisoned, stripped of
his wages and disgraced by the very
authority that was constituted to mete
out equal justice to all, its victims are
helpless. If an American citizen were
unjustly imprisoned abroad, the gov-
ernment would liave redress from the
offending nation, though at the cost of
war. But when the same thing occurs
under its own jurisdiction and by its
own fault, all reparation is denied. It
may be said that such things cannot
occur often; then they are the more
easily rectified, and the excuse for with-
holding justice is only an aggravation.
But it is probable that they occur far
more often than the public is aware of.
For what have we to hope, in the strict
administration of justice, from an au-
thority that can itself outrage justice in
so glaring a way?. What are we to
expect from an authority that refuses
to hold itself accountable for the wrongs
it does. If it be said that the govern-
ment must assume the infallibility of its
ministration of justice, then why liber-
ate Charles and Mary Fisher ? And, if
the machinery of justice can work so
ill as utterly to defeat itself, the proof
of which we have in this flagrant case,
Avhat confidence have we in the pro-
portions and measures of penalties that
are meted out to real criminals ? With
such obtuseness and indifference to
right and wrong as are evinced in this
scandalous case, there is surely little
confidence to be reposed in the general
equities of criminal adjudication. There
can be little doubt that the coarsest
and most barbarous part of our adminr
istration of law relates to the treatment
of the criminal classes.
PROF. HUXLEY'S LECTURES.
Peof. Huxley has decided tliat,
from the nature of his engagements,
he must give up all expectation of
visiting the United States during the
winter, and that therefore it would be
impossible for him to devote a season
to lecturing here. But he is coming
over in August to spend a brief vaca-
