500
THE POPULAR SKJIENCE MOXTHLY.
tion of a few weeks in this country,
and, although strongly desirous of for-
getting all lecturing, and being left
quietly to himself while here, he has,
nevertheless, consented to give three
lectures during the last week of his
stay. He will speak in New York on
the 18th, 20th, and 22d of September,
tlie subject being " The Direct Evidence
of Evolution." This wUl give an op-
portunity, for those persons throughout
the country who are anxious to hear
Prof. Huxley, to connect this pleas-
ure with their September visit to the
Centennial Exhibition. It is to be re-
membered that these are the only lect-
ures that Prof. Huxley will give in
this country, and they will probably
be fortunate who obtain the tigkets.
Detailed arrangements are not yet
made, but parties wishing to secure
seats can do so by applying to the edi-
tor of The Popular Science Monthly,
who will register applications in the
order in which they are received, the
first applicants for tickets having the
first choice of places.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Prehistoric Man : Researches into the Ori-
gin of Civilization in the Old and the
New World. By Daniel Wilson, LL. D.,
F. R. S. E. Third edition, revised and
enlarged, with Illustrations. In Two
Volumes. London : Macmillan & Co.,
1876. Price, $12.
The first edition of this important work
was issued in 1862, at a period when the
public mind was startled by the rapid prog-
ress made in archBeological discovery, and
by the evidence it afforded of the great an-
tiquity of man upon the globe. Yast col-
lections of implements and ornaments had
been made by the museums of Xorthern Eu-
rope, and by private collectors, from caves,
mounds, lake-borders, and drift-gravels, but
their value as a record of the prehistoric
races was a subject of animated discussion.
It was not admitted, excepting by those
familiar with the subject, that any of the
implements which had been brought to
light " implied a longer period for man than
tiat assigned by the Mosaic record."
It was vigorously denied that flint weap-
ons found in the ancient drift-gravels were
works of art. M. Boucher de Perthes pub-
lished, in 1847, an account of many found
in the drift-gravels in Northern France, and
for many years " was looked upon as an en-
thusiast, almost as a madman." At such a
period the appearance of Dr. Wilson's elab-
orate work, and of others like it, did ex-
cellent service, in presenting the facts and
history of archaeological science, and the
conclusions it suggests.
In common wMth those who had made
the science a subject of unprejudiced study,
he asserted the great antiquity of man.
"The pre-Celtic architects of the British
long barrows, and the allophyliae of the Eu-
ropean stone age," he said, " are but men
of yesterday, in comparison with the Flint
Folk of the Drift. . . . They were a race of
hunters and fishers .... contemporary
with the Siberian mammoth and extinct ele-
phants — the woolly rhinoceros — the musk-
ox, and reindeer of France."
The present volumes contain an account
of the principal discoveries made since the
first edition appeared, and treat in interes'",-
ing detail of the condition of primitive man
on this continent — the aspects of culture
among the mound-builders, and the miners
of the Northern lakes. The civilizations of
Mexico and Peru, and the shadowy ones
which preceded them, are vividly presented.
Here, as everywhere else with primitive
man, the author finds proof that " art is a
child of necessity." Probably men learned
to sharpen stones for their clubs, convert-
ing them into spears when the club was
found inadequate to the necessities of their
condition.
Man's earliest arts were therefore of the
most practical kind, not in any sense or-
namental. Indeed, ornamentation arose, in
the opinion of the author, merely by im-
proving the accidents of manufacture.
The era of the Flint Folk, he observes,
may antedate the historic epoch by hun-
dreds of thousands of years, as some archae-
ologists insist; "still man is found to have
been the same reasoning, tentative, and
inventive mechanician that he now is."
Nor does the author find any evidence of
the anthropoid link between man and the
brute. It is obvious, however, that much
depends on what constitutes evidence of
