LITERARY NOTICES.
SOI
that link, and scientists differ on that
point.
Only that portion of the early prehis-
toric period is known to us of which the
caves and the drift have furnished records ;
these, however, suggest an antecedent pe-
riod, in which man may not have attained
the weapon-making stage. His primeval
habitat and true birthplace, observes the
author, may have been in the more favored
regions of the earth where Nature spontane-
ously provided for his requirements.
That a work so voluminous as this should
pass to a third edition is strong evidence of
its merit, and of the deep interest felt in the
subject of which it treats. The value of the
work is enhanced by the number of its illus-
trations, there being 132 in the 800 pages
of the volumes. It is the matured and in-
telligent expression of one of the early stu-
dents of archcEology, and will continue to
command the attention of the specialist and
of the creneral reader.
The Wages Question : A Treatise on
Wages and the Wages-Class. By
Francis A. Walker, M. A., Ph. D. New
York: Henry Holt & Co. Pp. 428.
Price, $3.50.
The question of wages is strictly eco-
nomical in its nature, and must be discussed
by the political economist without reference
to ethical or social considerations. Most
writers on the subject of wages have, how-
ever, given to the term " economical " too re-
stricted a meaning, thus excluding the action
of causes which, though primarily ethical or
social, are nevertheless secondarily potent in
the field of industry, as affecting either the
production or the distribution of wealth.
To such causes Prof. Walker assigns due
weight, and herein consists one of the dis-
tinctive features of his work. " Sympathy
for labor" is a phrase which, on first view,
would seem to have no place in a scientific
discussion of the wages question from the
political economist's point of view. Yet, as
is shown by the author, if sympathy for la-
bor serves in any degree to make competi-
tion on the side of the laboring class more
active and persistent ; if it tf>ke9 anything
from the activity and persistency with which
the employing class use the means in their
power to beat down wages, or lengthen the
hours of work, it becomes, in just so far as
it has such an effect, a strictly economical
cause.
Three doctrines, which are more or less
current in political economy, the author ve-
hemently controverts, viz. : 1. That there is
a wage-fund irrespective of the numbers and
industrial quality of the laboring population,
constituting the sole source from which
wages can at any time by drawn. Wages,
he shows, are paid out of current produc-
tion, and not out of capital, as the wage-
fund theory assumes. 2. That competition
is so far perfect that the laborer, as produc-
er, always realizes the highest wages which
the employer can afford to pay; or else, as
consumer, is recompensed in the lower price
of commodities for any injury he may chance
to suffer as producer. 3. That, in the or-
ganization of modern industrial society, the
laborer and the capitalist are together suffi-
cient unto production, the actual employer
of labor being regarded as the capitalist, or
else as the mere stipendiary agent and creat-
ure of the capitalist, receiving a remunera-
tion which can properly be treated like the
wages of ordinary labor.
In opposition to the generally-accepted
view that, if the wage-laborer does not seek
his interest, his interest will seek him. Prof.
Walker holds that, if the wage-laborer does
not pursue his interest^ he loses his interest.
" In a state of imperfect competition," says
the author —
" First, wages may be reduced without any
enhancement of profits, the difference being,
not gain to the employer, but loss to mankind
throurjh the industrial degradation of the labor-
er." This point is established by the case of
Spitalflelds, where a large population was ruined
morally and socially by a great change in the
conditions of the silk manufacture. " Secondly,"
continues our author, "for so much of the sums
taken from the laboring class by reduction of
wages as the employers or capitalists may at the
time secure in excessive profits or excessive in-
terest, there exists no adequate security, under
the operation of strictly economical forces, that
it will be fully returned to the wages-class in a
quickened demand for their labor, inasmuch as
luxuriousness and indolence will inevitably en-
ter, among the majority of employers, to waste
in self-indulgence a portion of the profits so ac-
quired, or to take something from the activity
and the carefulness with which future production
will be pursued. Thirdly, in respect to such in-
dustrial injuries as have just been described,
economical forces by themselves tend to perpetu-
ate and continually to deepen the injury, putting
the laborer at a constantly-increasintr disadvan-
tage in the excliange of his servicep."
