502
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
The doctrine of laissez /aire is gimply
a rule of conduct applicable in certain con-
ditions, not a principle of universal applica-
tion. Prof. Walker favors state interfer-
ence to the extent of — 1, insisting on the
thorough primary education of the whole
population ; 2, advocating a strict system
of sanitary administration ; 3, insisting on
the necessity of precautions for the integrity
of banks of savings for the encouragement
of the instincts of frugality, sobriety, and in-
dustry. " If the state," says he, " will see to
it tliat the whole body of the people can read
and write and cipher; that the common air
and common water — which no individual
vigilance can protect, yet on which depend,
in a degree which few even of intelligent per-
sons comprehend, the public health and the
laboring power of a populations — are kept
pure ; and that the first feeble efforts of the
poor at bettering their condition* are guard-
ed against official frauds and speculative
risks, it may take its hands off at a hun-
dred other points, and trust its citizens, in
the main, to do and care for themselves. . . .
It must ever be borne in mind, in such dis-
cussions, that those things are economically
justified which can reasonably be shown to
contribute, on the whole, and in the long-run,
to a larger production, or, production re-
maining the same, to a more equitable dis-
tribution of wealth."
ANNtTAi Record of Science and Industry
FOR 1875.' By Spencer F. Baikd. Pp.
946. New York : Harper & Brothers.
This fifth volume of Prof. Baird's " An-
nual Record of Science and Industry" is
not only the most voluminous, but also the
most complete of the series. The first part
of the work, comprising a brief narration
of scientific and industrial progress during
the year 1875, is specially valuable. Each
principal branch of science and industrial
art is here considered separately, and the
reader is enabled readily to note the amount
of progress made in each during the past
year, and to observe the directions in which
the thoughts of practical and scientific men
are tending. Such annual summaries will,
in future times, be of invaluable service to
the historian. This portion of the work
occupies nearly 300 pages. The second
part consists of paragraphs communicating
in brief the results of special scientific in-
vestigations. These paragraphs are dis-
tributed under the heads of " Mathematics
and Astronomy," " Terrestrial Physics and
Meteorology," " General Physics, Chemistry,
and Metallurgy," " Mineralogy and Geol-
ogy," "Geography," "General Natural His-
tory and Zoology," " Botany and Horticult-
ure," " Agiiculture and Rural Economy,"
"Pisciculture and Fisheries," "Domestic
and Household Economy," " Mechanics and
Engineering," " Technology," " Materia
Medica," "Therapeutics and Hygiene,"
" Miscellaneous." The work is provided
with a good index.
Manual of the Apiary, pp. 59. Also, In-
jurious Insects of Michigan, pp. 48.
By Prof. A. J. Cook, of the Michigan
State Agricultural College.
In the first of these two pamphlets Prof.
Cook aims to supply a want which has long
been felt, that of a hand-book on bee-cult-
ure, which shall be at once simple in style,
full in its discussions, low-priced, and up
with the times. In all these respects he
has undoubtedly attained a very fair meas-
ure of success. The injurious insects treat-
ed of in the second pamphlet are, the po-
tato-beetle, May-beetle, pea-weevil, squash-
bug, sundry enemies of the cabbage-plant,
plum-curculio, grape-phylloxera, clothes-
moth, etc.
Standard Facts and Figures. Compiled
by A. G. ScLLiVAN. New York : Morton
k Dumont. Pp. 109.
This little manual contains a large
amount of commercial and financial infor-
mation of special importance to business-
men, and to those who desire to purchase
Government, State, railway, and mining
stocks. The volume also contains tables of
interest, exchange, prices of gold, etc. The
value of the work is much enhanced by a
very complete indes.
Proceedings of the Poughkeepsie Society
OF Natural Science. Vol. I., fasci-
cule I. Pp 41.
This installment of the proceedings of
the Poughkeepsie Society of Natural Sci-
ence consists of only one paper, by Charles
B. Warring, entitled "Studies upon the
