5o6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Distribution of the Geneva Award. By
Hon. Elijah "Ward Fp. 10. Washington,
1876.
Terre Haute Public Schools. Pp. 92.
Terre Haute, Ind. : Globe Printing-Office.
Report on Dermatology. By L. P. Yan-
dell, Jr., M. D. Pp. 7. Indianapolis Jour-
nal print.
The Missouri Dental Journal. Monthly.
Pp. 16.
The Glacial Epoch and the Distribution
of Insects in North America. Pp. 5. Are
Potato-Bugs poisonous ? Pp. 3. By A. R.
Grote. From Proceedings of American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science.
Nothing. By W. H. Boughton. Pp. 8.
Brooklyn : E. S. Dodge print.
Chemistry of Three Dimensions. By F.
W. Clarke. Pp. 9. From Proceedings
of American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science.
Experimental Proof of the Law of In-
verse Squares for Sound. By W. AV.
Jacques. Pp. 8.
MISCELLANY.
The Academy of \atnral Sciences of Phil-
adelphiat — The Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia having, at the beginning of
the present year, taken possession of its
commodious new building. Prof. E. D. Cope
avails himself of the occasion to suggest
in the Penn Monthly some needed changes
and improvements in its organization.
The objects of the Academy, as stated by
its founder, are, the promotion of origi-
nal investigation, the imparting of instruc-
tion, ana the diffusion of knowledge. The
Academy possesses a moderate fund for
promoting the last-named object, and pub-
lishes its " Transactions " regularly. But
the other two objects do not receive the
same attention. Original research is not
materially encouraged by the Academy, and
in one instance funds, supposed to be de-
voted to research, were hoarded and after-
ward turned over to the building-fund. Less
than five hundred dollars per annum is de-
voted to " instruction." The chief fault
found by Prof Cope in the organization of
the Academy is that, while it secures good
financial management, it minimizes the sci-
entific features of the body. " Its officers
are the usual president, vice-president, sec-
retary, etc., constituting a management as
appropriate to an historical society, library
company, or, I might add, church vestry, as
to an academy of natural sciences. It has
no position designed for its distinctive and
essential feature, its scientific experts."
Prof Cope's remedy is simply to adopt
the organization nhich is possessed by all
similar institutions the world over. " Let
it create as many positions as there is rea-
sonable probability of receiving endowments
in future years, and attach to them privi-
leges which will render them desirable to
incumbents, and duties such as are neces-
sary to the Academy."
Wyrille TJiomson on Oceanie CircDJation.
— Prof. Wyville Thomson, in a report to
the hydrographer to the British Admiralty,
discusses the problem of oceanic circula-
tion, and gives reasons for believing that
the bottom water of the two great oceans
is an extremely slow indraught from the
Southern Sea. This indraught he refers to
the simplest and most obvious of all causes,
viz., the excess of evaporation over precipi-
tation in the northern portion of the land
hemisphere, and the excess of precipitation
over evaporation in the middle and south-
em part of the water hemisphere. In con-
cluding the report. Prof. Thomson further
says, " I need scarcely add that I have
never seen, whether in the Atlantic, the
Southern Sea, or the Pacific, the. slightest
ground for supposing that such a thing ex-
ists as a general vertical circulation of the
water of the ocean depending upon differ-
ences of specific gravity."
The DisfOTery of Anaesthesia. — Dr. H. P.
Stearns, of Hartford, at the close of an able
" Critique on the History of Modern Anaes-
thesia," which appears in the Medical Rec-
ord, sums up in the following terms the re-
sults obtained by sundry prominent claim-
ants of the honors of discovery : 1. In De-
cember, 1844, Wells made the suggestion
and applied the test in his own person, by
inhaling a large dose of nitrous oxide, and
having a tooth extracted without pain. 2.
