MISCELLANY
507
In September, 1846, Morton, a former pu-
pil of Wells's, aware of his discovery and
repeating his experiments, extracted a tooth
without pain, while the patient was under
theinfluenceof sulphuric ether. 3. In 1847
Simpson first introduced the practice of
ana3sthesia in midwifery, thereby making
known more widely its value. He also dis-
covered the aiiEesthetic properties of chloro-
form, and by his writings and teachings
very largely contributed to introducing the
practice of anaesthesia to the world. 4.
Others have since discovered the anaesthetic
properties of different vapors, which are
more or less used in practice.
Loss of Self-Coutrol in Battle. — In his
" History of the Civil War in America," the
Count de Paris gives some curious instances
of the loss of self-possession among soldiers
in the heat of battle. He states that, among
24,000 loaded muskets picked up at random
on the Gettysburg battle-field, one-fourth
only were properly loaded ; 12,000 con-
tained each a double charge, and the other
fourth from three to ten charges. In some
there were six balls to a single charge of
powder ; others contained six cartridges,
one on top of the other, without having been
opened. A few had twenty-three complete
charges regularly inserted. Finally, in the
barrel of a single musket there were found,
confusedly jumbled together, twenty-two
balls and sixty-two buckshot, with a propor-
tionate quantity of powder ! " But we should
not severly criticise the American soldier,"
adds the author, " for it appears that an ex-
amination of the battle-fields of the Crimea
gave similar results."
Pennsylvania Coal-Snpply. — The avail-
able coal of the Alleghany coal-field is es-
timated by Mr. Andrew Roy, in the Engi-
neering and Mining Journal, at 743,424,-
000,000 tons, an amount nearly ten times
greater than the estimates made by Edward
Hull and Warrington Smith of the coal
resources of the British Isles. The same
writer states the aggregate thickness of
workable coal in the anthracite regions of
Pennsylvania as 200 feet in 2,175 feet of
coal-measures. In the bituminous regions
of Pennsylvania, near Pittsburg, he esti-
mates 60 or 70 feet of workable coal to
2,000 feet of coal-measures. In West Vir-
ginia, where the Kanawha River cuts the
coal-measures to their base, 78 feet thick-
ness of coal in 16 seams is revealed; and
along the Ohio, from Bellaire to Pomeroy,
the proportion is 40 or 50 feet of coal in
1,200 to 1,400 of rock. The number of
workable seams and consequent thickness
of coal in every division of the coal-area
are in proportion to the thickness of the
carboniferous rocks. Beginning at the base
of the coal-measures, and reaching up to
the height of 400 feet, to the base of the
barren measures, there exist, in the bitu-
minous regions, 3 feet of coal for every 50
feet of strata. The next 400 feet are gen-
erally barren of workable coal ; but from
the Pittsburg seam, which is the lowest
bed of the upper series, to the outcrops or
top of the coal-strata, the same general
estimate of 3 feet of workable coal to every
50 feet of rock will hold good.
The People of Eastern JVcw Guinea. —
Signor d'Albertis agrees with Moresby in
describing the inhabitants of Eastern New
Guinea as of materially diS'erent race from
the true Papuans, who are found in the far
west of the island. The people of Yule
Island, and of the coasts east and west of
it, resemble those of the Polynesian region
in many respects. The indigenous Papu-
ans, physically and morally inferior to these
Polynesian invaders, have been driven from
the coast, where the land is comparatively
healthy and fei'tile, and have permitted the
intruders to establish themselves and mul-
tiply. The inhabitants of the interior are
darker in color, the hair is more frizzed,
and there is a difference in the form of the
face, the prognathous appearance being
more common than on the coast. From
what D'Albertis has seen of the interior, he
concludes that the land is very suitable for
colonization, being well watered, with abun-
dance of grass, and having a good climate
without excessive heat. The natives are
described as "intelligent, industrious, and
persevering."
Body Tcmperatnre of tlie Drunkard. —
Observations made by Dr. Reincke, of Ham-
burg, on eighteen drunken men, leave no
doubt as to the great reduction of tempera-
