5o8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ture in such persons, when the external con-
ditions favor the withdrawal of the bodily
heat. Alcohol produces a dilatation of the
peripheral vessels, whereby more blood en-
ters the skin and contributes to raise its
temperature. If the body be well clothed
and protected from external influences likely
to abstract heat, the reduction of its warmth
is inconsiderable ; but if exposed to cold
and placed under circumstances favorable
to the abstraction of heat, there is a rapid
loss of warmth from the blood circulating
in the skin. The lowest temperature met
with by Reincke — lower than in any re-
corded instance in which the individual
survived — was the case of a man thirty-four
years old, picked up in the street about
midnight in February, when the tempera-
ture of the air was 30° Fahr. He was in a
state of complete alcoholic coma, respond-
ing to no stimulant. At 8 a. m. his tem-
perature, in redo, was only "76°, but at 12
M. it reached nearly 82°. At this period
reaction began to show itself, and he could
mutter a few words. From this point the
heat of the body gradually increased and
had reached the normal point the following
morning.
Houses for the Indostrions Poor. — The
problem of cheap and commodious housing
for the worthy poor continues to occupy
the attention of philanthropists. We have
already made mention in these columns of
the bequest made by the late George Pea-
body for the erection of improved tene-
ment-houses for the industrious poor of Lon-
don. The trustees of the Peabody fund
have recently completed twelve of these
buildings, capable of accommodating 1,000
persons. In each building there are twenty-
two tenements, consisting of one, two, or
three rooms, with a separate entrance for
each. The rooms are of good size, those of
the three-roomed tenements being as fol-
lows : Kitchen, fifteen by twelve feet, a bed-
room, sixteen by fourteen feet, second bed-
room, sixteen by twelve feet, the rent being
5s. 9(Z. per week. The rent of a two-roomed
tenement is 4s. 6rf., and for one room 3s.
There are several cupboards and a meat-safe
inside, and a coal-bin in the passage outside.
On each flat is a laundry with every con-
venience ; this is used by the tenants in
turn. There is also a Ijath. The rules to
be observed by the tenants are but few in
number, and intended merely to secure
cleanliness and good order. No one is al-
lowed to occupy these buildings who earns
more than thirty shillings per week.
Ppescnt Condition of the Snez Canal.—
M. de Lesseps, on his return to Paris, after
a five months' visit to Suez, communicated
to the Academic des Sciences the- details
of his observations upon the present state
of the isthmian canal. Port Said he found
to be in no danger at all of being filled up
with sand. The dredging-machine sufiices
to keep the channel clear. Moreover, it
does not fill up so rapidly as has been sup-
posed, for the work done last year still
remains, and two very large ships have
recently navigated the canal without difii-
cultj- — one of them drawing over twenty
feet of water. In winter the current of
the canal sets in toward the Mediterranean,
owing to the excess of water in the Bitter
Lakes ; in summer the current is in the op-
posite direction. Since the construction of
the canal there are frequent showers on the
Red Sea, whereas, previously, rain was un-
known there — a very extraordinary thing
indeed, if it can be shown to be a fact.
This rainfall, says M. de Lesseps, has start-
ed vegetation even on the Asiatic shore of
the Red Sea, where the infiltration is only
of salt-water.
Prehistoric Relies at the Centennial Ex-
position. — Mr. Ernest IngersoU, natural his-
tory editor of Forest and Stream, has com-
menced in that journal a series of letters on
the Philadelphia Exhibition. In his first let^
ter he describes the collections of American
prehistoric relics exhibited by the Smithso-
nian Institution and by various States, es-
pecially Ohio. For the purposes of general
illustration, the Smithsonian collection he
pronounces the best ; but the State collec-
tions possess greater interest for the ar-
chaeologist, as embracing many unique ob-
jects, only casts of some of which are to be
found in the Smithsonian display. In the
Ohio collection, the first object which at-
tracts attention is an immense axe of green-
stone, sixteen and a half inches long. The
arrow-heads and spear-points — chiefly of
