LUSSOJ^S IN ELECTRICITY. 33
mental law. Repeat, for example, Otto von Guericke's experiment.
Hang a feather by a silk thread, and bring your rubbed glass tube
near it : the feather is attracted, touches the rod, charges itself with
the electricity of the rod, and is then repelled. Cause it to retreat
from the rod in various directions.
Hang your feather by a common thread : if no insulating substance
intervenes between the feather and the earth, you can get no repul-
sion. Why ? you ought to be able to answer. Obviously it is be-
cause the charge of positive electricity communicated by the rod is
not retained by the feather, but passes away to the earth. Hence,
you have not positive acting against positive at all. Why you should
have the attraction of the neutral body by the electrified one will, as
already stated, appear by-and-by.
Attract your straw needle by your rubbed glass rod. Let the
straw strike the rod, so that the one shall rub against the other. The
straw accepts the electricity of the rod, and repulsion immediately
follows attraction, as shown in Fig. 7.
/».
Fig. 7.
Mr. Cotti'ell has devised the simple electroscope represented in
Fig. 8 to show repulsion. ^ is a stem of sealing-wax, with a small
circle of tin, T , at the top. TFis a bent wire proceeding from T, with
a small disk attached to it by wax. JTZ' is a little straw index, sup-
ported by the needle, iV, as shown in the figure. The stem. A, is not
quite vertical, the object being to cause the bit of paper, Z, to rest
close to TF when the apparatus is not electrified. When electricity
is imparted to T^ it flows through the wires, TFand w, over both disk
and index : immediate repulsion of the straw is the consequence.
No better experiment can be made to illustrate the self-repulsive
character of electricity than the following one : Heat your square
board again, and warm, as before, your sheet of foolscap. Spread
the paper upon the board, and excite it by the friction of India-rub-
ber. Cut from the sheet two long strips with your penknife. Plold
the strips together at one end. Separate them from the board, and
VOL. IX. — 3
