MISCELLANY.
qo9
chalcedony — are remarkably fine. A few
of these are made of obsidian, which must
have been brought from Mexico. Articles
of mica are there also, which must have
been imported from a distance. The orna-
ments of the mound-builders are well rep-
resented, and include a variety of forms, all
cut out of a blue Silurian slate-rock. Pipes
of both the modern Indians and of the
mound-builders are shown, the latter al-
ways carved in the form of some animal.
One case contains a lot of awls, needles,
and arrow-points, of bone and bear's teeth,
upon which rude carvings are executed.
There are also several human skulls in good
condition. There are numerous photographs
and maps of the enormous structures erect-
ed by the mound-builders throughout the
Ohio Yalley and northward.
Winter Fauna of Mount Marcj-.— While
engaged last winter on the survey of the
Adirondack region, Mr. Verplanck Colvin
made some observations upon the winter
fauna of Mount Marcy, and has since read a
paper on that subject before the Albany
Institute. Among the most important of
the animals whose footprints were found in
the snow was the panther {Felis cojicolor).
Rabbit-tracks which accompanied the pan-
ther's trail indicated that the " mountain
lion " had been in pursuit of small game.
Next in importance to the panther in the
list of species, the trails of which were ob-
served, was the Canada lynx ; this animal,
too, had been rabbit-hunting. The foot-
prints of the black cat {Mustela Canadensis)
were frequently met with, associated with
the tracks of rabbits and even of mice
The sable [Mustela viartea) is abundant in
the forests on the sides of Mount Marcy.
Tracks of tlie ermine {Palorius novebora-
censis) were recognized in one place, but
the animal does not seem to be common.
The rabbit, or, more properlv, the white or
varying hvira [Lepns americanvs), is so abun-
dant as to bear the inroads of its many
foes without apparent diminution. The
common red squirrel {Sciurus hutlanniux)
was found at an altitude of about 4,0nii
feet ; it feeds here on the seeds of the black
spruce. On the slopes of the mountain,
at all elevations not exceeding 4,000 feet,
were seen the tracks of deer - mice, and
occasionally the minuter trail of a small
shrew. Of birds three varieties had left
their footprints in the snow — the raven, the
rufiBed grouse, and the snow-bird. During a
thaw in October a small moth was captui-ed
on the summit of the mountain ; it has
been recognized as belonging to a species
abundant in Alaska. During the same thaw
a beetle was found upon the very summit
of the peak.
Eucalypti as Timber-Trees. — There are
in Australia a number of species of gum-
trees, or Eucali/pti^ the best known being
the Eucalyptus globulus, or blue gum. As
timber-trees their properties differ widely.
The tewart, a variety of the white gum-
tree, is of straight growth and noble di-
mensions. The wood is yellowish, hard,
heavy, and strong, with a grain so twisted
and curled that it is difEcult to cleave or
work it. This wood is very durable. The
wood of the jarrah {Eucalyptus niargi-
nata) is much used for telegraph-posts and
railroad-ties. It defies the white ant and
teredo, and is practically unaffected by time,
weather, or water. The kari {Eucalyptus
diversicolor) is a magnificent tree, but the
timber is subject to "star-shake." The
iron-'oark {Eucalyptus resinifera) produces
timber that is very hard, heavy, and strong.
It is very difficult to work. The wood of
the blue gum is of a pale straw-color, hard,
heavy, but only moderately strong. It is a
durable wood, but its value is much dis-
counted by its tendency to split. The
stringy-bark {Eucalypt^is gigantea) is a lofty
tree; the wood is brown, hard, heavy, and
strong. It is used for all kinds of work.
Conorcte Construction. — One of the most
interesting features of last years Interna-
tional Exhibition, at London, was the show
of buildings of concrete in course of erec-
tion. One exhibitor showed a building, the
material of which was concrete, faced with
tile and terra-cotta mouldings. In this case
the tiles are arranged in a supporting frame
in their proper position, and concrete is then
filled in behind. The cost is stated to be
about the same as the best brickwork. As
regards the strength of concrete construc-
tions, Mr. W. C. Ilomersham, C. E., states
tliat the staging necessary for carrying a
