THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
concrete floor, in the green or wet state, of
a room say twelve and a half by twenty-
five feet, may be struck in a week after the
completion of the floor, if the concrete be
only six inches in uniform thickness, and
gauged in such proportions that every cubic
yard when iii, situ contains four bushels of
Portland cement, and six bushels of clean,
sharp, siliceous sand. One month after the
concrete has set, the floor would be ca-
pable of sustaining an equally-distributed
load of 112 pounds to the foot super-
ficial, and, twelve months after, an equally-
distributed load of 450 pounds per foot su-
perficial. If the thickness of the flooring
be increased to twelve inches, and the con-
crete gauged as before, a room nineteen and
a half feet in width by any length may be
covered with the same results as to strength,
as those given above for the room twelve
and a half feet in width. A wall of con-
crete is impervious to water, and fire-proof.
A Relic of the jIonnd-Bnilders. — Tii rough
the kindness of Prof A. E.- Dolbear, of Tufts
College, Massachusetts, I am enabled to pre-
sent to the attention of archaeologists a brief
notice and figure of an unusually interesting
specimen of carving in stone, the work of the
mound-builders of Ohio. The history of the
specimen, as given me by Prof. Dolbear, is
briefly this : " It was ploughed up in a field
a few miles from Marysville, Union County,
Ohio."
The relic is a small pebble of bluish-
gray slate, highly polished, and ground to
a moderately sharp edge. The front or
carved side is oval and of a uniform sur-
face ; the back is sloped from a central flat
oval space, about one-fourth of an inch in its
long diameter. Had the specimen not the
carving of a face upon it, it could properly
be classed with that form of implement
known as the " celt," although these very
seldom have an edge extending along the
entire margin. Circular celts or " skinning-
knives," of about the same size, with a cut-
ting-edge along the whole margin, have been
found by the writer, in New Jersey.
The remarkable feature of the relic
here described is the human face carved
upon one side. As a representation of a
woman's face, it is certainly artistically exe-
cuted. As has been remarked of a mound-
builder's snioking-pipe, having a somewhat
similar carving,' " the muscles of the face
are faithfully rendered, and the forehead is
finely moulded. The eyes are prominent
and the chin open, and full and rounded."
The nose and mouth are distinctly cut, but
not as accurately finished as the other
features.
Although the labor expended upon the
stone to bring it to so well defined an edge,
about its margins, was so considerable, the
specimen can scarcely be considered an or-
namented cutting-implement. Celts, such
as we have referred to, are
never marked by carvings,
even of plain lines, so far
as we have collected them
in New Jersey ; although
some other forms, as plum-
mets (?) and pestles, were
occasionally carved. Whar,
indeed, this relic really was,
when the aborigine who
carved it had it in posses-
sion, it is useless to conjec-
ture. Its value now con-
sists in its being a well-
preserved specimen of the
work of a stone-age savage ;
and possibly a characteris-
tic delineation of the features of a woman
of the race known as the mound-builders.
Charles C. Abbott, M. D.
The Loan Exhibition in London. — The
exhibition of scientific instruments at Lon-
don was opened with an address by Mr. W.
1 " Flint Chips," p. 433, American edition.
