NOTES.
511
Spottiswoode, F. R. S., who, after calling
attention to the great number of antique
instruments present, dwelt upon the valua-
ble services often rendered to science by ear-
nest students possessed of very inadequate
means. " In reviewing," he said, " the series
of ancient, or, at least, now disused instru-
ments, one thing can hardly fail to strike
the attention of those who are accustomed
to the use of the modern forms. It is this :
how much our predecessors managed to
achieve with the limited means at their
disposal. If we compare the magnificent
telescopes, the exquisite clock-work, the
multiplicity of optical appliances now to be
found in almost every private, and still
more in every public observatory, with
those of two centuries past ; or, again, if
we look at the instruments with which
Arago and Brewster made their magnificent
discoveries in polarized light, in contrast to
those with which the adjoining room is
literally teeming, we may well pause to re-
flect how much of their discoveries was due
to the men themselves, and how compara-
tively little to the instruments at their com-
mand.
" And yet we must not measure either
the men or their results by this standard
alone. The character of the problems which
Nature propounds varies greatly from time
to time. First ws have some great striking
question, the very conception and statement
of which demand the highest powers of
the human mind. Next follow the first
outlines of the solution sketched by some
master-hand ; afterward the careful and
often tedious working out of the details
of the problem, the numerical evaluation
of the constants involved, and the reduc-
tion of all the quantities to strict meas-
urement. It is in this part of the busi-
ness that the more elaborate instruments
are specially required. It is for bring-
ing small differences to actual measure-
ment that the complex refinements with
which we are here surrounded become of
the first importance. But happily this
complication is not of perennial growth.
In reviewing from time to time the various
aspects of a problem in connection with the
instrumental appliances designed for its
solution, the essential features come out by
degrees more strongly in relief. One by
one the unimportant parts are cast aside,
and the apparatus becomes reduced to its
essential elements."
NOTES.
The Franklin Institute of the State of
Pennsylvania has oi)ened a reception-room
at the northwest end of the Machinery
Hall, Centennial Exhibition grounds. The
following objects of great historical in-
terest have been placed in the room : 1.
Franklin's electrical machine ; 2 Oliver
Evans's steam locomotive - engine, con-
structed in 1804 ; '6. Oliver Evans's high-
pressure steam-engine, same date ; 4. Work-
ing model of a steam-engine constructed
by M. W. Baldwin, presented by him to the
Franklin Institute, about the year 1832.
Files of the industrial journals may be found
here, and visitors will be cordially welcomed.
Preliminary steps have been taken for
holding an international horticultural exhi-
bition and botanical congress in London in
the year 18*79.
A REPORT made to the Silk-Merchants'
Union of Lyons states the silk-crop of Eu-
rope in 1874 to have been, in round num-
bers, 9,050,000 pounds. The silk imported
into Europe amounted to 11,500,000 pounds,
most of it (8,000,000 pounds) coming from
China. The greater part (6,000,000 pounds)
of the domestic silk was produced in Italy.
A COURSE in Herbert Spencer's " Prin-
ciples of Psychology " will be given at Har-
vard University during the year ISVB-'YV,
under the instruction of Prof. James.
In the Pacific Medical and Surgical Jour-
nal a case is recorded of the conveyance of
small-pox in a letter from Indiana to Cali-
fornia. A man in the latter State received
last December a letter from a sister in In-
diana, stating that four members of her fam-
ily had small-pox. A few days after the re-
ceipt of the letter, the man became iU, and
the disease developed into a well-marked
case of discrete variola.
In the sugar-plantations of Natal the
large python is employed to keep down
rats and mice.
Af a late meeting of the St. Louis Acad-
emy of Science, Prof. C. V. Riley exhibited
cocoons and spinning worms of the com-
mon mulVjerry silk-worm (Sericaria mori)
reared on Osage Orange. The worms were
a cross between the best French and Japan-
ese races, and he had reared them for five
years on Osage Orange with no reduction in
quantity or ([uality of silk, and great in-
crease of vigor and healthfulness.
