512
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Macmillax will publish in the fall two
volumes by Prof. AVyville Thomson, on the
"Results of the Challenger Expedition."
This work will be illustrated by drawings,
made on the spot by Mr. Wild, the artist
of the expedition, of the many curious and
beautiful creatures now for the first time
brought to light.
A NEW grape-fungus, which first appears
on the leaves of the grape-vine, in the form
of a minute yellow spot, was described by
Dr. Engelmann, at a recent meeting of the
St. Louis Academy of Science. It makes
its appearance just before and during the
flowering period, as far as known attacking
only the leaves, or rarely tlie petioles and
peduncles. It kills the leaves, and thus
cripples the plant, and attacks all varieties
indiscriminately.
A SET of wheels was lately taken from
beneath the baggage-car of the California
and Oregon express train at Sacramento,
which had traveled in daily use 91,800
miles, nor were they worn out even then,
but had become loose on the axle.
The Challenger Expedition returned to
England May 23d, after an absence of three
years and five months. During that time
the vessel sailed 61,840 miles. The number
of soundings made was 370, of dredgings,
360. Some hundreds of specimens were
sent home during the voyage. The mor-
tality was not above the mean, and, when
it is remembered that the average time at
soa was 220 days per year, it is surprising
tha^ the health of those on board (259 in
, number) was as good as it was.
During the thirty years, ]S41-"?0, the
death-rate of England and Wales was near-
ly stationary, about twenty-two per thou-
sand. It must not be supposed, however,
that in the mean time no progress was made
in sanitary science. The rapid develop-
ment of manufactures led to the crowding
of people in towns, and this must have
tended to produce a higher death-rate.
The local statistics strikingly exhibit the
influence of this massing of people in man-
ufacturing and mining centres. For in-
stance, while Cambridgeshire shows a pro-
gressive decline of death-rate, in the West
Riding of Yorkshire, where the urban pop-
ulation has been enormously increased, the
death-rate has been steadily rising.
A STREET-PAVEMEST of pig-iron is soon
to be tried in Paris. In constructing a
roadway of this kind, a bed of mortar is
first laid down, which is covered by a strong
layer of asphalt; it is in this layer that the
iron cakes, which are about 1.6 inch thick,
are set. These cakes, it appears, preserve
the homogeneity of the bitumen and pre-
vent i's depression, and render the asphalt
less slippery for horses. This pavement will
cost more than the compressed asphalt, but
it is estimated that it will save 6u per cent,
of the repairing expenses, which are very
considerable. The end desired is to avoid,
by the adoption of this kind of pavement,
the depressions in roads over which a great
deal of trafiic passes. To attain this, it does
not sufiice to pour bitumen upon a well-
prepared ground lightly covered with a coat
of lime ; the resistance of the ground should
equal that of an old macadamized bank ;
and a very thick bed of mortar, which should
be very homogeneous, should be laid before
the asphalt.
A NEvr process of gas-manufacture has
been patented by Malam, manager of the
Dumfries (Scotland) Gas- Works. The ad-
vantage claimed by the inventor for the
new process is, that a large proportion of
the liquid hydrocarbons, which would other-
wise go to form tar, are converted into gas,
and thus an increased production of gas is
insured to the amount of 3,000 or 4,00u
feet per ton, while the quality is not de-
teriorated.
In announcing the sale of the Hoosac
Tunnel machinery, the Enfiineering and
Alining Journal remarks: "The contractors
completed, in the most satisfactory manner
and it is said at a considerable pecuniary
sacrifice, a most difiicult work (the tunnel j,
and one which is of considerable advantage
to the State (Massachusetts), and it is great-
ly to be regretted that the government of a
great State should resort to those devices,
to avoid the fair and honest performance of
their engagements, which, when practised
by individuals, are characterized as 'tricky'
and ' dishonorable.' "
Water which has been kept for some
time in the state of ebullition does not
make so good an infusion of tea as water
"just upon the boil." A reason for this is
suggested by a writer in the Chemical Keicf,
who says that the escape of dissolved gases
might possibly account for the inferiority of
tea-infusion made with long-boiled water.
To test this, he passed for ten minutes
through boiling water a stream of carbonic-
acid gas, and then made an infusion of tea
with it. The result was decidRdly better
than when water was employed that had
boiled for the same length of time without
the addition of the CO2.
The depth of the Pacific Ocean -between
Hawaii and Tahiti, as developed by the
soundings of the Challenger Expedition,
ranges from 2,000 to 3,000 fathoms, with
one exception of 1,.525 fathoms. The bot-
tom, except neir the islands, is mainly red
clay, with much oxide of manganese in small
concretions and many foraminifers.
