514 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to place. The Chinese invariably substitute the soft for the hard
trill/ and this substitution is common among other nations. The
Polynesians put gutturals in the place of dentals," and the missionaries
who are educating the youth of the Hawaiian Islands have had to
abandon sounds that the people are unable to pronounce. It is almost
as difficult rightly to hear as it is correctly to imitate articulations
foreign to one's own tongue : travelers hardly ever agree in their
representations of names that they have heard pronounced by natives.
Are differences of voice and of auditory perception the result to a
small extent of organization, but to a greater extent of early edu-
cation ? One is tempted to believe that such is the case. But experi-
ment and observation, hitherto very limited, have not yet thrown
upon this subject the light of scientific truth.
Words are formed by the combination of vowels and consonants ;
the voice gives utterance to them ; this is language which is at first
governed by convention, and then by grammar. Pronunciation re-
sults from the eraissioa of articulate sounds ; its range in pitch is
usually about one-half of an octave. Commonly the voice rises or
falls a little at the end of a phrase, producing accent, or marking
affirmation or interrogation. The adult man, as a rule, speaks in the
lower register, children and women in the upper register, but to this
there are many exceptions.
Though we all employ speech, yet we differ in ease and agreeable-
ness of utterance. The voice is weak or powerful, as determined by
the mode of action of the resjiiratory organs. The timbre is sharp,
harsh, sweet, or harmonious ; this is determined by the conformation
of the resonant cavities. Whatever quality of voice we happen to
have naturally, is to be preserved, though it may be improved by
constant attention to the ear, by steady observation, finally by train-
ing. Speech does not flow from its source with the same ease in all
cases : here the mind is master, and mental qualities differ from one
another to a far greater extent than physical aptitudes. Some per-
sons express themselves without difficulty or hesitation — their thinking
faculty acts as a continuous force ; others seem to grasp a word or a
phrase here and there — their thinking faculty is fluctuating, confused,
undecided. A certain feeling of constraint produces stuttering, stam-
mering. It used to be supposed that stuttering is the result of grave
defects of the vocal organs, but such is not the case at all ; this infirm-
ity has its seat in the mind, and it may be cured or mitigated by
systematic effort. It is shown by statistics that Provence, Languedoc,
and Guienne, contain a greater proportion of stammerers in their
population than any other portions of France.^ This statement, when
* I for }• — Euhpe for Europe.
* gh for d, k for /. This change of pronunciation is not infrequent in some country
districts of France.
•'' "Statistique decennale du begaiement en France," par Chervin aine, Lvon, 1866.
