VOICE IN MAX AND IX AXIMALS, 515
first I saw it, was a surprise to me ; it has always been thought that no
one could possibly falter in his speech who was born near the Garonne.'
In performing its great function of establishing all the social rela-
tions between man and man, the voice readily calls forth sympathies
and antipathies ; its quality reveals better than words the true feel-
ings of the heart. A voice that is clear, pure, limpid, conveys the
impression of frankness; one that is hesitating, drawling, betokens
dissimulation ; a harsh, grating voice indicates an evil disposition ;
while a voice that is sweet, harmonious, affects us as though it were
the breathing of a gentle soul. These impressions made by the voice
are usually correct, and rightly enough influence the relations of man
to man, still we must not trust them too implicitly. No doubt lan-
guage may serve to disguise thought, but the vocal instrument itself
may also produce false impressions. Besides the effects of Nature,
we have the effects of art. An orator wishing to make himself heard,
or to produce a sensation, opens his mouth widely, and derives from
the resonant cavities all the aid that they can supply ; this is the
declamatory style, condensed by good taste. If the mouth be opened
very widely, and the breath emitted with force, the voice becomes
imperious : such is the tone in which a military officer gives the word
of command. Words that are in themselves simple enough, when
uttered in a hard, brusque tone, become offensive. When the sounds
are uttered softly, with some degree of tremulousness, the words suc-
ceeding one another with deliberate slowness and imperceptible low-
ering of pitch, the sympathy of -the hearer is awakened. Some wom-
en, it is asserted, possess a wonderful power of thus rendering their
entreaties irresistible. Historians affirm that Cicero's graceful utter-
ance added greatly to the persuasive force of his words. The orator
who possesses a good voice, and Avho can at will assume the tones
that best agree with the sentiments, emotions, and passions, which he
would arouse, will win the hearts of his auditors, whereas the grandest
oration delivered by an unpractised speaker would fail to move them.
Singing requires of the vocal organs functions very difl'erent from
those required for speaking. Furthermore, a good physical constitu-
tion and perfect regularity in the functions of the organism, are of
inestimable value to tlie artist. In the emission of the voice the re-
spiratory movements must be performed without strain or effort ; thev
must be so regulated as to make the inspiration short and easy, and
the expiration slow and prolonged. There is a struggle between the
organs which retain the bi'eath and those which expel it ; practice,
youth, and good health, are the conditions upon which an adjustment
must be based. In the highly-gifted artist the larynx holds its ordi-
nary position notwitlistanding the variations of intensity and pitch of
' ileraoi-y and the faculty of coordinating words depend upon the brain. It appears,
from Broca's researches, that these faculties are destroyed by a lesion of the third fron-
tal convolution of the left side.
