5i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the sounds produced. Being implicated in some of the more ener-
getic movements of the tongue, it rises or falls, but to no purpose.
The larynx of the singer, while fixed in its position, multiplies its
performance; the suppleness of all its parts is a matter of prime im-
portance. The vibrations of the vocal lips and the resonance of the
vestibule determine the timbre of the glottic sounds ; the configura-
tion of the pharynx and of the buccal cavity, by modifying the
sounds formed in the glottis, produces the timbre of the voice. Tliis
cannot be altered to any considerable degree by even the most pow-
erful efibrts of the will. Professors of singing injure their pupils by
prescribing in too absolute a manner the mouth arrangements which
they themselves find most serviceable. Each individual must follow
Nature, and M. Mandl had good reasons for begging singing-masters
never to forget this truth.
Our ear is not afiected'by all sounds ; those which are very low or
very acute are not perceived. The limits of hearing are usually set
at forty, and at forty thousand vibrations per second. Persons of ex-
treme sensibility are not restricted within these limits, but their gift
is not a source of pleasure ; every one knows how painful it is to
hear sounds that are too acute. Song is the result of modulated
sounds separated from one another by harmonic intervals. The
whole series of sounds from the grave to the acute is the musical
scale; the voice has a greater or less range in difierent individuals.
In the language of musicians, each series of consecutive and homo-
geneous sounds is a register ; we have the chest-register, the head-
register, etc. A strange idea has gone abroad : singers, being led
astray by the resonance of the arch of the palate, and by certain pe-
culiar sensations caused by the action of various muscles, have suji-
posed that the voice comes now from the chest, again from the head.
But, as every one must now be aware, voice is produced always in the
glottis. Hence it were well, as M. Mandl advises, to abandon the use
of terms which had their origin in a misapprehension, and to use in-
stead of them the terms loicer and upper register.
Singing requires far more precise arrangements of the vocal organs
than does speaking. At the moment of producing the sound the glot-
tic orifice should be absolutely shut ; the voice-emission will be good
jjrovided the vocal lips go apart to the proper extent with a kind of
suddenness. It is interesting to follow with the eye, by means of the
laryngoscope, the play of the instrument in producing successively
low and high notes. In producing very low notes the glottic orifice
assumes the form of a very long, regular ellipsoid, with both extremi-
ties pointed ; as the sound rises in pitch, the vocal lips at once approach
each other, and the orifice, constricted at one point, appears to be
divided into two parts ; the pitch still rising, the uttermost limit of
the register is attained, and then the glottic orifice becomes a linear
slit. Passing to the upper register — the head-voice or falsetto — a
