VOICE IN MAN AND IN ANIMALS, 517
curious cliange takes place suddenly in the configuration of tbe glot-
tis : it appears to be absolutely shut below and open above. In pro-
portion as the orifice is narrowed, the sound grows higher. The
singer recognizes tbe registers by the ear from the timbre, the physi-
ologist by the eye ; for the latter, one of the registers consists of the
series of sounds produced by the glottis when open along its entire
length, the other register represents the series of sounds given forth
by the glottis open through only a limited portion of its orifice.
The ordinai'y limits of the voice include about two octaves of the
musical scale ; by practice one can easily attain 2^ octaves, but a com-
pass of three octaves, and especially of 3-^ octaves, is very exceptional.
Hence, at the beginning of the present century, Catalani was regarded
as a sort of prodigy. In classing voices according to pitch we rec-
ognize three kinds of voice in men, viz., bass, barytone, and tenor,
and three in women, contralto, mezzo-soprano, and soprano. Bass
voices rarely fall below 173 vibrations, and soprano seldom exceed
2,069 vibrations per second. Still there have been deep voices which
produced the note corresponding to 87 vibrations, and acute voices
which attained as many as 2,784. The most famous cantatrices of our
day are instances of this.' The different types of voice are characterized
no less by their timbre than by their range. Voices i^resent so many
varieties, they are %o personal^ that thorough classification is almost
impossible. Endless shades of difference are produced by the degree
of intensity of the harmonics : if the intensity is great, the voice is
brilliant, mordant ; if feeble, the voice is soft, sombre. In the larynx
itself, and in the trachea, there occurs a resonance, the effects of which
have not yet been determined. In bass voices they are very note-
worthy. The famous Lablache would have been an excellent subject
for experiments by physiologists.
Having ascertained all the functions of the vocal apparatus, and
accounted for the origin of the sounds of speech and singing, we may
well be proud of the advance made by science, yet Ave cannot but be
chagrined to think that it is not in our power to determine to what
peculiarities of organic conformation the different kinds of voice are to
be attributed. All that we can affirm with certainty is, that the sound
produced is acute in proportion to the shortness of the vocal cords.
One might be inclined to believe that the larynx is more voluminous
in bassi than in tenori, in contralti than in soprani ; but this is not
universally the case. We cannot determine either the compass or
the quality of a voice from seeing the instrument. The elasticity,
suppleness, and contractility of the tissues, must have an immense in-
' In general the bass voice extends from fai = 173 vibrations to res = 580 vibra-
tions ; the barytone from lai = 217 vibrations to fas = 690; the tenor from rej = 290
vibrations to sis = 976 ; the contralto from sola = 387 to fa4 = 1,381 ; the mezzo-
soprano from si8=488 to la4 = 1,740; the soprano from uts = 517 to uts = 2,069
vibrations.
