VOICE IN MAN AND IN ANIMALS. 519
seems to express feelings common to ourselves, and hence we like it.
The interest attaching to a comparison of the vocal apparatus of
animals with that of man has long been appreciated, and the hope
has been entertained of being able to explain the nature of all kinds
of voice by studying the structure of the organs. ToAvard the end of
the last century, Vicq d'Azyr attacked this problem. Having collected
larynges of a number of animals, he regarded them with a sort of
enthusiasm ; he expected to get from them a revelation. " It is a fine
spectacle," said he, "to see at a glance the structure of those infinitely-
diversified instruments with which each animal produces its own
proper modulations, thus contributing to Nature's grand concert."
The anatomical characters of the vocal apparatus are now pretty
well known as regards most of the mammalia. The larynx of these
animals is formed upon the same plan as that of man ; in monkeys,
the resemblance is extreme. The impossibility of speaking is due, as
we have reason to supjjose, to the conformation of the buccal cavity,
the lips, and the tongue. The studies of naturalists, which as yet
have not been directed to this point, do not warrant any positive
statement : nevertheless, the power possessed by some species of
pronouncing one or two syllables justifies a presumption. Does not
this vestige of speech indicate the very limited extent of a faculty,
not even a trace of which is found in most animals. In 1715 the
great Leibnitz announced to our Academy the existence in Meissen
of a talking dog, " a peasant's dog, of the most ordinary appearance,
and of medium size." This extraordinary animal had learned, says
the narrator, some thirty words ; these it would repeat after its mas-
ter. The historian of the Academic des Sciences declares that he
would not have ventui-ed to state such a fact " without such an au-
thority as M, Leibnitz, an eye-witness." But, despite ho high an
authority, the story is a fable. Of the most intelligent dog we still
must say, " All he lacks is speech." Were it not that Nature raises
an obstacle, surely monkeys that live in the company of man would
make the attempt to speak. We must conclude that their intelligence
does not incline them toward this sort of imitation, and that their
organs ai'e not adapted for articulation.
It is a curious and very interesting fact that, before receiving in-
struction of any kind, young deaf-mutes who live together quickly
discover means of understanding each other, so that they hardly ever
misinterpret tlie feelings and wants expressed by the gesticulations,
touches, and facial-muscle action, agreed upon. Tliis instance of a
convention between individuals not possessed of the power of employ-
ing language of necessity carries our thoughts to the actions of cer-
tain animals. The mammalia have a voice that is susceptible of in-
flexions and intonations more or less diversified according to the
species; these they employ in making known to each other their appe-
tites, their wants, to call one another, to announce to one another their
