520 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
presence. It is often said that animals possess only cries, but this
statement is too general. The cat says miau, which is a very plain
articulation of a labial consonant and three vowels; the word is well
formed, and one might sxappose it to be Chinese. The cat pronounces
this word in many different ways, each having a meaning. If he
wants company, he announces his presence in a strong voice ; if he
wants to be fed, or to have a door opened, his voice is soft and
gentle; here is the accent of entreaty. If there is any delay, the tone
grows higher, showing impatience. There is a slow, weak niiau,
which the French translate into " Comme je m'ennuie ! " (" How weary
lam/^^) and again there is the wheedling miau, full of pretty modula-
tions, showing plainly a wish to please. Further, the cat says very
distinctly ro?iron, a genuine word formed of trills and nasals ; here
the tongue and the soft palate perform movements which we know
from our own experience. This rowron now means " Thank you;"
again, it expresses joy. When moved by a feeling of dislike for an
individual of his own race, or of jealousy of a rival, the animal spits
and growls, thus giving utterance to threats and imprecations.
The number of mammals which can articulate syllables is small.
Sheep utter no sound but that monotonous ba. Some gibbons of
the island of Java, when they wish to inspire fear, cry out with fury
ra ra. For most animals guttural sounds appear to be uttered with
greatest ease. The dog, though highly gifted as regards memory,
the sentiment of affection, and intelligence, has no language, but only
cries ; he barks. Short, sudden expirations of air through the glottis
produce this well-known voice ; yelping is only a modified form of
barking, expressive of joy. Howling is the result of a lengthy ex-
piration with great resonance in the pharynx; it expresses profound
grief or pain. Dogs express their wants more frequently by move-
ments of the body, by the play of the physiognomy, and by touching
with the muzzle than by the voice. They appear to communicate
admirably with one another when organizing an expedition ; they in-
form one another of the presence of objects that gratify their ap-
petite. We once saw in the midst of a meadow, far from any house,
the flayed carcass of an ox, which had lain for several days absolutely
abandoned. A lonely dog, drawn no doubt by the scent, came to get
a meal, and went back to the village to tell his acquaintance of what
he had discovered ; in less than an hour the carcass was torn in pieces
by the teeth of a great troop of dogs.
Opportunities of studying the language of animals in the state of
freedom are unfrequent ; all animals flee from man, and very wisely.
In captivity, and cut ofl" from their own kind, they become silent, or
merely utter a few cries or murmurs. Were a human being to be
held as a prisoner in a family of chimpanzees he would be reduced to
the same extremity. Travelers have sometimes observed monkeys
when well within range of sight and hearing; they have always ob-
