WSAT ARE BATS? 523
been undertaken into this matter will perhaps throw some light upon
one of the most singular aptitudes possessed by animals. It is com-
monly supposed that parrots cannot attach any meaning to the
phrases which they have learned ; but this is not strictly exact. Oc-
casionally individuals possessed of the advantages of great natural
intelligence and good training employ words to make requests ; they
make proper reply to a question or to a sign. It might be supposed
that parrots owe their power of speaking to the peculiar conforma-
tion of their tongue ; but this is rendered doubtful by the perform-
ances of the magpie, the blackbird, and the starling. In these birds
the tongue is thin, and yet they have no difficulty in pronouncing any
articulate sound ; this fact gives strength to the idea of the influence
of the superior larynx. A starling, distinguished for its power of speak-
ing, which at one time we had occasion to observe, very well knew the
value of sundry words. He gave expression to his wants in good
French, emphasizing his words with the flapping of his wings. This
bird was very fond of the bath, and often called for water; on seeing a
person taking hold of a pitcher the bird would exclaim, "Come quick,
come quick ! " with increasing force in case he was obliged to wait.
Most small birds have their call, their chirp of joy or of fright,
their battle-cries : all these voice-explosions, containing as they do both
vowel and consonant sounds, show how easy and natural articulation
is to these animals. The species which possess the power of singing
have a very complex vocal apparatus. The nightingale excels all the
other songsters of the Avoods in power, clearness, and sweetness of
tone. Her notes, whether joyous or plaintive, are always melodious.
This bird acquires the power of song only after long practice. The
young ones are usually very indifierent singers, and it is only those
individuals which possess special gifts that give to the vocal art its
highest expression. Among all the pretty feathered denizens of our
woods, the males alone possess a fine voice ; they utter their song in
order to win mates who cannot compete in vocal talent. They are
mute for a great part of the year, but, when the mating season ap-
proaches, their nervous action is quickened, and the blood is deter-
mined to the orjians of voice.
WHAT ARE BATS?
By St. GEOEGE MIVART, F. E. S.
THE group of animals called " Bats " is one full of interest to those
specially occupied with the study of animal structure — the anato-
mist, the physiologist, and the philosophical zoologist. At the same
time it must be confessed that l)ats are far from exciting that general
interest which in fact they merit. This disregai'd, however, is very
