524 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
natural. The small size of the bats inhabiting this and other parts
of the temijerate regions of the globe conspires with their nocturnal
habits to remove them from general observation, while the great simi-
larity one to another of their diiferent species is an obstacle to their
popularity even among zoologists — since it makes their discrimination
and classification a matter of diificulty.
Yet bats are, as I hope we shall see, really very interesting ani-
mals. The bat exhibits to us the body of a beast, specially modified
to live the life of a bird, and at the same time serves to give us a fair
conception of certain ancient reptilian forms, the remains of which
are found deeply buried in deposits made untold ages ago — in the
secondary rocks.
But what is a bat ? Probably not one of my readers would be
likely, if called upon to answer, to fall into the old error of consider-
ing it a kind of bird !
All who have ever examined a bat closely, and observed its fur,
ears, and teeth, must, I think, have recognized it as a kind of beast.
Its real afiinities, however, serve excellently well to demonstrate how
little mere external aspect can be trusted as a guide to fundamental
relationship. The hat is essentially an animal of the air — all its struct-
ure is modified for flight, and it rarely descends to the surface of the
ground. The mole, on the contrary, is essentially an animal of the
earth — all its structure is modified for burrowing, and it rarely ascends
to the surface of the ground. The contrast could hardly be more
complete, and yet the bat and the mole are cousins— the mole, the
hedgehog, and the shrew-mouse, belonging to a group of beasts with
which the bats show no inconsiderable aflSnity.
I have spoken of the opinion that the bat is a kind of bird. This
view seems to have been entertained by the Jews, and the "bird of
darkness" is placed, in Deuteronomy xiv. 18, among the unclean ones
forbidden as food :
"And the stork and the heron after her kind, and the lapwing and
the bat."
Aristotle, though he placed the bats among flying animals, and
therefore among birds, distinctly recognized the difterences in their
organization ; and the same thing may be afiirmed of Pliny. But in
spite of this, and although Albertus ^Magnus, in the middle ages, was
fully acquainted with the true nature of bats, as beasts, as well as with
their winter torpidity, we find later on a retrogression of opinion.
Thus Belon, in 1557, in his "Histoire de la Nature des Oyseaux,"
includes bats with his birds. At the same time, he was not unac-
quainted with the mode of their reproduction.
Yet later — by nearly a century — in 1645, Aldrovandus decided
that bats were rather birds than beasts, and this in spite of his care-
ful study of them, as proved by his beginning to distinguish their
difierent kinds one from another.
