WHAT ABE BATS ^
525
Some twenty-five years later, Ray gave them their true position
among quadrupeds — a position which they have ever since retained.
The Teutonic mind seems early to have appreciated the true na-
ture of bats, as we may judge from the German name, Fledermaus
and the old English term, Jllttermouse.
Let us look a little closely at our subject of to-day — the bat.
In the first place, there is a little rounded body, covered with soft
fur, which is indeed, what Shakespeare calls it, "wool," when giving
the ingredients of the caldron of 3Iacheth''s witches.
There is a small head, little eyes, large ears, a tail, and two pairs
of limbs of very unequal size. The hind-pair (the legs) are of mod-
erate length and singularly disposed, so that the knees are turned
almost backward, like our elbows.
Each leg terminates in a foot, furnished with five toes, each with
a long, curved claw, all of about the same length. These toes are not
webbed, like those of a duck, but are free.
The other pair of limbs (the arms and hands) are of exceeding
length. Both the arm and forearm are long — especially the latter —
but it is the fingers which are so wonderfully drawn out, and they are
webbed, like the toes of a water-fowl. Moreover, the web not only con-
nects these long fingers together, but also connects them with the
sides of the body and with the legs (as far as the ankle); and does
not stop even here, but continues on to the tail, thus connecting it
with the two legs.
This large web or membranous expansion has two names. The
part belonging to the hand and joining the sides of the body (which
is supported by the fingers as an umbrella by its rods) is termed the
alar membrane. The part connecting the legs with the tail is called
tlie interfemoral membrane.
Looking more closely, however, we find that, though the four
fingers of each hand are thus bound together, the thumb is free, stand-
ing out at a wide angle, and furnished with a very long and strong
hooked claw. Of the four fingers, it is only the first which is clawed.
The uses made by the bat of its singularly-formed limbs are, of
course, in exact correspondence with their structure. The fore-limbs
are true organs of flight ; the hind-limbs and tail have a rudder-like
action. Besides flight (their predominant mode of motion), bats can
crawl upon the surface of the earth with an awkward, sliuflling gait.
When so crawling, the wings are closed (the long fingers then lying
side by side), and the animal rests on its wrists and hind-feet, the
body being dragged forward by the help of the strong, hooked thumb-
nails, which also help it to climb with ease up any rough surface, even
though perpendiculai".
When at rest, bats usually hang suspended, head downward, by
the claws of their feet, though occasionally they turn round and hang
from the claws of their thumbs.
