526 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Most nocturnal beasts have large eyes, but most bats have very-
small ones.
This is perhaps due to the fact that bats in their flight are guided
by an extraordinarily delicate sense of touch — so delicate as to seem
almost like a sixth sense.
The external ear of most bats appears at first to be double — a very
small one seeming to stand up inside the larger one. This aj)pear-
FiG. 1.— Head 07 Lakge-eared Bat. t, TragTis.
ance, however, is due merely to the very large development of a little
piece which in ourselves projects backward as a small rounded process
guarding externally the opening of our ear, and called the tragus.
The food of our English bats consists of insects, and their teeth
bristle with sharp points, well suited to pierce the chitinous cases by
which the bodies of insects are protected.
The stomach (like that of most beasts which live upon a purely
animal diet) is a simple, short, and rounded bag.
The female is provided with a pair of milk-glands, situated on the
breast — as in the apes and in man.
The skeleton of the bat, when compared with those of some other
animals, affords an excellent example of how fundamental uniformity
of sti-ucture may underlie forms wliich are strikingly different — in ac-
cordance with diverging habits of life.
I have already called attention to the divergent aspects of the
aerial bat and the subterranean mole. Yet the bones of the flying-
organ of the bat closely resemble those of the burrowing organ of the
mole, save as regards the relative shapes and dimensions of the com-
ponent bones. But, while in the bat these bones are drawn out into
excessive length and tenuity, in the mole they exhibit the maximum
of concentration and robustness. Now, both these conditions are but
diverging manifestations of the human structure, and the same indeed
may be said of such extreme modifications as the fore-leg of the horse
or the paddle of the whale.
But the bat and the mole present us with a special point of simi-
larity in their skeleton not found in the other animals named, including
ourselves.
It is that the breastbone in both the bat and mole develops a me-
dian ridge or keel. This keel serves to afford additional surface for
the attachment of powerful muscles which pass thence to the arras,
