528 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The membrane of the bat's wing is a structure of extreme and
peculiar delicacy as regards the sense of touch, and the perfection of
this sense is doubtless contributed to by a special condition of its
blood-vessels. Although the sense of touch depends, of course, di-
rectly on tlie nervesj, the functional activity of the nerves depends
upon the quantity and the sufficiently rapid renewal of the blood sent
to them. This is shown by the familiar examples of numbness brought
about by checking the supply of blood to any part with a ligature, as
also by the increased sensibility occasioned by inflammation ; that is,
through a more copious supply of blood. Now, in most animals, as
in ourselves, the heart pulsates with rhythmical contractility; but
the blood-vessels which distribute the blood over the body are not
themselves contractile, however highly elastic they may be. In the
bat's wing, however, the vessels which convey blood toward the heart
(i. e., the veins) have been found by Dr. Wharton Jones to be them-
selves positively contractile, and so fitted in a most exceptional man-
ner to help on the blood-supply, thus indirectly augmenting the power
of touch.
This exceptional condition of the vascular system may, then, have
something to do with that exceptional perfection of the power of sen-
sation before referred to, and which was exj)erimentally demonstrated
by Spallanzani. He found, not having the fear of anti-vivisectionists
before his eyes, that bats deprived of sight, and as far as j^ossible also
of smell and hearing, were still able not only to avoid ordinary obsta-
cles to their flight in strange localities, but even to pass between threads
purposely extended in various directions across the room in which
the experiments were made. This skill it is believed is due to an exces-
sively delicate power of sensation possessed by the flying membrane —
a power enabling the creatures by atmospheric pressure and vibration
to feel, before contact, the nearness of adjacent objects. Dr. Dobson,
who has paid more attention to bats, perhaps, than any other living
naturalist, is disposed to think, and very reasonably so, that tactile
power may be thus greatly increased by such increase of the surface
on which tactile sensations may be received as is found in the bat's
wing, and that this is the explanation of the mysterious power re-
vealed to us by Spallanzani.
The flight of the bat compared with that of most birds is exces-
sively fluttering; but it is a true and perfect flight, and therefore
very difierent from the analogous action of other beasts called "fly-
ing," such as the flying-squirrels, the flying-opossums, and the flying-
lemur. In these animals the skin of the flanks can indeed be extended
outward to the arm and the leg, and when so stretched (as when these
animals take long jumps) seems as a sort of parachute to sustain them
somewhat in the air, and so far break their fall as to enable them to
flit from one bough to another; but they cannot truly fly. The flying-
lemur is the best furnished in this respect, as it has not only a very
