530 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are to be a true tree-frog, it is difficult to imagine that this immense membrane
of the toes can be for the purpose of swimming only, and the account of the
Chinaman that it flew down from the tree becomes more credible."
Although no existing reptile is thus furnished, there is a small
Asiatic lizard which is ordinarily spoken of as " flying," the Draco
volans. And, in fact, though this creature cannot truly fly, but only
flit, it has a membrane which can be extended from each side of the
body, and which, like the bat's wing, is supported by a number of
bony rods. These rods, however, are not, as in the bat, enormously
elongated fingers, but are elongated ribs, which gtand out freely from
the body when jumping, but otherwise are folded back against the
flanks.
Existing reptiles, then, present us witli no close resemblance to
bat -structure ; but when we come to extinct reptiles — reptiles which
flourished during and anterior to the deposition of our chalk-clifl^s —
the secondary or mesozoic period — we there find reptiles to have ex-
isted which present the most striking analogies with existing bats in
all that regards their modes of locomotion, and their structure as far
as it is related to such modes of locomotion.
These reptiles flew in the same Avay that bats do, by means of a
vast membrane extending from each enormously-elongated hand to
the adjacent side of the body.
While, however, in the bat all the fingers of each hand are enor-
mously elongated (to support the alar membrane) — the thumb alone re-
maining free — in these flying reptiles only a single finger of each hand
was thus elongated, the others remaining short, and being provided
with claws like the thumb.
With the approach of the winter season bats (like dormice) fall
into a peculiar state of winter sleep called hibernation. For this pur-
pose they generally assemble together in large numbers, in out-of-the-
way places, caverns, hollow trees, or the roofs of buildings, hanging
head downward by the claws of their feet. During this condition the
most important functions of life — breathing and the circulation of the
blood — are performed only with exceedingly-reduced activity, the
temperature of the body becoming notably diminished.
Some of our English bats may be kept in confinement and partly
domesticated for a time, small pieces of raw meat being given to them
in lieu of their natural insect-food. Speaking of the long-eared bat,
Mr. Bell tells us :
"It is more readily tamed than any other, and may soon be brought to ex-
hibit a considerable degree of familiarity with those who feed and caress it. I
have frequently watched them when in confinement, and have observed them to
be bold and familiar even from the first. They are very cleanly; not only clean-
ing themselves after feeding, and at other times, with great assiduity, but oc-
casionally assisting each other in this office. They are very playful, too, and
their gambols are not the less amusing from their awkwardness. They run over
