LESSONS IN ELECTRICITY. 35
flannel, the electricity of the body is negative ; if it repel, or is re-
pelled by, glass, rubbed with silk, its electricity is positive. Du Fay
had the sagacity to propose this mode of testing quality.
Apply this test to the strips of foolscap paper excited by the In-
dia-rubber. Bring a rubbed gutta-percha tube near the electrified
strips, you have strong attraction. Bring a rubbed glass tube be-
tween the strips, you have strong repulsion and augmented diver-
gence. Hence, the electricity, being repelled by the positive glass, is
itself positive.
Sec. 11. Double or " Polar'''' Character of the Electric Force. — We
have examined the action of each kind of electricity upon itself, and
upon the other kind ; but hitherto we have kept the rubber out of
view. One of the questions which inevitably occur to the inquiring
scientific mind would be, How is the rubber affected by the act of
friction ? Here, as elsewhere, you must examine the subject for your-
self, and base your conclusions on the facts you establish.
Test your rubber, then, by your balanced lath. The lath is attract-
ed by the flannel, which has rubbed against gutta-percha ; and it is
attracted by the silk, which has rubbed against glass.
Regarding the quality of the electricity of the flannel or of the
silk, the attraction of the lath teaches you nothing. But, suspend
your rubbed glass tube, and bring the flannel rubber near it : repul-
sion follows. The silk rubber, on the contrary, attracts the glass
tube. Suspend your rubbed gutta-percha tube, and bring the silk
rubber near it : repulsion follows. The flannel, on the contrary, at-
tracts the tube.
The conclusion is obvious : the electricity of the flannel is posi-
tive, that of the silk is negative.
But the flannel is the rubber of the gutta-percha, whose electrici-
ty is negative ; and the silk is the rubber of the glass, whose elec-
tricity is positive. Consequently, we have not only proved the rub-
ber to be electrified by the friction, but also proved the electricity
of the rubber to be opposite in quality to that of the body rubbed.
Sec, 12. What is Electricity f — Thus far we have proceeded from
fact to fact, acquiring knowledge of a very valuable kind. But facts
alone cannot satisfy us. We seek a knowledge of the principles
which lie behind the facts, and which are to be discerned by the mind ^
alone. Thus, having spoken, as we have done, of electricity passing
hither and thither, and of its being prevented from passing, hardly
any thoughtful boy or girl can avoid asking, What is it that thus
passes ? — what is electricity ? Boyle and Newton betrayed their
need of an answer to this question when the one imagined his unc-
tuous thread:? issuing from and returning to the electrified body, and
when the other imagined that an elastic fluid existed which penetrated
his rubbed glass.
When I say " imagined " I do not intend to represent the notions
