WHAT ARE BATS f 533
eludes, among very many others, all the English bats without a nose-
leaf; 2. The Hhinolophldce^ which includes, among very many others,
the English leaf-nosed bats ; and 3. The Fhyllostomidae^ or leaf-nosed
bats of America.
The other group of bats are made up of those, mostly of large
size, called flying-foxes, of which we have specimens now living in
the Zoological Gardens. They are confined to the tropical and sub-
tropical regions of the Old World and the Pacific, but are not found
even in the hottest regions of South America. They have grinding
teeth, which are not drawn out into sharp points, but have their
crowns marked simply with a longitudinal furrow, in accordance with
their fruit-eating habits, and their stomach (also in accordance with
this liabit) is much prolonged at its pyloric, or more specially diges-
tive, end.
Certain leaf-nosed bats of South America go by the formidable
name of vampii-es, from their reputed blood-sucking habits.
Although such a habit could only have been attributed erroneously
to the entire group, one certain kind of this group is very truly blood-
sucking, and its organization is peculiarly and very strikingly modi-
fied to efficiently subserve this function.
The bat in question is called Desmodiis, and the truth as to its
blood-sucking habit has been fully established by the testimony of
Mr. Darwin.' He tells us: "The vampire-bat is often the cause of
much trouble, by biting the horses on their withers. Tlie injury is
generally not so much owing to the loss of blood as to the inflamma-
tion which the pressure of the saddle afterward produces. The whole
circumstance having been lately doubted in England, I was therefore
fortunate in being present when one (Desmodus cZ' Orhignyi) was ac-
tually caught on a horse's back. We were bivouacking late one
Fig. 5.— Teeth of the Vampire Bat {Desmodm). i, cutting-teeth ; c, eye-teeth.
evening near Coquimbo in Chili, when my servant, noticing that one
of the horses was very restive, went to see what was the matter, and,
fancying he could distinguish something, suddenly put his hand on
the beast's withers, and secured the vampire. In the morning the
spot where the bite had been inflicted was easily distinguished from
being swollen and bloody. The third day afterward we rode the
horse, without any ill effects."
The special modifications of structure which harmonize with this
' " Journal of Voyage of Beagle," vol. i., p. 22.
