534 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
special functiou are mainly two : First, the form of the teeth ; and,
secondly, that of the stomach.
As to the teeth, the grinding ones are reduced to a minimum both
as to size and number; while the two middle or cutting teeth of the
upper jaw are of great size, with a sharp cutting edge well fitted to
inflict the small incision needful for the animal's nourishment.
As to the stomach, it presents us with a structure unique in the
animal kingdom. Here it is not the pyloric end of the stomach, but
the opposite or cardiac end, which is produced into an enormously
long pouch, while the opposite or pyloric end is reduced to a mere
rudiment — the highly-nutritious food (blood) requiring very little
digestion, but needing a capacious chamber for its speedy reception.
Although this is the only bat perfectly organized to live by blood-
sucking exclusively, nevertheless it is probable that various other
kinds practise blood-sucking as at least one part of their mode of
nutrition.
The late distinguished zoologist belonging to the Zoological So-
ciety, Mr. Blyth, has observed this habit in a leaf-nosed bat of India,
one belonging to quite another family than that to which the Amer-
ican vampire belongs. The bat in question is called Megaderma
Lyra. Respecting its habits Mr, Blyth tells us ' as follows :
*' Chancing one evening to see a rather large bat enter an out-house from
which there was no other egress than by the doorway, I was fortunate in being
able to procure a light, and thus proceed to the capture of the animal. Upon
finding itself pursued, it took three or four turns round the apartment, when
down dropped what at the moment I supposed to be its young, and which I
deposited in my handkerchief. After a somewhat tedious chase, I then secured
the object of my pursuit, which proved to be a fine pregnant female of Mega-
derma Lyra.
" I then looked at the other bat which I had picked up, and, to my surprise,
found it to be a small Vespertilio, nearly allied to the European V. 2jipistrellu^,
which is exceedingly abundant, not only here, but apparently throughout India,
being the same also, to all appearance, as a small species which my friend Dr.
Cantor procured in Chusan, The individual now referred to was feeble from
loss of blood, which it was evident the Megaderma had been sucking from a
large and still bleeding wound under and behind the ear ; and the very obviously
suctorial form of the mouth of the vampire was of itself sufficient to hint the
strong probabOity of such being the case. During the very short time that
elapsed before I entered the out-house, it did not appear that the depredator had
once aUghted : but I am satisfied that it sucked the vital current from its victim
as it flew, having probably seized it on the wing, and that it was seeking a quiet
nook where it might devour the body at leisure. I kept both animals wrapped
separately in my handkerchief till the next morning, when, procuring a con-
venient cage, I first put in the Megaderma, and, after observing it some time, I
placed the other bat with it. Xo sooner was the latter perceived than the other
fastened on it with the ferocity of a tiger, again seizing it behind the ear, and
> In the " Journal of the Asiatic Society ©f Calcutti," vol. xi., p. 225, quoted in P. Z.
S., 1872, p. 713.
