WHAT ARE BATS?
535
made several efforts to fly off with it ; but, finding it must needs stay within the
precincts of the cage, it soon hung by the hind-legs to one side of its prison,
and, after sucking its victim till no more blood was left, commenced devouring
it, and soon left nothing but the head and some portions of the limbs. The
voidings observed very shortly afterward in its cage resembled clotted blood,
which will explain the statement of Stedman and others concerning masses of
congealed blood being always observed near a patient who has been attacked
by a South African vampire. Such, then, is the mode of subsistence of the
Megaderma.''''
Bats are most widely diffused over the surface of the globe, as
their powers of flight might lead us to expect. Even Australia — so
very peculiar in the character of the other beasts which inhabit it —
possesses bats belonging to both of the bat families which are found
in our own island.
But, although the whole group of bats, and also that family to
which most English- bats belong — the VespertilionidcB — are thus
widely distributed, the geographical limits of some families of bats
are very sharply defined.
To appreciate these facts it is necessary to be acquainted with the
geographical areas into which the surface of our globe may be divided,
each considei'able tract of the earth's surface having its more or less
peculiar animal population, or fauna, as it has its indigenous plants,
that is, \i& flora. The earth's surface is divisible into six zoological
regions :
1. The Palmarctic region, or Europe, Asia north of the Himalayas,
and Africa north of the Sahara.
2. The Ethiopian region, or Africa south of the Sahara, and in-
cluding Madagascar and also Arabia, which, geologically, is part of
Africa.
3. The Oriental region, or Asia south of the Himalayas, with
Southern China and the Philippine Islands and Indian Archipelago as
far as the island of Bali.
4. The Australian region, or Australia, New Zealand, the less re-
mote Pacific Islands, and those of the Indian Archipelago from New
Guinea up to Lombok.
5. The Neotropical region, or South America, together with tropi-
cal North America and the West Indies.
6. The Nearctic region, or temperate North America and Green-
land.
Now, the whole group of flying-foxes is strictly confined to the
tropical regions of the Old World and Australia. In the same way
the family of leaf-nosed bats, like those of England — the Rhinolophidas
— is limited to the Old World, though reaching there much higher
latitudes than do the flying-foxes.
The group to which the vampires belong — the PhyllostomidcB —
is strictly confined to the Neotropical and Nearctic regions; and the
