ON THE FORMATION OF LAKES. 539
ures developing by more or less rapid stages along a definite course
in the direction of the type of structure selected for our consideration
to-day, and, though I am ready to make an act of scientific faith in
the existence of such creatures, I confess my imagination fairly baffled
in its attempts to depict them, or the road which this particular course
of evolution followed. We must wait patiently for more light from
paleontology. But we may wait very hopefully. We may do so
because the wonderfully rich harvest of fossil remains now being
gathered in North America supplies us with good and solid ground
for hope.
Already forms have been discovered there so strange that they
cannot be satisfactorily grouped in any existing order of mammals —
forms such as imagination could hardly have anticipated. We may,
then, not unreasonably expect that sooner or later — perhaps very soon
— fossils deeply buried in the secondary rocks will come to light, clearly
pointing out the line which has been followed in the evolution and
development of the only truly flying mammal — the bat. — Popidar Sci-
ence Meview.
ON THE FOEMATION OF LAKES.
Br I. C. EUSSELL.
IT was not until the studies of Agassiz, Forbes, and others, among
the Alps of Switzerland, had made us acquainted with the char-
acter and action of glaciers, that we could at all understand many of
the most curious and interesting features connected with the forma-
tion of the multitude of lakes with which we are more or less familiar,
and which lend so much beauty and grandeur to the scenery of the
world.
As some classification is necessary for the understajiding of a
series of facts, we will arrange lakes under four heads : 1. Those fiUijig
glacier-worn rock-basins ; 2. Those confined by banks of sand, gravel,
bowlders, etc., or, in one word, by moraines ; 3. Those formed by a
subsidence of their bottoms, or by the elevation of the country sur-
rounding them, commonly by the secular changes of level to which
the crust of our globe is subject ; 4. Lakes filling basins formed by
volcanic action.
1. Lakes which fill rock-basins are such as are confined on all
sides by the common rock of the country, so that in some cases a
person can walk entirely around them without stepping off the solid
rock; and in all cases they would be found to have a rocky rim
inclosing them, were the superficial material removed. How such
spoon-shaped depressions could be scooped out, was for a long time
an enigma which eluded the search of the most painstaking observers.
