540 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
As facts accumulated, however, it was noticed that the sides and bot-
toms of such lakes are smoothed, in many cases polished, and almost
always covered with grooves and scratches ; and also that in their
vicinity beds of clay are usually found, intermixed with pebbles and
large bowlders which, like the rocky basins, are also smoothed and
frequently scratched. It was noticed, too, that the rock from which
these bowlders and pebbles had been formed commonly differed from
the rocks in place on the shores of the lakes. Thus, throughout New
York and Ohio, huge bowlders are common, composed of crystalline
rock found in place nowhere nearer than the Canadian Highlands, a
hundred miles to the northward ; while the peculiar native copper
of Xorthern Michigan is sometimes found mingled with the bowlders
and striated stones of the drift far southward in Ohio.
The problem now was to discover what forces in Nature could
polish and scratch both rock-surfaces and detached stones, and could.
also transport masses of rock, tons in weight, far- from their native
home.
It is well known that the loose stones and pebbles along the sea-
shore are made very smooth and round, and often polished, by the ac-
tion of the waves. It might be thought from this that the pebbles
found on the shores of the lakes, and imbedded in the clays, were
fashioned in the same manner. On one occasion, at the Cape of Good
Hope, the writer, after wandering for a time along the sloping sandy
beach of Table Bay, came suddenly to a little rocky cove exposed to
the full swell of the South Atlantic. As each wave broke on the
steep, rocky beach and retreated, it was followed by a sharp, rattling
sound that could be distinctly heard above the roar of the waves ; we
noticed, too, that the stones all along the shore were in motion, rolling
down the beach, only to be caught up by the next white-capped wave
that came in from the ocean, and again carried up the beach, and
rolled and pounded against each other by the untiring waters, that
were fast reducing them to sand and dust. On examining these
water-worn stones, we found them all smoothed and rounded, and
often beautifully polished ; but in no case could we discover, even
with a magnifying-glass, any that were scratched, or in any way
marked similarly to the stones which we have so often examined in
the clays and hard-pans that cover so great a portion of our Northern
States. From this fact, and also from watching the action of the
waves on many other coasts, we conclude that the sea tends to
smooth and wear away the stones and rocks along its shores, but has
no power to cover them with grooves and scratches ; and that, instead
of wearing the coast into pockets and basins, it tends only to grind
down the islands and continents to one uniform level.
Again, we have traversed the deep, picturesque valleys of the
southern Alps, where we could see the glaciers glittering on the
mountain-sides far up at the head of the valley, and have noticed as
