ox THE FORMATION OF IiAKES. 543
It may be urged that these beds of clay, with their striated stones
and huge bowlders, are found over a large section of our country, and
are not confined to the region of the lakes. This is very true ; and
from it we conclude that where now so many happy homes are scat-
tered, from Maine to the far West, the snows and frozen mists of a
great winter once accumulated to many thousand feet in thickness,
and formed a great glacier, like that which covers the interior of
Greenland at the present day, which flowed southward, grinding
down the country and acting as a ploughshare to j^repare the land for
a new harvest. Gradually this great winter began to pass away, and
the spring-time in which we now live, to draw near. As the great
glacier retreated northward, it left the country covered with beds of
bowlder-clay and strewed with huge erratics from northern regions,
which together with other debris form the surface material of all our
northern country, where it has not since been swept away or covered
by other and more recent deposits. It is often well exposed along
our lines of railroads, and may be known at a glance by the great
number of worn and rounded stones of all sizes that are scattered pro-
miscuously through it. These evidences of glacial action are found
as far southward as Cincinnati and the central portion of New Jersey,
showing that here was the border of the icy mantle that was spread
over all the northern regions. After this great continental glacier
passed away, or had retreated far northward, smaller and detached
streams of ice still flowed southward to complete the task of moulding
the valleys and lake-basins. It is to these smaller glaciers that we
attribute the formation of the multitude of lakes filling rock-basins
that are scattered through the northern part of the United States and
^ver the whole of the British possessions, many of which have been
hollowed out in nearly horizontal beds of rock in the same manner as
lake-basins are now forming under existing glaciers. Nor are the
lakes which fill glacier-worn rock-basins confined to our own continent,
but they form the most common and grandest lakes of temperate lati-
tudes, which might be called the lake latitudes, so completely are the
lakes of the world confined to these regions.
The theory of the glacial origin of certain lakes was first proposed
by the distinguished English geologist. Prof. Ramsay, and, after being
tested in nearly every glaciated region in the world, is now held^ by
those best qualified to understand it, as the simple and true history
of the formation of many of our lakes.
2. The lakes of our second class, those which are confined by
banks of gravel, bowlders, etc., owe their origin, like the ones we have
been considering, to the action of ice. Lakes of this class are most
commonly found in the deep Alpine valleys of mountainous regions,
where the material which accumulated on the surface of the glaciers
that once flowed through them, in the form of latei'al and medial
moraines, was carried down and deposited at the extremity of the
