544 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
glacier in what is known as a terminal moraine, which in many cases
stretched completely across the valley and marks the place where the
terminal face of the glacier was stationary for a considerable period
of time before it melted away, and allowed the water to accumulate
in the space once filled by the ice. These glacier-built dams are to
be met with in all countries which have been subjected to glacial
action, and are especially well marked amid the Alps and in Scotland,
where they have been most thoroughly studied, on the Scandinavian
peninsula, in the Northern States of the Union, and amid the southern
Alps of New Zealand. As the bottom of the valley in which such a
lake is formed is usually worn deeper by the action of the glacier
during the formation of the terminal moraine, this second form of
lake-basin is quite often combined with the first.
To this second class also belong the thousands of little lakelets
scattered over tlie Northern States, which are confined on all sides by
banks of drift-material, and fill nearly every depression and hollow in
the huge banks of glacier-worn debris — known as till, kaims, eskers,
etc., scattered so plentifully throughout our Northern country. We
have seen many of these pretty little lakelets through New Tork,
Ohio, and westward. Near Plainfield, New Jersey, scores may be
passed in a morning's walk. At the latter place they occupy the hol-
lows and dells in the drift, which is there of great thickness, and
formed not only fi'om the Triassic sandstone which underlies it, but
also to a large extent from the limestone and gneiss found in place
only in the northern portion of the State. Intermingled with these
are many blocks of the peculiar reddish conglomerate found in situ in
Morris County, which show unmistakably the direction from which
the drift has traveled. Many of these stones are glacier-worn, and
have without doubt been transported from their northern homes by
the agency of ice ; not in one or two isolated instances, but in suificient
quantity to cover the country for miles in extent. These little lake-
lets, becoming filled with vegetable matter, form peat-bogs, which
promise to become of considerable agricultural value in the future ;
these peat-bogs not only contain many wonderful things for the eyes
of those who are fortunate enough to possess a microscope, but also in
them are sometimes found the bones of the huge mastodon, which at
no very distant time inhabited this continent.
3. The formation of lakes by a sinking of their bottoms, although
at first sight seeming to be the simplest and most common mode of
their formation, is really the most unusual. Lake Superior is de-
scribed as filling one of these depressions, as the rocks on its shores
are found to dip toward the centre of the lake, and the basin seems to
have been formed by a subsidence at that point, although greatly
modified in after-time by the erosion of the ice during the glacial
period. The valley into which the Jordan empties is another such
region of subsidence.
