36 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of these great men as vain fancies. Without imagination we can do
nothing here. By imagination I mean the power of picturing men-
tally things which have an existence as real as that of the world
around us, but which cannot be touched directly by the gross bodily
organs of sense. I mean the purified scientific imagination, without
the exercise of which we cannot take a single stejj into the region of
causes and principles.
It was by the exercise of the scientific imagination lliat Franklin
devised the theory of a single electric fluid to explain electrical phe-
nomena. This fluid he supposed to be self-repulsive, and diflfused in
definite quantities through all bodies. He supposed that when a
body has more than its proper share it is positively, when less than
its proper share it is negatively, electrified. It was by the exercise
of the same faculty that Symmer devised the theory of two electric
fluids, each self-repulsive, but both mutually attractive.
At first sight Franklin's theory seems by far the simpler of the two.
But its simplicity is only apparent. For, though Franklin assumed
only one fluid, he was obliged to assume three distinct actions. Two
of these were the mutual repulsion of the electric particles among
themselves, and the mutual attraction of the electric particles and the
ponderable particles of the body through which the electricity is dif-
fused. These two assumptions, moreover, when strictly followed out,
lead to the unavoidable conclusion that the material particles must
also mutually repel each other. Thus the theory is by no means so
simple as it appears.
The theory of Symmer, though at first sight the most complicated,
is in reality by far the simpler of the two. According to it electrical
actions are produced by two fluids, each self-repulsive, but both mu-
tually attractive. These fluids cling to the atoms of matter, and
carry the matter to which they cling along with them. Every body,
in its natural condition, possesses both fluids in equal quantities. As
long as the fluids are mixed together they neutralize each other, the
body in which they are thus mixed being in its natural or unelectrical
condition.
By friction (and by various other means) these two fluids may be
torn asunder, the one clinging by preference to the rubber, the other
to the body rubbed.
According to this theory there must always be attraction between
the rubber and the body rubbed, because, as we have proved, they
are oppositely electrified. This is in fact the case. And mark what
I now say. Over and above the common friction, this electrical at-
traction has to be overcome whenever we I'ub glass with silk, or seal-
ing-wax with flannel.
You are too young to fully grasp this subject yet ; and indeed it
would lead us too far away to enter fully into it. But I will throw
out for future reflection the remark that the overcoming of the ordi-
