ON THE FORMATION OF LAKES. 545
No description has been given of the newly-discovered lakes of Cen-
tral Africa, sufficiently accurate to decide to which mode of formation
they owe their origin, but, as they are situated in the tropics, it will
probably be found that, like Lake Superior, they fill synclinal valleys.
To this category belong also the truly great lakes which existed
in our Western country during TeTtiary times, which in the lapse of
ages became tilled with mud and silt, and now form the greater por-
tion of the rich Territories of Nebraska, Dakota, etc. In this region
are found, in great numbers, the remains of the huge animals which
lived in these ancient lakes, and fed on the luxuriant tropical vegeta-
tion that overhung their banks.
The well-known Salt Lake of Utah is another example of a lake
filling an area of depression, and wrs of far greater extent in past
time, as is very plainly shown by the lines of ancient terraces which
are so sharply drawn between Ogden and Salt Lake City, nearly a
thousand feet above the present level of the lake.
4. Lakes of the fourth class, such as owe their formation to vol-
canic action, are found occupying the bowl-shaped craters of ancient
volcanoes, which, as their fires became extinct, furnished convenient
reservoirs for the accumulation of water, and in this manner sometimes
formed lakes of considerable extent. Streams of lava, also, when
they chance to flow in such a manner as to obstruct the drainage of a
valley, may serve as a dam, above which the waters soon accumulate
and form a lake.
Besides the kinds of lakes which we have enumerated, there are
others, which are of rare occurrence and exceptional in their mode of
formation; such is the beautiful little lake in Switzerland known as
the Miirjelen-See, which is formed by the glacier of the Aletsch block-
ing up the mouth of a tributary valley, and thus forming a wall of ice
above which the waters accumulate. This ice-dam breaks away
every few years, and allows the complete and rapid drainage of the
lake, which often causes great inundations of the valley below. In
ancient times a similar ice-dam existed in the valley of Glen Roy,
Scotland, as has been shown by Lyell, which, by damming back the
waters, formed a lake similar to the Marjelen-See. The waves of this
ancient glacial lake chafed and wore its banks, and thus formed
terraces at different levels, in the same manner as we often see the
little ripples on the pools of water by the wayside cut their soft,
muddy banks into terraces, so that, when the water is evaporated by
the heat of the sun, their sides are left in a series of little steps ; in
the same manner, but on a far grander scale, the terraces were formed
which are known as the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, that have gained
a world-wide fame both in science and story.
In our own country we sometimes find lakes which owe their ex-
istence to the industry of the beavers, who often build their dams in
our streams, and sometimes form shallow lakes of considerable extent.
TOL. IX. — 35
