546 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The lakes to which we have devoted the greatest attentiou, and
which are at the same time the most common and the most interest-
ing, are those which fill glacier-worn rock-basins, to which we hope
that our little article will attract the attention of some one who will
give us more light on these wonderful pictures, now but imperfectly
illuminated.
AMPHIBIOUS FISHES/
By E. SAUVAGE.
IN the swamps of the Gambia, after they have been dried by the
tropical sun, there are to be found here and there beneath the
surface clods of earth uniform in shape, and usually about the size of
a man's two fists. These clods inclose living animals, which have
been led by instinct to hide themselves away toward the close of the
rainy season, and before the coming of the season of drought, by
burying themselves in the mud while it was yet soft, and before it
had been hardened by the scorching rays of the sun.
On breaking one of these lumps of mud, it is found to be a sort
of pouch or cocoon, with thin walls, and with projections here and
there corresponding to the form of the animal concealed within. Its
larger end is rounded, but its narrower end is closed by a slightly
convex lid with a narrow opening in the centre. If the surface of the
cocoon be even gently touched, a pretty loud cry is heard which bat-
terer has compared to the mewing of a cat.
For a long time it was supposed that the animal buried itself
amid the leaves which surround its protecting sheath. In a special
memoir published in the Bulletins of the St. Petersburg Academy of
Sciences, Leuckart expressed the opinion that the epidermis, by be-
coming detached, supplied the materials for this envelope. But since
his time it has been demonstrated that the cocoon is formed from a
dense secretion of mucus ; such is the result of observations made by
Paulson and Richard Owen, and repeated by Auguste Dumeril, Pro-
fessor of Ichthyology at the Museum. He has himself witnessed the
formation of the cocoon, and his description of the process we repeat
here in his own words. He says :
" Two protopteri, that had been restored to freedom by the gradual soften-
ing of the clods in which tbey had been inclosed, evinced signs, after Ihing for
a month in an aquarium, that the time had come for them to seek, in the soft
earth covered by the water, the shelter which they require during the dry season.
Their restlessness, their abundant secretion of mucus, their attempts at burrow-
ing, all showed an irresistible desire to find a medium different from that in
which tbey then lived.
* Translated from the French, by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
