548 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" Thu3 the cocoou is a protecting sheath formed of the mucous secretion.
The abundant secretion of mucus, in the first place, coats and strengthens the
walls of the burrow made by the protopterus, and hence the subterraneous
canal which it had excavated had its sides smooth, and as it were polished.
Then, after the animal has reached the required depth, the secretion becomes
still more abundant, and the mucus dries, forming a membranaceous envelope
of remarkable structure."
The animal doubles itself up in its envelope, the tail being brought
up in front of the head ; the mouth is free, and through it passes the
air needed for respiration, which, of course, is exclusively pulmonary,
owing to the conditions in which the animal lives. In fact, the pro-
topterus is able to respire in two ways, viz., either directly in the
atmosphere, or indirectly by separating dissolved oxygen from water
by means of its gills.
The external openings to the latter are two small apertures, one
on each side of the neck. Each of these gives access to a chamber
of moderate capacity, in which are floating certain filamentous ap-
pendages. On these are distributed the blood-vessels, which consti-
tute but ill-developed tufts. In water, the animal respires by means
of these; when it lives in its burrow, it respires by means of its lung.
Most fishes have, beneath the vertebral column, a sort of capsule,
which seems to act the part of a floating apparatus. By means of
this, the fish can rise in the water or descend at pleasure; it is known
as the air-bladder. The sounds emitted by certain fishes, Triglce, for
example, are caused by vibrations communicated to the gases in this
organ.
In the protopterus the air-bladder discharges the physiological
functions of a lung when the animal can no longer respire through
the gills. To attain this end, it divides up into a number of little
cellular lobes, over the walls of which are spread a multitude of
blood-vessels, containing blood to be oxygenated, though it is only
partially venous. To prevent mixture of the two kinds of blood,
that which has respired the oxygen and that which has discharged
its physiological function, the auricle becomes divided in two by a
partition. The left chamber receives the red blood, just as in the
higher animals. A muscular /Vobmw/ti, or fold, forming a sort of rudi-
mentary septum, rises from the floor of the ventricle ; this frcenum
acts as a piston, preventing the return of the blood into the vessels
by contracting when the heart contracts.
The air enters either through the mouth or through the nostrils,
which debouch near the posterior margin of the upper lip ; thence it
passes into a trachea, which traverses the wall of the oesophagus ;
finally, having entered a sort of membranous sac, through two large
openings, it reaches the lungs, whereof there are two, and which are
like the lungs of serpents.
These singular animals, being, as we have said, truly amphibious,
