AMPHIBIOUS FISHES. 549
have received from naturalists the expressive name of Dipnoi, a term
formed from two Greek words, meaning animals with twofold respi-
ration.
Two genera, each comprising only one species, make up this sub-
class Dipnoi. Gambia, Zanzibar, Senegal, the region of the White
Nile, and the Niger, are the native haunts of the African species, the
Drotopterus annectens, or anguilliformis y the other species, Lepido-
siren paradoxa, is found in the valley of the Amazonas.
The latter species is but ill represented in collections ; there are
in Europe only a very few specimens. According to Mr. Bates, the
natives call it zamhaki mhoya ; this naturalist says that the Lepido-
siren has even penetrated to the great lakes in the vicinity of the
Tapajos and the Madeira. M. de Castelnau has caught this animal
in a marsh on the left bank of the Amazonas, above Villanova, at a
place called Caracauca.
In Lepidosiren the tail is pointed ; the pectoral and ventral fins,
which stand far apart, are not long, and consist of a single ray, not
divided into segments. The general form is that of an eel, with two
threads hanging on each side. In color the animal is dark brown-
gray, or olive, with round spots of lighter color, about the size of the
scales, and indistinct on the head and the middle of the back. The
species appears to grow to the length of about one metre.
The protopterus, or African representative of the group, is olive-
green in color, this tint being varied with a number of irregular
brown or blackish spots. The lower portions are violet. The young
are marked with fine lines of light color, which cross each other,
forming a regular network. The extremity of the tail is tapering.
The pectoral and ventral fins are long, and consist of one ray made
up of. jointed segments. The bones of the skeleton are of a green
hue.
For our first acquaintance with these animals we are indebted to
the naturalist Natterer, who, during his visit to Brazil, obtained two
specimens, wRich he placed in the Vienna Museum. For a long time
the Protopterus and Lepidosiren were classed with those batrachians
in which the tail persists, as in the axolotl. Later they were consid-
ered as forming a sort of intermediate class between reptiles and
fishes, and as forming the connecting link between the two. At
present naturalists class Lepidosiren and Protopterus among fishes.
The Dipnoi are not the only class of animals that bury themselves
in the dried-up mud after the water has been evaporated by the heat
of summer. There is another fish that does the same — the mud-fish
(Amia), which is found in the fresh waters of the United States. The
Amia, too, is indisputably a.Jlsh. There appears to exist some rela-
tion between this animal's mode of life and the cellular structure of
its air-bladder. Still, the Amia is not an amphibian, in the strict
sense of the term. For, thougli its air-bladder resembles the lung of
