550 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the serpent, it certainly receives only blood that has previously been
aerated ; hence we find in this animal no true aerial respiration alter-
nating with strictly aquatic respiration.
But, though the Amia is not amphibious, and hence not to be con-
sidered in this place, nevertheless we must not omit to mention the
fact that, while at present the genus is restricted within rather narrow
geographical limits, it appears to have existed in Europe during the
epoch known to geologists as the Middle Tertiary.
Thus there have been found at Oeningen (Switzerland), Kutschlin
(Bohemria), Menat and Armissan (France), fossil remains of Cyclurus^
which has a close affinity with Amia. It is highly pi-obable, not to
say certain, that these fishes buried themselves in the mud during the
dry season. The little tertiary lakes of Limagne appear to have
undergone in past times alternations of drought and humidity, like
the marshes of tropical and inter-tropical countries.
The presence in Europe of a genus closely allied to the Amia of
America would seem to show that, at a relatively late period, these
two divisions of the world were connected. The study of tertiary
insects, to which E. Oustalet has devoted himself, and a thorough
investigation of fossil fishes, would, we think, tend greatly to confirm
Oswald Heer's hypothesis, according to which an Atlantis — not an
historical Atlantis, as understood by Plato, but a geological Atlantis
— connected the north of Europe with America toward the close of
the great Tertiary epoch.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIOXS OF SOLAR HEAT/
By L. SIMONIN.
THE history of burning-mirrors of brass is known. At Rome the
sacred fire was lighted with apparatus of this kirid, and Archi-
medes fired the ships which were blockading Syracuse by concentrat-
ing upon them the sun's rays by means of a large reflector. BufFon
repeated successfully the experiments of Archimedes. With a mirror
of very slight curvature, consisting of a number of pieces of looking-
glass, he set fire, at some distance, to fir and beech planks, melted tin
and silver, and brought iron to a red heat. Saussure later accumu-
lated, by means of superimposed inclosures of glass, the sun's heat up
to a temperature exceeding that of boiling water, and Sir John Her-
schel repeated these experiments at the Cape of Good Hope at various
times between 1834 and 1888. At the same period the French physi-
cist Pouillet was engaged at Paris in measuring the calorific intensity
of solar radiation, arriving at the conclusion that the heat emitted
* Translated from the French, by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
