INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF SOLAR HEAT. 553
the shorter the time. But later the inventor has employed only coni-
cal mirrors, and in these the insolation surface is quadrupled when the
diameter of the mirror is doubled.
Mouchot's researches did not end here. He proposed further to
obtain mechanical effects with solar heat, and in the beginning of
August, 1866, he put in ojieration at Paris the first machine of this
kind.
In the mean time Ericsson was studying these same problems,
without knowing anything about Mouchot's experiments. Starting
from the facts collected by Herschel and Pouillet, Ericsson, in the
first place, estimated the action of the sun upon a surface of nine
square metres to be sufllicient to vaporize eight litres of water ; con-
sequently it would be equal to one horse-power. From these premises
he deduces striking consequences, as, for instance, that the solar heat
falling on the roofs of Philadelphia alone would suffice to drive 5,000
steam-engines of twenty horse-power each. Then, having demon-
strated that upon one square mile, using only one-half of the surface
and devoting the remainder to buildings, roads, etc., we can drive
64,800 steam-engines, each of a hundred horse-power, simj^ly by the
heat radiating from the sun, he adds these remarkable words : " Archi-
medes, having completed his calculation of the force of a lever, said
that he could move the earth ; I aflSrm that the concentration of the
heat radiated by the sun would produce a force capable of stopping
the earth in its course." Again : " In England they are beginning to
calculate the time when the coal will give out, though coal-mines are,
so to speak, of recent exploitation. A few thousands of years — drops
in the ocean of time — v/ill exhaust the coal-mines of Europe, unless,
meanwhile, recourse is had to the aid of the sun. True, the sun's
beams do riot every day reach the surface of the earth ; but, when tlie
great magazine is opened which shall supply heat gratuitously with-
out cost of transportation, the prudent engineer will know how to pro-
vide a reserve against cloudy days. At the same time we would observe
that a large proportion of the earth's surface is illumined by an ever-
radiant sun. The solar engine's sphere of activity is as great as its
dynamic power is considerable." Mr. Ericsson, who, besides genius,
possesses wealth and a long experience, will doubtless some day take
up again his studies upon the mechanical application of solar heat.
Meanwhile, we must state what has been done in this direction by a
Frenchman.
The traveler who visits the library of Tours sees in the court-yard
in front a strange-looking apparatus. Imagine an immense truncated
cone, a mammoth lamp-shade, with its concavity directed skyward.
This apparatus is of copper, coated on the inside with a very thin sil-
ver-leaf. On the small base of the truncated cone rests a copper cyl-
inder, blackened on the outside, its vertical axis being identical with
that of the cone. This cylinder, surrounded as it were by a great
