554 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
collar, terminates above in a hemispherical cap, so that it looks like an
enormous thimble, and is covered with a bell-glass of the same shape.
This curious apparatus is nothing else but a solar receiver, or, in
otlier words, a boiler, in which water is made to boil by the heat-rays
of the sun. This steam-generator is designed to raise water to the
boiling-point and beyond, by means of the solar rays, which are
thrown upon the cylinder by the silvered inner surface of the conical
reflector. The boiler receives water up to two-thirds of its capacity
through a feed-pipe. A glass tube and a steam-gauge communicating
with the inside of the generator, and attached to the outside of the
reflector, indicate both the level of the water and the pressure of the
steam. Finally, there is a safety-valve to let ofi* the steam when the
pressure is greater than is desired. Thus the engine ofiers all desirable
safety, and may be provided with all the accessories of a steam-boiler.
The reflector, which is the main portion of the generator, has a
diameter of 2,60 metres at its large, and one metre at its small base,
and is eighty centimetres in height, giving four square metres of re-
flecting surface, or of insolation. The interior walls are lined with
burnished silver, because that metal is the best reflector of the heat-
rays ; still brass with a light coating of silver would also serve the
purpose. The inclination of the walls of the apparatus to its axis
measures 45°. Even the ancients were aware that this is the best
form for this kind of metallic mirrors with linear focus, inasmuch as
the incident rays parallel to the axis are reflected perpendicularly to
the same, and thus give a focus of maximum intensity.
The boiler is of copper, which of all the common metals is the best
conductor of heat ; it is blackened on the outside, because black pos-
sesses the property of absorbing all the heat-rays, just as white reflects
them; and it is inclosed in a glass envelope, glass being the most
diathermanous of all bodies — that is to say, the most permeable by
the rays of luminous heat. Glass further possesses the property of
resisting the exit of these same rays after they have been transformed
into dark rays on the blackened surface of the boiler. None of these
applications of physical laws present any novelty ; people reduced
them to practice instinctively, as it were, before men of science could
assign the reasons. Here the arts of cookery and of gardening, and
the processes for warming our rooms, did not wait for the experiments
of the physicist. Saussure himself started from these data in his
researches ; but the inventor needed the discoveries of modern physics
in order to give to these applications a rigorous formula.
The boiler proper of the Tours solar engine consists of two con-
centric bells of copper, the larger one, which alone is visible, having
the same height as the mirror, i. e., eighty centimetres, and the smaller
or inner one fifty centimetres ; their respective diameters are twenty-
eight and twenty-two centimetres. The thickness of the metal is
only three millimetres. The feed-water lies between the two enve-
