INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF SOLAR HEAT 555
lopes, forming an annular envelope three centimetres in thickness.
Thus the volume of liquid is twenty litres, and the steam-chamber
has a capacity of ten litres. The inner envelope is empty. Into it
pass the steam-pipe and the feed-pipe of the boiler. To the steam-
pipe are attached the gauge and the safety-valve. The bell-glass
covering the boiler is eighty-five centimetres high, forty centimetres
in diameter, and five millimetres in thickness. There is everywhere
a space of five centimetres between its walls and those of the boiler,
and this space is filled with a layer of very hot air.
The earth, owing to its diurnal and annual revolution, does not
occupy the same position with regard to the sun at all hours of the
day, or in all seasons of the year. This being the case, the generator
is so contrived as to revolve 15°, or one twenty-fourth of its circum-
ference, hourly around an axis parallel to the earth's axis, i. e., so as
to follow the appai'ent diurnal motion of the sun, and to incline
gradually on this axis in proportion to the solar declination. Hence
the intensity of the utilized heat is always nearly the same, whatever
the hour of the day or the season of the year, inasmuch as the appa-
ratus is always so arranged as to reflect with the least possible loss all
the rays emitted by the sun. This double motion of the generator is
efiected by a very simple contrivance.
The generator just described is the one which M. Mouchot Avas
enabled three years and a half ago to set up at Tours, the Conseil
General of Indre-et-Loire having provided the funds. It has yielded
curious results, some of which are worthy of being recorded here,
though before long they will be surpassed, when some improvements
have been made in the apparatus. On May 8, 1875, the weather be-
ing fine, twenty litres of water at 20° C. temperature was introduced
into the boiler at 8.80 a. m., and took only forty minutes to produce
steam with a pressure of two atmospheres ; in other words, a tempera-
ture of 121° C. was obtained, which is 21 centigrade degrees above
boiling-point. This steam then quickly acquired a pressure of five atmos-
pheres. This was the safety limit of the strength of the api:)aratus : if
the process had been carried any further the boiler would have explod-
ed. Toward noon on the same day, with fifteen litres of water in the
boiler, steam at 100° C, i. e., a pressure of one atmosphere, was raised
in less than fifteen minutes to five atmospheres — a temperature of 153°
C. Finally, on July 22d, about one hour after mid-day, the lieat being
exceptionally great, the apparatus reduced to vapor five litres of
water per hour, which is equal to one hundred and forty litres of
steam per minute, or half a horse-power.'
' A maker of instruments of precision, J. Salleron, who constructed tlie solar appa-
ratus which was presented to the Institut last year, lately wrote to me as follows : " I
have driven a small model steam-engine, witli the steam generated in the boiler of this
new generator, and M. Noel, Professor of Physics in the Vendome Lycee, put the same
engine in operation on January 5th last. The water began to boil after twenty-eight
nainutes, the hour being uoou, and the temperature of the surrounding air near 0° C."
