556 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A steam-engine consists of two principal parts, the boiler and the
engine proper, or motor. We suppose that with the boiler employed
at Tours "we can use the common motors ; this is one of the advantages
possessed by the solar apparatus, viz., that it does not require a special
form of motor. At first the inventor employed for his demonstrations
a double-acting engine, without either condensation or detention of
steam, the cylinder of which had a capacity of one-third of a litre.
This engine performed eighty strokes per minute, with a steady press-
ure of one atmosphere ; it continued to work even under a slightly-
clouded sun. This was later superseded by a rotary engine, that is,
an engine with revolving cylinder, which avoids all transmission of
movement ; but the system is faulty. Yet this engine worked very
well, di-iving at high velocity a little pump for raising water ; the
pump, however, being of weak construction, became disabled. It is
a pity that the inventor has never measured the real work performed
by his engine, by means of a dynamometer.
The solar reflector, being first of all a furnace using fuel that costs
nothing, is not only of use as a means of developing motive force,
but can also be employed for a multitude of purposes — for instance,
distilling water to make it fit for drinking, concentrating and crystal-
lizing saline solutions, preparing alcohol, etc. Five litres of wine can
be distilled in a quarter of an hour by passing the vapor from the
apparatus into a still. The manufacture of alcohol from grain, sugar-
cane, or beet-root, would be equally easy. The steam generated by
this apparatus can also be employed for cooking fodder for cattle.
M. Mouchot has devised a form of small marmites, quite difiereut
from his large steam-generator. These can be used by hunters for
preparing their meals, and explorers of great deserts will now have
something besides camel or buiFalo chips for cooking their victuals.
Many and varied are the uses of this curious invention. The aero-
naut can with its aid propel his air-ship. Hot-air motors and ammo-
nia engines will be benefited by the use of the solar receiver ; but it
is especially in tropical countries that it is destined to find immediate
employment, in driving the various kinds of machinery used in sugar
and cotton plantations, in distilling impure water to make it fit for
drinking, in crystallizing saline and saccharine solutions, in pumping
water of irrigation, in manufacturing ice by means of the Carre ma-
chine, etc. In those countries fuel is scarce, firewood is not abundant,
and coal, which has to be imported from a distance, often from the
mines of England, commands an exorbitant price. Already in south-
ern countries sea-salt is obtained purely by the action of solar heat.
In Chili and in Mauritius, salt-marshes are divided into compartments,
with walls and roof of glass, in order to promote evaporation ; so in
the famous nitre-beds of Iquique, on the coast of Peru, the salt might
be crystallized by solar heat alone.
The cost of a solar apparatus of half a horse-power, like that
