INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF SOLAR HEAT. 557
at Tours, does not exceed fifteen hundred francs, and, wlicn the manu-
facture is carried on ujjon a large scale, will be much less. By sub-
stituting for the silver plate, which is the most costly portion of the
reflector, brass with a thin coat of silver, which will serve the pur-
pose equally well, a considerable reduction of cost is effected.
As the insolation surface, and consequently the power of the ap-
paratus, is quadrupled when the diameter of the mirror is doubled, it
will be easy to construct large generators without adding very much
to the cost or complicatifig the mechanism. The one thing to be
avoided in this case will be too great intensity of heat. It cannot be
objected that the conical reflector takes up too much room, for a com-
mon steam-engine occupies considerable space likewis^e with its long
boilers and its high chimney ; as for the motor, properly so called,
and the contrivances for transmittmg the power, they are the same in
both cases.
The strongest winds, at least in our latitudes, have no action on
the reflection of the solar heat, or upon the mirror itself, which is not
shaken by them. This is an important point, for tliis is an apparatus
which must always be exposed in the open air. In regions where the
wind-storms are more severe than they are here, the reflector might
be staid and strengthened with iron ribs, so as to resist the most
violent cyclones. It has been demonstrated that the bell-glass, even
when highly heated by the direct radiation from the boiler, is in no
danger of breaking, even when a cold rain falls upon it, and that it
is even proof against hailstones; and now that a process has been
invented for tempering glass and making it almost unbreakable, we
can without difficulty obtain bell-glasses strong enough for any emer-
gency.
Experience will hereafter lead to many improvements now un-
thought of; b\it even as it stands to-day the solar engine at Tours is
ready to pass from the speculations of theory to the application of
practice. It is neither over-costly, nor difficult to set up, nor so com-
plicated as to require great skill in managing it ; and, from whatever
])oint of view we regard it, it meets and overcomes all objections.
We may say that it lends itself to every industrial use in which solar
heat can be employed, especially in troj^ical countries where the ab-
sence of all kinds of fuel for industrial uses is severely felt. In the
not distant future, in other countries, too, there will exist no otiier fuel
than the sun, no other engines than those driven by solar heat. By that
time no doubt the means of storing up this heat will have been dis-
covered, for in our latitudes we shall have to make provision against
cloudy days and seasons of rain, which unfortunately constitute the
major part of the year.
It may appear to be a pleasant paradox to say that future genera-
tions, after the coal-mines have been exhausted, will have recourse to the
sun for tlie heat and energy needed in manufacture and in domestic
