INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF SOLAR HEAT. 559
The world will not perish for want of coal, yet the coal-supply
will fail, and that much sooner than Ericsson estimated, for the pro-
duction doubles every ten or fifteen years. It will not take thousands
of years to exhaust the European coal-mines, but only hundreds, and
not very many hundreds either. In England, as appears from recent
calculations, the supply will have been consumed in two or three cen-
turies at the farthest. Belgium, Germany, France, and the other
countries of Europe, are no better off. The United States of America
and the north of China have coal enough to last for one thousand
years, and that is all. We must then have recourse to the sun.
It will perhaps be said, "There is electricity." Electricity, as a
mechanical agent, is too costly; to produce electricity we have to
consume copper, zinc, and acids. Now, one kilogramme of copper, zinc,
or anid represents several kilogrammes of coal expended in procuring
it. In reducing copper-ore according to the Welch metho'd, sixteen kilo-
grammes of coal is consumed for each kilogramme of copper obtained.
Hence it were reasoning in a vicious circle to suppose that electrical
or electro-magnetic machines can usefully or economically take the
place of steam-engines. There is only one case in which this conclu-
sion would be weakened ; namely, if with a thermo-electric pile we
should succeed in decomposing water into its elements, oxygen and
hydrogen, at little or no expense. The problem would then be solved,
for this would place in the hands of all the two greatest sources of
light, heat, and force — oxygen and hydrogen. But, even then, to what
should we owe this unexpected solution ? To the sun, for it is only by
the aid of a thermo-electric pile (wherein we suppose electricity to be
produced by solar heat)tliat we could economically decompose oxygen
and hydrogen ; else it would require at least as much heat to disso-
ciate them as they would yield on recombining — a petitio principii
overlooked by those simple inventors who persist in attempting, by
means of ordinary electric piles, to solve the great problem of eco-
nomical motors and the fuel of the future.
As for directly storing up solar heat in good conductors or absorb-
ents of heat which are then to be insulated — for instance, receiving
the heat in porous black stones which are first exposed to the sun and
afterward thrown into a great reservoir, just as snow is piled up in
the ice-house — it involves no impossibility. These stones could be
thrown into water, if needs were, and in this way we might easily
attain or surpass the temperature of boiling water.
Straw, sawdust, wool, feathers, confined air, are insulating sub-
stances which retain heat. AYe might surround with a double en-
velope of this kind the reservoir holding the sun-heated stones, and in
this way we might have our store of solar heat, as now wc have our
store of ice. It is one problem whether we have to retain cold or to
retain heat. Now, ice keeps very well even when stowed in the hold
of a vessel; a little sawdust and careful stowage do the whole work.
