560 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The same means will serve in storing solar heat, and, if need be, ship-
ping it to a distance. We have barely outlined the idea, but certain
we are that at the proper time the scientific man will appear who shall
discover a practical method of doing this.
The sun, as it would appear, will be the fuel of the future, and one
might say that this was foreseen by the great encyclopsedic scholar
of the middle ages, Dante, when in his incomparable poem he said,
" Guarcla il calor del sol che si fa vino " — " Look at the sun's heat
which changes into wine " — as though he meant to say, into all that
is force, all that is life, all that is light. — Revue des Deux Mondes.
THE KEVIYED THEOEY OF PHLOGISTOjS".
Br "WILLIAM ODLING, M. B., F. R. S.
rULLEBIAN PE0FE8S0K OF CHEMI8TRT, EOYAL INSTITUTION.
IN l781-'83. Cavendish showed that when inflammable air or hydro-
gen, and dephlogisticated air or oxygen, are exploded together
in certain proportions, " almost the whole of the inflammable and
dephlogisticated air is converted into pure water," or^ as he elsewhere
expresses it, "is turned into water."
On June 24, 1783, the experiment of Cavendish was repeated on a
larger scale and in a somewhat difierent form by Lavoisier, who not
only confirmed the synthesis of the Englisli chemist, but drew from it
the conclusion — at first strongly contested, then rapidly acknowledged,
and since never called into question — "that water consists of inflam-
mable air united to dephlogisticated air," or that it is a compound of
hydrogen and oxygen.
This conclusion, so opposite to his own preconception on the
matter, Lavoisier subsequently confirmed by an analysis of watei*.
He found that iron, heated to redness and exposed to the action of
water-vapor, became changed, by an abstraction of oxygen from the
water, into the self-same oxide of iron procurable by burning the metal
in oxygen gas — the other constituent of the water, namely, its hydro-
gen, being freely liberated.
With the demonstration by Lavoisier of the composition of water
began the triumph of that antiphlogistic theory which he had con-
ceived, in a necessarily imperfect form, so far back as 1772, or before
the discovery of oxygen, and had brought to completion by the aid of
every successive step in pneumatic chemistry, achieved by himself or
by others.
In 1785, the relationship to one another of hydrogen and water
being then conclusively established, Bertholiet declared himself a con-
vert to the new theory of combustion put forward by his countryman.
