so A P-B UBBLES. 5 8 3
thus become smaller. I will blow a bubble at one end of a glass
tube, and leave the tube open at the other end ; we shall thus have a
small hole formed in one side of the bubble, which, if our theory is
correct, will gradually contract and disappear. You now see on the
screen images of the ends of two tubes. 1 have the power of cutting
off one tube entirely from access to the other ; and I do so now, so
that you will, if you please, consider for the purposes of this experi-
ment that tube only as existing at the extremity of which I shall
blow the bubble. You now see the image of the soap-bubble, which
as long as the tube is closed remains unaltered in size ; I open it, and
it now at once contracts and disappears. This, then, conclusively
proves that the air in the bubble was compressed. I will now go a
step farther, and show that the amount of this compression depends on
the size of the bubble. If it be large, che air is not so much compressed
as if it be small. Let us consider what would happen if I formed bub-
bles at the two ends of a tube. If they were of the same size, evidently
— the one pressing the air in one direction, and the other pressing it in
the other with equal force — no effect would follow. If, however, one
bubble were smaller than the other, and what I have said be true, the
small one would compress the air within it, and drive it from left to
right (say) with greater force than the other would tend to drive it
from right to left ; hence the air would flow from the small bubble to
the lai'ge one ; the large one would increase, and the small one dimin-
ish. The smaller the bubble, the more the air would be compressed ;
and thus the current would become greater and greater, until at last
we should see the small bubble entirely disappear, the large one hav-
ing absorbed all the air which it previously contained. I will try to
show you this on the screen ; first disconnecting the two tubes, I blow
at their ends bubbles of unequal size. I will now place them in com-
munication, so that the air can pass from the one to the other. You
see, the small bubble contracts and the large one expands, and we
thus learn that the pressure of the smaller or more ciirved bubble
upon the air is greater than that of the less curved one.
I now come to the third property of liquids of which I wish to
speak ; and that is, that the surface of a liquid is generally either more
or less viscous than the interior. With reference to the word viscous,
you will find a familiar example of two liquids which differ very much
in this property of viscosity in treacle and water. Take a vessel of
treacle and a vessel of water, pour the liquids out, and note tlie dif-
ferent way in which they behave ; the water flows out smoothly, one
part slipping over another, whereas the treacle comes out in a great
rolling mass, which seems to stick to the sides of the vessel. Again,
put a spoon into a vessel of water, and move it through the liquid,
you will find little resistance to its motion, the water seems to flow
away to make room for it and closes in again immediately behind.
Try the same experiment with the treacle and you will find the resist-
