t;86 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
would press upon the plate ; but the plate would be able to resist the
pressure, and the bubble would remain a hemisphere with a flat base.
If, on the other hand, the bubble were formed on the surface of a
liquid, there would be precisely the same pressure on the bottom, only
it would be acting on a medium which would give way to it ; the
liquid, therefore, would yield to the pressure of the air, and we
should have the bubble as it were a little buried in the liquid by
its own pressure. As the pressure increases with the smallness of
the bubble, we should expect a small bubble to be very deeply buried,
and a large bubble to be slightly buried. I will now pour into the
cell, the image of which you see, a small quantity of liquid, and blow
in it a very small bubble. You now see the images of two bubbles
which have risen to the surface, and that they are very much buried
in the liquid by virtue of their pressure. I will now blow a large
bubble. You see that within it the surface of the liquid is very much
less depressed. I will blow a still larger one. Now I have succeeded
in blowing a very large bubble, and the lower part of it is not aj^pre-
ciably depressed. I will now blow a great number of bubbles in con-
tact, and will then point out one or two facts. You now see that odd
network which represents a great number of bubbles. There are two
points I wash you to notice. In the first place, when two bubbles
meet, the surface between them may be either plane or curved. It
is plane if both bubbles are of equal size, and therefore compress the
air wdthin them with equal force ; but, if they are unequal, the smaller
bubble, compressing the air more strongly, indents the larger, and
the surface which divides them is curved. Xotice also auothpr very
curious i^oint, namely, that in no case do more than three bubbles
meet in a point, excepting for an instant. This follows from the law
that a large number of bubbles, as well as each one, will assume the
smallest possible surface. I cannot go into the proof of this, but it
follows from the law I have already given you. As the bubbles form,
collapse, and disappear, you see that they always so arrange them-
selves that no more than three shall ever meet in a point.
Now, then, we have got our bubble on the surface of the liquid.
Let us consider what will happen to it after that. Evidently the
liquid of which it is composed will run down the sides by virtue ot
its own weight ; but there will be a certain resistance to this motion,
greater or less as the viscosity of the surface is great or small. Hence,
there are two different dangers which may beset the bubble. The
first of these is, that when the surface-viscosity is small, then the liquid
runs down the sides of the bubble very easily ; the consequence is,
the bubble becomes very thin and bursts. There is, however, an
opposite danger which may imperil the bubble when the surface-vis-
cosity is great ; and that is, that the liquid does not flow down in a
straight line or regular curve, but in irregular masses, which every
now and then tear away from each other. Now, these ruptures make
