so A P-B UBBLES. 5 8 7
little holes in the surface of the liquid ; and when a hole is made the
surface-tension tends to tear the liquid away, and to make it Ligger.
If the liquid has a very considerable svirface-tension, the small holes
in the surface may be so instantly turned into large ones that the
bubble may burst. This is, however, less likely to occur when the
surface-viscosity is small than when it is great, because in that case
the liquid flowing in from all sides can more easily fill up the hole, and
restore the damage done, before it becomes dangerously large. The
best kind of bubble for lasting is one in which the surface-viscosity is
tolerably large, so that the sides of the bubble may not become thin
too quickly, and in which the surface-tension is not too great, so that
any small fractures which occur may not be instantly enlarged. When
we find a liquid which has these two properties, we have all the requi-
sites for making good bubbles ; but sooner or later a hole is made,
and then the bubble bursts, and in a way which is probably very dif-
ferent from what, a priori^ we should expect. In the first place, the
orifice which has been formed becomes rapidly larger, the surface-
tension which acts all round its edges and pulls the film away from
its centre tending to enlarge it. Secondly, the surface of the liquid is
necessarily very much curved all round the hole, and a greater press-
ure is therefore excited at that pait by the surface on the liquid
which forms the interior of the film than elsewhere. Hence the liquid
becomes heaped up around the hole into a ring which is thicker than
the rest of the bubble, though its thickness is very small compared
with the diameter of the hole. The liquid in the ring is thus in cir-
cumstances somewhat similar to that in the long cylinder we have
already studied — it undergoes a similar series of transformations and
is broken up into drops which are flung away from the bubble.
Another ring is instantly formed and as instantly broken, and the
process is repeated again and again with inconceivable rapidity, until
in a very small fraction of a second a little cloud, comj^osed of the
numerous minute drops which have been formed, is all that remains
of the bubble.
I must now draw to a close. I have discussed with you, as well
as I could in the short space of time allotted to me, the history of a
bubble from its birth, in the bosom of the liquid, to its dissolution in
the air above. The facts and experiments I have- brought to your
notice have been, I hope, in themselves sufficient to attract you; but
I tliink they will acquire an additional interest if, before we part, I
tell you something about the man to whom we owe most of ovx knowl-
edge on the subject of my lecture. I mean M. Plateau, the Professor
of Physics in the Belgian University of Ghent. This gentleman began
his studies on liquids when a yoiing man, and was already well known
for his success in scientific investigation, when a misfortune overtook
him which one would have thought would have put an end to his
further researches. He became hopelessly blind. A misfortune like
