588 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this would have crushed a weaker man ; but in the case of M. Plateau
it served to show the genuine metal he was made of. He spent
the long hours of darkness, not in useless repining, or vain regrets,
but in endeavoring to advance the knowledge of his race by pon-
dering over the unsolved problems connected with the subjects he
understood so well, and in devising experiments, often of the most
exquisite ingenuity, for putting his theories and conclusions to the
test. These, which he could no longer perform for himself, were un-
dertaken for him by a devoted band of friends, among whom was his
own son ; and the result has been, not merely a very large addition to
our knowledge of the projDerties of the surfaces of liquids, but, what is
perhaps far more important, the presentation to the world of a spec-
tacle of victory over almost overwhelming obstacles such as it has
seldom seen. It is not well that our knowledge of scientific facts
should be entirely divorced from an acquaintance Avith the lives and
labors of their discoverers, or that we should come to regard them
simply as a sort of revelation made to a fortunate few, to the rich
inheritance of which we have been lucky enough to succeed. The
men who built up the pile of modern science were not of those who
sit still and wait with folded hands for some inspiration, they know
not whence ; rather they performed their tasks, and won success amid
difficulties and discouragements to which we in happier times are
strangers. But, while rightly ready to pay our homage to the great
achievements of the past, we should ever be watchful to honor duly
deeds which will cast a lustre upon our own time ; and among these
the life-work of M. Plateau holds in some respects a position sec-
ond to none. Others may deserve a higher place for the number,
or practical or scientific importance, of their discoveries, but none
have more honestly earned the praise due to those who have done
what they could ; and the world, which is so apt to appropriate the
work and forget the worker, should be taught at all events to remem-
ber this, that we owe some of the most charming experiments in the
whole range of physics to one who himself has never beheld many of
them, and of whom, with respect to the rest, we must in all sadness
say, he " shall see them again no more forever."
