38 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the coast of North America to the sixty-seventh parallel of north lati-
tude; and Magellan's vessel the Vittoria, after sailing around the
world, had returned in 1522 to San Lucar, in Spain, the port Avhence
she set out.
The century that followed this period of discovery was occupied
with the more particular exploration and settlement of the regions
thus brought to the knowledge of mankind, and with the labors of
geographers and cartographers in arranging the great mass of new
materials into a reconstructed system of geography. With the ex-
ception of fruitless efforts to discover, in the interest of commerce, a
northeast or a northwest passage to the Indies around the northern
part of the globe, or directly across the pole, the zeal for geographi-
cal discovery abated through the seventeenth and eighteenth centu-
ries ; the world being sufficiently occupied with what it had already
acquired, either in building up great empires in the newly-discovered
continents of North and South America, or by extending the rule of
maritime nations over the coast of Africa, and the remoter parts of
Asia, as in the settlement of the colonies established by the Portu-
guese, and by the British conquest of India. In fact, so large a por-
tion of the earth's surface had become known within so short a jDeriod,
that it presented enough to absorb all the activity of civilized nations
for three centuries in the work of colonization, settlement, or con-
quest.
It was not until near the middle of the nineteenth century when
this great work had produced its results in the establishment of such
nations as the United States, Mexico, the republics of Central Amer-
ica, Brazil, the other states of South America, and of a vast dominion
under British rule in India, and by the extension of Russia over a
large part of Northern Asia, that the attention of mankind was again
drawn to the yet undiscovered or imperfectly known portions of the
earth, and a new interest awakened in geographical exploration and
discovery. This may be said to have begun with the founding of a
Geographical Society in Paris, in 1821 ; of another in Berlin, in 1828,
and the establishment of the Royal Geographical Society of London,
in 1830. These societies were formed to cultivate the science of
geography in a more comprehensive spirit, to facilitate the acquisi-
tion of geographical information by the establishment of libraries, to
disseminate it by publications, and to encourage and assist scitntific
travelers and explorers. Like all new things, however, it was some
years before these societies produced any effect, or the world recog-
nized the value of the purpose for which they were established ;
whereas the results which have since been brought about, chiefly
through the instrumentality of such institutions, are beyond anything
which the most sanguine of their projectors could have anticipated.
The Royal Geographical Society of London may be taken as an
illustration of these societies. It has now 3,035 fellows, each paying
