THE EVOLUTION OF HEBREW RELIGION. 589
THE EYOLUTION OF HEBREW RELIGION.
By FELIX ABLER,
PROFESSOE OF HEBEEW LITERATURE IN CORNELL UNIVERSITY.
" Dans I'opinioQ du peuple pour qui ces livres ont ete ecrits le point capital et essentiel
n'est certes pas la narration historique, mais bien la legislation et I'edification reiigieuse." *
IN 1795, Frederick Augustus Wolf published a modest octavo vol-
ume entitled ''Prolegomena to Homer," from whose appearance
is dated the beginning of a new era of historic criticism. The com-
position of the poems of Homer formed its subject. For "wellnigh
twenty years the author had collected evidence, "weighed arguments,
and patiently tested his results by constant revision. His own bias
was strongly engaged on the side of the unity of the great Grecian
epic. But the results of his researches continued to point in the
opposite direction, and at last his earnest devotion to truth compelled
him to adopt a theory the soundness of whose construction seemed
to be no longer questionable. He was thus worthy to become the
" founder of the science of philology in its present significance." ^
The influence of Wolf's discovery was not confined to the study of
classic literature only. It quickly radiated through every department
of history. " In every singing age," he said, " a single sseculum is
almost like a single man. It is all one mind, one soul." ^ This con-
ception involved a new social law, and radically altered the current
opinions concerning the relation of individual effort to tlie larger
forces that affect the develojiment of nations. The creative energy
of remarkable minds was not, indeed, lessened in importance, but
spontaneity, in this connection, acquired a new meaning ; and for the
Deus ex machina of the olden time was substituted the cumulative
force of centuries of progressive advancement, culminating, it is true,
at last in the triumphant synthesis of genius. The commotion w^hich
the Wolfian theory has stirred up in the literary world is largely due
to the wide range of ideas which it affected. Yet it was itself but a
part of that general movement which, toward the close of tlie last
century, became conspicuous in its effects on every field of human
inquiry. Everywhere the shackles of authority were thrown off, and,
in place of blindly accepting the testimony of the past, men turned to
investigate for themselves. A ncAV principle of research was every-
where acknowledged, a new method was created, and science, natural
1 "In the estimation of the people for whom these books were written, the capital,
essential point surely was, not the historic narrative, but rather legislation and religious
edification." — (Noldeke, "Histoirc Litt^raire de I'Ancicn Testament," p. 19.)
' Bonitz, " Ueber den Ursprung der Ilomerischen Gedichte," p. 11.
* In a letter given in Korte's " Lebcn und Studien F. A. Wolf's," i., p. 307.
