50O THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
and historical, entered upon that astonishing career of discovery
whose rich promise for the future Tre have but begun to anticipate/
To the impetus given by Wolf, and to the new-born spirit of sci-
ence which he carried into the sphere of philology, we owe among
other valuable results the beginnings of a more critical inquiry into
the records of ancient Hebrew religion. Indeed, the author of the
" Prolegomena " himself clearly foresaw the influence which his book
was destined to exert on Hebrew studies. In a ktter, from which we
have already quoted above, he says: "The demonstration that the
Pentateuch is made up of unequal portions, that these are the prod-
ucts of different centuries, and that they were put together shortly
after the time of Solomon, may, ere long, be confidently expected. I
should myself be willing to undertake such an argument without fear,
for nowhere do we find any ancient witness to guarantee the autlior-
ship of the Pentateuch to Moses himself." '
The prediction embodied in these words soon came true. A host
of competent scholars took up the study of the Hebrew Bible, and,
profiting by Wolf's example and suggestions, applied to its elucida-
tion the same careful methods, the same scrupulous honesty of in-
terpretation, that had proved so successful in the realm of classical
philology. Theologians by profession, they set aside their predilec-
tions, and placed the ascertainment of the truth above all other in-
terests. They believed in the indestructible vitality of religion, and
were willing to admit the full light of criticism upon the scriptural
page, confident that any loss would be temporary only, the gain per-
manent. In the course of their researches they arrived, among others,
at the following important conclusions :
That the editor of the Pentateuch had admitted into his volume
several accounts touching the main facts of early Hebrew history ;
that these accounts are often mutually at variance ; that minute analy-
sis and careful comparison alone can lead to an approximately true
estimate of their comparative value ; and, lastly, that the transmission
of historical information had in no wise been the object of the Hebrew
writers. The history of their people served, it is true, to illustrate
certain of their doctrines concerning the divine government of the
world, and especially the peculiar relations of the Deity to the chosen
race ; but it was employed much in the sense of a moral tale, being
designed, not to convey facts, but to enforce lessons. Had the accept-
^ Scientific pursuits are distinguished from others, not by the material, but by the
method of knowledge. The mere collection of data, however multiplied in detail, how-
ever abstruse the subjects to which they may refer, does not of itself deserve the name
of science. The term properly applies only when phenomena are placed in causal
relation, and the laws which govern their development are traced. Measured by this
standard, every attempt to explain the growth of human thought and institutions, and to
elucidate the laws which have acted in the process of their evolution, has a just claim to
be classed under the head of scientific inquiry.
■ Letter in Korte's " Leben und Studien F. A. Wolf's," i., p. 309.
