THE EVOLUTION OF HEBREW RELIGION. 593
and drink." Once more, Exod. xxiv. 4-7, Moses himself writes down
the words of revelation in a book of covenant. Exod. xxiv. 12, not
Moses but God writes them ; and, elsewhere, " Two tables of stone in-
scribed by the linger of God."
Exod. XX. enjoins the observance of the sabbatli-chiy as a memorial
of the repose of the Maker of heaven and earth on the sabbath of crea-
tion. Deut. v., the fourth commandment- is enjoined because of the
redemption of Israel from Egyptian bondage. Exod. xxxiv., a new
version of the decalogue, differing in most respects from the one com-
monly received, is promulgated.* The first commandment is to wor-
ship no strange god ; the second, to make no graven images ; the
third, to observe the feast of unleavened bread ; the fourth, to deliver
the first-born unto Jehovah ; the fifth, to observe the sabbath, etc.
In Exod. XX. we read that the guilt of the fathers will be aveno-ed
upon the children down even to the third and fourth generation ; in
Deut. xxiv,, the children shall not die for their fathers. Every one
for his own sin shall die.
In Deut. XXV. the marrying of a deceased brother's wife is under
certain conditions enjoined as a duty. In Levit. xviii. it is uncon-
ditionally prohibited as a crime.
Exod. xxxiii., Moses removes the tabernacle beyond the camp.
Num. ii,, the tabernacle rests in the very heart of the camp, with all
the tribes of Israel grouped round about it, according to their stand-
ards and divisions.
Num. xvi., the sons of Korah, the leader of the great Levitical
sedition, perish with their father. Num. xxvi., the sons of Korah do
not perish.*
Of the forty years which the Israelites are said to have dwelt in
the desert, not more than two are covered by the events of tlie nar-
rative. The remainder are wrapped in dense obscurity. There is,
however, a significant fact which deserves mention in this connection.
The death of Aaron marks, as it were, the close of Israel's journey.
Now, while in Num. xxxiii. the death of the high-priest is described
as occurring in the fortieth year, in Deut. x. it is actually referred to
the second year of the Exodus,*
A brief digression beyond the borders of the Pentateuch will show
' Compare Dc Wette's " Einleituiig in das alte Testament " (Schrader's edition), p.
286, note 53.
* Num. xxvi. 11. Indeed, had the sons of Korah and every human being related to
him perished, as Num. xvi. avers, how could we account for the fact that Korah's de-
scendants filled high offices in the Temple at Jerusalem later on ? The celebrated singer,
Heraan, himself was a lineal descendant of Korah. To the descendants of Korah also
are ascribed the following Psalms: Ps. xlii., xliv.-xlix., Ixxxiv., Ixxxv., Ixxxvii., Ixxxviii.
' In connection with this subject it is of interest to compare Goethe's argument on the
duration of the desert journey in the " Westostlicher Divan." Here, as in so many other
instances, the intuitive perception of the great poet anticipated the tardy results of sub-
Bequent investigation.
voT.. IX. — 38
