594 '^HE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that the conflict of testimony which we have thus far noticed, affect-
ing as it does some of the leading events of ancient Hebrew history,
does not diminish as we proceed in the narrative. In 1 Samuel vii.
it is said that the Philistines ceased to harass the land of Israel all
the days of Samuel. Immediately thereupon we read of new Philis-
tine incursions more direful than ever in their consequences.' The
popular proverb, " Is Saul among the prophets ? " is variously ex-
plained, 1 Sam. X. and xix. Two discrepant accounts are given of
Saul's rejection from the kingdom, 1 Sara. xiii. and xv. ; of David's
introduction to Saul, 1 Sam. xvi. and xvii. The charming story of
David's encounter with the giant Goliath told in 1 Sam. xvii. is
contradicted in 2 Sam. xxi. 19, where, not David, but some person
otherwise unknown to fame, is reported to have slain the giant Goli-
ath, and also the time, place, and attendant circumstances, are differ-
ently related.^
It thus appears that the compiler of the Pentateuch has admitted
a variety of views, not only on the ancient history of his people,
but also on the general subject of religion and morals, into his work;
and that the discordant opinions of diverse authors and of diverse
stages of human progress are reffected in its pages. It is the monu-
ment of a grand religious movement extending over many centuries
of gradual development. It is the image of a nation's struggles and
growth. As contained in the books of the Pentateuch, the Mosaic
religion is a religious mosaic.
In the foregoing sketch we have observed how deep a mist of un-
certainty hangs over the earliest period, the golden age of the history
of the Hebrews. All is in a state of flux, and what appeared com-
pact and coherent at a distance yields to our touch uj»on closer con-
tact. To gain terra Jirma, let us turn to the period which immedi-
ately succeeded the settlement of the Israelites in Palestine; a period
in which the outline of historical events begins to assume a more
definite and tangible shape.
It was a dismal and sorrowful age. The bonds of social order
w^ere loosened ; the current conceptions of the Deity and the rites of
his worship were gross and often degrading. Mutual jealousies kin-
dled the firebrand of war among the contending clans. Almost the
whole tribe of Benjamin is extirpated. Abimelech slays seventy
princes upon one stone. Lust and treachery run riot. A wilder
deed has never been chronicled in the annals of mankind than that
related in chapter xix. of Judges, nor ever has a terrible deed been
more terribly avenged. Xow, looking backward, we ask. Is it to be
believed that in the fourteenth century b. c. not only the leader of
' Compare 1 Sam. vii. 13, and 1 Sam. xiii. 19.
' In 1 Chron. xx. 5 we read, " the brother of Goliath." The purpose of the change
is clear, and accords well with the apologetical tendencies of the author of Chronicles.
Vide De Wette, " Einleitung," etc., p. STO. Geiger, " Urschrift."
