THE EVOLUTION OF HEBREW RELIGION. 595
Israel, but also their elders, their priests, nay, large numbers eA'en of
the very populace, shared in the most exalted, the most spiritual con-
ceptions of God, and nourished the most refined sentiments in regard
to human relationships, while immediately thereupon, and centuries
thereafter, violence, and bloodshed, and idolatry, do not cease from
the records? It has been argued, indeed, that the worship of idols
was but a relapse from the purity of a preceding age ; and that, thoug'h
the tradition of the Mosaic time may have been lost in the succeeding
period among the people at large, it was still preserved in the circle of
a select few, the judges. King David, and others. These, it is believed,
continued to remain faithful disciples of the great lawgiver. But
these very men, the judges — King David himself — all fall immeasura-
bly below the standard which is set up in the Pentateuch. If they
were esteemed the true representatives of the national religion in
their day, if the very points in which they transgressed the provi-
sions of the Mosaic code are distinguished by the approval of God
and man, we are forced to conclude that that standard — by which
they stand condemned — did not yet exist ; that, in the days of David,
the laws of Moses, as we now have them, were as yet unwritten and
unknown. Let us illustrate this important point by a few examples
taken from the records. Gideon no sooner returns from victory than
he makes a golden idol and sets it up for worship. Jephthah slays
his daughter as an offering of thanksgiving to Jehovah. In the Pen-
tateuch the adoration of images is branded as the gravest of offenses.
David keeps household gods in his own home (1 Sam. xix.). In the
Pentateuch, on its opening page, God is proclaimed as a pure spirit,
maker of heaven and earth. In the eyes of David (1 Sam, xxvi. 19),
the sway of Jehovah does not extend beyond the borders of Pales-
tine.' In the Pentateuch the ark of the covenant is described as the
treasury of all that is brightest and best in the worship of the
one God. None but the consecrated priest dare approach it, and
even he only under circumstances calculated to inspire peculiar ven-
eration and awe. In 2 Sam. vi., David abandons the ark to the keep-
ing of a heathen Philistine. In an early stage of culture, when fear
and terror in the presence of superior force entered largely into the
religious conceptions of the Hebrews, the taking of the census was
deemed an act of grave transgression. It appeared a vaunting of
one's strength ; it seemed to indicate a defiant attitude toward the
loftier power of the Deity, which he would certainly visit with con-
dign punishment. At a later period the priesthood found it in their
interest to override these scruples, and the taking of the census be-
came an affair of habitual occurrence. In the last chapter of Samuel
the more primitive view still predominated. Seventy thousand Israel-
ites are miserably slain to atone for King David's presumption in
commanding a census of the people. In the fourth book of Moses, on
' Banishment being described as a transfer of allegiance to strange gods.
