5o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
the other hand, the numbering of the people not only proceeds with-
out the slightest evil resulting therefrom, but at the exjjress command
of God himself.
In the book of Deuteronomy the service of Jehovah is said to con-
sist mainly in the practice of righteousness, in works of kindness
toward our fellows, in sincere and holy love toward the Deity, who is
represented as the merciful father of all his human children, 2 Sam.
xxi., a famine comes upon the land of Israel. The anger of Jehovah
is kindled against the people. To appease him, David offers sacrifice
— human sacrifice. The seven sons of Saul are slain, and their
bodies kept exposed on the hill, " in the sight of Jehovah," and the
horrid offering is accepted^ and the divine wrath is thereby pacified.'
Truly, in the age of David, the Hebrews were far, far removed from
that high state of culture in which the ideal conception of religion
that pervades Deuteronomy became possible. And long after, when
centuries had gone by and the kingdom of Judah was already ap-
proacliing its dissolution, the direful practices of David's reign still
survived, and the root of idolatry had not been plucked from the
heart of the people. Still do we hear of human sacrifice perpetrated
in the midst of Jerusalem, and steeds and chariots dedicated to the
sun-god, and images of tlie Pliallus, and all the abominations of sen-
sual worship, filled the very Temple of Jehovah.
But in the mean time a new force had entered the current of
Hebrew history. The conviction that one God, and he an all-just,
almighty being, rules the destinies of Israel, began to take root. In
the eighth century b. c. authentic records prove that monotheism, as a
form of religious belief, obtained, at least among the more illustrious
members of the prophetic order. TVe have elsewhere attempted to
trace the causes which led to the rise of monotheism at this particu-
lar epoch, and shall do no more than briefly allude to them here.
When the mountaineei's of Southern Palestine, after centuries of
protracted sti'uggle, had secured the safe possession of individual
homes, the endearments of domestic life were invested with a sanctity
in their eyes never before known. The attachment of the Hebrew
toward his offspring was intensified ; his devotion to the wife of his
bosom became purer and more enduring. Now, the prevailing forms
of Semitic religion outraged these feelings at every point. The gods
of the surrounding nations were gods of pleasure and of pain ; and in
their worship the stern practices of fanatic asceticism alternated with
the wildest orgies of sensual enjoyment. The worship of Baal Moloch
demanded the sacrifice of children ; that of the lascivious Baaltis in-
^ It is important to note that the seven sons of Saul were sacrificed in the begin-
ning of the barley-harvest. This circumstance seems to throw light on the primitive
mode of celebrating the Passover. That the rite of human sacrifice vras originally con-
nected with this festival is generally acknowledged. Vhie^ e.^., Exod. xiii., 2. By such
offerings it was intended, no doubt, to secure the favor of the god during the continuance
of the harvest.
