THE EVOLUTION OF HEBREW RELIGION. 597
suited the modesty of woman. The nobler spirits among the Hebrews
rebelled against both these demands. And, as they were put forth
in the name of the dominant religion, the inevitable conclusion fol-
lowed that that religion itself must be radically wrong. The spirit of
opposition thus awakened was aroused into powerful activity when,
in the days of Ahab, the queen, supported by an influential priest-
hood, determined to introduce the forms of Phoenician religion in
Israel by measures of force. The royal edicts were resisted, but for a
while the rule of the stronger prevailed. The leaders of the oppo-
sition were compelled to flee, and, avoiding the habitations of men, to
take refuge in Avild and solitary places. Thus the rupture was widened
into schism, and persecution inflamed the zeal and kindled the ener-
gies of that new order of men of whom Elijah is the well-known type.
Through their agency the emotional nature of the Semitic race
now found expression in a form of religious worship loftier by far
than any that had ever arisen among men. If Baal was the embodi-
ment of Semitic asceticism and Baaltis the type of sensual orgiastic
passion, the national God of Israel now became the type of a nobler
emotion, the guardian of domestic purity, the source of sanctity, the
ideal Father. It is, indeed, the image of a just patriarch that fills the
mind and wings the fancy of the eldest prophets, when they describe
the nature of Jehovah, their God. Jehovah is the husband of the
people. Israel shall be his true and loyal spouse. The children of
Israel are his children. Uuchastity and irreligion are synonymous
terms. And thus, if we err not, the peculiar feature of Hebrew char-
acter, their faithful attachment to kith and kin, the strength and
purity of their domestic afiections, serves to explain the peculiar char-
acter, the origin and development of the Hebrew religion. And be-
cause the essential elements of the new religion were moral elements
it could not tolerate the Nature-worship of the heathens ; and the
way was prepared for the gradual ascendency of the purely spiritual
in religion, which after ages of gradual progress constituted the last,
the lasting triumph of projjhecy.
After ages of development ! For we are not to suppose that, in
the centuries succeeding Hosea, the doctrioes of the prophetic schools
had become in any sense the property of the people at large. " The
powers that be" were arrayed against them, and the annals of the
kings are replete with evidence of their sufferings. It was in the late
reign of Josiah that they at last received not only the countenance
of the reigning monarch, but also a decisive influence upon the direc-
tion of aftairs. In that reign a scroll was found in the temple imbued
with the doctrine of the unity of God, and breathing the vigorous
spirit of the prophets. In it was emphasized the heart's religion in
preference to the empty ceremonial of priestly worship. The alle-
giance of the people was directed toward the God who had elected
them from among the nations of the earth, and dire disaster was pre-
