598 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
dieted in case of disobedience. When brouglit to the king and read
in his iDi-esence, he was powerfully affected, and' determined, if possi-
ble, to stem the tide of impending ruin by such salutai-y measures of
reform as the injunctions of the newly-found Scripture seemed most
urgently to call for. The concurrence of many critics has identified
this scroll, written and published at or about the time when the
youthful Josiah succeeded to the throne of his ancestors, with Deu-
teronomy, the fifth of the books of Moses. It differs materially from
the more recent writings of the Pentateuch. The family of Aaron are
not' yet exclusively endowed with the priesthood. The priests are all
Levites, the Levites all priests. There are, moreover, other vital dif-
ferences, into which the limits of this article do not permit us to
enter.' The date of the comj^osition of Deuteronomy is thus referred
to the closing decades of the seventh century b. c*
The princes who succeeded Josiah fell back into the old course,
and quite undid the work which had begun with such fair promise.
Indeed, little permanent good was to be hoped for in so disordered a
condition of political affairs, and from the degenerate rulers who then
swayed the helm of state. The fortunes of the kingdom of Judah
were swiftly declining, and, but a quarter of a century after the pious
Josiah had breathed his last, Nebuchadnezzar burned the Temple of
Jerusalem, and carried its inhabitants captive to Babylon.
Heretofore, with but a brief, brilliant interlude, idolatry had been
the court religion of Judah. Early training, long usage, the example
of revered ancestors, had endeared its forms and symbols to the affec-
tions of the people. Resistance to the innovating prophets was natural ;
men being then, as ever, loath to abandon the sacred usages which had
come down to them from the distant generations of the past. But, in
the long years of the captivity, a profound change came over the spirit
of the Hebrew people ; " by Babel's streams they sat and wept ; " by
Babel's streams they recalled the memories of their native land, tliat
land which they had lost. It was then that the voices of Jehovali's
messengers, which had so earnestly warned them of the approaching
doom, recurred to their startled recollection. They remembered the
message ; they beheld its fulfillment ; the testimony of the prophets
had been confirmed by events ; the one God to whom they testified
had revealed his omnipotence in history ; and with willing assent the
exiles promised allegiance to his commandments in the future. The
love of country, the dread of further chastisement, the dear hope of
restoration, combined to win them to the purer worship of their God,
and, in the crucible of Babylon, the national religion was purged of
the last dregs of heathendom.
1 E. g., the rebellion of Korab is unknown to the author of Deuteronomy.
* The language of Deuteronomy attests its late origin. Sixty-six phrases of Deuteron-
omy recur in the writings of Jeremiah. Vide Zunz, Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgcn-
lati/iisclien GescUschaft, xxviii., p. 670.
