THE EVOLUTION OF HEBREW RELIGION. 599
With the permission of Cyrus, the Jews returned to Palestine, and
the Temple at Jerusalem was rebuilt. The question now arose in
what forms the ceremonial of the new sanctuary should he conducted.
The time-honored festivals, the solemn and joyful convocations, the sac-
ritices and purifications of the olden time, were all more or less infected
with the taint of paganism. Prophecy Avould have none of them —
prophecy, free child of genius, contemned sacrifice, denounced the
priesthood, even the temple and its ritual ; ' proclaimed humbleness
and loving-kindness as the true service in which Jehovah takes de-
light. There was formalism on the one hand, idealism on the other.
As is usual in such cases, when the time had arrived for turning theory
into practice, it was found necessary to effect a compromise. As
Christianity in later days adopted the yule-tree into its system, and
lit the lamps of the heathen festival of the 25th of December in honor
of the nativity of its founder, so the leaders of the Jews, in the fifth
century before our era, adopted the feasts and usages of an ancient
Nature-worship, breathed into them a new spirit, informed them with
a loftier meaning, and made them tokens, symbols of the eternal God.
The old foes were thus reconciled ; priesthood and prophecy joined
hands, and were thenceforth united. As an ofispring of this union,
we behold a new code of laws and prescriptions, whose marked and
inharmonious features at once betray the dual nature of its progeni-
tors. "A rough preliminary draft, as it were," of this code, is pre-
served in the book of Ezekiel, composed probably about the middle
of the fifth century. In its finished and final shape, it forms the bulk
of a still later work — of Leviticus, the third of the books of the Penta-
teuch : of all the discoveries of criticism, none more noteworthy, none
we are bound to consider more assured. AVhat lends additional cer-
tainty to the result is the circumstance that it was reached indepen-
dently by two of the most esteemed scholars of our day, the one a
Professor of Theology in the University of Leyden,'' the other a vet-
eran of thought, whose brow is wreathed by the ripe honors of more
than fourscore years.* Let us briefly advert to the line of argument
by which this astonishing conclusion was reached :
The author of the book of Ezekiel was a priest, and one confessedly
loyal to the sanctuary of Jerusalem. Now, had the laws of the Leviti-
cal code, which minutely describe the ritual of that sanctuary, existed,
or been regarded as authoritative in his day, he could not, would not
have disregarded, much less contradicted, their provisions. lie docs
this, and, be it remarked, in points of capital importance. In chap-
ter xlv. of Ezekiel are mentioned the great festivals, with the sacrifices
appropriate to each; but the feast of Pentecost, commanded in Leviti-
cus, is entirely omitted ; also that of the eighth day of tabernacles.
The second of the daily burnt-off"erings, upon which the legislator of
» Jeremiah vii. 4 ; Isaiali Ixvi. 1 ; Micah vi. 6. * Prof. A. Kucnen.
* Tlie venerable Dr. Zunz, of Berlin.
