6oo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the fourth IdooIc of Moses dwells with such marked emjjhasis, is not
commanded. The order of sacrifices appointed in Ezekiel is at va-
riance with that in the more recent code. Ezekiel nowhere mentions
the ark of the covenant. According to him, the new year begins on
the tenth of the seventh month, while the festival of the trumpets, or-
dained in Leviticus for tlie first of that month (the present new year
of the Jews), is nowhere referred to. We are not to suppose, however,
that the festivals, the ark, etc., did not yet exist in the time of Eze-
kiel. They existed, no doubt, but were still too intimately associated
with pagan customs and superstitions to receive or merit the coun-
tenance of a prophetic writer. In Leviticus the process of assimila-
tion above described had reached its climax. The new meaning had
been successfully engrafted upon the rites and symbols of the olden
time ; and they were thenceforth freely employed. The legislation
of the Levitical code exhibits the familiar features which in every
instance mark the ascendency or consolidation of the hierarchical
order. The lines of gradation and distinction between the members
of the order among themselves are precisely drawn and strictly ad-
hered to. The jjrerogatives of the whole order as against the people
are fenced about with stringent laws. The revenues of the order are
largely increased. In the older code of Deuteronomy, the annual tithes
were set apart for a festival occasion, and given over to the enjoyment
of the people. In the new code, the hierarchy claims the tithes for its
own use. New taxes are invented. The best portions of the sacri-
ficial animal are reserved for the banquets of the Temple. The first-
born of men and cattle belong to the priesthood, and must be ran-
somed by the payment of a sum of money. In no period prior to the
fifth century b. c. was the hierarchy powerful enough to design such
laws. At that time, however, when in the absence of a temporal sov-
ereign they, with the higlj-priest at their head, were the acknowledged
rulers of the state, they were both prepared to conceive and able to
carry them into ^ect. The language of Leviticus contributes not a
little to betray its late origin.* The authorship of Moses attributed
to the Levitical code is symbolical. The name of Moses is utterly
unknown to the elder prophets. In all their manifold writings it does
not occur a single time, though they make frequent reference to the
past. There can now be little doubt that the composition of the bulk
of Leviticus, and of considerable portions of the books of Xumbers,
Exodus, and even parts of Genesis, belongs to the epoch of the second
Temple, and that the date of these writings may be approximately
fixed at about one thousand years after the time of Moses. As to the
story of Israel's desert wanderings, it rests upon ancient traditions
> To mention only a single instance, ha Shem (meaning the name, i. e., the ineffable
name of God) was not employed until a very late period in the history of the Jews, when
the fear of taking the name of the Lord in vain induced men to avoid, if possible, men-
tioning it at all. We find ha Shem in the above sense in Lev. xxiv. 11.
