RECENT GEOGRAPHICAL PROGRESS. 41
intercourse of the world. The extensive explorations by them in
Northern Siberia, and of the rivers that flow into the Arctic. The
many journeys, explorations, geographical and archaeological, made
through Southei'n Arabia, Persia, Afghanistan, Beloochistan, and the
northern regions of India, and explorations of the like character in
Burmah, Siam, and Cambodia. The settlement of the French in Co-
chin-Chiua, and journeys to a partial extent in Corea, and to a greater
extent in Mantchooria. The Euphrates Expedition. The continuation
of the great survey of India, The survey of Palestine, and the cutting
of the Suez Canal.
In Africa: the discovery of the great lakes, as well those which
are the reservoirs of the Nile, as those lying south of the equator.
The exploration of the country south of Abyssinia, between these lakes
and the eastern coast, and the discovery of the great range of moun-
tains in that region, with their snow-capped peaks, the most ele-
vated land in Africa. The military occupation of Abyssinia and of
Ashantee by the English ; the extensive journeys and researches in
Northern and Northeastern Africa, by Barth, Overweg, Richardson,
Rohlfs, Schweinfurth, Miani, Nachtigal, and others. The various ex-
peditions and individual journeys along the western coast, and the
explorations of its immediate interior by Du Chaillu, Burton, Baines,
Blyden, Gandy, Gussfeldt, etc., etc. The two journeys across Central
Africa, from east to west, and west to east, by Dr. Livingstone ; his
journey from the Cape upward; his exploration of the Zambezi, and
of the countries by which it is watered ; his discovery of the great
network of rivers and lakes in Central Africa, below the equator, which
he was pursuing at the time of his death, and the following up of that
exploration by Lieutenant Cameron, with the latter's journey through
Central Afi-ica, from east to west. The numerous explorations in
South and Southeastern Africa, from the Orange River to the Limpopo,
and from that point along the eastern coast and its interior, as far as
the parallel of Zanzibar, which, with the exploration of the imperfect-
ly known parts of the Island of Madagascar by Grandidier and Mul-
lins, is but a very general statement of Avliat has been done in Africa.
What exploration has accomi^lished in Africa may be judged by a sin-
gle fact. In 1850 the area of cultivated land in Egypt was 2,000,000
of acres; in 1874 it was 5,000,000.
I may next refer to the numerous explorations around and across
the great continent of Australia from Sturt's early journey to the last
ones of Warburton and Forster. The survey of large portions of the
coast of Papua or New Guinea, and explorations in the interior by
Beccaria, D'Albertis, Meyer, Van Rosenberg, and MacLeay. The
explorations in Formosa by Steere, Le Gendre, and others, and the
settlement of colonies and the establishment of governments by the
Englisli in New Zealand and the Feejee Islands. The explorations of
the Arctic to within sight of the eighty-third parallel of nortli latitude,
