PRESENT STATUS OF SOCIAL SCIENCE. 603
oldest books in the world are among the most valuable, that age does
not necessarily detract from the real merit of a book, or of any truth
it may advocate, any more than it does from the quality of wine, or
of ancient, long-tried, long-approved friendship, that an old truth is
even better than a new error, and that one of the highest and most im-
portant functions of the philosopher, in every age, is to reconcile the
new with the old, to harmonize the latest revelations of science with
the venerable traditions and immutable ideas of the race ; in short, to
keep mankind constant, and bring them back to the old landmarks,
the primary and fundamental truths, from which they have a constant
tendency to wander off and go astray. Perhaps it might not be amiss,
furthermore, to remind him that the present age, more than any other,
and especially this department of science, require to be admonished
with the warning proverb of Solomon, " Eemove not the ancient land-
marks which thy fathers have set."
But with what propriety can a book be called old, or antiquated
in character, that deals almost exclusively, and that, too, with almost
unqualified approbation and accord, with the views of such recent and
highly-advanced thinkers as Guizot and Hallam, Sismondi and Mili,
Cousin, Buckle, Comte, and Herbert Spencer ?
If the book in question is old, all that Herbert Spencer has written
on sociology is likewise old. If there is nothing new in this book,
there is nothing new in any of the reasonings, on society, of that
Magnus Apollo, we might almost say, that alter ego, of The PoprLAP.
SciEXCE Monthly. We challenge our critic to produce a single idea
of Herbert Spencer's, having any important bearing on the philosophy
of society, and any claim to be considered at all new, either in his
" Social Statics," or any other of his works, that is not contained in the
" Present Status of Social Science," either in direct expression, or in
fair, direct, and inevitable logical sequence, from what is directly ex-
pressed. Will our critic accept the challenge, with the privilege of
only a brief reply accorded to a misrepresented and much-wronged
author ? We hardly think so.
The truth rather seems to be, that the work in question contains
rather too much about Mr. Spencer and his philosophy of society. It
contains, substantially, not only all that is true or essentially valuable
in the suggestions of that great and eminently valuable thinker, up to
the present time, but something that is not so valuable or true. It
contains, in short, a rather too caustic, possibly too just, and unan-
swerable criticism on his extreme and exaggerated applications of the
laissez-faire doctrine, and upon his fantastical reasonings about "the
evanescence of evil." It takes too just exceptions to his condemna-
tion of any and all provision, by the state, for the relief of the poor,
or even for their education.
But the plea of our critic, which is plausible only on its face, is,
that it was unfair, unjust, thus to attack Mr. Spencer, when his views
