PRESENT STATUS OF SOCIAL SCIENCE. 605
views. He proceeds to say that now, after the lapse of fourteen
years, were he writing out his thoughts on the subject, he would ex-
pi'ess himself somewhat differently on several specified points. Then
by way of excusing himself from rewriting his views, and of showing
the little importance of his doing so, he concludes his preface with
these conclusive words, expressing himself in the third person :
" When, however, he comes to the closing volumes of tliis system,
should he ever get so far, he proposes to set forth in them the devel-
oped conclusions of which 'Social Statics' must be considered a rough
sketch." What more conclusive proof could we need that " Social
Statics " was still, then and there, a substantial embodiment of his
views ?
The critic says that the author of the work in question appears to
have " an obscure conception of social science," etc. It is to be re-
membered, however, that social science is a very large science, sus-
ceptible of very diverse renditions, or modes of consideration, and
that, when viewed, as it is by Mr. Spencer and his especial admirers,
from the lofty standpoint of universal science, it would be likely to
present somewhat different points of prominence for scientific con-
sideration from those it would present from the far less ambitious
standpoint from Avhich it is viewed by the author in question — the
standpoint of the practical statesman and jurist.
By way of illustrating the fairness and justness of his criticism,
the critic quotes an isolated passage from the work under his consid-
eration, which, unexplained, and rent from its context, would appear
only as Greek, Hebrew, or Sanscrit, to the general reader ; a passage
in which, after the example of Mr. Spencer himself, and other modern
scientists, the author had casually drawn on astronomical science for
illustration, and instituted a similitude between the forces of cosmical
and social life. But was that a really fair selection ? What would our
critic think if any one should undertake to judge Mr. Spencer, either
as a sociologist or a general scientist, solely by his fundamental postu-
late that all evolution is from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous f
The critic would have conveyed to his readers a far more just idea
of tlie scope and real character of the work under his review — a mere
preliminary work as it is — if he had seen fit to quote the seven propo-
sitions laid down in the author's sixth chapter, embodying, as they
claim to do, the essential import of all the most recent and most ad-
vanced thought in social philosophy; nay, embodying, in outline, the
very quintessence of Mr. Spencer's peculiar views, with the addition
of only a few highly-important ideas, which he seems to have either
overlooked or undervalued.
And here it may be proper to remark that there is no essential
antagonism between Mr. Spencer and the author who has incurred
the displeasure of The Popular Science Monthly. On fundamental
principles, and in the general drift of their reasonings, likewise, they
