6o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are in almost j^erfect accord — co-laborers in the same great field —
endeavoring to compass it only by different methods.
While Mr. Spencer is tugging at the vast problems of social
science from the standpoint of the universal scientist, the author in
question is viewing them more directly from the standpoint of the
specialist in sociology — and more particularly in the department of
statesmanship — seeking and deriving valuable instruction from the
vast generalizations of his more able and far more learned co-laborer.
Can it be supposed, however, that the two laborers will not differ,
somewhat, in some of their practical applications of the very same
general principles which they hold in common ? Or need it be won-
dered at that, while Mr. Spencer would abolish the state school and
state provision for the poor, the author in question would rather re-
model and enlarge the scope of both, while admitting and appreciat-
ing the great abuses and mischiefs that may result from either ?
Does not the very loftiness of Mr. Spencer's standpoint, the grand-
eur of his views, and the vast and far-reaching comprehensiveness
of his observations, make it impossible, dcvspite his great and indis-
putable sagacity, to avoid some mistakes in respect to the great
practical problems of social life, and to escape altogether the error,
so common with our modern reformers, of seeking to abolish institu-
tions that need only amendment and reform ?
In conclusion, let the hope be expressed that "the antiquated
character" of this reply will find excuse in the fact that, although
the privilege of making it was solicited early in June, 1874, it was
not accorded until late in October following, when the author, in de-
spair of obtaining justice, or a fair hearing, at least in this country,
had abandoned all idea of replying. Weeks and even months then
elapsed before the purpose of doing so revived in his mind, under the
conviction that such a course was due, not only to himself, but to the
momentous theme, which he has made the theme of his life, and on
which he feels a strong assurance that he has some suggestions to
offer, some great universal truths, great fundamental laws of social
life, to announce, that are calculated to exert an important influence
on the cause of knowledge and human advancement.
Cincinnati, Febru/iry 22, 1875.
SKETCH OF PEOF. WILLIAM B. KOGERS.
THE President of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, who presides at its meeting this year in Buffalo, be-
longs to a family which has attained eminent distinction in the field
of American science. He was born in Philadelphia, in December,
1805, and is the second of four sons — James Blythe, William Bar-
