6o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Mines of Eastern Virginia ; " and " On the Physical Structure of the
Appalachian Chain," etc. In the first of these papers Prof. Rogers
showed that the formation in question, instead of being of an age
anterior to the Carboniferous, as had been maintained by Maclure
and R. C. Taylor, was of Mesozoic time. In the second paper he
described the position of more than fifty thermal springs in the Ap-
palachian belt, occurring in an area of about 15,000 square miles,
deducing the law that these thermal springs issue from anticlinal
axes and faults, or from points very near such lines, and, in connec-
tion with their chemistry, proving the important fact of the great
preponderance of nitrogen in the free and combined gases of these
springs. The observations on subterranean temperature recorded in
the third paper were the first published confirmation, as regards the
United States, of the law of augmenting temperature beneath the
surface of the earth, although similar observations had been made by
Humboldt in Mexico. The memoir on the physical structure of the
Appalachian chain, etc., was the joint work of Profs. W. B. and H. D.
Rogers, founded on their explorations of this belt in Pennsylvania
and Virginia, and its prolongation toward the southwest and north-
east. The novelty and importance of its generalizations were at
once recognized in Europe as well as at home, and gave the authors,
" the Gebriider Rogers," a prominent place among contemporary
geologists; and, so far as the development of the physical structure
of the Appalachians is concerned, this memoir is still regarded as of
classical value.
Prof. Rogers was chairman of the Association in 1845, and again
two years later, when it was expanded into the " American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science," at the first meeting of which
he presided until it was fully organized.
In connection with his brother, Robert E. Rogers, now become
his colleague as Professor of Chemistry and Materia Medica in the
university, he published a number of important chemical contributions,
relating chiefly to new or improved methods in chemical analysis and
research, in 8illiman?s Journal^ between 1840 and 1850. Among these
were papers " On a New Process for obtaining Pure Chlorine ; " "A
New Process for obtaining Formic Acid, Aldehyde, etc. ; " " On the
Oxidation of the Diamond in the Liquid Way ; " " On New Instru-
ments and Processes for the Analysis of the Carbonates ; " " On the
Absorption of Carbonic Acid by Liquids," an extended investigation;
and " On the Decomposition of Rocks by Carbonated and Meteoric
Waters," a paper of much interest in its geological bearings.
In the volume of the " Transactions of the British Association "
for 1849, Prof. Rogers called attention to the existence of true coal-
measures below the horizon of the Carboniferous limestone in the
Appalachian belt as discovered by him in the Virginia survey, and
referred to in his annual reports.
