SKETCH OF PROF. WILLIAM B. ROGERS. 609
He married, in 1849, a daughter of Hon. James Savage, of Bos-
ton, President of the Massachusetts Historical Society, and author
of the " Genealogical Dictionary," and in 1873 removed to that city,
where he has since resided. Here, although he early identified himself
with the educational and public interests of the community, he did
not relax his devotion to scientitic labors, which were now, however,
more largely directed to the department of experimental physics.
Among his contributions to physics at this period may be mentioned
a series of papers " On Binocular Vision, giving an Elaborate Analy-
sis of the Phenomena, with some Important Additions to the Research-
es on this Subject of Wheatstone and Brewster ; " " Experiments on
Sonorous Flames," in which he described an apparatus for making
visible the vibrations by rotating the flame ; and " On the Forma-
tion of Rings of Air and Liquids " — all of which may be found in
SilUrnan's Journal (1855-60).
He also published, in the New Edinburgh Philosophical Journal^
the results of continued observations on atmospheric ozone, and on
the auroras of August and September, 1859 and 1860. As a member
of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and of the Boston
Society of Natural History, of the former of which he was for many
years the corresponding secretary, Prof. Rogers took an active part in
the discussions of the various scientific questions then rising into im-
portance, and made contributions from time to time to their published
proceedings. Among the communications to the American Academy
we may note papers " On the Protozoic Age of Certain Rocks in
Eastern Massachusetts ; " " On the Actinism of the Electric Discharge
in Vacuum Tubes," of which he exhibited numerous photographs, in
connection with his paper on the improvements, by Mr. E. S. Ritchie,
of the Ruhmkorff apparatus ; and " Experiments disproving, by the
Binocular Combination of Visual Spectra, Brewster's Theory of Suc-
cessive Combination of Corresponding Points."
In the " Transactions of the Boston Society of Natural History "
appeared, among other articles by Prof. Rogers, communications " On
the Growth of Stalactites;" " Geological Relations of the New Red
Sandstone of the Middle States to the Coal-Rocks of Eastern Virginia
and North Carolina ; " " On the Origin and Accumulation of the
Protocarbonate of Iron in Coal-Measures ; " " On the Natural Coke
and Associated Igneous Rocks of Eastern Virginia ; " and " On Peb-
bles in the Newport Conglomerate."
At tlie annual meetings of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, Prof. Rogers has been a frequent contributor,
as well in the discussions of scientific questions as in the communi-
cation of original papers, which, however, in most cases, appear only
by title in their " Transactions," or are to be found in other publica-
tions before mentioned.
In 1853 he removed to Boston, where he has since resided. At
VOL, IX. — 39
