6 10 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the request of his friend Governor Andrew, in 1861, he accepted the
office of Inspector of Gas and Gas-Meters for the State of Massa-
chusetts, and organized a system of inspection in which lie aimed to
apply scientific principles more fully than had hitherto been attempted
in the United States. Some account of his methods was given at a
meeting of the British Association. During this time Prof. Rogers
was often called upon for public lectures on scientific subjects in
Massachusetts and elsewhere, and gave several courses before the
Lowell Institute in Boston.
Prof. Rogers had long felt the need, in our educational system, of
giving to the physical sciences a higher place and more practical
methods of teaching than had hitherto been allowed them, and he
was therefore eager to avail himself of the opportunity for carrying
out these views. In behalf of a committee of gentlemen who had
become interested in the subject, he drew up a scheme entitled " Ob-
ject and Plan of an Institute of Technology," embracing a society
of arts, a museum of arts, and a school of industrial science ; and he
subsequently addressed a memorial to the Legislature of Massachu-
setts, urging the establishment of such an institution. After some
delay a charter for the " Institute of Technology " was granted, and
Prof. Rogers was placed at its head. A whole square of land on Back
Bay was granted for building-purposes — one third to the Boston So-
ciety of Natural History, the other two thirds to the Institute of
Technology. But the popularity and increasing prosperity of the
Institute make it already cramped in its present stately hall, and it
will soon be necessary to have another edifice. The detailed plan for
the departments of the school, pi-epared by Prof. Rogers in 1864, has
been carried out, with but slight modifications. A marked featui*e of
this plan, which has since been adopted in many other institutions, was
the introduction of laboratory teaching, not only in the department
of chemistry, but in that of physics, mechanics, and mining, a feature
which has no doubt contributed largely to the I'eputation which the
school has acquired for thoroughness of scientific training.
Besides being president of the Institute, Prof. Rogers filled the
chair of Physics and Geology for several years after the establishment
of the school. It may be added that he was active in founding the
American Social Science Association, and was its first president.
But this inventory of the life-work of Prof. Rogers, extensive and
interesting as it is, leaves out a powerful element of the influence
he has exerted as a teacher over great numbers of young men
who have been brought within the spell of his personality. Prof.
Rogers is an orator of the first class, and we have long regarded him
as the most impressive and delightful speaker that has appeared be-
fore the American Association. And it must be remembered that
science puts oratory to its highest test ; it is a field in which reason
is supreme, and where the speaker is not at liberty to throw logic to
