CORRESP ONDENCE.
613
similar maimer to the stone axes of the
ancient Celtic tribes, so frequently found in
some portions of England, Ireland, and
Scotland.
On the plateau above named, bowlders
of many hundred weight are thickly scat-
tered, which could have been deposited in
their present locality by floating ice only,
and it is more than likely that this relic of
the Primeval or Stone age was brought to
this locality and deposited by the same
agencies that brought the bowlders and
other detritus, perhaps, from a very dis-
tant region. »
The thong-marks for securing the handle
are well preserved, but were deeper when
first taken from the ground, as there was a
full sixteenth of an inch of serai-decomposed
material rubbed off in cleaning it up. The
stone from which it has been made appears
to have been a portion of one of those hard,
cherty strata of coralline limestone, belong-
ing to the Silurian formation, some of which
are harder than flint, and almost as tough
as iron. The implement, as it is now, is
dark blue on one side, but lighter on the
other. This lighter side appears to have
yielded more readily to the action of the
elements, decomposition having apparently
removed at least a quarter of an inch more
on this side than on the other, thus mate-
rially reducing the weight of the specimen.
This battle-axe was found on January 4,
1876. William Anpbews.
CUMBEELAKD, MaKTLAITD.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly :
Sir : In your notice of Mr. John Fiske's
criticism of Dr. Draper's " Conflict " you
have shown, plainly enough, that Dr. Dra-
per's alleged superficiality consisted in using
the word religion in the common sense.
That Dr. Draper's conceptions are so
" crude " as to blind him to the higher and
more spiritual conceptions which Mr. Fiske
defines so admirably, or that he would con-
sider religion, so defined, in antagonism
with science, is an assertion which finds no
warrant in his book. It would be easy, if
it were worth while, to point to passages
that explicitly negative such imputations.
But to have adopted Mr. Fiske's rather
transcendental refinement, and to have
constantly used the qualified terms which
it would require, would have been to sacri-
fice directness and brevity to a nicety of
expression that none but the hypercritical
would demand.
Your quotation shows that Mr. Spencer's
"First Principles" must fall within the list
of books which, " vitiated by this crude
conception " (of antagonism), "cannot have
much philosophical value ; " and I beg to
append another from a work which, it
would seem, must come into the same class,
although it is by an author evidently held
in high esteem by Mr. Fiske :
" That harmony which we hope eventu-
ally to see established between our knowledge
and our aspirations is not to be realized by
the timidity which shrinks from logically
following out either of the two apparently
conflicting lines of thought — as in the ques-
tion of matter and spirit — but by the fear-
lessness which pushes each to its inevitable
conclusion. Only wJien this is recognized
will the long and mistaken warfare between
Science and Religion be exchanged for an en-
during alliance.''^ — (Fiske's " Cosmic Philos-
ophy," vol. ii., p. 509.)
E. R. Leland.
Eattclaibe, "SV18CON8IN, July 20, 1S76.
GEOMETRICAL CHEMISTEY.
To the Editor oftlce Popular Science Monthly :
Geometrical Chemistry. By Henry VVurtz.
Fiist, or Introductory Memoir. Re-
printed from the American Chemist, for
March, 1876. New York: John F. Trow
& Son. 1876.
The author prefixes a Greek motto to
his memoir, namely, the question, " Where-
fore did Plato assert that the God worketh
ever by geometry ? " As the memoir con-
tains no other geometry, this motto appar-
ently is intended to justify the first half
of the title.
But the other half has not even that much
of a justification. From beginning to end
it is impossible to detect a new principle or
fact that properly belongs to chemistry in
this memoir. The great chemical authorities
of the memoir are Kant, Hegel, Stallo, and
Sterry Hunt (p. 60). A new force, the Cra-
tetic Force, is discovered, " which is not re-
ciprocal, but absolute in its action upon the
more electro-positive molecule, without reac-
