614.
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion upon the electro-negative one" (p. 69).
Hence the equality of action and reaction
must now be thrown to the resting-place of
horror vacui and kindred errors.
Having reached the end of the memoir
without encountering a single scientific re-
sult, I felt greatly relieved by the author's
modest statement (p. 72) : " I claim to have
discovered and demonstrated the same
grand geometrical laws which Kepler traced
as ruling the planetary system, as prevail-
ing also in the microcosms which we call
molecules." And the author complacently
continues : " I must add that, though many
advanced chemists have long expected some
great revelation from this source, yet now
that a revelation has come, there are few even
among the boldest and most original think-
ers who will not be startled at the sweeping,
in some respects revolutionary, tendency
of these developments, with regard to the
current theories of the schools and the
school-books."
I confess to have indeed been thorough-
ly "startled" to see such a paper as this
printed in extenso in the American Chemist;
and not much less astonished to find it re-
cently (May 27, 1876) partly reprinted in
the Engineering and Mining Journal, ac-
companied by a highly-laudatory editorial,
wherein Dr. T. Sterry Hunt is reported to
have expressed the opinion that "Prof.
Wurtz has surprised Nature in one of her
secrets, and has enunciated a law which is
probably as important as the law of the
force of gravity."
It is simply because these high and un-
qualified indorsements are likely to give the
vagaries of " Geometrical Chemistry " cur-
rency in the popular scientific press of the
country that I take the trouble to expose
the palpable fallacy of the whole fabric.
The inorganic chemical compounds con-
tain oxygen as the most general constituent,
while the organic compounds contain as
generally carbon. Hence, if we were to
mystify some of our chemical colleagues,
not very sound in elementary mathematics,
we would calculate the densities of all com-
pounds by assuming almost any fixed atomic
volume for these two elements, and assign-
ing the residual volume to the other con-
stituents. By a liberal use of arbitrary
multiples, these residual volumes could then
be very readily expressed as cubes (or al-
most any other function) of whole numbers
with so great an approximation that in-
versely the calculated density of the com-
pound must be almost identical with any^
of the observed values of the same. Such
a process, when presented by a sufficiently
funny man in Section Q of the American
Association, would be very entertaining^ but
when such a thing occupies twenty quarto
pages in the American Chemist, and when
voluminous extracts thereof in other scien-
tific journals are printed as embodying great
chemical progress, I feel that American
science has been disgraced.
Prof. Wurtz in the above mystification
proves himself not even sufficiently master
of arithmetical puns to keep the variations
of the positive elements (the above residual)
within bounds. A slightly more dexterous
use of the convenient arbitrary multiples
would have helped him out, and yielded nu-
merous new "laws." Thus the hydrogen
diameter ranges from 16 to 28, that is, in
volume it ranges as the cubes of these num-
bers, from 4,096 to 21,952, in proportion of
one to five in closely-allied compounds ! In
very closely-related compounds of alumin-
ium the diameter of aluminium varies from
16 to 45, its volume therefore from 4,096
to 91,125, or in the proportion of one to
twenty-two ! {See pp. 54-57.)
Space forbids my entering upon a more
detailed expose of this crude display of in-
determinate analysis. The whole thing is
so utterly worthless, so absolutely destitute
of every gleam of science, so horridly un-
couth even in its verbal exposition, that
this short notice is most reluctantly given,
simply to protest, in the name of American
science, against the filling of our scientific
journals with material that exposes us to
the ridicule of the scientific world.
GCSTAVUS HlXEICHS.
Iowa Cnr, Iowa, Jidy 21, 18T6.
1 The influence of impurities, etc., is coolly as-
cribed to arbitrary variations in atom-diameter and
varying multiples in the molecule; this is done
even for minerals and metals ! I wonder that Mr.
Eaymond did not see the absurdity of the whole
process. See, for example, " Siderite," p. 32, or iB
fact any Bubstance for which more than one denelty
has been used.
