EDITOR'S TABLE.
61^
EDITOR'S TABLE.
FEENCH EXPERIENCES WITH PAPER-
MONET.
IN his pamphlet entitled " Paper-
Money Inflation in France : How
it came, What it brought, and How it
ended," President White tells a very-
plain and direct, but a very exciting
story of national folly and infatuation.
It sounds like romance, and but for
the constant citations we should almost
suspect that the writer is treating us to
a satire on American finance. Yet he
only gives us a cool, matter-of-fact de-
lineation of a great national experi-
ment in the substitution of irredeem-
able paper for coin as a circulating
medium. The lesson brought out by
this impressive narration is, that there
are natural laws which govern the busi-
ness operations of society just as inex-
orable as the physical laws that main-
tain the harmonies of the solar system
or the physiological laws that control
the life-processes of the human body.
But in the realm of social operations
this truth is not recognized. In con-
sequence of public ignorance upon thi^
point, and the stupid superstitions of the
people regarding the potency of legis-
lation, this great field of human etfort
is the intrenchment of imposture in a
hundred shapes, where designing quacks
and credulous dupes, calculating dema-
gogues, purblind reformers, and hum-
bugs of every stripe, have free course
and unrestrained revel. This is a
sphere in which it is believed that
Nature can be cheated, and the conse-
quences of human actions escaped. The
laws that connect human weU-being
witli self-restraint, that require present
sacrifice for future good, and make
comfort and competence dependent
upon industry aTid frugality, are held
to be the mere hard conditions of hu-
man lot, which, being evaded by many.
may be avoided by all through cunning
political schemes and proper legislative
ingenuity. There are still millions in
this country who have a kind of vague
faith that irredeemable paper-money
such as a government can print and
scatter without limit is a means of na-
tional prosperity, a fountain of public
wealth, an equalizer of fortunes, a
blessing to the poorer classes, and a
grand defense of society against the
evils of poverty and privation. That it
is an illusion and a snare, full of dan-
ger, and ofli"ering transient benefits at
the expense of final disaster, it is diffi-
cult to make them understand.
Let people in this state of mind ac-
quaint themselves with the experience
of the French upon the subject by read-
ing President White's statement. We
give its leading points, quoting his own
words freely: The year 1789 was one
of stagnation and financial embarrass-
ment in France. The nation had a
heavy debt and a serious deficit, and
there was scarcity of money and a
want of confidence. This was a time
of trial and a test of statesmanship.
There were those who saw that the
evil could only be remedied by pa-
tience, careful management, and the
strict adherence to established financial
principles. But others, as Dr. White
says, were " looking about for some
short road to prosperity, and ere long
the idea was set afioat that the great
want of the country was more of
the circulating medium ; and this was
speedily followed by calls for an is-
sue of paper - money." There was
then a struggle. The dangers of such
a course were vividly depicted on the
one hand, and on the other it was
maintained that it would be the salva-
tion of France. On the 19th of April,
1790. the finance committee of the
