6l6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Frencli Assembly reported that " the
people demand a new circulating me-
dium ; " that " the circulation of pa-
per is the best of operations ; " that
" it is the most free, because it reposes
on the will of the people ; " that " it
will bind the interests of the citizen to
the public good."
The Government had appropriated
the vast property of the French Church,
amounting in value to about four thou-
sand million francs, and this was to be
the security of the paper. According-
ly, in April, 1790, the "Government is-
sued four hundred million francs in as-
signats — paper - money secured by a
pledge of productive real estate, and
bearing interest to the holder at three
per cent." What could be more se-
cure ? It was maintained that such a
currency would immediately prove it-
self better than coin.
" The first result of this issue was
apparently all that the most sanguine
could desire ; the Treasury was at once
greatly relieved ; a portion of the pub-
lic debt was paid ; creditors were en-
couraged ; credit revived ; ordinary ex-
penses were met, and the paper-money
having thus been passed from the Gov-
ernment into the midst of the people,
trade was revived, and all difficulties
seemed past."
Possibly, if the Government could
have stopped with these temporary ad-
vantages, no great harm would have
been done. But the difficulty about
money is, that there is never thought
to be enough of it. The benefit of real
money (coin) is to set a stubborn limit
to this universal want — it cannot be
got without earning it or giving equiv-
alent property for it. The curse of
pseudo-money (irredeemable paper) is,
that it panders to the universal greed
because any amount of it can be manu-
factured and set afloat at any time.
And so, of course, the French, after the
first taste, wanted more. The further
issue was stoutly resisted by the ablest
men, but the current set so strong, and
the demagogues were so plausible, that
the measure was carried, and in Sep-
tember the Government issued eight
hundred million assignats, " solemnly
declaring that in no case should the
entire amount put in circulation exceed
twelve hundred millions."
Great were the rejoicings on every
side. Gold was to lose all value, as it
was a superfluity, and the nation was
committed to the policy of inflation.
But the old cry of the " lack of a cir-
culating medium " soon broke forth
again. A hundred millions were is-
sued under the plea of a want of small
notes. On June 19, 1791, less than
nine months after the former great is-
sue, six hundred millions more were
put in circulation. Next came depre-
ciation of the currency, a loss of its
purchasing power, and a rise in prices.
Some said that this was due to igno-
rance in the rural districts, and the
remedy proposed was " education of
the people." M. Pmdhomme's news-
paper, however, declared that " coin
will keep rising until the people have
hung a broker." People naturally be-
gan to be alarmed, and to convert the
paper into coin and hoard it up. This
was regarded as criminal, and Marat
asserted that death was the proper
penalty for persons who thus hid their
money.
But, after the first stimulus of these
issues, business soon became depressed,
trade stagnated, the manufactories were
closed, and thousands of workmen were
discharged. Uncertainty and fluctua-
tion of values followed, speculation
set in, and, in the language of Louis
Blanc, " commerce was dead ; betting
took its place." " In the cities now
arose a luxury and license which is a
greater evil than the plundering which
ministers to it. In the country the
gambling spirit spread more and more ;
nor was this reckless and corrupt spirit
confined to business-men ; it began to
break out in official circles ; and public
men who, a few years before, had been
