EDITOR'S TABLE.
6]7
pure in motive, and above all proba-
bility of taint, became luxurious, reck-
less, cynical, and finally corrupt. . . .
"Even worse tlian this was the
breaking down of morals in the coun-
try at large, resulting from the sudden
building up of ostentatious wealth in a
few large cities, and the gambling,
speculative spirit fostered in the small
towns and rural districts."
There was no stopping now. The
artificial quickening had gradually run
into a feverish activity, followed by in-
toxication, which had grown into a
regular national debauch. Every issue
of paper - money had made matters
worse. But so deep was the infatua-
tion that multitudes of people insisted
that if there were only enough paper-
money all would be well. On Decem-
ber 17, 1791, a new issue was ordered
of three hundred millions more, and on
April 30, 1792, still another three hun-
dred millions were thrown out. The
currency was now depreciated thirty
per cent., and in July of the same year
another three hundred millions were
emitted. " Issue after issue followed
at intervals of a few months'until, on
December 14, 1792, we have an official
statement that thirty -four hundred
millions had been put forth, of which
six hundred millions had been burned,
leaving in circulation twenty-eight hun-
dred millions."
As articles of common consumption
grew enormously dear, their holders
became unwUling to sell them for the
worthless currency with which France
was flooded, and there then arose a de-
mand that those who refused to make
such exchanges should be punished
with death. Laws were passed making
the sales of goods compulsory at fixed
prices in, paper-money, which were, of
course, inoperative. In 1793 there was
an enactment forbidding the sale or
exchange of specie for more than its
nominal value in paper, under a penal-
ty of six years' imprisonment in irons ;
and then twelve hundred millions more
of the inflated currency was thrown
out. " Toward the end of 1794 seven
thousand million assignats were in cir-
culation. By the end of May, 1795,
the circulation was increased to ten
thousand millions ; at the end of June,
to fourteen thousand millions ; at the
end of July, to sixteen thousand mill-
ions ; and the value of one hundred
francs in paper fell steadily first to
four francs in gold, then to three, then
to two and a half." The issues con-
tinued until, at the beginning of 1796,
they amounted to over forty-five thou-
sand million francs. One franc in gold
was worth two hundred and eighty-
eight francs in paper - money ; sugar
was five hundred francs a pound, and
carriage-hire six thousand francs a day
in the legal currency. Debts were, of
course, now easily paid.
The madness continued, but its
form was diversified. In 1796 "it was
decreed that no more assignats be is-
sued ; instead of them it was decreed
that a new paper-money, ' fuUy secured
and as good as gold,' be issued, under
the name of ' mandats.' " Choice pub-
lic real estate was set apart to secure
this money, but it speedily depreciated
ninety-five per cent. It was decreed
that those who refused to take it should
be fined and sent to prison, and that
those who even spoke against it should
incur the same penalties. But the end
at last came. On July 16, 1796, " it
was decreed that all paper, mandats
and assignats, should be taken at its
real value, and that bargains might be
made in whatever currency the people
chose. The reign of paper-money in
France was over. The twenty-five hun-
dred million mandats went into the
common heap of refuse with the previ-
ous thirty-six billion assignats. The
whole vast issue was repudiated. The
collapse had come at last; the whole
nation was plunged into financial dis-
tress and debauchery from one end to
the other."
We have given the bare skeleton
