6i8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of facts contained in President "White's
pamphlet, but with nothing of his ad-
mirable analysis and exposition of the
working of this great financial experi-
ment. Let none fail to read and pon-
der the document. It is a lesson in one
branch of political economy that our
citizens cannot alford to neglect, and
we are glad to be able to state that the
publishers have issued an edition for
universal circulation, as a campaign
document needed at this time by both
parties, and at a price so low that it may
be distributed everywhere.
TEE STATUE TO LIEBIG.
It is proposed to raise a statue
in Munich in honor of the illustrious
chemist Liebig. Xo man better de-
serves such a tribute, for the claims of
Liebig upon the appreciation and grati-
tude of the civilized world are unique
and unrivaled. Starting from obscuri-
ty, he made his way by the pure force
of genius alone, selecting his line of
study even in boyhood, when he was
snubbed by his teachers for the stupid-
ity of his choice; he gave himself to
chemistry early, unreservedly, with the
enthusiasm of a vehement nature, and
pursued it with indefatigable industry
almost to the day of his death. He be-
came a leader in this field in early life,
became the acknowledged master amid
a host of powerful competitors, and
died the greatest chemist in Germany.
The influence exerted by Liebig in the
advancement of his favorite science it
is hardly possible to over-estimate. His
original investigations, each of which
pushed forward the branch of inquiry
to which it was devoted, are numbered
by hundreds, so that, as Dr. HotFman,
in his recent eulogy, justly observes,
" Were we to consider merely the vast
number and incalculable importance of
the chemical facts which he -has estab-
lished, we should have to proclaim him
one of the greatest contributors to
chemistry at large that ever have ap-
peared, while of organic chemistry we
could not hesitate to consider him the
very source and fountain-head."
Liebig was a great experimenter,
but that is not his highest title to emi-
nence as a chemist. He enriched the
science by new methods of analytic
research, and invented the apparatus
which gave a new impulse to organic
investigations and made an epoch in
organic chemistry, and he vastly en-
riched the science by varied and exten-
sive laboratory researches. But it was
not merely by these inquiries that he
made the deepest impression upon the
mind of the age. He was not only an
experimenter, but a thinker; not only
a chemist, but a philosopher; and it
was in his gra?p of principles and the
establishment of general laws that we
recognize his highest genius. Chemi-
cal analysis, the revision and correction
of old processes, and the elucidation of
new facts, are of course important and
meritorious things, and in this field men
of moderate ability may make valuable
and permanent contributions to the
progress of science. But it requires
the insight of a higher genius to pierce
through the multitudinous mass of iso-
lated results, and bring out the princi-
ples that reduce them to order and
bring them into living correlation with
the general organism of scientific truth.
This was the distinguishing character
of Liebig's work in the chemical field.
TThen he began his labors, physiologi-
cal chemistry had hardly a foothold of
recognition. The vital force was su-
preme in the realm of life, and was held
to suspend and override all chemical
and physical agencies. Liebig made a
revolution by showing that a true
physiological science can only be estab-
lished by interpreting vital processes in
the light of chemical and physical prin-
ciples.
But the scientific fame of Liebig has
a yet broader basis. He is the father
of agricultural chemistry. Xot only
did he contribute largely to the eluci-
