EDITOR'S TABLE.
619
dation of fundamental problems in this
branch of study, and first give to it its
recognition and status in the scientific
world, but by the skill of his pen, his
power of exposition and untiring indus-
try, he aroused a popular interest io
the subject which was felt through all
the nations of civilization. Though a
chemist, his name became as familiar
in the households of this country as
those of Newton and Shakespeare, while
his work was recognized as having a
practical beneficence that involved alike
the prosperity of individuals, communi-
ties, and states. For, to give an impulse
to agriculture, and to arouse the thought
and quicken the intelligence of the
agricultural classes, was to contribute
essentially to the advancement of civ-
ilization itself. Whoever thinks that
this is an exaggerated estimate of the
claims and character of Prof. Liebig,
may read with profit the admirable dis-
course of Dr. A. W. Hoflfman, of the
University of Berlin, on *' The Life-
Work of Liebig," delivered last year in
London, and just published by Macmil-
lan. It is not only a worthy tribute of
a grateful pupil to his illustrious teach-
er, but it is a most admirable and dis-
criminating estimate of the man in his
relations to the progressive science of
the age. We say, then, let all who be-
lieve in honoring the achievements of
great men by erecting statues to their
memories contribute toward the erec-
tion of this statue to Liebig. We ought
to have one erected in the Central
Park ; but, if that be impracticable, let
it be done in Munich. At the recent
dinner given by the American Chemical
Society to the foreign chemists con-
nected Avith the Centennial Exhibition
in Philadelphia, it was announced that
Dr. Ilofi'man asks from this country a
contribution of $2,500 to complete the
work. Chemists, as a class, do not
abound in this Avorld's goods, but §1,000
was pledged for the purpose on the
spot. Our enterprising and successful
agricultural friends should have a hand
in this work ; and, if any are disposed
to help it on, their contributions may
be forwarded to Prof. E. N. Horsford,
of Cambridge, or to Prof. C. F. Chan-
dler, of New York, who will forward
any funds that may be intrusted to them
to the foreign committee who have the
work in charge.
HAMILTON ON "-SOCIAL SCIENCE:'
Mb. R. S. Hamilton, considering
himself very badly treated in our notice
of his book, made some time ago, pays
ur ofi" in an article which appears in our
pages this month. He lays it on to the
editorial back without mercy, and noth-
ing remains for us but to kiss the rod
and resume the subject. Perhaps we
are obtuse, but, having again looked
over his volume, and our remarks upon
it, in the light »{ what he now says, we
are still unable to see that we have
done him the injustice of which he com-
plains.
Mr. Hamilton admits that our main
accusation — and almost the only one —
was, that his book is "old." Let us
see, then, what ground he has for pro-
testing against this position. Had he
designated his volume by its secondary
title, " A Review, Historical and Criti-
cal, of the Progress of Thought in Social
Philosophy," which would have better
described it, our criticism would have
been uncalled for; but by putting it
forth under the name of " The Present
Status of Social Science " he invited
attention to it as a report, up to date,
on a highly-important and rapidly-de-
veloping subject. The Popular Sci-
ence Monthly had but little interest
in the historical and critical features of
his work ; but it was interested in its
claim to inform its readers of the pres-
ent attitude of a great science. Taking
it up from this point of view — the view
challenged by the author in the adop-
tion of his title — we said it was " old."
Not that we have the slightest objec-
tion to old books if they are good, or
