Gzo
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to old ideas if they are true, but only
that it becomes sometimes necessary in
science to discriminate between past
and present conditions, although the
past be quite modern. We did not, of
course, consider the book old in the
sense of the Assyrian inscriptions, but
rather in the sense of a last year's al-
manac, which, although recent, still
fails to indicate the present status of
astronomical movements.
"\Ye said in our notice that the au-
thor "seemed to have but an obscure
conception of social science," the im-
plication of course being that his book
is behind the age. He replies that
"social science is a very large science,"
and may present different aspects to its
different cultivators. But surely this
need not imply obscurity in the con-
ception of the science itself. Astron-
omy, geology, and biology, are very
large sciences, and, no doubt, present
different aspects to investigators in the
same field, but this by no means neces-
sitates vagueness or obscurity in the
ideas of the aim, subject-matter, or
methods, of either. There is common
and Tvell-detcrmined vrork to be done
in each, regardless of its extent.
But we were not left to inference
in imputing to the author obscure con-
ceptions upon the subject, for, accord-
ing to him, no others are at present
possible. In the first chapter of his
book he says that " this important sci-
ence has not yet attained to just, clear,
and definite ideas as to its true and
proper ends, and consequently it has
not yet learned how even to begin its
inquiries properly, how to direct its
efforts, or systematize its observations.
For this is precisely the present condi-
tion of social science." The obvious
conclusion from this is, that as yet
there is no such Science. Its " status "
is therefore in substance nothing, and
in place nowhere, while the attempt to
state it must needs be superfluous and
impossible. This is a view that might
have been held any time these thou-
sands of years, and we think may bo
properly characterized as " old."
Mr. Hamilton labors to show that
he was right in holding Herbert Spen-
cer responsible for his " Social Statics,"
and denies that tJie modifications of
opinion, which the author of that work
declares he has undergone since its pub-
lication twenty-five years ago, are to be
regarded as " important." Well, that
depends upon the estimate he puts upon
accuracy of representation. Mr. Ham-
ilton's view of what is "important"
in such cases will certainly not pass
muster among scientific men, who are
generally and properly emphatic in the
assertion of their rights in this partic-
ular. They insist upon being judged
only by the latest expression of their
views, and chemists, physicists, and
physiologists alike refuse to be bound
by the old editions of their works. Mr.
Spencer's modifications of opinion were
held so important by himself that he
strenuously resisted the republication
of the book in this country when out
of print in England ; and, when over-
ruled in this, he interposed a preface,
warning his readers that it was no
longer a truthful expression of his
views. "While not absolutely repudiat-
ing it, and while still adhering to its
general conceptions, he yet declares
that the theory which it enunciates has
been so variously modified and further
developed that he does not abide by its
detailed applications. Several positions
in the work are explicitly disavowed,
and it is obvious that his changes of
view affect its whole complexion. Mr.
Hamilton attacked his chapter on " The
Evanescence of Evil" with results sat-
isfactory to himself; yet he could hard-
ly fail to see that the argument of that
chapter is merged in the great prin-
ciple of Evolution, which has received
its almost entire scientific development
since the date of " Social Statics," while
Mr. Spencer has been a leading student
of that subject, and made it the foun-
dation of his philosophy.
