LITERARY NOTICES.
623
well-kuown character, comes forth essen-
tially a new work. Considerable portions of
the original remain intact, where nothing has
occurred to impair the accuracy of the
statements ; yet such are the activity of re-
search and the vigilance of criticism in all
departments of knowledge that but few
subjects remain unaffected, and a large
number of aiticles have required to be add-
ed or amplified, corrected or retrenched, so
as to make the work thoroughly trustworthy,
and to bring its multitudinous contents into
proper symmetry and proportions. The
changes in the new edition are marked.
It has been freely illustrated throughout
wherever engravings could help the text,
and the scientific and political articles have
been all rewritten, while the utmost pains
have been taken to bring the endless details
up to the latest standard of accuracy. Of
course, the work is not free from imperfec-
tions, because knowledge itself is imper-
fect ; but whatever could be done by the
ability and experience of the editors, by
their extensive corps of able contributors,
and by the liberal expenditure of the pub-
lishers, to make the Cyclopaedia worthy of
public confidence, has certainly been ac-
complished. We say this without hesita-
tion, and know something of that which we
affirm. The office of the staff of editors of
the " American Cyclopsedia " adjoins our
own, and for the past four years we have
watched their proceedings with a lively in-
terest and no little admiration. Having the
advantage of a thorough apprenticeship in
the preparation of the first edition, the ed-
itors were enabled to organize the work of
revision in the completest manner from
the start, and it has been carried on with
unrelaxed assiduity, with a disciplined co-
operation — an effectiveness of method and
a conscientious caution that have brought
the whole talent of the force into a focus, as
it were, upon each page in its preparation
for the press.
But in judging the merit of a cyclopedia
we have to look further than this. Such a
work may be a monument of careful labor,
which is still misdirected. The question re-
mains, What is its purpose, and how is its
design fulfilled ? There are cyclopicdias upon
all subjects, commerce, chemistry, agricult-
ure, technology, fine art, engineering, and
various other branches of knowledge ; and
they have special values, of course, for the
cultivators of those branches, though very
little value for general use. It is folly
to expatiate upon the accuracy and full-
ness of a cyclopaedia of antiquities, for ex-
ample, to one who cares nothing about the
subject. To a politiciiin a cyclopaedia of the
physical sciences, however faithfully exe-
cuted, would be but rubbish with which
he would hardly cumber the shelves of
his library. A cyclopaedia is therefore to
be judged primarily by its adaptation to
the class for which it was prepared. The
"American Cyclopaedia," as a comprehen-
sive and popular dictionary of general
krowledge, appeals, not especially to this
class or to that, but to intelligent people
everywhere who desire a work of reference
on all topics of current and general interest.
More than any other work that has yet ap-
peared, the "American Cyclopaedia" is
adapted to the daily uses and wants of
American families. Its matter is chosen,
harmonized, proportioned, illustrated, and
put into literary form, we might almost
say, with reference to their needs ; and
certainly, as a means of education in the
family, its value is hardly to be over-esti-
mated. It is a library of itself, in which
the best information upon many thou-
sands of subjects has been condensed so
as to be quickly found at any moment
when it is wanted. As books multiply un-
til they become burdensome, and the press-
ure upon the time forbids their being read,
we are more and more driven to the sum-
maries of human knowledge, in which the
husks of interminable talk are stripped
away, and we are furnished with essential
facts and compendious results. Hence the re-
cent and growing popularity of encyclopedic
literature. No agency of intellectual culti-
vation can be introduced into the family so
direct and efficient in its quickening, enlarg-
ing influence upon the minds of the younger
members of the family circle as a compre-
hensive, carefully-digested cyclopaedia, con-
venient in form, for ready, habitual refer-
ence. It answers questions, solves difficul-
ties, corrects errors, imparts varied and
valuable information, and kindles the de-
sire for mental cultivation. We say it does
this; it does it in many instances, and
would do it in many more if its importance
were better understood. It must not be
