624
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
forgotten that a cyclopaedia in a family, like
a piano, must be used to be good for any-
thing. It should be ready of access ; and,
instead of keeping it away in the library, or
locking it up in a stately bookcase, it should
be placed in a separate and open case in
the room most commonly occupied by the
family, and where the volumes can be
reached by the very smallest amount of
effort. By adopting this plan, a bright
family will soon find the Cyclopaedia among
the first of daily necessities, and a source
of constant pleasure and instruction. The
publishers have anticipated this want of
separate cases for their work, and supply
them when desired ; but any cabinet-maker
will manufacture them at a trifling cost.
Dabwisiaxa : Essays and Reviews pertain-
ing to Darwinism. By Asa Gray. New
York: D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 390.
Price, $2.
The appearance of this volume will
take many people by surprise. Although
Prof. Gray is widely known in the world of
science for his botanical researches, and in
the world of education by his valuable text-
books, but few are aware that he is a pro-
nounced and unflinching Darwinian, or that
he has been an able and vigorous defender
of the doctrines that pass under this name,
ever since they were first promulgated. He
has written much upon this subject in vari-
ous periodicals, but, caring only to let the
arguments go for what they are worth, he
has modestly withheld his name from the
articles, the effect being that his position
upon the question has not been a matter of
notoriety. His contributions to the discus-
sion are varied and valuable, and, as col-
lected in the present volume, they will be
seen to establish a new and unexpected
claim upon the thinking world, which we
are sure will be extensively felt and cor-
dially acknowledged.
The history of what may be called the
Darwinian discussion, in some of its aspects,
is most curious and instructive. We com-
placently point back to those narrow and
prejudiced times, from which we have hap-
pily escaped, when novel scientific opinions
were rejected on the most frivolous and
puerile grounds, urged by those who knew
nothing whatever about them. But have
we really much improved on those old prac-
tices, and do we even yet recognize that
plain rule of common-sense, to leave the
discussion of serious and diflBcult scientific
questions to those who are competent to
deal with them ? Our times are eminent
for just the contrary procedure. With all
our vaunted liberalization, we dare not leave
scientific questions to scientific men. In
the history of the scientific controversies of
the last three centuries there is no instance
that will compare with this of '' Darwinism,"
when the community has been so bewildered
and misled by irrelevant and childish dis-
cussion on the part of grossly incompetent
writers. The press has teemed with essays
and books by men who were not only unfa-
miliar with the problems involved, and ut-
terly ignorant of the sciences upon which
their solution depends, but who had no in-
telligent conception even of the issues to
be settled. Clergymen, lawyers, metaphysi-
cians, litterateurs, having no acquaintance
with natural history, and knowing nothing
of the requirements, difficulties, and per-
plexities of scientific investigation, have
rushed into the debate with a confidence and
pretension contrasting strongly with the spir-
it of those who have given their lives to the
study. Here comes another of these impu-
dent and worthless performances, " A Criti-
cal Examination of some of the Principal
Arguments for and against Darwinism," by
James Maclaren, M. A., barrister-at-law ;
and what are the claims of this writer to at-
tention ? Why, he has written a book on the
" History of the Currency; " and, with the
mental equipment which such a work and
his professional education imply, he assumes
to deal with the greatest problem that has
ever presented itself to the mind of man,
a problem which belongs purely to science,
and is engrossing the severest scrutiny of
the most thoroughly disciplined scientific
minds of the age.
Dr. Gray's book offers a refreshing con-
trast to this shallow strain of Darwinian ht-
erature. It comes of a direct, first-hand, and
thoroughly familiar knowledge of the ele-
ments and objects which enter into the in-
quiry, and outweighs whole libraries of such
productions as we have here referred to.
The author says, in his prefa^je : " If these
papers are useful at all, it will be as show-
ing how these new views of our day are re-
garded by a practical naturaUst, versed in
