LITERARY NOTICES.
6z^
one department only (viz., botany), most in-
terested in their bearings upon its special
problems, one accustomed to direct and
close dealing with the focts in hand, and
disposed to rise from them only to the con-
sideration of those general questions upon
which they throw, or from which they re-
ceive, illustration." It is this characteristic
which gives its eminent value to Dr. Gray's
volume. On such a grave question, what
we want to know is the intelligent opinion
of men capable of forming an independent
judgment, and a statement of the evidence
on which they base their conclusions. The
promulgation of Darwin's theory, in 1859,
found Prof. Gray a trained student of the
biological problems presented by the vege-
table kingdom. With an extensive and accu-
rate knowledge of plants, and a philosophi-
cal turn of thought which could not evade
the question how the vast diversities of the
plant world have been brought about, he
had a solid preparation for judging of the
claims of the " Origin of Species." Con-
vinced of the total insufficiency of all pre-
vious theories upon the subject, he saw at
once that Mr. Darwin's view was a great
step forward in the pathway of science, re-
solving difficulties before insuperable, and
promising to be of immense service in or-
ganizing existing knowledge, and in open-
ing avenues of future investigation. The
next year after the issue of the " Origin of
Species," he published an elaborate article
in the American Journal of Science, review-
ing and interpreting it, and contrasting its
doctrines with those advocated by Prof.
Agassiz. This is the opening paper of the
present volume, and was followed by a se-
ries of essiys which appeared in various
magazines, taking up many aspects of the
subject, answering objections, elucidating
obscurities, criticising adverse works, and
contributing important additions to the gen-
eral theory. These papers, as now printed
together, not only illustrate the history of
the controversy, and the progress of the
discussion, but they form, perhaps, the full-
est and most trustworthy exposition and il-
lustration of what is to be properly under-
stood by " Darwinism " that is to be found
in our language. Of course, the work is not
a systematic treatise upon the subject, but
it covers the chief points that are of para-
mount interest, both to naturalists and to
general readers.
But there is another feature of Dr.
Gray's volume which will commend it, in
even a higher degree, to large portions of
the public. It gives earnest and prominent
attention to the religious aspects of the
question. Though a thorough-going Dar-
winian, Dr. Gray will not consent to hold
his scientific opinions at the expense of his
religious faith. Satisfied that the great
principle of " Natural Selection " is a power-
ful working law of Nature, and holding to
cardinal theological beliefs, he maintains
that the conflict between them is not neces-
sary, and that an enlightened interpretation
of religious doctrine must bring it into har-
mony with the advanced scientific conclu-
sions. Nor is it a mere semblance of faith
that is to be harmonized with science by
frittering away its essential character. Dr.
Gray is out and out orthodox, and emi-
nently sound in his theology. In his pref-
ace he says :
" Then a? to the natural theological questions
which (owing to circumstances needless now to
be recalled or explaiued) are here throughout
brought into what most naturalists, and some
other readers, may deem undue prominence,
there are loany who may be interested to know
how the;e increasingly prevalent views and their
tendencies are regarded by one who is scientifi-
cally, and in his own fashion, a Darwinian,
philosophically a convinced theist, and religious-
ly an acceptor of the ' creed commonly called the
Nicene,' as the exponent of the Christian faith."
This portion of Dr. Gray's work is very
able, and we think all candid religious read-
ers will find it conclusive. To all those
timid souls who are worried about the prog-
ress of science, and the danger that it will
subvert the foundations of their faith, and
who perplex themselves with the question
whether a Darwinian can be a Christian,
we recommend the dispassionate perusal of
this volume. The subject is touched upon
in various aspects in the different papers ;
but the last article, wliicli is newly contrib-
uted to the volume, grapples with the gravest
difficulty of the case, and is an elaborate
discussion of " Evolutionary Teleology," or
the doctrine of purpose and design in Na-
ture as aflFected by the principle of " Natu-
ral Selection." Dr. Gray maintains with
great force that, instead of being subverted
VOL. Tr — 40
