626
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by Darwinism, the doctrine of design is
simply enlarged and seen to operate with a
wider scope, and to stand upon a more com-
prehensive basis. He is by no means ob-
livious of the difficulties with which teleology
is encompassed, and recognizes that it was
the subject of powerful philosophical assault
before Darwinism arose. But he sees also
that the obstacles to the acceptance of the
principle were due to the old ante-Dar-
winian views of the " Origin of Species."
We can do no justice to this closely-reasoned
essay by quotation from it, as it requires to
be fully and carefully read to get a clear
view of the author's position. A brief pas-
sage or two may, however, help to indicate
it. Speaking of the contradiction involved
in the old teleological interpretation of the
origin of the organs and parts of living creat-
ures, he says :
" The error, as we suppose, lies in the com-
bination of the principle of design with the hy-
pothesis of the immutability and isolated crea-
tion of species. The latter hypothesis, in its na-
ture improbable, has, on scientific grounds, be-
come so far improbable that few, even of the
auti-Darwinian naturalists, now hold to it; and,
whatever may once have been its religious
claims, it is at present a hindrance rather than
a help to any just ^^nd consistent teleology.
"By the adoption of the Darwinian hirTJOthe-
eis, or something like it, which we incline to
favor, many of the difficulties are obviated, and
others diminished. In the comprehensive and
far-reaching teleology which may take the place
of the former narrow conceptions, organs and
even faculties, useless to the individual, find
their explanation and reason of being. Either
they have done service In the past or they may
do service in the future. They may have been
essentially useful in one way in a past species,
and, though now functionless, they may be
turned to useful account in some very diflferent
way hereafter. In botany several cases come to
our mind which suggest such interpretation."
And again :
"Darwinian teleology has the special advan-
tage of accounting for the imperfections and
failures as well as for successes. It not only
accounts for them, hut tarns them to practical
account. It explains the seeming waste as be-
ing part and parcel of a great economical pro-
cess. Without the competing multitude, no
struggle for life; and, without this, no natural
selection and survival of the fittest, no continu-
ous adaptation to changing surroundings, no
diversification and improvement, leading from
lower up to higher and nobler forms. So the
most puzzling things of all to the old-school
teleologists are the principia of tlie Darwinian.
In this system the forms and species, in all their
variety, are not mere ends in tbemeelvee, but
the whole a series of means and ends, in the
contemplation of which we may obtain higher
and more comprehensive, and perhaps worthier,
as well as more consistent, views of design in
Kature than heretofore. At least, it would ap-
pear that in Darwinian evolution we may have
a theory that accords with if it does not explain
the principal facts, and a teleology that is free
from the common objections.
"But is it a teleology, or rather— to nee the
new-fangled term— a dysteleology ? That de-
pends upon how it is held. Darwinian evolu-
tion (whatever may be said of other kinds) is
neither theistical nor non-theistical. Its rela-
tions to the question of design belong to the
natural theologian, or, in the larger sense, to
the philosopher. So long as the world lasts it
will probably be open to any one to hold con-
sistently, in the last resort, either of the two hy-
potheses, that of a divine mind or that of no di-
vine mind. There is no way that we know of by
which the alternative may be excluded. Viewed
philosophically, the question only is. Which is
the better supported hypothesis of the two?
"We have only to say that the Darwinian
system, as we understand it, coincides weU
with the theistic view of Nature. It not only
acknowledges purpose (in the CcmUmporo-y Re-
viewer's sense), but builds upon it; and if pur-
pose in this sense does not of itself imply de-
sign, it is certainly compatible with it, and sug-
gestive of it. Difficult as it may be to conceive
and impossible to demonstrate design in a whole
of which the series of parts appear to be con-
tingent, the alternative maybe yet more difficult
and less satisfactory. If all Nature is of a piece
— as modern physical philosophy insists — then
it seems clear that design must in some way,
and in some sense, pervade the system, or be
wholly absent from it. Of the alternatives, the
predication of design — special, general, or uni-
versal, as the case may be — is most natural to
the mind; while the exclusion of it throughout,
because some utilities may happen, many adap-
tations may be contingent results, and no or-
ganic maladaptations could continue, runs coun-
ter to such analogies as we have to guide ns,
and leads to a conclusion which few men ever
rested in.'"
It may be added that Dr. Gray's vol-
ume is eminently readable, and, though
dealing with "solid" subjects, is far from
" heavy." The author has a great deal
more humor about him than the student of
his botanical manuals would be led to sus-
pect. But the readers of " Darwiniana "
will find that he is not only capable of ftin,
but has given it a pretty free vent in these
pages. He seems half inclined to apolo-
gize for this, saying in his preface :
" If it be ohjected that some of these pages
are w-riLten in a lightness of vein not quite con-
gruous with the gravity of the subject and tho
