THE MOLLUSKS OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS. 43
ments of great mountain-lieights in the more elevated regions of the
globe. The extensive survey of coasts, pi'ominent among which is our
own great Coast Survey. The trigonometrical surveys carried on in
many countries in Europe. The investigation of the cause of the
glacial epoch, and possibly of inter-glacial epochs, or a succession of
alternate warm and cold periods, each extending over long epochs of
time, and their effect in bringing about the present condition of the
earth's surface by clianges in the level of the sea and the submergence
of the land.
This very inadequate statement will show how great, wide-spread,
and constant has been the work of exploration and research within the
period referred to, and how truly it may be denominated a geographi-
cal asre.
THE MOLLUSKS OF THE KOCKY MOUNTAINS.
Bt ERNEST INGEESOLL.
IX the summer of 1874 it was my privilege to accompany one of the
parties of the United States Geological Survey of the Territories,
of which Dr. F. V. Hayden is chief. The field of operations was tiie
mountainous region of Southern Colorado, and it afforded a good op-
portunity to examine the natural history of the region traversed.
The mammals of the Rocky Mountains have long been well known,
particularly the large game, which, except in the distant portions of
the Territory of Colorado, has been greatly depleted by the constant
pursuit of hunters and trappers. The case is somewhat the same with
the game-birds ; while the enthusiastic labors of Henshaw, Aiken,
Allen, Coues, and other ornithologists, have given us a very complete
knowledge of all the birds and their habitats. The fishes and reptiles
have received some attention too ; and, in the lower, invei-tebrate forms
of life, the investigations of Thomas upon the grasshoppers, Carpenter
on the butterflies and moths, and Edwards, Packard, and Hagen on
other insects, and the reports upon Crustacea and worms by Verrill,
Smith, Leidy and others, have given us a tolerable knowledge of the
extent to which those forms are to be found in that region. But the
raoUusks of the mountains — land-snails, pond-snails, river-snails, and
fresh-water mussels — have been almost entirely neglected, except by
Dr. Cooper, in the north. From Colorado only seven had been reported,
which wei-e collected by Lieutenant Carpenter. This, then, seemed to be
the field most needing cultivation, and my attention was chiefly turned
to it during three months of wandering over the mountain-ranges,
parks, and sterile plains, that diversify the country between Middle
Park and the corner of Arizona. Something was found at nearly
every camp, and, when the collection was at home and count(!d, it was
