LITERARY NOTICES.
627
Beriousiness of its issues, the excuse must be
that they were written with perfect freedom,
most of them as anonymous contributions to
popular journals, and that an art,'ument may not
be the less sound or an exposition less effective
for being playful."
No apology, however, is needed, and it
would be well if scientific writers having
the capacity of humor would imitate the
example of Dr. Gray in giving it freer ex-
pression in works designed for popular
reading.
Transcendentalism in New England : A
History. By Octavius Brooks Froth-
INGHAM. G. P. Putnam's Sons. Pp.
395. Price, $2.50.
The general purpose of the author in
the preparation of this volume is thus hap-
pily stated by himself: " While we are
gathering up for exhibition before other
nations the results of a century of Ameri-
can life, with a purpose to show the issues
thus far of our experiment in free institu-
tions, it is fitting that some report should
be made of the influences that have shaped
the national mind, and determined in any
important degree or respect its intellectual
and moral character. A well-considered
account of these influences would be of
very great value to the student of history,
the statesman, and philosopher, not merely
as throwing light on our own social prob-
lem, but as illustrating the general law of
human progress. This book is offered as a
modest contribution to that knowledge."
The modern philosophic movement
known as " transcendentalism," and the
beginnings of which Mr. Frothingham traces
to Germany, France, and England, has had
a marked development in this country, and
he has done a much-needed service to the
students of the drifts and currents of mod-
ern thought by working out this historical
delineation of it. No man was better pre-
pared to do this useful work than Mr.
Frothingham. By his wide, scholarly prep-
aration, by his personal acquaintance with
the leading characters who have had a
share in it, by his sympathy with its influ-
ence, lus observation of its results, and his
attitude of an indcpcndant critic, he was
qualified to deal with it on its various sides,
and he has accordingly given us a book in
a high degree readable and entertaining,
instructive and valuable. Its merits as a
I study in philosophy are only equaled by
the skill and attiactiveness of its personal
sketches of the men and women who have
been prominent as representatives of tran-
scendental thought. And, although Mr.
Frolhingham's reputation in the theological
world will be regarded by many as dubi-
ous, yet his treatment of the historic bear-
ings of transcendentalism upon religion is
most suggestive, and may be read with
profit by all interested in this class of
questions.
The Life and Letters of Lord Macau-
lay. By G. Otto Trevelyan. Harper
k Brothers. Vol. I., pp. 416 ; Vol. IL,
pp. 406. Price, %h.
This biography has made a decided and
' unexpected impression upon the public
I mind ; it is, in fact, a sort of revelation.
Of Macaulay's outer life as essayist, histo-
1 rian, orator, and politician, everything was
j known, his career having been a conspicu-
, ous one. But as to his private life little
was known except that he was supposed to
be haughty and cold, and an everlasting
talker, who harangued the company at din-
ner until everybody was tired of him. Very
little was understood of his kindly and lov-
I ing nature, and his tender and heroic devo-
tion to his lather's family from youth to
age, as so admirably narrated in these vol-
umes. We have not in a long time been so
enchained by a biographical work as by this
of Mr. Trevelyan. We have not space to
, give any analysis of it, or to make extracts
I from its pages, but it is proper that we
should refer to one feature in Macaulay's
education which the reviews thus far seen
quite fail to notice. Macaulay went to the
University of Cambridge and took early and
powerfully to the purely literary aspects of
culture. The sciences and mathematics he
despised, and hated, and ridiculed. But
mathematics is the great thing at Cam-
bridge. Macaulay might have neglected
and abused the physical sciences to almost
any extent, but if he had paid a decent re-
spect to mathematics all would have been
well. As it was, he incurred the disappro-
bation of the authorities, and failed to reach
the position he sought, and to which he was
unquestionably entitled by the brilliancy
of his scholarship. It was exactly in the
field where he was strongest that the ex-
