628
TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
aminers plucked him. They admitted that
his translations from the Latin and Greek
were faithfully rendered, but objected to
bis ungraceful, bald, and inornate English.
The biographer adds : " The real cause was
beyond all doubt his utter neglect of the
special study of the place : a liberty which
Cambridge seldom allows to be taken with
impunity even by her most favored sons."
Universities are very human, after all.
It is, however, noteworthy and very sig-
nificant that Macaulay changed his views in
regard to some of these matters in maturer
life. Mr. Trevelyan says, " He used to pro-
fess deep and lasting regret for his early
repugnance to scientific subjects." And
well may he have done so, for the sciences
in which he was deficient had not only a
direct bearing upon his work as a states-
man and an historian, but they were rising
every decade into increasing prominence in
the world of philosophic thought. Had
Macaulay given to some of the modern sci-
ences even a fraction of that untiring at-
tention and insatiate interest which he de-
voted to almost every form of literary rub-
bish, it might have made a wide difference
in the conservation of his fame.
The Logic of Chance. By J. Ve.nx, M. A.
New York : Macmillan. Pp. 500. Price,
$3.75.
Ix a work with the above title one is
prepared to find most of the illustration
and demonstration mathematical. This,
however, is not the case with the present
treatise, for the understanding of which no
knowledge of mathematics is required be-
yond the simple rules of arithmetic. The
author's object is, to show what are the
foundations and province of the theory of
probability, with especial reference to its
logical bearings and its application to mor-
al and social science — a matter of strictly
philosophical inquiry, though the problems
which are met with in the application of the
rules of probaVjility often require a profound
acquaintance with mathematics. In the first
part of his work the author lays down what
he calls the "physical foundations of tlae
science of probability." According to him,
in those classes of things with which prob-
ability is concerned, the fundamental con-
ception which we have to bear in mind is
that of a series. The individual members
of a series seem to be governed by no law ;
but when we consider the result of a long
succession we find a marked distinction : a
kind of order begins gradually to emerge,
aud at last assumes a distinct aspect. In
the second chapter the author has an able
critique on certain fundamental postulates
of Quetelet's system.
Part II. treats of the logical super-
structure erected upon these physical foun-
dations, and we have chapters entitled
" Gradations of Belief," " The Rules of Infer-
ence in Probability," " The Rule of Succes-
sion," " Induction," " Causation and Design,"
" Material and Formal Logic," " Modality,"
" Method of Least Squares," and " Fallacies."
The third part is devoted to considering
various applications of the theory of prob-
ability. The principle of life and property
insurance is explained ; also the laws gov-
erning games of chance. Finally, there are
chapters on the "Application of Probabihty
to Testimony," "Credibility of Extraordi-
nary Stories," and "Statistics as applied
to Human Actions."
Geological aud Geographical Scktey of
Colorado and Adjacent Territory.
1874. By F. V. Hatdes. Pp. 515, with
Maps and Plates. Washington : Gov-
ernment Printing-Office.
The great amount of work performed
by a United States Survey Expedition, dur-
ing a field season, and the permanent value
of such reports as that before us, will be
understood from a brief statement of the
method in which such surveys are con-
ducted : 1. Such observations are made as
will supply the data for a geological map,
showing the distribution and extent of
the formations which compose the surface
of the region. A number of sections are
examined, to ascertain how these forma-
tions lie upon one another, and to de-
termine their relative ages and general pale-
ontological relations. The extent and mode
of occurrence of all economical products,
as minerals, springs, etc., are noted, collec-
tions of rocks, fossils and the like, being
made as far as possible. 2. The materials
are collected for a map or representation
of the surface features of the country, its
streams, plams, mountains, canons, etc.,
