630
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
MISCELLANY.
The Cruise of the " Challenger."— 3a-
ture, for June 1st, gives an exceedingly in-
teresting account of the voyage round the
world recently completed by the Chal-
lenger. This voyage was undertaken
chiefly for scientific purposes, the principal
object being to " determine as far as pos-
sible the physical and biological conditions
of the great ocean-basins of the Atlantic,
the Southern Sea, and Pacific."
Important discoveries made during re-
cent expeditions on the European border
of the Atlantic and in the Mediterranean,
by Dr. Carpenter, Mr. Gwyn Jeffries, and
Prof. Wyville Thomson, stimulated a de-
sire for further investigation, and this great
voyage under direction of Prof. Thompson,
as chief of the civilian staff, was inaugurated
and carried through to a successful issue.
The ship left England on December 21,
18Y2, and returned to Spithead on May 24,
1876, having been absent a little less than
three and a half years, and making a voyage
of nearly 69,000 miles.
During this voyage 362 observing-sta-
tions were established, at each of which
the depth and bottom temperature of the
ocean were ascertained, and samples of the
water, mud, and animals of the bottom,
brought up for examination.
The direction and rate of currents
were carefully studied, and "serial sound-
ings " were made with special instruments
to determine the temperatures at different
depths. Upward of 50,000 meteorological
observations were made during the first
twelve months of the cruise.
The regular work of the expedition be-
gan at Teneriffe, from which point a line
of soundings was carried across the Atlan-
tic to the small island of Sombrero, a dis-
tance of 2,700 miles.
At 1,100 miles from Teneriffe, and 1,600
miles from Sombrero, bottom was found at
3,150 fathoms, which consisted of "per-
fectly smooth red clay, with scarcely a trace
of organic matter," but at depths of only
2,200 fathoms the bottom was one mass of
calcareous shells of foraminifera.
The red clay was found to be almost
pure clay and a red oxide of iron with
some manganese. This material is sup-
posed by Prof. Thomson to be the residue
or ash from decomposition of the shells.
Experiments were made by Mr. Buchanan,
of the staff of scientists, confirming this
conclusion. He subjected globigerina ooze
to the action of a weak acid, and found
that after the carbonate of lime was re-
moved there remained about one per cent,
of a reddish mud, consisting of silica and
alumina, and a red oxide of iron.
The globigerina shells were abundant at
depths not exceeding 2,200 fathoms, but at
greater depths a gray ooze occurred, the
shells being in a state of decomposition ;
in deeper parts this disappeared, leaving
the residuum of red clay.
This clay was foimd to be widely dis-
tributed in both the Atlantic and Pacific
Oceans, and in many places contained con-
cretions of the peroxide of manganese.
The specific gravity of ocean-water was
carefully tested by Mr. Buchanan, and very
unexpected results were obtained. The
notion that the specific gravity increases
with increase of depth seems unfounded, as
it was ascertained to be greatest near the
surface, diminishing to a depth of about
500 fathom's. From this downward it is
nearly uniform.
Dredgings at great depths usually
brought to the surface living organisms.
At 3,150 fathoms (upward of three and a
half miles) on the Atlantic cruise, only
foraminifera were found, but other organ-
isms were abundant at similar depths else-
where.
By the serial temperatures taken in sev-
eral places, it is evident that conditions ex-
ist which may greatly modify the distribu-
tion of the deep-sea fauna. Near Raine
Island, not far from the entrance to Torres
Straits, there was found at 2,650 fathoms,
with bottom of red clay, a temperature of
35^ Fahr. But it was also found that the
same temperature occurred at a depth of
only 1,300 fathoms. Here, then, the waters
through 1,350 fathoms of depth, were of a
uniform temperature. Over a wide area
similar results were obtained, and the con-
clusion is, that this area, known as the
Melanesian Sea, is so surroimded by a reef,
rising to within 1,300 fathoms of the sur-
face, that free communication of its waters
with the outside ocean is prevented.
Animal life was found to be scarce in
