MISCELLANY.
633
on the contrary, the shoal is entirely broken
up, each fish taking an independent path,
and darting from one side of the tank to the
other with surprising agility. It was during
these active nocturnal movements that the
fish struck against the rockwork of the tank
and eame to an untimely end ; this mortality,
however, was soon arrested by placing a
dim light over their tank, which illuminated
the outline of the rockwork just sufficiently
to enable them to recognize and avoid it.
With this dim light the fish still retained
their active habits, and it was noticeable
that during these night-hours they were
more than ordinarily alert for food, dashing
vigorously at any entomostracan or other
minute organism that passed through the
water. This circumstance would seem to
explain why " drift-net " fishing for herrings
can be carried on successfully only at night,
that being the time when the fish rise to the
surface uf the water to feed on the innumer-
able organisms that there abound.
Prof. Slayer on Soand. — Prof. Mayer,
of the Stevens Institute of Technology, read
at the late meeting of the Academy of Sci-
ences a paper on the " Sensations produced
by Concurrent and Rapidly - succeeding
Sounds," a synopsis of which appears in
the Tribune. The author showed how cer-
tain sounds extinguish the sensation of oth-
er sounds. The rule appears to be that,
while low sounds cannot extinguish high
ones, high sounds may obliterate low ones.
He had been led to this course of observa-
tion by noticing that the click of a noisy
clock was, at certain intervals, silenced if a
watch was held to the ear. These intervals
of silence, he ascertained, occurred when
the sharp tick of the watch and the low
click of the clock were simultaneous. Then
by various and elaborate devices he satisfied
himself, not only of the general fact, but as
to what balancing of intensities was requi-
site. Prof. Mayer proceeded to demonstrate
the application of the rule to musical sounds.
This he made plain to the Academy by
means of apparatus producing a certain low
note from a wind-instrument simultaneously
with the same note several octaves higher
and of greater intensity. The high note
killed, so to speak, the low one. But, on
the other hand, a low note of great intensi-
ty was powerless to extinguish a faint high
note : the high note utterly refused to be
drowned by any volume of the lower sound.
Ancient Conditioa of Great Salt Lake. —
According to Prof. G. K. Gilbert, of Wheel-
er's Expedition, the Great Salt Lake of Utah
anciently had an outlet northward, the over-
flow being carried to the ocean by the Co-
lumbia River. But the Great Salt Lake was
then a great inland sea, as is evidenced by
the existence of an ancient beach 9*70 feet
higher than the Great Salt Lake of to-day,
and TOO feet higher than Sevier Lake. The
subsequent changes of level are described
at, follows by Prof. Gilbert in the Americnn
Journal of Science : " From the upper beach
the water slowly subsided by desiccation,
recording its lingerings in a series of fainter
shore-fines. When it had fallen to the level
of the divide between the Sevier and Salt
Lake Basins, it was separated into two un-
equal portions. In one of these the evap-
oration exceeded the inflow from rivers, and
the subsidence continued; in the other the
inflow exceeded the evaporation, and the
surplus was discharged over the divide into
the former portion, just as the surplus of
Utah Lake is now discharged into Great
Salt Lake. In the course of time, as the
climate became drier, this overflow ceased,
but not until it had carved a channel of
some magnitude. This channel is crossed
by the old overland stage-route, and is
known as the Old River-Bed." It is the
opinion of Prof Gilbert that the humid cli-
mate which was marked by this inundation
of Utah was preceded by one as arid as the
present, and that the humidity was a phe-
nomenon of the Glacial epoch. A fuller
statement and discussion of the facts will
appear in the forthcoming geological volume
of the " Reports of AVheeler's Surveys."
Spontaneous Hypnotism.— A case of
spontaneous hypnotism is described by Dr.
Bouchut in Les Mondes. A little girl of ten
had been apprenticed five months to the
business of making waistcoats. One day,
after a month of steady but not excessive
work, and while sewing a button-hole, she
became unconscious and slept for one hour.
On awaking, she resumed her work, but
with the same result. This hypnotism did
