634
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not occur with any other kind of sewing.
The case baring now come under the notice
of M. Bouchut, he gave the girl a button-
hole to sew. She had hardly sewn three
stitches wlien she sank from her chair on
the ground, and fell fast asleep. M. Bouchut
raised her up, and noted catalepsy of the
arms and legs, dilatation of the pupil, slow-
ness of pulse, and complete insensibility.
She slept for three hours. Next day he made
a similar experiment, when the girl slept
only one hour. While no other kind of sew-
ing could affect the girl in this way, M.
Bouchut found that he could produce hyp-
notism by causing her to look intently on a
silver pencil held at the distance of ten cen-
timetres from the root of her nose. The
case evidently was one of Braid's hypno-
tism, only occurring spontaneously, and not
brought on by way of experiment.
Periodic MoTemcnts of the Foliage of
Plants. — The Abies Nordmanniana, a conif-
erous tree now widely diffused on account of
the elegant coloration of its leaves, appears
to bear uniformly whitish foliage, when ob-
served in the morning or toward evening, but
when observed in the middle of the day the
green tint seems general. The reason of this
difference is found in the fact that the posi-
tion of the leaves on the branch is different
in the daytime from what it is at night ; in
the former case the leaves are spread out
upon the branch and present their upper
surface, producing the greenish aspect of
the foliage ; during the latter period, on the
contrary, it is the lower or whitish surface
that is presented to the observer. Thus
there is a diurnal and a nocturnal position.
As the day declines, the leaves, which at
noon were horizontal, are seen gradually
to erect themselves upon the branch, often
becoming nearly perpendicular to it, and
this movement of erection is accompanied
by a movement of torsion in the basal part
of the leaf, often traversing an arc of 90°.
Treatment of Lunatics ly Colored Light.
— Medical journals give an account of ex-
periments recently made by Dr. Ponza, di-
rector of the lunatic asylum at Alessandria,
Piedmont, to determine the influence of the
solar rays on brain-diseases. Dr. Ponza,
having communicated his views to Father
Secchi, was encouraged to study the subject.
In his letter to Dr. Ponza, the Roman as-
tronomer expressed the opinion that the
violet rays are of special importance. " Vio-
let," he writes, " has something melancholy
and depressive about it ; perhaps violet light
may calm the nervous excitement of mani-
acs." He then advises Dr. Ponza to per-
form his experiments in rooms with stained-
glass windows, and with the walls painted of
the same color as the glass panes. One
patient, who had been affected with morbid
taciturnity, became gay and affable after
spending three hours in a red chamber;
another, a maniac who refused all food,
asked for breakfast after having staid
twenty-four hours in the same red chamber.
In a blue chamber a highly-excited madman
became calm in one hour. A patient was
made to pass the night in a violet chamber ;
on the following day he felt himself cured,
and has been very well ever since.
Unhealthy Trades. — Among the lectures
delivered by Dr. Richardson before the Lon-
don Society of Arts, on " Unhealthy Trades,"
is one devoted to the " Industrial Diseases of
Workers in Earthenware." He shows from
the official statistics that potters are among
the three sections of the population of Eng-
land who represent the lowest vitality. The
males of fifteen years and upward die at the
rate of 38 per cent, above the males of all
ages ; and the commencement of this in-
creased mortality is at the period when the
men are approaching their prime of life,
namely, at thirty-five years, and it extends
onward to the end of life. Thus where in
the general population 100 males of thirty-
five years die, a proportion equal to 154 pot-
ters dies. For the four subsequent incre-
ments, namely, forty-five, fifty -five, sixty-
five, and seventy-five years, for 100 deaths
in the general male population, the deaths
among male potters are proportionately 182,
181, 192, 141. The wages of the potters
are good, and the labor not physically se-
vere on healthy, fully-developed persons.
The special diseases incident to this kind
of employment are bronchitis with "pot-
ter's asthma," pulmonary consumption, and
lead paralysis. Subsidiary to these are
rheumatic affections and affections of the
stomach. The special causes of disease
