MISCELLANY.
63^
are : variations of heat and cold, and con-
stant inhalation of dust ; these causes pro-
duce chronic bronchitis and asthma. The
paralytic diseases are induced by lead ; of
these diseases the victims are the dippers
and the women who assist them. " Could
we," remarks Dr. Richardson, in conclu-
sion, " relieve the earthenware manufactur-
ers from the two grand causes of disease to
which they are exposed, dust and lead,
though some generations would be required
in order to restore them, as a community,
to perfect vitality, there is no reason why
their death-rate should not, at once, be re-
duced to at least half its present excess,
and the steady progress of their vital re-
generation be immediately commenced."
Eflfects of Cold on Milk.— The effect of
cold upon milk has been made a subject of
experiment by M. Eugene Tisserand, who
finds that if cow's milk is immediately, or
soon after being drawn, placed in vessels at
various temperatures between freezing-point
and 90° Fahr., and the initial temperature
maintained for twenty-four or thirty-six
hours, the nearer the temperature of the
milk is to freezing-point the more rapid is
the collection of cream, the more consider-
able is the quantity of cream, the amount
of butter is greater, and the skimmed milk,
the butter, and the cheese, are of better qual-
ity. These facts, he believes, may be ex-
plained by Pasteur's observations on fer-
ments. It is probable that the refrigeration
arrests the development of living organisms
and hinders the changes due to their growth.
The facts stated indicate room for great
improvement in the methods of storage and
preservation of milk. To keep milk at its
original quality, extreme cleanliness and a
low temperature are absolutely necessary.
In the north of Europe the value of cold is
already recognized, and in warmer climates
the need of its assistance is greater.
Coal-Gas as a Fad. — The use of coal-gas
in the place of gross fuel for the purposes
of heating and cooking is rapidly coming
into public favor in England. In this coun-
try the high price of gas is doubtless the
principal reason why this most convenient
form of fuel has not been more widely
adopted, in the place of coal. The advan-
tages of gas are manifold, and are clearly
set forth in a paper read by Mr. John Wal-
lace at a meeting of the London Society for
the Promotion of Scientific Industry. First,
we can absolutely control the amount of gas
consumed and the degree of heat produced.
In cooking, this control of the degree of
heat is of the utmost importance : too quick
or too slow a fire must result in bad cook-
ing. Now, the heat of a coal-fire is very
irregular, and is liable to be affected by so
many circumstances that constant attention
is required to keep it in the proper condi-
tion for delicate operations. Then, in point
of cleanliness and facility of application,
grs-stoves are far superior to coal-stoves.
" The increasing cost of household labor,"
adds Mr. Wallace, " renders it highly prob-
able that the same measure of success
awaits the domestic application of gas as
has already established the sewing-machine
among our household gods. It is to be
hoped that among the numberless schemes
of gas-manufacture which have recently
been made public we may soon be provided
with a gas which shall be sufiiciently cheap
and plentiful to be used not only for light-
ing and heating in private dwellings, but also
for ti-ade and manufacturing purposes in
workshop and warehouse."
Toxic Action of Putrid Blood — The in-
fluence of various conditions upon the toxic
property of blood has been investigated by
V. Feltz, whose results, as communicated to
the Paris Academy of Sciences, are briefly
stated in the Lancet. He first determined
the effects on a healthy dog. The injection
of from one to three cubic centimetres
caused all the symptoms of intense blood-
poisoning in from three to eight days. Ex-
posure to the air for periods of 24 to 96
hours made no difference in the toxic prop-
erties of the blood ; exposure to compressed
air for 24 to 144 hours was also without ef-
fect. Exposure to oxygen had different re-
sults, according to the time of exposure.
Contact with oxygen for from 6 to 72 hours
had no effect. Animals injected with blood
which had been exposed to oxygen for 96
to 216 hours recovered after five or sis days'
illness. The result was the same with blood
through which a continuous stream of oxy-
gen was passed. A ver,v similar effect was
