636
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
produced by exposure of the blood to a
vacuum for many hours. A second series
of experiments was to determine the in-
fluence of time on poisonous material.
When the putrefied blood was kept so
long that no living bodies could be discov-
ered in it by microscopical examination,
the same toxic effects were produced by
its injection, but were less intense. Pu-
trefied blood was then dried by slow expos-
ure to the air, powdered, mixed with dis-
tilled water, and injected. The effects were
not, as in the other cases, immediately mani-
fest. After four to six days of incubation,
the animals became ill ; some died, others
recovered. M. Feltz concludes that, as ex-
posure to a vacuum and desiccation did not
remove the toxic agent, it cannot be a gas ;
that activity on the part of the minute mov-
ing particles within it is not necessary for
its septic effect ; and that the development
of bacteria, etc., in the blood of the animals
injected, points to the germs of those bacte-
ria as being the probable efficient means of
the production of the poisonous effects,
Ostrich-Farming. — Ostrich-farming has
within the past few years attained a remark-
able development in South Africa. We pre-
sent to our readers a few notes upon this
new industry, taken from an address by Mr.
P. L. Simmonds before the London Society
of Arts. The climate in all parts of the
Cape Colony is said to be alike favorable
to the growth and production of the ostrich,
and there are but few districts of the colony
where this industry is not carried on. Mr.
A. Douglas, of Hilton, appears to have been
the first systematic breeder of ostriches in
the Cape Colony. About eight years ago
he bought a pair of birds, and subsequently
added four more, making in all two cocks
and four hens. By means of an incubator
he succeeded in raising from these six birds
130 young ostriches in one season. The
ostrich-farm of Mr. Kiunear, of West Beau-
fort, consists of eight acres of land, inclosed
with fences. In this inclosure, which is
sown with lucern, thirty ostriches are kept.
There are two methods of obtaining the
feathers, plucking them, and cutting them a
little above the roots, which are removed
two months afterward. Mr. Kinnear pre-
fers the latter mode. The first plucking
takes place when the bird is about eight
months old, but the feathers are then not
of much value. The operation is renewed
every eight months. Three pluckings of
birds in full plumage realized to Mr. Kin-
near £240, or £120 per annum, that is, £8
per bird.
In the wild state, five female ostriches
are often attached to one male, and they all
lay their eggs in one nest, and sit on them
in turn. Mr. Kinnear, however, only assigns
one female to each male. They are coupled
in July (the second month of winter), and
commence laying in August, and continue
laying for about six weeks, after -which they
sit till October. A month or six weeks
later, they recommence to lay for about five
weeks, provided the young brood are re-
moved. In forming the nest — a large hole
scraped in the sand — the male bird is most
assiduous, and when all is ready the laying
of the eggs commences. From fifteen to
twenty eggs are laid and carefully arranged
in the nest. The male bird usually sits by
night, the female morning and evening; in
the wild state the birds frequently leave the
nest untended during the heat of the day.
Ostriches are, comparatively, inexpen-
sive to keep, as during three-fourths of the
year they require only a little artificial food,
the grass produced on the farm being nearly
suflBcient for their maintenance ; during the
remaining fourth, they only need some sup-
plemental supplies of green food, with a
little Indian-corn. Each ostrich eats about
twenty pounds of lucern a day.
Culture of the Cochineal Cactus. — The
culture of the cochineal cactus was intro-
duced into the Canary Islands in 1840.
This plant, as indicated by its name, is the
favorite food of the cochineal insect, whose
body furnishes the well-known dyestuff
cochineal. The culture developed rapidly,
still for some years the supply of cochineal
fell short of the demand. In 1848 prices
varied from eleven to twelve francs per
pound Spanish, the cost of production not
exceeding 25 per cent, of this sum. A
" cochineal mania " was the result, and all
other crops had to give way before cochi-
neal. Prices began to fall under the .in-
fluence of this excessive production, and
from 1860 to 1870 the cochineal sold for
