MISCELLANY
637
five to six francs, and there has been a
steady decline ever since. In 1870 the
price was four francs, in 1871 3.50 francs,
in 1872 three francs, in 1873 2.50 francs.
There is now a very general disposition to
abandon this culture, and since 1872 the
amount produced has been growing less
from year to year. This decline is also, in
a great measure, due to the introduction of
new dyestufifs of mineral origin.
DetCftion of Arsenic la Organic Matter.
— Dr. Arinaud Gautier proposes a new meth-
od for separating arsenic from animal mat-
ters, and for detecting its presence. By
combining the sidphuric-acid and the nitric-
acid processes he has obtained very satisfac-
tory results, as regards both the rapidity of
the operation and the exactness of the deter-
minations. He first treats the matter sup-
posed to contain arsenic with nitric acid,
then with sulphuric acid, and finally with
nitric acid again. By the first operation
the organic substances are disaggregated ;
by the second they are destroyed very rap-
idly, and by the third, with the addition of
more nitric acid, the last traces of organic
matter are eliminated, while the formation
of sulphide of arsenic is prevented. Having
made a number of quantitative experiments,
M. Gautier never met with a discrepancy
amounting to so much as one-tenth of a
milligramme between the amount of arsen-
ic introduced and that found.
Timidity of Birds, — Dr. J. G. Cooper, in
the Naturalist, comments on the " sociable
and confiding disposition " of the birds of the
Western United States, compared with the
same species eastward. This diflerence,
he remarks, has been noticed by several
writers, but the reasons have so far been
scarcely mentioned. According to the au-
thor, the chief reason is that in the West
bird-collectors and idle boys are less numer-
ous, while sportsmen find larger game so
plenty that they do not waste ammunition
on small birds. Besides this, the prevalence
of prairies over most of the Western region
makes any garden full of trees and shrubs
a rare nursery for the woodland species,
where they fijid more protection from Ijawks
and weasels than in their native groves,
while they m':iy also levy a small contribu-
tion on the fruits in return for the insects
they destroy, and their lively songs. In
California, the poison intended for ground-
squirrels has also destroyed millions of birds
about the fields, and left them unhurt in
gardens.
Fattening Oysters. — Salt oysters, on be-
ing transferred to fresh water, are " fat-
tened " in the course of two or three days ;
if allowed to remain longer they become
lean again, and are flavorless. Prof Per-
sifor Frazer, of the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia, holds that this
change cannot be due to an increase of
flesh, and attributes it rather to a simple
distention of the tissues, owing to the ad-
mission into them of a greater quantity of
fluid. During the oyster's period of growth
on the sea-coast, its tissues are constantly
saturated with the ocean-brine ; on remov-
ing the animal to merely brackish or to
fresh water, the conditions are at once fa-
vorable for osmose to be commenced. The
fresher and less dense liquid without per-
meates inward more rapidly than the more f<\\^
saline and denser liquids within escape, and^.^;
the effect is to swell the tissue, as a cow'^'f ^
bladder half filled with air and immersed icf •
a vessel of hydrogen is swollen, or stillS
more nearly like the swelling of a bladder
half filled with copper sulphate when im- '
mersed in water. " It is worth while to in-
quire," adds Prof. Frazer, " whether means
could not be devised to efiect this fattening
while yet not depriving the oyster of the
salty flavor which is its chief charm to many
consumers. Perhaps an immersion in con-
centrated brine for several days and its sub-
sequent removal to ocean-water would suf-
fice."
" Shooting-Stars." — We make a few se-
lections from an interesting paper on " Shoot-
ing-Stars," by Prof. C. A. Young, published
in the Bostoii Journal of Chemintrij. These
shooting-stars, he says, are very small, for
the most part weighing certainly not more
than a few grains, and possibly only some
thousandths of a grain — mere particles or
cloudlets of dust, which are traveling in
space under the same laws as those which
govern the motions of the planets and com-
ets, and with a velocity as great. Their
least velocity is more than thirty times that
of a cannon-ball. When they encounter
• *:
