638
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
our atmosphere, this velocity is destroyed
by the resistance, and, according to well-
known laws, their energy of motion is con-
verted into heat of intensity sufficient to
render them incandescent, and even to dis-
sipate any solid portions in vapor. Their
numbers are very great. About forty per
hour is a fair average for one station, or
nearly one thousand each day. If the calcu-
lation is carried out for the whole earth, al-
lowing that at each station all are observed
which come within a circle two hundred
miles in diameter, the total number reach-
ing the earth daily is found to be about five
million ; indeed. Prof Newton, who is per-
haps the highest authority on this subject,
sets the number still higher, at seven and
a half million. A curious fact is, that the
hourly numbers increase from sunset to
sunrise by some fifty per cent. The reason
is simply that in the evening we are, so to
speak, behind the earth as it rushes through
space, and see only those which overtake
us ; in the morning, on the other hand, we
are in front, and see all we meet, as well as
those we overtake.
The most remarkable discovery of re-
cent times in respect to these bodies re-
mains to be mentioned. It is found that in
four well-marked cases the orbits of impor-
tant meteoric swarms coincide exactly with
the orbits of well-known comets ; that the
swarm of meteors follows in the wake of
the comet and is somehow connected with
it. The discovery dates from 1866, when
Schiapparelli first proved the connection
between the Leonids (November meteors)
and Temple's comet. Since then the same
thing has been shown of the Perseids, Ly-
rids, and Bielids.
Canse of the Anrora. — According to
Groneman's hypothesis, an account of which
is given in the Academy^ there are streams
of "minute iron particles circulating around
the sun like the well-known meteor-streams,
and these, when they come near the earth,
are attracted by its poles, and form fila-
ments stretching out into space, in the same
way as iron-filings, sprinkled on paper, ar-
range themselves in lines under the influ-
ence of a magnet underneath, each particle
attracting the next by virtue of its induced
magnetism. Groneman refers the phenom-
enon of the aurora to the ignition of this
cosmieal iron-dust in its passage through
air, the distinction between this and an or-
dinary meteor-shower being that, on account
of the filamentous arrangement of the par-
ticles in the direction of the dipping needle,
streamers are formed, which by an effect of
perspective appear to radiate from a point
in that direction, and therefore nearly over-
head. It is necessary to suppose that this
meteor-stream is traveling nearly in the
same direction as the earth, and Groneman
enters into elaborate calculations to show
that the velocity of the particles would not
be too great to permit the magnetic at-
traction to form filaments of 200 miles in
length.
Dr. Roberts on Spontaneoas Generation!
— Dr. William Roberts, of Owens College,
Manchester, whose experiments were quoted
by Dr. Bastian, in a recent communication,
as favoring the doctrine of the spontaneous
generation of bacteria, contradicts this in-
terpretation of the results of his investiga-
tions. " On the contrary," writes Dr. Rob-
erts, " the weight of my experiments is en-
tirely against him " (Bastian), " and in fa-
vor of Pasteur's conclusions. It appears to
me," he adds, " that the attitude of Dr.
Bastian on the question of the origin of
bacteria arises from what I may call the
inverted significance which he attaches to
the two contrasted results — barrenness or
fertility — which follow after boiling an or-
ganic infusion. Throughout the controversy
Dr. Bastian speaks of the barren tubes and
flasks as ' failures,' or ' negative results ; '
and he evidently regards the fertile tubes
and flasks as ' successful ' experiments, hav-
ing the force and authority of ' positive '
results. The true view is just the reverse
of this ; it is the barren flask that has the
character of a positive result. For what
does the experimenter set himself to do in
these experiments ? He seeks to destroy,
by boiling, all preexisting bacteria in these
infusions, and to leave unimpaired their
powers of promoting the growth of bacteria.
And it is found, in fact, that this latter
quality is perfectly preserved in boiled in-
fusions ; for they breed bacteria with the
utmost luxuriance when they are reinfected
from an extraneous source. . . . When I
take up one of the flasks or bulbs which
have remained barren in my chamber for
