44 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
somewhat surprising to find over fifty species, only nine of which had
been hitherto known to exist in the Central Province, Avhere an ex-
treme "paucity of species, .... owing to the nature of its climate
and soil," had been alleged. Five of these species were new to science,
and have since been described in the " Bulletin of the United States
Geological Survey," second series, No. 2, which has since been re-
printed in an extended and revised form, in the Annual Report of the
Survey for 1874.
The Central Province alluded to above is the name given by Mr.
W. G. Binney ' to that portion of the United States embraced be-
tween the crests of the Sierra Nevada and Cascade Mountains on the
west and the edge of the great plains on the east. It was considered
to be unfavorable to the development of pulmonates and deficient in
tlie number of species to be found, and that its fauna was closely
allied to that of the Eastern States, whence it had been largely derived
by way of the north, where the plains are succeeded by forests and
the Rocky Mountains dwindle into hills.
With respect to this distribution of mollusks in Colorado, none were
found on the eastern slope of the range, although there is no conclusive
evidence that they do not exist there ; altitude seemed to have very
little influence upon their dispersion, as long as other favorable con-
ditions were present, and some species had a very local distribution.
The eastern slope of the Snowy Range is abruj^t, and receives com-
paratively little rain. Westward of the summit, however, certain
genera — as Zonites, Vitrina, Yallonia, Pattda, Piipa, Succinea^ and
Plsidium — were everywhere represented. Vitrinas and pupas were,
perhaps, the most common forms, the latter being particularly numer-
ous on the Sierras in the southeastern corner of the Territory, where
Pupilla alticola were traced up to the very limit of timber-growth,
and lapon the face of precipitous clifis of volcanic rock, in whose clefts
only tufts of grass could gain a foothold, "With the latter shell also
occurred some small succineas, and a mollusk with a delicate, box-
shaped shell, only one-tenth of an inch in diameter. Plenty of these
little fellows, as lively as could be, were to be found at the astonish-
ing height of 11,500 feet. They proved to be undescribed, and to
belong to the sub-genus Microphysa., the two American species of
which, heretofore known, are natives of the Gulf coast and the West
Indies. Why this species should depart so far from the habits of its
congeners as to thrive best in the arctic climate of these mountain-
tops, is strange. This Microphysa was afterward met with in the
valleys south of these Sierras, and in the mountains west of North
Park. In this same southern group of mountains many other shells
were found — at a lesser altitude, but where w^ater froze every night in
August — of the same species as existed in other parts of the Territory,
' In the " Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology " (Cambridge, Mass.), vol.
iii., No. 9, " Geographical Distribution of North American MoUusca."
