NOTES.
'39
three or four years, though supplied with
air (filtered through cotton-wool) and suit-
able heat, my wonder never ceases. Each
one is a new experiment, every day repeat-
ed, and muhiplied indefinitely ; day after
day I ask myself, ' Why does it not germi-
nate ? ' I compare it to a field in spring
not yet sown, but ready for the reception
of the seed : for if I withdraw the plug of
cotton-wool and admit the dust of the air,
or introduce a drop of water, all is changed ;
in a few hours the stillness of years gives
place to life and activity. I repeat, it is
the fertile flask, and not the barren flask,
that wears the complexion of a failure and
of a negative result."
NOTES.
The American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science meets this year at
Buffalo, the sessions commencing August
23d. William B. Rogers, of Boston, is
President ; Charles A. Young, Dartmouth
College, Vice-President Section A; E. S.
Morse, Salem, Mass., Vice-President Section
B; Thomas Mendenhall, Columbus, Ohio,
General Secretary.
The Entomological Club of the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of
Science will meet at Buffalo, N. Y., on the
22d of August, in quarters provided by the
local committee of the Association. All
interested in the subject of entomology are
invited to attend, and to repair at first to
the Tifft House for instructions.
The French Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science will hold its meetings
this year at Clermont-Ferrand, commencing
August 17th. The President of the Asso-
ciation is M. Dumas, of the Academic des
Sciences.
The Agassiz Museum at Cambridge,
Mass., has passed from the hands of the
special board of trustees, and is now the
property of Harvard College. Besides the
real and personal property of the museum,
the college comes into the possession of
S115,0(iO in money, as also over 8310,000
constituting the " -\gassiz Memorial Fund."
The General Council of the British As-
sociation has fixed Wednesday, September
6th, as the date of opening this year's ses-
sions. The place of meeting is the city of
Glasgow. The authorities of the Glasgow
University have tendered to the Associa-
tion the free use of the commodious build-
ings situated in the western district of the
city. A guarantee fund of £4,000 will be j
raised by the citizens of Glasgow ; of this
sum the city corporation gives £500. Sir R.
Christison, who was elected President last
year, has resigned on account of ill-health,
and Dr. Andrews, Vice-President of Queen's
College, Belfast, has been elected in his
place.
A CORRESPONDENT sends us an account
of the passage of a brilliant meteor, unusual-
ly large and bright, over Xorthern Indiana,
Northern Ohio, and Southwestern Michigan,
on the evening of July 8th, at precisely
nine o'clock. An observer at Elkhart, In-
diana, says at that place it seemed almost
exactly overhead, and its course began
very near 61 Cygni, and ended about 5^
south of Ursa Minor. The illumination
was as bright as that of a full moon, and
was of a greenish-yellow light. The whole
pathway was visible for fifteen minutes,
and for half an hour a bright, hazy spot,
about 6" long and Z" wide, could be seen
near the middle of the pathway. No
sound accompanied the movement of the
flaming body, and at last it disappeared in
a sort of bluish light, very brilliant at first,
but growing hazy, and finally disappearing.
Judging from its height, if it descended to
earth at all it must have fallen into Lake
Michigan. The course of the body was as
straigiit as an arrow, but its fiery trail very
soon assumed the serpentine appearance
that would naturally be caused by the at-
mospheric currents.
Died, recently, in London, at the age of
seventy-five years, Edward Newman, F. L.
S., F. Z. S., editor of the Zoologist and the
Entomologist, two serial publications which
have attained considerable success among
amateurs of entomology and natural his-
tory in England.
Three years ago there was founded at
Boston a " Society to encourage Studies
at Home." The number of students who
received encouragement from the Society
during the first year of its existence was
45, the second year 82, the third year 298.
In making choice of studies to be pursued,
127 selected history, 118 English literature,
44 science, 36 art, 19 German, and 16
French.
Prof. C. Wttille Thomson, director of
the scientific staff of the Challenger, has
received the honor of knighthood from
Queen Victoria.
A piece of telcgrapli-cable, the rubber
covering of which had been pierced by
grass, was exhibited at a meeting of the
Bengal Asiatic Society; the efficiency of
the cable was thus destroyed. The species
of the grass, owing to its dried-up condi-
tion, could not be determined. It was sug-
gested, as a probable explanation, that the
