640
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
seeds had become attached to the core
when under water, and had afterward ger-
minated when the core was stored.
Prof. Brudenell Carter, in an address
on the " Rulations of Oplithalmology to
General Surgery," takes the ground that,
while the growth of specialism in this de-
partment has given us improved operations
and more dexterous operators, it has re-
tarded investigation by diminishing the
number of laborers in the field, aud the
opportunities of those laborers to study
the facts from the standpoint of general
pathology.
An Italian chemist, A. Casali, obtains a
gt'een pigment by calcining an intimate
mixture of one part of bichromate of potash
and three parts of baked gypsum, of the
variety known as scagliola. The result is
a grass-green mass which, on boiling with
water, or mixing with dilute hydrochloric
acid, leaves a fine powder of an intense
green.
Reichardt recommends the use of the
microscope in determining the mineral con-
tents of potable water. On evaporating a
few drops on a plate of glass, it is easy to
distinguish carbonate and sulphate of lime
and of magnesia, chloride of sodium, and
nitrate of potash and of soda. C. Bischof
further recommends the use of the same
instrument for determining the organic sub-
stances contained in water.
A SCHEME has been recently devised for
supplying London with an inflammable mixt-
ure of gases to replace coal. The new gas,
"pyrogen," as it is called, is a mixture of
nitrogen and carbonic oxide, three-fourths
by weight consisting of the latter gas. The
combustion temperature of pyrogen is stated
to be 2, TOO" Cent., and for heating-purposes
the flame of the burning gas is to Ije allowed
to raise some good radiating substance to
incandesence in an ordinary grate.
Felizet, of Elbeuf, having observed that
in epidemics of foot-and-mouth disease no
beast afiected with cow-pox is ever stricken
with the former disorder, vaccinated thirty
oxen, and not one of the twenty-five beasts
effectually vaccinated showed any sign of
foot-and-mouth disease, even after living for
months among animals largely affected with
it.
Prof. Stanley Jevoxs is opposed to
the project of assimilating the American
dollar to the English pound sterling ; he
advocates, rather, assimilation to the five-
franc piece. The partial accession of the
United States to the .franc system would,
he says, immensely increase the motives for
the English to accept it also, thus prepar-
ing the way for an international coinage.
For the purpose of photographing solar
eclipses, Mr. Brothers, of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society of London, suggests that at
least three achromatic lenses of five or six
feet focal length, corrected for the actinic
rays, should be constructed, with all suita-
ble apparatus, to be in readiness for use
when required. The light of the corona, he
adds, is sufficiently actinic to produce good
pictures when an instrument of long focus
is used — it is only a question of time in the
exposure and accuracy in the adjustment
of the driving-clock apparatus attached to
the equatorial mounting.
The cruelty-to-animals bill, now under
consideration in the British Parliament,
provides that vivisection should only be
performed with a view to the advancement
of human knowledge, the prolongation of
human life, or the alleviation of human suf-
fering ; that it must take place in a regis-
tered laboratory ; that it must be performed
by a person duly licensed ; that the animals
must be put under the influence of anes-
thetics ; and that, where pain would be pro-
longed after the anaesthetic effects had sub-
sided, the animals should be killed.
Ik their last report, the Commissioners
in Lunacy in England discourage the prac-
tice, which has grown to be quite general,
of filling up the asylums with idiots, imbe-
ciles, and eccentric or troublesome paupers,
to the exclusion of the really insane, who
need and are entitled to the skill, care, and
attention, that asylums are intended to af-
ford.
The Commission Superieure of the Paris
Exposition of 1878 has decided upon the
general plan of the enterprise, and esti-
mated the probable receipts. The expense
is set down at 35,000,000 francs, and the
receipts at 19,000,000 ; difference, 16,000,-
000 francs. To meet this deficit, the city
of Paris will contribute 6,000,000 francs,
and the state 10,000,000 francs. The
buildings for the exposition will be erected
in the Champ de Mars and in the Troca-
dero — localities situated on opposite banks
of the river Seine. At first, it was proposed
to widen temporarily the bridge known as
Pont d'lena, but soon another project was
entertained — that of erecting a new bridge
forty metres in width. The question is yet
under deliberation.
In the petroleum-mines of Alsace the
miners test their safety-lamps in the follow-
ing manner before going down the pits : At
the bottom of an open jar is placed a small
quantity of petroleum-spirit, the vapor of
which, mingling with the air in the jar,
forms an explosive mixture. The lamp is
plunged into this mixture, and the slightest
defect in the lamp is proved by an explosion.
