THE CONSTANTS OF COLOR.
643
from the vermilion consists, for exaqaple, of eighty per cent, of red
light from such a region of the spectrum, jylus twenty per cent, of
white light. If we set the amount of light reflected by white paper
as 100, then a surface painted with " emerald-green " reflects aVjout
eight parts of white light ; artificial ultramarine, two or three parts ;
red lead, seven or eight, etc. Some white light is always present ;
its general efiect is to soften the color and reduce its action on the
eye ; when the proportion of white is very large, only a faint reminis-
cence of the original hue remains ; we say the tint is greenish-gray,
Fig. 2.— Spectrum crossed by Band of Superimposed White Light.
bluish-gray, or reddish-gray. The specific eflects produced by the
mixture of white with colored light will be considered in a future
chapter ; it is enough for us at present to have obtained an idea of
one of the constants of color, viz., its purity. The same word, it
may be observed, is often used by artists in an entii-ely different
sense : they will remark of a painting that it is noticeable for the
purity of its color, meaning only that the tints in it have no tendency
to look dull or dirty, but not at all implying the absence of white or
gray light.
Next let us suppose that in our study of these matters we have
presented to us for examination two colored surfaces, which we find
reflect in both cases eight-tenths red light and two-tenths white light.
In spite of this the tints may not match, one of them being much
brighter than the other, containing, say, twice as much red light and
twice as much white light ; having, in other words, twice as great
brightness or luminosity. The only mode of causing the tints to
match will be to expose the darker-colored surface to a stronger light,
or the brighter surface to one that is feebler. It is evident, then, that
brightness or luminosity is one of the properties by which we can
define color ; it is our second color-constant. This word luminosity
is also often used by artists in an entirely diff*erent sense, they calling
color in a painting luminous simply because it recalls to the mind
the impression of light, not because it actually reflects much light to
