644 ^^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the eye. The term bright color is sometimes used in a somewhat
analogous sense, but the ideas are so totally difierent that there is
little risk of confusion.
The practical determination of the second constant is possible in
a great many cases ; it j^resents itself alwaj'S in the shape of a rather
troublesome photometric problem, capable of a more or less accurate
solution. The relative brightness of the colors of the solar spectrum
is one of the most interesting of these problems, as its solution would
serve to give some idea of the relative brightness of the colors,
which, taken together, constitute white light. Quite recently a set
of measurements were made in different regions of the spectrum by
Vierordt, who denoted the points measured by the fixed lines, as is
usual in such studies.' The following table will serve to give an idea
of his results :
Color. Degree of Luminosity.
Dark red 800
Red 4,930
Red, slightly orange 11,000
Orange red 27,730
Orange 69,850
Yellow 78,910
Green 30,330
Cyan blue 11,000
Blue 4,930
Ultramarine blue 906
Violet 359
" 131
" 58
" 9
These measurements were made on a spectrum obtained by a glass
prism, which, as has been mentioned in a previous chapter, contracts
the red, orange, and yellow spaces t;nduly, and hence increases their
illumination disproportionately. It is to be hoped that a correspond-
ing set of measurements will soon be made on the normal spectrum,
furnished by a ruled plate. If we should multiply the luminosity of
the colors in either kind of spectrum by their extent or areas, we
should obtain measures of the relative amounts of these several tints
in white light.
By the simple method of rotating disks we can very roughly de-
termine the second constant in the case of a colored surface, for ex-
ample, of paper tinted with vermilion. A circular disk, about six
inches in diameter, is cut from the paper, and placed on a rotation
apparatus, as indicated in Fig. 3. On the same axis is fastened a
double disk of black-and-white paper, so arranged that the propor-
tions of black-and-white can be varied at will. When the whole is set
in rapid rotation, the color of the vermilion paper will of course not
' C. Vierordt, Poggendorf^s Annalen, Band csxxvii., S. 200.
