THE CONSTANTS OF COLOR.
645
be altered; but the black-and-Avhite will blend into a gray. This
gray can be altered in its brightness till it seems about as luminous
as the red. If we find, for example, that with the disk three-quarters
black and one-quarter white an equality appears to be established,
we conclude that the luminosity of our red surface is twenty-five per
cent, of that of white paper. This is of course based on the supposition
that the black paper reflects no light ; it actually reflects from tw^o
to five per cent., the reflecting power of white paper being put at
100. The results thus obtained are always inexact, and the same ob-
FiG. 3. — Colored Disk with Small Black-and-White
Disk.
Fig. i.—y^y,u^r.n.u i^i.-n. .. i 1 H
Small Black-and-White
Disk in Rotation.
server will often obtain different results on different days, though
those of a single day may agree pretty well among themselves. In
the appendix to this chapter, a peculiar photometer will be described,
which has been contrived by the author for the purpose of comparing
more accurately together the relative luminosity of different colored
surfaces, or that of colored and white surfaces.
But to resume our search for color-constants. We may meet with
two portions of colored light, having the same degree of purity and
the same apparent brightness, which nevertheless appear to the eye
totally different ; one may excite the sensation of blue, the other that
of red ; we say the tones are entirely different. The tone of the color
is, then, our third and last constant, or, as the physicist would say, the
degree of refrangibility, or the wave-length of the light. It has in a
previous chapter been shown that the spectrum offers all possible tones
except the purples, well arranged in an orderly series ; and the purples
themselves can be produced with some trouble, by causing the blue
or violet of the spectrum to mingle in certain proportions with the
red. Rutherford's automatic six-prism spectroscope can very con-
veniently be employed for the determination of the tone. {See Fig.
5.) A peculiar eye-piece is to be used, which isolates a little slice
of the spectrum in its upper half, as indicated in Fig. 6. In the lower
half of the field the fixed lines are seen, and the tone selected as match-
