THE CONSTANTS OF COLOR.
647
duction of a set of standard colored disks with known constants, which
can afterward be combined with each other, as well as with standard
black or white disks, so as to generate at will, with ease and certainty,
an immense number of tints whose constants will be known. If we
make a record of the constants involved in such experiments, we can
afterward reproduce the tints just as they originally were, or alter
them to any desirable extent. To carry out the letter of this it will
of course be necessary to view the standard disks under similar illu-
minations at different times, a point which can be secured with the
Fig. C.— Eye-Piece for isolating the Tints of the Spectrum.
aid of the photometer above referred to. The standard disks can
also be used for building up a set of standard charts, containing a
vast variety of tints of known composition, arranged methodically
with regard to purity, luminosity, and ton.e. These matters will be
considered at some length in a separate chapter, and are now only
hinted at as a justification for the trouble we have been at in defining
the constants of color.
There is another point to be touched on in this connection. One
of the most noticeable things about colors is their difference in in-
tensity. Colors are intense when they excel both in purity and bright-
ness ; for it is quite evident that, however pure the colored light may
be, it still will produce very little effect on the eye if its total quan-
tity be small ; and, on the other hand, it is plain that its action on
the same organ will not be considerable if it is diluted with much
white light. Purity and brightness, or luminosity, are, then, the fac-
tors on which intensity depends. We shall see hereafter that this is
strictly true only within certain limits, and that an inordinate in-
crease of luminosity is attended with a loss of intensity of hue.
Having defined the three constants of color, it will bo interesting
to inquire into the sensitiveness of the eye in these directions. This
subject has lately been studied with care by Aubert, who made an
extensive set of observations with tlie aid of colored disks.' It was
' Aubert, "Physiologic der Netzhaut," Breslau, 18G5.
