648 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
found that the addition of one part of white light to 360 parts of
pare colored light produced a change which was perceptible to the
eye ; smaller amounts failed to bring about this result. It was also
ascertained thatx mingling pure colored light with from 120 to 180
parts of white light caused it to become invisible, the hue being no
longer distinguishable from white. DiiFerences in luminosity as small
as 3-ig^ to j^o could under favorable circumstances be perceived. It
hence followed that irregularities in the illumination or distribution
of pigment over a surface, which were smaller than -^^ of the total
amount of light reflected, could no longer be noticed by the eye.
Experiments with red, orange, and blue disks were made on the sen-
sitiveness of the eye to changes of tone or refrangibility ; thus the
combination of the blue disk with a minute portion of the red disk
altei-ed its hue by moving it a little toward violet ; on reversing the
case, or adding a little blue to the red disk, the tone of the latter
moved in the direction of purj^le. Similar combinations were made
with the other disks. Aubert ascertained, in this way, that recogniz-
able changes of tone could be produced by the addition of quanti-
ties of colored light as small as from -j^ to -^^ of the total amount
of light involved. From such data he calculated that in a solar
spectrum at least 1,000 distinguishable tones are visible. But we can
still recognize these tones when the light producing them is subjected
to considerable variation in brightness. Let us limit ourselves to
1,000 slight variations, which we can produce by gradually increasing
the brightness of our spectrum, till it finally is ten times as luminous
as it originally was. This will furnish vis with a million tones, differ-
ing perceptibly from each other. If each of these tones is again
varied 300 times, by the addition of different quantities of white
light, it carries up the number of hues we are able to distinguish as
high as 300,000,000. In this calculation no account is taken of the
purples, or of colors which are very bright or very faint, or mixed
with very much white light. For these it will hardly be extravagant
to demand another 100,000,000 ; we reach thus the astonishing con-
clusion that the human eye under favorable circumstances is able to
distinguish as many as 400,000,000 different hues 1
