THE MOLLUSKS OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS. 45
aud, indeed, all over the Central Province. The finding of Pupilla
Blandly heretofore known only as a fossil in Missouri River drift,
living and abundant, is an instance worthy of special mention.
It would seem, then, that a range of high mountains, or any number
of ranges, would not offer a serious obstacle to the migration of land
mollusks, or an insurmountable one to fresh-water forms. The wide-
spread dissemination of such slow-moving creatures is a curious argu-
ment for the length of time that the country must have remained in
substantially its present condition.
The Sierras of which I have spoken are those which encircle Baker's
Park and the San Juan mining region, and extend westward to the
base of the great Uncompahgre Mountains, which trend northward not
far from the Utah line. This group of volcanic and quartzite peaks
constitutes the highest land anywhere in that region, and gives source
both to the Rio Grande del Norte and to the head-waters of the Great
Colorado River. Its steep southern sir'es are gashed with tremen-
dous gulches through which the Rio las Animas, the Rio La Plata, the
Rio los Mancos, and other streams, which go to make up the Rio San
Juan, flow out into the terrible canon-cut deserts that stretch away
across Arizona to the Gila River. For a few miles after emerging
from their rocky gates, these rivers water beautiful and fertile valleys,
which are cut through the sandstones upturned against the intruded
peaks, and which abound in springs. In these valleys are plenty of
timber and undergrowth, the climate is rarely cold enough for snow
even in winter, and thei'e I expected to gather a rich conchological
harvest. In this I was not disappointed, only regretting that I could
not make a more thorough examination than was permitted by the
rapidity of our travel. Between the Animas and La Plata the trail
passes through a valley between the lowest of the foot-hills, where
there is a pond of several acres extent, resorted to by all sorts of wild-
fowl, inhabited by many forms of amphibious life, and choked with an
exuberant aquatic vegetation. Here were found thousands of limneas
of several species, aud quantities of the common Planorbis trivolvis
showing a large range of variation among themselves. Like the lim-
neas, the planorbs were extremely fragile in texture, which may be
owing partly to the soft bottom, and partly to the scarcity of lime in
the water ; and they were distinguished by a short vertical diameter,
which peculiarity, also, may have been acquired by them from the
necessities of their habitat, since snails having shells with small breadth
of beam could most advantageously pass between the stalks of stand-
ing water-plants that everywhere crowded the pond. But the as-
tonishing fact about this pond was, that on the shore were found per-
fect specimens — although dead — of the marine genus Truncatella, a
broken specimen of an Arca^ and living crabs pronounced by Prof.
Sidney I. Smith, of New Haven, to be true salt-water forms belonging
to the family Astacidce. That these are survivors of the period, prob-
