THE PROBABLE AGE OF -THE WORLD. 651
in favor of old acquaintances, but we liked them better before. Di-
gressions, perhaps, are cut out ; some little rash, speculation quietly-
withdrawn ; some hit at an opponent suppressed ; but they do not
always command the same ready assent, or appear so interesting as
they did in their old form.
These remarks do not apply to Prof. Tait. His lectures now
before us, from tlieir nature, belong to the class of composition for
which we avow our predilection. They were delivered extempore to
a scientific audience, and printed from short-hand notes. They lose
nothing of their vigor, to use an expression of Lord Macaulay, by
translation out of English into Johnsonese. We are allowed to seize
the thought in the making, and, if it loses anything in grace, the loss
is more than counterbalanced by power.
Those who wish thoroughly to understand the subject of this
paj^er should study Prof. Tait's lectures on the souces of energy, and
the transformation of one sort of energy into another. Matthew
Arnold's phrase, " let the mind play freely round " any set of facts of
which you may become possessed, often recurs to the mind on reading
these papers. There is a rugged strength about Prof. Tait's extem-
pore addresses, which taken together with their encyclopedic range,
and the grim humor in which the professor delights, makes them very
fascinating. They have another advantage. Men not professionally
scientific find themselves constantly at a loss how to keep up with the
rapid advance which has characterized recent years. One has hardly
mastered a theory when it becomes obsolete. But in Prof. Tait we
have a reporter of the very newest and freshest additions to scientific
thought in England and on the Continent, with the additional advan-
tage of annotations and explanations by one of the most trustworthy
guides of our time.
We propose to discuss the books and papers whose titles are pre-
fixed to this article, in so far as they throw fresh light on the probable
length of time during which the solar system may be supposed to
have existed. It is but in recent times that any materials have been
amassed for forming an opinion on the subject. Before the end of the
last century geology hardly existed as a science; an inquiry as to the
age of the world would have been unhesitatingly answered by the as-
sertion that the earth was created in six days, 4,004 years before the
birth of Christ. Though further research has shown that the sacred
text bears no such interpretation, those copies of the "Authorized
Version of the Bible" which are enriched with notes and marginal
references still keep up the formal assertion.
A story is told in Brydone's " Tour in Sicily " which will serve
to recall the state of public opinion on the subject of clironology at
the end of the last century. The Canonico Recupero, a Sicilian priest,
was Brydone's guide when he explored Mount Etna. Recupero (who
afterward wrote a history of his nativ^e mountain) told the traveler
