652 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that lie liacl been vastly embarrassed by the discovery that many
strata of lava, each covered deeply with earth, overlaid each other
on the mountain-side. " Moses," said he, " hangs like a dead weight
upon me, for I have not the conscience to make the mountain so young
as that prophet makes the world." "The bishop," adds Brydone,
" who is strenuously orthodox — for it is an excellent see — has warned
him to be on his guard, and not to pretend to be a better historian
than Moses."
The worthy Bishop of Catania was not alone in his views. Near-
er home it was the generally-received opinion that to doubt the lit-
eral accuracy of the chronology supposed to be involved in the Mo-
saic account was a grave impiety. The poet Cowper, mildest of men,
became fiercely satirical under the provocation of geology. Though
few people read "The Task" nowadays, the lines will no doubt be
remembered :
" . . . . Some drill and bore
The solid earth, and from the strata there
Extract a register by which we learn
That He who made it, and revealed its date
To Moses, was mistaken in its age."
Fortunately, it is no longer considered impious to try and "ex-
tract a register " from the earth. Those who were inclined to be afraid
that the Mosaic record would be discredited have long since laid
aside their fears. It has been found that, far from being upset by
scientific inquiry, the Bible account of the Creation accords in a very
remorkable manner with modern discoveries; and long before Max
Miiller put the feeling into words, it was felt that only " by treating our
own sacred books with neither more nor less mercy than the sacred
books of other nations, they could retain their position and influence."
When once the plunge was made, it was soon found, as might have
been expected, that the fault was not in the oracle, but in the inter-
pretation; and it is very remarkable in how many and unexpected
directions the testimony of Moses has been strengthened by the criti-
cism, not always friendly, which it has received. Of course, when
the anciently-accepted date of the Creation was proved to be incor-
rect, and chronology was, as it were, thrown open to the public,
there was nothing to prevent philosophers from allowing the freest
scope to their imagination. In proportion as the six thousand years
formerly assigned as the age of created matter was too small, the
reaction of opinion claimed for it an antiquity which workers in other
branches of physics feel it impossible to concede ; and at the present
moment there is among scientific men a revolt against the extreme
views of the geologists. The latter affirmed with truth that creation
in six solar days was demonstrably untrue, not because God could
not create the world at a stroke, but because the world bears ample
evidence that he did not so exercise his power. It was inconsistent
