THE PROBABLE AGE OF THE WORLD. 653
alike with reasoning from probability or the investigation of facts.
In all the operations of Nature as they unfolded themselves before
our eyes God worked by law — by the process of slow development —
by means beautifully simple, and involving no violence and no baste,
yet irresistible. There was abundant evidence that these causes had
been at work for thousands — perhaps millions — of years before the
date of the supposed miracle. Beginning from the present age, tlie
time was calculated that each development would require, till the
united ages of all amounted to the enormous sum of three hundred
millions of years.
Modern English geology holds that all geological changes have
been effected by agents now iu operation, and that those agents have
been working silently at the same rate in all past time ; that the great
changes of the earth's crust were produced, not by great convulsions
and cataclysms of Nature, but by the ordinary agencies of rain, snow,
frost, ice, and chemical action. It teaches that the rocky face of our
globe has been carved into hill and dale, and ultimately worn down
to the sea-level, not only once or twice, but many times over during
past ages; that the principal strata of the rocks — hundreds, and even
thousands, of feet thick — have been formed on ocean-floor-beds by
the slow decay of marine creatures and matter held in solution by
the waves ; that every part of the earth has been many times sub-
merged, and has again been lifted into the air. This slow rising and
sinking of the ground is an axiom of the geological creed. We are told
that it is now going on, and that there are large areas of subsidence
and of elevation on the surface of the globe. But when we consider
the slow rate at which that oscillation is now proceeding, and argue
back from the known to the unknown, wc are landed in conclusions
as to the length of time required for geological changes which the
opponents of the theory declare to be absolutely inadmissible.
Sir William Thomson, Prof. Tait, and Mr. Croll, argue the ques-
tion as one of geological dynamics. They find reason, in recent dis-
coveries of science, to assert that the sun and the earth, from their
physical condition, cannot possibly have existed for the enormous
length of time supposed. Playfair, the founder of what is called the
Uniformitarian school of geology, declares, on the other hand, that in
the existing order of things there is no evidence either of a beginning
or of an end. " In the planetary motions," he says, " where geometry
has carried the eye so far both into the future and the past, we discover
no mark either of the commencement or the termination of the pres-
ent order. The author of Nature has not given laws to the universe,
which, like the institutions of men, carry in themselves the elements
of their ow^n destruction." This was a bold assertion : it was adojJted
with very little limitation by Sir Charles Lyell and the later geolo-
gists — liis disciples and contemporaries. Indeed, if they admitted
any limitations at all, they placed the origin of the world so many
