654 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
hundreds of millions of years ago that the figures convey no practi-
cal idea to the mind, and amount in effect almost to what a distin-
guished geologist calls " eternity a parte ante.''''
The principal grounds upon which scientific opinion has recently
declared itself in favor of limited periods for the duration of the solar
system are based, first, on the belief that the earth is cooling — if not
rapidly — at such a rate as to make it impossible that it should have
existed for very many millions of years ; secondly, because there is
reason to believe that the earth is not now rotating on her axis with
the same rapidity as in former ages, and that, as her shape would
have been diflferent if, at the time she was in a molten state, she had
been rotating more rapidly than now, she has not been rotating so
long as has been supposed ; thirdly, because the sun is parting with
caloric at such a rate as to make it certain that he could not have
continued to radiate heat at the same rate for more than a few millions
of years ; and lastly, because the changes in the earth's crust, stupen-
dous and varied as they are, could have been, and probably were,
accomplished in the course of much shorter periods than popular
geology has hitherto considered possible.
It will, of course, be understood that any inquiry as to the date
of creation must necessarily have relation only to the solar system —
the sun, that is, and the planets which accompany the earth in its
orbit round the central luminary.
The investigation is of necessity thus narrowed, because we have
not, and cannot expect to have, any definite information as to the age
of the rest of the visible universe. The stars are forever beyond our
ken. If the spectroscope can bring intelligence of their component
elements, it is as much as we can hope to attain ; for their immeasu-
rable distance efiectually removes them from investigation. Xo action
of gravity emanating from those distant luminaries affects the inter-
nal economy of the solar system. In the vast eternity of space the
sun and his attendant satellites are altogether alone.
It is difficult to gaze upon the thousands of stars that brighten
the night with their radiance, and yet realize our entire isolation.
The solar system, with the radius of its orbit stretching from the sun
to farthest Xeptune, is but a point in a vast solitude. Xo star is
nearer to us than 200 millions of millions of miles.
It is difficult, in dealing with such enormous numbers, to retain a
definite impression on the mind. Our powers of conception are fitted
rather to the wants of common life than to a complete survey of the
universe.
Perhaps an intelligent may be substituted for a merely formal
assent to these numbers, if they are considered on a greatly-dimin-
ished scale. Consider the figures on the scale of one mile to 100,-
000,000. On that scale the sun's distance from the earth will be repre-
sented by nearly one mile. Let the sun be represented by a globe
