THE PROBABLE AGE OF THE WORLD. 655
on the top of St. Paul's Cathedral, and the earth by a little ball on
the top of the clock-tower of the Houses of Parliament. The inte-
rior planets would revolve round St. Paul's as a centre ; Mercury, at
the distance of St. Clement's Church in the Strand ; Venus, at the
distance of St. Martin's Church, Trafalgar Square ; Mars would be at
Lambeth Bridge ; Jupiter, at Walham Green ; Saturn, in the middle
of Richmond Park ; Uranus, a little nearer the centre than Slough ;
Neptune, a couple of miles short of Reading. The outermost planet
of the solar system, then, would on this scale revolve in an orbit
comprising London and its neighborhood as far as Stevenage on the
north, Chelmsford and Rochester on the east, and Horsham on the
south.
On that same scale the nearest fixed star would be nearly as far
away as the moon is in the actual heavens.*
This inconceivable remoteness shows that the sun and his satel-
lites lie apart in space. They form one whole, interdependent on each
other, but completely removed, as regards their internal economy,
from the influence of any attraction outside.
There are reasons for concluding that the system, thus organized
and isolated, was brought into existence by one continuous act of
creative energy, and that, however long the period over which the
process may have been spread, the whole solar system forms part of
one creation ; and though it has been sometimes thought that the
earth was made by itself, and that the sun was introduced from out-
side space, or created where he is at a different time, the evidence is
strong against such a supposition.
In the first place, the orbits of all the planets are nearly in one
plane, and describe very nearly concentric circles. If, when they
received the original impulse which sent them revolving round the
sun, any of them had been started with a little more original veloci-
ty, such planets would revolve in orbits more elongated. If, there-
fore, they had been the result of several distinct acts of creation,
instead of being parts of one and the same act of creation, their
orbits would probably have been so many ovals, narrow and wide
in all degrees, and intersecting and interfering with each other in
all directions. Yet if this want of harmony had existed, cA^en to a
small degree, it would have been sufficient to destroy the existing
species of living creatures, and cause to disappear all security for the
stability of the solar system. If the earth's orbit were much more
eccentric than it is, all living creatures would die, for the extremes
' On the scale of 1 mile to 100,000,000 miles :
Miles.
Mercury would be distant from ) ^ „,
the sun J
Venus O.fiO
The earth 0.91
Mars 1.39
Jupiter 4. 75
MUc6.
Saturn 8.71
Uranus 17.52
Neptune 27.43
And a Centauri, the nearc st ) ^q^ ggQ qq
fixed star. J " '
