656 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of heat and cold at different jjeriods of the year would be fatal to
life. If the orbit of Jupiter were as eccentric as that of Mercury,
the attraction of the larger planet would cause the smaller to change
their approximately circular orbits into very long ellipses ; such
would be the disturbance that they would fall into the sun or fly off
into remote space. The moon would approach nearer and nearer to
the earth with every revolution ; the year would change its character;
violent heat would succeed to violent cold ; the planets would come
nearer and nearer ; we should see them portentous in size and aspect,
glaring and disappearing at uncertain intervals ; tides, like deluges,
would sweep over whole continents ; and, finally, the fall of the moon
or one of the planets to the earth would result in the absolute anni-
hilation of both of them.
Another reason for supposing that the solar system is the result
of one separate act of creation is, that all parts of it are subject to
one uniform law — that of gravitation. By that law every particle
of matter attracts every other particle with a force directly propor-
tionate to its mass. This force varies as the inverse square of the
distance : that is, if the attractive force of a given mass at one mile
were called 1, at two miles it would be 2 X 2 = 4, or ^ of 1, and so
on. This law of the inverse square, as it is called, is but the mathe-
matical expression of a property which has been imposed upon mat-
ter by the Creator. It is no inherent quality, so far as we know. It
is quite conceivable that the central law might have been different
from what it is. Tliere is no reason why the mathematical fact should
be what it is except the will of the Being who imposed the law. Any
other proportion could equally well be expressed mathematically, and
its results calculated. As an instance of what would occur if any
other proportion than the inverse square were substituted as the at-
tractive force of gravity, suppose, at distances 1, 2, 3, tlie attractive
force had varied as 1, 2, 3, instead of the squares of those numbers.
Under such a law any number of planets might revolve in the most
regular and orderly manner. But under this law the weight of
bodies at the earth's surface would cease to exist ; nothing would fall
or weigh downward. The greater action of the distant sun and plan-
ets would exactly neutralize the attractive force of the earth. A ball
thrown from the hand, however gently, would immediately become a
satellite of the earth, and would for the future accompany its course,
revolving about it in the space of one year. All terrestrial things
would float about with no principle of coherence or stability — they
would obey the general law of the system, but would acknowledge no
particular relation to the earth. It is obvious that such a change
would be subversive of the entire structure and economy of the world.
From these and similar considerations, it follows that, although other
laws are conceivable under which a solar system might exist, the
solar system, such as we know it, could only exist under the actual
