THE PROBABLE AGE OF THE WORLD. 657
laws which have been imposed upon its motions. And this seems
entirely to exclude the idea that the various bodies of the system
could have been created at diflferent times or brought together from
different parts of infinite space. We may then safely conclude that
the solar system is absolutely isolated in space, and is collectively the
result of one act of creation. To the solar system, therefore, our in-
quiry is exclusively confined.
Although the received chronology of the world has for ages rested
upon the supposed authority of the Bible, the sacred text really says
nothing at all upon the subject. But, though the assertions which
were so long made upon its supposed authority are not really con-
tained in the Pentateuch, it is curious to observe how exactly the
words of Moses appear to fit tlie most recent discoveries of science.
No one has supposed that we were intended to learn science from the
Bible ; it is, therefore, an unexpected advantage to find that its short
but pregnant sentences directly support the interpretation put by
modern research upon the hieroglyphics of Nature. Moses teaches,
just as modern science teaches, that the starry heavens existed far
back in past duration, before the creation of the earth. He describes
in majestic words the "emptiness" of chaos, and the condition of
affairs from which light arose. He describes the formation of the sun,
and its gradual condensation into a "light-holder" to give light upon
the earth, in terms that almost seem to anticipate Herschel and La-
place. Far from assigning any date to the Creation, he is content to
refer it to " former duration." No date is either mentioned or implied.
The so-called chronology was derived from two lists, one extend-
ing from Adam to Noah, the other from Noali to Abraham. These
lists purj^oi't to give the direct line of descent from father to son, and
the age of each individual member of the genealogy at the time when
the next in succession was born. As Adam was supposed to have
been created six days after the commencement of the Creation, it was
simple work to add up the sum and fix the age of the world. As long
as the progress of physical science showed no necessity for supposing
a lengthened period to elapse between the creation of the world and
the creation of man, it was taken for granted, almost without discus-
sion, that when God had created the heavens and the earth in the
beginning, he at once set about the work of arranging them for the
use of man; that he distributed this work over six ordinary days,
and at the close of the sixth day introduced our first parent on the
scene.
Nowadays, all divines, English and foreign, agree that the word
employed by Moses, and translated in our Bible by " the beginning,"
expresses dui-ation or time previous to creation. lieshith, the He-
brew word for beginning, is in the original used without the definite
article. The article was expressly omitted in order to exclude the
application of the word to the order of creation, and to make it signify
VOL. IX. — 42
