THE LOCAL DISTRLBUTION OF PLANTS. 681
In this theory of perfect natural adaptation, whether it be left to
stand upon its old teleological basis, or be placed, as some modern
investigators would place it, u^^on a genetic one, a very important
factor has been left out, viz., the influence which plants exert upon
one another. Adaptation, as the term is employed, is applied to a
supposed correlation between the plant and its inorganic environ-
ment ; and to this alone is attributed their entire local distribution.
But facts of the class above considered prove that this is not only an
inadequate explanation of such distribution, but that it is in many
cases no explanation at all, since they so generally disregard inor-
ganic conditions, and thrive equally well or better under entirely dif-
ferent ones from those which Nature furnished. Their distribution
must, therefore, be almost entirely attributed to some other condi-
tions; and to what other conditions are they subjected but to organic
ones, to those which they reciprocally impose uj^on each other ? It is
to these organic conditions, then, to the mutual influence of different
kinds of vegetation, growing, as it always does in a state of Nature,
in close local proximity and contact, that we must look for the chief
laws that control the local distribution of plants.
The modification, therefore, of the adaptation theory, or rather
the substitute for it, which, in the light of these facts, I would pro-
pose might be called the law of mutual repulsion^ by which every
individual, to the extent of its influence, repels the approach of every
other and seeks the sole possession and enjoyment of the inorganic
conditions surrounding it — this mutual repulsion results at length in
a statical condition which is always brought about through the action
of the vital forces themselves, and which, as soon as reached, deter-
mines absolutely the exact place and degree of development of each
species and each individual.
It is this statical condition which is apt to be lost sight of in the
modern philosophy of evolution. The modification of species, the
survival and advancement of some and the depauperating and extinc-
tion of others, all forms of variation and transmutation — these are
dynamical phenomena, and only take place under the influence of dis-
turbing agencies. Changes of this kind are slow and secular, and lie
beyond the reach of direct observation, perceptible only to the eye of
reason on the closest comparison of large masses of dependent facts.
They, therefore, long escaped observation, and Nature remained until
recent times a sealed book with respect to them. What wonder, then,
that this still deeper and more occult law of biological statics should
have remained still longer undetected, or only dimly seen ? For, un-
derlying this dynamical movement in organized beings, there must
exist a universal statical condition throughout organic as throughout
inorganic Nature.
The changes of which science has at length caught a glimpse can
be nothing more than the regular and cyclical or filfnl and spasmodic
