682 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
disturbances of a deeper and universal state of forced equilibrium,
which pervades the vital as it is known to pervade the mechanical
world. And just as astronomers and physicists, confining their inves-
tigations to the more obvious and perceptible motions of celestial and
terrestrial bodies, long remained ignorant of the law of gravitation
which constantly forces all things into a state of equilibrium, so in
biology the statical condition has been lost sight of in the effort to
obtain better views of that moving panorama which a broader knowl-
edge of the'phenomena of life so unmistakably unfolds. Yet, without
a clear recognition of this statical law, it is impossible to account for
the facts presented by the distribution of plants, and it will doubtless
be found equally essential to the full comprehension of many other
phenomena of Nature. But, when we recognize this law, the whole
aspect of our question is changed. Plants appear to be no longer in
a state of perfect adaptation to their surroundings.
There is no longer a necessary correspondence and correlation be-
tween organism and habitat, no longer necessary that rhythmical
(almost preestablished) harmony between species and environment.
This need only exist so far as is necessary to render the life of the
species possible. Beyond this the greatest inharmony and inadapta-
tion may be conceived to reign in Xature. Each plant may be re-
garded as a reservoir of vital force, as containing within it a potential
energy far beyond and wholly out of consonance with the contracted
conditions imposed upon it by its environment, and by which it is
compelled to possess the comparatively imperfect organization with
which we find it endowed. Each individual is where it is, and what
it is, by reason of the combined forces which hedge it in and deter-
mine its very form. Each species is the perpetual and inexorable
antagonist of every other. The "struggle" is not alone "for exist-
ence," it is also iov place. In the plant races, as in the human, there
is a recognized hierarchy, the laws of which are as yet to a great
extent involved in mystery. But the first principle, as in the rest of
Xature, is force. Each one encroaches with all the power of vegetal
growth upon its neighbors. This pressure is enormous. Who shall
calculate this subtilest of molecular forces? Yet there is no displace-
ment, no motion. So thoroughly has every nook and chink been filled
that there is no room for motion. Like the all-pervading circumam-
bient air, its power is not felt so long as no vacuum is produced.
Each organism has long since reached the limit of its power to extend
its dominion. The plant grows up from the germ to maturity under
a constant surveillance, and every attempt to overstep its fixed limits
is instantly checked. It stands in its fixed position, locked in the
embrace of forces which permit it neither to advance nor retreat.
Such is the state of equilibrium which is always and necessarily
reached in a state of Xature, and in which man first finds each newly-
discovered flora. But let these statical conditions be once changed,
