46 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
ably comparatively recent, when here was a soft-water marsh that
remained caught in this basin among the hills after the country, for a
long distance south of it, had become dry land, seems very evident.
It is difficult otherwise to account for their presence.
Farther on, in the valley of the Rio La Plata, where it emerges
from its magnificent quartz canon, and where the gold placer-mines
and prospective city of La Plata are situated, a fine collecting-ground
was found. This was so far south that many deciduous trees grew in
the river-bottoms, and nearly every terrestrial species hitherto met
with was there to be had in plenty. For the next ten days we were
entirely in the lava-blasted, treeless and waterless deserts on the
northern margin of the Rio San Juan, engaged in exploring the ves-
tiges of that ancient semi-civilized race of village Indians, the rem-
nants of which still exist in the small tribe of Moquis on the Little
Colorado. During this time no mollusks were found except, where
there was a little moisture, a few pupas, which seem able to live any-
where, and many bleached shells of various species that had been
drifted down from the mountains at times of high water.
Our return-journey from the San Juan country was made from its
very sources along the course of the Rio Grande. It led us through
Antelope Park, on the eastern side of which lies St. Mary's Lake, a
beautiful little sheet of crystal water studded with islands, and held
among precipitous cliffs that afford it no visible outlet. It seems to
be merely a great rocky basin, holding the melted snows of the sur-
rounding heights. Its surface is over 9,000 feet above the sea. There
existed in countless numbers in this lake a large species of coil-shell
which was a nondescript, and which I have since named Jlelisoma
plexata. Each of the hundreds of individuals seen possessed in a more
or less marked degree a twisted appearance, resulting from a change
in the plane of revolution in old age, which is the most striking specific
character. This sudden change in the directness of the growth causes
the carina of the third whorl to rise into a sharp shoulder on the right
side, while on the opposite side the third whorl sinks underneath the
overflowing outer whorl. A similar change often occurs in the fourth
whorl, giving a braided look to the shell. How this species came al-
most alone to inhabit this secluded lake is a problem, complicated by
the fact that probably there is not another large Flanorhis within
fifty miles. That the wild-fowls, abundant on the lake, brought the
eggs clinging to their feet, may be a plausible explanation; but where
did they bring them from, and when? The bottom of the lake is, for
the most part, rough conglomerate rock, and is in many places filled
with tangled water-plants, which may partially account for the pecu-
liarities of the species. The shells of this genus appear to be especially
subject to distortion under abnormal conditions.
Continuing our course down the valley of the Rio Grande to the
town of Del Xorte, we there left the river and struck across the San
