THE LOCAL DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTS. 683
whether by the advent of man or from whatever cause, and this equi-
librium is immediately disturbed. The chained forces are set free ; a
general swarming begins; some individuals are destroyed, others are
liberated ; each pushes its advantage to the utmost, and all move for-
ward in the direction of least resistance, till at length ihey again
mutually neutralize each other, and again come, under new conditions
and modified forms, into the former state of quiescence.
The most frequent and prominent cause of these disturbances of
the natural fixity of vegetation is the influence of man. The results
of this influence may be said to be the products of agriculture, horti-
culture, and floriculture, on tlie one hand, and, on the other, weeds.
But there may be many other causes of disturbance besides that pro-
duced by man, such as the appearance of new animals, geological
revolutions, or climatal and meteorological vicissitudes. Anything
which destroys the stability which the perpetually-operating vegetal
forces impose upon the plants of any region is certain to reveal a
latent vitality, which, when liberated, proves itself capable of profiting
by conditions far diflerent from, and superior to, those under which it
is originally found. The willow, the alder, the elm, and the sycamore,
hug the banks of streams because baflled and beaten back at every
attempt to invade the drier ground. The wild-columbine and the
saxifrage are driven into their rocky fastnesses by more powerful
rivals for the rich forest loams. The thistle and the chamomile flour-
ish in lawns and commons because their human foes are less formi-
dable than the enemies of the plain. The fruit-trees, the cereals, and
the roses, reach those wonderful heights of development under man's
care, because he not only proves their friend, but wards ofi" all their
enemies. And just here it should be remarked that the alleged ten-
dency of cultivated plants to relapse, when neglected, into their ori-
ginal state, upon which Prof. Agassiz laid so much stress as an unan-
swerable argument against transmutation, becomes, under the law of
mutual repulsion, the necessary result of remanding them to their old
conditions. As man's care and protection were necessary to enable
them to advance, so, when these are withdrawn, they must be expected
to again yield to hostile forces, and fall back to the level of their
original state. It is not the special adaptation of a plant for the spot
on which it grows, so much as the hostile attitude of other plants
around it, which restricts and determines its range. The elements
which decide where plants shall grow, are to be found in vegetation
itself, and not in inorganic conditions. The power of self-adaptation
which they possess is sufficient to habituate almost any species to
almost any inorganic conditions. Each species, therefore, keeps
within its own restricted limits, not because it cannot live in other
soils, but because prior occupants forbid it to come.
The law of adaptation may therefore be reduced to this : that
every plant possesses the power of self-adaptation to such a degree
