68+ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that, no matter under what conditions it may be compelled, by the
higher law of mutual repulsion, to live, it will mould its own organism
into harmony with those conditions, and thus continue its existence ;
and this, whether it is required to adopt a more perfect or a less per-
fect form.
But what it actually is, is no criterion of what it is capable of be-
coming, and the locality in which it is found is no evidence that it is
best adapted to such a locality. These data only prove that in the
final balance of forces to which it is subjected it was assigned such
a degree of development and such a habitat.
OBSEEYIXG THE ES'TEPJOE OF THE EYE.'
By JULIUS BERNSTEIN,
PE0FE8S0R OF PHTSIOLOGT IN THE UKIVEESITT OF HALLE.
THE retina is the point where the physical process of vision passes
into the physiological process. Until it impinges upon the retina,
the light which penetrates the eye has only undergone physical
changes, consisting chiefly in refraction, the last perceptible result of
which is the production of the image upon the retina. From this
point the process passes from our immediate observation, and the
difficulty of discovering its character increases at each step. The
image upon the retina is reversed, and yet we see every object in the
field of vision upright. This is the result of the experience, which we
have acquired from childhood, in the exercise of the organ of sight.
The point A (Fig. 1), which is on the right, is imprinted upon the left
portion of the retina, and we, therefore, know by experience that a
Fig. 1.
ray, coming from the right, must strike the left portion of the retina ;
and because we always imagine the objects we see to be external to
ourselves, we must do so by unconsciously following the line a A^
through the optical centre h. In this manner the eye projects a uni-
form field of vision, which is obtained by drawing, from every point
of the retina outward, straight lines through the optical centre of the
eye, which lines will terminate upon a convex surface.
This is really the manner in which the eye interprets, in all cases,
* From " The Five Senses of Man," No. XXI. of the " International Scientific Series."
