OBSERVING THE INTERIOR OF THE EYE 685
its sensations of sight. For luminous appearances may be produced
without our perceiving any external object, but merely a part of the
eye or an inward irritation ; and yet, in the same manner, we imagine
them to be external to ourselves.
If we shut the eye, and press the head of a pin upon the outer
edge of the eyeball, we shall see in the dark field of vision a white or
colored spot of light, which has the same form as the compressing
body. It will be seen upon the left side of the field if the right side
is pressed, and upon the upper half if the lower is pressed, and vice
versa. The retina, therefore, extends as far as the part which projects
beyond the socket of the eye, and can be irritated by pressure. It is
well known that when the eye is struck a cloud of sparks is seen,
which is caused by the mechanical concussion of the retina. These
luminous images, often perceived in\oluntarily, take, speaking scien-
tifically, the form of the body producing the j^ressure ; at the same
time we observe the relation between the position of the irritation
and the position of the sensation of sight. We transj^ose a point on
the left side of the retina to the right, because w^e imagine that a ray
of light has penetrated the eye from the right, which must fall upon
the left half of the retina.
We are also able to perceive particles within the interior of the
eye which are found in the transparent media. There are many per-
sons who always see round jiarticles or filaments, w hich seem to float
about in the field of vision. They may be more distinctly seen when
looking upon a bright surface— a cloudy sky, or through a microscope.
They follow every motion of the eye, and have, moreover, a peciiliar
motion of their own. These particles are produced by filaments and
cells, which may be found floating about in the narrow space between
the hyaloid membrane and the retina. They cast their shadow di-
rectly upon the retina, which then, from experience, refers them to
external objects.
It has also been discovered by more careful observation that the
refracting media of the eye are not absolutely transparent, but that a
kind of cloudiness is seen in places which throws a shadow upon the
retina. If we look at the sky through a small hole in a sheet of
paper, held a short distance from the eye, the hole will appear to be
surrounded by a colored fringe. This is caused partly by a cloudi-
ness in the vitreous humor, and partly by the peculiar radiating
formation of the lens, already described. All such phenomena are
called entoptic^ because they deal with the perceptions of the internal
portions of the eye. They are produced by the incident rays of light
casting shadows of these particles upon the retina. They are best
seen when an isolated pencil of light, like that admitted through a
small aperture, is allowed to fall upon the eye ; for, in that case, the
shadows produced are distinct, while they are generally obliterated in
ordinary vision, because the light penetrates the eye from all sides.
