686
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
One of the most interesting entoptic phenomena is the Arhorescent
Figure^ discovered "by Purkinje. If, toward evening, we place our-
selves opposite a dark wall in a dark room, and move a lighted candle
to and fro before our eyes, looking, however, fixedly at the wall be-
yond, we shall then, after a little practice, see this arborescent figure,
whose intersecting branches cover the whole .of the dark space, and
which is unmistakably caused by the blood-vessels in the interior
of the eye. The field of vision assumes a reddish appearance, upon
which the veins stand out in dark shadows. The trunk of the figure
rises a little on one side of the centre, where the optic nerve enters
the eye, and thence branches out after the manner of blood-vessels,
which is undoubtedly a proof that in this experiment we see the
blood-vessels of the retina itself. One spot alone is free from vessels :
the yellow spot, which is the most sensitive to light of all parts of
the retina. If, now, the candle is moved to and fro, the figure will
also move and follow the direction of the light.
All these observations lead to the conclusion that we are thus
enabled to pei'ceive the shadows of the vessels of the retina. That
these vessels cast a shadow behind them is clear, but that the shadow
should be sufficient to cause a perception leads to the very important
and interesting fact that the elements of the retina which receive the
impression of light must lie behind the blood-vessels. The diagram
in Fig. 2 will explain how the shadow of a vessel can produce an
image. If the light is placed at a its image will be depicted upon
Fig. 2.
the retina at h. At this particular spot no vessels will be seen, be-
cause the liglit is too dazzling. But the image at h forms another
source of light, and, if there is a vessel at v, then its shadow will be
thrown upon c. Now, the retina projects the image perceived at c,
outward, through the optical centre A', to c?, where the vessel appears
in the field of vision. If the light is now moved from a to a' . then
the image will move from h to 5', the shadow from c to c', and the
image of the vessel from d to d\ thus performing the same move-
ment as the light. We do not, however, generally perceive these
retinal vessels, because usually the light falls upon the retina from all
