OBSERVING THE INTERIOR OF THE EYE. 6Zj
points of the pupil, and therefore no distinct shadow can be pro-
duced. In the experiment just described the light proceeds from a
single point only, J, and produces a distinct shadow. Moreover, the
light is an unusual one, and throAvs the shadows upon places which
are not accustomed to receive it. This latter circumstapce seems to
be of some importance, for, if the light is held perfectly still, the figure
gradually fades away, because the sensitiveness of the parts of the
.retina upon which the shadow is becomes blunted; it appears again,
however, if the light is moved from side to side, so that the position
o^^ the shadow is changed.
A considerable amount of light penetrates the eye through the
pupil, which is quite sufficient for the representation of the external
world, but none of this light seems to be reflected. The pupil of the
eye generally has a dark appearance, so that we cannot see farther
into the eye than the iris. It is, however, possible to illuminate the
eye in such a manner that all the parts of the retina may be seen.
This was first done in a satisfactory manner by the celebrated physi-
cist Helmholtz, the discoverer of the ophthalmoscope. Before de-
scribing this apparatus and its functions, we must discuss the fact of
the dark appearance generally presented by the pupil.
The amount of light reflected by the background of the pupil
cannot, of course, be very great; for the retina alone is able to reflect
light, and as it is very transparent, and has, moreover, a dark layer
of pigment immediately behind it, which absoi'bs all the light that
has penetrated to it, the reflection must necessarily be weak. We
know how diflicult it is to see through a window into a room from the
street. This is due to the small amount of light which comes through
the window, in comparison to that which penetrates the eye from with-
out, so that the eye is not sufficiently sensitive to perceive the weaker
impression ; moreover, the reflection from the panes of glass consid-
erably increases the difficulty of perceiving objects in the interior of
the room. If, however, the room is lighted up at night, we can see
the interior very distinctly from the outride, although the illumina-
tion of the interior is weaker than it was in the daytime.
These circumstances also apply to the eye; but there is another
circumstance which adds to the difficulty of examining the interior
of the eye. The same fact makes it impossible to see the background
of a camera-obscura through the lens, even when it is white. Ac-
cording to the laws of refraction, both the incident and emergent
rays in the eye, or in a camera-obscura, have a fixed direction,
while the light which proceeds from a room through the window is
difiiised — that is to say, emits rays in all directions. Let us suppose
an image of a lighted candle to be thrown upon the retina ; then, as
far as the refracting media of the eye are concerned, this image may
be regarded as a second ol)jcct, the rays from which will take an out-
ward, and therefore opposite direction. Now, this will be precisely
