688 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the same as the path of the incident rays; for if, at the jjoint where
an image of aa object has been formed by a lens, we place an exactly
similar object instead of the image, then an image will be formed in
the exact position of the first object, and of equal size. We see from
this experiment, therefore, that the rays of light, which are emitted
by an image formed upon the retina, must return to the oVgect from
which they originally proceeded.
If, therefore, a light is placed before any eye which we wish to
examine," the rays will all be reflected by the eye into the light, and
we are unable to intercept them by our own eye, because we should
hide the light by placing ourselves between it and the eye under ex-
amination. By means, however, of a transparent plate of glass, this
obstacle may be overcome, and the eye examined when illumined, in
the manner represented in Fig. 3. C is the eye under observation, J3
I
Fig. 3.
the observer's eye, and the plate of glass, S, forms an angle of 45°
with the line between the two eyes. The rays emitted by the lighted
candle, A, sti'ike the glass plate, S, and are partly reflected into the
eye, which they illuminate. The rays reflected by the eye, (7, again
strike the glass plate, which some of them penetrate, and pass into
tlie eye of the observer, and the remainder return to the light, A.
The pupil of the eye, (7, may now be seen brightly illuminated, and
even the illuminated retina can be seen more or less distinctly. The
rays emitted by the image formed upon the retina, which pass through
the glass plate, would form an image at a, which is at the same dis-
tance from the glass plate as A. The rays are, however, intercepted
by the observer, B, who is thus enabled to examine a part of the
retina.
In fact, a piece of window-glass placed in an oblique position, as
described above, is the simplest form of an ophthalmoscope, and may
easily be arranged by any one who wishes to make the experiment for
himself. An ordinary piece of glass is suflicient for the purpose, if
placed in the same position, relatively to the eye under observation
and the light, as that shown in the figure. It is well to place a
