SCIENCE AND RELIGION AS ALLIES. 691
orecT by various reconciling schemes to persuade the combatants to
lay down their arms. Historical spirits have searched out and retold
the forgotten incidents of the struggle ; the philosophic-minded have
explored its secret springs. In one way or another all have drawn
the attention of the world to the hostile attitude of the two.
Now, it is true that there have been no small number of conflicts
between science and religion. But is the whole account of the rela-
tion of the two contained in this? Is there not another part to the
story ? I believe that there is.
Much, it seems to me, might be said in exhibition of the mutual
indebtedness of science and religion, as well as of their hostilities.
Having heard so much of late about the latter, perhaps it may not be
unprofitable to consider a little the other side of the shield.
In the first place, religion is much indebted to science. Science
has not been a mere iconoclast of everything sacred, but it has been
a real helpet* in the progress of religion.
In the marvelous adventures through Avhich Rabelais conducted
his hero Pantagruel, a clime was reached so cold that the words of the
men, it is said, as they passed the lips, froze and fell as hail on the
deck; but, brought near the fire, the congealed words thawed and
gave up their sounds. So, under the sunbeams of science, the dumb
matter, the frozen thought of the Creator, melted into intelligible
accents and spoke fortli its secrets. Sun and cell, magnet and crys-
tal, have each found a tongue and told the world of facts, exhibited
to it achievements that, if pi-edicted a thousand years ago, would
have seemed like nothing but a cliapter out of the Arabian Nights
Entertainments.
Now, these triumphs of science have not redounded merely to the
empty glory of their hero, but they have been solid contributions also
to the benefit of man and to the glory of God.
What other argument for the existence of God has done more for
theism than the argument from design ? In the admirable harmonies
and adaptations of the world, the natural theologian finds the most
convincing illustrations of a Supreme Intelligence anterior to the uni-
verse. Whence is it that a knowledge of these instances of contriv-
ance and order has been obtained? Plainly, it is from the scientific
study of Nature that the overpowering strength of this argument has
been derived. Ordinary observation — to be sure — would, of course,
first suggest the argument and present not a few illustrations. Three
thouand years ago tlie Psalmist put those forceful questions — " He
that jilanted the ear, shall he not hear? He that formed the eye,
shall he not see ? He that teacheth man knowledge, shall not lie
know ? "
Here lies, indeed, the gist of the whole argument from design.
Yet it is to modern physical investigations, in anatomy, chemistry,
natural history, that we owe those exquisite illustrations of curious
