692 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
adjustment and interdependence that in the hands of a Paley or a Sir
Charles Bell have given the design argument such force and sweep.
Compare the proofs of God's unity and intelligence open to a David
or a Paul with those which Prof. Cooke finds in chemistry, or Win-
chell in geology, or Agassiz in natural history, and how much more
manifold and marvelous the latter !
In the next place, science has been most helpful to religion in pu-
rifying its faiths and guiding its reverences. Now, this is a service
that Faith much needs to have some one to do for her. For, sublime as
are her aspirations, her intellectul vision is but dim. Her eye fixed
on the heavens to which she would climb, she cannot discern dis-
tinctly the steps by which it is reached. She needs science ever to be
at hand to direct her. In her mounting instinct. Faith stretches up
her hand and clutches and clings to whatever she comes across. The
misshapen tree which rescued the savage from the wild beast ; the
black stone which fell from the sky ; the serpent or the crocodile
whose strange form and power fascinate the primitive man — such
are the objects that humanity, in its first dim gropings for an object
of worship, embraces. Religion may rem.'^in long in this groveling
stage, as it did among the Egyptians and Assyrians. But sooner or
later, as knowledge increases, the powerlessness and the worthless-
ness of such things for the worship of thinking men are seen. Faith
reaches up her hand to higher objects — the invisible but pot«nt
wind, the outstretched sky, the ethereal fire, the sun that warms
and lights the wnole earth. These are looked upon as mighty liv-
ing beings, and venerated in solemn rites. But, again, as man
learned more of these — the fixed laws which they obey — the con-
fined paths in which they move, and, in learning this, learned more
of himself — he recognized in conscious Intelligence and the overrul-
ing Will something greater than wind or fire. Faith raised her rev-
erence, then, to a divinized humanity, a company of human gods —
Jove, king of heaven, and Juno, queen ; Mercury, messenger of
the gods ; Cupid, inspirer of love; and so on. But, again, with the
growing comprehension of the unity of all Nature, man rose to the
idea of a single supreme deity, a Jehovah — the eternal I am — Brahma,
the one reality, of which all else are masks and shadows — and thrust
down the other deities into the position of divinities, spirits, and
devils. Still Religon had not got above superstition. She still clung
for a long time to burnt-olFerings, and washings, and fastings, macera-
tions, and masses ; interferences by good and evil sjjirits ; ideas of
God as jealous, wrathful, appeasable, repenting of what he had once
done, interposing to mend his work. Gradually-increasing knowledge
pulled one after another of these rounds also out of the hands of
Religion, and her yearning fingers that must clasp something reached
up still higher on the ladder of divine apprehension, until at last she
grasped the conception of the universal, eternal action of One Infinite
