SCIENCE AND RELIGION AS ALLIES. 6gs
Perfect Being, without parts, without partiality, and without shadow
of turning, to be worshiped only in spirit and in truth.
Science, to be sure, in this process of purification, has destroyed a
great deal that has been very dear to Faith. It has uprooted old ideas
and pulled down about our ears accepted systems — both physical and
spiritual systems. The change in our views of the world has been
most radical.
What was the conception of the world held by the orthodox
churchman of the middle ages ? The earth was a square plain, at
whose outer edges rose mountain-walls, supporting the vault of
heaven. This vault was a solid crystal roof, wlierein the fixed stars
were set, and over which moon and sun were pulled to and fro by the
angels. Above this firmament, separating the waters which are
above from the waters which are beloAV, was the celestial cistern
through whose windows the rain fell. Above this, again, the seven-
storied heaven, in whose highest story dwelt Jehovah himself, seated
on his throne of glory, suri'ounded by angels and saints.
To-day, how has science stretched out this little cosmos ! The
astronomer has turned his telescope ujDon that adamantine firmament,
and it has dissolved into thin air. The total solid particles that the
blue expanse contains, it has been estimated by Tyndall, might prob-
ably be packed into a lady's traveling-bag. The glittering points
that gemmed its surface have expanded into enormous sums — thou-
sands of times as large as our own globe. The circumscribed heaven
of the Apocalypse, 12,000 furlongs each way, has spread out, from
that one-hundredth part of the cubic dimensions which we now know
our own earth to have, into an immensity of space which puts us so
far from the nearest fixed star that a locomotive could not reach it in
700,000 centuries ; and that even when we had attained this enormous
distance we should stand merely at the entrance of a starlight avenue,
down whose infinite vista come the rays from still more remote suns !
Our own earth, formerly the grand, immovable stage to which the
wandering sun and stars were only decorations, has been shriveled
into a petty pellet of cosmic stuff, dislodged from its fixed and cen-
tral position, and sent whirling on its way as one of the smaller satel-
lites in the train of a central body, which c<?ntral body, though as
much larger than it as a cart-wheel is than a pea, is yet but one of
more than 20,000,000 suns contained in its own part of space ; and is
itself not stationary, but moving with its planetary fleet at the rate
of 4,000 miles a day round some still larger centre.
And in time, as well as space, has science enormously multiplied
the numbers. Where the Bible chronology gave sixty centuries for
the world's age, science demands as many millenniums. Where Gen-
esis granted six days for the business of creation, geolog\^ requires
as many Kons. Science has mined in caverns and found man's tools
and weapons among the bones of mammoths. It has deciphered
