694 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
hieroglyphics and found arts and history already venerable before
the date when commentators admitted that Adam was created. It
has learned how vast beds of chalk and limestone, miles in thickness,
have been manufactured by microscopic creatures ; how from a fiery
cloud the globe gathered to a molten ball, and on the molten ball
formed the crust that now suspends us above the still furnace-heated
interior. Learning little by little all this, science has been compelled
to put the date of the cosmic beginning back into an antiquity that,
in comparison with the Mosaic work, seems an eternity.
And in thus prolonging the age of man and the world, science has
altered our conception of the method by which the universe came
into existence. It can no longer be looked upon as created out of
nothing, at one grand tour deforce j but as a process of organization,
a process continuous and alike in every atom. In the glowing, gaseous
nebula, in the curdled, nucleated fire-mist of the embryonic star, in
the more consolidated, but still molten, heaving mass of our sun, in
the ring-girt Saturn, the still ste&m-enveloped Jupiter, the sunny
summer-time of our own planet, are discerned by the modern physi-
cist the various stages through which every planetary system passes.
From the heterogeneous to the homogeneous, from the difiused to the
compacted, from the unorganized to the orgauized, from the lifeless
to the living, this is the eternal rhythm of the cosmic evolution.
The cosmic evolution ! Yes, this is the further and mightier
change which science has made in our conceptions of the world's
government. In the current belief of Christendom even 200 years
ago, this earth was a world of decay and supernatural intervention,
ever to be dreaded. Powers of darkness were struggling with the
powers of liglit in ceaseless efforts for the mastery. Close underneath
the earth's surface were the fiery pit and the gloomy i-ealms of jiurga-
tory. Through caverns and secret ways mischievous devil and per-
turbed spirit passed up and down. The graveyards were haunted by
ghosts. A comet foreboded disaster to nations, and an earthquake
was the overture to the judgment-day.
By a compact with Satan a sorcerer could blight the harvest, or
lay low whomsoever he wished with fatal disease. Ordinary phe-
nomena, of course, were supposed to take place as the result of the
natural arrangements instituted at the creation, but whatever was at
all out of the usual order was looked upon as a special intervention,
either of saint or magician, imp or angel, Satan or God, according to
its respective evil or goodness, littleness or greatness.
All this science has ejected from the belief of enlightened men.
Instead of a fall of the human race, and increasing ruin in the world,
science has shown the gradual upclimbing of the race from cave-
dwellings and garments of skin to the luxuries and enlightenments
of our present civilization. Men of science have been over the whole
earth and scrutinized the whole heavens, exjiloring every dark corner
