THE MOLLUSKS OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS. 47
Luis Valley to Mosca Pass through the Sangre de Cristo Range. This
alkali and sage-brush plain, fifty miles wide, is very far from being
" the garden of the world," as it has been styled. Near the eastern
side is a group of lakes, the water of which is highly alkaline. These
lakes are the abode and breeding-place of wild geese and ducks in the
greatest number, which are tormented without end by the gulls that
also make the lakes their home. On the gravelly beaches I picked up
many shells, and doubtless in the deep water many more species might
have been dredged, had there been time. But nowhere were there
any bivalves, except the little cyclades. The fact that there was no
lack of molluscan life in these intensely bitter waters was not surpris-
ing, since mollusks seem to flourish in mineral springs of both hot and
cold water evei*y where. We had seen before a fine illustration of this
adaptation to peculiar conditions. The Grand River, which flows
through Middle Park, contains no mollusks at all that I could dis-
cover; but at Hot Springs, in a little lagoon filled at high water,
large, clear, ampullacea-Vike forms of the familiar Physa heterostropha
were common. Close by, in the few yards of exposed outlet of the
springs of hot sulphur- water from which the locality derives its name,
there occurred in the greatest profusion a blackish, globose variety of
the same species only one-fifth of an inch long. The temperature of
this water was at some points as high as 100° Fahr. In the basin of
a still hotter spring not ten feet away, whose waters were saturated
with chlorides of sodium and magnesium, hundreds of still smaller
Physm were floating about in mats glued together by a tangle of con-
fervoid vegetation and the depositions of the water. All these seemed
to have lost their a2)ices by erosion, " which is extremely liable to
happen to shells living in water charged with alkaline salts other than
lime." On the other hand, quite as small and black were the examples
from the pure cold springs near Saguache, where there was seemingly
nothing whatever to stunt their growth.
I was stimulated, by the results of my study of my own collection
from Colorado, to gather all possible information about the mollusks
of the Central Province generally, as it has been limited above. The
bibliography was quite large, but the notes of locality and station
very meagre. Tabulating the sum of the information open to me,
and including ray own summer's work, I found that 138 nominal
species had been recorded as occurring in this inter-montanic region.
Of these, 49 were also Californiun species; 15 occurred also in the
Eastern United States; 8 hailed from the Colorado Desert; 7 were
found all over the continent, and 8 all over the world ; and 3 belonged
in the Eastern Province, west of*the AUeghanies only. This left 47
nominal species, whese range, so far as yet known, is confined to the
Central Province. Many of the specific names in this list, however,
rest upon very insecure foundations, and will, no doubt, soon be re-
duced to synonyms. With respect to their vertical distribution, ob-
