SCIENCE AND RELIGION AS ALLIES. 695
and strange event. Their best instruments have caught sight of no
devil, their deepest mining-shaft has reached no limbo of departed
souls. They have traced beforehand the path that the comet ^^ould
i:)ursue, found the cause of the earthquake, tlie connection of disease
with its physical antecedents and antidotes. Spectres have been re-
duced to illusions of the visual organs, and lunacy to affections of the
cerebral lobes. The witches and imps of the old dispensation have
vanished before the light of modern knowledge like shadows of a
hideous night. Interruptions of the established order, whether by
wizard or holy exorcist ; special dispensations and interventions,
whether from the realm of diablerie or providence, are no longer
credited; but law, inflexible law, without the slightest slij) or varia-
tion, is believed to reign always and everywhere. Lily and solar
system unfold according to one and the same formula. The hallucina-
tion of the senses, the insane delirium, these also have their natural
, sources from which they flow in a regular order. Even in the excep-
tion lies hidden some deeper law.
With such a strong and iconoclastic hand has Science plied the axe
in the domain of Faith. As every one knows, it has been exceedingly
painful to many pious souls. It is charged that these reconstructions
which modern inquiry have made and are making unsettle all the
foundations of religion ; that they strip ofi"the bloom of mystery and
sacredness from the flowers of faith and conduct to irreverence. Are
they, in truth, to be deplored ? It seems to me that they are not, but
to be rejoiced at. It is true that they have given the death-blow to
many forms of faith. It is true that they have disabused us of many
ancient venerations. To-day, when we carry flame sealed in our vest-
pocket ready to come forth at the scratch of a match, no fire-deity, of
course, receives any longer the sacrifice of our first-born. To-day,
when we bottle up the lightning and make it our errand-boy, we no
longer revere it as the bolt of Jove. But for everything that Science
has taken away from Religion, she has given her something greater. If
she has weaned her of her blind awe of the unknown, she has substituted
a more rational awe of the known. If with ruthless hand she battles
down every baseless tradition and fond illusion, she consecrates with
religious veneration the simplest real fact. If Nature no longer is the
object of human dread, yet, as the useful storehouse whence we draw
food and treasure, as the friendly Titan who performs for us tasks
beyond our unassisted power, it holds a higher place. If the astrono-
mer's lens has dissipated the ancient heavens, it is to show us system
behind system of celestial bodies, blazing at immeasurable intervals
in the depths of illimitable space. If geology has taken away the
idea of a creation finished once for all in a certain six days of the year
B. c. 4004, it has given us instead a continual process of moulding
and perfecting carried on for 100,000,000 years. The rigorous prob-
ing that science has given to Nature does not remove any of its won-
