696 TliE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
derf Illness, any of its perfection, but rather has disclosed new marvels
behind those which first struck man's attention. The widening of
the circle of the unknown has only served to confront us with deeper
and deeper mysteries. Science has ruled out miracle and magic from
the order of events, but it is to pick up the wizard's wand itself, bring
up before us daily stranger and grander phenomena, only the more
inexplicable and amazing because of the certainty we feel that some-
how there is no exception in them to our most oi^dinary experience.
Science has expelled witch and elf, nymph and demon, and thus
depopulated the supernatural world; but in the place of this uncanny
brood, the thought of whose capricious intervention paralyzed the
will and debauched the heart, the universe has been filled with the
presence of One, Eternal and Infinite, from whose perfect law we can
never escape. The more clearly we discern the path on which science
has led the world, the less fear shall we have that it is all a prepara-
tion for precipitating us into some godless abyss. Put the case ,
squarely before any one in its full significance, and there is no one, I
think, who would prefer to go back to the cosmic baby-house of the
middle ages. Who would vault in again the immensity of space ?
Who would cut down to six ordinary evenings and mornings the
activity of Him who inhabiteth eternity ? Who would relinquish the
confidence and hope inspired by the unswerving progress of that
single divine purpose that links the ages together ?
Thus has science given to the cause of faith assistance which more
than countervails whatever injury it may have done.
And so has Religion also, in reality, helped science — helped, I be-
lieve, even more than she has hindered.
It is to the understanding that the great achievements of physical
inquiry are commonly referred. Science is spoken of as a domain of
dry light and clear-cut facts, and religion is contrasted with it as the
realm of emotion. But how could the intellect have ever gained its great
victories without the aid of the heart ? how could the senses have ever
penetrated into Xature as they have done, had they not been carried
on the wings of the spii-it ? What could science accomplish without
the emotions of enthusiasm and devotion, the instructive feeling of
truth and beauty, the love of Xature for its own dear sake ? " It is
in vain, I think," said Prof. Tyndal],at London, in 1869, " to separate
moral and emotional nature from intellectual nature. Let a man but
observe himself, and he will, if I mistake not, find that, in nine cases
out of ten, moral or immoral considerations, as the case may be, are
the motive force which push his intellect into action." The reading
of the works of three men, he proceeds to say — Carlyle, Emerson,
and Fichte — neither of them friendly to the scientific spirit, carried
him victoriously through mathematical studies and physical investi-
gations, and made him the man of science that he is. To the same
effect is the striking declaration of that other great leader of scien-
