SCIENCE AND RELIGION AS ALLIES. 697
tific thought of to-day. " The great deeds of philosophers," says
Prof. Huxley, " are less the fruit of their intellect than of the direc-
tion of that intellect by an eminently religious state of mind,"
Consider the characteristics demanded in the successful study of
Nature, and we shall discern the spiritual source whence these physi-
cal triumphs come.
One of the first requisites in the inductive method is the hum-
ble-mindedness that will completely submit itself to the evidence of
the facts. " Access to the kingdom of man, which is founded on
the sciences," Bacon aptly says, " resembles that to the kingdom of
heaven, where no admission is conceded except to children,"
Another condition of success is the spirit of industry that is un-
swerved by love of ease or idea of labor's dishonor. Another, again,
is the candor that will look on all sidco of a case, and listen to every
objection — consecration to truth as the primary object. These are the
.qualities which men of science set forth as the requisites for walking
within the veil of the temple of Nature.
But what else are these than the very graces of Christianity ?
Take the childlike mind that the founder of the inductive method
demands : it is just what Christ enjoins. Take the fearless love of
truth that seeks the absolute facts — the cause behind the cause. How
long would it hold on its way did not spiritual aspiration ever feed
its secret springs with the insatiable hunger after perfection ? Take
that diligence in labor and honorable estimation of work which is
one of the essential instruments of scientific work, and ask what is
the impulse that has endowed modern Christendom with it, "Labor,"
as a German writer of weight has well pointed out, " was considered
by our heathen forefathers a dishonor ; and even in the present day,
where the gospel is not preached, the stirring disposition, the as-
siduity, the spirit of enterprise in the people, is disproportionately
less. The duty and dignity of work is one of the priceless gifts to
modern science of him w^ho said, ' My Father is working up to this
time, and I work.' "
Or consider that interest in Nature that is such a powerful spring
of physical inquiry. Consider that sacred claim of his vocation
which the true servant recognizes — such a sense of it as leads a
Lyonnet to spend his life coiniting the 40,000 muscles in a caterpil-
lar's body ! Is it not the Christian spirit, the belief, that is, in the
brotherhood of man and the duty of self-sacrifice — the feeling of
filial loyalty to a Divine Father, all of whose works are significant,
and all of whose service is noble — that, as much as or more than any-
tliing else, has given birth to it ?
It is a singular fact that the Greek and the Roman, in spite of their
great intellectual acuteness, accomplished so little in the penetration
of Nature's secrets. With the strong love of the beautiful that dis-
tinguished the one, and the profound sense of law that marked the
