693 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
other, one would have supposed that they would have felt more the
charm and loveliness of the outward world, and have taken a greater
interest in discovering its unchangeable ordinances. Is it unreason-
able to refer much of this to that difference of religion which consti-
tutes the most striking distinction between the classic and the Chris-
tian world ? In the first place, the selfish isolation, the jealous indi-
vidualism of ancient life, gave no encouragement to that sense of
common interests among all mankind which is the justification of
the scientist's pecuniarily unprofitable labors. Among the Greeks,
while the feeling of devotion to the state, or rather city, was in-
tense, the sentiment of the general welfare or the cause of humanity
hardly existed. It was only with the advent of Cliristianity that tlie
idea of mankind as one great family, each one of whom must labor
for all the rest, came in. This idea has been the nurse, not only of
modern civil freedom, but of modern science. "Not till the word
barbarian was struck out of the dictionary of mankind," says Max
Miiller, in his "Lectures on the Science of Language," " not till the
right of all nations of the world to be classed as members of one
genus or kind was recognized, can we look even for the first begin-
ning of our science. This change was effected by Christianity."
The grand thought that accompanied this sense of human broth-
erhood, forming the other pole of gospel truth, viz., the belief in one
God and Father of men, gave an equal contribution toward supplying
the intellectual soil needed for the prosperous growth of science.
With the multitude of national and local gods, and even tribal or
family divinities, which prevailed in the classic world, the minds of
men were constantly diverted fi'om that unity that is the scarlet
thread in every royal cable of science. But monotheism, establishing
unity in the divine realm, gave unity also to the order of Nature.
"While surroimding nations looked upon Xature in dread, and in blind
superstition sacrificed their own little ones to the meteor or the vol-
cano, the Hebrew, tracing all things up to the power of the eternal 1
am^ beside whom there is no other god, found in all the forces and
marvels of Nature fountains of good cheer and grateful praise. The
earth was " the Lord's and the fullness thereof" " Dragons and all
deeps, fire and hail, snow and vapor, stonny wind, fulfilling his word
— all these were to praise the name of the Lord. For he commanded
and they were created. He hath also established them forever and
ever ; he hath made a decree which shall not be moved " (Psalm
cxlviii.). Christianity took up and diffused this grand view of the
relation of Nature to God and to man. Though the appreciation of
Nature's beauty, order, and dignity, was swami>ed for a time by the
tide of Oriental asceticism, Grecian metaphysics, and transformed
polytheism, it rose gradually above it, and established itself firmly
in the mind of Christendom. It is this new interest in all the aspects,
changes, and laws of the material, vegetable, and animal realms, full as
