SCIENCE AND RELIGION AS ALLIES. 701
was the inventor of the gamut, and tlie first who instituted a school
of music. The monks, it is claimed by high authorities, "were the
parents of Gothic architecture, the inventors or improvers of the im-
plements used in painting, the discoverers and preparers of some of
the finest colors," " As architects, as glass-painters, as mosaic-work-
ers, they were," says Mrs. Jameson, "the precursors of all that has
yet been achieved in Christian art." Many of the distinguished
pioneers of science belonged to the Church, or were educated in it.
Among the alchemists, the forerunners of our chemists, Roger Bacon,
Thomas Aquinas, Albertus Magnus, Raymond Lully, were ecclesias-
tics. Giordano Bruno in his early life was a Dominican priest ; Gas-
sendi and Copernicus held church oflices, the former that of Professor
of Theology, and afterward 2^rtv6t of a cathedral, and the latter a
cammry and archdeaconship, and both remained faithful churchmen
throughout their lives. Kepler was educated at the school of the
monastery of Maulbron, and Boerhaave studied at Leyden for the
sacred profession. This list, which a little research would easily en-
large, shows that, if there was a current in the Church antagonistic
to scientific investigations, there was also a current that sympathized
with it and impelled it onward.
Thus liave science and religion given to each other assistance
which more than balances, it seems to me, whatever hinderances they
have put in each other's way. This assistance, to be sure, has been
imperfect, has been more or less unconscious, and sometimes, perhaps,
in despite of what has been intended. In the present controversy, as
to the proper relations between science and religion, does not this
page of history give useful instruction ? Not to render them oppo-
nents, or maintain conflict between them by raking over the ashes of
controversy; not to patch up a temporary truce by schemes for
dividing the field of knowledge between them, but to continue and
perfect between them this alliance of the past, making it lienceforth
a conscious, entire, and welcomed cooj^eration — is not this the duty
of the present and the future? Since neither science nor religion
can claim an exclusive sovereignty over the field of knowledge ; since
that domain cannot well be partitioned ofi' between them, the true
way is to unite them in a perpetual alliance. Take the testimony of
both religion and science. Presume that there is a certain proportion
of truth in what each has to offer. Weigh in the scales of reason
what each presents. Accept that which is most solid, from which-
ever side it comes; or if neither, which is likely, presents the whole
and real fact, employ the parallax of the two to give the actual posi-
tion and full form of the two.
Each should seek from the other correction of its errors and fill-
ing out of its imperfections. Religion ought to obtain, from wider
knowledge, greater purity and enlargement. She ought to learn
from physical discovery the importance of going at once to facts and
