702 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
thoroughly studying them, instead of sitting in her study patching
dogmas out of scriptural shreds. She should learn from science the
method of studying facts, as well as its importance, how to criticise, to
sift, to throw away the chaff and keep only the solid grain. And, hav-
ing mastered the secret of modern knowledge, she should proceed to
put theology upon a solid inductive basis, and build it up into the
genuine science of which it is capable.
And similarly science ought to obtain the help of religion to
elevate and perfect it. From the ideal aspirations of faith science
should enlighten its vision and ennoble its aims. It should not re-
strict its studies merely to the lower realm of facts. Science fails to
fultill its appointed mission in the world if it ceases its researches on
the thresholdv of the grandest discoveries open to it, the questions
above all in interest to humanity. It should learn from theology to
study the laws of mind and soul as well as those of matter.; to recog-
nize that the fundamental truths of morality and religion are self-evi-
dent, as well as those of geometry, and that the belief in a God and
in a future state is as primitive, universal, and necessary, as the belief
in the uniformity of Nature or the indestructibility of force. It
should look at the upraised finger of Faith and be pointed from the
law to the Law-giver ; from the effect to a cause ; from the force to
the living well.
To widen, purify, and make stable; to save from the building of
unsubstantial air-castles, and from blind clasping of objects unworthy
of worship — this is what science should do for religion.
To inspire and enable and crown ; to turn from peering and pick-
ing altogether in the dust ; to look up to the heavens — this is what re-
ligion should do for science. Flaying no hostile nor rival, nor even in-
dependent strains — but each in sweet concord and divine respondence,
joining in the same holy anthem — thus knowledge and reverence,
mind and soul, all " according well, may make one music as before,
but vaster."
:n"ature of the ixyeetebrate brats'.
By Pbof. H. CHARLTON BASTIAN.
I.
""VFOTHIXG distinctly answering to a brain is to be found in the
-L^ lowest animals in which a nervous system exists. It is thus, for
instance, with star-fishes and the larger nematoid entozoa, in which
what most nearly resembles a brain consists of a mere band of nerve-
tibres surrounding the commencement of the oesophagus, and containing
a few nerve-cells, partly between its fibres and partly in groups slightly
removed therefrom.
