NATURE OF THE IXVERTEBRATE BRAIN. 703
The absence of distinct ganglia in the neighborhood of tlje moutli
in star-fishes is doubtless due, in the main, to the form of these ani-
mals, and their low type of organization. Each arm or ray presents
its own nervous system, and the ring or band round the mouth seems
to be little more than a commissure connecting these otherwise dis-
tinct parts of the common system.
In the larger parasitic nematoids tlie nervous system is more con-
centrated. The oesophageal ring and immediately adjacent parts
constitute almost all that is known of the nervous system in these
organisms, and it contains, or is in relation with, a larger number of
ganglion-cells than the similar part in star-fishes. Thus, in addition
to the cells intermixed with the fibres of the ring itself, there are five
or six groups adjacent to and in connection with it, which receive
fibres from certain large papilla? surrounding the mouth and having
a rudimentary tactile function. These papillae are, in all probability,
the nematoids' principal sensory organs. By means of. the connect-
ing nerve-fibres and ganglion-cells they are brought into relation with
the nervous ring, and from this other outgoing fibres are, doubtless,
given off to the four great longitudinal muscular bands by which the
movements of the animal are effected. The distribution of these
latter or motor nerve-fibres, however, has not been distinctly traced.
The absence of ganglionic swellings on, or in connection with, the
cesophageal ring of nematoids is probably dependent upon the com-
parative simplicity and limited number of impressions capable of
being received through these cephalic papillie.
We turn now to the nervous system, and to tho^^e parts of it, mere
especially, which answer to the brain of higher animals as it occurs
in the three sub-kingdoms of the Invertehrota, containing its higher
types of life. These sub-kingdoms are Vermes, Arthropoka, and
MOLLrSCA.
Among representatives of the sub-kingdom Vermes, the ner-
vous system varies a good deal in minor details, in accordance with
the degree of organization, and with the diversity of the sensory and
locomotor endowments of the several organisms. The broad features
of the nervous system, however, are very similar in all.
The JVemertidce, a class of marine woi*ms, possess a nervous sys-
tem of very simple type. They have soft and highly-contractile
bodies, covered with cilia, but are otherwise wholly devoid of exter-
nal appendages or traces of segmentation. On the anterior extrem-
ity of the body, a little posterior to the mouth, two, four, or more
specks of pigment are met with, which are conjectured to serve the
purpose of rudimentary ocelli, and while the animal is moving from
place to place this anterior part of its body doubtless acts as its pnu-
cipal tactile surface. Nerve-fibres proceed from these regions, and
converge so as to form three or four nerve-trunks on each side, which
enter a comparatively large ganglionic mass lying on the lateral aspect
