NATURE OF THE INVERTEBRATE BRAIN. 705
a single lower ganglion ; and, as a consequence of tlie coalescence of
the two lower halves, we have, instead of the two lateral cords of
the Nemertidce, a double ventral nervous cord traversing the whole
length of the body. There are no distinct ocelli in the earthworm.
The body is composed of a multitude of ring-like segments, each of
which is provided with lateral sctse, which are called into play during
the subterranean locomotions of the animal.
The double ventral cord has a fibrous structure along its upper
surface, while below there is an irregular stratum of ganglion-cells.
These cells are more abundant about the centre of each body-seg-
ment, and their aggregation gives rise to a series of rudimentary
ganglia in these situations. From every one of the ganglionic swell-
ings two nerves are given off on each side, while a third pair of
nerves issues from the cord itself just anterior to the swelling, and is
distributed along the anterior boundaries of the segment.
The oesophageal ganglia in the earthworm are, proportionately to
the rest of the nervous system, much smaller than in the Nemertidce ;
and this is perhaps due in great part to the existence of the numer-
ous segmental ganglia in the former, which have no existence in the
marine worms. The movements of the Nemertidm, like those of the
nematoids, are probably much more exclusively under the control of
the oesophageal ganglia than are those of the segmented earthworm
— in which each of the body-ganglia doubtless has much to do with
bringing about the contraction of contiguous muscles. The earth-
worm has also a more complex visceral structure than is to be met
with among the Nemertidce ' and, moreover, it presents more dis-
tinct evidences of a nervous interconnection between the different
organs of the body and some of the principal nerve-centres. Lock-
hart Clarke has described a complicated ganglionic network on each
side of the oesophagus, starting from the commissures and sending
prolongations to the intestine and other parts. By means of this
principal visceral system of nerves, the internal organs are brought
into relation with one another, and with the nervous system of ani-
mal life — that is, with those parts having to do more especially with
the relation of the organism to its medium.
The upper or supra-cesophageal ganglia, representing the brain of
the earthworm, receive a nerve-trunk on each side, composed of fibres
coming from the tactile upper lip, and, as no sensory filaments of a
different order are known to be immediately connected therewith, the
functions of the brain in this animal must be comparatively simple.
This upper lip contains a certain amount of diffused pigment, though
there are no signs of the existence of distinct ocelli. I have spoken
of the part as a special organ of touch, but it is equally probable that
it may be capable of receiving more special impressions representing
rudimentary tastes. The separation between these modes of sensi-
bility may in such low organisms be somewhat indefinite.
VOL. IX. — 45
