48 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
servations in the Rocky Mountains do not tally well with D'Orlngny's
notes from the Ancles, since out of 156 species discovered in South
America, he found only 13 between the thirty-fourth and forty-fifth
l^arallels of latitude — which corresponds to the district of north lati-
tude considered here — and only 10 species were found above 5,000
feet. My list of the Rocky Mountain mollusca, on the contrary, shows
that 55 species out of the 138 inhabit heights exceeding 5,000 feet,
and 10 species have been found above 10,000 feet. These latter,
however, are all recorded from mountains south of the thirty-ninth
parallel; but it is safe to say that, where there is moisture, a goodly
collection of mollusks can be made in the mountains of the Terri-
tories all the way up to the timber-line. This is probably true of all
pai'ts of the world.
In a recent paper on the hypsometric distribution of mollusca in
Europe, communicated to the French Academy of Sciences at Paris,
at their meeting on October 11, 1875, M. P. Fischer alludes to the
great regularity with which plants thrive on mountains, each at a
certain height. The terrestrial mollusca, being unprovided with means
of locomotion enjoyed by birds and insects, and being, moreover,
dependent upon vegetable life for food, could not fail to be discovered
in the same way as plants, and this supposition he confirmed by ob-
servation. Each species extends to an altitude the limits of which it
does not overstep. M. Fischer has verified this in the central Pyrenees
as well as in the Alps, and divided the altitudes into five zones, com-
prised between 1,500 feet and 7,500 feet. Each zone is distinguished
by the name of a species of Helix. Thus, in the Pyrenees, the first
zone, ending at a height of 3,000 feet, is called that of Helix carthu-
siana ; the second, ending at 3,600 feet. Helix aspersa ; the third,
terminating at 4,500 feet, Helix limbata ; the fourth, limited at 6,000
feet, Helix nemoralis ; and the fifth, ending at 7,500 feet. Helix caras-
calensis. In the Alps, at the same altitudes, the names of the zones
are respectively Helix carthusiana, ohvoluta, Fontenelli, sylvatica,'dn(l
glacialis. A few individual mollusks will, indeed, climb as high as
0,000 feet, but they all stop at the limit of perpetual snow. Various
"genera of fluviatile mollusks do not ascend higher than 3,000 feet, a
circumstance which the author considered of some importance to
geologists, since it proves that in the quaternary beds the fossiliferous
strata containing those genera, such as Neritina, Pahidina, etc., were
deposited at small altitudes. The Lake of Goube, about three hours'
walk from Cauterets, 5,364 feet above the level of the sea, is thickly
peopled with trout, frogs, and mollusks.
The results of this inquiry into the geographical distribution of
mollusks in the mountainous West are meagre enough, but may be of
some use in future investigations. Whether this central region is a
true zoological province considered with reference to the mollusca,
and what is the origin of its fauna, are hardly to be answered yet.
