NATURE OF THE INVERTEBRATE BRAIN. 707
on either side, whose branches are distributed to the muscles and
parietes of adjacent segments.
In this animal also a simple filament is given off from the poste-
rior part of the supra-oesophageal ganglion, and is distributed along
the dorsal aspect of the alimentary canal. It foreshadows an impor-
tant system of nerves corresponding partly with that of the " sympa-
thetic," and partly with the pneumogastric (or lung and stomach)
nerves in higher animals. This system is known among invertebrates
as the "stomato-gastric system." In other members of the inverte-
brate series it frequently takes its origin from the commissures con-
necting the upper and lower ganglia, rather than from the upper gan-
glion itself. The more complicated stomato-gastric system of the
earthworm has an origin of this kind.
The kind of nervous system which pertains to the earthworm and
to the leech exists, with only comparatively trivial variations, through-
out the whole sub-kingdom Yermes.
The next sub-kingdom — the Arthropoda — comprises centi})edes,
crabs, spiders, and insects. They are all characterized by the pos-
session of hollow and jointed organs of locomotion, containing dis-
tinct muscles, these appendages being represented among Yermes
only by lateral setae or bristles of different kinds. The lowest types
of these various classes possess a nervous system closely analogous to
that existing among the various kinds of worms. In the more com-
plex types of crabs, spiders, and insects, however, we meet with a
great increase in the complexity of animal organization, and this in-
crease of complexity is shared in by the nervous system. Among
insects, for instance, the respiratory organs assume a marvelous de-
gree of elaboration, and the development of this system, together
with a correlated development of their nervous and muscular sys-
tems, contributes greatly to the enormous powers of locomotion for
which these denizens of the air are remarkable. The acuteness and
structural elaboration of their sense-organs is almost sure to be greatly
increased in such active creatures ; and, looking to the nature of the
intelligence in these lower animals, there is thus afforded an increas-
ing stimulus to brain-development and slightly higher brain-functions.
Among the lower centipedes, such as lulus and Geopldlus^ in which
the limbs, though very numerous, are feeble and ill-developed, the
nervous system exhibits only a slight advance over the forms which it
presents among the higher Annelida (Fig. 3). But in the more pow-
erful predatory forms, of which the common centipede may be taken
as a type, a distinct advance is met with. This carnivorous animal
has a smaller number of well-developed limbs, and its nei'vous system
closely resembles that found among caterpillars or the larvae of higher
insects.
The supra-oesophageal ganglia receive nerves from the two pairs
