7o8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of antennae, and from the groups of ocelli on each side of the head,
and they are connected by oesophageal cords with a bilobed. infra-
cesophageal ganglion, which distributes nerves to the jaws and other
parts about the mouth. This bilobed infra-oesophageal ganglion is
the first and largest of a series of ventral ganglia, numbering twenty-
two in all, which are connected together by a double ventral cord.
Every ganglion sends off nerves on each side to a pair of limbs.
il//~h—^
Fig. 3. — Bbain and Adjacext Parts op Nebvous System of Iui.r3.
From the posterior part of the brain, or from the oesophageal
cords, the stomato-gastric nerves are given off, and distribute them-
selves over the alimentary canal in the usual manner.
Organs of vision become much more elaborate in crabs, spiders,
and insects, than among worms or centipedes. And, while organs of
touch and taste are further perfected in these higher arthropods, two
new sensory endowments also become manifest. These organisms, or
at least all the higher forms of them, are capable of being impressed
by and of discriminating the different odors of some substances ante-
rior to the contact of such substances with their gustatory surfaces.
This new power aids them in their search for or recognition of food.
Such organisms are, in addition, capable of appreciating those vibra-
tions of the medium they inhabit, which induce in us impressions
recognized as sounds or noises. In other words, they acquire a rudi-
mentary power of hearing.
These additional sensory endowments are of high importance to
all organisms, but more especially to those possessing active powers
of locomotion — serving, as they do on the one hand, to help to bring
their possessors into relation with food, and, on the other, to warn
them of the approach of enemies, of friends, or of sexual mates.
Among Crustacea great differences are met with in the degree of
concentration of the nervous system, the variations being in the main
dependent upon differences of external form in the respective mem-
bers of the class. In some of the lower terms of the series allied to
