MODERN SCIENTIFIC GEOGRAPHY. 713
in these animals. It is often connected anteriorly with a median
frontal ganglion (Fig. Y, E), lying anterior to and below the brain,
which supplies branches to the mouth and adjacent parts. This oral
or frontal ganglion, besides being connected with the brain, also gives
origin to a median recurrent nerve (e). This nerve is connected with
other branches, proceeding from one or two pairs of lateral ganglia (c),
near to, and taking origin from, the oesophageal cords. The system
of nerves thus derived furnishes branches to the stomaclj, the intes-
tines, and other viscera. In addition, we meet in insects with another
well-developed set of visceral nerves, taking origin from a chain of
minute ganglia, which lie upon and are connected with the large
ventral ganglionated cord. These nerves are distributed to the ex--
tensive and greatly multiplied air-tubes, or respiratory organs. They
are known to anatomists as " nervi transversi," and are much more
developed in insects than are its representatives among any other
class of arthropods.
modek:jt scientific geogeapht.'
By De. HEKMAN^N J. KLEIN.
AMONG the various branches of natural science which have in re-
cent times attained a high development, geography holds a prom-
inent rank. By this, however, we must understand, not so much that
vast regions of previously unexplored country have been made known
to the educated world ; that rivers, seas, and mountains, have been dis-
covered, and the courses of known streams more accurately defined in
maps ; but rather that geotectonic * data, of which a rich store has been
collected, have been studied from broad and general points of view,
and the individual phenomena ranged in the order of cause and effect.
In earlier times geography was simply a catalogue of facts, and the
earth's surface an ultimate datum ; but nowadays we are beginning
to regard the superficies of our planet as a result, to investigate the
relations between its separate parts, and to note the changes which
occur in it. In the words of Karl Ritter : " Scientific geography by
no means regards our planet as a lifeless, dead aggregate of an unor-
ganized nature, or, as Herodotus expresses it, a disk turned on a lathe ;
but as a truly and specially organized body in steady process of
development, bearing within itself the life-germs of further evolution.
Herein consists its unity ; and it is in virtue of this, its living princi-
ple, that it is a whole, lending itself to an orderly presentation and
development of its great system. Furthermore, it is this which
makes of it a science instructive to the human mind — an indispensa-
' Translated from the German by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
* Relating to the earth's structure.
