MODERN SCIENTIFIC GEOGRAPHY. 715
was possible in his day. Scientific geography is clex)endent upon a
number of other sciences, and its progress is conditioned upon the
development of these. No other science is so ill adapted as geogra-
phy to advance independently and without external aid. When the
astronomer aims at new applications of the theory of disturbance,
or when the physicist studies the phenomena of polarization ; when
the chemist undertakes to break up combinations of elements, or the
geologist investigates the relations subsisting between difierent strata,
each of these investigators labors in his own province, almost entirely
without reference to the progress made in other departments of
science. But when, on the contrary, a traveler, like the enterprising
Lieutenant Cameron, traverses broad continental regions over unex-
plored paths, the gain to scientific geography from such undertakings
in great measure depends upon the development of astronomy, meteo-
rology, geology, etc., inasmuch as it is by the aid of these sciences that
we can discuss the observations that have been made, and turn them
to account for ulterior conclusions. Then, too, we must not overlook
those sciences which have to do with organic Nature and which con-
sider from higher points of view the distribution of living beings.
Bearing all this in mind, we can readily perceive how intimate is the
connection between geography and all the natural sciences. Hence
it is that in earlier times the idea of scientific geography could hardly
be entertained. At first geography offered little besides an imper-
fectly-arranged mass of descriptions of strange lands and curious
things ; next it gradually invaded the domain of statistical facts ;
then the relations of the history of man to the earth's configuration
were recognized and elucidated ; at last came scientific geography,
which investigates the relations between the structure of the earth
and the sum of all terrestrial phenomena, both organic and inor-
ganic. The following instance will show the distinction between
ordinary (descriptive) geography and scientific geography.
No inconsiderable part of the surface of terra firma consists of des-
erts, those vast, dry, and in part sandy regions, the type of which is the
Sahara. The old descriptive geography gives the geographical situa-
tion of these wastes, their superficial extent, the number and site of
their oases, the names of the mountain-regions which traverse them,
and perhaps a few observations after the manner of anecdotes upon
the intense heat which prevails in such regions, and the perils of a
journey through the desert.
Scientific geography, on the other hand, regards these deserts as
an integral part of the terrestrial organism, and shows how their oc-
currence is not accidental, but a necessary result of the past and pi'es-
ent distribution of land and water, and of the position of the zone of
calms. It exhibits to us the process of forming deserts still active,
inasmuch as there exist centres of sand-radiation. It solves for us
the enigma of the formation of springs in the oases, inasmuch as it
