71 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
rejects as unverified the asserted absolute rainlessness of the deserts,
and in the precipitated meteoric water finds a suflScitnt supply for
the wells of the low-lying oases. With the aid of meteorology it
shows how one continent tends to reduce another to the condition of a
desert ; and, taking man into the sphere of its observations, it dis-
cusses the influence of the soil and the configuration of a region upon
the course of culture-development therein, and even upon the develop-
ment of peculiarities of speech. Scientific geography in this way
vivifies the dead superficies of our planet, and gives to the conven-
tional lines of a map the power of speaking a language that is under-
stood by the educated mind.
The endeavor to meet the requirements of a higher geography is
also to be seen in the better style of our modern maps. Thus, whereas
in former times the seas were represented by blank spaces surround-
ing the land, now we have the results of soundings carefully repre-
sented, and the lines of equal depths, as they are more or less parallel
to the present contours of the coast, supply to the geographer valuable
data with respect to the formation of the land itself. On looking at
the sketch of the Mediterranean Sea, in which various depths from
fifty to five hundred fathoms are represented, the reader will perceive
far more clearly than he could from the mere contour of the coasts
that, not taking the Black Sea into account, the Mediterranean Sea
proper consists of two great basins, viz., a western basin, extending
from Gibraltar to Cape Bon and the southwestern extremity of Sicily,
and an eastern basin extending thence to the coast of Syria. The
shallow depth between Africa and Sicily, and especially the track of
the hundred-fathom line, shown in our map by a dotted curve, prove
that, at a time not very remote geologically, Africa and Europe were
much nearer to one another than they are now, and that in the still
remoter past the two continents were connected at this point. In
all probability this union existed at a period when as yet the present
southern shore of the eastern Mediterranean basin had not been up-
heaved, and the sea covered a portion of what is now the Sahara.
French investigators have supposed that the most recent retreat of
the sea was from the Syrtis Minor ; nay, that even in historic times
the great Algerian Chotts were directly connected with the Mediter-
ranean as an arm of that sea. But this hypothesis is negatived by G.
Stache's discovery of a stratum characterized by land and fresh-water
shells, at the base of the Quaternary formations which constitute the
coast of the Gulf of Gabes.
If we take up a geological chart, e. g., the beautiful " General 31ap
of the Sedimentary Formations of Europe," by H. Habenicht, we find
nothing that contradicts these conclusions. Thus the Eocene forma-
tions, which are widely difiused over the northern extremity of Africa,
and especially in Tunis, occur again in the island of Sicily, while the
southern and the southwestern portion of that island show the most
