MODERN SCIENTIFIC GEOGRAPHY. 717
recent Tertiary strata. Those same strata form the coast of Syrtis
Major, where yet the Mediterranean extends farthest southward, and
where probably was situated the last channel through which water
was supplied to the sea that once covered a portion of the Sahara.
That here gradual upheavals of the land have taken place, each up-
heaval succeeded by a protracted season of repose, is shown by the
terraces, the origin of which is so well known to the geologist. Ger-
hard Rohlfs found these terraces as he ascended the rising ground
back of Tolmita, the ancient Ptolemais. He observes that these ter-
races are separated from one another by levels several miles in width.*
But if, turning aside from these geological considerations, we again
glance at our map of relative depths, we almost everywhere find that
a flat coast accompanies a shallow sea ; while, on the other hand, a
mountainous coast implies a sudden and precipitous inclination of the
neighboring sea-bottom. This would more plainly appear if our map
were on a larger scale, and had a greater number of depth-cuiwes for
the purpose of comparison. This fact might be accounted for by
supposing that the comparatively sudden upheaval of the coast-hills
was connected with a considerable depression of the neighboring sea-
bottom, while the slow and periodic sinking of the flatter portions
gave rise to submarine terraces. But, aside from this hypothesis, the
representation of graduated submarine depths has a significance not
to be misunderstood in geological, zoological, and botanical investi-
gations.
Turning now from the sea to the land, we find in our best modern
maps a number of figures indicating, as accurately as possible, the
elevations ; nay, even the attempt has been made, in the magnificent
atlas of Switzerland, to show the elevations by means of equidistant
curves. The Lehmann method of representing the surface of a coun-
try with equidistant level-lines would be, in many respects, of the
highest service for the study of the earth's surface, but as yet it can
be practically employed only in individual cases, partly from the want
of materials, partly also on account of technical difficulties.
Cartography is a powerful aid to scientific geography, inasmuch
as it arranges in true projection a great mass of heterogeneous mate-
rials, bringing it before tlie eye within small space, and thus making
apparent relations which else could hardly be noticed. As for politi-
cal geography, viz., the description of the various empires of the
world, their area, provinces, population, etc., this we woidd regai-d
rather as a branch of statistics than of geography proper. — Gaea.
* "Von Tripolis nach Alex:iiulrion," 1. Bd., S. 169.
