71 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
PPwEDATORY AXD IXDUSTEIAL SOCIETIES.'
By HEEBEET SPENCEE.
A GLANCE at the respective antecedents of individual organisms
and social organisms shows why the last admit of no such defi-
nite classification as the first. Through a thousand generations a spe-
cies of plant or animal leads substantially tlie same kind of life ; and
its successive members inherit the acquired adaptations. When
changed conditions cause divergences of forms once alike, the accumu-
lating differences arising in descendants only superficially disguise the
original identity — do not prevent the grouping of the several species
into a genus ; nor do wider divergences that began earlier prevent
the grouping of genera into orders and orders into classes. It is oth-
erwise with societies. Hordes of primitive men, dividing and s^ubdi-
viding, do, indeed, show us successions of small social aggregates
leading like lives, inheriting such low structures as had resulted, and
repeating those structures. But higher social aggregates propagate
their respective types in much less decided ways. Though colonies
tend to grow like their parents, yet the parent societies are so com-
paratively plastic, and the influences of new habitats on the derived
societies are so great, that divergences of structure are inevitable.
In the absence of definite organizations, established during the simi-
lar lives of many societies descending one from another, there cannot
be the precise distinctions implied by complete classification.
Two cardinal kinds of difl:erences there are, howevei-, of which we
may avail ourselves for grouping societies in a natural manner. Pri-
marily we may arrange them, according to their degrees of composi-
tion, as simple, compound, doubly-compound, trebly-compound ; and,
secondarily, though in a less specific way, we may divide them into
the predominantly predatory and the predominantly industi'ial — those
in which the organization for oflense and defense is most largely de-
veloped and those in which the sustaining organization is most largely
developed.
We have seen that social evolution begins with small, simple ag-
gregates; that it progresses by the clustering of these into larger
aggregates; and that, after consolidating, such clusters are united
with others like themselves into still larger aggregates. Our classi-
fication, then, must begin with societies of the first or simplest order.
We cannot in all cases say with precision what constitutes a simple
society ; for, in common with products of evolution generally, socie-
ties present transitional stages which negative sharp divisions. As
the multiplying members of a group spread and diverge gradually, it
1 Abridged from advance-sheets of the " Principles of Sociology," Part II., " The In-
duction of Sociology," Chapter X., "Social Types and Constitutions."
