CHARACTER AND WORK OF LIE BIG. 51
have I seen perish in this vertigo, how many wails about life-objects
completely missed have I been obliged to hear afterward ! " Thus he
spoke in his work on the study of the natural sciences, which was pub-
lished at Brunswick in 1840.
Xow, in order that you may be able to apprehend what tliis kind
of philosophy was, and to understand more fully the position from
which he had to emancipate himself, even at that early time of his
life, I will quote to you a very few passages, and I will make them as
short as possible, compatible with illustration, from one of Schelliug's
works, from the periodical for speculative physics — mark the term,
" Speculative Physics." I will quote the following passage : " Nature
strives in the dynamical sphere necessarily to absolute indifference,
not by magnetism nor by electricity is represented the totality of the
dynamical process, but only by the chemical process. With the third
dimension of the product the two other dimensions are opposed. In
Nature itself there is one and inseparato, what is separated for the pur-
pose of speculation." That is almost enougli, but I will give you an-
other passage v/hich will be more striking because of the contrary
itself being known to you. Here he says of the composition of water :
" Water contains just the same as iron, but in absolute indifference as
yonder in relative indiflference, carbon and nitrogen, and thus all true
polarity of the earth is reduced to an original south and north which
are fixed in the magnet." Now, in order that you may believe that he
did not merely speak of an admixture or impurity of carbon or nitro-
gen, but that he meant to say that it was the essence of water, and
that it was really composed of these two elements, and not of any
other, he goes on to say : " The animal is in organic Natui*e the ii'on ;
the plant is the water, for Nature begins with the relative sepax'ation
of the sexes, and then ends in this separation. The animal decomposes
the iron, the plant decomposes the water. The female and the male
sex of the plant is the carbon and the nitrogen of the water." These
are two examples of the philosophy of Schelling, which was believed
at that time to be the science by which Germany could be regenerated,
by which the generation which had then only just recovered its inde-
pendence would be put on a firm mental basis. The followers of this
system were called to the court of Prussia, and there Hegel, the phi-
losopher, continued in a similar manner to teach doctrines which now-
adays seem to be but o. farrago of nonsense. Hegel says, for example,
on the chemical process : " If electricity was the broken magnetism,
because the opposite poles are independent bodies upon which the
positive and negative electricity is distributed, and if the point of
indifference is the explosion of an indifferent light by itself, then is the
chemical process, on the other hand, the totality of the shaping. We
have two independent bodies which belong more to the one or the
other extreme ; to the metal on the one hand, or the sulphur on the
other, which meet in an indifferent medium, and by abandoning their
