PREDATORY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETIES. 721
of rank in the community, and complete submission of each rank to
the ranks above it. We see this in the society already instanced, as
showing, among advanced savages, the development of the militant
type. In Feejee six classes are enumerated, from king down to slaves,
as sharply marked oiF. Similarly in Madagascar, where despotism has
been in late times established by war, there are several grades and
castes. Among the Dahomans, given in so great a degree to blood-
shed of all kinds, " the army, or, wha't is nearly synonymous, the
nation," says Burton, "is divided, both male and female, into two
wings ; " and then, of the various ranks enumerated, all are charac-
terized as legally slaves of the king. In Ashantee, too, where his
officers are required to die when the king dies, we have a kindred con-
dition. Of old, among the aggressive Persians, grades were strongly
marked. So was it in warlike ancient Mexico. Besides three classes of
nobility, and besides the mercantile classes, there were three agricultu-
ral classes down to the serfs — all in precise subordination. In Peru, also,
below the Inca there were grades of nobility — lords over lords. More-
over, according to Garcilasso, in each town the inhabitants were regis-
tered in decades under a decurion, five of these under a superior, two
such under a higher one, five of these centurions under a head, two
of these under one who thus ruled a thousand men, and for every ten
thousand there was a governor of Inca race ; the political rule being
thus completely regimental. Till lately, another illustration was fur-
nished by Japan. That there were kindred, if less elaborate, struct-
ures in ancient militant states of tlie Old World, scarcely needs
saying; and that like structures were repeated in mediaeval times,
when a large nation, like France, had under the monarch several
grades of feudal lords, vassals to those above, and suzerains to those
below, with serfs under the lowest, again shows us that everywhere
the militant type has sharply-marked social gradations, as it has
sharply-marked military gradations.
Corresponding to tliis natural government, there is a like form of
supernatural government. I do not mean merely that, in the ideal
other-worlds of militant societies, the ranks and powers are conceived
as like those of the real world around, though this also is to be noted;
but I refer to the militant character of the religion. Ever in antag-
onism with other societies, the life is a life of enmity, and the reli-
gion a religon of enmity. The duty of blood-revenge, most sacred
of all with the savage, continues to be the dominant duty as the mili-
tant type of society evolves. The chief, balked of his vengeance,
dies enjoining his successors to avenge him ; his ghost is propitiated
by fulfillment of his commands; the slaying of his enemies becomes
the highest action ; trophies are brought to his grave in token of ful-
fillment ; and, as tradition grows, he becomes the god worshiped with
bloody sacrifices. Everywhere we find evidence. The Feejeeans offer
the bodies of their victims killed in war to the gods before cooking
VOL. IX. — 46
