722 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
them. In Dahomey, where the militant type is so far developed that
women are warriors, men are almost daily sacrificed by tlie monarch
to please his dead father; and the ghosts of old kings are invoked for
aid in war by blood sprinkled on their tombs. The war-god of the
Mexicans (originally a conqueror), the most revered of their gods, had
his idol fed with human flesh ; wars being undertaken to supply him
with victims. And similarly in Peru, where there were habitual hu-
man sacrifices, men taken captive were immolated to the father of the
Incas, the sun. How militant societies of old in the East similarly
evolved deities, who were similarly propitiated by bloody rites, needs
merely indicating. Habitually their mythologies represent gods as
conquerors ; habitually their gods are named " the strong one,"
"the destroyer," "the avenger," "god of battles," "lord of hosts,"
"man of war," and so forth. As we read in Assyrian inscriptions,
wars were commenced by their alleged will; and, as we read else-
where, peoples were massacred wholesale in professed obedience to
them. How its theological government, like its political government,
is essentially military, we see even in late and qualified forms of the
predatory type; for, down to the present time, absolute subordina-
tion, like that of soldier to commander, is the supreme virtue, and
disobedience the crime for which eternal torture is threatened.
Similarly with the accompanying ecclesiastical organization. Very
generally, where the militant type is highly developed, the political
head and ecclesiastical head are identical — the king, chief descendant
of his ancestor, who has become a god, is also chief propitiator of him.
It was so in ancient Peru ; and in Tezcuco and Tlacopan (Mexico)
the high-priest was the king's second sou. The Egyptian wall-
paintings show us kings performing sacrifices ; as do also the As-
syrian. Babylonian records harmonize with Hebrew traditions in
telling us of priest-kings. In Lydia it was the same ; Croesus was
king and priest. In Sparta, too, the kings, while military chiefs, were
also high-priests; and a trace of the like original relation existed in
Rome. A system of subordination, essentially akin to the military, has
habitually characterized the accompanying priesthoods. The Feejeeans
have an hereditary priesthood, forming a hierarchy. In Tahiti, where
the high-priest was royal, there were grades of hereditary priests be-
longing to each social rank. In ancient Mexico the priesthoods of
different gods had different ranks, and there were three ranks within
each priesthood ; and in ancient Peru, besides the royal chief priest,
tliere were priests of the conquering race set over various classes of
inferior priests. A like type of structure, with subjection of rank to
rank, has characterized priesthoods in the ancient and modern bel-
ligerent societies of the Old World. The like mode of government
is traceable throughout the sustaining organization also, so long as
the social type remains predominantly militant. Beginning with
simple societies, in which the slave-class furnislies tlie warrior-class
