PREDATORY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETIES. 723
with necessaries of life, we have already seen that, during the subse-
quent stages of evolution, the industrial part of the society continues to
be essentially a permanent commissariat, existing solely to supply the
needs of the governmental-military structures, and having left over
for itself only enough for bare maintenance. Hence, the development
of political regulation over its activities has been in fact the extension
throughout it of that military rule which, as a permanent commis-
sariat, it naturally had. An extreme instance is furnished us by the
ancient Peruvians, whose political and industrial governments were
identical — whose kinds and quantities of labor, for every class in every
locality, were prescribed by laws enforced by state officers — who had
work legally dictated even for their young children, their blind, and
their lame, and who were publicly chastised for idleness; regimental
discipline being applied to industry just as our modern advocate of
strong government would have it now. The late Japanese system,
completely military in origin and nature, similarly permeated in-
dustry; great and small things — houses, ships, down even to mats —
were prescribed in their structures. In the warlike monarchy of
Madagascar, the artisan classes are all in the employ of government,
and no man can change his occupation or locality, under pain of
death. Without multiplication of cases, these typical ones, remind-
ing the reader of the extent to which, even in modern fighting states,
industrial activities are officially regulated, will sufficiently show the
principle.
Not industry only, but life at large, is, in militant societies, sub-
ject to kindred discipline. Before its recent collapse, the government
of Japan enforced sumptuary laws on each class, mercantile and other,
up to the provincial governors, who must rise, dine, go out, give audi-
ence, and retire to rest at prescribed hours; and the native litera-
ture specifies regulations of a scarcely credible minuteness. In an-
cient Peru, officers " minutely inspected the houses, to see that the
man, as well as his wife, kept the household in proper order, and pre-
served a due state of discipline among their children;" and house-
holders were rewarded or chastised accordingly. Among the Egyp-
tians each person had, at fixed intervals, to report to a local officer his
name, abode, and mode of living. Sparta, too, yields an example of
a society specially organized for offense and defense, in which the
private conduct of citizens, in all its details, was under public control
enforced by spies and censors. Though regulations so stringent have
not characterized the militant type in more recent ages, yet we need
but recall the laws regulating food and dress, the restraints on loco-
motion, the prohibitions of some games and dictation of others, to
indicate the parallelism of principle. Even now, where the militaiy
organization has been kept in vigor by military activities, as in
France, we are shown, by the peremptory control of journals and
suppression of meetings, by the regimental uniformity of education,
