724 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by the official administration of the fine arts, the way in which its
characteristic regulating system ramifies everywhere.
And then, lastly, is to be noted the theory concerning the relation
between the state and the individual, with its accompanying senti-
ment. This structure, which adapts a society for combined action
against other societies, is associated with the belief that its members
exist for the benefit of the whole, and. not the whole for the benefit of
its members. As in an army the liberty of the soldier is denied, and
only his duty as a member of the mass insisted on ; as in a perma-
nently encamped army, like the Spartan nation, the laws recognized no
personal interests, but patriotic ones only ; so in the militant type
throughout the claims of the unit are nothing, and the claims of the
aggregate everything. Absolute subjection to authority is the su-
preme virtue, and resistance to it a crime. Other ofienses may be
condoned, but disloyally is an unpardonable ofiense. If we take the sen-
timents of the sanguinary Feejeeans, among whom loyalty is so intense
that a man stands unbound to be knocked on the head, himself saying
that what the king wills must be done ; or those of the Dahomans,
among whom the highest officials are the king's slaves, and on his de-
cease his women sacrifice one another that they may all follow him;
or those of the ancient Peruvians, among whom with a dead Inca,
or great curaca, were buried alive his favorite attendants and wives
that they might go to serve him in the other world; or those of the
ancient Persians, among whom a father, seeing his innocent son shot
by the king in pure wantonness, " felicitated " the king " on the excel-
lence of his archery," and among whom bastinadoed subjects "de-
clared themselves delighted because his majesty had condescended
to recollect them " — we are sufficiently show n that, in this social
type, the sentiment which prompts the assertion of personal rights,
in opposition to the ruling power, scarcely exists.
Thus the trait characterizing the militant structure throughout is
that its units are coerced into their various combined actions. As
the soldier's will is so suspended that he becomes in everything the
agent of his officer's will, so is the will of the citizen in all transac-
tions, private and public, overruled by that of the government. The
cooperation by which the life of the militant society is maintained,
is a corapxdsory cooperation. The social structure adapted for deal-
ing with surrounding hostile societies is under a centralized regu-
lating system, to which all the parts are completely subject; just as
in the individual organism the outer organs are completely subject to
the chief nervous centre.
The traits of the industrial type have to be generalized from inad-
equate and entangled data. Antagonism, more or less constant with
other societies, having been almost everywhere and always the con-
dition of each society, a social structure fitted for offense and defense
