PREDATORY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETIES. 725
exists in nearly all cases, and disguises the structure which social
Bustentation alone otherwise originates. Such conception as may be
formed of it has to be formed from what we find in the few simple soci-
eties that have been habitually peaceful, and in the advanced com-
pound societies which, though once habitually militant, have become
gradually less so.
Already I have referred to the chiefless Arafuras, living in " peace
and brotherly love with one another," of whom we are told that " they
recognize the rights of property in the fullest sense of the word, with-
out there being any authority among them than the decisions of their
elders, according to the customs of their forefathers;" that is, there
has grown up a recognition of mutual claims and personal rights,
with voluntary submission to a tacitly-elected representative govern-
ment, formed of the most experienced. Among the Todas, who
"lead a peaceful, tranquil life," disputes are "settled either by arbi-
tration " or by " a council of five." The amiable Bodo and Dhimals,
said to be wholly unmilitary, display an essentially free social form.
They have nothing but powerless head-men, and are without slaves or
servants ; but they give mutual assistance in clearing ground and
house-building. There is voluntary exchange of services — giving
of equivalents of labor. The Mishmis, again, described as quiet, inof-
fensive, not warlike, and only occasionally uniting in self-defense,
have scarcely any political organization. Their village communities,
under merely nominal chiefs, acknowledge no common chief of the
tribe, and the rule is democratic. Crimes are judged by an assembly.
Naturally, few, if any, cases occur in which societies of this type
have evolved into larger societies without passing into the predatory
type ; for, as we have seen, the consolidation of simple aggregates
into a compound aggregate habitually results from war, defensive or
offensive, which, if continued, evolves a centralized authority with
its coercive institutions. The Pueblos, however, industrious and
peaceful agriculturists, who, building their unique villages, or com-
pound houses, containing 2,000 people, in such ways as to " wall out
black barbarism," fight only when invaded, show us a democratic
form of government. "The governor and his council are elected
annually by the people." The case of Samoa, too, may be named as
showing, to some extent, how, in one of these compound communities,
where the warlike activity is now not considerable, decline in the
rigidity of political control has gone along with some evolution of
the industrial type. Chiefs and minor heads, partly hereditary and
partly elective, are held responsible for the conduct of affairs ; there
are village parliaments and district parliaments. Along with this we
find a considerably-developed sustaining organization separate from
the political — masters, who have apprentices, employ journeymen,
and pay wages; and, when payment for work is inadequate, there are
even strikes, upheld by a tacit trades-unionism.
