726 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Passing to more evolved societies, it must be observed, first, that
the distinctive traits of the industrial type do not become marked,
even where the industrial activity is considerable, so long as the in-
dustrial government remains identified with the political. In Phoe-
nicia, for example, " the foreign wholesale trade seems to have be-
longed mostly to the state, the kings, and the nobles. . . . Ezekiel
describes the King of Tyrus as a prudent commercial prince, who finds
out the precious metals in their hidden seats, enriches himself by get-
ting them, and increases these riches by further traffic," Clearly, where
the political and military heads have thus themselves become the
heads of the industrial organization, the traits distinctive of it are
prevented from showing themselves. Of ancient societies, to be
named in connection with the relation between industrial activities
and free institutions, Athens will be at once thought of; and, by con-
trast with other Greek states, it showed this relation as clearly as can
be expected. Up to the time of Solon, all these communities were
under either oligarchs or despots. The rest of them, in which war
continued to be the honored occupation, while industry was despised,
retained this jDolitical type ; but in Athens, where industry was regard-
ed with comparative respect, where it was encouraged by Solon, and
where immigrant artisans found a home, there commenced an indus-
trial organization, which, gradually growing, distinguished the Athe-
nian society from adjacent societies, as it was distinguished from
them by those democratic institutions that simultaneously developed.
Turning to later times, the relation between a social regime pre-
dominantly industrial and a less coercive form of rule, is shown us
by the Hanse Towns, by the towns of the Low Countries, out of
which the Dutch Republic rose, and in high degrees by ourselves, by
the United States, and by our colonies. Along with wars less fre-
quent, and these carried on at a distance ; and along with an accom-
panying growth of agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, beyond
that of Continental states more military in habit — there has gone in
England a development of free institutions, . As further implying
that the two are related, as cause and consequence, there may be
noted the fact that the regions whence changes toward greater politi-
cal liberty have come are the leading industrial regions ; and that
rural districts, less characterized by constant trading transactions,
have retained longer the earlier type, with its appropriate sentiments
and ideas. In the form of ecclesiastical government we see parallel
changes. Where the industrial activities and structures evolve, this
branch of the regulating system, no longer, as in the predatory t3-pe,
a rigid hierarchy, little by little loses strength, M'hile there grows up
one of a different kind ; sentiments and institutions both relaxing.
Right of private judgment in religious matters gradually establishes
itself along with establishment of political rights. In place of a uni-
form belief imperatively enforced, there come multiform beliefs vol-
