PREDATORY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETIES. 727
uutarily accepted; and the ever-multiplying bodies espousing these
beliefs, instead of being governed despotically, govern themselves
after a manner more or less representative. Military conformity, co-
ercively maintained, gives place to a varied non-conformity main-
tained by willing union.
The industrial organization itself, which thus, as it becomes pre-
dominant, affects all the rest, of course shows us in an especial degree
this change of structure. From the primitive predatory condition,
under which the master maintains slaves to work for him, there is a
transition through stages of increasing freedom to a condition like
our own, in which all who work and emj)loy, buy and sell, are entirely
independent; and in which there is an unchecked power of forming
associations that rule themselves on democratic principles. Combina-
tions of workmen, and counter-combinations of employers, no less
than political societies and leagues for carrying on this or that agi-
tation, show us the representative mode of government; which char-
acterizes also every joint-stock company for mining, banking, railway-
making, or other commercial enterprise. Further, we see that, as in
the predatory type the military mode of regulation ramifies into all
minor departments of social activity, so here does the industrial
mode of regulation. Multitudinous objects are acliieved by spon-
taneously-evolved combinations of citizens governed representatively.
The tendency to this kind of organization is so ingrained that, for
every proposed end, the proposed means is a society ruled by an
elected committee headed by an elected chairman — philanthropic
associations of multitudinous kinds, literary institutions, libraries,
clubs, bodies for fostering the various sciences and arts, etc., etc.
Along witli all which traits there go sentiments and ideas con-
cerning the relation between the citizen and the state, opposite to those
accompanying the predatory type. In place of the doctrine that the
duty of obedience to the governing agent is unqualified, there arises
the doctrine that tlie will of the citizens is supreme, and the governing
agent exists merely to carry out their will. Thus subordinated in
authority, the regulating power is also restricted in range. Instead
of having an authority extending over actions of all kinds, it is shut
out from large classes of actions. Its control over ways of living in
respect to food, clothing, amusements, is repudiated ; it is not allowed
to dictate modes of production, nor to regulate trade. Nor is this
all. It becomes a duty to resist irresponsible government, and also
to resist the excesses of responsible government. There arises a
tendency in minorities to disobey even the legislature deputed by the
majority, when it interferes in certain ways; and their oppositions to
laws they condemn as inequitable from time to time cause abolition
of them. With which changes of polilical theory and accompanying-
sentiment is joined a belief, implied or avowed, that the combined
actions of the social aggregate have for their end to maintain the
