728 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
conditions under which individual lives may be satisfactorily carried
on ; in place of the old belief that individual lives have for their end
the maintenance of this aggregate's combined actions.
These pervading traits, in which the industrial type differs so
widely from the predatory type, originate in those relations of indi-
viduals implied by industrial activities, which are wholly unlike those
implied by predatory activities. All trading transactions, whether
between masters and workmen, buyers and sellers of commodities, or
professional men and those they aid, are effected by free exchange.
For some benefit which A's occupation enables him to give, B will-
ingly yields up an equivalent benefit ; if not in the form of something
he has produced, then in the form of money gained by his occupation.
This relation, in which the mutual rendering of services is unforced
and neither individual subordinated, becomes the predominant rela-
tion throughout society, in proportion as the industrial activities pre-
dominate. Daily determining the thoughts and sentiments, daily
disciplining all in asserting their own claims, while forcing them to
recognize the correlative claims of others, it produces social units
whose mental structures and habits mould social arrangements into
corresponding forms. There results this type characterized through-
out by that same individual freedom which every commercial trans-
action implies. The cooperation by which the multiform activities
of the societies are carried on, becomes a voluntary cooperation.
And while the developed sustaining system, which gives to a social
organism the industrial type, acquires for itself, like the developed
sustaining system of an animal, a regulating apparatus of a diffused
or uncentralized kind, it tends also to decentralize the primary regu-
lating apparatus, by making it derive from move numerous classes its
deputed powers.
Necessarily the essential traits of these two social types are in
most cases obscured, both by the antecedents and by the coexisting
circumstances. Every society has been, at each past period, and is
at present, conditioned in a way more or less unlike the ways in
which others have been and are conditioned. Hence, the production
of structures, characterizing one or other of these opposed types, is,
in every instance, furthered, or hindered, or modified, in a special
manner. Observe the several kinds of causes.
There is, first, the deeply-organized character of the particular
race, coming down from those prehistoric times during which the
diffusion of mankind, and differentiation of the varieties of man, took
place. Very difiicult to change, this must in every case qiaalify dif-
ferently the tendency toward assumption of either type.
There is, next, the effect due to the immediately preceding mode
of life and social type. Nearly always the society we have to study
contains decayed institutions and habits belonging to an ancestral
