PREDATORY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETIES. 731
and Samiiites, preceded the first ascending stage of the Roman civ-
ilization. And our own country, peopled by different divisions of the
Aryan race, and mainly by varieties of Scandinavians, again illus-
trates this effect produced by the mixture of units sufficiently alike to
cooperate in the same social system, but sufficiently unlike to prevent
that social system fi-om becoming forthwith definite in structure.
Admitting that the evidence where so many causes are in opera-
tion cannot be satisfactorily disentangled, and claiming only proba-
bility for these inductions respecting social constitutions, it remains
to point out their analogy to certain inductions respecting the consti-
tutions of individual living things. Between organisms widely un-
like in kind, no progeny can arise : the physiological units contrib-
uted by thera respectively to form a fertilized germ cannot work to-
gether so as to produce a new organism. Evidently as, while multi-
plying, the two classes of units tend to build themselves into two dif-
ferent structures, their conflict prevents the formation of any struct-
ure. If the two organisms are less unlike in kind — belonging, say, to
the same genus though to different species — the two structures which
their two groups of physiological units tend to build up being toler-
ably similar, they can, and do, cooperate in making an organism that
is intermediate. But this, though it will work, is imperfect in its
latest-evolved parts : there, results a mule incapable of propagating.
If, instead of diffei-ent species, remote varieties are united, the inter-
mediate organism is not infertile ; but many facts suggest the conclu-
sion that infertility results in subsequent generations : the incongru-
ous working of the united structures, though longer in showing itself,
comes out ultimately. And then, finally, if, instead of remote vari-
eties, varieties nearly allied are united, a permanently-fertile breed
results; and, while the slight differences of the two kinds of physio-
logical units are not such as to prevent harmonious cooperation, they
are such as conduce to plasticity and unusually vigorous gi'owth.
Here, then, seems a parallel to the conclusion indicated above,
that hybrid societies are imperfectly organizable — cannot grow into
forms completely stable ; while societies that have been evolved from
mixtures of nearly-allied varieties of man can assume stable struct-
ures, and have an advantageous modifiability.
We class societies, then, in two ways ; both having to be kept in
mind when interpreting social phenomena :
First, they have to be arranged in the order of their integration,
as simple, compound, doubly-compound, trebly-compound. And,
along with the increasing degrees of evolution implied by these as-
cending stages of composition, we have to recognize the increasing
degrees of evolution implied by growing heterogeneity, general and
local.
Much less definite is the division to be made amons: societies ac-
cording as one or other of their great systems of organs is supreme.
