732 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Omitting those lowest types which show no differentiations at all, we
have but few exceptions to the rule that each society has structures
for carrying on conflict with other societies and structures for carry-
ing on sustentation ; and the ratios between these admitting of all
gradations, it results that no specific classification can be based on
their relative developments. Nevertheless, as the predatory type,
characterized by predominance of the one, is framed on the principle
of compulsory cooperation, while the industrial type, characterized by
predominance of the other, is framed on the principle of voluntary
cooperation, the two types, when severally evolved to their extreme
forms, are diametrically opposed ; and the contrasts between their
traits are among the most important with which sociology has to
deal.
Were this the fit place, some pages might be added respecting a
possible futm-e social type, differing as much from the industrial as
this does from the predatory — a type which, having a sustaining sys-
tem more fully developed than any we know at present, will use the
products of industry neither for maintaining a predatory organization
nor exclusively for material aggrandizement ; but will devote them
to the carrying on of higher activities. As the contrast between the
predatory and the industrial types is indicated by inverting the belief
that individuals exist for the benefit of the state into the belief that
the state exists for the benefit of individuals, so the contrast between
the industrial type and the type likely to be evolved from it is indi-
cated by the inversion of the belief that life is for work into the belief
that work is for life. But we are here concerned with inductions de-
rived from societies that have been and are, and cannot enter upon
speculations respecting societies that may be. Merely naming as a
sign the multiplication of institutions and appliances for intellectual
and aesthetic culture, and for kindred activities not of a directly life-
sustaining kind, but of a kind having gratification for their immedi-
ate purpose, I can here say no more.
Returning from this parenthetical suggestion, there remains the
remark that to the complications caused by the crossings of these
two classifications have to be added the complications caused by the
unions of races widely unlike or little unlike ; which here mix not at
all, there partially, and in other cases wholly. Respecting these
kinds of constitutions, we have considerable warrant for concluding
that the hybrid kind, essentially unstable, admits of being organized
only on the principle of compulsory cooperation; since units much op-
posed in their natures cannot work together spontaneously. While,
conversely, the kind characterized by likeness in its units is relatively
stable ; and under fit conditions may evolve into the industrial type,
especially if the likeness is qualified by slight differences.
