52 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
abstract one-sidedness iu wbicli they decompose the medium combine
to a third body which is the totality and the neutrality of the oppo-
sites, the dynamical process in its highest perfection."
When a young man of seventeen or eighteen years of age is capa-
ble of freeing himself from the trammels of such a chimera termed
philosophy, which had taken such a deep hold of a whole nation as to
cause to flock to the university where it was taught the selected youth
of the whole country, you may give him credit for great power of
mind and for great independence of judgment. Do not forget that
this development of the philosophy of Schelling and Hegel was a con-
sequence of the latter part of the philosophy of Kant. Kant's phi-
losophy was great as long as it was based on the exact sciences, upon
physics, and upon mathematics, but when he left that basis and went
into the speculative philosophy he gradually went away from that
basis which had made his early philosophy so sound and so full of
meaning for the perfection of the human understanding. On the other
hand, when you come to a further development of the same philoso-
phy, namely, that of Fichte, there the speculative part vanishes en-
tirely into insignificance, because that which Fichte taught was not
such kind of nonsense as that which 1 have read to you, but it was a
kind of moral philosophy which spoke to the youth of Germany, and
taught them this one great proposition, which every one of them
ought to feel, and wliich is the first condition of self-consciousness in
man, namely, "I am I;" this was the great teaching of Fichte, by
which he brought home to men their own value and their own powers,
which cannot be said was the result of the other philosophy from
which I have quoted.
In 1822 Liebig, having emancipated himself from this kind of
teaching, took the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at Erlangen, when
he was nineteen years old. In the autumn of that year he returned
to Darmstadt ; his researches and endeavors then became known, and
"he attracted the attention of the Grand-duke Ludwig I., of Hesse-
Darmstadt, who conferred upon him a state stipend, to enable him to
continue his studies at Paris. To Paris, therefore, he went. Now let
us for a moment consider what was then the condition of chemistry
at Paris. Lavoisier, the great reformer, who had established what
was then called the antiphlogistic chemistry, had thirty years before
died on the scaffold ; Guy ton de Morveau, Fourcroy, and Berthollet,
whom the first Xapoleon called the plus brave des Fran^ais^ because
he gave him chlorate of potassium, by which he hoped to overcome
the want of nitre for his gunpowder; the great Societe d'Arcueil,
which worked through the whole of the war-times zealously at science,
and published its memoirs — all these men had passed away. But there
remained their disciples in the persons of Proust, Chevreul, Yauquelin,
Gay-Lussac, Th^nard, and Dulong. Chevreul is the only one of these
celebrated men who now lives, and he has lately published, in the
