734 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the fields, and to double the production of the soil, is to substitute suit-
able buildings at the centre of an agricultural township for unsuit-
able, straggling farm-houses and barns, and to replace solitary labor
on farms by the modern method of organized industry, applied to the
cultivation of a domain large enovgh to permit selection of soils and
the use of adequate machinery. This question, " How can we keep
the boys on the farm ? " has just received a thoughtful answer from
Colonel George E. Waring, in an " Ogden Farm-Paper," in the April
number of the American Agriculturist.
What we need, in order to harmonize our household system with
other branches of modern industry, is a Federative Homestead, owned
hy those inhabiting it, in which the great entries or halls may be con-
sidered as streets under cover, and the individual or family domiciles,
houses under a common roof. For such buildings a new architecture
and new machinery are needed. The Peabody tenement-houses in
London, the family club-houses in England and on the Continent, the
family hotels in this country, and the Familistere at Guise, though
furnishing valuable architectural suggestions, have solved as yet but
feAV of the problems of construction of the "People's Palace," as it has
been called. Invention also has done comparatively little to furnish
labor-saving machinery for agi'iculture and the household on account
of the segregated and slovenly character of these industries.
The most obvious form of the People's Palace in the town is a hol-
low square, surrounded with streets, with inclosed and surrounding
gardens — the space in the centre being large enough to give air and
a pleasant outlook to the inner domiciles. To further this object, one
side of the square might be left open, or devoted to work-rooms, only
a single story in height. In the country the building might take the
form of a cross, giving an open view on all sides with public rooms
and halls,' or a conservatory under glass (a winter garden) in the
middle, and gardens surrounding.
The economies would increase, and also the independence of the
occupants, with the increase of numbers within certain limits. While
the edifice might be of equal size for rich or poor, the separate domi-
ciles would naturally be smaller and more numerous where the means
of the proprietors were less. In the same building the various domi-
ciles would differ in value according to situation and size, and thus
would suit persons of different means. Not less than one hundred
nor more than four hundred families may be assumed for illustration as
probable limits of number.
A building of architectural beauty, favorably situated in country
or town, to contain one hundred domiciles, would cost, includmg land,
not more than two-thirds as much as one hundred separate houses of
the same class, giving to each family the same amount and quality of
habitable room. The edifice should be fire-proof, safer from intrusion,
better drained, better ventilated, freer from offenses of all kinds, than
