ORGANIZED HOMESTEADS AND HOUSEHOLDS. 735
the solitary liouses. A finely-appointed kitchen, laundry, heating,
lighting, and elevating apparatus, with telegraphic and other means
of communication, sufficient for the wants of a hundred families, would
replace one hundred sets of inferior work-rooms and apparatus in the
separate houses. But one or more work-rooms would be provided in
each domicile for minor or exceptional use.
The cost of carrying on the People's Household, including warm-
ing, lighting, water and food supjDly, cooking, and the laundry, with
superintendence and general service, would not be more than two-
thirds the cost of living in separate houses of the same class, all pur-
chases being made at wholesale, and the work being performed by
organized labor, using the best machinery. Each individual or family
would be charged (perhaps against a monthly advance) for precisely
what they consumed. The difference of cost between meals served
in family alcoves of a great hall, or by dumb-waiter, or equivalent
machinery, in each domicile, would be small, and, like all other arrange-
ments, at the option of each proprietor. In previous experiments of
this general character, it has not been found that any family would
long prefer the more costly and inferior method of private jjurchase
and labor in the departments of cooking and washing, although pro-
vision could easily be made for a limited use of the public machinery
by individuals having such preference.
This estimate leaves to the women of each family the greater part
of their time. Here is one of the greatest existing wastes of labor.
7'Ae separate house necessarily and ^permanently dooms looman to
drudgery. Under the present system she necessarily carries on a
hundred trades every day by hand-work, as wasteful of productive
force as the old spinning-wheel. Tiie labor of women, saved in this
way, would find new channels. The steam-power in the unitary
building, in constant iise for elevators, pumj^ing, washing, cooking,
heating, lighting, would always furnish a surplus of motive power for
sewing-machines and small industries which would naturally grow up.
In the People's Palace a Kindergarten for the youngest children, and
schools more or less industrial and technical for those older, would
have a natural and inevitable place. While this would still further
relieve the mothers, it would also be a field for the occupation of
women and men living in the Homestead who were specially gifted
in these directions. Other collective work of the People's Home
would give occupation to some of the inmates. Halls for lectures
and social purposes, a library and reading-room, would also be among
the endowments of every People's Palace.
Rising higher in the social scale, the question of domestic service,
now so difficult of solution, would be summarily settled. In palatial
buildings, occupying with inclosed and surrounding gardens a whole
city square, erected with the wealth of a hundred rich families, nine-
tenths of all the work would be done by the collective labor of em-
