736 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ployes, who would have no personal relations or contact with the in-
dividual proprietors. The remaining one-tenth of domestic service
would admit of such selection and improvement of present methods
as to get rid of the principal part of the evil. It is much easier to
drill and actuate a corps of one hundred operatives in a public ser-
vice than to direct a single domestic ; and the elements of personal
collision and sufiering self-respect, inseparable from the latter rule,
are absent from the former.
The Federative Homesteads, or People's Palaces, would especially
need " Building Associations " for their establishment. But these
associations would be neither charitable nor speculative ; they would
be mutual-insurance companies, not for rebuilding houses destroyed
by iire, but to build each a palace, as perfect as modern art could
make it, for the occupancy of its members, and subsequently to carry
on the Palatial Household. The comparison of the Philadelphia sys-
tem of separate houses, poorly constructed, and purchased by install-
ments from building corporations not always purely mutual, should
be made with such collective, self-owned homesteads, not with hired
tenements, even should these be on the scale and with the appliances
of the Peabody tenement-houses in London, erected by a magnificent
charity.
The People's Palace, to replace the people's hovels, is no fanciful
project or arbitrary contrivance, but the natural, inevitable form of
the household required by our civilization, corresponding strictly
with all our improved metliods of productive industry ; correspond-
ing also with the social instincts and convictions of the time in which
we live. Opposed to its practical introduction is the want of intelli-
gence and mutual confidence in the masses, and also a selfish and ex-
clusive spirit, which is short-sighted and defeats its own end. "Wit-
ness the insecurity and ruinous waste of our separate households, the
drudgery of women, and the slavery to servants. In agriculture
witness also the loss of at least one-half the natural product by in-
coherent labor in the fields, and by the isolated farm-house and barn.*
I began this presentation of the "People's Palace" with the de-
mand for an architecture and structural law which should throw
around each individual and family a fortress of privacy, and which
should secure a home-sphere more inviolable than is possible in our
isolated houses, invaded daily by a horde of carriers, and pervaded
by an alien caste of servants. This largest freedom and independence
of the individual and family can only be assured by the perfect
organization of the Homestead and Household.
In the vegetable and animal kingdoms the law of organization
requires — 1. The establishment of each individual molecule or cell in
* Reference is here due to an American sociological novel, entitled " Papa's Own
Girl," by Marie Rowland, which furnishes a vivid description of the Familistere at Guise,
and its supposed adoption in this country.
