ORGANIZED HOMESTEADS AND HOUSEHOLDS. 737
a world of its owu ; 2. The coordination and cooperation of Buch
atoms or cells with each other, in a collective body or organism,
according to their precise form and place. The want of either of
these factors, the distinct individual units, or the scientific group-
ing and marshaling of units in a collective unity, deprives a body of
its place in the organic world. The same factors must enter into
every social organization which is entitled to the name. We have in
this country an example of a true organization in our federative
political system, composed of townships, counties, States, and nation,
with its motto, " Out of many, one." I have drawn thence the
designation Federative for the organized Homestead.
It is essential that relations of precise equity shall prevail between
the proprietors of a Collective Home. The right of individual
property in each domicile should be fortified by separate title and
right of sale, subject only to chartered restrictions. In a well con-
structed and organized Federative Homestead such domiciles would
always be salable at full cost value. A jDrecise account, based on
accurate standards of measurement, must be kept with each individ-
ual or family, including both general and special supplies and ser-
vices. Instruction in the schools of the Palace would be classed
among services to be specially accounted for. Our j^resent common-
school system (the best of our institutions) is a violation of social
organic law, on the side of communism, to balance its violation in
the opposite direction by incoherent industry and incoherent homes.
The only scientific justification, if it may lie so called, of the present
system, is the rule that two wrongs make a right. The relation of
highly-organized societies to children will, without doubt, be parental,
through the recognition of new equities and the extension of mutual
affection and service. But the further consideration of this subject
does not belong here.
There are two exti'emes of reaction against existing society : one,
Communism, its destructive fusion ; the other. Individual Sovereignty,
its destructive analysis. Each tends to social dissolution, because it
rejects one of the organic factors. Between these extremes — occupy-
ing the domain of organization — are two possible social orders, one
constructive, attractive in all its forces, cooperative, in harmony with
modern thought, and with the development of science and the arts.
The People's Palace is the natural form of household belonging to
this order. The other is an inverted organization, compulsory, actu-
ated by destructive rivalries, characterized by speculation and fraud,
and feudal in its tendencies and results. To this latter order, the
middle-age civilization of Europe and America, which still holds
us, belong the isolated house and all in our present methods which
insulate instead of associating the industries, and reconciling the
interests of mankind. The single but sufficient means of resisting
the communistic dissolution of our present society is to substitute
VOL. IX, — 4:7
