738 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
everywhere for inverted methods Batural organization, or, in other
words, scientific cooperation.
The claim that the Federative Home, or " People's Palace," is the
natural, inevitable form of the organized Household — coextensive
with the future society — brings the subject within the domain of
legitimate social science. The consideration of improved expedients
for housing the people, without regard to the essential form and ten-
dencies of civilization, is no part of social science, but only a dis-
cussion of the arts of life.
EELATIONS OF HOSPITALS TO PAUPEPJSM.'
By W. gill WYLIE, il. D.
CIVILIZATION has not reached that state of perfection where
hospitals can be dispensed with. 1. As long as armies exist,
hospitals will be necessary. Soldiers when sick must be provided with
special accommodations ; and, after a battle, the wounded cannot be
properly cared for except in hospitals constructed especially for the
purpose. 2. During epidemics of contagious and infectious diseases,
it becomes a necessity to separate those infected from the well, and
for their accommodation hospitals must be erected. 3. In every com-
munity, especially in large cities, there are always a certain number
of paupers without any homes, who must be cared for when sick, and
the only practical way of providing for them is to establish hospitals.
4. In large cities provision must be made for street casualties, and
hospital accommodations are necessary. 5. On account of difficulty
in making suitable provision for the insane in private houses, hospitals
or asylums for the insane are necessary.
In this country, in all large cities, any one representing himself as
poor and sick can apply either to the public hospitals supported by
the State or to hospitals supported by voluntary contributions, and is
admitted in many cases without any special inquiry or investigation as
to his circumstances. In some places — as New York City — hospitals
are so numerous, and admission to them so freely granted, that there
is little or no restraint on impostors. If refused admission to one in-
stitution, they go to another and receive treatment and care without
cost, when they are fully able to provide for themselves. And so
numerous are the dispensaries where medicines and medical advice
can be obtained free of cost, merely for the asking, and so easy and
readily can care and attention be had in free hospitals, that the poor
have no necessity to make provision for sickness.
It is estimated that about $10,000,000 are expended in public and
' Extract from Boylston Medical Prize Essay, Harvard University, on " Civil Hospital
Construction," IS'Ze.
