RELATIONS OF HOSPITALS TO PAUPERISM. 741
they receive. Experience teaches that to do for an individual that
which it is j^ossible for him to do for himself will invariably tend
to harm, unless he gives in return an equivalent, either by actual pay-
ment or in gratitude. And experience also teaches that human na-
ture can only feel gratitude toward an individual.
Besides this tendency in hosj)itals as charitable institutions to in-
crease pauperism, another serious objection to the use of public hos-
l^itals for the purpose of treating the sick beyond the extent abso-
lutely demanded by necessity is, that every time an individual is
removed from his home — let that home be CA-er so humble — and taken
to a hospital, the family as an institution receives a blow.
Then, too, except to those already degraded, life in a pauper hos-
pital, especially in the case of the young, is hardening to the feelings,
while in many cases it subjects the moral to the influence of the
immoral.
Another objection to hospitals is the bad sanitary condition of
many of them, and unless this is improved, both as to the plan and
the construction of the buildings, and the general and internal man-
agement, so as to give a smaller death-rate and fewer deaths from
hospital-diseases than in the vast majority of hospitals now in use, it
will be decidedly better, on sanitary grounds alone, to treat in their
homes all the sick poor who have homes, even though they may be
very bad and unhealthy places to live in. As to the expense of treat-
ing the poor at their homes, it certainly would not be greater than
the expense of running the hospitals, if the interest-money is added
which could be had from the immense sums that are sunk in the mas-
sive, many-storied hospital buildings, and the expensive city lots on
which they stand.
But as poor-relief is now administ<^red, and, no doubt, under the
best system that could be devised, a certain number of hospitals for
treating the sick poor will be necessary. When properly constructed
and managed they are a great blessing to the poor, while, from
the advantages they afford for the study and teaching of clinical
medicine and nursing, they are of incalculable value to the whole
community.
Since the establishment of the Training-School for Nurses in con-
nection with St. Thomas's Hospital, by Miss Nightingale, in EnglanrI,
fifteen years ago, and, in this country, of the School for Nurses in
connection with Bellevue Hospital, New York, three years ago, the
great advantages of hospital-instruction are recognized for those who
are studying nursing.
In the founding of hospitals, the question of their usefulness to
medical education has not been given due consideration. As a rule,
the idea of rendering immediate personal relief to the suffering poor
is the first, and in many cases the only a chioicledged oh ject aimed at
in establishing: them.
