742 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The objections to civil hospitals as now stated may be said to be :
1. As institutions, they tend to weaken the family tie by separating
the sick from their homes and their relatives, who are often too ready
to relieve themselves of the burden of the sick and helpless of tlieir
family. Besides, when one or more of a family are removed those
left at home are in an uncertain state of mind, and, in many instances,
in an unprotected condition. 2. The inmates of pauper hospitals are
liable to come in contact with bad influences : familiarity with sufter-
ins;, unaccompanied by the occupation of relieving those who are
suffering, ends in hardening the sensibility, especially in the young.
0. Like all public and general charities without the safeguard that
personal knowledge affords, hosjjitals tend to foster idleness and help-
lessness, and their natural results, pauperism and crime. 4. When
badly constructed or badly managed, they are liable to cause hospital-
diseases among the inmates, and become centres of infection, thus
defeating the very object they are intended to promote.
On the other hand, the arguments in favor of civil hospitals are :
1. They are a necessity under many circumstances for giving shelter
to the sick and helpless, and are supposed to be the most economical
method of providing for the sick poor. 2. They are of very great
value as affording an opportunity for the comparative study of dis-
eases, and for giving practical instruction in the science of medicine
and the art of nursing to the greatest advantage, and thus, by help-
ing directly a few individuals, indirectly rendering a service of incal-
culable value to the world. 3. During contagious epidemics they are
a ready means of providing for tliose who are infected, and, by their
isolation, preventing the spread of disease.
As means toward checking the undesirable multiplication of ex-
pensive institutions, toward preventing hospitals from breaking up or
interfering with the family tie, and at the same time to keep them from
engendering pauperism, we suggest : 1. Do all that can be done to
enlighten the poor to help themselves, and to avoid the causes of dis-
ease. 2. Give indirect help by improving the condition of the homes
of the poor, by strict laws in regard to the existence and building of
all dwelling-houses, manufactories, schools, etc., etc., and in regard to
the sale of food. 3. Limit hospital accommodations to those who
have no homes, and to those who cannot be assisted at their homes.
It is doubtful if the state can give direct out-door help, even med-
ical help, without doing more harm than good. It can only be done
wisely by establishing a Bureau of Intelligence in connection with the
police department, with offices at each police station, where the names
and the numbers of the inmates in every house in the precinct or dis-
trict would be known, and where, from personal knowledge, a record
of all individuals receiving help — as to their circumstances, the amount
of aid given, etc. — would be kept. As far as possible, all help rendered
should be guided by this knowledge, and it should be obligatory ou
