744- THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
acquaintance with German habits of thought. Even in his boy-
hood he was an indefatigable bookworm, and residence in Germany-
tended only to strengthen him in this habit, and to make him one of
the most versatile writers and at the same time one of the most
diligent students of the day. On his return to England, he for the
first time felt, as he said, fully confident to enter on liis career as a
litterateur. He contributed to the columns of the daily press reviews
and criticisms of books, and to the quarterly reviews and the leading
literaiy magazines of England scientific and philosophical essays,
biographical sketches, and the like. In 1849 he assumed the literary
editorship of the Leader newspaper, which post he held till 1854. A
London correspondent of an American journal, referring to this period
of Lewes's life, says: "His criticisms, as indeed all his writings, were
noted for piquancy, brilliancy, and boldness of thought. He had not
only no objection to expressing his opinions; he was determined that
the public should know them if they were capable of comprehending
pungent and forcible English. He has never been a man with moral
or mental reservations. As soon as he has a new thought, a new
conviction, a new theory, he blurts it out. He was not long in mak-
ing his mark, and from that time to the present, whatever has ema-
nated from him has attracted attention and awakened interest." In
1865 he founded the Fortnightly Review^ but was comj^elled by ill
health to resign the editorship the following year; he was succeeded
by John Morley.
His first elaborate work — a work which affords ample evidence
both of his laborious industry and of his keen insight — was the
"Biographical History of Philosophy, from Thales to Comte," first
published in 1845. A fourth edition, corrected and partly rewritten,
appeared in 1871 (2 vols.). An acute French critic says of this work
of Mr. Lewes : "His history resembles rather that of Hegel than
that of Ritter. His review of the labors of philosophers is rather
occupied with that which they have thought than with their com-
parative importance. He judges rather than expounds ; his history
is fastidious and critical. It is the work of a clear, precise, and ele-
gant mind, always that of a writer often witty, measured, possessing
no taste tor declamation, and making its interest profitable to the
reader whom he forces to think. This is no ordinary history of phi-
losophy; it is the work of an original mind which has a great deal to
say, and yields voluntarily to the pleasure of saying it, a mind which
handles texts like a thinker, not like a scholar. Assuredly we must
not search Mr. Lewes's pages for enlightenment upon obscure points
and upon controverted passages ; but in this long journey from Thales
to Comte the author has taken amazing pains, and has put forth
enough teaching to content some, to leave others discontented, and to
make every one reflect" (Ribot, "English Psychology"). In the
preface to this history Mr. Lewes offers the following definition of the
