CHARACTER AND WORK OF LIE BIG. 53
Comptes Rendus, a very remarkable paper on the changes which are
produced in the power of thinking and observing by age. Fourcroy,
the great animal chemist, who, in connection with Vauquelin, laid the
foundation of that physiological chemistry on which the modern sci-
ence is based; then Gay-Lussac, Thenard, and Dulong, men of the
new science, who continued the work in a most glorious manner, which
in this country had been carried to such a glorious issue by Humphry
Davy — these men were at that time teaching at Paris, and at the
laboratory which the liberality of the first Napoleon and his envy
of English discoveries had established at U^cole Polytechnique.
They contiued to study and shape the new science which was destined
to give to the modern science of chemistry precision.
Liebig then worked with Thenard, listened to Gay-Lussac's lectures,
and he met there the young German chemists, Runge, well known by
his many researches on tar, and the tar products ; Mitscherlich, the
discoverer of isomorphism and polymorphism ; Gustav Rose, the
representative of the perfection of analytical and inorganic chemistry.
In 1823 he brought his first paper on the fulminates of silver and
mercury before the Academy. And now, let me quote to you what
he says of that event in the first work which he ever published. In
the preface, w^hich is a dedication to Alexander von Humboldt, he
says that at the meeting of the Academy, on the 28th of July, 1823,
he had read his pajjer, and was just engaged in packing up his appa-
ratus and preparations, when a man, one of the members of the Acad-
emy, approached him, entered into conversation with him, and in an
incredibly short space of time knew how to elicit from him all his
hopes, schemes, and intentions. He did not dare to ask, eithtr from
shyness or from accident, Avho the gentleman was who spoke to him,
and he disappeared again among the academicians. But he says :
"From that day all the doors of society, and of all institutions, were
open to me. I did not know until many years afterward to whom I
owed this introduction and favor." It was to Humboldt, who had so
well recommended him to the great French chemists that Gay-Lussac,
who never took any pupil whatever into his laboratory, accepted him
as his only pupil, and, more than that, joined with him in his continu-
ation of those researches which at that early age he had brought to
such perfection. This preface is beautiful in its conception and feel-
ing, and has been printed in all the seven editions of the work which
have since been published. If there were time this would, [terhaps,
be the place to show the wonderful influence which Humboldt has
exercised upon the science of all countries; but I must pass over
that subject, and continue the account of Liebig's life.
Through the recommendations of Humboldt and Gay-Lussac, both
of which were addressed directly to the Grand-duke of Hesse-Darm-
stadt, Liebig was, at the age of twenty-one yeai-s, by the supreme will
and absolute power of the grand-duke, appointed first Professor of
