GEORGE HENRY LEWES. 745
limits of theology, pliilosophy, and science: "Theology, pliilosophy,
and science," he writes, " constitute our spiritual triumvirate. . . .
Its'[theology's] main province is the province of feeling; its office is
the systeinatization of our religious conceptions. The office of science
is distinct. It may be defined as the systematizatio7i of the order of
phenomena considered as phenomena. The office of philosophy is
again distinct from these. It is the systematization of the conceptions
furnished hy theology and science — emaT^iirj eTrtarrjuCJv (the science
of sciences). This "History of Philosophy" was commenced by its
author with the definite purpose of showing the radical weakness of
all metaphysics. "The history of philosophy," he writes, "presents
the spectacle of thousands of intellects — some of the greatest that
have made our race illustrious — steadily concentrated on problems
believed to be of vital importance, yet producing no other result than
a conviction of the extreme facility of error. Tlie only conquest has
been critical, i. e., physiological." His opinion of the value of scien-
tific methods in j^hilosophical inquiry is expressed in the following
passage: "There are many who deplore the encroachment of science,
fondly imagining that metaphysical philosophy would respond better
to the higher wants of man. This regret is partly unreasoning senti-
ment, partly ignorance of the limitations of human faculty. Even
among those who admit that ontology is an impossible attempt, there
are many who think it should be persevered in, because of the 'lofty
views' it is supposed to open to us. This is as if a man, desirous of
going to America, should insist on walking there, because journeys on
foot are more poetical than journeys by steam. He dies without
reaching America, but to the last gasp he maintains that he has
discovered the route on which others may reach it." In 1853 Mr.
Lewes contributed to Bohn's " Scientific Library " a volume entitled
" Comte's Philosophy of the Sciences."
Five years later (1858) appeared his " Seaside Studies at Bfracombe."
For the meeting of the British Association, the same year, he prepared
a jsaper on " The Spinal Cord as a Centre of Sensation and Volition ;"
in 1859 he published three papers on "The Xervous System," in
which he combated the received doctrines. These papers gave rise
to a warm discussion among British physiologists, and even attracted
much attention on the Continent of Europe. The "Physiology of
Common Life" appeared in 1860, and in the following year was pub-
lished " Studies in Animal Life." The object of these researches into
the nervous system of animals and man was, as he informs us in the
preface of his latest work, to obtain the clew through the labyrinth of
mental phenomena. Misled by the plausible supposition that the
complex phenomena in man might be better interpi'cted by approach-
ing them through the simpler phenomena in animals, he began to col-
lect materials for a work on animal psycliology. But he was not then
aware that, rightly to understand the mental condition of animals,
