746 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
we must first gain a clear vision of the fundamental processes in man ;
for it is only through our knowledge of the processes in ourselves that
we can interpret the manifestations of similar processes in them.
Here again we are hampered by the anthropomorphic tendency which
leads us to assign exclusively human motives to animal actions. In
186-i he published "Aristotle: a Cliajjter from the History of Sci-
ence," with analyses of the Stagirite's scientitic Avorks. This work
was republished in 1873. Since that time he has published, in two
volumes, the first series of " Problems of Life and Mind," which was
noticed in the Monthly, No. 42. The other published works of Mr.
Lewes are : " Ranthorpe — a Tale" (184Y) ; " The Spanish Drama," and
"Rose, Blanche, and Violet," a novel (1848) ; "The Noble Heart," a
tragedy, and a "Life of Robespierre" (1850); "Life and Works of
Goethe" (1855), indisputably the best work on the subject. Besides
these separate volumes he is, as has been already stated, the author
of a multitude of essays, reviews, criticisms, etc., in the periodical
press.
Personally, Mr. Lewes is described as rather small in stature.
His face gives no very clear indication of the mental power he unques-
tionably possesses. His health has always been infirm, and he looks
older than he is. From his portrait, one might imagine Lewes to be
a man accustomed to life out-of-doors, though he has always been a
close student and a resident of London, or other large capitals. His
manner differs markedly from that of the generality of Englishmen.
" In his own set," writes the newspaper correspondent already quoted,
" he abounds in geniality and bonhomie. He does not remind you of
an Englishman; he has none of the hesitation or drawl so typical of
his nation, but talks with marked ease and fluency and radiance. He
is fond of epigram and paradox, and, being a close observer, his nar-
ration of men and things is extremely entertaining. He has the rep-
utation of being one of the most brilliant conversationalists in Lon-
don, though, like most clever talkers, he is prone to monopoly and
monologue." As an author he is slow and painstaking, and the longer
he lives the more careful and conscientious does he become in this
respect. He does not believe that thoughtful and growing men ac-
quire facility with years, and says that when he was forty he would
do four or five pages in the time now required for one. Some years
ago he married the eminent novelist, Marian Evans, known to fame as
George Eliot. They live in one of the suburbs of London, and their
home is represented as being one of the happiest, the likeness of their
pursuits and ambitions being an additional bond of unity.
