CORRESP ONDENGE.
747
CORRESPONDENCE.
ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF
PHILADELPHIA.
To the Editor of the Pop^dar Science Jifonthli/.
AT the risk of appearing ungracious,
and possibly fastidious, I beg leave
to invite attention to some inaccuracies in
a brief notice of the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia, published in The
Popular Science Monthly for August,
1876. The statements are erroneous; and,
taken as a whole, the article does not fairly
present the Academy to the public. The
enthusiasm of my learned friend Prof. Cope
has possibly led the writer of the article
into misconception.
The Popular Science Monthly says, in
substance, that Prof. E. D. Cope availed
himself of the occasion of the Academy's
taking possession of its new building " to
suggest in the Peun Monthly some needed
changes and improvements " in the organ-
ization of the society.
Prof Cope, in his article on " The Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences" in the Penn
Monthli/, mentions that the Academy while
changing its location revised its organiza-
tion, " adding some functions which shall "
relate it to the public more nearly than
heretofore ; that " its founder," meaning, of
course, its seven founders, designed that
the objects of the society should be promo-
tion of original research, of instruction, and
of the diffusion of knowledge.
Prof. Cope, Corresponding Secretary of
the society, and at the period referied to
one of a committee instructed to revise the
by-laws with a view to improvement, did
suddenly conceive and hastily deliver to the
public press, contrary to the usual prac-
tice in such cases, an article referring to
matters which were under consideration of
the committee at the time, possibly in ex-
pectation that a small minority on some
points of peculiar interest might be made a
majority through the intiucnce of his elo-
quence.
The Popular Science Monthly says that
the Academy has " a moderate fund for pro-
moting " the diffusion of knowledge, and
regularly publishes "Transactions."
The Academy has a very modest "pub-
lication-fund," but it has never put forth
anything under the title of " Transactions."
It publishes the Journal of the Academy of
natural Sciences of Philadelphia (quarto),
and the Proceedinys of the Academy of Nat-
ural Sciences of Philadelphia (octavo), the
first now including 6,592 pages and 565
plates, and the second, 10,692 pages and
136 plates, which together constitute the
Academy's I'ecords of original research.
" Original research is not materially en-
couraged by the Academy." — The Popular
Science Monthly.
Original research is considerably encour-
aged by publishing the reports of investi-
gators, and by giving them freely the use
of a scientific library of 25,000 volumes,
and of extensive collections of natural ob-
jects while engaged in their work. If it is
meant that the Academy does not encourage
original research because it does not feed,
lodge, and clothe investigators, or pretend
to compensate them in any manner for sci-
entific work, the charge must be admitted.
It may truly plead, however, in extenuation
of the illiberal policy of which it is accused,
that its resources have never exceeded its
current expenditures for fuel, light, postage,
freight, etc., etc. The Academy is accused,
indirectly, with doing less to encourage
original research than might be done with
its means : " for," says The Popular Sci-
ence Monthly, " in one instance funds,
supposed to be devoted to research, were
hoarded, and afterward turned over to the
building-fund."
The Academy never had funds which
were in fact or " supposed to be devoted to
research." The assertion to the contrary
is not true. A section of the Academy had
a surplus accumulation in its publication-
fund, and generously contributed a part of
it to aid the Academy to finish its building.
Tiie members of that section are as earnest
in the promotion of the interests of science
