-4.8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and of the Academy, and as inlelligent in
the application of their means, as the gen-
tleman who makes their gift the basis of an
accusation of dereliction of duty against
the Academy.
The Popular Sciesce Monthly says,
" Less than five hundred dollars per annum
is devoted to ' instruction.' "
For this purpose the Academy expends
$480, the entire proceeds of a fund be-
queathed to it for this object. Is it reason-
ably honest to make it a fault that it does
not spend more for a specific purpose than
it has to spend ?
Again, " The chief fault found by Prof.
Cope in the organization of the Academy
is that, while it secures good financial man-
agement, it minimizes the scientific features
of the body." And, as if to sustain the
assertion that the organization minimizes
the scientific features of the body, we are
gravely assured, in a somewhat contempt-
uous manner, in the words of Prof. Cope,
that "its officers are the usual president,
vice-president, secretary, etc., constituting
a management as appropriate to an his-
torical society, library company, or, I might
add, church vestry, as to an academy of
natural sciences. It has no position de-
signed for its distinctive and essential feat-
ure, its scientific experts."
Since its foundation the organization of
the society has been frequently and care-
fully revised. In 1858 provision for the
formation of departments, which were called
sections in 1868, was made. About sis
years ago a council was added to it, and in
May last the council was enlarged, and au-
thorized to elect thirteen professors, but no
source of compensation or rate of compen-
sation has been provided for them. Posi-
tions for its scientific experts have been thus
provided. In this revision of the organiza-
tion it was considered to be not expedient
at this time to dispense with president, vice-
presidents, secretaries, treasurer, etc., al-
though it is freely admitted that these oflB-
cers are as appropriate to a church vestry
as to an academy of natural sciences.
It is made the duty of each professor to
preserve, classify, and increase the collec-
tions in his department, and report annually
their condition and needs to the council,
to give special or objective instruction to
the beneficiaries of the scholarships in the
Academy, and to deliver courses of lectures,
under such regulations as the council may
establish.
If any properly-qualified gentleman is
willing to assume the duties of a professor-
ship without pecuniary compensation, his
services will be cheerfully accepted, and he
will be encouraged to pursue original in-
vestigations as far as can be done without
money. It is conjectured, however, that
competition for these chairs will not be very
active untU they are adequately endowed.
The old building was universally admit-
ted to be crowded to excess, and that more
space was needed for the collections as well
as for the library. Prof. Cope speaks of the
collections, and considers them, with one or
two exceptions, as extremely meagre, and
tells us that a great museum of the future,
to be complete, should contain 10,000,000
species of animals, represented by " sev-
eral specimens of each," aggregating from
30,000,000 to 50,000,000 specimens, add-
ing in the sequel that all the money spent
on the new building would have been " as
well spent in endowing chairs in the old lo-
cality."
In spite of the authority of Prof. Cope's
opinion thus implied, that the old building
was large enough, it is now found that a
half-million of specimens cannot be satis-
factorily displayed in the new edifice, though
it is twice as capacious as the eld one. There
is already urgent demand for more space,
and this is so evident that contributions to
the building-fund have been recently made
with a view to an immediate completion of
the edifice conformably to the approved
plans of the architect. No one thing which
can be done now is likely to promote the
prosperity of the Academy in the future to
a greater degree than to finish the building
without loss of time. Efforts to augment
the collections will not be very earnest, nor
successful in result, until there be accom-
modation for additions which may be made
to them. Original investigation will be
more active in the Academy when it can
offer a well-appointed laboratory for the
use of workers ; and an apartment suitably
furnished to accommodate an audience,
and enable the professors to illustrate their
teachings, is prerequisite to the delivery of
