EDITOR'S TABLE.
751
Druids always seemed to him quite as ab-
surd as if a discoverer of the mounds of the
Mississippi Valley should credit them to
the medicine-men of the Indian tribes who
alone were found in their vicinity.
Neither Caesar nor any other ancient au-
thor found in the Keltic population of Brit-
ain any indication of either the skiU or the
numerical force commensurate for such un-
dertakings.
The vast slabs composing the circles of
Stonehenge are now, it is true, as they were
no doubt in Bede's time, shapeless, with one
notable exception.
Some of the slabs which have more re-
cently, say within a thousand years, lost
their lintels exhibit the unique feature of
a duplex tenon, while the lintels show the
corresponding mortises. Now this dove-
tailing, so to speak, of masonry, shows
architectural skill and genius of a high
order — immeasurably ahead of anything
the Kelts were capable of; nay, more, in
advance of even modern art in this depart-
ment. Further, the material of Stonehenge
must have been transported many scores
of miles. A people so advanced as to mor-
tise their masonry would scarcely have left
the exterior surfaces unchiseled.
The tenons were protected in their in-
closing mortises, while the storms of, it may
be, two hundred centuries rasped off all
vestige of the pristine beauty of their exte-
riors.
G. H. Knight.
CiscESNATi, August 23, 1876.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
FURTHER C02rCEB2^iyG THE ''SOUND"
C02{TR0VERST.
SOME months ago, as our readers
will remember, there appeared in
the Nation, by an anonymous writer,
a scandalous attack upon Prof. Tyndall.
He was accused of treating Prof. Henry
dishonorably; and the accusation was
so garnished with insulting insinuations
as to convey the impression that Prof.
Tyndall is not above ignoring and sup-
pressing other people's valuable work
which he desires to profit by himself. It
was a matter of painful surprise to many
that any man could be found, in this
country, to make such charges on no
better grounds than were alleged against
an eminent and absent gentleman of
hitherto unsullied character ; or that any
respectable American newspaper would
lend itself to their publication. For
this was one of those palpable cases in
which some decisive weight should have
been allowed to character at the outset.
While on the one hand charges were
raised of which the proof was not fur-
nished, and a specious case was made out
by unscrupulous ingenuity which was
calculated to mystify and prejudice or-
dinary readers, on the other hand the
imputations against Prof. Tyndall were
specially contradicted and discredited
by the quality of bis whole life. He
was eminently not the man to do the
things alleged. The intimate friend
and successor of Faraday, and for the
last twenty-five years Professor of Nat-
ural Philosophy in the Royal Institu-
tion of Great Britain, bis life and works
have been in an eminent degree public
and conspicuous. An assiduous investi-
gator in various branches of physics, he
has published freely in the Transactions
of the Royal Society ; a clear and vig-
orous writer, appreciating the necessi-
ty of improving popular scientific lit-
erature, he has also written copiously
for the public, on many of the most re-
cent and exciting questions of science.
Perhaps there is not another emi-
nent man of science, in any country,
whose intellectual life has been more
open to scrutiny than that of Prof.
Tyndall. Yet with this prolonged and
intense exposure of his mental work to
a world sufliciently censorious — and
tliough often in sharp conflict with
other investigators — his reputation as
a man of the strictest honor in rela-
tion to aU the rights and claims of his
