752
TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
scientific co-laborers lias been unques-
tioned.
Moreover, those best acquainted
with Prof. Tyndall know that his soli-
citude in doing justice to his scientific
brethren, as evinced in difiicult circum-
stances, is so earnest as to be almost
morbid. No man is freer from petty
jealousies, or the narrowing influence
of national bias, than he. Attaching a
serious meaning to the common senti-
ment that " science is of no country,"
he has stemmed the violent currents
of local feeling in his own, and aimed
to be just and generous to foreigners
when their claims have been depreci-
ated by British scientists. This is per-
fectly understood by all who are famil-
iar with recent scientific controversy.
His championship of the German May-
er, the Savoyard Rendu, and the Amer-
ican AgassLz, when their rights as
discoverers were denied by his own
countrymen, showed the breadth of
his sympathies and the strength of his
sense of jnstice, Nor is it improper
here to add that he came to this coun-
try to help on the work of science,
moved by no low or sordid considera-
tions. He resisted social solicitations
in a way that was not a little misinter-
preted, that he mignt do the work he
had undertaken in the best manner ;
and contributed all that he got from
half a year's hard labor to assist in the
scientific education of worthy young
men of this country for whose special
aid there had been, hitherto, no provi-
sion.
We submit that these consider-
ations should have been sufficient to
protect Prof. Tyndall from the gross
assault in the Nation^ which could not
be replied to until a sensation-seek-
ing press had scattered the calumnious
charges from one end of the country to
the other. Something, we say again,
was due to character, that should have
prevented the diffusion of such asper-
sions until they had been thoroughly
looked into, and the party most con-
cerned had been consulted. We appeal
to every candid reader, if it would not
have been a fairer proceeding for the
editor to have sent the article to Prof.
Tyndall, if he thought it worth atten-
tion, and to have asked him what it
meant, that the defense might have
accomi)anied the attack, had he still
thought the matter proper for publica-
tion.
The case has now assumed a differ-
ent aspect. The anonymous writer in
the Nation has recently rehashed and
amplified his statement, put his name
to it, and published it in the New Yorh
Tribune. It is noteworthy that, while
the writer announces himself to have
been an assistant of Prof. Henry, he
recognizes the necessity of disavowing
all complicity on the part of that gen-
tleman in these assaults upon Tyndall.
It would have been well if this had
been thought of a little earlier ; and
there is no reason for the disclaimer
now that should not have impelled
Prof. Henry to protect himself from
misapprehension, by following the pub-
lication of the article in the Nation by
a prompt statement of the fact that he
had nothing whatever to do with it.
With the larger portion of the com-
munication to the Tribune we have no
concern, as its four closely-printed col-
umns are chiefly occupied in trumping
up new and petty imputations against
Prof. Tyndall that are wholly unworthy
of notice. Borrowing a hint from the
tactics of our political canvass, the
writer seems to think that the way to
substantiate one charge is to pile up
more. But the case, as now even more
fuUy presented, has not a leg to stand
upon. In fact, the writer has put an
end to it himseK by attempting to give
his proofs. We have said that the arti-
cle in the Nation made charges without
giving the evidence ; that evidence is
now forthcoming, and, as we shall see,
instead of sustaining, refutes the charges
and explodes the case.
Prof. Tyndall had said in his book
on " Sound" that Dr. Derham's paper,
published in 1708, and which contains
