EDITOR'S TABLE.
753
the views which liave generally pre-
vailed upon the subject since, '■'■marks
the latest srjstematia inquiry into the
causes which affect the intensity of sound
in the atmosphere^'''' up to the time of his
own investigations in 1873. This peri-
od he characterizes as a Mank. lie does
not deny that facts of importance had
been observed in the interval, or that
partial inquiries had been made leading
to valuable conclusions ; but the " blank "
is declared to consist in the absence of
any " systematic inquiry into causes,"
such, of course, as generally lead, when
ably conducted, to the reconciliation of
conflicting views, and the establishment
of principles which are entitled to take
their place in the body of scientific
knowledge. To this the writer in the
Nation replied that Prof. Henry had
made such systematic inquiries, and that
Prof. Tyndall knew it from a paper
which he heard Prof. Henry read in
Washington. The evidence of the
charges against Prof. Tyndall of "ig-
noring " or " suppressing " the work of
Henry, or oi taking advantage of it in
his own subsequent investigation, is,
therefore, to be found in tliis paper,
if anywhere. The writer of the arti-
cle in the Nat'wn did not adduce the
article, although his whole case rested
upon it. Challenged for his evidence,
he now brings it forward in the Tribune^
makes extracts from it, and states what
else it contained ; and we now give his
whole reference to it, italics and all :
" Prof. Henry prefaced liis paper on that
occasion with the following reference to Dr.
Tyndall's presence : ' The communication
whicli I propose to make this evening is
brought forward at this time especially on
account of the presence of Dr. Tyndall, ho
being connected with the lighthouse system
of Great Britain, while the facts I have to
state are connected with the lighthouse ser-
vice of the United States, and must there-
fore be of interest to our distinguished vis-
itor. The facts I have to present form part
of a general report to be published by the
United States Lighthouse Board.'
" After briefly treating on the prevalence
of fogs upon the American coast, Prof.
VOL. i.\. — 18
Henry proceeded to consider their scientific
relations to fog-signaling, and remarked as
follows :
" ' In studying this subject it becomes a
question of importance to ascertain whether
wavi-s of sound, like those of light, are ab-
sorb i or stifled by fog ; on this point, how-
evei observers disagree. At first sight,
fron the very striking analogy which exists
in many respects between light and sound,
the opinion has largely prevailed that sound
is impeded by fog. But those who have
not been influenced by this analogy Imvc in
some imtances adopted the opposite opinion
that sound is better heard during a fog than
in clear weather. To settle this question
definitely the Lighthouse Board have di-
rected that at two lighthouses on the route
from Boston to St. Johns the fog-signals
shall be sounded every day on which the
steamboats from these ports pass the station,
both in clear and foggy- weather, the pilots
on board these vessels having, for a small
gratuity, engaged to note the actual distance
of the boat when the sound is first heard on
approaching the signal, and is last heard on
receding from it. The boats above men-
tioned estimate their distance with consid-
erable fjrecision by the number of revolu-
tions of the paddle-wheel, as recorded by
the indicator of the engine, and it is hoped
by this means to definitely decide the point
in question. We think it highly probable
that fog does somewhat diminish the pene-
trating power of sound, or, in other words,
produce an efi'ect analogous to the propaga-
tion of liglit. But when we consider the
extreme minuteness of the particles of water
constituting the fog, as compared with the
magnitude of the waves of sound, the analo-
gy does not hold ex.cept in so small a degree
as to be of no practical importance, or, in
other words, the existence of fog is a true,
but, we thinis, an insiifficient, cause of dimi-
nution of sound, which view is borne out by
the great distance at which our signals are
heard during a dense fog. Another cause,
whicli without doubt is a true one, of the
diminution of the penetrating powerof sound
is the varying density of the atmosphere,
from heat and moisture, in long distances.
The efi"ect of this, however, would apparently
be to slightly distort the wave of sound
rather than to obliterate it. However this
may be, we thirik, from all the observations
we have made, the effect is small in compari-
son with another cause, viz., that of the influ-
ence of WIND. During a residence of several
weeks at the sea-shore, the sound of the
breakers at a distance of about a mile in no
