754
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
case appeared to be coincident witli the va-
riations of an anei-oid barometer or a ther-
mometer, but in every instance it was affect-
ed by the direction of the wind. The va-
riation in the distinctness of the sound of a
distant instrument as depending on the di-
rection of the wind is so marked iAa^ we are
warranted in considering it the frinci/pal
cavse of the inefficiency in certain cases of the
most 'powerful fog-signals.''
" In the remainder of his paper, as read
in the presence of Prof. Tyndall, the chair-
man of the Lighthouse Board applied the
hypothesis of Prof. Stokes to an explanation
of certain abnormal phenomena of sound
which had been observed during the course
of his systematic inquiries with regard to
the causes which affect the intensity of
sound."
The reader now has the whole case
before him. This is the substance of
what Prof. Tyndall listened to in Wash-
ington, and for not recognizing which,
to the credit of American science, in his
book on sound, he has been the subject
of a bitter and persistent newspaper
attack. Prof. Tyndall says that the
reading of the document left him in
mental perplexity, and we are certainly
not surprised at his state of mind. The
subject, it is to be remembered, was not
new to him. He had been for years
engaged in the scientific ser\dce of the
English Lighthouse Department; he
had been an explorer in the field of
acoustics, and was familiar with the
history of the subject. He knew that
it was involved in obscurity, that ob-
servations disagreed, and that there was
much theoretical conflict about it. JSToth-
ing seemed established, and he states
that Prof. Henry's paper left him still
in an intellectual fog in regard to the
whole question. The reader will see
that the statement is pervaded by doubt.
Conflicting opinions are given, and the
prominent question was yet to be de-
cided by the aid of Boston pUots. Fi-
nally, a conjecture, thrown out by an
English physicist, is invoked for the ex-
planation of anomalous effects observed.
Clearly it was a case for further and for-
midable work which required to be met
by a comprehensive, systematic, and
thorough-going research. Prof. Hen-
ry's paper settled nothing. That it
was ^v1thout value as a contribution to
science, we by no means assert; but
every one can see that it was not the
product of a full, methodical, and ex-
haustive inquiry, such as the subject
urgently demanded and had not yet re-
ceived from any source. The observa-
tions of Humboldt, early in the cen-
tury, on the passage of sound, were im-
portant, as Prof. Tyndall himself attests,
but to characterize them as a " system-
atic inquiry into the causes which af-
fect the intensity of sound in the
atmosphere " is simply absurd. Hum-
boldt confined himself to one branch
of the investigation, and whole tracts
of it he did not touch.
Prof. Tyndall was, therefore, abun-
dantly justified in assuming that the
blank of 167 years had not been
filled up ; and, being deeply interested
in the subject, and having command of
the means for an elaborate course of
researches upon it, he determined to
enter fully into the inquiry, with the
hope of dispelling some of the uncer-
tainty which clouded it.
He took up the question from a pure-
ly scientific point of view, not to im-
prove the art of fog-signaling or arrive
at any immediate practical results valu-
able to the navigator, but simply to test
theories, explain phenomena, harmo-
nize discrepancies, and advance acous-
tical science. He attacked the problem
of the " causes " which affect the in-
tensity of sound in the air with a sin-
gle-mindedness, a rigor of method, and
a completeness of resources, that had
never before been employed upon it.
His researches went on in a double
series, on the coast and in the labora-
tory. Using the facilities furnished by
the Government at home, and sending
abroad for the best that could be sup-
plied, he carried on his observations and
experiments on a large scale from the
South Foreland Station, scrutinizing
