EDITOR'S TABLE.
755
and testing the various views and sug-
gestions that had been proposed, and
arriving at new and important conclu-
sions in regard to the causes of which
he was in search. He then subjected
these conclusions to elaborate experi-
mental verification by newly-devised ap-
paratus, and original researches in the
Royal Institution, with the attainment
of results which will probably take
their permanent place among the prin-
ciples of acoustical science. At any
rate, the subject, witb its accumulated
difficulties, had never before received
so efficient a sifting and overhauling ;
and it was this that Prof. Tyndall meant,
and had a right to mean, by the phrase
"systematic inquiry into causes," in
which he characterized his work. The
writer in the Tribune can entertain his
own views as to what that phrase sig-
nifies in dealing "with the phenomena
of Nature, but Prof. Tyndall will be
perfectly easy in leaving this matter
to the judgment of scientific men.
THE AMERICAy ASSOCIATION- AT BUF-
FALO.
The meeting of the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science,
which began August 23d and lasted a
week, has been unusually successful.
There was a strong attendance of mem-
bers, and a greater number than at any
previous session of foreigners distin-
guished in science. A large number of
papers were contributed to the proceed-
ings, several of them important and of
marked originality. Prof. Rogers pre-
sided with characteristic dignity and
grace, and the retiring president, Prof.
Hilgard, gave an instructive address,
devoted mainly to his own department
of study, and giving a sketch of the
progress of the scientific measurements
and mapping of the earth.
And the meeting was a success so-
cially as well as scientifically. The cit-
izens of Buff"alo extended their hospi-
tality in the most liberal manner to
members and visitors, and the local
committee made efficient arrangements
for the accommodation of all who de-
sired it. There were the usual recep-
tions, which were largely attended and
much enjoyed. It is given to but few
places to favor their guests with so pleas-
ant a treat as a day at Niagara Falls.
The Buffalo people owe their best
thanks to Mr. Secretary Grote, of their
young Academy of Sciences, for his
efficient agency in securing the meeting
to their town on this memorable year,
as Philadelphia was a powerful rival for
tiie honor. It is through this little sci-
entific society, which has had to strug-
gle on with insufficient means, sustained
by a feAV who were heartily interested,
that the citizens of Buffalo have been
roused to invite the convention and to
extend to its members so cordial a wel-
come. "We hope that the stimulus thus
given to the public interest in scientific
subjects will bear permanent fruit and
result in establishing the Buffalo Acad-
emy upon a liberal and permanent foun-
dation.
But, while Buffalo has done its duty
admirably toward the Association, has
the Association in turn done its duty to
Buffalo? Is duty in such a case a
wholly one-sided thing, or are men of
science such lions that they pay off
their hosts by their bare presence ? We
do not suppose that the hospitable
Buffalonians had an eye to what was to
be got back from their guests, but obli-
gations were nevertheless incurred, and
it is proper to inquire how they were
met. The citizens of that town, having
no experience, did as those of other
towns always do on these occasions —
promised themselves great pleasure in
attending the sessions of the Associa-
tion. They drifted in freely at the
opening meetings, but, after being pep-
pered for an hour with unintelligible
terms, they generally withdrew in a
quiet way, and with their ardor cooled
for discussions that could but little in-
terest people at large.
