756
TH£ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The obvious logic of the case must
have been that, although this scientific
convocation was occupied with its own
avowed and proper business, yet so far
as ordinary outside folks were con-
cerned it was something of a "sell."
Now, we venture to think that this is
all wrong, and if the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science
were more liberally managed, it would
recognize an important duty that it
owes the public in each city where it is
invited to hold its sessions. Granting
that its strict and special aim is the ad-
vancement of science by original con-
tributions to its various branches, and
that its proper work is necessarily tech-
nical, and to be carried on in the little
meetings of the scientists themselves,
it is nevertheless true that there is a
side of science in which the public is
deeply concerned, and such a body as
this, which goes annually from city to
city, and has a great power of influenc-
ing the people for good, has no right
to ignore its responsibility. The peo-
ple are constantly appealed to by sci-
entific men to give their money, while
they live and when they die, for carry-
ing on scientific investigations that are
necessarily and largely expensive.' Sci-
entific men, in fact, must depend upon
the public, and be supported by it.
They, therefore, incur obligations, and
cannot escape them. If science is a
beneficent agency for all, if scientific
truth requires to be diffused that every
grade of society may reap its benefits
in some form, then men of science, who
have the knowledge and the capacity
to present it in familiar and popular
forms, are bound to do what they can
according to their gifts and opportu-
nities to promote these objects. The
American Scientific Association, every
time it enters a new city to hold its
meeting, should contribute something
useful and valuable for the instruction
and enlightenment of all classes. It is
a peculiar opportunity which should
not be thrown away, and there are
always men present competent to do
the work, and who would cheerfully
enter into it if it were a part of the
regular arrangements of the Associa-
tion. The British Association has done
its duty in this respect for years. It
has provided for the delivery of outside
lectures, popular lectures, lectures to
working-men given to the people in
large halls, by the best talent of the
body, and such gentlemen as Carpen-
ter, Tyndall, Spottiswoode, Frankland,
Huxley, Roscoe, and others, have not
hesitated to do their share of the work
when called upon. Notwithstanding
all our talk of progress and the educa-
tion of the people, the old monarchical
and aristocratic country is far ahead
of us in these matters. The American
Association seems strangely indifferent
to this aspect of its usefulness. It
shirks its palpable duty in giving im-
pulse and direction to general scientific
education, and this omission to provide
instructive lectures for the people at
its yearly meetings seems further to
show that it cares nothing about sci-
entific teaching in any shape for public
purposes.
THE AIR IS COUF.TS OF JUSTICE.
Judge Moxell is dead ; and we are
informed he died of the foul air of the
court-rooms in which he had officiated.
Why should court-rooms poison those
who frequent them, like Calcutta Black-
Holes? "We have not been often in
such places, but we were never in a
court-room yet that we did not think
a fit subject for the action of the grand-
jury as an indictable nuisance from its
bad ventilation. Law^yers seem to be
a good deal behind the age in the ap-
preciation of pure air. When the
chemists have gone to different places
after samples of foul air, they general-
ly report the worst from court-rooms.
The way these are constituted for
breathing-purposes is an excellent ex-
ample of the way things are generally
