54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Chemistry in the University of Giessen. A new cliair was established
for him, and as a laboratory be received a room, as be expresses it,
with four walls. Great was the opposition against this new professor;
for what was chemistry ? Chemistry was no science, nobody knew
anything of chemistry, nobody would have it. Moreover, the appoint-
ment had not been made in the regular way, therefore the whole of
the authorities of the university set themselves against it. The con-
sequence was that the majority of that university persecuted that
man for twenty-seven years ; and, no matter what was his reputation,
the amount of his work, or the importance of his position, for twenty-
seven years this man could never once be made Rector of the Univer-
sity of Giessen. But where are the opposing influences now ? History
will not mention their names. Their ultramontane paiticipatovs tried
to decry tlie great man as an atheist and materialist, and by that
means to remove from him the assistance of the state, and to diminish
his chance of gaining a living. But he was too strong for all of them.
In the year 1826 he was appointed Professor in Ordinary, a promotion
by which he became a fixed servant of the state and a fixed member
of the university. In that year he married Hetirietta Moldenhauer,
a most amiable lady, who now survives him.
Now comes the period of work which lasted to the year 1834. The
work itself I will not now enter upon, but we will, in future lect-
ures, see what was the nature of that work. "VYe will perform before
your eyes some of those operations by which that work has become
of the utmost importance to mankind at large ; and you can then see
how, from a small point, there can be a light shed upon the largest
problems of science.
In this year 1834, however, Liebig fell ill from overwork and anxie-
ty. A portrait, which was taken at that time by the now deceased
painter Engel, gives evidence of that, and I remember that the late
Prof Zamminer told me that he had seen Liebig about that time
taking short walks in the evening air, looking pale and haggard, like
a man in consumption, with little spots of hectic on bis cheeks, and
that his friends were afraid he would soon die. At that time he re-
tired from Giessen for a while, and went to Baden-Baden, in the hope
of recruiting his health. The patience -which he had exercised for
many years, under the most narrow arrangements, then gave way, and
he asked for the building of a new lecture-room, the arrangement of
a proper laboratory, and for an increase of salary. All was refused
by the narrow-minded Government of Hesse-Darmstadt, through that
close-minded man, the then chancellor. Von Linde. Then Liebig
wrote to Von Linde a letter, in which, after the introduction, be con-
tinues thus :
" I should have gained some convenience by these arrangements, but they
were not intended for me personally ; they would have been of lasting value for
the university, and would have secured to the chemical chair an advantage over
