EDITOR'S TABLE.
757
(lone by Governmeat. Court-houses
are built by the State, and usually with
a large regardlessness of expense. But
they are the work, of architects, and are
constructed more for external ornament
than internal use. They please the eye
of the passer with their stateliness, and
asphyxiate the judges within. Money
is profusely spent, and the building un-
fit to be used. And so with all places
where politicians congregate, and Gov-
ernment provides the edifice. There
came a wail from Washington during
the last session that our Congress-
men were being stifled by the bad ven-
tilation of the House of Representa-
tives. Millions upon millions have been
put into the structure, and the whole
world is called upon to come and ad-
mire its grand proportions and impos-
ing effect, while the legislators within
are being suffocated. The best Govern-
ment in the world strangles its law-
givers with mephitic gases instead of
allowing them to breathe pure air.
But, before sickness and death can
come by poisonous inhalations, there
are stages of atmospheric deterioration
in which the mind only is aff'ected.
The brain, the immediate instrument
of thought and feeling, receives and
requires the largest proportion of pure
arterialized blood of any portion of the
body. This is necessary to its functions,
so that we cannot think, remember,
compare, reason, and judge well, ex-
cept in pure air, which maintains the
mind's organ in its highest vigor and
keenest action. Long before judges die
and Congressmen take sick they must
pass through this stage of cerebral de-
pression, blunting of the sensibilities,
and perversion and deadening of the
mental operations. How much of the
stupidity of legislation and the miscar-
riage of its judicial application may be
due to the muddled brains of law-
makers and judges from breathing the
pestilential air of legislative halls and
courts of justice, it may be impossible
to tell, but the inquiry is suggestive. It
is also pertinent to ask, What sort of
education can these parties have had,
to submit to these conditions, even to
the destruction of health and fife i
THE ''COyFLIOT'' AND THE '-WAR-
FARE."
TuE anxiety with which historic
works on the relations of science and
religion are now sought is a fact of
special interest, and we think it a salu-
tary symptom of the state of the public
mind. Science has opened the ques-
tion, and the world is taking hold of it
in earnest. " The History of the Con-
flict between Religion and Science," by
Dr. Draper, while being most vigorous-
ly pooh-poohed by those who did not
like it, has steadily made its way,
through translation, into nearly all the
Continental countries, and is at last so
loudly called for even in benighted
Spain that two editions of it by rival
publishers are reported as having ap-
peared in Madrid. What possible or
conceivable hoi)e is there that religion
and science in that country can ever be
brought into genuine amity untU there
is first an intelligent recognition ol
what have been their past relations?
President White's brief but telling
sketch of " The Warfare of Science,"
though first widely circulated in the
pages of this magazine, had to be re-
printed, and in a few weeks has reached
a third edition in this country, while it
has been republished in England, and
wiU undoubtedly be translated, as it
deserves to be, into the chief European
tongues. The merit of these works, and
the secret of their success, are not more
due to the ability with which they have
been prepared, or the manly and fear-
less tone with which they discuss ques-
tions of the gravest importance, than
to their opportune appearance and
adaptation to the wants of a rapidly -
widening audience of thinking people
in all countries. War-literature is al-
ways popular, but it is beginning to be
