758
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MOXTHLY
seen that there are wars of opinion and
conflicts of ideas carried on in the in-
tellectual world which have at least an
equal interest with the narratives of
military campaigns and the records of
carnage on fields of battle.
It is but an act of justice to Dr.
Deems, of this city, to state that he re-
plied to the article of Mr. Boyd in the
June MoxTHLT, entitled "Science and
the Logicians." We were compelled to
decline publishing the reply to cut off a
controversy that would have consumed
more space than we can allow to such
discussions.
LITERARY NOTICES.
The Five Senses of Mas. By Julius
Bernstein, Professor of Physiology in
the University of Halle. With Numer-
ous Illustrations. No. XXI. of the " In-
ternational Scientific Series.'' Pp. 304.
The work intrusted to the accomplished
Professor of Physiology at Halle, Dr. Bern-
stein, has been admirably performed. Aware
of the importance of his undertaking, and
that his work would promptly reappear in
all civilized countries, the author has taken
his time, and produced a volume second to
none in the series to which it belongs, and
which will be valued as an able and perma-
nent contribution to physiological literature.
Many works have appeared upon this gen-
eral subject, of varied merit, but they have
generally been more anatomical than physi-
ological, and have dealt rather with the
mechanism of sensation than with its pro-
cesses and philosophy. Prof. Wilson's
book, publi.«hed several years ago, was a
pleasant piece of rhetorical work, but whol-
ly inadequate as a scientific discussion of
the subject, even at that time. Dr. Bern-
stein has taken up the problem of the
senses of man from the latest point of view
reached by physiology and psychology, and,
while very full and clear in his description
of the instruments and apparatus of sensa-
tion, the strength of his book and its more
especial claim to attention will be found in
the lucid analysis which he gives of what
may be called the psychical aspect of sense-
activity. He views the senses as the bio-
logical gateways where impressions from
the external world pass into the organism,
and are transformed, through the wonderful
endowments of the nervous system, into
consciousness in the mental sphere. This
is unquestionably the profoundest mystery
in the realm of life, and the ultimate liov)
of this transformation will probably forever
remain one of Nature's impenetrable secrets.
But all ultimate explanations are beyond
the grasp of science, which completes its
work when it has analyzed and established
the conditions of phenomena. No doubt it
would be interesting to solve the ultimate
problems of Nature, were such a thing pos-
sible to the human mind, but it is only of
importance to find out that which is capable
of being known. Even this field is inex-
haustible, and whatever explanation may be
reached we are never certain that a deeper
explanation is not still attainable. In this
matter of the nature and operation of the
senses great progress has recently been
made, and physics, chemistry, physiology,
histology, and psychology, have all con-
tributed their separate rays to the illumina-
tion of the subject. Many points are un-
settled, and many perplexities and obscuri-
ties remain to be cleared up ; but there has
still been an immense amount of efficient
and successful work of research that re-
quired to be digested by some master-hand
so as to be available for the common reader
who has no time to master elaborate scien-
tific treatises. It was not an easy thing to
find a man competent, interested, and will-
ing to undertake this task ; but it fortu-
nately fell into the right hands. Dr. Bern-
stein has proved himself to be not only pos-
sessed of the requisite knowledge, but to be
an adept in the art of presenting it, as will
be seen by the extract from his work given
in the present number of the Monthly.
He had a reputaion as a clear and skillful
writer, which the present volume will en-
hance; while the translation does him jus-
tice, and presents his exposition in an at-
tractive EngUsh form. This volume is one
that might be well adopted as a text-book
for our schools.
