CHARACTER AND WORK OF LIE BIG. 55
all others in Germany. For the institutions of a university the largest sums
may be expended, for this increases the respect and affection for them ; but the
suitable employment of these sums must be strictly controlled. The sums are
there, but they are used in an intolerably ridiculous manner. I must be certain
of what I may have to expect at Giessen. If driven to extremities I shall not
return there this winter, whether I obtain leave or not. I shaU know how to
justify this step, for no one has been maltreated in the university in a more
conspicuous manner. One cannot live at Giessen upon a salary of 800 florins.
Four years ago I, in conjunction with four colleagues, asked for an increase
of salary; it has been refused. You (the Chancellor von Linde) have as-
sured me with smiles that the state treasury had no funds; from this I saw
that you have never known grief and torturing care for the daily bread. From
the moment of that refusal I have endeavored to acquire an independent posi-
tion by ceaseless work ; my exertions have not been without success, but they
have surpassed my strength, and I have become an invalid ; and if now, when
I do not require the state any longer, I consider that with a few miserable hun-
dred florins more my health need not have suffered in former years, because my
life would have been more free from care, tiie hardest thought for me is that my
situation was known to you. The means which the laboratory possesses have
been too small from the beginning. I had four walls given to m^ instead of a
furnished laboratory. Notwithstanding my requests, no sura for furnisliing the
same, or for buying apparatus, has been provided. I required instruments and
specimens, and have been obliged to spend on these items annually from 300 to
400 florins from my own means; besides the famulus paid by the state I re-
quired an assistant, who costs me 320 florins — deduct both expenses from my
salary, and there remains not enough to clothe my children. From this original
treatment of the laboratory the consequence has arisen that it possesses no
property, for I can show that the arrangements, fittings, instruments, specimens,
which have made the Giessen laboratory — I can say it without blushing — the
first in Germany, are my property. I will say nothing more about myself — my
account with Giessen is closed. My path is not the one of reptiles, the easiest
though the dirtiest. What I have said wiU suflfice to justify with the ministry
and the prince my resolution not to lecture at Giessen during this winter (1834-
'35). If I am in health I may not lack the power to establish a kind of univer-
sity for my branches of science at my own risk. If I am not permitted, and if
I receive my conge, this will free me from the charge of ingratitude toward the
country from the means of which my scientific training has been possible. I have
learned to bear much injustice, many a false judgment, but this reproach of in-
gratitude would be too heavy for me to bear."
This letter pictures to you the conditions which prevailed at Dai-m-
stadt, but it is still more important, because it shows that such strong
language was required to bring down the ministry, and that which no
kind of friendly representation had been able to effect, this threat did.
In 1835 he had to take compulsory repose. I find in the list of his
publications only three small papers dating from this period, of which
one only was a research ; but in almost every other year there were
from ten to twenty researches and publications.
In 1836 another active period begins. In tliat year there were
nine researches by himself alone, thirteen by himself and Pelouze. In
1837 there were nine researches by himself and five with Wohler, in-
