56 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
eluding the celebrated one on litliic acid, and two with the celebrated
French chemist Dumas. In that year the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, at their Liverpool meeting, made a request
to him to write a report on the then state of knowledge of organic
chemistry. It was this report which originated the work which he
published in 1840, namely, the work entitled " Organic Chemistry in
its Application to Agriculture and Physiology." In 1838 he pub-
lished a memoir on the state of chemistry in Austria, in which he ex-
hibited its shortcomings in trenchant language, and the effect upon
the Austrian Government was such as no one would have expected.
In reply to his essay he received the offer of a chair at Vienna.
" Come to us," they said, " reform our chemistry, and we will give
you a chair." But the conditions were not sufficient, and the Aus-
trian Government, having received Liebig's refusal to go to Vienna,
at their own expense sent a number of young chemists to Giessen,
there to study chemistry under Liebig, and to prepare themselves for
the important function of becoming teachers of the new chemistry in
Austria. In the year 1840 he published the work which I have already
mentioned, and he also published a memoir on the state of chemistry
in Prussia. You know what was the state of Prussia in 1840; the
promises made by the king in the year 1813, regarding a liberal con-
stitution, had all been falsified, a narrow-minded bureaucracy gov-
erned everything, a minister of education who did not comprehend
his time could not understand that physical science required any pro-
motion, or any state help. He soon went into that movement whick
has been described as Muckerthum, a kind of pietism which shows itself
by casting up the eyes in a praying attitude, having God more on the
tongue than in the heart ; by a mock-modest morality which would,
for exam2>le, have caused the council of this institution to have those
beautiful nymphs on our walls painted over with diapery. Under
these circumstances no science could progress, and there was not in
the whole of Prussia a single establishment, laboratory, or teaching-
room where a man could learn practical or even theoretical chemistry.
It was the great boast of even talented teachers of chemistry, that all
the apparatus they required for teaching was a dozen test-tubes.
This attack on the state of chemistry in Prussia had no effect what-
ever of a good kind, but, on the contrary, the bureaucracy used its
power and influence to prevent the Prussian youth from visiting the
University of Giessen, and I have the authority of Kolbe that for a
time the visiting this university was actually forbidden to young
Prussians.
About this period Liebig purchased from the municij)ality of
Giessen a sand-pit, at a place called Trieb, on a little height east of
the town, and there he made experiments on vegetable physiology.
This place bears the name of " Liebig's Height " to the present day,
and I dare say it will bear it for many years to come. He also pub-
