■ CHARACTER AND WORK OF LIE BIG. 57
lished his work on "Chemistry in its Application to Physiology and
Pathology," which he dedicated to Berzelius. In 1844 appeared his
first " Familiar Letters on Chemistry," in the Augsburg Gazette.
These letters were afterward published with many new ones from time
to time in several editions, and by this means he contributed greatly
to make chemistry popular, while still keeping it in the most scientific
form needful. In 1850 he published a pamphlet on spontaneous com-
bustion, on the occasion of the death of the Countess Gorlitz, who had
by experts and doctors at Darmstadt and Giessen been declared to
have perislied from spontaneous combustion, but it "was afterward
found out that she had not perished in that way, but that she had
been murdered by her butler, and afterward burnt. About this time
also Liebig effected a reform in the medical studies and examinations
in the University of Giessen, and this reform was so important, and
eflFected by so great a participation of public opinion, that "we see
there how great was his power, although in the university itself he
was kept out of office as far as possible. These reforms amounted t©
nothing less than this — complete liberty of study. You know that in
this country medical students have no liberty of study ; they are
obliged to attend lectures, to have heard at least two-thirds of the lect-
ures given, and if it is not certified by the beadle, "who comes in to
everj'" lecture and takes the names of all present, that they have been
present at two-thirds of the lectures, they are not allowed to enter for
the examination. This state of things also existed in the German uni-
versities previous to this reformation. At that time, however, this was
completely done away with, and every student was allowed to obtain
his knowledge -where and bow he pleased. He "was not obliged to
enter any university whatever, but he was obliged to pass an exami-
nation, and to pass that examination publicly, an examination which
should so thoroughly test his knowledge that, after he had passed it
there could be no doubt whatever about his fitness to follow his pro-
fession. Now let me recommend to your attention this most remark-
able system of public examination. The extraordinary effect it had on
the University of Giessen "was this, that, whereas formerly many stu-
dents coming unprepared were rejected, since the introduction of pub-
lic examinations few rejections have taken place, because the students
take great care to get up their subjects and to come so fully prepared
that, in the presence of their countrymen, in the presence of any per-
son who likes to enter the hall vrhen the examination takes place, they
can show that they are fit to follow their profession.
I have already, I see, passed the time allotted to me, and I shall
not detain you many more minutes. In the autumn of the year 1852
Liebig left Giessen, having received a call to the University of Mu-
nich, where the then King Maximilian was desirous of following his
father, Ludwig, on another path of glory. You know that Ludwig
had made it his life-business to restore art in Germany and raise it to
