58 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a high footing in Bavaria, and Maximilian now wished to do the same
thing for science in general, and he therefore endeavored to collect
from all parts of Germany the best men whom he could attract. One
of these was Liebig, the king having made him pi-esident of the Acad-
emy, with the condition that he should undertake no laboratory teach-
ing ; that he should deliver lectures only, and at the same time be
the Curator of the Botanical Gardens, In that position he remained
up to his death, devoting himself mainly to the public part of his
duties, which he performed with grace, honor, and glory, and in the
laboratory which had been constructed for his own immediate wants
he only performed such analyses, partly himself, and partly by a num-
ber of assistants, as were necessary to give him the data for the pub-
lication of his several works.
At last, in the year 1873, on April 18th, he died, nearly seventy
years of age, and in full possession of his faculties, not having, as
other philosophers have had the pain of doing, experienced any dimi-
nution of his mental powers.
CAKOLINE LUCKETIA HEESCHEL.
Bt ELIZA A. YOUMANS.
II.
WHATEVER may be thought of the intellectual differences be-
tween men and women, the broad mental contrast between
Cai'oline Herschal and her brother Sir "William Herschel is undeniable.
Intellectual activity and a love of knowledge for its own sake influ-
enced his boyhood, characterized his manhood, and dominated his
whole life. He became an eminent astronomer because his passion for
physical inquiry, directed toward the constitution of the universe, mas-
tered every other sentiment of his nature. But the mind of Caroline
Herschel was of another mould. She learned various things, from a
desire to please her friends and to earn her living; but tliere is no evi-
dence that she ever studied anything from a love of knowledge. Her
whole life was inspired by purely personal feelings. In a former arti-
cle we saw how submissively she delved for the family throughout her
youth, and left them full of concern about their daily comforts. It
was an all-absorbing love for her brother which led her to study as-
tronomy, and at his death her devotion to science ended. Some peo-
ple, perhaps, will admire her less on this account ; yet, while it dimin-
ishes her claims as a philosopher, it certainly increases her claims as a
woman. The tendency of women to act from intense personal motives
is a fact of vital moment to the community, because the very existence
of the family depends upon it; and it is difficult to imagine any future
