62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
comet. Her diary and letters belonging to this period are very in-
teresting. Her brother left on the 3d, and on that day she cleaned
and put the polishing-room in order, made the gardener clear the
work- yard, and mend the fences. " 5th. — Spent the morning in needle-
work . . . . " " Qth. — ^Put the philosophical letters in order, and the
collection of each year in a separate corner . . . ." '■'• \2th. — Put
paper in press for a register . . . , " " l^th. — Spent the day in ruling
paper for the register, except that at breakfast I cut out ruffles for
shirts . . . . " '* 29^A.— I paid the smith . . . . "
It was on the 1st of August that she first saw the comet. We
give her diary at this time in full :
'■'■August \st. — I Lave counted 100 nebulae to-day ; and this evening I saw
an object which, I believe, to-morrow night will prove to be a comet.
"2(Z. — To-day I calculated 150 nebulai. I fear it will not be clear to-night.
It has been raining throughout the whole day, but seems now to clear up a little.
One o'clock. — The object of last night i» a comet.
" 2>d. — I did not go to rest till I had wrote to Dr. Blagden and Mr. Aubert,
to announce the comet."
In the letter to Dr. Blagden she says :
"The employment of writing down the observations when my brother uses
the twenty-foot reflector does not often allow me time to look at the heavens;
but, as he is now ou a visit to Germany, I have taken the opportunity to sweep in
the neighborhood of the sun in search of comets; and last night, the 1st of
August, about ten o'clock, I found an object very much resembling in color and
brightness the 27 nebulae of the Connoinsance des Temps^ with the difference,
however, of being round. I suspected it to be a comet; but, a haziness coming
on, it was not possible to satisfy myself as to its motion till this evening."
After describing the object and its position, she concludes:
"You will do me the favor of communicating these observations to my
brother's astronomical friends."
Dr. Blagden replied on August 5th that no one but herself had yet
seen the comet, but that he had spread the news of her discovery in
England, France, and Germany. August 7th Mr. Aubert wrote to
her th-at he did. not find the comet till the 5th on account of cloudy
weather. He says :
"I wish you joy most sincerely on the discovery. I am more pleased than
you can well conceive that you have made it, and I think I see your iconderfully
clever and wonderfully amiable brother, upon the news of it, shed a tear of joy.
You have immortalized your name, and you deserve such a reward for your
assiduity in the business of astronomy, and for your love for so celebrated and
deserving a brother."
We give place to the friendly expressions of these gentlemen, and
others that will follow, to show that Miss Herschel was not hindered
in her scientific career by the jealousy or antagonism of male rivals,
