64 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
raphy, which were to be sent to Sir John Herschel, the son of this new
sister-in-law, she destroyed all her diary and records for the ten years
immediately succeeding her brother's marriage. Her biographer and
relative alludes to her experiences at this time in the following lan-
guage :
"With saddened heart but unflagging determination she continued to work
for her brother, but saw his domestic happiness pass into other keeping. It is
not to be supposed, however, that a nature so strong and a heart so affectionate
should accept the new state of things without much and bitter suffering. To
resign the supreme place by her brother's side, which she had filled for sixteen
years with such hearty devotion, could not be otherwise than painful in any
case ; but how much more so in this, where equal devotion to the same pursuit
must have made identity of interest and purpose as complete as it is rare ! One
who could both feel and express herself so strongly was not likely to fall into
her new place without some outward expression of what it cost her — tradition
confirms the assumption — and it is easy to understand how this long, significant
silence is due to the light of later wisdom and calmer judgment which counseled
the destruction of all record of what was likely to be painful to survivors."
In reference to Herschel's marriage, a writer in the London £c-
amtwer says, "It is impossible to regret or censure the step which
gave existence to his yet more remarkable son ; " but this is a sin-
gular and tardy justification. In marrying, he did what it was highly
probable he would do ; and, remembering this, he should not have
allowed his sister to live so entirely for him. It is not to be supposed,
however, that he foresaw the unpleasant consequences that fell upon
her. When the temptation to marry came, he no doubt stupidly fan-
cied that in enriching his own life by this new relation he should add
to her happiness by bringing her a sister; but, if he had studied the
ways of men and women as he studied the heavens, he might have
saved himself from such a delusion.
The work she did during the next ten years affords abundant
evidence of the heroism with which Miss Herschel met her fate.
Besides discovering seven more comets, she prepared " A Catalogue
of 860 Stars observed by Flamstead, but not included in the British
Catalogue," and "A General Index of Reference to Every Observa-
tion of Every Star in the above-mentioned British Catalogue," both
of which works were published by the Royal Society in 1798. She
also spent much time upon another work which was not finished for
many years. It was " The Reduction and Arrangement in the Form
of a Catalogue, in Zones, of all the Star-Clusters and Nebulae observed
by Sir "W. Herschel in his Sweeps." For this she received the gold
medal of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1828, and it was pro-
nounced by Sir David Brewster " a work of immense labor."
Some account of her discoveries was found in a packet wrapped in
coarse paper, and labeled " This is what I call the bills and receipts
of my comets." The separate parcels of this bundle were marked
