CAROLINE LUORETIA HERSCHEL. 65
" First Comet," " Second Comet," etc. She announced the discovery
of her second comet to Dr. Maskelyne, the royal astronomer, in the
following letter, with a postscript by her brother :
" Dear Sie : Last night, December 21st, at 7" 45', I discovered a comet, a
little more than one degree south, preceding /? Lyrae. This morning, between
five and six, I saw it again, when it appeared to have moved about a quarter of
a degree toward 6 of the same constellation. I beg the favor of you to take it
under your protection.
" Mrs. Herschel and my brothers join with me in compliments to Mrs. Mas-
kelyne and yourself, and I have the honor to remain,
" Dear sir, your most obliged, humble servant,
" Oaeoline Heeschel.
" Slough, December 22, 1788."
" P. S. — The comet precedes /? Lyrae 1' 5" in time, and is in the parallel of the
small star (J3 being double). See fifth class, third star, of my catalogue.
" William Heesohel."
Her brother announced her discovery to Sir J. Banks and Sir H.
Englefield, and from these gentlemen she received the most cordial
congratulations. Two years later, on January 7, 1790, the third comet
was discovered, and on the 17th of April, the same year, when her
brother was absent, she announced her fourth comet to Sir Joseph
Banks in the following words :
''April 19th.
" Sib: I am very unwilling to trouble you with incomplete observations, and
for that reason did not acquaint you yesterday with the discovery of a comet.
I wrote an account of it to Dr. Maskelyne and Mr. Aubert, in hopes that one of
them would furnish me with the means of pointing it out in a proper manner.
But as several days may pass before my letters are answered, or my brother re-
turns, I would not be thought neglectful, and if you think the following descrip-
tion sufficient, and that more of my brother's astronomical friends should be
made acquainted with it, I sliould be very happy if you would be so kind as to
do it for the sake of astronomy."
Then follows an account of the comet. The letter, written on the
day previous, to Mr. Aubert, we give entire :
" Slough, April 18, 1790.
" Deae Sib: I am almost ashamed to write you, because I never think of
doing so but when I am in distress. I found, last night, at 16*" 24', sidereal
time, a comet, and do not know what tq do with it, for my new sweeper is not
half finished ; and, besides, I broke the handle of the perpendicular motion in
my brother's absence (who is on a little tour in Yorkshire). He furnished me to
that instrument a rhomboides, but the wires are too thin, and I have no means
for illuminating them. All my hopes were that I should find nothing to make
me feel the want of these things in his absence ; but, as it happens, here is an
object in a place where there is no nebula, or anything which could look like a
comet, and I would be much obliged to you, sir, if you would look at the place
where the annexed eye-draft will direct you to. My brother has swept that
part of the heavens, and has many nebulas there, but none which I must expect
to see with my instrument. I will not write to Sir J. Banks or Dr. Maskelyne,
VOL. IX. — 5
