CAROLINE LUCRETIA HERSCHEL. 67
she took possession of a cottage in Slough, belonging to her brother,
and, although mention is made in her diary of moving again in 1814,
yet she continued to live in Slough.
Notwithstanding all her prudence about paining relations, the
multiplied repetition in her diary of such entries as the following is
painfully suggestive :
" March 5th. — "Went to make some stay with my brothers at Slough, Mrs.
Herschel being in town.
" 27th. — All returned, and I went with my work to Upton again.
^'■September 24^A.— Went to work with my brother at Slough.
" (Tctober 1st. — Mrs. Herschel and niece returned. I went back to Upton.
" August 1st.— I left Upton for Slough. My brother went with Mrs. Herschel
and Miss Baldwin on an excursion. I distracted my thoughts by undertaking an
amazing deal of work.
^^ September %th.—Kj brother and family returned, and I went with my
works to Upton.
" May 2d.— I left Upton for Slough to work with my brother ; Mrs. Herschel
being in town till June 18th.
'^JVoveniber Sd.—l came home to Upton (Mrs. Herschel returned from Brigh-
ton), but went most days to assist my brother in the polishing-room or library,
and, from the 10th of December to the 22d, was entirely at Slough, Mrs. Her-
schel being away.
^^ January. — I had a cough all the month; the communication between
Slough and Upton very troublesome to me.
^^ March 9th.— Went to Slough to work with my brother; his family from
home.
''May 11th.— Went to be with my brother; Mrs. Herschel went to town
for a month.
''June 12th. — Mrs. Herschel returned from town, and I went home."
It is pleasant to find, however, that the asperities of this period
of her life were so much softened by time and distance that in 1829,
when living in Hanover, she was able to write to her sister-in-law,
confidentially as to "a dear sister, for as such I now know you."
The diary closes in 1822, with an account of her brother's death,
and her departure from England. We quote the following charac-
teristic passage relating to this period. She had come as 'usual to
spend the morning with her brother :
"August 15th.— I hastened to the spot where I was wont to find him, with
the newspaper which I was to read to him. But instead I found Mrs. Morson,
Miss Baldwin, and Mr. Bulman, from Leeds, the grandson of my brother's earli-
est acquaintance in this country. I was informed my brother had been obliged
to return to his room, whither I flew immediately. Lady Herschel and the
housekeeper were with him, administering everything which could be thought
of for supporting him. I found him much irritated at not being able to grant
Mr. Bulman's request for some token of remembrance for his father. As soon
as he saw me, I was sent to the library to fetch one of his last papers, and a
plate of the forty-foot telescope. But, for the universe, I could not have looked
twice at what I had snatched from the shelf, and when he faintly asked if the
