AIR-GERMS AND SPONTANEOUS GENERATION. 91
AIR-GEEMS AXD SPONTA^'EOUS GENEKATIOX/
By p. SCHUTZENBEEGER.
THE question of the origin of ferments is intimately connected with
that of spontaneous generation. In fact, from the time of Van
Helmont and others, who, even in the seventeenth century, gave direc-
tions for the production of mice, frogs, eels, etc, the partisans of this
mode of generation have, by the progress of the tendency to examine
into the causes of things, been driven from the larger animals or plants
visible to the naked eye, to the smallest living productions, which we
can observe only by the aid of the microscope. But ferments are
found among these inferior microscopic organisms. Redi, a member
of the Academy of Cimento, showed that the worms in putrefied flesh,
which were at first thought to be of spontaneous origin, are only the
larvae from the eggs of flies, and that all that was necessary, to pre-
vent entirely the birth of these larvae, was to surround the decompos-
ing meat with fine gauze; he was the first to ascertain that parasitic
animals are sexual and able to lay eggs.
The invention of the microscope, and the numerous observations by
which it w^as followed, toward the end of the seventeenth, and the
commencement of the eighteenth century, gave fresh impulse to the
doctrine of spontaneous generation, which had lost all credit in ques-
tions concerning the origin of living beings of a higher order.
The question now was how to explain the origin of the various
living productions, revealed by the microscope in infusions of vege-
table and animal substances, among which no apparent symptom of
sexual generation could then be found.
The subject was studied for the first time in a scientific manner by
Needham, who published, in 1745, in London, a work on this subject.
This observer did for infusoria what had already been done for the
higher organisms. He protected, or rather endeavored to protect,
vegetable or animal infusions from the action of germs, seeds, or any
other agents of multiplication which could come from without. At
the same time he destroyed by a physical agent, heat, the germs which
might be supposed to exist beforehand in the liquid. Under these
conditions, either living beings will be produced in the midst of the
infusion, or none will be found there; in the former case, it must be
admitted that these organisms are developed in the medium which is
suitable to them, without the intervention of any germ ; in the second,
that the doctrine of spontaneous generation is false. In reality, the
question can only be resolved in this manner, and all experimenters
» Abridged from " Schutzenbergcr on Fermentations," No. XX. of the " International
Scientific Series.''
