92 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
who have entered upon it from Xeedhani's time to the present day-
ought to have made use of it.
The serious and grave difficulty, on which, during this period, all
discussions raised between heterogenists and panspermistshave turned,
is so to arrange the experiments as to remove every suspicion of the
intervention of germs brought from without, or preexisting in the
liquid.
If the result is negative, if when all precautions that seem to be
necessary have been taken, and all causes of error have been removed,
there is no formation of infusoria, it will be difficult to raise any seri-
ous objection to the inevitable conclusion, provided that the methods
employed for the purpose of eliminating the preexisting germs are not
of such a nature as to modify the medium, and to render it unfit for
the development and the nutrition of living organisms. If, on the
contrary, we still meet with the birth of living beings, the suspicion
will always revive that the experiment has been badly performed, and
that a contrary result would have been obtained by conducting it more
carefully. The heterogenists, therefore, find themselves in a more dis-
advantageous situation than their opponents, and, notwithstanding
the success which they may obtain, they will never convince tbem.
We think, therefore, that it is useless to give here a detailed
account of their minute researches ; they must be consulted in the
original memoirs. A single experiment ichich proves, by a negative
result, that organic infusions, protected from germs from without, do
not give birth to infusoria, is loorth more, scientifically speaJcing, than
ten experiments tending to establish the contrary opinion.
If, therefore, we pass over the details of the fundamental experi-
ments of the heterogenists, and speak of those the results of which are
conformable to the ideas of the panspermists, it will not be in a spirit
of partiality. We are convinced that the latter are the only ones free
from all objections, the relative skill of the operators being disregard-
ed, and considered as nothing in the estimate formed. We may, how-
ever, say that M. Pasteur's researches may serve as a model for all
those who may wish to conduct investigations of this kind, whatever
may be the preconceived opinion by which they are guided. By their
precision, and the care taken to remove every source of error, they
leave nothing to be desired.
As the results obtained by M. Pasteur lead him to deny spontane-
ous generation, his opponents must above all prove that he is mis-
taken, by adopting the same rigorous experimental conditions. Xeed-
ham's experiments, which led him to admit and sustain the doctrine
of spontaneous generation, consisted essentially in placing organic
substances which were capable of decomposition, in vessels hermeti-
cally sealed, which were subsequently submitted to a high temperature,
in order to destroy the preexisting germs. The work of the English
writer attracted great notice on account of the support of Bufibn,
