AIR-GERMS AND SPONTANEOUS GENERATION. 93
whose ideas he upheld. Soon after began the great controversy he-
tween Needham and Spallanzani, who refuted, by experiment, the
conclusions arrived at by Needliam.
The controversy turned principally on this point : Sj^allanzani was
not satisfied with lieatiiig the hermetically-sealed vessels containing
the infusions, for several minutes, merely the time which is required to
cook a heii's-egg, and to destroy the germs, as Needham expresses it,
but he kept them for the space of an hour in boiling water. He then
observed no production of infusoria. But, objects the English ob-
server, from the manner in which he treated and put to the torture
his nineteen vegetable infusions, it is evident that he not only much
weakened, or perhaps totally destroyed, the vegetative force of the
substances infused, but also entirely corrupted, by the exhalations
and the odor of the fire, the small portion of air which remained in
the empty part of his vessels. It is not, therefore, surprising that his
infusions, thus treated, gave no signo of life. Such must necessarily
have been the case. This idea, that the action of the temperature of
boiling water destroys the vegetative force of infusions, is maintained
even at the present day, and has served as an argument to the hete-
rogenists; as they were unable to attack the material correctness of
Pasteur's experiments, they did not accept the conclusions which he
sought to derive from them.
We find also in the passage just cited, the necessity for the experi-
ments made by Schwann and Helmholtz on calcined air, and for those
of Schroder and F, Dusch, on strained air. The objection of a jiossi-
ble change in the air contained in the vial, under the influence of pro-
longed boiling, in presence of Organic substances, was a serious one at
the time that it was brought forward ; it becomes more so, when we
know that the air confined over preserved meats, prepared by Ap-
pert's process, contains no oxygen. It was, therefore, absolutely ne-
cessary to place the infusions in contact with air in a normal condi-
tion, after that boiling had deprived them of their preexisting germs,
avoiding at the same time any new germs brought by the air.
For this purpose, Dr. Schwann heated flasks containing the infu-
sions, until the destruction of the germs was insured; but his flask
was not closed: it communicated freely with the surrounding air by
mean of a glass tube bent in the form of a U, and heated, in one
part of its length, by means of a bath of fusible alloy. Under these
conditions, the air may be renewed in the flasks, but the fresh atmos-
pheric air admitted has undergone, like the infusion, the action of
heat, which destroys the germs. Schwann's experiment was very
decisive, as to broth made from meat ; and the negative result (no
development of infusoria) was quite satisfactory. But it was not the
same with analogous trials on alcoholic fermentation, which gave con-
tradictory results, Ure and Helmholtz repeated and multiplied these
experiments with the same success.
