94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
To obviate tlio objection of a possible change by heat, in a mys-
terious and undefined principle, difierent from germs, but whose pres-
ence in the air was necessary to the production of infusoria, Schultze
caused the renewed air to pass through energetic chemical reagents,
such as concentrated sulphuric acid. He half filled a glass vessel
with distilled water containing various animal and vegetable sub-
stances ; then stopped the vessel with a cork through which passed
two bent tubes, and exposed the apparatus thus arranged to the tem-
perature of boiling water. Then, while the vapor was still escaping
through the tubes, he adapted to each of them a Liebig's bulb appa-
ratus, one containing concentrated sulphuric acid, and the other con-
centrated caustic potash. The high temperature must necessarily
have destroyed eveiy living thing, all the germs that might happen
to be in the inside of the vessel, or of its appendages, and the commu-
nication from without was intercepted by the sulphuric acid on one
side and the potassa on the other. Xevertheless, it was easy to
renew, by aspiration at the end of the apparatus which contained tlie
potassa, the air thus inclosed, and the fresh quantities of this fluid
which were introduced could not carry with them any living germ,
for they were forced to pass through a bath of concentrated sulphuric
acid. M. Schultze placed the ajiparatus thus arranged at a well-
lighted window, side by side with an open vessel, which contained an
infusion of the same organic substances ; then he was careful to renew
the air in his apparatus several times a day for more than two months,
and to examine with the microscope what took place in the infusion.
The open vessel was soon found filled with vibrios and monads, to
which were soon added polygastric infusoria of a larger size, and even
rotifers ; but by the most attentive observation he could not discover
the least trace of infusoria, confervas, or mildews, in the infusion con-
tained in the apparatus.
The latest researches of Schroder and Yon Dusch (1854-1859) tend-
ed to raise another objection, the possible change in a special prin-
ciple in the air, by a reagent as energetic as sulphuric acid. Guided
by the experiments of Loewel, who ascertained that common air, when
it had been previously filtered through cotton, was unfit to cause the
crystallization of siipersaturated solutions of sodium sulj^hate, they
placed one of the tubes of Schultze's apparatus in communication with
a tube 1.18 inch in diameter, 5nd from 19,68 to 23,62 inches in length,
filled with cotton-wool. The other tube was connected with an aspi-
rator.
"When the liquid, the interior of the flask, and the tubes, had been
deprived of air by boiling, the apparatus was removed to its place,
and the aspiration continued night and day. The two observers thus
proved that meat, to which water had been added, the wort of beer,
urine, starch, paste, and the various materials of milk taken separate-
ly, remained intact in the filtered air. On the contrary, milk, meat
