AIR-GERMS AND SPONTANEOUS GENERATION. 95
without water, and the yolk of egg, grcAV putrid as rapidly as in com-
mon air.
The result of these experiments is, that there are spontaneous de-
compositions of organic substances which require nothing but the
presence of oxygen gas to cause them to commence ; while others
need, besides oxygen, the presence in the atmospheric air of those
unknown things^ which are destroyed by heat or sulphuric acid, or
are retained by the cotton.
The two observers do not then decide on the nature of these things,
and do not assert categorically that they are germs, and, in reality,
nothing allows us to draw these conclusions.
M. Pasteur's experiments have advanced the question another
step, by proving that they are really germs of ferments and infusoria,
which are destroyed by heat, or arrested by the sulphuric acid or cot-
ton in the experiments alluded to above.
M, Pasteur made a hole in a window-shutter, several metres above
the ground, and through this he passed a glass tube .196 inch in
diameter, and containing a plug of soluble cotton .39 inch in length,
kept in its place by a spiral platinum wire. One of the ends of this
tube passed into the street ; the other communicated with a continuous
aspirator. When the air had passed for a sufficient time, the plug of
cottoa, more or less soiled by the dust which it had intercepted, was
placed in a small tube with the mixture of alcohol and ether, which
dissolves gun-cotton. It was left for the space of a day. All the
dust was deposited at the bottom of the tube, where it is easy to
wash it by decantation, without any loss, if care is taken to separate
each washing by an interval of repose of from twelve to twenty hours.
The deposit, and the liquid which covers it, are put in a watch-glass
together ; after the evaporation of the alcohol, the remainder is placed
in water, and examined with the microscope. M. Pasteur also made
use of ordinary sulphuric acid in order to moisten the dust. This
agent had the effect of separating the grains of starch and calcium
carbonate, which are always found in greater or less quantities in
deposits collected on the plvig of cotton.
L^ n ' •, o ; ©• » >^
Figs. 1 and 2. — 0R0A>rfc ConPU5CT,ES of Dust, mixkd with Amokphous Particles.
Figs. 1 and 2 represent organic corpuscles, associated with amor-
phous particles, as seen through the mici'oscope, under a power of 350
diameters; the liquid containing them was common sulphuric acid.
