98 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
with the air-pump, another with the heated platinum tube, and the
third with the flask, by means of the large tube which contains the
smaller one with the cotton. These various parts are joined together
by means of India-rubber.
The experiment is commenced by exhausting the air, alter having
closed the stopcock connected with the red-hot metallic tube. This
being afterward opened, allows calcined air to enter the tubes slowly ;
this operation (exhaustion and readmission of calcined air) is repeated
several times. The point of the flask is then broken off within the
India-rubber, and the small tube containing the dust is allowed to slip
into the flask, the neck of which is again sealed with the lamp. As
an additional proof, and to obviate all objections, the same arrange-
ments were made with similar flasks, prepared like the preceding, but
with this difi"erence that, instead of cotton charged with atmosplieric
dust, there was substituted a small piece of tube containing calcined
asbestos (as an additional precaution, it had been ascertained that
calcined asbestos, loaded with atmospheric dust, by the same means
as the cotton, gave identical results).
The following are the observations obtained constantly by M. Pas-
teur :
In all the flasks, into which dust collected from the air was intro-
duced — 1. Organic productions began to make their appearance in
the liquid after twenty-four, thirty-six, or forty-eight hours at the
most. This was precisely the time necessary for the same phenomena
to appear in sweetened yeast-water exposed to contact with the at-
mosphere.
2. The products observed are of the same kind as those which are
seen to make their appearance in the liquid when left freely exposed
to the air, such as mucors, common mucidines, torulacei, bacteria, and
vibrios of the smallest species, the largest of which, the Monas lens, is
only .000157 inch in diameter.
When the water of yeast is replaced by urine, the experiment
being conducted exactly in the same manner, we always notice the
absence of any change as long as atmospheric dust has not been intro-
duced, while, with the addition of this, numerous organisms are
developed, in every respect similar to those which appear and are
developed in urine kept in the open air. If, on the contrary, the ex-
periment be repeated with common milk, we may be sure that it will
in every case curdle, and become putrid. We shall observe the birth
of numerous vibrios of the same species, and bacteria, and the oxygen
of the flask will disappear. M. Pasteur thinks that this result, so dif-
ferent from those observed in other liquids, arises only from the fact
that milk contains germs of vibrios which resist the boiling heat of
water. To prove this, he boiled milk, not at 212° Fahr., or at the usual
pressure of the atmosphere, but at 230° Fahr,, under a greater pressure,
and he found that the flasks thus prepared, and hermetically sealed,
