AIR-GERMS AND SPONTANEOUS GENERATION, loi
erations; that it is always possible to procure, in any determined
place, a limited quantity of common air, having undergone no kind
of modification, whether physical or chemical, and nevertheless quite
unsuited to set up any decomposing action in a liquid eminently pu-
trescible. The method of experimenting is very simple. Into a flask
of 15 to 18 cubic inches, 9 cubic inches of a liquid that has a tendency
to decomposition are introduced ; the neck of the flask is drawn out
with the lamp, leaving the point open ; then the liquid is boiled till
the vapor escaping from the extremity has expelled all the air; at this
moment the point of the flask is closed by the lamp, by means of a
blowpipe, and it is allowed to grow cool. The flask then contains no
air; if we break oflTthe point in any particular place, the air reenters
suddenly, carrying into it the germs held in suspension ; it is again
closed with the lamp, and kept in a stove at a temperature of 68° to
86° Fahr. In the generality of cases, organisms are developed ; these
organisms are even more varied than if the liquid were freely exposed
to the air, which M. Pasteur explains by saying that, in this case, the
germs in small number, in a limited volume of air, are not hindered in
their development by germs in greater number or more precocious in
their fecundity, which are able to occupy the space, and leave no room
for them. But it is especially important to notice in the results ob-
tained by this method, what frequently happens many times in each
series of trials, that the liquid continues absolutely intact, however
long it may have remained in the stove, as if it had been filled with
calcined air. This phenomenon is the more striking, and shows itself
in more marked proportions, when the air received into the flasks is
taken from a greater height. Thus, among twenty flasks opened in the
country, eight contained organic productions ; out of twenty opened
on the Jura, only five contained any ; and out of twenty flasks opened
at Montanvert, in a rather high wind, blowing from the deepest gorges
of the " Glacier des Bois," only one was aflfected by any change.
Fig. 28.— M. Passtetjr's Flask to depeite the Air of its Germs.
We may also draw other conclusions from this series of observa-
tions. Since the putrescible liquid, which had been previously boiled,
and which was contained in the flasks, was filled with organic produc-
