102 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tions in a great number of instances, after the introduction of a limited
quantity of air, the genetic power of the infusions had not been de-
stroyed by the material conditions of tlie experiments. Besides, this
objection, which has been raised ever since the earliest controversies
between the heterogenists and the panspermists, has been definitely
answered by an experiment made by M. Pasteur ; he received in a
flask, exhausted and deprived of living germs by the momentary ap-
plication of a sufficiently high temperature, some blood at the instant
that it left the organism, and witliout allowing tliis liquid, which is so
peculiarly putrescible, to come in contact with air. By permitting air
deprived of germs, either by calcination or simple filtration, to enter
the flask, and then hermetically sealing it, he found that the blood
was preserved for an indefinite period intact, although it had not been
exposed to heat.
M. Pasteur has also shown that air may be deprived of germs by
its passage through a capillary tube bent upon itself. It is, therefore,
sufficient, in most cases, to draw out the neck of the flask so as to form
a very long, narrow tube, which is bent in several directions, as, for
example, in Fig. 5. When the air originally contained in it has
been expelled, and. the preexisting germs killed by prolonged boiling,
the flask is allowed to cool slowly.
In closing our account of M.Pasteur's interesting memoir, in which
heterogenesis was driven to its last intrenchments, we must add that
this learned chemist endeavored to deprive his adversaries of one of
their principal arguments. Experiments on spontaneous generation
have always been conducted with vegetable or animal infusions ; it
was supposed by Needham, Bufibn, and Pouehet, that organisms were
only thus produced at the moment of expiring Nature, when the ele-
ments of the beings on which they are developed are entering into
new chemical combinations, and are passing fully througli the phe-
nomena of fermentation or putrefaction.
In other words, albuminoid matters preserve in some degree a cer-
tain reserve of vitality, which would allow them to become organic
by contact with oxygen, when the conditions of temperature and hu-
midity are favorable. Starting with the idea that albuminoid sub-
stances are only aliments for the germs of infusoria, mucidines, or fer-
ments, M. Pasteur has proved directly that organic substances may
be replaced by those which are purely mineral or artificial, or, at
least, by substances on which this imaginary vegetative force cannot
be supposed to have any influence.
