SKETCH OF DR. AUSTIN FLINT, Jr. 103
SKETCH OF DR. AUSTIN FLINT, Je.
THIS gentleman lias won his scientific eminence in the field of
physiology. Though but forty years of age, he has attained the
highest rank in his cliosen department as an experimental inquirer,
teacher, and authoi* — having published the most elaborate treatise
upon the subject of physiology in the English language.
The name of Flint is now famous in the medical world through
the celebrity of both father and son ; but there is probably a factor
of inherited genius in this line which goes to their making up, for
they have come from a long race of doctors. This is the genetic line
of the generations of medical Flints, so far as Americans will be inter-
ested to know it. They are descended from Thomas Flint, who came
from Matlock, Derbyshire, England, in 1638, and settled in Concord,
Massachusetts. Edward Flint, physician of Shrewsbury, Mass., was
father of the great-grandfather of the subject of this sketch. The
great-grandfather, Austin Flint, after whom the contemporary Flints
are named, was a physician who died at Leicester, Massachusetts, in
1850, over ninety years of age. He served as a private soldier and
afterward as a surgeon in the Revolutionary War. The grandfather
of Austin, Jr., was Joseph Henshaw Flint, a distinguished surgeon of
Northampton, Massachusetts, and afterward of Springfield, in the
same State. His father is Austin Flint, now an eminent physician in
New York City. He was born at Petersham, Massachusetts, in 1812,
and graduated M. D. at Harvard, in 1833. He is a voluminous author
and a distinguished practitionei*.
AusTix Flint, Jr., was born at Northampton, Massachusetts, March
28, 1836, and his parents removed to Buflalo, New York, in the same
year. He was educated at private schools in that city, and, when
fifteen, he spent a year in the Academy of Leicester, Massachusetts.
He prepared for college at Buff*alo, and entered Harvard LTniversity
as Freshman in 1852. He left the university in 1853, and spent a year
in the study of civil-engineering. He began the study of medicine
in the spring of 1854 at Buffalo, and attended two courses of lectures
at the medical department of the University of Louisville (l8o4-'55
and 1855-'56). His taste for physiology was early developed, and he
made some experiments on living animals for Prof. Yandell, of the
Louisville school, while he was a student there. His final course of
lectures was taken at Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, in 1856-
'57, and at the close of the course he graduated. His inaugural thesis
on the " Phenomena of the Capillary Circulation" was honored with
the recommendation to be published, and appeared in the American
Journal of Medical Sciences in July, 1857. It was based upon numer-
ous original experiments. He was editor for three years (1857-'60)
