104 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the Buffalo Medical Journal, wliich was founded by his father in
1846, and ultimately transferred to New York and merged in the
American Medical Monthly.
In 1858 Dr. Flint was appointed one of the attending surgeons of
the Buffalo City Hospital. The same year he became Professor of
Physiology in the Medical School of Buffalo. In 1859 he removed
with his father, and was appointed Professor of Physiology in the
New York Medical College, delivering a course of lectures in 1859-'60.
In 1860 he received the appointment of Professor of Physiology in
the New Orleans School of Medicine, delivered a course of instruc-
tions in 1860-61, and resigned the position at the breaking out of
the war. While in New Orleans he experimented on alligators,
and developed some important points with reference to the influ-
ence of the pneumogastric nerves upon the heart. He also made
some experiments there upon the recurrent sensibility of the anterior
roots of the spinal nerves. He was the first physiologist in this
country to operate upon the spinal cord and the spinal nerves in liv-
ing animals.
In the spring of 1861 Dr. Flint went to Europe, and studied sev-
eral months with Charles Robin and Claude Bernard, with the former
of wliom he had close friendly and scientific relations, and maintained
a frequent correspondence. Prof. Robin presented his memoir, " Sur
une nouvelle fonction au foie " (" On a New Function of the Liver"),
to the French Academy of Sciences for the Monthyon prize without
the knowledge of the author. In 1863 Dr. Flint made some important
experiments upon the blood, employing a new mode of analysis for its
nitrogenized constituents. He was one of the founders of the Bellevue
Hospital Medical College, in 1861, and has been from the first, as he
still is. Professor of Physiology and Secretary and Treasurer of the
Faculty. He was also for eight years Professor and Lecturer on
Physiology in the Long Island College Hospital of Brooklyn.
In 1862 Dr. Flint made some remarkable observations on the ex-
cretory function of the liver, published in the American Journal of
the Medical Sciences, in October, 1863 ; translated into French, and
presented by Robin to th.e French Academy of Sciences for the " Con-
cours Motithyon,^'' and which received honorable mention and a recom-
pense to the author of 1,500 francs in 1869. The important discovery
put forth in this memoir was the production of cholesterine in the
physiological wear of the brain and nervous tissue, the elimination
of cholesterine by the liver, and its discharge in the form of stercorine
in the faeces. It was established that the new substance (stercorine)
results from the transformation of cholesterine in the faeces. The dis-
eased condition caused by the retention of cholesterine in the blood
(cholesterfemia) is now recognized as a very important pathological
fact. Dr. Flint's laborious researches and interesting conclusions upon
this subject have been lately confirmed in Germany by experiments
