SKETCH OF DR. AUSTIN FLINT, Jr. 105
in which cholesteraemia has been produced in animals by injection of
cholesterine into the blood.
In 1867, at the request of the Commissioners of Public Charities
and Correction of New York City, Dr. Flint reorganized the dietary
system for the institutions under their charge, including Bellevue Hos-
pital, Charity Hospital, Poorhouse, Workhouse, Penitentiary, etc., etc.,
making diet-tables for more than 10,000 persons. In 18V1 he made
observations upon Weston, the pedestrian, analyzing his food and
secretions for fifteen days before, during, and after one of Lis great
walking-exploits. These inquiries help to decide some important
physiological questions.
In 1869 Dr. Flint published an elaborate review of the history of
the discovery of the motor and sensory properties of the roots ofthe
spinal nerves, in which the discovery was ascribed to Magendie in-
stead of to Sir Charles Bell, who has generally been regarded as its
author. This review, originally publi*^hed. in the Journal of Psycho-
logical Iledicine, New York, in 1868, was translated into French, and
published in Robin's Journal de V anatomic. It produced such an im-
pression that it was soon followed by the publication, in the English
Journal of Anatomy., of the original paper of Charles Bell, "Idea of
a New Anatomy of the Brain," which was privately printed (not pub-
lished) in 1811, The original manuscript was furnished to the Jour-
nal of Anatomy by the widow of Sir Charles Bell. It was upon this
paper that the claims of Charles Bell to the discovery were based ;
and, before its publication in the Journal of Anatomy, \t had been
entirely inaccessible.
Claude Bernard has been the eminent advocate of the theory that
the liver is a sugar-producing organ ; but observations upon this sub-
ject were discordant, and eminent physiologists contested Bernard's
position. In 1869 Dr. Flint published, in the New York Medical
Journal, a series of experiments upon the " glycogenic function of the
liver," in which he endeavored to harmonize the various conflicting
observations, and is considered by most physiologists to have settled
the question.
In 1866 he announced the publication of the "Physiology of
Man," a work in five volumes, of 500 pages each, and the last volume
was issued in 1874, He printed a little work in 1870 on "Chemical
Examinations of Urine in Disease," which went through several edi-
tions. He contributed the articles on gymnastics and pugilism to the
"American Cyclopaedia," was appointed Surgeon-General of the State
of New York by Governor Tilden in 1874, and has recently published
a voluminous " Text-book of Human Physiology." He has also writ-
ten much for scientific periodicals and popular journals, and has been
actively engaged in his duties as a physiological teacher.
