io6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
THE NEW DEPARTURE AT THE CEN-
TENXJAL EXHIBITION.
w
'E print the report of Commis-
sioner Beckwith on the plan
that has been adopted for the distribu-
tion of awards to exhibitors at the Phil-
adelphia Exposition. In this matter
the Centennial Commissioners have
taken a new and very important step
in advance of previous practice. The
report is significant, as indicating a
departure from the precedents of all
former international exhibitions in a
fundamental and perhaps the most im-
portant feature of their management.
The system of gold medals and special
prizes heretofore adopted has been
abandoned, and articles of exhibition
are to go upon their merits, as deter-
mined by competent judges from this
country and abroad, and who will be
responsible to the public for the opin-
ions they give by signing their names
to the published reports. This is a vic-
tory of honest good sense over former
bad practices, which is most encour-
aging, and deserving of the heartiest
commendation.
International expositions are new
things in the world's experience. That
is, they are new, as enormous exten-
sions of local fairs and exhibitions
which have been long in vogue. The
primary idea was to bring all kinds of
products together for public inspection
and purchase. The show-element grad-
ually became predominant, and the fair
grew into an exhibition. The collection
of rival commodities natnraUy led to
competition, and this to committees of
judgment or juries, which gave premi-
ums for articles of the greatest -ex-
cellence. Medals of gold, silver, and
bronze, were assigned as testimonials
of excellence in the articles approved.
When the exhibitions grew into their
great international proportions, this old
method of awards was continued. But
it was a very imperfect method, and
its evils came out conspicuously in the
great shows of London, Paris, and Vi-
enna. The plan of granting graded
medals is necessarily crude and inade-
quate ; for, even if the awards are made
upon the best judgment of the juries,
they tell nothing, and are besides arbi-
trary and misleading. The ditferences
among competing articles, in most
cases, will not be as marked as the
gradation of medals implies; so that
their award will necessarily work in-
justice. There may be a score of prod-
ucts of the same kind, each, perhaps,
with special merits, and none conspicu-
ously preeminent; so that a gold med-
al awarded to one will greatly exagger-
ate its claims, and grossly wrong its
rivals.
But this is not all, nor the worst.
Medals become valuable and are eagerly
sought because of the very injustice
they work. To crown a single article,
casts virtual reproach upon all its com-
petitors ; and hence the gold medal
which exalts one thing and disparages
all in rivalry with it is striven for with
desperate eagerness by exhibitors on
account of the commercial advantages
that foUow. The door is thus opened
to every form of illegitimate influence
that can be brought to bear upon the
judges. The prizes to be won, being
of enormous value, are fought for with
such a reckless disregard of the means
employed that men of integrity often
quit the juries in disgust rather than be
implicated in their corrupt proceedings.
How great the strain must be, in many
cases, is apparent when we reflect tliat,
if the old system were in operation at the
Philadelphia Exposition, there would
probably be many exhibitors who could
