EDITOR'S TABLE.
107
afford to pay, each a million dollars, to
secure the gold medal that would place
their articles in advance of all com-
petitors. Nor is there anything in re-
cent American experiences tliat would
justify us in expecting an incorruptible
administration of tiie duties of jurymen.
Even where the distribution of medals
IS supplemented and corrected by writ-
ten reports tiie results must be unsatis-
factory, for it is of small moment to the
public that the award has been qualified
or contradicted in a printed document.
The verdict of the medal itself will
be held as the important and decisive
thing. Mr. Beckwith, who has not only
had experience of the old practice,
but has carefully studied its general
workings, points out in his report the
inadequacy of the European jury sys-
tem and the defectiveness of its results.
Profiting by these failures, the Phila-
delphia plan has been organized to
avoid them, and give us more valuable
and trustworthy work.
The first purpose of such a collec-
tion of the products of art,, science, and
industry, as will be displayed in Phila-
delphia, undoubtedly is, that its objects
may be seen and inspected by the pub-
lic ; yet the mere gratification of curi-
osity by staring at new and strange
things is certainly its lowest advantage.
Such exhibitions are only put to their
best and proper use as means of public
education, in which observers become
inquirers, and get a knowledge of the
true qualities and characters of the
things exhibited. The value of the dis-
play will be in proportion to its intelli-
gent appreciation, and the management
of the affair must be judged by the efl3-
ciency and completeness of the means
adopted to instruct the public in re-
gard to it. To this end, the first step
was to get rid of the misguiding and
vicious system of medals, and then to
secure capable men to furnish discrim-
inating and responsible reports. It is
well for the national honor and for
wholesome public influence that the
most efl5cient measures have been taken
to put things for once upon their naked
and sterling merits. The selection of a
hundred'able experts from abroad, with
a hundred more to be furnished by this
country as judges, who are to be paid
their personal expenses, and who are
committed by their reputations to give
honest and competent verdicts on the
intrinsic and comparative merits of ob-
jects exhibited — the reports to be pub-
lished for the use of visitors at the ear-
liest pi'acticable moment — is a measure
on the part of the commissioners at
once so sensible and so just that it
raises some perplexity as to how it has
been brought about. The old method
of proceeding is so rooted in universal
usage, and so congenial with the fierce
competitive spirit of American business,
that we cannot for a moment suppose
it has failed to make its best fight
against this innovation. That it should
have been beaten, and a greatly supe-
rior method adopted by the commis-
sioners, is alike unexpected and a cause
of devout gratitude.
But the policy initiated at Philadel-
phia has a still further significance. It
is not merely a transient expedient in
the tactics of a great show, but it de-
clares a principle of wide and perma-
nent ap])lication in society. Its adop-
tion strikes a blow at the all -prevailing
habit of offering prizes as artificial
stimulants to effort, instead of making
the intrinsic excellence of work and its
intelligent appreciation the true im-
pulse of exertion and enterprise. Com-
petitions are inflamed in all directions
by sordid and selfish temptations, but
it is in education that the system of ex-
trinsic rewards and factitious provoca-
tions is carried to the greatest extent,
and leads to the most mischievous re-
sults. The practice of giving prizes in
schools is vicious as substituting spu-
rious and unworthy motives to exertion,
where the very object is to form the
character by bringing generous and en-
nobling incitements into habitual and
controlling exercise. To beat an an-
tagonist, and win a medal or a purse,
