io8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is a vulgar and sordid inducement to
study, and convicts the school that re-
sorts to it of inefficiency in its legiti-
mate and most essential work. It is,
moreover, an injurious agency in edu-
cation, as it is constantly used to stim-
ulate students in false directions, and
to the excessive cultivation of unim-
portant subjects. Our education is in
a state of chaos in regard to the rela-
tive values of different kinds of knowl-
edge. The waste of time and effort
over comparatively worthless studies is
something quite appalling, and it is
everywhere aggravated by plying schol-
ars with premiums for special attain-
ments. Rich blockheads, with narrow
notions and tenacious crotchets, smit-
ten with the vanity of becoming public
benefactors, go into the schools and
found prizes and medals which set
the students to racing in any direction
which the whim or caprice of the donor
may indicate. This evil is confessed,
and has become so glaring that some
institutions have wisely put a stop to
such interference. But, as it is driven
from the schools, it is taken up by out-
siders, as we have seen in the intercol-
legiate contests that have lately come
into vogue. Against this whole system
the Philadelphia policy, as presented in
Mr. Beckwith's report, is a tacit but
powerful protest. To get things upon
their real merits is a victory anywhere
— to do this upon a great, unprecedent-
ed national occasion is a triumph — but
there is no reason for adopting the prin-
ciple in an exhibition of the products of
manufacture that will not apply with
increasing force to the management of
educational establishments.
JUDGE DALY'S ADDRESS.
It is not easy to deal with the an-
nual presidential addresses of Charles P.
Daly before the Geographical Society.
They are so fresh, readable, and full of
novel and instructive matter, that there
is a temptation to reprint them bodily.
"We have formerly spoiled them by sum-
marizing; this year we publish in full
the introductory portion, in which he
glances at the achievements of geo-
graphical explorers during the third
quarter of the nineteenth century end-
ing in 1875, and shows what the state
of things was at the beginning of that
age, and what it is now. The main
portion of the address, however, is de-
voted to an account of the researches,
discoveries, and geographical work, of
the past year. We are tempted to
make some further use of Judge Daly's
labors, which may incite our readers to
procure the full address and read it
themselves. Beginning with what has
been done in our own country. Presi-
dent Daly suras up the results of the
various exploring expeditions and sur-
veys undertaken or aided by the Gov-
ernment, in the great Western, North-
western, and Southwestern tracts of
the continent. The results are varied
and interesting. In the prehistoric sec-
tion, on the ancient inhabitants of
America, the evidence has been much
extended in regard to the life of the
old race of mound-builders. In refer-
ence to the antiquity of man on this
continent, it is remarked :
" Prof. J. D. Whitney, from the remains
found by him in California, is of the opinion
that man existed there as long ago as the
Tertiary period ; that he was then the maker
of instruments for grinding corn, as well as
other implements of stone, and, as far as the
examination of the imperfect skull which
was found warrants a conclusion, that he
was, at that remote period, the same ana-
tomically that he is now. These discoveries
of Prof. Whitney's go to show that man ex-
isted during the Glacial epoch, which is con-
firmed after seven years' examination of the
deposits in the Victoria Cave, in England,
and by recent discoveries in the inter-glacial
coal-beds of Switzerland. The Glacial epoch
is computed by ilr. Croll, in his recent work,
to have ended about 80,000 years ago ; and
Mr. Croll is not only one of the best au-
thorities, but the one whose estimate of the
time is the lowest."
The work of arctic exploration con-
tinues to be vigorously pushed, and with
promising results. A point of interest
