EDITOR'S TABLE.
Ill
into, seven pi-ovinces ; the religion is Mo-
hammedan, and tlie king, whose power is
arbitrary, is looked upon as a sort of divini-
ty. The king's harem consists of about 500
wives, and all his sons, except the heir to
the throne, are blinded with hot irons, a
duty performed by the king of the smiths,
■who is also the surgeon of the harem. The
people are skillful workers in iron, but given
to the drinking of an intoxicating beer, a
practice wliich great efforts are made to re-
press. Spies are extensively employed for
that purpose, and any man upon whose
premises the forbidden liquor is found is
punished by liaving his wife's head shaved.
The king has an army of 40,000 infantry and
6,000 cavalry, and the country is heavily
taxed for the support of the king and his
expensive government."
Judge Daly quietly compares our
own " best Government on the face of
the earth " with one of these African
goverunients, and finds the compari-
son "not complimentary to our intelli-
gence." Here is the passage :
" The Egyptian Geographical Society,
under the presidency of Dr. G. Schweinfurth,
the distinguished African explorer, was es-
tablished tliis year at Cairo, through the
liberality of the Kiiedive, consisting of 300
members, with an annual income of $'r,000.
A substantial portion of this income is
granted by the Government in view of the
advantages to the nation of the labors of
the Geographical Society, as is the case with
several of the leading Geographical Societies
of Europe. But it would be hard to con-
vince our Government of the utility of aid-
ing, by pecuniary means, our Society, the
only one in this country, when it would not
even incur the expense of sending a com-
missioner to the late great Geographical
Congress at Paris, and to our shame we were
the only civilized nation that was unrepre-
sented in the exposition. It is not compli-
mentary to our intelligence and our cosmo-
politan relations to the world, of which we
form 90 important a part, that we have a
Government that takes no interest in the
advance of civilization, and of the trade,
commerce, and industry of the world at
large, through geographical exploration and
discovery, tlie means by which it has been
chiefly advanced, from the dawn of civiliza-
tion to the present time. It was not the
fault of this Society that our country was
not represented in the exposition, for ear-
nest efforts were made by us as well as by the
French minister, but were met by the reply
that the Congress in Paris was the affair of
a private society, which was not the view
taken by the other civilized nations, who
made liberal grants of money for the success
of an undertaking in which the whole world
was interested. With our limited means,
all that we could do was to send a delega-
tion, as nothing could be received for ex-
hibition except under the charge of a com-
missioner of the government of the country
from which it was sent. If the gentlemen
charged with the administration of our Gov-
ernment read the frequent expressions of
surprise that I have read in the various ac-
counts written of the exposition, at the ab-
sence of any representation from the United
States, they would not, I think, be very
much impressed with the wisdom and policy
of the exceptional position in which they
placed our country and people. This was
not a case in which we could afford to be in-
different, as we do not constitute the whole
world."
THE '"ACADEMY" FOB AMERICANS.
"We had occasion some time ago to
refer to the unscrupulous critical spirit
which animates a London weekly called
the Academy^ a periodical established
and conducted on the principle of bully-
ing itself into notice by copying and
exaggerating the most arbitrary feat-
ures of British journalism. A special
eifort has been made to push the cir-
culation of the Academy in this country,
which makes it proper to point out the
policy it has adopted toward American
as well as English authors. A little
American book on botany was repub-
lished in Loudon, and attacked by the
Academy in the most vicious way. The
criticism was a string of the grossest
misrepresentations, by which the whole
character of the book was falsified and
libeled. Its author happened to be in
London at the time, and wrote a letter
to the editor of the Academy., exposing
the character of its criticism. The
editor refused to print it, and the author
was compelled to seek another channel
to get the true state of the case before
the public. The letter declined by the
Academy was printed by the Examiner.
