1 12
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A similar thing has just been done
again. Max Miiller was allowed to
use the Academy columns to abuse and
misrepresent Prof. Whitney, of Yale
College, in matters of philology. The
American linguist replied to these
assaults in a letter to the Academy^
which again its editor refused to print,
and it found publicity, as before,
through the hospitable pages of the
Examiner. And this diflference of fair-
ness between the two journals goes
along with other differences which will
be of interest to American readers ;
for, while the Academy is character-
ized by the amount of its pedantic rub-
bish and scholarly trumpery, suited to
the learned drones of Oxford and Cam-
bridge, the Examiner addresses itself
more to the hving questions of the
day, and discusses subjects of universal
interest, with an ability and indepen-
dence that may commend it to Ameri-
can readers desiring an English weekly.
LITERARY NOTICES.
The Unsee>j World, and other Essays. By
John Fiske, M. A. LL. B. Pp. 349.
Price 82. J. R. Osgood & Co.
To say that this volume is by the author
of the " Outlines of Cosmic Philosophy "
will be at once to commend it to a large
circle of readers ; but as a series of inter-
esting papers on a wide variety of topics,
scientific, philosophic, artistic, historical,
and critical, it will be commended to many
who have not been attracted to the earlier and
more solid publication. Most of the articles
of the volume wiU be remembered as they
appeared in the periodicals ; admirable in
style, bold in thought, and rich in scholarly
erudition. Mr. Fiske has views of his own
which he works out with freedom, and often
with great beauty and force of statement.
The volume takes its name from the first
two essays, which lately appeared in the
Adantlc Jfonthlif, and were read with inter-
est by many thoughtful people. They start
from the speculations of a recent book en-
titled "The Unseen Universe," which broke
into a somewhat new field of ingenious sci-
entific conjecture, and was read with an
eager but rather perplexed curiosity by
those who are fond of transcendental in-
quiries. This work has been already no-
ticed in the Monthly, and is chiefly impor-
tant as an efibrt by thoroughly disciplined
scientific men to arrive at the conception
of immortality and a realm of future spirit-
ual life from the scientific point of view.
Mr. Fiske is in sympathy with this aspira-
tion, but deals with the problem by his own
methods, and perhaps in an abler way than
the authors who opened the discussion.
We cannot here reproduce his views, which
are only to be understood by a careful pe-
rusal of the essays in which they are pre-
sented.
But, while cordially recommending this
volume as a whole, we must except the re-
view of Draper's " History of the Conflict
between Religion and Science," which we
think somewhat unworthy the author. Mr.
Fiske adopts a deprecatory tone in speak-
ing of Draper's books, which is construed
by the newspapers into contempt — which
jumps with public prejudice, and is quite to
be expected from certain quarters ; but for
which he gives us no satisfactory reasons.
He charges Dr. Draper with superficiality
and mental idiosyncrasy, in not understand-
ing Rome ; in not appreciating Greece ; in
hostihty to the Catholic Church ; in over-
rating semi-barbarous civilizations, "and
above all an undiscriminating admiration
for everything, great or small, that has ever
worn the garb of Islam, or been associated
with the career of the Saracens." But, after
indulging in a little sarcasm at Dr. Draper's
admiration of the " turbaned sage," Mr.
Fiske finds himself compelled to say :
" Speaking briefly with regard to this matter,
we may freely admit that the work done by the
Arabs, in scientific inquiry as well as in the mak-
ing of events, was very consirJerable. It was
a work, too, the value of which is not common-
ly appreciated in the accounts of European his-
tory written for the general reader, and we have
no disposition to find fault with Dr. Draper for
describing it with enthusiasm. The philoBO-
phers of Bagdad and Cordova did excellent ser-
vice in keeping alive the traditions of Greek phys-
ical inquiry at a time when Christian thinkers
were too exclu^ively occupied with transcenden-
tal speculations in theology and logic. In some de-
partments, as in chemistry and astronomy, they
made original discoveries of considerable value ;
and if we turn from abstract knowledge to the
