LITERARY NOTICES.
113
arts of life, it cannot be denied that the medioe-
val Mussulmans had reached a higher plane of
material comfort than their Christian contem-
poraries. In short, the work of all kinds done by
these people would furnish the judicious advo-
cate of the claims of the Semitic race with ma-
terials for a pleasing and instructive picture."
Very well ; these are facts of some im-
portance, but who had brought them out
for public appreciation before Dr. Draper
published his " History of the Intellectual
Development of Europe?" And, although
Mr. Fiske may differ from him in regard to
the historical import of Arabian science, we
fail to see any occasion for the indulgence
of sneering and disparagement.
And now in regard to the " Conflict."
The theologians of all ilks, who have taken
up Dr. Draper's recent book, are agreed that
it is a piece of futility because there is real-
ly no such conflict as that of which he pre-
tends to have given the history. Messrs.
Brownson, Hill, Washburn, Deems, and Co.,
are vehement in asserting the groundless-
ness and absurdity of Dr. Draper's assump-
tion ; and now, as if he had been sitting
under the droppings of the Hippodrome,
Mr. Fiske cordially acquiesces in the ardent
views of these gentlemen. He says of Dr.
Draper : " When he enlarges on the trite
story of Galileo and alludes to the more
modern quarrel between the Church and
geologists, and does this in the belief that
he is thereby illustrating an antagonism be-
tween Religion and Science, it is obvious
that he identifies the cause of the anti-
geologists and the persecutors of Galileo
with the cause of Religion. The word ' re-
ligion ' is to him a symbol which stands for
unenlightened bigotry or narrow-minded un-
willingness to look facts in the face. . . .
It is, nevertheless, a very superficial con-
ception, and no book which is vitiated by
it can have much philosophic value. . . .
Since, then, the scientific innovator does
not, either voluntarily or involuntarily, at-
tack religion, it follows that there can be no
such ' conflict ' as that of which Dr. Draper
has undertaken to write the history. The
real contest is between one phase of science
and another." This will hardly do. Mr.
Fiske says that no book vitiated by this
superficial conception can have much philo-
Bophic value. But, in the " First Principles "
of Herbert Spencer, on page 11, we read :
VOL. IX. — 8
"Of all antagonisms of belief, the oldest,
the widest, the most profound, and the most
important, is that between religion and science.
It commenced when the recognition of the sim-
plest uniiormities in surrounding things set a
limit to the previous universal fetichism. It
shows itself everywhere throughout the domain
of human knowledge, affecting men's interpre-
tations alike of the simplest mechanical acci-
dents and of the most complicated events in the
hii'tories of nations. It has its roots deep down
in the diverse habits of thought of different
orders of minds. And the conflicting concep-
tions of Nature and life which these diverse
habits of thought severally generate, influence
for good or iU the tone of feeling and the daily
conduct. An unceasing battle of opinion like
this, which has been carried on throughout all
ages, under the banners of religion and science,"
etc.
Mr. Spencer, of course, holds to the
posriibility of an ultimate reconciliation be-
tween Religion and Science, but he does not
commit the folly of denying their past and
present antagoni.«m. Dr. Draper has made
no attempt to deal with the philosophy of
the subject, and he is not to be judged by
that standard. Assuming, as Spencer has
done, that it is a fact, and a fact of vast
significance, he is the first to have given us
its history ; and, whatever opinion may be
entertained regarding the manner of its ex-
ecution, he had a valid theme, and deals
with veritable phenomena. And, had his
manner of doing the work been more open
to attack, we should probably have heard a
good deal less about the baselessness of the
antagonism which he has described.
The point of contention is as to what
constitutes religion. Dr. Draper was justi-
fied in taking the term in its current sig-
nificance as comprehending the general doc-
trines and policy of religious organizations.
That sects difi'er, and eat each other up in
their denials of dogmas, was nothing to
him. And, though they should all agree
at last as to what religion is, and discredit
the total affirmations of past theology, the
historical aspects of the case will remain the
same. He was not called upon to settle
sectarian disputes, or to find out that de-
nomination which possesses the true faith.
Mr. Fiske complains of him for not defining
this element of his thesis, and he proceeds
to do it himself, as follows: "All animals
seek for fullness of life ; but in civilized
man this craving has acquired a moral sig-
nificance, and has become a spiritual a.-spira-
