114
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion; and this emotional tendency, more or
less strong in the human race, we call reli-
gious feeling or religion." Admirable ! but
how far accepted ? We hope that the
agreement of Messrs. Brownson, Hill, Wash-
burn, Deems, Fiske, and Co., in denouncing
the groundlessness of the " conflict," will
not be construed as implying any agree-
ment among the parties as to what religion
is. If these gentlemen will get together and
settle the point, an important step will be
gained ; and The Popular Science Monthly
will gladly pay the expenses of a convention
of reasonable length for such a purpose, but
we stipulate not to foot the bills uncil they
reach an agreement.
A Short History of Natitral Science and
OF the Progress of Discovery from the
Time of the Greeks to the Present
Day. For the Use of Schools and Young
Persons. With Illustrations. Pp. 467.
D. Appleton & Co. Price, ยง2.
We called attention recently to the in-
fluence of the Centennial in stimulating the
study of political history, and expressed
the hope that the gathering together of the
products of art, science, and industry, of
all nations, at the Great Exhibition in
PhUadelphia, would have the effect of pro-
moting the historical study of this class
of subjects in American schools. It was
pointed out that this line of literature has
been greatly neglected, and is so backward
that students desiring to attend to it would
be much perplexed to find suitable text-
books for the purpose. An important and
very successful step has, however, been tak-
en to supply this deficiency. The work
now published under the above title, con-
sidering that it is the first attempt to treat
the history of science in a brief and popular
vvay for e tucatibnal purposes, is of very su-
perior merit. We took it up with doubt,
we read it with a growing interest, and cor-
dially recommend it both for general read-
ing and as a school-book. The authoress
has made no scientific discoveries ; and we
question if there are many who have done
so who could make so judicious a compend
of general scientific history as she has done.
But, if she has not made a name as an ex-
plorer, she has been a careful student of
science, and, having been for many years
secretary to the late Sir Charles Lyell, and
brought into contact with many of the
leading scientific men of the day, she had
peculiar opportunities of qualifying her-
self for the task of writing a popular scien-
tific history. Her style is clear and di-
rect, and her power of explanation we think
something quite unusual, while the propor-
tions in which the subjects are treated evince
good artistic judgment in the work of book-
making. Hlustrations are introduced with
discretion, to help the text, and brief bio-
graphical notices are interspersed which
give interest to the course of the narra-
tive, and the exposition of scientific work.
The book is, moreover, essentially ac-
curate and trustworthy ; and executed with
far more faithfulness than is usual in com-
pilations. Miss Buckley's volume ought to
be unhesitatingly and extensively adopted
in our schools, and kept there until super-
seded by a better, which we suspect will
not be very soon. We do not recommend
it to be memorized, or made a matter of
formal recitation, so much as for a reading-
book to be gone over by suitable classes,
with such questions and suggestions as an
intelligent teacher can impart. So used,
its influence in schools cannot be otherwise
than valuable.
Diseases of Modern Life. By B. W.
Richardson, M. D., F. R. S. Pp. 520.
New York : D. Appleton & Co. Price,
S2.
We have already given some excerpts
from advance-sheets of this book, which is
just issued. Dr. Richardson was led to the
treatment of the subject by having first
given special attention to the diseases of
overworked men. He printed some essays
on this topic, and followed them by others
on diseases induced by various occupations
and by indulgence in the use of alcohol
and tobacco. These articles, having under-
gone revision and considerable extension,
make up the present volume. The author
carefully abstains from infringing upon
the proper art of curing disease which be-
longs to the medical practitioner, and con-
fines himself mainly to the symptoms and
causes of modern maladies, and to hints
toward their prevention. While the book
will not be without value to physicians, it
is carefully adapted to the wants and capa-
city of general readers. We have simply
