LITERARY NOTICES.
115
to say that tliis volume is, in a high degree,
both interesting and useful. It presents in
a pleasant form, and with pointed applica-
tions, the sort of information that should
be most widely distributed, and abounds in
facts and suggestions of importance that
cannot be readily obtained elsewhere.
Floral Decorations for the Dwelling-
HousE. A Practical Guide to the Home
Arrangement of Plants and Flowers.
By Annie Hassaed. American edition,
revised. With many Illustrations. Pp.
166. New York : Macmillan & Co.
Price, $1.60.
This little book, written by a person
who evidently understands fully the art of
floral decoration, will be found helpfully
suggestive to all those who wish to make
flowers accessory to the attractiveness of
their homes.
The author aims, by both illustration
and statement, to render the principles un-
derlying her art so plain that any woman
may tastefully and successfully decorate her
table, adorn her drawing-room, and in some
sense, by the use of plants around her win-
dows and balconies, bring to the interior of
home not only the beauty but the simple
delights of the external garden. The whole
subject of table-decoration, including forms
of stands and vases, the arrangement of
fruit and flowers, the adjustment of these
to the light, materials and means for keep-
ing flowers fresh, as well as window-gar-
dening, hanging baskets, grouping of plants,
wreaths, crosses, and even button-hole bou-
quets, find very instructive treatment in this
little volume. It is shown how the simplest
available materials — ferns, grasses, autumn
leaves — no less than the richest products of
the florist's art, may serve, in the hands of
the skillful manipulator, to produce most
graceful effects.
The chromatic principles of grouping
are indicated in the following extract :
"In producing harmonions contrasts of col-
ors, it should be remembered that there are only
three primary colors— red, blue, and yellow.
From the?e arise what are called the binary or
secondary colors, namely, orange, composed of
yellow and red ; purple, composed of blue and
red; and green, composed of yellow and blue.
These form contrasting colors to the primary
three with which they are in harmonious oppo-
sition, as the orange with bine, purple with yel-
low, and green with red. I<'rom the combina-
tion with these secondary colors arise three
tertiary colors — olive, from purple and green ;
citron, from green and orange ; and russet,
from orange and purple. These tertiary colors
harmonize with the primaries, as they stand in
the relation of neutral tints to them, but are in
harmonious opposition to the secondaries from
which they are combined. Red, blue, and yel-
low, harmonize with each other, and they may
be placed in juxtaposition, but purple should
not be near red or blue, as it is composed of
these two colors, the rule being that no primary
color should be brought into contact with a
secondary of which itself is a component part ;
nor any secondary color brought into contact
with a tertiary color of which it is a component
part."
Memoir and Correspondence of Caroline
Herschel. By Mrs. John Herschel.
With Portraits. Pp. 355. New York :
D. Appleton & Co. Price, $1.75.
This is one of the most fresh and charm-
ing volumes that has come from the press
in many a day. It is of such unique and
special attraction that we have drawn upon
it for the materials of two articles in the
Monthly, which cannot fail to incite the
reader to desire the perusal of the whole
book. And it will amply repay the most
careful reading. Aside from the interest
at every step in the life of the remarkable
woman who tells her own story in such a
vivid and racy way, this biography will
have permanent value as connected with
the rise of modern sidereal astronomy, and
as throwing light upon the characteristics
of an illustrious scientific family. Tele-
scopes, new planets, comets, double stars,
and nebulae, are always attractive things to
read about, but what engages us most in-
tently with these pages is that they overflow
with human nature from beginning to end.
Analytical Processes ; or, The Primary
Principle of Philosophy. By Wil-
liam I. Gill, A. M. Pp. 483. New
York : The Authors' Publishing Com-
pany. Price, $2.
The author of this book made his mark
as an acute and independent thinker by
the publication, a year or two since, of a
volume called " Evolution and Progress."
The present volume is the first of a series,
each complete in itself, in which a fresh at-
tempt will be made to construct a philoso-
phy. No intimation is given as to what
will be its character, the present book be-
ing occupied entirely with the foundation,
