ii6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and with only one element of that — the pri-
mary princifjle of all reasoning. This prin-
ciple the author finds in the law of non-
contradiction, which simply says to system-
makers, " Be consistent. Or do not contradict
yourselves." Obvious as this principle is,
we are told that in all ages it has been ac-
cepted or rejected alternately according to
the exigencies of philosophical speculation,
having been nullified by theologians and
philosophers from Augustine to Kant. It
therefore needs reelucidation, to which Mr.
Gill has devoted his volume. The book
gives abundant scope for the exercise of
philosophical genius, in which its author is
not wanting. Our most eminent metaphysi-
cians, as Drs. McCosh and Anderson, recog-
nize his strong claims as a thinker, and we
have no doubt his volume will attract the
attention of serious students, and prove a
valuable addition to American philosophi-
cal literature.
Military Map of the Isdias Territory.
Compiled by First - Lieutenant E. H.
RcFFSER, of the Engineers.
This valuable map, the preparation of
which has occupied Lieutenant RufFner and
Mr. Ado Hunnius, draughtsman and en-
graver, for some three years, is based on
Crovernment and railroad surveys, previous-
ly-pubUshed maps, military surveys aud
reconnoi.?sances, etc. The scale is made
large enough for marching-purposes, and
the topographical details are such as are
needed in directing military movements.
The task of compiling such a map as this
of the Indian Territory is one that involves
an enormous amount of labor, and it ap-
pears to have been performed with consci-
entious fidelity by Lieutenant Rufiher. The
draughtsman's work is also deserving of
great credit. The map is on the scale of
1 : 500,000.
We have received the initial number of
The Home Scientist, published at Wads-
worth, Ohio. The Honu Scientist is a month-
ly, eight-page journal, in quarto, devoted to
the diffusion of popular scientific knowledge.
This first number, both in its original and
in its selected matter, shows evidence of
competent editorship. We wish it success.
J. A. Clark, publisher. Terms, $1 per an-
num.
The Polytechnic Review. — We have
received from the publishers the first num-
ber of a monthly periodical bearing the
above title. In form it is a large quarto of
twelve pages, tastefully printed on fine pa-
per. The Review is designed to chronicle
and illustrate the progress of science as ap-
plied to the useful arts, such as engineering
in all its branches — civil, mechanical, naval,
military, and sanitary; gas and water sup-
ply, and sewerage; chemical technology,
with particular reference to mining, metal-
lurgy, and manufacturing chemical indus-
tries ; manufactures in general, and the me-
chanic arts. That the Polytechnic Jieview
will be conducted with energy and ability,
the names of the editors, William H. Wall,
Ph. D., and Robert Grimshaw, Ph. D., are a
sufficient guarantee. Philadelphia: Pub-
lished by the editors, 119 South Fourth
Street. *3 per annum.
PUBLICATIONS EECEIVED.
Geological Survey of Alabama. Report
of Progress for 1875. By Eugene A. Smith,
Ph.D. Montgomery, Alabama, 1876. Pp.
212.
Memoirs of the Peabody Academy of
Science, vol. i.. No. iv. Fresh-Water Shell
Mounds of the St. John's River, Florida.
By JefiFries Wyman, Salem, Massachusetts.
Pp. 87.
Statistics of Births, Marriages, and
Deaths, in the City of Philadelphia for the
Year 1874. Compiled by William H. Ford,
M. D. PhUadelphia, 1875. Pp. 133.
Experiments with the Alleged New
Force. By George M. Beard, A. M., M. D.,
New York, 1876. Pp. 28.
Report of the Health-Officer of the City
of Oakland, California, 1875. By George E.
Sherman, M. D. Oakland, 1876. Pp. 32.
Reports of the Trustees and Superin-
tendent of the Butler Hospital for the In-
sane, Providence, 1876. Pp. 37.
Immobility or Closure of the Jaw, with
Report of Cases. By W. F. Westmoreland,
M. D. Atlanta, Georgia, 1875. Pp. 10.
The Public-School Question as under-
derstood by a Catholic-American Citizen
