ii8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
atmospheric conditions. If we now trans-
fer the instrument to a room in the house
which has been closed for a few hours and
without artificial heating, we find the in-
ternal conditions. If the dry thermometer
is lowered, we may conclude that the walls
are cold, and so absorb heat. If the differ-
ence between the wet and dry bulbs is
lessened, we know the evaporation condi-
tions are lessened ; that is, that the internal
atmosphere is overcharged with moisture.
The two together will prove that the walls
are damp, and that the house is disadvan-
tageous to health.
New Tanning ProcesSt — An exhibition
was recently given at Havre, France, of
Montoison's process of tanning. A variety
of skins were experimented on, from the
fresh skin of a calf, to tbe old skins of sheep
and goats burnt and hardened by a tropi-
cal sun ; more time of course was required
to unhair the latter than the former. The
skins were first soaked in hot water, then
they received two coats of a pasty liquid on
the inside, and were piled up, inside to inside,
to undergo the action of the composition.
After the skins had been soaked for a short
time, the wool and hair came from them ab-
solutely intact. The manner in which the
wool came away from the skin by a touch
of the hand created considerable astonish-
ment in the minds of those who witnessed
the experiments. In a few seconds the
skins were dipped in two special baths to
neutralize the unhairing composition, and
the afternoon was devoted to tanning ex-
periments, which proved the invention to be
a complete success. Experienced tanners,
who were present, declared the leather pro-
duced to be, to all appearance, fully equal to
that produced by the tedious methods in
common use.
The Economy of Vegetarianism. — A writ-
er in the Quarterly Journal of Science va.2i^es
a trenchant criticism of the arguments usu-
ally employed by vegetarians in support of
their system of diet. The author considers
the question from the economic, the moral,
and the hygienic points of view, but we have
not space to give more than an epitome of his
remarks on the first of these topics. One
hundred acres of good land, say the vegeta-
rians, will support a greater amount of hu-
man life if planted with wheat, potatoes, or
other crops directly consumed by man, than
if laid out in pasture or set with vegetables
intended for the food of cattle. This is
true, but all land is not good; in every
country there is abundance of land that is
unfit for tillage, and which, nevertheless,
yields excellent pasture. Under a vegeta-
rian regime such lands would cease to sup-
ply the food-market. So too the produce of
the forest and moor — game — would cease.
More serious still, the waters would no lon-
ger contribute their share. It might be said
that poor lands could still be used for past-
ure, and the produce of flocks and herds
(wool, butter, cheese, milk) utilized. But if
the grazer cannot sell the meat, it would
be unprofitable to keep animals, unless he
could get, for the products above named,
prices a hundredfold higher than he gets
now. Besides, the use of milk, butter, and
cheese, is inconsistent with vegetarian prin-
ciples. In a strictly vegetarian country, tal-
low, hides, and hair, could scarcely be pro-
cured. Again, the refuse of the fisheries is
rising into importance as a manure fully
equal to Peruvian guano. But, if fish might
no longer be captured, the supply of this
fertilizer would be cut off, unless indeed the
destruction of animal life for purposes other
than food received an exceptional sanction.
Even then the cost of the raw material
would be greatly enhanced.
incient American Civilization. — In the
" Congress of Americanists," held last July
at Nancy, France, a very learned paper was
read by Prof. Foucaux, of the College de
France, in favor of the theory that the an-
cient civilization of America is the work of
Buddhist missionaries. The theory was
hotly attacked by several of the distin-
guished men present, among them by Fried-
rich von Hellwald. The latter compared
the story of Huei-shen to that of the sea-
serpent. Dr. Hellwald is of the opinion
that this theory received its death-blow at
the Congress. Two other theories were
also very badly damaged, namely, those of a
lost continent of Atlantis and of Phcenician
settlements in America. M. Leonde Rosny
delivered a masterly address on the Maya
hieroglyphics. The Maya was the sacred
