MISCELLANY.
121
vating the soil. No flint or stone imple-
ments are to be found among them, and
they produce a flame by rubbing two sticks
together. Their intellectual capacity is so
small, that they are unable to count or to
discriminate colors. They are almost des-
titute of the religious sentiment, as well as
of an appreciation of personal cleanliness,
for they habitually eschew ablutions. They
abhor theft and lying. But, perhaps the
most remarkable trait in the character of
the Weddas is the apparent absence of a
faculty which is held to be peculiar to the
human race — that of laughter. It is stated
that they regard the expression of mirth by
others with surprise and disgust, and that
no Wedda has ever been known to laugh.
Lettuce as Food for Silkworms. — A writ-
er in Das Ausland states that, in the sum-
mer of 1873, a few silkworms, belonging to
his children, were fed with lettuce for some
time after being hatched, mulberry-leaves
not being obtainable. The caterpillars ate
the lettuce ravenously, but, when they were
about half-grown, a supply of mulberry-
leaves was procured, and this constituted
their food for the rest of the season. The
moths in due time spun their cocoons as
usual, and the next spring the author him-
self determined to feed the silkworms only
on lettuce. The young brood devoured the
lettuce in great quantities, care being taken
to leave no moisture on the surface of the
leaves. The insects grew and went through
their metamorphoses in the usual manner ;
a few only died, and they from carelessness
in not wiping the leaves dry. The cocoons
were of good quality, and the author intend-
ed to exhibit some of them at the Eoyal
Agricultural Hall in Stuttgart. Time alone
can determine whether silkworms will de-
generate on being fed on lettuce. How-
ever this may be, the subject is one that is
worthy of investigation.
Dredging for Amber. — According to an
oflBcial report from Memel, Germany, an es-
tablishment has been organized for obtain-
ing amber by dredging in the Kurische HaflT,
near the village of Schwarzorts, situated
about twelve miles south of Memel. It has
been known for many years that amber ex-
isted in the soil of this place, from the fact
that the dredger employed by the Govern-
ment for clearing away the shallow spots
near Schwarzorts, which impeded naviga-
tion, brought up pieces of amber, which
were duly appropriated by the workmen,
and at the time no particular attention was
paid to the matter. Some time afterward,
however, some speculators associated, and
made an ofi"er to the Government not only
to do the dredging wherever required at
their own expense, but to pay a daily rent,
provided the amber which they might find
should become their property. This pro-
posal was accepted, and the rent fixed at 15
thalers, and later at 25 thalers, for each
working day. The dredging was begun
with four machines worked by men, and
one worked by horses. Judging from the
extended business transactions in this mat-
ter, its results must have been extremely
profitable. At present, the work is carried
on with eighteen steam-dredges and two
tug-boats, the whole managed by about
1,000 laborers.
Temperature of Germination. — It is gen-
erally supposed that the seeds of plants do
not germinate at a temperature lower than
4° or 5° Cent, (40° Fahr.), but certain experi-
ments made by Uloth, and published in the
German botanical magazine. Flora, would
seem to show that this opinion is erroneous.
In Dr, Uloth's experiments the seeds of
Acer platanoides and of Triticum germi-
nated at a temperature not exceeding zero
C. (32° Fahr.), In the winters of 187l-'72
and 18'72-'Y3, he made the following experi-
ments : He took two boxes and in each had
a certain depth of water frozen into a block
of ice. In these blocks he made furrows four
millimetres deep, in which he sowed seeds
of various plants, which were the same for
the two boxes. He now covered the boxes
with a plate of ice, and stored them away
in two separate ice-houses. He then partly
filled two boxes with soil, in which he sowed
the same kinds of seeds. These boxes he
also covered with plates of ice, and stored
them in the same ice-houses with the others.
Care was taken ,to have a good thickness of
ice (over four feet) surrounding the boxes on
every side, so as to provide against any
elevation of the temperature. The boxes
were placed in the ice-houses in January,
