122
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
1872, at a temperature of —8° C, and they
were taken out on May 15th. In 1873, they
were placed in the ice-houses in February,
the temperature being— 5° C, examined on
March 25th, and removed on May 15th. The
kinds of seed sown were twenty-five in num-
ber. On March 25th, four had germinated,
viz., Lepidiura rnderale, L. sativum, Sinapis
alba and Brassica napics, all Cruciferae. On
May 15th, besides the foregoing, the follow-
ing seeds had germinated : Arahis alpina,
u&hionema saxatile, Brassica nigra, Fetro-
selinum sativum. Cannabis saliva, Ervum
lens, Pisum sativum, Avena sativa, Secale
cereale, Hordeum vulgare, Tnticum vulgare.
Hence it appears that the seed of Cru-
ci ferae and of Gramineae freely germinate at
the temperature of zero C. Of the seeds
named above, about an equal number ger-
minated in ice and in earth. The radicles
had penetrated the blocks of ice. Those
Beeds which had not germinated lay rotten
on the surface of the ice or of the soiL
Transformatiott of Spceiest — An instance
of transformation of species is recoided as
follows in the Zeitschrift fiir \Vissens:haft-
liche Zoologie. There are some salt-marshes
near Odessa, which in 1871 contained num-
bers of Artemia salina, a minute crusta-
cean, also known as the brine-worm. At
that time, owing to the rupture of a dike,
the quantity of salt in the pond was very
small, the water marking 8° in the Baume
areometer. The dikes were repaired, and
concentration then proceeded rapidly until,
in September, 1875, the water marked 25°.
As the salt was increased the Artemia sa-
lina was modified from generation to gen-
eration, so that, by the end of 1874, several
individuals had no caudal lobes {see figure
of A. salina in No. 20 of the Monthly,
December, 1873), and they presented all
the specific characters of Artemia Mulhau-
seni. The changes observed from year to
year are minutely described. They appeared
especially in the caudal part, and were ac-
companied by diminution of size. These
observations were confirmed by experi-
ments made on Artemia kept in water of
various degrees of softness. In the inverse
experiment from a greater to a less soft-
ness, A. Mulhauseni returned to the form
of A. salina. As the saltness increased or
decreased, there was an increase of dimi-
nution of the surfaces of the bronchiae. The
writer of the article further gives reasons
for thinking that the genus Artemia is
only a degi'aded form of Bronchipus, de-
graded through the influence of the me-
dium.
Clothing the Young. — " Hygiene ot
Dress " is the subject of a series of articles in
the Sardtary Record. The author's remarks
concerning the proper clothing of infants
and children are judicious. " Warmth,"
he says, "is the first requisite for infants,
who are very susceptible to cold. The
clothing of the infant should be both light
and warm. Its purpose is to protect the
infant from chills, or rather to prevent too
great a loss of heat. It should be ample
enough to prevent any pressure on the
blood-vessels, which would impede the cir-
culation and hinder the free development
of the members. It should be especially
easy over the chest, in order to insure the
free play of the lungs and heart, and should
be equally ample around the stomach and
the intestines, in order not to interfere
with digestion. The sleeves should be
wide, in order that the garment may be
easily put on, and to favor the circulation
of the blood in the arteries and veins of the
arms and legs. The robe should be long
enough to preserve the infant from cold,
but not so long as to be a burden. The
head should not be covered. A cap often
tends to favor congestions ; sometimes, too,
it compresses the head, and certain cere-
bral affections have been, apparently with
good reason, referred to this cause alone.
An Automatic Light-Registering 3Iafhine.
— Mr. Crookes has made an ingenious appli-
cation of his radiometer to meteorological
purposes. In our present meteorological rec-
ords we note variations in heat, rainfall, at-
mospheric pressure, etc., but light, the most
important influence, has been neglected hith-
erto, for the want of a machine for automati-
cally registering its variations. Mr. Crookes
has arranged the arms of his radiometer so
that they carry round a small magnet sus-
pended beneath them. The amount of light
falling on the pith-balls at the extremities of
the radiometer arms determines the rate
