2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
them is implied by tlie maintenance, for generations and centuries,
of a general likeness of arrangement throughout the area occupied.
And it is this trait which yields our idea of a society. For, with-
holding the name from an ever-changing cluster such as primitive
men form, we apply it only where some constancy in the distribution
of parts has resulted from settled life.
But now, regarding a society as a thing, what kind of a thing must
we call it ? It seems totally unlike every object with which our
senses acquaint us. Any likeness it may possibly have to other ob-
jects cannot be manifest to perception, but can be discerned only by
reason. If the constant relations among its parts make it an entity,
the question arises whether these constant relations among its parts
are akin to the constant relations among the parts of other entities.
Between a society and anything else, the only conceivable resem-
blance must be one due to paraUelisrri of 'principle in the arrange-
metit of components.
There are two great classes of aggregates with which the social
aggregate may be compared — the inorganic and the organic. Are
the attributes of a society, considered apart from its living units, in
any way like those of a not-living body ? or are they in any way like
those of a living body ? or are they entirely unlike those of both ?
The first of these questions needs only to be asked to be answered
in the negative. A whole of which the parts are alive cannot, in its
general characters, be like lifeless wholes. The second question, not
to be thus promptly answered, is to be answered in the affirmative.
The reasons for asserting that the permanent relations among the
parts of a society are analogous to the permanent relations among
the parts of a living body, we have now to consider.
When we say that growth is common to social aggregates and
organic aggregates, we do not thus entirely exclude community with
inorganic aggregates : some of these, as crystals, grow in a visible
manner; and all of them, on the hypothesis of evolution, are con-
cluded to have arisen by integration at some time or other. Never-
theless, compared with things we call inanimate, living bodies and
societies so conspicuously exhibit augmentation of mass that we may
fairly regard this as characteristic of them both.* Many organisms
grow throughout their lives, and the rest grow throughout considera-
ble parts of their lives. Social growth usually continues either up to
times when the societies divide, or up to times when they are over-
whelmed.
Here, then, is the first trait by which societies ally themselves with
the organic world, and substantially distinguish themselves from the
inorganic world.
It is also a character of social bodies, as of living bodies, that
while they increase in size they increase in structure. A low animal,
or the embryo of a high one, has few distinguishable parts; but along
