MISCELLANY.
123
of rotation. Near the magnet, attached
to the rotating arms, is suspended another
magnet, which oscillates as the attached
magnet presents alternately its north and
south poles. This oscillation makes and
breaks an electric circuit, which, by a wire
of any required length, is connected with
a recording Morse machine moved by
clockwork. Each revolution of the rotat-
ing pith-balls is thus recorded by a punch
of the Morse on a strip of paper, and so a
register is kept of the amount of light fall-
ing at any place.
A Monntain of Granite.— The "Stone
Mountain " of De Kalb County, Georgia, is
described in the American Journal of Sci-
ence by Mr. E. Hillyer. It is a solid, bald
mass of granite, from 1,500 to 2,000 feet
in height. The northeast side is perpen-
dicular, unbroken, and smooth ; the north-
west side is inclined so as to be of easy
ascent ; while the west and southwest are
so steep as to be barely accessible. On the
inclined surface the rock breaks off in lay-
ers, a few inches to several feet thick,
which structure may be due to shrinking in
cooling, and to atmospheric influences, to-
gether with solar heat. The rock is per-
fectly homogeneous, with no trace of strati-
fication — a pure whitish granite. There is
no doubt that below the surface lamination
a piece could be quarried out a quarter of
a mile in length, if man could command
the means. This granite exists over a wide
region of country, and is much used for
building-purposes.
Rattlesnakes and their Bites. — In the
course of some notes on the rattlesnake,
published in Forest and Stream, Dr. J. W.
Bailey, of Albany, asserts that this serpent
is the most sluggish of the snake family.
It never strikes unless in self-defense, ex-
cepting just before and after its winter
sleep. Of course, the rattlesnake's idea of
self-defense is rather broad. Thus, if a
person step upon it by the purest accident
the snake will make no allowance, but
strikes the intruder on the spot. To strike,
however, it mtist be in close coil, with its
head erect. It is capable of springing only
a little more than half its length, unless it
be lying on an inclined plane; then, by
supporting itself entirely on its tail, it can
spring much farther. Hogs attack the rat-
tlesnake with impunity, the effect of the
poison being probably neutralized by a thick
layer of adipose tissue. Dr. Bailey is able
to contradict, from his own experience, the
statement that serpents do not move about
at night ; he has often, when riding by moon-
light seen them gliding through the grass.
The author says that, when the venom of a
serpent has entered the circulation, all rem-
edies are unavailing. He has seen a freshly-
killed chicken split open and applied to the
wound, with good results. In such cases
the flesh of the chicken turns green and pu-
trid where it comes in contact with the vi-
rus. The most certain remedy, however, is
whiskey or brandy used in large quantities
— say a quart — immediately. Intoxication
is not exhibited until the poison has been
counteracted. Sweet-oil, taken in doses of
several ounces, is also efl'ectual. Sports-
men camping in Texas are accustomed, af-
ter pitching their tent, to stretch around it
a hair lariat. The short hairs irritate the
snake's belly as he attempts to cross the
lariat, and he retreats.
Canse of Monstrosities. — In the course
of a discussion of the subject of " monstros-
ities," in the Detroit Academy of Medicine,
Prof. Armor, of the Long Island Medical
College, who was present, presented some
ingenious views, which may be briefly stated
as follows : Monstrosity is commonly re-
ferred to " arrest of development " or to
" abnormal development." But what is the
true cause ? Prof. Armor answers : 1.
Something deficient or abnormal in the gen-
erative matter from which the foetus is de-
veloped. This generative matter he looked
upon as representative ; there is not a tis-
sue, structure, or form, that is not repre-
sented in it, so that deviation from the
normal type may be impressed at the very
instant of conception. The next point was
the faithful transmission of acquired struct-
ural peculiarities, when once fully estab-
lished. Finally, it was suggested that the
discussion of this subject bears directly
upon the great question of evolution : the
strongest and fittest survive ; weak parts
of the organism atrophy and die — they
cease to be seminally represented, 2. The
