124
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
next cause of moustrosities mentioned was
such as operated directly on the foetus
in utero. The generative matter may be
perfect and fully representative, but certain
morbid influences may act directly on the
foetus. Dr. Armor instanced the experi-
ments made in producing malformations by
submitting hens' eggs to various mechani-
cal influences during incubation. In con-
clusion, he held that all causes of malforma-
tion would come under one of two heads :
They are either generative or mechanical —
sometimes one operating, sometimes the
other, sometimes both.
Habitat of the Crocodile. — Till recently
the two American species of crocodile, de-
scribed by Cuvier, have been supposed to
be confined to South America and the West
Indies. In 1870 Prof. Wyman identified a
skull from Florida as belonging to Cuvier's
species, Crocodilus acutus. Mr. William T.
Hornaday now describes in the American
Naturalist two specimens — male and female
— of the Crocodilus acutus which he cap-
tured last year in the vicinity of Biscayne
Bay, on the southeast coast of Florida.
The male was fourteen feet in length, and
his girth at a point midway between fore
and hind legs was five feet two inches. His
teeth were large and blunt ; his head rugose
and knotty, with armor-plates very large
and rough. Ou dissection it was found
that during life he had sustained serious
bodily injuries, probably in battle. Three
of his teeth were shattered ; the tibia and
fibula of the right hind-leg had been broken
in the middle and again united, also one of
the metatarsal bones of the same limb;
the tail had been docked, and two of the
vertebrae had grown together solidly.
The female measured ten feet eight inch-
es. Her head was regular in outline,
comparatively smooth, with white, regular,
and sharp plates, even in surface and con-
tour, and colors very marked. The entire
under-surface of both specimens was pale-
yellow, shading gradually darker up the
sides with fine irregular streaks and spots
of black. The general appearance of the
female was decidedly yellowish, while the
back and tail of the male showed an almost
entire absence of yellow, the prevailing
color being a leaden, lustreless black.
While in Florida the author saw the skulls
or other remains of three other crocodiles.
He observes that all the specimens were
taken in water that is brackish about half
the time.
Eflfects of Strain on the Magnetism of
Soft Iron. — The following account of exper-
iments made by Sir William Thomson, with
a view to ascertain the efiects of stress up-
on the magnetism of soft iron, we take from
the Telegraphic Journal. Wires of steel
and of soft iron, about twenty feet long,
were suspended from the roof of the physi-
cal laboratory of Glasgow University. An
electro-magnetic helix was placed around a
few inches of each of the wires, so that the
latter could be magnetized when an electric
current was passed through the foimer, the
induced current thus produced in a second
helix outside the first being indicated by a
second galvanometer. With steel wire, the
magnetism diminished when weights were
attached to the wire, and increased when
they were taken ofi"; but with " special "
soft-iron wire (wire almost as soft as lead),
the magnetism was increased when weights
were put on, and diminished when they
were taken off. Afterward he discarded
the electrical apparatus ; and, by suspend-
ing a piece of soft wire near the magnet-
ometer, consisting of a needle a small frac-
tion of a grain in weight, with a reflecting
mirror attached, the wire was magnetized
inductively, simply by the magnetism of the
earth, and changes in its magnetism were
made by applying weights and strains, the
changes being then indicated by the mag-
netometer.
The Origin of Astronomy. — Like that
of many other sciences and arts, the origin
of astronomy has been ascribed to various
nations of antiquity, and it is very doubtful
if any one of these can lay exclusive claim
to the credit of having been its founder.
The succession of day and night and of the
seasons, the phases of the moon, and the
motions of the heavenly bodies, must have
enlisted the attention of man from the ear-
liest times and in every clime. The result
would naturally be a more or less perfect
system of astronomy. Some nations, no
doubt, from one cause or another, culti-
