MISCELLANY.
125
vated this science with more success than
others, and among these the Assyrians,
Babylonians, or Chaldeans, are preeminent.
The records of their observations were
adopted by the Greeks, and through the
latter were transmitted to the Romans.
Thus our modern astronomy is really trace-
able back to the plains of Babylonia. The
question arises, Of what race were the
founders of Chaldean astronomy ? This
subject is considered by A. H. Sayce, who,
in a communication to Nature, says that
they were not Semites, but a people who
are now generally termed Accadians, and
wfio spoke an agglutinative language.
" They had come from the mountains of
Elam or Susiana, on the east, bringing with
them the rudiments of writing and civiliza-
tion. They found a cognate race already
settled in Chaldea, and in conjunction with
the latter they built the great cities of
Babylonia; whose ruins still attest their
power and antiquity. Somewhere between
3000 and 4000 b. c, the Semites entered
the country from the east, and gradually
contrived to conquer the whole of it. It is
probable the conquest was completed about
2000 B. c. At all events Accadian became
a dead language some two or three centu-
ries later, but, as the Semitic invaders owed
almost all the civilization they possessed to
their more polished predecessors, it re-
mained the language of literature, like Latin
in the middle ages, down to the last days
of the Assyrian Empire."
Sounds prodnced by blowing into a
Flanie> — Some noteworthy observations
have been made by Deoharme on the pro-
duction of sounds by blowing into a flame
through a tube. He is of opinion that the
air acts rather chemically than mechani-
cally. The sounds, according to him, result
from small explosions by the combination
of the oxygen of the air with the hydrogen
or carbon of the flame, in imperfect com-
bustion. For the sound to occur, the pres-
ence of air, or of an inert gas mixed with
oxygen, seems necessary. In one of M.
Decharrae's experiments the white flame
from a Bunsen burner, with the lateral
apertures closed, gave a very strong sound
when blown into with a tube ; whereas the
blue flame, produced when the apertures
are open, gave a very weak one, or none at
all. Carbonic acid alone, or nitrogen, or
oxygen, or chlorine, blown into a flame of
illuminating gas, gave little or no sound ;
protoxide of nitrogen gave a sound that
was weak, but more acute than that ob-
tained from air.
Exploration of Victoria Cave. — Dr. Tidde-
man read a report on the exploration of
the Victoria Cave, Settle, during the year
ISYi-'VS. The report assigns to the pre-
glacial or the glacial age the lower deposits
of this cave, which contain early Pleisto-
cene animal remains associated with a hu-
man fibula. The animal bones were nearly
all mere fragments, though one was perfect ;
they represent bears, oxen, deer, goats or
sheep, elephants, swans, etc. Attention was
called in the report to the great distance of
time which separated that age from our own.
In the cave Roman times were separated
from our own day by deposits sometimes
less than a foot thick, but nowhere by more
than two feet of talus, the chips which time
detached from the cliffs above. The Neo-
lithic age, which antiquaries knew was a
considerable time before the Roman occu-
pation, is represented in some places at a
depth of four or five feet beneath the Ro-
man layer, but at others it runs into it. Then
come nine feet of talus without a record of
any living thing. Judging by tlie shallow-
ness of the Roman layer, this must repre-
sent an enormous interval of time. Next
come the bowlders, the inscribed records
of the Glacial period. They must repre-
sent a long series of climatic changes dur-
ing which the ice was waxing and waning,
advancing and moving back over the mouth
of the cave. Then there is a break in the
continuity of the deposits, the bowlders ly-
ing on the edges of the older beds, which
shows that time was given for changes to
take place to allow the district to cool down
from a warmth suitable to the hippopota-
mus and become a fitting pasture for the
reindeer. It was in that warm period that
the man lived and died whose fibula oceurs
among the bones in the cave.
Methods of preserving Fresh Meat. — So
numerous are the processes devised in mod-
ern times for the preservation of food, that
