126
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a simple catalogue of them would occupy
several pages of this magazine. In so far
as the preservation of vegetables and of cer-
tain fruits is concerned a very fair measure
of success has undoubtedly been achieved ;
but with flesh-meat the case is different.
We propose to describe here a few of the
chief methods adopted for preserving meats,
following for the most part a writer upon
this subject in the Journal of the Society of
Arts. These methods may all be reduced
under the four heads of Desiccation, Re-
frigeration, Use of Chemical Antiseptics,
and Application of Heat. Desiccation or
drying has been practised from the earliest
times. Charqui, or jerked beef, is an ex-
ample of fairly successful preservation, but
it is immensely inferior to fresh meat. Some
years ago the food committee of the Lon-
don Society of Arts reported favorably
upon some specimens of "powdered beef"
from Queensland; but the article has been
unable to win its way to public favor. The
reason of this no doubt is, that animal mat-
ter preserved by desiccation loses its flavor
and becomes tough and indigestible, the
fat becomes rancid, and in damp weather
the whole turns mouldy and sour. These
difficulties are to some extent obviated by
mixing absorbent substances with fatty
food, as in "pemmican," where sugar and
spice are mixed with dry powdered meat.
Meat-biscuit is made on a similar principle.
Tellier, of Paris, adopts the following meth-
od : He first exhausts the air from a close
vessel containing the meat, then fills it with
carbonic-acid gas, again exhausts and again
fills with the same gas. In this way the air
is almost entirely removed. He then ab-
sorbs the carbonic acid by the use of a con-
centrated solution of potash, by which a
very near approach to a vacuum is produced.
The meat is removed from the vessel after
three days, and may be kept sound without
further trouble, but it will have lost 20 per
cent, of its weight.
The keeping of meat by refrigeration is
practised on a small scale in every house-
hold. The same thing was done on a large
scale at Melbourne in IS'72, when a large
quantity of meat was kept for six weeks
perfectly fresh in an ice-chamber. In the
following year an attempt was made to ship
from AustraUa to England meat kept fresh
by the same method, but the experiment
failed. Better success has attended later
shipments of meat from Canada to London,
and from Texas to New Orleans. The prog-
ress made in ice-making machines is such
as to inspire great hopes of success in pre-
serving meat by cold.
Among chemical antiseptics common salt
of course holds a place. Many patents have
been taken out for the employment of
sulphur-fumes (sulphurous acid). Bisul-
phite of lime is very efficacious for the tem-
porary preservation of meat, and has been
practically tested with favorable results.
Our readers need not be reminded of what
is claimed for salicylic acid. Among other
chemical agents employed for this purpose
we may mention acetate of potash and chlo-
ralum.
The expulsion of atmospheric air from
vessels containing meat, by means of heat,
is certainly the most successful method of
preservation yet adopted. Many difficult
processes are in use, but the main principle
— expulsion of air by heat — is the same in
all. They all, too, agree in this, that they
render the meat comparatively insipid.
NOTES.
The subject of iterated nesting by birds
being under discussion in Forest and Stre&m,
Dr. Charles C. Abbott contributes to that
journal the following Ust of birds which he
has himself observed nesting twice in sum-
mer : 1. Usually breeding twice — robin, cat-
bird, bluebird, house-wren, yellow warbler,
English sparrow, bay-winged bunting, chip-
ping-sparrow, song-sparrow, orchard ori-
ole ; 2. Occasionally breeding twice — white-
breasted nuthatch, scarlet tanager, yellow-
bird, che^vink, Baltimore oriole, purple gra-
kle.
The American Metrological Society has,
through its president, memorialized Con-
gress for the preparation of coins, of metri-
cal weight and uniform fineness, and for the
passage of laws and conclusion of treaties
whereby such coins shall become legal ten-
der, according to their weight.
A CRUCIAL experiment was recently
made at Sunderland, England, on a fire-
proof house. One of the rooms was filled
with tar-barrels, wood, and other combusti-
ble material, and, when the door was shut,
the mass was set on fire. It simply burnt
itself out, without apparently affecting the
condition of the adjoining rooms or the sta-
bility of the house itself. The building ma-
terial was a concrete of cement and fibre
