NOTES.
127
bound together by strings of iron and wire.
This becomes a sort of stone-cloth, avail-
able for floors and doors, as well as walls
and ceilings, so that no wood whatever need
be used.
A SMALL pike caught by Dr. Charles C.
Abbott, of Trenton, New Jersey, seemed to
be unusually corpulent, so the fish was dis-
sected. It was found to contain a large
mud-minnow; within the minnow was a
pike about two inches long, and within the
pike the remains of another mud-minnow !
The action of sundry drugs on the liver
has been experimentally studied by Drs.
Rutherford and Vignal, the result going to
show that podophylline, aloes, and colchi-
cura, are powerful hepatic stimulants. The
same property, but in an inferior degree, is
possessed by rhubarb, senna, taraxacum,
and scammony. Croton-oil appears to have
but little action on the liver. In three cases
out of four calomel had no action on the
liver, and in the fourth the secretion of bile
was slightly increased.
The Lancet publishes a list of British
physicians deceased last year at an advanced
age. There are nineteen names in the list,
and the sum of their ages amounts to 1,617
years, showing an average age of eighty-
five years. The greatest age attained by
any of the deceased was ninety-six years,
and three had reached that term. The low-
est was seventy-six years, at which age two
of the deceased ended their career.
• The Monthly Weather Review of the
Signal-Office records the following phe-
nomena for December, 18*75, namely : Dan-
delions in bloom at Brownsville, Pennsyl-
vania, on the 23d ; 24th, pinks and hyacinths
in bloom at Brookhaven, Mississippi ; 25th,
peach-trees in bloom at New Orleans ; 31st,
peach and cherry buds swelling at Litch-
field, Michigan, and on the same day roses
in bloom at Green Springs, Alabama.
As mentioned in the Notes of the No-
vember number, the Abbe Moigno, of Paris,
has published several papers by Tyndall,
Huxley, Du Bois-Reymond, and others, ac-
companying them with refutations of their
authors' freethinking arguments. The good
abbe doubtless meant well, but the Roman
" Congregation of the Index " finds in his
book more poison than antidote, and ac-
cordingly forbids it to be circulated.
Earthquake-shocks are stated in the
Monthly Weather Review to have been felt
on December 3d at Carson City, Nevada
(slight) ; 13th, at Maricopa Wells, Arizona ;
21st, at Santa Baibara, California; 22d, at
fortress Monroe, Virginia ; also at New
Market, Indiana ; Greensboro, North Caro-
lina ; Petersburg, Virginia ; and other points
in Virginia, Maryland, and North Carolina.
A COMMITTEE of the Boston Society of
Civil Engineers has drafted a form of peti-
tion to be addressed to Congress, asking
for the establishment of the metrical system
of weights and measures in this country.
This system is now in use in all European
countries except England, Norway, Sweden,
Russia, and Turkey. It has also been
adopted in Mexico and the various states
of South America.
The Royal College of Surgeons, of Eng-
land, having been advised by eminent coun-
sel that the terms of their charter require
them to admit women as candidates for
their diploma, have announced that they
are now ready to admit women to the ex-
aminations, on the same conditions as men.
The repugnance of the Chinese to rail-
roads is based upon an article of their reli-
gion — ancestor-worship. Constructors of
railroads pay no respect to ancient burying-
places, but run their lines right through
them, thus disturbing the repose of the
dead. This disregard of the sacredness of
the last resting-place of the departed griev-
ously scandalizes the devout Chinaman.
Cynodrakon Major is the name pro-
posed by Prof. Richard Owen for a reptile
having some points of mammalian resem-
blance, some fossil bones of which have
been found in the late palaeozoic or early
raesozoic formation of South Africa. Prof.
Owen thinks he recognizes in these fossils
some indications of retrogression rather
than progression in descent. A problem is
here presented for which, in Owen's opin-
ion, neither the Lamarckian nor the Dar-
winian theories offer any answer.
We learn from the American Xaturalist
that a summer School of Biology will be held
in the Peabody Museum at Salem, Massachu-
setts, beginning July 7th, and continuing
six weeks. Special attention will be given
to marine botany and zoology. Mr. J
Robinson will be instructor in botany, with
C. H. Higbee as assistant. A. S. Packard,
Jr., with the assistance of J. S. Kingslcy
and S. E. Cassino, will give instruction in
zoology. Special instruction in microscopy
by Rev. E. C. Bolles. The number of pu-
pils is limited to fifteen.
Further experiments with salicylic acid,
made by Feser and Friedberger, show tluit
it may bo administered for a long time, in
small doses, to domestic animals, without
injurious effects to digestion, nutrition, or
general health. But, given to a dog in the
proportion of one gramme to five kilo-
grammes of the animal's weight, salicylic
acid causes paralysis of the extremities and
disorder of the respiration and circulation.
Death from strong doses of the acid results
from paralysis of the respiration.
