12^
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Normal (Illinois) " School of Natural
History " will open on July 25th, continu-
ing in session till August 2.5th. The course
of study embraces comparative anatomy of
vertebrates ; comparative anatomy of in-
vertebrates ; analytical zoology ; analytical
entomology ; botany. In the list of in-
structors are the names of B. G. Wilder,
Cyrus Thomas, and J. A. Sewall. Fuller
information given by S. A. Forbes, Normal,
Illinois.
In the American Journal of Science for
February, Prof. J. D. Dana corrects an
error which for many years has circulated
in geographies, gazetteers, and similar
works. This error consists in representing
the West and East Rocks near New Haven
as being the termination of the Green and
White Mountains respectively. " The fact
is," writes Prof. Dana, " that East Rock is
but a short appendage to the system of
trap-dikes of the Connecticut Valley, and
West Rock, a southern portion of the same
system. The Green Mountains," he adds,
" con.-ist of metamorphic rocks, and are
not younger than Silurian. But the trap
ridges of the Connecticut Valley belong to
the valley, and are of Jurassic origin."
A STATION for agricultural experiments
has been established at the Wesleyan Uni-
versity, Middletown, by the State of Con-
necticut. Dr. Atwater, Professor of Chem-
istry in the university is the director, and
Dr. W. C. Tilden, with two assistants, is the
acting chemist. The State appropriation
being insufficient to defray all the expenses
of the station, the proprietors of the Amer-
ican Affriculturist have agreed to make up
the deficiency.
The twin-steamship Castalia, which dur-
ing four months of last year daily made
voyages between Dover and Calais, appears
to have given satisfaction in every respect,
save speed. Arrangements have now been
made by the Channel Steamship Company
for the building of a large twin-steamship,
■which, uniting all the advantages of the
Castalia with such improvements as experi-
ence has suggested, will have a speed of
not less than fourteen knots an hour.
A AvoxDEKFCL casc of recovery from a
gunshot-wound was that of the lute Com-
mander Sanders of the British Navy, who
died last February, at the age of ninety-one
years. In 180.3 he was shot in the head,
the bullet passing clear through from ear to
eye. He was kindly cared for by the sur-
geon of the French ship which he was at-
tempting to " cut out " when he received the
wound. At the end of five years' detention
as a prisoner of war, he went back to Eng-
land sound and well, with the exception of
the loss of an eve.
The relative strength of various sub-
stances is stated as follows in the Scientific
American: A rod \ inch in diameter, of
the best steel, will sustain, before breaking,
9,000 lbs. ; soft steel, 7,000 lbs. ; iron wire,
6,000 lbs. ; good iron, 4,000 lbs. ; inferior
bar-iron, 2,000 lbs.; cast-iron, 1,000 to
3,000 lbs. ; copper wire, 3,000 lbs. ; silver,
2,000 lbs. ; gold, 2,500 lbs. ; tin, 300 lbs. ;
cast-zinc, 160 lbs. ; cast-lead, 50 lbs. ; milled
lead, 200 lbs. ; box or locust wood, 1,200
lbs. ; toughest ash, 1,000 lbs. ; elm, 800 lbs. ;
beech, cedar, white-oak, pitch-pine, 600
lbs. ; chestnut and maple, 650 lbs. ; poplar,
400 lbs.
A KEw variety of bronze, containing
manganese, and known as " manganese
bronze," has lately been introduced in Eng-
land. It is said to be very valuable for all
kinds of small work wherein gun-metal is
now used, and it is capable of being forged
like iron.
Di'RiKG a visitation of extreme cold
weather in the vicinity of Carson River, the
quicksilver pump in the Eureka mill ceased
to perform its proper functions ; the ma-
chinery of the pump continued to work, but
no quicksilver was raised. On examination,
the mercury in the tank was found to be
I'rozen soUd.
The British Geological Society has this
year awarded to Prof. T. H. Huxley its
Wollaston Medal. Prof Huxley has also
been elected a Corresponding Member of
the Danish Academy of Sciences. The
Royal Academy of Rome has conferred a
similar honor upon Mr. Herbert Spencer,
having elected him a Corresponding Fellow.
Prof. D. S. Jordan, of Indianapolis, will
conduct a summer School of Science, during
the coming season, in the mountains of East
Tennessee. The members of the school will
collect specimens of the birds, reptiles, fishes,
insects, and plants, of that region.
Is a cave near Thayngen, Switzerland,
Conrad Merck has discovered a quantity of
animal remains, consisting of bones of the
reindeer, cave-lion, mammoth, woolly-haired
rhinoceros, urus, glutton, and other species.
Relics of human habitation have also been
found in great abundance — such as flint-
flakes, implements of reindeer-horn, and sev-
eral well-executed engravings on bone, horn,
and lignite.
A 'WRITER in the Gardener''s MontM-ji
states that, when properly cured, the kernel
of the American walnut is white and deli-
cious, with a delicate flavor hardly surpassed
by any nut. The nuts should be gathered aa
soon as they are ripe, and not allowed to
remain in the huU. They should then be
dried quickly.
