130 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ent cries and exclamations, consisting exclusively of vowel-sounds;
this continued several months.
By degrees consonants were added to the vowels, and the excla-
mations became more and more articulate. This process resulted in a
sort of prattle of great diversity and completeness, which would be
kept up for a quarter of an hour at a time, and repeated ten times a
day. The sounds (vowel and consonant), which at first were vague
and very hard to discriminate, became more and more like those ut-
tered by adults, and the series of simple cries came to be, in some
measure, like a foreign language which we do not understand. The
infant is pleased with its prattle, like a bird ; one can see that she is
happy — that she smiles witli pleasure — yet it is nothing better than
the chirruping of a bird as yet, for the child does not attach any
meaning to the sounds she utters. (Age, twelve months).
She has acquired thus much, in great measure, by her own endeav-
ors and unassisted, but she has gained a little by the aid of others and
by imitation. First, of her own accord she produced the sound tnm /
this amused her— it was for her a discovery. So, too, she of herself
produced another sound, kraaau, emitted from the windpipe in deep
gutturals. These two sounds were repeated several times in succes-
sion in the hearing of the child ; slie would listen attentively, and
now she repeats them at once on hearing them. The same is to be
said of the sound papapapa^ which she at first uttered several times
at random and by herself, and which wds then repeated to her a num-
ber of times, in order to fix it in her memory. She soon uttered
this sound at will, with easy, unerring execution (though without un-
derstanding what it meant), as simple prattle. In short, example and
education have served only to call the child's attention to sounds
which she herself was already attempting to make ; to direct her pref-
erence to these, to make them uppermost among the host of similar
sounds. But the initiative all came from herself; and the same is to
be said with respect to gesture. For months she of her own accord
attempted all the movements of the arms, flexion of the hand at the
wrist, bringing the hands together, etc. Then, after instruction and
repeated efibrt, she learned to clap hands, to hold uj) the two hands,
as in the gesture of astonishment, etc. Example, instruction, and
education, are only channels in the bed of which the stream flows;
its source lies higher.
To see that this is the case, one has only to listen to her prattle for
an hour : it is wonderfully flexible. I am satisfied that here every shade
of emotion — surprise, joy, vexation, sadness — finds expression in va-
rieties of tone ; herein she equals or even surpasses the adult. On
comparing her with animals, even those best endowed in this way —
such as the dog, parrot, singing-birds — I find that, with a less-extended
gamut of sounds, she far surpasses them in the fineness and the abun-
dance of her expressive intonations. Delicacy of impressions and deli-
