LINGUAL DEVELOPMENT IN BABYHOOD. 131
cacy of expressions are the distinctive characteristics of man as com-
pared with animals : here is the origin of language and of general
ideas. Among animals, man is, what some great and ingenious poet
is among laborers and peasants : in a word, he is cognizant of a mul-
titude of shades and tints, even to a whole class of shades, which are
unnoticed by them. This is further seen both in the kind and in the
degree of man's curiosity. It is easily seen that, commencing with the
fifth or sixth month, infants, during the succeeding two years or more,
give all their time to making experiments in natural philosophy. There
is no animal, not even the cat or the dog, which makes such continual
study of all bodies within its reach. Every day, the infant of whom
I speak (age twelve months) touches, feels, turns over, lets fall, tastes,
and experiments upon, whatever comes under its hand ; whatever the
object may be — a ball, doll, rattle, toy — once it is sufficiently known,
the infant leaves it alone : it is no longer a novelty ; there is nothing
more to be learned from it ; it no longer interests the child. This is
simple curiosity ; the child's physical wants, its desire of food, have
nothing to do with the matter. It would seem as though already in
its little brain each group of perceptions tends to complete itself, as
in the brain of a child that possesses language.
She does not yet pronounce any word to which she attaches a
meaning, but there are two or three words to which she attaches a
meaning on hearing them uttered. She daily sees her grandfather,
whose porti'ait, far less than life-size, but a very good likeness, has
often been shown to her. During the past two months or so (from
the age of ten months), when any one asked her the question, "Where
is grandfather ? " she turns to the portrait and laughs at it. Before
her grandmother's jDortrait, which is not so good a likeness, she
makes no such gestures, nor does she give any token of knowing
what it is. For a month past (from the age of eleven months), when-
ever she is asked, " Where is mamma ? " she turns toward her
mother. So, too, with her father. I would not go so far as to affirm
that these three actions transcend animal intelligence. A little dog,
who sits by my side, in like manner understands what is meant when
he hears the word sugar : he will come from a distance to get his
morsel. In all this there is nothing but association : in the case of
the dog, between a sound and a certain taste-sensation ; in that of
the infant, between a sound and the shape of an individual face ; the
object designated by the sound is not yet a general character.
I believe, however, that now (age, twelve months) a step farther
has been taken ; witness the following circumstance, which for me
is decisive : This winter the child was daily taken to her grandmother's,
and the latter very frequently showed her a copy, in colors, of a
painting by Luini representing a nude Infant Jesuc. On showing her
this picture she was told that " this is baby." During the last eight
days, whenever, in some other room, we ask her, " Where is baby ? "
