132 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
(meaning herself), she turns toward any picture that may be there,
whether it be a painting or an engraving. Hence " baby " signifies,
for her, some general notion, whatever paintings and engravings of
persons or landscapes may possess in common ; i. e., if I am not mis-
taken, " baby," in her mind, signifies something variegated in a shin-
ing frame. Indeed, it is plain that the objects painted or designed
within the frames are so much Greek to her, while she must be deeply
impressed by the glittering frame and the patches of color, light, and
shade, within its border. Here, then, we have her first general term ;
the meaning she gives it is not ours, but nevertheless it is evidence
of original work done by the infantile understanding. For, though
•we have supplied the word, we have not supplied the meaning.
{^gQ, fourteen months and three weeks.) The gains of the last
six weeks have been notable : besides the word " baby " she now un-
derstands several others, and of these she pronounces five or six, giving
to each a meaning of its own. Mere prattle is succeeded by a begin-
ning of intentional and determinate language. The principal words
pronounced by her now are papa^ m.aman, tete (by which she means
nurse) ; oua-oua (her term for dog)^ koko (hen, cock), dada (horse,
wagon), mia (cat, kitten), kaka, and tern. She acquired earliest the
two words 2^opa and tem : this latter word is very curious, and well
worthy of serious consideration.
For fifteen days she pronounced jya/ja without a purpose, without
a meaning, as simple prattle, and as an easy and amusing exercise of
articulation. Later came association between this name and the im-
age or perception ; and then the portrait or the person of her father
brought to her lips the sound pjapa^ and this same word, when pro-
nounced by another, awoke in her the memory, the mental image of
her fathei-. Between the two states just noticed there exists an insen-
sible ti'ausition, so that, at certain times, the first state still persists
after the second state has been attained ; at times she still plays with
a sound, though she understands its sense. This is very easily seen
with respect to some of her later acquisitions, for instance the word
kaka. This word she often repeats without purpose or intent, as
prattle, much to the displeasure of her mother. Again, she fre-
quently utters the word purposely, when occasion ofiers. Further it
is evident that, as in the case of the word " baby," she has extended
the meaning of this term. Thus, for instance, on seeing in a flower-
bed the track of moistened earth left by a watering-pot, she repeated
this word again and again with evident appreciation of its meaning.
For her it signifies what wets.
She shows great capacity for imitating sounds. She has seen and
listened to fowls, and now repeats their koko far more accurately than
we can do it, with the guttural intonation of the animals themselves.
This is simply a faculty pertaining to the windpipe, but she possesses
another faculty which is far more striking, a faculty that is par excel-
