NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. O
net of Mr. Geo. N. Lawrence, of New York, have been examined in the prepa-
ration of the present memoir. The writer tenders his acknowledgements to
the officers having immediate charge of these collections, for numerous favors
shown him, in a variety' of ways, during the prosecution of his researches.
Nearly all the known species of the family are represented in the several
collections above named ; and the libraries of these Institutions contain all
needed works of reference. Being based upon such ample data, this monograph
ought to embody all that is known of the Alcidie in a technical point of view,
and constitute a fair exponent of the same. The writer ventures to indulge
the hope that it may not be found to fall far short of this standard.
Before proceeding to the proper matter of the subject, it may be well to
glance at what has already been done in this family of birds. Following is a
list, in chronological order, of the principal works in which Alcidae are made
more or less of a specialty, with remarks upon each. It is obviously by no
means a bibliography of the family ; only those works being noticed in which
some special j)oint is presented. It may pass, however, for a reviewing sketch
of the literature of the subject, and as such may be valuable and helpful to the
student. Consultation of most of the works mentioned below is absolutely
necessary to a correct understanding of the subject, except in so far as it may
be obviated by perusal of the text of the present paper.
I. Review of the Literature of the Family.
Certain species of Alcidie made their appearance in the very earliest ornitho-
logical writings of which we have any knowledge, long before the establish-
ment of the science upon any fixed and recognized basis. However desirable
it may be — as well in justice to early authors, as tending to bring the whole
subject in the strongest light — to collate and identify, as far as possible,
the older names of these species, the attempt to cite as authoritative names
and descriptions which antedate the foundation of the binomial system
of nomenclature would be at once embarrassing and profitless. There must
be a fixed initial point for the commencement of authority in the matter of
names in the existing system of zoological nomenclature; otherwise a writer
might adopt names at pure caprice ; in which event the species he treats of
would be recognizable only b^' synonymy adduced, or descriptions appended,
and names would fail of their proper purpose by becoming simply indices of the
extent of his philological research. The date of the tenth edition of the Sys-
tema Naturie furnishes an unobjectionable starting-point, beyond which in-
vestigation need only extend from motives of curiosity ; and is on several ac-
counts more eligible than the date of the twelfth edition.
Moehring, a mononomial author whose work appeared in 1752, has very fre-
quently been quoted as authoritative, notably, among European authors, by
Gray, and among American by Cassin, Baird, Bryant and others, including the
present writer. Five genera of Alcidie are instituted in this work of Mwhring's :
(1) Chenalopex, based on Alca impennis ; (2) Sphenisctis, upon Fratercula arctica ;
(3) Arctica, upon Meryulus alle ; (4) Vria (sc. Vria), upon U. grylle ; and (5)
Calaractes, upon Lomvia troile. Of these five, Arctica and Cataractes have never
come into use, except in an isolated instance or two ; Uria is iu universal em-
ploy, accredited, however, as it should be, to a later writer ; Spheytiscus is used,
in an entirely different acceptation, for a genus of Penguins; and Chenalopex
for an Anserine genus. These names, though all positively identified, will not
be countenanced in their Moehringian acceptation, for reasons just mentioned.
(1758.) LiNN/Eus, Syst. Nat., ed. x. — The Linnaean genus Alca at this date
comprehended six species, to wit : impemiis, tarda, " pica,'' arctica, lomvia, ulle.
Two Guillemots — yrylle and troile — are presented under the genus Coli/mlniH.
Excluding from these eight species Alca " pica," which is the winter plumage
oi tarda, we have at the outset of authoritative records seven Linna;an names,
1868.]
