136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Gastrosteges 165; anal 1 ; urostcges 74. Total length 16 in. ; of tail 3-75
in. ; of gape 5 1.
From Bahia, Brazil. Spec, in Mus. Academy, presented by E. D. Cope.
Leptognathus vaga Jan., Elenco Systematico (nondescripta).
This species has not been described, so far as the writer is aware, but it
can be assigned to its place in consequence of an examination of the original
specimen, which was permitted the writer through the attention of Prof. Jan.
It belongs to group II, and has but two postocular plates; of its preoculars
nothing can be said. Superior labials eight. There are four pairs of genials.
General form less compressed than the types, with rather short body and tail.
Above wood-brown, with indistinct cross series of spots. Below yellowish,
tesellated with brown. Size not large for the genus.
This species is said to have been brought from Hong Kong, but this is alto-
gether improbable; it is probably South American.
Another species, L. incertus, from Surinam, is named but not described by
Jan, and is therefore likely to remain incertus.
Lkptognathus brevis Dum. Bibr., vii, 476.
This species is not described in sufficient detail to allow me to refer it to
its place in this genus. It appears, however, to be different from any species
here enumerated, though it has the coloration of several Mexican species.
Mexico, Dum. Bibron.
Leptognathus oreas Cope. See preceding Catalogue.
Leptognathus in.*:quifasciata Cope. Cochliophogus iniequi. Dum. Bibr., vii.
From Brazil, with doubt. D. B.
Leptognathus nebulata Giinther, Linn. Pelalognathus Dum. Bibr. Coluber
varieyatus Hallowell, Pr. A. N. S. ii, 214. See Catalogue.
Leptognathus anthracops Cope, sp. nov.
A strongly marked species, having a general resemblance to the L.
s a r t o r i i .
Muzzle short, narrowed, frontal plate longer than wide, with straight sides;
occipitals not shortened, broadly rounded behind. Anterior three labials
narrow and high, fourth and fifth only touching orbit. Sixth upper labial
much higher than long ; seventh much longer than high. Inferior postocular
larger than superior. Temporals rather small, subequal, 1 | 2 | 3 ; loreal
longer than high. Sixth inferior labial enlarged. Second pair genials longer
than wide, third pair wider than long.
Yellow annuli, 9^- rows scales apart anteriorly, four rows distant posteri-
orly ; yellow rings, wider behind. There are twenty-three on the body,
twelve on the tail. They are often alternating on the belly, which is other-
wise unspotted. No white markings on top of head.
Gastrosteges 177; anal 1 ; urosteges 76, some dozen or more at the tip of
the tail undivided in the individual at hand.
Total length 19 in. 8 1.; of tail 5 in. 3 1.; of gape 4-75 1.
From Central America ; one sp. in Mus. Academy from E. D. Cope, pro-
cured from the traveller and collector, Robert Bridges.
Leptognathus brevifacies Cope. Tropidodipsas brevifacies Cope, Proc. A. N.
Sci. Philada. Ib66.
From Yucatan.
Leptognathus turgida Cope, sp. nov. " Cochliophagiis jnseqi/ifascialus D. B.,"
Cope, Proc. A. N. Sci. Philada. 1862, 347; not of Dum. Bibr.
This species has the head very little distinct from the body when viewed
from above, and the neck but little compressed. In profile the frontal region
is seen to be concave, and the top of the muzzle swollen both longitudinally
and transversely. The internasals are but little broader than long; the same
[March,
