NATL'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137
may be said of the large prefrontals. Frontal hexagonal, scarcely longer than
broad, with strongly convergent sides. Occipitals narrowed, emarginate be-
hind. Temporals 1 | 2 | 2, the anterior not large, in contact with both post-
oculars and fifth and sixth upper labials. Seventh labial bounded by two.
The five anterior labials are higher than long, the two others a little longer
than high, third and fourth entering orbit. Loreal longer than high. Eight
inferior labials, fifth with greater transverse than longitudinal diameter.
Gastrosteges 159; anal 1 ; urosteges 41.
Color above a rich yellow-brown, with a series of black spots on the dorsal
region, which are longer anteriorly, but separated by nearly equal spaces of
1-5 to 2 scales; length of third spot 7-5, scales of tenth, three scales. Behind
the third spot the lateral portions are separated and sometimes divided, and
extend to the ends of the scuta. Below nearly unspotted, except on tail.
Gular region also immaculate. Head above thickly dusted with brown, paler
on nape and top of muzzle. A pair of deep brown, yellow-edged spots on
each occipital plate, converging behind ; labials brown-dusted.
This is one of the most handsomely colored of the species, and of aberrant
form.
From the Northern part of the Paraguay river.
Leptognathus fasciata Cope. Tropidodipsas fasciata Giinther, Catal. Snakes
Brit. Mus., 1858.
From Mexico.
Leptognathus sartorii Cope. Tropidodipsas do. Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.
1863, 100.
Vera Cruz, Mexico.
BATRACHIA.
Prostherapis ingdinalis Cope, genus et species novae Colostethidarum.
Char. ymer. — Xiphisternum membranous (difficult to discover), manubrium
a bony style, with cartilage disc ; metatarsus slightly webbed, dilatations
strong, each with two dermal scales on the upper side, separated by a fissure ;
terminal phalanges small, T-shaped ; tongue cylindric, free ; no vomerine
teeth ; belly not areolate. Pupils longitudinal. Ethmoid well developed an-
teriorly, the prefrontals lateral, well separated.
This genus is interesting, as constituting the second of the little known
family of the Colostethidae, which was established by the writer in 1867. Its
general appearance is that of a Phyllobates, and it is related to Colostethus
much as Limnocharis is to the firet-named. The two leathery scales of the
pallettes are peculiar, and resemble those of the under side in Phyllodactylus.
The distal phalanges are short, and extend very little into the dilatation.
Char, specif. — Muzzle and canthus rostralis angulated, the former project-
ing, rounded, truncate from above ; the loreal legion nearly vertical. Nostril
nearly terminal, eye large, its long diameter equal to near end of muzzle.
Membrana tympani concealed. Skin everywhere smooth, a weak fold on the
distal half the tarsus. Free portions of the metatarsi only webbed, all the
toes with strong dermal margin ; the fingers with a weaker one. Digital di-
latations extended rather transversely ; two metatarsal tubercles, both small,
inner elongate. Inner nares almost lateral, ostia pharyngea small, half the
size of the former.
Width head and jaws one-third length to end coccyx, and equal length head
to opposite usual position of posterior margin tympanum. Heel to middle
of orbit, wrist to beyond end muzzle.
Lin.
Length head and body 12-5
" fore limb 8
" hind limb 18-5
" foot without tarsus 56
1868.] 10
