138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Color dark brownish-leaden, below dirty white. The almost black of the
sides bounded below by an irregular pale border, below which are some dark
marblings. The same border extends, with an axillary interruption, to the
orbit, and continues on the upper lip as a series of light dots. A light band
commences at the groin above, and extends to opposite the sacrum, convert-
ing the dark color of the side into a half band. Femur and tibia dark, marbled
before and behind.
From the river Truando, New Grenada. Brought by the expedition under
Lieut. Michler, by Arthur Schott. This species and the Dendrobates tinc-
t o r i u s Wagl. were accidentally omitted from the report of this expedition,
published in Proc. Acad. 1862, 355.
BUFO ARGILLACEUS CopC, Sp. nOV.
Ridges of cranium superciliary and supratympanic ; no parietal branch.
Parotoids elongate trigonal, the long angle prolonged towards the sides. Two
weak metatarsal tubercles. A tarsal dermal fold ; toes little webbed. Muzzle
elongate, not much depressed or projecting beyond labial border. No pre-
orbilal ridge; superciliaries nearly parallel. Skin rather finely rugose.
Males olive-grey ; females with a pale vertebral line, and a series of brown
spots on each side of it. Crown, lips, and below unspotted. Length of head
and body 2 in. 9 1.
This species is to be compared with the B. granulosus of Spix, which
it represents in another region. It differs in lacking the preorbital ridge, and
having a longer muzzle.
Numerous specimens in Museum Smithsonian from Colima, "Western Mexico,
from U. S. Consul, John Xantus.
Second Supplement on some New Raniformia of the Old World.
TOMOPTERNA LABROSA Cope, Sp. nOV.
Head rauiform, little elevated ; end of muzzle recurved, loreal and subor-
bital regions concave, the edge of the maxillary region strongly projecting.
From orbit to margin of jaw below it less than diameter of tympanum, two-
thirds that of orbit. Tympanum elliptic, subvertical, about -66 long diame-
ter eye fissure, latter -2 greater than from edge of same to external nostril,
and 1-5 least interorbital width. Frontal and prefrontal regions slightly
grooved medially. Vomerine teeth in two very short, nearly transverse, lines
opposite the middle margin of the inner nares. Latter large, about equal to
ostia pharyngea.
When the limbs are extended the carpus attains the end of the muzzle,
and the heel the middle of the orbit. Tarsus equal third toe without last
two phalanges. Cuneiform shovel small for the genus, equal inner toe less
the last phalange. Webs large, measuring "66 the third and fifth toes.
Thumb longer than second and fourth fingers. Skin of upper surfaces with
numerous nMrrow irregular folds ; eyelids slightly rugose behind. A strong
fold above the tympanum decurved behind it.
In. Lin. In. • Lin.
Total length head and body... 2 4-5 Length tarsus 6-
" " hind limb 3 4-5 " foot 1
Length tibia -13 Width head behind 1
Color above gray-olive, with paired blackish spots, on each side a light
vertebral band. The anterior of these are a triangular blotch on top of muz-
zle and band across middle of each eyelid. Side of head blackish-gray with
a pale gray band on end of muzzle, one from front of orbit to lip, and one
below eye, longitudinally past lower edge tympanum bordered by blackish
from orbit backwards. Femur with three, tibia with four, and outer edge
foot with four blackish-gray cross-bars ; femur pale-brown behind.
[March,
