146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
would ask how I could, when I read ray paper on the 16th March, 1832, be-
fore the American Philosophical Society, know of a description in Grifiith's
Cuvier dated 1834? (not in 1833, as incorrectly cited). Douglamx therefore
cannot have precedeuce " of some years," as claimed for it, but it must remain
a synonym to Murchisonianus, where I placed it in my Synopsis, first, second,
and third editions, since 1836.
As regards the claim in the same paragraph for If. Shanffhaiensis, Lea, being
also a synonym to Douglasice, I am constrained to differ in opinion. Shanghai-
ensis is not the same with IJouglasiir, as affirmed, but it is the same with U.
Osbeckii, Philippi, the description of which I had not seen. " Concbylien, vol.
3d." Some years since I placed it as a synonym to Osbeckiiin. the manuscript
copy of my Synopsis, 4th ed., preparing for the press.
'2d. Anodonia tenuis, Gray, — also called Unio tenuis, Gray, in Griffith's Cu-
vier, — is considered to be, by Messrs. Baird and Adams, an Anodonta, and it
is said to be little known. This shell does not belong to either of these
genera. It is a true Dipsas of Leach, and if Dr. Gray had had a perfect spe-
cimen before him when describing Anodonia tenuis, he never would have
placed it in that genus. The Dipsuhiun character was evidently obliterated
by age in the sijecimen from which he made his diagnosis. The young spe-
cimens, and the mature perfect ones, alwaj^s have the tooth (so to call it) ot
the genus Dipsas. I described this species in the Transactions of the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society, March 15, 1833, under the name of Symphynota
discoidea, with a figure perfectly representing the characteristic tooth, which
consists of a single raised, sligtitly curved line under the dorsal margin. In
my " Synopsis," in the first edition in 1836, as well as in the second and third
editions, I gave Dr. Gray's tenuis as a synonym to this shell, which I there
placed in the genus Dipsas, where it properly belongs. It must therefore
stand as Dipsos discoidea, Lea, with the synonym of Anodonta tenuis, Gray ; my
date being 1833, and Dr. Gray's 1834.
In this paper of Messrs. Baird and Adams, they have described a supposed
new species from Shanghai, under the name of Unio (Lampsilis) subtorius. I
previously published a description of a species which I believe will prove the
same, under the name of iortuosus, in the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. April 18, 1865.
Since then I have found in the "Journal de Conchiliologie," July, 1863, — which
work for that year was not accessible to me, — that Messrs. Crosse and De-
beaux had given a description and an excellent figure of a Unio of the same
twisted character, under the name of Tientsinensis, which, if the figure be en-
tirely correct, differs in the form of the posterior slope, and in the undulations
of that part.
I may be permitted to express my surprise that neither the French nor the
English authors should have observed the very remarkable character of these
Chinese species, which were before them, in being inequivalve! The figure in
the Journal de Conchyliologie seems to be very correctly delineated by the art-
ist, having represented the inequivalve condition of the right and left valves.
Messrs. Baird and Adams refer to Tientsinensis, but consider it to differ in
some respects from their subtortus, which I think very likely. If Tientsinensis
prove to be the same as torluosus and contortus, then the two last must be
synonyms. If not, then there will be two species, viz. : Tientsinensis, Grosse
and Debeaux, and Iortuosus (nobis), — contortus, B. and A., being a synonym to
tortuosus.
May 5th.
Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-nine members present.
The following paper was presented for publication : " List of
[May,
