4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
for as many valid species, representing as many distinct genera. Tlie twelftli
edition (of 17GG) gives us nothing new.
(17G0.) Biiisso}^, Ornithologia. — Tliis author gives excellent descriptions of
the then known species, but adds no new valid ones, though several stages of
plumage are characterized under distinctive names. He was a polynomialist
— to our lasting regret, and his great misfortune — and therefore not authorita-
tive in the mtitter of species. With those, however, who quote him for genera,
his Fratercala will stand as the name of the genus of which Alca arctica Linn,
is the type ; and his Una for that one typified by Uria grylle.
(iTG-t.) Brunnich, Ornithologia Borealis. — This author was a strict binomi-
alist ; the question of the adoption of his names only hinges upon the accepta-
tion of Linnaeus at 1758 or at 17GG. Briinnich's names are in general employ,
as they should be. The chief point of this work, regarding the Auks, is the
characterization of Uria ringnin, which, though known long before, had been
usually referred to troile. Briinnich describes the young or winter plumage of
Ulamniiia tarda under the names " unisulcata " and "baltliica;" the young
Fratercala arctica as "Alca deleta ;" the albino Mergulus alien's "Alca Candida;"
various plumages of Uria grglle as " grylloides," " balthica," and (No.
116). Briinnich's " Uria lomvia " is Colgmhus troille Linn. ; his " Uria troille "
ami " Uria svarbag " are both Alca lomuia Linn. ; his " Uria alga " is ringoia
Briinn. in winter plumage. His descriptions, though brief, are all recognizable.
(Species now eight.)
(L769 ) P.VLLAS, Spicilegia Zoologica,, fasc. v. — Among the writers of the 18th
century, no one contributed so much to a knowledge of the Alcidm as Dr.
Pallas. He introduced more new valid species than any other writer, and gave
us our first knowledge of some of the curious forms from the North Pacific.
His works claim the high eulogium, that every one of the species they contain
are identifiable from the descriptions, and that a species is very rarely twice de-
scribed as new. In the Spicilegia four species are for the first time described :
Alca cirr/iata, A. psittacula, A. cristatelht and .4. tetracula. A white state of
plumage of Uria grgllc [ov possibly of U. columba) is described as " Cephus
lacteolus." The four species above mentioned are well described, and illus-
trated by plates. (Species now twelve )
(1785.) Pennant, Arctic Ziologg. — Although the author used only vernacular
names, his work must be here considered, since in it four species are for the
first time presented. These are the " Antieut Auk" (for which the author is
indebted to Dr. Pallas' MS.), the "Labrador Auk," the " Pigmy Auk," and the
" Marbled Guillemot." The second and third of these are very dubious spe-
cies, which have never beeu located to the entire satisfaction of ornithologists
(cf. infra, under head of Fratercala arctica and Simorhynchus pusillus) ; the first
and fourth are good species. In this work the future Uria columba is hinted
at, but not named. (Species now fourteen.)
(1788.) Gmelin, Sgstema Naluree. — In this compilation by the professional
plagiarist nothing new is given, but some points require notice. The genera
Alca and Colgmhas retain, in general, their Linn^an signification. Pennant's
four species, above noticed, appear in proper Latin garb, as Alca antiqua, A.
labradorica, A. pygmxa and Colymbus marmoratus ; Pallas' four species are
continued. " Cepphus lacteolus" Pallas re-appears as " Colymbus lacteolus."
Linnasus' " Colymbus " troille is repeated, of course ; but the other two species
of Murre, though having already made their debut, are discontinued, unless
one of them is intended by a certain " Colymbus minor" Gra., for which
Briinnich's Nos. 110, 111, are cited. Alca -^ pica," and .4. " balthica " are
perpetuated. (No additions ; species still fourteen.)
(1790.) Latham, Index Ornithologicus. — This is the one of Dr. Latham's seve-
ral works in which species are binomialized, and it is therefore the authorita-
-tive one. Except in adopting Uria (after Brisson), the Index is nearly a repeti-
[Jan.
