148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
" Most of the leaves, which are well preserved indeed, belong to a new species
of Ficus. It resembles Ficus lanccolatus, Heer., a miocene species, but differs
by leaves being broader, mostly rounded at base, and not always alternated to
the petiole. The medial nerves and shorter pedicel are thicker. Some of
the leaves, which are narrower and narrowed to the petiole, present the form
and appearance of Ficus lanceolalus, but the specific difference is marked by
the thick nerves and shorter petiole.
'■Among these leaves there are two fragments of leaves of a Cinnaniomum,
referrable perhaps to C. affine, Lesqx. ; a large leaf of Platanvs, probably F.
aceroides? Aug., whose borders are destroyed, and a Fopulus with round
leaves — Fopuhis subrotundus, Lesqx. — found also by Dr. Hayden at Rock Creek.
'• Besides these species, the specimens show a number of fragments of a
Ci/pert/s, apparently a new species. The nervation is that of Cyperus chara-
riensis, Heer., but the leaves, 1^^ inches broad, are twice as broad as in the
European species."
Dr. Hayden considered this as confirming his opinion that the lignite beds
of that region were of tertiary age.
Dr. Le Oonte said that the question of the geological age of that section
must be solved by a consideration of the relative positions of the strata,
rather than by comparison of the fossil plants found therein.
May 2m.
Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-nine members present.
The following gentlemen -were elected members : Mr. Edward
Lewis, Jas. Truman, M. D., Wm. Trueman, M. D., Mr. S. Fisher
Corlies, Mr. T. W. Starr, Edw. Rhoads, M.D., T. H. Andrews, M.D.,
Herbert Norris, M. D., Mr. Jas. S. Gilliams, Mr. Charles Bullock,
Mr. Edw. L. Huitt, Mr. I. Zentmayer, Mr. Aug. F. Muller, F. F.
Maury, M.D., Horace Williams, M.D., Mr. Wm.^H. Walmsley, Mr.
T. L. Buckingham.
The following were elected correspondents : Mr. Augustus Fendler,
of Allenton, Mo. ; Hon. J. S. Wilson, of Washington, D.C. ; Mr. A. R.
Roesler, Washington, D. C. ; Prof. John Tomes, F.R.S., of London.
On favorable reports of the committees, the following papers
were ordered to be published :
List of BIRDS collected at Laredo, Texas, in 1866 and 1867.
BY H. B. BUTCHER, M. D.
The list of birds here given embraces the species collected by me at La-
redo, Texas, on the Rio Grande river, while engaged as Acting Assistant Sur-
geon of the U. S. Army ; and is presented as a contribution to the subject of
the geographical distribution of the birds of North America. No new species
but many quite rare species were procured. The most interesting result of my
examinations at Laredo was the discovery in abundance of Scardafella inca, a
species not previously obtained north of the Rio Grande.
The collections made were first sent to the Smithsonian Institution, and a
series afterwards presented to this Academy. I am indebted to Prof. Baird for
assistance in identifying the sjiecies.
A comparison of this list with that of the birds collected in Texas by Mr.
Dresser will be found of interest.
[May,
