NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 155
inch, broad ovate. Scales half the length of the tube, brown, with white
margins.
14. Tube under half inch, thick, perfectly cylindrical ; segments quarter
inch, broad linear, and rounded at the apex, waxy white. Scales quarter inch
long, brown, with membranaceous margins.
15. Tube full three-quarters inch, cylindrical ; segments quarter inch, tri-
angularly ovate, pale rose. Scales half inch, narrow and drawn out to an
awn-like point.
16. Tube half inch, cylindrical. Scales less than one-sixteenth of an inch,
broad ovate, green, and barely pointed.
On again examining No. 12, after making these notes, I was surprised to
find no trace of stamens, but with the pistil perfect ; and on examining the
other specimens I found three out of the fifteen were pistillate also. Another
remarkable fact was that all these i)istils had the fine cleft stigmas strongly
recurved, exposing a glutinous surface; while the hermaphrodite ones kept the
apex of the pistils closed. The ovaries of the pistillate forms were also evi-
dently better developed than those in the hermaphrodite condition, and the
inference was that the plant was practically dioecious.
On the third of May I returned to the locality and found this hypothesis in
all probability correct. The pistillate plants were in proportion about one-
third that of the hermaphrodite, and could be readily distinguished after the
flower had faded by the recurved stigmas above noted. All the plants that
had shed their corollas were pistillate ; the apparently hermaphrodite jjlants
having their corollas dry on the receptacles from which it was not easy to
separate them — the scales of the calyx and a part of the stem coming away
with them. This is so well known a feature of impregnation in the develop-
ment of a fruit, that I need not dwell much on the importance of this fact, as
showing the fertility of the pistillate, and the sterility of the opposite form.
I engaged friends to furnish me specimens from other places. Dr. James
Darrach finds them, as I have above described, in another locality on the Wis-
sahickon. Miss Anderson sends me ten specimens from Edge Hill, Mont-
gomery County, Pa., amongst which two are purely pistillate, the rest varying
much as in the Wissahickon specimens. Mr. Isaac Burk finds pistillate plants
abound at Mount Ephraim, New Jersey, but there are abortive filaments with-
out anthers, and he sends me one specimen of this character. Mr. Charles E.
Smith sends me a dozen or so specimens from Haddonfield, hermaphrodite,
and so exactly alike that they probably all come from one plant. Mr. E. Dif-
fenbaugh sends ten specimens from another place in New Jersey, all with
anthers, but varying from nearly no filaments to filaments three-eighths of an
inch long ; varying also in the proportionate lengths of scales, tubes and seg-
ments ; but not near as much as in tiie Wissahickon specimens. Prof. Cope
sends samples from Delaware County, Pa. These are varied like the Wissa-
hickon ones ; and Mr. Cope remarks to me that the pistillate forms are so dis-
tinctly characterized, by the vasiform recurved corollas and other characters,
that he can readily distinguish them as he walks along.
Has this peculiarity of Epigcea repens been overlooked by the many botanists
who must have critically examined it heretofore? Or has the plant reached a
stage of development when germs of new forms spring actively into life ?
In a paper on Lopezia, published in the last volume of the Proceedings, I
showed that the sexual organs of that genus were admirably arranged to pre-
vent the pollen of a flower falling on its own stigma. This behavior of Epiyxa
adds another to the list of plants, now so extensive, known to have an ab-
horrence of self-fertilization. It may not be out of place to hazard a reason
for this course :
There would seem to be two distinct principles in relation to form going
along together with the life of a sjiecies. The tendency of the one force is to
preserve the existing form ; the other to modify, and extend it to newer chan-
nels The first we represent by the term inheritance, the other we understand
1868.]
