156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
as variation. Inheritance struggles to have the plant fertilize itself with its
own pollen ; whilst the efforts of variation are towards an intermixture of
races or even neighboring individuals, rather than with members of the one
brood or family. May it not be possible that at some time in their past his-
tory all species of plants have been hermaphrodite ? that DicEcism is a later
triumph of variation, its final victory in the struggle with inheritance ? There
are some difficulties in the way of such a theory, as there are with most of
these theories ; but it seems clear from this case of Epfffiea that cultivation has
not eo much to do with changes as it gets credit for, and we may readily be-
lieve that, independently of external circumstances, there is a period of youth
and a period of old age inform as well as in substance, and that we may there-
fore look for a continual creation of new forms by a process of vital develop-
ment, just as rationally as for the continued succession of new individuals.
The discovery of dioecism in Epigwa is interesting from the fact that it is
probably the first instance known in true Ericaciea. In the Ericale suborder
of Francoacceay abortive stamens are characteristic of the family, and in the
Pyrolaciea antlierless filaments have been recorded.
Monoecism in LUZULA CAMPESTRIS.
BY THOMAS MEEHAK.
The recent discovery, that many plants structurally hermaphrodite are
practically monoecious or dioecious, in consequence of the flower being so
arranged as to prevent self-impregnation, is so interesting that every additional
fact bearing on the subject has a value.
Luzula campestris, D. C, adds another to the list. The three stigmas are
protruded through the apex of the flower bud some days before the sepals open
and expose the anthers. In the specimens I marked for observations, six days
elapsed before the flower opened, after the pistils had been protruded to be
operated on by the pollen of other flowers. This was in a cloudy week, and
probably the exact time might vary with the weather. In all cases the stigmas
wither away before the flower opens.
After fertilization the stigmas generally twist around one another, and after
the anthers have shed their pollen they twist in the same way, withering up
in a very short time. An interesting fact in Luzula is the slight adhesion at
the articulation of the subpedicels with the main flower stalk, — the gentlest
force being sufficient to draw thera out of their sheaths. It is perhaps owing
to this weakness that the pedicels are often drooping when in fruit.
June 2d, 1868.
Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-five members present.
The following papers were presented for publication :
" Description of seven new species of Unio from North Carolina."
By Isaac Lea.
" Descriptions of two new species of Unionidse from Equador."
By Isaac Lea.
" New Unionidse, Melanidse, &c., chiefly of the United States."
By Isaac Lea.
" On Agaphelus, a genus of toothless Cetacea." By Edw. D. Cope.
Dr. Leidy called attention to some specimens of Sombrero Guano
containing about 90 per cent, of phosphate of lime. This substance
[June,
