NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157
was noticed some years ago by him under the name of Ossite. A
similar material has been found near Charleston, S. C, in a post-
pliocene formation.
E. D. Cope gave an account of his discovery of tlae fresli-water origin of
certain deposits of sand and clays in west New Jersey, whicli he found to con-
tain leaves of dicotyledonous trees, ctenoid fish scales, and numerous Unionidje
in a tolerably good state of preservation. The most important part of the
deposit consisted of a heavy black clay, which is used for making brick, which
rests on a bed of hard laminated clay, with a thin layer of iron-stone between.
The clay bed, at one place examined, is 25 feet in thickness, and at from one
to three feet from its bottom occurs a bed of fresh water mussels. These are
Unios and Anodontas of si.x; species, all of them, as pointed out to him by Dr.
Lea, hitherto undescribed, and having some analogy with those of the Wealden,
procured by Dr. Mantell in England. The beds are from tlie top of the clay
down, conformable, and have a dip of about 2.5° to the soutli-east. The upper
surface of the clay is worn into holes, which are filled by the material of abed
of coarse gravel of little depth, which covers the whole. Above this is a bed
of fine sand, varying from six to fifteen feet in thickness to the soil. The point
at which the section is visible is in New Jersey, ou the banks of the Delaware,
about six miles above Camden, N. J.
These deposits belong to Meek and Hayden's Earlier Cretaceous, No. 1,
which contains abundant remains of leaves on the Raritan River, but no
animal fossils. Their age has been heretofore quite uncertain ; they have been
stated by Meek and Hayden to be the earlier division of the later Cretaceous of
the general geologic series. They extend across the States of Delaware, Mary-
land and Virginia. In Maryland they are stated by Ducatel to contain the
important deposits of carbonate of iron ; and Philip Tyson, State Geologist,
informs me that these beds lie upon the red and blue clays, forming hills,
which have been produced by erosion of tlie valleys to the beds below. These
iron clays contain several species of Cycadaceous plants, whence Tyson infers
the age of the clays to be Jurassic, and not Cretaceous.
There are in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, several
specimens of fossil Unios, from a ferruginous clay which crops out at some
elevation on the banks of the Potomac. These species are identical with those
which have been found in the New Jersey clays, and the deposit is doubtless
the same as that which traverses the State of Maryland.
Indurated grey clays on the Rappahannock River have been examined by my
friend Philip R. Uhler, of Baltimore, who has obtained from them leaves and
stems of some six species of plants, in beautiful preservation, of the orders
Cycadacete, ? Gnetacea; and Filices. The position and character of this bed
renders it exceedingly probable that it is a continuation of those of Maryland
and Alexandria.
The vvhole formation indicates the existence of an extended body of fresh
water, having a direction and outline similar to that in which were deposited
the red sandstones and shales of the Triassic belt, which extends parallel to its
north-west margin throughout the States in which it occurs, separated, except
in New Jersey, by a broad band of Gneiss, and Potsdam rocks. The carbonate
of iron was no doubt deposited in a bog or bogs along its margin or in its
shallows, as the bottom became elevated, as suggested by Tyson, — though not
in a salt-water swamp, as supposed by him. The cycads and dicotyledonous
trees grew in the swamps and on the shores, while terrestrial reptiles of large
size no doubt haunted their sliades.
These beds appear to dip conformably beneath the lower Cretaceous marine
beds in New Jersey, in which, at a distance of a few miles from their border,
occurred the remains of the Hadrosaurus ; and it is therefore not probable that
they were cotemporary with these, as is the case with the Wealden of Kent
1868.]
