158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
and the Cretaceous at Maidstone, England. The Hadrosaurus clays, belonging
to the upper Cretaceous, as indicated by the presence of many molluscs of the
Ripley Group of Mississippi, appear indeed to be separated from the clays in
question by a great lapse of time. The age is therefore probably truly Wealden
or Neocomian.
These facts indicate the existence of a barrier to the eastward of their present
position, which for a long period prevented the access of salt water. This
barrier was no doubt an anticlinal of the Appallachian series, outside of that
which walled in the Triassic fresh-water area, and, like it, parallel with the
general series of anticlinals of the present Allegheny range. That it was, like
the latter, at one time submarine, and, gradually rising, finally enclosed the
area in question, the waters of which soon became fresh, from the numerous
rivers which flowed into it.
On the gradual elevation of this fresh-water valley, with its included beds
of clays, etc., the Delaware river cut its way through the latter nearly to the
south-eastern rise, and was then deflected along the base of these first eleva-
tions of the bounding anticlinal, in a south-west direction. Thus is accounted
for the apparently singular phenomenon of the great bend of the Delaware
River, near Bordentown. For after penetrating the high ranges of the Blue
Mountains, it remains to be turned, apparently, in a level country of sands
and clays.
We must suppose the coast line to have been not far from the south-eastern
base of this anticlinal, and that a subsequent submergence brought the marine
deposits near to the margin of the fresh, and gave the latter the south-east dip
visible at the section at. the Pea Shore. I have not yet been able to ascertain
the relative position of the margins of these beds, nor the nature of those that
conceal the supposed anticlinal. A system of borings at a distance of two or
three miles from and parallel to the Delaware, would do much towards ex-
plaining this point. It is to be hoped that this may be undertaken by the
present State Survey, under Prof. Cook.
At the present time, the cities of Alexandria, Washington, and Baltimore
stand upon its deposits, and Philadelphia is probably underlaid by its margin,
as well as the adjoining margin of the Gneiss. Indeed, the location of the
prominent cities of the Atlantic States appears to have been determined by the
fine sites and water-powers offered by the junction of the high rolling country
of the Gneiss formation, and the lower and more level regions of the supposed
Neocomian, Cretaceous and Tertiary. Where the Gneiss strikes the ocean, is
situated our greatest seaport. New York. Trenton, Philadelphia, Wilming-
ton, Baltimore, Washington, Alexandria, Richmond, Raleigh, Columbia, and
Milledgeville, Georgia, are all on this line of junction. The elevated Gneiss
hills furnish healthy and beautiful residences, the fall furnishes water-power,
and the lower level, water communication, and a light soil most suitable for
gardening and the production of provisions for these centres of population.
The succession of strata is rather more complete in New Jersey than has
been generally supposed. At the basis of the series occurs the present fresh-
water period. Then the marine Hadrosaurus or Ripley clays, and lower Green-
sand bed. This deposit my friend John Smock, first assistant of the State
Survey of New Jersey, informed me had not found to contain Chelonians. On
examination of my own collections and explorations, and those of the Academy,
I find this to be true up to the present time. The Chelonians, then, have so
far been found in the middle bed of green sand only. Third, the sands, greea
sand, and limestone pertaining to the middle bed. Lastly, the upper green
sand bed, which appeared to approximate closely the London clay, or lower
Eocene, in the character of its fauna, in its molluscs, according to Conrad, and
especially in the genus of serpents, Palaeophis of Owen.
[June,
