NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 5
tion of Gmelin. We have nothing new, except the first unequivocal indication
of Uria coltimba in Lathanrs " Uria grylleX&w B, from Aoonalaschka " (''fascia
alarum gemina alba," which was " grylle Var. A" of Latham's Syno])sis. vol.
iii.) " Alca Candida " Briinn. and " Cepphus lacteolus " Pallas — both of which
are merely albinos — still hold their ground ; but the nominal species based
upon the plumages of Utaviania tord-i, hitherto rampant, subside into " varie-
ties." (Species still fourteen.)
(1790.) BoNNATERRE, EncyclopecUe Methodique, Orn. — Genus ringninus insti-
tuted, with Alcn impennis L. as type. A certain " Uria nivea " is named, for
which the author quotes Pallas, Spec. Zool. v. p. 33 (" lacteolus "; ^albino
grylle or columha).
(1794.) DoNXDORFF (JoHANN August), Beytrclje Zoologische, zwcyter band,
erster theil. — The great synonymist of the eighteenth century, as he fairl}- de-
serves to be called, gives no descriptions, but laboriously collates astonishing
lists of synonyms. In the cases of some well-known birds, the citations stretch
over several pages, giving one such an idea of the extent of tlie ornithological
literature of the last century as could hardly be gained from any other work.
Donndorff follows Linnaeus in his reference of the Auks to two genera, Alca
and Colymbus ; the now sub-family Urinse composing his " Colj'mbi mit drej'ze-
higen Fiissen," as distinguished from the four-toed Divers proper. With this
author Alca " pica " and " balthica " revive ; A. " labradorica " and A. " pyg-
ma?a'' continue in their original significance ; Pallas' four species remain, and
also his nominal species " lacteolus ;" five varieties of ^rry/Ze are enumerated,
of which Var. " B " is columba. By the names " Colymbus minor '' and " troile"
the author probably intends to distinguish two species of ilurre, but his syno-
nyms are inextricably confused. The var. "5.'' of troile \s, however, unmis-
takeably r ngvia of Briinn.
Such was the general status of .41cidine literature as it came from the hands
of the writers of the eighteenth century. We have fourteen well-known valid
species, and indications of the fifteenth {Uria columba).
(1801.) Lepechin, Nova Acta Petrop. xii. — Alca camtschatica described.
(Species now fifteen.)
(1811.) Pallas, Zoogrophia Rosso-Asiatica. — Dr. Pallas for the second time
comes forward to take a long step in advance of his contemporaries, with nu-
merous new species from the North Pacific, and with a more extensive sub-
division of the family. Six valid new species are described : to wit, " Cepphus "
cohimbii, " Cepphus " carbo, '■ Alca" monocerata, " Uria" aleutica, " Uria " dubia,
and " Uria " pusilla. Four known species are re-named : the Antient Auk
being called " Uria senicula," the Camtschatkan Auk " Uria mystacea," the
thick-billed Guillemot '' Cepphus arra," and the marbled Guillemot "Cepphus
perdix." "Cepphus lomvia," Pallas, equals "Uria lonivia," Briinnich, equals
" Colymbus" troile, Linnaeus. As in 1769, Dr. Pallas calls the Guillemots all
" Cepphus;" all the other Auks are consigned to " Uria" except the Puffins, for
which the generic najne " Lunda " (after Gesner) is employed. Alca psittacula
is ranged in this genus. (Species now twenty-one.)
(1811.) Illiger, Prodromus. — Genus Mormon instituted for the Puffins.
(1816.) ViEiLLOT, Analyse. — Genus Mergulus (after Ray) adopted for Alcaalle
Linn. Genus Larva instituted for the Puffins. Genus Alca " Linn." adopted
i^v cristatclla.
(1818.) Transactions of the Linmvnn Society, xii. — Sabine re-names the thick-
billed Guillemot, as " Uria Briinnichii ;" Leach, a few pages further on, bestows
another name on the same bird, — " Uria Francsii."
(1819.) Merrem. — Genus Simorhynchus instituted, yvhh Alca cristatellaFnUas,
as type. (Fide G. R. Gray.)
1868.]
