NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165
A sketch of tlia Natural Order LILIACEffi, as represented in the Flora of the
States of Oregon and California, with special reference to the Plants col-
lected in an Excursion along our Pacific Coasts, A. D. 1866.
BY ALPHONSO WOOD.
(Commencing at San Diego, Jan. 28, 1 made wide excursions in that vicinity until Feb.
19. Here tlie hills are covered with four species of the Cacti, with other plants. Thence
journeying north, 1 visited the splendid plains of San Louis Rey, and of Anaheim, *c.
Arrived at Los Angeles on the 23d. Here tlourish almost all the tropical, together with
the temperate fruits, in great abundance. My daily excursions here extended to San
Gabriel, to the Granite Mountains north and east, to Oocomungo and San Bernardino east,
and to San Pedro west. Next journeyed to San Buenaventura, — a most deliglitful trip,
much of it on the beach. Hence diverged to Ojai Ranch and the Sulphur Mountains.
Thence to Santa Barbara, known for its grand Hiission church, still in good repair. C>n
the 28th of March I left for San Louis Obispo, where I spent three days on tliose magnifi-
cent plains and lofty buttes. Next on the Salinas Plains, the Gavilan Mountains, and the
vicinity of Monterey four days, and April 4th to 7th in the rich Pajaro Valley and adjoin-
ing Redwood Hills. April 7th to 17th botanized in the remarkable region of Santa Cruz,
and the following week on the splendid plains and hills of Santa Clara and San Jose,
south and east of the Bay. April 23d to May 6th, in the vicinity of San Francisco, San
Mateo, Oakland, *,c.
Our next journey was to the Giant-wood of Calaveras, with side excursions to Sacra-
mento, Lincoln, Folsom, Murphy's and Valleeito, returning on May 31st. The plain.)
were now dressed in their most brilliant robes, in which the golden and purple Mariposas
shone conspicuous.
A trip to the Geysers commenced June 1st, when the Geyser Mountains were red with
Clarkias. In this journey we visited Petaluma, Sevastopol, Santa Rosa and Healdsburg,
which latter place yiekls a rich liarvest to the botanist. Returned June 7th.
Next day commenced our long tour northward, again visiting Sacramento, Marysville,
and exploring the Yuba River to near Downieville. Thence OroviUe, Chico, are visited;
Red Bhiff and Shasta, where I explored the head-waters of the Sacramento. Thence over
the Trinity Mountains, where Brevoortia had long bloomed unknown, and over Scott's
Mountain, reaching Yreka June 17th From this place enjoyed a grand excursion over the
volcanic plains, thirty miles, to Mt. Shasta.
June 21st crossed the State line, on the Siskiy-ou Mountains, into Oregon, and for three
days explored the splendid valley of Rogue River, in the vicinity of Jacksonville. Next
three days were spent in pleasant excursions up and down the Umpqua Valley, from the
bright little town of VVilbur. At Eugene, lUO miles to the north, entered the vast plains
of the Wahlamette River. Reached Albany July Ist, and Salem, the capital of Oregon,
July 4th. Here spent three days in botanic trips, in company with Dr. Wythe of the
Wahlamette University. Hence thirty miles to Oregon City, a place of infinite water-
power, and one hundred miles from Eugene, — theentirelengthof this great valley. Hence
to Portland twenty miles, and to the ocean one hundred miles navigation for the largest
steamers.
From the city of Portland, June 9th to 17th, my long excursions radiated, usually in
excellent company. By the waters of the Great Columbia I reached the Dalles on the
18th, laboring diligently one week, with Judge Wilson often as guide. Returning, spent
one day at the famous Cascades, where the river has torn asunder the mountains, which
are supported on columns of basalt. Next I am perambulating the rich woods and
meadows of Forest Grove, twenty-five miles west of Portland. A day at Milwaukie, Oswe-
go and Oregon City, where friends and botanists had already collected herbaria for my
use. August 7th to 11th at Astoria, and Clatsop Plains, at the mouth of the Columbia.
Once more reach, and leave Portland, accompanied by friends brave and true (Dr. Atkin-
son, J. Deerdorf, &e.), for the Cascade Range and Mt. Hood, in full view sixty miles east-
ward. On that awful summit we stood Aug. 20th, and estimated its height at 17,0UU feet,
— water boiling at 18U° Fahr.
On the 25th, started from Monticello, Washington Territory, in a canoe rowed by Indi-
ans, on a two days' excursion up the Cowlitz River. Everywhere in dark, gloomy forests
of the Douglas Fir (.Vbies Douglasii),— would supply "the world with liunber for a
thousand years. Finally, on the 31st, leave Portland by steamer Montana for the Pacific,
and for San Francisco, 600 miles distant.
Our final excursion was to the Yosemite,— last, not least. A day or two at Benicia and
around Mt. Diablo (whose flowers had alre-ady been gathered for me by Rev. J. P. Moore),
once more at Stockton, and across the vast plain to Bear Valley, Mt. Bullion, and Mari-
posa, and I surveyed alone tlie Giant-wood of Mariposa. Four days 1 went up and down
in Yosemite, plucking flowers from the bases of cloud-capped rocks, and on the 22d of
September am again in San Francisco, whence, on the morning of the 29th, with many a
trophy, 1 embarked for home.)
Tribe l.—TULIPE.E.
Erythroniom grandiflorum, Pursh. Scape tall (1 — 2 f.), 1 — 3-flo\vered ;
perianth segments yellow, acuminate, refle.xed from near the base ; stigmas 3,
distinct, revolute ; leaves spotless. — Woods, from the iSacramento to the Co-
1868.]
