NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167
** Flowers brownish-purple, not tessellated. Fr. wingless.
F. Kamtschatcensis Gawl. Bulbs granulated ; leaves lanceolate, irregularly
verticillate ; flowers 1 — 3, pendulous, brown-purple, spotless, bell-forui, much
longer than their pedicels ; segments lance-elliptical, acute, veins inside more
or less lamellated ; nectaries oblong ; capsule obtusely 6-angled. — Coast, San
Diego to Sitka (and Karatschatka). The bulb consists of thick farinaceous
scales, loosely conjoined. Stem 8 — 12'. February — April. [F. biftora Lindl.)
F. RECURVA Benth. Stem tall, naked at base ; leaves linear or oblong-linear,
some whorled near the middle of the stem ; flowers several, subcylindrical,
suberect ; segments oblong, rejiexed aX the end, longer than their pedicels ; stig-
mas subconnate ; ovary oblong, fr. wingless. — California (Hooker), Umpqua
Valley, Oregon (Mrs. Royal). 2 f. Flowers 1^ inches long, light purple.
*** Flowers yellow. Capsule wingless.
F. LiLiACEA Lindl. Stem leafy at base ; leaves oblong-lanceolate and
linear, the lower whorled or opposite ; flowers 1 — 5, racemed, nodding, bell-
form, with a narrow base, yellow ; pedicels erect, longer than the bracts ; cap-
sule oblong, blunt at both ends ; style 3-cleft. — San Francisco (Dr. Slillman),
Benicia (Rev. J. P. Moore), to Nevada. 8 — 14''. Nectary a groove. Very
pretty. March.
F. PUDicA Spreng. Low ; leaves lance-linear and linear, opposite or scat-
tered ; flower solitary, nodding, bell-form, yellow ; peduncle as long as the
bract, recurved at top ; segments oblong-obovate, obtuse ; style and stigma
undivided; ovary wingless. — Dalles of the Columbia (Mrs. Wilson), and east.
6 — 2'. Leaves few, 3''. Nectaries nearly obsolete, hence first named by Pursh
a Lilium [L. pudicum).
Yucca aloifolia L.? — Hills, near the Hot Springs, San Bernardino (March
10th), only the leaves and the dead scapes of the preceding year. Leaves
densely capitate near the ground, 12 — 15' by 1', very rigid, sharply serrulate,
glaucous, ending in a strong spine. Scapes very stout, 10 — 15 f. high.
Y. graminifolia (n. sp. ?) — Mountains twelve miles east of Los Angeles
(March 3d). Saw only leaves, and dead scapes with the fruit. Leaves very
numerous, in a dense radical crown, linear, 2 f. by 3 — 4'', glaucous, not very
rigid, rough-serrulate, rouud-carinate, involute above, and ending in a sharp
spine. Scape 10 — 15 f. high, paniculately branched, bearing hundreds of
"white, bell-form, pendulous " (Mr. Hoover) flowers. Capsule 1' thick, l.Klong,
6-lobed, 6-celled, packed full of disc-form, thin, black seeds. The leaves are
not at all filamentous.
Y. FiLAME.NTOSA L. ? — Mountaius east of Los Angeles, with the last. Only
the leaves seen (March 3d), which are densely clustered, yellowish-green, with
brown spots and transverse lines at intervals, with no midvein, thick, lance-
linear, rolled above and sharp-pointed, margin splitting into strong, recurved
filaments.
CALOCHORTUS, Pursh. (Kuxic, beautiful, ;t=>Toc, grass.)
{Cyclobothra and Calochortus of authors.)
Perianth 6-parted, regular, deciduous ; segments distinct, contorted in aesti-
vation ; sepals oblong or lance-linear, spreading, much smaller than the petals ;
petals connivent or spreading, broadly obovate, cuneate-unguiculate, bearded
within, with a glabrous spot above the base; stamens 6, perigynous ; fil.
subulate ; anthers linear- oblong, deeply perforated at base where ttie filament
is inserted ; ovary free, 3-angled ; style very short or none ; stigmas recurved,
persistent on the 3-celled, 3-valved, chartaceous capsule; seeds angular, one
row in each cell. — Bulbous erect herbs of the North American Pacific States.
Leaves narrow, acuminate. Flowers few, terminal, solitary, nodding or erect,
showy.
1868.]
