168 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
The Rcknowledgpd error of Lindley, Kunth, &c., of referring the original species of
Pursh {('. ekffans, A.D. 1816) to a genus invented ten years later {Cydoholhra, Sweet, IS26), is
avoided by including both genera in one, under Pursh's name. Moreover, Sweet's genus
cannot possibly be distinguished by "fovea nectarifera alte impressa" (the only distinc-
tion relied upon), for in C. elegans and its congeners " the pit" fades away by degrees, be-
coming imperceptible. If, however, the two genera be insisted on. Sweet's name must
give place to the prior one of Pursh, and a new name (none more appropriate than Mari-
posa) oonftiTredinp\aoe ot the Cahchrn-tus of Lindley, Ac. No one acquainted with these
beautiful flowers will regret the disuse of so distasiefnl a name as CydubMira.
\Calochortidea, Petals impressed inside with a nectariferous pit, wliich is
gibbous outside, beard scattered, soft, margin ciliate-fringed.
* Perianth ventricous, pendulous.
C. PULCHELLUS. Erect, branched above ; flowers globous, yellow ; the upper
in pairs and threes, lower often solitary, all with long bracts ; sepals lance-
ovate, acuminate ; petals concave, connivent, fringed, twice broader than the
sepals, the pits large and deep ; anthers mucronate ; ovary ovoid. — Mt. Diablo
(Rev. J. P. Moore), and the interior of California generally, less common than
the next. 1 f. Its pendulous golden globes make a fine appearance. May.
{Cyclobothra pulcheUa Benth., in Hort. Trans., n. ser., i, p. 413.)
C. ALBUS Dougl. Erect or inclined, branching; flowers oblong, inflated,
white, the upper in pairs, with lanceolate acuminate bracts ; sepals oval, much
shorter than the concave, scarcelj' fringed petals ; anthers obtuse ; ovary obo-
void. — California, common in all the foot hills. 1 — 2 f. Leaves and bracts
lance-linear and long pointed. Flowers \' or more long, of a delicate pearly
whiteness. May, June. (Cyclobothra albu Benth., 1. c. G. alba and paniculata
Lindl.)
** Perianth expanding, nodding (not pendulous).
C. ELEGANS Pursh. Stem slender, with one radical, linear leaf; flowers in
pairs or threes, open, nodding or suberect, white or purplish ; sepals oblong,
cuspidate, greenish-purple, the petals much larger, roundish-obovate, soft-
bearded within except its purplish pit, ciliate-fringed, and a short cusp at apex ;
anthers acuminate, white ; stigmas recurved ; capsule 3-winged, finally oval
and reflexed on the elongated pedicels. — In cool mountain shades, Mt. Shasta
to the Columbia. 10 — 16^. Petals near 1'' long, the pit strongly impressed.
June. (C. Tolmiei Hook., Cyclobothra elegans Lindl., Bot. Reg. t. 1662.)
/?. nanus. Folio angustfe lineari v. filiformi, florem unicum longe excedente ;
ped. filiformi bracteis subulatis duabus instructo ; perianthii capillis fuscis.
— High hills, Yreka. Also on Mt. Hood. 5 — 8'. June — August.
i'/?^ Mariposa. Periasth erect, open. Sepals convolute-acuminate. Petals
plane, erect-spreading, often spotted, but with no nectariferous pit. Seeds oval,
compressed. (Vide G. venustus, below.)
* One radical leaf exceeding the slender stem. Petals straight, spotless? Pods
oval, obtuse, nodding
C. UMBELLATUS (n. sp.) FoUo radicali unico, lineari, caulera et bracteas
foliosas longe excedente; floribus 5 — 9, fere umbellatis, erectis ; pediculis
subradicalibus, longissirais, ebracteatis, fructiferis recurvatis ; petalis flabelli-
formibus, apice rotundatis, erosis, glaberrimis, basi squama ciliata instructis,
albis, concoloribus ; antheris oblongis, obtusis ; capsula 3-alata — In collibus
altis prope Oakland, California (legimus Sanborn et nos). Caulis 6 — 8 poll.
Folium pedale. Petala 10 lin. Maia. [Cyclobothra elegans, ya,r. Torr.l R. R.
Rep. iv ) Distinguished from G. elegans by its many flowers, beardless petals,
entire absence of nectary, &c.
C. CNiFLORDS Hook. One radical lance-linear leaf larger than the several
cauline ones ; flower single, lilac, on a long, nearly radical peduncle ; sepals
linear, acuminate ; petals triangular-fan-shaped, bearded just at base, with a
[June*
