192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
himbars, and one caudal may serve as types. They indicate a species of less
size than any heretofore described, except perhaps the B. rostra t a now
living. They are about half the size of the vertebrae of Bala?noptera
prisca and, B. p a 1 cB a 1 1 an t i c a, and 3-5ths those of Eschrichtius
cephalus.
The dorsal is a little longer than transverse width of centrum, and 2-5ths
longer than vertical width of the same ; the latter is therefore a depressed oval.
Inferior surface a regular arch from side to side. The lumbars have the
usual median keel, and the articular faces are not quite so transverse ; the
external planes are generally concave. The venous foramina in these are
so small as not to be noticeable.
The articular faces of the caudal are a little more compressed and nearly
as deep as wide. The two inferior keels are very slight, the diapophysis are
not perforate, and the neural arch stands on 3-5ths length of the centrum.
In. Lin.
Length dorsal, 4 II
Height articular face 3 6-2
Width " " 4 3
Width neural canal 1 4
Lumbar length 4 11
Height articular surface 3 11
Width " " 4 2
" neural canal 10
Caudal, length , 4
Height articular surface 3 9 5
" to zygapophyses , 5 2
Width articular surfaces 4
Several cervical vertebrse show the characters of the genus and species.
They are all distinct, and their parapophyses and diapophyses have not prob-
ably been united, as the portions of them remaining are quite slender.
The superficial dense bony layer of the ramus of the mandible, of which we
have specimens, is well developed, and nowhere fissured, and the nutritious
foramina small. The ramus moderately convex on both faces, much as in
the Balaenoptera p r i s c a , [Balxna Leidy), and like it, the nutritious fora-
mina were arranged in a series on each side of and close to the median
superior ridge. What distinguishes it from the latter is the presence of a
distinct median ridge, which separated from the inner face of the ramus by
a strong longitudinal groove. The nutritious foramina of the inner side
penetrate along the line of this groove. The size is about one-third the
same portion of the jaw of the B. prisca. Like the latter its inferior
margin is greatly decurved, and the outer side more convex than the inner.
In. Lin.
Length of fragment 15
Depth inner face 2
Circumference 5 2-5
Remains of the mandibles of this species are not uncommon in the Miocene
region in the beds of streams. I have in similar situations dug out the
vomers of two whales whose size would correspond with the present. Bullae
of the periotic bones of small Balasnidae are not uncommon in the same
beds, and I suspect are mostly to be referred to this and the succeeding
species.
The species appears to occur in the phosphatic deposit of the neighborhood
of Charleston, South Carolina, as I have a specimen of a lumbosacral ver-
tebra from that locality. It was among the toothless whales what the small
elephant of Malta was to the giant elephants. Our specimens have belonged
to individuals of not more than fifteen feet in length, and probably adult.
[July,
