NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
195
On favorable report of the committees, the following papers were
ordered to be published :
Notice of some remains of HORSES
BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. T>.
Mr. W. Lorenz loaned me for examination a horse tooth, black in color, and
devoid of its outer cementum,from diluvium, occupying a depression about six
feet in depth and about twenty feet in breadth, in the Silurian slate, between
Rutherford's Station and Highspire, Lebanon Co., Pa. It is stained in texture
with iron, mutilated at its lower part, and not petrified. It is a fifth upper
molar of an individual which had just attained maturity, and does not differ
characteristically from the corresponding tooth of the recent horse at the same
age. The inflection of enamel at the bottom of the principal internal valley of
the triturating surface is minute, but this is the case occasionally in the cor-
responding tooth in the living horse. The size of the tooth also is about that
of the ordinary full-sized horse. The measurements, in comparison with a
fifth molar contained in a recent horse skull, are as follows :
Fossil. Recent.
Length .. 40 lines. 34 lines.
Breadth fore and aft 15^ " 15 "
Width, transversely 12 " 12 "
The tooth may be viewed as having belonged to an indigenous horse, a co-
temporary of the Mastodon, but it is equally improbable.
Prof. Whitney has recently submitted to my inspection a fossil horse tooth
from Martinez, Contra Costa Co., California, the largest I have ever seen or
can recollect of being on record. The formation from which it was derived
Prof. Wliitney considers to be of pliocene age. The tooth is well preserved,
retaining its outer cementum, and is but slightly, if at all, changed in texture.
The tooth is a second upper molar, nearly half-worn. The triturating surface
in its arrangement of the enamel presents nothing strikingly different from that
of the corresponding tooth of the recent horse. As in this there is an inflection
of the enamel at the bottom of the principal internal valley, and in this respect
and the less simplicity of folding of the enamel islets of the triturating surface,
differs from Equus excdsws of the Niobrara and of California. The tooth pro-
bably represents an extinct species, upwards of eighteen hands high. Its
measurements are as follows :
Length along the outer median column to the origin of the fangs.... 2G.} lines.
Breadth of triturating surface fore and aft Itij "
Thickness independent of cementum 15 "
" with cementum 16 "
The species represented by the tooth may be distinguished by the name of
Equus pacificus. J had previously seen fragments of an upper molar and two
lower molars, apparently of the same species, from the same locality, submit-
ted to my inspection by Prof. Whitney several years ago.
Coincidentally, Dr. Le Conte has just handed to me a bone indicating the
smallest species of horse of which I have any knowledge. The bone, a second
ungual phalanx or coronary bone, together with the proximal end of a meta-
carpal of a ruminant, were obtained by John C. Browne from a well 60 feet
deep, at Antelope, Nebraska, 450 miles west of Omaha. The coronary bone
in its axis is 9 lines long; the same width at the proximal end, and -rather
more than a line less at the distal end. From its relation of size with that
of the recent horse, the animal to which it belonged was about eight hands
high. It is uncertain to what solipedal genus the bone actually belongs, but
in the absence of more characteristic materials, it may be viewed as repre-
senting a species of Equus.
1868.]
