202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
any of the teeth in the dentary bone above described. The crown is eight lines
long and four and a quarter in diameter at base. The fore and back part of
the robust osseous fang present concavities, as portions of cavities remaining
after the shedding of teeth with absorption of their fangs.
Of two shed crowns in the museum, from the same locality, one is 5j lines
long by 2^ and If in diameter at base ; the other 6| lines long by 3| and 3^
at base.
The museum of the Academy also contains two specimens consisting of
alveolar fragments of jaws with teeth, of the same animal, from Burlington
Co., N. J. They were presented by W. J. Taylor, and are reputed to have been
obtained from the green sand.
One of the specimens is 2 J inches long, and contains an alternation of teeth
and empty cavities for successional teeth. The first cavity is large, the fang
formerly occupying its position being completely absorbed. The second tooth
of the specimen is entire. Its crown is 7 lines long by 4 and 3^ at base. The
third and fifth cavities for successional teeth are not quite so large as the first,
nor are the fangs which occupied them so completely absorbed. The fourth
tooth has its crown mutilated. Its base behind is irregularly excavated, but
whether by erosion, or whether it is the remains of a position occupied by a
successional tooth, I cannot determine. In the sixth tooth the crown is not
entirely protruded, and its fang is already coossified with a tubular sheath of
the fang of the former tooth which occupied its position. In the seventh tooth
the crown is shed, but the fang remains with a large cavity. The crown of
the eighth tooth was also shed and the fang nearly obliterated through ab-
sorption.
The smaller alveolar fragment is IJ inches long, and contains two teeth,
with an intervening cavity for a successional tooth. Before aud behind the
two teeth are the remains of other cavities.
Though I have an aversion to change names, yet the name Conosavrus is so
obviously wrong and liable to mislead, especially also as there is a saurian
named C'oniosaurus, that I propose for the former the name of Conosaurops.
I may here take occasion to mention that I have suspected that the tooth
represented in figs. 7, 8, 9, pi. xx, of my " Cretaceous Reptiles of the United
States," and referred to a carnivorous reptile with the name of Tomodon, may
also have been a fish. The base of the specimen presents an irregular porous
condition, but this I suspect rather to be the result of erosion. As it is unique,
I have not been able to obtain a section to examine its microscopic structure.
As the name TomodonhixA been previously appropriated by Dum^ril for a genus
of serpents, I would propose to alter the name applied to the animal to which
the fossil belonged, to that of Diplo'i;(|modon.
August ISth.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Sixteen members present.
August 25 th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Twenty-three members present.
Messrs. Uselraa Smith and B. Waterhouse Hawkins were elected
members.
Mr. Ralph Tate, of London, was elected a correspondent.
On favorable report of the Committee^ the following paper was
ordered to be printed :
[August,
