NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7
The new genera are numerous. Of these Brachijrhamphus, (type marmoratus^)
Lomvia, (type troile,) Synthllboramphus, (type antiqmis,) and Ptychoramphus,
(type aleuticus,) are all valid, and were much needed. On the contrary, Tylo-
rhamphus, (type cristatellus,) Ceratoblepharum, (type arctica,) and Gymnoblepha-
rum, (type cirrhata,) were not called for, being antedated respectively by Simo-
rhynchus Merrem, (1819,) Fraterculn Brisson, (1760,) and Lunda Pallas, (1811.)
The founding of a subgenus, Apobapton, upon the type o^ Brachyrhamphus, is
out of order. In the choice of names for the two subdivisions of Uria the au-
thor is unfortunate in taking the specific designation of the types of these ge-
nera, particularly in the case of Lomvia, which must stand for the genus of
which troile is typical, necessitating a change in the specific appellation of one
species of that genus, whose synonymy was already overburdened.
The four new species are Phaleris microceros, Brachyrhamphus Wrangelii, B.
brarhypterus, and B. KittUtzii. Of the three last, Wrangelii is only to-day iden-
tified ; the other two remain unknown, except by Brandt's description. Brachyp-
terus is said to have the tarsi longer than the middle toe, which distinguishes
it from all the known species of the genus. KittUtzii is evidently a young bird,
and probably not a valid species. It is very near Uria brevirostris, Vigors, if
not the same, and may be the young either of marmoratus or Wrangelii. The
present monograph does not recognize it as valid, leaving only three really
new species to be attributed to Brandt's paper.
Brandt identifies and retains Uria dubia Pall, under name of Phaleris dubius ;
AIca pygmsea Gm. as Uria pusilla Pall., under name of Phaleris pygm»a. Uria
Wurmizusume Temm., PI. Color. 579, is renamed Braehyrhamphus [Si/nihlibo-
ramphus) Temminckii. Alca monoccrata Pall, is renamed Cerorhina " orientalis,"
probably through a lapsus calami for occidentalis Bp. (Species now twenty-
seven.)
(1836.) BoMAPARTE, Geographical and Comparative List. — Phaleris microceros
Brandt is renamed as Phaleris " nodirostra."
(1839.) Vigors, Zool. Voy. Blossom. — Alca antiqua Gm, is renamed as "Mer-
gulus cirrhocephalus."
(1839.) Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. — Colymbus marmoratus Gm. is renamed
" Uria Townsendii." Audubon's figure of the supposed adult bird may be
really Brachyrhamphus Wrangelii Brandt. His figure of the supposed young is
really the adult B. marmoratus.
(1845.) Gambel, Proc. Acad. Kat. Sc. Phila. — Uria aleutica Pall, is renamed
as "Mergulus Cassinii."
(1849.) Gray and JIitchell, Genera of Birds, iii. — A great blemish is the
inclusion of the Penguins as a subfamily of the AlcidiP, coming in between the
Starikis and the ;\Iurres. Otherwise the arrangement here adopted of the Al-
cidse is as faultless as any ever proposed. Three subfamilies are recognized :
Alcinie for the true Auks and the Puffins ; Phaleridince for the Starikis ; and
VrincB, for the Guillemots. (This arrangement is noticed further on in con-
nection with Prof. Brandt's paper, under head of the general characters of the
family). Fratercula Briss. is adopted for the Pufiins ; Phaleris Temm. for all
the Starikis, except Alca monocerata Pall., for which Cerorhina Bp. is used;
Brachyrhamphus Brandt, in the same acceptation as used by its founder ; Uria
Briss. for the Guillemots ; and Arctica Moehring, for the Sea-doves. Under the
head of the latter, besides alle, are ranged cirrocephalus. Vigors, and Cassinii,
Gambel, with the exception of which, the lists of species are very accurate
and very full. Alca pygma?a Gmel. is identified with Viia, pusilla Pallas;
Uria Mandtii Licht. is used for Cepphus columba Pallas.
(1851.) Bonaparte, Proc. Zool. Soc. London. — A new genus and species
described — Sagmatorrhina Lathami, with which Alca labradoria Gm, is
identified. (Species now twenty-eight.)
(1856.) Bonaparte, Comptes Eendus, xlii. — That portion of the Tableau
1868,]
