206 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
fore and aft measurement, and the height is usually little less than the latter.
The root partakes of the form of the outline of the base of the crown, but is
more square and is flat or transversely concave below.
Twelve specimens of teeth of Ptychodus Mortoni, from the Cretaceous For-
mation of Alabama, belonging to the Yale College Museum, have been sub-
mitted to my examination by Mr. William M. Gabb. Among them occurs
the largest tooth of the species I have seen, and larger than any on record.
It is labelled as having been derived from Perry Co., Alabama. The fang
and parts of the lateral and back borders of the crown are broken away. In
the perfect condition the crown has measured a little over two inches in
transverse diameter, one inch and a quarter antero-posteriorly, and ten lines
in height. The crushing surface is porportionately less prominent at the
centre than in the smaller teeth attributed to the same species, and is more
uniformly convex, or less expanded laterally at the base. The borders of the
posterior sinus also are less abrupt or defined. The unworn summit presents
a crucial ridge, of which the lateral radii are most distinct and directed pos-
tero-laterally. From the crucial ridge, numerous ridges, equally prominent,
diverge, branch in their course and ultimately conjoin in a fine reticulation at
the base af the crown. This reticulation has the greatest breadth at the sides
of the crown and is least developed at the fore-part.
Eleven teeth from Uniontown, Alabama, exhibit a gradation in size from less
than three-fourths that of the above described specimen down to one little
more than a fourth of its diameter. The specimens present a remarkable sim-
ilitude throughout. Some are proportionately wider fore and aft than others,
and the smallest are porportionately higher than the largest ones. The outline
of the base of the crown is reniform, with the relation of the longer and
shorter diameters varying. The largest specimen has the crown an inch and
a half wide, a little over three-fourths of an inch fore and aft, and about half
an inch in height. The sides of the crown expand at the base laterally ; the
fore-part forms nearly a uniform slope, and the back surface slopes to the
sinus, which forms a broad triangular depression. The fang is fourteen lines
wide, seven lines fore and aft, and three lines in depth.
The crown of a median sized tooth of the series, unworn, measures scant 14
lines wide, 7^ fore and aft, and 65 high. The smallest specimen has the crown
7 lines wide. 4J fore and aft, and an equal height. Its base laterally appears
more abruptly expanded than in the others. Most of the specimens are unworn
and e.xhibit the characteristic ridges of the crown in a striking manner. In
three specimens the coarser ridges are resolved into the reticulation much
earlier or nearer the summit than in the others. In one specimen the crown
is smooth or totally devoid of ridges, presenting the same appearance repre-
sented in figs. 4, 5, pi. XXX, of Dixon's Geology of Sussex, and described as
" nascent or incomplete teeth of Ptychodus.
Seven specimens of teeth in the Museum of the Academy, from Alabama,
exhibit the same characters expressed in the description of those above. They
all present an unmistakeable specific likeness, though varying in the propor-
tions of their diameter. The largest specimen has the croAvn 16 lines wide, 11
lines fore and aft, and 8 lines high. The root is an inch wide, 7 lines fore and
aft and nearly 3 lines thick. A second specimen, with the crown 16 lines wide
and 9 lines fore and aft, has been proportionately lower than the former. Its
summit is worn away, leaving an exposed circular disk of vaso-dentine 4 lines
in diameter.
Two specimens in the Museum of the Academy, presented by Prof. Joseph
Jones, are from Green Co., Alabama. The larger is perfect and unworn. The
crown is scant 14 lines wide, by 7 lines fore and aft, and 5 lines high. The
root is 11^- lines wide, 4J fore and aft, and 2 lines thick.
Two specimens in the Museum of the Academy, presented by Dr. Wm. Spill-
man, are from Columbus, Mississippi. They present the same character as the
Alabama specimens. The larger specimen has the crown 20 lines wide, 10 lines
■ [Sept.
