NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211
we cannot assert that they differ from the latter. The long spatuliform ele-
ments figured as pelvic are, perhaps, scapula?, which are of not very different
type in the Trachystomata, Proteida, and the Ganocephala.
" The only species included in this tribe in which inflections of the enamel
have been described, is the Dendrerpeton acadianum, and here it is only
at the base. It is, however, not impossible that this genus should not be asso-
ciated with Hylerpeton, Oestocephalus, etc. The genera Urocordylus, Cera-
terpeton, Lepterpetou, Ophiderpeton and others recently described by Prof.
Huxley, also belong here.
PELIOX Wyman.
In litteris. Raniceps Wyman, Amer. Jour. Sci. Arts, 1858, 158. Not of Cuvier
(Pediculati).
Pklion lyelhi Wyman. Raniceps lyellii Wyman, 1. c.
This animal differs from the genus Amphihamus in the well-ossified verte-
bral axis ; no remains of a tail with elevated neural spines exist in the type
specimen, and no ventral scales are seen in it.
Middle Coal Measures, Jefferson Co., Eastern Ohio.
HYLONOMUS Dawson.
Hylonomus lyelli] Dawson, loc. cit. viii, 167.
The Joggins. I?bva Scotia Coal Measures.
Hylonomus aciedentatus Dawson, 1. c. viii, 258.
Coal Measures ; with the last.
Hylonomus wymanii Dawson 1. c. viii, 270.
Coal Measures, Nova Scotia ; with the last.
PARIOSTEGUS Cope.
This genus is represented by a large part of the cranium of a Batrachian
from the triassic coal measures of Chatham Co., North Carolina. If not a Ba-
trachian, it coiild only belong to a ganoid fish, but though some of its charac-
ters are somewhat ichthyic, it lacks the following important elements of the
ganoid structure, i. e., free post- and suborbital bones ; postnareal cavities ;
branchiostegal, and arched branchihyal bones. On the other hand it has a
large preorbital, bounding the frontal and maxillary to the nares, and the inner
border of the orbit as in Stegocephalous Batrachia ; also a postorbital element
contributing to the formation of an extended supratemporal roof.
Contrary to what has been found the case in most genera of Stegocepbali,
the maxillary appears to extend posteriorly to a free termination, as in modern
Salamanders, and the supra-temporal bone presents a very prominent, obtuse,
arched margin. This margin extends from the orbits on each side, and is in-
curved towards the posterior part of the cranium. There is therefore no
quadratojugal piece.
Tlie maxillary and mandibular pieces are slender, flat bones, as in Menopoma ;
the form of the posterior or articular portion of the latter cannot be ascertained
from the specimen. The more or less exposed part of the median region of the
latter exhibits a succession of shallow transverse notches, enclosing thirteen
obtuse elevations. The former resemble rudimental lateral alveoke for minute
pleurodont teeth. A few other similar minute ribs, and perhaps a minute
curved cone without sculpture, are the only other indications of dentition.
The bones of the upper surface of the cranium are most readily interpreted
by reference to those of Menopoma. A pair of narrow nasals, acuminate be-
hind, penetrate between the frontals as far posteriorly as the posterior margins
of the orbits. The suture between these is very distinct, and entirely straight.
The preorbitals extend to above the orbits, and there appear to cease with a trans-
■ verse suture. Between these and the nasals a broad triangular element eaters
1868.]
