NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 213
Dendrerpeton obtusum Cope.
This species is known by a partially preserved cranium. The superior sur-
face is exposed, the outliues of the jaws and orbits are well preserved, with the
occipitt|||condj'les. The os-quadratum is directed obliquely backwards, and
the angle of the mandible extends to a line a little behind that of the occipital
condyles. The zygomatic arch exists in a position similar to that in which it
may be seen in a few genera of Anura, as Discoglossus and Pelobates. It ex-
tends downwards and forwards from the suprasquamosal to the maxillary
region, but whether it is homologically squamosal or malar, the specimen can-
not show. The postorbital is present as well, and with the last, and the su-
pratemporal forms the bon}' roof of the temporal fossa. A piece which may
be the pre- and postfrontals combined, borders the inner superior margin of
the orbit; it widens posteriorly, where it Jias contact with the parietal, etc.,
and narrows in front. ISupra-occipitals form together a broad triangle on
the upper plaue of the cranium, of less extent than the adjoining supratemporal.
The latter elements are pitted, and towards their margins radiate grooved.
These sculpturings grow less on the margins of the supratemporal, and the
portions of the surface of the more auterior element remaining are so slightly
marked as to give the impression that the sculpturing in this species is much
less than in others of the genus. A few beaded ridges are all that remain on
a few of the parietals and postorbitals ; the maxillaries have a slightly
stronger sculpture seen in a few spots.
The general form of skull is elongate behind, and much shortened in front of
the orbits. The orbits are thus altogether in front of a line equally dividing
the cranium transverselj', while in the D. acadianum Ow. they are in the
middle of the skull. The outline of the muzzle in one species is thin, broad,
rounded, as in the Menopoma allegheni en sis, while in the latter it is ovate
and produced.
The parietal bones extend to opposite the posterior margins of the orbits, are
then gradually contracted and form an acuminate prolongation on each side
the wedge-shaped froutals. The prefrontals are thickened on each side the
front, behind the external nares. The sutures defining the frontals anteriorly,
the nasals, and the premaxillaries behind, cannot be made out. The median
longitudinal suture is a marked and zigzag one, and can be seen as far post-
eriorly as the anterior margin of the orbits. The external nostrils are large
and opposite the inner margin of the orbit on each side. This separation of
the nares is associated with a greater transverse extent of the premaxillaries
than in some of the genera. These have been set with numerous teeth, judg-
ing by their small impressions ; uo larger ones have left traces, and no
traces of any on the maxillaries. The teeth of the genera before described
are all much larger relatively, indicating still further the diversity between
them.
A fragment of mandible remains, but without teeth or external surface. It
shows a large internal canal.
Measure7ne/Us.
Lines.
Total length cranium 25-5
Width cranium 3 lines behind orbits 24
'' between orbits 7-5
" " nares 5-
" " occipital condyles 2-2
" of supraoccipital bones 6
" of right parietal fi
Extent of premaxillaries 8-7
Length orbit Ct
From the Coal Measures at Linton, Columbiana Co., Ohio, (\yest Pennsylva-
nia Basin). Discovered by Dr. John S. Newberry.
Another cranium accompanies the collection which belongs to a species dis-
1868.]
