NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215
those of the last named genus, by the splitting away of the outer parapet of the
dentary bone. As no traces of alveoli have been thus rendered visible, I
suspect the dentition to have been pleurodont, as in existing Batrachia.
No external surfiice of the mandible remains, but there are no impressions of
sculpture on the matrix. A" little external face of the premaxillary displays
none.
Measurements.
Lines.
Preserved length of ramus (imperfect) 11.
Depth at last tooth 2.
Length of exposed tooth 1-7
" dentary 75
Depth at coronold 35
" at first tooth 1-3
SAUROPLEURA Cope.
Neural and haemal elements of the caudal vertebrte elongate, distally dilated
and grooved, attached by contracted bases. Ventral aspect defended by a
series of oblique dermal ribs on each side, which meet anteriorly on the median
line. Limbs distinctly developed. Ribs long, well developed. Scales none.
No dermal bones have been discovered, nor are any portions of the cranium
known.
This genus is allied to the Urocordylus of Huxley, recently discovered in the
coal measures in Leinster, Ireland. It differs only in the presence of elongate
lizard-lilie ribs (whence the name), and in the absence of '• oat-shaped scales"
of the upper surfaces.
It is a matter of much interest in American paleontology that this remark-
able type should be found to occur in our coal measures. It was first announced
by Dr. Newberry at the meeting of the American Association for the advance-
ment of Science for 1867 (see Proceedings, p. 144), as a supposed Urocordylus,
occurring with Ophiderpeton. He mentioned at the same time the discovery
of the ganoid Dinichthys Nevvb.
The forms discovered by Dr. Newberry have an interesting relation to those
of Ireland, such as types of the present period frequently present.
The genera may be thus parallelized ; where no representation exists, we
may look forward to a future discovery to supply the present want :
Ceraterpeton Huxl., represented by
Urocordylus Huxl., " " Sauropleura Cope.
Lepterpeton Huxl., " "
Dolichosoma Huxl., " " Molgophis Cope.
Ophiderpeton Huxl., " " Oestocephalus Cope.
Brachydectes Cope.
^ Herpetocephalus Huxl., ? ? Dendrerpeton Ow.
Of the American genera, Sauropleura and Oestocephalus exhibit the peculiar
ventral dermal armature of Urocordylus and Ophiderpeton, while Molgophis
does not possess it, nor Dendrerpeton, if our species truly belongs there.
The museum of Columbia College, New Vork, contains portions of two spe-
cies of Sauropleura, but both unfortunately represented by portions only of the
vertebral column. These are, though closely resembling the species described
by Prof. Huxley, sufficient to demonstrate marked generic distinction. This is
further established by the remains of the trunk of a third, and larger species,
whose relationships can be shown to lie within this genus. This individual
has been spread over a surface of the coal slate, exhibiting ventral armature,
dorsal region with ribs, and anteriof and posterior limbs. Of skull and caudal
vertebrae nothing remains.
The dermal riblets are arranged as in Urocordylus, i. e., in parallel lines di-
rected obliquely forwards and continuous on the median line, lorming there a
1868.]
