8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Comparatif des Pelagiens which regards the Auks represents very nearly the
classification now most in vogue, founded by Mr. G. R. Gray. The family is
divided into three subfamilies— ^4^cma?, embracing only two species; Phaleridince,
comprising all the Starikis ; and Urinse, inclad'ing the Guillemots. It is thus
the same as Gray's arrangement, except in excluding the Penguins ; but in its
minor details it is unique in several features. The genus Pinguinus^ Bonna-
terre, is adopted, and Alca left for torda. Simorhi/nchus, Merrem, is taken for
its type, {oris tat ellus) and Phaleris, Temminck, for its type, [psittacnla ;) the
other small Phaleridines are ranged under Tiilorhamphus Brandt, except micro-
ceros, which is put under Ciceronia, Reichenbach. Ifria is subdivided into
Lomvia Brandt for the larger species, and " Cephus " Pallas for the smaller
ones. Most of these points are tenable, but some are not. Some very obvious
improprieties are evident in the handling of the species. Thus Bonaparte in-
sists on retaining " occidentalis " and " nodirostra," two names of his own
that he knew were antedated, one by monocerata Pallas, and the other by
microceros, Brandt. Uria columba is ranged as a synomym of grylle, while
Mandtii is allowed to take its place. The Uria "unicolor" Benicken,
which, according to the best authority, is only a state of plumage of grylle^
is given as a valid species, and referred to a different subgenus. In this
paper, as in others M'ritten towards the close of the life of the great ornithol-
Qo-ist, may be discerned an inclination to lead opinion by the mere weight of a
name, or force of personal authority.
(1858.) Cassin, in Baird s Birds of North America. — Bonaparte's article just
spoken of is made the basis, in a general way, of Mr. Cassin's paper, but with
some important modifications. Only two subfamilies are admitted, Alcinx and
Urinie, the former comprehending the Auks proper and the Starikis. Chenalo-
pez Moehring is used as a subgeneric appellation for Alca impennis. Mormon
lUiger is used for the Puffins, with Lunda Pall, and Fratercula Briss. as sub-
generic divisions. Fhaleris Temm. is employed generically for the majority of
the Phaleridine forms, with Simorhynchus Merrem, Tylorhamphus Brandt, and
Ciceronia Reichenbach, as subgeneric divisions. The erroneous assignment of
Tylorhamphus is the same as that made by Bonaparte. The forms not included
under Fhaleris are each given independent generic rank. A new species of
Cerorhina is described — C. Suckleyi — for a discussion of which the reader is re-
ferred further on. Among the Urince, the genus Uria Moehring is subdivided,
after Keyserling and Blasius, into two subgenera — Uria proper and Cataructes
Moehring. Brachyrhamphus Brandt is adopted for the Murrelets,* with Apobap-
ton Brandt as a subgenus.
This article treats of all the known species of the family, and is, in fact, a
monograph of the subject, at once very accurate, and, as far as it goes, com-
plete. Excellent descriptions, in most cases original, are given, together with
many synonyms, lists of specimens in the museum of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and Philadelphia Academj', and critical and explanatory remarks.
Although the present writer does not endorse all of the opinions maintained
in this article, he considers it as by far the best that has ever appeared in
print. (Species now twenty-nine.) .
(1859.) Xantus, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. — Brachyrhamphus hypoleucus,
a new species, described. (Species now thirty.)
(1861.) Bryant, Pvoc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. — " A monograph of the genus
Cataracles Moehring," with full lists of synonyms, and very accurate descrip-
tions. The family is named " Plautidie " after Klein. The genus is considered
in its restricted sense, including only troile Linn., ringvia Briinn., and lomvia
Linn., to which a new species, U. Californicus, is added. This is a very valua-
ble contribution. (Species now thirty-one.)
* The present writer proposes this English name for the species of Brachyrhamphus.
[Jan.
