NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217
continued further forward on one side than the other. These linear scales
were arranged as in other genera, in lines which converge forwards to the me-
dian line. They are somewhat obscured in the specimen, but it can be de-
termined that they are continuous on the median Hue. Whether this is the
posterior or anterior portion of the body cannot positively be determined from
the specimen ; it is, however, most likely the posterior, for near the posterior
portion of the striate surfiice a weak j)air of limbs is given off on each side. On
the right, a moderately stout ? femur is followed by a broken tibia and fibula,
and by five slender, closely appressed metatarsals. The last are about two-
fifths as long as the space between them and the femur; beyond them a few
slender phalanges are moderately distinctly defined. The tibia is more distinct
on the le'ft, but no tarsus or phalanges ; some of the metatarsals are preserved
here also. Length of limb to end of metatarsals equal to five vertebraj in juxta-
position, measured along the edges of the neural spines. The limb has been
slender, especially the hand.
The above specimen enables me to assign, as the ventral armature of this
species, a closely packed series of V-shaped grooves, which lie in connection
with an obscure vertebral column, on the block containing one of the typical
specimens of this species. Tliey are not continuous with any of the series ex-
hibited on other parts of the block ; some of these at least are the doublings of
the slender animal, and this ventral portion has been displaced. The grooves
are perhaps the impressions of hannapophysial rods, vastly more numerous,
however, than the number of vertebra; ; perhaps they are rather the dermal
armature. Huxley figures a portion of this as on the block with Urocordylus
wan desfordii , but does not refer it to its precise relation to the animal,
A few well-developed ribs are preserved with this portion, — the only ones I
can refer to this species. The vertebra' are partly enclosed in matrix, partly
impressions. The neural spines, though expanded antero-posteriorly, are less
elevated than in the caudal region, and have left no traces of their character-
istic ribs or serration.
The number of spines in the type specimens is six in a half-inch ; in the
smallest, just described, ten in the same distance. The height of the spine in
the former is 1-15 lines.
As the characters of this species are most determinable, I regard it as the
type of the genus Sauropleura.
Sauropleura kemex Cope.
This species is larger than the S. pectinata, and about equal to the Uro-
cordylus wandesfordii Huxl. The caudal spines differ from both in the
greater attenuation of the haemal series, and the presence of a basal lamina on
the neural.
It is represented by a portion of the vertebral column three inches in length.
In this space may be counted twenty-four vertebrae Such of the latter whose
outlines are visible display centra, characteristic of the genus; their terminal
concavities conic, with apices meeting medially; zygapophyses present; and
their length a little greater than their depth.
The characteristics of the species are the remarkable length and slenderness
of the fan-shaped neural and haemal spines, and the absence of an acute serra-
tion on their margins. In this species the spines have a larainiform expansion
at the base in their planes. In the other species here described these spines
are not only relatively broader and more fan-shaped, but they are acutely ser-
rate on the margin and constricted at the base.
In S. r e m ex the dilated neural spines are a little more than three times as
long as they are distally wide, while the h;emal spines are a little narrower.
The neural spines stand about the middle of the centrum. The basal half ia
furnished with an anterior ala, which leaves the anterior margin rather ab-
ruptly and extends to the next spine in advance. It returns gradually to the
centrum and is separated from the articular face of the latter by a notch. A
1868.] 15
