218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
similar ala exists on the posterior margin of the neural spine, which extends
for a shorter distance above the base, and is narrower than the anterior. Each
spine presents a median groove on its surface, which extends halfway to the
base or further ; on each side of this are some three other grooves,
which extend but a short distance ; surface otherwise smooth. The ends of
the grooves slightly notch tlie truncated end of the spine.
The hremal spines are on the posterior portions of the centra, and in con-
tact with the anterior part of the basis of those succeeding. They are without
the dilatations of the neural spines, and are directed rather more obliquely
backwards. They are similarly grooved, though without that so distinctly
median, seen -in the neural series. ,
Both neural and h;emal spines become larger towards the posterior part of
the vertebral column. There appear to be no zygapophyses nor diapophyses,
nor rudiments of ribs. The centra are rather stout, and somewhat constricted
medially. There are no traces of dermal armature of any kind.
Measurements.
Lines.
Length of a posterior centrum 1"2
Depth " " " 1-
Length neural spine of adjoining vertebra 4-4
Basal width 1'4
Median width , "9
Distal width 1-1
Length of a more anterior neural spine 4-3
Distal width " " " " 1-5
" anterior haemal spine 4
" width " " , 1-4
From the Coal Measures, the Western Pennsylvania and Ohio Bituminous
Basin, at Linton, Columbiana Co., Ohio, near the Ohio River. Prof. J. S.
Newberry.
CESTOCEPHALUS Cope.
This genus is known from a single species as yet. As before remarked, it
represents in many respects the Ophiderpeton of Huxley, and has been alluded
to by Dr. Newberry as the same. It, however, differs markedly in the narrow
lanceolate form of the head, with probable accompanying peculiarities of de-
tail, and in the presence of limbs, which have not been found in the Irish
genus. The form of the head is somewhat nearer that of Lepterpeton Huxl.,
but the limbs of the American genus have as yet been seen as one pair only,
and very small, while in Lepterpeton there are two pairs, which are large.
The general form of the body of Oestoccphalus is more snake-like.
In more detail, we have an elongate lanceolate head with little or no sculp-
turing of the external surface of the bones. The angles of the mandibles are
much prolonged backwards as in Archegosaurus and frogs, and the well de-
veloped ribs commence but a short distance behind the head. The vertebrae
are slender, and furnished with well developed diapophyses. A pair of sym-
metrical bones, whose impressions are seen posterior to the occipital region,
look like ceratohyals or small scapulee, and one of them is continuous with
a second piece, which occupies the place of a humerus A third piece follows,
which is probably ulna ; no radius or manus is preserved. This then is a
rudimental fore limb, situate very close to the head. The skin has been occu-
pied by a great number of closely packed, curved, spine-shaped scales. They
have occupied the ventral integument passing from the median line of the belly
outwards and posteriorly, having acute tips which may have penetrated the
Bkin on each side ; whether such tegumentary spines protected the back can-
not now be determined.
[Sept.
