NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221
measured along the median line above equal eleven lines ; one of these is 3-6
lines in width above ; width of a (?) posterior caudal 3 1. ^
This animal has been, like Amphiuma, a snake-like Batrachian, out probably
of even more elongate form. How near its affinities to this genus may be,
cannot be ascertained, owing to want of important parts of the skeleton, but
it differs in the important feature of the large, well developed ribs.
LABYRINTHODONTIA.
DITCYOCEPHALUS Leidy.
DiCTYocEPHALUS ELEGANS Leidv, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1856, 256. Emmons
'Geology North Amer., p. 59." Tab. 31.
Triassic Coal Measures, Chatham Co., N. Carolina.
CENTEMODON Lea.
Centemodon stTLCATtrs Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1856, 18.
Triassic Shales near Phoenixville, Chester Co., Penn.
BAPHETES Owen.
Baphetes planiceps Owen, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond. x, 1853, (xi, notes).
Carboniferous Coal Measures of the Joggins, Nova Scotia.
EUPELOR Cope.
Gen. nov. Char. Teeth subcylindric, with large pulp cavity at the basis only ;
external surface without grooves ; dentine divided by numerous flat vertical
lamina; of a dense substance, probably enamel, which radiate from very near the
pulp cavity to the external enamel layer.
The species on which this genus depends was originally described by the
writer as a Mastodonsaurus. The latter genus, however, exhibits external
grooves where the inflections of enamel enter and separate the dentine. These
inflections, as is well known •from the figures and descriptions of Professor
Owen, are more or less convoluted, some of them very highly so. The laminae
of the teeth of the Eupelor cannot be looked upon as inflections of enamel,
but rather as branches. They are exceedingly thin, and our sections do not
demonstrate them to be double. If they are double they are very much more
atten\iated than the external enamel stratum. They may be distinguished in a
section of the wall of the pulp cavity at the base of the root as well as else-
where.
Eppelor dcrus Cope, Mastodonsaurus durtts Cope. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci.,
Phila., 1866, 249.
From the Triassic Red Sand Stone near Phoenixville, Chester Co., Penn.
On AGAFHELTJS, a genus of toothless Cetacea.
BY EDW. D. COPE.
During the autumn of 1866 a whale was cast ashore on the Long
Beach, Ocean Co., N. J., opposite Westecunk, on the other side of Little Egg
Harbor, near the residence of Wra. A. Crane. A recent visit to the spot fur-
nished me with the means of determining the species to which this monster of
the deep belonged, although not with the completeness desirable, as the tide'
had a short time previously taken off" the most bulky part of the carcass. Thus
the cranium, cervical and dorsal vertebrae, with the first ribs, the most import-
ant portions for its identification, were lost. There were pt'eserved, however,
the mandibular arch, ear-bone, one scapula and both fins, numerous ribs, many
1868.]
