NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223
not before characterized. The whale was first driven on shore on its back, and
the gular and thoracic regions were seen to be entirely without ridges or plicae
of any kind, but as smooth as any other part of the body, or as the throat of a
right whale, Balaena cisarctica Cope, which is not uncommon on the same
coast.
This my informant told me was the species known among the whalers as the
"Scrag Whale." Though this name is indefinite when applied by whalers of
different nationalities, it is probably used with accuracy by those accustomed
to any particular region. At any rate I have little doubt that this is the spe-
cies called by the same name by Dudley, who in 1725 wrote an account of the
whales known by the whalers of the coasts of New England. He says it is
near the right whale (B. c i s a r c t i c a) in figure also; " is near akin to the
fin-back, but instead of a fin upon its back, the ridge of the after part of its
back is scragged with half a dozen knobs or knuckles. He is nearest the right
whale in figure and quantity of oil. His bone is white, but won't split." This
is published, with an account of the other species known, in the 33d volume
of the Philosophical Transactions. He mentions particularly the fin-back and
hump-back whales, describing the deep folds of the chin, throat and sides of
those genera. There can be little doubt that his " scrag whale " had a smooth
throat like the Balsenaj, and not a plaited one like the Baltenopteras and their
allies. By the preceding account it has been shown that the species has but
four slender fingers at the carpus; hence it is obviously the type of genus in-
termediate between Bal*na and Megaptera, not hitherto recognized, — furnished,
however, with the scapula of Bala^noptera.
Captain Atwood, a resident of a part of the peninsula of Cape Cod, Mass.,
who is a good observer of the life of the ocean, thus writes of the scrag whale
in J. A. Allen's Catalogue of the Mammals of Massachusetts, in the Proc. Bos-
ton N. H. Soc. for 1868:
" Scragg. — A species of whale known by this name, and nearly allied, if not
identical with the right whale, is sometimes taken here. It is the opinion of
many of our whalemen that they are not a distinct species, but are the young
right whale that lost its mother while very young, and has grown up without
parental care, which has caused a slight modification. The most prominent
feature is on its dorsal ridge ; near the tail there are a number of small pro-
jections or bunches, having some resemblance to the teeth of a saw. It has no
dorsal fin or hump on its back."
Additional evidence of the existence of this genus has been furnished by the
Smithsonian Institution. In accordance with recommendations and directions
furnished by the writer, VVm. H. Dall, the enterprising director of the West
r Coast Scientific Exploring Expedition, originally commanded by Dr. Kennicott,
sent to the Institution drawings and descriptive notes of the grey whale of the
coasts of Upper and Lower California. The writer has also examined an al-
most complete set of whalebone, with some other portions of the same species,
in the museum of the Jlssex Institute, at Salem, Mass. The baleen is similar
in character to that of The present species, but presents specific differences.
The notes of Capt. Dall indicate a long-finned, smooth-throated whale, wiih a
flat-pointed head like a fin-back, and no dorsal fin, but a series of knobs on the
posterior region of the back. That it in all respects conforms to the generic
type of the Atlantic species, can be determined from the description which
follows.
The Atlantic species was named from Dudley's description by the com-
piler, Erxleben, without his adding to our knowledge of it, Bahena g i bbo s a. I
will follow Dr. Gray in adopting this name. The latter author, in his excel-
lent Catalogue of Seals and Whales in Brit. Mus., refers it, on the basis of the
same description, to Balaena, with doubt.
Genus AGAPHELUS Cope.
Fingers four, elongate. Cervical vertebrae ? Lumbar and anterior caudal
1868.]
