224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
vertebrae longer than their greatest diameter. Dorsal fin wanting. Gularand
pectoral region without folds. Scapula with well developed acromion and
coracoid. Baleen narrow, short.
Agaphelus gibbosus Cope.
Scrag Whale, Dudley, Philos. Trans, xxxiii., 250, and of The Whalers.
jBalana ffibbosa ^Tx\ehen, Systema Mammalium 610 (from Dudley), and after
him of Gmelin, Bonnatere, Lacep^de, Virey, Gerard, Desmarest & Fischer.
Gray, Catal. Brit. Mus. 1850, p. 18, and 18t5G, p. 90.
Agaphelus yihbosus Cope, Proc. Ac. N. Sci. Phila., 1868, 159.
Balxnoptera rostrata Cope, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1867, 147.
Ft. In.
Total length (estimated) of young 43
Length to third caudal vertebra 33
Length of cranium (estimated) 6 10
" mandibular ramus (in curve) 6
" pectoral limb 4
Width of " " 15
Length of humerus 11-5
" radius and ulna 17
Posterior margin of scapula 14
Length of coracoid from glenoid cavity 3-3
" glenoid cavity , 6-3
Mandible, length from condyle to coronoid 13-5
" depth at coronoid 85
" " 2-5 feet from coronoid ^ 4-6
The form of the mandibular ramus is peculiar, and more like that of the
Bala?noptera rostrata than anj^ other. It is triangular in section, having
an inferior angulated ridge, and a broad, slightly convex, superior face, instead
of their usual ridge. Such a ridge leaves the coronoid process, but soon turns
inwards to form the inner outline. Width of the superior face 3-5 inches.
The coronoid process is quite elevated, and turned outwards. In the fresh
animal the lower lip included the upper all round. The laminae of whalebone
are jilaced on a base having a sigmoid flexure. Greatest depth of the gum 1
in. 3 lines. Within each principal lamina are two supplementary laminie, the
intermediate being the narrower, the inner triangular, its intermediate bristles
arising from the gum. The bristles of the supplementary plates are longer
and finer than those of the outer; in the latter, three series of bristles are en-
closed between very thin enamel plates. All the laminae are thin, five in an inch,
and split transversely straight; white cream- colored, with a purplish shade near the
centre of the base. The ulna is slender, but furnished with a prominent round-
ed and flattened olecranon, which is prolonged into a thin cartilaginous plate,
formed like the diapophysis of a vertebra, and in the plane of the ulna ; this
structure appears to have been ossified in the SibbaMius borealis Fisch.,
as figured by Dubar In the Agaphelus gib b os u "it occasions an abrupt
angulation near the basal third of the inner margin of the fin. In the scapula,
the coracoid is in its plane, but the larger acromion diverges outwards.
The anterior caudal vertebrt« are more elongate than the lumbosacral, less
depressed, and with the centra in every way larger. All are sharply keeled
on the median line below, with a concave face between the keel and the base
of the diapophysis. The caudal and lumbosacral diapophyses are obspatulate,
the anterior becoming narrower. The neural spines of the lumbar vertebrae
are much elevated, concave above both before and behind, the zygapophysis
measuring a point considerably below the middle.
In.
Third (?) caudal (not perforate) length centrum 7-3
depth 6
width 6-5
[Sept.
