NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225
height neural spine 9'5
zygapophysis 4-3
length diapophysis (from front base) 3 3
Lumbosacral 1; length centrum V'S
depth 5-3
width 6'3
height neural canal 2-5
width 1-5
* height neural spine 15-3
zygapophyses 5-5
length diapophysis 7'5
greatest width do 5-3
Lumbosacral 2 (more anterior) length centrum 6-3
Lumbosacral 3 (anterior) height centrum 4-3
width " ... 6
length diapophysis 7-7
The ear bone is much compressed, with an inferior carina, towards which
the lip of dense bone is suddenly decurved. The longitudinal opening is much
contracted, especially anteriorly, where the bone is pinched up into a keel,
and there is no abrupt concavity of the inner lip at that point. External sur-
face not very rugose. Total length 3 in. 2-5 lines.
The owner of the whale tried out about one-fourth of the blubber, and pro-
cured sixty-five gallons of oil, which would give about four hundred gallons
for the whole ; the thickness of the adipose layer would not average 4 inches,
the greatest thickness was 5 inches.
This species was black above and white below, the sides lead-colored, with
longitudinal shades of the darker color; fins, basal half white, terminal
black.
Agaphelus glaucds Cope, sp. nor.
The points in which this species differs from those of the genus Balaena,
previously known, are numerous, and will no doubt be increased on a further
knowledge of the animal. The head, between one-fourth and one-fifth of the
total length, allies it to the shorter headed species. From the B. a u s t r a-
11 s, the number of dorsal vertebrae, and the color and shortness of the baleen,
distinguish it, and no doubt other features will be brought out when we are
acquainted with the Cape species. The dorsal serration is not known to
occur in any species of the genus Bahena, though said to be characteristic of
the A. gibb osu s, whose characters I have just given, livo Bahtnit have
been described as inhabiting the north Pacific Ocean, Balaena sieboldii
Graj',* and Balaena cullamach L'hamisso.f Both have been established
on figures carved by the natives of the Japanese and Aleutian Islands respec-
tively, the former under the supervision of a naturalist, the traveller Siebold.
The carving of the B. cullamach, judging from the figure given by Chamis-
so, can but doubtfully represent any species, but which, if it exist, will rest
on the following diagnosis of its describer: " Rictu amplo forma litters Scur-
vato, elasraiis maximis atrocorruleis, spiraculis flexuosis in medio capite,
tuberculo in apice rostri (ex imagine) pectore pinnisque pectoralibus albis
dorso gibboso sexpinuato.''
These are, however, true Baleenae. A species of Agaphelus exists in the
Kamlschatkan Seas, according to Pallas, Avho, however, derives his informa-
tion solely from wooden models made by Aleutian Islanders. This is not
sufficient basis for an introduction to the scientific system, yet Pallas indulges
in applying to it the name Baliena agamachschik. The pectoral limb ot this
species is said, however, to be white, with the under side of the flukes, charac-
* Catalogue Cetaceans, 1865, 9G, Fauna Japonica, Temmiuck & Schlegel, t. 28, 29.
fNova Acta Acad. Caes. xii., p. 251, Tab.
1868.]
