NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227
Specimen No. 3. A full set of baleen of one side the maxillary is in the Mus.
Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. A portion of this, kindly lent me,*exhibits the
following characters : Compared with that of the A. g i b b o s u s, it is longer
and has narrower basis. The plates moderately and simply concave, while
those of the latter are sigmoidal, most curved near the outer margin, in cross
section. The bristles of the California species are very coarse, varying from
one to three series between the enamel plates. The bristles of the A. g i b b o-
sus much finer, three series together. Length of the latter 8-5 inches,
width at base 4-4 inches. In the Agaphelus g 1 a u c u s Cope, 22 in.
in length, width at base 6 in. In the former nearly U in an inch, in the latter
2^. The baleen of the A. g i b b o s u s belonged to the specimen above de-
scribed.
Two rough outlines accompany Capt. Dall s notes. Both represent the pec-
toral fin as rather elongate, not pointed, but rather broad at the extremity.
A third sketch represents the inferior view, and in it we see two lines for grooves,
one on ea«h side the median gular line. This feature, if existing, is interest-
ing, as indicating a tendency to the plicte of the fin back whales.
This species has usually one calf at a birth, but one was recently taken at
San Diego with two fcEtuses. Penis 27 in. long, smooth, coarsely papillose,
slightly bifid at tip, where the urethra is about the size of a goose quill.
(Dall's m. s.)
Oct. eth.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-five members present.
The following paper was presented for publication :
Notice of some American Leeches. By Joseph Leidy, M. D. *
Oct. ISth.
Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-four members present.
The following papers were presented for publication :
Notice of some Remains of Extinct Vertebrata. By Joseph
Leidy, M. D.
On the Origin of Genera. By Edward D. Cope.
On some Cretaceous Reptilia. By Edward D. Cope.
On variations in Taxodium. By- Thomas Meehan.
Oct. 20th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-six members present.
Dr. F. A. Genth made some observations on the occurrence of cupriferous
ores in Texas.
Dr. A. 11. Roessler, Geologist at the U. S. General Land Office at Washington,
had sent him for examination a specimen from Weatherford, Archer Co., Texas.
It was a piece of copperglance, containing 55-44 per cent, of copper, pseudo-
morphous after wood or a vegetable substance. It resembled so mucli similar
pseudomorphs found in the Permian formation at Fraukenberg in Hesse, and
1868.]
