NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
231
The specimen consists of tlie fore part of the snout, containing on one side
of the jaw the upper canine and anterior two molar teeth. It belonged to a
species larger than any of those previously noticed. The face in advance of
the molars was more prolonged proportionately than in other species, but was
also proportionately narrower.
The two premolars retained in the fossil are blunted from wear, but are
clearly constructed after the same pattern as those of the living Peccaries.
The incisors, as indicated by their alveoli, held the same relative position as
in the latter, but appear to have been comparatively feeble organs, and the an-
terior pair were but sliglitl3' larger than tlie lateral ones.
The upper canine has the same form and mode of insertion as in the recent
Peccaries, but is proportionately smaller.
The anterior ends of the coossified preraaxillaries project to a much greater
degree in advance of the incisors than in the other known Peccaries. They
are also more truncate in appearance ; and on each side of the intermaxillary
notch they exhibit a conspicuous pit, apparently for the attachment of a pair
of muscles intended for a longer and more mobile snout than is possessed by
the living Peccaries.
The measurements of the fossil compared with those of other Peccaries, are
as follows :
First molar to front of preraaxillaries,
" " to canine alveolus,
Length of jaw in advance of canines,
Breadth outside of canine alveoli,
Ant. post. diam. first premolar,
*' " " second "
" " " base of canine,
Mr. Timothy Conrad has recently submitted to my inspection the crown of a
second molar tooth obtained by Dr. P. Kuieskern, from a miocene formation of
Shark River, Monmouth Co., New Jersey. •
The tooth bears nearly the proper relation of size with the premolars in the
specimen above described of D. nasulus to belong to the same animal, but the
fact of its being found in a miocene deposit, while the latter is of supposed
post-pliocene age, renders it probable that it pertains to a different species.
The crown has a strong basal ridge, hardly interrupted at the most prominent
portion of the lobes externally and internally. The lobes present the same
form and relative position as in D. labiatus. They are considerably worn, ex-
hibiting on their summits exposed tracts of dentine ; nearly circular on there
external, and larger and irregularly reniforra on there internal. The measure-
ments of the tooth in comparison with the corresponding tooth of other species
are as follows :
ant. post, diam. Q\ lines,
" 7
" " 6J "
u u 7| u
D. nasutus.
compressus
labiatus.
torquatue.
58 lines.
46 lines.
41 lines.
31 lines.
30 "
23 "
14 "
8
24 "
19 "
20 "
17 "
28 "
29 "
31 "
26 "
U "
^ a
5 "
4\ »
5| "
5 "
5 "
4^ "
5i "
6^ "
8 "
6 "
trans. 8^ lines.
" 6| "
" 5^ "
Fossil tooth,
D. labiatus,
D. torquatus,
D. compressus,
Anchippus Texanus.
An apparent solipedal pachyderm, allied to Atickitkermm, is indicated by a
specimen consisting of the greater and more characteristic portion of an upper
molar tooth submitted to my examination by Dr. B. F. Shumard. It was ob-
tained from " Hutchen's well," from a yellow sandstone, supposed to be of
miocene age, at a depth of 50 feet below the surface, in Washington Co.,
Texas.
The size of the tooth, as well as the general form and proportions, have been
nearly as in the European AnchUherium aurelianense. Six lobes, as in the latter,
enter into the constitution of the crown. The external lobes, imperfect, appear
186S.]
