232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
to have had the same form as in Anchilherium. The inner lobes also have the
same form but are proportionately less robust, while the median lobes are
more so. Tlie postero-median lobe pursues the same course as \\x Anchilherium
and likewise, as in this, joins the outer lobes at their conjunction. From near
the middle of its course it gives off a process directed towards the interval of
the antero-internal and antero-median lobes and ceasing short of them. This
process looks as if disposed to join the contiguous portion of the antero-median
lobe, together with it to form a crescentoid lobe, embracing the antero-exter-
nal one, as in the corresponding columns of equine teeth. No such arrange-
ment exists in Anchitherinm. A triangular tubercle, as in the latter genus,
occupies the space at the back of the crown, and it appears as if its anterior
angle had a disposition to join the contiguous portion of the postero-median
lobe, to form with it a crescentoid lobe, in like manner as in the former case,
to embrace the postero-external lobe.
The construction of the tooth clearly indicates an animal of intermediate
character to Anchitherium and Equus.
Anchippodus riparius.
Mr. Timothy Conrad has submitted to my examination the specimen of a
tooth of ratlier enigmatical character, which I suspect to indicate a pachyderm
at least with solipedal affinities. It was obtained by Dr. Knieskern, from a
tertiary formation, either eocene or miocene, of Shark River, Monmouth Co.,
New Jersey.
The tooth would appear to correspond with a first or second lower true mo-
lar of a ruminant, or with any of the series between the first and last molars in
Pahcotlierium or Anchitherium. The crown is much worn, even so as to obliterate
some of its distinctive features It is composed of a pair of demi-conoidal
lobes, one before the other, the plane side internally, the convex and sloping side
externally. From each lobe descends a fang in the usual manner. No fold,
and only a feeble basal tubercle occu[)ies the deep external angular interval
between the lobes. The worn triturating surface presents, on the anterior
lobe, a wide crescentoid tract of exposed dentine, slightly concave and bordered
with thick enamel, ftie anterior arm of the crescent is obtuse ; the posterior
extends less inwardly and is acute. The posterior lobe exhibits a half ellip-
spoidal tract of dentine, nearly straight at its inner margin, and bordered with
enamel, except behind, where it has all disappeared. The dentinal tracts of
the two lobes are separated by a narrow isthmus. The enamel is thick, black
and shining, and though it appears to have originally been more or less rough,
yet it is now nearly smooth. The measurements of the specimen in its pre-
sent condition are as follows :
Fore and aft diameter of the crown 10 lines ; breadth of posterior lobe
obliquely at base of the enameled crown 9J lines; breadth of anterior lobe in
same position 8| lines ;. breadth of worn triturating surface of posterior lobe
6 lines ; breadth of do. on anterior lobe 5i lines.
LOPHIODON OCCIDENTALIS.
Dr. Hayden's last collection of Mauvaises Terres fossils contains a last infe-
rior molar tooth which has all the characters ascribed to the corresponding
tooth of the extinct tapiroid genus Lophiodon of European eocene foi'mations.
The crown is composed of a pair of transverse hill-like lobes, as in the
lower molars of the Tapir with the addition of a well developed posterior
conoidal talon. The principal lobes have subacute summits slightly concave
transversely, their posterior surface sloping, their anterior surface concave,
and their exterior sides convex. The talon is about half the height of the
principal lobes, convex behind, and with the front surface inclining from
the middle on each side. The crown is bounded in front by a basal ridge.
Fore and aft diameter of the crown 9| lines ; transverse diameter in front Q\
lines.
1 have a suspicion that this specimen belonged to the lowest bed of the
[Oct.
