236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Adocus petrosus Cope.
This species is represented by portions of four costal bones, parts or wholes
of six marginal bones, most of the right hyosternal, and a posterior portion of
the right hypostenial, with the head of the os coracoideum. They were found
in the West Jersey Marl Company's pits, Gloucester Co., N. J., in the same lo-
calitj' whence the Laelaps was procured.
The hyosternal bone is preserved in its axillary margin, and is continuous
with two marginals of the carapace of the same side. Two of the costals are
adjacent, and give the outlines of the vertebral bones and scutes. These show
the inferior outline to be very convex, the whole, from angle to angle of the
marginal bones of opposite sides, amounting to an arc of about 124 degrees.
Each hyosternal is slightly concave below the plane of their comdon suture.
Each thins out laterally, though the one preserved is very thick on the axillary
margin. There is little difference between the thickness at the mesostertial
and hyposternal sutures. All the sutures have minute rugosities, differing much
from sternals in A. a g ills and Taphrosphys, which are very ragged, and re-
sembling those of Pleurosternum p e c t o r a 1 e m. The piece of hyposternal is
even thicker than the hyosternal. The bone is everywhere remarkable for the
thickness of its dense layer, and the closeness of the texture of the spongy.
The former is one-third the thickness of the sternal and costal bones frac-
tured.
The scute sutures of the inferior surface are obsolete ; those of the dorsal
surface are like those of Adocus, i. e., the vertebrals with bracket-shaped
lateral borders, with the costal proceeding from the point of the bracket.
The marginal bones vary much in thickness proximally. They have two
proximal sutures, one side convex, the other concave. Four have a heavy bor-
der, round in section ; in two of these it is considerably everted. Another has
a rather thin margin, slightly decurved, with a submarginal groove separating
it from the most massive portion. The costal bones are strongly convex in
their length, indicating an arched carapace.
3Ieasure7nents.
In. Lin.
Hyosternal Avidth ,, 3 9
" " to origin axillary abutment 2 1-5
'• length on median suture 2 1-5
" thickness near mesosternal line 9
" " " hyposternal " 7-2
Hyposternal thickness near posterior suture 9
Costal width , 1 7-5
" thickness vertebral suture 8
Marginal No. 1 width 2 1-5
" " length 1 7
" " proximal thickness , 3
" No. 5 " " . 8-2
" " length 1 6
" " wadth 1 7-5
" " width dermal scute >. 9
This animal is therefore a species of considerable size, though less than most
of 'those described here, and particularly convex and solid in every part, While
the sutural lines of the hyosternal measure about the same as in A. firmu s
(Emys Leidy), it is much more convex and not so thick at the mesosternal
suture. The marginal bones are relatively just half the size. The Pleuroster-
num i> e c t r a 1 e ditfers in being very much flatter, and in having a more
discoid mesosternal bone. The hyosternals are also much thicker at their
union with the marginals than in the present.
A portion of a hyo- or hyposternal bone collected at the same place, and
near or at the same time, may be referred to a larger individual of the same
[Oct.
