NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 241
the jaw with teeth, in the Academy's Museum, the Bathygnathus borealis
of Leidy, has left its remains in the red sandstone of Prince Edward's Island, of
the same age, and we safely conclude that some of the large-clawed biped
tracks of Hitchcock are those of that animal. Dr. Leidy has suspected that
this would jirove to be the case, as he asks* "was this animal probably not one
of the bipeds which made the so-called bird tracks in the sandstone of the
Connecticut vallej^?" This enquiry was, after an examination of the form of
Laelaps, answered in the affirmative. f I have ascribed these tracks to reptiles
allied to Lielaps, and Huxley believes also that they were made by Dino-
sauria.J
The creatures which strode along the flats of the Triassic estuary have been
various in species and genera, as pointed out by Hitchcock. Some were pure-
ly biped ; some occasionally supported themselves on a pair of reduced fore-
limbs. There are impressions where these creatures have squatted on their
haunches. One can well imagine the singular effect which these huge grega-
rious reptiles would produce, standing motionless, goblin-like, on a horizon
lit by a full moon ; or lying with outstretched neck and ponderous haunches
basking in the noonday sun ; or marching or wading slowlj^ along the water's
edge, ready for a plunge at passing fishes or swimming reptiles. But in the
active pursuit of terrestrial prey did such an animal as the Lalaps run like the
Ostrich, or leap like the Kangaroo ? So far as the Triassic tracks go, there is
no evidence of leapers, only runners, fell upon an exhausted quarry. Or were
they only carrion eaters, tearing and devouring the dead of age and disease ?
Probably some were such, but the prehensile claws of La?laps are like instru-
ments for holding living prey.
Leelaps has a long femur ; those great leapers the Kangaroos have a short
one ; the cursorial birds, however, have a similar form of femur, but they do
not leap. So this form is not conclusive. The modern Iguanas have long
femora, and they all progress by their simultaneous motion ; they only leap ;
but man with his long femur runs only. The question then does not depend
on the form of the femur.
I have suggested on a former occasion that La^laps took enormous leaps and
struck its prey with its hind limits. I say, in describing it, " The small size of
the fore limbs must have rendered them far less efficient as weapons than the
hind feet, in an attack on such a creature as Hadrosanrus ; hence perhaps the
latter were preferred in inflicting fatal wounds. The ornithic type of sacrum
elucidated by Prof. Owen suggests a resemblance in the use of the limb."
The lightness and hollowness of the bones of the Lfelaps iirrest the attention.
This is especially true of the long bones of the hind limbs; those of the fore
limbs have a less considerable medullar}' cavity. In this respect they are
quite similar to those of Crelosaurus Leidy, of which its describer remarks,
"that the medullary cavitj' of the tibia is large, and the walls thin and
dense," " being intermediate in this respect between the characters of the
mammals and birds."
The mutual flexute, as well as the lightness and strength of the great femur
and tibia, are altogether appropriate to great powers of leaping. The feet
must have been elongate, whatever the form of the tarsi; the phalanges, or
finger bones, were slender, nearly as much so relatively as those of an eagle,
while the great claws in which they terminated were relatively larger and more
compressed than in the birds of prey. There was no provision for the retrac-
tibility observed in the great carnivorous mammalia, but the size of the infe-
rior basal tuberosity indicates the insertion of a great tendon of a powerful
flexor muscle. The slight grooves at the base, and deeper one on each side
of the phalange, suggest the usual horny sheath, which, prolonging the point
of the claw, would give it a total length of eleven inches.
* Journal Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1854, 329.
t American Natufalist, 1807, ^^7. Hay's Medical News and Reporter, 1868.
JProceedings Royal Society, London, 1808, p. Natural Science Review, 1868.
1868.]
