242
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
The fore limbs must indeed have been of very little use, and it is very diffi-
cult to imagine an animal running and seizing the prey it overtakes with the
hind limb. If it were not a carrion feeder it must have leaped. We are in-
formed by Hochstetter,* that the Apteryx leaps with the utmost ease over ob-
jects two and three feet in height, that is, higher than its own head. Huxley
suggests that the Compsognathus "hopped" along on its hind limbs. The
bulk of La^laps is no objection to its leaping, for the giant extinct Kangaroos,
Macropus atlas and titan, found in the postpliocenes of Australia, did not
fall far short of these reptiles in this respect. We may add that Laslaps had
smaller allies, as L. macropus one-half, and Ccelosaurus a n t i q u u s one-
fourth or fifth the size, whose remains, so far as they go, indicate an identity
of habit. Deslongchamps says of Poecilopleurum bucklandii, that it " could
project itself with prodigious force, as a spring which unbends itself; but this
could not have been on a solid surface, since the fore limbs are too weak to
resist the shock of the fall of such a heavy body." He supposed it to be marine
in its habits, accustomed to battling a stormy sea. However, his objection to
leaping on land is obviated by understanding that progressive movement was
entirely performed by the hind limbs.
On the Origin of GENEBA.
BY EDWARD D. COPE, A.M.
Introduction. — The present fragmentary essay is a portion of what other oc-
cupation has prevented the author from completing. It does not therefore
amount to a complete demonstration of the points in question, but it is hoped
that it may aid some in a classification of facts with a reference to their signi-
fication. When all the vast array of facts in possession of the many more
learned than the writer, are so arranged, a demonstration of the origin of
species may be looked for somewhere in the direction here attempted to be
followed.
Conclusions of any kind will scarcely be reached, either by anatomists who
neglect specific and generic characters, or secondly by systematists who in
like manner neglect internal structure. Such will never perceive the system
of nature. f
Analysis of the subject.
I. Relations of allied genera.
First ; in adult age.
Second ; in relation to their development.
A. On exact parallelism.
3. On inexact or remote parallelism.
y. On parallelism in higher groups.
dT. On the extent of parallelisms.
II. Of retardation and acceleration in generic characters. * '
First ; metamorphoses in adult age.
a. The developmental relations of generic and specific characters.
/?. Probable cases of transition.
y. Ascertained cases of transition.
Second ; earlier metamorphoses.
(T. The origin of inexact parallelisms.
* New Zealand Amer. Transl., 181.
fit might seem incredible that either class should systematize with confidence, yet a
justly esteemed author writes even at the present day, "However, there is scarcely asys-
tematist of the present day who does not pay more or less attention to anatomical charac-
ters, in establishing the higher groups !" (The italics are our own,) As though a system
was of any value which is not based on the whole st> ucture, and as though lower groups
were only visible in external characters : in a word, as though external (muco-dermal,
dental, etc.) characters were not "anatomical !"
[Oct.
