12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
The wings are short. In no instance do thej', when folded, reach to the end
of the tail. In one species they are so undeveloped in their terminal segments*
that the power of flight is abrogated. The first primary is always longest; the
rest rapidly and regularly graduated ; all taper to a sufficiently fine point. The
secondaries are very short, and broadly rounded. The primary coverts are
very long, reaching much more than half-way from the carpus to the end of
the first primary. The first row of secondary coverts reach nearly to the end
of the secondaries. The under wing coverts are very long. The axillars are
short or wanting. The wing as a whole is convex above, concave below, nar-
row, sharp, stiff, somewhat falcate. These points of structure are constant
throughout the family.
The tail is very short ; its length is contained, on an average, about three
times in the length of wing from the carpal joint. It is usually slightly round-
ed, sometimes nearly square, in a few instances pointed ; in a few more the
central rectrices are slightly shorter than the next pair. The individual feathers
are usually very obtuse at the end. Both sets of coverts are long ; the inferior
usually reach nearly or quite to the end of the tail.
The feet are small, and placed far back, as has been said. The thighs are
contained within the general skin of the body. The legs are feathered nearly
or quite to the tibio-tarsal joint. The tarsus is short, sometimes excessively
abbreviated, rarely equal to the middle toe without its claw, never (?f ) longer.
It is usually much compressed, is sometimes almost as sharp as that of Coh/m-
1)UH, is frequently nearly as broad laterally as antero-posteriorly. Its covering
varies with different genera. It is usually reticulate behind and laterally, with
a row of scutellai in front, which rarely, however, if ever, extend its whole
length. In some genera it is entirely reticulate ; in others, the scutellation
extends on one or both sides. The tarsal envelope varies so much that it is
not available as a character for subdivisions higher than generic. The toes
are very long; the outer and middle always of nearly the same length ; the
inner shorter, its claw just reaching the base of the middle claw. There is no
hind toe. Dissection reveals the rudiment of a hallux, wiiich, however, is never
developed sufficiently to make even a well-marked prominence. The webbing
of the toes is complete. The claws are all moderately arched, compressed and
acute ; the inner edge of the middle is more or less dilated ; the middle is al-
ways the largest, except in two genera, which present the peculiarity of having
a very large semi-circular inner lateral claw, which, moreover, lies horizon-
tally instead of vertically.
That rigid adherence to the type of structure just described which all the
species maintain, while facilitating the recognition of the family as a family, is
a serious obstacle in the way of defining its subdivisions with precision. With
no very abrupt transition from one form to another, and without any very
marked modification of general features, the minor groups seem to be formed
mainly by the varying combination of the few differences in structure which
obtain in the family. The assemblage of characters, rather than the presence
or absence of particular features, in most cases determines the genera ; and no
two species are absolutely alike in all points of form.
" Facies non omnibus una.
Nee diversa tamen, quails decet esse sororum."
In one of the ablest papers that has appeared upon this subject. Professor
Brandt divides the Alcidx into two subfamilies: those with feathered, and
those with naked nostrils. In this arrangement the Guillemots stand next to
the typical Auk — A. torda. Viewed from any other standpoint the two forms
* Cf. Mr. A. Newton's article in the "Ibis" for October, 18(i2. As there stated, the hu-
merus oi Alca impe.nnis is of normal size; the antibrachium, carpus and metacarpus, and
their quills, are shortened.
^ Brack yrhampJius bracht/pterus is said by Brandt to have the tarsus longer tlian the middle
toe.
[Jan.
