NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245
Second. Nov\-, the more nearly allied genera are, the more surely will these
generic steps be found to fall into the direct line of the steps of the develop-
ment of the hio-hest, or that with the longest scale, the former being truly
identical with the latter in generic characters. Less allied genera will offer
au inexact or incomplete imitation of such identity, — some additional charac-
ter being present to disturb it. Such genus belongs to another series, charac-
terized by the disturbing feature, whose members, however, bear to each other
the relation claimed above for such.
The relation of genera, which are simply steps in one and the same line of
development, may be called exact parallelism, while that of those where one or
more characters intervene in the maturity ol^ either the lower or higher genus
to destroy identity, maj' be called incomplete paralleUsm.
The latter relation has been dwelt on by Yon Biir, Agassiz and other writers,
but none have accepted the existence of exact parallelism, or seen its important
relation to the origin of genera.
Third. That the lowest or most generalized terms or genera of a number of
allied scries, will stand to each other in a relation of exact parallelism. That
is, if we trace each series of a number, up to its lowest or most generalized
genus, the latter together will form a series, similar in kind to each of the sub-
series ; i. e. each genus will be identical with the undeveloped conditions of
that which progresses the farthest, in respect, of course, to the characters
which define it as a series.
Those characters of the skeleton which we are accustomed to call embry-
onic, are only so because thej^ relate to the developmental succession witnessed
in animals at the present time. Characters not so called now were probably
as much so at one period now passed. Hence embryonic characters of the
bony system do not, as I have often had occasion to observe, characterize the
types of the highest rank, but only subordinate divisions of them. Thus the
Elasmobranchs are probably repressed forms of groups of a really higher
grade than the bony fishes, or Teleostei, which may l)e known to us. In their
early presence in the geologic series we have evidence of the first beginning of
a higher type.
In the same manner it has been discovered that the molecular constitution
of the elementary substances do not characterize their highest or most distinct
series, but rather the substances themselves within the lower group or family
to which they belong. The gaseous, liquid and solid molecular conditions
being characters distinguishing otherwise allied substances in the same way
morphologically (we cannot say yet developmentally), as the cartilaginous,
osseous and exostosed or dermosseous characters distinguish otherwise nearly
allied genera.
The '' family " group embraces one or many of such series. If we trace the
series in several families to their simplest or most generalized terms or genera,
and compare them, we will not find the relation to be one of exact parallelism
in the series of the "order," so far as our present knowledge extends, but in a
developmental sense, one of divergence from the commencement.
If we could know the simplest known terms or famil}' characters of a number
of groups of families, or " orders," we would probably find them to represent
a series of exact parallelism, though to find such simplest terms we must go
far into past periods, since the higher the group the more extensive the rano-e
of its character, and the less likely to be found unmixed with additions and
extensions, in modern times.
Finally, the series of classes is in the relation of the essential characters of
the same, as expressed in their now extinct, most generalized and simjjle repre-
sentatives, also one of "exact parallelism."
a.. Examples of exact parallelism.
* In generic series.
1. As an example we may take the genus Trachycephalus (Batrachia Anura).
1868.]
