246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Nearly allied to it is the genus Osteocephalus, which differs in the normal ex-
ostosis of the cranium not involving the derm, as in the former. Close to this
is Scy topis, where the fully ossified cranium is not covered by an exostosis.
Nest below Scytopis is Hyla, where the upper surface of the cranium is not
ossified at all, but is a membranous roof over a great fontanelle. Still more
imperfect is Hylella,* which differs from Hyla in the absence of vomerine teeth.
Now the genus Trachycephalus, after losing its tail and branchiaj, possesses all
the characters of the genus Hylella and those of Hyla, either at or just before the
mature state of the latter, as the ethmoid bone is not always ossified in advance
of the parietals. It soon, however, becomes a Scytopis, next an Osteocephalus,
and finally a Trachycephalus. It belongs successively to these genera, for an
exhaustive anatomical examination has failed to reveal any characters by
which, during these stages, it could be distinguished from these genera.
Now it would be a false comparison to say that the young of Trachycephalus
was identical with the genus Agalychnis, which in truth it resembles, be-
cause that genus is furnished with one other character, — the presence of a ver-
tical pupil, — and belongs to another series in consequence, which is represented
as yet, wiih our present imperfect knowledge, — or perhaps imperfect fauna, —
by three genera only.
2. The lowest type of the near allies of our common fresh-water frogs is the
genus Ranula, where the prefrontal bones are narrow strips on each side the
ethmoid cartilage ; the ethmoid cartilage itself entirely unossified above, and
the vomerine teeth very few and on a small elevation. There are two species,
R. a f f i n i s and R. p a 1 m i p e s. The other species have the ethmoid carti-
lage ossiffied above, at least beneath the extremities of the frontoparietals.
Those of the latter most like Ranula possess the same type of narrow pre-
frontals, separated by a broad area of cartilaginous ethmoid, and fasciculi of
teeth. Of this type is Rana delalandii, and probably R. porosissima
Steind., of the South Ethiopian region. Other species of the same type extend
their vomerine patches into lines ; such are R. mascariensis, R. fasci-
a t a, R. o x y r h y n c h u s , R. g r a y i , and other South African species.
The prefrontals are subtriangular, and approach each other more or less in
the numerous species of North America and of the Regio Palasarctica, while
generally the vomerine teeth are in fascicles or very short series. In the
Ethiopian Rana f u s c i g u 1 a the prefrontals unite on the median line, roof-
ing over the ethmoid cartilage and reducing it, while the vomerine teeth are
in very sl.ort lines.
In the species of the Pal^otropical region, Rana tigrina, R. vittigera,
R. cyanophlyctis, R. grunniens, R. hexadactyla, R. corruga-
t a, R. e h r e n b r g i i, R. g r a c i 1 i s, and the Ethiopian R. occipitalis,
the prefrontals not only unite solidly (the suture remaining on the median
line), but extend and closely fit to the fronto parietals. The vomerine series
have lengthened out into series.
Now the young of the latter type of Rana (I take as an example the R. ti-
grina, one of the most abundant and largest of Indian frogs) presents the
subtriangular prefrontals neither in contact with each other or with the
fronto-parietals, and the vomerine series is much reduced; in fact, it belongs
in all respects to the PalEearctic group. I have not examined younger speci-
mens, but have no doubt they are like those of the Palsearctic ; the latter, then,
in their young stage, are precisely of the type of the Jithiopian Rana, with
fasciculate teeth like the young of those of the same region with teeth in se-
ries, since the prefrontals are still more reduced, becoming linear. Finally the
first stage of the Nearctic Rana, after losing the larval tail, is the genus Ra-
nula, having linear prefrontals, minute vomerine teeth, and the ethmoid ring
cartilaginous above
These points of structure are of generic quality, but I have not regarded any
*I refer to H. carnea m., not having Reinhardt and Lutken's type of this genus.
[Oct.
