NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247
group as sufficiently defined to be so regarded, except Ranula, as the adults of
some species appear not to be constant in possessing them. Thusaverj- large
Rana catesbyana sometimes exhibits prefrontals in contact en the median
line, while it is difficult to say whether R. a r e o 1 a t a of North America is of
the Nearctic type so much as of the ^Ethiopian. Nevertheless the groups are
generally quite geographically restricted.
3. A similar relation exists between the genera Hyperolius, Staurois and
Heteroglossa in respect to the prefrontal bones and the separation of the outer
metatarsi, and —
4. Between Ixalus, Rhacophorus and Polypedates also, in reference to vo-
merine teeth, bifurcation of last phalange, and dermoossification of the cra-
nium.
5. When the larvje of certain species of Spelerpes possess brauchife, thev
also lack one digit of the hind foot, also the maxillary, nasal and prefrontal
bones, and exhibit a broad continuous palatopterygoid arch, in close contact
with the parasphenoid. The prootic is separated from the exoccipital by a
membranous space, and the exoccipitals themselves are not yet united above
the foramen magnum. There is at the same time a series of splenial teeth.
Both ceratohyals are confluent, the posterior is present, and there are but
three superior hyoid arches. After they lose the brancliia?, the hinder foot,
which has four toes only lor a time, gradually adds another at first rudimental
digit, in the Mexican species ; in most North American species the fifth digit ap-
pears at an early larval stage. Five digits are finally present in all Spelerpes.
We have thus four combinations of the above characters, at different periods
of the life history of certain (but not of all) of the species of Spelerpes, There
exist four permanent series of species or genera, equivalent to these stages.
The well-known " perennibranchiate " Nectnrns is nearly identical with the
first, Batrachoseps with the second, the half-toed Spelerpes with the third, and
the typical Spelerpes is the last.
In one character of generic value only, do I find that Necturus differs from
the early larval Spelerpes. It closes the premaxillary fontanelle with which
it commences, by an approximation of the premaxillary spines, but not by a
sutural union, as takes place in Amblystoma. It thus, in this one point, ad-
vances a stage beyond the condition to which Spelerpes attains, though it
maybe a question whether such a closure without union should not be classed
among the specific characters by which N. maculatus differs from the young
of the various Spelerpes, as they do from each other. Characters of the latter
kind are the following: in N. maculatus the frontals are more deeply
emarginate behind; it has little or no ala on the inferior keel of the caudal
vertebne, which is prominent in Spelerpes larvoe.
It may be that the parallelism in the case of Spelerpes is inexact by one
character, and that a strictly developmental one ; or it may be regarded other-
wise.
6. It is well known that the Cervidre of the old world develope a liasal snag
of the antler (see Cuvier, Ossem. Fossiles ; Gray, Catal. Brit. Mus.) at the third
year; a majority of those of the New World (genera Cariacus, Subulo) never
develop it except in "abnormal" cases in the most vigorous maturitj- of the
most northern Cariacus (C. virginianus); while the South American
Subulo retains to adult age the simple horn 'of the second year of Ceivus.
Among the higher CervidjB, Rusa and Axis never assume characters beyond
an equivalent -of the fourth year of Cervus. In Damathe characters are on the
other hand assumed more rapidly than in Cervus, its third year corrosjionding
to the fourth of the latter, and the development in after years of a broad plate
of bone, with points, being substituted for the addition of the corresponding
snags, thus commencing another series.
Returning to the American deer, we have Blastocerus, whose antlers are
identical with those of the fourth year of Cariacus.
1868.]
