254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Objection. — It mar be objected by those who have observed some of these
develoj)mental relations, that they are exhibited by certain single structures
onl}', and not by whole organisms. These objectors must not forget that the
distinctions of those groups, whi( h alone we have in one geological period
in a relation of near affinity, exist in single characters only ; and that it is
therefore infinitely probable that the higher groups, when we come to know
their representatives with the same completeness, will prove to be separated
by single characters of difference also,
3. The following table is here introduced to illustrate the relations of groups
higher than the preceding. This is largely measured by the circulatory sys-
tem, not only as to the class relations, but also as regards orders. In its less
central portions it is, however, definitive of families at times.* [The reader is
here referred to the table commencing on p. 256.]
If the reader will compare the history of the development of vertebrates of
any class or order, as those of Teleosts and the lizard by Lereboullet, of the
snake and tortoise by Rathke and Agassiz, and of the bird and mammal by
Von Baer, he will find the most complete examples of the inexact parallelism
of the lower types with the embryonic stages of the higher. A few points are
selected as examples, from the histories included in a few of the columns of the
table, and given at its end.
Similar parallels may be found to exist in the most beautiful manner be-
tween the adult anatomy and structure of the urogenital apparatus within
each class of the series taken separately, as indicating ordinal relationship.
This department is, however, omitted for the present.
As an example' of the homologies derivable from the circulatory system, and
of the use of the preceding table, I give the following relations betweea the
types of the origins of the aorta. f
The single ventricle of Teleostei is no doubt homologous with that of Lepi-
dosteus, and that of Lepidosiren. The arleria vesicx nalatoripe, which is the
homologue of the A. pulmonalis of air breathers, issues in Lepidosteus from
the last vena branchialis, thus receiving aerated blood from the gills In Lepi-
dosiren it issues from the point of junction of two gilless and two gill-bearing
vense branckiales, thus receiving mixed blue and red blood, or blue blood
altogether, when the branchiae are not in functional activity. In Proteus it
issues from the last vena branchialis, where it receives the ductus bolalli of the
preceding vein, which, when the gill is inactive, becomes a gilless aorta-bow,
which brings it'onl}' carbonized blood, which it readily aerates in the swim
bladder, now become a lung. The ventricle is homologous with the preced-
ing. In Salamanders, where the substitution of the accessory gill arches by
the ductus botalli, converts the arterix and veme. branckiales into " aorta-bows,"
the A. pulmonalis is given off from the posterior bow, and receives henceforth
mixed blood. In the Anura the origin is the same but nearer the heart. In
Gymnophidia it approaches the heart so far as to issue from the extremity of the
bulbus arteriosus, which is now divided by an incomplete septum, one half
conveying blood to the aorta roots, and the other to the A. pulmonalis. This
septum was already preceded by a longitudinal valve with free margin in the
Anura ! As if to meet the coming event, a trace of ventricular septum
appears at the apex within. There can now be no question of the homology
of the ventricles of the gar, and of the Ciecilia. But we have next the true
Reptilia. The Bulbus arteriosus is split externally, as it already was inter-
nally, but it is first represented in most Tortoises by an adherent portion, one-
*This sketch is not nearly complete, but is published in hopes of its being useful to
students. It is compiled from the works of Meckel, Rathke, Barkow, MuUer, Hyrtl,
Briicke, Stannius and others, in connection with numerous dissections.
t Professor Agassiz (Contrib. Nat. Hist. U. S., I 285) states that the ventricle of the Tes-
tudinata " is not any more identical with the one ventricle of fishes, than with the two
ventricles of warm blooded vertebrata; for in fishes we find only one vessel, the aorta,
arising from it, while in Turtles both the aorta and arteria pulmonalis start together from
it." We think this statement, which, if true, is destructive to the asserted homologies of
the circulatory system, cannot be substantiated, for the reasons above given.
[Oct.
