NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13
appear to represent the extremes of structure in the family; particularly in
regard to the bill, cultriform in one, subulate in the other The two types are
by most authors placed at opposite ends of the generic chain, and separated
by all the Starikis. Attentive consideration of all the bearings of the case
may verj- likely result in the opinion, hold by tlie present v.'riter, that the dif-
ference between the views of Prof. Brandt and other writers is rather apparent
than real. It should be borne in mind tliat the Alcidie are a family very rigid-
ly circumscribed, and one sliowiug no tendency to aberration, or to connect
itself intimately with the families standing next to it on either side. Whether as
cause or consequence of this, the fact is indisputable, that the genera of Alcidie
are not strung along in a chain whose ends seem as it were to be linked with
the genera of other families ; they tend, on the contrary, to aggregation in a
circle about a common centre. We may take any genus — -it matters not
which — we shall find its closest ally to the right and to the left; and the cir-
cuit shall be complete when all the genera have been considered. To illustrate
this point : Prof Brandt, like all other writers, takes the typical Alc.a as his
starting point. With the feathering of the nostrils as a fundamental feature,
Uria and its subdivisions must come next, tlien Brach;/rhamphus ; this leading
through Mergulis into the true Phaleridines, hy means of Plychoramphiis. Be-
ginning with those Phaleridines with the simplest bills, he progresses to those
with more complex bills, ending with Ombria^ which last, through Cerorhimt^
conducts to Fraie/-cula, which ends the series. There is nothing strained or
forced in this ; the succession of the genera is perfectly natural. But it so
happens that Fratercula is as closely, or even more closely, allied to Alca pro-
per than Uria is. We cannot disturb in any essential degree the generic series
of Prof. Brandt, but we could with entire propriety go directly from Alcn to
Fratercula, and thence backwards over the same track, ending with Uria,
which would then be at the opposite extreme of the scries. It is asserted,
without fear of reasonable contradiction, that to begin anywhere in tiiis natural
series of genera and progress through it, is to be brought back to tlic starting
point
It is not, perhaps, possible to divide this generic circle witliout the exercise
of some arbitrary jurisdiction. If there be included in it two or more sub-
families capable of precise definition, the fact has eluded the writer's research.
There are, however, in the series two places where a dividing line may be
drawn. Prof Brandt drew but one, relying u])on the single character which he
found to apply so well, albeit it may be an arbitrary one. Other writers have
made likewise but two subfamilies, difFerently framed however; the Alcinie, in-
cluding the true Auks, together with the Phaleridine forms, united because of
their short, stout, high bills ; and the Urinx, separated on the ground of their
long, slender subulate bills. Others again, particularly Mr. G. R. Gray and
Prince Bonaparte, have drawn two lines, recognizing three subfamilies : and
this course appears to be the one that holds closest to nature, provided the
family be really susceptible of subdivisions higher than generic. By simply
reducing Prof Brandt's fundamental character to the level of one drawn from
the general structure of the bill, three subfamilies stand forth with tolerable
distinctness. The Alcinie have feathered nostrils and cultriform bills ; the
Phaleridinee, naked nostrils and cultriform bills; the Urinaa, feathered nostrils
and subulate bills. This certainly appears to be a distinction with a difference,
and will be so held in the present paper.
The arrangement of the Alcidos here submitted is a modification of Professor
Brandt's, providing for the recognition of three in place of two subfamilies.
In this particular it is substantially the same as Mr. Gray's, but the sequence
of the genera is entirely different, and is nearly that of the first mentioned
author. Beginning with typical Alca it passes to Fratercula, and ends with
Lomvia, instead of passing to Lomvia and ending with Fratercula. But in
either case the collocation of the genera is essentially the same. It is believed
1868.]
