NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255
half being the now, to this point, independent arteria pidmonal is hnd the otlier
the nearly split aorta roots. There can, I think, be little question of the exac-
titude of the homology throughout.
It is no less certaiu that the Salamander* fulfils in its development the dif-
ferent stages to its permanent one, and is identical in each stage, in respect to
this point, with the orders it represents at the time. This is true even of the long
period during which it bears the long branchial appendages and contained
arteries and veins which are not found in fishes ; it is then like the Pro-
topterus, which has hyoid venous arches and appendages of those arches
at the same time. The Tortoise -\ and Tropidonotus, J are also identical in
their successive stages with the tj'pes already enumerated, the external or
appendicular branchial vessels being omitted as belonging to the special serial
development of the line of air-breathing Anallantoidans. Tlie division of the
bulbus arteriosus into three instead of two may indicate a case of inexact par-
allelism, but on the other hand it may be that the pulmonary partition is com-
pleted a little before the aorta-root partition, thus passing through the Batra-
chian permanent type. For explanations of inexactitude see under Part 11.
No doubt the Batrachian type of bulbus arteriosus is passed by many serpents
less extreme and specialized than the Tropidonotus.
The aortic and pulmonary divisions of the bulbus in the Cfecilia are not
laterally placed, but one is dorsal and the other ventral, the one passing a
little spirally to the right of the other. So the pulmonary division of the
bulbus turns over to the right in the Anura. When the septum of the true
reptiles appears it rises on the anterior wall of the ventricle till it is seen in
Eunectes to meet the partition between the arteria pidmonalis and aorta-roots,
and we have at once the right and left ventricles of the bird and mammal
structurally and functionally. Thus are the two ventricles of man the same
as the one ventricle of the fish, merely divided by a septum.^
In the fissure of the aortic bulbus in the reptiles a spiral turn is again given,
and in Testudo the one aorta-root issues behind the other. In the Crocodile
the turn is still greater, and the right aorta-root issues to the left of the left
root, and vice versa. In the birds we have lost the left root, and parallelism
ceases with this change. In the mammalia the right root turns to the left,
so that in the comparison of these classes the rule of Von Baer above quoted
is true ; no mammal at present known is identical in a foetal stage with any
fully grown bird, but with a foetus of the same, up to a certain point. But
for both classes the parallelism of those below them holds true.
But it is with the exact parallelism or identity of genera that we have to do
in the present essay. That being established, the inexact parallelism between
the modern representatives of higher groups, follows by a process of reduc-
tion.
S. The extent of parallelism.
Prof. De Serres and others have stated it as their belief that the lower
" branches " of the animal kingdom are identical with the undeveloped ibrms
of the higher; i. e. that the mollusc and articulate are not merely parallel
with, but the same as the lower conditions of the vertebrate. The works of
various embryologists as Von Baer and Lereboullet, have shown this state-
ment to be erroneous " and founded on false and deceptive appearances." The
embryos of the four great branches of the animal kingdom appear to be dis-
tinct in essential characters, from their first appearance. But Lereboullet, who,
in his prize essay, has compared with care the developm»nt of the trout, pike,
* Amblystoma. f Agassiz. X Rathke.
g Asassiz, 1. o., denies the homology of the ventricles of the turtle .ind mammal, but it
appears to me erroneously. He says : " The fact that the great blood vessels (aorta and
art. pultnonalis) start together from the cavum venosum seems to prove that the two cavi-
ties in the heart of turtles, which are by no means very marked, do not correspond to the
two ventricles in mammalia and birds."
1868.]
