14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
that this sequence of gesera cannot be broken in upon to any considerable
degree, witliout the rupture of a natural series as a consequence.
Family ALCID^K
Ch. — Tridactylous, brachypterous, bracbyurous Natatores, with lateral
nostrils.
A. — Subfamily Alcin^. — Not crested; with feathered nostrils; compressed
cultriform bill, much higher than wide at base, without appendages, but
grooved on the sides ; tail pointed.
1. Alca. — Wings rudimental, not admitting of flight.
2. Ulamania. — Wings fully developed, admitting of flight.
B. — Subfamily PHALERiDiNyE. — Usually crested, or with elongated feathers
on head ; with naked nostrils ; bill variable, always compressed, higher than
wide at the base, often with appendages ; tail nearly even.
3. Fratercula. — Inner lateral claw very large, semi-circular, acute, hori-
zontal; bill excessively thin, its base ridged, its culmeu simple, with one
curve ; under mandible grooved ; no crest; palpebral appendages ; a furrow
in plumage behind eyes ; tarsi anteriorly scutellate.
4. Limda. — As in Fratercula ; culmen with an acf essory piece, and two
curves ; under mandible smooth ; long crests ; no furrow in plumage ; no
palpebral appendages.
5. Ceratorhyncha. — Inner lateral claw normal ; bill without a basal rim ;
base of upper mandible with a prominent upright horn ; rami of lower man-
dible with an accessory piece ; head with elongated feathers ; tarsus ante-
riorly scutellate.
6. Sagniatorrhina. — Base of upper mandible overlapped by a soft mem-
brane ; no accessory piece on lower mandible ; otherwise as in Ceratorhyncha.
I. Simorkynchus. — Bill variable, usually with irregular outline or with
appendages : head with a crest or elongate feathers ; tarsi reticulate.
8. Ft.ychorhamphi/,i. — Bill stout, conico-elongate, wide at base, acute at tip ;
base of upper mandible with transverse stria; ; upper border of nostrils
dilated, flaring ; no crests.
C. — Subfamily Urin^e. — Nostrils more or less completely feathered; bill
elongated, more or less slender and subulate, without appendages or vertical
grooves ; head not crested, (except in one species.)
9. Mergulus. — Nostrils nearly circular, not completely feathered ; bill
stoutest and shortest in this section ; tail much graduated ; tarsi scarcely
compressed, anteriorly broadly scutellate.
10. Synthliborhamphus. — Nostrils broadly oval, incompletely feathered ; bill
stoutish, but much compressed ; tail nearly even ; tarsi excessively com-
pressed, anteriorly and internally scutellate.
II. Brachyrhaviphus. — Nostrils oval, feathered ; bill small, very slender;
tail short, little graduated ; tarsi reticulate, very small and slender, not
compressed.
12. Urut. — Bill about equal to tarsus ; gonys half the culmen ; nasal fossje
wide and deep, not entirely' filled with feathers ; upper mandible with no
groove at tip ; outer lateral claw grooved ; tail contained 2j times in the
wing ; tarsi reticulate ; no furrow in plumage of head.
13. Lomvia. — Bill much longer than tarsus ; gonj^s much more than half
the culmen; nasal fossre long and narrow, comjjletely feathered; upper
mandible with a groove at tip; outer lateral claw smooth ; tail contained
3f times in wing; tarsi anteriorly scutellate ; a furrow in plumage behind
the eyes.
[Jan.
