NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267
and perch of the Teleosts, with that of a Lacerta among reptiles, has failed
10 point out characters by which the embryos of the two vertebrate classes
essentially differ, for a considerable period. It is true, that as each and all of
the species belong to widely different generic series, parallelism is of the kind
to be called inexact or remott. But enough is known of embryology and pala'-
ontology to render it extremely probable that the historic predecessors of
the types whose embryology Lereboullet studied, formed a series of parallels of
the kind termed in this essay exact.
Lereboullet states that a certain difference exists between the eggs of the
fishes and those of the Lacerta. This is for us merely stating that the parents
of the embryos differ, a fact which no one will contest, the same may be
said of the elerated or depressed character of the surface of the vitellus on
which the embr^vo reposes,
Secondly, after the appearance of the embryo the Lacerta is furnished
with the amnios and allantois, the Teliost not. This is certainly neither a
generic, ordinal nor class character of the adult, for it is but temporary ;
therefore in generic, ordinal and class characters the embryos of the Teliost
and Reptile are still identical. It is a physiological character and not mor-
phological, and therefore far the less likely to be a permanent one, eyen in
embryos, under changed circumstances. The female of one of the species of
Trachycephalus inverts the skin of the back at one season of the year to re-
ceive her eggs, because she cannot lay them in the water ; the other species of
the genus do not. The next genus in direct morphological line possesses a
single species whose female does the same for the same reason ; but the rela-
tions of these species and genera are zoologically the same as though this
modification did not occur. Many such instances will occur to many natu-
ralists. It is not pretended that they are as important as the presence of the
allantois :, but they constitute a character no doubt similar its kind, and en-
tirely at the service of the needs of the great system of morphological suc-
cession. The same may be said of the vascular area of the Reptile.
Lereboullet concbides his summary of the differences between the Teliost
and Reptile, up to the period of completion of the heart, by saying " It is easy
to perceise that all these differences, however important they may appear, are
constituted by the accessorj- organs of the eaabryo, and do not modify the
"development of tlip latter, which progresses in reality exactly as in the fishes.''
He says the same preriouslj^, as to the relation ef the same to the bird and
mammaJ-
We have then in the embryos of the lower vertebrates at a certsJn time in
the history of each, an " exact parallelism " or identit;/ with tlie embryonic
conditioii of the type which progresses to the next degree beyond it, and of all
the other types which progress successively to more distant extremes.
We have, however, so far, every reason to suppose that the embryos of the
•other branches of animals nes^er present au enact parallelism with tho&e of
.the vertebrata.
The embryo of the fish and that of the reptile and iKammal may be said to
be generically if not specifically identical up to the point where preparation
•for the aerial respiration of the latter appears. They each take different lines
at this point. The fish diverges from the course of the rejitile and proceeds
to a different goal- the shark dees the same, but proceeds a shorter distance,
while the Dermopter scarcely leaves the poiist ef departure. No doubt there
iiave been types which never left this point, and whose plan &r circul'Uori/ si/stem
as identical with that ef the embryo Reptile and Mammal. Such c l?fpe was only
(fenerically different from the reptile or mammal which had only taken the succeeding
■step, provided other structures were n^tsuper-added.
By consparing the development of types of different classes in certain features
which are only ordinal or generic in meaning, very erroneous conclusions may
foe reached \>y the inexact student, as to the want of parallelism of classes t*
each other. Thus Rathke says of the development of the eye of the Tri?pi-
1868.J " ^ ."
