NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293
One expression of this inherent metaphysical specific individuality, if the
term may be allowed, has been said to be the peculiar traits of the intelli-
gence of species, their motions, voices and instincts. But intelligence of all
animals is susceptible of impressions, the lower the intelligence the less sus-
ceptible, and the more automatic. But as we rise in the scale of animal being
this impressibility and capacity for education is undeniably exhibited by the
dog, horse and all the well known domesticated companions of man. There
can, in view of the capacities of Aves and Mammalia in these respects, be
little doubt that all animals are educated by the " logic of events," that their
intelligence, impressed by changed circumstances, can accommodate itself
more or less to them, and that there is nothing in this part of their being op-
posed to the principle of "descent with modification."
There is another difficulty in the way of accepting metaphysical peculiarity
or pi'ogenitiveness as isolating species. It is marked often strongly in races'
or varieties, which no one pretends to have had distinct origin. Here like
produces like continually, though not persistently, but sufficiently to show
that it resides in varieties of common origin. The isolation of allied species
in fact depends, we believe, solely on the supremacy of the automatic over
the intelligent spirit. When the intelligent rises above the bounds of nature,
or the automatic, the mixture or separation of allied species depends merely
on circumstances of necessity, determined by that intelligence.
But the metaphysical "potentiality" loses all basis, if the law of accelera-
tion and retardation be true, for in accordance with it, in the fullness of times
like does not produce like.
V. Of Epochal Relations^ or those measuring Geologic Time.
If it can be shown that groups having the developmental relation above
insisted on are cotemporaries, and if it can be shown that this relation is iden-
tical in kind with that which we regard as measuring the successions of
geologic time, we will be led to doubt the existence of any very great inter-
ruptions in the course of this succession throughout geologic time. And if
we can show that faunJB so related are more or less characteristic of distinct
portions of the earth's surface, at the present time, we will be led to anticipate
that cotemporaneous faunae in different regions, during geologic periods, also
bore such a relation. If this proposition be true, we are led to the further
conclusion, which is at variance with received canons, that identity of faunae
proves successional relation in time, instead of^synchronism.* That this will
ultimately be demonstrated appears highly probable to the writer, though, as
yet, the evidence is but fragmentary.
If the relations expressed under the terms homology and heterology, taken
together with the observations on metamorphosis, render it probable that a
number of genera have reached their expression points, or periods of metamor-
phosis, at near the same time in geologic history, an important point has
been gained. If we can render it probable that a cliange in any organic char-
acter has been nearly simultaneous throughout a large extent of specific
forms, the change becomes, on the latter account alone, of higher than gene-
ric value, but characteristic of such groups as Marsupialia, Olamatores,
Acrodonta, Arcifera, Jleterocerca and the like.
We have here, also, an important element in the estimation of the value of
apparent interruptions in the geological history of the life of the globe. These
interruptions, it is true, are greater than any such theory as the present can
bridge over; yet such a theory, if true, lessens their importance. They are
in any case well accounted for on the theory of the existence of periods of
elevation, during which the life of a given region is necessarily almost en-
tirely lost to us, through lack of means of preservation of their remains.
*This view was first propouaded by and has since been reaffirmed by Huxley.
1868,]
