294 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OP
We may also compare such extended metamorphoses with those of cosm ica
matter, such as when, in the course of ages, a primaeval vapor has in a short
time collapsed to the liquid form, or as when the vast of liquid in turn has
shrunk to its solid condition; both alilie for ages approaching their change,
yet stationary in external relations till the moment of transition has arrived.
The following are the zoological relations of the groups already compared :
The most generalized group of fishes of the Regio Neotropica is that of
Characins. Its type, in respect to fin structure, which Js common to all the
Malacopterygians, is that of an undeveloped stage of the Acanthopterygians,
the adipose fin being an undeveloped cartilaginous fin and the cartilaginous
fin an undeveloped spinous fin.* It may be said to be the highest among
Malacopterygians if we look to the complete oviducts, opercula, jaws, etc.,
, but it is the lowest as removed farthest from the extreme of Malacopterygian
peculiarities, as being most generalized or embracing representatives of all
the rest, and approaching nearest the types of the past — the Ganoids. For
example, Butyrinus and Vastres may be compared with Amia. The family is
distributed chiefly in the Southern Hemisphere.
The genus Orestias, which Agassiz says is characterized by a feature which
exists in the immature state of all other Cyprinodonts, — the absence of ven-
tral fins, — is only found in the Neotropical region.
Of the venomous serpents, the inferior group, the Proteroglypha, belong to
the Southern Hemisphere, and the Australian and Neotropical regions al-
most exclusively embrace by far the greater proportion. Australia con-
tains none other.
The Iguanian lizards are lower than the Acrodont, exhibiting a larval type
of dentition, and one characteristic of all lower Sauria and Batrachia. The
only acrodont type of Ophiosaura (Trogonophis) is Old World.
The New World Teidse have not the extent of ossified temporal roof that
their representatives, the Old World Lacertids have. So the chiefly Neo-
tropical Anguidffi have the tongue partly of papillose type of their Old World
representatives, the Zonuridae, and partly the smooth or scaly type of the
cosmopolite Scincidte, which are inferior to them.
The snake-like forms of the families of the Lacertiiia Leptoglossa greatly
predominate in the Southern Hemisphere; also those with undeveloped pal-
pebrse.
The Neotropical type of Testudinata is quite coincident with the family
Characinidas in relations. It is, like it, largely distributed over the Southern
Hemisphere, and like it may be regarded, in respect to its pelvic pecularities,
as higher than the remaining types, but in its generalized character and re-
lationship to the past periods may be called lower.
The Neotropical type of Batrachia Anura, that is the Arcifera, is lower in
developmental characters than the opposed series, the Raniformia ; such of
the latter as are found in its limits partake in some way of larval incomplete-
ness. The Arcifera are c'hiefly distributed elsewhere in Australia, where
no Raniformia exist.f Those genera of Old World Raniformia of the lowest
or toothless group, which display the least development of the cranial bones,
as Bra-chymerus and Breviceps, are of the Southern Hemisphere. — South
African.
The Pullastrine birds are a generalized group, inferior to the group op-
* Kner Ueber den Bau der Flossen.
t The Eucnimisbicolor Gray would appear to be an exception, were its generic and sub-
ordinate affinities truly represented by its name. I have examined the type specimen
through tlie kindness of Dr. Giinther, and can state that it is nor an Ixalus,(= Eucnemis),
and does not even belong to the Raniformia, but is an Areifer of the family Hylidse. If
it be not a young C:ilamita or Hyla, it will be a Hvlella near the H. ca rnea type.
Gunthor'stMtes that Hylorana erythraea has been found at the extreme northern
noint— Cape York— of Australia. If so, the case is parallel to the occurrence of the Hani-
form Ranula in northern South America.
[Oct.
