NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 295
posed to them — the Gallinas. Their typical forms, like the last, are distributed
to the Neotropical and Australian regions : the outliers (pigeons) are not so
numerously distributed in the other regions.
The Struthious birds, the most synthetic of the class, belong exclusively to
the Southern Hemisphere ; as is well known, they chiefly abound in Austra-
lia and its adjacent islands, with an abundant outlying type — the Tinamus—
in South America.
The penguins, which only of all birds display the divided metatarsus, in-
habit the Antarctic regions and Cape Horn.
The Clamatarial type of the Passeres exhibit larval characters in the non-
developmeht of the singing apparatus, and the scaled or nearly naked tarso-
metatarsus. These are chiefly South American.
Of Mammalia, the placentals without enamel on their teeth, which, in this
respect, never reach the full development of the class, whose dentition is also*
monophyodont, i. e., the Edentata, inhabit only the Southern Hemit^phere,
and almost altogether the Neotropical region. The implacental Mammalia, also
(except in one tooth) mononhyodont, which approach birds and reptiles in so
many respects, are confined to the Southern Hemisphere, and chieflj^, as all
know, to Australia.
Of the Quadrumana, the Platyrrhine group is known to be inferior to the
Catarrhines : the farmer presents an entirely embryonic condition of the os
tympanicuvi, which is passed by the latter in early age ;* it contains also the
only clawed genus of the true monkeys. It is confined to the Neotropical.
To Madagascar, also of the Southern Hemisphere, and nearest in many ways
to the Neotropical, pertain the lowest families of the Quadrumana, the Lemur-
idc'« and Chiromyidae ; the former presenting brains without convolutions,
and approaching in many ways the Insectivora; the last imitating, at least,
a Rodent.
There are also other reasons for the inferiority of South America. Its deer,
which are few, are those which never produce more than the " dague," or the
first horn of the northern Cervus, or those which never get beyond the fourth
step in the development of the lower group ofR. Nearctica.
The LoricariidfB of South America, I am informed by Prof. Agassiz, possess
the foetal pupil of the vertebrate type.
If we glance at Coleoptera we find the great predominance of the groups
■with undeveloped tarsus, the three and four-jointed Trimera and Tetramera,
and of the lower group with undeveloped sternum,f the Rhynchophora, in the
Neotropical region.
Among Lepidoptera it is known that the most gigantic of the species of
the Neotropical region are Noctuidre (Erebus, etc.), and that in that region
this low type of the order reaches its greatest development. The largest
forms of theRegio Nearctica, as well as Palzearctica, are representatives of
the higher type of the Saturniidae (Attacus, Telea, etc.), while the largest and
most powerful of this order in the Palfeotropical (Indian) region are the
Papilionid forms of Ornithoptera, etc., the generally admitted crown and
head of all. Of course other types, both higher and lower, are largely de-
veloped in each and all of these regions, and the significance of the above
facts is perhaps only to be seen when taken in connection with a large num-
ber of others pointing in the same direction.
Two or three comparisons of different fauna may be brought forward final-
ly. First, returning to the birds, a survey of some of the differences between
the birds of Panama, Pennsylvania and Palestine may be made. J
Tristram noticed 322 species of birds within the range of the ancient terri-
* See Dr. H. Allen, Proceed. A. N. S., Philada., 1867.
fLeconte American Association, 1867.
X From the American Naturalist, 1868, by the author.
1868.]
