NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297
the most magnificent birds of prey, the imperial and golden species of these
creatures.
To the ornithologist acquainted with the fauna of North America, it will
thus be readily perceived that, in comparison, the ornis, just examined, pos-
sesses more numerous representatives of the higher groups of the birds, and
among lower groups possesses chiefly those of superior grade, or lacks them
altogether. Let us, however, compare it with that of Central America, where
varied surface and temperature offer even greater opportunity for variety,
within quite as restricted an area.
The bird fauna has been found by Messrs. Sclater and Salvin to embrace
about 385 species, which is 63 more than were mentioned to occur in Pales-
tine, which is open on three sides to the great contnient. Eighty of 348 land
birds are characteristic of Central America; and those which find their kin
limited to the Isthmus and adjoining regions of New Grenada and Equador,
amount to about seventy-five more. Twenty-seven is the number not known to
extend beyond the boundaries of Palestine ; as to the Middle States of our
Union, not one species has been shown to be restricted within such narrow
limits.
A single species occurs in Europe ; this is the fish-hawk, an animal which
combines the cosmopolite habit of the sea-bird with the powerful flight of
the bird of prey. This is also the onl^^ species common to the Panama and
Palestine catalogues.
The birds of prey are numerous, — twenty-nine species. Among these there
is no triie eagle or falc m, and of the nineteen genera but four belong to the
fauna of the Holy Land. There is but one species to represent the great
grouse family, but, instead, three families of their South American imitators,
the PuUastra;, instead of the one — that of the Pigeons — slimly represented in
Palestine, and in North America as well.
Coming to the closer test of superiority, the Passeres, — those delicate
creatures, apparently so dependent on those laws which govern increase and
provision, and so affected by the changes that man works in the face of
nature, — what do we find? We count 106 distinct species. There are none
in Palestine. Of songsters, the Oscines, ninety-six species await man's con-
quest of the wilderness, to increase in numbers and to display their gifts,
while Palestine rejoices in a whole army of them. But the contrast is more
remarkable if we analyze these forms. Of the Isthmian Oscines, seventeen
onl^' hold the first rank, by virtue of their additional, the tenth primar
quill, while this feature marks one hundred and twenty-eight species of
Palestine. As we rapidly follow the line to the point where its extreme is
manifested, in the family of the Tlirushes or Turdidae, Panama is left but two
solitary pioneers of these songsters of the North, while seventy-five species
represent the family in Palestine.
The comparison between different faunas exhibits an apparent gradation in
some other groups equally curious. Thus the true Cyprinidie in the Palas-
arctic region reach a great development, and produce the highest number of
teeth on their pharj'ngeal jaws known, as well as attains the greatest bulk
and importance. The number of these teeth is usually seven to five in the
iuner row ; only two or three genera exhil)it only four on both. In the Ne-:
arctic region the number of teeth is almost always 4 — 4, more rarely 4 — 5,
and very seldom as high as 5 — 5. The species of the family are excessively
numerous, but are, with scarcely any exception, of small size and weak organ-
ism. These statements apply to those of the eastern district of the region
between the Rocky Mountains and the Atlantic. Similar types occur in the
northern region of the Neotropical, — Mexico, but in no great numbers, but
with them the lowest form of the family, — viz., Graodus Giinther. This
form has no teeth whatever on the pharyngeal jaws. Further south the
family disappears, its place being supplied by the generalized family of
'haracinidas.
1868:] 20
^.
