298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
I have already alluded to the great variety of tbe highest or peiitatnerous
carnivorous beetles in the Pahenrctic Region. They are extremely abundant
in the Nearctic, while the intermediate territory, the Sonoran and Mexican
sub-districts, are the head-quarters of the next lower form, the Tenebrionidae,
which have the tarsal joints 4 — 5. These give place in the Neotropical to the
multitudes of the still lower series, — those with the joints 4 — 4 and 3 — 3, —
Tetramera and Trimera.
The preceding comparisons indicate that an inherent difference between the
types of a continent exists at the present time, though the difference is su>)-
ordinated to a universal distribution of the higher groups throughout the
earth. Has this state of things existed for any long period, or is it a result of
different progress in the same group since the human period? This brings us
necessarily to a consideration of the truths of palaeontology, especially of the
last periods, which have been already urged by Darwin. Thus the present
fauna of Australia was preceded in the postpliocene and pliocene by forms
possessing similar peculiarities, and belonging to the same classes. That is
by herbivorous and carnivorous marsupials and monotremes, and by Varanid
Sauria, all of greater size than their predecessors.
The same fact is well known of the Neotropical region, its present peculiar
Edentata having been preceded by giants of the same type in the postpliocene
and pliocene.
In the Nearctic region peculiar existing genera, as Procyon, Alces, Castor,
Bos, Sciurus, Arctomys, Lepus, Ovibos, Sorex, Mephitis, Felis, Ursus, Meno-
poma, Aspidonectes, Crotalus, are represented by postpliocene fossils,
Tbe same occurs in the later Pala'arctic formations, where Cervus, Bos,
Canis, Mustelidse, Insectivora, Vijiera, Alytcs, Triton, etc.. are allied predeces-
sors of existing types. In the Palaeotropical area a wonderful development
of Elephas and Gavialis preceded the same types of the present.
Prior to these faunje another state of things has, however, existed. North
America has witnessed a withdrawal of a Neotropical fauna, and the Pala'-
arctic the retreat of an Ethiopian type. During the postpliocene in North
America, Neotropical genera were to Nearctic as 12 to 29, as the record now
stands. In the pliocene beds of Pikeimi (Greece) antelopes, giraffes, rhinoce-
ros, hippopotamus, huge manis,* monkeys, monitors, and other genera and
species of African relationship are the prevailing forms.
Still earlier, a strong mingling of Nearctic, and more of Neotropical types,
abounded in the Pala?arctic. The genera Chelydra, Andrias, Podocnemis.f
Platemys, Caviiform, Psanimorj'ctid and Hesperomys-like Rodentia, Opossums,
and Raccoon-like Carnivora.
We have, then, three important terms from which to derive a theory of the
creation : 1, the existing six fauna; bear in many of their parts developmental
relations to one another ; 2, they were preceded immediately by faunse similar
to them in each case, but more remotely by fauna? like that now next lower.
On the whole, there can be no doubt of the truth of the generalization, 1st,
That the Southern Hemisphere is a geologic stage behind the Northern Hemisphere in
progress^ on account (i) of its perfection in types extinct in the Northern, and
(2) inferiority in modern types prevalent in the Northern.
In order, however, to demonstrate this point more fully, let us examine to
what extent the higher types exist in the Southern, and lower or ancient in
the Northern.
The Percoid fishes and their allies have Australian and South American
representatives in their fresh waters, but they are as mere outliers of the
great mass in the Northern Hemisjihere. The higher type of venomous ser-
pents (Solenoglypha) occur in both the J3thiopian and Neotropical regions,
but they preponderate in the Northern Hemisphere. The higher group of the
* Aneylotherium, Maerotherium.
■f-P. bowerbankii {Platemys Ow.) P. 1 se v i s {Emys Owen), ;j
[Oct.
