NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 15
III. — Descriptions of Genera and Species.
1. Subfamily Alcin^e.
ALCA, Linnseus,
Chenalopex, Moehring, Ar. Gen. 1752, p. 65, No. 68.
.4/ra, Linnasus, Syst. Nat. i. 17."i8 ; and of authors.
ringuinus, Bonnatei-re, Ency. Method. Orn. 1790, p. 28.
Size largest in the family. Form heavy, compact, robust. Head large,
ovate, produced forwards. Neclv moderately long, thick. Wings morpho-
logically perfect, teleologically rudimental, not admitting of flight, in length
from carpal joint to end of longest primary scarcely twice as long as tail ; when
folded not reaching the tail. Tail short, pointed. Legs short and stout.
Webs broad and full. Tarsi compressed ; their anterior ridge and superior
surfaces of toes scutellate, lateral and posterior aspects reticulate, the plates
on the latter very small. Tibiaj feathered nearly to the joint. Bill about as
long as the head, large, strong, very deep, exceedingly compressed. Upper
mandible with culmen about straight for half its length, then regularly con-
vex, tip obtuse, declinate, scarcely overhanging; a deep groove on its side at
base, parallel with the outline of feathers ; its side then perfectly smooth for a
space, then deeply impressed with six to ten oblique curved sulci. Gape very
large, running far back ; line of commissure nearly following that of culmen.
Eniinentia symphysis slight ; gonys nearly straight. Lower mandible two-
thirds as deep as upper, its sides impressed with six to ten straight, vertical
sulci. Feathers about base of mandibles short, very compact : extending
downwards from base of culmen, a little forwards, to commissural edge of
upper mandible ; reaching much further on sides of lower mandible ; wholly
covering the moderately long, very narrowly linear, impervious nostrils, which
are situated just above the commissure.
It is unnecessary to compare this genus with any other. Utainania, most
closely allied, is at once distinguished by its teleologically perfect wings,
though nearly identical with Alca in other points of structure. The only
known representative of the genus is remarkable, both for its large size, and
for not possessing the power of flight, in consequence of which it may be said
to represent, in the Northern Hemisphere, the numerous Penguins of the
Southern. By many ornithologists it is believed to have very recently become
nearly or quite extinct.
Rigid adherence to the law of priority would necessitate the use of a differ-
ent name for this genus. "Alca" was first applied by Linnajus, in 1744, to the
genus of which the bird now called Fratercula or Mormon arcticus is typical ;
and even as used by LinniBus in 1758 it has torda as its recognized type, ac-
cording to that rule which regards the species first mentioned as type, when
none is otherwise indicated ; so that it cannot, with strict propriety, be used
at all in this connection. But the name has become so firmly established by
common consent and long usage, that it would be ruthless, as well as profit-
less, to attempt its supercedure by Chenalopex of Moehring, 1752 ; particularly
as this latter word has come into extensive employ for an Anserine genus.
The genus Alca, as framed by Linnwns in 1758, included both torda and im-
pennis : and when restricted, by the generic separation of these two types, there
seems no good reason why the first mentioned should be regarded as more
peculiarly typical of the genus than the last. Should Alca be reserved for
Fratercula arctica, or for Utamania torda, it will be apparent that numerous un-
warrantable innovations necessarily follow; while its employ in connection
with impennis entails no such consequences.
Alca impenxis Linn.
Chenalopex, Moehring, Av. Gen. 1752, p. 65, No. 68. "Rostrum conoides,
conuexum, ad latera compressum, aliquot sulcis transuersis canalicula-
1868.]
