NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301
At the conclusion of my paper on the Imos of adnalion, read before the
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at
Chicago, Dr. J. S. Newberry kindly pointed out that, in a fossil state, Gh/p-
tostrobus and Taxodium were often found side by side, but always with so much
difference between the scales of the cones that, while assenting to the general
principles of the paper, he could not regard these two plants identical. As
cones are nothing more than metamorphosed stems and branches, it is not sur-
prising that the sames laws of adnation which might operate in making the Taxo-
dium Glfiptostrohus, and which make them look so very distinct in the different
stages of adnation, should also operate on the fruit, and make it appear, when
at the widest point of divergence, as really different. It should in fact do so,
and instead of the differences in the cones of these fossils being any proof of
their specific distinctness, it must be received as a natural sequence of the law
I would evolve.
The specimens I now exhibit show at any rate that the two plants are identi-
cally the same. This granted, it completely refutes the generally received
theory, that no one species of Conifera? inhabits at once the eastern and western
worlds.
In my paper on variations in Epigsea repens, presented for publication last
May, I endeavored to show that "cultivation " and "external circumstances"
would not account for variations in form to the extent they usually received
credit for; but that there was rather a regular principle of growth in form, as
well as in substance, independent of outward agencies, which agencies were
calculated quite as much to preserve as to originate the growing forms.
Those accustomed to study chiefly from herbaria, and little from living spe-
cimens, have no idea of the great variations from one type which many species
present. These comparative differences are often so insensibly blended, that
it is only when we meet with some very extreme forms that they attract our
attention, and then only to note their extreme differences. Even when noted
they are contemned as obstructing classification, rather than welcomed as
invaluable aids in resolving the laws of form.
In a recent review of part 16 of Decandolle^s Prodromus, which has lately ap-
peared, with the Coniferffi by Prof Parlatore, the reviewer says : " It must be
clear to every one that a great number of so-called species are varieties of one
strain, doubtless produced by localization in different climatal or natural conditions."
{Gardener's Chronicle, page 922, 1868.) As this review is understood to be by
one who is himself known as a describer of many Coniferte, which are doubt-
less varieties of one strain, it may be worth while to point out, in some Coni-
ferit. that neither climatal nor any external condition has as much to do with
variation in form as an innate power of development, independent of either
climatal or local causes.
In one of our commonest pines — Pinus inops — a very careful comparative ex-
amination will show scarcely any two trees to be exactly alike ; the habits of
the tree, the shade of color, or the length of the leaves, the size or form of the
cone, the scales, or the seeds — in some one point a difference may be found
which can easily be described in words. When extremes are brought together
the differences are quite as great as characterize different species. By descrip-
tions alone they would be fairly entitled to rank as distinct. The mind fails
to unite them. It is only the educated eye which perceives their identity. I
exhibit two cones from two trees growing on the banks of the Susquehanna,
near Harrisburg. One is very long and narrow — three and a half inches in
length, by only three-fourths of an inch wide at the base, and the scarcely
projecting scales barely spinescent, the other nearly as wide, but only
half the length, and with strongly projecting scales and spines. Unless
with previous acquaintance of Hinus inops in its natural places of growth, a
botanist might well be pardoned for considering these distinct species, yet with
the multitude of intermediate forms, all under the same external conditions,
how can any " localizatious " account for the varieties ? I have the same ex-
1868.]
