302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
perience with Finns rigida and P. pungens ; and it is doubtless true of other
species.
I have noted some interesting: variations in Pinus Banltsiama, vehich in some
way do seem to be connected with location, although I have no doubt that
ages of geographical travel from a central jioint conjoined with the principle of
inheritance, might find the natural inherent laws of variation sufficient to
account for them. Dr. Gray says, in the last edition of his Manual of Botany,
it is a shrub or low tree 5 to 20 feet high, giving N. Maine, N. Michigan and
Wisconsin, and northward as the localities. I did not collect in northern
Illinois, but friends tell me it grows some thirty miles from Chicago, only as
a bush. Michaux observes that in Labrador it shows signs of decrepid old age
at 3 feet, and in no part of America did he find it over 10 feet. Dr. Richardson,
in Franklin's narrative of a joarney to the shores of the Polar Seas in 1819 —
1822, describes it as 40 feet high in favorable situations, but the diameter of
its trunk was greater in proportion to its height than in any other pines of the
country. Douglass found it to have longer leaves on the Rocky Mountains
than elsewhere. In company with Mr. Wm. Canby, I had the opportunity of
examining large forests of them growing on the neck of land between Escan-
auba, on Lake Michigan, and Marc|uette, on Lake Superior, where we found
them just the reverse of Dr. Richardson's experience. Here they were more
slender in proportion to their height, not only than any pine of the country, but
probably than any pine elsewhere. Most of the trees were from 30 to 40 feet
high, remarkably straight, but only from 6 to 12 inches in diameter. We
roughly measured one at Escanauba which was about twenty inches in diame-
ter, and perhaps sixty feet high, little shorter than in fact a very fine Pinus
resirwsa, about two and a half feet through, growing near it.
Now these variations have relation to only one particular, that of size ; there
would no doubt be found others in many respects ; but even in this one
character no theory of climate or soil will account for them. If a low tem-
perature dwarfs the Labrador specimens, what is to account for the small
bushes in Illinois or southern Wisconsin, in lat. 42°? And again, why are
these latter in the rich soils of this district so small in comparison with the
almost timber trees of a few hundred miles farther north, and in which is
usually considered the poorest land of the north-west ? Soil and climate may
have some influence in aiding variation, but facts show the origin is deeper
than these, namely, a native power to change, kept in check only by inheri-
tance and perhaps external circumstances.
I have heretofore reported Pinus pungens as growing at Port Clinton ; I find
it now abundantly on the hills about Harrisburg ; so it may be set down as
native to the whole interior of the Stale of Pennsylvania.
Nov. U, 1868.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Forty-two members present.
The following paper was presented for publication :
Sixth Contribution to the Heri^etologyof Tropical America. By
Edw. D. Cope.
Dr. Leidy called attention to two singular specimens presented this evening
by Mr. Lamborn.. They were obtained from the Huronian slates near the
Dalles of St. Louis lliver, northern Minnesota. They bear a strong likeness to
large coprolites partially imbedded in portions of slate. They not only have
the usual form of coprolites, though flattened, but have an apparent spiral
arrangement. Taken from the surface slate, the bodies, where exposed to the
air have been more readily decomposed than the slate. A broken surface ex-
[Nov.
