304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
The basin of the Essequibo is about 900 miles long N. and S., and 600 E.
and W. It is the true auriferous field of Venezuela.
Fragmentary knowledge comes in from all known portions of it, showing all
its mountains to be gold-bearing.
In the valley of the Moeupio, a small and insignificant tributary of the
Yuruary, the greatest amount of exploration has been done. Here has been
developed two systems of veins ; one running N. E. and S. W., corresponding
with the strike of elevation ; the other E. and W., corresponding with the
strike of talcose rock.
On the method of the formation of gold in the veins, the following observa-
tions have been made :
First. Showing that gold must have been placed in the veins at the same
time with the quartz matrix, and that these were deposited pan joassw on both
walls of the vein.
Secimd. Observations show that gold has been redisposed on fissure walls of
the quartz.
Third. Observations show that gold has been mechanically mixed with the
sulpburet of iron, and that these depositions were made simultaneously with
the quartz.
The best known portion of the new gold fields of Yuayana are situated in
the canton of Yurnary (formerly a portion of the canton of Upatee), in lat.
7° 20^ N., find long. 65° W. from Greenwich ; about 100 miles south from the
island of Piacoa, in the Orinoco river, and 200 miles south-east from Bolivar,
over the great plains of Venezuela.
Nov. 2Mh.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-two members present.
The chairman of the Curators announced that B. Waterhouse
Hawkins, F. G. S., had presented to the Academy a restored skele-
ton of the Hadrosaurus Foulkii, on which the following resolutions
were offered and adopted :
Resolved, That the Academy entertain a deep sense of obligation to Mr. Haw-
kins for his valuable donation of a restored skeleton of Hadrosaurus Foulkii, —
a gift which will constitute an especial attraction and a prominent object of
interest in our museum.
Resolved, That the profound palffontological knowledge, artistic skill and
patient industry displayed by Mr. Hawkins in reconstructing from some frag-
mentary remains this huge creature of a former geological period, has gained
for him our respect and admiration, while his invariable courtesy and freedom
in imparting knowledge has secured our highest regards.
Resolved, That the Academy full}' appreciate the great value of the efforts he
is making to ])opularize science ; efforts, the importance of which cannot be
too highly estimated. They will tend to benefit the community by expanding
the minds of the masses, and by furnishing to them higher and more ennobling
subjects for thought than can be afforded by the common ])ursuits of every-day
life. He will also advance science by increasing the numi)er of those who can
appreciate the labors of men of science, sympathize in their labors, and secure
for them objects of interest which would be thrown aside or destroyed by the
ignorant.
Resolved, That the Academy tender to Mr. Hawkins its best wishes for his
health, happiness and prosperity.
The following gentlemen were elected members : Wm. M. Dar-
[Nov.
