306 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
our Museum in Philadelphia by J. Carson Brevoort. Specimens of Tretioscin-
cus bifasciatus Dum., and Dendrobates ti a c t o ri u 3 accompanied it.
Oerrhonotus auritds Cope, sp. nov.
This species is distinguished by its strong massive head, witli a series of
elongate conic flexible processes above the auricular meatus.
Muzzle flattened, canthus rostralis wanting. Each of the posterior pair of
supranasals divided in two, the posterior parts on each side the rhombic inter-
nasal. Five supraoculars and five supraorbitals ; other plates of the head nor-
mal ; they graduate into the nuchals by three cross-rows of scales. Temples
much swollen, but not angularly. Upper labials eight large and two small ;
lower labials nine, with two rows of infralabials ; the inner of four large scales,
tlie third largest. Side of neck and axilla coarsely granular ; above the ear
four long conic flexible processes, with two or three shorter below them.
Scales of back and belly small for the genus, in sixteen longitudinal and
twenty-six transverse series, from nape to groin. They are bony, and strongly
but finely keeled. Ventral plates smooth, in 14 longitudinal rows. The lateral
fold is slight, and contains about three rows of coarse granules.
The ground color is pea-green, more or less shaded with yellow; the rugosi-
ties of the scales everywhere black. Blackish green shades form indistinct Vs
directed backwards on the middle of the back. Below yellowish, with dirty
green shades. Eyelids and auriuular processes yellow. Length to vent 5 in. ;
to axilla 2 in.; to ear 21-5 1.; to orbit 4-5 1.; greatest width of head 12-5 1.
Length fore limb 15-5 1. ; of hind limb 20 1. ; of foot 10-2 1. The tail is short
(3 in. 10-2 1.), and covered with bony scales, but I am not sure it has not been
early reproduced.
This, the most singular species of the genus, is only equalled in beauty by
the G. g r am i n e u s m. of Mexico, which it resembles. The latter has larger
scales, a longer muzzle, and a much more angulate temporal region; the occi-
put is also well marked off from the nape by one projecting cross-row behind
the postparietal, while there are three in G. a u r i t u s. Finally, its post-supra-
nasals are not divided. Both these species are allied to the G. t se n i a t u s
and G. d e p p e i of Wiegmann. Gray refers the latter to a genus Abronia,
but a regular gradation of characters connect them with the other Gerrhonoti.
This is one of the Reptilian forms which inhabit the vast forests of Vera
Paz, in the neighborhood of the ancient cities of Peten and Cobau. Museum
Smithsonian, Henry Hague discoverer.
HoLCOSUS BRiDGESii Cope, sp. nov.
This species is near the H. sexscutatus Giinther, having quite the same
coloration, that is, dark olive, with a pale vertebral band from the end of the
muzzle aud a lateral black band from the orbit, which is white-bordered above
and below. The superior white line is much interrupted in this species. Top
of head brown, below uniform light green. It differs considerably in the scu-
tellation of the head. There is a pair of confluent supra- and prenasals in
contact medially, and these are succeeded by a pentagonal iuternasal, but from
this point tiie squamation is different; thus three plates represent each pre-
frontal, while some eighteen take the place of the frontal. Behind this point
they are too numerous to homologize, except that a small median occipital is
surrounded by series of tubercular or keeled scales, which are arranged in
curved series running behind the occipital. The frontal scales are in three
series, two larger superciliaries which are strongly keeled, and a median flat
row, with those of the muzzle arranged quite as in species of Anales. Supra-
orbitals two on each side, each a half-ellipse, keeled on the inner margin, sur-
rounded by granules except the anterior, which is in contact with the super-
ciliaries.
The throat fold is covered with granular scales ; Giinther says H. sexscu-
tatus has a series of shields. He also states that the hind limb extended
only reached to the posterior margin of orbit ; in the present species it reaches
[Nov.
