NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307
considerably in front of the orbit. Giinther gives twenty femoral pores ; in
the present there are twenty-four on each side.
In other respects, as to sqnamation, scutellation, etc., Giinther's description
applies to this species. See Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1859. The allied H.
s e p teml in eat u s A. Dum. differs in the less divided scales of the front,
as well as in being seven-banded.
This Saurian is dedicated to my friend Robert Bridges, M.D., Professor of
Chemistry in the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, and an active member of
the Academy of Natural Sciences.
The species is represented by one specimen in the Museum of the Academy.
Opheomorphus mimus Cope, sp. nov.
This is the only species of the genus which has the black annuli on red
ground, characteristic of Erythrolamprus and other genera of American Coro-
nellines, Elaps, etc. Its general appearance is exactly that of E. v e n u s t i s s i-
m u s with single rings, or Ophibolus micropholis with confluent rings.
It agrees entirely with other species of this genus in double anal, short tail,
diacranterian dentition and lack of scale-pores, but is slightly abnormal in the
rudimental condition of the loreal plate ; it is on one side entirely wanting.
Superior labials seven, eye over third and fourth, fifth largely in contact
with postoculars. First, the only one longer than high. Muzzle short, head
slightly distinct. Internasals transverse; orbitals 1 — 2, the anterior not reach-
ing frontal. Temporals 1 — 2. Scales in 15 series, broad as long. Frontal
with straight sides convergent behind ; its length greater than its breadth, and
longer than common suture of occipitals, though shorter than greatest length
of the latter. Tail 6-8 times in total length ; i. e., 2 in. 3 1. out of 13 in. 6 1.
General color crimson, each scale with a brown spot near its tip. Ten black
rings of 3 and 3-5 scales in width cross the body. They are sometimes divided,
and the halves alternate ; they are complete across the belly, but have a ten-
dency to divide, especially the posterior. One pair of complete annuli on the
tail, and four spots above near the tip. No black collar, chin uniform : head
above and spot below eye black ; plates on sides of muzzle and temples black-
edged.
The long posterior maxillary tooth of this species presents a singular struc-
ture. Its section is triangular, two of the sides being shallow concave. The
angle between these is the section of an acute posterior ridge of the tooth ; the
anterior face of the tooth is convex. The posterior sides being slightly concave
to the tip, in some lights suggest the presence of the groove of Erythrolamprus
and other genera, but both are similar, and neither is a true groove.
The habitat of this species is a mining district in the higher regions of Equa-
dor or New Grenada, but the exact locality I cannot fix. It was found with the
following species: Anolis f r a s e r i Gthr., Rhabdosoma microrhynchum
Cope, Holcosus bridgesii Cope, Opheomorphus mimus Cope, Amphis-
baena f u 1 i g i n o s a L., Masticophis pulchriceps Cope, and Elaps s ae v u s
Cope.
Specimens in Mus. Academy from Edward Day, of the Assay Department of
Columbia College, New York.
LlOPHIS FLAVITORQUES CopC, Sp. nOV.
This is a small and aberrant species of the genus. Its peculiarity consists
in a projecting rostral plate, as in Lygophis conirostris Gthr., which is
consequently developed on the upper aspect of the muzzle. The tail is also
rather longer than in any other species, its length entering the total 3-2 times.
In this it approaches Dromicus.
Internasal plates about as long as wide; prefrontals considerably wider than
long. Frontal with superciliary borders each one-third the anterior suture,
and about half the occipital ; thus the plate is very wide, with a long produced
posterior angle. Each nasal higher than long, narrower than the loreal ; latter
higher than long, straight above, angulate below. Preocular higher than long,
1868.J
