308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
two postocnlars ; temporals 1 — 2. Superior labials seven, all higher than long
except the last, third and fourth bounding orbit. The eye small, pupil round.
Inferior labials seven, the fourth as long as an}' three others, the first well de-
veloped behind sjmphyseal. Geneials short, the posterior half the length of
the anterior, and separated by a plate. Scales in seventeen series, rather
broad, subequal. Gastrosteges 188; anal 1 — 1; urosteges 105. Total length
17-5 inches ; of tail 5•.^ inches.
Everywhere above dark brown, except a broad yellow half collar which
crosses the posterior half of the occipital shields and two rows of scales. Below
dirty yellowish.
This serpent is from the Magdalena river, New Grenada. Brought by Schulte
Buckow, of New York.
The physiognomy of the head of this species is somewhat like that of Oxyr-
rhopus, though the characters are different.
LiopHis PERSiMiLis Cope, sp. nov.
This species is very much like the Coniophanes fissiden s Gthr. in gene-
ral appearance ; it differs generically in its uuiporous scales and entire poste-
rior maxillary tooth. It also resembles Rhadinasa o b t u s a, but differs also in
dentition and pores. The form is more like the latter than the former, as the
head is relatively small.
Scales in 17 rows. Frontal nearly as wide as superciliary suture ; occipi-
tals long, truncate behind; supranasals very small. Postnasal much larger
than prenasal, loreal nearly square ; preocular one, narrow, not approaching
frontal. Two postoculars. Seven upper labials, eye over third and fourth ;
postoculars two ; temporals 1 — 2 — 3. Inferior labials seven ; post-genials
longer than pre-genials. Gastrosteges 131 and 1 — 1. Urosteges 70.
Total length 11 in. 3 1. ; of tail 3 in. 3 1. Above light brown, with a dark
brown band on each side, from the neck to the end of the tail, which is dark
bordered above on the lower edge of the fourth row of scales. Labial plates
white edged above. Belly and tail below yellow, a black dot on the edge of
each scutum and scutellum.
From Rio de Janeiro, Brazil ; brought by the Thayer expedition. Mus. Com-
par. Zoology, No. 436,
CONOPHIS PULCHER CopC, Sp. nOV.
Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows. Loreal a little longer than high ;
orbitals 1 — 2, temporals 2 — 3. Muzzle rather projecting. Head little distinct.
Superior labials, eight, higher than long except the last, fourth and fifth form-
ing orbit below. Gastrosteges 73, anal 1 — I ; urosteges 67. Total length
29 in. 3 1., of tail 6 in. 3 1. ; of gape 9-2 1.
Six dark longitudinal bands on a light ground. First a black band along
the middle of the first row ; second a dark brown black edged on the third and
half the second and fourth; third a similar broadly black margined on the
eighth and half the seventh and ninth, separated from its fellow on the other
side by a median stripe of only one scale in width which is black edged. This
median baud disappears on the nape, leaving a broad band to the end of the
muzzle, extending over the occipitals and superciliaries. The lateral band ex-
tends in like manner to the end of the muzzle including the upper edges of
the labials. Throat clouded with blackish below. Belly yellow with a few
specks on each end of the gastrosteges. Upper labials broadly brown edged
below. The bands extend to the end of the tail.
From near Peten, Vera Paz. Henry Hague ; Museum Smithsonian.
This handsome species is near the C. vittatus Peters, but differs in many
points of coloration, and in having one more labial shield above and below.
From G. 1 i n e a t u s D. and B., it differs also very much in coloration.
Helicops fumigatcs Cope, sp. nov.
Scales iu nineteen rows, keeled anteriorly and posteriorly, lower rows smooth.
[Nov.
