NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311
somewhat arched, the rostral plate very broad and free, entirely separating the
internasals. There is a complete annulus of scales round the eye. The tail is
relatively shorter than in the known species.
Ground color light grey; a series of elongate parallelogrammic brown
blotches occupies the dorsal region, from the nape to the end of the tail. Labi-
als and under surfaces unspotted.
Length about fourteen inches. This serpent is remarkably different from
the three already known representatives of the genus. In these the orbit rests
on the labials, and the color is in bands.
Presented to the Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. by Wm. M. Gabb, who discovered it
in the upper part of Lower California.
Peltaphryne lemue Cope, sp. nov.
This is a toad of singular aspect, owing to the extraordinary development of
the bony crests of the cranium and the large size of its eyes.
The muzzle is short and very much flattened, projecting much beyond the
mouth. The upper lip forms indeed a strongly projecting bony rim all round
the mouth. Loreal region very concave, canthus concave and very close to-
gether. The superciliary crests are extraordinarily elevated, having an arched
outline, and descending steeply to the loreal region. It is angulate posteri-
orly, joining the almost equally developed supratympanic ridge. The crown
of the head is thus a deep basin, widened above the tympana, and obstructed
by a cross- elevation in front. Strong ridges behind and before the orliit ; nos-
trils vertical, a short bonj* longitudinal ridge below them. According to the
characters of the genus there is no derm on the head. Tympanum vertically
oval. Parotoids broad oval, directed obliquelj' downwards, covered like the
remainder of the upper surfaces of the body and limbs, with numerous closely
placed sub-round tubercles, with rugose surfaces. Feet rather short, with
small tubercles, and only one remarkably weak metatarsal tubercle, the inner.
A strong corneous ridge on the inner margin of the tarsus. The heel reaches
the middle of the parotoid. The toes are about half-webbed, and have a strong
dermal margin. Two strong carpal tubercles. Under surfaces studded with
small tubercles, with acute points. Tongue obovate, largely free.
In. Lin.
Length head and body 4 5-5
" toaxilla , 2
" " posterior margin tympanum 15
" " anterior margin orbit G
" of fore limb 2 5 5
" " hind limb 4 35
" " " foot 2 4
Width of head behind 17-5
" interorbital space 8-5
" topof muzzle Iv5
The color above is a blackish-brown, the top of the head yellow shaded ;
two longitudinal brown spots on the frontal region. A light vertebral line
disappears on the back and reappears on the coccyx, and another light line
passes round the inside of the parotoids and diverges on the scapular region.
Limbs yellowish cross-banded, below dirty white, below the vent blackish.
This curious animal was found by George Latimer, the correspondent of the
Smithsonian Institution in Porto Rico, W. I. We are indebted to the same
zoologist for the following species :
Peltaphryne lemur Cope.
Cystigxathus albilabris Gthr. var.
Hemidactylu.s mabuia Cuv.
Mabuya fulgida Cope.
DlPLOGLOSSUS DEGKNKR CopC.
1868.]
