312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Anolis velifer Cuvier. The female of this species would fall in the " genus"
Euprhtis Fit'i.= Dactyloa Gray.
Typhlops sp.
Chilabothrus inornatus Dura. Bibr. Only found elsewhere in Jamaica.
Alsophis sancticrucis Cope (=.4. melanichnus Cope).
Otaspis empusa Cope. Pellaphryne empusa Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences,
Philad. 1862, p. 344.
This species does not belong to Peltaphryne, but to a genus which I now
name. It differs from the former in the existence of an additional superficial
arch of the skull, w^iich passes from the mastoid region behind the auricular
meatus, thus enclosing the latter, and causing it to be a mere foramen perfo-
rating a shield of bone. This is the only genus of living Batrachia in which
the external ear is thus completed behind. It is a tendency of Peltaphryne
carried to its highest extreme.
Cuba ; found by Prof. Poey.
Lystris brachyops Cope, sp. et gen. nor. Cystignatbidarum.
Tribe Pleurodenue, same group as Pleurodema, differing only from that genus
in the presence of two strong shovel-like metatarsals, as in the genus Systoma.
Its characters are, therefore : cranium with a fronto-parietal fontanelle ; xi-
phisternum an osseous st3ie, with furcate cartilage disc. Vomerine and max-
illary teeth well developed ; a large inguinal gland ; two metatarsal shovels.
It differs from Gomphobates in its fontanelle and vomerine teeth, but is in-
termediate between this genus and Pleurodema, showing that the tribes Plen-
rodemae and Cystignathi should be closely approximated. It differs onlj', so
far as we know the characters, from Eupemphix Steind , in the presence of a
well-developed dentition in adults as well as young. The other characters of
Eupemphix are not yet known, or whether it is nearer this genus or Gompho-
bates. Steindachner's second species of Eupemphix I would refer here, and
call it Lystris f u s c om ac ul a t u s . Name of the genus from Aur^poy, a
trowel.
Char, specificu-s. — Vomerine teeth in two short oblique series directed for-
wards between the nares, about as far from the latter as from each other.
Tongue a flat oval, one-third free. Head broad, occiput slightly swollen, can-
liius rostralis straight, obtuse, convergent; loreal region vertical plane. Di-
ameter of bony orbit equal length of muzzle ; the latter contracted, elevated,
rounded in profile ; nostrils nearer end than orbit. Membranum tympani one-
third orbit. Ostia large as nares. Males only with a subgular sac, with large
lateral slits. Limbs short, stout; the heel barely reaching the tympanum.
Toes quite short, free, without dermal margins. No tarsal median tubercle or
fold. Inguinal gland large subovate. Skin smooth above and below ; a few
ill-defined warts on the back. Lengths of fingers 3 — 2 — 1 — 4.
In. Lin.
Length head and body 1 8-5
'• muzzle to posterior edge tympanum 7
" hindlimb 2 2
" foot 12-5
" tarsus 4-8
Width head just behind tympanum 6-4
Color above dark brown, with several darker brown broad irregular bands,
which cross the back in three places or are broken into spots, and are sometimes
confluent longitudinally. Sides with dark brown lines and specks. Lip with
two vertical brown bands on each side. Inguinal glands black, white speckled.
Limbs brown, deeper banded; sole from heel dark brown. Below yellow, gular
region brown.
Magdalena River, New Grenada, Schulte Buckow, collector.
[Nov.
