\
NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315
The following papers were presented for publication :
"Remarks on some new types of Carboniferous Crinoidea, with
descriptions of new forms." By F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen.
"Descriptions of seven new species of American Birds from vari-
ous localities, with a note on Zonotrichia melanotis." By Geo. N.
Lawrence.
"Analytical table of the species of Baridius inhabiting the United
States." By John L. LeConte, M. D.
" The Gyrinidas of America, north of Mexico." By John L. Le
Conte, M. D.
" Notes on the species of Agonoderus, Bradycellus "and Stenolo-
l^hus inhabiting America, north of Mexico." By John L. LeConte.
Dr. Leidy exhibited some photographs of fossil bones, received from Mr. W.
E. Webb, yec. of the National Land Co., at Topeka, Kansas. They represent
vertebra;, and fragments of jaws with teeth, of a skeleton of Mosasaurus, re-
ported by Mr. Webb to be about 70 feet in length, recently discovered on the
great plains of Kansas, near Fort Wallace.
Dec. 2dth.
Mr. Jos. Jeanes in the Chair.
Fifty-three members present.
The following gentlemen were elected members :
Albert Peale, Franklin Piatt, Jr., Edw. A. Spooner, M. D.
The following were elected correspondents :
Geo. Neville, of Calcutta, E. I. ; Rev. Dr. Joseph F. Berg, of New
Brunswick, N. J.
The Committee to which was referred a paper, entitled " Phos-
phorus and Fatty Degeneration," reported in favor of its publication
in the American Journal of Medical Science.
On favorable report of Committees, the following papers were
ordered to be published :
Notice of some remains of extinct INSECTIVORA from Dakota.
BY JOSEPH LEIDY,
Dr. Hayden, in his trip to the Mauvaises Terres of White River, Dakota, in
the summer of 1866, discovered the remains of two genera of insectivorous
mammals, which appear to be peculiar, but related to the hedge-hogs.
Leptictis Haydeni. This name, appropriate to one of the animals, is
founded upon a nearly entire skull devoid of the lower jaw. The specimen
belonged to a mature animal, as indicated by the complete and worn condi-
tion of the teeth ; but the skull retains most of its suiur^-s as distinctly as is
usual in the Opossums. It is less in size than that of the Mink, and its shHpe
is more canine than musteline. It bears some resemblance in form to that
of the insectivorous genua Giisorex, or to that of the viverniue genus
Eupleres.
The cranium is remarkable for the possession of a pair of prominent ridges
defining the upper part of the temporal fossae, as in the fossil cranium repre-
sented by De Blainville (Osteographie, Mustela, pi. xiv) under the name of
Mustela plesictis from Auvergne, and by Gcrvais (Pal. Fran. pi. 28, fig. 2)
1868.]
