NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317
tral crests except a few ccnic scales above the scapula;. Gular region with
a weak crest.
The occipital elevation is vertical behind, the lateral ribs but little oblique,
and joining the superciliary crest at a little more than a right angle. Medirta
crest very convex, nearly vertical below. Superciliary crests continuous, not
arched, descending straight and obliquely to the muzzle. None of the crests
dentellated. Scales everywhere granular, equal. Nine rows of subequal
scales between lateral and median occipital crests; six between canthus
on the muzzle. Tail little compressed.
Color gray and leaden, with yellow shades. Three blackish radii back of
orbit. A yellow band from chin to vent.
Total length 12 in. Muzzle to vent 5 in. 45 lines. Muzzle to orbit 6 lin.
Length of hind limb 2 in 6 1.
This species was obtained at Korusko, Nubia, by Prof. H. A. Ward, and
placed in the Museum Peabody Acad., Salem, Mass. No. 489.
This Charaaeleon resembles the C. v u 1 g a r i s, and is intermediate between
it and the C verrucosus.
It may be observed that the Chamseleo b u re h e 1 i i of Hallowell cannot
be regarded as more than a variety of C. g r a n u 1 o s u s of the same author,
and that C. capeUii Du Bocage appears to be the same so far as the descrip-
tion goes.
Panaspis a:neos Cope, sp. et gen. nov. Scincidarum.
Char, generxcus. Allied to Morethia Gray, differing only in the distinctness
of the fronto-parietals from each other and from the interparietal, all three
being united in the latter genus. No eyelid ; a supranasal ; rostral not
prominent. Limbs short, toes weak, 5 — 5. Scales smooth.
Character specificus. Scales large, in twenty-four longitudinal series. Two
loreals, one behind the other ; two preoculars, one above the other. Fronto-
nasals broad as long, separated by frontal, which reaches the interuasal.
Frontal acute behind, smaller than each frontoparietal, but a little larger
than the interparietal. Lateral parietals meeting behind the last named, and
followed by two transverse scales each. Superciliaries and suparorbitals four
each. Two large marginal anal scales.
General proportions slender, the head remarkably so, the tail proportion-
ately stout. The appressed extremities do not meet by the length of the
longest finger. Toes 1 and 5 equal, 3 and 4 nearly so, elongate. Inner finger
very small. Superior labials eight, fifth immediately below orbit, last three
scale-like, large ; anterior quadrate. Tail with cross scuta beneath.
Total length 3 in. 5 lin. To vent 15 1.; to axilla 6 lin.; to ear 3 1.; to
orbit 1-2 1. Length fore limb 3 lin. ; hind limb 4-5 1
Color. Golden olive above, darker behind, with a narrow golden line on
each side from the temple to the base of the tail. Sides above darker, be-
low lighter, pale spotted. A whitish line from below eye to near axilla.
Limbs and tail above brown, with small round white spots ; below greenish
white ; tail pale brownish beneath.
Habitat. Probably Swan River, Australia ; possibly from South-Western
Africa.
Name, from its complete cephalic scutellation, all the plates usual amonfr
lizards being present.
EcMECES PERmcicoLOR Cope, sp. nov.
Twenty-eight series of broad scales on the body, all entirely smooth. Body
fusiform, the limbs very short, with short but unequal toes. Tail cylindric.
Rostral plate low, broad, prominent, but not acute. Infranasals as long
as broad, largely in contact. Internasal much broader than long ; fronto-
nasals small, widely separated. Frontal long, rounded behind ; fronto-pa-
rietals well in contact, large, rounded behind ; inter-parietal smaller than
the latter, parietals well in contact behind it. Dorsal scales equal, a little
1868.]
