318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
smaller than ventrals. Ear large, membrane deeply placed ; no marginal
tubercles or scales. Nasals not divided ; preloreal higher than postloreal ;
two preoculars. Superior labials seven, fourth long, below orbit, no sub-
orbital plate. A transverse symphyseal, and broad transverse mental. In-
ferior labials seven. 'Five supraorbital plates. Scales in front of vent
equal.
In. Lin.
End of muzzle to vent 3 3
" " to axilla 13
" " to orbit 2-7
Length of fore limb 5-9
" hind " 8-2
Color above brown, uniform on the back, each scale with a large white
spot near the centre, on head, body and tail. Lower labial and gular scales
white, with a brown spot, upper labials brown, with a white spot ; white
below, all the scales brown edged ; in a younger specimen laterally, only in
an older all round.
This well marked species is a native of Zanzibar. Mus. Academy and
Peabody Acad. No. 499. From H. F. Shepard. I have referred this species
to the genus nearly as restricted by Dr. Graj', including with it I'listodon and
Otosaurus of his catalogue, as forming together a definable genus.
SEPSINA Bocage.
Sepsina grammica Cope.
Scales in 22 rows. Limbs small, the anterior one-third the length of the
posterior ; toes 3 — 3. Nostril between four plates ; frontonasals and inter-
nasals united into a shield which is broader than long. Supraorbitals and
superciliaries four each on each side. Frontal concave behind, and wide as
long; interparietal nearly as wide, large ; two pairs of parietals, the interior
meeting behind ; two pairs transverse plates behind them. Nasal, loreal and
preorbital present ; rostral flattened, not acute. Eye over fourth labial.
Anal and abdominal plates equal. Ear minute.
Length to ear 8" (French) ; to axilla 15''' 75''''''. Axilla to groin 5'' b'^.
Fore limb 2''^, posterior limb 7". Tail elongate, mutilated.
Below brownish yellow, above fawn brown ; four rows of scales on each
side, with a diirk line in the centre, forming interrupted streaks. Hind limb
streaked above in the same way. Tail more distinct, spotted, on the under
surface faintly ; above dark banded.
This species differs from the type described by Bocage, (Journal de Scien-
cias, Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturse Lisbon, 186(), 26), in its coloration,
in having two rows of scales less ; in having fore limbs very much smaller,
less than one-third the posterior, (they are more than one-half the same in
the S. an g o 1 e n s is Boc). In the latter the internasal and frontal are
much more elongate, and the interparietal very much smaller, according to
the description and figure of the above author.
Museum of the Essex Institute. No. 512. Discovered by Edmunds Lovett,
on the South-West Coast of Africa.
Oedura verrillii Cope.
The femoral pores in a series arched angularly forwards and not extending
on the femora. The plates of the under surfaces df the toes are besides the
terminal discs, one pair only, as large as the terminal and at the end of the
antepenultimate phalange. Labials regular, 8 — 7 to below pupil ; two rows
itifralabials across chin. Rostral undivided. Gular scales granular ; thora-
cic and ventral flat, larger than the flat dorsals. Muzzle scales tubercular.
A tubercle on each side vent. Head as broad as from end of muzzle to half
way between orbit and ear. Color very pale above, with six very deep brown
cross bands from nape to sacrum, which are more or less connected on the
s des. A brown band through orbit, and one behind, crossing the occiput.
[Dec.
