322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
In. Lin.
Total length 3 6
Lengtla to vent 2 1
" " axilla 11
" " ear 52
" " orbit 2
" of hind limb 12-5
" " foot 6
Width of head at ears 5
Color. — Above light gray, with a rose shade on the neck and nape. Five
pairs of irregular black annuli, one on each side the vertebral line, from rump
to nape. These are more or less broken, especially anteriorly. They are re-
placed by scattered linear spots on the top of the head. The arrangement
reminds one of that seen in the Felis u n c i a. Seven pairs of spots on the
upper surface of the tail form cross-bars. Labial plates brown edged ; be-
low everywhere delicate straw color.
Habitat at Cape of Good Hope. No. 725, Mus. Comparative Zoology, Cam-
bridge, Mass.
This interesting little Saurian is furnished with a large calcareous mass on
each side the neck behind the os quadratum, which gives its head an appear-
ance of length. It is no doubt an inhabitant of a sandy region, judging by
its color and the structure of its hind feet, which appear to be adapted for
excavating. It is no doubt allied to the Stenodactylus garrulusof Smith,
but differs in numerous respects from the description of the latter author.
Letheobia pallida Cope, gen. et sp. nov Typhlopidarum.
Char. gen. — This genus differs from Typhlops in the subdivision of its ocular
plate into two scales similar to those of the body ; the superciliary plate is
also undistinguishable from the latter. There appears to be no eyes. Supe-
rior labials three.
This genus is between Typhlops and Helminthophis Peters, differing from
the latter in its erect nasal plate, with nostril on the superior suture. The
Onychocephalus c ae c u s Dum^ril, from Gaboon, appears to belong to this
genus ; the two species may be distinguished as follows :
Muzzle obtuse ; rostral very wide, largely in contact with the
superciliary plates ; nasal large L. pallida.
Muzzle transversely acute ; rostral not reaching to supercilia-
ries ; nasal minute L. c ae c a .
Char, specif. — iiostral subquadrate viewed from above, nearly as broad as
long, in contact nearly equally with three scales above the fronto-nasals, —
viz., the frontal and two superciliaries. Thesubocular a little larger than the
ocular ; behind these a series of seven scales from the rictus to the median
row, on each side. Preocular and fronto-nasal of equal width, the latter
sending a very narrow point to the second labial behind the wider nasal.
Nostril very near the rostral suture. Tail as long as width of head, acumi-
nate. Scales equal, in twenty-two longitudinal rows. Form quite slender.
Length 6 in. 3-5 lines ; diameter at middle 1-25 lines. Color pale flesh-color.
Habitat. — Zanzibar. Presented by C. Cooke to the Essex Institute, Salem,
Mass. (Mus. 504.) It was taken from a well. Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada.
Thrasops citrinus Cope, sp. nov.
Body slender, compressed, tail short for the genus. Gastrosteges rounded
and elevated on the sides. Scales in seventeen rows, poreless, all strongly
keeled ; the median more lanceolate; the surface of all finely longitudinally
striate. Head quite distinct; muzzle not long, flat, truncate ; cantbus ros-
tralis straight, angulate, loresfplane. Supranasals a little longer than broad;
frontal elongate, not concave laterally, occipitals a little longer. Post-front-
als descending to labials, no loreal ; oculars 1 — 3. Superior labials nine,
[Dec.
