NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323
fourth, fifth and sixth in orbit, last three longer than high ; temporals 1 — 2.
Ten inferior labials, postgenials longer than pregenials.
Total length 23-5 in, ; to vent 17 in.; to rictus oris 7 lin. ; to orbit 1-5 lin.
Gastrosteges 197, urosteges 105.
Yellowish-brown above, gastro- and urosteges rich yellow. Top of head
brown, lips paler, the upper edges of the plates light, continuing into a streak
to belly.
From the Seychelle Islands ; found by U. S. consul Pike. Mus. Acad. Nat.
Sciences.
Notes on some points in the Structure and Habits of the Palaezoic CKINOIDEA.
BY F. B. MEEK AND A. II. WORTHEN,
Of the State Geological Survey of Illinois.
Through the kindness of Mr. Charles Wachsinuth, of Burlington, Iowa, we
have recently had an opportunity to examine some unique and exceedingly in-
teresting specimens of Carboniferous Crinoids, showing parts of the structure
of these animals, in some instances, never before observed, so far as we are at
this time informed. In a few instances, these specimens show internal organs
entirely free from the matrix, and althougli like all the other solid parts of
these curious creatures, composed of numerous calcareous pieces, really sur-
passing in delicacy of structure the finest lace-work, and so frail that a touch,
or even a breath, might almost destroy them.* Some of these specimens we
propose to notice here, but, before proceeding to do so, we avail ourselves of
this opportunity to express our thanks to Mr. Wachsmuth for the zeal, indus-
try, skill and intelligence he has brought to bear, in collecting and preparing
for study, such an unrivaled series of the beautiful fossil Crinoidea of this
wonderfullj'- rich locality. Some idea of the extent of his collection of these
precious relics may be formed, when we state that of the single family Actino-
crinidie alone, after making due allowance for probable synonj'ms, he must
have specimens of near 150 species, or perhaps more, and many of them show-
ing the body, arms and column. ,
It is also due to Mr. Wachsmnth, that we should state here that he is not a
mere collector only, but that he understands what he collects, and knows just
what to collect, as well as how to collect.
Below we give substantially some notes of observations made in his collec-
tion, followed by some remarks on other specimens at Springfield :
1. Sf/nbathocrinus, Phillips. Some of Mr. Wachsmuth's specimens of a spe-
cies of this genus show that it is provided with a long, slender, pipe-stem like
ventral tube, or proboscis, apparently equaling the arms in length. Also, that
a double row of minute alteruating marginal pieces extends up within the am-
bulacral furrows of the arms, apparently all their length. We are not aware
that these characters have been hitherto noticed in any of the publications on
this genus. It will be seen, however, farther on, that minute marginal pieces
probably occupied the furrows along the inner side of the arms of other types
of Crinoidea, as well as this.
2. jfoniasteroidocrinus, Lyon and Casseday. Some unusually fine specimens
of the typical species of this genus [G. tuberosum) iu Mr. Wachsmuth's collec-
tion, from Crawfordsville, Ind., show the slender pendent arms much more
distinctly than any we had before seen, and from these it seems evident that
these arms are stouter than we had supposed, and that there are not more than
five or six of them to each of the ten openings. In the specimen figured by us
on page 220 of the second volume of the Illinois Reports, these arms were only
imperfectly seen by working away, with great difficulty, the hard matrix be-
* By Mr. Wachsmuth's permission, we have prepared for future publication, dravrmgsof
all of these instructive specimens.
1868.]
