324
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
tweeu two of the produced rays of the vault, which we have termed pseudo-
bracliial appendages, or false arms. In clearing away the matrix of this
specimen, we had cut just far enough to expose the edges of the arms on each
side of the deep ambulacral furrow, so that each of these edges presents the
appearance of being a separate and distinct, very slender arm, composed of a
single series of pieces, and without any ambulacral furrow on the outer or
ventral side ; whereas there is a well-defined ambulacral furrow, bearing the
tentacula along its margins, on the outer side of the arms, and when the matrix
is removed from these ambulacral furrows, the arms can be seen to be composed
each of a double series of small alternately-arranged pieces. It is barely possi-
ble that in specimens of this species with the arras perfectly preserved, that the
ambulacral furrows may be covered on the outer or ventral side by a double
series of alternating pieces, and that the tentacula* may connect with little
openings along each side, though there certainly appear to be only open fur-
rows in the specimens examined.
It is worthy of note, in this connection, that there certainly are species,
agreeing exactly in all other known characters with this genus, that have no
open furrow along the outer or ventral side of the arms, which are distinctly
seen to be round on the outer side, and show there a double series of interlock-
ing pieces along their entire length, while the tentacula connect along the
inner, or under side, as the arms are seen hanging down. This is clearly seen
to be the case in a beautiful specimen of G typus {=Trematocrinus typus, Hall)
in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection, and we can scarcely doubt that in this species
there is an open furrow on the inner (under) or dorsal side of the arms. If
not, the arms must be tubular, in consequence of having the ambulacral canal
aclosed all around, excepting at the points where the tentacula connect along
each side.
3. Cyaihocrinus, Miller. Specimens of this genus showing the vault (more
properly the ventral disc) have very rarely been seen. In England a few ex-
amples have been found, and these have been supposed to show two openings,
one central and another lateral ; the latter, according to Prof. Philipps' and
Mr. Austin's figures, being provided with a slender marginal tube, or so-called
proboscis. Some of Mr. Wachsmuth's specimens, however, of C. malvaceus and
C. loiuensis, Hall, showing the vault, have led us to doubt the existence of a
central opening in the vault of this genus, when the specimens have this part
entire. The specimen of C. malvaceus shows the remains of the usual narrow
lateral proboscis, and also has an opening in the middle of the vault, but from
the appearance of this opening, as well as from the structure of the vault of a
specimen of C. lowensis, in which this opening is closed, we can scarcely doubt
that it was also closed in the specimen of C. 7nalvaceus, when entire. The re-
maining parts of the vault of the C. ynalvaceus mentioned consist of only five
comparatively large pieces, alternating with the upper inner edges of the first
radial pieces, — the one on the anal side being larger than the others, and form-
ing the base of the inner side of the proboscis. These five pieces connect wilh
each other laterally, and extend inward some distance, bat not so for as to
meet at the centre, where there is a subsemicircular opening, nearly as large
as that in the remaining base of the proboscis. Along each of the sutures
between the five vault pieces mentioned, a comparatively large furrow extends
inward from each arm-base to the central opening. These we regard as con-
tinuations of the ambulacral furrows from the arms, though there is also a mi-
nute opening at each arm base, passing directly downward into the cavity of
the body, which was probably for the passage of the arm-muscles.
Looking at this specimen alone, one would naturally suppose there must
* We use the term tentacula here in the sense it is generally used by paljeontologists,
with reference to the delicate pinnulre along the arms of Crinoids, and of course not as
applying to the minute flestiy organs along the ambulacral furrows, usually termed tenta-
cles by those who have investigated the recent Crinoids.
[Dec.
