326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
of a large convoluted body, resembling in form the shell of a Bulla or Scaphan-
der, within the body of several types of the Actinocrinidee, was noticed by Prof.
Hall in vol. xli, p. 261 of the Am. Journ. Sci., in 1866, though he made no sug-
gestions there in regard to the functions it probably performed in the internal
economy of these animals. In the second volume of the Illinois Geological
Reports, published soon after, we figured, on page 191, a specimen of Stroto-
criiius, with this body seen in place, and stated that we regarded it as having
been connected with the digestive apparatus of the animal.
Both in Prof. Hall's and our own remarks, this organ was spoken of as a
convoluted plate. This, however, we now know is not strictly correct, for al-
though composed of hard calcareous matter, and in some species somewhat
dense in structure, it seems to be always constructed of a great number of mi-
nute pieces, and generally has a more or less open or porous texture ; while iu
some cases it presents the appearance of an exceedingly delicate net-work. It
seems never to be attached to the bottom of the visceral cavity, though it ex-
tends down nearly to the bottom. It is open at both ends (the openiug at the
lower end being generally smaller than the other), and is placed with its longer
axis nearly so as to coincide with that of the body of the Crinoid. In some
species it is more or less dilated at the upper end, while in others it is con-
tracted at both ends, so as to present, as above stated, the form of the shell of
a Bulla. It has apparetitly no columella, but is more or less loosely convoluted,
with a spiral ridge descending the interior, and sometimes another ascend-
ing the exterior. Its walls are generally of moderate thickness, but they often
appear to be thicker than natural, in consequence of the presence of inorganic
incrustations, of calcareous or silicious matter, which also disguise its real
structure.
In Actinocrinus Verneuilianus, Shnmard, this body is narrow below, and sub-
cylindrical above to the top, which is slightly dilated. The small opening at
the lower end has a thickened rim, which passes around spirally, so as to as-
cend the outside, as a rather stout ridge, all the way to the top, making nearly
two turns, and apparently also forming a rim partly around the top. The sur-
face of the whole organ, as ■well as of its external spiral ridge, has the usual
rough appearance, and when fragments of it are held up, so as to be examined
by transmitted light, through a good pocket-glass, it is seen to be composed of
a great number of very minute polygonal pieces, varying somewhat in form
and size. When these pieces are examined under a magnifier, by reflected
lighl, they show shining facets, like crystals, though they are evidently not
surface incrustations, but actually compose the walls, or substance of the organ
itself. No pores or meshes were observed passing through the walls of this
organ in this species, in which it appears to be more than usually dense.
lu another specimen in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection, apparently of Aclwocri-
nus proboscidialis, this organ, as seen with one or more of the outer turns re-
moved, has an oval or subelliptic form, being contracted and twisted at both
ends, so as to present very nearly the api)earance of the shell of some species
of Ovuluvi. Its walls are quite thin, and seem to form more convolutions than
in any other species in which we have had an opportunity to examine it. As
seen by the aid of a magnifier by transmitted light, it presents a very beauti-
ful appearance, being composed of a great number of minute pieces, with nu-
merous openings passing through between them. The little pieces and the
openings between them, are of nearly uniform size, and arranged so that there
are usually one or two of the former intervening between any two of the open-
ings.
Another of Sir. Wachsmuth's specimens of Actinocrinu.ssecvrus,\{si\\, has one
side of the body removed so as to show about two thirds of the convoluted or-
gan, the upper part of which is broken away. The part remaining has a short-
wide subcylindrical form, with a rather broad, obliquely truncated lower end,
which is not tapering, as in the other species. Under a magnifier it is seen to
be composed of an extremelj- fine net-work, far surpassing, indeed, in delicacy
[Dec.
