NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327
of Structure, the finest laces that it is perhaps within the power of hunaan skill
to fabricate ; and as it is entirely free from any surrounding matrix, excepting
at one side below, the specimen has to be handled with great care, as a mere
touch of this delicate part would probably cause it to fall into hundreds of
minute fragments. On examining it under a magnifier, the little bars of which
it is composed are seen not to intersect each other at any uniform angle, but
anastomose, so as to impart a kind of irregular regularity, if we may so speak,
to the form and size of the meshes. Of these little bars there are two sizes, the
larger forming the larger meshes, while within the latter a smaller set of pro-
cesses extend partly or entirely across, so as to form more minute meshes ; the
whole presenting a beautiful appearance, of which it would be difficult to con-
vey a correct idea by a mere description alone, without the aid of figures.
From analogy, judging from what is known of the internal structure of the
recent genus Comatala, in which several authors have noticed a reticulated
calcareous structure secreted within the tissue of the softer parts of its alimen-
tary canal, we may infer that this convoluted organ was, as it were, a kind of
frame work, secreted for the support of the digestive sack, which was probably
more or less convoluted in the same way in many, if not all of the Palaeozoic
Crinoids, though not apparently, in all cases, endowed with the power of se-
creting a suflicient dense structure of this kind to leave traces of its existence
in a fossil state.
So far as we are at this time informed, this organ has yet been very rarely
observed in any other family than the Actinecrinidse, though it was probably
more or less developed in various other groups. In one instance Mr. Wach-
smuth found it in a Platycrinus, but here it seems to be, in the specimen found,
merely a spongy mass, not showing very clearly the convoluted structure.
Some traces of what was supposed to be something of this kind were also
observed by him in one of the Blastoids.
5. Ambulacral canah passing under the vault in the Actinocrinidx. In the third
and fourth Decades of descriptions and illustrations of the Canadian Organic
Remains, Mr. Billings, the able palajontologist of the Geological Survey of the
Canadian provinces, gives some highly interesting and instructive remarks on
the ambulacral and other openings of the Palaeozoic Crinoids. In these re-
marks he noticed, at length, some striking differences between the vault, or
ventral disc, of these older types, and that of the few living examples of this
extensive order of animals. That is, he noticed the facts, that while in the
living Comatula and Pentacrinus, the ambulacral canals are seen extending
from the arm-bases across the surface of the soft skin-like ventral disc, to the
central mouth, and these genera are provided with a separate anal opening,
situated excentiically between the mouth and the posterior side, that in the
palaeozoic Crinoids the ventral disc is very generally, if not always, covered
by close-fitting, solid j)lates, showing no external traces whatever of ambula-
cral furrows extending inward from the arm-bases ; and that in nearly all
cases they are merely provided with a single excentric, or subcentral opening,
often produced into a long tube which, like the vault, is made up of solid
plates. He showed that there is no evidence whatever that the ambulacral
canals, in these older types, were continued along the surface of the vault from
the arm-bases to the only opening, whether subcentrally or laterally' situated,
and that in cases where this opening is produced in the form of a greatly
elongated proboscis, or tube, such an arrangement of the ambulacra would be
almost a physical impossibility. Hence he concluded that the ambulacral
canals must have passed directlj' through the walls of the body at the arm-
bases ; and he gave several figures of various types, showing ojjenings at the
base of the arms, through which he maintained that the ambulacra must have
passed to the interior of the body from the arms.
Although these arm-openings had long been well known to all familiar with
our numerous types of western Carboniferous Crinoids, in which they are very
1868.]
