328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
conspicuous, and we had never entertained any other opinion in regard to
them, than that they are the only passages of communication that could have
existed between the softer parts occupying the ambulacral furrows of the arms,
■and the interior of the body, Mr. Billings was the first author, so far as we
are at this time aware, who called especial attention to them in this regard.
We regret that we have not space to quote a portion, at least, of his remarks
on this subject, and would advise the student to read attentively the whole of
both of his articles alluded to.
The specimens at Mr. Billing's command enabled him to trace the courses of
the ambulacral canals from the arms, through the walls of the body at the
arm-bases, and to ascertain the additional fact that, after passing through the
walls, they seemed to have turned upward ; but beyond this he had not the
means of tracing them farther.
A single specimen of Aclinocrinus proboscidialis, however, in Mr. W^a.chsmuth'3
collection, is in a condition (thanks to the great skill of that gentleman, and
the exceedingly fortunate state of preservation, by which its delicate internal
parts remain almost entire, and without any surrounding matrix) to throw
much additional light on this subject. By very dextrous manipulation, Mr.
Wachsmuth succeeded in removing about half of its vault, so as to expose the
internal parts, in place, and in an excellent state of preservation. The convo-
luted organ already described in other species is in this comparatively large,
subcylindrical in the middle, apparently tapering at the lower end, and a little
dilated at the upper extremity. It seems to be rather dense, and shows the
usual rough appearance, but as we had no opportunity to examine any de-
tached fragments of it by transmitted light, we did not determine whether or
not it has pores passing through it, though it probably has, at least when en-
tirely free from any inorganic incrustation. Its slightly dilated upper end
seems to stand with its middle almost, but apparently not exactly, under the
middle of the nearly central proboscis of the vault ; while at the anterior side
of its upper margin, and a little out from under the proboscis, it shows re-
mains of a kind of thickened collar, which we found to be composed of minute
calcareous pieces. From this there radiate five ambulacra, composed of the
same kind of minute pieces as the collar itself, each ambulacrum consisting of
two rows of these minute pieces alternately arranged. They are each also
provided with a distinct furrow along their entire length above. As they ra-
diate and descend from their connection with the top of the convoluted frame-
work of the digestive sack, they all bifurcate, so as to send a branch to each
arm-opening, those passing to the posterior rays curving a little at first above,
so as not to pass directly under the proboscis. These ambulacra, although
passing along obscure furrows in the under side of the vault, which are deepest
near the arm-openings, are not in contact with the vault, or visibly connected
with any other parts than the top of the convoluted digestive sack, and the
outer walls at the arm-openings. Each of their subdivisions can be traced
into an arm-opening, and it is very probable that they continued on out the
ambulacral furrows of the arms and tentacula. At one point in one of these
ambulacral canals, beneath the vault, some evidences of the remains of two
rows of minute pieces were observed alternating with the upper edges of those
composing the under side of these canals, and thus apparently covering them
over. The condition of the parts is such, however, as scarcely to war-
rant the assertion that this was really the case, though we are much inclined
to think it was. If so, these canals must have been, at least under the vault,
hollow tubes, formed of two rows of pieces below, and two above, all alter-
nately arranged.
We are not aware that any evidences of the existence of these delicate
ambulacral canals, composed of minute calcareous pieces, and passing beneath
the vault from the arm-openings to the summit of the convoluted digestive sack,
have ever before been oljserved in any Crinoid, recent or extinct; and we can
but think it probable, that the extremely rare combination of circumstances
[Dec.
