NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333
cisely the proper places, but of exactly the proper size and form to receive the
adjacent arm on each side ; the entire adjustment being so exact, that it
seems scarcely possible that the shell could have been removed during the
life of both animals, and after the Mollusk had attained its present size, with-
out either breaking its lip or breaking off the arms of the Crinoid. Unfortu-
nately, in clearing away the rather hard argillaceous matrix, before the
arrangement of the parts was clearly comprehended, these arras were broken
away, but their stumps are still seen protruding from the sinuses, which are
so deep as almost to present the appearance of isolated perforations, though
it is evident, on a careful examination, that they are only deep emarginations
extending up from the edge of the lip.
In looking at the sides of this Platyceras, which has the form of a very
slightly arched cone,* and stands out nearly at right angles to the side of the
Crinoid, it is easy to see, from abrupt curves in the lines of growth, along up
its sides, on a line above the sinuses mentioned, that these sinuses com-
menced forming abruptly at points about half way up ; and on measuring
across between these points with a pair of dividers, the space between is
found to coincide very closely with that between the inner sides of the arm-
bases protruding from the sinuses. Hence it is evident that the shell bad
commenced forming these sinuses in its lip exactly at the period of its
growth, when it had attained a breadth that brought the edges of its lip in
contact with the arm-bases. After this, it had increased very little in breadih
between the arms of the Crinoid, though it had grown somewhat wider above
&nd he\ow,a.nd nearl;/ doubled lis lenffth. Whether or not it covers the open-
ing in the side of the vault of the Crinoid we are unable to say, since the
folded arms (which are, as usual in these cases, well preserved) and adhering
matrix, cover the vault. We have scarcely any doubt now, however, that the
Platyceras does, in this, as in most of the other cases, actually cover the open-
ing in the side of the vault of the Crinoid.
From the facts stated it is, we think, evident that these MoUusks actually-
lived long enough after their connection with the Crinoids, to which we find
them attached, not only to have adapted the edges of their lip to fit the sur-
face of the Crinoid, but to have generally increased more or less in size, and
in some instances, at least, to have actually nearly or quite doubled their
size. Admitting this to be the case — and we think there can be no reas-
onable doubt on this point — we can no longer believe that these Crinoids
were preying upon the MoUusks; and we therefore think no well grounded
arguments can be based upon the fact of their being so frequently found
attached in the manner described, in favor of the conclusion that the opening
in the vault of these Crinoids is the mouth.
But, if they were not in the habit of eating these MoUusks, it may be asked
what could have been the nature of the relations between the two, that so
frequently brought them together as we now find them ? The first explana-
tion that suggests itself is, that possibly the Mollusk may have been preying
upon the Crinoid. But the facf, already stated, that these MoUusks evidently
lived long enough attached to these Crinoids, as we have every reason to be-
lieve, during the life of the latter, to have at least increased the size of their
shells considerably, if not indeed during their entire growth, is alone an al-
most insurmountable objection to such a conclusion. Doubtless, like othfr
marine sedentary animals, these Mollnsks, when very young, floated freely
about in the sea, until they found a suitable station to attach themselves,
where they remained during life. May they not, therefore, have been attracted
to the bodies of Crinoids by the numerous little organisms brought in by the
action of cilia, along the ambulacral furrows of the arms of the Crinoids, or
in currents produced by the motions of the arms of the latter? The excre-
* It being the common species of Platyceras that is usually found attached tothis Platy-
crinus.
1868.]
