NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335
Eemarks on some types of Carboniferous CRINOIDEA, with descriptions of
new Genera and Species of the same, and of one ECHINOID.
BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN,
Of the Illinois State Geological Survey.
Since the publication of the second volume of the Illinois Geological Re-
ports, in 1866, other engagements have, until recently, prevented us from at-
tempting any further investigations of the Crinoidea, beyond the preparation of
some specific descriptions for the third volume. On several occasions we have ex-
pressed the opinion, that the classification of these animals, as entireli/'based upon
the number and arrangement of the pieces composing the walls of the body below
the arms, without regard to the most extrao?-dinan/ diSevences in other parts, is,
to a considerable extent, artificial ; and that when larger collections, containing
perfect specimens, showing the whole structure of a greater number of species
of various types could be obtained for study, considerable modifications in the
limits of genera, as most generally understood, would be found necessary. Im-
pressed with this opinion, we separated in the third vo'urae of the Illinois Geo-
logical Reports and elsewhere, either as distinct genera, subgenera, or less
important sections, various types that had already been named by difi'erent
parties in this country and Europe, as distinct genera, but which had been
almost entirely overlooked or neglected by most authors, while to a few other
types we gave, for the first time, distinct names.
Having recently had an opportunity to study in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection
at Burlington, Iowa, what we really believe to be by far the most extensive
collection of finely preserved Carboniferous Crinoids ever brought together,
either in this country or Europe, we have been more than ever impressed, not
only with the importance of the separations we had previously admitted, but
with the necessity for giving even greater prominence to some of those groups
than we have hitherto done, as well as for making other divisions. It is only
when we can study a great collection like this, in which specimens may be count-
ed by hundreds, showing the whole structure of numerous species belonging
to various genera, that it can be fully realized how readily we may arrange
them into perfectly natural groups, distinguished in part by other characters
as well as by the structure of the body. In addition to this, in attempting to
classify such a collection as this by taking into consideration the structure of
the body o/ily, we soon find that we would often have to include in a single genus
forms ditfering very widely, on as important other characters, as those distin-
guishing many of the universally admitted genera of other groups oi' Echino-
dermata.
When once we have become familiar with the different groups, as separated
by a careful study of the entire structure of these animals, it is surprising to
see how readily' we may generally separate them, even from very imperfect
specimens, upon some seemingly unimportant characters scarcely ever noticed
by those who give the widest limits to genera. That such divisions greatly
facilitate the study of these fossils must also be evident to any one who will
attempt to identify the numerous species of some allied groups contained in a
large collection.
With regard to the new species described in this paper, as well as others
that we expect to describe hereafter from the same horizon, it may be proper
to state, that we have had the advantage of being able to compare them direct-
ly (assisted by Mr. Wachsmuth) with authentic specimens of very nearly all
the described species from the Burlington rocks. Many of the original typical
specimens we have here at hand in Springfield, while Mr. Wachsmuth has in his
own collection good specimens of nearly all the described Burlington species.
Many of his specimens are also types of species, while most of those that are
not, have been identified from direct comparison by him and Mr. Niles and our-
1868.]
