336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
selves, with the original types in the possession of others at Burlington and
here.
The fact that Mr. Wachsmuth is the only person (with the exception of oc-
casional visitors) that has been collecting at Burlington during the last four
or five years, and that during this time extensive excavations have been made
in working the numerous quarries and in opening new streets in the Burling-
ton rocks, has given him great advantages in collecting; consequently his col-
lection may now be regarded as unrivaled in the number and perfection of
specimens, as well as in the number of species.
Mr. Wachsmuth informs us that he also has many duplicates that he is will-
ing to exchange for other Crinoids, or to dispose of in any way that may assist
in affording him the means of increasing his collection.
Genus CYATHOCRINITES, Miller.
As properly restricted to true typical species, such as the C. planus, Miller
and C. mammillaris. C. calcaratus and C. bursa, Phillips, the genus Cyathocrinites
includes forms with a more or less globose (or perhaps rarely obconic) body,
composed of thin pieces, wliich below the vault consist of the basal, subradial
and first radial plates, and but a single anal piece that can be properly regard-
ed as forming a part of the walls of the body below the top of the first radials.
Of true interradials there are apparently none. The base consists of five pieces,
all normally of the same form, and alternating with these there are five gen-
erally larger subradials, one of which, on the anal side, differs in form from
the others, being truncated above for the support of the only anal piece insert-
ed between two of the first radials. The five first radial pieces are compara-
tively large and alternate with the subradials all around.
The succeeding radials are all small, more or less rounded, or sometimes an-
gular, and always free or form no part of the walls of the body, those of
each ray being distinctly separated by more or less wide interradial spaces.
The number of these free pieces varies from two to some six or seven to the
ray, the number being generally different in the different rays of the same in-
dividual. The arms are slender, more or less bifurcating and rounded or some-
times angular, and always composed of a single series of pieces provided with
a deep ambulacral furrow along the ventral or inner side, and apparenth' with-
out tentacula (pinnulje) along its margins. The column is generally if not
always round and pierced by a small canal, and not divisible into five sections
longitudinally.
Tlie vault in this genus is always much depressed, never being extended up-
ward in the form of a large poriferous trunk, or so-called proboscis, as we see
in the typical forms of Poteriocrinus. It is very rarely preserved in the specimens
as usually found, but according to Phillips' and Austin's figures of C.plafius it
would appear to be provided with a lateral proboscis, or, more properly as we
think, anal tube and an apparent central oral aperture. From specimens of C.
malvaceits and C. lowensis, however, which we have had an opportunity to ex-
amine in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection and have described in another place, we
are satisfied that, in these species at least, which appear to be typical exam-
ples of the genus, the apparent central opening is closed by vault pieces, in per-
fect sjiecimens. These central pieces, however, are more liable to be removed
by any accident than the five larger surrounding pieces, because the latter are
more deeply inserted, in order to permit the five rather large ambulacral canals,
extending inward from the arm bases, to pass over them, or rather along the
upper side of the sutures between them, while these furrows pass in imder the
pieces forming the centre of the vault, which are consequently less firmly
fixed.
As we have not had an opportunity to examine the original typical speci-
mens of C. planus, figured by Phillips and Austin, we of course cannot assert
positively that the vault of these types was constructed like that of the Iowa
species we have described, but we are strongly inclined to believe such was
[Dec.
