NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337
really the case, and that the apparent central opening was closed by vault
pieces when the specimen was entire.
Of the American species presenting, so far as known, the characters of this
genus as properly restricted, the following examples maybt mentioned, though
the vault of only the first two of these species is yet known to us, viz., C. mal-
vaceus, Hall, C. Iowensis,0\ven and Shumard, C. [Poleriocrinus) Barrisii, C.vimi-
nalis, C. lamellosus, C, divaricatus and C. rotundatus, Hall ; also C. Saffordi and
perhaps C. Farleyi, M. and W., and C. riffidus, White.
N'ew species.
Cyathocrimites fragilis, M. and W.
Body subsphffiroidal, a little oblique, rather regularly rounded to the column
below, from near the middle, and a little contracted above ; composed of remar-
kably thin plates. Facet for the attachment of the column not excavated and very
small. Base having the form of a very shallow, subpentagonal basin; basal
])ieces with a general subquadrangular form, but really pentagonal, from the
slight truncation of their smaller inner ends at their connection with the column.
Subradial pieces comparatively large, hexagonal, excepting the one on the
anal side, which is larger than the others and heptagonal in outline. First
radial pieces rather smaller than the largest subradials, somewhat wider than
high, with a general subpentagonal form ; all strongly incurved above between
the free radials ; facet for the reception of the second radials about one-third
the breadth of the first radials and rather deeply excavated. Anal piece rather
smaller than the first radials, longer than wide, irregularly hexagonal and sup-
porting the outer side of the ventral tube (proboscis), which, like the body, is
composed of very thin plates. Second (first free) radials very small, short
and not always extending entirely across the excavation for their reception ;
succeeding radials, excepting the last, quadrangular, as viewed on the outside,
about twice as wide as long, and abruptly rounded or subangular on the out-
side ; last one pentagonal and generally a little longer than the others. Of
these free radials four may be counted in one of the posterior rays, six in the
other, three in one of the lateral rays, and seven in the anterior ray.
Arms at their origin on the last radials rather divergent, and in one of the
posterior rays seen to bifurcate on the sixth piece, above Avhich one of the
divisions can be traced to the sixth piece without farther bifurcation, though
there are probably other divisions beyond ; arm pieces about as long as wide,
and, like those of the free radials, all deeper than wide, and pi'ofoundly
grooved within for the reception of the ambulacral organs. Surface smooth
or only very finely granular.
Height of body, 0-50 inch : greatest breadth of same, about 0-75 inch.
This species is related to C. rotimdattis, Hall, but not only differs in having
its free radial series much stouter (judging from the facets for their reception
in the tj-pical specimen of that species now before us), but in having all of its
body plates very decidedly thinner, while its first radials also diifer in curving
strongly inward, between the bases of the free rays. It likewise comes from
the lower division of the Burlington beds, while the rotundatus came from
the upper, and it has been found that scarcely any of the species are common
to those two horizons.
Localitfi and position. — Burlington, Iowa ; lower part of Burlington limestone.
Mr. Wachsmuth's collection.
Cyathocrinites tenuidactylus, M. and W.
Body, exclusive of the free rays, deeply cup-shaped, rounded below, com-
posed of moderately thick plates for a true Cyathocritius. Column compara-
tively rather stout, composed near the base of alternately thin and somewhat
thicker pieces, the latter of which project a little and seem to show a slight
tendency to become minutely nodular ; central canal distinctly peiitapetalous
in the form of its cross section. Base unknown (being accidentally shoved
1868.]
