842
PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
agreeing with Ci/athocrinus proper in the thinness of its body plates, in the na-
ture of the bifurcations of its arms, and apparently in the general structure of
its body, excepting that it has no anal plate, the first radials being large, wide,
and in contact all around, so as to leave no spaces for anal or interradial
pieces. The succeeding radials after the first are comparatively small, and
number from three to four (so far as yet known) to each ray, the first always
resting in rounded sinuses in the upper edge of the large first i-adials, much as
in Cyathocrinus, excepting that these free radials are very short, more as we see
in Barycrinus. They differ, however, from those of both Ci/athocrinus and Ba-
rya-inus, in each having its lower edge along the outer side of the arms pro-
duced downward, into a corresponding sinus in tlie upper outer edge of each
succeeding piece below, so as to present much the appearance seen in the arms
of Taxocrinus, Onyc/wcrinus and Forbesiocrimis, excepting that the produced part
does not seem to be separate patelliform pieces, but merely the downward
produced lower outer edge of each arm-piece itself.
None of the specimens yet found show the number of basal pieces, but we can
see that its body is composed of small basals, witli five well-developed subra-
dials of uniform shape, and five large first radials. This structure of the body,
it will be seen, is exactly that of Erisocrinus, — that is if the base is composed
of five pieces, which is very probable. The whole structure and aspect of the
parts above, however, is entirely different in these groups, since in Krisocrinas
there are alwaj-s but two primary radial pieces to each ray, while the second
radials are as large as the first, and instead of merely resting in small sinuses
in the upper part of the latter, the two articulate together by straight edges
across their entire breadth, the articulating edges being always provided with
a crenated transverse ridge and furrows. The arms of Ensocrhius are also
much stouter, and present none of tlie characters of the type under considera-
tion, while all of its body and arm pieces also differ in being very thick.
It is an interesting fact that the column of the genus here described, as well
as its arms, present a striking similarity to that of Taxocrinus and allied groups,
being round, and composed near the body of exceedingly thin pieces, connect-
ing by crenate surfaces, and provided with a comparatively small central
canal. Notwithstanding these points of resemblance, however, to Taxocrinus,
it is evident that this group is more nearly allied to Cyathocrinus. If it has, as
seems to be the case, five basal pieces, the formula of the genus would be as
follows :
Basal pieces 5 ; subradials 5, all of the same form ; radials 4 to 5 X 5, the
first being large and forming the larger part of the body, the others small and
free ; anals ; interradials ; arms bifurcating, and resembling those of Taxo-
crinus.
Some five or six specimens of this type show that the absence of anal pieces
is not an abnormal, but a constant character.
NiPTEROCRiNus Wachsmuthi, M. and W.
Body rather deeply basin-shaped, or a little more than twice as wide
as high, rounding under from the top of the first radials to the column.
Base small, fiat, and nearly hidden by the column. Subradial pieces
of moderate size, somewhat wider than long, and all pentagonal, there
being no visible angle at the middle of the under side of any of tlicni. First
radials comparatively very large, or about three times the size of the subradi-
als, twice as wide as higli. and all alike pentagonal ; while each is provided
with a rather deep rounded sinus above, equaling about one-third of its breadth,
for the reception of the succeeding radials, on each side of which its upper
margin is nearly straight, horizontal, and not incurved. Second radials so short
as scarcely to fill the sinus in the upper side of the first, and owing to the con-
cave outline above, often presenting a narrow transversely crescentic form.
Third and fourth radials (where there are five) very short, or several times as
wide as long, and usually somewhat arcuate inversely. Last (fourth or fifth)
[Dec.
