NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343
radials a little longer than the next below, and generally trigonal or subpen-
tagoaal (the upper angle being somewhat salient), and supporting the arms on
its sloping sides. Arms rounded, rather divergent, and bifurcating on the sixth
or seventh piece above their bases, and again once or oftener farther up, the
divisions above each bifurcation being about half as large as the main arm
below ; arm-pieces about twice as wide as long, not wedge-shaped, but all
showing the downward curvature quite distinctly, and slightly constricted on
each side. Surface merely finely granular, and the plates of the body neither
beveled nor tumid. Column composed of such thiu pieces that about fifteen of
thera may be counted in a length equaling its own thickness, near the base.
Height of body of the largest specimen to top of first radials, about 0-43 inch ;
breadth near 1 inch.
Thickness of column of same, near base, 0-20 inch ; diameter of its subpen-
tagonal caual, 0-05 inch.
This Crinoid is so unlike all others known to us, that it is scarcely necessary
to compare it with any of the described forms. The specific name is given in
honor of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth, the author of the genus, to whom we are in-
debted for the loan of the typical specimens.
Locality and position. — Upper Burlington beds of the Lower Carboniferous.
Burlington, Iowa.
Mr. Wachsmuth's collection.
Genus CATILLOCRINUS, Troost.
Catillocrinus Bradleyi, M. and W.
Body small, basin-shaped or rather broadly truncated below for connection
with the column, and moderately expanding upward to the top of the radials
supporting the arms. Lower series of plates visible around the top of the
column, anchjiosed together, and presenting the form of a broad low dish
many times wider than high, with the margins sinuous above for the reception
of the next range of pieces. Succeeding range of plates presenting the usual
irregular form of the genus, two of them being much larger than the others,
very wide at the top, and supporting nearly or quite all of the arms ; between
these on one side there is a much smaller triangular piece on the same range,
and extending up as high as the others, but so narrow at the top that it could
not have supported more than one or two, if any, of the small arms. On the
opposite side there are two other small intercalated pieces, the smaller of which
is triangular and scarcel^^ extends up to the top of the cup, while the other is
oblong, extends to the top of the cup, and supports either another somewhat
smaller (anal ?) piece above, or the base of an arm much larger than the others.
Arms about 44, in contact at their bases, and all slender and composed of
joints two or three times as long as wide. Surface smooth. Column compara-
tively very large (circular?), with a large round central canal, and composed
near the base of rather thin pieces of uniform size.
Height of body, 0-18 inch; breadth at top, 24 inch ; breadth of column at
the base of the body, 0-13 inch.
This species will be at once distinguished from ('. Tetmesse.ex of Troost by
its much smaller size, and smooth instead of coarsely granular plates. It is
much more nearly allied to our 0. Wachsmuthi, from the Burlington group, but
.'body is less expanded at the top, and it also differs in having a compara-
tivel}^ large anal ? piece, or larger arm, between the others on one side. Named
in honor of Prof. Frank H. Bradley, of Hanover College, late of the Illinois
Geological Survey, who discovered the only specimen known.
Loculiti/ and position. — Crawfordsville, Indiana ; Keokuk division of Lower
Carboniferous series.
Genus DICHOCRINUS, Munster.
DicHOCRiNus EXPANSus, M. and W.
Body expanding rather rapidly from the facet for the attachment of the col-
1868.]
