344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
umn, to the top of the base, and still more rapidly from there to the top of the
first radials, so as to make the breadth at the latter point about twice the
height. Base forming less than half the height of the body, somewhat basin-
shaped, though narrow below, or ornamented with small irregular wart-like
nodes, which show some tendency to form three or four vertical rows, or ridges
on each basal piece. First radial pieces comparatively large, somewhat oblong
in form, being longer than wide, with the widest end above, all convex along
up the middle, and strongly beveled, or excavated along the sutures on each
side, — while the surface of each is ornamented with small, irregular, wart-like
nodes, similar to those on the base ; these sometimes coalesce into irregular
ridges, but are usually arranged in three rows, starting from the most promi-
nent upper end of the plates, and radiating to the base ; facet for the reception
of the second radial pieces about one-third the breadth of the upper end of the
plates, and somewhat excavated. Anal piece of much the same size, and
general nodose appearance as the first radial on each side, but somewhat longer,
and having an irregular hexagonal form. Second radial pieces small, about
twice as wide as long, and more or less quadrangular in form. Third radials
slightly larger than the second, with a pentagonal form, the upper sloping
sides supporting the first division of the arms.
Arms rounded, composed at first of pieces about as long as wide, upon the
second or third of wliich they bifurcate, the outer divisions remaining simple,
and the inner ones bifurcating again on the second or third piece, the outer
division, as before, remaining simple, and the inner bifurcating a third time on
the second pieces, thus making in the posterior rays (the only ones seen) eight
arms to each ray, or forty in the whole series, if other rays have the same num-
ber. All the simple arms are long, slender, rounded, and but slightly tapering ;
near their bases they are each composed of a single series of somewhat wedge-
formed pieces, but gradually pass into a double series of minute interlocking
pieces.
Breadth of body, 0-98 inch ; height about 0-43 inch. Length of one of the
simple arms, about 1-fciO inches; thickness of same at base, 0-05 inch.
Associated with the specimen from which the foregoing description was
drawn up, several other imperfect examples were found, differing more or less
in form and in the arrangement of their ornamentation, which either indicate
considerable variations in these characters, or the existence of several allied
species. One of these has the first radial and anal plates more abruptly spread-
ing, and proportionally wider than in the typical form, while its nodes are more
coalescent, so as more generally to run into continuous ribs. On the base, for
instance, each of the two plates has three somewhat nodulous vertical ridges,
with intervening rows of the little nodes, while the three rows of nodes on the
first radial and anal pieces often run together so as to form mere nodulous
ridges. It is possible this would be found to be a distinct species, if we could
examine a specimen showing the arms. If so, it may be called D. stelliformis,
in allusion to the star-like appearance produced by its spreading first radial
pieces, with their little ridges running outward and converging to the outer
extremity of each.
In another individual the nodes and ridges are all nearly obsolete, excepting
a few of the former, which are very prominent at the middle of the outer ends
of the first radials; while another has a single prominent node near the small
facet in each first radial, for the reception of the second, with a few irregularly
scattering nodes on other parts, and slender, obscure, nodular ridges near the
lateral margins. From the general appearance of these specimens, we are
rather inclined to the opinion that they are all varieties of one variable species.
Locality and position. — Same as last.
Genus DORYORINUS, Roemer.
In the second volume of the Reports of the Geological Survey of Illinois, we
distinctly recognized the Dorycrinus group as forming a well-defined genus,
[Dec.
