NATITRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345
clearly separated from Actinocrinvs (as properly restricted), to which genus
they have generally been referred ; but owing to the fact that at that time we
had never seen either a specimen or a figure of an Amphoracrinus showing the
arms, body, and parts connected with the opening of the vault, all preserved
together, we were under a misapprehension in regard to the true characters of
that group, and consequently placed Dorycrinus as a synonym under it. Re-
cently, however, we have been so fortunate as to see in Mr. Wachsmuth's ex-
tensive collection beautiful specimens of both types, in a remarkably fine state
of preservation, and from these we are satisfied that a systematic classification
of the Crinoidea requires these two groups to be separated as distinct genera.
In the first place, it may be proper to remark that in both of these groups
the structure of the body, so far as regards the number and arrangement of
the pieces below the arm-bases, is almost exactly the same as in Actinocrinus.*
Tlie structure of the parts above, however, is very difi'erent. For instance, in
Dorycrinus the opening of the vault is never at the end of a more or less pro-
longed tube, or so-called proboscis, nor even in the slightest degree proboscidi-
form, but is merely a simple aperture penetrating a somewhat thickened pro-
tuberance, and nearly always situated and opening laterally. The vault in
this group is generally provided with a more or less prominent spine over each
ray, and a sixth one in the middle. Sometimes these are all, or in part, merely
represented by nodes, or even in some instances nearly obsolete, while in others
they are extravagantly developed. Again, Dorycrinus differs from both Acti-
nocrinus and Amphoracrinus in having, so far as yet known, always two arms
i-pringing directly from each arm-opening, and these arms always simple. Our at-
tention was first called to this by Mr. Wachsmuth, who is a vtry careful and
accurate observer, and we found it to be so in all the specimens in his collec-
tion, while he assures us that this is the casein all the specimens found by the
various collectors at Burlington, as well as all of those he has yet seen from
other localities, with the arms attached. Hence in all of the species of this
group described by Prof. Hall and others, where the number of arms has been
given from merely counting the arm-openings, — and specimens of these have
since been observed with the arms attached, — their number is found to he just
double that stated in the descriptions. It is also worthy of note that in this group
the body plates are either plane, more or less tumid, or tuberculiform, and
never marked with proper radiating costie, as we often see in Actinocrinus.
The following is a list of the described species belonging to this group, all of
which are, so far as known, exclusively American types, and confined to the
Lower Carboniferous, viz. : Dorycrinus Ifississippiensis, Roemer, and D. Gouldi,
f D. cornigerus* D. divaricatus* D. trinodus, D. quinquelobus* D. symmetricus*
D. desiderattis, D. unispimis,* and D. subaculeati/s, Hall (sp.), all of which were
described by Prof. Hall under the name Actinocrinus. It likewise includes D.
Missouriensis* {==Act. Missouriensis, Shumard) and D. unicornis* [= Act. uni-
cornis,\ Owen and Shumard), as well as our D. subturbinatus,* originally de-
scribed as an Actinocrinus.
It might at a first glance be supposed also to include Actinocrinus corniculus
and A. brevis of Hall, but these forms (which Mr. Wachsmuth's collections
clearly show to be only varieties of one species) have but a single arm from
each arm-opening (two to each ray), and these arms with the proportional
stoutness, general structure, and broad pieces at their bases, of Agaricorinus.
Hence this species can only be regarded as a somewhat aberrant form of the
latter genus.
To the genus Dorycrinus we also refer the following new species :
* Dorycrinus, however, differs from Actinocrinus in having the second radial pieces
nearly always short and quadrangular, instead of hexagonal.
t Specimens of all the species 'marked witii an asterisk have been found with the arms
attached, and presenting the characters mentioned above. The arms of the others remain
unknown.
X 'I'he proposed species A. iricornis and A. pendens, Hall, are believed to be only variedes
of unicornis of O. and S.
1868.]
23
