346 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
DoRYCRiNus RoEMERi, M. and W.
Body somewhat urn-shaped, being obconical below the arms to the truncated
base, and moderately prominent above, the vault forming rather more than
one-third of tlie entire height; greatest breadth at the arm-bases. Base trun-
cated and somewhat concave below, about twice as wide as high, slightly ex-
])anded and a little angular below, witli broad, rather shallow notches at the
sutures. First radial pieces about twice and a half as wide as high, two hep-
tagonal and three hexagonal, each one swelling out so as to form a moderately
jjrominent, rather obtuse, transversely elongated node. Second radials one-
third to nearly one-half as long as the first, quadrangular, a little wider than
long, and more or less tumid. Third radials rather larger than the second,
wider than long, pentagonal, hexagonal and heptagonal ; each one supporting
on each of its superior sloping sides a pentagonal secondary radial, of rather
smaller size, each of which in the posterior rays supports, in its turn, on each
side above, one, or sometimes two, brachial pieces, making four arm-openings
to each of these rays. This seems to be the case also in the right lateral ray,
while one of the secondary radials, in the specimen studied, appears to be merely
truncated, so as to support (perhaps abnormally) only one brachial piece,
thus making only three arm-openings to this ray. The brachial and secondary
radial pieces of the anterior ray are broken away in the specimen, but it is
probable there were four arm-openings in this ray. If so, there would be nine-
teen arm-openings (probably normally twenty) in the entire series, and thirty-
eight to forty arms, counting two to each opening.
First anal piece of the same size and form as the first radials, and, like them,
swelling out into a transversely elongated node. Above this there are two
heptagonal, and one apparently hexagonal, rather tumid pieces in the second
range, and above the latter several other pieces extending up between the arm-
bases, so as to connect with a series of pieces forming a thickened protuberance
rising even slightly higher than the summit of the vault, and pierced by the
anal opening, which is situated considerably above the horizon of the arm-
bases, but still directed laterally. Interradial pieces three to each area, the first
being about half as large as the subradials, heptagonal or octagonal, and sup-
porting two somewhat elongated irregularly formed pieces that are scarcely
convex, and connect, by their narrow upper ends, with vault pieces above.
Vault somewhat rounded, with lateral spines very short, or merely having the
form of rather prominent conical nodes; central piece somewhat tumid, but
not even conical. Arms and column unknown.
Named in honor of Dr. F. Roemer, the founder of the genus Dorycrinus.
Height of body to top of vault, I -40 inches ; do. to top of anal protuberance,
1-45 inch ; breadth at arm-bases, 1-30 inch; breadth of base, fe-55 inch.
This species is perhaps more nearly allied to D. Missouriensis, Shumard (sp )
than to any other yet known. It will be readily distinguished, however, by
several well-marked characters. In the first place, its base is not thickened
and expanded as in that species. Again, its vault is not so flattened on top,
nor the si)ines, or tumid pieces over the rays, near so large. In the Missouri-
ensis the latter character is so strongly marked as to place the widest part of
the body above the arm-bases, which consequently have the appearance of
being attached half-way down the sides of the body, while in the species under
consideration the body is distinctly wider at the arm-base than above. Our
species also has seven or eight arms more than Dr. Shumard's.
Those who prefer to view the Vorycnnus group as only a section of Actino-
criiiits will, vre hope, at least write the name of this species Actinocrinus i^Dory-
crinus') Roemeri.
Locality and position. — Upper part of the Burlington beds, of the Lower Car-
boniferous series, at Burlington, Iowa. No. 127 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection.
DoRYCRINnS QUINQUELOBUS, Var. INTERMEDIUS.
On comparing this form with the typical specimen of D. quinquelobus [t=Acli-
nocrinus quinqxielobus, Hall, Supp. Iowa Geol. Rei)ort, vol. i, p, 15), we find that
[Dec.
