NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347
it agrees very closely in the structure of its body, as well as in the number of
arm-opening-3 to each ray (that is, four to the anterior and each posterior ray,
and two in each of the lateral rays), but at the same time it presents some other
differences, that we suspect may be even of specific importance. In the first
place it is larger and more robust, atid has a proportionally smaller base, and
rather distinctly tumid, instead of even body plates, while its interradial and
anal spaces are not near so deeply excavated between the arm-bases as in the
type of quinquelobtM. Its third radial pieces also differ in form, being so narrow
in all the raj^s as to let the secondarj' radials come in contact with the first
interradial and the second range of anal pieces, instead of extending around so
far laterally as to separate these pieces. Its vault is likewise more flattened on
top.
In the typical specimen of D. quinguelobus the spines of the vault have all
been accidentallj' removed, but in the form under consideration they seem to
have been short and stout, though their entire length is not known, as they
were apparently broken off during the life of the animal, since they each have
the broken end somewhat rounded and indented in the middle. In size and
general appearance it is more like D. Mississippiensis of Roemer, but it differs in
having rather more tumid body plates, as well as in the number of the arm-
openings, that species having four of these openings to each ray all around.
It also has a more protuberant anal opening, and probably had much shorter
vault spines. It therefore seems to be somewhat intermediate between the J).
Mississippiensis and D. quinqtielohus, but is probably distinct specifically from
them both. As we have but a single specimen, however, of it, and the typical
specimen of D. quinquelobus for comparison, we prefer to place it, for the present,
as a variety of that species, under the name inter rnedius, and if it should here-
after be found that the differences we have pointed out are constant, it can take
the name bj' which we have proposed to distinguish it as a variety, as a spe-
cific name.
Localiti/ and position. — Upper part of the Burlington division of the Lower
Carboniferous series, at Burlington, Iowa. No. 164 of Mr. Wachsmuth's col-
lection.
Genus AMPHORACRINUS, Austin.
As already stated, this group agrees with Actinocrinus in the number and
arrangement of the pieces composing the under side of the body, as well as in
having the parts adjacent to the arm-bases forming five projecting lobes,
distinctly separated from each other by the anal and interradial sinuses. It
differs from them both, however, in the structure of the parts above, as well
as in having the body generally more depressed, or even flat below, and the
vault proportionally more ventricose ; while its second radial pieces are more
generally hexagonal than in Dorycrinus. From the latter it also differs in
liaving the opening of the vault more or less proboscidiform,* and placed nearly
half way between the middle and the anal side, instead of being a simple gene-
rally lateral aperture, penetrating laterally a merely thickened protuberance.
Tiie proboscidiform extension of its vault, however, is never so long and slen-
der as we usually see in Actinocrinus, and also often differs in being crowned
with small spines surrounding the very small terminal aperture, which seems
always to open upward. As in Dorycrinus, the*\^ault is generally more or less
spiniferous, though the spines are differently arranged, and, as far as yet
known, never so extravagantly developed as we sometimes see them in that
* In all the foreign specimens of the typical species of Amphnracrinus that we have seen,
only tiie broken base of this sliort proboscis remains ; and this also seems to have bet n
the ease with nearly all those from which the published figures which we have had an
opportunity to examine, were drawn Cumberland, however, has given a tigure in his
Ueliqiiiaj Conservatte, (pi. C), apparently of the typical species amplwra. with the short
oblique proboscis well preserved. This will be seen to differ materially from the merely
slightly protuberant thickening in which the opening in Dorycrinus is situated.
1868.]
