348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
group. Some of the species are known to have one of the vault pieces over
each ray more or less protuberant, and it may be the case that species existed
in which those were developed into spines, somewhat as in Dorycrimis, though
we are not aware that any such have yet been found. Near the middle of the
vault there is also a large tumid piece, sometimes developed into a short spine,
while around the anterior side of this, four or five similar pieces are semi-
circularly arranged, which also often become well developed sjiines.
We have never seen any figures or specimens of the European typical species
of Amphoracrimis showing the arms, but there are in Mr. Wachsmuth's collec-
tion several beautiful specimens, found at Burlington, agreeing exactly in all
other characters (not merely specific) with the types of the geniis, in which the
arms are perfectly preserved. In these we observe marked differences, both
from Dorycrinus and Actinocrinus. For instance, in Amphoracrmus divergens
(= Actinocrinus divergens^ Hall), the arms, although bifurcating so often as to form
altogether about fifty-three or more divisions, they are each, as well as each of these
divisions, composed of a double series of very short alternating pieces all the
way down, even below all the bifurcations to their very bases, with the exception
of one to two or three simple brachial pieces, at the origin of each main arm
on the last primary or secondary radials.
The structure of the arms, it will be seen, is the same as in Saccocrinus (an
otherwise different type), but widely different from what we see \n Actinocrinus,
in which the arms are always composed of a single series of pieces beloio such
bifurcations as take place. It is also even more decidedly different from that
of Dorycrimis, in which the arms not only never bifurcate in any of the species in
which they are known, but are also arranged so that two of them spring
directly from each arm-opening without imparting to the brachial piece on
which they rest the usual form of an axillary .piece.
In one species, however, [Actinocrinus spinobrachiatvs, Hall), having appa-
rently all the other characters of Amphoracrimis, the arms do not bifurcate
after their origin on the axillary secondary radial pieces. It seems, there-
fore, probable that there are some species of this group with simple arms,
and others that have them more or less frequently bifurcating. The proba-
bility is, however, that in all cases when they do bifurcate, that they are
equally composed of a double series of small alternating pieces below the bi-
furcations as well as above, the same as in the species divergens. Whether we
include such species as the spinobrachatus, however, with merely simple arms,
composed like the others of a double series of alternating pieces throughout
their entire length, as a separate section of Amphoracrinus, or view them as
forming a distinct group, they need not for a moment be confounded with
Dorycrimis, from which they not only differ in form, surface markings, opening
of the vault, &c., but also in never having two arms springing directly from each
arm-opening.
In all the species of Amphoracrinus known to us, either foreign or Ameri-
can, it is also worthy of note that the surface of the body plates is never orna-
mented with proper radiating costne, such as we often see in Actinocrimis and
other allied types, nor yet smooth, or properly tuberculiform, as in Dorycrinus,
but always presents a peculiar vermicular style of sculpturing or corrugation
difficult to describe, but very characteristic and easily recognized again after
being once observed.
To this group Mr. Wachsmuth has, in MS., correctly referred the following
American species, viz : Amphoracrinus divergens, A. planobasalis, A. spino-
brachiatus ? and -4. intiatus, described by Prof. Hall, under Actinocrinus; also
Actinocrinus quadrispinus, White ; all from the lower division of the Burling-
ton beds.
Amphoracrinus divergens, Hall, (sp.)
Actinocrimis divergens, Hall, Supp. Iowa Report, p. 36, 1860.
This species was apparently described by Prof. Hall from imperfect speci-
mens, showing only a few of the lower bifurcations of the arms, since he
[Dec.
