352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
calyculoides, B. (Eretmocr.) remibrachiafus,* B. [Eretmocr.) clio, B. (Eretmocr.)
maliita and B. [Eretmocr.) c/oelia, Hall (sp.), all described uuder Actinocri7ius by
Prof. Hall. Also B. (Eretmocr.) Vernueilianus,f Shumnvd (sp.), described under
Actinocrinu.1.
In all of the above species the arms have been seen, and are knovrn to pos-
sess the characters oi Eretmocr inus. The following species are believed to be-
long here from the general appearance of the body vault, proboscis, etc., though
their arms have not yet been seen. They all certainly belong to Batocrinus,
even if not to the group Erelmocrinus, viz. : B. corbulus, B. carica, B. oblatus,
B. sinuosus and B. gemmiformis, all described by Prof. Hall under Actinocrinus.
Also B. urnxformis and B. Hageri, described by Prof. McChesney under Acti-
nocrinu-i. Also our B. dodecadaciylus .
3. Subgenus Alloprosallocrinus, Casseday and Lyon (=Cowomn2« of Troost's
lists).
Body distinctly conical, being flat below the arm-bases (which are directed
ou'ward on a plane with the flattened under side), and produced upward to the
central proboscis so as to bring the whole visceral cavity above the arm-bases.
Branchial pieces stout.
B. (Allopros.) conicus, B. (Allopros.) depressus, Lyon and Casseday, described
under Alloprosallocrinus. Also our B. (Allopros.) eueonus.
New Species.
Batocrinus qdasillus, M. and W.
Body rather depressed, wider than high, nearly as prominent above as below
the arm-bases ; sides spreading very rapidly from the top of the first radials to
the brachial pieces, which are in close contact all around, so as entirely to
isolate the anal and interradial pieces from the vault. Base comparatively rather
broad, being nearly three times as wide as high, truncated and rather deeply
excavated below, so as to overhang the end of the column ; somewhat spreading
below, with broad shallow notches at the sutures. First radials nearly twice as
wide as high, two heptagonal and three hexagonal, and, like all of the other
body plates (excepting the second radials), moderately tumid. Second radials
generally very short, and sometimes, in part, merely transversely linear, or
even entirely obsolete, all quadrangular, and flat on the outer side. Third ra-
dials small, generally pentagonal, and in all but the two posterior rays sup-
porting on each of its superior sloping sides one, or sometimes two, secondary
radials, the last of which (where there are more than one) is an axillary piece,
and bears, in direct succession on each of its superior sloping sides, two bra-
chial pieces, thus making four arms to each of these rays. In each of the pos-
terior rays, however, there are two other bifurcations, that make six arm- open-
ings to each of these rays, or twenty-four to the entire series. First anal plate
of much the same size and form as the first radials, and supporting, in an
arching series above, three smaller pieces in the second range, while above the
latter, one, or perhaps sometimes two smaller pieces connect with the brachials
above. First interradials about two-thirds as large as the first radials, and
each supporting a smaller piece extending up to the brachials above. Vault
composed of tumid, or sometimes rather obtuselj- pointed pieces, and provided
with a subcentral proboscis, which is usually about as broad below as the
base.
Height of the largest specimen to top of vault, about 0-70 inch ; greatest
breadth (which is at the arm-bases), 0-80 inch ; breadth of base, 0-35 inch.
This species seems to be related io owt B. pistillus,hvLi maybe easily dis-
* Prof. Hall mentioned, in describing this species, that it has the characters of Eretmo-
crinus.
t This species has the arms less distinctly alate than the others, the transition from Ba-
tocrinui to Eretmocrinus being through this and the species Konincki.
[Dec
