NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353
tinguished by its much more depressed form, particularly below the arm-open-
ings, caused by its much shorter basals, and first and second radial pieces. Its
base also differs in being much more excavated, and not near so expanded be-
low, while its brachial pieces are proportionally stouter, and more crowded.
Although the whole number of arm-openings is the same in these two forms,
4
this arrangement is different, the formula of B. pistillus being 5-0 ::=24, and
0—5
that of the form under consideration 4-— 1 = 24.
Locality and position. — Lower division of Burlington beds of Lower Carbon-
iferous at Burlington, Iowa. No. 14 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection.
Batocuinus Cassedayanus, M. and W.
Body rather broad subturbinate below, or with the vault subglobose, being
a little larger below than above the arm-bases. Base short, or about four times
as wide as high, a little thickened, and slightly overhanging the end of the
column, and more or less notched at the sutures, so as to present a somewhat
trilobate appearance. First radial pieces of moderate size, and, like all of the
other body plates, rather distinctly tumid, wider than long, two hexagonal and
three heptagonal. Second radials about half as large as the first, nearly twice
as wide as high, normally quadrangular, but some of them occasionally with
one or both of the superior lateral angles a little truncated, so as to present an
irregular pentagonal or hexagonal outline. Third radials sometimes a little
smaller, and in other rays a little larger, than the second; all pentagonal, and
(excepting in the anterior and one of the anterior lateral rays of the typical
specimen) each supporting on each of its superior sloping sides, in direct suc-
cession, two secondary radials, generally of near its own size, the upper ones
of which are also axillary pieces, and bear on each of their superior sloping
sides two brachial pieces in direct succession (the last of which is generally
larger than the first), thus making four arms to each of these rays. In the an-
terior ray, however, the third radial merely bears on each side above, three
brachial pieces in direct succession, and the same is also the case on one side
of one of the anterior lateral rays, thus only giving origin to two arm-openings
in the first, and three in the latter, making seventeen arm-openings to the en-
tire series. First anal of the same size and form as the first radials, excepting
that it is proportionally a little longer ; above this there are three smaller
pieces in the second range, three in the third, and two or three in the fourth.
First interradials of the same size as the second anals, hexagonal or heptago-
nal in form, and supporting two smaller pieces in the third range, with two to
three or four still smaller pieces above, the upper one of which, like that of
the anal series, separates the brachial pieces a little, so as to form a small sinus
between the arm bases belonging to each ray.
Vault slightly ventricose, composed of very irregular, unequal, merely tumid
pieces, and j)rovided with a rather stout, nearly central proboscis, which is in-
clined a little forward in the typical specimen.
The specific name is given in honor of Mr. S. A. Casseday, deceased, the
author of the genus Batocrinus.
Height of body to arm-bases, 0-70 inch ; do. to base of proboscis, l-OT inch ;
greatest breadth (at arm-bases), 1-20 inch.
This species is perhaps most nearly allied to B. longirostris, Hall (sp.), and
if we suppose the presence of only three arm-openings in one of its anterior
lateral rays to be abnormal, which is almost certainly the case, it would pre-
sent no difference in its arm-formula, nor any marked difference in the details
of its structure, excepting in the proportional sizes of certain plates. This
latter character, however, imparts a material difference to the whole form of
the body, — a difference, indeed, that is so striking as to be apparent at a glance.
For instance, in B. longirostris the first and second primary radials and first
anal, as well as the first interradial pieces, are all proportionally so much
1868.]
