NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355
The surface seems to be nearly smooth, or finely granular, and the body
plates are nearly even, excepting the secondary radlals, which, M'ith the brachial
pieces, are sometimes a little tumid, so as to project slightly beyond the plane
of the interradial and iuteraxillary areas, which consequently have a somewhat
sunken appearance.
Height of body to arm-openings, 1 inch ; breadth, 2-10 inches.
This fine species seems to be most nearly related to B. planodiscus, Hall (sp.),
from the Keokuk beds, with which it agrees nearly in form and general appear-
ance. It ditfers very materially in structure, however, since the rays in that
species bifurcate so as to make eight arm-openings to each ray, or forty to the
whole series, being just double the number seen in our species. The planodu-
cus also appears to have the arm-openings directed outward, while the species
under consideration belongs apparently to the section of this genus with these
openings directed upward.
It is an interesting fact, to which our attention has been called by Mr.
Wachsmuth, that not only this species, but several others only found in the
very highest part of the Upper Burlington formation, are more nearly allied to
species ibund in the Keokuk beds than to any forms iu the Lower Burlington
beds.
Locality and position. — Upper bed Burlington division of the Lower Carbon-
iferous at Burlington, Iowa. No. 27 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection.
BaTOCBINDS (ErETMOCRINUS ?) NEGLECTUS.
Body small, inversely campanulate below the arms, and rather ventricose
above; the sides expanding gradually from the base to the third radials, and
theuce curving out rapidly to the outer edges of the brachial pieces, which
are slightly grouped, but nearly or quite in contact all around. Base about
three times as wide as high, truncated and concave below, but not thickened
or expanded. First radials comparatively large, generally wider than long,
and, as usual, two heptagonal and three hexagonal ; all like the other body
plates convex, but not properly tumid Second radials much smaller than the
first, quadrangular and nearly twice as wide as long. Third radials as long as
the second, or slightly larger, wider than long, and all normally pentagonal ;
each supporting on each of its superior sloping sides a secondary radial,
which in its turn bears on each side above two brachial pieces in direct succes-
sion, thus making four arm-openings to each ray, or twenty to the entire series.
In one specimen, however, agreeing exactly in other respects, the third radials
in the anterior and one in the posterior rays is immediately succeeded by
brachial pieces without any further bifurcations, so as to give origin to only
two arms to each of these rays ; but this is almost certainly an individual
abnormal development.
First anal plate a little longer, but not otherwise differing from the first
radials ; above this there are three smaller pieces iu the next range, and some-
times one or two still smaller ones in the third range. Interradial pieces one
to three in each space, the first being one-third to one-half as large as the
first radials, seven to nine sided, and usually supporting one or two smaller
pieces in the second range above.
Vault convex, and composed of very unequal, irregular, moderately convex
plates, provided with a tube or proboscis of moderate thickness, and placed
generally about half way between the middle and the anal side. (Column
and arras unknown.)
Height to base of proboscis, about 0-58 inch ; do. to arm-openings, C-33
inch ; breadth, 0-55 inch. The specimen presenting the irregularity mentioned
iu the arrangement of the arms, is proportionally wider than that from which
the above measurements were taken.
This little species is apparently nearer B. clio, Hall, (sp.), than to any other
yet described. Its base, however, is much less thickened and expanded than
"in that species, and its body plates more even and smoother ; while its brachial
1868.]
